
l\lednesday, April 16, 2003 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

ROTC 
Pass 
•
1n 
Review 
r,age 13 

VOL XXXVII NO. 132 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Students consider religious life 
• During national decline, Old College houses 9 students 
By KEVIN ALLEN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame is one of the most 
well known Catholic academic 
institutions in the United States. 
Students here can partake in 
daily masses in a faith-based 
community. largely guided by 
priests and brothers on campus. 
But with a nationwide decline 
in the number of people choos­
ing to pursue religious voca­
tions, some worry that the same 
situation could affect life at 
Notre Dame. The vocation 
director for Moreau Seminary, 
Father James King does not 
think that is a threat. 
While some American dioce­ses are reeling from low num­bers of priests and a dearth of new candidates, King said that Notre Dame is doing better per capita than other traditional Catholic communities. 
"The Catholic Church is not a monolith," said King. "Some dioceses are doing very well with bringing in new priests and some are not." 
According to King, there are currently over 100 Holy Cross priests and brothers that live and work on campus as profes­sors. campus ministers, hall rectors and administrators. 
"The number of men getting ordained [at Notre DameJ has been consistent for about 20 years," said King. "Since the 1950s, the numbers in the semi­nary are down but retention is better." 
King attributes the better 


retention rates in the seminary to an increasingly selective admission process. 
"In some respects. it's more difficult to get accept­ed to the seminary than it is to get into the University because we conduct a series of personal interviews," he said. 

ans that complete the program at Moreau because the process is quite lengthy. King has been 
"Notre Dame is the only place in the U.S. where you can be an undergraduate and a seminarian at the same time.,, 
Greg Giefer senior and former Old College resident 
vocation director for six years, and the candidates that began the program during his first year are just becoming eligible for ordi­nation. 
The number of ordinations also varies from year to year. On April 
26. one of two ordination days this year, only 

However, King added that it is one priest will be ordained. difficult to evaluate the pattern Next year. seven will be of retention rates for seminari-ordained. King said the average is three to four ordinations per year. 
Some future Holy Cross priests take their first step toward the priesthood immediately after high school by enrolling in Old College, which is a residence hall for Notre Dame undergrad­uates who are considering becoming a Holy Cross priest or brother. Nine men currently live in Old College and one Old Collegian is currently spending the semester abroad in Cairo. Egypt. 
Ben Wilson and Matt Young, two freshmen who reside in Old College, both said Notre Dame was their first choice for college and found out about Old College after looking into the University. 
see PRIESTS/page 6 

. Holy Cross nuns see decrease in their numbers 
By KEVIN ALLEN 
News Writer 
According to Sister Margaret Mary Lavonis, vocation director for the Holy Cross Sisters at Saint Mary's College, every con­gregation in North America has experienced a decrease in the number of women who profess to be sisters, and Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is no exception. 
The most recent Holy Cross sister to profess in North America, Amy Cavender, made her first vows last year. Cavender earned her M.A. and Ph.D. in political science from Notre Dame and also con­verted to Catholicism while at Notre Dame, completing the RCIA program. She is currently teaching in a seminary in Uganda. 
Lavonis said Holy Cross is an international order, and that numbers of sisters are increasing in other coun­tries, such as Bangladesh, Peru. Brazil and several African countries. She said it is possible that if the shortage of sisters in North America continues, some of those sisters may be called to the United States. 
There are several rea­sons for the decrease in numbers of women who have chose the religious 
see NUNS/page 6 
AT THE CROSS 



Senior Week registration online 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame seniors can 
register for Senior Week 
activities -events held for 
the senior class during the 
week preceding 
Commencement -online 
for the first time this year. 
Using a system similar to the online voting system student government employed durlng February's elections. seniors will be able to log on and register with their AFS ID and password from the class Web site (www. nd. ed u/-classO 3) from April 23 to 27. 
"The new online registra­tion will help seniors avoid the hassle of long lines in the LaFortune Ballroom," said Jacqueline Browder. who co­chairs Senior Week with senior Don Woznica. 
Prices. capacity restric­tions and descriptions of each of the week's events will be posted alongside selection boxes on the regis­tration Web site during the 

week after Easter break. Students will choose which events they want to partici­pate in by clicking on the boxes associated with the activities, and the Web site will tally the cost of each student's activities to pro­duce an itinerary and total amount each student is required to pay. The seniors are then responsible for printing that list and bring-
KATIE McKENNA/The Observer 
ing it to the Eck Center from 3 to 6 p.m. on April 29 and 30 to pay for the activities they've selected and pick up their tickets. 
"We sought to create a user-friendly solution to eliminate the tremendous hassle of registration in years past," said Matt Smith. senior class president. "With 
see SENIORS/page 4 

Wednesday, April 16, 2003 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 

INSIDE COLUMN 
The college 
tour 
While many of my high school class­mates quickly forgot their junior year spring break vacation, having spent it in Cancun engaging in wild, drunken orgies, my week-long break proved an experience that I 
Joe Trombello 
could not soon for­get. Rather than a 
News
typical beach vaca­
Production
tion with friends, I spent my spring break traveling the Northeast with my father, making the grand tour of sever­al colleges in preparation for what I assumed would be the woefully horrific experience of applying to a multitude of colleges and -gasp -having to choose between them to make the all­important, life-changing, can't-take-it­back decision of where to attend col­lege. 
My father and I had planned our itin­erary out for months: we knew where we would go, how we would get there and how long we would stay. We planned for four colleges in five days, waking up early from one college visit only to begin the drive to the next. I assumed the vacation would be rela­tively uninteresting, harboring jealous thoughts of locations more exotic than New Haven, Conn. Thankfully, I was wrong. 
My father and I spent virtually every minute together. We took the tours with over eager tour guides, listened patiently to the inane questions of psy­chotic parents in information sessions, ate in school dining halls to get the authentic college experience, and dis­sected the mountains of brochures and pamphlets meant to hook any prospec­tive college student with a pair of working eyes into the charms of what­ever college logo dominated the front page. 
At night, savoring bites of hotel restaurant cuisine easily better than dining hall unmentionables, we mulled over politics and our perceptions of. that day's college visit: Were the people too cold? What did you think of our tour guide? What is their football team like? Do they even have a football team? \Ve watched the Notre Dame womens basketball team clinch easy opening-round victories in their nation­al-championship winning season from the confines of our hotel room. We braved long car drives in the snow, armed with only a map and vague directions from the Internet that always proved incorrect. We took long walks along campus greens, watching students breeze past, backpacks laden with books. Most of all, we talked. 
I would not have traded this experi­ence, and yet I find that many do. An article in Tuesday's Wall Street Journal featured tour companies that hustle busy juniors at breakneck speed through prestigious colleges during their spring break. Many of these com­panies refuse to accept parents. They want to provide the authentic experi­ence, to be able to tell students what a campus is "really" like, without the need to censure comments or pretend that drinking doesn't exist so that Sally's mother will let her attend. Perhaps the prospective student will learn valuable information about a col­lege this way. I only shudder to think what he will miss learning from, and about, a parent. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu. 


CORRECTIONS 
In Friday's Observer, the page 1 photo of a recent pageant was incorrectly identified as the Ms. ND pageant. The name is Queen of Notre Dame contest. 


WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 

Indiana doctor lectures on stem cell research 
Physician Charles Holt, a for­mer colonel in the 
U.S. Army Reserve, discussed bioter­rorism for the Mini-Medical 
School  Lecture  
Series.  
page 8  

WORLD& NATION 
United States assembles Iraqi factions to form government 
The U.S. and Iraq discuss the start of an interim govern­ment in Iraq based on democratic prin­ciples and the end of Saddam Hus­sein's Baath Party. 
page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Pasta alla carbonara, chicken fajita pizza, mushroom stroganoff, kluski noodles, whipped potatoes, green beans, apple cobbler, tuna casserole, corn, grits, sausage links, blueberry pancakes, scrambled eggs, tater tots, potato skins, chicken and cheese chimichanga 
Today's Dinner: Pasta alla carbonara, chicken fajita pizza, roast pork loin, whipped potatoes, broccoli cuts, apple cobbler, garden quiche, lemon couscous, baked sweet potato, fresh carrots, veg­etable moussaka, Tobago chicken breast, seasoned fries, baked beans, Szechuan shrimp stir-fry 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a::: 

LLI 
:c 
~ 

LLI 

& ~.•


== 
...I <( 
••*® ®
CJ 
BUSINESS NEWS 
'Unpromotable' workers sue 2 companies 
Two men seek class-action status for a lawsuit against Ford Motor Co. and Visteon Corp. that claims the compa­nies don't promote workers without college degrees. 
page 7 

VIEWPOINT 
Response to column on Arabs 

John Litle's acade­mic advisor responds to the columnist's contro­versial Friday col­umn about Middle Easterners. 
page 11 
SCENE 
God, country, corps, Notre Dame 
Scene takes a his­torical and contem­porary look at the annual Presidential Pass 1n Review sponsored by Notre Dame ROTC groups. 
page 12 
. 
Student Senate meeting agenda: Committee Hcports, elections of Senate rnprcsentativcs to FMB, ACASL; 6 p.m.; LaFortunc Notre Dame Hoom 

. 
Pn~sidential Pass in Hcview, 4:30 p.m., Loftus FicldhousP 

. 
Third Annual \\'omen's Speak Out, 7 p.m., Heckers I Iospitalily Hoom 

. 
Drunk Driving Simulator, all day, Joyce Center 


I 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 

. 
C.W.I.L. Film Festival, 6:30 p.m., Madeleva llall, Carroll Auditorium 

. 
Adult Children of Alcoholics Meeting, 7 p.m., 317N Madcleva Hall 

. 
Moreau Chamber and \Vind Enseinblc, 7:30 p.m .. Moreau Center for the Arts, Little Theatre 


WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Turkey tetrazzini, mushroom marinara, spinach-cheese tortellini, calzone, toasted pretzel sticks, garden quiche, baby lima beans, baked potato neptune, beef tips and mushrooms, roast top sirloin, spinach, italian chicken sandwich, crinkle fries, soft pretzel, Szechuan chicken stir.fry. chicken enchilada 
Today's Dinner: Turkey tetrazzini, eggplant parmesan, herbed vegetable medley, swiss steak, grilled salmon fil­let, rotisserie chicken, herb-garlic roasted russet potatoes. cut corn, peas, lima beans, spinach, shrimp poppers, pork tempura, beef fajita 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

$ ,• .• 






6••••••• ¢ 
0
_. 

HIGH 67 HIGH 58 HIGH 48 HIGH 55 LOW 58 LOW 39 LOW 39 LOW 42 
SPORTS 
Blown away 
Eastern Michigan defeated the Notre Dame baseball team 5-3 after the Irish's 17-game winning streak. 
page 24 

Suspect develops in recent larceny case 
Suspect information has developed for the LaFortune larceny case that was reported March 
18. The case has been referred for administrative review. 

Prosecutor files charges in auto theft 
On Tuesday, NDSP reported that the prosecu­tor's office charged a suspect with auto theft, a class D felony. The case was originally reported Nov. 22 and occurred by the R_adiation Lab. 

Police investigate Varsity Shop theft 
NDSP is investigating a theft from the Joyce Center Varsity shop that was reported Monday. 

NDSP deals with report of fire 
Police are looking into a fire in Blue Field that was reported Monday. The case is still active. 

Police handle rule violation from Zahm 
Police are investigating a case reported Monday involving the violation of University rules in Zahm 
Hall. 
-compiled from the NDSP crime blotter 

Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Vegetable crepes, pasta with olives and tomatoes, sun­flower seed bread, Szechwan beef with lo mein noodle, crispie dipper bar. pep­percorn parmesan chicken wrap, Terra chips, baby carrots, California pizza, cheese pizza, Philly steak loafer, salami, slice turkey breast. sliced roast beef, hummus 
Today's Dinner: Vegetarian strudel, garden burgers, baked butternut squash, tossed pasta, wholly ravioli, chili bar, carved corn beef, carrots and cab­bage, pesto chicken pizza, cheese pizza, cheese enchilada casserole, banana cake and chocolate pudding 

~/'=,: .. ,~·· 

6 ·······'"..:••····
•• $ $ 
•• $ i&i•,t & $ $ $ $ & • 
HIGH 58 HIGH 63 LOW 48 LOW 49 

Atlanta 77 I 57 Boston 66 I 33 Chicago 55 / 39 Denver 54 / 34 Houston 80 / 62 Los Angeles 66 I 48 Minneapolis 45 / 28 New York 76 / 41 Philadelphia 80 / 46 Phoenix 78 / 56 Seattle 60 / 44 St. Louis 70 / 48 Tampa 83 / 65 Washington 82 / 50 
page 3 

Wednesday, April 16, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 


Experts face off on religious, scientific theory 
By NICOI.A BUNICK News Writer 
Professors debated the consti­tutionality of teaching intelli­gent design theory in schools at Tuesday's lecture titled. "Religion in Public Schools? Debating Creation. Evolution and intelligent design." 
intelligent design theory accepts most of the premises of modern evolutionary theory, <'Xcept it claims that a designer arted purposefully at certain points in time to create the complex structures found in nature that proponents of intel­ligent design theory claim can­not be explained by natural sci­ence. Examples of such struc­tures include wings and eyes. 
Columbia University professor Kent Greenawalt said the First Amendment permits teaching intelligent design theory as part of a biology or natural science curriculum as long as it is pre­sented solely as one possible model for dealing with gaps in current evolutionary theory. 
"The theory is not science," said Greenawalt. "It is based on science, but it is really about the limits of science." 
Greenawalt sees nothing unconstitutional about present­ing intelligent design theory alongside the teaching of evolu­tion, but he feels that to teach it as the sole explanation for these gaps would be analogous to the teaching of religious doctrine. 

"Only religious reasons would lead [intelligent design theoryl to be taught as the sole alterna­tive to modern evolutionary the­ory," said Greenawalt. "My claim is that if the only basis for teaching it is religious premises, then it counts as religion even if it doesn't exert any religious propositions." 
The second speaker in the panel, Notre Dame law profes• sor Gerard Bradley directly 

FREE tsl1irts co tl1e flrsc 100 f.:ins FREE br.:its from Between the Buns served it1 che clubhoLtse ti-om 5-7pm FREE ~olf tees to e.:irLLJ f.:111 s 
~ ~ 
Domus 
PROPERTIES 



OFF CAMPUS 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003-2004 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT www.domuskramer.com 
OR CALL 574-315-5032 OR 574-234-2436 ASK FOR KRAMER 
opposed Greenawalt's argu• ment. He contended that by excluding intelligent design from science curriculum, schools are in fact in danger of violating the First Amendment. Bradley said natural material• ism, the belief that physical events have natural causes, which is a key component of evolutionary theory, should not be taught as absolute scientific truth. He argued that there remain many aspects of the evolutionary process that sci­ence cannot guarantee have natural causes. 
"If you exclude intelligent design theory from science, you are in great danger of collaps­ing science and material natu• 
Not teaching intelligent design theory, in Bradley's opinion is the equivalent of teaching the doctrine of philosophical mate­rialism as a general world view, which would be the same as the teaching of a religion. 
The third speaker, Professor Steven Green of Willamette University, voiced similar senti­ments to Greenawalt in that he felt there was nothing constitu­tionally amiss with addressing the fact that there are gaps in modern evolutionary theory. 
"The main problem with intel­ligent design theory is that it confuses religion and science," Green said. 
He deviated from 

ralism." said "'Schools should explain 
Bradley. "If you 

the proper role ofscience
do that, then 

and define evolution 
there is great danger of col­properly by explaining lapsing science 
that it is not about the 
into philosophi­

ultimate cause oflife but 
cal material• ism." ofhow it developed. ,. Bradley said 
that by not teaching intelli-Steve Green gent design as Williamette University professor an alternative to material nat­Greenawalt's position and said intelli­gent design theory poses the problem that this w o u l d require the teachers to further explain and validate the theory, which could be interpret­ed as a viola­
uralism, a school is projecting the image that philosophical materialism is the only possible view of the world. 
This means that all aspects of life were determined simply by principles of cause and effect and there is no free choice. 
"Public schools are required by the constitution to avoid causing students to believe the school thinks that a particular comprehensive world view is true," Bradley said. 
tion of the First Amendment. 
"Schools should explain the proper role of science and define evolution properly by explaining that it is not about the ultimate cause of life but of how it developed," said Green. "They should acknowledge that there are multiple views but they should not attempt to teach them." 
Contact Nicola Bunick at nbunick@nd.edu 

Ohio sorority mourns loss of students in fire 
By MICHELLE SIMAKIS The Ohio State Post 

ATHENS, Ohio. 
Locking arms and wearing 
sunglasses to hide tears, 
members of Alpha Gamma 
Delta sorority openly mourned 
Monday, gathering on the 
Ohio University College Green 
to listen to the announcement 
that three of their sorority sis­
ters died in a fire near the 
Ohio State University campus 
early Sunday morning. 

Ohio University officials announced the names of the three women killed by the fire during a news conference out• side of Templeton Blackburn Alumni Memorial Auditorium. Later, Franklin County Coroner Bradley Lewis con­firmed that students Erin DeMarco, 19, of suburban Canton; Andrea Dennis, 20, of Madeira; and Christine Wilson, 19, of Dublin were three of the five killed in the fire. 
The women were Ohio sophomores. DeMarco was a marketing major; Dennis was a journalism major focusing on advertising management; and Wilson was a retail mer­chandising major. 
Lewis said he has not yet confirmed the identities of the two others in the fire because he is waiting on dental records. But The Associated Press identified them as Ohio 
State students Alan 
Schlessman. 21, of Perkins 
Township near Sandusky; and 
Kyle Raulin, 20, of \Vest 
Chester near Cincinnati. 
The fire started at 4:05 a.m. 
Sunday near the front door of 
a house in Columbus, said 
Chief Mike Fultz of the 
Columbus Fire Battalion. 
Police still have not received 
confirmation from the fire 
department regarding the 
cause of the fire or the possi­
bility of arson, said Sherry 
Mercurio, public information 
officer for the Columbus 
Police Department. The cause 
of the fire should be verified 
within the next few days. 
The university will help organize a memorial service at an appropriate time to commemorate the deaths of the three women, Dean of Students Terry Hogan said. 
Members of Alpha Gamma Delta had celebrated Founders Day on Saturday, said Susan Chiki, the sorori­ty's alumnae adviser who spoke at the conference. 
After the celebration ended, several sorority members evi­dently drove to Columbus to attend a 21st birthday party, Chiki said. 
Ohio students Jullian Gardner and Jennifer Lehren, also members of Alpha Gamma Delta, were treated at Ohio State University Medical Center after the fire and were released Sunday, Chiki said. 



page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 16, 2003 


Seniors 
continued from page 1 

this new system, seniors can sign up at a time most conve­nient for them." 
The Senior Class Council and Dome Designs created the online registration system with help from the Registrar's Office and the Office of Information Technologies. 
The class council sought to separate the registration process from the payment process after seeing long lines of unhappy seniors waiting more than two hours just to sign up for events last year, Smith said. 
This year's Senior Week activities include new events like a "Margaritaville" beach party similar to that which the senior class sponsored in September, a golf tournament and a final tailgate party before the Notre Dame base­ball game against Butler University. More familiar activities include a Cubs game and daytrip to Chicago, a last visit to the Grotto, a formal dance and a service project during which a Salvation Army truck will visit popular off-campus stu­dent housing sites looking for anything students may be willing to donate as they move out of their homes. 
"We thought it would be great to kickoff Senior Week with Margaritaville," said Browder. The event, which will be held May 1O. will be bigger than last fall's party and accommodate 1,000 seniors at St. Joseph Lake with a deejay and a cash bar. The cost is $5. 
The Chicago trip, which is "traditionally the most popu­lar Senior Week event," 
according to Browder, will occur, May 11, when the Cubs take on the St. Louis Cardinals. Six hundred tick­ets are available. 
"The game is already sold out," she said. "We were for­tunate to purchase our tick­ets months ago." Buses will also take seniors to other Chicago attractions like Michigan Avenue and Navy Pier. The class council will also provide seniors with a list of popular bars, restau­rants and museums in the area. 
There is no limited capacity for the senior's last tailgate in the C lot at the Joyce Center May 14, which is also Senior Day at Eck Stadium. 
"We're working with Sports Marketing to create a senior­themed day," Browder said. "We're planning to give away free Senior Day T-shirts and promotional items during the game." 
Students who plan to bring cars to the tailgate -where brats and hotdogs will be provided for 50 cents each ­can register their vehicles during Senior Week registra­tion and bring their own cool­ers and BBQ grills, too. 
"We're trying to make this as easy as possible for seniors to have a great time tailgating with their friends and also supporting the team during the ballgame," Browder said. 
Browder added that seniors can expect more updates about registration and activi­ties via e-mail and at the class of 2003 Web site. 
"Our strong relationship with the Office of Student Affairs has allowed us to expand the traditional Senior Week schedule -adding new events to create a more meaningful and unifying week for seniors," said Smith. 
Recycle The Obse er. 
• 

/ SNITE 
Museum ,?.{ART 
The Snite Museum ofArt and the Department ofArt, Art History, and Design congratulate the following Student Show award recipients 
The &nilJacques Gold Medal ofFine Arts 
Molly C. Morin 

The &nilJacques Silver Medal of Fine Arts 
Nicole Kenney 

Radwan and Allan Riley Prize in Art History 
Graduate Level I st prize 
Jonathan Juilfs Undergraduate Level Ist prize 
Chris Nygren 

Radwan and Allan Riley Prize in Studio Art 
Molly C. Morin 

Radwan and Allan Riley Prize in Design 
Scott S. Kelley 

Eugene M. Riley Photography Prize 
Andrea Nagengast 

Mabel Mountain Memorial Award 
Gerald Sheahan 

Walter Beardsley Award 
Phillip Shore 

Fr. Lauck Award (Best ofBA Show) 
Brian Farrell Judith Wrappe Memorial Prize Qunior BFA) 
Sarah Lathrop 

Wednesdays and Thursdays are student nights. Students receive 20% off meal price with student ID. 
U£I 

Michiana's most unique dining experience. Located in the brewery at the Historic 100 Center in Mishawaka (574) 257-1792 www.lOOcenter.com 

Happy 25th Birthday, Naughty Natty! 
ND's favorite 6th year senior! 
From, The Latin Sensations (Vero, Sayo, Gaby Claudia) John, Mike, Billy, Bryan, and all the MBAs younger than you! 



Notre Dame Apartments 
Hop on down North Notre Dame 
Avenue and check us out f 
Look at what we're doing ......... 
We're undergoing some updating ....,.. ,m,.. Let us show you !l!lf! 
•2 
Bedroom/ 1Bath -1,000 SF 

•If
you're looking for spact &convenient location, ND Apts ore for you! 


Call today to make an appointment ~N 574-234-9923 Tclark@cbresb,com 

Wednesday, April 16, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
U.S. assembles Iraqi factions to form government 
Associated Press 
UH 

Under a white-and-gold tent at the biblical birthplace of Abraham, the United States assembled Iraqi factions Tuesday and told them it has "absolutely no interest" in ruling Iraq. Some Muslims boycotted the meeting and thousands demonstrated nearby, shouting: "No to America and no to Saddam!" 
The gatlwring of about 80 people in this ancient city on the Euphrates River -a first step toward creating a postwar gov­ernment -ended with an agreement by show of hands to meet again in 10 days to discuss forming an interim authority. 
Participants also agreed to a list of 13 points, beginning with the principle that Iraq must be democratic and calling for the dissolution of Saddam Hussein's Baath party. 
The meeting was dominated by presentations from dozens of Iraqis, including a cleric from Nasiriyah who called for a sepa­ration between religion and pol­itics and Iraqi exiles stressing the need for the rule of law. 
"One of the bases of democra­cy is honest differences of opin­ion," speaker Sheik Sarni Azer al Majnoon told the crowd. "At the same time this is also one of the difficulties of democracy." 
Hetired Lt. Gen. Jay Garner, who will head the U.S.-led inter­im administration in Iraq, opened the conference under a tent in the shadows of the 4,000-year-old ziggurat at Ur, a terraced temple platform of the ancient Sumerians. 
Garner. wearing a twin American and Iraqi flag pin, turned 65 Tuesday. "\Vhat bet­ter birthday can a man have than to begin it not only where civilization began but where a free Iraq and a democratic Iraq will begin today?" he asked. 
According to the Bible, Abraham migrated from Ur to Canaan, where his son Isaac carried on the Israelite line. Abraham, revered by Muslims as the prophet Ibrahim, also was the father of Ismail, forefa­ther of the Arabs. 
White House envoy Zalmay Khalilzad told the estimated 80 delegates that the United States has "no interest. absolutely no interest, in ruling Iraq." 
"We want you to establish your own democratic system based on Iraqi traditions and values," Khalilzad said. 
Participants included Kurds and Sunni and Shiite Arabs from inside Iraq and others who spent years in exile. U.S. offi­cials invited the groups, which picked their own representa­tives. 


Reuters 

Iraqi elders wait at a U.S. Army roadblock near Ur, the biblical birthplace of the prophet Abraham, as delegates from Iraq's many factions discuss the role of religion in the future gov­
ernment and ways to rebuild the country Tuesday. 
Many Iraqis boycotted the under Saddam -demonstrated meeting to protest U.S. plans to in nearby Nasiriyah. install Garner atop an interim "Iraq needs an Iraqi interim administration. Thousands of government," one Shiite leader, Shiites -Iraq's most populous Abdul Aziz Hakim, said in Iran. religious group but repressed "Anything other than this tram-pies the rights of the Iraqi peo­ple and will be a return to the era of colonization," said Hakim, whose Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq is the country's largest Shiite group. 
Handgun found on victim's body in school slaying 
Associated ·Press 
NEW ORLEANS 
A loaded handgun was found Tuesday on the body of a 15-year-old boy who was gunned down in a high school gym, according to police who say they believe the attack was retaliation for an earlier slaying. 
Jonathan Williams and his attackers apparently bypassed metal detectors at the main entrance of John McDonogh High School in New Orleans simply by going in through the gymnasium, schools Superintendent Tony Amato said. 
"It's obviously a gaping hole" in secu­rity, said Amato, who added that all city schools' security systems will be checked in the next couple of weeks. 
About 200 people were in the gym Mond,iy when four young men burst in and shot Williams with an AK-47 rifle and at least one handgun. Three girls were wounded, and one was hurt when she was trampled in the panic that fol­lowed. 
On Tuesday, police displayed the rifle, handguns, bags of bullets and clips found at the scene, but wouldn't say how many rounds were found in WiJliams' body. "More than enough," Lt. Jim Keen said. 
A .45-caliber handgun was found in Williams' pocket in the coroner's office, when his body was undressed for the autopsy. Capt. Marlon Defillo said. It will be tested to learn if it had been used in any crimes. 
"Basically, this is a person who may have brought this on himself, being as he was armed with a .45-pistol in his right pocket," Police Superintendent Eddie Compass said. "When Mr. Jonathan Williams brought that firearm to that school, he opened it up to the type of violence we saw." 
Police said the shooting probably was in retaliation for last week's shooting death of 18-year-old Hillard Smith. Police had not considered Williams as a suspect in that killing until they began investigating his death, and still have no proof he was involved, Compass said. 
Five suspects, ranging in age from 17 to 19, were arrested Monday; two more, aged 17 and 18, were arrested Tuesday, and an eighth person was still 
being sought. All of the arrested teens faced charges of first-degree murder except one who was held as an accesso­ry. 
Although police said the shooting does not appear to be gang-related, District Attorney Eddie Jordan said he feels that rivalries between schools and housing developments are equivalent to gangs. 
"I think we definitely need to do something to stop that. Those rivalries are killing off our young people," he said. 
Besides the metal detectors, the school has security guards on patrol. On Tuesday, police and security guards searched handbags and backpacks and counselors were on hand for the rough­ly 50 students who showed up out of a student body of 1,100. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Commandos capture terrorist leader: 
U.S. commandos in Baghdad have captured Abul Abbac;, the leader of the violent Palestinian group that killed an American on the hijacked cruise liner Achille Lauro in 1985, U.S. oflicials said Tuesday. Abbas was taken by American special operations forces during a raid Monday night on the southern outskirts of the capital city, U.S. Central Command said in a statement. 
Powell calls for UN censure of Cuba: 
Secretary of State Colin Powell, calling Cuba's rights situation horrible and getting worse, urged the U.N. Human Hights Commission to censure Cuba for sup­pressing dissent. The 53-member commission, winding up its annual meeting in Geneva, is expect­ed to vote on a Cuba resolution on \Vednesday. The United States has been pushing for the strongest resolution possible. But officials said there was no certainty that a commission majority favored such a measure. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Boston prof found dead in river: 
A body found in the Charles River has been identified as that of a Boston University music professor who disappeared a month ago, officials said Tuesday. An autopsy determined that John Daverio, whose body was found Monday by a college rowing team, had drowned, Middlesex district attorney's spokeswoman Emily LaGrassa said. The circumstances of Daverio's death were unknown, but police Capt. William Evans said investigators do not suspect foul play. 


Deadly fire deemed arson by police: 
A weekend fire that killed five college students in a house near Ohio State University was arson and the 
· deaths are being treated as homicides, investigators said Tuesday. Authorities had not determined a motive and have no suspects, Detective Mike McCann said. A $15,000 reward was being offered for infor­mation leading to an arrest. Investigators wouldn't comment on what evidence had been gathered. 
New Hampshire priest faces rape charges: A former altar boy testified against a former Roman Catholic priest at the start of his criminal trial on rape charges. describing a trip to Rome in which he said the priest first assaulted him. The Rev. George Robichaud is the first priest to face criminal charges in New Hampshire since the church-abuse scandal erupted 18 months ago. He has pleaded innocent to charges of rape and attempted rape. 

Klan leader voluntarily begins prison term: 
Former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke turned himself in to a federal prison Tuesday to begin a 15­month sentence for mail and tax fraud. Duke, who was driven to the west Texas prison in a light brown Jeep, did not appear to acknowledge about eight admirers outside who waved signs that read "Duke for President" and "Free David Duke." "It's a nice day to meet the grand wizard," said Sarah Peterson, 17, of Big Spring. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 16, 2003 

Priests 

continued from page 1 
\Vilson compares the life of an Old Collegian to being a varsity athlete at Notre Dame. 
"It's a different experience from what most students have here,'' he said. "And there are additional responsibilities that go along with that." 
Another similarity between Old Collegians and some varsity athletes is that they receive full tuition scholarships, which are jointly paid for by the University and the Congregation of Holy Cross. Seminary candidates and Old Collegians are expected to take care of room and board costs and personal expenses prior to taking their first vows. 
Greg Giefer, a senior in Keough Hall, is a former resi­dent of Old College. Eleven members of the class of 2003 entered Old College as freshmen and only three continued on to Moreau Seminary. One of those men dropped out this year. Giefer said his experience at Old College was great and that his decision to leave Old College does not mean he has ruled out the idea of becoming a priest. 
"I can always go back, the door is still open," he said. "I want to experience the work­force for a few years and see how that treats me." 
Giefer said it is not uncommon for men to leave Old College and later decide to enter the semi­nary. He added that he always wanted to attend Notre Dame for college and the option of Old College allowed him to do that while also exploring the reli­gious life. 
"Notre Dame is the only place in the U.S. where you can be an undergraduate and a seminari­an at the same time," he said. 
The unique nature of Old College makes it practically impossible to measure the rela­tive success of the program. King said Old Collegians are treated just as any other under­graduate who is not sure what they want to do with the rest of their life. He said it is expected that young people will change their minds about their future careers, whether it is in medi­cine. business or the religious life. 
Therefore, students at Old College are free to major in whatever they want, but must take philosophy and theology classes beyond the basic University requirements. The program also requires them to have service placements, get regular spiritual direction. par­ticipate in daily prayer and Eucharist and attend weekly community meetings. 
Wilson said that students in Old College are truly free to explore their interests and do not feel any overbearing pres­sure to enter the priesthood. 
''We 're completely free to major in whatever we want," he said. "Most of the pressures are internal." 
After junior year, Old Collegians move on to Moreau Seminary, where they begin the more formal steps on the way to being ordained as Holy Cross priests. About 30 seminarians currently live in Moreau Seminary at different levels of completing their studies. 
Contact Kevin Allen at kaUen@nd.edu 
Scientists complete hum.an genome map 
By ERIN SAYLOR Michigan Daily 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

Ushering in a new era for potential scientific advances, a group of scientists from around the world announced Monday in \Vashington that they have mapped a complete sequence of human DNA. "This is really a landmark scientific accomplish­ment," said Professor Miriam Meisler of the University of Michigan's Human Genetics Department. A rough draft of the human genome was announced in 2000 but Meisler said it still had a number of holes in the sequence. 
But the new and completed sequence reaches an accuracy of 99. 9 percent and scientists say the code is as complete as it will ever be. "What we've got now is what we'll have for all eternity," Francis Collins, head of the National Human Genome Research Institute, said in an interview with New Scientist. 
Collins was an assistant pro• fessor in the Department of Human Genetics at the University from 1984 until 1993 before becoming head of the NIIGRI, which leads the consor­tium of the 16 international institutions, involved in the completion of the DNA sequence. 
Beginning in 1990, scientists 
hoped to complete the project of 
sorting thougt-i the 35,000 genes 
in a genome in 15 years, said 
Meisler. Completing the project 
ahead of schedule and under 
the $3 billion budget. the 
sp,quence took less than 13 

years to finish and cost $2.7 bil­lion. 
"Many thought that it was not feasible when the project began," Meisler said. "In fact ... they had to develop a lot of new technology that was not avail­able in 1990," she added. 
Scientists are already specu­lating how this knowledge could revolutionize medical treat­ments. 
Independent of the Univen.ity 

LET THE SUN SHINE 

II has shown that everyone can serve the Church," she
Nuns 
said. continued from page 1 Lavonis is optimistic about 
the future for the Holy Cross life, said Lavonis. One reason, Sisters. she said, is that exposure to "I think vocations are going sisters is down to come because they back," 
have gone into "The Church since s h e 
different min­s a i d .
Vatican II has shown that

istries, such as "Last 
social justice. everyone can serve the week we Other reasons she Church.,, had a mentioned are discern­
the reluctance of m e n t young people to Margaret Mary Lavonis retreat make commit­vocation director and we ments and the had six new opportunities girls ­for laywomen to serve the three from Saint Mary's and Church. three from Notre Dame ­"The Church since Vatican that are seriously thinking 
.. 

Buy or Sell your Home with 
aGrad from the Dome 
Call ~faria Cardle 
360-3334 
CRESSY and EVERETT/GMAC Realty Office 233-6141 

about [becoming sisters]. Several girls at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are in the discernment stage, but have not taken any formal steps." 
Contact Kevin Allen at kallen@nd.edu 



Meet your new neighbor. 
Visit Our NEW Granger Location & Enter To Win A NEW CARI 
For a chance to win, all you need to do is to stop in and fill out an entry form. 
0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION SR 23 and the Toll Road in Granger 574/243-4840 
No purchase necessary, Contest ends Apri! 26, 2003. One entry per perwn. Must be 18 y1ors old or older-to po'1ic,polo. Th,, d,awing will be hold on Ap,il 26, 2003. Need not be presenl lo wm. Emplo)'HI• ol Not<e. Dame Federal Credit Union and lheir tmmediat• family members ore not eli91ble to win. This promohon ts only bemg offered at th ¦ Noire Dome Federal Credit Union New G,onger Brooch 
9=
,---::... I NCUA I
LENDER . ....._._... 
O
THE 

BSERVER 


Wednesday, April 16, 2003 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch April 15 

DowJones  
8,402.36  ~  +51.26  
N4SDAQ  
1,391.01  ~  +6.06  
S&P500  
890.81  ~  +5.58  
AMEX  
839.84  ~  +1.76  
NYSE  
4,995.25  ~  +38.97  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP  (MSFT)  -0.57 -0.14 24.61  
••iig~•••••co~r·tf[(Q)lt  ••s~•]!!i•i1•<:tj•;•it1~.z••!•·$3:  
CISCO SYSTEMS  (CSCO)  -0. 97 -0.13 13. 34  

suN r11cR6sx:sis:1i1 (iµI, w1•]1$2>ij1:•11::~ii!~s 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -1.03 -0.1211.54 
IN BRIEF 
Labor unions support Republicans 
Labor unions that disagree with their tradi­tion al environmental allies are banding together with a Hcpublican group to boost their political and lobbying might. The Teamsters union and the Council of Republicans for Environmental Advocacy have formed the Labor Environment Alliance to bal­ance environmental issues with job creation, and to support moderate politicians -mostly Hepublicans. The two groups successfully lob­bied the House to pass President Bush's ener­gy bill that opens Alaska's Arctic National \Vildlife Hefuge to oil drilling, and decided to join forces for a showdown with the Senate. 

TNN changes name to attract males 
Struggling TNN -which just two years ago changed from The Nashville Network to The National Network-announced Tuesday that, effective June 16, it will call itself Spike TV and become the first network aimed specifically at men. "We just like the idea of having a guy's name," said Albie Hecht, network president. "We thought that was smart and fun and irrev­crent." TNN's switch isn't exactly a stretch. Since it already airs World \Nrestling Entertainment, "Star Trek: The Next Generation" and a made-up game of basketball played on trampolines called "slam ball," nearly two-thirds of TNN's audience is male, anyway. 

Bethlehem rejects two final offers 
Bethlehem Steel Corp. rejected a pair of last­minute offers Tuesday, clearing the way for the bankrupt Pennsylvania steel maker to be sold to International Steel Group for $1.5 billion. The offers, from North Point Industries LLC of Edgemere, Md., and Bramcote Associates Inc. of Audubon, Pa., were incomplete and deemed not to be credible, said Steve Miller, Bethlehem Steel's chief executive officer. "We have reviewed two submissions that we received yesterday and have concluded that they arc not qualified bids," Miller said. "We have no expectation that they would ever be able to execute a transaction." 








'Unpromotable' workers sue 
• Ford, Visteon face possible class-action suit 
Associated Press 

DETROIT 
Two men have filed a 
lawsuit against Ford Motor 
Co. and Visteon Corp., 
claiming that they have 
been blocked from promo­
tions because they do not 
have college degrees. 
The lawsuit, which is 
seeking class-action status, 
was filed Friday in Wayne 
County Circuit Court on 
behalf of two longtime 
Visteon plant supervisors. 
The lawsuit claims that 
Ford and Visteon -which 
was part of Ford until 
2000 categorize 
employees without college 
degrees as "unpro­
motable," The Detroit 
News reported in a 
Monday story. 

Michael Pitt, the Royal Oak attorney who filed the suit, said the practice is unfair to older workers, particularly those in the manufacturing field, who often began their careers when college degrees were not traditionally required. 
"This is part of a corpo­rate culture of discrimina­tion against older work­ers," Pitt said. 
But Ford said the claims $100,000 a year, in addi­Jackson supervises 1,000 degrees have been regu­are unfounded. tion to fringe benefits. employees and oversees an larly overlooked for pro­
"That's absolutely false," The two began their entire night shift at the motions. Company spokeswoman careers in 1970 as hourly Monroe plant. Late last year, Visteon Kathleen Vokes said. line workers before being Jackson and Spaulding, settled with 12 former "Every employee is looked promoted into manage­a manufacturing superin­managers who claimed it at individually, based on ment. Their advancement tendent, say they have discriminated against their accomplishments, stopped in the mid-to late-watched as less competent older workers when it laid their leadership ability and 1990s, when they claim people who have college off hundreds of employees their ability to work as Ford and Visteon began degrees have been pro­in 2001. A plaintiffs analy­part of a team." blocking promotions for moted ahead of them. sis of the job cuts at 
She added that Ford salaried employees with­"They looked at me as a Visteon showed that work­offers to pay tuition for out college degrees. blocker," Spaulding said. ers age 56 or older were employees who want to go Jackson is an operations "That's someone who can't five times as likely to be to school to help advance manager who said he has go to the next level. We laid off as employees their career. repeatedly sought and have been called younger than 40. 
Visteon spokeswoman been denied a promotion dinosaurs. I don't feel like In late 2001. Ford Tammera Hallums said the to area manager, a posi­a dinosaur. I'm 50 years agreed to pay $10.5 mil­company had not reviewed tion one step below plant old. That's a young man lion to settle two class­the lawsuit and could not manager. still." action discrimination law­comment on it. "They have told me I am The case could come suits brought by company 
The two named plaintiffs unpromotable because I down to a statistical analy­middle managers. The -Ivory Jackson, 58, and don't have a college sis. Pitt said he plans to suits claimed an employee Dennis Spaulding, 50, are degree," Jackson said. seek data from Ford and ranking system, which has supervisors at Visteon's "But when the plant is in Visteon that he believes since been discontinued, Monroe stamping plant. trouble, they turn to me will show that older was used by Ford to weed Both men earn more than because I can do the job." employees without college out older workers. 

American staves off bankruptcy 
will file for bankruptcy unless all Analysts say labor concessions would
Associated Press 

three unions approve their portions help American Airlines, but might not 
FORT WORTH of $1.8 billion in labor cuts. It set a solve its long-term problems. 
American Airlines teetered on the Tuesday deadline, but later said flight Concessions were approved by 69 brink of bankruptcy Tuesday after its attendants would be allowed to con­percent of the pilots and 53 percent l1ight attendants balked at approving tinue voting -and change their of the ground workers who voted. the $340 million in wage concessions. votes -until Wednesday evening. Allied Pilots Association and the The union was given one more day to "This is our la.:;t chance to avoid Transport \.Yorkers Union said. vote. bankruptcy," said Don Carty, chair­Unlike the flight attendants, those 
Members of American's two other man of American parent AMR Corp. groups had a chance to change their major unions -representing pilots If the flight attendants fail to back votes before Tuesday. They had some and ground workers -approved the cuts, Carty said. American will incentive to do so because American more than $1 billion in concessions, immediately file for bankruptcy. sweetened its off er last week. but the flight attendants' union said United Airlines is already in bank­The voting was conducted by phone its members had rejected their share ruptcy and the industry overall is and over the Internet. The flight of the cuts by fewer than 500 votes mired in its worst-ever slump, com­attendants union sought an extension among 19,000 cast. pounded by fears of terrorism, the Monday, complaining some members 
The world's biggest airline says it SARS virus and the war in Iraq. were having trouble casting votes. 
Wednesday, April 16, 2003 

page 8 The Observer . NEWS 

Doctor discusses bioterrorism 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
Dr. Charles Holt, an osteo­pathic physician and colonel in the United States Army Reserve, discussed the main bacterial and viral agents used in bioterrorism Tuesday evening. The pre­sentation was the fifth in the Mini-Medical School Lecture Series hosted by the South Bend Center 

Today. medical profession­als have a better under­standing of what causes dis­ease and how to treat it. Despite this, bioterrorism can pose many problems to our healthcare system, Holt said. 
"Virtually no healthcare provider has any experience with this kind of stuff," he said, adding that dangerous diseases can often be mistak­en for the common flu. "The 
problem is 
for Mediral that by the
"The problem is that by
Education. time they 
Indiana the time they figure out figure out 
University what really killed these what really School of killed these
people the disease has
Medicine and people the
spread."
sponsored by disease has the Medical spread." Education According
Charles Holt 
Foundation. to Holt, the
osteopathic physician
Although first victims 
the events of Sept. 11 and the recent anthrax scare have raised public aware­
ness of bioterrorism. the concept has been around since ancient times, Holt said as he clicked through gory slides of disease victims. He cited the biblical plagues of Egypt and the medieval practice of catapulting small pox-infected corpses over castle walls as examples. Even during the American Revolutionary \'Var. a British physician collected and pul­verized small pox scabs with the intent of infecting the colonists, he said. 
of a biologi­
cal or chemical attack are often police officers and fire fight­ers. two professions he referred to as "blue and red canaries." 
The military is most con­cerned with pathogenic bac­teria like anthrax and those that cause various types of plague and viruses including small pox, he said. Viruses often pose a greater threat because they are unreceptive to antibiotics. He added that in many cases, the microor­ganism often only indirectly causes mortality. 
"What really kills you in 
most of these diseases is the 
toxins the organism pro­
duces or causes your body to 
produce," Holt said, citing 
botulism as the most lethal 
compound per unit mass on 
the planet. 
The intention of many ter­
rorists, however, is not nec­
essarily to kill their victims, 
he said. 
"It's better to wound peo­
ple and make them ill 
because it ties up resources 
and people to take care of 
them," Holt said. 
In addition to increasing 
research on how to treat the 
victims of a biological attack, 
the government needs to 
take steps to avoid mass hys­
teria, and the best method 
for that, according to Holt, is 
education·. 
"The more you know about something the better off you are," he said. 
Holt is a unit surgical com­man der for the 337th Combat Support Hospital in the United States Army -Reserve and the chairman of the Indianapolis' Richard Roudebush VA Medical Center Decontamination 
Team. 
Next Tuesday, the Mini­Medical School Lecture series will conclude with a presentation by dietitian Carolyn Monroe titled "Nutrition: The Key to Good Health." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
Appalachia filled with abandoned homes 
Associated Press 

FLEMING-NEOND, Ky. 
In its heyday, people flocked to this isolated mountain town. a place that was awash in profits from freshly mined coal. 
Families were moving into gleaming new two-story homes in Fleming-Neon, a town that was, by all accounts, a vibrant place for decades after its founding in 1913. But when the coal boom ended in the 1950s, the jobs dried up. businesses began closing and a downward economic slide began. 
Now, Fleming-Neon, like so many other towns in the Appalachian coal fields, is searching for ways to survive despite economic problems that have forced working-age people to move away in search of opportunity. 
Some towns, such as Benham. have been able to make a transi­tion from mining town to tourist destination. Hazard, once almost totally dependent on coal for jobs, now has a medical-based economy. Hindman has evolved as a market for Appalachian arts and crafts. 
But others, including Fleming­Neon, haven't been as fortunate. 
"They simply have not evolved into something today that is dif­ferent from what they were 50 years ago," said Ewell Balltrip. executive director of the Kentucky Appalachian Commission. "They've gone through a process of devolution instead of evolution." 
Fleming-Neon· s once enviable homes have fallen into disrepair, store fronts are empty and a grocery store is shuttered. A "closed" sign adorns the town's last cafe. 
The last count by the U.S. Census Bureau showed Fleming­Neon, population 840, had 161 children under 14 years old. The largest demographic group was the 339 people who were 62 or older. The city's population had fallen by 355 since 1980. 
"I think there are solutions," Balltrip said. "Unfortunately, they are the types of answers that aren't going to produce immediate results. Given the severity of the problems. politi­cal demands, financial pres­sures, most people aren't willing to wait for these communities to reconstruct themselves." 
Last month, Mayor Harlan Seals, tired of' watching his hometown's decline, proposed annexing several surrounding communities to bolster the dwindling population and increase tax receipts. 
Seals tried to sell his proposal with promises of better streets and sidewalks and safer com­munities, in a town with a two­man police department. But people in the surrounding cnm ­munities said they would nuL shoulder an ailing city's finan­cial burden. 


l~arge ()r1e Mediu111 Cheese ~['c,p:pi11g Pi2:za Pizza & Breacl Stix 


$6.99 $6.99 
C~llt!esy Brea_d :Bread Stix & CinniStix & l)o111irto' s Dots One 2 Liter Of' Col<e 

$6.99 $6.99 
Carnpus I)eliveries ()nly. Not Val-id V\fith Any C>ther ()ffers 
Out For ·•i\_ Walk Pick. Up A Medium c:11eese Pizza For $3.99 
Carry Out Only. Not Valid With Any Other Offers 
271_-0300 
page 9 

Wednesday, April 16, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Feminist shares views on photography at SMC 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
News Writer 
Feminist and author Jane Gallop visited Saint Mary's College Tuesday tu present a lecture on her new book, "Living With His Camera: The Unhappy Woman and the Empty Chair." 
Gallop is Distinguished Professor of 
and Ruby, are used to this. 
"It is not that unusual for Dick to pick up his camera when we are having an argu­ment." she said. I don't mind his taking photographs during an argument; in fact, I rather like it." 
One such argument led to the portrait of domestic life after which the book was named. In it, a forlorn Gallop 
is seated on a 
English at t h e University of \Visconsin­Milwaukee and the  "Her ideas are very powerful and thought-provoking. Her views on photography,  couch next to an empty chair -one that should have been holding Blau.  
author of over 65 works. lier various top­ics include  her writing, and the way she presents those views is inspiring.,,  Gallop showed this and many other photos to a crowd of 45.  
Sade. sexu­ality, peda­gogy, femi­ Erin Carsele sophomore  She also read an excerpt from the new  
nism, France and Freud.  book, tiquing  cri­both  

With "Living With His the photographs and Susan Camera,'' she added photogra­Sontag's "On Photography."phy to that list. She discussed how prepar­
In the book. Gallop does ing to critique her partner and close readings of books on domestic life made her feel. photography while adding her Before writing, she read own personal reflections. Sontag's book many times. 
"I don't really take pho­"I began to fantasize leaving tographs," Gallop said. "I'm him, but then what would not a photographer." become of the book I was 
Dick Blau, her partner for writing?" Gallop said. over 20 years, is the photogra­Gallop's lecture was spon­pher. Since 1968, he has been sored by the Program in creating art from his family \Vomen 's Studies at Saint photography. Gallop said she Mary's, in coordination with and their two children, Max the Departments of English 

and Philosophy and Notre Dame's Department of English. 
The visit was a very special one for Professor Astrid Henry, the coordinator of the Program in Women's Studies. 
Henry was brought to tears several times during her intro­duction of Gallop, which she admitted was "unusually sen­timental for an academic talk." 
"It isn't often that I get to introduce someone who has 
had such a great impact on my life," Henry said. 
She studied under Gallop at the University of Wisconsin­Milwaukee. 
"Being Jane's student has been, without a doubt, the most important intellectual experience of my life," she said. 
Others who attended the lec­ture also appreciated Gallup's works. 
Sophomore Erin Carsele studied Gallop's views on fem­inism in her Women's Studies class this year. 
"Her ideas are very powerful and thought-provoking. Her views on photography, her writing, and the way she pre­sents those views is inspiring," Carsele said. "When I was see­ing those pictures up on the screen, it made me see pho­tography in a different way." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928l@saintmarys.edu 


254 Nieuwland Science Building Notre Dame, IN 46556 631-0622 
INFORMATION OPEN HOUSE FOR 
SUMMER LONDON 2004 & 2005 DROP IN BETWEEN 6:30 AND 8:00 P.M. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16, 2003 IN 136 DeBARTOLO HALL 
APPLICATIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED FOR 2004 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

page I 0 Wednesday, April 16, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
Tb, lnd,pnulnu. Dllily N,w.,.,tr Smrinr Notr, D_,, and S.int M•ry~ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Andrew Soukup 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINF.SS MANAGER Scott Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes 
V!EWPOll>IT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm 
SPORTS EDITOR: Joe Hettler 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek CONTROLl.ER: Michael Flanagan 
SYSTEMS MANAGER: Ted Bangert 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDJTORIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VtEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. I@nd.edu 
SCENE...................................................... ...631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not nec­essarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Andrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Oh,.rver (USl'S 599 240) ;. published Mond,y ,hrough Friday cxcepr during cu.m anJ va.:a<ion ~rioJ.1. A 5uhscrlprion to TM" 0b5C'rv('r i, $100 for one .ac.:ackmk 
yca1: SS5 for one IC'tnoter.  
The Obx:rva u, publ.s.ht-d ,al:  PO~TMASTER  
024 Sou1h O,ning H,11  SmJ .iJdr~i. (:.llfn-ctions. 10:  
No,,.. Dame, IN 46556  ThcOb,,m,cr  
P.O.!l<u.Q  
Puiod.ical pouagc: pa.id :u Noerr Dami:  Notte Ihm<. IN 4l>5S6-0779  

and ~irional m•iling officts. The Ob~rva is 2 m~ht-r of the-ASM;)da1;c«i Prt"$1. All rc.-produ~rion righo are 
rt..'ia"V\.'d. 
A message from Uncle Sam 
I'd like to introduce myself. I am your Uncle Sam. You may not recognize me because I'm a very busy person. In light of that, I will describe myself. 
I'm an older gentleman, going on 227 years old. But don't be fooled by my 
Adam Cahill 
age. I am as alive today as I have ever been. The 
A Domer's 
reason I come to 
Outlook

you today is not to talk about my age, but the experiences that have come with it. I grant you this: You can only gain wisdom through experience. And I've experienced it all, believe me. 
I have millions of nieces and nephews who unfortunately can't live as long as I can. And from the time of my conception, my family members have fought and died so that I could live. I had a very difficult birth and adolescence, experiencing at least four major wars in the first 100 years of my existence. 
Let me tell you, it's tough to see my family go through so much for me. With it brings a great deal of responsi­bility. But it is also nice to have the knowledge that so many people care about me. I mean so much to so many that I can't possibly fulfill everyone's expectations of me. It breaks my heart and pains me to say this, but my family needs to bleed, from time to time, in order to grow and heal. 
One time, over 600,000 of my nephews were killed as a result of a family dispute. Disputes with other families have caused pain, too. During World War I and World War II. large chunks of my nieces and nephews were taken from my family. It was a terrible burden to bear, but I know that their sacrifices helped me make a better family for them. These wars accom­plished something for me and for my family. 
You might wonder why I have to go through all these trials and tribula­tions. Couldn't I find a way to get around all the pain without sacrificing the end result? The answer is no. 
I'm a complex individual whose fami­ly members' facets, morals and ideolo­gies pull and tug at me relentlessly. I'm the end result and ultimately decide all the arguments. It's the only job I have to do, but it's a hard one. Many times, one facet needs to relinquish to anoth­er, causing pain. But I know, just the same, that if I don't do anything to help, more damage could and would be done. I've learned to accept that. 
I live in a world where things aren't black and white. Political ideologies within my family and other families are bound not to overlap, and conflict, in whatever form. is inevitable. It's a harsh truth to face, but it needs to be accepted. The thing that I've learned, though, is that gray is not only okay but should be sought after. I embrace it knowing that free wills are destined to quarrel from time to time. 
So. in response to these pro-war and anti-war demonstrations. I only have one response -I simply sit back and smile. I know that they only have the best interests of good ole' Uncle Sam at heart. You are exercising your right, as my family members. to voice your opinions to me and I embrace you for it. Thank you and God bless you, chil• dren. I've never been more proud to be who I am. 
However. I want to caution you in these protests and demonstrations. I am and always will be looking out for your best interests -no matter if you think otherwise. So, please don't disre­spect me. Please. In my past and most likely in the future, our family's flag has been burned. Burning our family's f1ag at these protests, forcing me to arrest you does nothing to get you clos­er to your goals. It only makes me pissed off and I don't like being angry. March and protest. but do it respectful and with respectfully toward your goals. 
In all my years, I've had my fair share of the good and the bad. I had it rough from the beginning and have seen many trying times since. But one thing is for certain: I will never stop being your Uncle and I will always lis­ten to what you have to say. I may not agree with you, but I will listen nonetheless. You gave me life when I had none, prosperity when I was pour and happiness for over 200 years. And for that, I promise my trust for you even when you show me disrespect. I will never give up in you because of those who have died saving me. I owe them that. I owe you that. It's what I was born to do. 
God bless America. 

Adam Cahill is a junior majoring in history and American studies. His col­umn appears every other Wednesday. He can be reached at acahill@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Calves do not have a choice, but we do 
In his letter on Monday. Alex Pagnani makes an interesting argu­ment challenging the effort of ND for Animals to eliminate veal from the dining halls. I am sure there are many others who would readily agree with Mr. Pagnani on his nice anecdote and the banning of smoking as an act that is against the right of people to indulge in their freedom of choice. 
An often quoted saying, "Your free­dom to blow your fist in the air ends where my nose begins," is what comes to mind first on reading his column. Sure enough, smoking is of no concern to anyone as long as oth­ers are not made passive smokers. According to the Centers for Disease Control. s<!c1-11d hand smoke causes "lung cancer in adult non-smokers and serious respiratory problems in children." 
If this is not reason enough to pass laws making it illegal to smoke in bars or on public streets. what else could be? It suJ'lices to say the right of anyone to smoke in public ends the moment it poses a substantial public 
health hazard. 
Coming to the issue of cruelty to animals. I only wish animals could speak out for themselves, for perhaps then people would come to a better understanding of the tyranny that they are subjected to at our hands. 
Here are a few facts about the veal and calf industry. According to PETA, "Male calves used for veal are taken from their mothers one or two days after their birth. They are chained inside tiny crates barely larger than their bodies and are usually kept in darkness except to be fed two or three times a day for 20 minutes. During their brief lives, they never see the sun or touch the earth. They never see or taste the grass. About 14 weeks after their birth they are slaughtered." 
How would we react if these were the conditions under which a fellow human being was treated? Would we then be content with the fact that we do not indulge in such actions and not bother to interfere with one's choice to ill treat someone else or would we raise up collectively against such an outrage? We belong to a society where we care about the conditions and liberties of even those who are in prison. 
The poor veal does not have any one of its own to take up its case. Unless we, as compassionate human beings, live up to our highest of moral and ethical judgments. there is no end to this human tyranny against ani­mals. 
It is not Mr. Pagnani's choice to eat veal that ND for Animals is protesting against. It is the low moral ebb that we as human beings have hit that it is protesting against. The act of not con­suming veal would go a long way in sending the message across to the heartless veal industry that we do care about how animals are treated. That is least we could do, for the calves do not have a choice. 
Chandra Vaidyanathan 
graduatt'. student off-campus April 15 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Helena Payne Himanshu Kothari Mike Chambliss 
Viewpoint 
Claire Kelley 
Graphics 
Katie McKenna 
Sports 

Matt Lozar Pat Leonard Lisa Reij ula 
Scene 

Maria Smith 
Lab Tech 
Claire Kelley 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Do you agree with the decision to hold the 
"It is the mark ofan educated mind 
ROTC Pass in Review indoors this year? 
to be able to entertain a thought without accepting it." 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
Aristotle philosopher 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

Wednesday, April 16, 2003 page 11 
Spending Easter at Notre Dame 
Well, the Queen of Notre Dame contest was an 
absolute success. I was the master of ceremonies. 
This is as close as I will ever get to having the ini­
tials M.C. come before my name without getting 
beat with orange-filled sweat socks for pretending 
to be a rapper. 
Many of you will not read this 

article, as you are already on Joe Muto 
the road laughing maniacally at 
the prospect of an extended 
weekend as you head home to 
Muto Time
the hotbed of dysfunction that is 
your family holiday. Christ died 
for our sins so you could stuff 
your fat face with Cadbury Creme eggs. And by 
"you" I mean "me." Those things are friggin' deli­
cious. 
Actually, if you 're anything like me. you'll be 
spending your Easter hepped up on mushrooms 
with your forehead firmly pressed against the glass 
of the running dorm microwave, giggling and 
watching a pink marshmallow Peep slowly expand 
to the size of a human lung. I'm spending Easter at 
Notre Dame. baby. 
Frankly, I see no reason to go home. My parents 
and my still-in-high-school sister jet to Destin, 
Florida early Friday morning to bask in the sun 
with all the other yuppies. They offered to fly me 
down for the weekend this year, but I declined, as I 
was somewhat uncomfortable when they did the 
same thing last year. It's not that I didn't appreciate 
the free trip, courtesy of Papa Muto; I did. It's just 
that I couldn't stand the looks of pity that the other 
vacationers gave me. "How sad," their eyes said. "A 
college boy needs his mommy and daddy." Yes, it 
was the looks of pity that got me. That and the 
looks of wanton lust I received from all of the 15­
year old girls as I wandered the beach. So annoy­
ing. 
Easter is an interesting holiday, in that the 
Catholic Church says it's the most important one. 
However, in a kid's view, Easter is a distant third 
behind Christmas and Halloween. Why Christmas is 
in first place is a no-brainer; presents always come 
before candy. One would think that this would make 
Halloween and Easter, both candy-centric holidays, 
equal -this is obviously not the case. 
Halloween involves dressing up in cool outfits and going out at night. Easter involves waking up early, putting on itchy dress-up clothes and going to church, the most boring of all places for kids and adults alike. Even Halloween candy is vastly superi­or to Easter candy. As much as I like Cadbury Creme eggs (and I really do). do you remember trick or treating? Some of those people gave out full size candy bars. Plus. with Halloween there was a direct work/benefit correlation. The faster you moved, the more candy you'd get. With Easter, you get your basket and that's it. That Easter Bunny could leave you a jolly old turd log sitting on top of some of that fake green and yellow plastic grass, and you couldn't do a thing about it. With Halloween, you at least have the option of throwing eggs. 
All of this points to an alarming fact. What are we teaching our youth? To them, the birth of Jesus is supremely awesome, while the resurrection of Jesus is in danger of getting aced out by Thanksgiving on the strength of pumpkin pie. Let me repeat that: Jesus' birth, something that involved no effort on his part, equals awesome. Jesus' resurrection, something that no one else has ever done before. equals crap. We're sending our youth the wrong message. 
I'm kidding of course. Easter is a holy, sacred time of year, made even holier by the fact that I can return to the dining halls on Friday instead of hop­ping down the street to Wendy's. Jesus was a good man, but if he had tried to serve the crap fish that the dining hall serves when he divided the fish and loaves. we'd all be worshipping the god Jupiter right now. Plus, even He could not have resisted the 99 cent junior bacon cheeseburger. 
Joe Muto is a Junior FIT and English major who has been writing an awful lot about Jesus lately. It makes you think. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Freedom of speech allows all views 
I am writing this letter in response to Nick Shepard's letter Tuesday about the choice of the College Republicans to have Don Feder speak at the recent pro-America rally. I find it a disturbing trend in recent Viewpoint articles that people are criticizing both this newspaper and campus groups, such as the College Republicans, for allow­ing different perspectives to be aired. This trend continued Tuesday with Shepard's grand idea that someone he and a Democrat representative label as a .. racist" should not be asked "to speak at a University." 
Shepard claims that he is all for political free• doms but goes on to be utterly hypocritical when he claims that someone people would label as con­troversial or offensive should not be allowed to speak on campus. I find this particularly appalling coming from a member of the anti-war movement, which has constantly whined about its freedom to express whatever view it thinks is right. 
In looking at Shepard's argument. his main line of objection against Feder is that he is both offen­sive, and, of course, a "racist." The column in question, from five years ago, points out the diffi­culties that would arise in having, in Puerto Rico, a state wherein the majority of the population is not native speakers of the English language. If he had said anything bad about Hispanic people in gener­al, I would be there with you saying that he was a jerk for doing so: but he did not, and, of course, to say anything that could remotely be deemed offen­sive to a minority makes one a racist. 
Shepard's second claim that Feder should not be allowed to speak because he is offensive is even more ludicrous. Since when does anybody have the right not to be offended? I must have missed that part of the Constitution. 
If I wanted to follow the trend of making outra­geous claims about someone I disagree with to make them look evil or offensive, we could talk about Janet Reno. I could say she is a heartless murderess who ordered the killing of many in the Branch Dividian compound, and one who blatantly violated the law in taking Elian Gonzalez from his family in Florida. Since these are obviously very offensive actions, Janet Reno should not have been allowed to speak. I do my research, though, and I do not believe outrageous stories. Even if they were true, it does not give me the right to demand that somebody I disagree with not be able to speak. 
The final part of Shepard's article I wish to com­ment on is what actually took place between the anti-war groups, Feder and the crowd last Thursday. First, I would like to give credit to the protesters who appeared at the rally. They have all the right in the world to disagree and they acted very respectfully while the rally went on. 
While I was not around long enough to witness the conversation Shepard spoke of, the version of events I was told was that Feder was surrounded by a group of protesters and bombarded with ques­tions until someone in attendance asked them to kindly be more polite and ask their questions one at a time. What I did see, though, was a protestor giving a lecture to a small girl in attendance, with her little American flag. who was being told by the protester that Israel is a much worse country than Iraq because they have more U.N. violations. Perhaps this person should fill out a form to speak so she could undergo the same scrutiny given to people such as Feder. 
Chris Lalonde 
freshman 
Keenan Hall 
April 15 

Response to column on Arabs 
John Litle must be shocked to learn that two of 
those ignorant Arabs he mentions in his column to 
The Observer Friday have been responsible for his 
education at Notre Dame. As your advisor, John, I 
feel duty bound to educate you since your letter 
does not deserve a rebuttal. 
There are many factual errors in your piece. The contributions of Arabs and Muslims to civilization are well documented. A cursory read of "Lost Discoveries: The Lost History of Modern Science" by Dick Teresi should get you up to speed if you are truly interested. If you choose not to read. then I suggest that you check with any of your history or anthropology professors; they should be able to help you out with the truth. 
As far as the Arab-Israeli conflict is concerned, I would submit to you that even my Jewish friends admit that it is a little more complex than whether the word Jerusalem is in the Koran or not. Again, I would recommend that you read "The Other Israel: Voices of Refusal and Dissent" by Tom Segev to get at least a different view of the conflict from Israelis themselves. Alternatively, you can spend a few days this summer after you graduate in a Palestinian refugee camp. Maybe then you would be able to understand how these people feel. 
Despite all these inaccuracies, I am much more worried about the racism of your arguments. To place labels on a race, culture or ·even region can­not be classified as regionist since this word does not even exist in the English language. A visit to Webster's dictionary would reveal that the best word to describe your words is racism. 
For an educated man in the 21st century to call the religion of a billion people fanatical. particular• ly one whose roots are in the Christian-Judea teachings is scary. Based on your arguments you make, all the KKK has to do to become a viable organization is to replace the word "Arab" instead of the word "nigger" in its charter. Your flawed logic also gives credence to the destruction of the American Indian culture since the Indians had nothing to contribute to the white man's civiliza­tion and to the failed apartheid regime in South Africa where blacks were considered inferior to whites. 
Finally, as a Christian (and yes there are Arab 
Christians), I am proud to be a peacenik. After all. I 
am in good company. Based on my reading of the 
Bible (but obviously not yours). Christ was a 
peacenik, maybe even the first peacenik in the his­
tory of mankind. Violence, my friend, only begets 
more violence. 
Those of us that have lived through a war, rather than simply watched it on TV, understand that. We peaceniks are really a weird bunch for we are haunted by the images of children with battered limps rather than being impressed with smart bombs going through chimneys. 
Unfortunately to many, war has become a thrilling form of electronic entertainment just like a Nintendo game. We get to watch all the sophisti­cated and smart weapons at work but are not allowed to see the devastation they leave behind. We even have a score card presented to us at the end of each day with the number of the dead on each side. material lost and miles advanced, to keep track of the game's progress. No bloody images, no screaming moms, no orphaned children are being shown, only numbers. 
And in case you are wondering about our support for the troops, who supports them more? Those that cheer from the comfort and safety of their homes as they risk their lives or those of us that want to keep them safe at home and out of harm's way by finding peaceful solutions to the world's problems. 
John, as I close this letter, let me leave you with the following text of a speech made by a British Colonel, Lt. Col. Collins, to his troops in prepara­tion for this war: "You will be shunned unless your conduct is of the highest. for your deeds will follow you down history. Iraq is steeped in history. It is the site of the Garden of Eden, of the Great Flood and the birth of Abraham. Tread lightly there. You will have to go a long way to find a more decent. generous and upright people than the Iraqis. You will be embarrassed by their hospitality. even though they have nothing." 
Khalil Matta professor and director of the MIS Program April 14 

THE OBSERVER 

page 12 Wednesday, April 16, 2003 
God, country, co1 

The yearly ROTC Presidential Pas~ 
By CHRISTIE BOLSEN 
Assistant Scene Editor 
At 4:30 this afternoon in Loftus, a tradi­tion that dates back to the times of knights and ruling monarchs will take place. It is a tradition that has been a part of this University since the beginning of military instruction on this campus. 
The Presidential Pass in Review, which up until two years ago was held on South Quad, will take place inside Loftus today. Although Col. David Mosinki said the cer­emony would benefit from an outdoor set­ting, he added that the ceremony will be meaningful ·and students will be recog­nized for their hard work and dedication. 
Underlying the debate over whether the Pass in Review should be relocated to a more prominent place outdoors is 
the fact that wherever it is held, it  
will always be an opportunity for  
the student body and the public to  
Above, members of the Army, Naval and Air Force ROTC  show support for the accomplish­ments of cadets and midshipmen, especially the seniors who will soon be on active duty.  
rehearse the Pass and Review  There is a great deal of tradition behind the Pass in Review, espe­ 
Tuesday morning. To the right, nzilitary science professor David Mosinski supervises the cadets.  cially for those involved in Reserve Officers' Training Corps programs. Maj. Mark Lyon, marine officer instructor for the Naval ROTC pro­gram, points out its historical sig­ 
Below, Navy and Air Force cadets stand in rank.  nificance. "The Pass in Review historically was a chance for a commander,  
.  maybe a new commander corning on, to get a look at his unit," Lyon  
Photos by KATE SUTHERS and LUISITO  said. "Over the last several cen­turies. drill and parade was an important way of actually maneu­ 

cadets and r 
they occasionally see in uniform or who wake them up really early in the morning, many don't realize the dedication of ROTC students. The physical training regimen for Marine options includes dead hang pull-ups, abdominal workouts, push-ups, circuit and interval training courses. weight-lifting, swimming. rifle runs, rope climbing, load-bearing conditioning hikes and more -several times a week. 
Lyon said the purpose of ROTC goes beyond providing trained oflicers for mili­tary service. While this is the fundamental goal of the program, it also teaches 
.._.. with Notre. 
valuable life skills. He said 
prestigious in~

that although most of the midshipmen and cadets a strong ethic. will not make the military 
it's particulad 

their career, they will have 
think to ham

acquired discipline and other skills that will be rel-right l evant to the careers they do choose. 
David Mi

"Most will do their four years or whatever their Chair of the Depar commitment is and then Scie1 they'll do something else, but the skills and the disci­pline and the training that they get here serve them very well in the private sector," Lyon said. 
Much is expected of midshipmen, most of whom take an extra class every semes­ter. There is required knowledge they must learn in addition to classes, covering a range of topics from the Code of Conduct to Naval colloquialisms. They also have an hour-long drill session every week, which could include leadership education, marching, maneuvering and handling arms at close intervals. 
In the Navy, there is an hour of physical training each week as a unit, while the Marines meet three times a week for about an hour and a half. They also know 


MAGDANGAL 
vering about the battlefield, so the 
parade was a way for him to see 
how well they drilled and how dis­
ciplined and well-trained they 
were." 
Not everyone on campus sup­

ports the presence of ROTC. At last year's Pass in Review, Pax Christi Notre Dame, a pacifist organization, protested the ceremony. The Catholic student group, which is dedicated to prayer and political action for the cause of peace, organized the rally at the Clarke Memorial Fountain to follow the annual ROTC recognition ceremony. The group plans to demonstrate outside Loftus again before this year's ceremony, holding signs and distributing pamphlets. 
"What we are trying to do is lay some facts out and raise some questions about how compatible it is to be a soldier and be a Christian," Daniel Lawson, Pax Christi facilitator, said. "Many people may think and pray and decide that their place is in the military, and we respect that. \Ve do feel there are serious moral issues here that need to be explored." 
For Notre Dame HOTC students, the Pass in Review is a chance both to honor the military tradition and for the top achievers to be recognized by University President Father Edward Malloy. It's also a chance for the University and the public to express appreciation for ROTC stu­denlc;. 
While most students have friends who 



THE 

OBSERVER 
us 

Wednesday, April 16, 2003 page 13 
that they are expected to train on their own, since they have a PT test each semester holding them to the physical standards of the Navy. In addition, there is summer training, which lasts between two to five weeks. 
"I'm glad to be here and have the opportunity to train the future officers; the quality of the midshipmen we get here at Notre Dame is outstanding," Lyon said. "We certainly appreciate all the support the University gives us, and I do think the student body, by and large, is very respectful and appreciative, or at least
Dame being a 
thinks somewhat highly of stitution, with the programs and the cadets and the midship­
~s foundation, 
men."

ly important I 
As an '87 graduate of the ea program program, Lyon welcomes the debate and discussion
here.,, 
regarding the presence of 
HOTC on campus and the 
loslnskl war. 
rbnent of Military "As long as it's done in 
·nee this collegial environment where people can have the freedom to express their opinions, I think that's great. This is the time when students should be thinking about these questions. I'm all for it," Lyon said. The many expectations and advantages of ROTC are just as prevalent in all the branches, not just the Navy. Mosinski. professor of Army Military Science, described the numerous benefits derived from being an Army or Air Force cadet as well. "Like with any ROTC program, the cadets get tremendous leadership train­ing; we're preparing them to be leaders in the Army -small unit leadership skills, basic tactics. how to react to changing sit­uations. diverse situations. how to meet 

rps, Notre Dame 
s in Review honors Notre Dames nidshipmen 
challenges, how to motivate soldiers, how to manage time, equipment, money and all kinds of resources." Mosinski said. 
Mosinski said the education in ethics and morality is an advantage for cadets and midshipmen at Notre Dame. ROTC students receive additional lessons on ethics regarding military situations in their military science classes. 
"I think it's important for the program to be here, just like at any other institu­tion, so that the Army is well-represented from the whole gamut of universities nationwide," Mosinski said. "And with Notre Dame being a prestigious institu­tion, with a strong ethics foundation, it's particularly important I think to have a program right here." 
Ile outlined some of the demands on the time of an Army cadet. There is physical training at least one day a week, which can be up to four times a week based on classes and ability; a leadership lab once a week and a field train­ing exercise that consumes an entire weekend per semester. The exercise immerses cadets Above, Air Force cadets in a field environment and 

march in rank. To the right,
teaches basic military skills such as field craft, patrolling cadets rehearse maneuvers and small unit tactics. 
Occasionally, there will be a for Wednesday's Saturday training event, like the platoon competition that presentation. Below, takes place every December 
studen ts prepare to receive
and some rifle ranges where cadets use small arms. As the aivards. cadets stay in the program they assume leadership posi-. tions and bear more responsi-
Photos by
bilities for providing direction, motivation and planning for KATE SUTHERS the subordinate cadets. They can even go as far as writing complete operations plans for exercises or special events. 
"The cadets that we have here in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community are really top notch people with excellent val­ues," Mosinski said. "They're service-ori­ented, and they've proven in exercise and training events that they're solid perform­ers -better than most of their peers in other institutions. They're just really a great group of dedicated, motivated cadets." 
Cadets in the Air Force have similar schedules in terms of time. Requirements differ among the classes, but a standard week will include an Air Force class, a leadership laboratory with guest speakers or leadership activities, PT and flight practice once a week where students learn the basics of being an Air Force cadet. 
So if the arduous walk all the way to Loftus is the only thing that's keeping you from joining the spectators who come to salute our ROTC students today, just remember this: the Marine options usual­ly start field training exercises with a 10­mil e conditioning hike with full gear. Surely those who support HOTC programs can stand a little stroll across campus. 
Contact Christie Boisen at cbolsen@nd.edu 


Wednesday, Apnl 16, 2003 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NHL 

Bruins survive to play anot];ter day in 5-1 win over Devils 
approach. the two-man advantage 2:29 into been taking bad penalties from The series heads back to 
Associated Press 

Joe Thornton, Martin Lapointe the extra period, giving the the start -including a few more Dallas for Game 5 on Thursday 
BOSTON and Marty Mcinnis also scored Lightning a victory over the Tuesday night -but it was the night. 
Martin Brodeur is vulnerable, for the Bruins. The last time Washington Capitals and ending Capitals who were finally caught Sergei Zubov's first-period goal after all. And the Boston Bruins Brodeur was removed was on 4 1/2 years of frustration in the short in a major way. staked the Stars to a 1-0 lead are still alive in the NHL playoffs. March 13 when Lapointe had nation's capital. they nursed into the third period. 
Dan McGillis was the surpris­three goals in 5: 15 of a 4-3 "\\Te thought if the penalties Dallas 3, Edmonton 1 Then Shawn Horcoff scored at ing offensive star with two goals Bruins win. Brodeur left 10 min­were going to even out, they Stu Barnes scored the winning 2:07, setting up what could have as the Bruins beat the New utes into the second period. would even out in the third peri­goal on a bank shot from behind been a repeat of Sunday's game, Jersey Devils 5-1 and drove Lapointe and Mcinnis scored od," said Capitals defensemen the net as the Dallas Stars beat when Edmonton stormed back to Brodeur from the game. two minutes apart for a 5-1 lead Ken Klee, who became the criti­the Edmonton Oilers and tied win. 
He blamed himself for the only with 3:37 gone in the third peri­cal second man in the box when their Western Conference playoff But before the Oilers could get goal Boston goalie Jeff Hackett od. That's when Brodeur was he elbowed Dave Andreychuk in series 2-2. another goal, Brad Isbister was allowed, by Scott Niedermayer at replaced by Corey Schwab. the head. "I don't think anyone Barnes' goal, which careened called for hooking down Stars 
1:37 of the third period, as the The Bruins entered Tuesday's expects a 5-on-3 in overtime." off the skate of Oilers captain captain Derian Hatcher, and the Bruins forced a fifth game in the game facing a daunting chal­The victory reduced the Jason Smith past goaltender Stars went on the power play. best-of-seven opening round lenge. Only two teams in NHL Capitals' first-round playoff Tommy Salo, gave the Stars a 2-The Oilers killed the penalty, Thursday night in New Jersey. history had won series after series lead to 2-1 and snapped 1 lead just 3:45 after the Oilers but seconds after it expired, the 
The way Brodeur has been trailing 3-0. Boston was 0-13 an 11-game Tampa Bay losing tied the game early in the third veteran Barnes, a trade deadline playing, the Devils had a good when it lost the first three streak at the MCI Center. The period pickup by the Stars, scored to chance for a sweep. He had games, losing seven of those Lightning's last road win over Barnes' first goal of the play­sink the Oilers. allowed just three goals as they series 4-0 and the other six 4-1. Washington came on Nov. 4, offs at 5:52 of the third period The Stars came out with a won the first three games and 1998. was set up by Jere Lehtinen and flourish, sending three quick recorded his 14th career playoff Washington 4, Tampa Bay 3 With Klee and Jaromir Jagr off Rob DiMaio. shots on Salo in the opening shutout Sunday, 3-0. It took a very unusual develop­the ice, Lecavalier poked in an Rookie Niko Kapanen clinched minute. They toned down the 
But on Tuesday. Boston scored ment for Tampa Bay to get some easy rebound for his second goal it 23 seconds later. Kapanen boisterous Edmonton crowd in a two power-play goals to take a life in the playoffs -a 5-on-3 of the game, completing an odd roared across the front of the net hurry when Zubov opened the 2-0 lead, forcing the Devils to power play in overtime. twist to the series. The playoff­and backhanded the puck past scoring just 1:18 into the first abandon their strict defensive Vincent Lecavalier scored on inexperienced Lightning have Salo. period. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Umpire attacked on field in White Sox 9-5 loss to Royals 
Associated Press  "When I looked over, there was one of the fans from the stands and I just got  "Oh yeah, the assistant to major league security was at the game tonight.  Kansas City comes to town." In a statement, the White Sox said:  
CHICAGO  him off me," Diaz said. "I just turned  He told me before the game that they  "The behavior of four people attending  
Kansas  City  Royals  coach  Tom  around and got him off me. The good  had beefed up the security, but the fans  tonight's game was reprehensible and  
Gamboa had no  qualms about corning  hand-to-hand combat they taught me  will always outnumber the security  will not be tolerated. They will be prose­ 
back to the ballpark where he was pum­ worked."  force, so there is only so much they can  cuted to the fullest extend the law  
meled last year.  It was the first appearance by the  do," Gamboa said.  allows. The actions of four idiots in  no  
"Lightning doesn't strike twice," he  Royals in Chicago since Gamboa was  "I think people just have too much to  way reflects Sox fans  or the fans of  
said  before  the  game  against  the  attacked by  a  father  drink," he added. "I  Chicago."  
Chicago White Sox. It did. And this time it got an umpire. Laz Diaz was attacked by a fan who  and son who came out of the stands last Sept. 19. Diaz was standing  ..I think people just have too much to drink.  can't imagine what causes it." Tuesday night's  The ballpark, which had been called Comiskey Park, was renamed U.S. Cellular Field before the start of this  
came out of the stands in an eerie reminder of what happened near the same spot last season at Comiskey Park.  about 100 feet from where Gamboa was knocked down -in the  I can ·t imagine what causes it. ,,  game in Chicago had been delayed three times when fans ran  season. Royals right fielder Brandon Berger was one of the first to reach Diaz.  
''I'm physically OK," Diaz said after  ballpark that will get  onto the field before  Berger, who had caught the ball for the  
the Royals won 8-5. "I think you should  national attention when  Tom Gamboa  being  tackled  by  final out of the inning, knelt down and  
talk to the other guy and see how he's feeling."  it hosts the All-Star game on July 15.  Royals coach  security guards. All three of those fans  appeared to punch at the fan, who was on the ground with his arms wrapped  
Immediately after Carlos Lee flied out  "\Ve spoke about it in  were  charged with  around Diaz's ankle.  
to end Chicago's eighth inning, a  man  the locker room, this is  trespassing,  the  "You catch the ball, you look down  
ran on the field and tried to tackle Diaz,  where Tom Gamboa got attacked. We  White Sox said.  and a guy's getting tackled and it's like,  
wrapping his arms around the first base  thought nothing was going to happen,  "It's sad that it happened, and hap­ 'What's going on?' He hit him around  
umpire's legs.  but it was full  moon  out there," Diaz  pened when it did. Something has to be  the legs, but he  never brought him  
Security and players rushed to the aid  said.  done to  put a  stop to it because it  down," Berger said.  
of the 30-year-old Diaz, who served in  Gamboa is  now the Royals' bullpen  becomes somewhat unsafe," White Sox  The 55-year-old Gamboa was injured  
the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve. The fan  coach. He said he thought security was  manager Jerry Manuel said. "It's unfor­ when he was  attacked, and still has a  
was quickly taken away.  tighter for his team's return.  tunate that it seems to happen when  minor hearing loss in his right ear.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
A BUSINESS MAN JS LOOKING TO BUY YOUR ND FOOTBALL 
WANTED SEASON TICKETS. (TOP DOLLAR 
PAID) Discretion Assured. Part Time Summer Employment Call:277 -1659 Thank you. 
Looking for Teachers & Student Advisors. Great pay, fun environ­ment. Call 272-4135. Kaplan Test 

FOR RENT
Prep HOUSE AVAILABLE furn. 4b2ba, walk to campus. 

NOTICES 

jo5225@aol.com 
Study Abroad with CEA. England, Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom Italy, Spain, France, Australia. homes 1/2 mile from campus. Request a Free Catalog mmmrentals@aol.com www.GoWithCEA.com 272-1525. 
www.mmmrentals.com 3-6 BDRM HOMES. $195.PP/MO. 272-6306 Very nice 3 bdrm home. 
Avail. June 1st for summer or fall. Leaving town? We II buy your car. East Race dist.near Corbys Pub & 574-243-0000. Dealmaker Auto St. Joe Church. 
Sales 52081 933 Incl. alarm syst,washer /dryer. No. So. Bend, IN Can email picts. 
Call Joe Crimmins @ 273-0002 (h) 
Babysitter, May-Aug., 3 kids ages or 514-0643 (cell) or 2, 6, 8. 10·12 hrs./wk, 2 morn., 1 JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com. eve $7/hr. Robyn @ 271-3646. $650/m negotiable, 
DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3  LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES- Ranch home. 3 bdrm, 1.5 bath, fire- Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it  
HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004  TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH  place, full bsmt, 2 car att garage,  alone. If you or someone you love  
SCHOOL YEAR  OF ND 2773097  fenced yard, 1 mile from ND.  needs confidential support or assis- 
WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES  288-2001  tance. please call Sr. Mary Louise  
NEAR CAMPUS-STUDENT  house: 2-3-4 bedrooms; 234-9334;  Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more  
NEIGHBORHOODS-SECURITY  800-966-8399  JUDA Y LAKE HOME ON LAKE  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  
SYSTEMS-MAINTENANCE  WALK TO ND. GILLIS REAL TY  The Observer.  
STAFF ON CALL-WASHERS/  WRIGLEYVILLE Large, bright, 2  272-6306  
DRYERS CALL TODAY· HOUSES  bedroom. 1 bath, cable ready.  Mexico/Caribbean only $125 each  
GOING FAST!!!  Great security, woodwork, crown  98 HONDA CIVIC EX COUPE 2D;  way all taxes included! If you can  
CONTACT KRAMER (574}  moulding. bookcases, oak hutch,  LOADED; 5 SPEED MANUAL;  beat these prices start your own  
315-2436-ALSO LEASING FOR  hardwood floors. New kitchen  58000 MILES; $8250; 574-631­ damn airline! Book on line  
2004-2005  dishwasher, pantry, central heat  6295  www.airtech.com or (212)219­ 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE @  ale, celing fans, mini blinds, bal­ 7000.  
WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM  

2 BDRM House, A/C, close to cam­pus. 269-699-5841 cony, deck, laundry in building, off street parking included. Quiet ND prof owner-occupied. $1475. Call 773-348-5832 or 312­543-3572 or pgm3740@hotmail.com. 
Classes Start 5/10 for August PERSONAL MCAT. Call 1-800-KAP-TEST to enroll in a Kaplan 
ADOPTION AlTERNATIVE. Are Test Prep Class you pregnant and dont know what 
1 bdrm apt summer sublease at  to do? Loving, open-hearted, finan- Hey boys your CAKE says hi and it  
Turtle Creek. Fully furnished. price  Two bedroom cottage in good stu­ cially stable woman would like to  misses you!  
negotiable  dent area. $350 per month. Dave  consider adopting a baby. Free  
dboudon@nd.edu  243-5353  counseling, living expenses and  The wiggedy, wiggedy ...  
medical expenses. This can be a  
Student Rental House 3-4 or 5 per- good thing for you and your baby.  Flyers are still gonna pull it out  
son 2 story. 8 blocks from campus. New everything.  FOR SALE  Discreet and legal. 904-824-7006.  Hope you won the soccer game,  
Wired for computers etc. Avail.  THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF  Coach.  
Summer or Fall  Oak Hill Condo.  THE OBSERVER IS WEDNES­ 
235-3655  574-243-2621  DAY, APRIL 30.  Yes, yes. NO! NO!  


Wednesday, April 16, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
Brey 
continued from page 24 
day. They gave you something back, they ran themselves and they're were just a thrill to be around." 
Matt Carroll won the Monogram Club's MVP Award for a senior sea­son in which he averaged 19. 5 points and grabbed five rebounds a game. 
Carroll and Jere Macura received the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Rockne Student-Athlete Award for having the highest GPA's on the team. Notre Dame's four seniors -Dan Lustig. Macura, Dan Miller and Carroll -were honored with compliments from Brey and a highlight video. Each player also gave a speech, thanking his family and teammates. 
Carroll was named a first-team Big East selection and a honorable mention All-American. He won numerous other awards during the season, including NABC first-team and Basketball Times Midwest first-team. His 10-minute speech was highlighted by several humor­ous stories. and thanking every one from the managers to the strength coach. 
After the speeches, Brey thanked countless people throughout the evening and after talking about each underclassman, showed a highlight video of the entire team. 
The crowd was the largest ever to attend the banquet. An extra 30 tables were added from last year's event. 
Tlw Irish finished the season at 24-10 and beat Wisconsin­Milwaukee and Illinois to advance to thP second weekend of the NCAA. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@ncl.edu 

MENS BASKETBALL 
Brey will 
not listen to 
Jayhawks 
By JOE HETTLER 
Spores Editor 
Irish coach Mike Brey said he is 
leaving South Bend Thursday. 
Lucky for Irish fans, it's not for the job opening vacated by Roy Williams at Kansas, but to recruit for the future of Notre Dame's basketball program. 
Williams left the Jayhawks for the North Carolina post, previously held by former Notre Dame coach Matt Doherty. ESPN .com 's Andy Katz reported Monday that Brey could be among five candidates Kansas offi­cials are considering for the coaching vacancy. 
But Brey put those rumors to bed very quickly Tuesday at the mens bas­ketball banquet. 
'Tm going on the road recruiting on Thursday and we have a lot of work to do," Brey said. "Kansas is a great program with a huge tradition, but I think we're getting close to being a great program. We're in that territory and we're striving for that." 
Brey also said he would not talk at all with the Kansas athletic director if asked by Kansas. 
Brey has compiled a 66-31 record in three years at Notre Dame. He coached at Delaware before taking the Irish job where he went 99-52 in five years. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


$100 off Zoom!,M In-Office Whitening 
As a way to introduce the Zooml proced~re, we are offering this professional state-of-the-art tooth whitening special for a limited timel 
page 16 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, April 16, 2003 
--· --­
-



around the dial 
STANLEY CUP PLAYOFFS Avalanche at Wild 6:30 p.m., ESPN2 Red Wings at Ducks 9:30 p.m., ESPN2 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL Cardinals at Brewers 1 p.m., ESPN Reds at Cubs 1 :20 p.m., FOXCH Royals at White Sox 7 p.m., FOXCH 
NBA 

Wizards at 76ers 6 p.m., ESPN Jazz at Kings 9 p.m., ESPN 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

The 39-ycar-old left­Bob Brenly] and Joe Jr. time thing." 
Associated Press 
hander first experienced [general manager Joe The goal is to prevent it 
PHOENIX soreness in the knee after Garagiola Jr.] that he miss from being an ongoing 
Randy Johnson will miss his last start Friday night, this start so it would give problem. his start against Colorado when he gave up 10 him time to get the "It's something we need on \Vednesday night earned runs in 4 2/3 swelling down so he could to address no\-v, rather because of swelling under innings -one of the worst get it stronger." than worry about it the his right kneecap, only the outings in his career. The soreness is the prod­whole year," Lessard said. second time he has not Johnson underwent an uct of wear and tear over Johnson has been made a scheduled appear­MHI exam Saturday that Johnson's career, Lessard remarkably durable in his ance on the mound since showed no structural dam­said. four seasons with Arizona. the 2000 season. age. The swelling subsided "The undersurface of the He missed one start last 
Johnson, who's 0-2 with but flared up again kneecap has been worn year with a sore lov,er an 8.31 ERA in his first Tuesday night, after down, for lack of a better back and made every start three starts, declined to Johnson had thrown his term," Lessard said. "He the previous season, when talk to reporters about the normal bullpen session had shaving done there in the Diamondbacks won the decision before the earlier in the day. the past. so the lining is a World Series. Miguel Diamondbacks' game "It's gone down a little little thinner than you or I Batista was to start in against the Rockies on bit today, but there's still have anyway. The fact that Johnson's place. Tuesday night. some swelling there," he really torques on it just Johnson's next sched­
"He wasn't very happy," Lessard said, "so I just irritates it. It's more of a uled start is April 22 at trainer Paul Lessard said. suggested to BB [manager repetitive thing vs. a one-Montreal. 
IN BRIEF 
Disney agrees in principle
to sell Anaheim Angels 
The Walt Disney Co. agreed in principle to sell the Anaheim Angels to Phoenix businessman Arturo Moreno for just over $180 million, The Wall Street Journal reported Tuesday. 
The newspaper cited anonymous sources familiar with the deal in its report, which was posted on its Web site. 
Disney spokeswoman Leslie Goodman did not immediately return a phone call seeking comment. Major league baseball had not heard about a deal being reached. 
"We haven't received anything final with anyone, and we know they are negotiating with that gentle­man," Bob DuPuy, baseball's chief operating officer, told The Associated Press. "If and when they reach a final agreement, they would contact us. Nothing has been submit­ted." 
The 56-year-old Moreno, a former minority investor in the Arizona Diamondbacks. would become the first Mexican-American to become majority owner of a major league team. According to Forbes magazine, Moreno has an estimated net worth of $940 million. 
The Angels won the first World Series in their 42-year history last fall, but Disney has taken steep loss­es since becoming involved with the team seven years ago. 
Disney bought a minority interest in the then-California Angels in 1996 from Gene Autry, who had owned the team since it joined the American League as an expansion franchise in 1961. 
Western Kentucky hires 
former player as new coach 
Former Western Kentucky player Darrin Horn was hired as head bas­ketball coach of the Hilltoppers on Tuesday. 
Horn was an assistant under Marquette coach Tom Crean for four seasons. Crean was an assistant with the Hilltoppers during Horn's first three years as a player. 
"He is someone we consider a ris­ing star, and rather than let some­one else catch this rising star, we decided, 'Let's get him for Western,"' athletic director Wood Selig said. 
The 30-year-old Horn replaces Dennis Felton, who left to become the head coach at Georgia last week after five seasons. 
Horn was a guard for Western Kentucky from 1992-95. when the Hilltoppers went 94-32 and played in the NCAA tournament three times under coach Ralph Willard. 
Horn joined the staff of Western Kentucky coach Matt Kilcullen in 1995, and was an assistant at Morehead State for two seasons before joining Crean in May 1999. 
Horn beat out current Western Kentucky assistant Pete Hermann, Texas assistant Frank Haith and Willard. the coach at Holy Cross, for the job. 

Wednesday, April 16, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Holiday 
continued from page 24 
But those hits haven't led Holiday or the coaches into believing he is injury-prone or that his shoulder is a potential problem. 
"I think if you look at what they were, they were shoulder hits, both of them where one he was driven into the ground and those are hard to prevent. The one in the bowl game he was up in the air and he didn't really have a chance to protect himself," Diedrick said. 
"You go back in the off-sea­son and try to build yourself up a little physically, try to become a little more flexible, so you can be more durable." 
In just stepping on the field, Holiday will naturally be a leader as the quarterback. 

With four starting offensive linemen graduating along with captain Arnaz Battle, Holiday knows he needs to step up and become more of a leader this season. 
Having been the starting quarterback for a year, not only has Holiday matured, but so have his teammates and they look to him in the huddle to take control. 
"I realize that with the posi­tion I am in, the leadership role just has to come to you," Holiday said. "Everyone is looking up to you, you are like a captain on the team whether you want to be or not." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles earn league victory over Hope 
By LISA REIJULA 
Sports Writer 

. The Saint Mary's tennis team began their climb back to the top of the MIAA conference stand­ings Tuesday with a 6-3 road victory over Hope College. 
With the win, the Belles improved to 3-2 in the MIAA. and 12-5 overall for the season. 
At No. 1 singles. Hope's stand­out freshman Anneliese Fox defeated Jeannie Knish in a 6-1, 6-4 contest. Belles freshman Kristen Palombo notched a 6-3, 6-3 win over Stephanie Springer at No. 2 singles. 
After dropping the first set 3-6, Saint Mary's captain Kaitlin Cutler won at the No. 3 spot, beating Priya Malviya by taking the second and third sets, by 6­3, 6-4 scores. 
At No. 4 singles, Kris Spriggle also earned a three-set victory for the Belles. Spriggle came back to beat Jennifer Coleman after falling 4-6 in the first set to take the second and third sets 6­3, 6-3. In the No. 5 slot, senior Elisa Ryan dispatched Kortney Devito in yet another close 
three-set contest, 4-6, 7-5, 6-4. 
Erin Bradley got the Flying 
Dutch their second singles win 
on the afternoon with her 6-3. 6­
4 defeat of Saint Mary's Angela 
Sandner at No. 6 singles. 
Hope won two of three doubles matches, but the Belles were able to hang on for the victory. The Flying Dutch's duo of Coleman and Springer beat Knish and Palombo 6-3, 6-2 at No. 1 doubles. Hope also took the No. 2 doubles match, as the team of Fox and Malviya beat the Saint Mary's pair of Cutler and Ryan. 6-2. 6-2. 
Saint Mary's edged out a win in the No. 3 match as Spriggle and freshman Lindsay Cook won over Deanna Clouse and Anna DeHaan of Hope 6-4, 6-3. 
The loss dropped Hope to an even 3-3 in the MIAA and 9-8 on the spring season. 
The win gives Saint Mary's a boost in the MIAA conference standings and momentum going into today's home match against Calvin College. The game will start at 3 p.m. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 
BMW 

Certified Pre-Owned 
Certified rnover 

l;m.,.,1111s1.,~1)>'1'l Th•U"lmate f.l!Ol•· ~,4 ,41.'SMW DrMn, MltOhlntr 
Certified shaker Certified no more mac & cheese Certified acceleration Certified rush Certified freedon1 Certified bring it on Certified Pre-Owned BMW 
ltTIW111111Til ·; .....Tll?lfll111111111liiii :mrnt
Certified only at an authorized BMW center. ·~. 
=Certified Pre-Oivncd = 
Get warranty protection* up to 6 years or 100,000 miles. Get flexible teasing ~Qd financing options. Get pure BMW. ........... r ........l] tty IMVJ ...."'j)"'Tl''"r···"• 
search up-to-date, extensive inventory at bmwusa.com 
·Pwto::lion Plan P!ovidos co'AirH!jjl_ for up lo ;> yoms or 50,(X)O mHos (whlchovor comos lksl) lrorn lho clalo or tho ox1~rnllo11 of tho -1 yom/!iO,()(X) 111lk1 llMW Now\,hhk:k) I lmllod Wammly Soo pmllclpallnu IIMW 1msso11noc cm conlor for clolHIIS, IOI rnoro lnformahon, GHIi l-ll(X).:\:M·4llMW, or vlsll brnwusa.corn ©:?(X)3 UMW ol Nmlh /1.lll(lflCH, LLG. T110 BMW 111lf llO Hild louo mo nlHIStornd lrHdornHrks. 

--~---------------------­
----~ 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 16, 2003 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXII 
No. 8 Roe Sports Cafe uses inside game to get victory 
and advance."
• Physical play results in hot 
Future Welfare Recipients tempers on windy 21, Eliminatus Est 4 
The Future \Velfare
day at the courts 
Recipients rose from The ' Observer's ashes yesterday in
~.I 
l'I By ERIK PO\VERS a decisive victory. Earlier, The I Sports Writer Observer mistakenly reported
I 
I that the Recipients lost to I· Team 457 21-4. Tuesday, the
I 
Roe Sports Cafe likes it

I• No. 27 Recipients were never
rough. 
close to defeat.
The eighth-ranked squad Using a rapid transition

pounded the ball inside early game, crisp passing. and dom­
l and often in a physical contest 
inating rebounding, the
where it used its size advan­
Recipients ran out to a 7-0 
tage in order to outmuscle and lead.
i 
intimidate. The result was
I 
The first half was over in 
' 
flared tempers and harsh 
roughly 10 minutes with the
words between the teams. Roe 
Recipients leading 11-2. At
Sports parlayed stifling 
halftime the Recipients used
defense and dominating 
their excess energy to practicerebounding into an 11-2 half­dunks.
time lead. 
The second
N o t r e 

half resumed
Dame wom­"It was terrible. We got 
where the 
ens basket­[the win] anyway, 
first left off.
ball players 
though. Survive and T h e
Jacqueline 
Recipients
Batteast, advance.·· 
immediately
Le'Tania 
stole the ball
Severe and 
Tim Fiorta f r o m
Katy Flecky 
Bye guard Eliminatus 
were among 
Est and an
the first half 
outlet passspectators. 
later were up
Batteast and Flecky left at 
12-2. The Recipients playedhalftime, but Severe decided 
smoothly and gracefully in the to watch the game to the fin­second half. The game took onish. 
a relaxed feel and the"They're going to fight," Recipients unsuccessfully
Severe said to her departing attempted an alley-oop.
teammates. "That's why I'm 
Eliminatus Est was down to
going to stay." 
four players for a brief stretch
At first it appeared as if 

in he second half when a play­
Severe vvould be wrong. 
er went out with a leg injury.
Halftime was extended by sev­He returned a Recipients bas­
eral minutes when the teams ket later, and the Recipientswere unable to locate the ball. 
went on a 6-2 run to end the
The break from play seemed game.
to cool the players' tempers as play resumed at a much more 
Gunzelmann Express 21,
relaxed pace. Hoc Sports 
Powdered Sugar: It's
relied on crisp passing and 
Delicious! 19
opportunistic defense to build 
In the early stages, the 
a 16-4 lead. 
Express and Sugar relied
Then. the Roe Sports's cen­

heavily on the transition 
ter then attempted a dunk, a game. Steal followed steal.
midair collision ensued and he 
and fast break follow fast 
went down hard. He got back break. but the teams were still 
up and began a shoving and 
playing controlled basketball.
shouting match with 
The Express ran out to a 4-2
Immediate Threat captain 
lead, but both squads soon
Dennis Creed. The two were tired after this frenetic pace.
separated by teammates and 
Fast breaks started leading toBookstore commissioners and fewer and fewer lay-ups. The
remained in the game. Roe 
teams often franticly pushed
Sports then traded second­
the ball up-court only to settlechance points until the end of into a half-court set.
the game. 
Sugar remained close throughout the first half, clos­Bye 21, Y Tu Mama Tambien 9 ing to within one basket until 
Ugly. Feo. Whatever the lan­the Express scored the final guage, Tuesday's game was three baskets of the half for an difficult to watch. 11-6 lead. 
Neither team shot with any The Express extended its accuracy and the result was a lead to 15-9 in the second 65-minute spectacle of missed half, but was unable to close tips, layups and fast breaks. out the game. Powdered Sugar 
Both teams played hard, pulled closer and closer until a hustling on defense and chas­sideline jumper finally put ing down the multitude of them away. rebounds. Bye implemented a trapping 2-3 zone and Y Tu Five Guys Who Want a Mama Tambien played a zone Hummer Like LeBron's 21, as well. Team 430 3 
Bye entered halftime with an Team 430 lost to its 24th­11-5 lead. In the second half, ranked opponents by a wide the crowd began to get into margin, but lost in style. the game. Bye's fans began Ripping through a newspa­jeering ,.vhenever opposing per barrier. Team 430 burst players shot an air ball. This onto the court in order to do a took the focus off of Bye cap­lay-up drill. A fan's boom-box tain John Pogge, who was blared "It's Raining Men," plagued by a male fan holding "I'm Super, Thanks for a sign claiming "Pogge is my Asking," and "Let's Get It On" boyfriend." during the game. Sporting 
"It was terrible," Bye guard short shorts and tight t-shirts, Tim Fiorta said. "We got [the Team 430 perfected the look winJ anyway, though. Survive of a team of San Francisco YMCA gym rats. 
But for all their hustle and team spirit. they just didn't have as much talent as the other Five Guys. 
At the end of the first half, the Five Guys were up 11-1 with most of the scoring com­ing from fast breaks and easy put-backs. 
Five Guys relented on defense slightly in the second half, allowing Team 430 to score two baskets. Team 430 and their fans remained upbeat throughout the game, and created an uproar during their team's rare baskets. Afterwards, Team 430 was more than happy with its per­formance. 
"We took it to them," Team 430's Luke Busam said. "It's all thumbs up and smiles. Valiant effort." 
Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 

CHIP MARKS/The Observer IUPUI Ain't Got Nothing On Us and Girls Gone Wild compete in a Tuesday afternoon game at the Bookstore courts. 
·-· '\' ~, ' 
-~\\ 
" \ 
' 
:;,_ '.; 
• 

Wednesday, April 16, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
SMC SOFTBALL . 


Plan to attend an informational meeting where Prof. Brad Gibson, Director of the Fellowship Office, and Andrew Serazin, 2003 Rhodes Scholar, will provide information on the application process and take questions regarding these great awards. 
.. 

This meeting will take place: 
Wednesday, April 16th in Debartolo 155 at 7:00 pm 
For additional information, contact the Fellowship Office (103 O'Shaughnessy Hall) or fellows@nd.edu 

¦ -¦ ..WWW¦ ¦ • • ¦ Eli.¦•.. 
• 

a ¦ 
I 
• 
I 
• 
I 
• 
I I 
• 
I 
• 
I 
• 
I 
• 
Homestand a chance for Belles to rebound 
By PAT LEONARD 
Spores Writer 

On paper, a doubleheader ver­sus Calvin College today looks like another MIAA match-up. For the Saint Mary's softball team and coach Anna Welsh, however, it is much more. 
After losing four of six games during a busy weekend of league play, the Belles have dropped to fourth in the league and are in danger of dropping further. 
Saint Mary's (14-10-1, 4-4 in the MIAA) will host Calvin (14-9, 3-3 MIAA) today with the hopes of returning to their winning ways of earlier this season. In particular, the Belles want to prove that their 8-2-1 record at Fort Myers, Fla. was a realistic reflection of their talent and ability. 
"I know Florida was not a fluke," Welsh said. "We played very well and were very focused. I am not getting the same thing lately, which is very disappointing; however, the girls know what they need to do, and we are ready to bounce back and play Calvin on [today]." 
The Belles are an unimpres­sive 1-4 at home so far this sea­son. They will have a great opportunity at turning that record around by playing four consecutive doubleheaders at home starting today. 
• ---. • • 
The pitching of junior Libby Wilhelmy and freshmen Bridget Grall and Kate Sajewich has been satisfactory. 
Still, fielding problems and inconsistency at the bat are issues Welsh and company have to address for the Belles to make an abrupt turnaround. Most of the key runs the Belles have given up late in games have been unearned. 
In a 9-2 defeat to Adrian College Sunday, Wilhelmy pitched 3 2/3 innings and gave up seven runs, yet only two of those runs were earned. Saint Mary's made two errors in a five-run fourth inning for Adrian. The Belles must worry about improving their fielding, and they must be aware of league happenings, as well. 
Albion defeated last place Kalamazoo 3-1 and 5-0 Monday to move to 5-3 in MIAA play and ahead of Saint Mary's in the standings. The Belles have to kick it into gear quickly or possi­bly fall out of the postseason tournament. 
"The top four teams in the conference play in the confer­ence tournament to determine who goes to the regional," Welsh said. "We need to win both of those games to stay in contention for the conference tournament." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
.,
-¦ • • 
I 
I ¦ 
• 
I 
• 
I 
I ¦ 
• 


On Wednesday, April 16, 2003 from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. You're invited to
I I 
• the JACC to test drive a state-of-the-art Drunk Driving Simulator . • I This is a safety program that's both challenging and fun . 
I 

• ¦ 
I • Brought to you by PILLARS and the Office of Alcohol & Drug Education . I 
• 

For more information, visit www.kramerintl.com or call 1-7970. 
• 
• • • • • ¦ ¦ 
L. • ¦ --• • .-­

• • ¦ .J 

---~------·----------------------------------------------.. 
page 20 Wednesday, April 16, 2003
The Observer . SPORTS 
-
ND SOFTBALL 
Wins over Providence keep Irish undefeated in league 
) 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Spores Writer 
The only thing that has stopped the Irish in Big East play this season is Mother Nature. 
After having eight games postponed this season due to inclement weather, the Irish have vaulted into first place in the Big East, improving to 8-0 in their conference after 5-1 and 10-1 victories over Providence Tuesday. They sit two points ahead of Boston College (7-1) for the conference lead. 
Notre Dame and Providence were originally scheduled to meet on April 5, but a winter storm that affected much of the New England area forced a cancellation of the doublehead­er. 
The Irish still have one Big East series to make up this sea­son -a doubleheader against Virginia Tech that was snowed out one week earlier. 
Notre Dame's offense contin­ues to hit on all cylinders, as the team put up double-digit hits in both games, making it four straight games that the Irish have scored 10 hits or more. 
The pitching staff continued to shine as well, giving up only five hits and allowing just two runs. one of which was unearned. Irish pitchers have 
\ not given up more than five hits in their last 10 contests. 
The Friars first got on the board in game one early, using a single and a double to score a run in the bottom of the first. 
Notre Dame finally answered four innings later when Megan Ciolli led off the fifth inning with a home run to tie the game. It was just Ciolli's second homer of the season. 
Alexis Madrid followed with a single, but was forced out at second on a grounder by Andrea Loman. Freshman des­ignated player Meagan Huthrauff continued with a sin­gle, followed by a single by Andria Bledsoe that allowed Loman to score. 
Liz Hartmann hit a sacrifice fly, allowing Ruthrauff to score from third, and Lisa Mattison followed with an RBI single to close out the scoring in the inning. 
The Irish added one more run in the sixth on a Madrid RBI single. 
Freshman Heather Booth, who Monday was named Big East co-pitcher of the week for April 6, continued her hot pitching by only allowing one run on four hits in her seventh complete game of the season. 
The Irish bats cooled down at the beginning of game two, but starter Steffany Stenglein kept the Friars off the scoreboard through four innings. 
Bledsoe led off the fourth inning with a single, after which Hartmann fouled out. 
Mattison then connected with a single to put runners at first and second. 
Mallorie Lenn was hit by a pitch to load the bases, but Kellie Middleton bounced into a fielder's choice at third as Bledsoe was gunned down at home. With two outs, Ciolli was also hit by a pitch, forcing in the first run of the game. 
Madrid then followed with a single to put the Irish up 2-0. Middleton was caught in a run­down between second and third for the third out of the inning. 
The Irish scored two more runs in the fifth when Loman scored on a wild pitch and Bledsoe had an RBI single. Loman came through in the sixth with a two-RHI double and Ruthrauff scored on an error. 
Notre Dame added three runs in the seventh to put the game away. Bledsoe led off the inning with a walk, and then stole sec­ond. Mattison was hit by a pitch to put runnors on first and sec­ond, and Middelton came through with a two~out, RBI double. 
With Middleton on second and Mattison on third, Ciolli hit a single to score Middleton. Mattison also scored on the play on an error by the Friar left fielder. 
Notre Dame used three pitch­ers in the second game, as Stenglein went four innings, giv­ing up two hits, two walks, and striking out three for her sev-

enth win of the season. Carrie Thursday at home against IUPU­\Visen worked two innings of Fort Wayne. First pitch is schNi­perfect relief and Jessica uled for 4 p.m. at Ivy Field. Sharron finished off the contest in the seventh with a perfect 
inning. Contact Justin Schuver at The Irish return to action jschuver@nd.edu 
JUS VITAE, ND LAW'S RIGHT TO LIFE, PRESENTS: JILL STANEK, "DEATH IN THE DELIVERY ROOM" 
! r APRIL 16, 7:30PM, 102 DEBARTOLO
i 
Mrs. Stanek was working as a registered nurse in the delivery room when she discovered that newborns with birth defects were being allowed to die with no medical attention. She has been featured on Father Frank Pavone's Defending Life, The O'Reilly Factor, the Washington Times, the New York Times, and has testified before Congress. Mrs. Stanek was instrumental in the passage of the Born Alive Infants Protection Act, signed into law by Pres. Bush in August, 2002. More lives have been saved because of this amazing woman. 

Wednesday, April 16, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MENS TENNIS 
Victory over Indiana State boosts team's momentum 
By JOE LINDSLEY Sports Writer 
The Irish were in search of a confi­dence-boosting conclusion to their reg­ular season. 
They found what they were looking for Tuesday, and they hope the 5-2 vic­tory over No. 69 Indiana State will give them momentum heading into next week's Big East Championships. 
Playing on their outdoor home courts for the first and only time in the spring season, the Irish quickly built a lead and kept the Sycamores at bay on a day in which the winds were in full force. 
"[Tuesday's victory] definitely gives us some confidence going into the Big East," sophomore Paul McNaughton said. "It's just nice to go into the Big East with a win...and we're looking to win the thing." 
Both teams had another opponent to contend with beside themselves -the wind. 
"It was extremely difficult conditions today," junior tri-captain Matt Scott said. "Thei-e wasn't as much clean ten­nis as their was fighting out points. The number one factor was being tough, mentally tough." 
With the score 3-0 in favor of the Irish, the Sycamores obtained their first point thanks to David O'Connell's effort over Nicolas Lopez-Acevedo. 
Soon after, Notre Dame ended any hopes of an Indiana State rally. Junior tri-captain Matt Scott came through with the clinching singles victory -a G-1 . 1-6, 6-1 triumph over Henry Choi at the No. 2 flight. 
Junior tri-captain Luis Haddock, ranked No. 97 nationally, achieved a 2­6, 7-6 (7-5). 6-1 upset of No. 89 Verdan Vidovic. 
The Irish began the day by winning two out of three doubles matches to grab the match's initial point. It was the first time in five matches that Notre Dame has secured the doubles point and just the second in the last eight. 
Lopez-Acevedo, a transfer from Bowling Green, and McNaughton clinched the point for the Irish as they edged out a 9-8 (10-8} win at the No. 3 spot over Ionut Hurduc and Dmytro Ishtuganov. Hurduc and Ishtuganov were able to get within a point of victo­ry, but the Irish duo converted three straight points for the win. 
"We hauled it together, got down 5-1 in the [tieJbreaker, and then we just said, 'all right, we're going to win this thing,"' McNaughton said. "It was kind of a see-saw match but we came out on top." 
Sophomore Brent D'Amico and Scott notched the first win for the Irish with their defeat of Choi and David O'Connell, 8-2 at the No. 1 position. 
Haddock and senior Brian Farrell fell 8-2 to Lovre Brajkovic and Vidovic at the middle flight. 
Not only was D'Amico part of the first doubles team off the court, he also completed the first singles competition. The sophomore topped Brajkovic 6-3, 6-0 in a bout at No. 3 that marked the 11th time this season D'Amico has kept his opponent to seven or fewer games. 
Patrick Buchanan gave the Irish their third point with the team's second con­secutive straight set win. Buchanan, in his third straight winning effort, won 6­2, 6-2 over Ivan D'Argence Areco. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlinsdle@nd.edu 


DISCRIMINATION AGAINST WOMEN IN PAKISTAN 
ACONVERSATION WITH ALI QAZILBASH, Ph.D CANDIDATE, NOTRE DAME LAW.SCHOOL 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16, 8:30PM McGLINN SOCIAL LOUNGE 
SPREAD THE WORD SO THAT WE CAN FURTHER THE CAUSE OF ENDING DISCRIMINATION AGAINST WOMEN AND ALL PEOPLES! 
Wednesday, April 16, 2003 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
BASEBALL 
Irish down, but not out 

The locker room after the game was silent, but not empty. 
Irish coach Paul Mainieri was fielding questions following Notre Dame's first loss in over three weeks, and spoke just a little more softly than usual. 
"It just wasn't our day today," Mainieri said. 
Maybe it was a lack of offense that stopped the win­ning streak at 17 games Tuesday night. 
Maybe it was having played four games at three dif­ferent venues in the past four days. 
Heck, maybe it was the full moon that 
showed up late in the game. Mainieri disagreed. The Irish baseball world had a vibe to 
it that hadn't been seen in quite a 
while: responding to a home loss, its first defeat at Eck Stadium since last May, which snapped another impres­
sive winning streak -19 straight wins at home. 
It didn't seem like Mainieri was in the mood to come up with excuses. 
"One thing we know about our sport is that you just can't win 'em all," he said. "Things happen during the course of games, and it's not like in football or basketball where usually the team that's the better team wins all the time." 
Take heed, Irish fans. He knows what he's talking about. 
Despite the fact that the Irish seemed poised to dominate yet another non­conference opponent, it just so hap­pened that a sub-.500 team -an 11-17 Eastern Michigan squad -had plans other than just handing the game over 
l 
I 
i I 
! ! 
! 
! 
I 
I 
f 
I l 

to the Irish. 

Despite the loss, Notre Dame still stands at a very impressive 26-7 on the year. 
Put this into comparison with last year's College World Series squad. 
After 33 games last year, the Irish stood at 21-12. Now, the Irish are 26-7. 
Heading into the week, the Irish stood at No. 13 in the Collegiate Baseball poll. 
A quick look at that poll shows you exactly where this year's Irish stand. 
Out of the top 30 teams in the country according to the same publication, only four teams had fewer losses than the Irish. 
A 26-7 record at this point in the sea­son is nothing to sneeze at. Neither is a 17-game winning streak. 
However, a loss is a loss, and the Irish need to respond accordingly when the Pittsburgh Panthers come to Eck Stadium for a key Big East doublehead­er Thursday afternoon. 
"If' we become a little bit more deter­mined because of [the loss I. then it'll be a positive for us," Mainieri said. 
Despite the fact that Mainieri realizes that his team can't win each and every game, he also pointed out that nonethe­less, losing is still an event which he'd like to avoid if at all possible. 
"You never like to lose," he said. ''I'd rather win every game if we could, believe me." 
The Irish will win again. In fact, the Irish have the ability, as well as the staff, to put together another impressive streak in the 20-plus games they have left. 
The Eck Stadium public address announcer put it best after the game. "You can't start a new streak before ending the old one first." 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu. 
opew. iw.vH·"'+-,ow. ... 
Co"""e celeov"'+-e BvH·w.e y/E Yl \\. 1 s 21 St' Sivi-kJ.-.y +-ow.,,k+--.+­
'S-l--.+-e! 
~'-"PPY 21 sH 
l lAV, +-ke ,,vis 

r I . . ... A:,;/{)::I;;::;::,::iii1,!iij[Bi:ii/:i:;::;: ,t,:t +t,,,,,,,,;;,.,.... 
l r 
:t::!ill:11~1!!1l~~l~~l~i!:ii~l11;111llll 
Snapped 
continued from page 24 
walks by Onderlinde drove in Sollmann and loaded the bases for Cody Hizzo, who popped a 2-0 pitch to the second baseman to end a prime scoring opportunity and leave the score at 5-2 in favor of the Eagles. 
"The longer the game goes, the more the players start to press, and everybody wants to get that big hit," Mainieri said. "They were out there trying, it just wasn't meant to be. That happens in baseball sometimes." 
In his two innings of relief, Doherty dominated all six Eastern Michigan batters he faced, striking out five 
Eagles in  a  row with his powerful  
fastball.  
"He  was  a  bulldog  tonight,"  

Mainieri said. "He really went after their hitters. I was really proud of the way he threw. We're gonna need him [down the stretch] .... I thought tonight he threw the ball exceptional­ly well." 
Rallies in the bottom of the seventh 

Orville Schell to Deliver Inaugural O'Grady Asia Lecture 
On April 16. 2003 at 5:00pm. Orville Schell, Dean of the Graduate School of Journalism at the Universiry of California, Berkeley. a recipient of the Alicia Patterson and Guggenheim Foundation Fellowships, the Peabody and Emmy Awards, and one 
and eighth innings failed to material­ize, as the Irish were able to get a runner on base in each inning but failing to produce any runs. 
After reliever Matt Laird retired the Eagles in order in the top of the ninth, it was up to the Irish offense to push some runs across the plate in order to continue the winning streak. 
After a lcadoff walk to Billmaier ended Onderlinde's night, Hizzo struck out before two consecutive sin­gles by Sanchez and Matt Macri drove Billmaier home to bring the Irish within two at 5-3. Pinch hitter Steve Andres drew a one-out walk to load the bases and set up a tense ending. 
Joe Thaman watched the third strike sail by for the second out, bringing Sollmann -arguably Notre Dame's best clutch hitter -to the plate ..vith the game on the line. 
llowever, Sollmann knocked the offering slowly up the middle, and the Eastern Michigan pitcher picked up the ball and threw it to first to snap the Irish winning streak. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 

of the most respected authorities on Chinese and East Asian affairs will deliver the first annual O'Grady Asia Lecture in the Willian, J. Carey Auditorium of the Theodore M. Hesburgh Library. His lecture, "China's Future Fates: Economic Miracle or Political Collapse?" will explore the economic and political complexiry of contemporary Chinese life by posting the Question: "Will China continue to evolve peaceful~ and sta­b!Y, or will it run into major and insurmountable obstacles that will plunge it into disarray?" Either fate is eQual!Y like~. and Schell will pro­vide insight into the conseQuences. for the Chinese and for Western relations with China, of any outcome. The O'Grady Asia Lecture is free and open to the public. 
Mr. Schell will speak again on Thursday, April 17 at 2:00pn1 in the Auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies and the subject of this talk will be "War, Terrorism and China's Changing Place in the Global Picture." 



Wednesday, April 16, 2003 page 23
The Observer . TODAY 
HENRI ARNOLD

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

----.---------------------------------------------------------------------­

A ll>Ult THRW<::iH 1llE BOWELS OF 12.est:.lFE :1---------1off... ANPTHEM.. OM,THEY 
S,W'E:LLHE'E BILL HEile~£ \?b1?.M SbPHle WAS~U<=tHf JUST MADE FUN OFME-IN WE. u.:e1DHAVE PARrETA~S ANt> SO MUST INTO)(lCATED Sb SME Tu-cl" ,Au1c. ~ t'Y" 
HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 

~~[fj)l)JE. 
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
rto~;;;~~~rs I I I _ t J 
C2003 Tribune Media Se,vices, Inc.
K~v~]
I 
IADJEGG 
I ( J 
www.jumble.com 
SPEGOL 

CIJ I I 
Print ~ 

rare: "[ I I I 11I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: HAREM TOPAZ MEADOW SNITCHYesterday's I 
Answer: Why the mobster played on the baseball team -HE WAS A "Hlr' MAN 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrion 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
-

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 35 Jubilant 61 Sag 1 Domini 37 Musical 62 Inflict upon preceder sensitivity 
63 Montreal player 5 _prof. 38 That Spanish 
64 Ancientgirl
9 Aisle walker marketplace 39 Social 
65 "So 1_!"
14 Penury 40 Tel. no. addition 
66 63-Across, for15 Member of a 41 55-Down under shortbygone empire a flame 67 Bumpkin16 School 42 December 24
assignment 68 Goes off
and 31, e.g.

17 Approach the 69 All wrapped (up) ~-t--t,~--t­
43 Historicalgate, say division 

18 Corner piece 
DOWN
44 Instant 

19 Poison 1 What you may45 Viper's home 
20 Roman rebuke do to get a hand 
46 See 29-Across 22 Poet's Muse 2 Spiffy
48_-blue 23 A drawbridge 3 Waiting room
49 Planning detail 

spans it call 
51 It's 5 for B and 4 Execration24 Wrong 6 for C: Abbr. 

5 Cause of a26 Selling very well 53 Record 
W.W. II siren
29 With 46-Across, company that 6 Porcine featuresan observation rejected the 
7 Sean Connery, .__ ..... ....&..__...._............
about the game Beatles Puule by l)ler Hinman 
in this grid .. ?6 Where dirty for one 30 Bush, for one 40 "Monty Python" 53 40's tuming point
31 Folder labels clothes go 8 Cry during a player
32 Soothing plants duel 
54 So
41 Carried ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Total 33 Lose a staring 
55 Preparecontest 43 Woolly mama 10 For the 57 Black, as la nuit 
...,...,.,..........,.....,,... immediate future 44 Ways
34 Like pretzels, 

58 Wagon part 
11 Prefix with -gon typically 47 Yak 59 Erupt
12 Give off 36 Datum for so Kind of court 
college 60 It may be 
~~::-1 13 Gambler's applications 52 Athlete Jesse Frenchdestination 
21 Arena antagonist For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
25 " ... _the Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday--""' fields we go" crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
25 Macho guys 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 -=+.,.....,,--+-:::-1 27 Oil source 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). A N E A ..,,....,,,....,,,.....,""4 28 Colonists· Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, H A Y D annoyances nytimes .com/learn ing/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vita] source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
-

D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address ____________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Henry Mancini, Jon Cryer, Selena, Martin Lawrence Happy Birthday: You will be strong and steadfast if necessary in order to get your life back on track. Balance will be important to your emotional well-being, so do not neglect any part of your life if you want to be successful. If you step back and take a broader view of your life, you will realize that every aspect is intertwined. Your numbers are 9, 15, 26, 32, 45, 48 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Partnerships of any kind will be stressful, especially if you have been secretive about your intentions. Clear the air before the situation gets any worse. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Business prospects look enticing, so don't hesitate to jump at an opportunity that comes your way. You can expect to 
-

receive recognition for your accomplishments.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't be reluctant to make advances if there is someone who interests you professionally or personally. Physical activity will get you back into shape and you'll make new friends while you're at it.***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Someone is likely to bait you into an argument. With your moody nature, you are likely to fall into the trap. Consider moving on if necessary. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be entertaining today, which should lead to a closer relationship with your peers. Make personal changes that will help you gain confidence. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your mind should be on career direction. You will have a good idea for making money and you should take the first steps in order to set things in motion. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Don't overreact to what's going on around you. You are probably taking things way too personally. Talk to a close friend about your personal intentions before you take action.*** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may not be feeling so great today, especially if you haven't been taking proper care of yourself. A combination of worry and poor diet will result in minor ailments or stomach problems. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): New connections can be made if you travel or get involved in group activities. If you snooze, you lose, so get ready to take advantage of a new opportunity. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put your efforts into projects that don't require the help of others. If you need permission to do something, wait until tomorrow. ** AQUARruS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You should consider taking a pleasure trip to take your mind off the dilemmas you've been facing. New surroundings will lead to innovative ideas.***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Financial limitations will set you back today. Extravagance and overindulgence will be tempting. Added responsibilities must be taken seriously.*** Birthday Baby: You will be a loving individual who always has other people's best interests in mind. You will strive for perfection and you'll make those who know you proud. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
-
, ­
~­


Wednesday, April 16, 2003 
BASEBALL 


,\ 
\ 
j 
I 
Banquet honors season 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame won 24 games and reached the Sweet Sixteen in the NCAA Tournament for the first time since 1987. In the Joyce Center Tuesday. See Also 
the Irish 
celebrated "Brey will not 
their 2002-listen to 
03 season 
Jayhawks" 

I 
at the mens bas­page 15 ket b a 11 
_I awards l banquet in front of approxi­mately 850 people. "I really we believed we've arrived nationally now," Irish coach Mike Brey said. " ... I, along with our staff, thor­oughly enjoyed coming to work With these guys every 
see BREY/page 15 

Blown away 
. Historic winning streak snapped at 1 7 games as Irish fall to Eagles 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Senior Scaff W ricer 
One team took advantage of the strong wind blowing out to left field. Unfortunately, that team was not the Irish. 
Thanks in no small part to a dominat­ing pitching performance by Eastern Michigan starter Matt Onderlinde, the Eagles held off a furious late rally by the Irish, snapping Notre Dame's historic winning streak at 17 with a 5-3 win at Eck Stadium Tuesday. 
"Tip your hat to [Onderlinde]. he kept us off-balance all night," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "It's frustrating, it almost looks like from the stands that we're not even trying. But believe me, these kids were trying, it just didn't hap­pen today." 
The Eagles surged to an early 3-0 lead thanks to two wind-aided home runs, a two-run shot in the first and a solo home run in the second, both off Irish starter Tyler Jones. 
before the Irish could get on the board. After Steve Sollmann led off the inning with a triple, Brennan Grogan knocked him in with a single to left to bring the Irish back within three runs at 4-1. 
However, any momentum the Irish were carrying was thwarted when Matt Edwards flied out to left and Kris Billmaier grounded into a double play to end the inning. 
The Irish then inserted Peter Ogilvie in as reliever. Ogilvie, who hadn't seen action since March 12, allowed one run to score in the fifth on a fielder's choice play in which the relay throw from Sollmann to catcher Javi Sanchez brought Sanchez to the wrong side of the plate to make the tag in time, scoring the fifth and final run for the Eagles. 
"(Ogilvie]'s been better than what he threw tonight, but he wasn't that bad tonight," Mainieri said. "lie hasn't pitched a game in probably a month, so it was just good to see him back out there." 
Ogilvie \Vas replaced by Ryan Doherty in the top of the seve-nth. 
Meanwhile, the Irish attempted to mount another rally in the bottom of the sixth. After Sollmann singled and Grogan reached on an error. two consecutive 
The lead increased to 4-0 in the fourth see SNAPPED/page 22 
One year later, Holiday knows much more 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
Last spring, Notre Dame quarterback Carlyle Holiday was competing for the starting job and trying to learn a brand new offensive system. 
One year later. Holiday is firmly entrenched as the No. 1 quarterback and, more importantly, has a much better grasp of the offense implement­ed by head coach Tyrone Willingham and oflensive coordinator Bill Diedrick. 
"There was so much to learn last year. It was a totally different thing from what we used to run," Holiday said. "The playbook was so thick when we first came in and we had so many things crammed into such a short amount of time." 
When the season ended, Holiday went to the film room and started on mastering that thick playbook. 
"He has done a good job in the off­season not only working and improving his mechanic, but he has spent a lot of time looking at video and really study­ing the small intricacies of the offense," Diedrick said. "I think he has become a lot more acquainted with the system. He feels a lot more comfortable in it." 
While Holiday spent time in the film room, he was also able to work with his receivers gaining chemistry. That off-season work went towards develop­ing the chemistry needed so everyone is on the same page in the fall. 
"\Ve watched films. When we had time. the quarterbacks and receivers would go throw on routes and try to get on the same page with each other," Holiday said. "I think that was part of some of the downfalls of last year that everybody wasn't on the same page." 
After working with his receivers in the off-season and learning all of the details of the offense, Holiday has been able to focus more on the fundamen­tals this spring and not learning new vocabulary and schemes. 
"This year, after a year within the system and establishing himself as the starter, now it is more on him to polish and improve skills so he can get to a point where he can raise and elevate his game to a higher level and be con­sistent," Diedrick said. "Now the next step is doing that on a consistent basis." 
To achieve that consistency and improvement Diedrick and the coach­ing staff are looking for, Holiday needs to be on the field as much as possible. Last season, Holiday was knocked out of three games and missed the Stanford game because of injuries to his shoulder. 
see HOLIDAY/page 17 




MENS TENNIS 
ND SOFTBALL 
SMC SOFTBALL 
BOOKSTORE 
No. 8 Roe Sports Cafe defeats

Notre Dame 5 Notre Dame 5 
Calvin College at Saint 

Immediate Threat in a physical third round game Tuesday afternoon. A late win boosts the team's 
Indiana State 2 Providence 1 Mary's 
Notre Dame 10 
Tomorrow, 3 p.m. 

confidence heading into the Providence 1 
The Belles host the first of four Big East Chapmionships. 
The Irish swept a doubleheader 
consecutive doubleheaders. against Fryars. 
page 18 

page 21 
page 19

page 20 
! 
' 




