----------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------· , 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Student Senate fails to pass proposal 
Group votes down resolution to change structure, authority 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS Associate News Editor 
A proposal to change the structure and authority of student government failed to pass at Sunday's Student Senate meeting. 
Senators voting against the proposal, which failed 14-9 to gain the necessary two­thirds approval, cited con­cerns over changes in authority on certain budget­ing issues. 
The resolution, introduced by Student body president Pat Hallahan, would have altered the structure of the Executive Cabinet, which represents all student gov­ernment groups except the Senate, to include four sena­tors and allow the student body vice president to vote on resolutions. 
The proposal would also transfer powers of budget approval and constitutional amendments to the Executive Cabinet and require the student body president to present all Executive Cabinet-approved constitutional changes to Senate before signing them into effect. 
Prior to the vote, senators passed changes to the pro­posal, including the number of senators allowed sit on the Executive Cabinet and requiring the student body president to report to Senate on all constitutional changes approved by the Executive Cabinet before signing those changes into effect. 
Senators voted on, but did not approve, removal of the clause calling for the Executive Cabinet to approve the budget, a change pre­sented at Wednesday's meet­

ing and supported by Hallahan. 
At Sunday's meeting, Hallahan said that he believed senators should dis­cuss that issue at a later time. 
"I think we should address [the budget] later because it won't even come up until March, and there are a lot of issues to discuss already," he said. 
The long-term goal of this resolution, said Hallahan, was to form a Council of Representatives from the Executive Cabinet, which would represent every com­mittee in student govern­ment. Currently, the Executive Cabinet represents all the committees except the Senate. 
Senators agreed on the need for a single committee, but disagreed about the extent of power to be grant­ed to it. Their main problem concerned the amendment calling for the power to amend the constitution to be given to the Executive Cabinet before the Council of Representatives is formed. 
"[The Council of Representatives] does not yet exist," said Amy Chambers, off-campus senator, during the meeting. "If we want to make big changes, we should form the group first, and then give them the power [to amend the Constitution.]" 
Hallahan disagreed, saying "If we say we want to wait and see, we will be saying 'We don't trust you,' and that will create an immediate division [in s_tudent govern­ment.] Senate has all the power right now. All I'm ask-
see SENATE/page 4 


By MAUREEN REYNOLDS Associate News Editor 
Despite the failure of his proposal to reorganize stu­dent government, Student body president Pat Hallahan said he remains optimistic about the future of this resolution. 
"It's very disappointing," said Hallahan after the meeting. "It was clear that the majority of Senators are for this resolution.... I think it's going to get done." 
But at the same time, Hallahan said that the Senate's vote Sunday 

wouldn't affect the report he is scheduled to present to the University's Board of Trustees on Thursday. Hallahan had said before Senate's action Sunday that his report would address student government issues in some manner. 
"I think we're progress­ing on this, and I don't think it will affect [the report] too much. Hopefully by Wednesday we'll get something done, and I can report that to [the board]," he said. "I have no doubt that every­thing that we've been 
see HALLAHAN/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

NDofficer 
charged withbattery 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Editor 
Elkhart County sheriffs arrested a Notre Dame security officer Wednesday for assaulting his seven-week-old baby and charged him with battery after he admit­ted to the abus­ing the child, a local newspaper reported. 
Timothy Clark, a 32-year-old security officer who has been employed by the University since September 2001, is on paid administrative leave until "his sit­uation becomes clearer," University spokesman Matt Storin said. 
According to the Elkhart Truth, police said Clark admitted Wednesday that he .dropped, shook and spanked Samuel Clark, who was born on Aug. 19, some­time between Sept. 29 and Oct. 6. 
The Truth reported that the abuse investigation began after Timothy Clark and his wife, Elizabeth, took their son to St. Joseph Regional Medical Center Oct. 6 because he was vomiting. After examining the baby, hospital officials notified Child Protective Services of a potential abuse case, who then forwarded the case to police. Police did not indicate whether Elizabeth Clark took part in or was aware of the abuse. 
Medical reports obtained by the Truth said the baby's injuries included a fractured skull and broken wrist, rib, leg and facial bone. The baby was hospitalized for at least three days, and it was not immediately clear if he remains at the St. Joseph Regional Medical Center. A spokesperson 
see BABY+Ipage 4 




Departments seek alternatives to fund speakers 

By TERESA FRALISH Assistant News Editor 
In spite of significant budget cuts, Notre Dame organizations have still been successful in bringing prominent speakers to campus this semester by turn­ing to other options, sueh as co­sponsorship or grants, to fund talks from well-known individu­als. 
As a result of the decrease in the endowment and the drop in the economy, University officials made cuts to department and institute funding across the board last year. From 2001 to 2002, the endowment fell from $2.85 to $2.6 million, prompt­ing University officials to cut the academic budget by 7 percent. 
Despite these decreases in funding, University departments have secured contracts from a number of well-known individu­als, including Nobel laureate Seamus Heaney, Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo and South African Archbishop Desmond Tutu. Frank McCourt, author of the Pulitzer prize­winning book "Angela's Ashes". is scheduled to speak at Notre Dame this week. 
John Cavadini, director of the Institute for Church Life, which sponsored the talk by Obasanjo, said his institute pursued a variety of options to fund the speech. "This conference was completely funded by grants from internal and external units at the University," he said. 
Other University institutes said ~arefully planned strate­gies were needed to bring prominent speakers to campus. Hal Culbertson, associate direc­tor of the Kroc Institute, which helped bring Tutu to Notre Dame, said the Institute began organizing far in advance. 
"The conference was part of a research project," Culbertson said. "We're able to do that through careful planning. 
see SPEAKERS/page 4 

Monday, October 13, 2003 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Show me 

the money 

According to a recent study by a mutual fund trading group, 50 per­cent of American families expect to have about $35,000 saved up to pay college tuition by the time their first child turns 
18. This means 
Joe Trombello 

that most fami­lies can expect to have saved News Production between one and Editor two years of col­lege tuition ­although at some colleges, $35,000 translates into less than a year once room and board are factored in. 
From 1992-2002, while inflation rose 28 percent, the average in­state cost of attending public schools rose 79 percent. The University of Arizona increased its tuition by more than 39 percent this year, and many other public colleges hiked up their tuition by proportionate eye-popping amounts. Private institutions imposed similar tuition increases, raising the price of an education nearly 75 percent between 1992­2002, according to a 2002 report from CollegeBoard titled "Trends in College Pricing." 
Although student financial aid increased more than the cost of college tuition and fees over the past decade, much of that growth has been through loans, not grants. Grants declined from half of all total aid to 39 percent in the past 11 years. Current students gradu­ate from college with an average of $19,000 in debt, according to a 2002 National Student Loan Survey conducted by Nellie Mae, and stu­dents must frequently work increasing hours to make ends meet. 
All of these statistics point to a troubling problem in colJege educa­tion-simply put, colJege tuition is far too high. 
Administrators should be embar­rassed that they have allowed col­lege costs to skyrocket far beyond price increases due to inflation. It's time to take a serious look at why costs continue to rise. 
Why must colleges spend exorbi­tant amounts of money on frills like $70 million student centers (Vermont) or $54 million sports complexes (Rhode Island)? How can administrators continue to view these items as necessities? Colleges should be comfortable places for students to live and to studyt but are lavish expenses like these really necessary? 
College officials need to do a bet­ter job of seriously examining expenditures. Faculty salaries, maintenance costs, financial aid expenditures -nothing should be left unquestioned. ColJege students and their parents should demand greater accountability from school officials and receive more accessi­bility to financial data. 
It's time to do something serious about the cost of educating a stu­dent, before work-study programs turn into work-work programs. 
The views expressed in the Ins_ide Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
In Friday's Scene review ofTartuffe, Elizabeth Grams was misidenified as a freshman. She is, in fact, a junior. The Observer regrets this error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WH4T DID YOU THINK WAS THE GREATEST IMPROVEMENT IN SATURDAY'S G4ME? 





Steve Andres  Brian Hambley  
sophomore Sorin  freshman Zahm  
'"The running game. I think that was pretty obvious.··  "'Julius Jones.··  

.. 

Mike Healey 
freshman Zahm 

"'/ think we ·re gonna smoke Washington State by about 20 points, so the final score will be so to 30. ·• 
IN BRIEF 

Head over to Legends for the Monday Night Football Watch occuring today from 9 p.m. to midnight. 
Attend a talk by Dana Gioia, director of the National Endowment for the Arts, titled "Can the NEA Matter? Arts Funding in the U.S." The lec­ture will be talking place Tues from 4 to 5:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Get your exercise in at the Drop-In Floor Hockey today from 8:30 to 10:30 p.m. at Rolf's Sports and Recreation Center, Court 1. 
Hear. graduate student Danielle Svonavec perform songs by composers including Robert Schumann and Franz Schubert. The event will take place from 7 to 9 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium, hesburgh Library. 
See the group Chicago Shakespeare Theater on Tour perform Romeo and Juliet Thursday from 8 to 10 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are $15 for students and $25 for faculty and staff. 
Join the group Iron Sharpens Iron for prayer Thursday from 10 p.m. to 12 
a.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Attend the lecture "Membranes, Motors and Microtubules: Where the Rubber Meets the Road," today in Galvin Life Sciences Room 283. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 51 LOW 37 


Notre Dame students gather for Mass at the "Man's Weekend" retreat held this weekend in LaPorte, Ind. and sponsored by Campus Ministry. 
OFFBEAT 

Apartment Tenant Kills Goats for Food 
PAWTUCKET, H.l. -An apartment tenant has admitted he slaughtered two goats in the building in which he lives. 
Neighbors caJled police Wednesday after seeing Pedro Rodrigues lead the goats into the building's basement. The neighbors later found a pool of blood on the basement floor. 
Rodrigues told police he killed the goats, so a friend could cook them, the Times of Pawtucket reported. The 36-year-old said he slit their throats, and lay them on the floor to bleed out. Fearing that police may think he killed a person, Rodrigues had his friend produce the goats' carcasses. 
City law prohibits resi­dents from keeping goats and other livestock. Rodrigues will face a mis­demeanor charge, police said. 
NBA's Manute Bol to Become Tallest Jockey 

ANDERSON, Ind. -Manute Bol, the 7 -foot-7 former NBA player from the Sudan, plans to follow his brief stints in hockey and boxing with a ven­
ture into horse racing. 
Hoosier Park announced Friday that Bol plans to "become the world's tallest jockey" on Oct. 18. 
The track, a.bout 30 miles northeast of Indianapolis, said Bol will become a licensed jockey with the Indiana Horse Racing Commission in an effort to raise money for his native country. The news release did not offer further details on Bol's plans on the race track. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
1&.1 
::1: 
=t 
1&.1 

3: 
..J <C CJ 







_,0 HIGH 71 49 HIGH HIGH LOW 46 46 LOW LOW 
HIGH LOW 
60 40 
56 37 

Atlanta 79 I 64 Boston 67 I 48 Chicago 74 I 51 Denver 65 I 35 Houston 82 I 68 Los Angeles 781 62 Minneapolis 62 I 44 New York 70 I 51 Philadelphia 71 I 49 Phoenix 71 I 49 Seattle 58 I 44 St. Louis 76 I 51 Tampa 88173 Washington 73 I 54 
Monday, October 13, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
ND grad probes CIA leak 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The investi­gation into who leaked the identity of an undercover CIA officer is shining a spotlight on a 30-year Justice Department prosecutor more accustomed to staying out of the public eye on even the biggest cases. 
John Dion, a 57-year-old Notre Dame graduate, is chief of the agency's counterespi­onage section, a group of a dozen career public servants who specialize in the govern­ment's most sensitive national security investigations. 
In recent years, these have included FBI spy Robert Hanssen, CIA spy Aldrich Ames and accused al-Qaida conspira­tor Zacarias Moussaoui. 
As high-profile as those cases were, none included the politi­cal overtones of the CIA leak probe, which is focused on the White House and has drawn Democratic calls for appoint­ment of a special counsel to remove possible conflicts of interest for Attorney General John Ashcroft. 
The investigation concerns who leaked to several reporters the name of Valerie Plame, a CIA undercover officer married to former Ambassador Joseph 
C. Wilson. The leak followed Wilson's public charges that President Bush was manipulat­ing intelligence to exaggerate the threat posed by Iraq. 

Those who have worked with Dion say he will not shy away from advocating charges against any high-level Bush administration official if that's where the investigation leads. 
"I have no doubt that John has all the independence nec­essary to do his job the right way," said Paul McNulty, U.S. attorney for Virginia's eastern district. "He is used to working on cases that get a lot of atten­tion. He is a thoughtful, careful person." 
But not, associates say, a man who likes the limelight. 
That trait was underscored Wednesday at a Justice 
school and the University of Notre Dame. He joined what then was called the internal security section in 1980, gradu­ally rising through the ranks until he became acting chief in 1997 and chief in 2002. 
Dion has twice received the John Marshall Award for Outstanding Achievement, one of the highest Justice Department awards: first in 1987 for work on the Walker family spy ring case and again in 1997 for espionage prosecu­tions of FBI agent Earl Pitts and CIA officer Harold Nicholson. 
The Walker case 
involved a former 

Department Navy officer, John
"He is used to 
awards cere­Walker Jr., and sev­
working on cases 
mony when eral family members Dion was jok­that get a lot of who were convicted ingly intro­attention. " of spying for the duced by Soviet Union. Pitts is B r u c e serving a 2 7 -year
Paul McNulty
Schwartz, a sentence for selling deputy assis­U.S. attorney secrets to the Soviet 
tant attorney general who is Dion 's immediate superior, as "a man whose name has been torn from today's headlines." 
Dion is declining all interview requests and even refuses to release a photograph of himself to news organizations. 
He came to the Justice Department in 1973 as part of its honors program, shortly after graduating from George Washington University law 
Union and Russia; 
Nicholson was sen­tenced to 23 years in prison in 1997 for providing Russia with names of CIA officers and other classified documents. 

Dion's challenge in the CIA leak was underscored Thursday when four senior Democratic senators wrote in a letter to Bush that Ashcroft's close ties to the White House will raise questions about the outcome of any investigation. 


ND benefactor dies of cancer at 75 

By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Editor 
Joan Kroc, Notre Dame benefac­tor and philanthropist, died Sunday after a bout with brain cancer in her Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. home. She was 75. 
Kroc, the widow of McDonald's Corporation founder Ray Kroc, estab­lished and endowed the Joan B. Kroc 
Institute for Kroc International Peace Studies at Notre Dame with $12 million in 1986 and was a major donator to peace organiza­tions, said Scott Appleby, director of the Kroc Institute for International Studies. 
Kroc, who had no direct connec­tion to Notre Dame, d·ecided to establish the foundation after she learned of then-University President Father Theodore Hesburgh's desire to establish peace through cross-cultural study, dialogue and peace building. 
"Mrs. Kroc was single-mined in her dedication to eliminating the threat of nuclear weapons and all forms of deadly violence," Appleby and Hesburgh said in a joint state­ment. ''The establishment and con­tinuing support of Notre Dame's Kroc Institute was just one of sever­al important initiatives she fostered in support of human rights, conflict transformation and peace building around the world." 
Kroc also made substantial dona­tions to establish the University of San Diego's Institute for Peace and Justice and to the Salvation Army to build the Ray and Joan Kroc Community Center in San Diego. The Joan B. Kroc Foundation sup­ported agencies that dealt with AIDS research, world hunger, sub­stance abuse and care for the ter­minally ill, including the St. Vmcent de Paul Joan Kroc Center for the Homeless in San Diego, San Diego Hospice and the Betty Ford Center, said Appleby. 
"She was a kind and gracious person who sought no attention to herself and who wanted to give as much of her money as possible for the good causes in which she believed," University President Father Edward Malloy said in a statement. 
Kroc, who was a professional musician and music teacher, is sur­vived by her daughter, four grand­daughters and four great-grand­daughters. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
•


Law& • • • 
An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series · 
October 15, 2003 
4:00 p.m., Law Schoo] Courtroom 
''Agenda-Setting and the Scope ofDeliberative Democracy'' 
Presenter Paul J. Weithman 

Professor and Chair Department ofPhilosophy 
Commentator Patricia L. Bellia 
Associate Professor Law School 

page 4 The Observer +·NEWS Monday, October 13, 2003 


Speakers 
continued from page 1 
Decisions were made ... at least a year ago." 
Culbertson declined to discuss how significant the budget cuts were for the Kroc Institute, but said the budget did shrink due to the drop in the endowment. 
According to Cavadini, the Institute for Church Life saw a definite decrease in funding for this year, because the Institute's resources are closely tied to the University endowment. "If the endowment goes down we have to make cuts," Cavadini said. 
Baby 
continued from page 1 
from the hospital said she had no information on Samuel· Grant. 
The baby's grandmother, Katy Graham, who is a nurse, told WNDU-TV Thursday that the baby was recovering and may have disabilities later in life. 
"I want to see this man go to prison. That's what I want to see happen," Graham told WNDU. "I want everyone to be aware that these little ones need protection. I think we stand by and turn a deaf ear 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
ing is that power be given to a group that represents every­one." 
Other senators agreed with Hallahan's perspective. 
''I'm for [giving the Executive Cabinet the power to amend th~ Constitution] because I don't believe Senate should determine the Constitution for every group," said Knott sena­tor Brian Agganis. "It's sur­prising to me that we even have that power. It's a major power, but it's something we as a Senate haven't even dealt with this year." 
"Our income goes down imme­diately." 
However, the Institute funded the talk by Obasanjo and has plans to bring at least two other scholars to speak on campus this semester, according to Cavadini. "You just focus more," he said. 
Cavadini said he believed the Institute for Church Life could continue to sponsor a similar number of talks to previous years by focusing on advance planning and co-sponsorship between University depart­ments. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
and say nothing we are making a grave mistake." 
Clark remained in the Elkhart County Jail Sunday night with a bond set at $80,000. He was arrested on three Class B felony charges that, if prosecutors decide to file formal charges, could lead to 20 years in prison. Neither the Elkhart County Sheriff's Office or the Elkhart County Prosecutor's Office could be reached for comment by The Observer. 
In his job as a security officer, Clark did not carry a gun or make arrests, Starin said. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
After extensive debate, the resolution failed. However, Senators believe that there is hope for some form of the res­olution to be passed. 
"I think it was a very impor­tant resolution, and I still think there is hope that a form of it will be passed in the near future," said Howard senator Brin Anderson. "I think a lot of Senators were uncomfortable giving powers to this group because they don't know where it is going. As soon as there is a clear vision of where that is, I believe there will be approval of the resolution." 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 
VON DUTCH * SEVEN jEANS
{¢ . . 
~ 
fJ) 
~ ~ 


InspireMe1 
,...---..~ 
528 !E. Colfax :tlve., Suite #2 South q;end: 1'1f46617 574/232-1822 
311 w. Ctevefand'·Rd. (jrantfer, •11f46530 574/177-6693 
Students run in marathon 
Participants travel to Chicago for race 
By NICOLE ZOOK News Writer 
While most students were sleeping Sunday morning, several Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students were attempting a near-impossible feat. 
The 26th annual Chicago Marathon kicked off at 8 
a.m. Sunday and among its 
. runners were Saint Mary's sophomore Mary Nelson, freshman Sara Nelson and their mother Diana, who all began training for the marathon months ahead. 
"I first started training in April because of a triathlon, but the actual training starts in June," Sara Nelson said. "You get up to about 22, 24 miles. Then two weeks before the race, you start to taper [and] decrease gradu­ally to prepare." 
The sisters 
very caught up in the atmos­phere, with all the people, and it's very inspiring. It's a huge adrenaline rush." 
The race, which has a reg­istration cap of 40,000 run­

"We are so proud," Mary's roommate, Sarah Staley, said. "We watched these girls get up and train every day before class, sometimes running as much as 20 miles 
ners, draws a crowd of over one million annually. Runners and spectators alike are treat­ed to specially decorated neighborhoods, such as Wrigleyville, Chinatown, River North, Little Italy, Greektown and Grant Park. 
"I liked running through all the neighborhoods of Chicago, seeing all the peo­ple come out and cheer and volunteer at the water 
stands," 

·agreed that all the hard work. was  "You get very caught up in the atmosphere. with  Mary said. Both girls said they had  
worth it. Both finished the 26.2 mile race, their  all the people. and it's very inspiring. It's a huge adrenaline rush. •·  "great fans," as family, roommates and many  
first.  Mary  other  stu­ 
plac.ed 1OOth in her divi­sion with a time of  Sara Nelson marathon participant  dents trav­eled to Chicago to show· their  

4:59:45 and Sara, with a support. Friends made shirts time of 3:43:55, placed 8th. with the sisters' names on 
"I felt like a million them, and did not mind the bucks," Sara said. ''You get long drive to Chicago. 
before starting the normal workload of any

"To see them 
student. To see finish and them finish and accomplish their accomplish their 
goals is not only

goals ... [is] a 
something that

credit to the whole 
their friends and 

Saint Mary's com­family can be proud of, but a
munity·· 
credit to the whole Saint Sarah Staley Mary's commu­
Saint Mary's student nity." 
The Nelsons 

said they plan to compete in another marathon at some point. 
Sara will compete in short races starting in June and the Ironman competition in September of next year. "And I'm definitely planning on running. the marathon again with my sister and my mother," she added. 
''I'm really proud to have done it with the two other women in my family, and I would have been happy to do it in any time." Mary said. "I'm looking forward to doing more -but not any­time soon." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
--------~-------­..S~int Mazy's College 
NOTRE DAME INDIANA
o 

The Nation ·s Prsmier Catholic V.tomen"s College 
31st ANNUAL 
EUROPEAN SUMMER STUDY PROGRAM 

Co-urses offered in. :E-Iis1:ory~ I::n.tema..tion.a..l B'1..l..sin.ess~ Ed.."'Ll.ca.ti<>I.l., a::n.d Social Work. 
For further information cont:act: 
Professor David Stcfancic 54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (574) 284-4462 e-mail: dstefauc@saintmarys.edu Fax: European Summer Study Program (574) 284-4866 

Monday, October 13, 2003 CoJv\PlLED FRCl\1 ··rl-l E 0HSERVER'.S VVI RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Poles celebrate papal anniverary 
KRAKOW, Poland -Troubled by television pictures of a stooped and frail Pope John Paul II, Poles celebrated the 25th anniversary of their native son's papacy Sunday with prayers for his health and memories of his inspiration for their overthrow of communism. 
Throughout this overwhelmingly Roman Catholic country, church leaders, former school chums and well-wishers cheered the former Karol Wojtyla, the cardinal from the southern. city of Krakow whose Oct. 16, 1978, election as pope strengthened an oppressed nation. 
Churches and central squares were fes­tooned with yellow papal banners as Poles expressed their affection for John Paul in Masses, concerts and national television spe­cials. 
Bolivian protesters killed 
LA PAZ, Bolivia -Bolivia's government imposed martial law on a city outside the capi­tal Sunday after clashes between troops and demonstrators angry about proposals to export gas to the United States and Mexico. Sixteen people have been reported killed. 
Soldiers manned major intersections in El Alto, a poor, industrial city 10 miles outside the capital, La Paz. But the move didn't stop pro­testers who repeatedly clashed with the sol­diers and police trying to disperse them. 
Roman Catholic priest Asensio Mamani said he saw three people killed in the clashes in his neighborhood, Senakata, on Sunday. Another priest, Modesto Chino, said two demonstrators were also killed in the Bolivian neighborhood. 
Those deaths would bring the total killed to 16 in El Alto since the clashes began. The gov­ernment earlier reported that 11 people had been killed. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Conjoined twins separated 
DALLAS -Two-year-old Egyptian twins joined at the top of their heads were separat­ed Sunday in a 26-hour operation that took more than a year of planning. 
Doctors at Children's Medical Center Dallas worked through the morning separating the intricate connection of blood vessels running between the brains of Ahmed and Mohamed Ibrahim -considered the riskiest part of the operation. 
They were finally separated at 11:17 a.m., hospital officials said in a prepared statement. 
"They are now within striking distance of living independent lives," said Dr. Jim Thomas, chief of critical care at the hospital. 
Following the separation, craniofacial sur­geons began reconstructing their skulls and closing the wounds with skin and tissue creat­ed by expanders that were put in the boys' heads and thighs about five months ago. 
California supermarket strike 
LOS ANGELES -Three major supermar­ket chains said Sunday they plan to hire tem­porary workers to keep hundreds of stores open as more than 70,000 grocery clerks in Southern California began a strike. 
Clerks at Kroger Co.'s Ralphs, Safeway Inc.'s Vans and Albertsons grocery stores went on strike late Saturday after negotia­tions between union representatives and store officials broke ofT, with health care cov­erage a key sticking point. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana pumpkin plight 
KOKOMO -For the first time in the nearly 20 years the Exmeyers have sold pumpkins at their farm, they had to turn to others for some of the Halloween staple. 
Their t-roubles raising pumpkins this year have been common across Indiana as heavy rains in July caused trouble for the plants. 
All that rain meant Nancy Exmeyer had to scramble when it came time to open her pumpkin patch the first weekend in October. 
Bush's diplomacy under fire 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee urges Bush to take charge ofpostwar policy 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush has lost 
control of Iraq policy 
because of infighting among 
administration officials, the 
leaders of the Senate 
Foreign Relations 
Committee said Sunday. 
The administration also came under criticism from Democratic presidential candidate John Kerry for being unwilling to create a real international coalition and alienating governments everywhere. "This is hap­hazard, shotgun, shoot­from-the-hip diplomacy," the Massachusetts senator said. 
The committee leaders 
urged Bush to take charge 
of U.S. postwar policy in 
Iraq. 
"The president has to be the president, over the vice president and over these secretaries," the chairman, Sen. Dick Lugar, R-Ind., said on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
Added the committee's top Democrat, Sen. Joseph Biden of Delaware: "There's no clear articulation within this administration of what the goals, what the message is, what the plan is. You have this significant division within the administration between the Powells and the Rumsfelds." American forces might have drag on our capability." having misled America, for 
Since early in the admin­to be in Iraq in some capac­This makes Biden's posi­not having kept his promis­istration, Secretary of State ity for eight years or more. tion as a Democrat who es of working adequately Colin Powell has counseled Both he and Biden said the voted for Bush's war plan within the international a generally more moderate country's recovery would frustrating, "the most frus­community, not having built line than Defense Secretary cost at least $50 billion trating time in my career." a legitimate international Donald Rumsfeld. Even more than the $87 billion, The vote was correct, coalition, not having before the Iraq war in the including more than $20 Biden said, because war exhausted the process of spring, tales of tension and billion for the recovery, that was necessary to depose the inspections." turf battles between their Bush has requested and is Iraqi President Saddam "And, most importantly, departments were wide­pending in Congress. Hussein. "I just did not not having gone to war as a spread. Both Eiden and Lugar count on the fact that it matter of last resort, which 
Asked what he would tell mentioned Cheney's speech would be handled with such is what he promised to Bush were the two to meet last week, presented as a a. degree of incompetence America." alone in the White House, part of an "information subsequent to the -quote Lindsay Taylor, a spokes­Biden said: "I would say, offensive" by the adminis­-military victory," Biden woman for the Republican 'Mr. President, take charge. tration to counter what it said. National Committee, Take charge. Settle this dis­sees as unnecessarily nega­Bush declared major responded that Kerry pute."' · tive media reports about the combat finished on in his "changes his position on the 
Biden said Bush should Iraq postwar situation. May 1 talk aboard the air­war every week in an tell Powell, Rumsfeld and Lugar called it "very, very craft carrier USS Abraham attempt to pander to his lib­Vice President Dick Cheney: tough and strident." Biden Lincoln. eral anti-war base. Surely "This is my policy. Any one said Cheney's desire, shared Kerry, appearing on Sen. Kerry can't think Iraq of you that divert from the by Rumsfeld, is "to under­ABC's "This Week," said and America would be bet­policy is ofT the team." mine international institu­Bush and Cheney should ter off with Saddam 
Lugar also predicted tions because they feel it's a apologize to Americans "for Hussein still in power." 

Palestine prime minister to resign 
gling tunnels. Eight Palestinians Cabinet's term expires in three 
Associated Press 
were killed, and local residents weeks, Qureia was set to form a RAMALLAH, West Bank -After reported the army destroyed 100 more permanent government subject days of bitter quarreling with Vasser homes. to approval by Palestinian legislators. Arafat, interim Palestinian Prime Arafat and Qureia disagree over But Qureia said after Sunday's Minister Ahmed Qureia said Sunday the amount of control the Palestinian meeting of the central committee of 
he intends to give up his post in the leader will retain over Palestinian Arafat's ruling Fatah party that a 
coming weeks, dampening hopes of armed forces, as well as procedural new government will be formed in reviving a stalled U.S.-backed peace and personal issues. about three weeks "with a new prime plan. Israel and the United States insist minister, too." 
Still, Qureia's threat left open the Arafat hand over authority, charging Some observers viewed that state­
possibility a deal could be worked he is tainted by terrorism. ment as one of frustration. If Qureia out to keep him in office. Palestinians deny that and say Arafat quits, he would be the second prime 
Meanwhile, the Israeli army said it is their elected president ~ although minister in five weeks to resign over withdrew some troops from the the term he won in 1996 has expired. disputes with Arafat, casting doubt Rafah refugee camp in Gaza, where Qureia currently heads an emer­on whether Arafat will ever relin­it fought Palestinians for two days gency Cabinet that Arafat appointed quish enough power to allow a pre­while searching for weapons-smug-by decree a week ago. When that mier to succeed. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, October 13, 2003 
Hallahan said he will still invite four Senators to come
Hallahan 
to today's Executive Cabinet continued from page 1 meeting. 
''I'm going to invite four 
working toward with that resolution will come to be." 
Hallahan supported this resolution because he believed it would facilitate better cooperation between groups within student gov­ernment as well as make student government more efficient. Before the meeting, he talked with senators to answer their questions and try to get support for the resolution. 
"I tried to talk to as many senators as I could over the l·ast few days ... and I was able to get in touch with many of them," Hallahan said. 
If the resolution had passed, it would have allowed four senators to sit on the Executive Cabinet, thus forming a body that would have representatives from every Student Government group called the Council of Representatives. 
Senators to come to [the meeting,] as the resolution would have mandated. We need to get to work," he said. 
At the meeting, senators expressed concerns about the powers and goals of the proposed group. 
They disagreed on allow­ing the new organization the sole power to amend the Constitution. Hallahan addressed these concerns after the meeting. 
"I think some [senators] had concerns about what this group is going to look like," Hallahan said. "Hopefully at tomorrow's [Executive Cabinet] meeting, we will decide what needs to happen next, and we'll go back to Senate with that rec­ommendation." 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 
INDIA 
Police arrest 1,500 Hindu nationalists 
Associated Press 
LUCKNOW Police arrested 1,500 Hindu nationalists in India's largest state over the week­end for fear their new cam­paign to build a temple at the site of a razed 16th cen­tury Muslim mosque could lead to violence, officials said Sunday. 
Most of those arrested s i n c e 
Saturday 
"{The activists] will go by
were mem­traveling bers of the bus or hitch a ride or in large, 
Vishwa walk all the distance, but slogan­
H i n d u shouting
will reach Ayodhya ... 
Parishad, or groups, the World police H i n d u Ved Prakash Sachan said. Council, and T h e
Hindu nationalist 
killed 2,000 people across India. 
On Saturday nearly 1,300 Shiv Sena members were arrested as they tried to hold a meeting in Ayodhya, said Rajeev Sabarwal. sen­ior superintendent of police. Police detained another 200 people traveling by trains to Ayodhya. 
Many were wearing saf­
fron ban­
danas and 

the hard­liner Hindu political party, Shiv Sena, officials in Uttar Pradesh state said Sunday. 
The council has called a rally on Oct. 17 to demand Hindus be allowed to build a temple in the city of Ayodhya, 300 miles east of New Delhi. 
Hindu hard-liners believe the Babri mosque was built by Muslims on the site of an earlier Hindu temple honor­ing their supreme god, Ram a. 
Muslims say there's no proof of that and oppose Hindu plans to build a tem­ple there. 
On Friday, the High Court in Uttar Pradesh ordered the state government to pre­vent religious activity near the site in Ayodhya while the court reviews the decades-old Hindu-Muslim dispute. 
At a huge gathering in 1992, thousands of Hindu activists razed the Babri Mosque with spades, crow­bars and bare hands. 
That triggered a year of Hindu-Muslim violence that 
arrested 
included two Shiv Sena lawmakers, a key constituent of Prime Minister • Atal Bihari Vajpayee's 19-party coali­tion. 
Chief Secretary Akhand Pratap Singh, the state's top 
bureaucrat,  told  The  
Associated  Press  the  
detained  would  be  sent  

home and prevented from attending the Oct. 17 meet­ing. 
The Hindu council has pledged to go ahead with its plans despite the court order, said Prabhu Narain Singh, a senior official of the council, adding that 300,000 are expected to attend. 
Hindu nationalist leader Ved Prakash Sachan said despite the government crackdown, the activists "will go by bus, or hitch a ride or walk all the dis­tance, but will reach Ayodhya." 
Railways Ministry spokes­woman Gitanjali Kame said trains going to Ayodhya had been canceled and others going to the area had been diverted. 
The Fourtb Annual Notre Dame Erasmus Lectures 
The Honorable John T. Noonan, Jr., Judge ofthe ·united States Court ofAppeals for the Ninth Circuit, distinguished historian ofthe law and Christianity 
DEEPENING THE DOCTRINE: Eight Lectures on the Development ofCatholic Moral TeacJ:ting 
Tuesday October 14 Thursday The Test ofthe Teaching October 16 

The lectures "\V..ill begin at 5 p.m. in the Law School Courtroom. The series concludes October 16. 
r" 
Monday, October 13, 2003 page 7 

MARKET RECAP Stocks 

Dow 9,674.68 -5.33
]ones 

*'~*~~ 


COMPANY %CHANGE 
I$GAIN IPRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) +6.81 +0.13 2.07 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +3.38 +0.12 3.67 INTEL CORP ( INTC) +2.22 +0.66 30.43 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.76-0.16 20.79 JUNIPER NETWORKS (JNPR)· -4.24-0.78 17.62 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BCMJ -0.81 -0.42 51.74 10-YEAR NOI'E -1.26-0.54 42.48 5-YEAR IDI'E -1.57 -0.50 31.35 3-M<Nlli BILL +0.80 +0.07 8.87 
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE  ($/bbl. )  + 0 . 9 0  31 . 9 9  
GOLD  ($/Troy oz . )  + 4 • 3 0 3 7 4 • 1 0  
PORK BELLIES  (cents/lb.)  +2. 43  90. 6 0  
Exchange Rates  
YEN  108.7  
EURO  0.847  
PaJND  0.601  
CANADIAN$  1. 32  

IN BRIEF 
Recall boosts California retail 
LOS ANGELES -Businesses big and small 
shared the estimated $107 million pumped 
into California's economy by the recall. 
The biggest campaign expense -$27 mil­lion recorded to date-has been for television or cable airtime, according to financial disclo­sures filed with the state. But other beneficiar­ies included campaign button makers, bakers, petition gatherers and companies renting everything from computers to cars. 
They all got a piece of the $55 million spent so far by the campaigns as well as the estimat­ed $52 million it took to stage last Tuesday's election, according to an Orange County Register analysis published Sunday. 
"It's become almost a cottage industry," said Jack Kyser, senior economist for the Los Angeles County Economic Development Corp. 
$8M spent to thwart druf! bill 
WASHINGTON -The pharmaceutica1 indus­try's trade group spent $8.5 million in lobbying this year as it worked against a bill to allow importation of government-approved drugs. 
The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America spent the money lobbying Congress and federal agencies in the first half of this year, the most the group has ever spent in a reporting period, according to federal reports reviewed by The Associated Press. Lobbying totals cover expenses such as salaries and mailings but not campaign contri­butions. 
L.A. fans optimistic about sale 
LOS ANGELES -The Los Angeles Dodgers may soon be back in private hands, a develop­ment greeted with cautious optimism by a handful of the team's fans on Saturday. 
Fans said they'd welcome a return to indi­vidual ownership if it also meant a returning to winning. 
When media magnate Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. bought the Dodgers from Peter O'Malley in 1998, the team hadn't won a post­season playoff game in 10 years. When it was announced Friday that News. Corp. reached an agreement to sell the team to Boston real estate developer Frank McCourt, the Dodgers hadn't won a postseason game in 15 years. 
Spring style flows in France 

McCartney, Valentino, Saint Laurent, Vuitton, Ford unveil spring fashions 
Associated Press 
PARIS Stella McCartney has an answer for an uneasy world: Go light. 
Presenting her spring­summer ready-to-wear col­lection Sunday, the British designer dazzled fans with cool, airy styles of chiffon or cotton voile in soothing, dulled-down colors. 
The wispy dresses in earthy greens were long off the hip, creating a flapping, flowing movement with the models' every step. A ballet dancer would feel at home in these outfits. 
After her show in an ornate hall of the Paris Stock Exchange, McCartney said she had imagined rummaging through an old stockpile of fabrics to put together a soft-toned col­lection. 
"I always had this fantasy of having a great. great grandmother and discover­ing her chest of old fab­rics," she said. "Once they were really bright, vibrant colors that after 40 years were dulled down." 
McCartney said she want­ed to strike a light theme. 
"We're coming out of a very difficult moment as human beings, reacting to 
British supermodel Kate Moss presents a creation from Valentino's
a lot of world turmoil," she 
said. "We want to breathe SprlngjSummer ready-to-wear collection during France Fashion Week. in air -it's time for Chiffon and cotton voiles evening gown covered with showed a penchant for low release and to move on." were often layered, hand­shell pendants. His styles cuts, giving the fashion 
One unabashed fan said bags were laden with metal "feel like the old house's legendary women's McCartney is coming more trim accents and colored Hollywood, like in tuxedo a white vest that into her own. sunglasses had designs of Elizabeth Taylor movies," opened up from the navel. 
"It was fabulous. She butterflies in motion. she said. Heels seemed almost goes from strength to But McCartney only gave Big silver sequin bowls invariably stilettos, many in strength" said Paul a gentle nod to the lepi­adorned navy stretch tops. black and white with crys­McCartney, the designer's dopteran motif. Across Embroidered aprons were tal-looking insets. father. who was on hand town, Valentino went heav­clever, and there was an Among the more colorful with his very pregnant ier on the butterfly theme, extra-loud embroidered, pieces were a scaly dress in wife, Heather. "It's getting using it on shoulder flower-printed shirt and golden paillettes, and a better all the time." broaches, prints, and even matching skirt. comfortable, close-fitting 
One slinky offering was a sandals. At the Rodin Museum, dress in a sharp tangerine see-through, triangle The Italian designer's Yves Saint Laurent gave tone. design silk blouse over a approach also included this season its biggest dose Louis Vuitton certainly rough-cut, pleated mustard light, lacy themes, but was of black. provided a summertime yellow skirt. Belly buttons generally more sober, Bouffant-haired models feel by setting its show in a disappeared underneath including gowns or dresses pranced out in sizzling searing glass hallway that high-waisted swimsuits. that would wear equally black embroidered evening became scorchingly hot. 
Shoes were often block well at work or on a night gowns, trench coats in But as the high-energy heels in a discrete nude in town. black with gold buttons, show began, black curtains color, to give the impres­"Valentino has elegance," baggy black pants or a came down, and a light sion that the models "were said Naomi Campbell, who black velours bathrobe show with the famed com­just floating along the run­graced the catwalk in out­over a bathing suit. pany logo darted over the way," the designer said. fits including a turquoise Designer Tom Ford faces in the crowd. 
Bush's trip affected by economy 
paign trail next year. rorism and weapons nonproliferation," 
Associated Press 
As Bush travels through Asia, he said Hamilton, a former chairman of 
WASIIINGTON-A nine-day trip to faces the challenge of a political bal­the House International Relations Asia and Australia might seem a wel­ancing act: addressing domestic con­Committee. come respite to President Bush, who is cerns mindful of his audience back The president's trip, which begins being rebuffed by European powers home while trying to placate foreign Wednesday, takes him to Japan, 
and hounded by criticism at home over hosts who want more trade and eco­Thailand, Indonesia, Singapore, the Iraq, a CIA-leak investigation and a nomic concessions from Washington in Philippines and Australia. weak economy. exchange for their help fighting terror­He will meet with Chinese leaders in 
But even across the Pacific, some dif­ism. Bangkok, Thailand, on the sidelines of ficult issues will pursue him, including "It's a tough assignment. He has to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation the loss of millions of U.S. jobs. try to appeal to both audiences," said forum, which runs from Oct. 20-23. 
To many in the United States, China former Rep. Lee Hamilton, D-lnd., The trip partly is to thank leaders and other low-wage Asian countries director of the Woodrow Wilson who have backed Bush on Iraq. are prime culprits in the snatching of International Center for Scholars. Notable among them are Australian jobs from American workers. With "He's got to be a strong advocate of Prime Minister John Howard, Democratic presidential candidates the American economy, and he's got to Philippines President Gloria making noises about this issue, it is go forward with open trade, and of Macapagal Arroyo and Japanese sure to factor prominently on the cam-course he's going to have to stress ter-President Junichuro Koizumi. 

J 
Monday, October 13, 2003 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
BELARUS 






Mental patients killed in hospital fire 
Associated Press 

MINSK -A fire believed to have been set by a psychiatric patient engulfed a Belarusian mental hospital Sunday. killing 30 patients and reduc­ing much of the century-old wooden building to ash. 
One of the 62 patients who lived at the hospital in the vil­lage of Randilovshchina, some 150 miles west of the capital, Minsk, was missing. Emergency officials said they did not know whether he ran away or died in the pre-dawn blaze. 
Another 31 patients had minor injuries, officials said. No hospital staff were in the building when the fire started. 
A spokeswoman for President Alexa.nder Lukashenko, Natalya Petkevich, said the fire was set by a patient who had tried to burn down the building twice before. The patient was among those killed. 
But Igor Zaremba, a duty officer at the Emergency Situations Ministry, said inves­tigators were also considering a second possibility -that the fire resulted from careless­ness on the part of the staff. 
A nurse and an orderly were sleeping in a separate build­ing on hospital grounds when the fire broke out, Zarembo said. When they awoke to screams and the smell of smoke. they apparently pan­icked and tried to put out the fire and rescue patients them­selves, instead of immediately calling for help. 
"As a result of such poorly thought-out actions, by the time emergency personnel arrived, one of the hospital's wings was completely engulfed in flames and the roof and ceiling had col­lapsed," Emergency Situations Minister Valery Astapov told Belarusian television. 
The patients were men and women aged 30 to 60, deemed unable to function independ­ently and whose relatives refused to care for them. They all lived in the one-story wooden building, constructed in 1905 with locked doors and bars on the windows. Zaremba said. He said most 
likely  the  doors  of  the  
patients'  rooms  were  also  
locked.  

The nurse and the orderly unlocked all the doors they could, but some rooms were already cut off by flames, Zaremba said. 
The building was divided into two wings separated by a stone wall, and the wing where the fire began was destroyed, he said. Damage was less severe in the other half. 
Human rights activists said the fire was a result of the dismal state of Belarus' psy­chiatric hospitals, which are poorly funded and largely unreformed since the Soviet era. 
Columbia medical 


center investigated 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -A whistle­blowing veterinarian has entangled Columbia University's prestigious med­ical center in a protracted dis­pute after alleging that baboons and other lab ani­mals suffered from cruel or negligent treatment. 
A year after veterinarian Catherine Dell'Orto com­plained to senior medical cen­ter officials, the case remains very much alive. It is the sub­ject of investigations by two federal agencies, and animal­rights activists are seeking punitive action against the medical center. 
Dell'Orto has left the univer­sity, contending she was shunned after speaking up, but she continues to press her cause. 
Columbia, meanwhile, has implemented reforms based on some of her complaints. but -backed by federal inves­tigators -has concluded that other allegations were base­less. 
The university says one researcher Dell'Orto com­plained about has halted his experiments after receiving threatening e-mail, apparently from one of the veterinarian's supporters. 
"Columbia doesn't claim to be perfect. but we try to be as close as humanly possibly," 
said Dr. Harvey Colten, the medical center's associate dean for research. 
"The extent to which some of these issues have contin­ued, that's distracting," he told The Associated Press. "But in no way do we find it a problem to have the initial complaint raised -we want people to come forward if they think there are problems." 
Dell'Orto. 34, said her con­cerns date to late 2001 when -as a postdoctoral fellow ­she complained to staff at Columbia's Institute of· Comparative Medicine about the treatment of baboons undergoing surgery as part of research into stroke thera­pies. 
For example, she contended that baboons who were oper­ated on -in some cases hav­ing an eyeball removed ­were left afterwards to suffer in their cages rather than being euthanized. 
Dissatisfied with the response, she sifted through records and became con­vinced there were systemic problems of maltreatment, poor record-keeping and other violations of regulations regarding care of lab animals. 
In October 2002, she pre­sented her evidence to med­ical center official, who ordered an in-house investiga­tion and notified the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
INDONESIA 



Bali victims remembered 
Associated Press 

BALI -Weeping relatives gathered Sunday on the first anniversary of the Bali bomb­ings to remember the 202 vic­tims, celebrate life and send a defiant message to terrorists responsible for the worst attack since Sept. 11. 
More than 2,000 people attended the morning service in a cavernous amphitheater on Bali island. The day ended with a moment of silence at 
11:08 p.m., the same time sui­cide bombers blew up the Sari Club and Paddy's bar, killing mostly young foreigners ­including seven Americans. 
Similar memorial services were held in London and across Australia, which lost 88 citizens, the most of any country. In Sydney, several thousand mourners gathered on a wind-swept headland to dedicate a bronze sculpture to the victims. 
Families and friends of many of the 28 British victims of the bombings gathered in London for a memorial serv­ice. In Trafalgar Square, 202 white helium balloons were 
released,  one  for  each  of  
those who died.  
The attack is blamed  on  

Jemaah Islamiyah. a regional terror group linked to al­Qaida and blamed for the August bombing of the J.W. Marriott hotel in Jakarta that killed 12 
"Yours is a loss that can never be recovered." Australian Prime Minister John Howard said in Bali.· "We haven't forgotten you, we never will. Australia will never forget [Oct. 12, 2002]." 
The service began with 
Christian hymns sung by Australian and Indonesian school children but featured elements of all five major reli­gions. 
Twenty-two candles, repre­senting victims' homelands, were lit and the 202 names were read. The service closed with a rousing rendition of the Australian folk song "Waltzing Matilda" as mourners hugged and placed flowers at a wad­ing pool. 
Relatives -some wearing black armbands saying "Bali United Forever" and others wearing shirts from rugby teams that lost players in the attack -walked past por­traits of the dead as they left the cathedral-like pavilion. 
"It was so sad walking past those photos," said Saari Wedemeyer. a 19-year-old whose friend was killed. 


••Alove story of astonishing power and delicious·comedy ... humane, richly comic~ almost unbearably touching and altogether 

extraordinary.''
-Newsweek 
Amysterious and haunting tale of romance and murder, tha.t begins with the marriage ol aman and awoman in love. 
"A luminous narrative that rivals the most remarkable stories of man's struggles againstlhe sea." 
-Phlllldelphio Inquirer 

Coming Soon! The Marquez Autobiography -living lo Tell/he Tale 
Monday, October 13, 2003 page 9
The Observer + NEWS 



Texas redistricting plan passed 
~ociated Press 
AUSTIN -A six-month bat­
tle in the Texas Legislature 
ended Sunday when the 
Senate passed a congressional 
redistricting plan in a third 
special legislative session. 
The bill now goes to 
Republican Gov. Rick Perry, 
who is expected to sign it into 
Jaw. 
The new map, approved 17­
14 in the Senate, likely will 
give Republicans the majority 
in the Texas congressional del­
egation that is now ruled 17­. 15 by Democrats. 
Democrats have opposed 
every attempt by Republicans 
to pass a new plan, saying the 
current congressional bound­
aries drawn by a court in 2001 
should remain in place. 
Republicans say current voting trends show Texas should have more GOP representation in Washington. 
Rep:tblicans have said they could gain as many as six additional seats in the delega­tion. Democrats said the map would add seven Republicans. 
The bill's passage ends six months of strange twists, including two walkouts by Democrats, three special ses­sions and harsh Republican infighting. 
While the legislative battle over congressional redistrict­ing is over, the feud continues. Democrats have pledged to take their fight to court. 
Republicans were hoping to end the redistricting debate last week, as the House moved swiftly to approve the map Friday. But the Senate held off its vote to wait for the House to approve an unrelated bill to reorganize some parts of state government. 
By the time that bill was eli­gible in the House on Friday, there were not enough state representatives left at the Capitol for a quorum. The House reconvened Sunday and approved· the government reorganization bill, acceding to pressure from the Senate. 
Lt: Gov. David Dewhurst pre­viously said the Senate would not approve the redistricting map until the House passed the reorganization bill. 
"I do not want to be held hostage by the Senate," said Republican state Rep. Carter Casteel, who helped write the measure. "I am sad that I'm standing here today asking you to vote against a bill that I helped author." 


Escaped PA inmate still at large 
Associated Press 
WILKES-BARRE, Pa. -An inmate who escaped down a 60-foot long rope of bedsheets removed a seventh-floor jail window without the aid of any tools, and similar windows are also vulnerable, the warden said Sunday. 
Hugo Selenski, suspected in the murders of five people found buried in his yard, escaped Friday by climbing down a rope assembled from 12 prison-issue bedsheets, Luzerne County .Correctional Facility Warden Gene Fischi said. Selenski remained at large Sunday. 
The escape occurred at about 9:30 p.m., near the end of a two-hour period during which individual cells are unlocked and inmates in the overcrowded maximum secu­rity unit are permitted to socialize. 
Selenski, 30, and cellmate Scott Bolton walked into another inmate's unoccupied cell and removed a window used in a failed 1990 escape. 

IRAQ 

Seventh car borri.bing kills 8 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Suicide attack­ers struck again Sunday in Iraq, this time with twin car bombs in the heart of Baghdad that fell short of a hotel full of Americans but exploded on a busy commer­cial street, killing six bystanders and wounding dozens, U.S.. military and Iraqi officials said. 
The Pentagon said gunfire from Iraqi guards and U.S. personnel aborted the drivers' plan to hit the Baghdad Hotel, home to officials of the U.S.­led occupation authority here and reportedly some members of Iraq's interim Governing Council. 
At least one guard was reported among the dead; the two bombers also were pre­sumed killed. One member of the 25-seat Governing Council, Mouwafak al-Rabii, told AI~ Jazeera satellite television he suffered a slight hand injury. 
It was the seventh fatal vehi­cle bombing in Iraq since early August, attacks that have taken more than 140 lives. 
All have targeted institutions 

perceived as cooperating with 
the U.S. occupation of Iraq, 
and none has been reported 
solved. 
The lunchtime attack sent 

terror-stricken Iraqis fleeing 
up Saadoun Avenue, over bro­
ken window glass from banks, 
restaurants and shops and 
past the bloodied bodies of 
injured. 
American helicopters and 

combat vehicles converged on 
the chaotic scene as black 
smoke from burning cars bil­
lowed over the central city. 
The six victims and 32 

injured reported at al-Kindi 
Hospital -four in critical con­
dition -were all Iraqis, 
authorities said. 
The U.S. military said three 

Americans were slightly 
injured. 
"We will work with the Iraqi 

·police to find those responsi­ble and bring them to justice," Iraq's U.S. civilian administra­tor, L. Paul Bremer, said after Sunday's bombing. 
But along Saadoun Avenue, feelings ran high against the Americans and their inability to stop the bombings. 




THE OBSERVER 



Celebrating genocide under the Dome 
Early in the morning, Oct. 12, 1492, a sailor aboard the Pinta glimpsed land in the distance -it was Guanahanf, a Bahamian island. The next day, Christopher Columbus' crew of 90 set foot on the its soil. Rechristening it San BJ Strew Salvador and claim­ing it for Spain, he concluded their voy­
Straight, No

age begun in Spain 
Chaser

that August. The rest, as they say, is history. 
This is how the pretty version goes. And, like Congress, unfortunately, Notre Dame seems to support it. In particular, this off-putting vignette adorns a hallway in the Main Building: prostrate Taino receiving Columbus. Is this right? Does this man deserve his glorified place under our beloved Dome, let alone his own holi­day? 
The "discovery" of the rest of the world is something worth celebrating, I sup­pose. This is something I have to take issue with for a couple reasons. For example: Can complex cultures of mil­lions of people be "discovered?" Isn't that claim both racist and Eurocentric? And, that question aside, what about the archaeological evidence in Newfoundland of 11th-century Nordic settlements? Or British fisherman on the Canadian shores? 
At least he proved the world was round, right? Nope. The Egyptian-Greek scientist Erastosthenes measured the cir­cumference and diameter of the world in the third century B.C. Arab scientists had pioneered a whole discipline of geogra­phy and measurement, and in the 10th century A.D., AI Maqdisi described the earth with 360 degrees of longitude and 180 degrees of latitude. The Monastery of St. Catherine in the Sinai still has an icon -painted 500 years before Columbus ­which shows Jesus ruling over a spheri­cal earth. 
But we stick with the romanticized, ten­uous "official" line, however: we just pre­tend that Columbus was the first. Who wants to rock the boat? After all, without Columbus, surely Europe would never have found the other hemisphere. It would have escaped "civilization" at the hands of the Spaniards. The natives, needless to say, would have preferred this. 
Nevertheless, conquerors care little for the preferences ofthe soon-to-be con­quered. Upon meeting the peaceful, obliging Taino, Columbus wrote in his journal: "With 50 men we could subju­gate them all and make them do whatev­er we want." Not exactly a model Christian. 
It's estimated that within a few years of the Europeans' arrival, three-fourths of the native population perished. How? 
First, there was murder. On Columbus second voyage, he demanded tribute from the Taino. All were expected to yield a certain quantity of gold per capita, or 25 pounds of cot­ton. Many who produced nei­ther were bru­tally murdered, their hands were cut off and they were left to bleed to death. Kidnapping, torture and rape were the order of the day. In fact, many Taino were hunted for sport. 
Second, there was disease. The Taino were prone to European diseases, espe­cially smallpox. They spread like wildfire, ravaging the native population. 
Third, there was slave export. Directly after his so-called discovery, he took natives as slaves, seizing 1,200 from the island of Hispaniola. They were paraded naked through the streets of Seville, then sold as slaves in 1495. Columbus blazed the trail for slavery in the Americas. It was after there weren't any natives left that the Europeans turned to Africa. 
By 1555, from murder, disease and slave export, the Taino were all but eradi­cated. 
Not surprisingly, many are reminded by this of the Holocaust. But unlike the Holocaust, where an estimated two-thirds of European Jews were killed, this geno­cide was total. And not only were the Taino entirely eradicated, but nearly all cultural traces were, as well. 
What were Columbus' intentions? Each one is based on greed and glory. He sought a quicker route to Asia for spice merchants-trade was priority, then as now. He sought the one-tenth ofthe rich­es promised to him by Queen Isabella. He sought to forcibly convert them to Christianity. 
We live in an era where imperialism and genocide still haunt the world. Columbus serves as such a perfect sym­bol of the two. And the legacy of 
Columbus is still felt today. In the richest country in the world, the poorest ethnic group is the Native Americans. It's unclear why the University is so bent on 
exalting him, a man so inept that he was replaced and arrest­ed in 1495. Does the administration plan on putting up some Himmler murals? 
Would President Malloy offer himself as the model, as President Walsh did for the Columbus muralist, Luigi Gregori? Of course not. The apotheosis of 

Columbus should by now have become an embarrassing cultural relic. But some­how it has persisted. The University needs to show real moral clarity, to do its part in ending this curious secular mythology, this practice of honoring one of history's most dishonorable figures. 
The prospect of moving Columbus Day to the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November-to honor democracy instead of empire -and renaming it Election Day is pretty remote. But start­ing small, acting locally. isn't. Doing away with the offensive Columbus murals would be a fine start. 
BJ Strew is a junior English major. His column appears every other Monday. Contact him at wstrew@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETIER TO THE EDITOR 
Marketing for men's retreat misleads 
I wanted to publicly comment on ··The Man's Weekend," the male-only retreat held this weekend. While I admire many peo­ple involved in the planning and organization, and respect and support the choice to have a male-only retreat, I am greatly disturbed by the publicity for this event. 
I was unaware that being a true male required having pig roasts and liking football. Dovetailing off of some of your pub­licity stunts, Jesus defmitely would not participate in a pig roast, for obvious reasons, and I cannot say that the violent nature of football, a sport that I, myself, often enjoy, is some­thing that Christ would have necessarily supported. 
But all kidding aside, I am surprised that characters like James Bond, the Godfather and Homer Simpson were dis­played on the Web site for this event, presumably representing "true men." 
I know that there are many things men need to discuss in terms of their spirituality, especially with relation to their sex. But I don't think that those issues are best modeled by people who are proud womanizers or violently murder other~. Moreover, I was not aware that being deeply spiritual or attending retreats traditionally implied a questionable mascu­line identity. 
I hope that this event is successful, but not simply in terms of numbers of attendees. I pray that the true meaning and impor­tance of being a Catholic male is addressed, which means fol­lowing Christ's example of humility, service and respect for all people -not just porkeaters. 
Lindsey Horvath 
sen10r off-campus Oct. 10 

OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Do you approve of student body president Pat 
"'The health ofa democratic society may be
Hallahan's proposal to transfer authority 
measured by the quality offunctions
from Student Senate to a restructured 
performed by private citizens., 
Executive Cabinet? 

Alexis de Tocquevllle 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 

French statesman, writer 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

r a 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 




Church-state separation misunderstood 
I think that few of the founding principles of this country are as misunderstood as that of separation of church and state. According to today's main­stream liberal interpretation, this article of our Constitution is translated to mean that the state cannot be influenced by the religious convictions of its constituents. 
This obviously cannot be the idea upon which our Constitution was founded. The preamble to the Declaration of Independence specifically states that our rights ar.e inalienable pre­cisely because God cre­ated us and endowed them to us. Similarly, our political system requires people to take oaths of office which call upon God to help them fulfill there civic duties. Even our currency bears witness to the role God played in forming our country. 
Rather, I would contend that the First Amendment is an attempt to protect religion from govern­ment intervention. 

It states, "Congress shall make no law respect­ing an establishment of reli­gion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof." While we may not pass a law that institutionalizes a particular religion so as to prefer a particular creed in the civic arena, we may also not prohibit the free exercise of religion. 
In fact, exercising one's civic duties can and indeed should include attempting to influence civic law according to the moral code which one holds as a result of their religious beliefs. This is the heart of our right to suffrage. 
As soon as heads of state claim religious authori­ty, this amendment is violated. However, this article does not exclude our political leaders from being deeply religious individuals who attempt to govern according to God's will. Indeed, their right to do so 
is expressly protected under the First Amendment. 
The idea that one can encapsulate their religious beliefs and insulate the rest of the world from them is ridiculous for anyone to honestly purport. A per­son's beliefs inevitably influence their philosophy, 
how they choose to live their life and how they vote. Attempts to remove references to God from our civic lives would not 
constitute the separation of church and state; rather, it would be the indoctrination of atheism, a religion unto itself. We must not be ashamed of the Gospel, and I am afraid that a 
liberal interpretation of the First Amendment 
encourages just that: people being ashamed of being Catholic. We can­not use the First Amendment as a scapegoat; it does not give license for 
cowardice or for dissension within the Church. Active evangelization of the 
world in a natural way, through the ordi­nary lives that we lead, 
is a necessary character­istic of a disciple of Jesus. A true love for Christ natu­
rally permeates the lives of his disciples. Consequently, Christianity requires us to live out our 
beliefs, not to hide them. From prayer at meals, to supporting the sanctity of marriage and of life, we cannot claim to be disciples of Jesus and not follow his Church. 
I guess it comes down to a simple .question: If someone made the claim that you were a Catholic Christian. would there be any evidence to back it up? 
Andrew Henrick 
graduate student Ocr. 9 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



Does diversity exist among Domers? 
Let's promote diversity! I would like to personally 
give a shout-out to all the admissions people and 
applaud you for your promotion of diversity on this 
campus. Class of 2007, you are the most diverse 
group to ever walk the hallowed halls of our presti­
gious University. Not only that, but apparently you 
are the most intelligent as well (even though they say 
that EVERY year). Boy, oh boy. What an exciting era 
we live in. 

Some people would say unto us that our campus is 
not diverse. I would say unto them, "Look around 
you. Don't you see that every single student is 
unique? We may be 75 percent Caucasian/non­
Hispanic, but some people have different hair colors. 
Don't you understand that although an average of 80 
percent of each incoming class participated in varsity 
athletics, some played different sports? How can 
people claim that our institution is anything but 
diverse? Just because we have more Mikes, Matts, 
and Katies per square foot than any school in the 
United States, maybe even the world, doesn't change 
the fact that we are diverse! Notre Dame even spells 
diversity, of course, if you add a 's' and 'i' and a 'v,' 
and then take away the 'o' and the 'm' and the 'a,' 
but you get the point." 
We promote diversity! Although "alternative lifestyles" aren't accepted, that doesn't mean they don't exist. Sure, we don't recognize them officially, but sometimes we let them advertise in The Observer. Besides, alternative lifestyles happen all the time here. Every single day I see people alternat­ing between working out at Rolfs and the Rock. You see diversity is so much more than ethnicity or cul­tural heritage. We have tall people, short people and even in-between people. We have both squirrels AND chipmunks; geese AND ducks; rain AND snow. And if I am not mistaken, DeBartolo is definitely not an Irish last name, is it? 
We are so diverse that even our diversity is diverse. Not everyone that comes to this school is from Chicago or Ohio, for instance. I, personally, am from the great state of North Carolina. You see; even I add to our diversity. Hey, not everyone is pre-med either. OK, so maybe the freshman class has a dispropor­tionate amount of pre-med majors, but that will change. They still have time. I mean, who wants to walk around the lakes the first weekend with a lowly art major after parietals have broken up all the dorm parties? If you are going to marry the first person with whom you frolic on dark scary paths, late at night, while still buzzed from excessive warm Natty­Light consumption, you might as well aim high. 
I am proud of our diversity. The University is even finding new, exciting ways to make us even more so. (Note to self: University and diversity rhyme.) If smoking is banned from campus, for instance, then people will have to choose between Nicorette and the Patch, yet another example of diversity. I am more of a gum person myself, but someone else may need that 24-hour protection the patch provides. Even the new alcohol policy promotes diversity. OK, so not really, but I am sure if you think hard enough you could pretend it did. 
Let's join our diversely-shaped hands with those of our administration and promote even more diversity. Every single person on this campus, from the faculty, to the staff, to the students, to Monk Malloy himself, has a different set of fingerprints. Nowhere else but Notre Dame will you find a more diverse student body of individuals who all played diverse sports, are members of a diverse range of clubs and service organizations and come from such a diverse range of upper-middle class suburban backgrounds. Hey, even our GPAs in high school were diverse. Some people made 4.00s, and some 3.99s, and if schools used weighted GPAs, then even more diversity exists fhan previously thought. 
Hurrah for Notre Dame! Hurrah for you! Hurrah for me! Hurrah for diversity! 
Stephanie Horton sc:ntor Brec:n-Phillips Hall Oct. 10 


page 12 Monday, October 13, 2003 

' 
co 


After spending far too much time with a certain group of people, the phrase, "Yeah, college" has evolved and become a signifi­cant part of my vocabu­lary. At 
!· 
first it was just some­thing that was said in jest, but it has 


become the sym­bol of some of the craziness that is allowed and expected to be made during these four, or in some people's cases, seven, years of sweet, sweet independence. 
The Webster's Dictionary defines college as an "organized body of persons 
·with shared functions and privileges." The question, then, is what those shared functions and privileges are. Logic would tell us that it is sup­
other side of my brain rec­ognizes bene­fits, albeit in small doses, that come between 9 p.m. on Thursday night until about 6 a.m. on Sunday morning. 
Junior Mike Panzica said, "College is drinking beer in your boxers in the street at 6 a.m. before football games like Pat Gallagher. It is striving everyday to be on the same level of beastliness as Tom Degnan." That is interest­ing. but more important, on point. 
Tom Degnan, in response, said. "College is." 
I look at my brother and his friends who graduated here three years ago and know they would give any­thing to be back in our shoes. I don't really realize how lucky we are until I see how desperately they want to be here. You can see it when they return, aged and tired from the 
e 
e! 
business world, trying to 
duplicate college. They're 
hangovers are worse, but 
there desire to relive col­
lege is probably stronger than ever. 
Although our perspec­tives are different at Notre Dame, that is no excuse to act less college. We may replace frat parties and .protests with parietals and prayer, but that does not mean that we cannot have any less of a college expe­rience. If anything, we should realize that we have it all here. A combi­
nation of brains, brawn 
and beer. 
I feel that I should be putting an asterisk next to College when talking about Notre Dame, because the experience here is truly unparalleled. We might not ever make it into the "Best Party School" category and that is fine. In fact, I don't think Notre Dame should be limited to such a cate­gory or designation. That is, until they come out with "Best Overall College." 
So please, try not to lose perspective. If your faith is 
depleting or 
you've 
whiffed at 
posed to indi­having fun,
I've learned one 
cate the bene­look, as I do, 
fits that accom­thing and that's to to this excel­pany attending quit worrying lent piece of such a presti­advice. Think
about stupid 
gious universi­of it as the
things. You have
ty, especially in voice of rea­our case. four years to be son, the voice However, the 
irresponsible here. of college. 
I've learned 
one thing and 
that's to quit 
worrying about stupid things. You have four years to be irre­sponsible here. Relax; work is for people with jobs. You'll never remem­ber class time but you'll remember the time you wasted hanging out with your friends. So stay out late. Go out on a Tuesday night with your friends when you have a paper due on Wednesday. Spend money you don't have. 
Drink until sunrise. The 
work never ends but col­lege does. 
Yeah, college. I read you. 
Emily Howald just had her 21st birthday yester­day, so you will most likely not be seeing her on cam­pus today. Take it easy on her, for we are assuming that she has been enjoying college a little too much. E-mail her at ehowald@nd. edu. 
Drive-Thru Recc 
By MAUREEN BUSH Scene Writer 
There was an invasion Saturday night in Chicago. Popular southern California independent label, Drive-Thru Records sent their "Drive­Thru Invasion Tour" all over the country and the world to expose the masses to both the newer additions to the label and the older, staple bands that Drive-Thru fans have loved for years. It is amazing to see the fierce loyalty that the fans have to a single record label and how those fans were excited to see all five bands that graced the stage in the old Riviera Theatre. 
Promptly at 6 p.m., the lights dimmed as Ace Enders. guitarist and vocalist of The Early November, took the stage alone with only an acoustic guitar in hand. He explained that they were going to start this set a little different than usual because the previous night in Milwaukee bassist, Sergio Anello had knocked him out during the set, giving him a concussion. The pace of the set changed dramatically after Enders played the first song. Joe Marro on guitar, Jeff Krummer on drums, and Anello joined him onstage to blow away the crowd with their powerful melodies. 
Despite the fact that some fans had only heard a few songs from their new album, "The Room's Too Cold," which was released Oct. 7, many were continually impressed during their six-song set. Enders stated during the show that this was the band's 

Music fans in Chicago pack the 
first time in Chicago, but you wouldn't have been able to tell from the crowd participa­tion and the raw energy com­ing from the stage. They decided to slow it down again as they played "Sunday Drive" as the fourth song in their set. 
The Early November fin­ished up with some surprise guests. When they were play­ing a new song off of their new album, Kenny Vasoli of The Starting Line rushed onto the stage to sing with the band. Then, during their last song Adam Lohrbach of Home Grown joined in the mix to help finish up a great set. 
The second band of the night was Senses Fail, a young New Jersey band whose members were between 16 and 21 years old. Senses Fail is made up of Buddy Nielsen on lead vocals, Dave Miller on guitar and vocals, Garrett Zablocki on guitar and vocals, Mike Glita on bass and vocals and Dan Trapp on drums. This band roared onto the stage and ripped through their set as Nielsen held the crowd in the palm of his hand by jumping out onto the guard rail and leaning close to the fans sev­eral times. 

This was the most heavy and hardcore band of the night as they kept the crowd jumping and screaming along with vocalists. The highlights of the set were fan-favorites, "Stephen" and "One Eight Seven," and their first single, "Freefall Without A Parachute." For being so young, Senses Fail has a very mature style of what sounds like a good cross between hardcore and punk rock and I am excited to see what they will do in the future. 
Next on the bill were the old men of the night, Home Grown, an Orange County­based band that has been together for seven years. Adam Lohrbach, bass and vocals, and his band made up of Darren Reynolds, John Tran, and Dan Hammond came out and entertained the crowd with several songs off of their last release humor­ously titled, "Kings of Pop." With their fast and furious playing and their catchy lyrics, this punk band did not disappoint. Among the songs they played were "Kiss Me," "Diss Me," "Give It Up," "Second Best," and personal favorite, "I Love You, NOT!" where Tran proudly states, "I think you're hot but I love you not!" 
As far as maturity goes, this band is lacking in all the right areas because they were able to keep the crowd j urn ping along to the fast pace of their songs. Though this is a band that has not gained the popu­larity of some of their label­mates, Home Grown reminded me why I listened to them in the past and why others should listen to them in the future. 
After a short delay, Chicago­based Allister took the stage clad in dress shirts and ties to the delight of the hometown crowd. They immediately broke out into "Radio Player," a good fast-paced song to open their set. It was obvious that a significant portion of the crowd was there to see Allister who is made up of Tim Allister on guitar and vocals, Scott Murphy on bass and vocals, Mike Leverence on drums and Kyle Lewis on 

MAUREEN BUSH/The Observer 

Mike Golla, guitarist for The Starting Line, pauses from singing to spend a few moments play­ing his guitar to get the crowd into the sho"'. 
THE OBSERVER. 
E

Monday, October 13, 2003 


Page 13 

re old Riviera Theatre as southern California bands invade 
guitar. The band played catchy tunes from their latest release, "Last Stop Suburbia" such as "Overrated" and "Scratch" and dug into their history playing old favorite, "Moper." After informing the crowd that the Cubs were winning 6-0, the band stated that they would be going into the studio to record a new album. They then played a new song called "Rewind" and were joined onstage by one of their many former members to assist in singing. 
This was a trend during the Allister set as they started into their last two songs of the night there was continued side-stage participation. During the punchy "None of My Friends Are Punks," two members of the road crew ran around the stage dancing and singing. That led up to the last song of the night for them, "Somewhere On Fullerton," which is their most popular song thus far. The crowd went nuts and so did the stage, as it seemed that everyone who was on the side came running out to sing and dance to the song that many Chicago kids can relate to about a punk-rock venue on Fullerton Street where they would frequent concerts growing up. 
The final act of the night 
·was The Startling Line who entered the stage to a piano arrangement, which they began to soup up by playing their instruments along with the recording. A banner dropped bearing their name as they started into "Given the Chance," which is a song about how happy this band is to have been given the chance to follow their dreams. This energetic Pennsylvania based quartet made up of Kenny Vasoli · on bass and lead vocals, Matt Watts on guitar, Mike Golla on guitar and vocals and Tom Grysckiewicz on drums, has taken the pop­punk world by storm. invad­ing not only the Riviera stage that night but also radio and television spots nationally. 
They kept the pace up by aggressively playing "Hello Houston," and then older song, "Three's a Charm." They played almost every song off of their latest release, "Say It Like You Mean It" and slowed it down with "Make Yourself At Home," from the unreleased EP, which shares the same name. 
The highlight of the show was the catchy "Left Coast Envy." They finished up their set by informing the crowd they would be leaving for to record a new al]Jum which they are hoping will be released early next year and playing their radio hit, "Best of Me" as a shower of confetti fell from the rafters. 
After leaving the stage for a shade under a minute the band returned as Vasoli stat­ed, "Now that we're done with the work it's time to party!" He then had the crowd sing the new Justin Timberlake song, "Senorita," splitting up the girls and the guys to sing their own respective parts mimicking exactly how Timberlake does in the song. After stating that was "the best crowd participation we've had yet," The Starting Line began their encore con­tinuing the R&B turned punk theme with "I'm Real," a cover song written by J-Lo and Ja Rule, which can be Though they had the right bands because they all seem found on the "Pop Goes Punk" idea with this concert, it to get along very well, each music compilation, and fin­would have been better band plugging the others ished with the last song from served to have a stage on throughout the sets vocally their album, "This Ride." Warped Tour or to send out a · and by wearing their T-shirts. They exited the stage to roa~ larger number of their bands This made for a fun show with ing applause and cheers in on a tour this summer. the only complaint being that appreciation for the job well Though the concept is excel­the sets were all fairly short done. lent, five bands is a lot to take as compared to normal length 

The first ever Drive-Thru in at an indoor venue no mat­sets. Overall, this was a good Invasion Tour was seemingly ter how short their sets are. show that provided quality a replacement for the fact The show was very well exe­entertainment for a good that the record label did not cuted, though, and the road price. have a stage at this summer's crew moved things along fair­Van's Warped Tour and many ly quickly. of their acts did not make any It is obvious that this record Contact Maureen Bush at appearances on that tour. label acts as a family to its bush3328@saintmarys.edu 



Monday, October 13, 2003 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB PLAYOFFS 

Beckett strikes out 11 in complete game win 
"He overreacted a lot. I don't 
Associated Press 

know if he was trying to pull a Boston Red Sox-Yankee thing,"
MIAMI -Josh Beckett and 
Beckett said. "It was pretty
the Florida Marlins put history ignorant. I'm not trying to hit
on hold -at least for a couple 
h.
of days. lm. " Even with nearly a century of
With the Chicago Cubs set to failure in their past, the Cubs
clinch their first World Series
I. trip in 58 years. Beckett aren't about to panic. At least buzzed Sammy Sosa in pitching not yet. 
a two-hitter and leading the Mark Prior is set to start in Marlins to a 4-0 win Sunday in Game 6 Tuesday night against 
Game 5 of the National League Florida's Carl Pavano. If he's Championship Series. needed, fellow ace Kerry Wood 
Ivan Rodriguez, Mike Lowell would pitch Game 7 the next and Jeff Conine homered and day as Chicago tries to reach the Marlins played the role of the Series for the first time ultimate spoiler -at least to since 1945. thousands of Cubs fans at Pro "We feel confident with those Player Stadium and millions guys on the mound, especially nationwide -in closing their after a loss," Cubs manager gap to 3-2 and sending the Dusty Baker said. series back to Wrigley Field. The Cubs already had made 
"We needed a good outing arrangements with the Marlins from a starter. I knew that to use champagne chilling in going in. They had roughed us the Florida clubhouse for a cel­up pretty good," Beckett said. ebration, if necessary. It was­"We needed to pitch better." n't. 
Only three times in LCS histo­"I had an idea we were going ry and five times in World to go back home," Baker said. Series play have teams come "Now we're going back to our 
. EPA

back from a 3-1 deficit to win a fans and our people, and it's 
Florida Infielder Mike Lowell Is greeted at the plate by Miguel Cabrera In the fifth Inning, after
best-of-seven matchup. going to be exciting and elec­
• Lowell hit a two-run home run In the Marlins' 4-0 victory over the Cubs Sunday.
The Marlins began their tric." comeback behind Beckett, who Florida had its bags packed struck out 11 in the first com­for Chicago well before the his young career, allow{ng only connected. rookie Miguel Cabrera was 
{ plete game of his 51 starts in game began. The Marlins two singles and a walk. He Lowell's hit was just his third drilled in the left elbow by the majors. He also tied the looked for any edge to prolong shut down a Cubs team that of the postseason. Injured for Zambrano, Beckett almost NLCS record for fewest hits the season, as evidenced by had totaled 33 runs in the first most of the final month. he nailed Sosa. allowed in a complete game. their Sunday morning chapel four games of the series. came back to hit an 11th­Beckett's first pitch in the 
Even more notable: He service at the stadium. A night earlier, the Cubs inning homer that won Game fourth was a head-high heater became the first pitcher to "It was a little more motiva­romped 8-3 and roughed up 1. to Sosa -tailing in toward throw a postseason shutout tional than usual and we had a Dontrelle Willis. Having been When he batted in the eighth, him, too -that•caused the against the Cubs since Babe lot more people there," team run out of his own ballpark, Beckett drew a standing ova­slugger to duck and stumble Ruth did it for Boston in the chaplain Chris Lane said. the rookie was jogging around tion from towel-waving Marlins backward. Sosa immediately 1918 World Series opener. Not that the Marlins needed the stadium early Sunday, vir­fans in the.crowd of65,279. sprang to his feet and took a 
But Beckett's signature any extra help with Beckett on tually unnoticed by fans in the Beckett allowed only one ball couple of steps toward the moment came in the fourth, the mound. parking lots. He had a big beyond the infield before the mound, shouting and pointing when he came close to Sosa. "Once again, it all starts with smile, and so did everyone else Cubs got their first hit, a soft his bat at Beckett. The tension wasn't nearly as pitching," Marlins manager wearing teal-and-black a few single by Alex Gonzalez with Plate umpire Larry Poncino high as it was between the Jack McKeon said. "When we hours later. two outs in the fifth. Moises and Rodriguez, the Marlins Yankees and Red Sox at get good pitching, we can be Lowell hit a two-run homer Alou also singled in the sev­catcher, quickly sealed off Sosa Fenway Park in the ALCS a day troublesome." in the fifth off Carlos enth as hitters on both sides to prevent big trouble as a few earlier, but it got the ballpark At 23, the hard-throwing Zambrano in the fifth, and struggled in the twilight start. Cubs rushed to the top step of buzzing. righty pitched the best game of Rodriguez and Conine later A half-inning after Marlins the dugout. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. Al da...sifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  NO FOOTBALL HOUSING:  Just Between You And Me, ADire  Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America's  
NOTICES  LOST & FOUND  FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD- Beautiful home (plus two tickets) in nice neighborhood available for  Fan in NEED of 2 or 4 USC GAs ONLY PLEASE PH:  #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for discounts: 800­ 
ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED.  remaining NO football games. Six  277-1659  648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  
$84,900. Email:  blocks from stadium. Sleeps 1 0.  
I NEED GATIXS.2726306  Lost-Glasses, brown frames.  Williamson.1 @nd.edu  Two baths, kitchen, laundry, parks 6  SMC grad needs USC tix. Email  A "Reality" Spring Break 2004s  
Between 0 Shag and Welsh Fam  cars. $1,200 per weekend. No pets.  Colleen: Eumachia13@aol.com  Hottest prices Book now.. Free  
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski  or in 0 Shag. Wed  1995 Olds 98 Regency 3.8 V6  (574) 231-8823 (evenings).  Trips, Meals &Parties sunsplash­ 
&Beach Trips on sale now!  night 1 0/8. If found, please call 4·  Engine, New Tires, 10 Disc CD  Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$  tours.com or 1800-426-7710  
www.sunchase.com or call  1406.  Changer Runs Great,  3 bdrm house, 2 full baths, 2-stall  Pay Top Dollar $$  
1·800-SUNCHASE today!  front end damage-$600 neg.  garage, all appliances, partially  ADOPTION:Irish, affectionate,  
I  GUITAR LESSONS harmonica, banjo &mandolin. Hoosierdads  WANTED  574-271-1202 1995 Honda Civic 2 door, black, 5­ turn., 2 miles from NO, $900/mo. Call298·3000.  1-866-808-0990 BUY/SELL NO FOOTBALL TICK·  childless, stay-at-home mom and environmentalist dad, dream of sharing love with Caucasian or  
Music 4609 Grape Rd  speed, 106,500 miles, $4,300 o.b.o.  ETS. CASH PAID. 574·289·8048  Hispanic newborn through adop- 
Mish, IN  SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for  call #234-4536  TICKETS  2 GA TIX FOR USC/80/  tion. Legal &confidential. Call Jacqueline and Allan toll free at 1­ 
2775038  a few good men  800-484-6754, PIN: 8642  
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in  and women who wish to work in a FUN and fast pace environment A  FoR RENT  NO FOOTBALL-BUY &SELL. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR  832-428-3937.  EARN MONEY OVER FALL  
Acapulco is now offering 3 destina­ new store will be opening up in  TOLL FREE 877-773-3911.  Need 2 GA tix for USC & FSU. Call  BREAK The Early Childhood  
tions! Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in  early October. We have aggressive  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  276-8507. After 5 pm, 288-2877.  Development Center at Notre Dame  
Vallarta, or get Crazy in Cabo-all  pay. Hrs from 11am to 3am.  CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT- and Saint Marys College has  
with BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS.  In-shoppers, drivers and mgmt  MMMRENTALS@ AOL.COM  ED -TOP DOLLAR PAID  I have 2 USC tix for sale; prefer to  employment opportunities over Fall  
Book by Oct 31-get FREE MEALS!  available.  272-1525  trade for FSU. 312-879-6256  Break (October 20-24, 2003). If you  
Organize a group and travel for  Call Andy at 574-277-0850 for  AM-232·2378 PM 288-2726  are available to work part time and  
FREE. Call fordetails.  interview.  That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast  PAYING $175.00 EA FOR USC TIX  are interested in spending time  
800-875-4525 or  has space available for footbaiVpar- NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  reading childrens books, building  
www.bianchi-rossi.com.  ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths,  SALE AM • 232-2378 PM - 574-289-8048  with blocks, and singing songs  
••• ACT NOW! Book 11 people, get  FoR SALE  full hot breakfast, $80·$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  288-2726  Will trade 2 FSU tickets for 2 USC  with children, please contact Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 as soon as  
12th trip free. Group discounts for  Toll Road, Exit #107,  tickets 601 -249-341 7 or  possible.  
I  6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com  IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW LUX­ WANTED  NO FOOTBALL TIX.  601-248-0368.  
or 800-838-8202.  URY VILLA COMMUNITY. Build  1-800-41 8·9487.  TOP DOLLAR PAID.  Have fun and get paid too!  
your dream home next to  
Vector/Cutco workforstudents .com/57 4-282-2357  Notre Dame. A limited number of home sites are available. For more  Rent one of the best 5 bedroom homes left for 200415. Rent a 4­ (57 4)232·0964.  PERSONAL  Happy Birthday Jerome! Paul  
info go to:  bedroom house and get the 3 bed- FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  Did she say murders or martyrs?  
VECTOR MKT. has many cust.  room house next door for free.  LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
sales/service openings.Fiex. sched.  www.lrishCrossings.com  not go it alone. If you or someone  Hey Joe, does the Red Roof Inn  
Excellent Pay.  ANLAN PROPERTIES 532-1896  JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER,  you love needs confidential support  have room service?  
No. Exp. Nece.  931suzu Trooper $3,610 and 99  NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT- or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  
workforstudents.com.  Honda Accord $10,650.  B&B 3 miles ND 1 king USC 2  BALL GAME. PLEASE CALL  Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For  $39.99 a night  
Twins Navy 4 Rooms BYU Best  more information, see our bi-weekly  
574-282-2357  John 231-0420.  area 287-4545  674-6593.  ad in The Observer.  Double + training = bad.  
•"A·~ .a· •.•  --·-· .. .a·.-.  -~  ~  ~· ~-~Jil.$ .~.­i.  •  .-&  .&  I  ir  ._.,,. ~---•_'·.:.-,j.o·  ···--,  -­...  

Monday, October 13, 2003 page 15
The Observer + SPORTS 

NFL 
Chiefs overcome 17-point deficit for the win 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. -For once, 
the Kansas City Chiefs' wild fin­
ish didn't involve Dante Hall. 
Even with their star kick returner being kept out of the end zone for the first time in a month, the Chiefs overcame a 17 -point fourth-quarter deficit to force overtime, then came out on top after a crazy closing sequence to beat the Packers 40-34 at Lambeau Field. 
Here were the final three plays of the game. one right after the other: 
1. 
Cletidus Hunt blocked Morten Andersen's 48-yard field goal attempt with 9:09 left in OT to give the Packers (3-3) possession at their 39 and the wind at their back. 

2. 
On first down, Packers run­ning back Ahman Green -who ran 26 times for 139 yards ­fumbled the ball, and Kansas City recovered. 

3. 
Chiefs quarterback Trent Green threw a 51-yard touch­down pass to Eddie Kennison with 8:42 left in the extra peri­od. 


Simple as that, Kansas City improved to 6-0. 
"First off, it doesn't tell me anything I didn't already know. There's a special profile about this team," Chiefs coach Dick Vermeil said. "At no time on our sideline did anyone think we'd lost this football game." 
Free safety Jerome Woods, who had a 79-yard touchdown interception return in the fourth quarter, knocked the ball loose from Ahman Green. It bounced right into the hands of line­backer Mike Maslowski. Panthers 23, Colts 20 (OT) 
Stephen Davis gave the Carolina Panthers a running start Sunday, then DeShaun Foster took over. 
The Panthers' tag-team run­ning attack bowled over Indianapolis defenders, broke tackles and eventually set up a 4 7 -yard winning field goal from John Kasay to keep the Panthers unbeaten with a 23-20 overtime win. 
"Coach let me know Stephen was down and it was going to be on my shoulders," Foster said. "I just tried to go out there and make the most of my opportunity." 
The Panthers (5-0) have now won seven straight dating to last season and are one of three remaining unbeaten teams in the NFL. The others are Kansas City (6-0) and Minnesota (5-0). 
But this win was atypical for Carolina. 
Just six days after Peyton Manning miraculously rallied the Colts (5-1) from a 21-point deficit in the final four minutes at Tampa Bay. he nearly did it again. 
Manning led the Colts on an improbable 91-yard, game-
tying drive in the final three 
minutes against another one of 
the NFL's best defenses -but 
he never got a chance to win it. 
To compound the Panthers' problems, Davis, the NFC's leading rusher, watched most of the final 21 minutes with a bruised arm. He finished with 76 yards rushing, his first sub­1 00-yard game since joining the Panthers and a dramatic drop­off from last week's 159-yard effort. 
Broncos 17, Steelers 14 
The defense gave the Denver Broncos a chance to win. Jason Elam took advantage. 
Elam hit a 4 7 -yard field goal on the final play of the game to lift Denver past Pittsburgh 17­14, the Steelers' third straight loss. 
"It wasn't a pretty game, but we didn't expect it to be pretty," Broncos defensive tackle Bert Berry said. "We knew it was going to be a battle, and there wouldn't be a moment where we could have a letdown." 
Denver {5-1)' rebounded from last week's loss to Kansas City and came out on top of a tight game between the AFC's top two defenses. 
Pittsburgh {2-4) tied it at 14­all on Jerome Bettis' 1-yard dive and an improbable 2-point conversion, but the Broncos got the ball back at their 20 with 
2:41 left. 
Steve Beuerlein struggled in place of injured starter Jake Plummer, but was 5-for-8 for 44 yards on the final drive. He also got a break when Pittsburgh safety Brent Alexander dropped an interception at the Steelers' 20 with 44 seconds left. 
Ravens 26, Cardinals 18 
Arizona's Jeff Blake wanted badly to show the Baltimore Ravens what they're missing. 
Instead, he threw three inter­ceptions on the wrong side of a typical Ravens victory: No touchdowns for the Baltimore offense, big plays by the defense and one crucial touchdown via special teams. 
Blake was intercepted twice by Chris McAlister, who returned the second one 83 yards for a touchdown. Ed Reed, who had the other pick, blocked a punt and returned it 20 yards for the other Ravens' TO in a 26-18 win over the Cardinals. 
"That's the way the game is, you know," Blake said. "Two plays can make you or break you." 
Jamal Lewis set a franchise record with his fourth consecu­tive 100-yard rushing game. The NFL's powerful leading rusher gained 131 yards in 21 carries. The Ravens got a scare when Lewis bruised right shoul­der and went into the locker room for X-rays in the second half. They were negative and he returned to the game. 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS 
BuY -SELL -TRADE ALL GAMES -ALL LOCATIONS 
PREFERRED TICKETS 
234-5650 
"It was all right," Lewis said. "It was just a little hurt." 
Blake completed 22 of 36 for 24 7 yards and two touchdowns, but was done in by the intercep­tions, the third by Reed. Baltimore had no turnovers, so Arizona is minus-14 in turnover margin, by far the worst in the NFL. 
Browns 13, Raiders 7 
The Cleveland Browns can always count on kicker Phil Dawson's right leg. 
On Sunday, they needed his left one, too. 
Dawson scampered 14 yards on a fake field goal to set up William Green's go-ahead touchdown run in a rare and ugly home win for the Browns, 13-7 over the penalty-prone Oakland Raiders. 
"Dawson looked like that guy Forrest Gump," said Browns defensive end Kenard Lang. "I was gonna yell, 'Run, Forrest, run.' He didn't look all that pretty running, but the result was beautiful, man." 
Not only did his run -if you want to call it that -catch the Raiders completely ofT guard, it even surprised Dawson, who isn't looking forward to his next one. 
"I tried to change directions, but my belly was carrying me out of bounds," Dawson said. "But if you're wearing a helmet, and they tell you to run, you run." 
Green ran right through Raider AbomiNation, picking up 145 yards as the Browns (3-3) won for the first time in three tries at home this season. 
Cleveland is just 10-2 5 in 


front of its own fans since the Browns' NFL rebirth in 1999. 
Saints 20, Bears 13 
The New Orleans Saints final­ly found a team they could beat. 
Aaron Brooks threw two touchdown passes against one of the NFL's worst defenses to lead the Saints to a 20-13 victo­ry over the Chicago Bears on Sunday. 
Brooks connected with Joe Horn on a 6-yard scoring pass with 7:18 left for the clinching score as the Saints won for the second time in six games. The Bears fell to 1-4. 

After playing the league's toughest schedule in the first five games _ against opponents who combined for a 17-5 record _New Orleans didn't look great in managing just -283 total yards. But it was enough to turn back the Bears. 
The Bears, ranked 28th on defense and 32nd and last on offense, scOl'ed their only touch­down -a 4-yard pass from Kordell Stewart to Dez White with 2:10 left in the game. 
Before that they had two field goals from Paul Edinger -a 28-yarder in the second quarter and a 31-yarder in the fourth. 
Stewart, who had three fum­bles and was sacked three times, was 10 of 21 for 152 yards. Anthony Thomas, coming off back-to-hack 100-yard out­ings, had 96 yards on 21 car­ries. 
Siz;,lefle (Sizzlelini~ ­On TuesdaysJ get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95! A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accer}ted w·ith peppers and onions· on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B;)-lene (Bellini) ­A frosty, peach Italian work of art for $2-! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)~ 
Visit us EVERYTuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 

-\ } 
i ~ 
Monday, October 13, 2003

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS \ NHL 
Klatt's two goals in Kings' win over Blackhawks 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -Trent Klatt does­n't score goals too often. 
On .Sunday night, he scored
I, 
i 
twice in one shift to lead the Los
i 
I 
Angeles Kings to a 4-2 victory over the Chicago Blackhawks. 
Klatt, who has 129 goals in 703 NHL games, gave the Kings a 3-0 lead with his two goals in a 33-second span and help them win their second straight game. 
Klatt, who signed as a free agent from Vancouver in the offseason, usually spends his time along the boards getting the puck to his linemate Luc Robtaille. 
"It's pretty simple," Klatt said. "I just go to the net hard and do the work in the corners. It's paying off right now. 
"You certainly don't have a guy like myself out in the slot, that's Luc's job," he added. "Derek [Armstrong] and myself we can go in an win some bat­tles in the corner and we try to get the puck to Luc in the slot." 
I I 'Klatt, who had 16 goals last 
I 
season with the Canucks, already has three this year. 
l. 
The Kings' Lubomir Visnovsky 
l scored a power-play goal in the first period and Jaroslav Madry added an insurance goal with 
3:31 left in the third. 

Los Angeles concluded a sea­son-opening, three-game road trip at 2-1-0. 
"We certainly should have had points in all three games,"
, 
\ Kings coach Andy Murray said, "but I'd rather be going back with four points than without any." 

Chicago's Mark Bell and Kyle Calder scored power-play goals to cut the score to 3-2, but Chicago dropped its second straight. 
Los Angeles goaltender Roman Cechmanek stopped 32 shots, including 14 of 15 in the third period. Chicago's Jocelyn Thibault made 22 saves, includ­ing one on a penalty shot by Esa Pirnes in the second period. 
"We've been working hard, but we're having a little bit of trouble defensively in our end," Thiabult said. ··we have to get better at that." 
Chicago coach Brian Sutter was more direct about his team's defensive coverage. 
"On [Los Angeles'] second, third and fourth goals. we were beat out of the corner down low," Sutter said. "We were beaten in areas we have to take pride in. 
"Obviously, we didn't take enough pride in them. We 
played a team that battled hard." 
Visnovsky opened the scoring with 3:40 left in the first period with five seconds remaining on a Kings power play. He beat Thibault with a slap shot from the top of the slot. 
Klatt made it 2-0 with his first goal, at 8:33 of the second. 
Tim Gleason's shot from the point hit traffic and bounced to Bell in the slot. Bell lost his foot­ing and the puck squirted to Klatt, who cut to the net and tucked a shot past Thibault. 
Klatt increased the lead 33 seconds later, tipping in a loose puck in the crease after Robitaille's low shot from the point trickled between Thibault's legs and toward the goal line. 
Pirnes was awarded the penalty shot after Alexander Karpovtsev pulled him down on a breakaway at 10:17 of the second period. 
Bell cut it to 3-1 at 11:21 of the second on the power play. He deflected in Karpovtsev's perfect feed from the top of the slot. 
Thibault stopped Zigmund Palffy's short-handed break­away attempt 52 seconds into the third. 
Calder cut it to 3-2 with a power-play goal at 4:50 of the third. After a goalmouth pile up, Calder took on a loose puck and fired it over Cechmanek, who had sprawled to make an initial save. 
Modry completed the scoring with 3:31 left .in regulation. He connected from the left circle after taking a pass from Alexander Frolov behind the net. 
Coyotes 2, Mighty Ducks 0 
Ladislav Nagy scored in the first period, and goaltender Sean Burke made that stand up as the Phoenix Coyotes beat the Anaheim Mighty Ducks 2-0. 
The loss in their home opener dropped the Ducks, who came within one game of winning the Stanley Cup last season, to 0-3. 
Nagy scored on a power play at 9:27 of the opening period, his first goal and second point in the Coyotes' two games. Daymond Langkow added an empty-net goal with five sec­onds remaining. 
Burke stopped 31 shots to earn the 34th save of his career, thwarting the Ducks on five power plays. 
Skating down the right side, Nagy took a cross-ice pass from Mike Johnson, bore down on Jean-Sebastien Giguere and wristed a shot over the goal­
_CHEESECAKE 
..... 
Q 
~ 


/f 

'JJ 
,........ 
c:"' 
""IATrE,CAPPUCCINO CHAI TEA. MOCHA 

Ctl.EESECAK'E CHEESECAKE 

e~ o'Q ro~~ 10-~ ,e:,'l>-' ~ 
Fax(574)282-3234 415 North Hickory Road South Bend, IN 46615 
(Student & Staff discounts with 10) 



tender's left shoulder. 

Giguere had positioned him­self near the left post, and Nagy was able to thread the puck through a small opening above the goalie's glove. 
The Ducks' goalie faced 28 shots. 
A sensation in the playoffs, Giguere has allowed eight goals in the Ducks' three losses to open the season. He signed a four-year contract for about $20 million with the team last month. 
Sergei Fedorov, signed to a five-year, $40 million contract after Paul Kariya left for Colorado, has yet to score for the Ducks. 
Rob Niedermayer has scored the only two goals for Anaheim, off to an 0-3 start for only the second time in club history. They also lost their first three games in 1998-99. 
Phoenix was coming off a 2-1 overtime win over St. Louis in its opener. Sharks 3, Wild 2 
Alyn McCauley's power-play gnal sparked a three-goal flurry by San Jose over the final four minutes of the first period, and the Sharks held· on for a 3-2 win over the Minnesota Wild. 
EPA

Christoph Brander got his 
Phoenix's Brian Savage checks Anaheim's Rob Nledermayer
first career goal to give 
during the Coyotes' 1-0 win In Anaheim, Calif. 
Minnesota a 1-0 lead 6:24 into the game before McCauley's goal started San Jose's spurt. first gave San Jose a 3-1 advan­
Just 37 seconds later, Mike tage. Ricci redirected a pass from Rookie Brent Burns scored his Scott Thornton past Wild goal­first career goal 4:22 into the tender Dwayne Roloson to give second period to pull Minnesota the Sharks the lead. Patrick within a goal. Marleau's power-play goal with Despite controlling the puck 
9.9 seconds remaining in the for much of the third period and taking eight shots, the Wild couldn't get the puck past San Jose goalie Vesa Toskala. Toskala finished with 23 saves. 
Manny Fernandez replaced Roloson at the start of the sec­ond period. and finished with 15 saves. 
rXA<~> 

ANNOUNCEMENT 
·h-oh·. · , 21. .. ''
U ·...Look•. Wh··.o s 
Happy Birthday, Brin and. Emily! 
Hide Your Cell Phones, Break Out The Tiaras, Dance On The Tables, Drink (lots of) Something Pink.... 
Party It Up, T-Wing Style 1
• 

Much Love (and many~ many prayers)~ 
The London Branch 
-
page 17

Monday, October 13, 2003 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Page 18 CO!V\PlLED FROi\1 'THE OnsERVER.'S \VIRE SERVlCES Monday, October 13,2003 


t 
! 
I' 
around the dial 
NFL 

Falcons at Rams 8 p.m., ABC 
MLB 

New York at Boston 7:18p.m., FOX 
BOWLING PBA Banquet Open 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NCAA 

what now will be a 12-"The ACC is a strong, prised that the ACC presi­Associated Press member mix," ACC com­stable conference," The dents continue to come 
missioner John Swofford Rev. William Leahy said. back into our league for 
GREENSBORO, N.C. -said. "If you look at their "The move to the ACC will membership." Boston College will join graduation rates, B.C. will generate greater rev­James Barker, Clemson the Atlantic Coast jump right into the higher enues in the future." president and head of the Conference as its 12th echelon of our confer­The heads of ACC ACC's Council of member, guaranteeing ence. They bring a lot on schools voted 9-0 in favor Presidents, said it became the league a future foot­both fronts." of extending the Eagles apparent recently that an ball playoff game while Big East by-laws an invitation during a 11-tearn league was not landing another major require 27 months notice teleconference Sunday. ideal for the ACC. television market. to leave that conference Miami and Virginia Boston College and 
The school had until or face a reported $5 mil­Tech were added to the Syracuse were the Big Nov. 1 to accept the ACC's lion exit fee, meaning the nine-team conference in East schools in the ACC's offer, but agreed in less Eagles may not begin late June and will begin original expansion plans than four hours after ACC participating in ACC play in 2004. -along with Miami ­presidents and chancel­sports until 2006, In a statement, Big East but were voted down in lors voted unanimously Swofford said. commissioner Mike favor of adding the Sunday to include Boston Boston College's presi­Tranghese said: "We are Hurricanes and Hokies. College in the league's dent said athletics, aca­extremely disappointed Duke, North Carolina and expansion plans. demics and finances were with Boston College's N.C. State voted against 
"This just adds one reasons for the jump from decision to leave. Our adding Boston College at more excellent school to the Big East. membership is very sur-the time. 
IN BRIEF 
Legendary jockey Bill Marinez, Ramirez, Zimmer said in a statement. 
Shoemaker d1es of Sunday and Garcia fined for "I have instructed the umpires and natural causes at 72 fourth inning behavior told the clubs that any furthur mis­BOSTON -Pedro Martinez and conduct by either team will not be
SAN MARINO, Calif. -Hall of Manny Ramirez of the Boston Red tolerated and will be dealt withFame jockey Bill Shoemaker, who 

Sox were fined Sunday along with severely."
rode four Kentucky Derby winners 
Don Zimmer and Karim Garcia of the
and was a commanding presence in New York Yankees for their actions Appleby ~ets first PGAthoroughbred racing for more than 
in Game 3 of the AL championship
40 years, died Sunday. He was 72. tour win 10 four years Shoemaker died in his sleep at his series. LAS VEGAS -Stuart Appleby liked 
Bob Watson, baseball's vice presi­
his chances when he saw the 15-foot
suburban home near Santa Anita 
dent in charge of discipline, did not 
putt he needed to make to end his
racetrack, according to longtime 
announce specifically why the four 
four-year drought on the PGA Tour.
friend and trainer Paddy Gallagher. 
were fined, other than to say it was 
"As soon as I saw it, I thought I
Gallagher, an assistant during 
for their behavior in the fourth 
could make it," Appleby said after
Shoemaker's training career, said 
inning of New York's 4-3 victory 
beating Scott McCarron in a playoffdoctors told him Shoemaker died of Saturday.
natural causes. at the Las Vegas Invitational. "As it
Martinez was fined $50,000, 
was going to the hole, I thought, 'It's
"He was one of the greatest 

Ramirez $25,000, Garcia $10,000 
a little slow, a little left,' but ithuman beings I have ever had the 
and Zimmer $5,000, according to a 
pleasure of knowing in my life," dropped in." 
baseball executive who spoke on the 
said retired jockey Chris McCarron, condition he not be identified. The win was Appleby's first on the 
now general manager of Santa tour since the 1999 Houston Open
"I am very disappointed in the Anita. "Forget about his ability to behavior of some of the participants and ended his recent streak of run­communicate with horses, his corn­in last night's game between the ner-up finishes. passion for people was second to Boston Red Sox and the New York "It's been a bit of a drought," the 
none." Yankees," commissioner Bud Selig Australian said. 
Monday, October 13, 2003 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 

MEN'S GOLF 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish make return to Stonebridge Invite 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's golf team will be in action today at the 2003 Stonebridge Invitational, hosted by Southern Methodist University. 
The Irish played in the 2002 . Stonebridge Invitational and placed fifth with a score of 873 (289­295-289). The 54-hole tour­nament will be held at the par 72, 7,247-yard Dye Course at Stonebridge Country Club in McKinney, Texas. 
The Irish are coming off a 15th-place tie (with Southern Methodist) at the Windon Memorial Classic in Glenview. Ill. The 17 -team field included eight of the top 50 teams in the nation, 
according to the latest 
Golfweek/Sagarin 
Performance Index rankings. 
Notre Dame shot 909 (301­306-302) as a team and was led by a career-low perform-· ance from sophomore Scott Gustafson. Gustafson shot a score of one-over par 217 (72-73-72), beating his previ­ous best 54-hole total of 219, which he set at the 2002 Kansas Invitational. 
Gustafson also played in the 2002 Stonebridge Invitational, shooting 232 (77-71-84) and will be in head coach John Jasinski's lineup for this fall's tourna­ment. Two of Gustafson's classmates will also be par­ticipating in their second Stonebridge Invitational, Tommy Balderston and Eric Deutsch. 
Salas upsets No. 29 Hollands 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame senior co-captain Alicia Salas, ranked 63rd nationally in singles, continued her run as a giant killer by upsetting No. 29 Dianne Hollands of Arizona in consola­tion action Friday in the Riviera/ITA Women's All­American Championships, the first leg of the collegiate tennis grand slam. 
Salas then fell to No. 7 Daria Panova of Oregon to be elimi­nated from the tournament. Salas and the rest of the Irish women's tennis team will return to action Friday in an exhibition· match against rival USC in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Action is tentatively slated to begin at 4 p.m. 
Salas posted her fourth win over a ranked opponent in four days by topping Hollands 6-4, 6­
3. The Irish senior dropped the first three games of the second 
I 



set before fighting back to win 
six consecutive games. The 
Wildcat is the highest-ranked 
opponent ever to fall victim to 
Salas. 
"Alicia did an unbelievable job of covering the court," Irish head coach Jay Louderback said. "She was really aggressive, and I was really impressed with her speed. She really tracked down a lot of balls." 
In the afternoon match, Panova, the tournament's sixth seed, pulled out a close match 6­4, 7-6 (7-5). Salas jumped out to a 4-1 lead in the second set, but could not force a third frame. 
"It was really a great tourna­ment for Alicia," Louderback said. "She played very well and beat some really good players." 
Salas is 6-3 on the young sea­son, with the losses coming to players ranked Nos. 7. 8 and 27 nationa-lly. She now has 11 career victories over ranked opponents. 
Prior to this tournament, Salas' highest-ranked victim was No. 54 Melissa Applebaum "of Miami in the Big East final a 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
year ago. She posted three wins over top-40 players in the All­American Championships. 
In qualifying, she beat No. 85 Ashley Schellhas of Vanderbilt 6-4, 3-6, 6-0 and No. 33 Alix Lacelarie of Clemson 6-1, 6-0 on Tuesday before defeating No. 39 Megan Muth of William & Mary 6-4, 6-3 in Wednesday's qualify­ing round. On Thursday, Salas lost 6-4, 6-0 to No. 27 Tammy Encina of Tennessee in the opening round of the main draw. 
Salas was the first Notre Dame player to reach the 32­player main draw of the All­American Championships since current Irish assistant coach Michelle Dasso advanced to the quarterfinals of the tournament as a senior in 2000. 
The premier hard court event of the fall collegiate season, the All-American Championships, feature the top players in NCAA Division I tennis. Several past champions have gone on to pro­fessional careers. The famous Riviera Tennis Club has played host to this event since 1988. 
Progress evident at Benedictine Invite 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's cross country team came out in full force on Friday and took it to the 25-team field of the 5,000-meter Benedictine University Eagle Invitational. 
Six Belles runners finished in the top 50 as Saint Mary's placed fourth overall and proved its improvement since the season's opener at the Heidelberg Invitational in Ohio. 
Senior Jackie Bauters led the way for the Belles for the fifth time in six meets, posting a time of 19:52 and finishing 17th over­all. 
The finish was the second highest of Bauters' final season, the best finish coming in the first meet when she came in 13th. 
Heidi Saunders of Goshen College was the overall winner with a time of 19:18.9. 
Only Northern Illinois (27). Goshen (79) and St. Joseph's 
(118) placed higher than the Belles. 
Saint Mary's freshmen Sara Otto (20:06.8) and Erin Nolan (20:06.8). junior Elizabeth Commers (20:28.5). freshman Katie White (20:39.3) and sopho­more Becky Feauto (20:46.0) functioned as more than just a supporting cast to Bauters' strong fmish. 
Saint Mary's narrowed the time difference between its first runner (Bauters) and fifth run­ner (White) to 49 seconds. This statistic is an accurate measure of the success or failure of a team. With all runners healthy and clicking, the Belles seem primed to take this momentum and use it to their advantage in the MIAA Championships Nov. 1 at Albion College. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
'ii, I) 
\t 
page 20 Monday, October 13, 2003 
) The Observer + SPORTS 
l l 
~ \ I Payback
~ 
continued from page 24

~ 
~ CCHA) split with the 15th­ranked Buckeyes (2-2-0, 1-1-0)
i 
\'I' despite the fact that Notre ' Dame's top goalie, Morgan Cey. ,j was unable to play. Sophomore ' Rory Walsh picked up the win 
' 
Friday night, and freshman David Brown played well in
II I 
Saturday's loss, stopping 36 of
l 39 shots he faced. Both Brown and Walsh were making their ;} first career start. 'l "I liked the way we played
.;\
,, overall," Irish coach Dave Poulin 
said. ''We were doing lots of the \~ intangible things well. We had \\ two young goaltenders who had­
t/ n't played a game at the Division
~)I 
\ I level play pretty well." 
I Youth played a large part in Notre Dame's success this week­end, but so did veteran presence -particularly the play of senior forward Rob Globke, who had a hat trick in Friday's victory. It was the first time a Notre Dame player scored a hat trick in a conference opener since 1995. 
"It was a nice way to get the
J 
1. season started," Poulin said. Ohio State started the scoring
:~ 
I'~ Friday, getting on the board a lit­tle more than six minutes· into the game when Rod Pelley fired the puck over Walsh's glove. 

The Irish tied the game six minutes later with Globke's 50th goal of his career. Center Matt Amado split the Buckeye defense with a perfect pass to Globke, who then fired the puck over Ohio State goalie Dave Caruso. 
Globke gave the Irish a lead with his second goal of the peri­od with about three minutes remaining. With the two teams playing four-on-four, Irish defenseman Tom Galvin sent Globke a perfect pass, allowing the forward to beat Caruso with

'·· 
a shot from the slot. The Buckeyes tied the game 


rt.Arfl&l
ooor .........-· 

Op~u llousc \Vt"due~!.it)', O~Wbt-r 1.511' 42.4 NM1h Frances Street. A(3t 17 
2-tip.m. 

Octuber SJ>ecia1 F!'t.':i:: D'VD pl:::;yez· fo1 i'lllleases Signed by OctJ)ber 31, 20~.13: 
ll 
:~ 
I , r!, 
I ' 


just four minutes into the second period when Walsh gave up a rebound goal to Paul Caponigri. Globke would reclaim the Irish lead seven minutes later on the power play. 
Notre Dame added insurance goals in the third period from forwards Aaron Gill and Cory McLean. Walsh made 31 saves in the game. 
"Rory's a battler," Poulin said. "He didn't get in any games last year, but he worked hard in practice and his conditioning this season was outstanding coming in. 
"He really battled tonight and made some big saves when it was a one-goal game." 
The Buckeyes changed goalies for Saturday's game, electing to start senior Mike Betz instead of Caruso. Betz has never lost to the Irish in his career, and Saturday was no exception as he stopped 29 of 30 shots to improve his record against Notre Dame to 7-0-3. 
Neither team mustered any goals in the first period, combin­ing for only 10 shots. That changed in the second frame, as they combined for 35 shots. It was Ohio State who scored the first goal, when Daymen Bencharski scored on a deflec­tion a little less than three min­utes into the period. 
Notre Dame tied the game less than two minutes later when sophomore forward Tim Wallace scored a rebound goal after Betz stopped the initial shot from' McLean. 
Ohio State's J.B. Bittner put his team ahead for good 11 minutes into the final period, and Dave Steckel scored an insurance goal with a little more than two min­utes left in the game. 
"Ohio State played a little more desperate in the final peri­od and got the two points," Poulin said. "This is one that we have to find a way to win. We lost one of six periods on. the 
LAI4'A\''ETTE SQUARE TO\\'NHOl\fES -~ 
"'The B£".5t Vahle rcr Stu«hmt,. r 
• ·k5 Prrvnt~.: H..:umrmi~ 
• 
t:uHy f:quipperl Kiicher.:.s 

• 
·was:her & Dryer in E;lch ;\p;nimcnt 


~ 
,,.

• 
Central AU C-oru.liticJl'jr.g 

• 
ADT Securi!y Syst~.:rns • 24-H;Jur Emergency 1\·faintenance 


Professi~ma!ly Manag::u B>': 
R~all-:ljt:dt: M:magcment Corpor~tion 
P.O. Hnx 540, !30 South Mai..11 Street, Ste 45\l S<.•u1h Betld, h'l 46624 

R<:scrvc Your'i Toda.v! 5i4-2.l4-9923 
NOTRE DA\-lE APART~1ENTS 
Some Reru;ons WhY Ynu Shllnld Join Our Communitv 
• (}ve.r ! ,000 SF ofLiving Spac~ 
• 2 Bed'n ..'O!US .' ! l:h!hrot~m Dt)~Jbk Van~l.y Slnks 
• Or. S1k Laundry f.'ai:ilil_y 
• .S Hlod.~ fmm Cam('u." 
• 
On Route of"Transpo .. Bu!'-Li.ue 

• 
P:rof~sion.ally 
M<mag<.:d • 24-Hour Emcr<Jcncy ''On-CaH'' :!vfaimenaoce 


Nn!n.: Dame Apart.mcnts; Cominues to Offer 1).uahty Housing Opportutlities. and ha~ C!carl;.­l3ecome Ihe Best Val~e ill Ott-Campus Uving~ 
0Jh•n Uott3(.' Thm:!'i..;hl)'. Octdx.:r l6u'
~ 
) 
iU5 North '!Xr.ts~ D~une-Avenue.•A..pt IA 2-6p.m. 
" 
~ 
i 
O!'to~~,r_ful~dl!! Nexl ye;~r leases ~il:,'1'~d by {)doher .~ l. 2i}(l] will !od in curn:nt year ~~es' 
. I . I 

I -i ~ 
i 1 

CHUY BENITEZ!The Obser.ter Notre Dame defenseman Tom Galvin battles a Western Ontario defender for the puck In a presea­son game at the Joyce Center. The Irish split a pair of games with Ohio State this weekend. 
weekend, and it cost us two ND-Globke (3), 2nd, 10:39 (Gill; points." Komadoski, Neil) ND-Gill (1), 3rd, 13:54 (Wallace, Tim; Lebda. Brett) 
NOTRE DAME 5, 

ND-McLean (1). 3rd, 17:48 (Wallace; 
OHIOSTATE2 

Galvin)at VALUE CITY ARENA, Friday 
1st 2nd 3rd Total NOTRE DAME -Saves 31 (Rory Walsh NOTRE DAME 2 1 2 5 31), Shots 29 (Globke 8), Penalties 6 OHIO STATE 1 1 0 2 OHIO STATE -Saves 24 (Dave Walsh 
24), Shots 33 (Pelley 4), Penalties 8 Scoring Summary OSU-Pelley, Rod (1), 1st, 6:45 
OHIO STATE 3,
(Beaudoin, Matt) 
NOTRE DAME 1

ND-Globke, Rob (1), 1st, 12:11 (Amado, Matt; McLean, Cory) at VALUE CITY ARENA, ND-Globke (2) 1st. 17:15 (Galvin. Saturday Tom; Aaron Gill) 1st 2nd 3rd Total OSU-Caponigri, Paul (3) 2nd, 3:59 OHIO STATE 0 1 2 3 (Andress. Doug; Knapp. Dan) NOTRE DAME 0 1 0 1 
Scoring Summary OSU-Bencharski, Daymen (1), 1st, 
2:44 (Waddell, Matt; Guenin, Nate) ND-Wallace, Tim (1). 2nd. 4:35 (McLean, Cory; Amado, Matt) OSU-Bittner, J.B. (1), 3rd, 11:20 (Schembri, Andrew; Waddell) 
OSU-Steckel, Dave (4), 3rd, 18:05 (Caponigri, Paul; Knapp, Dan) 

NOTRE DAME -Saves 36 (David Brown 36), Shots 30 (Rob Globke 6), Penalties 6 
OHIO STATE -Saves 29 (Mike Betz 29), Shots 39 (Rod Pelley 5), Penalties 5 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

Monday, October 13, 2003 page 21
The Observer+ SPORTS 

quickly, as Thorlakson Guertin came off the bench to allow a shot to the opposition. (Manning) 
ND-Warner (8), 49:16
rebounded a shot by freshman score two second half goals for The Irish again used their
Fight 
ND-Guertin (8). 69:29 (Buczkowski.
Jill Krivacek for the 3-0 mar­the Irish, with her first coming depth to wear out the opposi­
Jen; Krivacek. Jill) 
continued from page 24 gin. on a breakaway off an assist tion, using all of their healthy ND-Schefter. Annie (4), 78:44 The Hurricanes broke the from Manning only moments players against Georgetown (l'weneboah, Becky) 
is that good teams find a way to Irish streak for having allowed into the half. Warner added and used many of the same 
NOTRE DAME-Saves 1 (Nikki Westfall 
win these kind of games," one or fewer shots on goal at another goal two minutes later players against Miami. 
1). Shots 18 (Carpenter. Manning, Warner Waldrum said. "The energy 11 games by get-for a 4-0 lead to "The players that we brought 3). Corner kicks 2. Fouls 10 
level wasn't real high, and I ting two long give the Irish a in helped step up the energy GEORGETOWN -Saves 5 (Erin 
Mazursky 5). Shots 5 (Elizabeth Roberti
think physically it will be nice shots that were dominating lead. level," Waldrum said. "Lizzi~
"The energy level 3), Corner kicks 3, Fouls 11
to get back to a regular week. easy saves for Guertin got a Reed came in and I thought
wasn't real high. 
I'm really proud of them though Bohn. second goal in the Becky Tweneboah gave us some NOTRE DAME 3, MIAMI 0it was a really tough stretch." The Irish got and I think 69th minute off good minutes as well. Jill at ALUMNI FIELD, Sunday 
The Irish. took the lead on the score­assists from [Krivacek] has been playing 1st 2nd Total
physically it will be
against Miami in the first half board quickly Krivacek and fel­very well in midfield for us. I'm · NOTRE DAME 1 2 3
nice to get back to MIAMI 0 0 0
off a corner kick. Freshman against low freshman Jen pretty pleased with that." Christie Shaner's kick was Georgetown, a regular week ... Buczkowski. and The Irish will finish up their 
Scoring Summary

headed by Katie Thorlakson with senior Kim sophomore Annie eight-game home stand Friday ND-Boland. mary (11). 20:37 before bouncing to Mary Carpenter con­Schefter capped as they host No. 10 Connecticut (Thorlakson, Katie; Shaner, Christie))
Randy Waldrum 
ND-Guertin. Amanda {9), 51:47
Boland who headed it in. tinuing her scor­the scoring with at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Irish coach (Tancredi, Melissa) 
Shaner and Thorlakson were ing surge with a her fourth goal off NOTRE DAME 6, 
ND-Thorlakson (5), 56:25 (Krivacek, 
credited with assists on the close shot off an assist from GEORGETOWN 0 Jill) goal. assists from freshman Becky at ALUMNI FIELD, Friday 
NOTRE DAME -Saves 2 (Erika Bolm

The Irish were unable to get Vanessa Pr.uzinsky and Amy Tweneboah. 1st 2nd Total 
2), Shots 17 (Boland, Amy Warner 3).
NOTRE DAME 2 4 6
another goal before halftime, Warner. Although the Irish con­As has been customary for 
Comer kicks 7, Fouls 7 GEORGETOVVN 0 0 0
but a through ball from senior tinued to dominate, they did not the Irish, they dominated the MIAMI-Saves 4 (Alex Alford 4), Shots Melissa Tancredi sprung class­score again until late in the half Hoyas, allowing only one harm­Scoring Summary 4 (Four with 1). Comer kicks 2. Fouls 12 mate Amanda Guertin for a when Pruzinsky's cross was less shot on goal. The Irish did ND-Carpenter. Kim (5), 5:39 
(Pruzinsky, Vanessa; Warner, Amy) 
breakaway. Guertin then beat knocked in by sophomore not allow a shot until the 63rd 
ND-Manning, Maggie (4), 36:37 
the keeper for the goal. The Maggie Manning for a 2-0 half­minute, capping a streak of 138 Contact Andy Troeger at
(Pruzinsky)Irish finished off the Hurricanes time· lead. minutes where the Irish did not ND-Guertin, Amanda (7), 46:46 atroeger@nd.edu 
Story 
continued from page 24 
The late Irish spurt proved futile when Brian Johnson of Rutgers scored an insurance goal at the 80:42 mark. 
"It happens," Clark said of the loss. "We can't read too much into it except to look at the goals and see how we lost them." 
Rutgers now leads the all-
time series with Notre Dame with a 9-3-1 record. The 5-2 victory also marks the Scarlet Knights' sixth straight win over the Irish. 
Notre Dame is 5-2-1 at Alumni field this season, with one home game remaining on Oct. 31 against Villanova. 
The Irish drop to fifth in the Big East conference with its loss to Rutgers. St. John's (5-1­0). Rutgers (4-1-1), Virginia Tech (4-2-0) and Connecticut (3-1-2) have better records heading into the season's homestretch. 
"It is disappointing to lose the game," Clark said. "But the test for us is do we use this as a stepping stone or a stumbling block? I think we have to use this as a stepping stone and get back on the right path on Tuesday. We have six remain­ing g·ames, and they're all tough games." 
Notre Dame's next test comes this Tuesday on the road at non-conference opponent Cleveland State. The Vikings (6­

7) are in the middle of a four­game losing streak after drop­ping a 2-0 decision to Marshall. 
RUTGERS 5, NOTRE DAME 2 at ALUMNI FIELD 
1st  2nd Total  
RtrrGERS  4  1  5  
NOTRE DAME  0  2  ·  2  

Scoring Summary RU-Arenas, Ricardo (7), 34:27 RU-Karcz, Chris (5), 36:05 (Waldo, 
Daniel) • 
RU-Gros, Josh (10), 40:22 (Arenas) 
RU -Lambrocca, Nick (1 ), 44:17 
(Gros) ND-Martin, Greg (2), 51:54 (Goldthwaite, Kevin; Detter, Justin) ND-Etherington, Ian (2), 66:05 (Riley. Chad) RU-Johnson, Brian (2), 80:42 (Pelletier. Jason) 
NOTRE DAME -Saves 1 (Chris Sawyer 1), Shots 10 (Detter, Martin 3), Comer kicks 7, Fouls 11 
RUTGERS-Saves 5 (Lubos Ancin 5). Shots 10 (Arenas 3). Corner kicks 3,. 
> 
Fouls 11 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Thinking of The London Program 
./ 
For F a/1.2004 or Spring 2005? 
You are strongly encouraged to turn in your completed application by 4:30pm, Friday, October 17, 2003 
Applications will be accepted until 4:30pm on Monday, October 27,2003 

By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish are on fire. 

This weekend saw the No. 15 Irish sweep two Big East foes en route to winning their sixth and seventh straight games. 
Friday's victim was Seton Hall. The Pirates came into the Joyce Center with a 14-6 over­all and 0-3 conference record. However, they were no match for the red-hot Irish. 
Notre Dame hit a scorching .436 en route to the three­game victory (30-2 2, 30-14. 30­25). 
Sunday was much more of the same for the Big East lead­ing Irish. Rutgers (8-11, 2-3) never led in three games as the Irish dominated (30-13, 30-18, 30-22). 
"We've had great practices 
. I all week, and I really think it's paying off for us," head coach Debbie Brown said. "Overall I think were playing really well." 
The Irish have been excellent of late, remaining undefeated in the Big East with a 6-0 start. Against Rutgers, the Irish hit .352 on the match, compared to the Scarlet Knights' meager . 028 hitting percentage. 
Notre Dame's hot hitting of late can be attributed to the switch to a 5-1 rotation. With Kristen Kinder as the Irish's only setter, hitters do not have to adjust to having two setters. Kinder had 39 assists in Sunday's match. 
Meanwhile, sophomore Lauren Brewster has been unstoppable. Sunday. she hit .560 with 16 kills and only two errors. Last week, she was named co-Big East Player of the Week, .and Friday she had 13 kills with no errors, good for 
a .684 hitting percentage. 
"Lauren has been unbeliev­able," Brown said. "I watch other teams, and they have no idea how to stop her." 
Brewster is not the only Irish hitter to get hot of late. as all the middle blockers have stepped up. Lauren Kelbley nailed 10 kills Sunday to go along with her .47 4 hitting per­centage. 
,I 
' i. Blocking has also been anoth­er strength of the Irish as they rejected the Scarlet Knights 15 times at the net, while getting 
stuffed only two times. This has been the trend of late for the
)H(j 
Irish front row.

' I 
i 
il ~ "We work a lot on blocking," Brown said. "[Assistant coach] 
I I 
I .. 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Hot Irish continue 
their winning st~eak 
I I 
) 
. I
i ·, 
. I 
I 
l 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 13, 2003 
l 
I
·: 
'
I 
': 
J :i 
J 
! 
I I 
} 
i 
l 
l i 
I i 
I 
Robin [Davis] dees almost all of the blocking coaching, and he's really good." 
However, despite the out­standing coaching, Brown also credits her athletes for their blocking prowess. 
"We have players that have the physical ability to be high above the net, and our blockers have gotten better and better -they're smarter." Brown said. 
Even though the Irish kept rolling this weekend, they are looking forward to the week off. 
"Right now is the perfect time for us to have a break, espe­cially because of the academ­ics," Brown said. "Academically, the week before fall break is really tough." 
So, as the Irish take a study break and a few days off, they hope that the momentum con­tinues in their favor, as they are just having fun playing vol­leyball. and that is when they play their best." 
"I think that we worked real­ly hard at being consistent and playing at a higher levei," Brown said. 
Next week, Brown and her team will travel to North Carolina where the Tar Heels will try to cool down the Irish . 
NOTRE DAME 3, SETON RALLO at the JOYCE CENTER, Friday 
NOTRE DAME 30 30 30 SETON HALL 22 14 25 
NOTRE DAME -Kills 55 {Lauren Brewster 13), Assists 52 (Kristen Kinder 40), Digs 39 (Meg Henican 12), Blocks 
12.5 (Brewster 7). Hitting percentage .436 (Brewster .684), Aces 4 {Lauren Kelbley 2) 
SETON HALL -Kills 42 (Katherine Whitney 15}, Assists 39 (Shawn 'McDonald 34), Digs 31 (Whitney 9), Blocks 4 (Jessica King 3), Hitting percentage .189 (Jenna Meyers .364), Aces 3 (Whitney, McDonald, Meyers 1) 
NOTRE DAME 3, RUTGERS 0 at the JOYCE CENTER, Sunday 
NOTRE DAME 30 30 30 RUTGERS 13 18 22 
NOTRE DAME-Kills 51 {Lauren Brewster 16), Assists 47 (Kristen Kinder 39}, Digs 44 (Meg Henican 13), Blocks 15 {Lauren Kelbley 7), Hitting percentage .352 (Brewster .560). Aces 7 (Kelbley, Kinder 2) 
RUTGERS -Kills 31 (Dawn Christjaener 11). Assists 31 (Abbey Martin 29), Digs 36 {Shayla Bush 8), Blocks 2 (Ashleigh Young, Christjaener 1), Hitting percentage .028 (Christjaener .261), Aces 1 (Young 1) 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
International Study Progran1S 151 Jlurle}' Building T: 631-5882 INNSBRUCK 2003-2004 A.cade1nic Year Please Join Prof. HanneJorc Weber and returnees of the program Question: "Can I Rea1ly Spend a Ycar J\.'\.Vay fro1n N'D?"' Ansvver: ''It V\ras the Best Year of1Vfy Life!" ,------···........,_. -~~ ............ --------~ Tuesday, October 14, 2003 216 DEBr\·R~fOI..iO 4:30 PIVI ---------........................~------------___J i\ppUcations Available \¥'\V'\'·/nd.edu/-intJstud Questions?-\Vehcr.1.5(ti::nd.edu .Application J)eadline: Dcc.t'mbcr 1, 2003 -~  ... l ·I -~ ~ ~ l : j J i !  

. . . . . ·, ' . 
Cefelnate w1t{tt{Je H1en of o{o.co(fege · ·160 ~carsvf traoition . 
Fou110er'sDaz? LNccnari!JI11 Laaj) ChatJef ofthe Basifica of tbe Sacreo Heart 
.·: ·.·~. . . : :· 
17

lvlOJ'tOa:¥1· e·venfH,l. October 13t Q.I-.HJ1
v ... ··'tJl !~f 

Rev. Ricbaro VJ'arner,·csc,. 
Direeti)rt4 CillljUl) Mi11istr~ 



o{CJ college 
Men's Hall of tf;e Year -1843 



(: 
j {' . 
. I 
. I 
. I . ~ 
I 
I ) ~ 
I i \. i 


Monday, October 13, 2003 page 23 
The Observer+ TODAY 

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 



HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, · one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LIWLT 
rJ 
1 
C2003 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SINUM 
1 
rJ 


PANICT 
WHt:N SHE: Kt:PT GE:TTING A BUSY 
1 
rJ 
SIGNAL-. SHE= 
www.1umble.com 
C.AL-1.-t:D--­
tTANQUI 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as
IJ I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Print answer here: rnrI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: LAUGH DITTY SECOND QUARRY Answer: Easy for a baker to do-RAISE DOUGH 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 39 Get schooling 66 Part of a bicycle wheel
1 ·Moby-Dick" 41 Fine Day"
M-

captain (1963 Chiffons 67 _ fruit (large hit) tangelo)
5 Excellent, in modern slang 68 Walking difficulty 
42 Satisfy a debt 9 Speedy 69 Lugged
43 Just twiddling 14 Greek sandwich the thumbs 70 Espied 15 Poland's Walesa 71 "Airplane!" actor
44 Recorded Robert16 Actress Verdugo 

46 Musician Brian 1 7 1998 Sarah 
47 Red addition to
Mclachlan hit DOWN 
a salad 

18 Bullets, e.g. 1 Open-mouthed 
49 Bring out

19 Like lettuce or 2 Nine-headed spinach 51 L'Enfant _, in serpent Washington,
20 Considerable 3 Sign after
D.C. 

sum of money Pisces 53 Knights'
23 Trigonometry 4 Sailed 
weapons

abbr. 5 Toddlers' 24 Soften enclosure
57 Gift offered with an "aloha"
25 Barnyard honker 6 Rope material 59 Useful tip for 7 Pinnacle 
27 Apprehension puzzle-solving?

30"Make it_!" 8 Revealing ("Hurry!") 62 Variety of beachwear primrose
33 Dadaism 9 Use tor support founder 64 Struggle for air 10 Ginger_ 
36 Overrun 65 1997 Peter 11 Something 35 Handheld 45 Gun part 57 Needing 38 Venus de_ Fonda title role smoked at an computing 48 Bugged directions, say Indian ceremony device 
50 ·stop right 58 Montreal 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Data 37 Wanted-poster there!" ballplayer 13 Word with option 
52 Cattle breed 60 Parrot's spot "Happy" and 

40 Honest-to­
54 Paramecium·oeath Valley" 

goodness propellers 61_of Man
in old 1V titles 42 Summary 55 Foe
~..;,.a.,~ 21 Shroud of 63 1950's White 44 Move like 56 Dance House
~~~ 22 Winning margin, 
molasses components nickname
sometimes 26 Identical For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
28 English river credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
~.;:;.+.;~~,..., 29 "Inferno" writer Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
31 Blueprint 
...;..+~.;;.,p,.... crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS . ..;..&..:..:.J.,~~~~~ 32 Toy that does Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
tricks 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). ~~~~.....,_~J-,:,-1 33 Touched down Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, .;.;J,~~;;;...&.;;..;..L.,;;;,..,;;..L.,.;...I 34 Make over nytimes.com/leaming/xwords . 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Margaret Thatcher, Marie Osmond, Yves Montand, Kelly Preston 
Happy Birthday: Ready, set, go! You'll be off to the races this year as long as you are crystal clear about your destination. The harder you work, the greater the gains. Emotional deception is likely to unfold. If you don't let it interfere with your goals, you will prosper. You've got plenty to offer and lots to receive in return. Your numbers: 3, II, 26, 33, 40, 45 
I 
, I 
I 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Socializing with colleagues will lead to a better working environment. Someone you do business with will find his or her way into your heart. Rumors may be detrimental if you ttrcn't discreet ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Check out some unusual courses being offered. Don't let colleagues take credit for your work. Make arrangements to do some thing with your lover. Unusual forms of entertainment will be exciting. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Concentrate on your work. Problems at home will leave you feeling empty. An older relative may be a burden. Try to handle what you can, but if the stress is too much, ask siblings for help. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Visit friends or relatives if at all possible. You can make special plans for a quiet evening with the one you love. Passion is strong, and you need the attention badly. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Sit down with a good friend and kick around ideas you both have for earning extra cash. You may start your own part-time business. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will be emotionally up and down. Try to do things that will enhance your reputation. Offer to help groups that deal with children. You can exhibit your talent to those who have an interest ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): The changes that you're making to your home will be better than you first thought possible. Entertaining in your home will also prove to be successful. Visit or talk to friends who have not been well. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Children may limit your freedom. Try to be sure you've got all the bases covered if you and your mate want to spend a night out on the town or go away for the weekend.*** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Get down to business. It's time to do a little research. Look into all your options. Communication is your best bet. Go to the source if you need to find something out. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Travel and educational pursuits will be to ­your bene.fit. You can win approval of clicntcl.! through business trips or long­distance conversations. It's time to take action and move ahead. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Investments will be better than you first thought. You can clear up loose ends concerning your personal life. Real estate moves will be in your best interest. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Love is on your mind. Passionate interludes will lead to a solid and committed relationship. You may want to talk about expanding your family. Remember, actions speak louder than words. ** 
Birthday Baby: You are a determined individual who will not take no for an answer. Your high aspirations will help you do great things for your fellow man. You are a helpful friend and a loyal companion. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __~--------------------------------------­
Address _______________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip___________ 

THE OBSERVER 
p

Monday, October 13, 2003 

Page 24 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Lanced by the Knights 
Rutgers rolls onto Aluinni Field and whips the Irish 5-2. 

By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
The statistics show that the Notre Dame defense has been among the best in the country this season. Rutgers apparently does not concern itself with numbers. 
The Scarlet Knights scored four straight goals to open the ·:<' game and got scores from five 
( different players in a 5-2 blowout of the Irish at Alumni Field Saturday. 
!\I Notre Dame (7-2-3, 3-2-1 in the Big East) scored twice in the second half to mount a comeback. Senior Greg Martin 
~~ 
and freshman Ian Etherington \ 1 .. ( notched their second and first 
I (, 
goals of the season, respective­\, 1 ly. Still, a late Rutgers goal sealed the Irish second home ..,. loss of the season to a Big East 
l· 
opponent. 

~ 
The loss also toppled an Irish 
~ 
•4, ! streak of eight-games without a loss, dating back to a Sept. 6 loss to St. John's. 

Rutgers' four.:.goal spurt caught Notre Dame off-guard, especially because the Irish felt they were not being outplayed up to that point. 
"They had a crazy little spell there," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "I've reviewed the tape, and in a funny way I felt we played fairly well until then. They just had a crazy, inexpli­cable period where we let up some crazy goals. But for any team to have 10 shots and score five goals, that's a very high ratio. That'd be a high ratio in basketball, so it's defi­nitely a high ratio in soccer." 
Rutgers (7-3-1, 4-1-1) capi­talized on early Notre Dame miscues to take a lead it would never relinquish. Ricardo Arenas put the Scarlet Knights on the board first after Irish goalie Chris Sawyer slipped coming out to play a long ball. 
Sawyer had trouble control­ling the next long ball to come his way, a ball that slipped through his hands and onto the feet of Rutgers' Chris Karcz for the Knights' second goal. · 
Rutgers scored twice in the next eight minutes, the last of which came at the 44:17 mark just before the end of the half. 
Notre Dame came out of the locker room firing. Junior defender Kevin Goldthwaite's through-ball to senior forward Justin Detter set up a cross that Martin deflected to make the score 4-1 at 51:54. 
Etherington, a speedy fresh­man, scored 15 minutes later on a headball off a Chad Riley cross at 66:05. 
see LANCED/page 21 

HOCKEY 
Getting back at the Buckeyes 

The Irish split a pair ofgames with No. 15 Ohio State to garner revenge for their playoff loss to the Buckeyes a year ago 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 

Revenge is a dish best served cold. 
The old adage means that revenge is best after time has passed since the original infrac­tion, but in Notre Dame's case against Ohio State, it could have also referred to the temperature of the ice. 
Notre Dame, who lost to Ohio State in the first round of the CCHA Super Six postseason tournament to end the 2002-03 season, knocked off the Buckeyes on the road 5-2 Friday night. The celebration was short lived, though, as Ohio State came back Saturday night to split the series with a 3-1 win over the Irish. 
The Irish {1-1-0, 1-1-0 in the 
see PAYBACK/page 20 
. ' 
t 
i 
{ ' 
I 
l 
. \ 
·,. 
I 
' 
. i 
.. ~.. 
. I 
:) '\ 
;i 
« ~­
1/
j!! 
f;
j. 
~ ! 
i 
j 
1 
~ 
~­
j 
~ 
~ 
( 
I 
·..:
Il ~ 
(, ~ 1 
p~ ~ . 
f • I' ( 
iJ
: i 
:I 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish fight fatigue, win 2 

CHIP MARKSfThe Observer Irish forward Amy Warner runs with the ball against Miami Sunday. 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Notre Dame 3 Rutgers 0 Notre Dame 3 Seton Hall 0 
The Irish picked up a pair of conference wins over the weekend. 
page 22 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
Having played seven games in 15 days, the Irish were looking to survive this weekend to get back to their normal rou­tine. And survive they did, hammering Big East foes Georgetown and Miami at Alumni Field. 
The Irish, who did not allow a goal on the weekend. beat Georgetown 6-0 Friday night before coming back to beat Miami 3-0 Sunday afternoon. The Irish, still ranked No. 2 and now 14-0-1 on the season, have now shut out their' last six opponents with goalkeeper Erika Bohn owning a 590-minute shutout streak. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum did not feel like his team played particularly well against Miami but was happy about the way they still managed to win con­vincingly. 
"The thing we talked about at halftime 
see FIGHT/page 21 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
The Belles finished fourth in a field of 20 at the Benedictine University Eagle Invitational. The Belles' Jackie Bauters led Saint Mary's runners in the event. 
page 19 

NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame senior co­captain Alicia Salas upset No. 29 Dianne Hollands of Arizona at the Riviera/ITA Women's All-American Championships Friday. Salas was ranked 69th. 
page 19 SMC GOLF 
Belles squash Hope in final tourney, win MIAA 
ByJOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
They did it again. 
A year after capturing the MIAA conference championship, the Belles successfully defended their crown by beating Albion in the final MIAA tournament, 279-285. 
The win gave the Belles a huge edge in the final standings over rival Hope. The Flying Dutch struggled to third at the season's final tourna­ment, shooting a 7 29 -50 strokes off Saint Mary's pace. 
Stefanie Simmerman, the defend­ing Division III national champion, tied for co-medalist with an 82.8 average per round. She tied Alma's Courtney Rheinhardt for the best season average. 
Adams finished the fall with a 
83.0 stroke average, while Mattia was behind her teammate with an 
87.0 average. 

The Belles got ofT to a great start with a first day score of 342, seven strokes ahead of Albion. Hope fired a 363, which all but eliminated the Flying Dutch from winning the over­all conference crown. 
On the second day, the Belles fired a 337 to clinch the title. Simmerman and Adams both shot 165, good enough to tie for fifth place. 
The final standings for the MIAA season had Saint Mary's with a dominating lead over Hope. The Belles had a combined 1,108 shots in five tournaments, while the Flying Dutch had 1, 7 6 7. Hope did beat Saint Mary's twice this season, but the Belles won two weeks ago at Adrian and then again this week­end. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
MEN'S GOLF 

Notre Dame at the Stone bridge Invitational 
Monday-Tuesday 
The Irish return to action in McKiimey, Texas, today. page 19 
FOOTBALL 
Notre Dame 20 Pittsburgh 14 

The Irish used a domi­nant rushing attack led by Julius Jones' record-set­ting day to beat the Panthers. 
Irish Insider 


' 

Monday, October 13, 2003 OBsERVER Notre Dame 20, Pittsburgh 14 
•

Rus 
In toarecor 

]ones gains record 262 yards in Notre Dame's upset win over Pittsburgh 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
PITTSBURGH-Julius Jones had 152 
rushing yards in his first four games 
for Notre Dame this season. He sur­
passed that total in the first three quar­
ters against Pittsburgh Saturday night. 
Jones broke Notre Dame's single­game school rushing record with 262 yards on 24 carries and two touch­downs and the Notre Dame defense recorded eight sacks while hassling Pittsburgh quarterback Rod Rutherford all game, helping the Irish beat No. 16 Pittsburgh 20-14 at Heinz Field. 
The win was Notre Dame's first on 
the road this season and snapped a 
three-game losing streak. 
"I believed in our football team," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. "There will always be tough times. I liked our attitude and I liked our approach." 
Ryan Grant added 27 carries and 84 yards as Notre Dame rushed for a sea­son-high 352 yards. It was the most rushing yards for Notre Dame since Aug. 28, 1999 against Kansas. 
"I think our weakest part in the game has been the running," Willingham said. "We wanted to see if we could improve and once we did that, we wanted to continue it." 
Jones ignited the Irish throughout the game with solid runs, while the offen­sive line played well and opened holes for both backs. He had three touch­down runs, all over 25 yards, including a 61-yard scamper in the fourth quar­ter. He surpassed his career-high 149­yard rushing yards in the third quarter. 
"It was a great feeling to get the win and get things on track," Jones said. "Things opened up for us as a whole team. We had a lot to step up to the plate. I give the offensive line all the credit, they gave me some room to run and it was a great game for us." 
Notre Dame's defense was as impres­sive as Jones in holding the nation's eighth-ranked offense to a mere 175 total yards. Larry Fitzgerald, who entered the game averaging 145 yards receiving, had only five catches for 79 yards and two touchdowns in the first half, but was held without a catch in the second half. Rutherford was only 3-Dame had the ball at the Pittsburgh 34. Pittsburgh fought back to tie the yard line. After failing to score a touch­for-15 in the second half and was Three plays later, Jones broke through game when Rutherford found down, Fitzgerald nailed a 19-yard field under pressure through-for a 25-yard Ftizgerald for a 23-yard touchdown on goal to put Notre Dame ahead 17-14 at out the game. touchdown, pick­the last play of the first quarter. halftime. 
"That's what the goal is, ing up a key block After Notre Dame went three-and­The Irish put together a six-play, 52­
"It was a great feeling to 
to go out and dominant," from fullback Josh out, Pittsburgh's Ferguson broke a 71-yard drive in the middle of the third
get the win and get
linebacker Courtney Schmidt to give yard return to the Irish 4-yard line, quarter and Fitzpatrick added his sec­Watson said. "I don't think things on track.,, Notre Dame the Two plays later, Pittsburgh went on top ond field goal to give the Irish a 20-14 you ever think you're early 7-0 lead. when Rutherford found Fitzgerald lead with 7:10 remaining in the third going to go out and domi­The Irish again to give the Panthers a 14-7 edge. quarter.
Julius Jones 
nate on every single play, defense gave its But Jones and the offensive line Notre Dame took the ball deep in
Irish running back
especially against a team offense the ball in answered as the senior broke off a 49-Pittsburgh territory with just over nine like that. I think we just Pittsburgh territo­yard touchdown run to tie the game minutes on the clock. The offense ran played a great game." ry on the next two with 8:54 left in the first half. the time out with a 15-play drive that 
The Irish couldn't move the ball on possessions, but the offense could no.t Irish linebacker Derek Curry sacked consisted of 14 runs and only one pass. the opening drive and had to punt, but capitalize -D.J. Fitzpatrick missed a Rutherford on the next drive and Jared Clark recovered William 52-yard field goal and the Irish failed forced a fumble, which was recovered Ferguson mu{fed punt catch and Notre on a fourth-down attempt. by Derek Landri at the Pittsburgh 8-Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

player of the game 
Julius Jones 

The senior running back had 2 62 rushing yards and two touchdowns as he broke the Notre Dame single-game rushing record. 
stat of the game 
352 

number ofrushing yards by Notre Dame's offense in the game. The total was the most since Aug. 28, 
1999· 

play of the game 
Jones' 49-yard touchdown run with 
8:54 in the first half. 
The play got Notre Dame back in the game and took the momentum from Pittsburgh 
quote of the game 
"I believed in our football team. " 
Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 13, 2003 
report card 
c 
quarterbacks: Quinn didn't do much to help the Irish win, but he didn't hurt 
them too much either. He struggled throwing the ball but did find Jenkins with a crucial catch late in the game. 
A 
running backs: Jones broke the single­game rushing record with 262 yards and scored twice, while Grant added 
86 yards. The duo dominated the 
Panthers defense. 

c 
receivers: The receivers weren't thrown to and became almost nonex­istent throughout the game. Jenkins 
had the critical 19-yard catch to keep the final drive alive. 
offensive line: The offensive line finally 
A 
came together. The unit opened up holes for the backs and helped the 
rushing attack gain 352 yards. They 
controlled Pitt's line all game long. 
A 
defensive line: The line had its best game of the season. It pressured Rutherford all day and had six sacks, 
including 3.5 by Tuck. The Panthers could only muster eight yards rush­ing for the game. 
A 
linebackers: The unit stopped the rush 
and defended Pittsburgh's pass well. 
They contained Rutherford when he ran out of the pocket. Curry's sack forced a . fumble and Watson had 7 tackles. 
A-
defensive backs: The backs didn't allow Fitzgerald to record a catch in the sec­ond half and forced Rutherford to look to 
other receivers. They got burned on a 
couple plays early, but recovered well. 
c 
special teams: Fitzpatrick made two field goals but missed two more, and poor 
punt coverage set up Pittsburgh's sec­ond score. The punting wa.s average and the kickoff coverage did adequate. 
A-
coaching: Whatever the coaches did in the bye week worked. The offen­sive line shift with Stevenson and 
Harris paid off and Notre Dame's 
game plan was solid. 
3.25 
overall: The offense played well, the defense totally domi­nated and the Irish got a much-needed win on the road. 
adding up the numbers 
rushing yards Jones had in the game ­
2 6 2 
breaking Vagas Ferguson's 255 yard per­formance in 1978 against Georgia Tech 
0 
catches Fitzgerald had in the second half. He aver­aged 145 yards per game coming into the contest 
number of sacks the Irish recorded in their first 
8 
four games 
8 
number of sacks the Irish recorded against Pittsburgh Saturday 
number of games since Notre Dame scored a first 
9 
quarter touchdown prior to Saturday 
9:14 
length of Notre Dame's last drive that ran out the fourth quarter clock 
number of yards the Irish rushed lor as a 352 team -the most since Notre Dame's win against Kansas on Aug. 28, 1999 
2 
number of fumbles Jared Clark recovered for the Irish -he got one on a punt return and another when Quinn lost the ball on a sack 

PITTSBURGH -Somewhere in South Carolina, Lou Holtz was smiling. 
His immediate successor, former Notre Dame coac.h Bob Davie, certain­ly was after doing the color commen­tary for ESPN 
during Notre Dame's dominant 20-14 victory over No. 16 Pittsburgh Saturday night. 
What they saw would have brought a smile 


to the face of any ·chris Federico 
fan ofclassic Notre Dame foot­ball. 
Although the Sports Writer score didn't indi­cate it, the Irish dominated the Panthers on both sides of the ball, returning to a traditional style of Irish play not seen in a while. 
"I haven't seen that in a long time," said Notre Dame safety Glenn Earl, whose defense also did its part in stymieing a potent Pittsburgh passing attack and limiting the Panthers to 176 yards of total offense. "The offense just ran the ball at will without even throwing a pass for eight min­utes straight. It was just domination." 
The Irish racked up 352 yards rush­ing on the strength of senior Julius Jones' 262-yard, record-breaking day. 
The piece-meal Notre Dame offen­sive line consisting of five first-year starters in Jim Molinaro, Mark LeVoir, Bob Morton, Dan Stevenson and freshman Ryan Harris looked reminis­cent of the over-powering Irish fronl'i of the Holtz days. 
On defense, the Irish played as dom­inantly as some of the grnat unit.-; to come before them, holding a Pittsburgh offense that averaged 38 points a game scoreless in the second half. 
"After every possession, we just came back to the sidelines and said to each other that they cannot hang with us," said defensive end Justin Tuck, who led a tenacious Irish defensive front Saturday with 10 tackles and three and a halfsacks. "That was the first time this year I think we played together as a great defensive line." 
Defensive tackle Darrell Campbell played like a man possessed. The sen­ior did not miss a snap on defense against the Panthers -leading an 
Irish pass rush that kept quar­terback Rod Rutherford and the Pittsburgh offense moving backwards all night. 
''I'm really proud of all those guys. Darrell Campbell never came out ofthe game," Irish 
Although the score didn •t indicate it, the Irish dominated the Panthers on both sides ofthe ball, returning to a traditional style ofIrish play not seen in a while. 
defensive line coach Greg Mattison said. "The kids wanted this one bad, and we've been so close. You can't say enough about our players and [head coach] Ty [Willingham) in keeping this team together and believing." 
Cornerback Vontez Duff accepted one of the biggest challenges present­ed to any Irish player this season in nearly single-handedly shutting down Pittsburgh wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald in the second half of the game, preveming the nation's leading receiver from catching a pass aftnr halftime. 
Simply put, this was Notre Dame football like it is supposed to be played. The Irish marched into a ranked opponent's stadium and came away with an impressive victory. 
Somewhere, Knute Rockne is cheer­ing, a..c;; his boys in blue listened to his famous halftime speech one more time: "Sometime, when the team is up against it, and the breaks are beating the boys, tell them to go out there with all they got ... " 
Notre Dame did just that Saturday night. Off to a 1-3 start, and with things only looking worse with teams like USC and Florida State on the hori­zon, the Irish needed a dominant per­formance like they got. 
They needed it for all the doubters, to prove that Notre Dame hasn't fallen off the football radar. They needed it for themselves, to show that they still have the talent and ability to win every Saturday. And, most important­ly, they needed it for the program, to show that Notre Dame foot­

ball is still alive and kicking. 
"We said it's important for this foot­ball team to make those that wore the uniform before them proud, and that doesn't change," Willingham said. 
There should be a lot of proud Notre Dame alums after Saturday's victory. Because for just over three hours, the Irish, indeed, returned to the glory days of Notre Dame football. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd. edu. 
Monday, October 13, 2003 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Jones finally meets expectations 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
PITTSBURGH Bob Davie knew how crucial Saturday's contest between the Irish and No. 16 Pittsburgh was for Irish running back Julius Jones. Seeing Jones near the entrance gate after break­ing Notre Dante's single­game rushing record, the former Irish coach saluted Jones with a smiJe and gave his former star a hug. 
It was a symbolic gesture of sorts -the man that recruited Jones congratulat­ing him on a night when the senior showed the nation just what he was capable of accompJishing. 
Jones had 262 yards rush­ing en route to breaking Vagas Ferguson's 225-yard game in 1978. Jones also rushed for two touchdowns and was the key in Notre Dame's 20-14 upset of Pittsburgh. 
After being kicked out of school and missing a whole season of footba11 last year, Jones Jinally gave Notre Dame's coaches and fans the kind of game they've been expecting since his freshman year in 1999. 
He ran over, through and around Panther defenders all night. He made the big run when the Irish needed it, and he had several key touchdown sprints. But most importantly, Jones simply embarrassed the Pittsburgh defense by doing what Irish fans have been waiting for since his arrival back to campus in the early fall. 
The extra classes at Arizona State and the rigor­ous training with his broth­er Thomas, a running back for the Tampa Bay Buccanneers, wasn't easy for Jones. But Saturday night's performance made all the sweat and pain in the offseason and year off worth it. 
"It means a Jot, just to be away and have the opportu-nity to come back and go through the things I've gone through," Jones said. "It's a great feeling and I fee] like everything I did paid off." 

In his first four games, Jones had a mere 152 yards and averaged a modest 3.5 yards per carry, struggling since his solid performance against Washington State in the opener: He gained only six yards against Purdue last week and was visibly angry after Notre Dame's 23-10 loss. While Jones did not perform to expectations, neither did Notre Dame in going 1-3. 
But this week was differ­ent. Jones showed the game-changing abilities he displayed as a sophomore and junior and flashed the brilliance that the Irish have expected since his return to school. 
Most importantly, Jones gained the swagger he had during his first three years at Notre Dame when he gained 1750 yards and 19 touchdowns. He can take that swagger into the remainder of Notre Dame's games this season. 

"It was a lot of confi­dence," Jones said. "I felt confidence in the offensive line and they felt confident in the running backs. It was a great game for us to get our confidence going for USC and the rest of the sea­son." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Freshman Harris gets his first start 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Spons Writer 
PITTSBURGH -Another true freshman saw playing time for the Irish Saturday as offensive tackle Ryan Harris was moved into the starting lineup at right tackle. 
Harris, who became the sixth Irish freshman to see the field this year, learned he would start Friday. 
"[Friday] Coach [Tyrone Willingham] asked me if I called my parents, and I told them, 'Yeah, I think I'm going to play this week.' He said, 'Well, you should call them again and telJ them you're going to start," said Harris after the game. "I was prepar­ing all week in case of that. Someone went down in prac­tice, so it seemed kind of inevitable that no one else was there." 
The rookie was part of a re­vamped Irish offensive line that helped running back Julius Jones to a 262-yard, 
-record-setting day. "I just look~d at it like I want to help my team any way I can," Harris said. "I just work hard everyday and pick up the system and game schemes more and that ended up hap­pening, so it worked great." 
Hartis was just one part of a different-looking right side, as tackle Dan Stevenson moved to right guard for the game. The switch paid off, as the Irish amassed 352 yards rushing. 
"I thought the combination of Ryan Harris and Dan Stevenson worked very well," Willingham said. 'That was a very difficult transition, because one is a freshman get­ting his first start, and the other is a tackle moving over to guard. I thought it was a great move by our coaches, and it worked out very weU for us." Air attack grounded 
As the Irish rushing attack shined Saturday. the passing game struggled. Freshman quarterback Brady Quinn was only 5-of-1 7 passing for 33 yards, with one interception. The young signal eaHer strug­gled to connect with his reeciw~rs, but still led his team to victory, and that is what's important, according to Willingham. 
"The measuring stick that I have for our quarterback is simply to win, and Brady [QuinnJ did that tonight," he said. "He made throws when we needed big throws. He led our football team with a calm and a presence that we expect from our quarterback." 
The disparity in the Irish offensive production -Notre Dame had 352 yards rushing and 33 passing -was almost a complete reversal from the squad's last time on the field. Two weeks ago against Purdue, the Irish had 297 yards passing and only 49 rushing. 
"I will label that part of the growth process that we're going through," Willingham said. "Some things are good one night and not so good the other night. Eventually, we'll be able to put aH of our areas in the right place." Where was Setta? 
After converting the first point after touchdown and sending ofT the ensuing kickofl', Irish place kicker Nicholas Setta was absent from the field Saturday, as junior D. J. Fitzpatrick replaced him both punting and place kicking. 

"Nicholas [Setta] suffered an injury on the first kickoff, and after that point he was ruled out," Willingham said of the senior's injury. 
In Setta's place, Fitzpatrick -who started the year as Setta's backup and holder on place kicks-was 2-for-4 on field goals, hitting from 19 and 34 yards and missing from 52 and 32 yards. He also had five punts for an average of 37.4 yards a kick. 
"Holding this year broke the ice for me, and I wasn't that nervous, but kicking and punt­ing is a little different," Fitzpatrick said. Game day captains 
Serving as captains for the Irish were safety Glenn Earl, Setta, offenslve tackle Jim Molinaro and linebacker Courtney Watson. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.ed u 
•

scoring summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 

Notre Dame  7  10  3  0  20  
Pittsburgh  7  7  0  0  14  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 7, Pittsburgh 0 
Julius Jones 25-yard run with 12:08 remaining (Nicholas Setta kick) Drive: 3 plays, 34 yards, 1:20 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, Pittsburgh 7 
Larry Fitzgerald 23-yard reception from Rod Rutherford with 0:00 remaining (David Abdul) Drive: 6 plays, 52 yards, 2:14 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Pittsburgh 14, Notre Dame 7 
Fitzgerald 4-yard reception from Rutherford with 13:05 remaining (Abdul kick) Drive: 2 plays, 4 yards, :09 elapsed 
Pittsburgh 14, Notre Dame 14 
Jones 49-yard run with 8:54 remaining (D.J. Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 4 plays, 70 yards, 1:12 elapsed 
Notre Dame 17, Pittsburgh 14 
Fitzpatrick 19-yard field goal with :33 remaining Drive: 4 plays, 7 yards, :24 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 20, Pittsburgh 14 
Fitzpatrick 34-yard field goal with 7:10 remaining Drive: 6 plays, 52 yards, 3:14 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
no scoring 
statistics 
total yards 
~ 3851 
..........~1-7-5----~~ rushing yards i~TTSBURGH 3521 
8 


return yards 
time of possession 
... 36:461 
23:14  
56-352•5-11·1 6-37.3 2-0  rushes-yards comp-att-int punts-yards fumbles-lost  A 27-8 12-30-0 9-43.4 3-2  
6-50 14  penalties-yards first downs  6-40 9  
Quinn 5-17-1 Rutherford 12-30-(1 


passing 
rushing 

Jones  24-262  Walker  10-37  
Grant  27-86  Polite  2-4  
Powers-Neal  1-7  Rutherford  14-(-32)  
Wilson  1-3  

receiving 

Fasano  2-15  Fitzgerald  5-79  
Jenkins  1-19  Brockenbrough  3-61  
McKnight  1-6  Polite  2-14  
Jones  1-(-7)  Wilson  1-9  
Tuck  10  Stephens  1-4  
Watson  7  Blades  

tackling 

Duff  5  Moore  9  
Hoyte  4  Morris  8  
Curry  3  Ferguson  8  
Campbell  3  Spencer  7  
Pauly  3  Smith  7  

-
-
... 
--
--
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 13, 2003 

< 

OUNDING THE 

I 
\ 
_, 

ANDY KENNA and CHIP MARKS/The Observer Pittsburgh wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald, top left, catches his second touchdown pass of the first half over the head of Vontez Duff. Victor Ablamiri, top right, sacks quarterback Panthers Rod Rutherford. Ryan Grant, left bottom, breaks through for a run Saturday. Maurice Stovall and Bob Morton, bottom right, celebrate the team's win. 
.~ . ~ . ·~ . . .. _-.. ~.:-' ,. ,,_. •'~ I ~ ~ oS 





