
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Elizondo publishes 12th theology book 
By DUSTIN VON HANDORF 
New< Writer 
Notre Dame theology pro­fessor Father Virgilio Elizondo recently published his 12th book. "A God of lncn~dible Surprises: J p s us c; a I i I~~ e . " The book is based on I:lizondo's observa­tions both of theology and the Gospels, as well as his expcrinnces. 
"lit's aJ conversation between Scriptures, the tradi­tion of the Church and per­sonal experiences," he said. 
The book deals with fellow­ship, sacrifice, the Virgin Mary and life. among other topics. 

"I hope that people will appreciate the love, mercy and compassion of God," Elizondo said. 
Inspired by his work in vari­ous parishes involving every­day issues, the Gospels and the teaching of the Catholic Church, Elizondo started writ­ing the book about five or six years ago. During that time, he wrote off and on, after attending to his duties as a diocesan priest. 
Published by Rowman and Littlefield Publishers, Inc., the book -which has received critical praise for its new insights -will be available in bookstores in the beginning of November. 
Elizondo, born in San Antonio, Tex. to Mexican immigrants, has spent time serving as pastor of San Fernando Cathedral, where he celebrated Sunday Spanish Mass. He also works for 
see ELIZONDO/ page 4 

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2003 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ND students plan Nigerian trip 
By LAURA VILIM 
News Writer 
Several students from Notre Dame will travel to Nigeria this year as part of the "Call to Solidarity with Africa" conference approved by the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops in November 2001. 
The trip to Nigeria by Notre Dame students, a program unique to this university, is a major step toward Theology pro­fessor Father Paulinus Odozor and assistant professor Father Paul Kollman's goal of keeping the continent of Africa and its successes and failures in constant view. 
"[One goal for the conference] is that we would grow in our awareness of Africa and learn ways that the educational mission of [Notre Dame] might include Africa more directly, and that African peoples and issues might serve our mission, too," said Kollman. 
In order to be eligible to partici­pate in the Nigerian conference, applicants were required to write an essay detailing what they believe is most important aspect of solidarity with Africa as well as what they will contribute individ­ually to the conference. In addi­tion, each student must have two recommendations. 

Shawtina Ferguson, a junior who is pursing a major in American Studies and a minor in African-American studies. is one of the Notre Dame students who has been chosen to participate. She is thrilled about the prospect of traveling to Africa after having studied the continent and its peo­ple in depth for the past two 
see NIGERIA/page 4 


Reekers says business not hurt by Legends 
Two on-campus eateries complement rather than compete with each other, according to Food Services 

By MATTHEW SMEDBERG 
News Writer 

When the University opened 
Legends this year, some feared that 
the new establishment might cut 
into the business of Reekers. After 
a month of Legends' operation, 
however, the 24-hour restaurant 
has seen no decrease in business. 
"Reekers and Legends really serve different functions on cam­pus," said Mike Davy, Reekers' operations manager. "If one wished to go to a club or dance or drink, Reekers was never the place to do that; we are much more geared towards informal socializing and studying-and, of course, our food." 
Nevertheless, Reekers has begun 
to implement initiatives to increase its presence on the campus scene, including booking local bands. 
Station One will play there this Friday, the first of three dates the restaurant has booked for the fall semester. 
In some ways, Reekers functions as the "happy medium" in the NO Food Services lineup, Davy said. 
"We aren't the quick stop, like the Huddle or Subway, but neither are we the full restaurant, like Greenfield's, or the hot spot, like Legends," said Davy. "We do aim to be a destination on campus, where people come and sit down and relax, and we believe we succeed in that aim." 
Reekers may also host a video game tournament in the future. Another idea on the drawing board is a Halo tournament for charity. 
Reekers has undergone a substan­tial change in image in the past year. Its menu changed from grill-
see RECKERS/page 4 


Former Irish Prime Minister lectures on Anglo-Irish bond 
Taosieach, during the 1980s, relationship with its neighbor. By SHEILA FLYNN said many people do not real­He outlined the history of News Wri£er ize that the troubled relations economic connections 
between Ireland and the between the two islands­
Former Irish Prime Minister United Kingdom are not solely which were historically Garrett FitzGerald spoke rooted in political, religious skewed in the United Tuesday afternoon at the or cultural differences. Kingdom's favor -and fol­
Instead, he said a "funda­lowed the economic develop­
Hesburgh Center for 
International Studies, mental economic imbalance" ments after the formation of addressing the normalization always hindered the develop­the European Union and other of Anglo-Irish relations and ment of a normal relation­European economic ties. the integral role of economics ship. Until Ireland became "[Ireland was) better in the process. self-sufficient economically, equipped to play a positive FitzGerald, who served two he said, the United Kingdom terms as prime minister, or could not establish an equal see FITZGERALD/page 4 
page 2 Wednesday, October 1, 2003 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD PARK ANYWHERE ON CAMPUS, WHERE WOULD IT BE? 

Fun in the Bend 

I'm sure that you all have noticed that it is Wednesday. 
Wednesday is the middle of the week -and we, as students, are overwhelmed with the daily 

Cheryl Barker
drudge of home­work and tests. 
Viewpoint

However, Wednesdays do Copy Editor have one major plus-there are only two days until Friday, and we all know what that means. We look forward to the weekends as times to relax, catch up on lost sleep and, most importantly, have fun. 
On Wednesdays, we start thinking about what we are going to do this weekend. It is not a football week­end, so most believe the choices are fairly limited. I'm sure that by now even the freshmen have noticed how the game dictates life on the Notre Dame campus, as well as the surrounding town. On Fridays, the parties are rockin', the beer is free and Domers are pumped about tomorrow's game. On Saturday, depending on how the team does, bars and dorm rooms are either full of celebrating people or full of people wishing to drown their sorrows in beer (either way, you get a lot of really drunk peo­ple). And on Monday, you can always figure out the spirit of the game by reading articles in The Observer. 
But what do you do on weekends that are not football weekends? Contrary to public belief, there are several options available for enter­tainment in the local vicinity. 
For starters, the Morris Performing Arts Center provides concerts and plays just about every weekend. This weekend, the band 
B.B. King is performing and stu­dent tickets are still available. 

If your interests are in history, may I suggest stepping back to 1840 during this historical reenact­ment complete with two log homes, archery demonstrations, skillet throws, crafts, and do not forget the exciting candle dips. Admission is free and it is located at Hester's Farm on State Road 23 in Walkerton. 
Yet another option is a visit to the Niles Haunted House Scream Park. They provide five different scary attractions in one location and they are perhaps one of the only haunt­ed houses that provides different routes through the house so that, no matter how many times you go through, you will not be scared by the same things twice. They also have a haunted hayride, a magi­cian and Grimm's Scary Tales, along with others. 
It's worth the trip. The Niles Haunted House is located on Mayflower Road just east of U.S. 
31. If you want to be scared at all five attractions, plan on spending roughly $20 per person. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Cheryl Barker at bark0916@saintmarys.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

Tommy Clarkson 
Freshman Keough 
"In the rector's spot." 


Ryan McMahon 
Junior Morrissey 
"In the bat cave ... it's under Morrissey." 
Kate Maich 
Senior Off-campus 
"Right next to O'Shaughnessy Hall, the best building on campus by far. " 
Michael Lozano 
Freshman Keough 
"In the assistant rector's spot. " 



Judah Wilson 
Junior Keough 
"Sideways, so I take up Father Pete's spot, Lou Terry's and Tony Wagner's, and I would park my bike in Father Poorman's spot. " 

Justin Sternsky 
Junior Morrissey 
"Under the Lyons arch, so the Carroll guys can't get to South Dining Hall." 

IN BRIEF 
Jessica Weiner, author, speaker and performer, will host a seminar titled "Do I look fat in this?" The all day event will focus on eating disorders and self-esteem. The all day seminar takes place today in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The Center for Spirituality will host a luncheon today at Noble Family Dining Hall. The event begins at 11 a.m. 
Students interested in post­graduate service are invited to an information session on Holy Cross Associates at the Center for Social Concerns at 6:30 p.m. 
"Defining Life," a discussion panel featuring prominent University professors, will take place tonight at 7 p.m. at the Coleman-Morse student lounge. The panel is aimed at gaining a better understanding of the pro-life position. 
Paul Meena, vice-president and general manager of Universal Studios, will deliver a lecture titled "The Reality of the Film Industry." The lecture will take place tonight at 7 
p.m. in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. It is sponsored by the Department of Film, Television and Theatre. 
Enjoy socializing, refresh­ments, and a short presenta­tion on "Relationships at Notre Dame" during this week's Theology on Tap. The event takes place tonight at 10 p.m. at Legends. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 62 HIGH 
65 

LOW 45 LOW 
50 
ALLISON NICHOLS/The Observer 

Saint Mary's junior Mackenzie Ulm entertains viewers during her radio show titled "Sexy Graffiti." The program airs on WVFI on Wednesdays. 
OFFBEAT 
Phony deputy nabbed after seeking backup 

SYRACUSE, N.Y.-A 22­year-old man was charged with impersonating a sher­iff's deputy after he pulled over a pickup truck and then called for assistance when the occupants fled. 
It appeared that Jeremy Lepianka of Syracuse had been posing as a Onondaga County Sherifrs deputy for about two years and had stopped motorists -and lectured them -on other occasions, police said. 
"He told investigators he had been working as a vol­unteer deputy for about two years. He said traffic violations were his main thing. Hopefully, it didn't go beyond that," Lt. Joe Cecile, a Syracuse police spokesman, said Monday. 
Man saves friend's life, then is jailed 

SPANISH FORT, Ala. -A man saved his friend from drowning Monday, then was thrown in jail for pub­lic intoxication. 
Kenneth Hood, 4 7, said he and his friends were sitting on the western bank of the Blakeley River when one of them acciden­tally backed a sport-utility vehicle into the water. 
Hood waded into the water and pulled friend Obie Jordan from the vehi­cle, taking him to the river bank and calling police. 
Authorities arrested Hood and two others at the scene -Kathleen Margaret Smithart, 36, and 44-year old Ronald Eugene Briggs -for pub­lic intoxication. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY a: 
LLI 
:::c 
~ 
LLI 
~ 
..... 


~ 
Cl: 
(,) 
•


..... 0 HIGH 51 HIGH 51 HIGH 55 HIGH 60 LOW 37 LOW 42 LOW 40 LOW 38 
Atlanta 73 I 45 Boston 63 I 48 Chicago 52 I 38 Denver 68 I 41 Houston 82 I 58 Los Angeles 87 I 60 Minneapolis 48 137 New York 64 I 52 Philadelphia 64 I 48 Phoenix 102 I 77 Seattle 70 I 50 St. Louis 63 I 41 Tampa 82 I 69 Washington 66 148 
Wednesday, October 1, 2003 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
NDFCU reports Slllooth transition 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
New.< Writer 
Tile Notre Dame Federal Credit Union has experienced only a few minor difficulties in taking over nearly all functions performed by the now-defunct Cashier Services 0 ffice. said LaFortune branch manager Michelle Siewert and associate controller Tom Guinan. 
"Overall, both the University and the Credit Union have met most of the needs of NDFCU mem­bers in the [transfer[ of Cashier Services to the Credit Union," Sinwert said. "We have had minor adjustments and problems through this transition -at the time we have minimized the nrrors that have occurred." 
Siewert said her staff experi­nnced some difficulties in cashing payroll checks from students who arn non-members of the Credit Union. Some employees of The Obsr.rver were told that, to cash futuro dwcks. they would need to open an account with the Credit Union; Cashil~r Services had per­formed t!w cheek cashing without the need to open any account. llowever. a memo sent Monday by Guinan clarified the issue, and both Siewert and Guinan said Observer employees could cash checks without the need to open an account. 
Guinan attributed the confusion to tellers who may have been unaware of the relationship between Notre Dame and The Observer. lie said that. although credit unions are not legally allowed to cash checks for non­rnembr.rs, all University checks may be cashed at the Credit Union because the University is a mem­ber. 
"I notified the Credit Union that all Observer paychecks are essen­tially guaranteed by the University because the University funds the Observer payroll," he said. "As far as I'm aware, The Observer pay­check incident was isolated. I think that can be attributed to the fact that most of the operational planning was done after the stu­dents had left in May ... this one was an oversight and should have been corrected [Monday]." 
Siewert said she did not antici­pate the need for students to cash payroll checks from their home­town upon arrival at the University. Many of these affected students decided to open an account with the Credit Union, she said. 
She also said that a University policy change prevented faculty members from cashing personal checks -a service that was pro­vided by the Cashier Services Office -without an account. Faculty who are members of the Credit Union may continue to have their personal checks cashed. 
"When we absorbed the Cashier Services' policies, they [the University] did want us to make that specific change," she said. 
Guinan said the decision was made in part because of risks associated with personal check cashing. in addition to the preva­lence of ATMs on campus and the infrequency of faculty personal check cashing. Guinan said that consultation with other universi­ties also contributed to the deci­sion to eliminate this service for non-member faculty. 
"Our decision was also based on benchmarking we did with other universities -the vast majority of which did not offer such services," he said. 
Guinan said faculty complaints regarding this change have been infrequent-to his knowledge, he has received only three com­plaints. 
Although the Credit Union is separate from the University, Guinan said that the Credit Union has indicated it would perform whatever policies related to the former Cashier Services Office the University requests. Siewert said that frequent communication between Notre Dame and the Credit Union has helped her determine what specific duties the Credit Union may provide. 
"The communication between the University and the Credit Union has been very strong," Siewert said. "We both have the desire of having a commitment of excellence [in serving members]." 
The Credit Union, due to its absorption of functions that used to be provided by Cashier Services, allows non-member stu­dents to cash personal and third­party checks from parents, grand­parents or siblings up to $200 per day. Students may also cash checks issued by the University of Notre Dame without opening an account. The Cashier Services Office, formerly located on the first floor of the Main Building. ceased operations July 1. 2003. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 
Firms to honor SMC students 
National accounting firms award prizes to St. Mary's students, alumna 
By ALISON NICKERSON 
News Writer 
National and local accounting firms hon­ored five accounting majors and one alumna from Saint Mary's College Sept. 22 for the excellence they demon­strated in their field of study. 
College faculty select­ed the award winners. Prizes ranged from $500 to $2,000. Each of the women honored had the highest grade point average in the course that corresponded with her award. 
Molly Wei ton of Chelsea, Mich. received the Bridget Anderson KPMG Principles of Accounting Award. Anderson. a 1980 Saint Mary's graduate, is the first woman from the College to become a partner in a national accounting firm. Kimberly Gans of Edwardsburg. Mich. was the recipient of the Intermediate Accounting Award from McGladrey & Pullen. 
Kristen Bell of Scaly Mountain, N.C. and Bridget Jones of Colorado Springs, Colo. received the Crowe Chizek Personal Income Tax and Corporate Income Tax Awards. respectively. 
Senior Kelly Frantz of Sydney, Ohio was pre­sented with the Ernst and Young award. This award is presented each year to the senior voted "most likely to succeed" in the public accounting field by the College's accounting faculty. 
Ellen D. Crowley, a 1986 graduate. was the fourth alumna to receive the Outstanding Accounting Award. This award is given to an alumna who has made a significant impact on the accounting profes­sion while exemplifying the spirit and traditions of the College. Crowley is an independent financial planner for high-income individuals in St. Louis, Mo. 
Contact Alison Nickerson nickll08@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, October 1, 2003 
Elizondo 
continued from page 1 
underpaid Mexican-American workers. Part of his work involved the establishing of the Mexican-American Cultural Center, located at the Assumption Seminary. 
In 1997, the Laetare Medal, the University's highest honor, was bestowed on him for his hard work. 
Elizondo speaks many lan­guages, including Spanish and French, and has traveled to 

Reekers 
continued from page 1 
fired pizza and burgers to a more urban sandwich selec­tion, with smoothies and Starbucks coffee on the side. 


Nigeria 
continued from page 1 
years. 
"The more I learn, the more I want to know about Africa. the world, and more specifically my heritage," Ferguson said. "I am certain that this conference is going to be simply fascinating." 
Once the students arrive in Nigeria, they will participate in a conference that will introduce them to the African nation's people, culture, and govern­ment. Some of the students from Notre Dame will be select­ed to give a presentation to those at the conference as well. While this structured portion of the conference will certainly be educational for Nigerians and Americans alike, Odozor said he believes the students will gain the most by simply meeting Africans and being met by Africans. 
"The program is devoted to United States and Nigerian young people," Odozor said. 
As a result, students from both sides of the Atlantic will have the unique chance to inter­act with each other as well as listen to speeches given by adults. It is this ability to inter­act with Nigerians that excites Ferguson. 
"I am most looking forward to embracing the Nigerian culture, meeting other students and learning about different per­spectives on issues of solidarity with Africa," Ferguson said. 
The country of Nigeria was 
chosen out of the 54 African 
countries to host the conference 
in part because one out of every 
five Africans is a Nigerian. 
Thus, while there are significant 
regional differences from coun­
try to country, Nigeria repre­
sents more of the African popu­
lation than any other country. 
Nigeria's central location 
within the continent also makes 
it a prime candidate, since little 
of the United States' attention 
has been focused on that region. 
Odozor and Kollman, howev­
er, said that they know that 
forming ties with Nigeria is only 
one step in the process of 
understanding the people and 
governments of Africa. 
"By bringing a large group of 
Notre Dame staff, students, and 
faculty to Nigeria for a church­
related conference, we hope to 
deepen our understanding and 
commitment to Africa in gener­several countries, including nations in Latin America, the Far East and Manila in the Philippines. 

He has written 11 other books, including "The Future is Mestizo," "Galilean Journey" and "The Human Quest," and he co-wrote "San Fernando Cathedral: Soul of the City." 
Elizondo said he would like to thank the many students and faculty members who contributed to the book. 
Contact Dustin Von Handorf at dvonhand@nd.edu 
Campus reaction has been mixed, but the opening of Sbarro in Lafortune Student Center provided students with another option more heavily focused on pizza. 
Contact Matthew Smedberg at msmedber@nd.edu 
a!," Kollman said. "This is a step in what we whole is a deeper relationship." 
When the Notre Dame stu­dents return to campus, Odozor hopes they will have the oppor­tunity to share their experiences with the Notre Dame communi­ty at large as a means of getting the student body "involved and engaged" in the events on the African continent. As of now, there are no specific plans for the returning students to dis­cuss their experiences. Odozor says this task will be left up to the students to decide. 
"I am a great believer in the creativity of young people. I have no fears about that," Odozor said. 
When asked about future plans to continue the relation­ship Notre Dame and Nigeria have forged, Odozor said that he has high hopes of being able to continue fostering relation­ships between young Americans and Nigerians. 
"Our next great project is to find ways to keep these issues alive and make them bear fruit," Odozor said. 
Contact Laura Vilim at lvilim@nd.edu 

Fitzgerald 
continued from page 1 
and successful role [in the modern European economic alliances]." FitzGerald said, further changing its relation­ship with the United Kingdom. 
Ireland's elevated economic status, he said, enabled a mutual understanding, respect and trust. He said the improved relations currently in place would never have appeared if Ireland had remained a poor country. 
During his time in office, FitzGerald played an active 
role in negotiating the Anglo­FitzGerald's father, 
! r i s h Agreement of 1985, which gave the Irish government more power regarding the national­ist commu­nity in Northern Ireland. He is chancellor of the 
"{Ireland was] better equipped to play a positive role [in the modern European economic alliances.]" 
Garrett Fitzgerald former Irish prime minister 
Desmond FitzGerald, a highly-involved activist during Ireland's fight for independ­ence and the country's first foreign minis­ter, spent time as a lecturer at Notre Dame during the presidency of Father John F. 
National University of Ireland, Cardinal O'Hara in the 1930s. writes a column in the Irish Times and has written several Contact Sheila Flynn at 
books. sflynn2@nd.edu 

WE GAINED WEIGHT 
Seen our Scholarship Channel lately? 
We've added over 250,000 brand new scholarships and revamped our entire site to give you more accurate search results! 
Check Out Observer's Scholarship Channel at: 
www.ndsmcobserver.com /scholarships 





ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, October l, 2003 Colv\PlLED FROM THE 0E.SERVER WIRE SERVICES Page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Chechen premier leaves hospital 
MOSCOW-Chcchnya's prime minister chccknd out of the hospital Tuesday despite doctor's adviee, tlm~e days after lirst com­plaining of stomach pains that a member of his sm:urity said was caused by deliberate poisoning, news agt~ncies reported. 
Anatoly Popov was expected to be back at work in Chnchnya on Wednesday, his admin­istration in the Chechen capital was quoted as tt~lling the Interfax news agency. 
Meanwhilr,, lnterfax quoted an unidentilied secur·ity aide to Popov as saying that "there is no doubt that he was poisoned." 
Popov was hospitalized in Chechnya on Saturday evening after complaining of pain following a ceremony celebrating the oflicial opening of a new gas pipeline 
18 convicted in Belgian terror trial 
BHUSSELS, Belgium -A court Tuesday convicted 18 Muslims -including one plan­ning to blow up a base believed to hold U.S. nuclear weapons -for involvement in a l~uropcan terror ring reeruiting for ai-Qaida and tlw Taliban. 
The dnf'endants were sentenced to up to 10 ytHLrs in prison. They included a Tunisian who aided the Sept. 9, 2001. assassination of Ahmed Shah Massood, the Afghan military commander who led opposition to the Taliban militia that ruled his country at the time. 
The verdict was the latest in a slew of cases resulting from a sweep of suspected Islamic militants around Europe after the attacks on New York and Washington. European nations have been giving more powers to police, prosecutors and judges to root out suspects. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Officials discuss academy case 
WASHINGTON -The Air Force's top lawyer told Congress on Tuesday that it was "absolutely false" that she tried to shield the service's leaders from criticism when she wrote a report absolving the Air Force of either condoning or covering up sexual assaults at the Air Force Academy. 
The Air Force's top two leaders said they didn't know about the sexual miscon­duct problems at the Colorado school until a cadet complained to a senator in January. Scores of female cadets say they have been raped or sexually assaulted by other cadets, and many say they were retaliated against when they complained. 
Malvo witness in sniper hearing 
MANASSAS, Va. -Lee Boyd Malvo will be called as a witness Wednesday in a pretrial hearing for his fellow sniper shootings suspect, John Allen Muhammad. 
Peter Greenspun, Muhammad's lawyer, said Malvo was summoned regarding a motion under court seal. lie said he did not subpoena Malvo as a witness. 
Muhammad, 42, and Malvo, 18, have been charged with 13 shootings, including 10 deaths, over a three-week span last October in Virginia, Maryland, and Washington, D.C. They are also suspected or charged with shootings in five other 
statl~s. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Reprieve granted in Gary killings 
INDIANAPOLIS -Gov. Joe Kernan extend­ed a stay of execution for Darnell Williams on Tuesday because DNA tests on blood evi­dence in the case have not been completed. 
Williams had been scheduled to be execut­ed Aug. 1 but O'Bannon granted a reprieve so DNA tests could be conducted. Kernan extended this reprieve until Dec. 1 until the tests could be completed. His attorneys con­tend the results might cast doubt on Williams' role in the 1986 murders of a Gary couple. 
FBI investigates White House leak 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The 
FBI began a full-scale 
criminal investigation 
Tuesday into whether 
White I louse oflicials ille­
gally leaked the identity of 
an undercover CIA oflicer, 
and President Bush 
ordered his staff to coop­
erate with the first major 
probe of his administra­
tion. 

Democrats demanded 
the appointment of a spe­
cial outside counsel but 
Bush resisted. ''I'm 
absolutely confident that 
the Justice Department 
can do a good job," he 
said on a re-election fund­
raising stop in Chicago. 
"II' somebody did leak classilied information, I'd like to know it and we'll take the appropriate action," Bush said. "And this investigation is a good thing." 
Democratic leaders said Attorney General John Ashcroft was too close to the White House to con­duct an impartial investi­gation. "We don't have confidence in John Ashcroft ... and we know without a doubt that somebody broke the fed­eral law," Senate Democratic leader Tom Daschle said. 
House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi said, Most White House House after years of Department's criminal "If there ever was a case employees discovered the Republican c•riticism of division. for the appointment of a probe was under way the Clinton administra­In a follow-up staff mes­special counsel, this is it." when they turned on their tion. sage late Tuesday, White 
With pressure building, computers and found an While the administra­House counsel Alberto the Justice Department e-mail timed at 8:46 a.m. tion appeared cool toward Gonzales ordered the alerted the White House that said: "PLEASE READ: naming a special counsel, preservation of any docu­late Monday of the deci­Important Message From Ashcroft has not ruled out ments such as phone logs, sion to move from a pre­Counsel's Oflice." It alert­that possibility, a senior memos, notes and calen­liminary inquiry into a full ed the staff to keep all oflicial said. dar entries from Feb. 1, investigation, a step documents that could be That decision will 2002, and later that relate rarely taken with com­related to the investiga­depend on a number of to Wilson, his fact-linding plaints involving leaks of tion. factors, such as whether a trip to Africa in February classilied information. "I want to know the suspect is identified who 2002 and his wife's pur­
The investigation is truth," Bush said. Anyone presents a potential con­ported relationship with aimed at finding who with information, inside flict for the Justice the CIA and any contacts leaked the name of the or outside the administra­Department. with the anyone in the CIA operative, possibly in tion, should step forward, For now, the investiga­news media about those an attempt to punish the he said. tion is being done by FBI subjects. oflicer's husband, former Although Bush said he agents in the counterintel­Hepublicans said Ambassador Joseph C. welcomed the investiga­ligence division, based at Democrats were playing Wilson, who had accused tion, it was an embarrass­the FBI Washington field politics. "Surprise, sur­the administration of ing development for a office, and overseen by 11 prise, they are calling for manipulating intelligence president who promised career prosecutors in the a special counsel. My to exaggerate the threat to bring integrity and counterespionage section goodness," House Majority from Iraq. leadership to the White of the Justice Leader Tom DeLay said. 

Final U.S. troops leave Liberia 
the capital of Monrovia, where rebel year civil war pressed upon the capi­
Associated Press 

sieges in June and July killed more tal. MONROVIA, Liberia -Liberians than 1 ,000 civilians. Many Liberians expressed grati­voiced muted thanks Tuesday for The mission of Joint Task Force tude for any help from the Marines, 
U.S. Marines sent to the war-ruined Liberia Mission "has been accom­whose departure overlaps with country but also were dismayed at plished," a U.S. military spokesman Wednesday's transfer of peacekeep­their silent, final withdrawal. said, speaking on condition of ing responsibility from a 3,000-plus 
The last U.S. ground forces -a anonymity. West African force to a U.N. force. 30-member liaison team that had The presence of the U.S. troops The U.N. mission is slated to number worked with a West African-led helped drive President Charles as many as 15,000 peacekeepers. peace mission -were leaving Taylor into exile, clearing the way U.N. oflicials and others had urged Liberia on Tuesday. for a power-sharing deal between the United States to maintain a mili­
Their ship, the USS Iwo Jima, was his government and rebels after 14 tary presence here, such as troops to no longer visible from shore; it was years of devastating conflict here. help train a new Liberian army. expected to pull away completely by More than 100 heavily armed U.S. "If the Americans are leaving, it's midweek. Marines went ashore in Liberia on too bad," said Saa Thomas. "But we 
The lwo Jima was the last of three Aug. 14, prodded by international can only say thanks that they set foot 
U.S. warships deployed in August ofT appeals to intervene as Liberia's 3-on Liberian soil." 
page 6 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, October 1, 2003 
BELGIUM 


I NATO struggles to find troops for Afghanistan 
i 
Associated Press 

BRUSSELS -Plans to expand the NATO-led peacekeeping force in Afghanistan could further strain thinly stretched allied forces, officials cautioned Tuesday. 
NATO's military experts have presented a range of military options for extending the force of 5,500, which operates under a 
u.N. mandate and currently is restricted to operations in and around Kabul. 
Although the plans remained confidential, officials at NATO headquarters said they could involve sending an additional 2,000-10,000 peacekeepers into major provincial cities. 
Although diplomats said there was broad political support for the dispersal, officials wondered how allied nations would find additional troops given existing commitments in Iraq, Afghanistan and the Balkans. 
Germany's ambassador to the U.N., Gunter Pleuger, said Monday the expanded force could operate in eight key regional cities to help stabilize Afghanistan ahead of elections next year. NATO officials said more cities could be included later. 
The United Nations and the Afghan government have long sought an expansion of the International Security Assistance Force, or ISAF, into provinces now often under the sway of local war­lords. 
Ambassadors from the 19 NATO nations were set to debate the military plans Wednesday, and officials said a decision to expand ISAF could come soon. 
However, the U.S. ambassador to NATO, Nicholas Burns, said he did not expect a decision in the coming days. Both the United Nations and NATO have to approve the force's wider man­date. 
NATO Secretary General Lord Robertson has asked govern­ments ahead of an October meet­ing of defense ministers in Colorado to examine the states of their deployable forces. 
The 19 NATO nations have 4.4 million troops, but only a fraction of them are effectively equipped and trained for such far-flung missions. 
Alliance officials acknowledged difficulties in expanding the cur­rent ISAF force, which NATO took responsibility for in August. They fear another recruitment drive for the force could reveal more weak­nesses. 
Germany and Canada con­tribute almost 2,000 soldiers each to ISAF and France about 900 sol­diers. France also has taken a lead role in training the fledgling Afghan armed forces. 
Germany is pushing to extend the mandate for an extra 230-450 soldiers to support reconstruction efforts in the northern city of Kunduz. 
QUOTES &FACTS "Without music. life would be a mistake."The Nanovic Institute -Friedrich Nietzsche ( 1844-1900 ), German philosopherfor European Studies www.nd.edu/-nanovic  
Author Discussion & Signing Meet from hurting to k Barbara Bartocci Thursday October 2nd 7:00pm in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE IN THE ECK CENTER phone:(574) 631·6316 • www.ndbaokstore.cam Open to the public • Convenient parking  


NATO Secretary General Lord Robertson walks with officers from the International Security Assistance Force on Sept. 26 In Afghanistan. NATO Is struggling to find additional troops to meet Its expansion efforts In the country. The organization currently has 5,500 troops stationed In Afghanistan. 
**Turtle Creek Apartments** We have ALL STYLES Available for 2004-05! 
Prices as.low as $280 per person! Call 272-8124 
tv~"iv.tttrtlecreelmd.com 
NOTRE DAME FU,.M, TELEVISION. AND THEATRE PRESENTS 

------~ 
THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Wednesday, October 1, 2003 
Page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 9 275.06 -105.18 Jones A%., ' 
($i' Same ~ Composite Vohone: 1,6o6 175 ··~ 2,33J,(#9,(X)() 
NASIMQ 1,786.94 -37.62 NYSE 5,644.03 -41.32 AMEX 990.81 .· +1.88 
S&P500 995.97 -10.61 NIKKEl(Fokyo) 10,219.05 .. ··.·~1.0.52 FISE 100 (london) 4,091.30 -51.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN IPRICE 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -14.25  -0.55  3.31  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -3.02  -0.61  19.59  
INTELCORP(INTC)  -3.00  -0.85  27.52  

IN BRIEF 
Farm co-op increases sales to Cuba 
HAVANA-A leading U.S. farm cooperative 
said Tuesday it will sPll another $8 million in 
corn and soy to Cuba, while Iowa officials said 
they will try to increase sales of their state's 
agricultural goods to the communist island. 
The Trade Sanctions Heform Act passed by 
the U.S. Congress in 2000 allowed American 
farm producers to sell their goods directly to 
Cuba on a cash basis for the lirst time in more 
than 40 years. 
"This is just the beginning of what we hope 
will be a long-term relationship and a begin­
ning to the end of the restrictions on trade 
with Cuba," said Iowa state Sen. Matt McCoy, 
a Democrat. 
On Tuesday, Chris Aberle, director of domestic sales for the Iowa-based cooperative FC Stone, and Cuban food important officials signed a contract for FC Stone to sell $8 mil­lion of corn and soy to the Caribbean island. The deal brings to $33 million the value of food products the cooperative has sold Cuba since late 2001. 
New AOL service geared to Latinos 
NEW YOHK -America Online is launching a service Wednesday for the burgeoning num­ber of U.S. households where Spanish is the main or the only language spoken. 
The AOL Latino service is wholly in Spanish, from the familiar "You've got mail" greeting down to the instructions on the installation CDs. 
The U.S. Hispanic population has grown over the past two years at nearly four times the rate of tho overall population, and Hispanics are now the country's largest minority group. 
Yahoo! Inc. already has a "Yahoo! En Espanol" site with news, maps and even greeting cards in Spanish. while Microsoft's MSN has acquired the Spanish-language Yupi portal. Both companies also offer instant-mes­saging software and e-mail in Spanish. 
But AOL's service goes further, offering a complete package -including software to connect. send e-mail and browse the Web in Spanish and a toll-free number for Spanish­language customer support. 
IBM lawsuit heads to trial 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -Two former IBM employees who believe their semiconductor factory jobs exposed them to cancer-causing chemicals can pursue a lawsuit against the !irm, a judge ruled Tuesday. 
Superior Court Judge Hobert Baines said the cases of Alida Hernandez and James Moore, who worked in IBM's South San Jose, Calif.. microchip assembly plant for much of the 1970s and 1980s, could proceed to a jury trial starting Oct. 14. 
IBM contended in court last week that Hernandez and Moore's cases had no merit and should not be heard. Baines also dis­missed two other cases against IBM on Tuesday. 
Hernandez and Moore allege that the Armonk, N.Y.-based technology giant inten­tionally exposed workers to cancer-causing chemicals and lied to them about health risks. 
SEC officials answer to Senate 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON Senators questioning the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission showed impatience Tuesday with the pace of actions they say are needed to shore up investors' confidence. 
SEC Chairman William Donaldson, grappling with a host of problems that includes the New York Stock Exchange debacle and new allega­tions of fraud in the mutual fund industry, said the NYSE's combined roles of regulator and competitive business must be questioned as part of an overhaul process. 
Under brisk questioning in congressional testimo­ny, Donaldson also said the SEC is investigating allegations of illegal late trading in mutual funds. Late trading, prohibited by federal regulations, involves buying mutual fund shares at the closing price after the New York markets shut down. 
Donaldson's remarks about the NYSE were his strongest statements on specific changes for the world's biggest stock exchange since a crisis erupted in late August over its former chair-man's pay package. against mutual funds, ing that investor confi­that right now.... We're in 
"We are at a stage now, members of the panel dence is at a low point, touch with any evidences in my view, where we grilled Donaldson, who promised: "We're on the of fraud there might be, really have to re-examine had enjoyed mostly job." there might not be." the locus of the regulatory friendly treatment from Senators of both parties Regarding the NYSE mechanism" at the NYSE, lawmakers since taking warned that failure to debacle, Donaldson said Donaldson said at the over the SEC after a polit­rebuild confidence in the the first step is for the hearing by the Senate ical crisis at the agency. markets and corporate exchange to tackle how it Banking Committee. "We've got to get this America would under­governs itself and devise 
Donaldson said he had thing up and going," mine the economic recov­an overhaul plan. discussed the exchange's declared Sen. Paul ery. The issue of whether regulatory function Sarbanes of Maryland, Donaldson was asked the NYSE's self-regulatory Monday with John S. the panel's seniOr about one of the biggest and enforcement func­Heed, the NYSE's new -Democrat and co-author recent accounting cases, tions should be split from temporary leader. "The of last year's sweeping involving government­its exchange business has stock exchange is going to legislation to combat cor­sponsored mortgage com­been a key element in the have to come up with a porate fraud. pany Freddie Mac, which debate over reforming the governance structure that Sarbanes described the has thrown out two chief 200-year-old exchange. guarantees the independ-SEC as "this perhaps executives since June. About half the NYSE ence of the regulatory semislumbering lion ... The SEC and the Justice board's seats are assigned aspect of what they're having been fed a very Department are investi­to executives of large doing," he said. good meal" when gating. investment banks, floor 
In the aftermath of the Congress nearly doubled If evidence of fraud trading !irms and broker­corporate scandals, and its budget earlier this emerges, "We would have age houses, the very busi­with the NYSE turmoil year. a role there," Donaldson nesses the NYSE is and the new complaints Donaldson, acknowledg-said. "We're looking at charged with regulating. 

Stocks drop after bad reports 
"Any negative news, corporate or Caffrey, equities strategist at J.P. 
Associated Press 

economic, is just another excuse to Morgan Private Bank. 
NEW YORK -Disappointing take profits.... We have had a dra­The Dow closed Tuesday down reports on consumer confidence and matic move up in almost every sector 105.18, or 1.1 percent, at 9,275.06. business activity in the Midwest sent of the market," said Brian Bush, The loss more. than erased Monday's stocks back into a downward slide director of equity research at gain of67.16. Tuesday, leaving Wall Street with a Stephens Inc. in Little Rock, Ark. The market's other gauges were loss for the month of September. But Investors have been increasingly also sharply lower. The Nasdaq the market nonetheless ended a solid uneasy about stock prices, fearing dropped 37.62, or 2.1 percent, to third quarter, with the Nasdaq com­they've climbed too high too, too fast 1,786.94. The S&P fell10.61, or 1.1 posite index rising 10 percent for its given the still fragile economic recov­percent, to 995.97. fourth straight quarterly gain. ery. Wall Street interpreted Analysts said the market's declines 
The Dow Jones industrials and Tuesday's reports as confirming its were owed in part to the end of the Standard & Poor's 500 index each fears about the economy. quarter. scored a second consecutive quarter­"I wouldn't say there's skepticism, While institutional investors, ly advance. but concern about [stock] prices including mutual fund managers, 
Still, Tuesday was the fourth down today.... I think investors at the mar­often buy stocks at the end of the day for the market out of the last gin are saying, 'Maybe I should take quarter to dress up their portfolios, five. some of those profits,"' said Jack they also sell to lock in gains. 
l r 
page 8 Wednesday, October 1, 2003 
The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS 
Charismatic Jack Black takes his music to the movies 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES-Jack Black is the kind of rock star who trashes a hotel room with a pillow fight. 
The stubby loudmouth is so uncool, he comes around full­circle back to coolness ­imagine McDonald's goofy purple Grimace with AC/DC attitude. 
That's the heart of Black's latest comedy, "The School of Rock." He stars as a loser gui­tarist who masquerades as a teacher at a snooty private school, giving uptight pupils lessons in the three Rs: Rock, Rebellion and Rowdiness. 
Through music -loud, ear­splitting music -the teacher and his somewhat nerdy fifth­graders find a goofy way to show off their talents and express their frustrations. Their goal, as Black explains it, is to "stick it to the Man," who in this case is a group of unwaveringly strict parents. 
But Black, who in his spare time is a singer-guitarist with the sardonic folk-terror band Tenacious D. says he's not really on a mission to preach the gospel of metal, punk and grunge to America's youth. 
"I just do what I love -and I love to rock," Black profess­es, his signature eyebrows arched after slumping on a couch in his hotel suite. He grins with mock evil. "If I so happen to influence some chil­dren along the way, all the better." 
There wasn't much Black 
needed to teach his Lilliputian co-stars. All the kids play their own instruments through most of the film, and he rocked out live with the youngsters on "The Tonight Show with Jay Leno" last week. 
But, in a rare moment of straightforwardness, Black acknowledged that "The School of Rock" does have a moral. 
"It's really a message for the parents more than the kids," he said. "The parents should ease up and let their kids fol­low their path. If they want to experiment with art, don't sti­fle it like those weirdos who have their kids' lives planned out all the way. You're just doing damage." 
Then the facade begins to crack. Black's omnipresent silly side inevitably emerges to thwart his sincerity. "In fact, I'm going to go on the record as saying you're doing Van Damme-age," he closes his eyes. snickering about the cornball Belgian action star. "You're doing, Jean Claude Van Damme-age." 
Black is earning his best reviews for "School of Rock" since his breakthrough as an ultra-snobbish record store clerk in 2000's "High Fidelity" -another uncool guy who earned his bragging rights by strutting fearlessly onstage to sing his heart out. 
His other comedies "Shallow Hal" and "Saving Silverman" captured Black's sarcasm, but not his vulnerability, while "School of Rock" was com­posed by screenwriter and co-star Mike White to fuse both of those qualities with the star's passion for song. 
Music also is the focus of Black's next project: a movie about Tenacious D, which he hopes to start in early 2004. 
In describing the film, Black wanders back and forth between fantasy and reality, flippancy and sincer­ity. 
"The D?'·' Black stalls when asked about the band. He composes his thoughts, then unleashes them. 
"We have now officially completed the Tenacious D screenplay. It's called "Tenacious D in ... " he spreads his hands, as if revealing magic, "The Pick of Destiny." 
"Five years in the making, countless corpses in our wake, we have in our grasp certainly what will come to be known as the greatest doc­ument of historical signifi­cance since the dawn of time." 
The 34-year-old makes that proclamation in an aristocrat­ic tone -the one he also uses to ask the room service atten­dant for ketchup and mayo with his bunless cheeseburger. 
Don't let this colossal arro­gance fool you -being confi­dently self-delusional is part of the cult of D. The band sings power ballads about Sasquatch, vulgar love songs, and boasts in its biggest hit, "Tribute," about composing film careers, giving Black a part in "Bob Roberts" and both Gass and Black roles as amateur ventriloquists in "Cradle Will Rock." 

While Black has "School of Rock" in theaters, he has fin­ished two other movies: "Envy," with Ben Stiller, and the animated "Shark Tale," in which he voices a shark named Lenny. 
He also has a DVD of his band's music, videos and HBO specials coming out Nov. 4, titled -pompously enough ­"Tenacious D: The Complete Masterworks." 

"the best song in the world." 
In the Tenacious D film, Black said, his character runs away from home "because I want to go to Hollywood and stake my fortune in the name of rock. When I meet Kyle, we form Tenacious D. and then we go on our first quest. Our first LEGENDARY quest." 
In the real world, Black met Gass -a portly guitarist who resembles a young, sinister Burl Ives -in the early 1990s when both worked at the Actors' Gang playhouse, which was run by Tim Robbins. Robbins helped launch their 


HURRY! Ends October 14th! 




Call us crazy, but we're giving away FREE FOOD from 



BRUNo·s PIZZA 
ill~[ID 


GOLDEN DRAGON 
Get something HOT delivered today! 
Visit www.campusfood.com for details 



Wednesday, October 1, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Huffington drops out of CA recall 
Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO -A week before the <llection, independent candidate Arianna Buffington dropped out of the California recall race Tuesday. saying it was her best hope of preventing Arnold Schwarzenegger from becoming governor. 
''I'm pulling out and I'm going to concentrate all my time and energy in the next week working to defeat the recall because I realize that's the only way to defeat Arnold Schwarzenegger," Buffington said as she made the announcement on CNN's "Larry King Live." 
Buffington's exit removes a similar voice to Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante's from the race, and leaves Bustamante as the Democrats' best hope of thwarting Sehwarzencgger should Gov. Gray Davis lose the recall vote. 
But lluf!ington deelined to specifieally endorse Bustamante, merely urg­ing her supporters to "vote strategically" in an effort to stop a Hepublican takeover of California. She urged peo­ple to vote against the recall and then consider their options for the sec­ond half of the Oct. 7 bal­lot. 
Van Jones, lluflington's chief grass-roots organiz­er, said Buffington was trying "to position herself so she can maximize opposition to the Sehwarzenegger coup." 
Buffington, a 53-year­old eolumnist and TV pundit who transformed herself from Republiean to fiery populist, drew a loyal following on the Internet and on the cam­paign trail. 
But in a CNN-USA Today-Gallup poll released Sunday, she had only 2 percent support among the most likely voters, compared with 40 pereent for Schwarzenegger and 25 percent for Bustamante. 
Asked about Buffington's decision at a campaign stop, Democratic Gov. Gray Davis praised her and wished her well. 
"I think Arianna Buffington has brought some wisdom and some clarity to the second ques­tion on this ballot, and I believe she's made a con­tribution to the dialogue that has begun over these last 70 to 75 days," he said. 
Buffington had repeat­edly criticized Bustamante's acceptanee of big eampaign donations from Indian casino inter­ests. But she called it "wonderful news" on Sunday when Bustamante made a surprise endorse­ment of her initiative to publicly finanee state election campaigns. 
Congress to ban partial birth abortion 
House and Senate oppose procedure; President Bush expected to sign bill 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -House and Senate negotiators reached quick agreement Tuesday on what would be the first federal act in three decades to ban an abortion proeedure. 
Supporters of a ban on what they call "partial birth abortion" said it would end an inhumane practice and give momentum to their drive to overturn the 1973 Roe v. Wade decision that two-to-one margins, passed near­ly identical bills earlier this year. The only difference was a Senate-passed amendment, offered by Sen. Tom Harkin, D­lowa. voicing support for the Roe 
v. Wade decision. The GOP-eon­trolled House-Senate conference agreed to delete that language. 
"We've been anxiously waiting for quite a few years for final passage with a president who aetually will sign it," said Jim Backlin, legislative director for 
declared women have the right to an abor­tion. 
Opponents said the ban is uneonstitutional and promised to chal­lenge it in court as soon as President Bush signs it into law. Both the House and the Senate are expect­ed to move swiftly to pass the compromise bill and send it to the president. 
"We are just days away from prohibiting 
the gruesome and inhumane pro­cedure known as partial-birth abortion," House Judiciary Committee Chairman James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., said at the House-Senate meeting. The measure, sponsored by Rep. Steve Chabot, R-Ohio and Sen. Rick Santorum, R-Pa., was approved on a straight party-line vote. 
Bush has urged Congress to pass a partial birth bill, unlike President Clinton who twice vetoed different forms of the measure because they did not contain exceptions when the health of the mother was endan­gered. 
The House and Senate, both by 
"We are just days away from prohibiting the gruesome and inhumane procedure known as partial birth abortion. " 
James Sensenbrenner chairman House Judiciary Committee 
the Christian Coalition. "It will give momentum to the pro-life movement." 
But Gloria Feldt, presi­dent of Planned Parenthood, said the bill was "the cul­mination of a deceptive campaign that is endangering 

women's health and lives." She said that upon the bill being signed into law Planned Parenthood and other abortion rights groups will immediately file a lawsuit and seek an injunc­tion against its implementation. 
About 30 states have enacted versions of partial birth abortion bans, but in many eases they have been overturned in court. 
The most important ruling came in the 2000 Stenberg v. Carhart case, when the U.S. Supreme Court voted 5-4 to strike down a Nebraska law simi­lar to the proposed federal ban. The court said the Nebraska law was unconstitutional because it did not provide an exception to protect the health of the mother and because it did not clearly define the procedure. 
Partial birth is not a medically accepted term, but as defined by the bill it is a procedure in which the fetus is killed after the entire fetal head is outside the body of the mother or, in the case of breeeh presentation, "any part of the fetal trunk past the navel is outside the body of the mother." 
Supporters said they had met the court's objections by tighten­ing up the definition and provid­ing findings that they contend show the procedure is not needed to proteet a woman's health. 
But Dr. Leroy Carhart, who suc­cessfully challenged the Nebraska law, said the language was still so vague that it could effectively rule out "all safe methods of abortion that I use as early as the 12th week" of a pregnancy. He said the measure would scare physicians away from performing what might be legal procedures and "forces me to practice unsafe medicine." 
Any doctor who knowingly per­forms the procedure is subject to fines and up to two years in prison. 
The Christian Coalition's Backlin said the bill would be an incentive for anti-abortion candi­dates to run in the 2004 election and would promote passage of another priority, making an assault on a pregnant woman a federal crime both against the woman and the "unborn victim," the fetus. 
He said that President Bush, if eleeted to a second term, might also be able to appoint one to three anti-abortion judges to the Supreme Court, tipping the court in favor of partial birth and other acts restrieting abortion. 

No Annual Fee Credit Cardsl (online convenience for your busy schedule) 
"I make online payments and view my credit card balance all the time! There's no an­nual fee and the interest rates are competitive." 
'3 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us 
to be better 

574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 

:nlfil!lO) A.Jiilf ¥ IflS > 

page 10 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, October I, 2003 
formation & renewal Friday, October 
3 (cont.) 3:15-4:45 p.m. 

Panel Discussion: Craft, Art and the Humanities: A Call to Practice Leisure in our Colleges and Universities (Auditorium) 
Kathleen Glenister-Roberts anie Harden Fritz ohn Prellwitz
~nc Grabowsky Annette Holba 

Wednesday, October 1, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 11 

Attend all required classes or make-up sessions, complete all scheduled tests, and do your homework. If your score doesn't improve on test day from your Kaplan diagnostic or a prior official test score, you can choose to repeat our program for free or get a full refund of your tuition.** It's that simple. 
World Leader in Test Prep and Admissions 

1-BOO;.KAP-TEST kaptest.com 
*Test names are registered trademarks of their respective owners. 
**To be eligible for this offer, you must be enrolled In Kaplan's full classroom, tutoring, or online courses. In addition, you must present a copy of your official score report and your course materials within 90 days. 
Keating lashes out at clergytnan's letter 
Former Oklahoma governor accuses Beltran of undermining his role on watchdog panel 
Associated Press 
Former Oklahoma Gov. Frank Keating, who resigned this year as head of a watch­dog panel on clergy abuse, has told a conservative Roman Catholic magazine that a cler­
gyman tried to under­mine him by circulating a letter that accused him of keeping a mistress. 
Keating 


said the let­Keating ter-which eventually made its way to top American church leaders -also claimed he never attended Mass. 
"I was stunned and out­raged," Keating said in an article he wrote for the October issue of the maga­zine Crisis. "Every word was a lie." 
Keating recounted the inci­dent as one of the events that led to his June resignation as chairman of the National Review Board. 
U.S. bishops formed the lay 
"!was stunned
panel in 2001 to ment. monitor compli­and outraged. "Obviously, he ance with their thought I should 
Every word was 
new discipline be aware of it,"
a lie."
policy on abuse, Burke said. but Keating's She did not pointed criticism Frank Keating know who else of how dioceses saw the letter
former governor 
had handled the and would not
of Oklahoma
crisis led some Catholic leaders to question whether he should be chair­man. He stepped down after angering many in the church by saying bishops were as secretive as the Mafia. 
Keating, through his spokesman Dan Mahoney, declined to elaborate on the article. Mahoney said the for­mer governor wrote the piece now because, "he thought it was a good forum to get things out in the open." 
Keating, who has been married for 31 years, did not reveal the name of the per­son who wrote the letter but said it was "purportedly writ­ten by the vicar general of Oklahoma City, a priest and the diocese's number-two official to his counterpart in Chicago." 
The Rev. Edward Weisenburger is listed in the 2002 Official Catholic Directory as the vicar general in the Archdiocese of Oklahoma City. The Rev. James A. Kastner is listed as co-vicar general. 
Weisenburger released a statement Tuesday night say­ing Kastner is in a nursing home and "could not have been involved." Regarding his own role, Weisenberger said only that, "I am unaware of Governor Keating contacting Archbishop (Eusebius) Beltran or myself about a let­ter purported to have been written by the vicar general of the Oklahoma City Archdiocese to the Vicar General of the Chicago Archdiocese, whom I do not know." 
Asked in a phone interview whether he was denying hav­ing written the letter, Weisenburger declined to comment further. 
Keating has clashed with Beltran, the archbishop of Oklahoma City, who accused the former governor of encouraging other Catholics to skip Mass and withhold donations to protest how bishops have handled abuse claims. 
Keating denied making such a statement. He said he suggested Catholics attend Mass and donate money in dioceses where bishops sup­ported reform. 
Sister Mary Ann Walsh, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, referred questions to the National Review Board. 
Justice Anne Burke of Chicago, acting chairwoman of the board, confirmed that the letter containing the accusations against Keating had been sent to someone in the Archdiocese of Chicago and that Cardinal Francis George sent a copy to her without com­
say who had 
signed it. 

George, through his spokeswoman Mary McDonough, declined to say how he obtained the letter. 
However, Burke said Keating misrepresented how the panel handled other issues. She said Keating missed many of the board's monthly meetings, left early from some he did attend and "wasn't totally involved in the board's substantive work." 
Keating said some board members resisted meeting with victims and claimed they had been impatient with par­ents he brought before them to discuss their abused son, who had committed suicide. 
Burke said that was "absolutely wrong" and said any displeasure he had sensed was because he invit­ed the couple to speak "with­out talking to the rest of us." Burke said she has repeated­ly met with victims, as has the board, most recently at their July meeting in Chicago. 
Keating also claimed that Bishop Wilton Gregory, presi­dent of the U.S. bishops, had asked him to trim the board's expenses and sought to shorten the length of time panel members served. Burke said board members don't have set terms, and that Gregory had said only that "the budget for the office was a lot more than they had anticipated." 
Burke said she wasn't upset by what Keating wrote. 
"We expected it," she said. "I suppose he wanted to explain why he resigned," she said. 

THE OBSERV'ER 

IEWPOINT
Page 12 Wednesday, October 1, 2003 
Don't force God out of society 
.; .: .1 

When Moses brought down the Ten Commandments, he carried them in his hands. When Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore put the Commandments in the courthouse rotunda, he needed a 5,280­pound monument. The federal courts 
Charles E. Rice

ordered it removed. When Moore refused, he was sus­
Right or
pended. 

Now that the Wrong? uproar has sub­sided, it would be good to reflect on what this case was real­ly about. 
Moore had authority, as Chief Justice, to put displays in the rotunda. He installed the monument without using public funds. The other justices of the Alabama Supreme Court could have abrogated his decision but did not. When the federal courts ordered it removed, Moore chose not to ask for a stay pending his appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court. The Court denied the stay but will consider the appeal this fall. 
In 1980, the Supreme Court ruled that a display of the Commandments in a public school classroom violates the First Amendment's Establishment Oause which says: "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion." The Court has ruled that the Fourteenth Amendment guarantee of "liberty" makes that Clause binding on state and local gov­ernments. Since 1980,lower courts have decided both ways on the Commandments. It depends on context. The display must be placed for a secular purpose and its primary effect must not be to advance religion. It may recognize the Commandments as historical fact, but may not endorse religion or the Commandments. 
Moore erected the monument to depict "the moral foundation of our law" and "to acknowledge God's law and God's sover­eignty." He had a right to bring a test case to the Supreme Court to challenge the premises of the Court's decisions. Having brought a test case, Moore should have played by the rules and obeyed the court order, especially since he did not seek a stay when he could have done so. 
Possibly, Moore was not bringing a test case but simply practicing civil disobedi­ence to protest the application of the Establishment Clause against the states. This, too, has a traditional foundation, as with Martin Luther King, war protesters and others. 
Whether it was a test case or civil dis­obedience, Moore lost his legal basis for defiance when, after the removal order, the other justices on the Alabama Supreme Court withdrew Moore's author­ity, under state law, over the monument. 
Apart from the theatrics, Moore ren­dered a service by calling attention to a constitutional revolution perpetrated by federal judges. This revolution has two aspects: 
First, the Supreme Court wrongly inter­prets the Fourteenth Amendment to incorporate and apply against the states virtually all of the first eight amendments of the Bill of Rights, including the Establishment Clause. The protection of the Bill of Rights, as the Supreme Court held in 1833, restricted the federal gov­ernment and not the states. For protection against state governments, the people relied on state constitutions and state courts. The Court today uses this Incorporation Doctrine to invent new rights and enforce them against every state and local government, as with abor­tion, pornography, criminal procedure, etc. The Establishment Clause was a demarcation of federal and state jurisdic­tion over religion rather than a protection of "liberty" such as freedom of speech. So even if the Incorporation Doctrine were legitimate, it should not include the Establishment Clause. 
Second, the Court has re-invented the Establishment Clause. At the adoption of the First Amendment, Anglican or Congregational churches were established in five states. The last one was not ended until1828. The Establishment Clause was to prevent Congress, not from recognizing God, but from interfering with those state establishments and from creating a national established church. On Sept. 22 to 24, 1789, the First Congress approved the First Amendment and called on the President to proclaim a national day of "public thanksgiving and prayer." The President did so, including aTe Deum service in an Anglican church. Would Congress have approved an amendment to forbid governmental promotion of prayer and recognition of God at the same time it requested the President to pro­claim a national day of prayer? The Supreme Court has wrongly interpreted the Establishment Clause to require gov­ernmental neutrality, not only among the­istic sects, but also between theism and non-theism. So "under God" can stay in the pledge of allegiance, as Justice William Brennan put it in 1963, only if those words "merely recognize the histor­ical fact that our Nation was believed to have been founded 'under God."' This suspension of judgment on the existence of God establishes in practice an agnostic secularism as the national religion. 
The Moore case reminds us that, in this and other respects, the Supreme Court has usurped the role of a continuing con­stitutional convention. Neither James Madison nor the framers of the Fourteenth Amendment would have walked out of the stadium when the high school football teams gathered on the 50 yard-line for prayer. 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the Law School Faculty. His column appears every other Wednesday. 1/e can be contacted at plawecki.J@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
Andrew Thagard Oaire Heininger 

How much as the University's landscaping 
Amanda Michaels 

declined in the last four years? 
Viewpoint 

Cheryl Barker Illustrator Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at Pat Quill 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"People demand freedom ofspeech as a compensation for the freedom of thought which they seldom use. 
Soren Kierkegaard Danish philosopher 


THE ()BSERV'ER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 1, 2003 page 13 
A call to go abroad 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Responding to Muslim-Christian issues 
Combat hatred through education 
In his Sept. 29 letter, Dan Martin claims that Seyyed Hossein Nasr "recycles the inane argu­ment that those who have killed in the name of Islam are not true Muslims" in Nasr's book, "The Heart of Islam." What is inane about this argument and what does this statement imply about how Americans should view Islamic people? 
Most members of the Klu Klux Klan were Christian Methodists and many members believed that they were doing the work of God by lynching African-Americans in the 1920s. Would it be "inane" to argue that these men were not true Methodists or should we associate all Southern Methodists with lynching innocent people? Such an argument is far from inane: the violence of religious extremists should not be attrib­uted to all people of that religion. 
By calling Nasr's idea "inane," Martin implies that Americans should consider the Sept. 11 ter­rorists against the United States to be true Muslims, that is, true representatives of Islam. Just as Southern Methodists of the Klu Klux Klan were not representa­tives of the Methodist religion, the terrorists are not representative of Islam. If we consider them to be so, all Muslims in America and abroad become murderers in our eyes and we become closed-mind­ed. 
Such closed-mindedness leads to another one of Martin's fright­ening ideas. lie writes that "Hather than engage in 'intellec­tual discussion' from an ivory tower, University officials should take a principled stand and strongly assert that Western secu­lar democracy is superior to Islamic rule and make it clear that we as Americans and Catholics will not bow down to the uncivilized world." Martin sug­gests that instead of facilitating discussion on the U.S. war on ter­rorism, the University should sim­ply proclaim that America is "superior" to the "uncivilized" countries of the Middle East. Regardless of how one defines a "civilized" culture, this statement is problematic. 
If the University carries out such an action, what will it achieve? Will Americans and Catholics be more patriotic and more proud of the United States? Perhaps, but the most devastating result would be that Notre Dame would be encouraging nativism and isolationism. If our society is better than those of other nations, why bother lowering ourselves to negotiate with them, respect their culture, and work towards peace for all humanity? Why bother try­ing to save the Iraqi people in Operation Iraqi Freedom? 
We bother because all people in the world are equal. Democracy, advanced technology, economic success and relative domestic peace do not make United States citizens superior to those of other nations. 
Martin has forgotten a belief sacred to the Catholic foundations of Notre Dame, that no religion or national identity or culture makes one human being superior to another. Arrogance and disrespect for those of one religion because of extremists and refusal to learn about other cultures will only encourage hatred against those who do not deserve it and will not solve the problem of terrorism. 
Liz Bell junior Pasquerilla West Hall Sept. 29 
Respect different cultures, traditions 
I have lived in the United Arab Emirates for the past six years and I have discovered the Arabs stereotype Americans as much as we stereotype them. I get so angry when my friends claim that Americans are close­minded, arrogant, and convinced that our way is the best way -because normally, these claims are unjustified. But in his Sept. 29 letter, Dan Martin justified them. 
How can Martin say that Western secular democracy is superior to Islamic rule? How dare he call the Muslims "the uncivilized world"? Martin should take a trip to the United Arab Emirates someday. The country is ruled by a benevolent monarch. The laws are based on the Shariah, the Islamic law. It is not democracy, and it is not secular but it works. The United Arab Emirates have one of the lowest crime rates in the world because the Islamic government can set severe sentences for criminals. I feel safer walking down the streets there at midnight than I do walking around the mall at noon in Peoria. 
Yes, the United Arab Emirates government is oppressing the rights of its people to bear arms and do drugs and have a fair trial. But its people don't seem to care. All these objections we have to Islamic law and monarchy are based on our Western ideals. And the Western ideals are the best-for the West. For the Arabs, it's a totally differ­ent story. 
I do agree with Martin that intellectual discussions like the academic convocation will never solve the conflicts between civi­lizations in the world. Like Samuel Huntington says, there are certain funda­mental differences among civilizations, dif­ferences that you can never eliminate because they are based on different cul­tures, different beliefs and different lifestyles. For example, I will never under­stand why the Muslims do not eat pork. A Palestinian guy told me once that it is because you are what you eat, and pigs are the only animals who do not care if their mate sleeps with other pigs, so Muslims do not eat pig because it would make them unfaithful in marriage. To me, this is the sil­liest thing I have ever heard. But to my Palestinian friend, it is a basic truth. Civilizational differences-it is why we can­not understand why Hindu women throw themselves on their husbands' funeral pyres, or why the Maasai tribes of Tanzania cut their women so that they feel no pleasure during sex. It is why the Palestinians cannot understand how the Israelis could have any claim to a land the British took from Palestine in 1948. 
The way to solving conflicts among civi­lizations does not lie in intellectual discus­sions-but neither does it lie in Martin's solution: to make everyone a secular democ­racy. Instead we should follow Huntington's advice in his article, "The Clash of Civilizations." Recognize that the world is becoming increasingly divided along civiliza­tional borders. Realize that because we are outside the Muslim civilization, we will never be able to properly solve problems within that civilization. Leave the Arabs alone -let them figure out their own problems, develop their own political systems, change their own minds about what they believe. Turn our time and resources inward -solve the problems in our own civilization, while reaf­firming and strengthening those ideals that define us. Keep saying that western ways are the best but realize that this only applies to people with western ways. 
Then what should you end up with? Well, relations among people of different civiliza­tions will probably become like they arc in the United Arab Emirates. Over there, we westerners are outside our borders. We are in a different civilization. And so instead of protesting the law forbidding anyone to eat in public during Ramadan (the Muslim month of fasting), instead of lobbying to give Arab women the right to remove their head scarf. we simply adapt to the differences and live in spite of them. There may not be unity between Arabs and westerners in the United Arab Emirates, there may not be under­standing, but there is peace. 
Katy Kemnetz freshman Lewis Hall Sept. 30 

This is an impassioned plea to all Notre Dame students to consider the opportunity of a lifetime-spending a semester abroad. Whether it is London, Australia, Mexico, or Japan, there arc a plethora of options avail­able for Notre Dame students to get the most out of their college experience. After all, college is about more than taking exams 
Joe Licandro
and writing papers; it is also about taking advantage of opportunities to enrich ourselves. While I have found 
The Licandro
life on campus both academically 
Non-Factor
and socially rewarding, all of this time pales in comparison to my recent semester in London. 
!.ike many other students going abroad, I had my fair share of anxieties before departing for another country. Af1.t~r all. leaving my friends and the life I had grown accuslonwd to on campus would not be easy. At the same token. I did not want to look back five or ten years after graduation knowing that I passed up perhaps the only opportunity I will ever have to spend an extended period of time in another country. 
After just my first walk down London's busy city streets, all of my initial fears and apprehensions fell by the way­side. In just a few short weeks, I realized how truly fortu­nate I was to live and to learn in the most culturally diverse and exciting city in the world. And after my incredible four months came to a close, I realized that applying to the London Program was easily the best deci­si<m I had ever made in my life. 
While I certainly learned a great deal from my classes, I learned far more about life. Living with six other guys in a three-room flat, shopping for my own groceries, cook­ing my own meals, and traveling all over Europe tends to do that to you. Not surprisingly, I left London with a new­found confidence that I will be able to succeed regardless of the twists and turns that come my way. 
Downing yet another pint in a London pub, eating gelatto in Rome, touring the leg­endary St. Andrew's golf course in Scotland, and kissing the Blarney Stone in Ireland are all unforgettable experi­ences. (By the way, if you do not know what gelatto is then you need to find out. Gelatto is far and away the best ice cream in the world.) What I will remember the most about my semester abroad is not so much these 'once in a life time' trav­eling expeditions, but the new people I met. Before departing for London, I casually knew only five other partici­pants in the program. Four and a half months later, I returned home with more friends than I could count. Friends I would never had made if I stayed on campus last semester. 
There is no denying that dorm life at Notre Dame gives the university a special character not found at any other academic institution in the country, but dorm life has its limitations. Often times due to proximity's sake, we tend to hang out with only those students from the sections of our dorms. While there is nothing wrong with this, we unknowingly close ourselves ofT from meeting new people and forming new friendships. Regardless of which pro­gram a participant chooses to attend, going abroad will force you to meet new people and to make new friends. 
Best of all, parietals do not exist abroad. No. this is not yet another in a long line of columns complain­ing about parietals, but I will admit this much. It is nice to be like other college students for a change where parietals and segregated dorms do not exist. The horrible gender relations that 
exist on campus seem to magically disappear when boys and girls live across the hall from each other. 
I realize that this semester will be particularly busy for you incom­ing freshman. You might struggle at first to find your niche. Do not 
worry, you eventually will. But once you settle in with your classes and grow accustomed to your new life at Notre Dame, do not forget about a golden opportunity that potentially awaits you. When you get the chance, talk to those juniors and seniors who are returning from semesters abroad. Be prepared to hear an echo of advice urging you to do the same. 
Joe Licando is a junior political science major. His col­umn appears every other Wednesday. He can be contact­ed atjlicandr@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
---~·-~-----­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, October 1, 2003 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Fathers of punk rock prove their paternity 
By REBECCA SAUNDERS Scene Music Critic 

Any and every punk rock fan has, at the very least, heard of MXPX, if they haven't grown up on them and their music. Credited by many as the cre­ators of modern punk rock, the Christian band has been around for over 10 years. Although the Christian influence is less obvious in their eleventh album, Before Everything. & After. it remains very strong on a metaphorical and, at times. literal level. The album is also a bit heavier rock than much of their previous work, but is better for it. 

By DAVID BRACKSTONE Scene Music Critic 

Making the change from an indie label to something more mainstream can strain the creativity of any group. Fortunately for My Morning Jacket, their move to ATO (Dave Matthew's label) for the release of It Still Moves seems to have been a perfect choice ­and one that has allowed them to stay true to their creative roots. 
ATO seems to have granted My Morning Jacket free reign in creation, giving singer/songwriter Jim James ample opportunity to fully realize his musical vision. Few other labels would have bestowed this much trust in a new addition, but allowing such an unhindered outlet for expression is in typical Dave fashion. Of course, this is 
It Still Moves 
My Morning Jacket 
ATO Records 
,,


MXPX is a three-piece band original­ly and currently based in Washington state. The band is composed of Mike Herrera on vocals and bass guitar. Tom Wisniewski on vocals and guitar, and Yuri Ruley on drums. Currently successful bands such as Good Charlotte credit their original interest in punk rock to MXPX, one of their musical heroes. MXPX does not disap­point in their new and probably best album as of yet, Before Everything & After. The album consists mainly of songs about girls, God and rock-n-roll, in essence "everything," all set to heavy guitars with catchy beats and strong drum rhythms. 
The progression of the album fol­lows the title, Before Everything & After. The first track, "Before," leads off with a few excerpts of songs on the album, followed by two songs with "everything" in their titles, as well as songs that cover everything in sub­ject. The sixteenth and final track, "After," finishes the album in a similar way to which it began. All of this is more than a marketing ploy or artistic decision; it also symbolically shows the pro­gression of the band MXPX itself. After being together for 10 years and releasing 11 albums with multiple hits, the band still remains true to its punk rock origins. 
not necessarily a good thing for those with a short attention span -the album's 12 songs stretch out over a lengthy 72 minutes, giving each track an average length of six minutes (there are, in fact, only two songs that fail to surpass the five minute mark). For those not put off by its lengthy tracks, It Still Moves can be quite an experience, and when given a chance, it rarely seems as if any song is longer than absolutely neces­sary. 
Imagine, if possible, the voice of Neil Young in its purest form ­uncorrupted by years of smoking and drug use -combined with the feel of Radiohead's The Bends. Pair that up with the haunting melodies of Sigur R6s and there exists the base of My Morning Jacket. To round out the sound, add The Band, Led Zeppelin, 
Many of the songs on the album cover the history of the band, revealing the lessons the members have learned over the last 10 years. "Play it Loud," one of the most upbeat tracks 
on the r e c o r d . exposes the philosophy of MXPX as they sing, "We don't need bright lights to spell our name I all we ever wanted was to play." MXPX has been on the verge of Christian and secular rock for most of their career and have been the inspiration for bands whose suc­cess has doubled that of their own. but they make it clear that they don't need the success; they are in it for the music. As the song continues, they warn of the music world and the larg­er metaphor of the world at large: "Hold fast to your friends I Be true to yourself I and stop trying to be just like somebody else I Be yourself. play it loud." "Play it Loud" is one of the many heavier rock songs on the album, grouped with "It's Alright," "First Day of the Rest of Your Life," "More Everything" and "You Make Me, Me." 

Many of the songs are slightly more on the punk side with softer rock beats. One of the best on the album is "Broken Hearted," an immensely upbeat song that listeners can't help but move with. The quick and strong rhythm of the drums and the light and distinct guitar along with catchy lyrics makes for an incredible song. 
Overall, the album is terrific and is one that deserves a much more exten­sive review. The sound of the overall album is mature punk rock that is musically and lyrically developed to a level that other punk bands have not yet reached. As the "fathers of punk rock" MXPX does not disappoint in Before Everything & After. 
Contact Rebecca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 

It Still Moves, but slowly 

The Flaming Lips and Bob Dylan ­then fly it all to Jamaica for a little lesson on the reggae beat. My Morning Jacket cannot be defined by any of these sounds alone and cannot be con­tained even by the synergy of all of them together. 
"Mahgeetah" brings with it a hint of pop, "Easy Morning Rebel" a hint of country. "Masterplan" is a wailing jam, while "I Will Sing You Songs" is a slow-burning ballad. 'Matrix'-like, being immersed in It Still Moves is like entering another dimension with 50 years of musical history swirling around, creating an always-changing landscape. No single facet can be clearly seen, and no single feature can be pinned down and followed, as the whole experience is awash with reverb. It Still Moves is not a musical venture one can dip into -one must dive in and fully embrace it. 
This album cannot be listened to in a well-lit room; as the music begins to play, there is an urge to turn out the lights. Even as the songs move from melancholy to ecstatic, it seems unnatural that one could be listening anywhere other than a seedy bar. Like getting lost in a drink, listening makes it easy to let go. 
In "Rollin Back," James himself characterizes the experience best: "Just in the nick of time you got me ... while I was sittin' here I time, I don't think I wasted it, it just seems to dis­appear I Sippin' the wine you got me." 
Contact David Brackstone at dbrackst@nd.edu 


..------------­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, October I, 2003 
Page 15 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Fountains of Wayne, kings of power pop 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Randolph's music remains Unclassified 

By BRIAN FOY Seen~ Music Critic 
Hobert Handolph & The Family Band hit the music scene nearly three years ago and it has been nonstop ever since. Handolph began his musical career as a teenager playing the steel pedal guitar in his I louse of God church in Orange, New .Jersey. After honing his craft, he was asked to record an all-instrumental album with the famed blues band the North Mississippi All-Stars. Shortly thereafter, Handolph turned his focus to his own music and recruited his cousins Danyel Morgan and Marcus Handolph, completing the band with .John Ginty. A deluge of gigs followed and in little time record labels were lin­ing up to sign Hobert Randolph & The Family Band. 
In 2002, Hobert Handolph & The Family Band released a live album enti­tled Live at the Wetlands. It was then decided that a studio release would fol­low and famed producer Jim Scott would be selected to try to bring the live and energetic sound of Hobert Handolph & The Family Band to the studio. Scott, who has worked with acts from Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers to the Red !lot Chili Peppers, let the band play and helped to get the steel pedal to sound like it does. In August of 2003, Hobert Randolph & The Family Band released their major label studio debut 
UNCLASSIFIED. 
As soon as you begin to listen to UNCLASSIFIED you realize this is not your typical album and Hobert Randolph & The Family Band is anything but your typical band. UNCLASSIFIED is a unique blend of not only different genres of music, but also the harmonizing of differ­ent instruments. The 
Unclassified 
Robert Randolph & The Family Bond 
Warner Brothers Records 
By RYAN RAFFERTY 
s,cne Musk Critic 
We all have our guilty pleasures. Some claim chocolate as theirs, others admit that they often wake up in the middle of the night craving those little marshmallow Peeps, but people's greatest secretive delights arc those catchy power pop songs. No one ean resist their tasty hooks or honey-dripping harmonics. Bands of this gcnn~ of music are notorious for hav­ing a short shelf life (ask Weezer or the Hl~placements), but one band that has seemed to survive are the pop music geniuses from Fountains of Wayne. With three albums to date and a huge cult fol­lowing, songwriters Adam Schlesinger and Chris Collingwood have seemingly perfected the art of writing catchy pop tunes, and their latest release, Welcome Interstate Managers, does not disappoint. 

Four years after their last release, Utopia Parkway, Fountains of Wayne return to the music scene with one of the brightest albums of' the year. Band mem­bers Schlesinger and Collingwood are renowned for their pop sensibilities, con­tributing to several soundtracks in that four-year hiatus, including the title track from the movie That Thing You Do. In their latest release, they push their pop sensibilities to the limits. Welcome Interstate Managers delivers some of the most clever lyrics and infectious songs to date. 
The album kicks off with the energetic "Mexican Wine," which con­tains witty lyrics such as, "He was killed by a cellular phone explosion I they scattered his ashes across the ocean I the water was used to make baby lotion." Fountains of Wayne then piece together one of the best opening series of' songs on any pop album. Next up is the satirical "Bright Future in Sales." This song includes a gui­tar rift' very reminiscent of the Cars but with much smarter lyrics. "Stacy's Mom," which has been receiving heavy rotation on MTV and radio stations, fol­lows. The harmonies and syn­thesizer riff in the chorus of "Stacy's Mom" carry this witty song about a man's obsession with his girl­friend's mom. 
One of the best tracks on the album, "Hackensack," continues the trend of catchy pop tunes, but in a different 
Welcome Interstate 
Managers 

Many music acts that rely on a unique  
sound or instrument lose their appeal  
after the first listen because the magic  
begins to wear off, but UNCLASSIFIED  
by Robert Randolph & The Family Band  
may be the exact opposite. After listen­ 
ing to the tracks a few times, the solos  
and harmonizing of the steel pedal gui­ 
tar become more familiar, yet they keep  
their edgy appeal. The anticipation for  -­ 
the craftsmanship that Handolph show­ 
cases grows stronger with every listen  
and the familiarity breeds a very  
charming quality more than anything  
else. The first studio release from  
Hobert Handolph & The Family Band is  
not perfect by any means, but it clearly  - 
shows why Handolph was named one of  
Holling Stone Magazine's 100 Greatest  
Guitarists of All-Time. It is clear from  
this effort that he is a different animal  
who is ready to bring his unique music  
style to the masses, and he and the rest of the band will be around for a long  - 

time to come. 
I i g h t . "Hackensack" is a mainly acoustic song modeled after the Beach Boys and the Beatles. This is a recurring theme on Welcome Interstate Managers: '60s acoustic pop. Other songs like "Valley Winter Song" and "All Kinds of Time" sound like Fountains of Wayne are chan­neling Brian Wilson through their songs. 
Possibly the best track on the album, "All Kinds of Time" will ring true in any Notre Dame student's heart, considering the current football season. The lyrics depict a young quarterback struggling in his first season, but with four seconds he suddenly takes control of the game. 
But, very much like the Irish this foot­ball season, Welcome Interstate Managers turns south quickly. While the first half of the album may be fantastic power pop, the second half stumbles as Fountains of Wayne attempts to experiment with differ­ent genres. "Hung Up on You," for exam­ple, is a country song featuring a slide gui­tar and less than intelligent lyrics seems out of place amidst the alt-rock pop gems 

first track, "Going In The Hight Direction," showcases Randolph's Gospel roots and the band's ability to back the force that is Handolph. The song allows the other members of the band to be heard, but once the song commences the listener most likely will remember the solos of Handolph's steel pedal guitar. The first single, "I Need More Love," is a funky jam that begins with an up tempo bass riff and drums. The interplay between Handolph's gui­tar and Danyel's vocals is very reminis­cent of the early work of Stevie Wonder and is the reason this foot-tapping track is catchy. The album's final track, "Hun 
For Your Life," is one of four instru­mental songs found on UNCLASSIFIED. This is where the talent and potential of Hobert Handolph & The Family Band is most apparent. Every member of the band has their time to shine with their instrument coming to the forefront of the wave of sound. The timing and structure of "Hun For Your Life" is well beyond that of most freshman studio efforts. 
and acoustic ballads. "Halley's Waitress" also feels out of place. This piano-driven song with a synth-orchestra feels more like a lounge song than a fun pop song. 
Fountains of Wayne have penned a fan­tastic power pop album, but it should have been much shorter. The 16-song album gets boring and repetitious after the first nine songs. The rest of the album sounds like filler material, but not horrible mate­rial. While the last seven songs seem out of place, they are still well-crafted songs but just can't live up to the first half. Welcome Interstate Managers has musical hooks in the first half that would rival Mike Tyson, but they fizzle out too quickly and bore the listener. This is a great album, however, and the first half is great for any music fan who wants to satisfy his or her guilty pleasures for great power pop music. 
Contact Ryan Rafferty at rraffert@nd.edu 

Contact Brian Foy at bfoy@nd.edu 
page 16 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, October 1, 2003 
MLB 
Cubs win first postseason road game since 1945 
call at first on a potential inning­experience last fall, when he
Associated Press ending double play allowed the emerged as the biggest star of a run to score. pitching staff that really didn't ATLANTA-Cubs win! Cubs But Kyle Farnsworth retired have one. win! Javy Lopez on a bases-loaded These days, Schmidt is the San A road game in the playoffs, grounder to short. Francisco Giants' unquestioned no less. Lost in the hoopla over ace -and he gave the young Holy cow. Chicago's 95-year drought with­Florida Marlins a taste of tough Cheered on by thousands of out a World Series title was this postseason pitching. their well-traveled fans, Chicago little nugget: The Cubs had lost Schmidt pitched the Giants' won a postseason game outside eight straight postseason road first playoff shutout in 16 years, of Wrigley Field for the first time games since Claude Passeau throwing a three-hitter for a 2-0 since 1945 when Kerry Wood led pitched a one-hitter to beat victory in Game 1 Tuesday . .._ the Cubs past the Atlanta Braves Detroit in Game 3 of 1945 World "I felt like I learned a lot more 4-2 on Tuesday night in the Series. in the last two games of the opener of their NL division They've lost 10 straight post­World Series than I did my series. season series since winning their whole career," said Schmidt, Wood did it all -on the last World Series title in 1908. who has allowed just seven runs mound and at the plate. He Actually, the Cubs must feel in his last four postseason out­allowed just two hits in 7 1-3 like they're already at home. All ings. "I couldn't wait to get back innings to the NI.:s best offensive those Chicago fans contributed to the postseason." team. He drove in the go-ahead to an overflow crowd of 52,043 Schmidt outdueled Josh runs with a double off 21-game at Turner Field, which had its Beckett while Bonds and the 
winner Russ Ortiz in the sixth. first postseason sellout in three Giants took advantage of a costly "He wanted this badly," said years. error by fill-in Florida third Dusty Baker, in his first year as "I knew if they traveled from baseman Miguel Cabrera to 
Chicago's manager. "A good Chicago to Puerto Rico, they score the go-ahead run. 
pitcher turned into a great pitch­would go from Chicago to After retiring Derrek Lee on a er." Atlanta," Baker said. grounder for the final out, Thousands of Cubs fans roared Ortiz escaped all sorts of trou­Schmidt twirled on one leg when Wood drove in two runs ble through the first five innings before his teammates surround­
with a drive to the wall in left­-the most serious jam coming ed him in celebration. 
center, breaking a 1-all tie. in the fourth when the Cubs The right-hander is feeling so that he could carry his team -79 pitches through six. 
"They've been following us all loaded the bases with no outs. good he'd appreciate the chance the five-time MVP hit .356 with "We haven't seen any better year," Wood said. "It sounded Alex Gonzalez took a called third to face Barry Bonds -and after eight homers, 16 RBis and 27 stuff than that," Lee said. "He like half and half." strike, Paul Bako went down the gem Schmidt just pitched, he walks as the Giants reached the was throwing 94, 95, and hitting Offense aside, it was Wood's swinging and Wood whiffed to might have a decent shot at World Series for the first time all the corners. It was impres­
work on the mound that really end the threat. shutting down baseball's most since 1989 -but the Marlins sive." 
stood out. He completely throt­The Cubs started the sixth in feared slugger. don't plan to let that happen if After Alex Gonzalez reached tled the high-scoring Braves, a identical fashion, loading the "I would challenge him," they can help it. on an error in the fifth, Schmidt team that had six players with bases with no outs on consecu­Schmidt said playfully. When he was intentionally retired the final 14 batters. 20 homers and four with 100 tive singles by Moises Alou, Bonds barely had two feet in walked in the first, the crowd of Schmidt walked none and struck 
RBis during the regular season. Aramis Ramirez and Eric the batter's box when catcher 43,704 began booing lustily. out five. 
Wood struck out 11 in 7 1-3 Karros. Hoping to change the Ivan Rodriguez's glove shot out Cabrera, starting in place of Beckett was almost as impres­~ innings. The only major slip-up dynamics, Baker sent up Randall to signal an intentional walk, injured All-Star Mike Lowell, sive in his playoff debut. He gave came in the third, when Marcus Simon as a pinch-hitter for showing just how serious the charged in on Alfonzo's fourth­up two hits in seven innings, Giles homered. Gonzalez, but he struck out Marlins were about not getting inning bunt and made a wild striking out nine and walking 
"To give up two hits in 7 1-3 swinging. beat by Bonds. throw to first. By the time the five. 
innings to that team and also Alou scored the tying run, Instead, the Marlins beat ball had stopped it was in the "When you're lucky enough to drive in the winning run, I'd say breaking Ortiz's 19-inning score­themselves with one bad throw. bullpen dirt and Rich Aurilia get a pitching performance like he was pretty locked in for this less streak dating to the regular Bonds wound up 0-for-1 with was headed for home. that, you've got to score some game," said Joe Borowski, who season. 1\vo pitches later, Ortiz three walks. Chad Fox intention­Alou had said the key for runs," Florida center fielder struck out the side in the ninth was knocked out by Wood. ally walked Bonds with nobody Schmidt was to keep his pitch Juan Pierre said. "It's almost like for the save. on base in the eighth, and he count down -and that hap­we wasted it. We just ran into a 
Trailing 4-1, Atlanta scored a Giants 2, Marlins 0 came around to score on pened. The man with the bus over there. Everything run and knocked out Wood with­Jason Schmidt's phenomenal Edgardo Alfonzo's double. league's lowest ERA worked would have been all right if we'd out getting a hit. A questionable season is a product of his playoff Bonds proved last postseason ahead in the count and was at just scored some runs." 

-._. ......... --- CLASSIFIEDS Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO exper. required. All looks & ages. NOTICES Earn $100-$300 a day. 1-888-820­0167, ext. U187. I NEED GA TIXS.2726306 A SPRING BREAKER NEEDED GUITAR LESSONS harmonica, 2004 Hottest Destinations & Parties banjo & mandolin. 2 tree trps high commission sun-Hoosierdads Music splashtours.com 1800-426-7710 4609 Grape Rd Mish, IN 2775038 TUTOR: Sixth grader. Homework. Transportation neces­#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in sary. 231-1127 Acapulco is now offering 3 destina­lions! Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in Responsible Harter Heights teenag-Vallarta, or get Crazy in Cabo-all er needed to walk 2 affectionate, with BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. medium-size dogs in afternoons. Book by Oct 31-get FREE MEALSI References required. Organize a group and travel for 287-3054. FREE. Call for details. 800-875­4525 or www.bianchi-rossi.com. FoR SALE**"ACT NOW!Book 11 people, get 12th trip free. Group discounts for 6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO or 800-838-8202. FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED, FULLY EQUIPPED. $94,500. Email:WANTED Williamson.1 @nd.edu SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns Two BR, 2 bath condo. One mile to Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for ND. Clubhouse, pool, a few good men and women who 2 car garage. wish to work in a FUN and fast pace $107,000. environment. (574) 273-1666 A new store will be opening up in early October. IRISH CROSSINGS-A NEW LUX-We have aggressive pay. URY VILLA COMMUNITY. Build Hrs from 11am to 3am. In-shoppers, your dream home next to drivers and mgmt available. Notre Dame. A limited number of Call Andy at 574-277-0850 home sites are available. For more for interview. info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com  TOPSFIELD CONDO FOR SALE. NICELY DECORATED 2 BED­ROOM. ALL MAJOR APPLIANCES. 10 MINS FROM CAMPUS. $69,900 299-7078 1990 VW Jetta 127K Good condition $1675. 287-7928 Fully electric hospital bed, new mat­tress $350. Power Lift Lazy boy $250.0ver bed tables $25. Student desks $25. Pews $45. Call evenings, 631-4969. FoR RENT 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272-1525 That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast has space available for footbaiVpar­ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, full hot breakfast, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487. Home games for 2 or 4 in clean suburban home 7 mi from ND-1 or 2 nights and reasonable (574) 291-2279 FREEDOM! Rent the best furnished houses, prime locations, sec. sys-terns, sand V-ball, wash/dry call Greg 233-9947  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hail. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 7 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR HOUSES AVAILABLE FOR THE SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288­2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR. WELL 2726 PERSONAL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS 2,4,6,8 & 10 BEDROOM WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do HOUSES-STUDENT TOP DOLLAR PAID. not go it alone. If you or someone NEIGHBORHOODS-SECURITY (574)232-0964. you love needs SYSTEMS-MAINTENANCE STAFF confidential support or assistance, 24 HOURS WASHERS/DRYERS FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. please call Sr. Mary Louise CALL LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570. Gude,CSC, at1-7819. TODAY-HOUSES ARE GOING For more information, see our bi-FAST CONTACT KRAMER 574­JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, weekly ad in The Observer. 315-5032 or 574-234-2434 NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT­ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR BALL GAME. PLEASE CALL Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR 674-6593. s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. 3 bdrm home w/fenced yd, hrdwd Just Between You And Me, ADire Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or floors. Very clean, quaint. Appl. incl. Fan in NEED of 2 or 4 USC GAs www.ststravel.com last mo. 10-mo lease. ONLY PLEASE PH:277-1659 417 Napoleon. A "Reality' Spring Break 2004s 1/2 mil. from ND. SMC grad needs USC tix. Email Hottest prices Book now.. Free Trips, Call 299-9428 Colleen: Eumachia13@aol.com Meals &Parties sunsplashtours.com Graduate students, or 1800-426-7710 faculty or staff. Wanted, 2 USC Tickets, Gen Admin okay, Contact Roger Boo Rec Sports Refs Rent one of the best 5 bedroom (31 0) 766-0990 homes left tor 2004/5. Rent a 4-bed-Two hot, sexy wild women looking room house and Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ tor frolic dates. get the 3 bedroom house next door Pay Top Dollar $$ Call our pimp at 4-2626 for free. ANLAN PROPERTIES 532­1-866-808-0990 1896 Carolina Blue but deeper and kinda BUY?SELL ND FOOTBALL TICK-pearly... never been to disneyworld ETS> CASH PAID> 574-289-8048 before, dude TICKETS Alumni family needs USC tickets for Let's fight.. ..Or not...Seriously. reunion. Call Pat, ND FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL. 574-269-6046 Let's all be Cubs tans. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR Seriously. TOLL FREE 877-773-3911. 2 ALUMS NEED 2-4 USC GAME They win...a lot. GAs TO TAKE 6-yr OLD SON TO ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED GAME. Oh the drama the drama. -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378 dventrelle@yahoo.com Yes you are all responsible. PM 288-2726 or925-457-1057. Cubs WinI  
-­ 

Wednesday, October 1, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
-
Twins get best of Yankees for first time this year 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Instead of get­ting tight when Juhan Santana cramped up, the Minnesota '1\vins stayed loose. 
Playing a postseason game in Yankee Stadium for the first time. the 1\vins were guarding a one-run lead in the liflh inning when their pitcher suddenly couldn't go to the mound for the bottom half'. 
"One thing you don't do is show panic in the dugout," Minnesota manager Hon Gardnnhire said. "So I just said, 'Wnll. let's have some fun. We arn going to piece it together.' And that's what we did." 
Those pesky '1\vins put the big, bad Yankees in another postsea­son funk. 
Torii Hunter circled the bases when his line drive resulted in a pair of misplays that led to two sixth-inning runs. and the 1\vins finally beat New York, tripping up the stumbling Yankees 3-1 in Tuesday's AL playoll" opener. 
New York had rolled over the '1\vins during the past two sea­sons, going 13-0 and outscoring them 90-36. But it's the little guys who take a 1-0 lead into Game 2 Thursday night, when Brad Hadke pitches against Andy Pettitte. 
"It's been a running joke the last couple of days -we might just as well scrimmage these guys and get them warmed up for the next round, because that's where everybody's putting them," Minnesota's Jacque Jones said. 
New York was favored in last year's division series, too, before Anaheim won in four games to end a run of four consecutive AL pennants. The Yankees have dropped four straight postseason games for the first time since the 1981 World Series against the Dodgers, not exactly what owner George Steinbrenner was expect­ing when he set payroll records last winter in an effort to get his team its first Series title since 2000. 
After Santana's injury, Rick Heed. J.C. Homero, LaTroy Hawkins and Eddie Guardado combined to allow live hits and one run. 
Meanwhile, Bernie Williams failed to cut ofT Hunter's liner to center and Alfonso Soriano made an error that gave Hunter what's often called a Little League home run. Williams also flopped fiat on his belly rounding first base in the day's comic highlight, and New York's batters went 1-for-10 with runners in scoring position, getting an RBI infield single from Soriano in the ninth. 
"When the game gets sloppy and the ball gets thrown around, that makes it tough," said Mike Mussina, who had been 20-2 against the 1\vins. "That's what the postseason is, minimizing mistakes. If you make a mistake in the postseason, they tend to be big ones." 
Despite their troubles, the Yankees threatened to pull ofT yet another memorable ninth-inning comeback. But a spectacular leaping catch by Shannon Stewart against the left-field wall on a drive by Hideki Matsui helped Guardado limit New York to one run. 

Stewart was fighting not only the sun-it was first early after­noon postseason game at Yankee Stadium since 1981 -but aggressive fans who leaned over to try for a grab similar to Jeffrey Maier's in the 1996 playoffs against Baltimore. 
"The only thing I was worried about was that with the fans reaching out, he might get poked in the eye," said Jones. 
Minnesota's right fielder. 

Baseball tried to knock off the 1\vins after the 2001 season as part of its failed contraction attempt. 
Minnesota went ahead in the third when speedy Cristian Guzman reached on a slow roller past the mound, slid into third on Stewart's single to left and scored on Luis Rivas' sacrifice fly. 
, Santana, whose 12-3 record Jed the majors in winning per­centage, allowed four hits but didn't let any runners get past second. He had thrown 59 pitch­es when his right leg tightened. 
His relievers weren't ready. "He totally caught the bullpen off guard," llawkins said. "We were totally just like, 'Wow, what happened?'" 
It was somewhat similar to the night of June 11, when Hoy Oswalt got hurt and Houston's bullpen beat the Yankees in the first six-pitcher no-hitter in major league history. 
"We certainly didn't have a Jot of opportunities," Yankees man­ager Joe Torre said. "And when we did, we didn't get the base hit, up until the ninth inning." 
Hawkins struck out four over two innings for the win, and Guardado hung on for the save when Nick Johnson hit a game­ending grounder. 
-
-
-


--. 

page 18 Wednesday, October 1, 2003
Tht· Observer+ SPORTS 

-MLB 
Minnesota ace leaves Game 1 with leg cramp 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Johan Santana should be ready to pitch again by Sunday. Minnesota manager Ron Gardenhire plans to make sure of it. 
"''ll be nursing him myself. I'll be rubbing his leg. The training room is my office now for Santana," Gardenhire said. "We should have him back. Last time it was the same thing, he was ready to go for his next start in five days." 
Santana left Game 1 of the AL playoffs against the Yankees after four strong innings Tuesday because of a cramp in his right leg. 
The Twins' terrific bullpen bailed them out -four reliev­ers held New York in check the rest of the way for a 3-1 victo­ry. 
"Unfortunately, it happened when he was throwing the ball well. We had to piece it togeth-
Mariners' GM Gillick 
resigns after four years 
~------------------------­
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -After four seasons without bringing the World Series to Seattle, Pat Gillick felt it was time to leave his job as gen­eral manager of the Mariners. 
It was as simple as that. 
"I had four kicks at it and I didn't get the job done," Gillick said Tuesday. "Let's give some­body else a shot. Maybe they can bring a new angle or perspective and get it over the hump." 
The 66-year-old Gillick, who was GM in Toronto when the Blue Jays won the World Series in 1992 and '93, will remain on the job until a successor is found. He then will become a Mariners consultant. 
_, Team president Chuck Armstrong hopes to have a new general manager in place by Nov. 1. Under the rules of major league baseball, no team can make major announcements during the postseason. 
"That fits in fine with us," Armstrong said. 
He identified two "excellent" internal candidates in Lee Pelekoudas, assistant general manager, and Benny Looper, vice president for player develop­ment, but said the search will involve as many qualified outside candidates as possible. 
"Within a week to 10 days, I'll 
-===================: 
Orioles to interview Murray 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -Indians gen­eral manager Mark Shapiro gave the Baltimore Orioles per­mission to interview Hall of
-
Farner Eddie,-Murray, Cleveland's hitting tQach, for their managerial opening. Murray, a first baseman for Baltimore from 1977-88, just completed his second season as a coach with the Indians. Murray is not yet under con­tract with Cleveland for a third year, but Shapiro said Murray has been asked to rejoin Eric Wedge's staff. "Eddie did a great job," Shapiro said. The Orioles fired Mike Hargrove on Monday following their fourth straight losing sea­son. 
be calling everyone I know in baseball and assembling names," Armstrong said. "The next week or so, we'll be vetting those names and narrowing them down to fmalists." 
Unlike last year's search to hire field manager Bob Melvin, the Mariners plan to keep their list of candidates private. 
"We don't know, as we assem­ble names, who wants their name out there," Armstrong said. "We'll be doing this quietly, we hope." 
During Gillick's four years as general manager, the Mariners won 393 games -more than any other team in the majors. Seattle twice reached the AL championship series and in 2001 tied anAL record with 116 wins. 
"I was proud of the guys," Gillick said. 
This season ended on a sour note, however, because the Mariners led the AL West for much of the summer but fmished 93-69. Seattle was three games behind Oakland and missed the playoffs. 
Gillick said that outcome didn't factor into his decision, nor was health a consideration. He does­n't consider his move a retire­ment, and wouldn't rule out a return later. 
Gillick started his front-office career in 1963 with Houston. 
er and our bullpen did a good to end the third. job,"' Gardenhire said. But after only 59 pitches, 
With a 1-0 lead in the best­Santana couldn't go back out of-five division series, the only for the fifth because of a cramp way the Twins won't need similar to one he experienced Santana in Game 4 at home earlier this season. Sunday is if they pull off a "I was doing my job. I was sweep. feeling good. Then it just got 
The 24-year-old left-bander tight," he said. "Injuries are was impressive Tuesday, allow­part of the game. You don't ing only three hits in four expect that to happen, but I shutout innings. couldn't continue. I was done 
He struck out three, includ­right away. The trainer told ing Jason Giambi with two on me. but I knew I was in pain. 
They told me I was out of the game. It was bad." Rick Reed quickly warmed up and got two outs in the fifth. 
"The whole thing sort of caught us by surprise," Reed said. "At first, we weren't sure what was happening." 
J.C. Romero followed with 1 1-3 scoreless innings, leaving a 3-0 lead in the sure hands of setup man extraordinaire LaTroy Hawkins and All-Star closer Eddie Guardado. 


EVERY WEDNESDAY 


Standard Mixed Drinks All Night Long 
EVERY THURSDAY 
$ 2.00 Long Islands & Domestic Bottles All Night Long Ladies Get In Free!!! 
This place rocks! I 
100 N. Center St. (The 100 Center) Mishawaka-(574) 259-7522 


NBA 
Pacers open training camp with rookies 
Associated Pn:ss 
INDIANAPOLIS -A leaner Jamaal Tinsley is starting to enjoy basketball again. 
The Indiana Pacers point guard shed about 20 pounds since the end of last season and reported to training camp Tuesday in shape and eager to show why he should be the team's 11oor leader again. 
"It's a big difference," he said at the first workout for players with three or fewer years of NHA experience. "My back isn't hurting. I just feel much lighter, ready to go." 
Full camp with the rest of the veterans begins on Friday. 
Tinsley, the 27th pick in the 2001 draft. came to Indiana that year in a draft-night trade with Atlanta. lie has been mainly a starter with the Pacers but began seeing more time on the bench because of his inconsistent play last sea­son. 
lie averaged 7.8 points and a 

7.5 assists a game -down from his rookie averages of 9.4 points and 8.1 assists-and his 39.b percent shooting was the worst among the Pacers regulars. After Rick Carlisle replaced the !'ired lsiah Thomas as coach, the Pacers signed veteran Kenny Anderson to bolster the back­court. 
"I can't control it. They only thing I can do is work on my game and get in shape," said Tinsley, who dropped from 210 pounds to about 190 by "watching what I eat. running hard every day." 
"It's a big year for me. I'm going to try to get more people 
involved  and  be a better  
leader," he said.  
Carlisle  said  Tinsley  

appeared to be "in terrific physical condition." 
"He told me he's addressed his diet and worked hard, and it shows. He looks terrific," Carlisle said. 
Among the other players in camp Tuesday were rookie guards James Jones, the Pacers' second-round draft pick out of Miami, and Carl English, a free agent who left Hawaii a year early. Indiana sent this year's first-round draft pick to Atlanta as part of the Tinsley trade. 
"Everybody made a great effort, and generally it looks guys arc in shape," Carlisle said after the first workout. "I like what I saw from every­body." 
He said the Pacers focused on "basic things," especially defense. 
"We're starting basically from the ground up the first day here, and we'll kind of restart the same way Friday," he said. "Young guys can always use some extra work and some extra experience." 
The 6-foot-8 Jones averaged 
16.9 points and 6 rebounds last season and finished third on Miami's career list for blocked shots (192) and games played (122). 
IIe also showed a deft touch from the outside, hitting 40 percent of his 3-point attempts last year. 
Rockets trade forward Rice 
Associated Pn:ss 

HOUSTON-The Houston Rockets signed free agent swingman Jim Jackson on Tuesday and traded forward Glen Rice to Utah for center John Amaechi. 
Hockets general manager Carroll Dawson said the trade was made to keep the team from having to pay an expected luxury tax. 
It also allowed the Jazz to unload Amaechi, who had been openly unhappy with the team last season. 
"It's just so much easier to live under the cap," Dawson said. "If you can't do that, you try to live under the luxury tax [because of] the restrictions. This enabled us to get under the luxury tax and enabled us to get Jim Jackson." 
Jackson, 33, played for the Sacramento Kings last season. He has averaged 15.5 points, 
4.7 rebounds and 3.4 assists in his career. 
Dawson admitted Rice's in 2000. departure would leave a hole in O'Connor said Tuesday that the team's lineup. he planned to speak within the 
Sending Rice to Utah in the next couple of days to see if last year of his $9 million con­Hice would join the Jazz. tract saved the team $6.5 mil­"We've got a lot of questions lion. The Rockets will receive a to answer on that," O'Connor future second-round pick. said. "Give us 24, 48 hours and 
''I'm still  then I'll be able  
collecting  to  give you  a  
m y thoughts," Rice told the  ''I'm still collecting my thoughts."  better position on it." Amaechi, 32,  
Houston  who has spent  
Chronicle  Glen Rice  five seasons in  
for its online editions Tuesday after receiv­ Utah forward, upon learning he had been traded to Houston  the NBA with Cleveland. Orlando and Utah, has aver­ 
ing  the  aged 6.2 points  
news.  and  2.6  

Jazz vice president for bas­rebounds in his career. lie ketball operations Kevin quickly fell out of favor with O'Connor said Utah receives a Jazz coach Jerry Sloan shortly first-round draft pick from the after he signed as a free agent Rockets, depending on where with the Jazz in 2001. Houston finishes next season. Amaechi averaged just 2.0 
Utah also receives a condi­points in 50 games last season. tional first-round pick that He was still under contract this Rockets acquired from Chicago season. 
Knight, Outlaw swapped in deal 
Associated Press 

PHOENIX -The Phoenix Suns on Tuesday acquired three players, including guard Brevin Knight, from the Memphis Grizzlies for forward Bo Outlaw and center Jake Tsakalidis. 
The Suns also got forward Robert Archibald and center Cezary Trybanski in the deal that Suns president Bryan Colangelo said will allow the team greater flexibility. 
Knight is a seven-year NBA veteran who averaged 3.9 points, 4.2 assists and 1.3 steals for Memphis last sea­son. 
Archibald was selected by the Grizzlies in the second round of the 2002 draft and averaged 1.6 points and 1.4 
rebounds in 12 games as a rookie. 
Trybanksi, also a rookie last season. averaged 0.9 points and 0. 9 rebounds in 15 games. 
Outlaw averaged 4.7 points and 4.6 rebounds in 80 games last season. 
Tsakalidis averaged 4. 9 points and 3.7 rebounds in 33 games. 

Notre Dame Opera 
AUDITIONS 
Audition dates: October 7, 2003 
2:00 pm to 5:00 pm 
SIGN UP IN CROWLEY HALL RM. 105 OR CONTACT JOHN RILEY-SCHOFIELD 631-5175 
Auditions will be held in the Annenberg Auditorium, basement of the Snite Museum of Art. 
Please bring one prepared aria or song (from memory) and music for the pianist. An accompanist will be provided. Opera performance dates are March 26 -27, 2004 
ALL ARE INVITED! ! 

HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY SISCO! 
WE LIKE Ir 
MEXICAN! 
ROllE PIOGIAI 
INFORMAT10N M66T1N'1 

weJ:)Ne5~:>Ay, OCTO'BteR-1., 2003 5:00PM 
~ ttAyes-H-eALe)' 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, October 1, 2003 
.. NHL 
Heatley charged with reckless driving in crash 

Thrashers star Dany Heatley holds the All-Star MVP trophy. He was charged with reckless driving after an accident Monday. 
Associated Press 
DULUTH, Ga. -Atlanta Thrashers star Dany Heatley was charged Tuesday with reckless driving after his sports car swerved off a road and careened into a wall at about 80 mph, breaking his jaw and critically injuring a teammate. 
Dan Snyder, a backup center, underwent a two-hour surgery for a skull fracture. Heatley, the MVP of the 2003 All-Star game, was hospitalized in stable condi­tion. 
At a news conference at Grady Memorial Hospital, the neurosur­geon who operated on Snyder said he was still unconscious but that there wasn't any bleeding into the brain. 
"It'll be a few days before we know we can even tell a progno­sis," Dr. Sanjay Gupta said. "The underlying brain actually looked pretty good." . 
Heatley also has a minor con­cussion, a contusion on his lung and a bruised kidney, according to the team's physician, Dr. Scott Gillogly. None of the injuries appeared to be career threaten­ing, Gillogly said. 
Heatley lost control of his 2002 Ferrari 360 Modena on a curve on a two-lane road Monday night in Atlanta, police said. The vehi­cle crossed into the other lane, left the road and struck a wrought iron and brick wall in front of an apartment complex. The car was ripped in half and the players were thrown onto the road. 
Heatley also was charged with serious injury by vehicle -a felony -and three misde­meanors, police spokesman Sgt. Kevin losty said. 
Officers estimated the car was traveling about 80 mph. Heatley took a blood-alcohol test, but results will not be available for weeks, police said. 
Heatley, 22, and Snyder, 25, had been at an event for season ticket holders at Philips Arena. 
The Thrashers canceled prac­tice Tuesday and were consider­ing canceling Wednesday night's exhibition against Florida. Their season opens a week from Thursday. 
"Nobody's really thinking about hockey," team captain Shawn McEachern said. "We're thinking about the guys." 
The usually energetic Thrashers coach Bob Hartley was sullen as he answered ques­tions at the team's training head­quarters in Duluth, in suburban Atlanta. His voice often wavered with emotion, and tears welled in his eyes. 
"Right now, our thoughts and prayers are just with the two [players] and their families," Hartley said. "We're a big family. ... When you face adversity or tragedy like we are now, you get even closer." 
Heatley, the NHL rookie of the year in 2001-02, led Atlanta in scoring last season with a team­record 41 goals and 48 assists, and he is the Thrashers' career scoring leader with 155 points. 
The former University of Wisconsin player scored four goals in the All-Star game. 
Before the start of training camp, Heatley traded in his long curls for closely cropped hair, and he seemed to embrace his role as a team leader. A skilled scorer, Heatley -6-foot-3, 215 pounds with a gap-tooth smile­t:.. is also known for his tough­ness. 
Hartley and team president Stan Kasten would not discuss how Heatley's injuries or charges against him might affect his role. 
"Our focus is on our two guys," Hartley said. "We're praying about their health, to overcome this tragedy." 
Snyder, a center who scored 10 goals and added four assists in 36 games for Atlanta last season, had surgery on his ankle in September before training camp. He was expected to start the sea­son on the injured list. 
Snyder signed with the Thrashers as a free agent in 1999 after playing four seasons of junior hockey for Owen Sound in the Ontario Hockey League. 
He spent most of his first three professional seasons in the minor leagues, helping Orlando win the International Hockey League title in 2000-01 and play­ing on the Chicago Wolves' American Hockey League cham­pionship team in 2001-02. He also played 35 games for Chicago last season, scoring 11 goals and adding 12 assists. 

The Career Center~ Fall.2003 Workshops ~ oW't'!.a.ft.200)' 0 1 Wed. Alumni Networking Sessioo 4:00-4:55 114 FlannerJCRC Alumni Networking for Biology/Environmental Science Majors 7:0V.8:00 101 DeBartolo  The Career Center's Fall 2003 ·.~·~ Workshops: II II•  
3 "Fri. Interviewing Master Class/Workshop I:30-3;00 Mendoza TBA  
7Tues. Careers with the State Department. Cosponsored by the PoliticalScience Department and The Career Center 4:00-5:00 G-20 Flanner Alumni Networking S~ion 6:00-6:55 114 Flanner 1CRC Effective Interviewing 7:00-8:00 G.-20 Flanner Preparing Your Curriculum Vitae or Resume 7:00-8:15 Fisher Residences, CommunityRoom  OCT15TUES. 4:00-5:00 114 FLA.Nl'x'ER/CRC OCT. 80 THURS. 4:00-5:00 114 FLANNER/CRC  
8. Wed. Successfully Applying to Graduate School: A Panel ofFatulty and Current Graduate Students 7:00-8:00 138 DeBartolo 9Thurs. Harvard Divinity Graduate School Open House & Prese!ltation Open House 11:00-Noon 1i4 Flanner 1CRC Presentation & Pizza 12:00.;1:00 ll4 Flanner 1CRC  OCT. I WED 4t00-4:55 114 FLANNER I CRC OCT. 7TUES. 6:00-6:55 114 FLANNER I CRC OCT14TUES 6:00-6:55 114 F'l..Am.'ER I CRC  
9 GRADUATE SCHOOL FAIR 4:00-7:00 Htrltage  
HaD/Joyee Center  
14 Tues. Kaneb Center and The Career Center 4:00-5:15 Notre Dame RmJ  
 
LaFortune Alumni Networking Session 6:00-6:55 114 Flaaner/CRC 15.Wcd. Writing Effective Resumes and Cover Letter 4:00:.05:00 114 Flamier/CRC  Lisa Every Friday in October {Graduate Students) 248 Flanner 1:00-3:00 Jonika Every Tuesday in October Srd Floor Armstrong RmJLaFortune 1:00-3:00 Anita Oct. lGl 3:00-5:00  
21 Tues. Job Search Strategies aiJdiiltervlew Fisher Resid~ce, Techniques for GraduJite Students 7:00-8:15 Community Room 28 Tues. Economics Career Night Cosponsored by tbe. L:on~tnics DepathJient &The Career Center 6d30..7:JO . . G~iO Flanlier Finding a Career Fit For You (Part I) 7:00-8:30 ll4Flanner/CRC 29 Wed. ACareer in JournaUsm, Speaker Anthony DePalma-NY TimeS Cosponsored byPolitical the Science Depar!ment & The Career Center 6:30-7:30 G~20 Flauner 30 Thurs. Writinl( Effective Resumes & Cover Letters 4:00-5:00 114 Flanner/CRC Phon~: 631-5200  Career Center Rooms: The CRC: Room 114, 1" FloorFlanner G-20, Lower Level of Flanner The Career Center Phone: 631-5200 http://careercenter.nd.edu  

Wednesday, October l, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
CoLLEGE FooTBALL , 
Standeford's injury may be slowing Purdue offense 
(1-4, 0-1) on a three-game win­
Associated Press 
ning streak. 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -Still, it is clear that the Wlwn John Standeford is at his Boilermakers have not been best, he is running down field, themselves. catching passes, racing away Take away, their 59-point out­from defenders. burst against Arizona, and the 
That is what the Purdue once wide-open Purdue offense Boilermakers need at wide is averaging 21.7 points. mceivcr. That's OK by some standards, 
But that hasn't been the but Purdue fans expect more Standeford coach Joe Tiller has from the attacking style that seen consistently this season. Tiller brought with him from 
"lie is a big-play threat in our Wyoming and has trademarked offense," Tiller during his seven said Tuesday seasons with the during his week­"He s a big-play threat Boilermakers. ly news confer­"It's kind of
in our offense. " 
ence. "But he is surprising to not where he me, talking to was last year." Joe Tiller fans and stuff, 
Standeford has Purdue coach when you put been slowed by up 23 points what Tiller against a good describes as a knot in the quadri­defense and they don't think ceps, and although he has not that's good," quarterback Kyle missed any games in his career, Orton said. "1\venty-three points he has been held out of some and no turnovers is good." practices. Part of the problem is that 
Tiller calls that mostly a pre­sophomore running back Jerod cautionary measure but worries Void has struggled to break free that the injury could become and use his speed to run away worse and require surgery. from defenders. 
Fortunately for the 22nd­The other part, Tiller believes, ranked Boilermakers (3-1), is that Standeford's injury has Standeford's injury has not slowed Purdue's best deep slowed their recovery from an threat. opening day loss. Orton contends too much has 
Last Saturday's 23-10 victory been made of the injury. over Notre Dame was just After all, Standeford does have Purdue's third win in 15 games 20 catches for a team-high 323 against the Irish, and the yards, shares the team lead with Boilermakers enter Saturday's two touchdown receptions and Big Ten opener against Illinois remains one of Orton's favorite 
t 
a 
p a 
t 
e 
g e 
n 
targets. "lie's still a big-play guy mak­ing plays," Orton said. 
But coupled with Taylor Stubblefield's ankle injury, the Boilermakers pass-happy offense has been slowed. 
They're averaging just 224.2 yards passing per game, their second-lowest total since Tiller's arrival in 1997. 
Tiller even said Tuesday he would like to sec Orton become a little more of a "gunslinger" in the next few weeks, and Orton has promised offensive coordina­tor Jim Chancy that he will be more aggressive. 
The biggest help might simply be getting the Boilermakers healthy. 
Stubblefield has caught just 13 passes in the last three weeks after opening with 16 receptions against Bowling Green. 
Void's backup at running back, Jerome Brooks, is expected to play Saturday after hurting his shoulder against the Irish and last year's second-leading rusher, Brandon Jones, is still recovering from a shoulder he hurt in August. 
Then there's Standeford, who played through an abdominal strain last year but missed spring practice because (}f the injury, and now he's dealing with the quad injury. 
Standeford is likely to become the Boilermakers' most prolific receiver before the season ends. 
On Saturday, he caught six passes for 63 yards against Notre Dame to become the Boilermakers' all-time leader in receptions (209) and needs only 69 yards to break Brian Alford's career record. He's needs six more touchdowns to own that school mark, too. 

Because of that, Tiller believes he has no choice. He needs Standeford on the field, even if he's not 100 percent. 
"We're a little concerned about it," he said of the injury. "You know we're resting him on Sundays because we can't aiTord to rest him on Saturdays." 



OUND THE NATION 
Page 22 CoAAPILED r·ROM THE OBsERVER WHU: SERVICES Wednesday, October 1, 2003 

around the dial 
MLB-DJVISION SERIES Marlins at Giants 4 p.m., ESPN Cubs at Braves 7 p.m., ESPN Red Sox at Athletics 10 p.m., ESPN 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Penn State at Michigan State 1 :00 p.m., FSN 
NBA 


Associated Press 

CLEVELAND -On his first official day as an NBA player, LeBron James did all he could to blend in with the Cleveland Cavaliers' other rookies. 
Impossible. 

Cleveland opened train­ing camp Tuesday at Gund Arena, and as expected, all eyes were on James, the 18-year-old local kid who has already made the Cavaliers one of the league's hottest tickets before playing his first game. 
Following the morning practice session, Cavs coach Paul Silas was asked 
how "he" did? 

"Who?" Silas asked, winking. "LeBron." "Oh," a smiling Silas 
said. 

The Cavaliers began preparing for a season that promises to be unlike any in their history. They've already had one abnormal practice. 
Several dozen media members were on hand to watch James work out with his new team. 
The throng of reporters was larger than any to attend one of Cleveland's home games in recent memory. No surprise, real­ly. 
The Cavaliers won just 17 games last season, and haven't exactly been fight­ing the Los Angeles Lakers for national attention late­ly. 
"We were a little giddy before practice," said sec­ond-year forward Carlos Boozer. "We're excited because we know we're better." 
Indeed, times have changed in Cleveland, which has had all summer to prepare for LeBronmania. Now, it's here. 
''I'm just glad it has started and he's on the floor," general manager Jim Paxson said. "It's been a long summer. It's time, and we're glad to be back at work." 
So was James, whose childhood dream of play­ing in the NBA is finally becoming a reality. 
"This is another begin­ning for me," he said. 
Being a rookie has rekin­dled memories of being a wet-behind-the ears high school freshman, before he became a consensus national player of the year and A-list celebrity. 
James knows he has much to learn. 
"In high school I was up here," he said, holding his hand just above his head. "But now I'm down here." 
IN BRIEF 

Indiana u;oing to the air terback Matt LoVecchio completed sons. He replaced Tony Scott. against Michigan State 16 of 33 passes with two intercep­Billmeyer, 39, the Anaheim Indiana ranks 81st nationally in tions and no touchdowns. The aver­Angels' bullpen-workout coordina­NCAA Division I passing offense, age gain on a pass play was 3.24 tor from 1994-99, replaced 
averaging 187 yards a game. yards. Clemente Alvarez. Scott and Alvarez 
The Hoosiers (1-4, 0-1 Big Ten) Michigan totaled 170 yards on 16 were offered positions in the team's are not exactly great at defending completions in 26 attempts, with minor league system. the pass, either, ranking 71st with two touchdowns and no intercep­
an average of nearly 230 yards tions. NCAA selects future sites allowed per game. DiNardo said the Indiana coaches for Women's Frozen Four 
Second-year coach Gerry DiNardo would scrutinize every part of their The NCAA chose Durham, N.H., says the opportunity is there for a passing offense and defense, begin­Minneapolis and Lake Placid, N.Y., quick fix of sorts. ning with themselves. as the next sites for the Women's 
"The good news is, we can work Frozen Four on Tuesday. on both things at the same time," Phillies make coaching The tournament returns to the DiNardo said before the team took changes Whittemore Center in Durham on the practice field Tuesday in prepa­The Philadelphia Phillies made March 25-27, 2005, and marks the ration for Saturday's game at 25th­two coaching changes Tuesday, hir­first time a venue has twice hosted ranked Michigan State (4-1, 1-0). ing former outfielder Milt the NCAA ice hockey champi­
"We'll work on IV against IU, and Thompson as first-base coach and onships. It drew more than 5,000 not worry about our opponent as Mick Billmeyer as catching instruc­fans for the 2002 championship. much, especially when the problems tor. Minnesota's Mariucci Arena will are similar on both sides of the foot­Thompson, 44, spent five of his 11 host its second championship March ball," DiNardo said. major league seasons with the 24-26, 2006. 
In last week's 31-17 loss at Phillies and has been the team's Minneapolis also was the host site Michigan, the Hoosiers gained just minor league outfield-baserunning for the inaugural tournament in 107 yards through the air as quar-coordinator for the past three sea-2001. 
page 23

Wednesday, October 1, 2003 Tht Oburvtr + SPORTS 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles win in unexpected fashion over Manchester 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Wrriter 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team got their second straight win Tuesday night, but the Belles did not defeat Manchester the way their coach expected. 
"Our last two opponents haven't been that good, and we've really been playing down to their level," coach Julie Schrocdor-Biek said. 
Saint Mary's took care of non­conference opponent Manchester in four sets at home by a score of 30-21, 30-25, 19­30, 30-22. 
Outside hitters Kristen Playko and Ann Carpenter continued their impressive freshman sea­sons with 16 and 15 kills, respectively. Playko also led the team in digs with 30 and in service aces with three. 
Dnfensivc specialist Alison Shcvik was not far behind with 29 digs, and both libero Ann Cusack and defensive specialist Michelle Gary pitched in 17 digs. 
Middle hitter Elise Rupright led the team with five blocks. 
The Belles got ofT to a quick start in the first game, going up 10-2 initially, but a timeout by Manchester helped to cut that lead to only two points. 
"We started out just how we needed to be -really domi­nant," Schroeder-Biek said. "We didn't continue with the fight though, and it was a real frus-trating match." 

Manchester came into the match with a 5-12 record and -for the third straight year ­with a new coach. For this rea­son. Schroeder-Biek thought her team should have swept their opponent in three sets like they did last year. 
"It's a real transition for that team, to have their third di!Ter­ent coach in three years," she said. "To their credit, they kept the ball alive and really kept us on our toes. 
We looked tired mentally," she said. Saint Mary's remains at home 

Thursday to face non-confer­ence opponent Bethel. 
"Bethel is going to be a strong match," Schroeder-Biek said. "We're really going to have to rise to our opponent." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Playko named MIAA Player of the Week 
Special to the Observer Freshman Kristen Playko had three double-double in kills and digs performances in all three conference matches last week to help her earn the MIM Player of the Week honors. For the week, she averaged 
5.45 kills, 3.91 digs and 0.73 aces per game, which translate to 6.5 total points per game. The Belles fell to Alma Sept. 22 and Hope Tuesday before getting back on the winning track at home on Saturday against Olivet. 
Noteworthy in the four-game loss against !lope was a game two victory by the Belles, the first game they have taken from the Flying Dutch since 1999. 
This is the second time a Belle has earned Player of the Week honor. Senior co-captain Alison Shevik earned the Specialty Player of the Week two weeks ago. 
Saint Mary's College next home contest is Thursday. October 2 against local rival Bethel College. Game time is at 7 p.m. following the annual Oktoberfest Hun/Walk benefit for Breast Cancer Awareness, host­ed by the Athletic and Nursing Departments. 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS We are now taking applications for the 2004-2005 school year! Apply early to get the best prices locked in and the best locations. Why live at Turtle Creek Apartments? +So close to can1pus, it is just like being on campus! +You can request to live next to friends; you can evert request an ENTIRE BUILDING! +We have a pool that we open before Memorial Day and KEEP open after Labor Day +24 hour lock out services...trust me, .it'll come in handy! +Everyone that moved into Turtle Creek this year got a FREE pizza! +On-site...all the tilne... n1anagemef\t staff. I could go on but I'n1 sure you have your own reasons for wanting to live here with us. Stop by and see us we'll answer any ofyour questions, or you can visit us on the web at: WWW. TURTLECREEKND.COM *Apply before October 31st to lock in 03-04 rents. After Novetnber 1st rents for 04-05 \Vill be established.*  

Wednesday, October 1, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 24 

CHIP MARKS/The Observer 
Irish forward Becky Tweneboah goes for the ball In a win. 
<. 
Break 
continued from page 28 

but will mainly focus on improving the unit as a whole. 
"I think we want to go back and work on a few things and, really, across the board, improve ourselves at every position," Diedrick said. "It's a similar format that you would have during a normal week. But the things you stress are a little more individual then group." 
While the Irish offense's abil­ity may be questioned, the Panthers is not. Led by quar­terback Rod Rutherford and wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald. Rutherford has completed 61.7 percent of his passes for 1,171 yards and 16 touchdowns while only throwing three interceptions. His favorite tar­get is Fitzgerald who has nine touchdowns and 32 receptions for 583 yards this season. 
"[Rutherford] is a great scrambler and he has a good arm, but he also has a lot of weapons," Baer said. "He's playing with a lot of confi­dence right now." 
Baer also said containing Fitzgerald will be a challenge. "If [Fitzgerald] isn't the best 
The Reality of the Film Industry Learn l'l!erything from getting a job In the 
industry. including whatit takes tosurvive and be successful in the ~biz.,. to the business otthe 
film Industryitself. 
oooioooeooaaaooaaaaa 
Wednesday, October 1 
7:00 • 8:30 PM 
Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Ubrary 
Pf'H: oitCJmlulon. Free parking saouUte strt'fl from the Hetb...,glt Ubrary 
Soccer 
continued from page 28 
wards." 
The Irish got on the board 10 minutes into the contest. Senior forward Amy Warner started the sequence by beat­ing her defender before pass­ing to Guertin, who shot the ball into the left side of the net. 
The Irish dominated posses­sion for the rest of the first half but could not get back on the board until 3:37 remained. Junior Mary Boland was tack­led in the box, giving the Irish a penalty kick. Boland took the kick and placed the ball in the lower right side of the net to give the Irish a 2-0 lead at halftime. 
Boland also played a big part in the final Irish goal early in the second half, passing the 

wide receiver we'll face, he's darn close." 
Pittsburgh opened its year with a 43-3 beating of Kent State before doubly up Ball state 42-21. Toledo then upset the Panthers 35-31. Last week, Pittsburgh had its most impressive game with a 37-26 victory over Texas A&M. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

ball from the left side into the box, where senior Kim Carpenter headed it in for her second goal of the season and the final 3-0 score. 
The Irish return to action Friday as they continue their eight game homestand against West Virginia in the first Big East Divisional Game of the season for the Irish. Notre Dame will be looking to avenge last season's 3-0 loss to the Mountaineers. 
Notes 

+ 
Boland's goal was her team­leading ninth of the season. She leads the team with 22 points, while Warner's team­leading eighth assist was her 20th point. 

+ 
The Irish have outscored its opposition this season 40-5. Notre Dame is ranked No. 2 in all of the major polls, with North Carolina ranked No.1. 


NOTRE DAME 3, NO-Carpenter, Kimberly (Boland) 51:19
Indiana State 0 at ALUMNI FIELD 
Notre Dame -Saves 1 (Erika Bohn 1). Shots 32, Corner kicks 7, Fouls 4 

1st 2nd Total Indiana State -Saves 13 (CareyNOTRE DAME 2 1 3 Patton 13), Shots 1, Corner kicks 0,
INDIANA STATE 0 0 0 
Fouls 2 

Scoring Summary NO-Guertin, Amanda. (-)10:01 
Contact Andy Troeger at NO-Boland, Mary (PK) 41:29 atroeger@nd.edu 
Gotspring·semester housing blues? Turtle Creek is offeringleases from January 1, 2004 Through·May 31,·2004 Call for details 
272~8124 

www,turtlecreekrtrl.com 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Wedllesday, Oct. 1, 2003 6:30-8:00 pm 101 DeBartolo 
With Claudia Kselman, Associate Director International Study Programs ., Student Returnees 
Please note the date and the time change! 
Application Deadline: December 1 For Fall 2004 -Spring 2005 A Y 2004-2005 
Wednesday, October 1, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
field position at the Walsh 26-ued for much of the second half, scrambles, including a 12-yard ence. The penalty resulted in a yard line. as neither team was able to scamper on fourth-and-5 at the loss of down and a win for
Win 
continued from page 28 
they didn't score, and our defense just wasn't going to let them score," said Phoxes captain Katie Murray. 
When Walsh took over on their 24-yard line with less than two minutes remaining, both teams had combined to cross midfield once. In an effort to generate some ofTense, Campbell dropped back on a third down play and looked to complete a pass in the right flats. The ball was deflect­ed and intercepted by Pangborn. giving the Phoxes tremendous 
A2sALON 
271.8804 
2039 South Bend Ave. Inside the Martin's Shopping Plaza next door to Sprint -Corner of Ironwood DR. and Ironwood 
The Phoxes did not waste time in taking advantage of the opportunity. On second down from the 26-yard line, Trish Conneely lined up to the right of quarterback Christina Dunn. Dunn handed the ball to Conneely on a reverse. Conneely ran left as the rest of the play flowed right. The misdirection worked to perfection as Conneely outran the fooled Walsh defense to the left sideline and into the end zone for the 26­yard score. Conneely scored the one-point conversion on a direct snap to make the score 7-0 Pangborn at halftime. 
The defensive struggle contin­
c r o s s midfield 
u n t i I 
Wa Ish 
t 0 0 k 
over the ball on their 37­yard line with four minutes remain­ing in t h e game. From this Pangborn 

30-yard 
I i n e .
"We had a good second half. We 
Finally,really took control. For the rest of the Wild 
the season, we'll just play hard Women 
faced a
and have fun. This is a great 
fourth­
group ofgirls. " and-goal from the 5-yard
Carrie Campbell 
line fol­
Walsh quarterback 
lowing a clutch sack by point, Campbell Pangborn on third down. With 
almost single-handedly led the the Phoxes' defense expecting Wild Women on a march to the Campbell to run, the quarter­Pangborn 1-yard line with six back dropped back and hit a wide open receiver in the end 
zone to bring Walsh to within 
one point at 7-6. On the conver­
sion try, Campbell found another
thehaircolorXperts.com 
Now offering the following promotions 
receiver open in the end zone to
Certain restrictions apply -Must present ad. 
tie the game. The play was negated, however, by a contro­versial offensive pass interfer­
[ H•~f~yle ] [~·~,:~::rf~ 
Pangborn. 
Campbell voiced the frustra­tions of the Wild Women over the questionable call. 
"Obviously, we disagree with the call," she said. "It's unfortu­nate, but it's out of our hands. We had a good second half. We really took control. For the rest of the season, we'll just play hard and have fun. This is a great group of girls." 
On the Pangborn side, there was nothing but jubilation. Four years of pent-up celebration was released as the Phoxes erupted into whooping. shouting and jumping as they left the field. 
"Everything came together tonight," Murray said. "We were ready for a win. We plan on win­ning next Tuesday against Farley, and we won't settle. We'll keep getting better and better." 
Contact Kevin O'Neill at koneill4@nd.edu 


h/)trv1 Odr•h~· 1(11 .2003 
/-· . ­
..2:.3tj,Mt-1 /ltrtt(trlt/ ,·ttt)d,J.t·t'ttht7 .:_~t/k. t11ftuot.Jtt t'·1d ~ /l)nziw~'lt ')·a. ­
Students interested In performing should coOiact Prof. John Riley· Schofield at 631·5175. Once piece should be memorized and the music provided for the dccompanist by October 3, 2003. Sponsored by the Department of Music and the Department of Aim, Television & TI1eatre 
·~~~~r 
~~t~~~r~ 
~ · 
~~ ~~..~JP·.. ··U···B-.·.·.... · ....·· 
:........",;: ·· ..... ··' ........ . 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT AT BOOKMAKER'S PUB 
JASON SAPEN'S BACK! Friday, October 3, 9-12pm 
2046 South Bend Ave. 272-1766 
---~~~~u~l r----~~~~----1 
-------·----·-----_____________.J 
• 
... 
....... 


page 26 Wednesday, October 1, 2003
The Observer + SPORTS 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
BP dominates, remains undefeated after defeating Welsh 
By CHRIS SINUTKO AND DAN TAPETILLO Sports Writers 
Breen-Phillips remained undefeated as they beat league rival Welsh 13-0 at Riehle Fields Tuesday night. 
Breen-Phillips quarterback Tracy Kazmerski ran for two touchdown. and senior captain K e l l y Deckelman es and missed pulls on defense," said Welsh captain Jaime McEldowney. "We can­not win if we play like that." 
Welsh turned the ball over on downs. and BP took over near midfield. They got down to Welsh's 10-yard line after Kazmerski completed a 28­yard out pass. The completion set up Kazmerski for a 5-yard touchdown run. her second of the game. The 1­
had two inter­point con­
"We dropped too many
ceptions. version "Overall, we passes and missed pulls on failed, but 
played great defense. We cannot win ifwe the Babes 
on offense and lead at
play like that. " 
defense." said halftime Kazmerski. 13-0. 
Coach Steve  Jaime McEldowney  Welsh  
Mattingly was pleased with  Welsh captain  came out strong in  
the victory.  the  sec­ 

"This was a big win for our ond half as quarterback Sands team," he said. "We're very completed three consecutive proud of our girls." passes and ran a 10-yard 
Breen-Phillips came out with option to get into BP territory. intensity and scored on their On her fourth pass. however, opening drive as Kazmerski the Breen-Phillips defensive ran a quarterback draw, line tipped the ball, and defen­breaking tackles and in for a sive back Deckelman inter­20-yard touchdown. She then cepted it to end the threaten­completed a pass on the next ing drive. play to convert the PAT and The Babes then drove down make the score 7-0 in favor of the field on a Kazmerski draw the Babes. that almost broke for a touch­
Welsh moved the ball against down. A couple plays later, Breen-Phillips on the following though, she threw a deep pass drive. Quarterback Melissa that Welsh picked off near the Sands delivered the ball on the end zone. money, but the receivers Welsh needed points on its dropped many passes that final drive. They made one could have changed the game. first down, but the BP defense 
"We dropped too many pass-held and Welsh turned the ball over after a fourth-down incompletion. 
The Babes managed to run time off the clock, but they also could not convert on fourth down. This gave the Whirlwinds the ball deep in the Breen-Phillips end. On the second play of the drive, Deckelman intercepted Sands for the second time to seal the victory for Breen-Phillips. 
"This is our division and we are in the driver's seat," Mattingly said. "We're the tar­gets now." 
"We made almost no mis­takes the whole game," said Deckelman. "We came out strong and caught them a little off-guard, and we played con­sistent on both sides of the ball the whole game." 
The Whirlwinds were disap­pointed with their mistakes. 
"BP played very well and I give them credit a good game," Welsh captain McEldowney said. "They were well pre­pared for us. But we definitely beat ourselves, and there are no excuses. We're a better team than that." 
Cavanaugh 12, Farley 0 

Cavanaugh remained unde­feated and improved to 4-0 on the season with a 12-0 win over Farley Tuesday night. 
The Chaos came out with an impressive shutout over the Finest showcasing both their strong offensive and defensive abilities. 
All it took was the opening minutes of the first half for the Chaos to prove how strong their defense was. Defensive lineman Kerri Bergen inter­cepted the ball during the first Farley drive. The interception was quickly turned into a touchdown by junior Jennifer Nokes to make the early score 6-0. 
The Finest. however. battled back on offense and showed tremendous strength as quar­terback Katie Popik made a last minute 
The Farley offense, however. did not shut down. Despite early troubles for the Finest. such as an interception by sophomore Lauran Williamson, the offense was quick to recover. The Finest offense was continually able to move the ball behind the play receiver Lizzy Coghill. 
Coghill had several impres­sive plays during the second half, including a 40-yard punt 
return that 

drive, includ­ing a 20-yard completion  "The game was within our reach. You just got to be on  allowed the Finest offense to  
against a relentless C h a o s  your :.4' game when you're playing the better teams."  drive the ball to the Cavanaugh 2­ 
defense.  yard line.  
The Finest  Angelina Zehrbach  The Finest  
defense then showed force  Farley captain  were unable to convert.  
as  they  however  as  

stopped the Chaos at end the Chaos defensive lineman first half. Lindsey Miller stopped the play 
In the first couple plays to and forced a turnover on begin the second half, Chaos downs. quarterback Lisa Ruffer was The Chaos held the ball for quick to prove why her team the final minutes of the game sees her as a leader. With the to seal the 12-0 victory. Farley defense performing at Despite the loss. the Finest the same level as they did in were not discouraged by their the first half, Ruffer stepped performance. up and led an 80-yard touch­"The game was within our down drive to make the score reach," said team captain 12-0. Angelina Zehrbaeh. "You just 
"She is an inspiration and got to be on your 'A' game has a lot of athleticism." said when you're playing the best team captain Jessica teams." Leibowitz. Teammate Bridget Cernee agreed and added that Ruffer's excellent pocket pres-Contact Chris Sinutko at ence allows her to perform her csinutko@nd.edu and Dan best. Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 


r-------------------------------­Wednesday, October 1, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI
FIVES 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold end Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
UPYPP 

rJ I I I 
Cl2003 Tribuna Madia Sarvlcea, Inc. All Rlghla Reserved. 
TINJO 

[lJ I I
tUNCLAY 
IJ I 



www.jumble.com 
-
MOABEA 
rlow arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon.
rJ 1 
~r here: A 


"r I I I J" r r I J 
(Answers tomorrow) -~ 

I Jumbles: COACH MOUND VARIED PEOPLEYesterday's 
Answer: Important to do when you marry twice ­
DIVORCE ONCE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Reproductive 60 At attention body
1 Biblical gilt 61 Berkshire school J.:..,..+---1~4-­bearers 37 Some 62 _group
caterpillars

5 Kuwaiti, e.g. (computer info 
outside the source)

9 You can say 
U.S.?

that again 63 Amusingly
40 Work with the eccentric14 Lena of hands

"Chocolar 64 "Cut it out!"
41 Actress

15 Rake feature 65 Flippant
Zellweger16 Fasten, as a 
42 Service forship's rope eight, e.g. DOWN 17 Vendor's 43 Charon crosses 1 Poke fun atvehicle 

it 2Jai_
18 Clock sweeper 44 Neighbor of Leb. 3 Song on the19 Stupefy 45 Grasping Beatles' 
20 Significant "Rubber Soul"
47 Microwaveevents outside album48 One with herthe U.S.? 

4 Altogether own dressing23 One of the room, surely 5 Literary Sinatras 49 With "the," institution: Var. 
24 High dudgeon everything 6 Vaquero's rope25 Oust outside the 7 British royal28 Oral surgeon's U.S.? 
8 Laid updeg. 
57 Kachina doll 9 Taper off

29 Tete-11-tete makers 10 Audition tape
33 Egg: Prefix 58 Beat fast 32 Snappish 47 Piquant 52 Spank11 Broadway's _34 Hornswoggled 59 Swing around 35 Formed beads, 48 Radioactivity
Jay Lerner 53 Defense 
in a way cleanup acronym
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Look (at) 
36 Turn suddenly process, for 
short38 Purchase price

.;,;+.;.,..+;.+;,;.j 21 Handled badly 
addition 49 "I'm glad that's 55 One with 22 Alums-to-be: over!"
39 Infantry unit second 
Abbr. thoughts, say
44 Hunter of old 50 Kibbutz dance 25 Loading areas movies 51 Grp. with 56 Muralist Jose ~~~ 26 Olympic 46 Gobbles barrels Maria 
category 
-;:.+;:.+.,:.r.:;,..._ -:+.:+:;;+;:;..!,iii,i...;,.+.;;.~~ 27 Full of firs 
For answers, call 1-900·285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a28 Dissuade 
credit card, 1-800-81 4-5554. 29 Minor U.S.N. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundayadministrator crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. ..;...f..;4-.;+:~;.~ 30 One taken for a Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 ride past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year) . .;;;.+;.+.::~~ 31 Equipped with a Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, heater? 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
.. 

Name __________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City _________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Randy Quaid, Kelly Willis, Jay Underwood, Kevin Griffin, Jumee Smollett 
Happy Birthday: You'll be a crusader this year. Use your creative ability to put 
...... 

a different slant on whatever you do. This is a year for self-improvement. Anyone with vision will see what you are trying to accomplish and will lend you a hand. Your numbers are 3, 9, 18, 21, 36, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get involved in talks that can lead to positive change. Your strength and courage will put you into the spotlight at any event you attend. Listen to someone with experience. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't make a rash decision about money. Taking a risk will lead to a mistake. Getting involved in someone else's venture is not going to pan out. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Dealing with a business or personal partner will be very stressful today. Talk less, listen more and leave any resolution untillaler 
in the week. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Hard work will pay off if you incorporate some of your ideas into whatever project you are pursuing. Talk to people in the know. Don't let yourself get run down. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Socialize and you will meet someone who will make a difference to you in the future. Your affectionate nature will help in lhe relationship department. Talk about the way you feel. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Protect yourself from unsavory people and situations. You will have some big ideas, but you need to be sure you aren't taking on something that is next to impossible. Don't depend on a partner or 
family member. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Sort out problems you are experiencing with close friends, relatives or neighbors today. Your ability to see both sides of an issue will put you in a good position.**** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will have an interesting idea that you can incolllorate into a job thai you are performing. Don't end up overspending. Offer suggestions, but don't give cash to someone asking for a loan. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take a deep breath before you overreact. Back off and observe rather than get involved in any disputes. You need to find 
a release to ease your tension. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Secrets will be revealed. Don't share your opinions. Your good intentions will backfire, causing you more grief than you 
can imagine. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take charge of whal's happening to you and join forces with people who want to make similar changes. The people you meet who are struggling to reach similar goals will become lifelong friends. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't expect anything and you won't be disappointed. Your position in society may be changing. Prepare to do some damage control. Avoid meddling in other people's affairs. ** 
Birthday Baby: You are bright, bold and beautiful, inside and out. You are inquisitive and determined to get your way. You are fun to be with and eager to play. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 

THE 0BSERVtR 
PORTS
Wednesday, October 1, 2003 
Page 28 
FOOTBALL 
No rest for the weary 
Irish try to fix problem during bye week 

By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 

-
Kent Baer doesn't consider the bye week a week off. The Irish defensive coordinator said the team works just as hard this week as weeks when there is a game. 
"We work pretty hard during a bye week," Baer said. "Today was a long practice and a hard practice and a physical prac­tice." 
The Irish have two weeks to prepare for a road contest against No. 18 Pittsburgh Oct. 
11. Notre Dame is coming off a 23-10 loss to Purdue, and are just 1-3 after losing three straight games. 
Despite the poor start, coach Tyrone Willingham was pleased with the team's per­formance in practice Tuesday. 
"[It was a good practice] for the fact that we had an oppor­tunity to go out and start to get some work in," Willingham said. "Our young men prac­ticed very well and brought a certain level of energy and focus and that was good." 
Willingham said he looks at this week and the rest of the season in a positive light, rather than dwell on the loss­es. If the team begins to think negatively, the rest of the sea-
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish dominate once again with defense 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 

Heading into the game against Indiana State, women's soccer coach Randy Waldrum was con­cerned his team was looking ahead to upcoming top 10 foe West Virginia. Despite a domi­nating win, some of his concerns were warranted in his team's 3-0 win. 
In contrast to their normal effi­ciency, the Irish scored three goals on 32 shots against the Sycamores, while Indiana State managed only one shot. 
"We just weren't quite as sharp," said Waldrum. "I think you could look at the tape and see that we were pretty domi­nant and they didn't cause us many problems. At times it looked good when we were knocking it around. It was pretty but not very effective and we have to cash in on some of our chances." 
For the seventh game in a row, the Irish defense held the opposi­tion to less than two shots -the only shot Indiana State regis­tered was a weak one from long range. 
"I think Melissa Tancredi is the best back in the country right now," said Waldrum. "And Christie Shaner has really settled in and done well. Between Vanessa Pruzinsky and Lizzie Reed and Kimmy Lorenzen, they've all done a great job and are finally coming together. A lot of the things we're doing to keep them from getting opportunities is coming from the defending of our midfielders and even our for-
see SOCCER/page 24 

• 
en 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
w

1--u z BP13 
Welsh Family 0 
a: :3 
..;._ 
The Babes remained undefeated in a cold-weather duel. 
== 
a. !:i 
page 26
en 
Cavanaugh 12 Farley 0 
Cavanaugh dominat­ed Farley to maintain its perfect record. 
page 26 WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Pangborn snaps 4-year losing streak 
By KEVIN O'NEILL 
Sports Writer 

Due to a stingy defense, an opportunistic offense and a controversial offensive pass interference call, the Pangborn Phoxes 
snapped a S AI 

four-year ee so losing "BP Dominates, streak by 
remains undefeated
defeating 

after defeating
the Walsh W i I d Welsh" Women 7­
page 26
6 at the Riehle West Field. 

The game was a hard-fought defensive battle, as neither team was able to mount a seri­ous scoring threat until very late in the first half. Walsh quarterback Carrie Campbell described the struggles at the beginning of the game for the son will be a negative, accord­ing to Willingham. 

"I don't think the past has anything to do with the future unless you let it," Willingham said. "My focus has always been we play them one game at a time. If we win this next game then that gives us the best chance to win the next one." 
If the Irish are to improve, the offense must make strides this week and next in practice. The unit has struggled to run the football and have been inconsistent in scoring. 
Offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said his offense may experiment some this week, 
see BREAK/page 24 


Wild Women. football. "We just weren't connecting," "Our defense just decided Campbell said. that they couldn't beat us if 
Meanwhile, the Pangborn defense was playing inspired 
SMC VOlLEYBAll 
Saint Mary's 3 

Twins 3 
Manchester 1 

Yankees 1 
Kristen Playko earns 

For the first time in 
MIAA Player of the 

two years, the Twins 
Week as the Belles win. 

defeat the Yankees. 
page 23 
page 17 

MLB 
Giants 2 Marlins 0 
San Francisco, led by Jason Schmidt, won the series opener at home. 
page 16 
see WIN/page 25 
Cubs 4 Braves 2 
The Cubs win a post­season road game for the first time since 1945. 
page 16 





