Wednesday, February 19, 2003


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Top­

notch musical quartets perform 
page 10 
VOL. XXXVII NO. 98 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Officials progress with Sharon investigation 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Assistant News Editor 
One week after police iden­tified Chad Sharon's body as the one found Feb. 12 in the St. Joseph River, officials are moving forward with the 
police investiga­tion and funeral a n d memorial arrange­ments for Sharon. 


Sharon's Sharon body was discovered under the Angela Bridge by construction workers on Feb. 
12. Autopsy results indicated that the cause of death was drowning. The Fisher Hall freshman had been unac­counted for since he was last seen Dec. 12 at a party on Corby Street. 
Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security Police, said that it was not possible to establish an exact date or time of death for Sharon based on the autopsy results, but estimated that Sharon died "probably within a week or so" after his Dec. 12 disap­pearance. "You can make some pretty wide guesses [in this case]," said Rakow. 
Rakow said members of his department had not yet met with the St. Joseph County Metro Homicide Police, but expected that such a meeting would take place within a week or two when the Homicide Police began to closely investigate Sharon's death. 
"They're waiting for blood tests to come back to assess what might have been in his system," said Rakow. 
The Metro Homicide Police will be responsible for the 
investigation into Sharon's death, although Rakow said he expected to provide them with information concerning the missing persons case that NDSP had been investigating. 
University officials have also finalized plans for funeral and memorial arrangements for Sharon. Funeral services for the Fisher freshman will be held Saturday at Bible Presbyterian Church in Merrill, Wis., near Sharon's hometown of Pelican Lake, Wis. Visitation hours will take place from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. and be immediately followed by a memorial service. 
The University will provide transportation for students who want to attend the funer­al, said Matt Starin, University spokesman. Buses are sched• uled to leave from the library circle at 11 :45 p.m. on Friday. In making the decision to pro­vide such services for stu­dents, Storin said officials 
considered past instances where the University had offered transportation to the funerals of other Notre Dame students. 
Notre Dame officials have also planned a memorial Mass for Sharon to take place Tuesday at 5: 15 p.m. in the Basilica. Storin said the Sharon family would be avail­able to talk with students and others before the Mass at 4 
p.m. in the Lady Chapel of the Basilica and that Sharon's parents hope that those who knew their son personally will come forward as well as oth­ers who wish to express their sympathy. 
"[The Sharons] are very taken with the family aspect of Notre Dame," said Starin. "It's open to any student who would like to express their condolences." 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfra1ish@nd.edu 
MUSICAL NOTES 

While Lafortune and Hesburgh Library are crowded with students studying notes for class, Notre Dame junior Ellse Brown studies her vlolin notes. Playing "Caprice" by Paganini on her violin In Crowley Hall, El!se practices Wednesday, when, like most days, she practices for at least two hours. 
Political science professor discusses reparations 
By NATASHA GRANT 
News Writer 
Political Science professor Alvin Tillery set out to tackle the politics for redress for black Americans with his talk, "Black Exceptionalism: Why Reparations are Just and Good Public Policy." part of the student government Last Lecture series. 
In the crowded O'Neill Hall lounge, Tillery explained his theo­ry of reparations, which he said did not automatically mean slave reparations or monetary repara­tions, using historical information and current events. 
"The deep ambivalence dis­played by most whites about repa­rations stem from what many see as a tenuous link between slavery and black excep­tion alism in America," Tillery said. 
H e 
described this ambiva­



TIiiery

lence as 
something that is both hopeful and worrisome. He said while whites generally refuse to make any con­nection to slavery, "for blacks, it's obvious that slavery was a crime reflective of both historical and modern understanding of terror­ism and genocide." 
Tillery set out to make the case that African Americans should receive compensation because of wrongdoing toward them, not nec­essarily during slavery but during the counter-Reconstruction period after slavery had ended and blacks were still treated as unequal. Tillery said blacks should be compensated for missed oppor­tunities to better themselves that the government stripped from them and awarded low-status whites. 
Although Tillery said one "should never build an academic case on what the dictionary says," he begun by defining reparation as per the Oxford English Dictionary and Webster's Dictionary. 
He also based his presentation 
see TILLERY/page 3 


Cheaper books fuel SMC leaders 
By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
News Writer 
Increased student concern 
over the exorbitant price of 
textbooks and their medial 
buy back value has prompted 
student leaders to research 
new methods of book 
exchange. 
According to Student Body 
Vice President Elizabeth 
Jablonski-Diehl. the commit­
tee has been formed in con­
j unction with the Student 
Academic Council. The 
research on book values was 
extended from the investiga­
tion of senior comprehensives 
undertaken by student gov­
ernment earlier this year. 
"SAC used to be involved 
with student buy back," 
Jablonski-Diehl said. "It used 
to provide a place for stu­
dents to drop off their books 
and catalogue them for sale." 
The Technology 
Department, with help from 
Mary Pauline Moran, student 
technology commissioner, is 
planning a new method for 
book returns that could 
involve a permanent place to 
sell books among the entire 
college community. 
"It is hoped that this place 
will be established on the 
Virtual Village by the end of 
this semester to early next 
year," Jablonski-Diehl said. 
The environmental commu­
nity at Saint Mary's is also 
backing the setup of the vir­
tual selling place. They 
believe that this will decrease 
the amount of paper products 
used for making posters on 
campus. 
Sandy Vanderwerven, bookstore manager, was not aware of this new student ini­tiative. 
When asked about the stu­
dent complaints that book 
prices are too high and buy 
back v:due too low 
Vanderwerven said that the 
bookstore prices books at the 
national norm. 
"\.Ye try to buy back books at the highest price possible," she said. "Prices are deter­mined according to supply and demand." 
Vanderwerven said sales at the bookstore have not dropped off due to the advent of low-cost Internet sites because students find the bookstore convenient and timely. 
Students are pleased with the possibility of a virtual sell­ing place for used textbooks. 
Mary Watrobica, a Saint Mary's junior, who has never used Internet sites to obtain her textbooks said that the proposed site is a good idea. 
"I have never bought my books online before, but I would consider using the new system," said Watrobica. 
Contact Shannon Nelligan at nell2040@saintmarys.edu 


Wednesday, February 19, 2003 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
War. What is it good for? Something. 
Imagine if, several months ago, when the United Nations was trying to get inspectors back into Iraq, President Bush had said, "My good friend Saddam, ifyou do not allow inspectors into your country. then we 
will ... hold your Joe Lindsleymurderous nuclear-tainted hand and 
Sports

snort anthrax while 
Production 
we dance around 
Editor 

your p}Te of inno­cent Iraqis in a joy­ful chorus ofkumbaya." 
Now, would Mr. Hussein have allowed th~ inspectors into his country? 
Yet with the threat of war and the pres­sure ofAmerica's military, look at all the concessions, however phony, he has been making oflate. Ofcourse, Saddam's sup­posed conceptions have been superficial, because he believes he can dupe the world. 
During the wave of protests over the weekend, a few particular occurrences stand out. One, Saddam was gloating. He was happy, not because he enjoys a rollick­ing good day offestivities, nor because he is a pacifist. He was happy because he loves waging war on mankind, and he hat.es it when others try to interl'ere. and he thinks his tricks are succeeding. 
Two, anti-war protesters in the Middle East were carrying portraits ofSaddam because they wanted to support him in the face of the evil American dictatorship. So now, Saddam is the oppressed victim, and America, namely Bush, is the evil tyrant. If Saddam is the victim of Bush, then what does that make the Iraqi people? 
Remember the protests against American action in Afganistan, and consid­er how the citizens of that nation are now free of the oppressive rule of the Taliban. Now consider the hundreds of thousands ofKurds and others slaughtered by Saddam's regime. Ponder the millions who have ffiCaped Iraq in search for freedom. Think about how Saddam allows women to be raped, children to starve, and how he forces families to pay for the unjust execu­tions of their relatives. 
Refusing to consider war means st.and­ing by while the Iraqi people suffer these evils and while Saddam and his cohorts (e.g., Bin Laden) make plans to inflict siini­lar evils on the entire word. Sitting this one out would be a sin ofomis.sion. 
The Bush administration was blamed for not taking any action-any preemptive strikes-before the 9/11 attack. Now, Bush is threatening a preemptive strike, in order to prevent the same sort of thing from hap­pening again. Yet, the selfsame critics from a year ago now are vehemently opposed to the notion of prevention as a cure. 'This conjures memories ofWmston Churchill trying to persuade Neville Oiamberlain and the Briti.5h populace that Hitler was not only an evil man, but a threat to the world. 
There are times when it is necessary to minimize hazards, times when it is neces­sary to use force to set an oppressed people free, times when it is n~to strike the bully before he blows up the neighbor­hood, and times when one must coura• geously fight for the God-given human rights oflife and liberty. The Saddam can• cer is quite malign, and quite willing to spread throughout the word via terrorist arteries. It is time for an experienced sur­geon to step in, to root out the msease that has already claimed many lives, and strike it before it transforms from a local malady to one of monstrous proportions. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Joe Lindsley atjlindsle2nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

In Friday's article, "The Barnyard Cornes ro Llfe,"two male dancer were incorrectly listed as Notre Dame sru­dents. They arc acquaintances of the director. The an:i­cle also neglected to mention co-choreographer Nicole Pliskc of"Fixed on Fosse," and stated the Saint Mary's Repertory/Performance had 20 members. The work­shop actually had 15 members. 
Tucsday's Obscrvtt incorrectly stated the room for the autism seminar. The correct room is Haggar 117. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Food Services answers with survey 
Food Services said they will dis­tribute a survey to gauge student opinion on meal plans. 
page 7 
WORLD& NATION 
Many killed, injured in South Korean subway fire 
A fiery inferno engulfed two sub­way trains Tuesday after a man threw a flammable contain­er on to one of the trains. 
page 5 
WHAT'S COOKING 

North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Breaded cheese sticks, meatball stroganoff sauce, smoked creole flank steak, roasted poupon potatoes, apple cobbler. Swiss spinach, Oriental vegetables, scrambled eggs, apple pancakes, O'brien potatoes, sweet and sour chicken, cheese enchi­lada, Mexicana couscous 
Today's Dinner: Pork loin with apples, hot applesauce. whipped pota­toes, apple cobbler, baked haddock jar­diniere, steamed carrots. steamed broc­coli, mixed vegetables, baked sweet potatoes, steakhouse fries. Cantonese BBQ chicken, jalapeno poppers, California rancho rice 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a: 
LIJ 
::c 
~ 
LIJ 
~ 
..I 
cc 
(.) 

0 

BUSINESS NEWS 
Professor gives his Enron view 
Jim Seida explained Enron's accounting prob­lems at Thursday's Senate Finance Committee meet· ing. 
page 7 



HIGH LOW 

..I HIGH 35 32 HIGH HIGH 45 LOW 30 25 LOW LOW 30 
40 38 


South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Collard greens, turkey turnovers, London broil with wine marinade, cheddar-baked pol­lack. shrimp creole, potatoes au gratin, grilled turkey sandwich, chicken teriyaki, portobello fajita 
Today's Dinner: Chicken cacciatore, gorgonzola sauce, French bread pizza, roast top round, oven-fried chicken, grilled Polish sausage, rotini with veg­etables. Polish-style kluski noodles. cabbage, honey-mustard chicken, sea­soned fries, onion rings, Chinese noo­dles and snow peas with soy dressing. flatbread beef pizza 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

SCENE SPORTS 
Senior stand­comes to ND Shakespeare 
out shines 
Senior Jason the Actors for the 
Scene previews 
Fitzpatrick praised London Stage. The 
as "clutch per-actors will perform 
former." The Tempest this weekend. 
page 11 page 20 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
WNDU receives harassingphone call 
NDSP is investigating a harassing telephone call complaint received Tuesday. 
Injured student needs medical attention 
NDSP transported a student to St. Joseph Medical Center Monday for the treatment of a sports injury. 


Bike theft reported 
A student on Monday reported the theft of her unlocked bike from a bike rack outside Lewis Hall between Thursday afternoon and Friday morning. There are no suspects. 


Camcorder stolen 
A student reported the theft of her camcorder Monday from her dorm room stolen sometime last week. There are no suspects. 
-Compiled from NDSP crime blotter. 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
No menu was available. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 30 HIGH 22 LOW 12 LOW 0 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
VIEWPOINT 
Readers defend Bishop 
Members of the Executive Cabinet and Charlie Ebersol defend Student Body President Libby Bishop's stu­dent government work. 
page 9 

. 
Provost's Advisory Committee Meeting. McKcnna I fall, all day. 

. 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship, \Vilson Commons. 8 to 9 p.m. 

. 
Student Senate: Joe Sweigart, podium; approval of Henry Scott, report on LaFortune, nomination of Don Norton for Treasurer; LaFortune Notre Dame room; 6 p.m. 


I 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 

. 
ND/SMC Tax-Assistance Program, llagg~r College Center room 303, 3 p.m. 

. 
Irish Dance Lessons, Madale va Hall room 231, 5:30 p.m. 

. 
SAB Event -Eric and Zach, Dalloway's Clubhouse. 7 p.m. 




Atlanta 63 / 44 Boston 39 / 31 Chicago 37 / 26 Denver 48 / 25 Houston 70 / 55 Los Angeles 66 / 48 Minneapolis 34 / 23 New York 40 / 30 Philadelphia 42 / 30 Phoenix 68 / 49 Seattle 50 / 38 St. Louis 47 / 32 Tampa 74 / 61 Washington 44 / 33 
Wednesday, February 19, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Historian's lecture addresses Holocaust 
By AMANDA ROTHEY 
News Writer 
Noted Holocaust historian Michael Morris spoke at McKenna Hall Tuesday evening in a lecture titled "Coming to Term with the Past: reflections of a Holocaust Historian." 
Morris, dean of graduate stu­dents and professor of Holocaust Studies at the University of Toronto, cited four strategies to achieve the aim of "discussing the issue of coming to terms with the past from the standpoint of a historian of the Holocaust." Each strategy, namely political, judicial, mate­rial and cultural, presents dif­ferent sets of problems and controversy in modern society. 
In the political arena, Morris emphasized the importance that the highest levels of gov­ernment acknowledge German responsibility for the Holocaust. 
Tillery 
continued from page 1 
reparation as per the Oxford English Dictionary and Webster's Dictionary. 
He also based his presenta­tion on the definition of "jus­tice" according to the 20th century philosopher John Rawls who remade the social contract. 
Based on his understanding of Rawls, Tillery said he was able to arrive at an original position that states, "the only way to make a just society is to be blind to the current soci­ety." 
He discussed the back­ground of the reparation movement and how 
In 1951, Chancellor Konrad Adenaur began this process when he declared to the German Bundestag that the crimes of the past require resti­tution. President Richard von Witziger furthered this concept in 1985 when he challenged Germans to "look truth in the eye" and accept responsibility for the past. Although he sup­ports the process, Morris ques­tions its effectiveness. 
"You have non-victims apolo­gizing to non-perpetrators," he said. 
Morris also discussed judicial strategies for coming to terms with the Holocaust, specifically the Nuremberg Trials as the way in which the public collec­tively recognizes crimes. While trials do provide a sense of jus­tice, Morris said that they fail to actually explain the causes behind World War II or the Holocaust 
Morris' discourse on material 
Congressman John Conyers started the reparation move­ment when he introduced res­olutions calling for a commis­sion to study the legacy of slavery on African Americans. 
Tillery cited a more current reparation case involving Deadria Farmer Paellman who filed class action suits against three major insurance compa­nies on behalf of 35 million black Americans who were the descendants of slaves. 
According to Tillery, it is dif­ficult to know where Americans stand on the issue of reparations because where a survey showed that they split on the issue in the past, he believes that "blacks and whites are talking past each other." 
Tillery said the government strategies focused on the issue of reparations and restitution as a means to confront past wrongs. Morris purposely dif­ferentiated between repara­tions and restitution, describing reparations as payment to "repair great wrong." In con­trast, restitution concerns the return of specific entities, from stolen artwork or wages for slave labor. The danger in this process of reparations and restitutions, Morris claims, lies in the endless lawsuits that it instigates. 
"Prominent Jews fear that this effort for restitution will lead to the charge that it's all about money," he said. 
Cultural strategies, the final of Morris's four points, center on the representation of the Holocaust in the arts. Morris said that representations of the Holocaust in culture can trivial­ize the actual events because society becomes immune to 
and political parties should bear the brunt of the repara­tions, specifically for the "Nadir Period" -the time after slavery until blacks were granted full citizenship through the Voting Rights Act of 1965. According to Tillery. with the race riots and fre­quent lynchings that occurred in a liberal democracy that blacks helped to build and preserve, this period was even worse than slavery. 
Tillery's main reason for calling for reparation is based in the idea that the govern­ment not only allow for the mistreatment of blacks but it actively participated in it while "political parties have distort­ed the record of black Americans for political gain with uneducated white vot­their horror. In particular, Morris considers the public's reactions to the Holocaust Museum in Washington, D.C and the danger of trivializing the past. 

"Do people come away from this experience inoculated to the historical wrongs in the future? One hopes not, but we can't know what's going on in people's heads," he said. 
Morris closed his discussion by validating the need for acknowledgement of the Holocaust, but cautioning against over analysis of history. 
"In Germany, this constant analysis elicited a backlash that seizes upon the Middle East as an issue ... Germans find sympa­thy for the Palestinians in order to cast off this analysis," Morris said. 
Contact Amanda Rothey at arothey@nd.edu 
ers." 
In addition. he said the Middle Passage, or the journey of enslaved Africans to America, claimed hundreds of thousands of lives and those who survived were damaged psychologically, physically and sexually. Since America is in the practice of making mone­tary reparations first to American Indians for forcing them onto reservations and most recently to Sept. 11 vic­tims, Tillery believes that it is only fair that blacks receive the same. 
In a question-and-answer session, Tillery was asked if he thought reparations would occur, and he answered nega­tively. 
In his second year of teach­ing at Notre Dame, Tillery 
received his bachelor's from Morehouse College and his doctoral degree from Harvard University. 
The lecture was also a part of Notre Dame's Black History Month celebration, and according to Tillery, the topic of one of his ongoing book projects. 
Contact Natasha Grant at Natasha.N.Grant.20@nd.edu 
: 
•
•
• 

THE STANDING 
COMMITTEE ON 
• GAY AND LESBIAN 
• STUDENT NEEDS 
•
•
•
• 
SMC creates self-defense program 
By AMY GREENE 
News Writer 
A new self-defense program 
was recently implemented at 
Saint Mary's. The Rape 
Aggression Defense System 
(RAD) is a program of realistic, 
self-defense tactics and tech­
niques. The system is a compre­
hensive course exclusively for 
women that focuses on the 
awareness and prevention of 
assault, risk reduction and 
avoidance, and the basics of 
hands-on defense training. RAD 
is a result of the combined 
efforts of Lynn Kachmarik, 
director of athletics, Linda 
Timm, director of Student 
Affairs, and Rosemary Harris, 
interim director of Security. 
"The three of us thought that 
this would be a great program to 
have at Saint Mary's," 
Kachmarik said. "The classes 
are free and enrollment is 
unlimited. We want to allow as 
many women as possible to 
learn these self-defense tactics." 
Saint Mary's is able to fund the program and its certified instructors through a special academic grant. 
"Right now we have 25 women enrolled, but we are leaving it totally wide-open," Kachmarik said. 
One out of every four college women is sexually assaulted 

' 
during the four years of college. RAD is the largest women's self­defense system in the country and teaches women defensive techniques and concepts against various types of assault by utiliz­ing easy. effective and proven self-defense tactics. 
"I think it's great that a pro­gram like this exists here," Kachmarik said. "It addresses self-defense, empowerment, and women's issues and makes women more well rounded through education, fitness and wellness." 
RAD classes begin this week and run through the end of March. 
Contact Amy Greene at gree7904@saintmarys.edu 


...................................·• .............• 
The Standing Committee : on Gay and Lesbian •• 
•
•
•
Student Needs 
is now 
ACCEPTING 
APPLICATIONS 
.t'or membership
l' 
• If you want to be a part ofcreating:
•
• Educational programming 
•
• (NETfVORK, Hall StaffTraining, and • 
•
• Comm Unity) •• • • Gatherings for students 
•
• (Coffee at the CoMo) 
• New programs 
Please print an application from our Website: 
http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ ap p lications.htm 
•
• 
: For more information, contact Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, : : or student members ( see web site for student contact info.) : : Applications DUE FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 2003. : 
................................................~ 


page 4 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, February 19, 2003 
Food Services survey considers Flex 10 plan 
By CHRISTINA CEPERO 
News Writer 
Food Services will send out a questionnaire this semester to get student feedback on meal plans to determine whether or not to implement a Flex 10 meal plan option next year. 
A random group of students, mainly freshmen, sophomores and juniors, will receive the questionnaire via e-mail in the coming months. Director of Food Services Dave Prentkowski said, "With this scientific review, we can get an understanding of what the stu­dents as a whole would like to see." 
The survey will include a question along the lines of: If you have $X to spend on your meal plan and you want more Flex points, what would you be willing to give up? For example, serving meals in one dining hall instead of both on weekends would save a significant amount of dollars that could go toward the Flex program, Prentkowski said. Other services that could be cut are extended hours, Grab 'n Go or the expanded menu. 
Based on the information it receives, Food Services will come up with the best model and propose it to the adminis­tration for final approval. 

Food Services has also begun to look at other schools across the country to compare meal offerings and pricing options. In the past, students have given the dining halls high overall rat­ings compared to other schools. 
..We want to be sure that we don't change something that would satisfy a certain group of people but dissatisfy a large number of other people," said Prentkowski. 
Student Body Vice President Trip Foley and Prentkowski met last week to discuss the issue. Foley said, "I'm glad that Food Services has agreed to work together on this." 
"The survey will gauge stu­dent sentiment about a Flex 10 meal plan," Foley said. "Food Services conducts extensive research every year on items such as the food and facilities, but this will be the first time students are asked to show how they feel about meal plans." 
Contact Christina Cepero at Cepero. l@nd.edu 
Transplant error leaves teenager near death 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. 

A 17-year-old girl lay near death Tuesday after mistakenly receiving a heart and lung transplant from a donor with the wrong blood type, and hos­pital officials held out little hope of finding a new set of organs in time. 
Jesica Santillan's condition steadily deteriorated after the botched operation Feb. 7. She suffered a heart attack Feb. 10 and a seizure on Sunday. and was in critical condition with a machine keeping her heart and lungs going. 
"Right now my daughter is between life and death. She could die at any moment." her mother, Magdalena Santillan, said in Spanish through an interpreter. "My daughter needs a transplant of a heart and lungs to survive. It's the only hope that we have because the doctors made an error." 
A family friend said the girl has only a few days left. 
The girl has type 0-positive blood but was given organs from a donor with type-A blood during the operation at Duke University Hospital. 

Write for Observer News. Call Helena at 631-5323. 


Be part of the solution. 


www.nd.iiduJ:....vocation 
I 

ANSWER~ THECALL\qy  
Hear the Experiences  
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS  ofGang Members  


Center for Social Concerns 3:30PM 
For more information please contact the Center for Social Concerns at 1-9970 

Take the Opportunity to Open Your Mind 

Wednesday, February 19, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
SOUTH KOREA 
S. Korean subway inferno claims 120 lives, 2 trains 
Associated Press 
DAEGU 

A fire raged through two packed subway trains in South Korea on Tuesday after a man lit a container of flammable liq­uid and tossed it, killing 120 people and injuring 138, many of them seriously. 
A suspect who police say has a history of mental illness was under interrogation. Police said they did not know what moti­vated the attack or what sub­stance the attacker used to start the blaze. 
The fire began in one train at a station, igniting seats and spreading to another train as it pulled in, incinerating both six­car trains, officials said. More people died in the second train because many of the doors failed to open, trapping passen­gers. 
YTN TV news channel report­ed the second train arrived four minutes after the fire started. It was not clear why the second train was not warned of the fire or diverted from the station. 
Lim Dae-yoon, chief of Daegu city's east district municipal government, estimated the number of people killed at 120. "We believe the death toll will not rise drastically from that," Lim said. 
Many bodies were burned 
beyond recognition. Officials said they would have to wait for DNA tests to confirm the num­ber of dead, which could take weeks. 
Other people died of asphyxi­ation on the train platform. One man said his missing daughter called by mobile phone to say there was a fire and the subway door wasn't opening. 
Firefighters gave horrifying accounts of the scene under­ground. Many bodies were found on the subway stairs, where people apparently suffo­cated as they tried to escape. On the platform and in the trains were the ashen bones of those trapped in the flames. 
Officials said that the fire was put out by 1 p.m., about three hours after it started, but toxic gas from the fire delayed rescue efforts, according to the Yonhap news agency. The acrid odor of burned plastic wafted over the scene hours after the flames were extinguished. 
Police were interrogating Kim Dae-han. 56, who witnesses said carried the carton into the subway car, police Lt. Kim Byong-hak said. Another offi­cial, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the suspect had been treated for mental illness in the past. 
Authorities and witnesses said the attacker took out the carton and tried to light it with 

A woman mourns the death of a relative in subway fire in Daegu, South Korea Tuesday. About 120 people were killed, and at least 135 Injured, after a man ignited a milk carton filled with flammable material on a subway train in South Korea's third largest city. 
a cigarette lighter. Passengers showing nurses attending to a Police Sgt. Yu Heung-soo said moved to stop him and a scuffle man who reportedly was the Kim had been burned on both broke out. He finally lit the box, suspect. The man sat frowning legs and the right wrist. But a and it exploded into flames. on a bed wearing a hospital doctor told YTN that the man's 
YTN aired footage of the fran-smock, his face and hands only injury was from smoke tic scene inside a hospital, smudged with soot. inhalation. 
Bush vows to deal with Saddam in spite of protests 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Declaring that America's security should not be dictated by protesters, President Bush said Tuesday he would not be swayed from compelling Iraqi President Saddam Hussein to disarm. "We will deal with him," Bush said as U.S. and British diplo­mats weighed another bid for U.N. back­ing. 
"War is my last choice," Bush said at the White House as echoes of anti-war protests circled the globe. "But the risk of doing nothing is even a worse option as far as I am concerned." 
Standing firmly against skeptical allies as well as the demonstrators. Bush said: I owe it to the American people to secure this country. I will do so." 
Administration officials in Washington and at the United Nations in New York were discussing the possible gains as well as the risk of a diplomatic defeat if the United States proposed a new resolution to the Security Council to endorse force as an option to disarm Iraq. 
One U.S. official said Tuesday there was no decision on a text or even on whether to go ahead, though White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said, "I think it will be a siln­ple and rather straightforward resolution." 
Bush said a second resolution "would be useful," although "we don't need a second resolution. It's clear this guy could even care less about the first resolution. He's in total defiance." 
In Rome, U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan said Iraq had to "move very fast" to heed the call of the international communi­ty and cooperate with U.N. inspectors or face possible war. But he said it was up to the Security Council to decide if the inspec­tions had gone on long enough. 
France, with support from Russia and China, does not accept the U.S. ¥iew that the Security Council effectively endorsed force as an option to disarm Iraq in an ear­lier resolution that warned of "serious con­sequences" if Saddam persisted in defying 
U.N. demands. 

With some 50 countries lined up to speak to the council in a session that could go over until Wednesday, early action by the United States and its close ally, Britain, was not expected. 
Diplomats at the U.N. said a draft resolu­tion could be circulated late Wednesday. As for the protests around the world by 
millions of people opposed to war with Iraq, Bush said they were irrelevant to his duty to protect America. 
"Size of protest, it's like deciding. 'Well I'm going to decide policy based up on a focus group.' The role of a leader is to decide policy based upon the security -in this case-security of the people," he said. 
"Democracy is a beautiful thing, and that people are allowed to express their opin­ion," he said. 
"Some in the world don't view Saddam Hussein as a risk to peace," he added. "I respectfully disagree." 
Last Friday, an overwhelming majority of the 15 council members followed France's lead and called for extending U .N. weapons searches in Iraq. Secretary of State Colin Powell's argument that the searches were virtually useless was overridden. 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Turkey asks U.S. for bigger aid package: 
Turkey asked the United States to nearly double its multibillion dollar aid package as a condition for allowing U.S. troops on its soil in a war against neighboring Iraq, diplomats said Tuesday. The Turkish parliament had been expected to vote Tuesday on whether to allow tens of thousands of 
U.S. combat troops in Turkey, which would be nec­essary for a northern front in any war against Iraq. 
EU deal on disarming Iraq has divisions: "Old" and "new" Europe united Tuesday behind a declaration warning Iraq it has one last chance to disarm, papering over an acrimonious dispute that has set back the continent's push for a sin­gle voice in world affairs. The joint declaration agreed by the 15 European Union members Monday night and endorsed Tuesday by 13 future EU members warns Iraq it must disarm "fully and completely.'' 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Board says shuttle lost pieces over Calif.: 
Space shuttle Columbia began losing pieces over the California coast well before it disintegrated over Texas, the accident investigation board reported Tuesday, finally confirming what astronomers and amateur skywatchers have been saying from Day One. But board member James Hallock, a physicist and chief of the Transportation Department's aviation safety divi­sion, said the fragments were probably so small they burned up before reaching the ground. 
Police search missing woman's home: 
Police returned to the home of a missing preg­nant woman Tuesday to search for clues in her disappearance and drove away with her hus­band's new truck. The follow-up search came after police said they made unspecified new find­ings in the case of the 27-year-old substitute teacher, Laci Peterson of Modesto, Calif. 
Travelers still snarled after snowstorm: 
Travelers heading to and from the Northeast faced continued uncertainty Tuesday, even as airports in the mid-Atlantic region began slowly digging themselves out from one of the worst winter storms on record. Flights headed to points like Boston, Philadelphia, New York and Hartford, Conn., were filled to capacity, but airlines could not immediately meet the overwhelming crush of passengers who had been stranded at airports throughout Florida and as far away as California when the storm was at its peak Monday. 
Gulf War vet on death row seeks clemency: 
A decorated Army veteran who blames childhood abuse and exposure to nerve gas during the GulfWar for his killing of a female soldier has asked President Bush to spare his life. As the president considers sending thousands of Americans into another war against Iraq, [nu.is Jones Jr. is scheduled to die by lethal injection March 18 at the federal prison in Terre Haute, Ind. He has exhausted his appeals. 



page 6 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, February 19, 2003 
Officials want club 
owner jailed 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
City officials demanded that a judge jail the owner of the E2 nightclub for at least a year Tuesday, saying he was illegal­ly operating the place when 21 people were killed in a stam­pede. 
The city said Dwain Kyles had ignored a court order from last July to shut the place down because of building code violations that included failure to provide enough exits. City officials asked Circuit Judge Daniel Lynch to find Kyles in criminal contempt of court and put him behind bars. 
"You don't have a right to disobey a court orderuntil someone catches you or until a disaster happens," Mayor Richard M. Daley said. 
Andre Grant, an attorney for the owners of the E2 nightclub, contended that a deal had been reached in October to keep the place open. 
City officials disputed that. 
"There is absolutely no such agreement, either written or oral," said Mara Georges, the city's chief lawyer. "Obviously, these people were intent on breaking the law, and they broke the law." 
She said the city had done everything in its power to keep the nightclub closed in civil housing court. 
However, Police Superintendent Terry Hillard said Tuesday that police had been unaware of any order to shut down E2. He said he had even told officers to pay special attention to the location after crowd-control help was requested there. 
The city also asked the judge to fine Kyles and his company, Le Mirage Inc .. which owns the nightclub, and to fine a second company, Lesly Motors Inc., which owns the building. 
The judge did not immedi­ately act on the request. He said that Kyles had not yet been served with the paper­work and that he would give the two companies 10 days to respond. 
Jenny Hoyle, a spokeswoman for the city Law Department. said judges have wide discre­tion on what penalties they impose for criminal contempt. Lynch said acts of contempt considered minor have a jail limit of less than six months; major offenses can lead to much longer sentences. 
Twenty-one people were killed early Monday in a stam­pede down a stairwell that began when security guards broke up a fight by spraying pepper spray. A lawyer for the club operators suggested someone might have shouted a warning about a terrorist attack. 
Police have begun interview­ing hundreds of witnesses who were in the crowded second­floor nightclub on the near South Side. The Rev. Jesse Jackson said Kyles was the son of a longtime friend and had submitted to police questioning Monday. 
In the panic, club-goers who had been partying moments earlier found themselves squashed in the stairway. Bodies were trampled and flat­tened against the glass doors. 

40 million watch Joe Millionaire finale 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Unknown to the world just 

a few weeks ago, Evan 
Marriott has overthrown the 
King of Pop -at least, on 
network television. 
Marriott, of course, was the make-believe moneybags of Fox's "Joe Millionaire" who, on the finale of this unscript­ed-but-staged mating dance, chose Zora over Sarah as his lady love. 
Meanwhile, viewers roundly chose Marriott over Michael Jackson, the subject of rival specials on ABC and NBC. 
According to Nielsen num­bers, the "Joe Millionaire" finale, which aired 8 to 10 
p.m. EST Monday, drew an average 34.6 million viewers. The audience soared to 40 million in the second hour. 
This figure approaches that of -last year's Academy Awards broadcast of 41.8 million. It was the highest series telecast on any net­work since CBS' premiere of "Survivor II" in January 2001 -in the post-Super Bowl slot -according to Fox, which also said it was Fox's highest­rated entertainment program ever. 
The enormous number dwarfed the 11.9 million audience for the 9-to-10-p.m. hour of a "Dateline NBC" spe­cial, "Michael Jackson Unmasked," airing head-to­he ad against "Joe Millionaire." The "Dateline" 10-to-11-p.m. hour rose to 
17.2 million viewers. 
"Joe Millionaire" also sub­stantially outdrew ABC's Feb. 6 broadcast of a two-hour Jackson special produced by British television; its audience averaged 27 .1 million view­ers, making it the most­watched show for that week. 
ABC repeated that special Monday night from 9 to 11 p.m., drawing an audience of 
9.5 million viewers. From 8 to 9 p.m., ABC aired a "PrimeTime" special, "The Many Faces of Michael Jackson," which drew 10 mil­lion viewers. 
Fox, not to miss out on Michael-mania, plans to air an alternative, more sympa-
You can have it all: No minimum balance requirement No monthly service fee 
No per-check charge No surcharge ATMs on campus 
Plus, nine (9) convenientATMs on campus, and a full-service branch in LaFortune Student Center! 
Jan. 6 -and instantly proved a hit with its blend of dating game and practical joke. It attracted 18.6 million viewers for its premiere. 
And Monday's smash con­clusion isn't exactly a conclu­sion. Next week, millionaire lovebirds Evan and Zora will be back for a Fox special, "Joe Millionaire: The Aftermath." 

thetic version of the ABC spe­cial, called "Michael Jackson Take 2: The Interview They Wouldn't Show You," on Thursday. 
For the moment, however, Fox can savor its triumph by "Joe Millionaire." 
The 28-year-old Marriott is presumably happy, too. On the finale -taped last Thanksgiving -he and Zora, the dark-haired, New Jersey schoolteacher, were present­ed with a $1 million check from the show. 
Although such a windfall would be chump change to the $50 million heir Marriott 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us to be better 
574/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 

I-~,£~A-1 lndependenl of !he University 
~ 
was pretending to be on the show, in reality he was a con­struction worker making $19,000 a year. 
But Zora, who beat out blond Sarah Kozer, didn't care that he had lied to her, along with the other 19 women who had vied for his affections through the compe­tition. 
"I really was turned off by the fact that you inherited all that money," she told him after digesting his confession. 
One of several among the networks' latest crop of so­called reality series, "Millionaire" began its run 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, February 19, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER \'\1RE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch February 18 
Dow Jones 

8,041.15 • +132.35 
.N4SDAQ 

1,346.54 • +36.37 
S&P500 

851.17 ~ +16.29 
AMEX 

815.52 • +6.62 
NYSE 

4,805.73 • + 75.99 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX(QQQ) +2.53+0.62 25.11 
n~li§ir~:i~'-~~ij:::::~iiw~:~:1]:m1::~:~~1imm::1~:1~:it~i~<1:~ 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +4. 09 +0. 56 14. 24 
:fl;:!H!~i~~~1ll!l~!li~i~:!f!~i!~!!~i:!~!i~~1!i:~!l:~:!~1!.! 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +2. 97 +0. 48 16. 63 
IN BRIEF 
Wal-Mart earnings rise 16.3 percent 
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., boosted by strong sales at its international and flagship dis­count stores, reported a $16.3 percent increase in fourth-quarter profits, beating analysts' expectations. For the three months ending Jan. 31, Wal-Mart earned $2.53 billion, or 57 cents per share, com­pared with $2.19 billion, or 49 cents per share, a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call forecast earnings of 56 cents per share. Sales for the quar­ter were $71.07 billion, up 10.7 percent from $64.2 billion a year earlier. 
Turner Broadcasting head steps down 
Turner Broadcasting head Jamie Kellner said Tuesday he is stepping down after two years on the job, the latest in a series of high-level management depar­tures from parent AOL Time Warner. Kellner follows Turner Broadcasting founder Ted Turner, who last month announced he was resigning as vice chairman of AOL Time Warner. AOL chairman Steve Case also plans to step down, and Walter Isaacson recently resigned after two years as head of CNN. 
Duke Power Co. confirms probe 
An accounting controversy in which Duke Power Co. was accused of underre­porting profits in North and South Carolina has become a federal criminal probe, the company confirmed. Duke Power said it received a subpoena Friday from a federal grand jury seeking docu­ments related to last year's audit of the utility's accounting between 1998 and 2000. The audit, conducted by Grant Thornton LLP at the request of regulators from North Carolina and South Carolina, concluded that Charlotte-based Duke Power devised a plan to underreport earn­ings by nearly $124 million during the three-year period. 
ND professor testifies about Enron 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
A Notre Dame accounting profes­sor testified last week before the Senate Finance Committee regarding Enron's participation in questionable tax shelters. 
Jim Seida presented a seven-page report detailing a wide disparity between Enron's financial reporting and its tax reporting. 
Seida was called to testify before the committee following his remarks in a Washington Post article on the subject. "You never know for sure, but I wouldn't be surprised if Sen. [Chuck] Grassley or his staff saw that story," Seida said. 
Seida said that Enron used accounting tricks to inflate reported earnings even as it avoided federal income taxes. For example, in 1999, Enron reported a net income of $1.1 billion, but it claimed a taxable loss of $1.5 billion. "Taxable income was negative, but the financial account­ing paints a very different picture," Seida said. 
The disparity between the figures point to a systematic pattern of "financial accounting manipulation," Seida said. Corporations' net income figures frequently differ from their taxable income numbers, but large differences can imply unethical accounting practices. He called for stronger mandatory disclosure of corporate tax information, and said, "Management would have an incen­tive to voluntarily explain items that created the difference." 

Under current law, U.S. firms are not required to disclose their tax returns to the public, complicating attempts to discover companies' tax­able income. 
The committee also heard from other professors. George Plesko. an assistant professor of management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, asked for improved tax disclosure, according to the minutes from the Feb. 13 Joint Committee on Taxation's Investigative Report, and said portions of corporate tax returns are "important to the gener­al public." 
Edmund Outlay, an accounting professor at Michigan State University, called on legislators "to make the first four pages of the [tax return] publicly available," in order to provide transparency to analysts and investors. 
The professors' testimony joined a detailed report by the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation regard­ing Enron's tax dealings. The docu­ment. over 2,700 pages long, found that the failed Houston-based energy trader paid no federal income tax from 1996 through 1999, though it claimed to have earned nearly $2.9 billion over the same period. The report contained dozens of internal documents, including letters from Enron's attorneys and bankers, regarding the legality of the bank­rupt company's tax schemes. Highly regarded firms including, Deloitte & Touche, Deutsche Bank and JP Morgan Chase, advise Enron execu­tives on tax planning strategies. "The senators made it very clear that shel­ters will be shut down," Seida said. "This report is not a roadmap of what one should do." 
The committee meeting's minutes said Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, chairman of the Finance Committee, slammed corporate tax evaders, call­ing the Enron debacle "the biggest corporate farce of this century." Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., the ranking Democrat on the committee, praised the report. "It will be pivotal in our efforts to restore public confidence in corporate America," Baucus said. 
The minutes also said Congressional leaders expect the committee's report to be pivotal in shaping future legislation to crack down on corporate tax abusers. Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle. D-S.D., said the document amounted to "a call to action, and we will act." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at rnbramanti@nd.edu 


Donaldson takes SEC chair 
. New chairman promises accountability 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush promised Tuesday that the newly installed chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission would lead "an active and energetic agency" to rebuild investor confidence shattered by last year's wave of corporate scandals. 
William H. Donaldson, 71, 
replaces Harvey Pitt, who 
resigned under fire in early 
November after a series of 
high-profile political missteps. 
"He's the right man at the right time," Bush said at the swearing-in ceremony, adding that Donaldson "will lead an active and energetic agency." 
The SEC has expanded powers and new rules under legislation enacted by Congress last summer to com­bat corporate fraud, enhance accountability and tighten oversight of the scandal-taint­ed accounting industry. 
Donaldson, a Bush family friend and former chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, pledged to restore integrity to the commission. 
"We will hold accountable all those who will have violat­ed the public trust," he said. 
ALEX WONG/Getty 
"We will demand responsible 

U.S. President George W. Bush swore In William H. Donaldson as the new chair­
corporate governance 

through the business and man of the Securities and Exchange Commission Tuesday at the White House. financial world. We will investors." this year -the largest jump new spending would allow strengthen our market struc­Bush has asked Congress in its history -as it investi-the SEC to hire 710 new 
ture, making the markets for an $841 million budget for gates and prosecutes a heavy lawyers, accountants and more efficient, more transpar­the agency in 2004, marking load of corporate fraud and examiners, bringing its total ent and friendlier to all a 48 percent increase over accounting deception. The to 3,875. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 8 Wednesday, February 19, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dam('. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Lori Lewalski  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hettler, Mart Lozar 
Sct:NE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kacie McKenna SAINT MAR.r's EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 

WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer 
CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/As.<iT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJC.E ........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOJNT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4 543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTF.MS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://obstTVn'.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is che independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of che administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of che Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obsm,n-policin should be dir«t­rd to Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th.. Ob.cn1,r (USPS S99 240) i, puhlid1<d Mond,y ,hrough Friday ''""'P' during n.am and vacation pmodi. A s.ubt,,.:ripcion (I) T})c Ol:»c.-on ii S 100 fur one.-audcml, )'('V. 155 for OM scmntcr. 
Th< (lb.cn,a-i, published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Sa-Id addn:u <;0rm;tion.s to: 
Nou,; Dame, IN 16556 Th< Oboav« 

P.O. Bo,Q Periodical po,ugc p.aid u Notre o..,.., Notre D.....,. IN 46556.0m and adJitional m.aihng <>4'1i«t. 
Tbe Ob.ervn is a member of the, A.Pociatcd. Prcu. All ttprodoction righu arc­r........:I. 

Would modern courtship be easier if relationships had concrete, traditional and universally followed rules? In these days of quick breakups, quick make-ups and even quicker random hookups, it may be time to establish some rules and reg­ulations. 
Considering that the ultimate goal of dating is often to score, the rules of the dating game might best be suit­ed to the rules of a sporting event. And, as pitchers and catchers have already reported for spring training in the major leagues, maybe dating would be best suited to follow the rules of a tra­ditional. regulated sport -like base­ball. 
Looking at it from a certain perspec­tive, it makes sense. We already talk about dating in terms of bases -first, second, third and, of course, the proverbial home run. Baseball is also the only sport where the offensive team doesn't control the ball. which can often be said for our relationships. And, like in baseball, everyone gets an equal opportunity at bat. What we do with the ball -hit, miss or simply strike out -is up to us. 
So, if love adhered to the rules of baseball, the basic guidelines would follow the typical format of a nine inning, base running, three-strikes­and-you're-out baseball game. 
Here are the basics. 
For starters, players would be split evenly into two equal teams. Consider it "A League of their Own" meets "Bull Durham." Our official arenas for com­petition would be the local establish-ments that we frequent late at night, and we would often hold evening games on Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays. 


It would be civilized, orderly, and we could even keep score. After all, in life we've always preferred to rate things according to numbers. We pour over the AP and Coaches' polls, we watch Letterman's top 10 list and we even tune in to an oversexed bachelor's countdown from four to one on "Elimidate." Isn't it fitting then, that we evaluate our relationships in terms of one, two, three strikes ... you're out? 
We could even keep statistics on our prospective players and see their past hits, misses and overall records. We could then decide whether or not to draft them into our hearts. 
And, if dating was an organized sport, we'd all have to follow certain rules in order to maintain our eligibil­ity status. Penalties might include bad behavior, too many strikeouts or poor performance -thus keeping only the best players in the league. We could even send the worst offenders back to the minors or at least send them to the dugout for life. 
After all, we learn the basics early enough. We all start in the minors ­better known as Junior High -and then work our way up to the big leagues. However, no matter what league we're playing in, the basic rules inevitably remain the same. Why not regulate them so that everyone is on the same theoretical playing field? Talk about your field of dreams. If everyone knew the rules, dating could become America's new pastime and the main event of the season. 
Besides, if dating followed the rules and regulations that govern baseball, there would be certain benefits for all players. For example, in times of dire need. we could all have a relief pitcher to come in and save the game, at least for a night. There would always be 
someone on deck. Further, double 
plays in a single evening would be 
considered impressive, but bordering 
on bad behavior. And, of course, foul 
balls would never be permitted. 
However, like Mighty Casey, who so nobly and boastfully went to bat, there would be expectations to uphold. If a player gets a great hit, he should round the bases with pride, but have the integrity not to tell the rest of his team all the details after the game. Similarly, if a player strikes an oppos­ing player out, there's no need for her to ridicule the fallen ballplayer as he trots back to the dugout. After all. sometimes there is no joy in Mudville -we all strike out. 
Unfortunately, the rules and regula­tions that govern America's traditional pastime may never apply to the social arenas where we throw out our own game. Although it would be a tempting offer. it isn't entirely appropriate to banish someone to the dugout for life. In fact, when it comes to the rules and regulations of relationships, we're pretty much on our own. 
And, as great as our own personal batting average may be, it's never as simple as one, two, three strikes you're out. And sometimes, the best players are the ones that should be sent back to the minors. Dating, it seems, is a game that is played by many, understood by few and regulat­ed on a play-by-play basis. 
However. whether we hit with the big leagues or perpetually strike out ­we always get another chance at bat. 
Jacqueline Browder is a senior American Studies major andjournalism minor. lier column appears every other Wednesday. You may contact her at jbrowder@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Meghanne Downes Joe Trombello Mike Chambliss Viewpoint Claire Kelley Graphics Mike Harkins 

Sports 
Bryan Kronk Matt Lozar Heather Van Hoegarden 
Scene 
Maria Smith 
Lab Tech 
Nellie Williams 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Can academic departments justifiably restructure themselves in a search for higher national rankings? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Baseball is 90 percent mental: the other halfis physical . ., 
Yogi Berra baseball player 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


\X'ednesday, February 19, 2003 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Support for Iraq war 
I support the war in Iraq. These words are sparse among the public but I see many as being in ignorance of this fact. Twelve years ago we crossed this same bridge: Iraq must disarm their weapons of mass destruction. We still repeat those words and Saddam Hussein does not take us or the rest of the world seriously. 
The United States have even de-classi­fied information so that to give the rest of the world a taste of the intelligence that they have accumulated on Iraq. Just think about what else our country knows but simply cannot tell us. 
With all that our country has accom­plished in its history. itis difficult for me to believe that we would rush into a war with a rash sense of mind. We are not pursuing this war for our own self-inter­est. but rather that of the entire world. 
The two Notre Dame graduate stu­dents that participated in the peace rally in South Bend, Brenna Cussen and Mica Barreto, made particularly inter­esting comments. Cussen stated that there are definitely not nuclear weapons in Iraq. How can she be so sure? People being so 1surei of some­thing is what leads to events such as Sept. 11. 
Mica Barreto stated that the innocent children of Iraq would be the ones hurt by the war. What would be better for those children, to live a full life under the eye of an oppressive and ruthless dictator or to have the chance to live in freedom under democracy? Those innocent people would die for freedom rather than vanity. 
One could say that I'm just a college kid who supports a war that will in no way affect my life. That could not be any further from the truth. My brother is currently in Kuwait and eventually will go forth into Iraq. I(ve never looked up to someone more than him. He knows why he is being sent there and is ready to do his duty. 
Americans needs to believe in our government and allow them to do what is best for the world, especially the peo­ple ofIraq. 
Mark Connolly sophomore Keenan Hall Feb. 18 

A dating strain solution 
We, women at Our Lady's University, are woman away from an otherwise perfectly sadly aware of the strained gender rela­acceptable, date-able fellow. 
tions and almost nonexistent dat­
ing scene at Notre Dame. 
However, it is not due to 
the reason falsely stated 
by so many men ­
that Notre Dame's 
women are unac­
ceptably unattrac­
tive. Neither is it because of the 

reverse of that situ­
ation. Rather, the 
women here under­
stand that there is a 
number of intelligent, 
good-looking, nice, 
young men -but alas, 
so many of these young 
gentlemen end up in the 
dark corner of singleton obliv­
ion for one very simple reason: bad 
Therefore, we have a request for those of you guilty of this sartorial misstep. Embrace the straight ,rnH:r;,:,i,:G,<,,J:,:~,~' ·,?:: . leg~. the dark colors and the t~,,ii~·='··:·:-==•:;:,,,,,,,..,.•i,· ..... /)\.. slightly loose fit. Preferably,
0
I) ,>yii/i~!/rt. a~~~~~:i~:~ :ii~fJt!h~:~
', . ..... .. ... . 
-~ ,\?' at any one time. · .Mt'· With just this one
I ~:~~~h!Tir~~:: a-
JW 
/ running! Hallelujah! f Dating normality can I finally arrive at Notre 1 Dame, and the praises of 
1 
good pants will be sung J for years to come. Please, I do not ignore this simple 
request -your dating future, as well as our own, depends upon your compliance. 

pants. These unfortunate eyesores often Terriss Conterato, Lauren Barkmeier, take the form of light-colored, crotch-hug­and Bridget Gulling ging, stuck-in-the-shoes, tapered leg cov­students erings. These repulsive shroudings are Cavanaugh Hall enough to drive any conscientious young Feb. 18 
Defending Bishop's decision concerning hall dances 
Instead ofconstantfocus on 
' J 

negativiry, be proactive 
I have heard and read too much about how Libby Bishop didn't do this and how she didn't do that. For the better part of six months I have researched student government's every detail from the past four years. I inter­viewed every administrator and perti­nent student government official that would sit down with me. hoping to extract from them the clues to student government's ineffectiveness. Today, four days after conceding the election to Pat Hallahan, I wish to share with you my reflections on what I have learned. 
Student government is a tool, intend­ed to serve three basic functions: improve student life, represent the stu­dents to the governing administrative bodies and act as a voice for the stu­dents and student organizations. Over the past month, we have heard in posters, articles, speeches, Internet chat rooms and dorm room conversa­tions that apathy has killed student government and is eating away at the student body. 
I have heard students who yell and scream about Bishop's ineffectiveness and say how they will not vote because student government does nothing. Now, there is no question that apathy makes for great campaign rhetoric; railing on Bishop is even better poster and speech material, but to me it is the embodiment of the problem. 
Not to sound trite, but I do not think that the problem is apathy, but rather negativity. Too long have students ripped on administrators, student gov­ernment officials and policy. Too long have articles and NDToday postings harped on ineffectiveness and worth­lessness. Where is the proactivity? How did you get into Notre Dame? Your application essay did not read, "This school is totally inadequate. \Vhy isn't it better?" 
Why do students come to Notre Dame? Or I guess the real question is why does 98 percent of each class stay at Notre Dame if it is so bad? And if the problems are not severe enough to transfer, why not try to change them? If you have the energy to write scathing remarks or verbally abuse elected officials, why not run for office or make suggestions on how things could be better? Fix the current system or work to implement a new one. 
I met with officials ranging from Father Poorman to members of the Board of Trustees. They unanimously agreed that they wanted to see stu­dents work to make the current system better before anyone would consider going back to the old one. When you were a child, if your parents took a toy away because you were misbehaving, did you get it back when you screamed and yelled and said nasty things about them? 
Libby Bishop is an effective, diligent leader who was savvy enough to read a situation and realize that change would come with negotiation and a dis­play of good will. The Board of Trustees report was an effective and intelligent proposal that won the stu­dents resources and the trustees' respect. 
Your elected officials in senate, who have spent so much time harping on the negative, had better put forward a proactive proposal for the following years or we will only lose ground. The potential for success only comes with the implementation of drive and proac­tive movement. You need look no fur­ther than Bishop to see that persever­ance. 
Charlie Ebersol 
sophomore Keough Hall Feb. 18 

Bishop's report to Board ofTrustees was realistic and rational 
Over the past two weeks, Libby Bishop's so-called improper handling of the contentious dance issue has been thrust into the public arena. While much has been made regarding her stance on the in-hall dance issue, Libby's recommendations to the Board of Trustees represented a necessary, realistic and rational approach to improving current in-hall dance poli­cies. 
When the changes in the alcohol pol­icy were announced last April. Libby fought for students by immediately confronting the administration. From that experience, Libby gained invalu­able knowledge about how to best approach administrators and properly gauge student opinion. 
Contrary to recent Viewpoint sub­missions, Libby did not disregard the senate's recent comments about dorm dances. Rather, she took an objective and informed stance heavily reliant on her realistic goals and strong relation­ships with administrators. To add validity to her assertions, Libby con­sulted with organizations inside the student union, many of whom worked hand in hand with her last April when the new policy was announced. 
As your elected campus leaders, we strongly support Libby's realistic and informative report to the Board of Trustees. While spite-filled resigna­tions and angry. personal letters to The Observer have questioned how our student body president can prop­erly "be the voice" of the student body, one must remain grounded in the fact that change is the result of persis­tence, unrelenting dedication and rational conversation. 
Many are tricked into believing that sidestepping the administration is the only way to fight for students' rights at Notre Dame. We contend that the channels of communication with administrators cannot be overlooked. 
Attacking the administration through 
the Board of Trustees is not the 
answer. The Board of Trustees exists 
for the primary purpose of supporting 
and developing Notre Dame's strong 
Catholic character and rich academic 
traditions. While this is not to say that 
students' concerns are overlooked, 
they are simply a part of the overall 
direction of the University of Notre 
Dame. 
Libby's recommendations embrace the goals of the student body. While her mature and professional approach to achieve these goals may differ from the suggested, impractical strategy of others, the end result is clear -stu­dent opinion is ultimately expressed. 
As knowledgeable and experienced students working together through student government, we understand that it is important to recognize the situations where a stronger. more pro­active stance must be held. However, we must also recognize situations in which a more cooperative and collabo­rative approach is more effective to make improvements. Libby acted cor­rectly by electing to work alongside administrators, rather than taking a misinformed, unilateral approach. 
Libby Bishop did not betray us, rather she used her expertise in the position that we bestowed upon her ­to embody our vision of student life at Notre Dame. 
Dan Barabas, David Baron, Joyce Deleon, Lindsay Evans, Danielle Ledesma, Susan Longenbaker, Karen Lysaght, Amy O'Connor, Seth O'Donnell, Andrew Oxenreiter, Jessica Panza, Pam Ronson, Matthew Smith, Katherine Walsh and Erin Wirpsa 
student government officials Feb. 18 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Wednesday, February 19, 2003 

Notre Dame welcomes the Chiara Quartet and other top-notch ens€ 



By MARIA SMITH 
Scene Editor 

Tonight at 7:30, the Chiara String Quartet will present a program of Mozart, Bartok and Beethoven in the Annenberg Auditorium at the Snite Museum of Art. The concert will be free and open to the public 
The concert will be a return to a spot of former glory for the musicians, winners of the first prize in the Senior String Division of the Fischoff National Chamber Music Competition in May of 2002. 
The Chiara Quartet is one of the most promising groups of young classical musicians currently per­forming in the country. Violinists Rebecca Fischer and Julie Yoon, violist Jonah Sirota and cellist Gregory Beacer met during their studies at the music division of the Juilliard School. The quartet has worked extensively with the Juilliard Quartet as well as many other top classical musicians. Recognition at the Fischoff competition has done much to promote the careers of the Chiara Quartet and 
many other ensembles of young musicians entering a notoriously com­petitive and difficult field. 
"Fisch off really opened some doors," said Jeremiah Frederick. a member of the Quintet Attacca, winners of the Grand Prize at the 2002 competition. "It opened our eyes to the fact that we can do this professionally." 
The Fischoff Competition, now entering its second year on the Notre Dame campus, is the largest and one of the most prestigious chamber music competitions in the country. The Fischoff Society distributes $17,000 in prize money to senior division ensembles each year as well as providing up to $5,000 in scholarship money to the winners in its junior division. Many of the best chamber music ensembles in the country have competed and won at the Fischoff Competition. 
Though this is only the second year the competi­tion will be held on cam­pus, this year the Fisc}:loff National Chamber Music Association celebrates its 30th year hosting the pres­tigious competition in South Bend. The Fischoff Society moved the competi­tion to Notre Dame in a search for greater long­range exposure and nation­al attention. 

As students head into midterms, ensembles are carefully preparing audition tapes to send in by March 5. Just after Notre Dame students finish finals and start to head home, over 60 of the nation's best chamber music groups of all varieties will arrive on Notre Dame's campus to compete for the prizes and prestige that accompany winning the Fischoff National Chamber Music Competition. 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, February 19, 2003 page 11 

~mbles 
Many of the ensembles play for 
schools in the area or at local ven­
ues such as Barnes and Noble 
Bookstore. Most of the competition 
is open to the public free of charge. 
The competition, held in mid-May, 
is also broadcast live through Notre 
Dame student radio for the benefit 
of listeners nationwide as well as 
the many students who are no 
longer on campus when it begins. 
"We love for students and Notre 
Dame families to attend," said Ann 
Divine, executive director of the 
competition since 1994. 
Although the string quartet or 
woodwind quintet might be the 
most common conceptions of cham­
ber music, the Fischoff competition 
has hosted a wide variety of groups 
over the years. Piano quintets, sax­
ophone quartets and harp trios 
have also made their way through 
the competition. 
The Fischoff Society recruits top 
professors and musicians from 
around the country-to judge the 
competition. With such a wide vari­
ety of groups, judges hear a wide 
selection of music. Ensembles 
select their own music, from the 
most famous pieces by Mozart and 
Brahms to original compositions 
commissioned specifically for the 
competition. Ensembles such as the 
numerous saxophone quartets, a 
genre of music that has gained 
much greater popularity in the 
years since the competition began, 
play mostly modern compositions, 
while string quartets often opt for 
more traditional selections. 
Joseph E. Fischoff founded the competition in the interest of encouraging young musicians from the area. Although the Fischoff is a competitive event, the emphasis remains on education. The judges fill out sheets of comments to help the ensembles evaluate their own performances and learn what aspects of their playing to improve . 
.. Everybody was very friendly, nobody was really competitive, and it was more like competing with the other groups than against them," said Frederick. "It's a great compe­tition, it's well run, and it would have been the same good experi­ence even if we hadn't won." 
Only six groups participated in the first year. As news about Fischoff spread through universi­ties and conservatories around the nation, the competition began to grow. The number of groups dou­bled when the Fischoff Society decided to add junior quarterfinals to the competition. The Fischoff remains the only competition to offer not only a senior division for musicians ages 19 to 39 but also a junior division for musicians 18 and under to continue to encourage young musicians to pursue their art. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 
'The Tempest' 
The Actors from the London Stage prepare for the 
By BRANDON HOLLIHAN 
Scene Writer 
One of the most popular and semi-annu­ally anticipated programs of the FIT sea­son returns this weekend, as the Actors from the London Stage return with a ren­dition of William Shakespeare's "The Tempest," the comedic tale of a group of voyagers shipwrecked and the magical wanderings that occur as a result. 
The story focuses around the magician Prospero, the former duke of Milan who was betrayed by his brother Antonio and Antonio's partner in crime, Alonso. Having been stranded on an island for 12 years with his daughter Miranda and his fellow "spirit," Ariel. he takes advantage of the shipwreck in which Antonio and Alonso were trapped and goes about regaining his nobility and gaining a measure of revenge on his adversaries -albeit in a merciful and amusing way. 
The touring aspect of London Stage gives it uniqueness in production. As with many other London Stage shows, "The Tempest" relies upon a mostly barren stage, with chairs set up along the upstage area for actors to rest when they are not in charac­ter. Actors Guy Burgess, Caroline Devlin, Paul Moriarty, Edward Pell and Terence Wilton still play an active role, however, using different props and musical instru­ments to create sound effects necessary for scenes, such as the roaring thunder during the shipwreck at the beginning of the play. Another recurring theme of the London Stage productions is the demand for the five actors to take on multiple roles. Each 
coming storm 
actor must exhibit varied expressions, 
movement, and clothing. 
At first glance it seems like a daring thing to create a Shakespearean atmos­phere with so few stage assets -not only for the actors, but for the audience as well. The London actors, however, enjoy the task because it focuses upon one of their primary goals in performing Shakespeare for younger adults. Their mode of presen­tation shows audiences how to approach Shakespeare from an articulate verbal standpoint, showing that there is much more to do with Shakespeare's language than just reading from a book. 
"We're trusting in the audience's imagi­nation, allowing them to create their own scenes and illusions," said Devlin. 
"We set out to entertain audiences," said \Vilton. "It's not academic. There are essentially hundreds of thousands of things that can be done with Shakespeare." 
With this in mind, the London actors set out to create a version of "The Tempest" that would be compatible \\<ith their needs. For five weeks they rehearsed in London in a building known as the Drill Hall, a place they describe as "echo-y" where people will peer through windows and shout at you if they think you're making too much noise. This is where the fundamental groundwork is laid out, such as assigning parts and the majority of the stage block­ing. From there the actors take their strategies to the United States and work out the technical aspects of the show su,_ch as the lighting in one to two rehearsals before opening night. 
The entire operation is notably difficult thing. The cooperation of the London actors is incredible, as they have no direc­
tor to lead them. The actors must compro­
mise and create blocking and characteri­
zation that satisfies both the actors and the 
needs of the play. 
"No one to mess us up," joked Wilton. 
The opening shipwreck scene is a supreme example of how effective the actors can be at working together. Throughout the course of the scene more than five characters are on stage at one time, which results in several of the actors scrambling from one side to the other and taking on new personalities within mere minutes of each other. Not only does the scene come effectively to the audience, but it is quite a lot of fun as well. 
On going to "The Tempest" audience members can expect many of the things that made London Stage earlier fall pro­duction of Much Ado About Nothing enjoy­able, including the various sight gags throughout the course of the evening, the use of audience imagination to create what the London actors and the stage have pur­posely left vague, and the sheer principle that it is the acting and the language, not the setting and aesthetic quality of the pro­duction, that has made Shakespeare per­severe for as long as it has. Try not to be blown away by the performance. 
The Tempest runs today through Saturday at Washington Hall at 7:30 p.m. for all evenings. Admission is $16 for the general public, $14 for senior citizens and $12 for students. 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at bholliha@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of Cleo Hickey Terence WIiton, Edward Peel, Guy Burgess, Carollne Devlin, and Paul Moriarty, the Actors from the London Stage, come to campus twice a year to perform the works of Shakespeare. This weekend they will present "The Tempest." 
page 12

Wednesday, February 19, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Rose scores 28 in Chicago's 107-101 win over Cleveland 
Miller each scored 24 points as
Associated Press 
the Orlando Magic snapped a three-game losing streak by
CLEVELAND 

rallying for a 99-94 win over 
Jalen Rose scored 28 points 
the New Orleans Hornets on 
to help the Chicago Bulls gain Tuesday night.
just their third road victory of The Magic trailed by 12 with the season, 107-101 over the five minutes to play, but got
Cleveland Cavaliers on 
the victory behind a late 20-2 
Tuesday night. run.With high school phenom 
Darrell Armstrong scored 15LeBron James watching two of points and Andrew DeClercqthe teams that will likely end had a season-high 14, includ­
up in the draft lottery, the 
ing seven in a 1: 13 span of theBulls scored a season-high 39 
fourth quarter to kick start
points in the first quarter and Orlando's comeback.
then turned to Rose to hold off 
Armstrong's 3-pointer tied
Cleveland's comeback. 
the game at 89. and Miller's
Rookie Carlos Boozer had 23 
driving layup gave Orlando a 
points and 12 rebounds and 
93-91 lead with 1 :05 remain­
helped spark the Cavaliers 
ing. The go-ahead possessionfrom a 17-point deficit as they was set up by Armstrong draw­pulled to 94-92 with 4:45 to 
ing a charge against David
play. Rose then hit a fallaway Wesley 14 seconds earlier.
jumper with 4:27 left and 
McGrady shot 9-for-26 and
Chicago went on to its second failed to top 30 points for only
win in a row. breaking an 
the third time in the last 16
eight-game road losing streak. 
games. But he finished off theRicky Davis scored 22 points 
Hornets with a breakaway
for Cleveland, which has lost 
dunk with 26 seconds to go
four straight and eight of nine. 
after stripping Jamal 
The Cavaliers must win six of 
Mashburn. He also blocked
their final 28 games to avoid 
Mashburn on the possession
matching the team record for following Miller's shot. 
fewest victories in a season, For the Hornets, Mashburn 
15. 
scored 10 of his 20 points in
Jay Williams and Tyson 
the first quarter and P.J.
Chandler each scored 20 points 
Brown had 14 points and 12
for Chicago, which had all five 
rebounds for his 15th double­
starters score in double figures double of the season and thirdfor the first time this season. 
in five games. Wesley added 17 Orlando trailed 55-49 at half­the Nets for the first three Lucious Harris missed the rimThe Cavaliers stayed in the points, eight rebounds and six time, but scored seven unan­quarters, Kidd took over down on a jumper with 10 seconds to 
game by outrebounding 
assists. swered points to open the third the stretch. He had nine of his go. Kidd eventually got theChicago, 51-35, but the Bulls New Orleans, which has lost quarter. DeClercq's putback 12 points, five of his 10 assists hall, and his 3-pointer beat the 
scored 27 points off 19 
six of seven road games, shot tip-in with 9:05 left gave the and three of his eight rebounds shot clock for an 82-77 lead. 
turnovers. 
22 percent (5-for-23) in the Magic their first lead of the in the fourth. Kidd added two more free
Rose scored nine of Chicago's fourth quarter. game. With the Nets down 68-60 throws in the final seconds. 
final 11 points in the third 
Orlando opened the game by after the Heat capped a 42-17 Martin was almost unstop­quarter to give the Bulls an 86­misfiring from long range and Nets 84, Heat 79 spurt, Kidd hit a drive with pable in the first half in leading 76 lead. 
close. Until DeClercq's layup Jason Kidd fed Jason Collins 9:34 to play to get New Jersey the Nets to a 47-39 lead. HeWilliams scored 13 points to with 7:12 left, the Magic had for a go-ahead three-point play going. scored 19 points on 8-for-12help the Bulls lead at halftime 
missed their first eight shots with 1:50 to play. then hit a Martin eventually put New shooting, and added five
57-49. 
with a pair of turnovers. clinching 3-pointer with 5.8 Jersey ahead with a slam that rebounds and four assists. 
Cleveland trailed 45-29 
Orlando shot 7-for-24 in the seconds left to lead the New capped his own personal five­Martin' 10-footer in the lanebefore rookie Dajuan Wagner period, with McGrady missing Jersey Nets to an 84-79 victory point run for a 75-74 lead with with 2:53 left in the half gavescored seven points in a 13-2 six of seven tries. over the Miami Heat on 3:42 to play. Travis Best drove New Jersey its biggest lead, run. The 6-foot-2 guard capped The Hornets capitalized by Tuesday night. the lane and hit a left-handed 43-26.
the spurt with a spin move and 
scoring the game's first 11 Kenyon Martin added 28 layup to give Miami its final It seemed at that point thatresounding slam on a fast 
points en route to a 19-5 lead. points and 10 rebounds in a lead, 76-75 with 3:15 to go. the Heat would be blown outbreak. 
New Orleans, shooting 12-for-game in which the Nets were The teams missed four shots for the second straight night.
Wagner finished with 18 
18 for the quarter, ended the forced to rally from an eight­over the next minute before It didn't happen. Rasual
points, but shot just 5-for-17 
period ahead 32-16 on George point fourth-quarter deficit Kerry Kittles got the rebound Butler hit three 3-pointers in afrom the field. 
Lynch's buzzer-beating dunk after squandering a 17-point of Brian Grant's miss. He 13-4 spurt, the last an off-bal­Boozer, who shot 11-for-15, off a perfect backdoor bounce second-quarter lead to a team threw an outlet to Kidd, who ance 30-foot bomb two-tenths
has totaled 49 points in two 
pass from Wesley. that was beaten by 31 points in found Collins ahead of the field of a second before halftime. 
home games against the Bulls But the Magic finally awoke Detroit on Monday night. for a layup. He converted the The Heat continued the versus one point in two road as McGrady found his shot. He Caron Butler had 17 points free throw for a 78-76 lead. comeback in the third quarter.
losses at Chicago. 
scored eight straight points, and Rasual Butler added 15 for After free throws by Richard scoring 12 of the first 16 putting Orlando in position for the Heat. who shot only 3-for-Jefferson and Malik Allen kept points. Malik Allen tied the Magic 99, Hornets 94 a 15-5 run that cut the deficit 15 in the final 7:09. the teams within two points, game at 51 with a jump hook 
Tracy McGrady and Mike to two points. After watching Martin carry Kidd got his clincher after in the lane with 6:55 to go. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righc to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space is Limitedl!! 1-800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com 
DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003·2004 SCHOOL YEAR-WELL MAIN­TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAM• PUS-STUDENT NEIGHBOR­HOODS-SECURITY SYSTEMS­MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL· WASHERS/DRYERS 
CALL TODAY-HOUSES GOING 
FAST!!! -CONTACT KRAMER 
(547) 315-5032 OR (574) 234-2436 
-ALSO LEASING FOR 2004-2005 
VISIT OUR WEBSITES @ 
DOMUSKRAMER.COM 
SPRING BREAK on South Padre Island, ranked #3 S.B. destination by the Travel Channel. South Padre Resort Rentals has the best 1,2&3 bedroom condos. Great location and amenities, close to Mexico. 
Call 800-944-6818 Visit gosouth­padreisland.com 
FOCUS (the Fellowship of Catholic University Students) is seeking recent college graduates for cam­pus ministry positions nationwide. 
Six-week summer training in Montana with over 75 other recent college graduates; serve on cam­pus in a team of 4; work one-on­one with students; help create and 
sustain Catholic communities on college campuses. 
Contact FOCUS (970) 336-9881 www.focusonline.org 
WANT $10,000? NEED AN INTERNSHIP? Earn a $10,000 scholarship towards next year s tuition and have one of the best summer jobs in America. 
Looking for an industrious self-starter with a strong work ethic and amiable personality, who is respon­sible, impeccably well-groomed and has excellent service skills. The job entails house and property work at a private beach estate in East Hampton, NY. Only freshman and sophomores to apply. Room, board, and weekly spending money is provided. Work from mid-May to mid-Aug. 
If interested, please send a one page letter on why you think you should get the job and your resume to hamptonsjob03@hotmail.com. 
Will stop taking applications on Wednesday, Feb 19th at midnight. 
WANTED 

Softball Officials Wanted. Apply w/RecSports by Feb. 20th. New ND officials earn $8. 
More info email hadams@nd.edu 
Officials Wanted. Apply w/RecSports by Clinic Dates Lacrosse Feb. 25 @ 7p RSRC. Floor Hockey Feb.25 @ 8p RSRC. Soccer Feb. 25@ 9p RSRC. 
More info email hadams@nd.edu 
Residential Instructors needed for developmentally disabled adults in Niles group home. Flexible schedul­ing. Successful applicants must be compassionate and responsible. 
Inquire at: 269.687.0875. 
FOR SALE 
4-bdrm, 2-bath home, close to cam­pus. Clay Twp. 271-5144. 
FOR RENT 
Rooms for rent. $250 month includes utilities. 
272-1525 
mmmrentals@aol.com 
Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus. mmmrentals@aol.com 
272-1525 
www.mmmrentals.com 
PERSONAL 
Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, 
please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more informa­tion, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
I need a rock a-big ass rock! 
Sports saves the day again 
I am protesting doing any school work for the rest of this week 
200 days until Notre Dame vs. Washington State 
Touchdown Browns! 

Wednesday, February 19, 2003 page 13
The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Brawl sends Canseco to jail for probation violation 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

Jose Canseco was sent to jail Tuesday after violating his pro­bation for a 2001 nightclub brawl. 
The former major league slugger could be held until a scheduled March 17 hearing, Judge Leonard E. Glick ruled. 
"I understand that I have to take responsibility," Canseco said. "I ask for the mercy and understanding of the court.•• 
Shortly after, Glick ordered Canseco into custody. 
"No bond," Glick said. 
Wearing a dark double­breasted suit, the 38-year-old Canseco handed his wallet and a thick silver necklace to his lawyer before being led out of the courtroom. his hands cuffed behind his hack. 
Glick issued a warrant for Canseco's arrest Friday after being told the six-time AU-Star had failed to begin anger con­trol classes and community ser­vice, and that he had left Florida for longer than 30 days. 
Those were among the condi­tions of his three-year proba­tion, as well as the payment of court costs and sending month­ly reports. 
Canseco ranks 26th in base­ball history with 462 career homers. He retired in May, fin­ishing with .266 batting aver­age, 1,407 RBI and 200 stolen bases in 1,887 games with seven clubs. 
He and Mark McGwire teamed in Oakland as the "Bash Brothers," leading the team to three straight World Series appearances from 1988­90 and the 1989 title. Canseco won the 1988 AL MVP award. 
"The subject does not appear to take probation seriously." probation officer Ileana Ortiz told Glick in a report filed last week and prompting the arrest warrant. Ortiz said Canseco had been in Los Angeles since Dec. 20. 
Canseco's attorney, Gustavo Lage, said his client was involved in a custody battle in California and wasn't able to arrange the anger control classes. Lage also said Canseco misunderstood the conditions of his community service, believing those hours could be served at any time during the three-year probation period. 
"He knew he was running the risk that he would give up early termination of his probation," Lage said. 
Canseco and his twin brother, Ozzie, fought with two men at a nightclub in Miami Beach on Oct. 31, 2001. Jose Canseco pleaded guilty in November 2002. 
Ozzie Canseco, in court with his brother Tuesday, has com­plied with the terms of his pro­bation. 
Jose Canseco pleaded guilty to felony aggravated battery and two counts of misde­meanor battery. His brother, who played briefly in the majors, pleaded guilty to felony battery and misdemeanor bat­tery. 
Prosecutor Jonathan Granoff said sending a probation viola­tor to jail was "standard proce­dure." In a case heard just before Canseco's hearing began Tuesday, Glick sent a probation violator to jail for 366 days. 
Jose Canseco Sr. said his son has been mistreated by the court system. 
"He's been treated very badly," Canseco Sr. said. "He's a nice guy. He's done very good things in this country." 
Lage asked Glick to not send Jose Canseco to jail, saying the six-time baseball All-Star is a highly visible public figure. 
"'He's not going anywhere," Lage argued, to no avail. 
Canseco admitted last year that he used steroids during his baseball career. He claimed that up to 85 percent of all major leaguers took muscle­enhancing drugs during the years he played, and said he planned to tell all about the alleged steroid abuse in base­ball in a still-unpublished book. 
Canseco was born in Cuba and raised in Miami, the city he still calls home. 
He is still considered a 

REUTERS Photo Archive 
Fonner Major League Baseball player Jose Canseco waits out a rain delay at Camden Yards In Baltimore during the 2001 sea­son. Canseco was sent to jail Tuesday for a probation violation. 
celebrity in his adopted city. Canseco was awaiting a bond and has received star consider­hearing on a domestic violence ation in at least two of his pre­charge. vious Miami jail stints. And in 1992. officers who 
In 1997, corrections officials arrested Canseco on aggravat­investigated if Canseco received ed battery charges for allegedly special treatment when guards trying to run his first wife off snapped Polaroids of each the road asked for and received other with him inside the jail. autographs from the slugger. 




Lads ofComedy 
seen her on campus? 
, ..... _' ,~
. _:_ 
..-,.-,;;
.,._ 
·, 
-..... 

You can this Friday when the "Lads ofCo111edy" visit Notre Dame! 
Your Irish eyes will be smiling while your face laughs hysterically at the 11Lads of.Comedy!11 A mixture ofstand up comedy, characters and sketches all centered around the Irish American experience. It's a sho,v for the Irish, about the Irish, by the Irish! Eve1)'thing,vill be covered fron1 Catholic school, wakes, Nohe Da,ne, and our fan1ilies! 
Friday February 211 9 p1111 Lafortune Ballroom 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 19, 2003 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Bechler was taking ephedra be£ ore death 

l 
CHRISTMAS IN APRIL IS APPROACHING AGAIN! Date: Sat. April 12, 2003 Time: 7:15am -4:30pm 
Come be one of the 1,000+ volunteers! 
For sign-up sheets and more information regarding the event please visit our website at www.nd.edu/-cia or come to the sign-up locations. Thank you in advance for your help and participation. Your Christmas in April Steering Committee 
Associated Press 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. 

A weight-loss drug probably contributed to the heatstroke death of Baltimore Orioles pitching 
prospect S t e v e Bechler. a medical examiner s a i d Tuesday. 
Bechler had been 


t a k i n g Bechler 
Xenadrine, 
an over-the-counter drug con­
taining ephedra, which has 
been linked to heatstroke and 
heart trouble, Dr. Joshua 
Perper said. 
Bechler died Monday. less than 24 hours after a spring training workout sent his tem­perature to 108. 
Ephedra has been banned by the NCAA, the NFL and the International Olympic Committee, but not by major league baseball. Perper urged baseball to ban the drug. 
The preliminary autopsy findings indicated Bechler died from complications of heatstroke that caused multi­organ failure. 
) Final results won't be avail-
l 
! 
l ) 
) 
) 
Sign-ups: 

able until toxicology tests are completed in two-to-three weeks, Perper said. 
Among the other factors contributing to Bechler's death, Perper said, were that he had high blood pressure and liver abnormalities. 
The 6-foot-2, 239-pound Bechler was an overweight athlete pushing himself in warm, humid weather much different from the climate in his hometown of Medford, Ore. He also hadn't eaten much solid food in the two days before he fell ill. 
The workout Sunday left Bechler pale and dizzy. When his condition deteriorated, he was carried from the club­house to an ambulance on a stretcher. He spent the night in intensive care and died Monday morning at Northridge Medical Center. 
Bechler was a third-round draft pick by the Orioles in 1998. He made his major league debut last September, going 0-0 with a 13. 50 ERA in three relief appearances. He was expected to begin this season with the club's new Triple-A affiliate in Ottawa. 
Bechler spent most of last year at Triple-A Rochester, going 6-11 with a 4.09 ERA in 24 starts. 
Tuesday, Feb. 18, 11-2pm and 4-Spm, in LaFortune Wednesday, Feb. 19, 11-2pm in North Dining Hall Wednesday, Feb. 19, 4-Spm in LaFortune Thursday, Feb. 20, 11-2pm and 4-Spm, in LaFortune 
.. 
a 
-

Wednesday, February 19, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
BOXING 


Living the Spirit 
Tyson ready to fight, 
Between Two Worlds 
-

Etienne backing out 
6:30pm Fri. February 21 to 8: 00pm Sat. February 22 
Building Community. Making Friends. Finding our place within the Notre Dame Family and the Church; a retreat for gay, lesbian, and bisexual undergraduate students and their friends and supporters. 
Applications available at the Retreat Office 114 CoMo -across main hall from the popcorn room. Cost: $20 

Signup Deadline Wed. February 19 
THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON 
GAY AND LESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS 


-------------------------------------... 
UPCOMING EVENTS THIS MONTH SPONSORED BY UBWELL2 
TONIGHT 
LAUREN GREENFIELD'S GIRL CULTURE 
Learn the unsettling truth of what it means to be a girl in today's society. A tour ofthe Girl Culture exhibit at the Snite Museum will be led by Curator of Photography, Steve Moriarty, followed by a discussion with Valerie Staples, eating disorders specialist at the Notre Dame Counseling Center. The event is co-sponsored with the Notre Dame Counseling Center and the Center's 

out explanation.

Associated Press 
Tyson reportedly wanted more money for the fight. He
lAS VEGAS 
was to make somewhere

Just when it seemed Mike between $5 million and $10
Tyson's world couldn't get 
million, far less than the $20more bizarre, he outdid him­million he pocketed for losingself. 

to Lewis in June.

Faced with an uncertain 
Tyson owes his ex-wife $6.5

future and the reality of 
million in future earnings asthrowing away a reported $5 

part of their divorce settle­

million-plus payday, Tyson 
ment.

woke up in a better mood 
"He woke up today and saidTuesday and pronounced him­

he wanted to do it," Finkel

self ready to fight after all. 
said. "He felt good enough soA day before, Tyson backed he could go to Memphis andout of Saturday's bout against beat this guy." 

Clifford Etienne. Now, though, Etienne hadn't been expect­Etienne says he doesn't want ed to present much of a prob­
to fight, leaving the former 
lem for a fit Tyson. The formerheavyweight champion in need 

champ was a 7-1 favorite

of another opponent. 
against a fighter handpicked

Tyson planned to get on a 
by promoters for his willing­

chartered jet Tuesday to 
ness to stand in front of TysonMemphis, Tenn., despite the and trade punches.

misgivings of his trainer. 
Bonano said his fighter was"I told him, 'Mike, as your up all night thinking the fight

friend, I don't think you're 
was canceled and said he nowready for the fight,'" trainer 

wasn't mentally prepared to

Freddie Roach said. "He made fight. But Etienne would havethe decision and I'm going to made his biggest payday ever:stand behind him. We'll get a nearly $1 million.
couple of days in to do the best \Vhile Etienne pulled out of
we can to get him back. 
the bout, Tyson went to the

Hopefully he hasn't lost every­charter terminal in Las Vegas,thing." 
where he, Roach and a spar­While Tyson's mood swings 

ring partner were to board a

are well known, Etienne had a private jet for Memphis.
little fit of his own. 
Tyson's handlers waited

"I'm going to show him I days for him to give them
don't have to live by Mike's some sort of signal on his will­rules," Etienne said. "I think ingness to fight. They decidedhe has mental problems, but 
to cancel the bout after the

Mike has to live with that." 
b o x e r

Etienne's 
missed amanager, Les flight to

Bonano, said "He woke up today and . 
Memphis

he tried to talk 
said he wanted to do it. for the sec­

Etienne into 
fighting, but He felt good enough so he ond day in 
a row

the boxer was could go to Memphis and 
Monday.

adamant. 
beat this guy.., After the

"He's not fight was
going to fight. 
calied off,

It's officia I," Shelly Finkel 
Showtime

Bonano said. 
Tyson's manager 
executives

"But in this decided toworld, who move an
knows?" 
undercard headed by

Proving that an opponent is Olympian Jeff Lacy to Baily's
just an opponent, however, hotel-casino in Atlantic City
promoters said they had four and televise it along with somefighters lined up to replace 
interviews with Tyson and

Etienne. 
Etienne in place of the main"If I were him, I'd be jump­event.

ing for joy that he's fighting a 
"We actually pulled off an

Mike Tyson who hasn't trained amazing logistical task in 24
for days," said Tyson's manag­hours," Showtime boxing chief 
er, Shelly Finkel. "I think you'll Jay Larkin said. "I assure you
see him fight. If not, we have this is not a publicity stunt. We
others to take his place." went to astounding gymnastics
The 36-year-old Tyson's 
to pull this off." 

erratic behavior took another 
soap operalike twist Tuesday Once the most fearsome 
when he said he was feeling heavyweight around, Tyson 
better and wanted to go has shown little inclination to 
through with the fight. The fight in recent years and has 
night before, Tyson said he lost three of his last nine -wasn't 100 percent and didn't fights, two by knockout. 
want to risk not being his best. Tyson fought an average of 
"In the world of Mike. it's only five rounds a year in the 
normal," Finkel said. last 5 1/2 years -and eight of 
Tyson might have been int1u• those came while he was tak­
enced by the unhappiness of ing a beating in his fight 
Showtime executives who had against Lewis. 
a big weekend of programming But Finkel said Tyson 
built around him and the pos­remains a big attraction. 
sibility the network might drop "In the crazy world of Mike 
the fighter from its stable. He Tyson. one thing you have to 
also fact}d losing a return know is Mike Tyson will 
match with Lennox Lewis that always be in demand," Finkel 
would pay him millions more. said. "He's still a star -he's 
Although Tyson was said to the star. He won't be hurting have flulike symptoms over the for places to fight." weekend, his recent run of odd Brian Young, one of the local behavior began a week ago, promoters, said 10,700 tickets when he went out and got a had been sold for the fight, but large tattoo on his left temple. that ticket sales dried up over He then missed three straight the weekend as speculation sparring sessions, leaving mounted that Tyson would not Roach waiting at the gym with-fight. 

'\ 




page 16 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, February 19, 2003 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 


around the dial 
POKER 

World Series of Poker 4 p.m., ESPN 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Memphis at Louisville 7 p.m., ESPN Maryland at Duke 9 p.m., ESPN 
NHL HOCKEY 

N. Y. Islanders at San Jose 
10:30 p.m., ESPN2 
Associated Press 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. 
Barry Bonds will have minor surgery on his left elbow Wednesday, and the San Francisco slugger is expected to miss only a few days of spring training workouts. 
The five-time MVP com­plained of tenderness to Giants trainer Stan Conte after arriving at camp Tuesday. 
Conte said the pain stems from surgery in 1999, when doctors repaired a tear in Bonds' left triceps and removed a bone spur from the back of his elbow. 

Conte compared Bonds' procedure to removing a thorn from the bottom of his foot. 
"I don't think it'll cause him any big delays," Conte said. "This is not a big deal. We could have not done anything to this. It's a minor irritation that start­ed to bother him. 
"Our concern was that it might get worse as the season went on. then we'd have a problem. Now is the time to take care of it. Once the suture is removed, that's the end of the story," he said. 
The 38-year-old Bonds was an early arrival to camp. Position players for the defending NL champi­ons officially report Wednesday. 
Bonds spoke with reporters for 38 minutes Tuesday morning, never bringing up his elbow problem. Conte said Bonds approached him after the news conference. 
Bonds will require local anesthesia during the pro­cedure, meaning his elbow will be numbed, Conte said. 
Conte said the pain stems from an existing suture, which will be removed. The suture formed a knot just under Bonds' skin above the elbow. 
Bonds has been bothered by tenderness for three or four weeks, but he didn't tell the Giants' training staff until Tuesday. 
Precautionary X-rays were taken. 
"It's definitely related to the 1999 surgery, nothing more than that." Conte said. "This happens from time to time with different surgeries." 
The elbow did not slow Bonds during offseason workouts. Conte said. 
"His big point was, 'I can do everything,"' he said. "He hasn't done much in the last seven or eight days I guess. To use his quotes, he's been 'chillin.'" 
IN BRIEF 
O'Neal unsure of when he'll return to the court 
Shaquille O'Neal ruled himself out of Tuesday night's game against Yao Ming and the Houston Rockets because of a sore left knee. 
"We do not expect him to play," Lakers spokesman John Black said after a light practice at the team's facility in El Segundo. 
It wasn't known whether O'Neal would travel to Utah for Wednesday night's game against the Jazz. The Lakers play home games against Portland on Friday and Seattle on Sunday. 
The three-time defending NBA champions entered Tuesday's game 23-15 with O'Neal and 3-10 without him. The Rockets (27-24) went in with a one-game lead .over the Lakers for the final Western Conferenee playoff berth. 
Also hampered by soreness in his surgically repaired right big toe, O'Neal said after practice Monday he wasn't close to being 100 percent. 

'Tm very frustrated because it's not supposed to be happening," he said. "Usually knick-knack injuries go away when I play through them, but it hasn't gone away. It's gotten worse. I want to win the whole thing and not just go out and win games. I want to get right before I come back." 
Cornhuskers closer to beingpaid for play 
A proposal to pay Nebraska's foot­ball players cleared a legislative hur­dle Tuesday. 
The Business and Labor Committee voted unanimously to advance the measure for debate before the full Legislature. 
State Sen. Ernie Chambers' bill would require Nebraska football players be paid a stipend if three other states with schools in the Big 12 Conference pass similar laws. Other states with schools in the con­ference are Oklahoma, Kansas, Missouri, Colorado, Texas and Iowa. 
NCAA spokesman Wally Renfro said the proposal was flawed. 
"I don't think there are many. if any, college presidents who believe it's the right thing to do to pay their students to play sports," Renfro said. "If you tried to do this. I think you would take first-rate college pro­grams and turn them into third-rate professional programs.'' 
Renfro said the bill would be vul­nerable to legal action from players in other sports who also want to be paid. 
Chambers said he introduced the bill because NCAA rules governing money players can earn are too com­plex. Chambers also believes football players are exploited because they draw no financial benefit from work that generates millions of dollars for the universities. 
Current NCAA rules afford stu­dents flexibility to earn money in addition to scholarships, or tap into a special assistance fund, Henfro said. 


Wednesday, February 19, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

40.4 percent. Freshman Patrick Beilein had a

Miller 
career-high 13 points for West Virginia, which starts three freshmen

continued from page 20 
and two sophomores. After getting outrebounded 51-27 in

Thomas and scored the game-winner their first meeting with Notre Dame,from beneath the basket. 
West Virginia coach John Beilein tried 

"I saw Chris driving, and I saw an to figure out a way to even out that
open spot underneath. I'm not really 
statistic.

the hero," said Miller, who once was 
Nothing worked. Pittsnogle, West

voted the 
Virginia's tallest player"Unsung Hero" as 

and second-leadinga sophomore at 

"I'm not really the hero. 
scorer, had just nine

Maryland. "It was a team effort. We It was a team effort. We points and three 
rebounds in 27 min­

did a great job did a great job 
defensively." utes, and West Virginia
defensively .. 
was outrebounded 42­

Miller, who 29.
transferred to 
Notre Dame after Dan Miller "I thought we did a three seasons at better job in the sec­
Irish forward 

Maryland, fin­ond half," John Beilein said. "I don't know if
ished with four points, 10 below we can do anything his average. He missed all six o his 3-about it until we get stronger in the point attempts. off-season." "It was frustrating, but you've got to The teams combined to attempt only 
keep playing," Miller said. "I was get­15 free throws. ting great looks. They were just rim­The Mountaineers' 14,000-seat ming out." arena was more than half empty. 
Schifino missed two shots in the Classes at West Virginia were can­final seven seconds around a missed celed for a second day Tuesday due to free throw by Miller. the recent winter storm, which 
Notre Dame shot just 38.3 percent dumped about 20 inches of snow in for the game, while West Virginia shot the area. 
Clutch 
continued from page 20 
and performer," said Welsh ...He is a leader in performance and one of our strongest swimmers." 
This year Fitzpatrick was elect­ed a co-captain, along with fellow seniors John Hudson and Andy Maggio. He is also the team's representative on the Student Advisory Board. 
"He is an outstanding team leader who leads more by exam­ple than by words," said Welsh. "He, John and Andy have been instrumental in building a great esprit de corps this year." 
Fitzpatrick has taken his lead­ership role seriously. 
"As a senior, I bring experi­ence," he said. "I work hard in practice and hope to influence the rest ofthe people on the team through that. I am definitely intense; that sums me up when it comes to swimming." 
Over the course of his four years, Fitzpatrick has witnessed a change in attitude in the Notre Dame team. 
"In past years we were more split up individually, while this year we've grown as a team," he said. "We are more focused as a team." 
Fitzpatrick's example has helped the Irish develop as a 
group. His love for competition this year," Fitzpatrick said. and the sport is evident to his His times have improved this teammates and coach. year, and Fitzpatrick heads into 
"He is an excellent t h i s competitor that races week ­
"He is an outstanding
extremely well at end 's championship team leader who leads Big East meets," said Welsh. m e e t
more by example
"The saying goes that ranked luck favors the well­than by words·· in the prepared and he's top three very well-prepared." in both
Tim Welsh 
Fitzpatrick's prepa­d i s ­
Irish coach
ration for this season tances began in the sum­for the mer. He stayed in breast-South Bend to work with stroke. strength coach Ken Cromer. "He's looking to have lifetime­
"The strength training I did best performances and he's pre­
with Ken helped me get faster pared to do it," said Welsh. "We're counting on him this weekend; he's going to be need­
ed." 
brother Brandon is set to gradu­ate from Northern Arizona this year as well. Both of Fitzpatrick's younger brothers are athletes. Ryan is a sophomore quarter­back for Harvard's football team, and Shawn plays two varsity sports as a high school sopho­more. 
Fitzpatrick is looking to leave a lasting mark in the Notre Dame record books. He has set his sights on accomplishing a goal that has eluded all previous Notre Dame swimmers. 
"I want to make the NCAA Championships [in the 100 or 200 breaststroke]," he said. 
Fitzpatrick's goal is lofty, but he has established himself as a strong clutch competitor. As the Irish swim team's go-to guy, he has proved that no goal is too far 


ToP 1 O Reasons to live at Lafavette: 
Io. Only six blocks from campus. 
9. 24-hr emeraency maintenance. in case You need it. 
8. Stay cool in central air. 
7. Hide dirty dishes in Your dishwasher. 
6. Receive 2 Pizzas during Ist semester finals week. 
5. Be a Part of aIona-standing tradition 
4. Have Your own washer/ drver 
3. Great manaaement team. 
2. All this-and rent still under $300 Per month Per Person 
1. You Don·t Have To Share ABedroom!! 
~***Ask about leasing promotions going on! 574-234-9923 Tclark@cbresb.com 
Professionally Manaeed by Real Estate Manaaement CorP. rHousina also available at Notre Dame APartmentsJ 
After he closes his impressive from his reach. career at Notre Dame, Fitzpatrick will head to law Contact Lisa Rcijula at school at Arizona State. His twin lreijula@nd.edu 

-~ 
College of En=ering_
Spotlight Nlg 2003 
for First-Year Students 
-
THURSDAY. FEBRU.llRY 2D 
. f-tr~,-,,. ~-.:: 
G:aa TD 7:30 P.m ¦-< 
H/lVE s.mE F.aa TDD, WE ST/lRT SERVlnG .~1• llT G: . a P.m. . 
,{\
-k· 
•..:_r-; 
•:,._".'_.
I,.~-., 
. 
'. ,' ;_,,-._ ¥ 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 19, 2003 
MENS TENNIS SMC BASKETBALL 
hen: Tuesday, February 25th, 2003 
Act()I~s FI-c)rn Tl1e 1()11cl().t1 Stage 
•A•A•>! here: Reckers Hospitality Room 
,.v,v,, 

ime: 12:30 to 2:00 pm 
The Tempest 
This will be a luncheon, if you are interested 
Wednesday, February 19... 7:30 p.m Thursday, February 20... 7:30 p.m. 
in attending, please RSVP at: 1 -6841 or
Friday, February 21 ... 7 :30 p.m. Saturday, February 22... 7:30 p.m. 
email MSPS at: msps@nd.edu by Wednesday, 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 
February 19, 2003. 
Seniors $14 • AH Students $12 
Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-81 28. The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
Irish on verge of season turnaround 
. Matchup against Michigan State more than just a rivalry 
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
Today will be an important test for the Irish. 
The Irish hope to prove that they are better than their early season record, which includes the worst start in program history. 
A win at No. 66 Michigan State todav would not exact­ly vault the No. 44 Notre Dame up the rankings, but it would show that the Irish are tired of losses. 
They began 

"/ think everyone has 
the spring doubles, season with a more confidence. I think and some fine tun­
Notre Dame we're finding ourselves in 
tennis first -ing [indi­
more ofa rhythm. ·• v id u a 1­
four straight losses to open ly]." Scott the year's Matt Scott said. dual-match T h e
Irish junior 
Irish say

play. 
However, the season began to turn around when the Irish claimed two straight road wins, at Wisconsin and Purdue. Then, Feb. 9, Notre Dame nearly upset No. 8 Duke, but the Blue Devils held on to win, 4-2. 
Fresh off a nine-day layoff, the Irish hope to continue their successful streak and leave their struggles behind. 
"We're expecti~g to win," junior tri-captain Matt Scott said. "Not because it's Michigan State, but because I think that's the mentality we have every time we step on the court." 
The Spartans began the spring with eight straight victories, but lost to Ball State 4-3 last week. This year's squad is virtually the same as last year's team that was swept 7-0 by the Irish. 
2002-03 Season 
Notre Dame F1.m, Television, and Theatre presents 
'A',,/,,:
,.v,v., 


"We've had a small rest between Duke and now," Scott said. "We've have some good practices. We're look­ing forward to getting back out on the court and seeing how our revisions have worked out." 
One of the key areas of revision for the Irish during the past week was their dou­bles lineup, in hopes of win­ning the initial point of their matches. Notre Dame failed to win the doubles point against both Duke and Purdue. While they were able to recover against the Boilermakers, they were not able to accomplish the same against the formidable Blue Devils. 
"We've really put a lot of 
attention 
into our 
t h e y 

w e r e never disheartened, even during their string of losses, and team is remembering the lessons learned from the season's start. According to Scott, positive thinking has been a key part in the team's ability to recover from their start, that included two close matches. 
"I think everyone has more confidence," he said. "I think we're finding ourselves in more of a rhythm. There are still a few nuts and bolts we have to work on. [But] The guys are positive. Hopefully we'll bring back a win." 
After today's match, the Irish will take on the Northwestern at home Saturday. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
Belles look to end losing streak 
By TREY WILLIAMS 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's basketball had hopes last week, coming off of a two-game road campaign that ended unsuccessfully, to say the least. However, the results of their final home series thus far have come significantly short of expectations. 
The Belles (5-18) now have one last chance to give their home crowd a taste of victory. A win in tonight's match against Adrian College (10-13) would not only snap a long standing losing streak for Saint Mary's but would also be a beacon of hope for sal­vaging their wounded MIAA rep­utation going into next week's conference tournament. 
The seventh ranked Bulldogs currently tower over the Belles in MIAA rankings with a 3-9 record despite giving up their last five games. A win by the Belles, who currently stand 1-11 in the MIAA, presents the possibility of boosting the Belles above the Bulldogs before tournament play begins. 
"To get a win would be a huge boost for the team," said guard Bridget Boyce "Not only would it help us going into the tourna­ment, but it would be a great way for the seniors to end their last home game." 
Though the Belles only have two seniors in their arsenal, emotions will run high for the younger ladies as well. 
"Our team has grown really close in just the past few weeks," said Boyce "Even when we're losing, we push each other, pick each other up, and step out there and give it our best." 
The Belles have currently 

returned to their best with the stepped up during her absence, return of strong scorer Emily including center Kristen Matha Creachbaum. Creachbaum made who accumulated 12 rebounds 
her revival during Saturday's "To get a win would be a 
game against 
huge boost for the team ...
Calvin College, shooting as if Bridget Boyce she never left. 
Belles guard
Not only did she hit 38 percent of her shots -the same average she posted during her last game two weeks ago -but Creachbaum also capitalized on 67 percent of 3-pointers. 
In addition to Creachbaum's return, the Belles will also rely on the strength of players who 
Located In The Upper Level Of The Brewery At The Historic 100 Cenfer Mishawaka Hours: Thursda41 frida4 and Saturday 5:30-11 pm Phone: 574-257-1792 
-200/o Student Discount Specials on Thursdays-
The praclice of fondue, first used by the Swiss, is derived from the word "F d " I h " 1·,,
on re whic means to me t . 
fondue wm introduced as a nalional dish in Switzerland. It sym­bolized the coming together of families and friends. At these gath­erings beautifull4 decorated ceramic, potler4, or earthenware caquelons of cheese and oil accompanied by crusted breads, fruits, vegetables, meats, and bamboo skewers were placed on lhe fable so that quests could indulge al their leisure. Thus foday ..... man4 centuries later -the same tradition of hospi­tality and good fasfe is still alive and well. Now you don't have fo 
IH, ~:1r::n~•~"0 ~l:0~~;;;;;;,~~;.~:;~::10: i:::1'.~m;l4 I 
:::::·:;:::: .,.::: ~ F ·y·.. •·• :-:-:~::;::::.: ~:; ......·t:..•x ::--:.:::::,:•-->::::::::: "X:-=:: ::::::~-.:. %~:::\,'.:::::::,:•: ..l:•• :~:::::::::::::~;:·:::-.:::~...,n /::.;., :::. -~:..;;:.c•::::::;:u:~ . ::-:,; ::::::::> ..::::::;:::: .;,-.? 
against them," said Boyce "I think we're a lot stronger than we were then so we just have to bring it all together and play as a team." 
Contact Trey Williams at Williams.317@nd..edu 
against Calvin and 15 last week against Albion. 
"We're going to throw a lot of different defenses at [Adrian] from what we tried in our last game 
~•.A'A' 
,,v.v,, 
Victor Lewis from "The Color of Fear" 



Wednesday, February 19, 2003 page 19
The Observer . TODAY 

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 
1 PDNT CARf IF HE 
~11-lAT H£'S WORLD I N'T CAR£ \F \-\£./5 A DCX::TOR' F
'S FR£QUi;N,L"'I 
AND WELL -.~r.,_,,.,n.A HH You MA'/HOT,"fA 'M
·Cl1ID 11
..... 

~ SE DR. SEUSS AS THE. AIN ~URC 
HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
.....
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
~-~ 
.­
I KANLY j
I I r 
02003 Tri:>une Media Services, Inc. 
11;_
All Righls Reserved. 
//_
LUXET 
?i 
...
[IJ t. 
WHE:N THE: GAR.D­
TUNFAL 
E:NE:R C.HOPPE:D DOWN THE WR.ONG
I (J 
Tl<l=E:, HE: SAID 
www.jurnble.com 
IT WAS--­
YAMIDD 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
rxJ I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
~r 
here: AN "IT]·( I I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: SUITE FIORD GULLET AWEIGH Answer: What he became when he took the barbells from the gym -A WEIGHT "LIFTER" 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 34 Sticky stuff 65 Mary Kay competitor
1 Clipper feature 35 Like some noodle dishes 66 Little spin 
5 "Hogwash!" 39 Inexperienced 67 Edges (out) 
10 Coventry golfers?
cleaner 68 Duchamp's movement
42 Links rarities 

14 Cousin of a haw~ 43 Cheer DOWN
15 Up the ante 44 Hardly cheery 1 Schuss, e.g.
16 Take on 45 1996 A. L. rookie of the year 2 Cause of 
17 Improve one's inflation?
golf game? 47 Composer's 3 Midon on the icebasis20 Marbles, so to 4 Place for a cap
speak 48 Bewildered 5 Kind of danish
21 Jukebox 52 First name in favorite Polish politics 6 Many a Swift work
22 Barely miss, as 54 Mach 1 breaker the golf cup 7 Playing golf 
55 Common 8 Unhealthy­

25 Hatcher of "Lois fraternity activity looking& Clark• 56 Friend of Pooh 9 Minute26 Grammy-winner 58 Taking one's
Black 10 "Relax, bro1" 
time on the 27 Meter reading green? 11 Language from which "thug" is
29 Son of Cain 63 Wanton look 
derived 32 Heads 64 Olympics 53 Potter's buys
12 Alan of
downtown? broadcaster Jim wizened
"Gattaca" 56 Trillionth: Prefix
36 Zeroes (in on) 13 PlayStation 45 Hemingway's 57 Warty hopper 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 37 First vice Barnes
button 

president 59 Loser to J. FK
18 Horse operas 46 Rasla's music 60 Charlottesville
38 of

19 "How'm I doin'?'' 48 iPod maker 
sch.
Langerhans

asker 49 Made level 
(pancreas part) 61 Approval of22 Arthur Murray 

so Beyond full sorts

lesson 40 Rebellious Turner 51 Diary bit 62 Genomic matter
23 Father of Esau 
..___,__..._......,._...,......,..............,__ _...,.~ 24 Noncommittal response For answers, call 1 ·900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a credit card. 1-800-814-5554 . 
..,...._~~ 28 Takes off Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
30 "That's crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS amazing"' 
Online subscriptions Today's puzzle and more than 2,000A R 31 Like Vassar, past puzzles. nyt,mes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year).· GO now 
Crosswords tor young solvers: The Learning Network. O S 33 Beget nylimes.com/learning,,xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http.1/observer.nd.edu/ 

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIIS DAY: Justine Bateman, Prince Andrew, Margaux Hemingway, Holly Jctmsoo 
Happy Birthday: Your vision will be clear and, thus, little ahead of your titre and the con¢tioo. You will be true to yourselfaoo dJanning to tln;e you interact wilh You will na:::h the success you are looking for this year. Your numbers are 7, 12, 19, 25, 32, 38 
ARIFS (March 21-April 19): Don't share your sa::reis; sorrerne imy be looking fer a way to make you look ml Try to stay alert, do things by the lxxlk and keep your thoughts to yourself. 
Irk 
-
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Have fim with frieoos and you ax.dd eagly nmSOllUXle you find fu.<rinating. Get involvt'd in activities that will help you get into~sl'JaJx. Join a gym cr filooiSrrograrn .......* 
GEMINI (May 21-JWie 20): Don't let little cootlicls oold you back l.cxlay. Ifyou can't avoid them, deal with e.ach is.sue promptly. Get legal advice if you aren't sure of your rights. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't be too quick to tru5t anew COOllC(.,1i,on you have jll5t made. Step lxlck and reevaluate your pa;itioo. Be aireful. oot doo't let this cwcru,ity r,es.s you
by.**
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Brainstonn with a fiiend and you will com: up with som: mxteyrmking ideas. You can start a con5ulting ~.utilizmg your CXll11111UllK:3 skills. 
ti** 
VIRGO (Aug. 2."-Sepl 22): Achallenge or con1)ciitive events will stimulate your senses. Check out an investnrnt that awe,:us to be lucrative. Friends will inlrerloce you to sorreone 
spxial l.cxlay. *** 
LIBll,\ (Sept 2.'\-0ct. 22): Ifyou are true to yourselfaoo follow through with what you've always wanted to do, you will make th: rIJ.l5t satisfying ,g;iiffi. You will realize that your aWities are in crmaoo in rmny different areas. Irk* SCORPIO (Od. 23-Nov. 21): You will mµes.s odas with your talent aoo detailed appoach to whatevt'2" you do. Don't take oo too mx:h. Don't try to be a hero. Ifyou netrl a break, take 
ett.lrk* 
SAGTrfARIUS (Nov. 22-Doc. 21): Yoo will have a~to color situatioos, which will 
-
lead to crnflic1s with sorrrore woo koows th: trulh You rmy want to make soor alteratirns that will re;ult in nue liJre b)'OI.Llrktt CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): You shcx.dd be out having a little fun, not rroping around freling sooy f<r yoorself. Don't frel guilty taking a little ture fer yourself. Discover rew ways to limit your stre<,s. ** 
AQUARIUS (Jan 20-Fl'h.18): You can axnnplish a !cttooay. H~ifnrroverrent fl'Qiects will result in an atmosphere you create of comfort, fun and entertairurent ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-Mardt 20): Ifyou aren't hooest with yourselfyoo aren't likely to rroke th: right choices at an errotional level. Social activities will be fun. but you must not be overindulgent er too fiir1at.jous.lrk* 
Birthday Baby: Charm and character are what you're all about You will be diplomatic, engaging and very entel1aining. You will always have SO!relhing enlightening to coolribute. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com ffiPYRIGHf 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDK'.ATE 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________ 
Address __________________ 
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 


Wednesday, February 19, 2003 
MENS SWIMMING 
• Senior always comes through when Irish swim team needs him 
By LISA REIJUlA 
Sports Writer 
Every team has a go-to guy, an individual that can be counted on to be cool under pressure and deliver a top performance in the most important competitions. For the Notre Dame men's swimming and diving team, senior Jason Fitzpatrick is the definition of a clutch performer, always rising to the occasion in big meets. 
"In basketball, he's the guy you'd give the ball at the end of a 
Fitzpatrick is Mr. Clutch 
close game," said head coach Championships. ty letters all four years. He was Tim Welsh of Fitzpatrick. "In This season, Fitzpatrick has also named an All-America and football. at third and one with 30 been a consistent competitor, all-academic selection as a seconds to go, he's the one whose earning victories in dual meets senior, and was inducted into the play you'd 
against Oakland, Cleveland State Arizona High School Hall of call." and TCU. At the Notre Dame Fame. 
A self-Invitational in December, he set a He cites his high school coach, describe d school record in the 100 breast­Brad Hering, as his role model in "intense" stroke (55.71}. the sport. Hering, a former swim­competitor A native of Arizona, Fitzpatrick mer for Arizona State and a com­who hates to did not begin s\\>imming competi­petitor on an international level l o s e , tively until his freshman year of in the 1980s, was a major source Fitzpatrick is high school. He considered join­of motivation for Fitzpatrick. among the Flt t I k ing the football team to play with "He was an inspiration to me,"elite of the zpa r c his twin brother Brandon. Fitzpatrick said. "He was the rea­Big East "It was my dad that got me into son I continued to swim in col­conference in the 100 and 200 swimming," said Fitzpatrick. "He lege." breaststroke. The top Irish swim­was the one who pushed me in At the suggestion of his father, mer in the stroke, Fitzpatrick's the direction of the sport." Fitzpatrick attended a summer times have yet again earned him Fitzpatrick had a stellar high swim camp at Notre Dame, and a spot in both races at the school career, setting numerous became interested in the upcoming Big East school records and earning varsi-University. 
"I liked it when I visited, and when I talked to the coach he sold me on it," said Fitzpatrick. 
As a freshman, Fitzpatrick made an immediate impact for the Irish. He established the 100 and 200 breaststrokes as his sig­nature events and placed seventh in the 200 at the 2000 Big East Championships. 
Fitzpatrick continued to improve as a sophomore, placing third in the 200 and sixth in the 100 race at the Big East meet. He won both the Patrick Reilly McManus Captain's Award and Notre Dame's Most Improved Award for the 2000-01 season. 
"These awards identify him as a person who's a great teammate 
see CLUTCH/page 17 

MENS BASKETBALL 
Miller's late basket lets Irish escape on road 
• 56-55 win at West Virginia gives Notre Dame 20 for the season 
Associated Press 
Dan Miller was having a lousy night -until the end of the game. 
The senior forward was just 2-of-13 from the field, but his inside basket with 18 seconds left gave No. 12 Notre Dame a 

t h i n k

56-55 victory "/ don't think we 're ever 
we're ever 

over West going to win by double going to Virginia on 
digits on the road. I don't win by
Tuesday night. 
double dig­

"He missed a care what we're ranked" 
its on thelot of open 

road. I 

shots, but to his 
Mike Brey don't carecredit, he was 
what we're

Irish coach
there at the end for us," said Fighting Irish coach Mike Brey. "He's hit a lot of big shots all year for us." 
Notre Dame (20-5, 8-3 Big East) earned its fourth straight 20-win season the hard way. Its last five games have been decided by six points or less. 
"We're making a habit of this," Brey said. 
Despite letting a 15-point lead slip away, the Irish stayed tied with Pittsburgh for second place in the West Division, one-half game behind first­place Syracuse. No. 15 Syracuse beat St. John's 66-60 Tuesday night and No. 9 Pittsburgh beat Georgetown 82-67. 
Matt Carroll led Notre Dame with 16 points and 10 rebounds, while Chris Thomas added 13 points and Torin Francis had 11. 
Drew Schifino had 19 points for the Mountaineers (13-10, 4-7). who lost their eighth straight to the Irish. 
Notre Dame seemed to be in control after Carroll hit a 3­pointer for a 48-33 lead with 
11:39 left in the game. Brey knew that lead wouldn't 
stick. "I don't 
ranked," 
he said. 

W e s t Virginia clawed back despite being outrebounded badly for the second time by Notre Dame this season. 
Freshman Joe Herber, whose mother and sister flew in from his native Germany to watch him play, made his only basket of the game to tie the score at 52 with 1:49 left. 
Thomas hit a floater in the lane with 1 :02 left. Freshman Kevin Pittsnogle's 3-pointer 22 seconds later gave West Virginia its only lead of the game, 55-54. 
Miller took a feed from 
see MILLER/page 17 


MENS TENNIS 

Notre Dame at Michigan State Today, 4 p.m. 
After starting the season with four straight losses, the Irish have won two of their last three matches and look to continue their season turnaround in today's matchup against the Spartans. 
page 18 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Adrian at Saint Mary's Today, 7 p.m. 
The Belles hope to end their 11-game losing streak in their final home game of the season. A win would give the Belles some momentum going into the MIAA postseason tournament. 
page 18 







