

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
Rankings goals may conflict with education 

College of Arts and Letters departmental changes arouse mixed opinions 
By BETH ERICKSON 
News Wrirer 
In a concerted attempt to improve its national academ­ic rankings, the University has recently made several departmental changes within the Coll.ege of Arts and Letters. · 
This change has sparked controversy between those who feel that becoming a nationally accredited research university is critical for Notre Dame's future as a top academic institution and those who fear that this goal will encumber the University's mission of excel­lence in undergraduate edu­cation. 
Mark Roche, de'an of the College of Arts and Letters, said an increase in faculty research is necessary for superior undergraduate edu­cation. 
"Having as teachers as researchers who can bring to the classroom not only an interest in other subjects but 

Increased Support for Undergraduate Education 
Numbers from Arts and Letters Dean's Report 2003 
Class ratings after increasing investment in research Maximum award amount for participation in UROP* 
From 1990-91 to 2000-01 From 2002 to 2003 
82% 
$750 > :::::irrr:~:::~:!I[INll!:!:J:'~===~~'''""''··· S1,.)·"0 
Funding for UROP* Average number ofstudents participating in UROP* 
From 2002 to 2003 From 1994 to 2002 
$9,000 
:90 000 11
' 


*UROP: Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program 
"The single. goal ofthe [new] department is to obtain a higher academic ranking., 
David Ruccio professor of Economics 
the most recent knowledge in their fields, and the critical skills and passions of active 
researchers, is ideal for stu­dents," he said. 
David Ruccio, professor of economics, said that some feel pressure put on faculty in terms of research and publication will stifle their academic freedom. 
"The administration's cam­paign against the majority of members of the old [econom­ics] department certainly had a chilling effect on academic freedom," he said, "to the extent that faculty members 

MIKE HAAKINS!The Observer 
" ... to improve our aca­demic rankings we must excel in both teaching and research. ,, 
Richard Jensen chair of Economics department 
were literally told that they should abandon their exist­ing research and teaching in 

Freshmen experience exciting first game 
,By KATHERINE GALE 
News Writer 
Togas, body paint, kilts and shillelaghs -after Friday's pep rally, the Class of 2007 was fully prepared for the kickofl" of their first Notre Dame football week­end. 
Though most had seen Rudy, many had never been inside the Stadium and none had attended as students before, but by the end of Notre Dame's 29-26 See Also 
overtime win against "Stretched to Washington 
the limit" 

State, they 
Irish Insider 

had become fu 11-fled ge d Notre Da~e student body foot­
ball fans. 
"Last year, I came to the Stanford and Boston College games, which were so much Above, students fun," said O'Neill freshman Steve Bass. "But it's even better being cheer on the Irish a student, knowing the cheers and realizing that the players on defense. At right, the the field are our peers." 
For many, the day began with Irish Guard take the annual dorm freshman football 
field at halftime.
orientations, where upper class­men wake up freshmen unex­pectedly in the early morning. 
•

"[The Morrissey residents were woken] up at 6:45 and PHOTOS BY stripped down to our boxers," 
CHIP MARKS
said Morrissey freshman Ravi Patel. "We pretty much went to every girls' dorm, singing the fight song and waking everyone 
see FROSHIpage 6 



order to focus on one approach. 'neoclassical' eco­nomics." 
Richard Jensen, chair of the new Economics and Econometrics Department, said that faculty were merely encouraged to "to do any type of research that had a significant impact on the dis­cipline." 
The Department of Economics was split into two this year in part to make it a more attractive contender in the battle for prestigious academic rankings. 
"Academic rankings depend on excellence in teaching as well as research, so to improve our academic rankings we must excel in both teaching and research," Jensen said. 
Ruccio, who was vocal in his opposition to the Economics Department split last year, said that he believes that the University's decision to divide the depart-
see RANKING/page 4 



TCE results might be published 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
Associate News Editor 
During Student Government elections last year. many candi­dates campaigned on the issue of Teacher Course Evaluation publi­cation, each stating that they would work to have the publica­tion available for student use. As the new academic year begins. the office of Student Body President Pat Hallahan is working to do just that. 
Junior Jepemy Staley heads the committee working on the TCE issue. Staley has studied the cur­rent TCE process and believes that by publishing the TCE's for students to use, the University will facilitate a better student/faculty relationship, in addition to helping students create their own educa­tion. 
"This is the biggest student-ini­tiated academic proposal in years, because this has the chance to impact every student on campus," Staley said. "It is a big issue because students will be in a little more control over their education, to sculpt their education." 
Currently, the TCE results are compiled by the University's Office of Institutional Research and are then given to respective profes­sors, deans, and departmPnt chairs. These results are partiall~ 
see TCE/page 4 
Monday, September 8, 2003 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A place for Potter 
"Dude, you guys ... that's witch­craft." 
But is it really? The words uttered by my ND classmate, preceded by ghastly stares from the rest of the group, mirror a world of similar Dolores Dlaz conversation. In the Catholic 
Viewpoint
world of wine and 
Production 
sacrament, where do Harry Potter and his wand stand? 
Apparently, sometimes outside on the church lawn. As I attended Mass on the weekend in which Rawling's latest Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix was released, I relived my college moment when the priest spoke out against the "evil" that is Harry Potter amidst furtive glances between parents and their Potter­loving offspring. 
However, the Catholic Church has already made it clear that Harry's wand-waving isn't anything to be fearful of. as long as it is kept in its appropriate place in fictional litera­ture. Besides, when priests come down too hard on the world of Howling, Tolkien and the like, they run the risk of achieving the oppo­site of what they set out to do. Parents who are turned off by an extreme consternation from priests and disagree about the Potter stance end up showing their children that they can pick and choose from what is said at Mass. Parents could potentially end up having much larg­er problems than the Potter books . could pose. For this reason, priests who reject the popular Potter with fire and brimstone may end up burning themselves and their cause. 
Another of the more popular gripes against Harry Potter and his fictional friends is their alleged "escapist" nature. However, the world of faerie has very real appli­cations and reverberations in the everyday. The world of Potter and Lord of the Rings has an underlining morality rooted in the real world. The fantastic packages this morality in an entertaining, understandable and artistic way. Really, it's the archetypes of good versus evil that captures us and makes such works as Harry Potter a part of our cul­ture. Say what you will, but please -not escapism. 
On the other hand, I must admit that on some level at least I under­stand what the spiritual hubbub is about. Let's face it; Harry hysteria seems to be sweeping the country­side; it may be only too easy to get too caught up. Parents mustmake sure that Harry Potter doesn't do their job for them. Morality should be reflected by the fictional books that children read and not dictated by them. In other words, the Harry Potter series, or any other such work despite its brilliance, should be a guide, but not the guide. Thp.t's where parents and religion come in; Harry can hang out in Catholic Mass so long as he stays in the pews and doesn't climb the altar. But then again, that's the least we expect from any one attending church. 
Contact Dolores Diaz at ddiaz@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of 
The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and srrives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF SATURDAY'S GAME? 




Kaitlln O'Connor Mike Glave Sarah Blake Justin Feeney Brian Gerspach Becket Gremmels 
Freshman Junior Senior Senior Freshman Junior Lewis Hall Morrissey Hall Off-Campus Knott Hall Dillon Hall Alumni Hall 
..It was really ..It was a good ../think we got ..Spectacular. ..Ifevery game's "What the exciting, second half. pretty lucky. , but room for like that, it's hell?!" especially the First half improvement gonna kick 
second half because they put in Brady  wasn't so great though.,,  especially with Michigan coming up.,,  
Quinn.,,  


ANDREW KENNA/The Observer 
F?otball coach Tyrone Willingham attempts to quiet fans at Friday's pep rally before signaling a unified clap. Held before each home game, the rally kicks off every foot­ball weekend. 
OFFBEAT 
Waste not, want not 
WHITEHALL, Pa. -One person's trash is another's treasure -reason enough to license trash scavengers, according to the former mayor of this Pittsburgh sub­urb. 
"So much stuff is thrown away today, especially in sub­urbia." said 85-year-old Edwin Brennan, whose 14­year tenure in the middle­class borough ended a decade ago. "It's wasteful to do that." 
Brennan asked the bor­ough council last week to consider licensing a limited number of scavengers who would pay $10 each to scour 
TODAY 0:: 
IJ.I 
:I: 
!;i 
IJ.I 
~ 
..I 
<( 
curbside trash to use or resell. The borough outlawed scavengers after residents complained strangers were going through the garbage. 
The licenses are "just to make sure we know who's out there, so if a patrol car sees a particular vehicle that's licensed, we know who that guy is," said police chief William Schmitt, recalling he once reclaimed cooling fans a neighbor had thrown out. 
"Everybody did it," Schmitt said. 
Pennsylvania to host nude volleyball tournament BEAVER FALLS, Pa. -As many as 1,700 spectators 

and participants were expected to gather this week­end as volleyball bufls play in the buff. 
The 1 05-acre White Thorn Lodge nudist park in South Beaver Township. Beaver County, will host the 33rd annual Volleyball Superbowl on Saturday and Sunday. Nude & Natural magazine once called it "the most unique event in nudism." 
Some members of the nud­ist park admit a few of the spectators who were to attend the tournament will do so to take in the sights. 
Information compiled from the Assodated Press. 
(.) 
...1 0 HIGH 80 HIGH 69 HIGH 82 HIGH 82 LOW 74 LOW 63 LOW 61 LOW 63 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
((
0) 
'-:.'' 
·:::::;::. 


[butt].,, 
IN BRIEF 
A mandatory club meeting will be held tonight from 6 to 7 
p.m. in LaFortune's 

Montgomery  Theatre.  All  
University club officers  are  
expected to attend.  

Hall commissioner training will be held tonight from 7:30 to 
8:30 p.m. in LaFortune's Montgomery Theatre. Contact hall presidents for more infor­mation. 

Watch your favorite teams . and enjoy the atmosphere of Legends at the Monday Night Football Game Watch held tonight from 9 p.m. to midnight. 
The First Aid Service Team will hold an informational meet­ing Tuesday from 6 to 7 p.m. at Stadium gate A. Information regarding club activities. foot­ball games, CPH and First-Aid training will be provided. 
Saint Mary's Student Activities Board will hold its annual Twilight Tailgate Tuesday beginning at 3 p.m. Come and enjoy food. refreshments and entertainment. 
Hall Signature Event training will take place Wednesday from 4 to 5 p.m. in LaFortune's Montgomery Theatre. This is an important meeting for all com­missioners interested in prepar­ing for Hall Signature Events. 
Graduate and Professional School night will be held for Saint Mary's students Wednesday from 6 to 7 p.m. in LeMans' Stapleton Lounge. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 
(( 
)



·. J
'­
J 
HIGH 81 HIGH 

75 
LOW 65 LOW 

63 
Atlanta 83/ 64 Bos.ton 70 1.53 Chicago 84 I 66 Denver 80 I 54 Houston 89 I 69 Los Angeles 83 1 62 Minneapolis 89 1 64 New York 78 I 61 Ph1ladelph1a 79 I 60Phoenix 101 I 80 Seattle 66 I 53 St. Louis 84 159 Tampa 89 1 74 Washington 81 1 64 

Monday, September 8, 2003 page 3 
The Observer + NEWS 

U-WIRE 
Federal grants in jeopardy 
By JENNIFER WELLS 
Daily Kent Stater 
KENT. Ohio -More than 
80.000 students could lose gov­ernment grants for college next year. 
Budget officials at the Department of Education esti­mate that 84,000 students nationwide could lose their Federal Pell Grant eligibility for the 2004-05 award year. 
Additionally, the department estimates the maximum Pell Grant amount will be $270 mil­lion less than previous years. About 100,000 students will receive less money next year. 
Pell Grants are federal grants for college that students do not have to pay back. 
The Department of Education adjusted the formula that determines a family's expected contribution to college expens­es last May. This formula decides how much financial aid a student will receive and how much a family will contribute to college costs. 
The incomes, the allowances and the assets of both parents and the student determine expected family contribution. The formula deducts state and local taxes -deductions vary from state to state. 
Families will be expected to contribute more to college expenses because the change in the formula reduced the percentage of deductions in most states. 
New tax tables will make a 
family's income appear higher 
than it is. 
Previously the tax table had 
not been changed since the 
1994-1995 award year. 
Pell Grants are awarded 
based on need, and with the 
change, some students may 
now be ineligible to receive 
them. 
Mark Evans, director of stu­dent financial aid, said it is too early to speculate how this new change will directly impact Kent State students, but in the past a large amount of stu­dents have relied on Pell Grants. 
Evans said approximately 10,224 students at all eight Kent State campuses received Pell Grants in the 2002-2003 award year. Kent State stu­dents received a total of $23.5 million in Pell Grants last year. 
In most instances Pell Grants are available to undergraduate students who are determined financially eligible by a stan­dard formula. 
By request of Democratic lawmakers, the Congressional Research Service recently released a memorandum describing the possible impact students will notice because of the formula's change. 
According to the memo, the percentage of taxes that can be deducted was unchanged in 13 states. Percentages rose in states like Connecticut, Nevada 
and New Jersey, giving them 
more financial aid. But in 
states like Ohio it decreased, 
giving students less aid. This is 
because Ohio's tax deductions 
have been reduced by three ' 
percent for dependent students 
and by one percent for inde­
pendent students. 
But this three percent is not up to date, Evans said. He said the new tax tables are three years old and do not take into account today's economy. Evans said this makes incomes look higher and is not an ideal situation. 
Recently, Ohio increased its sales tax; however. the new tax tables do not reflect the increase in Ohio taxes. Ohio citizens pay more taxes today than a year ago, but with the change students will deduct a smaller percentage of taxes when they fill out their applica­tion for financial aid. 
According to Evans, not only will Pel! Grants be impacted but other financial aid as well. He said even a slightly higher family income shows lower need base and this could affect how much financial aid a stu­dent could receive overall. 
"Students at low income lev­els will face minimal impact," Evans said. "Those at the high­er levels will be affected the most." 
Students who currently have Pell Grants may now face hav­ing to take out more student loans. 
Schools to schedule 
more Friday classes 
By JEFF SICKELCO 
Cornell Daily Sun 
ITHACA, N.Y.-In planning out their future courses, few Cornell University students can deny the allure of work­ing in a class-free Friday with a little scheduling finesse. But according to an article pub­lished in the Wall Street Journal last week, Cornell students could soon be spend­ing their Thursday nights hit­ting the books rather than the bars. 
Around the country, col­leges are trimming down on three-day weekends by bulk­ing up their Friday schedules, a day which has often seen classes go sparsely attended or not held at all. 
For now, however, Cornell students who like their Fridays light and easy can breathe a sigh of relief -the University has no plans for a Friday-scheduling frenzy. 
"We don't find an increas­ing scheduling of courses on Friday, not at Cornell," says Dotsevi Sogah, Chair of the Educational Policy Committee, which examines student scheduling. "Whether we will change and follow everyone else, we don't know yet." 
University officials acknowl­edge that there is a dip in attendance rates toward the 
end of the week but indicate 
that it is too mild to prompt 
any corrective action. 
"It turns out there is a 
slight drop-off on Friday 
afternoons, but it's not that 
great," says one faculty mem­
ber. 
The relative lack of action 
stems in part from the fact 
that Cornell has always uti­
lized Fridays to some extent, 
although historically they are 
not as heavily scheduled as 
earlier days of the week. 
"In terms of the largest number of classes scheduled. they peak on Wednesday," Sogah says. "On Thursday and Friday we see less." 
A busy Friday is not the case at all universities, how­ever, and many schools are taking steps to reverse a gradual extension of weekend free time. 
Syracuse University has made Friday classes the focal point of a new scheduling ini­tiative, with plans aimed at halting a trend toward exces­sive Thursday-night partying and disturbances. 
According to the Syracuse website, "many students view Thursday night as part of their weekend socializing time, just like Friday and Saturday nights," resulting in an increase in calls to the public safety department, thus creating an "adverse effect on social conditions." 


Still looking for a Plan for Fall Break? 
October 19-25, 2003 



c 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 
Applications available at the Center or online at centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu 





Appalachia Seminar Deadline 
Extended to Wednesday, September 10th 
Monday, September 8, 2003
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
Ranking 
continued from page I 
ment was not based on a concern for teaching, but rather to further Notre Dame's status among peer universities. 

"The  single  goal  of the  
[new]  department  is  to  
obtain  a  higher academic  

ranking," he said. 

The push to increase the University's national rank­ings is becoming ubiquitous throughout the College of Arts and Letters. 
It has introduced an Undergraduate Research 

TCE 
continued from page 1 
used as a tool to determine pro­motions for professors, yet stu­dents are unable see the compiled results of their opinions. 
Due to the lack of information available to them, students rou­tinely use non-University sources, namely NDtoday.com. However, the concern with sources such as this is that information is often out of date, many students' opinions are biased, and a broad range of student opinion is not posted. 

These concerns would be elimi­nated with the proposed process. Student Government plans to pub­lish the TCE results on lrishlink to ensure that the results would only be available to members of the Notre Dame community. Outside sources would not be able to view the TCE's. 
Because a change in the way the evaluations are published is such a large issue, Student Government has already researched ways other universi­ties have handled the situation. Staley said that of the "Top 20" schools they researched, 13 of those officially publish their ver­sion of the TCE with results avail­able to students. 
In addition to publishing the numerical results of the TCE questions, the new proposal includes space for the professor to write qualitative information about themselves that they wish be available to students to know. This would include information regarding their teaching style, requirements for their courses, etc. 
The information, Staley com­mented, "adds more to the pic­ture. Ideally, we get a better match between students and pro­fessors." 
By including an opportunity to tell students about their respective professors, Student Government hopes to reassure faculty that TCE publication is beneficial for stu­dents to match themselves with professors whose teaching styles and class subjects would most fur­ther their education. 
The faculty holds other con­cerns about this issue, however. Staley said that they are most con­cerned students will use the given information simply to pick profes­sors who will give them the high­est grades. Faculty members also fear some professors will provide an incentive to students, giving higher grades in return for better results on the TCE's, Staley said. 
He, for one, believes this is an enormous underestimation of the quality of Notre Dame students and faculty. 
"The typical student attracted to this university seeks an education of a caliber and comprehensive­ness far beyond what any grade­point-average could provide.... 

Opportunity Program, which serves to enhance under­graduate education by pro­viding financial support for independent and creative research projects. Many departments within the College have also implement­ed departmental honors tracks. · 
The psychology department plans to pursue a new gradu­ate program within the next ten years with the intent of enhancing its national rank­ings. 
"The decision to pursue a joint ClinicaVCounseling pro­gram will have positive effects at both the graduate and undergraduate levels in terms of the types of classes, 
Instructors who would resort to grade inflation in hopes of higher TCE evaluations would be easily identifiable by administrators, who would in turn evaluate that professor's performance," said Staley in his proposal draft for TCE publication. 
Finally, for those professors who are completely against the idea of publishing TCE results, Staley said they would be allowed to opt out of the process. 
"If a lot of professors don't par­ticipate, students can still use NDtoday. But even that will show students the faculty culture," he said. 
In order to begin the process of getting the TCE's published, the proposal must be presented to, and then passed by, the University's Academic Council. The council is chaired by University President Father Edward Ma.lloy and includes members of the administration, faculty and four students. It is unknown when the meeting with the Academic Council will take place, but Staley believes it to be in the near future. 
He reiterated his belief that TCE publication will greatly enhance the student learning experience, but acknowledged that a lot must happen before that can take place. 
"Notre Dame still has a long way to go in terms of a student's power, but just because we don't see eye to eye doesn't mean they are not working in the students' best interest." 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 
research opportunities, and internship options available to graduate and undergradu­ate students," said Psychology Department chair Cindy Bergeman. 
They said that the number of undergraduate classes within the psychology department will increase with the growth of prominent graduate faculty. 
According to Jensen, increased hiring of eminent faculty will only enhance the variety of undergraduate course offerings within the economics department. 
"We will offer more under­graduate electives this year than we have in my previous three years here," he said. 
During the 1990-91 aca­demic year, students rated 82 percent of Arts and Letters classes as "good" or "excellent." After ten years of increasing investment in research, the figure has improved to 86 percent, which was the highest among the University's colleges and schools. 
Since the University's recent push for improved rankings at all costs, many students and faculty have said thaJ they perceive less evidence of the University's traditionally strong interest in teaching social justice in an undergraduate education. 
"The goal of improving academic rankings can be 

and has been used to mar­ginalize the concern for eco­nomic and social justice and to undermine schools of thought that are more in tune with Catholic values and commitments," Ruccio said, regarding the split in the Department of Economics. 
Roche said that the new Economics department will offer greater breadth in its approach towards such issues. 
"Sophisticated research is important to social justice issues," he said. 
Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 


John Nash isn't the only famous 

mathematician... 


Come see today's Beautiful Mind 

Join your friends and professors at Hayes-Healy on Monday, Sept 8 at 4:30 for a talk with Professor John Conway of Princeton, one of the biggest names in con­remporary mathematics. His lecture, "\Vhat's new about polyhedra and polytopes?" , is open to all. The admission and pizza are free, but the experience is priceless! 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Chances to, \Nin tickets to this year's
.... --.. -·-·--. . .. -; . . .. 



8100 Radi 
No 




SEAS #2 
7 
_..:-· 

hday on 9/14!! 
9/9 
HE 


Monday, September·8, 2003 CC}\1PlLED FROM 'fHE ()gsERVER vvtRE su-zvtcEs Page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
WTO protests divided over tactics 
CANCUN -As the 146 member nations of 
the World Trade Organization meet in 
Cancun, Mexico this week. an estimated 
1~.000 demonstrators arc divided over tac­
tics to derail the procePdings. 
A tangiP of union nH'mbers, Zapatista rebel 
sympathizers, anarchists, environmentalists 
and farmers cannot agree on protest tactics 
against the WTO, which they consider a 
mouthpiece for powerful nations and 
wealthy corporations. 
"We've been fighting over the goal in meet­
ings all this week," said Jessica Pupovac of 
the Washington-based Rights Action, a 
human rights group. "Some people are flat­
out scared of the Mexican police." 
Iraqi minister to attend League 
HAG! mAD -Iraq's new foreign minister, a 
member of the Kurdish minority, said Sunday 
he is going to this week's Arab League meet­
ing in Egypt to claim Baghdad's seat in the 
organization. 
Iraq's seat on the pan-Arab group's council 
of ministers has remained empty since 
Saddam Hussein's ouster in April. The Cairo­
basPd organization has rduscd to recognize 
the U.S.-picked Iraqi Governing Council, 
which \Vas put in place in July. 
:\mr i\loussa, the league's secretary-general, 
has hinted that the bloc may finally recognize 
tlw (~ov<~rning Council as a legitimate govern­
ment and include it in the 22-member organi­
zation. But he said the ministers must decide. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
California firefighters battle blazes 
SAN BEHNADINO VALLEY -Aided by rela­tively mild weather, hundreds of firefighters made slow but steady progress Sunday against a wildfire feeding on an area of dense brush and timber that hadn't burned in nearly 50 years. Hundreds of evacuees remained out of their homes because of that and other \Nildfires in the West. 
The fire in the San Bernardino National Forest about 60 miles east of Los Angeles was 30 percent contained Sunday after charring some 1,350 acres, said Georgia Smith, a tire information ofTicer with the U.S. Forest Service. 
Congressman Mcinnis will retire 
DENVEH -U.S. Hep. Scott Mcinnis, a Hepublican who has represented a sprawling area across wPstern and southern Colorado for 11 years, vvill not seek a seventh term, the head of the state Hepublican Party said Sunday. 
"It's personal reasons," party chairman l{>d llalaby said. Halaby said Mcinnis, who repre­sents the 3rd Congressional District, told him of the decision on Saturday. 
The Daily Sentinel of Grand Junction report­ed Sunday that Mcinnis sent an e-mail to friends and family telling them he wants to move on to new things and will not seek re­election. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Dalai Lama speaks in Bloomington 
BLOOMINGTON -The Dalai Lama dedi­cated an interfaith temple Sunday and urged his audience of several thousand people to be religious and choose a faith. 
"Heligion should implement. The teachings should be part of our life," the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader said during the second stop on a 16-day U.S. tour. 
"If there are people who don't have much intPrest in religion, they will see negatives," tw said. 
ThP Dalai Lama, winner of thP 1989 Nobel J>('HCP Prize for his nonvio)(•nt struggle against Chirwse rule of his honwland, visited Bloomington to drdiratP a tPmple at tlw Tilwtan Cultural CPrltt'r. 
WEST BANK 
Abbas resigns; road map endangered 
Associated Press  
HAMALLAH -A disillu­ 
sioned Mahmoud .-\bbas  
resigned as primP minister  
Saturday after a four-month  
power struggle with Yasser  
Arafat, leaving Israel and  
the United States without a  
negotiating partner and  
prompting calls by some top  
Israeli officials to expel  
Arafat. After intense back­ 
room negotiations, Arafat  
nominated Ahmmad Qureia,  
the speaker of the  
Palestinian parliament, as  
Abbas' successor.  
Just hours after Abbas'  
resignation, an Israeli war­ 
plane dropped a 550-pound  
bomb on a Gaza City apart­ 
ment in a botched attempt  
to kill several top llamas  
leaders, including the  
Islamic militant group's  
founder, Sheik Ahmed  
Yassin, who escaped with a  
minor injury.  
Saturday's dramatic  
evenl<> dealt the most severe  
blow in months to U.S.-led  
peace efforts: wrangling  
over an Abbas successor  
could freeze the troubled  
"road map" peace plan for  
weeks or months, and the  
attack on Yassin could pro­ 
voke more Hamas suicide  
Genybombings and Israeli  
Palestinian parliament Speaker Ahmmad Qureia talks with the press Saturday inreprisals.  
Ramallah after Mahmoud Abbas' resignation. Qureia has been nominated to suc­Israel declared a state of  
ceed Abbas as Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority. high alert Saturday evening,  
bracing for more attacks.  
Yassin was the highest­ nation -and if he had,  explained why he quit.  particularly if he is per­ 
ranking Palestinian leader  whether his decision was  Israel, he said, had not car­ ceived as having engineered  
ever targeted by Israel, and  final.  ried out its obligations  Abbas' ouster. Israel might  
top fugitives, including  The veteran Palestinian  under the road map, the  be more likely now to make  
Mohammed Deif, No. 1 on  leader had told a large gath­ United States had not  good on threats to expel  
Israel's wanted list, were  ering of legislators and  enforced Israeli compliance  Arafat.  
also in the room, security  Cabinet ministers that  and his detractors at home  Justice Minister Yosef  
officials told The Associated  Abbas was now heading a  had constantly undermined  Lapid, a member of the  
Press on condition of  caretaker government,  him with "harsh and dan­ Israeli security Cabinet, said  
anonymity.  imp!ying Arafat agreed with  gerous" incitement.  Israel has refrained from  
brae! saw Abbas' resigna­ his prime minister's deci­ Abbas, who has a reputa­ forcibly removing Arafat at  
tion as a power vacuum in  sion. But he stopped short of  tion for shying away from  the request of the United  
which it felt compelled to  confirming this in writing,  confrontations, was buffeted  States. "Maybe the White  
act immediately against  as required by law.  by stronger forces, including  House will have second  
Ham as.  An Abbas confidante,  an entrenched and embit­ thoughts now, and then  
"No Hamas official is  speaking on condition of  tered Arafat, Israeli leaders  we'll have to consider  
immune," said Israeli  anonymity, said the prime  who gave him little to show  Arafat's presence again," he  
Foreign Ministry official  minister told him he felt  his people, and Palestinian  said.  
Gideon Meir, adding that  abandoned by all sides and  militants who paid little  Abbas' decision to quit  
"there will be other  was deeply hurt by the  heed to his calls for ending  apparently caught the Bush  
chances" to go after llamas  events of the recent days.  violence.  administration by surprise.  
leaders.  Abbas told a closed-door  His resignation, if it  As late as Friday, Secretary  
In Ramallah, there was  session of parliament that  stands, is not necessarily a  of State Colin Powell insisted  
confusion throughout the  he would not change his  victory for Arafat, whose  that progress was being  
day about whether Arafat  mind. Reading from a pre­ international standing is  made in implementing the  
had accepted Abbas' resig­ pared statement, he  likely to slip even further,  road map.  



NASA plan details shuttle changes 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Seven months after the Columbia tragedy, NASA has come up with a "return to flight" plan for future shuttle mis­sions -one that envisior.s a resumption of flights as early as next March. 
The 78-page report offers a detailed and comprehensive look at the steps the space agency has been taking, and plans to take, in the wake of the Feb. 1 accident to com­ply with the rccommt'ndations from the Columbia Accident Investigation Board. 
The NASA plan. which will be 
released Monday, lists a number of improvements being made -includ­ing ways to better facilitate commu­nication and encourage employees to "express dissenting views." 
The AP obtained a copy Sunday. 
To address safety questions, the report said NASA is reviewing ways to harden the shuttle against dam­age caused by debris impacts like the one that doomed Columbia and its seven astronauts. 
Space officials also will add a suite of cameras in various locations on the shuttle to get a better idea of any possible damage, according to the report. 
A return to flight schedule lists a March 11 "launch date," but NASA spokesman Allard Beutel said the date is simply a planning date and not a foregone conclusion. 
He said offlcials are looking at a March-to-April launch window, but that could easily slip if the agency isn't able to meet all of its targeted safety steps. The report makes no mention of what it might cost to get the shuttle flights going again. 
Members of an independent advi­sory group will assess and evaluate NASA's progress on implementing the Columbia accident board's rec­ommendations. The task force will be led by veteran astronauts Thomas Stafford and Richard Cowy. 


Monday, September 8, 2003
page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush asks for $87 million to combat terrorism 
Associated Press 

·WASHINGTON -President Bush, facing doubts about his handling of Iraq amid rising casualties, is asking Congress for $87 billion to fight terrorism and cautioning Americans that the struggle "will take time and require sacrifice." 
Bush's money request -sur­passing earlier unofficial esti­mates -would come on top of the $79 billion that Congress approved in April for the initial costs of the war and its after­math and for worldwide efforts against terrorism. 
Despite calls from Republicans and Democrats ~like for more troops, Bush said the 130,000 
U.S. forces in Iraq were suffi­cient. But he urged other nations, even those that had opposed the war, to contribute troops and money. 
The president addressed the nation Sunday night. his first speech on Iraq since May 1 when he stood on the aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln and declared an end to major com­bat. 
In the four months since, U.S. casualties have risen steadily, to the point where more have died in the aftermath of the war than during the combat phase. 
Bush described Iraq in his 18­minute speech as the central battleground of the terrorism war and blamed the violence on Saddam Hussein loyalists and foreign terrorists. 
"We are fighting that enemy in Iraq and Afghanistan today, so that we do not meet him again on our own streets, in our own cities," Bush said, four days before the second anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
While the confrontation with Saddam made the president's 

Frosh 
continued from page 1 
up ... It was a good time." 
McGlinn and Siegfried fresh­men were "baptized" on game day as upperclassmen woke them to run through Stonehenge. 
"It was freezing. and the water was dyed green," said McGlinn freshman Uz Vezino. 
Although some freshmen had seen games before, their first official game as students in the "sea of green" ran the gamut of emotions. 
"The first two, three quarters were disgraceful," said Bass. "The whole crowd was depressed until the end of the game." 
Vezino agreed. 
"The game itself was disheart­ening at first, but I told [the peo­ple around me] to keep the faith ... don't give up on the team," she said. 
"I loved the traditions, like waving keys. learning cheers. doing the Irish jig and watching waves of people doing pushups after we scored," said Cavanaugh freshman Brigette Sanchez. 
High expectations for the sea­son were on the line during the game. The much-anticipated season opener against Washington State brought fresh­men to the depths of despair, the top of a pushup and fully into the Notre Dame community. 
Contact Katherine Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

popularity skyrocket, public con­fidence in his handling of Iraq has dropped since the war. level­ing off in the mid-50 percent area. 
Heading into a campaign year hoping to unseat Bush, Democrats have been embold­ened to criticize him on Iraq. Even some Republican allies have urged him to change course. 
A fresh burst of Democratic criticism followed the speech. 
"Now that the president has recognized that he has been going down the wrong path, this administration must begin the process of fully engaging our allies and sharing the burden of building a stable democracy in Iraq," said Rep. Dick Gephardt. D-Mo., a White House hopeful. 
Howard Dean. another Democratic candidate. said Iraq had pulled the country's atten­tion and resources away from homeland security and the econ­omy. 
Comparing Iraq to Vietnam. Dean said, "The government again is feeding misinformation to the American people in order to justify an enormous commit­ment of U.S. troops." 
Questions have been raised by the administration's failure to find any of Sad dam's illegal weapons or the ousted Iraqi leader himself. Bush made just one reference in his speech to weapons of mass destruction ­a sharp contrast to his repeated assertions about them before the war. 
Bush said Iraq and the Middle East are critical to winning the global war on terror. 
Describing Iraq as the central front in the war against terror, he said the "enemies of freedom are making a desperate stand 
Got news? Call The Obseruer 
at 1-5323 

there, and there they must be has enough troops in Iraq, Bush resolution to authorize deploy­defeated." said American commanders ment of new forces. Bush will 
"This will take time and have requested a multinational address the U.N. General require sacrifice," he said. "Yet division to serve alongside simi­Assembly in two weeks. we will do what is necessary, we lar units led by Britain and Referring to France. Germany will spend what is necessary. to Poland. and Hussia. Bush said "not all of 
achieve this essential victory in Some countries have sought an our friends agreed with our the war on terror. to promote explicit U.N. peacekeeping decision [to] ... remove Saddam freedom and to make our own authorization, and Bush said Hussein from power. Yet. \Ve nation more secure." Secretary of State Colin Powell cannot let past differences inter­
While saying the United States would seek a Security Council fere with present duties." 


~ 
• 

.j~
·r 




IN A HURRY? 

~ WORKSHOPS ]_ hour 

Resume and Cover Letter *Job Search Strategies * Career-Fair Prep * Interviewing 
Tuesday, Septen1ber 9 LaFortune Ball Roon1 T00·8:oo p.n1. 






SPEED SEARCH 


The Career Center's vVorkshop for the person on the go 


Monday, September 8, 2003 

Page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
9,503.34 -84.56
jones 
·'}'r1,163 

AMEX NASDAQ 
NYSE 
S&P500 
Same: 163  l)Qw.u:'<··  r,......_.,rl.. Volmnr. ~i:0049.056  
990.88  +1.63·  
I ,858.24  -10.73  

673.07····.·· .4.36 
I ,021.39 -6.58 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TRUST (QQQ) -0.64 -0.22 33.94 ORACLE SYSTEMS (ORCL) -4.66 -0.64 13 08 INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.38 +0.11 28.71 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -0.18 -0.05 28.38 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.83 -0. 17 20.42 
IN BRIEF 
Lycos e-mail recovers from glitch 
WALTHAM. Mass. -Lycos Web portal users 
shut out of their e-mail for four days were 
finally able to access their accounts Friday 
evening, a company spokesman said. 
The Lycos server went down Tuesday as the 
company attempted to upgrade its servers. 
"An error was made in loading the new 
backup software onto the servers and that 
error will not be made again," spokesman 
Brian Payea said. 
Lycos had to rebuild several databases to 
solve the prob)em. Payea has said e-mail 
users would not lose messages as a result of 
the error. 
Lycos does not release information on how 
many customers use their e-mail. But 
comScore Media Metrix figures show Lycos is 
the seventh-most visited e-mail Web site, with 
just over 1 million different visitors in July. 
Overall, Lycos is the No. 4 Web portal, 
behind Yahoo!, MSN and AOL.com. 
Stocks retreat after huge run-up 
NEW YORK -A disappointing jobs report 
rattled Wall Street Friday, quashing a seven­
day advance for the Nasdaq composite index 
and a five-day. 250-point rise for the Dow 
Jones industrials. 
"You have to keep in mind we have had a 
significant run-up this week," said Arthur 
Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & 
Co., who said higher-than-expected job cuts 
gave investors reason to lock in profits and 
were responsible for much of the market's 
losses. 
The Dow closed down 84.56, or 0.9 percent, 
at 9,503.34. The loss followed a five-day 
advance of 254 points that carried the blue­
chip index to its highest level since June 18, 
2002. 
The Nasdaq dropped 10.73, or 0.6 percent, 
at 1,858.24, following a seven-day gain of 104 
points that had taken it to its highest closing 
level since March 19, 2002, when it stood at 
1,880.87. 
The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 6.58, or 0.6 percent, to 1,021.39, having garnered an eight-day gain of nearly 35 points. Thursday's close was the highest level seen since June 18, 2002 
Lilly predicts flat results for 2003 
INDIANAPOLIS -Eli Lilly & Co. said Friday its 2003 earnings will be at the upper end of its previous estimates. 
Lilly's chief financial officer Charles E. Golden told analysts the company's 2003 adjusted earnings will fall between $2.55 and $2.60 a share. In June, the company said it would earn between $2.50 and $2.60 a share. Analysts surveyed by Thomson FinanciaVFirst Call predicted Lilly would earn $2.57 a share. 
Lilly reported adjusted annual earnings of $2.57 a year ago. Lilly stock rose four cents to $61.00 on Friday on the New York Stock Exchange. 
The company did not predict its profitability beyond the end of this year. It promised to do so in January after it has a better idea of when the U.S. Food and Drug Administration will approve a new drug for treating depres­sion, Cymbalta. 
Praise for new ADHD drug 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-For many 
parents, the back-to­
school buying includes 
not just books. binders 
and knapsacks -but also 
medicine for treating a 
child's chronically short 
attention span and hyper­
activity. 

Drug prescriptions typi­
cally rise in the fall as 
teachers notice a pattern 
of inattention, impulsivity 
and frenetic behavior 
among some students. 
This year, one pharma­
ceutical company is tout­
ing a new drug of choice 
for attention deficit disor­
der or the related atten­
tion-deficit hyperactivity 
disorder. 

Eli Lilly & Co.'s product, Strattera, is winning praise from some doctors and parents because it is not a stimulant -a class of drug that can be addic­tive. Other popular treat­ments, such as Ritalin, are all stimulants. 
Strattera was intro­duced by January and by June had quickly grabbed 12 percent of a prescrip­tion market, totaling nearly $2 billion in yearly sales, according to IMS Health, a pharmaceutical research and consulting firm. 
That exceeded some analysts' expectations. 
"Clearly, we are meet­ing an unmet need in the market," said Dr. Gary Tollefson, vice president medical-neuroscience of Lilly Research Laboratories. 
Market-leader Concerta's prescription share fell to 22.7 percent in June from 26 percent in January, according to IMS. 
Adderall XH, the second most popular drug has a 
20.9 percent share, down from 22.6 percent. 
Still. doctors are uncer­tain Strattera will ulti­mately prove as effective as stimulants, which for now remain the bench­mark treatment for atten-

KAT 

Along with Ell Lilly & Co.'s Strattera, algae supplements are used as non-stimulant 
alternatives to Ritalin for the treatment ADHD. 
tion deficit and hyperac­tivity. 
Concerta's manufactur­er. McNeil Consumer & Specialty Pharmaceuticals, said it didn't change its market­ing plans because of Strattera. 
"Parents are very pleased with the results from Concerta," said Michelle Brennan, vice president of sales and marketing at McNeil, a division of Johnson & Johnson. "Eighty percent of patients respond to stimulants." 
Doctors say parents are drawn to Strattera because its side effects are more mild than other drugs. which can cause weight loss, irritability and sleeplessness. 
"A lot of parents just don't want to use stimu­lants for their children," said Dr. Charles Gist, a child psychiatrist in Little Rock, Ark. 
Stimulants increase the body's production of dopamine, a chemical necessary for concentra­tion. 
Strattera instead blocks cells from reabsorbing norepinephrine, another chemical considered important in regulating attention; more norepi­nephrine thus remains in the brain. 
Bert Hazlett, an indus­try analyst with Suntrust Robinson Humphrey, 

attributes some of Strattera's rapid growth in sales to Lilly's expertise in marketing drugs for the central nervous sys­tem. gleaned by years of promoting Prozac, its blockbuster anti-depres­sant. 
Strattera is a key pillar in strengthening Lilly's sales and earnings, which plummeted when it lost the Prozac patent in August 2001. 
In the second quarter. Strattera posted $74.8 million in sales. 
That strong showing prompted Hazlett to raise his 2003 revenue projec­tion to $340 million from between $150 to $175 million. 
Rise in gasoline futures temporary 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Unleaded gasoline prices rose Friday on the New York Mercantile Exchange as traders bought contracts to cover earlier bets that prices would fall, but some analysts saw the upward move as short-lived. 
Gasoline futures prices for October delivery settled up 0.87 cent at 86.15 cents a gallon. Analysts and traders had predicted the move, saying Tuesday's 8.08 cent drop in gasoline futures prices showed the market had been over­sold. 
But analysts were divided about whether the upward move indicates a market rebound or just helped investors pare some of the losses throughout the Nymex crude com­plex from earlier in the week. 
"We're not expecting this to last," said Derek van Eck, portfolio man­ager for Van Eck Associates in Manhattan. "In the next couple of months. we expect inventories to continue to build through high product imports" and short-term increases in refinery operating rates. 
On Tuesday, light, sweet crude oil futures prices for October delivery fell $2.16 in the biggest one-day selloff since Sept. 24, 2001. Heating oil futures for October delivery also fell dramatically, down 5.54 cents a gallon Tuesday. 
"We've had a big move down here," said futures analyst Tom Bentz with BNP Paribas. "In gener­al, we probabiy oversold. Short cov­ering on news is likely -but by no means does that change the trend. To me, [crude] will have to get back over $31 to change my opinion." 
The Tuesday selloff "is probably a seasonal drop that isn't going to last very long," said Phil Flynn. analyst at Alaron Trading Corp. in Chicago. 
Analysts and traders attributed the drop in Nymex petroleum prices this week to the end of the typical 
U.S. summer driving season. 
But traders' focus will shift to refiners' typical ramping up of heating oil production ahead of the 
I winter heating season, they said. I I Despite ongoing supply concerns, I I
light, sweet crude oil futures for 
I October delivery settled down 10 I I cents at $28.88 a barrel Friday on I I the Nymex. I 
I 
I 
J 
page 8 Monday, September 8, 2003 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Edwards opts not to run for re-election 
ment Sunday night. Neither did a Staff Erskine Bowles, who lost to primary candidate last year. spokeswoman for the Edwards Elizabeth Dole in the 2002 elec­have expressed interest in campaign. tion, and former state House Edwards' seat should he not 
Former White House Chief of Speaker Dan Blue, a Democratic seek re-election. 
r·---·-·---·--·--------------·--------------. 
I 
I I 

I Study* in Tokyo 
*{AnthropologyJ Art History, Business, History, Literature, Philosophy, Religion, Sociology, Political Science...and, of course, Japanese!} 

Spring 2004 


No previous study of Japanese language requiredI 
For more information: 
~ tSHayes-Healey September 9at 5pm 



Checlf out the... Sacrament of Confirmation 
Are you a baptized Catholic who has received their first Communion but has never been Confirmed? 


Are you wondering whether you need to be Confirn1ed to get married In the Catholic Church? 
,•:· 
·:· 

Would you lilfe to prepare for Confirmation with other Notre Dame students who are dedicated to growing in their faith? 
Room 330 Coleman-Morse on 'Tuesday, Sept. 9th at 7:00pm 

F'or Tnore inj(J: 
F'r..John Conley~ CSC at Gal-7888 
Lau rcn \Villoughby at G:J 1 <3390 
or stop by the Offlce of Catnpus .Mini.slry 
in the Colen1an-l\rlorse Center urilh any questions. CM 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. -John Edwards will not run for re-elec­tion to the Senate in 2004 so he can concentrate on seeking the Democratic presidential nomina­tion, a state party official said Sunday.' 
The North Carolina senator wrote a letter received Sunday by state Democratic Party chair­woman Barbara Allen announc­ing his decision. state party exec­utive director Scott Falmlen said. 
"I ... decided that I will not seek re-election to the United States Senate in order to devote all of my energy to running for president." Edwards wrote Allen. 
Edwards was first elected to the Senate in 1998 but announced in January he would seek the presidential nomina­tion. 
North Carolina law allows him to run for president and Senate simultaneously and state Democratic officials were getting restless in recent months while Edwards mulled his decision on whether to run for one or two jobs. 

Edwards' five-paragraph letter to Allen resolves that question and lets other Democratic candi­dates begin building their cam­paigns. 
"It takes one question out of the way," Falmlen said. "We've said all along the best option .... was for John Edwards to be the presidential nominee," because it will energize party voters, he said. 
Rep. Richard Burr, R-N .C., already has announced he will run for the Edwards seat and has built up a campaign struc­ture that brought the seat in doubt for the Democrats. 
Allen didn't immediately return a phone call seeking com-
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Isabel strengthened from a tropical storm into the fourth Atlantic hurricane of the season Sunday, but forecasters said it was still several days from reaching land. 
Hurricane Fabian, meanwhile, was losing strength but gaining speed in the northern Atlantic, two days after plowing through Bermuda. Forecasters moni­tored the other major Atlantic storm, a tropical depression that passed over Florida on Saturday, to see if would strengthen back into Tropical Storm Henri. 
At 5 p.m. EDT, Isabel had maximum sustained winds of 80 mph -above the 74 mph threshhold for a hurricane. The storm was 1,510 miles east of the Leeward Islands and moving west-northwest near 15 mph. Forecasters said by Monday, Isabel was expected to strength­en to a Category 2 hurricane, with winds between 96-110 mph. 
Isabel was projected to stay over open waters for at least five days, said Richard Pasch, a hurricane specialist at the National Hurricane Center in 
Hurricane Isabel approaches coast 
Miami. 
It was too early to teil whether it would affect the United States or the Caribbean, he said. 
Hurricane Fabian was 290 miles south of Cape Race, Newfoundland, and moving east-northeast at 31 mph across shipping lanes in the north Atlantic. 
Fabian's maximum sustained winds had dropped to 85 mph, down from the 120 mph winds that hit Bermuda on Friday. Forecasters expected it to dis­solve and become extratropical by Monday as it moves over cooler waters. 
Fabian, the first Category 3 hurricane to hit Bermuda in 50 years, shredded trees and sheared off roofs across the island chain. Four people whose cars were swept off a causeway were still missing Sunday and feared dead. 
The tropical depression that had been Tropical Storm Henri, moving northeast near 8 mph, was about 160 miles east-south­east of Charleston, S.C., on Sunday with maximum sus­tained winds of 35 mph ­below the 39 mph minimum threshold to become a tropical storm. 

ONE NIGHT SOCCER TOURNAMENT THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER II 
6:00 .. RIEHLE FIEDS (FORMALLY STEPAN FIELDS) 
OVtN TO f\LL NOT\l.t. DA~t: '5TUDt.~ 
flt:.LD I~ ~0 YD. 'OY 4o YD ? ON SVLU~ bOAL\f, ~I~T(,fl-P... Tt.I\M IN 1\\~ F£C.$POF-i~ OfFICE Df:.ADLIN~ I~ Wf.,DNf,~DM, ~'PTt.MB€-fl.. tO 

FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL RECSPORTS AT 631 ..6100 
www.nd.edul-recsport 
Monday, September 8, 2003 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
f\' :Jt~U I 111 '~ 1 ''-'~·.t~··,hq:l~d: :onr•''~; I I l, ef'.·•r.·.:-.••. 1~t~·tkli.J!,eC':t"-."lJll'f~; rl!''L'tS ~n J1ri.r.t~W.ll-.,•110lt!'.I1Coop•J•t; Ill~ .1. ll·Jll\'d•.£' lu't,•~•""f 1 ·.11t1h~ r f'·l·1·,~r5i1'1J f:", ;,-, tt,,~ -c;o· ,:t·,-.t 1·!'1~''''' ...,_ llv· r·r~:;,•d, ,1, :nt·rr·h:• llfrl -; n• I 'rt·.•· ::.t!•·:IYJ,I .• ·· ;, • ., •:' ·.111~•-, 1 t'" n tllt•t •l•·• I 
f'.lr:h uf ~'\'lur.l1 Lc;. a ~•1"-ll.llt! ;<tr·ut ii'W1f"~~"'V1tl•lt lcg.1l rnh!y. P•l("t'!/,:elf'r1UltJ!'.olr:c'l('lpr•:·, ll Pi~ .1•\ Aff•·rn.11r•,,1 :..r~....,,, lr"Pf f q a.1l Ort~"'•Lf••:~· I Tplutr" 



PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS ON-CAMPUS INFORMATION SESSION TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2003, 6:00PM-8:00PM TENT AREA BEHIND THE MORRIS INN DRESS IS CASUAL 
FOR OPPORTUNITIES AND INFORMATION GO TO: WWW.PWC.COM/LOOKHERE 
•
LOOK BEYOND THE NUMBERS. 

~ 
----~---------------------------------------­

TI···IE ()BSER.VER 

p 

Monday, September 8, 2003 
Page 10 

l 
l 

P.O. Box Q.; Notre Dame, IN 46)56 OZ4 South Dining ~!I; Nmre Dame, rN 4~)5() • EDITOR JN CmEF · Andrew S0uk11p MANAGING EDITOR BusiNEss MANAGER Scott Brodfuehrer LOti Lewalski 

AssT. MANAGlNG EDJTOR . Sheila Flynn. · 
-:.;. 

NEWS EDlTOR: Megbanne Down¢$ · VIEWPOINT Eorrolti Tere$ii. FtaJish · 
Sl'ORTS lilirroJU Joe Herder ·· SeEN£ EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SAINT MARY's EDITOR:. Anneliese Woolford PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar GRAPHICS Eol'roR: Mike Harkhu ·· 

Questions f'(garding o"i;/rildpolicieJ !hoN.!d be dirrctdmEditw In ChiefAnrirroJ Svu/tu,p. 
POST 0fFfCE INFO~ATION 

nc ~., (USl'S ~9~ H!IOOl is jX>bliolw:d M<>nd# rllrowgh Fci~ "'"'''P~ during «am ;md '"""'""' pcriad<; A swb"rif'lob 
r<>Tht ObkN:ds ·HOQ for oli<·.a<oo:lcml< 
Y""i $5~ fur. on.:"'""""''· · · · · · · · 
llw Obo«!lt:t »~·b~obtd "" Q24 5owtb DHtln~ .Hall No!Rt o..,,., IN 4G-5~t>-Q7?9 1\:ciodlclpo•~>s< paid a<NB<c< 0Qm. oM oMlciuc\xl fll2ili"' ~~­

Th<: Ohs<l"\'et is·• ''"""""' of rlle~•....d·Piffl: Ail j<:~~lll:li<>rt ~lli· ;ott' n:lliCn·a.i. · · · · · 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Graphics Anneliese Woolford Mike Harkins Kevin Allen Sports MeghJ:llllle D6wnes . Chris Federico Viewpoint Pat Leonard·· Dolores Diaz Joe Lindsley Illustrator Scene Pat Quill Emily Howald 




Total Recall in California 
Ah, California. Just when you think they've turned a corner toward some semblance of normalcy, they come around and remind you why a lot of people wish for everything west of the San Andreas to crack off and Mike Marchand sink into the ocean. 
Minnesota 

Undistinguished
elected a profes­

Alumnus 
sional wrestler governor, Missouri elected a dead man to the U.S. Senate, Florida had no idea who they elected presi­dent, but California's gone and out­weirded them all, reclaiming its title as undisputed Goofball Capital of the World. 
Thirty months ago, Governor Gray Davis was looking like a pretty bright guy. Then the lights went out, quite literally: electricity shortages led to rolling blackouts in the summer of 2001. Davis engineered a quick fix whereby the state bought surplus power from neighboring states; how­ever, this was often at incredibly marked-up prices, and in some areas of California, electricity bills more than tripled. Luckily enough for him, though, Enron emerged as Public Enemy Number One and became the straw dog for the energy crisis. 
After he was safely reelected in 2002 (thanks to taking out ads in the Republican primary spiking the more moderate Republican candidate, L.A. Mayor Richard Riordan, so that he wouldn't challenge him in the general election), Davis announced a state budget deficit that was initially esti­mated at $34.6 billion, then ramped up to $38.2 billion. Either amount is bigger than all 49 other states' budget shortfalls combined. That was enough for many voters, and a recall initiative was drafted and approved. 
Davis suffers the ignominy of going from the darling of the Democratic Party's dark-horse presidential watch in early 2001 to almost certain removal: some polls predict 60 per­cent of voters will choose to oust him. And, just to shame Davis even more, since potential replacement candi­dates only needed to pony up $3,500 and a petition with just 65 signatu.r:es, it allowed everyone in California who thought they could do a better job gov­erning than he did to line up and take their best shot. 
In the end, 135 people qualified to be in the recall race, and every one of them was either a joke candidate who was actually joking, or a joke candi­date who is actually serious. The first group is made up of all the people who wound up in Jay Leno's punch­lines: Gary Coleman, Gallagher, Larry Flynt, Mary Carey and Angelyne; or, respectively, a midget ex-sitcom star, a comedian who smashes watermelons with a sledgehammer, a porn-peddler, a porn star and a "billboard exhibi­tionist." California at its finest. The latter category includes the only two people who really matter in this race: Lt. Governor Cruz Bustamante and Arnold Schwarzenegger. 
Anywhere else, Bustamante would be completely unelectable, if for no other reason than being the second­in-command of the Hindenburg-level disaster that is the Gray Davis' admin­istration. But he wants to go further, by punishing the businesses that make California the world's fifth-largest economy by hiking their taxes by $8 billion, and then assuming state con­trol of gasoline prices (because they've done so well controlling everything else). 
He also hasn't answered questions about his membership in the radical Chicano group MEChA while in col­lege, nor has he condemned their goal of forcing the return of the southwest­ern U.S. to Mexico. And he's making an end run around recently-imposed state campaign finance laws to pander to casino-owning Indian tribes to the tune of $2 million or so. His cam­paign 's website asks Californians to vote "no" on the recall but "yes" to him, which is not only disingenuous. but impossible -voters can either elect to keep Davis or replace him, not both. 

But this is California, so nobody really cares about all that, and Bustamante's being a Latino doesn't hurt, either. The only Republican who could possibly muster enough traction to win is Ahh-nold, whose only glaring defects are a lack of any specifics in his programs and admitting in a decades-old interview with defunct men's magazine "Oui" that he smoked dope and participated in orgies. But, again, this is California, (or as he pro­nounces it, "Cal-ee-forn-ee-ah "), so nothing scandalous there. 
And at this point, what California really needs is a little Schwarzenegger-style non-specificity. One of the reasons Davis is in so much trouble is because he alienated so many people in his own party due to his arrogance; he all but commanded state legislators to "implement my vision," and they "saw" California go right into the toilet. Arnold may be a joke candidate in the eyes of serious politicos, but that's exactly why he's the best person for the job. 
I don't think he's ever made a movie with boats, but Arnold might just sink Cruz's ship. Coming Oct. 7 to a voting booth near you. Hey, it beats an even lousier sequel than T3: if Bustamante gets elected, it'd be Titanic II. 
Mike Marchand, class of2001, is not where he wanted to be at this stage in his life. He'll be on campus today to say a couple ofhellos. so if you see him, make him smile and ask for his autograph, or really make his day and buy him Lunch. He can be contacted at Marchand.J@alumni.nd.edu. His col­umn appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Has the University implemented enough alternative programming for students? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
..Politics makes strange bedfellows. ·· 
William Shakespeare playwright 

GUEST COLUMN 
Democratic candidates need creativity 
AMES, Iowa-To ensure that more equipment ready for use at President Bush leaves the White any sign of trouble. House in 2005, one of the nine Sen. Joe Lieberman (D-Conn.) has Democratic candidates needs to shown to have the most focused step up to the plate. They need to plan for finding peace in Iraq. He stress issues in has been working on a bill to lay areas Bush has foundations for democracy, meeting 
Jennifer Elshoff 

had difficulty humanitarian needs and promotinghandling. prosperity. Although most other It is true Bush candidates shied away from the
Iowa State

has been faced issue of procedures in rebuilding with many over­Daily Iraq, all believed that having inter­whelming· chal­national allies was especially lenges during his important for Iraq's future to be a presidency. Having to deal with success. Sept. 11, terrorist groups, the war A strong Democratic candidate in Iraq and post-war issues has must be well-balanced in issues proven to be a difficult learning other than terrorist and postwar experience for Bush and the problems. Governor Howard Dean's American people. We have seen the environmental plans stood out in trial and error in his attempts to creativity from the Qther candi­hunt down terrorist groups in dates. Afghanistan, and watched, con-, According to deanforamerica. fused. as all military work was com, Dean's first action will be to 
. quickly diverted to Iraq. Under bring the Environmental Protection Bush's plan, it is clear this process Agency to the full attention of the is going to be a long one. cabinet. He sees environmental 
Our Democratic candidate needs issues as being interwoven with all to have a strong opin-issues. The envi­ion and plan of action ronment affects for postwar solutions. agriculture and Also, because most other business
It's time to shift gears
attention was divert­progress; it also
and pull away from the
ed to America's affects our actions overseas. humiliating direction in health. Bush's actions have Dean wants to
which Bush has led our 
been disappointing on embrace
country.
other issues that are change, finding closer to home. Bush alternatives to seems to have little to the use of natu­no concern for the ral resources environment. According to and creating new jobs in energy www.democrats.org, he has cut technology. budgets for environmental agen­A stronger economy depends on cies, has allowed power plants to more than tax cut proposals, which increase their amount of pollution seem to be commonplace across the and has made it more difficult to board of presidential candidates. To add new names to the endangered turn the economy around, it will species list. require job openings and opportu­
The economy has also suffered nities for small businesses. under Bush's presidency. According Something also needs to be done to the same site, the federal budget to cap the ability of large compa­deficit has increased from $29.2 nies such as Wal-Mart and others billion to $54.2 billion in the last from taking over entire business year. The number of jobs created variety in towns and small cities. has hit an alltime low during Bush's Kerry's proposal was striking in term as well. his confidence in economy ideas. 
We need a president who can Out of 3 million jobs lost during reduce our use of natural resources Bush's term, Kerry believes his and allow us to catch up with the plan will replace all of them within rest of the world. For example. the the first 500 days of his administra­United States is behind other coun­tion. tries in its use of efficient vehicles. His other economy-building In other parts of the world, new strategies include renewing cities, cars are being put on the road that training workers, getting financial save on energy use, but America is help to states in need and support­still driving the biggest automobiles ing ways to help small businesses that guzzle the most gas on the invest and expand. road today. It's time to shift gears and pull 
Few of the Democratic candidates away from the humiliating direction have strong opinions on the situa­in which Bush has led our country. tion in Iraq. This needs to change The Democratic candidates have in order to create a strong creative ideas among them; howev­Republican counterattack. Most er, in orderto be a strong leader, have focused mainly on homeland one of the nine needs more creativ­security. For example, Sen. John ity in their ideas across the board. Edwards (D-NC) prioritizes We need a well-rounded president strengthening America's borders to create a well-rounded America. and having more extensive proce­dures for emergencies, according to This column first appeared in the his Web site. Sept. 5 edition of the Iowa State 
Sen. John Kerry (D-Mass.) says on Daily and is reprinted here cour­his Web site that he will direct tesy of U-WIRE. more attention from the National The views expressed in this col­Guard and Americorps to national umn are those ofthe author and security issues. His plan is to train not necessarily those of The more first responders and have Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




GUEST COLUMN 
Two wrongs don't make a right in abortion fight 
PENSACOLA, Fla. -"Usually, terrible either. He killed the two men with a things that are done with the eKcuse shotgun as they drove to the that progress requires them are not Community Health Care Center of really progress at all, but just terrible Pensacola on Ninth Avenue, or as it was things."-Russell Baker, New York known in 1994, The Ladies' Center. Times nationally During his trial, Hill acted as his own syndicated colum-William Bolen counsel. nist from 1962 to Other than brief opening and closing 1998. statements that centered on his feelings 
On the morning of about abortion, he gave no defense. July 29, 1994, Paul The Voyager After Hill was convicted and sen­Hill killed Dr. John tenced to death in December 1994, he Bayard Britton, 69, said he looked forward to his fate Britton's escort and because he believed it would prevent retired Air Force Lt. Col. James H. abortions by inciting further violence Barrett, 74, and wounded Barrett's against abortion providers. He also said wife, June. For that reason, Paul Hill he was inspired to his crimes by the should be executed by the state of actions of Michael Griffin, a Pensacola Florida. resident who shot and killed another 
Britton was killed because he per­doctor in Pensacola in 1993. Irrational formed abortions and Barrett was people do irrational things. killed because he believed in a woman's Violence may occur whether Hill is right to choose. executed or not. But the crime is too 
Hill later confessed that he was pre­heinous to go unpunished. He did not pared to kill the police officer assigned act in self-defense. He did not act in a to guard the clinic as well, simply fit of uncontrolled rage. He committed a because he was there. Had the officer premeditated murder and he's without not arrived late that morning, he would remorse. probably be dead as well. Hill believes But the actions of one do not repre­that killing in order to protect the sent the whole. Mainstream anti-abor­unbortl is justified. But the issue isn't tion groups condemn clinic violence. the morality of abortion. It's the cold­Most groups distanced themselves from blooded murder of two men on a Friday Hill long ago. morning in July 1994. "The movement has changed an awful 
Some believe Hill's execution will lot," said Joe Scheidler, founder and inspire more violence against abortion director of the Chicago-based Pro-Life clinics. They suggest executing Hill Action League. "We see the babies as could make him a martyr to the more martyrs, but not Paul Hill." extreme elements of the anti-abortion And what has Paul Hill accomplished? movement. When he signed Hill's death Nothing. Abortions still take place. It warrant in July, Gov. Jeb Bush dis­remains one of the most heated issues missed the suggestion that Hill's sup­in America. There are those within his porters might see him as a martyr. movement that have cast Hill as 
"He's a murderer and he was sen­extremist and support his execution. tenced to death and I have the duty to Paul Hill gave up his right to life when carry out that sentence," said Bush, he took those lives nine years ago. He who opposes abortion. The possibility of was tried and convicted. He was given violence exists. his due process. That's more than he 
The recent death threats to local gave John Britton and James Barrett. Circuit Judge Frank Bell. Corrections Secretary James Crosby, Prison Warden This column fist appeared Sept. 4 in Joe Thompson and Attorney General The Voyager, The University of Western Charlie Crist seem to support that Florida's campus newspaper. It appears point. But Paul Hill is not a rational here courtesy ofU-WIRE. man and those who would be inspired The views expressed in this column by Hill's actions in July 1994 or by his are those ofthe author and not neces­execution in September are not rational sarily those of The Observer. 
r 

page 12 lv1onday, September 8, 2003 
Old School 


getting Old 
Over the past couple weeks, 

-d " I have noticed a terrible epi­demic that is sweeping across campus. If you haven't observed this phenomenonl which I am Tom Raaf about to
l 
1 bring to l your atten­Scene tion, you are Columnist 
j: either com­pletelyI oblivious to the entire world around you or you have been locked inside your room the past two weeks with absolute­ly no outside communication. L What I am referring to, 
! I ladies and gentlemen, is the ridiculously excessive quoting of Old School, the newly released comedy starring Will Ferrell, Vince Vaughn, and Luke Wilson. At first, I must admit that I did slightly fall into this trap myself, spurting out the occasional " You know it! You know it," but then I realized something. 
Absolutely everyone on cam­
'! pus was doing the exact same thing. Whether I be walking into the Stadium, sauntering back from Turtle Creek or 
j 
.l 
taking a stroll across campus, 

I( I found it impossible to avoid 
H this plague that seems to be the hippest thing since kids 
rl 
1: found out how cool it is to I· walk across South Quad with 
!I 
'i a cell phone. As a result, I began to run an in-depth study on this trend, seeing just how rampant the use and spread of it was and I discovered that one cannot go anywhere around 
! ( Notre Dame with­Therefore, ifyou do and .j ! out hearing some in fact wish to Beyond. guy ramble on Upon
' pathetically quote 
about how "once it interview­:l hits your lips, it's this movie because ing another 
I~· 
it so good" or how you honestly can't student, glorious Blue looks Dillon jun­
think ofanything
'I in heaven. I've ior Michael found that some better to say, then Flanagan, people just kind of you must get person­he actually sit in circles and admitted to
al approval from Ken
quote it back and being part forth, namely the Champa first. of this stages. In fact, it's very likely that you have been using quotes from movies aimed at college students as a terrible comedy crutch for years to make up for your complete and total lack of originality. For bringing this to your attention, I apologize, but also realize that this had to be done eventually so you don't go through life as a parrot, waiting for the next quotable teen movie to come out on video so you can nail the lines exactly. 
In an effort to see if auyone else noticed the uncontainable abuse of Old School quoting, I went to a few fellow students. Junior Morrisey resident Ken 
,Champa had this to say about the quoting craze, "It seems like everyone came to school this year with two missions ... study and to quote Old School." How true that comment is, my equally observant friend Ken. As a result, I have decided that I am going to appoint this Ken character as the campus-wide regulator or Old School refer­ences. Therefore, if you DO in fact wish to pathetically quote this movie because you hon­estly can't think of anything better to say, then you must get personal approval from Ken Champa first. Any vio­laters will be sent directly to ResLife, regardless of whether or not you think "you'll have enough TIME," between your 
trips to Home Depot and Bed Bath 

group of kids out­side Sarin Hall on Saturday night-you know who you are. now proceed to hang your heads in shame. 
At first I would kind of laugh, recognizing the refer­ence and wanting to add a line or two myself, but then I asked myself this question: am I really SO completely unfunny that I need to rely on copying a movie verbatim in order to make people like me? Now I'm sure there's some of you out there saying "Hey, yeah I quote it sometimes for a few cheap laughs now and again, but I still think I'm pretty funny." Well, I hate to break it to you, but you're wrong. You are probably the kid who just got out his/her Zoolander quoting stage, which followed shortly after your Billy Madison, llappy Gilmore, and Dirty Work problem, 
saying 
"Tom, let's 
face it. I 

am not a funny person. I was so relieved that Old School final­ly came out on DVD because I was getting pretty desperate there for awhile, watching 1980's reruns of SNL for new material." 
On a final note, I just want­ed to say "I had an AWESOME time this weekend," and that if you want to come and hang out sometime, you can "bring your green hat" cause we're probably guing to be "going streaking across the quad and into the gymnabium." Seriously, guys, 6ive it a rest. 
Tom Raafis a junior from Dillon Hall. He used to have a dog namPd Ashes, but then il died. E-mail him at traaj@nd. edu. 
By SARAH VABULAS Scene Editor 
After spending all day watching the Irish play a good football game, it seems that many students find ihem­selves tired and desiring to relax and reenergize for the rigorous week ahead. However, sometimes this desire for 1 elflxa tion brings on the problem of boredom. 
Some students choose to attend parties, both on-and off-campus, but other stu­dents choo5e w gather in a friend's room or in a. dorm's 24-hour lounge to play games or watch a movie, hang out with friends and have a good time. 
With so many recent DVD releases, students should not have a difficult time picking out something to entertain them. Between movie and TV show releases on both VHS and DVD forrna.ts, a simple trip to Family Video or Blockbuster for renting and a trip to Best Buy or Wal-Mart to purchase that DVD you have been dying to watch should resolve the problem of boredom. 
Many of the hit movies from this past spring and summer have already been released or are still in the process of being released. A popular new 


CSI: CrimE: 
The No. 1 hit TV show, CSI: Crimf 
movement with television cor­porations is to release many TV series on DVD or VHS for home viewing anytime. It is a dream come true for hard­core fans of TV shows that opt to record each show while viewing. The DVD format pro­vides better quality with the added bon us of commercial free TV watching. But with so man~ to choose from, it makes it quite difficult to choose; therefore, one can only ask what should be on the top of the list, providing the most entertainment? 
The No. 1 hit TV show, CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, released the complete second season on widescreen DVD Tuesday. If you have never watched the show, it is an hour of time that it worth the w bile. CS I Season Two was the People's Choice Award for Favorite Television Dramatic Series. 
Jerry Bruckheimer produces the show with the help an all­star cast and crew, many of whom have been nominated for Emmys, to create a show that keeps viewers hooked and longing ·for the next episode to air. 
For those who are not famil­iar with CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, it is an hour­long dramatic seri,es on CBS set-in Las Vegas, which focus­es on the Crime Scene 

of entertainmen 
Investigation Department of the Las Vegas Police Department. The CSI depart­ment deals with the forensic aspect of murders and how the police can be so precise in their assumptions of how the death occurred. Each episode tells the story of one or two deaths, depending on the complexity of the case, and begins at the time of the per­son's death and concludes with the wrap-up of the case. 
Typically, an acquaintance, friend or family member either finds the body of the deceased or realizes that they are missing, which leads to the acquisition of the body, beginning the in-depth inves­tigation. The police calls two or three of the CSI personnel onto the case once the evi­dence from the pre-investiga­tion points in the direction of homicide. 
Five of the characters are on-site investigators, who interview people who knew the victim as well as collect evidence from the crime scene. They then take all the evidence back to the lab and go through highly sensitive and thorough examination, using high-tech pieces of equipment. 
While the investigation of the evidence ensues, the coro­ner participates in an autopsy of the body to find evidence of 

Photo courtesy of CBS Televisoon Gil Grissom, played by William Petersen, examines an article through a microscope while he tries to solve a case. 
THE ()BSER\fER 

E
Monday, September 8, 2003 

Page 13 






? Scene Investigation, provides a nice escape to students' scope ~t, yet lures viewers to watch it and want more 
include how the the kitchen to grab a snack. elusion of the show, the lead­crew uses special After realizing the populari­ers of the two teams agreed to effects and the tech­ty of CSI: Crime Scene keep in touch -and work niques for all the Investigation, CBS made together in further investiga­make-up, along with another version of the show tions. the familiar music called CS I: Miami. This also CSI: Miami has not been found throughout hour-long version is set in released on DVD and there is the show. Also Miami, Florida, which makes no word yet if CBS plans to do found as a fea­the show plots differ greatly so. But for now, CSI: Crime turette are the than those S c e n e shooting locations from Las Investigation for the show, a tour Vegas. The DVDs for of the set, and how actors are all Season One
"For a good, dramatic
the hit show is different peo­and Season
show, tune into CBS
made. ple as well, Two will have Audio commen­giving a com­and watch both CSI: to suffice, par­taries for three of plete change ticularly until
Crime Scene 

the shows can be for the view-the new season found on the DVDs, ers. lnvestigtion and CSI: premieres later and the commentary For the Miami. Once you watch this fall. is heard while a most part, "For a good,
the first time, you'll be 
viewer watches the the show dramatic show,
hooked and wanting
show but can be operates in tune into CBS turned on and off. the same more. , and watch both The best part manner, with CS I: Crime about watching the Crime Scene S c e n e
Maureen Tate 

show on DVD is the Investigators Investigation -.. lack of commercials. working with junior and CSl: The Or1e thing that the police to Miami. Once irks most people solve murder you watch the about watching TV cases. first time, are the many com­One episode even brought you'll be hooked and wanting mercials found at together the casts of CSI and more," junior Maureen Tate the best parts of CSI: Miami, forging the way said. shows .. Watching for more intertwined episodes CSI: Crime Scene this dramatic series since throughout the investi­Investigation has its season on DVD gives one gation, friendships and bonds premiere on Sept. 25 at 8 the opportunity to were formed between the Las p.m., while CSI: Miami pre­miss the annoying Vegas characters and the mieres Sept. 22, at 9 p.m. commercials, but Miami characters. As with any also yields the good episode, there was con­power of the pause flict between the different CSI
Phto cour1esy of CBS Television 
button, making up investigators, competing for
CSI characters Gil Grissom, Catherine Willows and Jim Brass pose in the 
for the lack of com­the title of hero in the investi­Contact Sarah Vabulas at
lab dressed to work. 
mercials to run to gation. However, at the con-Vabu454 7@saintmarys.edu 
death and any other informa­over two months. The tion necessary for a proper, coroner opens the detailed report. The coroner bag, and one can only and CSI investigators work imagine the stench hand in hand to analyze any­that began to ripple thing that the body might be through the room. able to reveal about the case. The writers of the 
After this analysis, the CSI show never fail to investigators use the evidence make it different and from the coroner's report to interesting from the make conclusions and help to last episode. This is solve the case. They continue the main reason why to usc the crime scene and the · the show is the most body until the case concludes. watched TV show in 
The best part about the the country. show is by far the process of Due to its populari­running through all the eYi­ty, CBS released the dence collected. The charac­shows on DVD. ters are highly intelligent peo­Season One came out ple, who come from all walks in March and Season of life and usc prior expe ri­Two last Tuesday. The ence to bring the case togeth­CSJ Season Two DVD er. Watching the show draws features the 23 40­you into the life of a forensic minute-long episodes scientist. many times rna king of Season Two, along you wish you could do that for \Vith in depth, brand­a living. new. never-before­
Some of the things the t.:har­seen featurettes and acters experience are audio commentaries. appalling; for example, in one The DVD totals over episode, the CSI investigators 16-and-a-half hours discover a body that had been of CSJ entertainment 
Photos courtesy of CBS Television 

decomposing in a zipped up on six discs. 
The main cast of CSI: Criminal Scene Investigation pose together in uniform. The show has its season
bag, deep in the woods for The featurettes 
premiere on Sept. 25 at 8 p.m. 


-~~~ 

Monday, September 8, 2003
page 14 The Observer+ CLASSIFIEDS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Wood strikes out six as Cubs take division lead 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -Kerry Wood felt right at home. 
With a sellout crowd made up mostly of Cubs fans cheering him on at Miller Park. Wood won for the first time in a month. He gave up two runs on eight hits and struck out six to raise his major league-leading total to 234 as Chicago beat the Milwaukee Brewers 9-2 Sunday. 
Combined with Houston's 7-1 loss to San Diego on Sunday. the win gives the Cubs a half-game lead in the NL Central. 
The Cubs are 7-0 in Milwaukee this season, and fans driving up from Chicago helped the Brewers sell out all three games over the weekend. 
Sammy Sosa hit a solo homer and Randall Simon homered twice and drove in five runs. 
"That's about as close as you're going to get to a home crowd feeling being on the road," Wood said. "The fans are great. They come out and sup­port us and I think it's great." 
Wood (12-11), had three loss­es in five starts since an Aug. 6 win over San Diego. 
Sosa hit his 34th home run to lead off the seventh for a 7­2lead. After Aramis Ramirez singled, Simon followed with his second homer and 15th of the season. Both homers were off reliever Leo Estrella. 
Simon's homer in the third gave Chicago a 5-0 lead. 

"It was one of the rare times, lately, we've gotten some runs for Woody early," Chicago man­ager Dusty Baker said. "He held them to two runs. 1\vo quality outings in a row for him. His confidence is growing and I can just see him getting better down the stretch. 
Marlins 3, Expos 1 
On an afternoon when it reached 153 degrees on Hiram Bithorn Stadium's artificial turf, Dontrelle Willis kept his cool. 
Willis pitched three-hit ball into the eighth inning and the Florida Marlins beat the Montreal Expos 3-1 Sunday. 

"He pitched probably his best game of the second half." man­ager Jack McKeon said. 
"He answered all those critics who were saying, 'He's losing it, he's fatigued," he said. 
Willis (12-6) said he was cau­tious to stay hydrated during the game on his way to ending a three-game losing streak and earning his first win in his last five outings. 
"It was scorching," the All­Star rookie said. "I drank a lot of water yesterday, before the game, during the game and after." 
"At least it was easier to get loose, I guess." 
After giving up consecutive hits to Orlando Cabrera and Jose Vidro in the first, Willis retired the next 15 batters before walking Brad Wilkerson in the sixth. 
He then struck out Cabrera to end the inning. Willis struck out six and walked one. 
Willis' only mistake was a leadoff homer by Todd Zeile in the eighth, the last batter he faced. 
Braves 2, Pirates 1 
Javy Lopez wasn't taking any pitches. 
Using a more aggressive approach, Lopez went 3-for-3 with a tiebreaking homer in the seventh inning to back another strong outing by Mike Hampton, pushing the Atlanta Braves past the Pittsburgh Pirates 2-1 on Sunday. 
"The last few weeks, I felt kind of strange at the plate," Lopez said. "I felt like I had to take some pitches before taking the first swing. Today I said, 'Forget it.' I was swinging at anything around the plate." 
Lopez drove in both Atlanta runs, tying the game at 1 with a two-out double in the fourth. Three innings later, he led off by driving an 0-1 fastball over the center-field wall for the 37th homer of his comeback season. For good measure, he also threw out Tike Redman attempting to steal third. 
"He did it all today," manager Bobby Cox said. 
Hampton (13-7) snapped a two-game losing streak by pitching four-hit ball over eight innings. He gave way to Will Cunnane, who worked a 1-2-3 ninth for his first career save. 
"I felt like I made good pitch­es even on the hits I gave up," said Hampton. who allowed only one hit over his final five innings. "I don't feel they hit too many balls hard. I was able to keep the ball down and away from the middle of the strike zone." 
Cardinals 9, Reds 0 
Matt Morris was on his game again. keeping the St. Louis Cardinals close in the NL Central. 
Morris pitched no-hit ball into the seventh inning and finished with a three-hitter in a 9-0 vic­tory over the Cincinnati Reds. 
After winning 39 games in 2001 and 2002, he's struggling much of the year and this victo­ry got him to double digits. 
"As far as the stats and num­bers, it's a disappointing year for me because I set high goals," Morris said. "But to keep this snowball rolling and to end hopefully in a playoff spot and do some damage in the playoffs, that's the way I can save my season." 
Fernando Vina had a season­high four hits and Orlando Palmeiro and Mike Matheny homered for St. Louis, which began the day two games out of the NL Central lead. 
"I love this time of year," Vina said. "I love the challenge, I love the pressure. I think that makes me play a little better." 
The Cardinals took two of three from the decimated Reds, who have lost 11 of 14 with a roster filled with young players. 
The Reds' 14 rookies dressed in women's clothing, as a team initiation, for the trip back to Cincinnati. 
Padres 7, Astros 1 
Brian Giles remembers well the first homer he hit in San Diego when he returned to his hometown while playing for Pittsburgh in 1999. 

Dontrelle Willis reacts after a home run hit by Todd Zelle in the eighth Inning at the Hiram Blthorn Stadium In San Juan, Puerto Rico. The Marlins won the game, 3-1. 
Now he has another senti­first inning. It was his 17th mental shot to cherish. home run overall this year,· and 
Giles hit his first home run for first in nine games with the San Diego as the Padres beat Padres since being traded Aug. Houston 7-1, dropping the 26. Astros out of first place in the "Once I got traded, I thought NL Central. about it," Giles said. "Obviously, 
The Astros had won three in a it was nice to get one here in row, but the loss put them a my first game with Pittsburgh. half-game behind Chicago. The To do it in a Padre uniform also Cubs beat Milwaukee 9-2 for is definitely something special." their fifth straight victory. Giles later doubled and drew 
Giles put the Padres ahead a bases-loaded walk from Wade with a two-run homer in the Miller (12-12) in the fifth. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

SUMMER RENTAL WANTED 97 Volkswagen Jetta Low miles.A1 That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Retired Arizona couple looking to condition. Sunroof.$5,900 0/B/0. has space available for footbaiVpar-ED -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-not go it alone. II you or someone NOTICES rent/sub-lease apt.lhome for sum-269-663-8422 ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, 2378 PM 288-2726 you love needs confidential support mer of 2004. Call 574-289-8800. full hot breakfast, $80-$115, or assistance, please call Sr. Mary PART-TIME WORK EXCELLENT Middlebury, 30 miles from NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819 For 
PAY WWWWORKFORSTU-SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns DENTS. COM Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for 
a few good men and women who STUDENT WORK. $11.50 base-wish to work in a FUN and fast appt Flex.pt hrs. Cust.svc/sales. pace environment. A new store will No 0-T-D/No Telemkt. Fun work be opening up in early October. We schol./interns. cond. apply. work have aggressive pay. Hrs from w/other students 574-282-2357 11 am to 3am. In-shoppers, drivers www.earnparttime.com and mgmt available. Call Andy at 
574-277-0850 for interview. 
campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-SALE AM -232·2378 PM -288-more information, see our bi-weeklyFoR RENT 800-418-9487. 2726 ad in The Observer. 
Furnished 2 bdrm apt. for NO home Help! I need 2 tix to every NO home There was a football game this past Furnished apt.close to NO. 1 bdrm, games. 1.4 miles to NO. $595 per football game. Please call288-Saturday. no smoking or pets. $425/mo. utili-weekend. 269-684-6409. 2877. 
ties included. 255-1738. Tell me what you thought about 
Privacy! One-bdrm home, 1026 WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. when you were gone and, so alone 2-bdrm apts. $435/mo plus utilities. Foster St., $590/mo.574-784-3275. TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232-The worst is over. You can have the 2-story, 4 bdrm, 2 full baths. Avail. 0964. best of me. We got older, but we're 
I NEED GA TIXS 2726306 immediately. 273-4555. 2,3,4,5 and 8 BEDROOM HOUSES still young_ We never grew out of 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO FOR RENT FOR 2004/5: CALL FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. this feeling that we won't give up. WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM ANLAN PROPERTIES 532-1896 LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570. &Beach Trips on sale now! FoR SALE MMMRENTALS@AOLCOM 272-Someday I'll. .. I'll be better than this www.sunchase com or call 1-800-1525 COLLEGE PARK APT. 2 BED, 2 JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER. 
. SUNCHASE today! Mazda 90 Miata MX5, 48,500 miles, BATH, LIVINGROOM, DIN-NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT-So Dave played the Maker. and I 5-speed,Hard&Soft Top, Tonnoue FOR RENT: 3-bedroom home 1 NINGROOM, KITCHEN, ALL BALL GAME. PLEASE CALL 674-wasn't there ... That's cool . Cover,Custom Red,$9,900. 258-mile from NO. Garage, alarm sys-APPLIANCES INCLUDED $970-6593. 0520. tern, AJC. Available lmmed. (630) 897-0777 THE DEUCE WILL PREVAIL. 
WANTED 

$650/mo. Call 220-0499 or 614-Will trade 2 MSU, 2 NAVY, or 2 
OAKHILL CONDO FORSALE! 2 353-5889. BYU for your 2 FSU or 2 USC tick-You love math, dude. You love it Need babysitter M,W,Th for 2nd BEDROOMS, 2 FLOORS WON T ets. 574-289-8048 grade boy after school & evenings. LAST LONG! 574.243.3911 OR 2-bdrm house close to NO. 269-TICKETS Fly Eagles fly, on the road to victo-Reliable car needed (will need to 574 532.0956 LEAVE MESSAGE1 699-5841. ry. Fight Eagles fight Score a take child to activities) Call 574-NO FOOTBALL -BUY & SELL. touchdown 1-2 (1-2-3). Hit 'em low, 210-31421ve name & no. LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO 3-6 BDRM HOMES.AVAIL. NOW & CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR PERSONALS hit 'em high, as we watch those Interviews done ASAP. FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO. 04/05.FURN.272-6306 TOLL FREE 877-773-3911. Buccos die. Fly Eagles fly, on the 
NON-RENTAL. NEWLY Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America road to victory. E-A-G-L-E-S. Babysitter wanted for 2 kids. Car is REMODELED, FULLY EQUIPPED. Clean 2-bdrm house, 1-25 mi. to TOP$$$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX s #1 Student Tour Operator_ Hinng Eagles! preferred Please call Susan 271-$94,500. Email: NO. Desirable neighborhood OR INDIVIDUAL GAMES. DISCRE-campus reps. Call for discounts: 9634 Williamson.1 @nd.edu $550/mo +utilities. 574-233-1604. TION ASSURED 654-8018. 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel com Monday night football. Oh no. 

Munday, September 8, 2003 page 15
The Observer + SPORTS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Wells helps Yankees salvage win over surging Red Sox 

Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -David Wells bounced off the mound with excitement. He had rebounded, and so had the New York Yankees. 
With their AL East lead down to 1.5 games, the Yankees need­ed a win badly to blunt Boston. After Derek Jeter talked his way back into the lineup, Wells pitched his finest game this sea­son and Bernie Williams woke up with his first home run since mid-August, propelling New York to a critical 3-1 victory Sunday. 
"A game like this, it's huge," Wells said. "Those guys are com­ing in for the sweep -you want to try to get the momentum back, and that's what we did today." 
Williams broke a scoreless tie -and a whole lot of tension ­with a two-run homer in the sev­enth ofl' Jeff Suppan {1-2). Wells took a shutout into the eighth inning, and Mariano Rivera got five outs in the final scheduled meeting this year between the teams. 
New York (85-56) boosted its division lead to 2.5 games over Boston (83-59) with three weeks remaining. 
White Sox 7, Indians 3 
Frank Thomas wasn't about to let a little slump hold him back. 
Thomas, in an 0-for-11 slide, came to plate in the seventh with two out, two on and the White Sox trailing Cleveland by a run. He hit the first pitch from reliev­er Danys Baez into the seats in left field and the White Sox went on to win 7-3. 
"All season I've had my little stretches where I've struggled, and I've come out swinging every time," Thomas said. "That was my whole mind-set. I was not looking for a little single, I was looking to smoke the base­ball." 
Chicago swept the three-game series and is 10 games over .500 for the first time this season. The White Sox remain tied with Minnesota for first in the AL Central and host the Twins for four games starting Monday. 
Devil Rays 11, Athletics 2 
Victor Zambrano and the Tampa Bay Devil Rays had it all over the reigning AL Cy Young Award winner. 
Zambrano pitched his first career complete game and the Devil Rays once again roughed up Barry Zito, beating the Oakland Athletics 11-2. 
Zambrano (10-8) gave up nine hits, walked none and struck out eight in his 35th major league start. He became just the fourth Tampa Bay pitcher ever to win 10 or more games in a season. 
''I'm not really thinking about what team I'm going to face," Zam}jrano said. ''I'm only think­ing about what I'm going to do that day and how I feel. Just go in and do my job." 

Thursday Svptvmbvr 11 • 8:00 p.m. The StGte TheGtrv • Sooth Bernd 
21 cmd oven admlttfld to show 
Tickvts on salv nowl at Morris Performing Arts Center. Box Office. Chc:nge by phone 574-235-9190 or Online qt 
Stinday Octobvr 26 • 7:30 p.m. ·~··~.";~//,.~.,.. ·~ Morris Performing Arts Center 
,~::.···,, ·····-::<·,~·~" South B...nd lnd'-n.. 
.... :........................:..... :... ~..-:-:....._.. ,.:. ' , N ,... 
Tickets on sale Saturday August 301 at 10:00 a.m. at Morns Box Officer. Chcuge by phone 574-235-9190 or Online qt 
www.morriscen tClr.org. 
Zito (11-12) was tagged for seven runs, six hits and three walks over 5 1-3 innings. 
"Getting behind guys is frus­trating," said Zito, who threw 100 pitches. 
On July 8, the Devil Rays bat­tered Zito for seven runs and 15 hits in 5 1-3 innings during a 9-3 win at Oakland. 
Rocco Baldelli drove in three runs as Tampa Bay took two of three from the AL West-leading Athletics. The Devil Rays also won two of three from wild-card contender Seattle during their six-game homestand. 


The University of Notre Dame Women's Liturgical Choir 
Limited num.ber of openings still available in both Soprano and Alto sections~ 
Rehearsals are held \\lednesday evenings fron1 5 -7 Prv1 and every Saturday at 4 l)M in 329 C~oleman-Morse Center. 
]"'he \Vomen's Liturgical Choir sings every Saturday cveninu 5 P~1 !viass in the Basilica of the Sacred He(U1.
o~,..., 

INFORMATION: A1tdrew McShane, 631-7800 mcshane.l@nd.edu 

"First of all, we're trying to win as many games as we can," Devil Rays manager Lou Piniella said. "Second of all, a little pride fac­tor involved when you're playing those teams with postseason aspirations. Go do your work someplace else ... not at our expense." 
Oakland has dropped four of five since a 10-game winning streak. The Athletics did main­tain their two-game lead over the second place Mariners. 
Orioles 2, Mariners 1 The Seattle Mariners made 

former Cy Young winner Pat Hentgen look like a candidate to capture the award this year. 
The Mariners have been doing that quite a bit lately, much to the dismay of manager Bob Melvin. 
Hentgen allowed five hits in eight innings and Brian Roberts kept up his assault on Seattle pitching as the Baltimore Orioles beat Seattle 2-1 Sunday. · 
The Mariners totaled two runs in losing the final two games of the three-game series and went 2-for-24 with runners in scoring position in dropping two of three. 
.. 



Monday, September 8, 2003 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
I ' 

NFL 
Warner fumbles six times as Giants' D rolls 
They were hurt one week
Associated Press 
after the Packers lost No. 4 
wideout Carl Ford (knee) for the 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -season and tight end Wesley With apologizes to Kerry Collins Walls to a pulled hamstring. and company, winning for the In the closing minutes, the New York Giants still starts with Packers were left to line up defense. Arena League star Antonio 
Kenny Holmes recovered one Chatman and tight end David of Kurt Warner's six fumbles for Martin at receiver with Javon a touchdown, and the Giants Walker. sacked the St. Louis Rams' quarterback six times, inter­
49ers 49, Bears 7
cepted him once and sent him 
While the San Fra·ncisco 
to the hospital with a concus­49ers provided all the fireworkssion in a 23-13 victory. 
Dennis Erickson promised,
"This has always been about 

Kordell Stewart and the
defense since I've been here 
Chicago Bears were total duds. 
and it always will be," defensive 
Jeff Garcia passed for 229
tackle Keith Hamilton said after yards and two touchdowns, andopening his 12th season with 
Garrison Hearst caught a TD
the Giants. 
pass and rushed for another
"With all the juggernauts we score as the 49ers sparkled inhave on offense, it's easy to say 

new coach Erickson's debut,
we can do this and that," added beating the Bears 49-7. 
Hamilton, who missed most of Ahmed Plummer returned anlast season with an Achilles' 
interception 68 yards for a
tendon injury. "If you don't score. Jimmy Williams and
havedefense, you're not going Brandon Lloyd made exception­too far." 
al special-teams plays in SanWarner found out about the 
Francisco's electric debut underGiants the hard way. Besides 
Erickson, who replaced Steve It was a close game for almost start of the second half and away.
being sacked, the two-time MVP Mariucci with a vow to ratchet three quarters between two energized the Panthers with a With the defense closing in, was hit about a dozen times, up the 49ers' aggression and teams expected to be among the pep talk and three touchdown he found Ricky Proehl, anotherincluding a brutal shot late in explosiveness. N F L's worst u n t i I the Lions passes -the last with 16 sec­offseason acquisition, in the leftthe first half by linebacker Mike Mission accomplished: In his scored three TDs -one on a onds to play -to rally the corner of the end zone for theBarrow, who had two sacks and first game, he led the 49ers to punt return, another on an Panthers to a 24-23 victory winning score. 
a forced fumble. 
their biggest victory since 1989. interception return -in about over the Jacksonville Jaguars "The huddle was very calm
''I'm not sure when it hap­

The 49ers took a 33-7 half­seven minutes. in Sunday's opener. and I was very calm,"pened, but it might have been time lead with their biggest "He came in and kind of gave Delhomme said. "I had guys in 
on the [Holmes] touchdown," 
offensive output in a half since Panthers 24, Jaguars 23 everyone a high-five and said, the huddle wanting the ball andRams coach Mike Martz said of 1992. They punted just twice in Jake Delhomme ran into the 'We're going to win the game,"' that gives me confidence as athe concussion. 
the first three quarters. Carolina Panthers' huddle, fists receiver Muhsin Muhammad quarterback." Erickson left in nearly all of pumping and words of encour­said. "We had no doubts in our As the Panthers celebrafed Falcons 27, Cowboys 13 his starters to finish two fourth­agement flying. It was his first mind after that." the score, new Jacksonville 
Not even Bill Parcells can quarter drives in an impressive chance to be ·the starting quar­The Panthers trailed 17-0 coach Jack Del Rio -Carolina's keep the Dallas Cowboys from blowout. terback, and Delhomme wasn't when Delhomme came in, but defensive coordinator a year making the kind of mistakes With a variety of big plays, going to blow it. he never panicked, not even ago-slumped his shoulders in that lead to losses. San Francisco scored 2 3 points Delhomme replaced a highly facing fourth-and-11 on the disgust but wouldn't allow the 
Despite vowing to be more in the final 6:01 of the first half. ineffective Rodney Peete at the Jaguars 12 with time ticking Jaguars to quit. disciplined and to play smarter, Tai Streets had a TD catch, the Cowboys were as sloppy as Terrell Owens caught seven 

they were under coaches Dave passes for 112 yards, Plummer Campo, Chan Gailey and Barry had two interceptions and Jeff Switzer in losing 27-13 to the Chandler kicked five field goals. Atlanta Falcons in their first game for Parcells. 
Lions 42, Cardinals 24
Quincy Carter offset some big 

Joey Harrington made sure 

Faith &
plays with a fumble and an ill­Steve Mariucci's debut with theadvised pass that was intercept­Detroit Lions was a good one. 

Transformation
ed. while the rest of the offense 
Harrington threw a career­
made silly penalties. The 
Theo. 340K. 1 credit. S/U
high four touchdown passes todefense went from a good first lead the Lions past the Arizona 
Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C.
half to a porous second half. 
Cardinals 42-24, spoiling 
Mondays

And kicker Billy Cundiff missed Emmitt Smith's first game with 
September 8, 15, 22, 29,
a short field goal and an extra 
his new team and Anquan
point. 
and October 6, 13
Boldin's record-setting day. 
"That's a recipe for disaster," 

Time: 7:00p.m. -9:05p.m.
"Everyone wanted to see whatParcells said. 
would happen with Coach 
Location: DeBartolo 204 
Mariucci handling things," Vikings 30, Packers 25 Harrington said. "I don't think it Randy Moss sure knows how could've been much better." to spoil a party. Boldin caught 10 passes for 
Moss caught nine passes for 217 yards, a record for a rookie 150 yards and a touchdown as in his debut, and two touch­the Minnesota Vikings beat the downs. Boldin, a second-round Green Bay Packers 30-25 pick from Florida State, broke before a record crowd of 70,505 the record set by Washington's at remodeled Lambeau Field, Hugh Taylor, who had 212 which was rededicated at half­yards against Philadelphia on time. Sept. 28, 194 7. 
Moss is glad the stadium was "Right now, I don't think I can 

Prayer
refurbished and not replaced enjoy it," Boldin said. "I would 
Theo. 340A/01. 1 credit. S/U
because it always brings out the give those stats back for the 
Or. Lawrence Cunningham
best in him, starting with a five­win." catch, 190-yard coming out Lions defensive end Robert 
Sundays


Mary

party in 1998. Porcher said if he were Smith, 
September 14, 21, 28 
"I think since my rookie year, he would've retired in Dallas 
October 5, 12
Theo. 340N/01. 1 credit. S/U

the excitement we had in the after breaking Walter Payton's 
Time: 6:00p.m. -8:30p.m.
locker room is something I'll NFL rushing record last year. 
Dr. Timothy Matovina 

Location: Coleman-Morse 330
never forget," Moss said. "And Smith may have thought the 
Mondays

what happened on the field I'll same thing after he gained just 
October 27

never forget. It's what drives 4 yards on his first five carries 
··November 3, 10, 17

me to come here and do good." without a blue star on his hel­The Packers stormed back met. He is playing on a poor 
December 1, 8 

from a 27-3 deficit but their team after winning three Super 
Time: 6:00p.m.-8:05p.m. For further information, contact 
comeback was stifled by Bowls, one MVP award and one 
Location: 0 Shaughnessy 106 Doroth_y Anderson in the Theology
injuries to starting receivers Super Bowl MVP trophy in 13 
Department, 631-7811. 5iyllabi
Donald Driver (neck strain) and seasons with the Cowboys. 
for tlu~ courses can he obtained at the
Robert Ferguson (ankle, knee) Smith ran for 64 yards on 13 and backup Karsten Bailey carries, extending his rushing 
17zeolugy Dept., 130 fvlall~.Y 1-!al/. 
(hamstring). record to 17,226. 
Monday, September 8, 2003 page 17
The Observer + SPORTS 

Pirarnides, Palacios y Playas 
Study in Notre Dame's International Study Prograrns in 

PUEBLA, MEXJ:CO MONTERREY,MEXJ:CO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
5:00PM 
Wednesday, Sept. 10, 2003 
119 DeBartolo 
Physics G.:;ught il"' Puebla in tf1e fall semester for Pre-Professional Students Huge v.:H·iety of internships available in Puebla 
Engineerinq courses offered m Monterf"(:!Y AI.., BA courses offered in both locations 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: OCTOBER 1 FOR SPRING 2004r DECEMBER l FOR FALL 2004 AND AY 2004-5 APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: .www.nd.edu L~.i.ntlstud!. 
F,all I.Jiturgyr w-rC)rksl1C)ps 
clt the B(Jsziic(J qfthe S'acrecl .Hectrt 
LECTORS' 
\VOKKSHOPS: 
Tuesc.lay, SeJ-1tct.n.l.)er 9th, 8:30 prn 
_/,·:fttendallt-~e at one q_/the,re J:Potk.rhr.lp.r 
i.r nx-otntllended. 
EUC-HARISTIC MINISTERS' WORKSHOPS: 
'I\1esday, SerJtetnber 9tl1, 1():00 prn 
....-4/tendance at one qj.tbes·e U'ork~rhofJJ~ i,r ffJa·ndatO[)'_for e:>.;·tr<.tordi!la()' fflinisttrs qfthe euchari.rt. 




Campus Ministry 






l-ite suort~~~'Ca••1-4s4s. c,· 

NFL 

Warner and Driver sidelined in Week 1 
a setback, his playing status is 
Associated Press 

week-to-week, team doctor 
Patrick McKenzie said. 
Kurt Warner was hospitalized Shortly after Driver was hurt, with a concussion after the Rams the Packers' other startinglost to the New York Giants on receiver, Robert Ferguson, tore Sunday. ligaments in his right ankle and 
Coach Mike Martz said the 

knee when he was hit hard and two·time league MVP would twisted by cornerback Ken Irvin. 
return to St. Louis on Monday. Coach Mike Sherman said Martz said the injury may have Ferguson sprained his medial occurred in the first quarter of collateral ligament, but that the 
the 23-13 loss when Warner was ankle was hurt worse. 

sacked in the end zone and fum­Also, wideout Karsten Baileybled. with the ball recovered for pulled a hamstring. For the a touchdown by the Giants. Vikings, cornerback Denard 
"He didn't seem the same after Walker left in the second quarter that," Martz said. "A lot of times 
with a mild concussion. he didn't seem to understand the 
New Orleans Saints defensive plays we were calling from the end Darren Howard will miss up
sidelines." to three months after dislocatingWarner complained of an upset his right wrist against Seattle. He stomach after the game and lay was hurt while rushing Matt in the trainer's room before Dr. Hasselbeck, collapsing on his Bernard Garfinkel. the team wrist after colliding with 315­physician, made the diagnosis. pound Seahawks tackle Walter 
Garfinkel said the concussion 
Jones. 
was "mild to moderate." 

Saints coach Jim Haslett said 
He finished 34-for-54 for 342 the injury may require surgeryyards with one touchdown and which would put Howard out up one interception. He was sacked to three months. Howard \-v:ill be 
six times and fumbled six times. evaluated again after the team Also in the game, Giants left returns to New Orleans. tackle Luke Petitgout left in the Also, Seahawks rookie FB second quarter with back Chris Davis left in the second spasms. quarter with a knee injury. 
The Green Bay Packers lost Atlanta Falcons receiver Brian two of their top receivers on the Finneran broke two bones in his same drive in a 30-25 loss to the left hand against Dallas and will 
Minnesota Vikings. be out four-to-six weeks. 
Pro Bowler Donald Driver Finneran was Atlanta's leading strained his neck in a scary fall receiver last season with 56 in the fourth quarter. catches for 838 yards and six 
Driver went up for a high pass touchdowns. and came down on his right Tennessee kicker Joe Nedney shoulder and helmet with 8:40 sprained his right knee as he remaining. He was down on the tackled Ranney Jenkins on a field for several minutes before kickoff return midway through being wheeled off on a stretcher the second quarter against the and taken to the hospital, where Oakland Raiders and left the all X-rays and scans were nor­game. mal, according to trainer Pepper Two of the Dolphins' defensive Burruss. backs were injured against 
Driver never lost consciousness Houston. Backup DB Shawn or experienced paralysis, but the Wooden strained his right ham­Packers took every precaution to string and broke his left hand, immobilize his neck "due to the while CB Sam Madison twisted 
high level of pain he was describ­his left ankle, but said he expects ing on the field," Burruss said. to practice this week. Also, 
Driver was to be kept Houston LB Antwan Peek overnight in the hospital for fur­sprained his right knee and ther evaluation Monday. Barring missed the second half. 
2003-04 

T~E BEST OF NOTRE DAME THEATRE 

l\tlors r~rOlll Tllf I1HlClOil Stag·e 
Measure for Measure 
--~ · b y Wi I I i a m 8 h a k e s p e a r e . 
;·; •.jnesday, September 17 ....7:30 p.m Thursday, September 18 ....7:30p.m.
e 

Fc;day, Septembec 19....7:30 p.m. 
-~ Play;ng at Wash;ngton Hall• Reseoved Seats $16 ~ Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-81 28. 
1he Actors residency is supported 1n part by the Henkels Lecture Senes. 
I -I 

page 18 Monday, Sept~mber 8, 2003
The Observer + SPC>RTS 
NFL 

Houston upsets Miami with late field goal 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -A humble second­year franchise playing at highly touted Miami, the Houston Texans were the biggest under­dogs of the NFL's opening weekend. 

That made them mad. So did ) the Dolphins' trash-talking)' during pregame warmups.
'\ 
I I "One of their players said,
I 'I'll see you after today's prac­tice," Houston's Jabar Gaffney said. "That was their thinking -they were looking at us like this was just a little practice." 
The Dolphins can only wish the game had been just a prac­tice. Kris Brown kicked his fifth field goal, a 35-yarder, with 25 seconds left and the Texans stunned Miami 21-20 Sunday. 
"Not many people gave us a chance to win, but we're not shocked," Brown said. "We took it as a slap in the face that we were the largest underdogs the opening weekend." 
The Week 1 upset was the

'l 
I'j Texans' second in as many sea­
t 
I I 
sons. Last year they became 

I I I ! ', the first expansion team since 
I 1961 to win their opening 
I : 
I game by beating the Dallas Cowboys.
l
I t Miami, a 14-point favorite, I 0 fell to 0-1 for the first time in 12 years. 
Bills 31, Patriots 0 
The Buffalo Bills' victory was well in hand when Drew Bledsoe and Lawyer Milloy ­the two Pro Bowl players in the middle of this captivating drama -shared a few words on the sideline Sunday. 

"We were talking about what you probably think we were talking about," Bledsoe said with a wink. "We were both pretty happy with the ·win." 
Try ecstatic. 
Bledsoe and Milloy combined to stick it their former team, the New England Patriots, sparking the Bills to a dominat­ing 31-0 victory in their open­er. 
Colts 9, Browns 6 
Mike Vanderjagt kicked and made up with the Indianapolis Colts. 
Vanderjagt, whose offseason comments in an interview irked his coach, quarterback and teammates, booted a 45­yard field goal with 1 second left Sunday, leading the Colts to 
a  sloppy  9-6  win  over  the  
Cleveland Browns.  
''I'm one  of the boys  on  the  

team, not some idiot kicker," Vanderjagt said. 
Shortly after the Colts lost in the playoffs last season, Vanderjagt said Colts coach Tony Dungy was too nice, quarterback Peyton Manning needed to show more emotion and other Colts players lacked passion. 
The normally reserved Manning responded at the Pro Bowl by calling Vanderjagt, "an idiot." 
And although he had been publicly forgiven, Vanderjagt's game-winning kick probably didn't hurt his popularity with Manning or the other Colts. 
"Everything is fine and dandy between me and Mike in Coltsville," Manning said. 

Manning, who threw two two first-half touchdowns interceptions in the first half Sunday, and the NFL's worst and wasn't sharp for most of team of the past 12 years went the afternoon, drove the Colts on another self-destructive 65 yards in the final 2:39 to set binge that helped the Denver up Vanderjagt's third field goal. Broncos roll, 30-10. 
The Broncos (1-0) turned to Broncos 30, Bengals 10 their Rookie of the Year rusher 
Marvin Lewis gave the to pull them through their new Cincinnati Bengals a new look quarterback's shaky debut. A -all black uniforms. Clinton nervous Jake Plummer was Portis made them look like the repeatedly off-target, threw same sorry team. three interceptions and looked 
Portis ran for 120 yards and skittish. 
Steelers 34, Ravens 15 
On a day filled with mis­matches. the biggest of all might have been Tommy Maddox against a Ravens defense supposedly among the NFL's best. 
Maddox threw three touch­downs passes, two to Hines Ward, and Pittsburgh's defense roughed up Baltimore rookie quarterback Kyle Boller in his NFL debut, a 34-15 Steelers victory. 


I; l 
I
I 
I 
GRAND OPENING TODAY
I i 


GOLDEN DRAGON 

CHINESE FOOD TO CARRY OUT OR DINE IN 



54533 Terrace Lane South Bend, IN 46635 (US 23 next to Subway} 
Tel: (574)271-8899 We Deliver 






OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Monday, Seprember 8, 2003 Co.v~PILED I ROlv\ 'THE 0BSEH.VER \VIRE SI:RVICES Page 19 


U.S. OPEN 
'"). 

NEW YORK -Three by a series of major tri­ment -he curled into a The Open began two points from his first Grand umphs. ball, covering his eyes as weeks ago with a retire­Slam title, Andy Roddick "I can't imagine my they welled with tears. ment ceremony in Arthur stepped to the baseline, name and 'U.S. Open Then he waded through Ashe Stadium for crouched, sprang up like a champion' together. It's the courtside photogra­Sampras, who beat jack-in-the-box and more than I could ever phers' pit and climbed into Roddick in the quarterfi­smacked the ball. dream of," Roddick said. "I the stands for a frenzied nals last year en route to 
The result: ace. Next came to this tournament series of hugs with his his record 14th Grand point: ace. Again: ace. so many times as a little singer-actress girlfriend, Slam title. And Sunday's 
It was a fitting end to an kid and watched from way Mandy Moore, his parents, performance on the same awesome serving display. up there." his brothers and a couple court allowed Roddick to And there couldn't have He's still a kid, of course, of friends who drove 10 strut into the postmatch been a more fitting succes­just 21. And the newly No. hours to cheer on their news conference and sor to Pete Sampras as 1-ranked Ferrero is 23, buddy. announce: "No more. 
U.S. Open champion. making for the youngest It was an uplifting end to 'What's it feel like to be the 
With 23 aces, strong combined ages of U.S. a rain-soaked Open with future of American ten­. ?"'
baseline play and a veter­Open finalists since scheduling problems that ms. an's composure, Roddick Sampras beat Andre forced Ferrero to play four "I don't think you could beat Juan Carlos Ferrero Agassi in 1 990. matches in four days, the have written a script any 
6-3, 7-6 (2), 6-3 Sunday, a After Roddick's final too­first time in the 35-year better, with Pete's retire­breakthrough victory that fast-to-see serve -his Open era that's happened ment," Roddick said. "It very well could be followed 123rd ace of the tourna-at a major. was just too good." 
IN BRIEF 

Tway prevails over Faxon a bogey-free round that included an seems like a message." police Lt. eagle on the par-5 fourth. Faxon Lorenzo Whitehead said. No one
at the Canadian Open 
shot a 67. else was injured in the shootingHAMILTON, Ontario -Bob Tway After the two veterans opened the Saturday. including a 1-year-oldtook full advantage of an unexpect­playoff with pars on No. 18, Faxon child who was with one of the vic­ed miss by one of the best putters in 
hit a brilliant 55-yard bunker shot tims.

the world to win the Canadian 
were as

to set up the birdie putt for the win The victims identifiedOpen. 
Emmett Greene, 27. and Alexanderon the 17th.
Given new life when Brad Faxon's Harris. whose age was not available
"It's a hard putt. l thought it was

4 1/2-foot birdie putt slid by the cup Sunday night.
going to break a little left; it never

on the second hole of a playoff, 
The Cutz barbershop is owned by
did," Faxon said. ''I'd love to go do

Tway two-putted for bogey on the 
Mourning, a former Miami Heat
it again."

third extra hole Sunday to become 
center now with the New Jersey
Tway marveled at Faxon's bunker

the eighth player 40 and over to 
Nets. and barber Peter Bethel.
shot.
win a PGA Tour event this year. Mourning's agent, Jeff Wechsler,
"The shot he hit out of the bunker

"It takes some luck. good fortune did not immediately return a call
was incredible," Tway said.

and some good golf." Tway said. Sunday. There is phone listing
no The 44-year-old Oklahoman had for Bethel in Miami. all of that on the final two holes on Two men killed at shop The shop has attracted upscale the hilly Hamilton Golf and Country owned by Mourning restaurants and businesses in the Club course, the 87-year-old layout MIAMI -Three or four hooded redeveloped neighborhood in north­that drew rave reviews. gunmen walked into a barbershop ern Miami. Tway birdied the par-5 17th -co-owned by NBA star Alonzo "This is a really classy spot. A lot 
hitting a 35-yard chip to 3 feet -to Mourning and killed two men who of celebrities come here," said Paul tie Faxon at 8 under and finished had just gotten haircuts, police Jenkins. a regular Cutz customer. regulation with a 25-foot par putt said. "Nothing would ever indicate that 
for his second straight 4-under 66, "Both were shot in the head. It this would happen here." 
\) 
1I 
~---­

ft-----­
page 20 ~1onday, September 8, 2003
The Observer+ SPORTS 
-----------------~~--------------------------------------------------­
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Freshmen get experience at Valparaiso meet 
i 
\ 
) 
~ 
I I 
l •'-­
} 
\_ 
. '; 
\ 
) 
i 
l 
r. 
l' 
! 
!iI I \ 
i ·' 

Irish women grab 1st-place finish, n1en take 2nd 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
Running without their top athletes, the women's cross country team, led by sopho­more Jean Marinangeli, took first place 
at Friday's Valparaiso Invitational. 
The men saw similar results, as the_ younger and less experienced 

Irish harri-Kerwin ers pulled off a second-place finish with four runners in the top 10. 
"We were hoping to allow the freshmen to have a good expe­rience with their first 6K," sophomore Elizabeth Webster said. "We were hoping to come out at least second, and we were surprised to take the vic­tory." 

Not only did the women take the team title, but Marinangeli also finished first individually. Her 22:16 performance for the six-kilometer race gave the second-year Irish runner her first career victory. She was closely followed by senior Maggie Nelson, who finished in 
22:29. Webster came in fourth 
overall, with a 23:04 perform­ance. 

Both the men's and women's teams had pulled their top runners 
from  the  
races  in  
order  to  


Marinangeli give extra time off to those who were still recovering from extended track seasons, as well as to afford freshmen 
and others additional race experience. For the women freshmen, Friday's race was their first 
6.000-meter experience, and 
for the men. their first 8,000­
meter race. 
"We thought we would do 
well," Marinangeli said. "We 
didn't expect to win. but we 
expected to go out there and 
just get a feel for where we 
were at." 
The strong performances of 
the team's less experienced 
runners proved to the Irish 
that they have depth, which 
likely will be a great asset to 
them as the season gets 
tougher. 
"[The freshmen] handled thl:' race very well and really came through for us," Webster said. -"Coming off of this race, the whole team has confidence right now. It gives us a sense of what to expect in the future, and we realize that the team is 
fairly deep." 
The men were in a similar 
situation. 
"[Irish coach Joe Piane] obvi­
ously held out a lot of guys," 
senior Brian Kerwin said. "He 
either threw in some guys who 
needed some more experience, 
or who he thought could bene­fit from an extra race in the season. There are a lot of peo­ple who could benefit from extra experience." 
The men were led by Kerwin, who finished second with an 8,000-meter time of 25:13. Sophomore Austin Weaver arrived in 25:37, putting him in fifth place. Junior A.J. Andrassy and sophomore Tom Longo finished eighth and ninth, respectively. and junior Michael Manning rounded out the Irish top five with his 16th place finish. 
"Even though we didn't have all the varsity runners. we feel like everyone on our team is pretty good," Weaver said. "We felt that we could run with anvone at that meet." 
According to Kerwin, one of Notre Dame's major focuses at Valparaiso was helping the incoming runners adjust to the increased rigor of collegiate cross-country. 
"It's a good meet to break in the freshmen," Kerwin said. "We had a lot of' older guys in there trying to show them the ropes. It was kind of a low key nwet, so when some of the big­ger meets come up they're not in a world of shock.·· 

Both the men and the women will host their first home event of the season Sept. 19 when teams from many of the nation's Catholic schools comP to the Burke Memorial Golf' Course for the National Catholic Invitational. While tlw competition will be tougher than Friday's race, and the top runners will likely run, both Irish squads will not see much national caliber competition until later in the season. 
·· Eve r si n c e the b i g n a rn e teams quit coming to it. the competition hasn't been all that good," Weaver said. "But there are a few individuals [who are very good]. It's more of a team race, where we just work on working together in the races, talking and helping each other. to sharpen up a lit­tle bit before any of the big meets roll around." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
HOCKEY 

Poulin adds LeBel to his staff as assistant coach 
duties with the Notre Dame lier this August. He will be
Special to The Observer 

hockey team immediately. involved in all aspects of the job 
Notre Dame hockey coach LeBel replaces former assistant including on-ice instruction, Dave Poulin has named Layne coach John Micheletto, who recruiting, scouting opponents LeBel as the newest member of accepted an assistant's position and video breakdowns. his coaching staff. He begins his at the University of Vermont ear-"I am proud and excited to 


The Nanovic Institute for European Stuaies 
Dirk Moses 
Lecturer:! Modern European History, University ofSydney 
will discuss his paper 
THE HOLOCAUST Er GENOCIDE: THE ENTANGLEMENT OF MASTER CONCEPTS 
September lZ:~ Friday:~ 12:30-2:00 pm ClOZ Hesburgh Center 
Ca/1631-5253 to reserve a box lunch. Copies ofthe paper are available upon request and at the Department ot Political Science 
www.na.eau(-nanovic tor more information 
have Layne LeBel joining our coaching staff," Poulin said. "He is a great addition and brings with him the experience of work­ing with some of the top young players in the United States Hockey League. Mark Osiecki ·.as built a strong program in ;reen Bay and Layne has been a ey part of that success over the 
1st three seasons." 
A native of Val Marie, 
askatchewan, LeBel spent the 
•ast two seasons with the USHL's ;reen Bay Gamblers. where he vorked with incoming Irish 
efensemen Noah Babin and Ves O'Neill. During his seasons 1 Green Bay. the Gamblers cap­ured the Eastern Division title in his first year (2001-02). Prior to his stint in Green Bay, LPBel was the head coach for the Wisconsin Midget AAA hockey club. 

A 1994 graduatP of Michigan Tech University, LeBel. a defenseman. was a four-year regular with the Huskies and is sixth all-time among Huskies' defensemen in scoring with 25 goals and 68 assists for 93 points in 149 career games. He also had 71 penalties for 156 minutes during his career. 
A two-time finalist for the WCHA Defensive Player of the Year, LeBel was an honorable mention all-WCHA selection and a WCHA all-academic selection following the 1992-93 season. 
Camp~ls BzhLe STztdy (CBS) FIRST Meerznq, Tuesoay, Sepremheu.. 9 
7:00-8:00 p.m. 
114 CoLeman-MoRse 
ConFeRence Room 
All students welcome! No prerequistes. No registration required. Just come 
For further information contact: Fr. AID Alonzo, esc 631-4616 or Campus Ministry 631-7800. 

Fellowship after tneeting. 

C-M 
Campus Millii.try 

I 
_) '· 
i 
L 
'l
'lr,
l, 
ji 
II 
' I
' 
\ 
I 
' l 
i ',
,pj 
i ~ 
;·~ 
; ) 
' { p 
:!1 
·' 
) 
'·
l :r;: 
J: ~ 
II): 
! f 
Jf 
1. 
~ -_ 
<' 
, 
;'( 
'I 
Monday, September 8, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Attend all required classes or make-up sessions, 
complete all scheduled tests, and do your homework. 
If your score doesn't improve on test day from your 
Kaplan diagnostic or a prior official test score, you 
can choose to repeat our program for free or get a 
full refund of your tuition.** It's that simple.. 
World Leader in Test Prep and Admissions 


1-800-KAP-TEST kaptest.com 
• Test narnes are registe1 ed trademarks of their respective owr.ers. 
**To be eligible for this offer, you rT1ust be enrolled in Kaplan's full classroom, tutoring, or online courses. In addition, you must present a copy of your official score report and your course materials within 90 days. 
Classic 
continued from page 24 
However, in the third game, the Irish picked it up, jumping out to a 10-4 lead. They never looked back, winning 30-21. Katie Neff registered eight blocks on the match. 
Freshman libero Danielle Herndon led the defense of the Irish with 15 digs. Meanwhile, Meg Henican contributed 13 digs. 
The middle blockers were set the most in the first game, as Brewster finished with 13 kills on .409 hitting percent­age. 
Friday was the first time that the Irish came back to win from an 0-2 deficit since Sept. 
2. 2000, when they defeated BYU at the Joyce Center. 
Saturday was a different story for the Irish as they came out strong and defeated Texas in three games. 
"We made adjustments real­ly fast, and that's something we have worked on," Kelbley said. "We just came out and made the adjustments that we had to right away." 
The Irish were forced to adjust as the Longhorns decid­ed to put up two blocks in the middle. This led setters Kristen Kinder and Kelly Burrell to set the outsides more, where there were either one or no blockers. 
Emily Loomis took full advantage of Texas's defense, as she put away 15 balls from the outside, with just two errors. Kelbley, meanwhile, had eight kills with just one error. 
Notre Dame blocked well once again, finishing with 13 blocks. 
However. after taking the 
page 21 

first game 30-20. the Irish ran into some problems. Neither team had more than a three point advantage the whole game, but the Irish came away with the game. as Loomis and Henican hit consecutive kills to win it 36-34. 
"We juts kept fighting. even when Texas made their adjust­ments in the second game," Kelbley said. "What our team gained from winning that game was just awesome." 
The Irish (4-1) were very happy with their performance this weekend. 
"We just want to take every game and learn from it," Kelbley said. 
NOTRE DAME 3, Texas 0 
at Austin, Texas, Sunday 
NOTRE DAME  30 36 30  
Texas  20 34 24  
NOTRE  DAME  - Kills  56  (Emily  

Loomis 16). Assists 46 (Kristen Kinder 23). Digs 55 (Kelly Burrell 12). Blocks 11 (Lauren Kelbley 6). Hitting percentage .257 (Kelbley .412). Aces 5 (Kinder 2) 
Texas-Kills 45 (:\iira Topic 15i. Assists 38 (Jenny Andrew 36). Digs 52 (Erin Larson 12). Blocks 9 (Brandy Magee 4), Hitting percentage .168 (Kathryn Wilson .462), Aces 5 (Topic 3) 
NOTRE DAME 3, Houston 2 at Austin, Texas, Friday 
NOTRE DAME 24 25 30 30 15 
Houston 30 30 21 21 11 
NOTRE DAME -Kills 68 {Lauren Kelbley 22), Assists 57 (Kristen Kinder 27}. Digs 55 (Meg Henican 12). Blocks 15 (Kelbley 8). Hitting percentage . 2 57 (Lauren Brewster .476). Aces 6 (Kelbley. Jessica Kinder 2) 
Houston-Kills 65 (Kelly McAnelly 18). Assists 59 (Lauren Grover. Mirela Vasconcellos 24). Digs 72 (Jaci Gonzalez 33). Blocks 5 (Loure Dews 3). Hitting per­centage .162 (Becca Sartori .324). Aces 4 (Sartori 2) 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
didn't play too well." Schroeder­Biek said. "The players just
Belles 

played through it and got the job done."
continued from page 24 

Saint Mary's advanced to the 
In all five matches of the tour­championship game at 2 p.m.. nament, the freshman Playko but just didn't have enough to collected 110 kills, 14 blocks, 49 defeat Marietta, falling by a score 
digs and 10 service aces. of 24-30, 23-30, 30-22, 27~30. Rupright had The Belles 3 6 kills, 20 played 19 total
"We could have won 
blocks and 25 games in the 
more games last year, but tournament in
digs. 

Among I'm not sure we had the a span of less other statisti­than a day.
confidence.,

cal leaders, "I think we libero Anne were pretty Cusack led the Julie Schroeder-Biek fatigued then." team with 50 Schroeder-Biek 
Belles coach 
digs and Lauren Temple led with 212 assists. Both Cusack and Temple are fresh­men. 
Saint Mary's began the tourna­ment by facing Westminster at 6 
p.m. Friday, defeating their oppo­nent in five sets by the scores of 28-30, 30-18, 13-30. 30-20, 15­
10. Two hours later, they knocked off LaRoche in straight sets, 30-9, 30-15, 30-16. 
The Belles returned to pool action early Saturday morning at 9 a.m., defeating Heidelberg once again in straight sets, 30­25, 30-24, 30-28. 
With a 3-0 record and number one seeding in Pool B, Saint Mary's had the opportunity to face Wooster, the second place team from Pool A. in the semifi­nal round of the tournament at noon Saturday. 
Saint Mary's defeated Wooster in four sets. 30-24, 26-30, 30-26. 31-29. It was a hard-fought win. 
"We had struggles at times in that game where mentally we said .. "With our 

InJUries and everything that we've been hav­ing. it was kind of tough on our girls to play so much." 
The four wins for the Belles so far this season is actually ahead of their halfway mark for all of last year. in which the team col­lected a 7-21 record. This is no surprise to their coach. 
"We could have won more games last year, but I'm not sure we had the confidence." Schroeder-Biek said. "This year I think we have that confidence. The girls were really geared toward coming in and having a winning season this year." 
Saint Mary's returns to action Tuesday as they travel to MIAA­rival Calvin College for a 7 p.m. matchup. They play their regular season non-tournament home opener Thursday against non­conference opponent Rochester College. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

Monday, September.8, 2003

page 22 • The Observer + SPORTS 
i ~ 
I ,..., 
H~. 
1 l 
I 
. 
!
I' 
1 
1 

.i, 
I 
... 

Storm 
continued from page 24 
4-1 in that period. In the 16th minute, the Red Storm broke the scoreless tie . 
The Irish lost the ball at mid­field after a sloppy pass from a defender. and Ralph collected the ball and got off a great assist to midfielder Matt Gruenwald, who had managed to pass the entire Irish defense. Gruenwald forced Sawyer to commit and blasted a shot to the right of the diving goalie to give the Red Storm their first goal of the game on only their second shot. 
Just three minutes later. the Red Storm added to their lead as Salinno took the ball down the right side and made a nice assist to Ralph, who was inside the box. Ralph waited for Sawyer to commit to the shot and then timed a perfect cross to forward Angel Rodriguez, who put the ball in the vacated left side . 
Neither team would have a good offensive look until the very end of the half. when Detter got off a hard shot from the top of the box. but Hertz made a fine save. 
Any hopes of an Irish come­back were deflated just three minutes into the second half, as St. John's took advantage of another bad turnover by the Irish defense to take an insur­mountable 3-0 lead. 
An Irish defender attempted to trap the ball inside the box, but instead allowed for the ball to squirt away from him. Salinno made a quick move to get to the ball, and then dribbled in uncon­tested on Sawyer, drilling a shot past the helpless goaltender. 
"Tonight we possibly made a couple of mistakes that you can't make in games like that," Clark said after the game. "That's a lesson that we'll maybe learn; we can't make mistakes in games of this size." 
After falling behind 3-0, the Irish offense seemed to regroup, but it was too little too late for a team that came into the match with heavy expectations. Perhaps the best example of Notre Dame's night came right at the end of the game. 
In the 87th minute, Detter came in alone on an uncontested shot against Hertz. The Red Storm goalkeeper was out of position and had to slide across his line to get to the ball. Detter's shot just grazed off Hertz' foot and flew harmlessly into the air, where a St. John's defender was able to volley the ball harmlessly back toward the midfield. 

The Irish ended the game out­shooting the Red Storm 12-9 but were unable to get anything past Hertz and the rest of the vaunt­ed St. John's defense. 
"You can make statistics out whichever way you wish," Clark said. "Their goalie had three times the number of saves our goalie had. Some of those saves -if he hadn't made them ... then it could have been us [who would have won]. 
"At the end of the day. the only statistics that really count are goals." 
St. John's 3, !'JOTRE DAME 0 
at ALUMNI FIELD, Saturday 

1st  2nd Total  
~OTRE DAME  0  0  0  
St. John's  2  1  3  

Scoring Summary SJU-Matt Groenwald (1). 28:44 (Sebastian Ralph, Tim O'Neill) SJU-Angel Rodriguez ( 1 l. 31 :42 (Ralph, Simone Salino) SJU-Salino (2). 48:21 
NOTRE DAME -Saves. 2 (Chris Sawver 2). Shots 12 (Justin Detter 5). Corner kicks 1. Fouls 14 
St. John's -Saves 6 !Guv Hertz 6). Shots 9 (Ralph, Rodrigut>z: Salino 2). Corner kicks 4. FouL<; 17 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
some action. Warner. Buczkowski) Scoring Summary OU-Becky Nelson (2), 25:19 (Lauren ASU-Stephanie Peel (1), 10:20
"Today was the first time 
Maciver) (Courtney Crane) 
we've been able to get in some 
ND-Buczkowski (2), 33:31 (Lizzie ND-Mary Boland (5). 17:38 (Jenof the players that haven't got­Reed) Buczkowski) 
ten in yet, so it was our first real ND-Annie Schefter (1), 41:09 ND -Boland (6), 22:38 (i\manda ND-Molly Iarocci (1), 84:12 (Kim Guertin)
look at them," Waldrum said. "It 
Carpenter, Schefter) ND -Amy WarnPr (3). 70:27
allowed us to rest some other 
NOTRE DAME -Saves 0, Shots 27, (Buczkowski)people and stay healthy." Corner kicks 6. Fouls 12 NOTRE DAME -Saves 4 !Erika Bohn Oklahoma-Saves 12 (Catherine Wade 4). Shots 11. Corner kicks 4. FouL~ 8NOTRE DAME 5, Oklahoma 1 7). Shots 4. Corner kicks 0, Fouls 7 Arizona State -Savt>s 1 (KPily at ALUMNI FIELD, Sunday Fitzgerald). Shots 11. Corrwr kicks 4. 1st 2nd· Total Fouls 15
NOTRE DAME 3,

NOTRE DAME 4 1 5 
Arizona State 1

Oklahoma 1 0 1 
at ALUMNI FIELD, Friday Scoring Summary 1st 2nd Total 
Contact Andy Troeger at
ND-Jcn Buczkowski (1), 5:58 NOTRE DAME 2 1 3 ND-Amanda Guertin (3), 20:45 (Amy Arizona State 1 0 1 atroeger@nd.edu 


tJNI\'ERSITY OF N()'l'RE D.;\1\lE IN1..ERNATlON.AL STUD"\' PROGR.A:\'1 IN 
ATHENS, G-R.:EECE 

\Vith Cornelia llerzfeld frotn College 'Year in .Athens, ,lulliet 1\tlayin.ja International Study Programs ()tlice~ ..<\nd Returning Students 
**************************************************** 
Tuesday, September 9, 2003 5:30-7:00 PlVI 129 .Haves-Heal'l
.., .., 

·········································A~•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••c 
Applkaton f>l'adline: Oct. l. 2003 for Spring. 2004 Applications available on-line: www.nd.cdul-intlstud/ 

L 
I· 
I 
:I ~~ 
·ifiI ljI , . .... 
~ 
p
), 
"1 
1(: 
!:­
i'f 
I ~~ 
. , 
;( 
II 
I' 
I 
·,
, 
'i 
't. 
'I, 
;,, 
I 
to the break. "Buczkowski has really made
Soccer 

a difference," Waldrum said. continued from page 24 "She may have been one of 
those missing links. She's so got the best of a crucial series as good in that spot that we play goalkeeper Erika Bohn made a . her. She and Kim Lorenzen and huge save on an Arizona State Lizzie Reed have come in and penalty kick. A few minutes played like veteran players." later, Warner's goal off an assist Buczkowsi attributed some of from Buczkowski gave the Irish the team's offensive success to a two-goal advantage that they strong work in the preseason. never relinquished. "It just comes from playing 
The Oklahoma game present­together." Buczkowski said. ed a different challenge for the "We've been here for a long time Irish. Almost the entire game for preseason, so after awhile it was played in the Sooners' end just all comes together." of the field. with the Irish The Irish continued to be 
I
!I l~ amassing a 27-4 advantage in aggressive this weekend even
I : 
shots. after getting the lead. Buczkowski opened the scor­"We've made it our theme in 
I. 
I 
I 
ing for the Irish, scoring five the preseason. We can play a lot ., . minutes into the game. Guertin of players and have gotten to 1 added a second goal at the 20-buy into this pressing idea," 
minute mark, scoring otT assists Waldrum said. "That's most of from Warner and Buczkowski. what we've worked on. and After Oklahoma scored on a we're certainly getting better." breakaway to close within 2-1, The large lead and style of the Irish tacked on two more play allowed Waldrum to empty first half goals from Buczkowski his bench in the second half, and Schefter to lead 4-1 going in with most of the team seeing 
University_ f:aculty/Staff 9 tt-ote Golf o:u$ing & Pi.cnic Dinner 
Sunday, September 14. 
3:00pm Shotgun St~rt 
Notre Dam.e. Golf Course. Regis=ter and Pay Jn<A..dvance at the Notre Dam~ Golf Shop=·...i'iC'O.$tJs ·· $1 2~PO per p:ersqn« .Deadlini!' tp register.ls Friday, se:pte_mbt)r__ >l2. 
~~=.::Is !Jtn~~t~Pd~~'~Mht~,~ 

Longest Drive (M&W) Longest Putt Closest tb the Pin Lowest Gross Score And Others 
Open to all Notre Dame Faculty/Staff, SrA.,uses and Children 1 6 & Older. Will make painngs forgroups of less than 4. 
Club Rentals & Carts Availabie at Your Expense. For More information call ·'':'"'' ~,,.,,_.«:·' ""''<·' at l-61 00 
~----------------------------------~~---­
;_ .. 
I I ' 

.. , .... , ,.' ' .. ... . ( ·: \ . ~ .. ~ .· 
~ 

Monday, September 8, 2003 page 23 
The Observer+ TODAY 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 



1 -.roOEf~yfff
,-voey. ... e..,r-·rY~v ft5.
j/ I didt'\'t k~ow t~ey

I
sto.cked ~r~!!@,. s!) hi~h~ Sav hi fo vout' sister 
' . ' 
f
0 ,..-Yf\P..~ YeAh .... I ~bieep~d: .t~ ..-d' 'v\/ ooo!!!' s~il€ 'fOV ·*~f.-!~$$-%s!*~ 



HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
~~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DICAR 
1 
rJ rJ 
C2003 Tribune Med~a Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
NESOO 
rJ 
1 


HE FINISHED
ONSWID 

THIRD IN THE: RACE BECAUSE
rJ 
1 
HE COULDN'T 


·-a.
www.jumble.com 
GET HIS--­
I TOMSED~ 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
rxi 

1 1 suggested by the above cartoon. 
Nlswer: "( I I I I I J"( I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: ABBEY SYNOD NOZZLE HAZING Answer: What Mom did when Dad burned the steaks -"SIZZLED" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Actress Thompson of 
TV's "Family" 5 Ace or jack 9 How to sing, 
ideally 14 Israeli airline 15 Baseball's Matty 
or Moises 16 Ethiopia's _ 
Selassie 17 Bugs bugs h1m 19 "Mine!" 20 1991 Madonna 
hit 21 Czech-born · 
actor Herbert 22 Discharge 23 Plummeted 28 Tierra 
Fuego 29 Goethe character who makes a pact 
with the devil 30 Rock's Bon 31 "Vive le !" 
33 Words of pra1se 35 Uncomplicated 
kind of question 39 Pupil 40 Expatriate 42 String after A 43 Ache (for) 44 "Silly" birds 46 Fold-up bed 49 Narrative 51 Popular clog 
clearer 53 W1ld wild West 54 Like some 
vamps 56 Horrible 59 Title hero of a 
Melville story 60 "La Traviata" composer 61 Repetitive learning method 62 "I've Got in 
KalamazOO" 63 "Humble" place 64 Years in Spam 65 Marvin of 
Motown 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~~~~ ~=+:::+-:--+=t-:-i ~-:-:+:~ "':"':'f-:+=+:~=-1 

DOWN 1 Get really steamed 
2 Assert without proof 
3 Woman hoping for a knight in shining armor 
4 Baldwin and Guinness 
5 Lunch site 6 Barnard graduate 
7 Endured, as a hurricane 8 It fizzles 9 Cry of terror 10 Country-singing mother 11 Medic's bag 
12_ Lilly (Fortune 500 company) 
13 "Is it soup_?" 18 Groove 21 Beatles album 
after "Hey Jude" 24 Georgia and Ukraine, once: 
Abbr. 25 Cast a ballot 26 Fifty-fifty 
27 Mile or kilometer: Abbr. 
29 Wangle 
-=+=+:::+:::+.:-h:-1 31 Longtime CBS/ NBC newsman 32 Bobby of the Bruins 
34 Tampa Bay 
8 

*=+:-i footballer, for short 
-:-:+-=+:-:+::+:,+:+:+:--i 35 Slangy assents ~..;;;..&..;.;;..L.;:..J..;.;..&..;:;...&..;;;;.J,..;;;..I 36 Discharge 
WILLSHORTZ 

37  -SOVIet  47 Sometime  55 Shouts to a  
relations 38 R.E.M.'s "The _Love" 41 Excitement in the air  48 Walk like a two­year-old 50 Clinton or Bush, collegiately  matador 56 Actress Gardner 57 Spider's work  
45 Do business with  51 TV actress Susan  58 To and  
46 lroquo1s confederate  52 Arrange in different sacks  59 Victoria's Secret purchase  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1 -888· 7 ·ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle aM more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nyt1mes.comldiversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learninglxwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
~ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

Celebrities born on this day: Patsy Cline, Sid Caesar, Sam Nurin. Jonathan Taylor Thomas 
Happy Birthday: You'll be eager to take on just about anything this year. You will thrive on the changes that are going on around you. The more you do, the more you'll prosper. Your eager approach to everything will win you the admiration you desire. You have a chance to reap the rewards if you just push a little bit harder. Your numbers: 3. 9. 20. 29. 35, 47 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Your temper will mount at a highly emotional level. Don't be too quick to put all the blame on your mate. Take a long walk or spend the day alone if at all possible. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may find yourself a little under the weather. Be careful what you consume. Lack of concentration could lead to 
• 

minor accidents. so pay attention to your surroundings. *** GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): A business contact may revoke a recently-made offer. Do not sign legal documents without reading between the lines. You should be cautious of groups that want you to invest money.**** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your personal life is anything but smooth. You have to let go of the past and learn to live one day at a time. Sudden events may disrupt your routine. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can find an ideal romantic partner if you participate in functions that entail large groups. Your charisma and outgoing nature will win hearts almost instantly. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Your health may suffer if you haven't been giving yourself enough time to rest. Be leery of friends who want you to get involved in their money-making schemes. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Sudden changes concerning your partner may lead to isolation. Don't judge without hearing all the facts. Try to spend some time alone with the one you love. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Concentrate on getting your work finished. You are likely to feel a little drained today. Plan to take it easy rather than burr the candle at both ends. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You need to spend time with your friends. Try to arrange to meet for a little game of competitive ball. You can sort out a lot if you can release your excess energy. ***** · CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You should put in some overtime or plan a full day of work at home if possible. Too much idle time at home will lead to discord with family members. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): Deception on an emotional level could lead to difficulties with friends or those you work with. You should probably do a bit of soul-searching. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take care of your health. You may be prone to exhaustion or minor injury. You will have an unrealistic view of your financial 
situation. *** 

Birthday Baby: You will recognize your talents as well as your aspirations early in life. Your ability to focus on your dreams will surely lead you to the success that you desire. You are born with natural attributes that will enable you to prosper by doing the things you enjoy doing the most. You will be a most fortunate individual. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your hon1e. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for onesemester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
,..r 

r--:-----------------------------------------------­
Monday, September 8, 2003 


NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Still rolling 
Irish shine in Notre Dame Classic with pair of victories 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Spores Wri[er 

About 15 minutes into its I first game of the weekend 
-,, 
'l against Arizona State, the 'I women's soccer team had j many spectators wonder­ing if they were the same team that had dominated two foes the week before. Two wins later, there was no more reason to wonder. 
After allowing an early goal against the Sun Devils, the Irish settled down and scored three goals to take the win 3-1 Friday night, before com­ing out Sunday and domi­nating an overmatched Oklahoma squad 5-1 in the Notre Dame Classic. 

I 
The Irish had five play­ers named to the All­Tournament team for the weekend, including senior Vanessa Pruzinsky and 
freshman Jen Buczkowski, 

l ! 
who were named defensive and offensive MVPs, respectively. Senior Amy 

! Warner, junior Mary Boland and freshman Kim Lorenzen were Notre Dame's other awardees.
'I', ''I'm pleased with our 
~ ' \ 
production," Irish coach \: Randy Waldrum said. 
,I, 
'i 
,t 
"We're more efficient this year in our goal scoring. 

I 
~ . 
~: \ 
" 
lh I IIi MEN'S SOCCER 
The only thing I'm not pleased with is giving the goal away [against Oklahoma]. We got coun­tered a couple times Friday and then had the same thing happen." 
Buczkowski paced the Irish attack over the week­end, scoring two goals and adding three assists. Boland added two goals against Arizona State. Warner, Annie Schefter and Amanda Guertin all added a goal and an assist, while freshman Molly Iarocci scored the first goal of her collegiate career to cap the scoring against the Sooners. Lizzie Reed and Kim Carpenter added assists against Oklahoma. 
"We've started off the season showing that we're capable of finishing off our opportunities," Pruzinsky s<1id. 
The Irish struggled in the early going against Arizona State. The Sun Devils took a 1-0 lead 10 minutes in on a goal from Stephanie Peel. The Irish regained control, however, with Boland scoring two goals five minutes apart to give the Irish a lead they would never relinquish. 
Still leading 2-1, the Irish 
see SOCCER/page 22 

PJge 24 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles get hot, take 4 straight 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associace Spores Edicor 
The Belles managed to get their first victory of the season at the 2nd Annual Kilt Classic at Wooster (Ohio) College this weekend. Even better, they man­aged to get their second, third and fourth victory of the season as well. 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team blazed through the tourna­ment, advancing alMhe way to the championship game before finally losing to Marietta (Ohio) College. Along the way, the Belles knocked Qfl' Westminster (Pa.). LaRoche (Ohio). Heidelberg (Ohio) and host Wooster. 
"We were very happy," Belles coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "I still thought we could have won, but the girls did great." 
Saint Mary's (4-2) achieved an additional honor at the eight­team tournament by being one of two teams with more than one member chosen for the all-tour­nament team. 
Both outside hitter Kristen Playko and middle hitter Elise Rupright were named to the team, a fitting tribute to a Belles squad that prides itself on shar­ing the responsibility. 
see BELLES/page 21 

l,ll Blown away by the Storm 
l 
Irish outmanned by

I~~--;! 
No. 13 St. John's in 

3-0 home opening I tl loss at Alumni Field 
~ ~ 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER Associace Spores Edicor

[ 
,. 
v The game was billed as a matchup of the two best teamsj ~ in the Big East, but on Saturday
.. 
night, St. John's left Alumni Field with the upper hand. 
The Red Storm took advantage 
of sloppy play by the Irish and 
ran away with a 3-0 victory in 
the Big East opener for both 
teams. It was an unusual score for the 

fI, conference rivalry, as the previ­
u
11 
ous three St. John's-Notre Dame matchups were all decided by one goal. 
Irish coach Bobby Clark was disappointed with the final out­come, especially in front of a spirited home crowd of over 1,700 people. However, he also realizes that the loss is only one game in a long conference schedule. 
"I think we've got to stick together," he said. "I think that winning or losing tonight isn't 
· really going to make our team. It was an opportunity lost, but [St. John's) is a very good team." Red Storm goalie Guy Hertz made six saves in the victory, despite looking shaky at times throughout the game. His Irish counterpart. Chris Sawyer, made two saves in the loss. St. John's forward Simone 
Salinno paced his team with a goal and an assist, and forward Sebastian Ralph collected two assists. 
It was the Irish who held much of the offensive momentum to start the game, in which the only quality chance for the Red Storm early in the match was a soft header easily controlled by Sawyer. 
In the 9th minute, Irish defender Kevin Goldthwaite stole the ball from a Red Storm player and gave a nice assist to forward Justin Detter, who aimed a shot for the lower right corner. Hertz made the save ·but gave up a weak rebound that he was able to corral. 
Notre Dame controlled the shots for the first 15 minutes of the game, outshooting St. John's 
see STORM/page 22 
Kelbley wins MVP, Irish capture Classic 
22 kills with only two errors. 
By HEATHER 

This was good for a .526 
VAN HOEGARDEN 

attack average that went 
Sports Wricer 

along with seven blocks. She was also named tournament 
The Irish had fun this 

Most Valuable Player.
weekend. So much fun that 

"It was a complete team they won two matches en effort," Kelbley said. "Even route to the Longhorn though I got the kills. my Classic Championship. team had to be there to 
"We played together awe­make the passes and give· me some," sophomore middle the sets." blocker Lauren Kelbley said. Despite the strong play of "It couldn't have been more Kelbley, the Irish struggled fun." in the match against 
Notre Dame defeated Houston, losing the first two Houston (2-2) Friday and games, 25-30. In those Texas (2-3) Saturday to win games, starting middle the championship. blocker Lauren Brewster sat 
Kelbley led the way for the out due to flu-like symptoms. Irish on the weekend as she connected on a career-high see CLASSIC/page 21 
II -~ 
NO CROSS COUNTRY 
MLB
HOCKEY 
Nfl 

ll 
Notre Dame coach Dave 
Baseball scores from the

A round-up of some of 
A report of injuries from
Notre Dame at 
American League and the

Poulin hired Layne LeBel as Sunday's games from around 
around the league suffered

Valparaiso Invitational 
an assistant coach last week. 
National League from

the National Football League. 
during the opening week of

:~ 
LeBel comes to the Irish from 
Sunday's games. first place and the men took 
NFL play. Most notably, St. 

il The Irish women finished in the Green Bay Gamblers of Louis quarterback Kurt Warner 
the USHL. 
suffered a concussion. 

I 
4{ second at Notre Dame's first 
I 
I 
meet of the season. 

I 
page 16,18 
page 17page 20 pages 14,15

! page 20
li ( ~ 
I,(j 
11 l' 
:( 
~ 

O
THE 
Monday, September 8, 2003 BSERVER Notre Dame 29, Washington State 26, OT 
Stretched to the limit 
Down 19-0, Irish score 26 straight and pull out 29-26 overtime win 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sporrs Writer 
On their way into the locker 

room after Saturday's overtime 
victory, Rhema McKnight and 
Derrick Curry yelled, "We 
never give up ... The Irish 
never quit trying." 
That attitude allowed the 
Irish to come back Saturday 
from a 19-0 deficit at Notre 
Dame Stadium and defeat 
Washington State in overtime, 
29-26. 
It was the largest comeback 
for the Irish since Oct. 16, 
1999, when Notre Dame came 
back from a 24-3 deficit to 
defeat USC 25-24. 
"Early in the game we need­ed something to go our way, but we could not get everything working together at the same time," Willingham said. "In the second half we eliminated our mistakes [and] that helped us turn the game around. " 
Running backs Ryan Grant and Julius Jones combined for 128 rushing yards in the final quarter and Nicholas Setta nailed five field goals to lead the Notre Dame comeback. 
After struggling offensively throughout much of the first three quarters, Notre Dame got the big break it needed thanks to the defense -namely Vontez Duff. 
With a little under 12 min­utes to go in the fourth, Duff read the pass from Washington State quarterback Matt Kegel. As Cougar tight end Troy Bienemann caught the pass, Duff crushed him and jarred the ball loose. Glenn Earl immediately fell on the ball at the Washington State 25. 
"It was just one of those gain an edge." interception. McKnight caught 2001 season. overtime and forced Cougar plays where you gotta make The tide had certainly his first career touchdown "It's what we hoped and kicker Drew Dunning to miss a the hit," Duff said. "You wait turned; quarterback Carlyle pass, the Irish's first of the anticipated [Jones] would add 34-yard field goal. for it, and make sure you make Holiday then 2003 season. to our football team," "Our defense is on that path the hit." led the Irish · Meanwhile, Willingham said. to being great," Duff said. 
Duff's fumble-causing hit on two on the Jones finished with 72 yards When the Irish got the ball in 
"Anytime you can get a
proved to be the turning point straight ground. the on 11 carries, including a 19-overtime, they played for the of the game, as the Irish went touchdown big play ... now you Irish took yard touchdown run that put field goal. They had practiced on a tear, scoring 20 fourth drives. have a chance to care of busi­the Irish ahead 23-19 in the for an almost identicalsituation quarter points. "In the sec­ness in the fourth quarter. Grant. mean­last week.
get your team 
"I know that during the ond half, we , second half. while, carried 17 times for 98 "I felt good about the sce­game, only a few plays deter­all came out zn gear. After only yards. nario," Willingham said. mine the ballgame, and that and knew rushing for The Irish offense, however, Setta's attempt started out was probably one of those few what our 19 yards in would not have been able to right but hooked just inside the 
Tyrone Willingham 
plays," Duff said. plan was, and the first h~lf, come back without the defen­right upright to give Notre
Irish coach 

Notre Dame coach Tyrone we took over the Irish fin-sive effort. Dame the victory. Willingham also acknowledged the game," ished with "The defense did a great job "We are very fortunate to the importance of Duff's play. Holiday said. 163 yards of doing just enough to hold win against a good football 
"Anytime you can get a big "We just tried to take it to them rushing for the game. them," Willingham said. team," Willingham said. "We play ... now you have a chance right then and there." The running game, com­Led by Brandon Hoyte's eight have to be a better team than to get your team in gear," Holiday finished with 21 prised of a Jones and Grant tackles, the Irish defense held that." Willingham said. "Without completions, a career high, in duo, proved to be the differ­the Cougars scoreless in the those plays you still struggle, 34 attempts, good for 149 ence. Jones played in his first third quarter. They then Contact Heather Van Hoegarden and that play allowed us to yards, one touchdown and one game for Notre Dame since the stopped vVashington State in at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Nicholas Setta  26  Vontez Duff's third quarter  "Nick Setta is my hero."  
forced fumble  
The kicker nailed five field goals and allowed the Irish to make their second halfcomeback.  consecutive points scored by the Irish after spotting the Cougars a 19-0 lead  The turnover was the big play that swung the game in Notre Damesfat'or.  Glenn Earl Irish safety  

Monday, Septemb, · 2003
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
report card 
8­8+ 
C+ 8+ 
B 

Heading into the fourth quarter of Saturday's game against Washington State, Notre Dame run­ning backs Ryan Grant and Julius Jones had a combined 14 carries and all of 32 yards. 
By the end of overtime, that total was up to 2 8 carries and 170 yards­and an Irish vic­tory. 

The differ­ence? The offensive line blocked better, while Jones and Grant used determination and grit to break tackles and make key cutbacks in the open field. 
And that formula is the only way Notre Dame will have success this season. 
They can't throw the ball 29 times through three quarters like they did Saturday. Or give the ball to Jones four times before the fourth quarter begins. They can't rely on the pass and then establish the run. 
But that's what the Irish did through most of the Washington State game. By the time the final 15 minutes arrived, Notre Dame was facing a 19-6 deficit and an ugly opening loss. 
That's when offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick showed why he had such great success with Stanford's offense during his tenure there. Instead of panicking and trying to throw deep passes to secure a quick score. Diedrick began run­ning the ball more -and it kept 

Joe Hettler 
Sports Editor 
working. 
Early in the fourth quarter, the Irish were down two scores with the ball on their own three. After gaining four yards on first down, Grant took a handoff. bowfed into the line and broke free, then cut back to race 32 yards down the Irish sidelines. The play set up a Nicolas Setta field goal that got the Irish within 10 points. 
On the ensuing Notre Dame pos­session, Jones broke an 18 yard run to set up the first touchdown of the season. 
Notre Dame ran on all six plays of their next possession, with the end result of a Jones touch-the defense allows it. 

Jones, besides having arms bigger than my legs, showed glimpses of greatness by ripping through tack­los and finding holes in the defl~nse where no hole existed. 
Coach Tyrone Willingham's eyes must have lit up with excitPrnent during that fourth quarter when those guys ran up and down the field. 
"I really think that 1-2 combina­tion Julius Jones and Ryan Grant really gives us something to be proud of." Willingham said. 
Holiday said after the game how important the two backs are to the 
success of the 
offense. 

down to give "In the second halfit "In the second half Notre Dame the it showed that if you 
showed that ifyou can

lead. can run the ball. 
The contrast run the ball, everything everything else opens between the else opens up., up," Holiday said. play calling in "ror us to continue to the first three have a successful quarters and Carlyle Holiday season. we're going the pivotal Irish quarterback to have to continue 
fourth is dras­tic. During one drive in the second quarter, quar­terback Carlyle Holiday dropped back to pass 10 times out of 14 plays. It seemed like he was throw­ing the ball two times to every Grant and Jones rush attempt. 
Notre Dame can't move the ball doing that. The Irish must establish the running game if they're going to score points this season. With all their talent on offense, that should be very realistic. 
Look at the backs, for example. Grant isn't the flashiest of runners, but he's coming off a 1,000 yard season and gained 98 yards Saturday. The biggest key for him will be his ability to cutback when 
running the ball. 
While Notre Dame 

may have gotten through this game 
despite the offense struggles during 
the first three quarters. next week's 
opponent, Michigan. won't let that 
happen. 

If they can't run effectively, the offense could have a lot more quar­ters like the first three Saturday. 
But if they can get the backs more touches and run like they did in the fourth, the West Coast offense may find a horne in the Midwest. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Joe llettler at jhettler@nd. edu. 
yards, but the backs contained the pass­C+ing attack fairly well, aside from the first 
and last drives. Injuries hurt the group  
and they allowed a couple big plays.  
A- special teams: Setta's field goals were the difference in the game. Bad snaps could have been costly, but the cover­ 
age and punts teams did well.  
coaching: The team didn't execute  
8+  well at all in the first half. But Baer had his defense keep the team in the game long enough for Diedrick's  
offense to come through for the win.  

2.74 
overall: It wasn't pretty, but the Irish got the victory. The team played decently for their first game of the season. 
adding up the numbers 
completions by Holiday -a career best. He ended the game 21-34 with 149 yards and a 
21 
touchdown 
12 
quarters since Notre Dame last scored an offensive touchdown -the Irish scored in 
the fourth quarter Saturday 

rushing yards by Grant and Jones in the fourth quarter after gaining only 
128
32 yards in the first three 
days since Jones had last played for Notre Dame. He missed last season
643 
with academic troubles. 

number of field goals made by Setta -tying a 
5 
career-high 
0 
number of net yards gained by Washington State in the second quarter 
number of fumbles by the Irish on Saturday­
5 
they lost three of them 
1 
number of Ron Powlus jerseys in the press box-courtesy of a 
campus tri-weekly magazine writer 
quarterbacks: Holiday did complete a career-high 21 passes, but he couldn't connect on the long ball and had littlE\ pocket presence. Quinn showed poise in his limited action. 
running backs: Grant and Jones didn't do much in the first three quarters but were the difference in the game dur­ing the fourth quarter. They broke tackles and ran well in the open field. 
receivers: The receivers didn't make any extraordinary plays but had zero drops and a touchdown. Jenkins made some key third-down receptions and led the team with 46 receiving yards. 
offensive line: The offensive line strug­gled in the first half but played bet­ter in the second half. They kept the Cougars ofT Holiday late in the game and opened up holes for the backs. 
defensive line: The line played fairly well, holding the Cougars backs to only 55 yards rushing. They put decent pressure on Kegel and played very well late in the game. 
linebackers: Without Watson, the line­backers did a good job. Curry had a key interception and they limited the Cougars rushing attack. 
defensive backs: Kegel threw for 274 
1-.innd:~~·. ''·ptember 8, 2003 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Setta's field goals keep Irish in it 
By MATT LOZAR 
AssoClare Sporrs Ediwr 
Glenn Earl called him his hero. But 
Nicholas Setta was just happy to do 
his job. 
"To go out there, do your job and get the opportunity to do it, that's all you can ask for," Setta said. "It's great. It's all you can ask. When you can put that amount of points on the board, it really feels great." 
Helping out an offense that for three quarters shot itself in the foot every time it reached the red zone. Setta connected on 5-of-6 field goals in Notre Dame's 29-26 come-from­behind win against Washington State Saturday afternoon. Without Setta, the comeback wouldn't have been possible. 
"Nick did a fabulous job with his kicking today to get us over the hump, especially at the end," Notre Dame coach Tyrone Willingham said. 
The first three times the Irish drove inside the Washington State 20, sacks or penalties pushed them back and forced Willingham to call on Setta. The senior rose to each occasion and I~~ t t h e Ir is h h a n g a r o u n d I o n g enough. 
This same situation was very similar in the 2002 season opener, when the offense couldn't get to the end zone. Setta made 5-of-6 field goals, only missing a 56-yard attempt. He was named the national special teams player of the week. 
"It's exciting because you are really pushing it: the momentum is there. When you miss it, everyone feels it on the sidelines," Setta said. "If you don't make it, then what else is going to go right? Having that and everything else go right, that really helps the momen­tum continue." 
Besides his normal job of placekick­er, Setta added the responsibility of punter with the graduation of Joey Hi.ldbold. In his first game as the offi­cial punter, Setta averaged 39.7 yards per punt. including an impressive 54­yard boot on his first punt of the sea­son. 
Surprisingly to. many. Setta feels handling both kicking and punting duties will actually keep his leg fresh­er throughout the season. 
"It makes the whole transition easi­er during the day," Setta said. "It always kPeps you in the game. It takes some wear off your leg, because you aren't always kicking field goals 

Any kicker just asks the team to give him a chance to contribute, since the kicker has very little control over when his attempts actually occur. The Irish turned to Setta Saturday to keep them in the game while the offense sputtered in the red zone. Setta could­n't ask for anything else. 
The only negative on an otherwise solid day for the kicking game was the first field goal attempt. Snapper Scott Haridon's snap hit the ground before getting to holder D .J. Fitzpatrick. 
Fitzpatrick did what he could to get the snap down. but Setta had already started his motion to the ball. Setta attempted to hold up but couldn't regain his momentum, and the 47­
"It was unfortunate the way things happened," Setta said. "They did a good job of getting it down. The first one, you kind of expect things like that." 
Despite the negative start for the kicking unit, Setta just put it out of his mind. 
"You take it as what went wrong, and then move on," Setta said. "There are going to be so many more chances. especially in this game. you just have to take your mind off it." 
It's a good thing he did, because Setta gave the Irish what they needed -a chance. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
Penalty keeps Watson on sidelines 
Observer Staff Report 
Irish All-American line­backer Courtney Watson did not play in Saturday's game. A press release was issued less than an hour before the game stating that he will play the remainder of the season, however. 
"There were events that happened outside of Courtney's control that necessitated us to sit him f o r on e g a m e . " Ty r o n e Willingham said after the game. 
Corey . Mays replaced Watson in the starting line­up. Watson was on the side­line wearing his jersey and shorts for the game. 
Watson is a preseason .\11­American by Athlon and \vas one of three finalists for the Butkus award in 2002, \Yhich is given annu­ally to the best linebacker in the nation 
Freshmen see playing time 
Highly-touted freshman 
Brady Quinn saw his first action this weekend, as he stepped in for Carlyle Holiday as quarterback. Quinn entered the game in the fourth quarter with 7:07 to go. He handed the ball off five times, the last resulting in a Julius Jones touch­down. 
"It was fun, and a good experience," Quinn said. "I was hoping to get a drive of some sort ... I would have been more calm if I would have thrown the ball around." 
Willingham is excited for Quinn's future with the Irish. 
"I lc is a quick study, he is confident. and he has an almost laser-like arm. and at some point, he's going to do some great things, which I think he did in a limited role today. for this team," the second-year Notre Dame head coach said. 
Quinn was joined by four other freshmen making their debuts for the Irish. 
Wide receivers Chinedum Ndukwe and Jeff Samardzij a, cornerback Freddie Parrish and defen­sive end Victor Abiamiri played their first minutes in an Irish uniform. Samardzija made his first career reception for six yards with 13:34left in the third quarter, and Parris·h finished the game with one assisted tackle. 
Secondary Injuries 
The Irish secondary took a beating Saturday. Cornerback Jason Beckstrom, who did not play last year due to injury, came out of the game with 4:56 remaining in the first quar­ter. He returned to the side­lines without pads but sporting a neck brace. Willingham said he is expected to play next week­end. however. 
Cornerback Dvvight Ellick went out with an injury a minute later, and Parrish took his place. 
Later in the game, Vontez Duff missed a few plays, leaving the Irish with only one starter, Glenn Earl, on the field. 
Overtime facts 
Saturday was the first overtime game at Notre Dame Stadium since Oct. 
28. 2000 when the Irish beat Air Force 34-31. Joey Getherall scored the game­winning touchdown on an end around in the overtime after Air Force had kicked a field goal. The Irish also won the coin toss and the game, marking the second time in five overtime games in which both events hap­pened for No~re Dame. 
Game captains 
Captains Saturday were seniors Vontez Duff, Glenn Earl, Omar Jenkins and Jim Molinaro. It was Duff's third time as captain and the ·sec­ond time for Earl and Jenkins. Saturday was Molinaro's first time as c.ap­tain for the Irish. 
•

scoring summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th OT Total 
Wash. State  12  7  o  7  0  26  
Notre Dame  0  3  3  20  3  29  
First quarter  

Washington State 6. Notre Dame 0 
Sammy Moore 15-yard reception from Matt Kegel with 7:52 remaining (PAT failed) Drive: 9 plays, 64 yards, 5:30 elapsed 
Washington State 9, Notre Dame 0 
Drew Dunning 20-yard field goal with 4:56 remaining Drive: 4 plays, 18 yards, 1:21 elapsed 
Washington State 12. Notre Dame 0 
Dunning 20-yard field goal with 0:31 remaining Drive: 7 plays, 24 yards, 3:07 elapsed 
Second quarter Washington State 19, Notre Dame 0 
Issac Brown 12-yard fumble return with 2:37 remaining (Dunning kick) 
Washington State 19. Notre Dame 3 
Nicholas Setta 37-yard field goal with 0:10 remaining Drive: 9 plays, 26 yards, 2:27 elapsed 
Third quarter Washington State 19. Notre Dame 6 
Setta 32-yard field goal with 10:10 remaining Drive: 15 plays, 58 yards, 4:50 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Washington State 19. Notre Dame 9 
Setta 39-yard field goal with 12:09 remaining Drive: 8 plays, 75 yards, 2:38 elapsed 
Washington State 19, Notre Dame 16 
Rhema McKnight 11-yard reception from Carlyle Holiday with 10:32 remaining (Setta kick) Drive: 3 plays, 25 yards, 0:55 elapsed 
Notre Dame 23. Washington State 19 
Julius Jones 19-yard run with 5:03 remaining (Setta kick) Drive: 6 plays, 80 yards, 2:41 elapsed 
Notre Dame 26, Washington State 19 · 
Setta 47-yard field goal with 3:03 remaining Drive: 4 plays, 5yards, 1:48 elapsed Notre Dame 26, Washington State 26 
Moore 34-yard reception from Kegel with 0:53 remaining (Dunning kick) Drive: 9 plays, 80 yards, 2:10 elapsed 
Overtime Notre Dame 29, Washington State 26 
Setta 40-yard field goal Drive: 3 plays, 3 yards 
statistics 
total yards 


wsu 55 passing yards 
r!1HJt~m~,.l49 . . 2t4J 
time of possession 

45-163 21-34-1 3-39.7 5-3 9-72 19 

rushes-yards comp-att-int punts-yards fumbles-lost penalties-yards first downs 
31-55 22-39-1 7-42.1 2-2 14-118 16 
passing 

Holiday 21-34-149 Kegel 22-39-274 
rushing 

Grant  17-98  Smith  14-43  
Jones  11-72  Green  9-23  
Powers-Neal  1-2  Kegel  7-(-10)  

receiving 
Jenkins  5-46  Darling  4-68  
McKnight  5-33  Moore  4-66  
Clark  4-28  Bienemann  4-30  
Stovall  3-24  Green  3-26  

tackling 

Hoyte 8 Derting 10 Bible/Curry 5 Paymah 8.5 
-
-
-
-

--
.............._ ------­
page 4 Monday, September 8, 200.:3
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 

It wasn't the prettiest of victories, but coach Tyrone Willingham and his Irish 
are 1-0 after beating Washington State 29-26 in overtime. Notre Dame fell behind 19-0 to the Cougars before scoring 26 consecutive points and eventual­ly won in overtime on Nicholas Setta's fifth field goal of the game. Julius Jones returned to the Irish and had 72 rushing yards for the game and a touchdown in the fourth quarter. 



INDING A WAY TO WIN 

TIM KACMAR, CHIP MARKS and SHAWNA MONSON/The ObseNer 
Kyle Budinscak sacks Washington State quarterback Matt Kegel (top left). Marcus Wilson, Glenn Earl and the Irish race out of the tunnel for the first time this season (top right). Irish quarterback Carlyle Holiday attempts to avoid a Washington State defender (left). The Irish celebrate their first touchdown of the season. 



