
1 l 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Disabled students flourish at Notre Dame 
Despite successes, some say that resource inadequacies exist 
advocate for others by specializing in disabil­
By TERESA FRALISH 
ity law. Her first choice for law school is 
Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame. 
"Services are one of the biggest reasons to 
Some students worry that they won't be go to Notre Dame," she said. able to lind a job after graduation. Some are In her junior year, Hoffman participated in concerned about alcohol regulations in the the Washington Semester Program and com­dorms. Others worry that they won't be able pleted an internship at the U.S. Department to reach the buttons on the elevator. of Justice. 
For students with disabilities at Notre "That was a big learning experience for Dame, the college experience has brought me as a person with a disability preparing fulfillment as well as frustration. They stress myself for life outside the Notre Dame bub­that they are not diiTerent from other stu­ble," she said. "I had to Jearn how to use the 
dents and view their disability as only part of Metro [subway] system. To be able to gettheir identity. around a place like that is just awesome." "Coming to Notre Dame, there were peo­Hoffman normally uses special materials, ple that didn't think I could make it here. If such as large-print books and a modified I'd listened to those people I wouldn't be at closed circuit Tv. While in Washington, D.C., Notre Dame," said Laura llotfman, a senior the Office for Students with Disabilities with a partial vision impairment. mailed large-print books to her. For the most part, Hoffman, a political sci­In general, disabled students said they ence major who is also pursuing a theology have found students and professors at Notre minor, says her time at the University has Dame understanding, but see room for been highly rewarding. After graduation, she intends to attend Jaw school and become an see DISABLED/page 6 

Chinese filmmaker shows work 
By BETH ERICKSON 
News Writer 
Over 300 students and fac­
ulty members attended the 
screening of Li Yang's contro­
versial film "Blind Shaft" in 
DeBartolo Hall Wednesday 
night. The Chinese filmmak­
er, who visited campus for 
the event, responded to ques­
tions after the showing. 
The film, which addresses several different humanitari­an issues, was shot in China illegally without government approval. International view­ing of the film is prohibited by China, but this marked its second screening in the United States. 
"Blind Shaft" was not origi­nally produced as a political commentary, but rather as a presentation of various hun:Janitarian issues preva­lent in modern China, Yang said. 
The documentary-style film portrays the destitution of rural China, a country in which 200 million people reside below the poverty line. It also depicts the squalid working conditions of Chinese coalminers, of whom more than 10,000 die each year in work-related acci­dents. 
Yang examines the relation­ship between wealth and ethics in his film, juxtaposing moralistic consciousness with a drive for materialism. As wealth increases in China, this contrast becomes more and more pronounced, Yang 
see FILM/page 4 


Kopp discusses beginning of TFA 
Teach for America founder comes to ND 

zation that currently places before," said Kopp. "That wasBy AMANDA MICHAELS 3,000 of the country's most the fact that where you're born, 
News Writer 
exceptional college graduates even in this country that claims 
as teachers in low-income to be the land of opportunity. 
Princeton senior Wendy Kopp school districts in 20 different does so much to determine your had a dream -to end the locations. educational prospects, and so inequity of education in She is chairman of the New your life prospects as well." 
America. With the goal of 500 Teacher Proje<;t, a consulting She came up with the idea for corps members and a budget of group that advises school dis­TFA while searching for a $2.5 million tricts how to recruit top teach­career path to take beyond the in mind, she See Also ers, and she is the youngest corporate life. Ironically, TFA's set out to person and only female ever to two-year teaching program is
"Teach for

change the receive Princeton's Woodrow based on the same strategies face of America Wilson award -the highest used by corporate America to America. Influences honor conferred upon under­recruit liberal arts majors into Fourteen graduate students. the business world. 
campus"

years, Kopp spoke Wednesday at an From conception to inception, 10,000 pro­page3 event sponsored by the Society TFA took on a life of its own. 
gram alumni of Women Engineers and the Hundreds of college seniors and $30 mil-Children's Defense Fund about from elite schools were interest­lion later, she has. her journey with TFA, its suc­ed in a program deemed too 
llailed in 1994 as one of Time cesses and failures and the state altruistic for the "Me magazine's '40 Most Promising of education in America today. Generation" by institutions that Leaders Under 40,' Kopp is the "When I went to Princeton, I Kopp had solicited for funds jn founder and president of Teach realized something that had for America, a nonprofit organi-always been hidden from me see KOPP/page 4 
Fan 
' 


suffered heart attack 
By MEG HAN MARTIN 
Associate News Editor 
An autopsy conducted by the St. Joseph County coroner's office Monday concluded that Roger Bailey, the fan who was found collapsed in a stadium restroom before Saturday's game, died of a heart attack, said St. Joseph County Deputy Coroner Dr. Michael O'Connell. 
"It was a natural death. More than likely, it was cardiac," O'Connell said. 
Bailey, who was 49, was found on the floor of an upper-level men's room in Section 123 shortly after gates officially opened. 
Stadium ushers and medical crews responded quickly to the emergency, said Director of Stadium Security Cappy Gagnon. 
He was transported. accompa­nied by a brother, from the sta­dium to the St. Joseph Regional Medical Center, where he died at 3:15p.m. 
Bailey was president and part­ner of Lumberyard Suppliers in East Peoria, Ill. and was was visiting Notre Dame with some of his family from Mapleton, Ill., a small town 13 miles southwest of Peoria. 
The father of four and grand­father of one had served on the board of the National and State Home Builders A'lsociation and as a junior football league coach for 17 years. 
The Peoria Journal-Star con­tributed to this report. 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu 

Thursday, November 13, 2003 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



My flush with destiny 
I call it my flush with destiny. The day I 
watched my cell phone swirl down to the 
deep dark abyss. 

I know many of you are thinking: hpw 
in the world can you flush a cell phone 
down the toilet? 
Well. it is possible 

Allison Nichols 
and actually a lot 
easier than you 
would think. 

Photo
Last Monday I 
stopped by the rest­
room on my way to 

dinner. The two things I always have on 
me are my ID key ring and my cell phone. 
But I wasn't talking on my phone in the 
bathroom. That is disgusting. It was in my 
sweater pocket, which seems to have 
been my fatal error. 

After I pulled the handle and was 
unlatching the door, I suddenly heard a 
plunk. I turned around, and at first I did­
n't see a thing. 

Then, amongst the thrust of water in 
the bowl. a quick silvery glimmer caught 
my eye. 

Oh my God, was my cell phone actually 
in the toilet? 

I admit I hesitated. I totally wasn't 
expecting that to happen. 

Just as I came to the realization of what 
was happening, my hands skimmed the 
surface. and the cell phone swirled out of 
sight. 

I stood there shocked for a few 
moments, waiting for the cell phone to 
magically r~appear. 

I thought, there is no way that a cell phone could go down those pipes .. 
Seriously, my cell phone wasn't that 
small. When nothing appeared after some 
time, there was nothing to do but laugh 
hysterically. 

You see, the past night I had gotten some bad news and didn't sleep much at all. I begrudgingly woke up Monday morning to the bitter cold and trudged through the rest of my day contemplating why life seemed to be so awful to me. 
The next evening came, and I thought, "Alright, the day is almost over." 
Then the most unexpected thing hap­pened. Just when you think nothing worse could happen to you, something else occurs to make you rethink that statement 
Instead of flying into a rage at all my misfortunes, I smiled and laughed. 
I know God wanted me to take things a little more lightly, and that was what he came up with to make me laugh. 
Strange, I know. but it was my destiny to flush that cell phone down the toilet. It was no mere accident; it was meant to be. 
After informing the maintenance department and the front desk, I proceed­ed to tell my friends who also laughed hysterically. 
We spent the evening conjuring up witty jokes and scenarios of where my phone might be or where it may emerge in the future. 
Only I could have done something so idiotic, but, as always, there is a moral to the story. 
A little laughter can go a long way, and you can think to yourself. at least I'm not stupid enough to flush my cell phone down the toilet like that girl. 
Contact Allison Nichols at nich3684@saintmarys. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
In yesterday's "SMC appoinrs security director," former Saint Mary's Interim Director of Security Rosemarie Harris was identified as Belinda Rathert's successor. Harris took over the position, instead, from Dan Woods in 2002. The Observer regrers the error. The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correcr our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU PLAN ON DOING SERVICE AFTER GRADUATION? 






John Axford  Chris Hoyt  John Hart  Chloe Bekavac  Brendan Murphy  Dan Hickey  
Junior Dillon Hall  Junior Stanford Hall  Junior Keenan Hall  Freshman Badin Hall  Freshman Stanford Hall  Sophomore Alumni Hall  
"Yeah. Service for your momma."  "Yes ... wait. N0. ,  ''I've given so much, after so long ... I plan to  "Yes, I believe so.,  "No, hopefully I'll be in the MBA by then. "  '(No.,,  

take it all back." 

Spam clogs Internet's arteries 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -Three years ago, Adam Kalsey set up a Web log to share his thoughts about online busi­ness and the digital revolu­tion. Like countless other 'bloggers,' he lets his read­ers post comments on his entries. 
Recently, his site has been getting remarks like 'Thanks for the informa­tion!' and 'Sounds great!' They're not from support­ers, but from people -or machines -who leave names like 'Generic Viagra,' 'Online Gambling' and 'Free Poker' and links to unsa­vory sites. 
Spam has never been lim­ited to e-mail. But now, commercial pitches are increasingly popping up in online chats, instant mes­sages, cell phones with text messaging and, as Kalsey found, Web Jog comments. 
Spammers are flocking to new communications tools like moths to light, threat­ening to cripple these tools just as they are beginning to take off. 
Howard Rheingold, a futurist who predicts always-on communication will revolutionize public dis­course, is worried that all these new forms of spam could freeze the revolution in its tracks. 
'Bluejack.ing' new cell phone craze 
STOCKHOLM. Sweden ­The group of lanky tourists strolling through knew what hit them. 
As they admired Swedish handicrafts in a storefront window, one of their cell phones chirped with an anonymous note: 'Try the blue sweaters. They keep you warm in the winter.' 
The tourist was 'blue­jacked' -surreptitiously surprised with a text mes­sage sent using a short­range wireless technology called Bluetooth. 
As more people get Bluetooth-enabled cell phones -both sender and recipient need them for this to work -there is bound to be more mischievous mes­saging of the unsuspecting. 
Information compiled 

Stockholm's old town never from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
0:: 
w 
::z:: 
~ 
w 
3: 
.... 

~ 
c( 
(,) 


0 
..... HIGH 38 HIGH 32 HIGH 44 HIGH 47 
LOW 30 LOW 25 LOW 29 LOW 39 
IN BRIEF 

A new installment of the Kroc Institute's Africa Seminar, entitled "Prospects for Islamic Peacebuilding in Sub-Saharan Africa," will be presented at 12:30 p.m. today in room C-1 03 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Sakah Mahmud, a political scientist, will present the lecture. Lunch will be served. 
The Kellogg Institute will present a lecture entitled "The Determinants of Internal Structures of States" today at 4:15p.m. in room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
The senior class will hold its annual press box dinner and stadium tour today at 6:30 
p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. Tickets, which must be pur­chased in advance, are avail­able at the LaFortune Box Office. 
The NDCinema program will present the German film "Nowhere in Africa (Nirgendwo in Afrika)" today in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library at 7 p.m. The film will be introduced by his­tory professors Doris Bergen and Emily Osborn. The event is free and open to the public. 
The week-long conference, "A Reason to Write: Two Catholic Novelists," will pres­ent the lecture "Strangers and Pilgrims: Spiritual Travels with Flannery O'Co-nnor and Walker Percy" tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in 138 DeBartolo Hall. The lecture will be followed by a book sale and signing. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 50 HIGH 49 LOW 45 LOW 43 

Thursday, November 13, 2003 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SENATE 
Group appoints two members to Council 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
News Writer 
The Student Senate appointed two senators as alternates to the Council of Hepresentalives at Wednesday's meeting. 
Knott senator Brian Agganis and Cavanaugh senator Jordan Bongiovanni were unanimously approved as alternates to the Council. 
The Council of Hepresentatives passed a resolution at its meeting Monday which called for the for­mation of a committee to "consid­er attnndance in ethics, including . . . proper representation of the students by the members of the Council of Hepresentatives." The resolution states that the reason for this committee stems from the faet that the Council "is yet to con­stitute its bylaws regarding ethics and attendance." 
Until proper attendance policies for the Council are decided, the resolution provides for each organization within the Council to send an alternate in the event that their elected Council repre­sentative is unable to attend a meeting. When sent as a repre­sentative for their organization, an alternate will have full voting privileges at meetings. 
Keenan Senator Dan Zenker, one of four Senate representatives on the Council, said the alternates provide for full Senate represen­tation at Council meetings and also ensure that Senators will not be countnd absent from Council nwr.tings. 
"Each member gets three unex­cusnd absences, but now if we don't go, one of the alternates can go, and we don't get an unex­cused absence," Zenker said. "They also take all of our voting power with them to the meet­ings." 

The Council's resolution did not mandate that alternates had to be officially appointed, but Zenker said he thought electing alter­nates was a good idea. 
"We just wanted to make sure that the Senate had official alter­nates. Now, we can keep them updated on what's going on [in the Council]." 
In other Senate news 
+ Pasquerilla West Senator Jana Lamplota reported to the Senate that a meeting with Bill Kirk, associate vice president for Residence Life, regarding the Senate-sponsored petition to move the ROTC Presidential Pass in Review ceremony to an outdoor location will occur Tuesday. The Senate will present its petition to Kirk in order to show the amount of student support for the transfer of the ceremony from Loftus to a proposed South Quad location. 
+ The Senate Committee on Ethics issued new attendance rules to senators Wednesday. These rules include mandatory attendance records for all Senate committee meetings, and 24-hour notice from any Senator missing a committee meeting. The rules stipulate that Senators who reach four unexcused absences from a committee meeting or four absences from full Senate meet­ings will receive a written warn­ing from the Ethics Committee. At five absences, the Ethics Committee will meet to determine a course of action to be taken in the matter. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 
Teach for America influences campus 
By AMANDA MICHAELS News Writer 
Fourteen years after the con­ception of Teach for America, hundreds of similar organiza­tions have been chartered to help combat illiteracy and raise the level of education in the United States and around the world. 
The Center for Social Concerns is a clearinghouse for many such programs, connect­ing students interested in dedi­cating their post-graduate years to service. 
Programs modeled after the Alliance for Catholic Education, which decided to help others start similar organizations rather than expand its own, are among such large-scale service projects. While ACE is still the most popular teaching service organization on cam­pus, such groups as the Pacific Alliance for Catholic Education, the Providence Alliance for Catholic Teachers and a variety of others attract as many as five graduates each year. 
With 168 graduates in serv­ice, two-thirds of those ND/SMC students, ACE is by far the most popular post-grad service organization for Domers. Established by Father Tim Scully and Father Sean McGraw in 1994, ACE provides an intensive program that allows students to work toward their Masters of Education degree in the summer, while accruing hands on experience as full-time teacher during the school year. 
ACE teachers receive health insurance, a monthly stipend, travel reimbursement and an education award of $4,725 from Americorps, said Andrea Smith Shappell, director of sen­ior transition programs for the 
esc. 
Seventy-seven percent of ACE teachers stay in education after the required two years, and 56 percent of those stay in K-12, with the rest becoming coaches or principals or taking other education-related occu­pations, said Christian Dallavis, associate director of ACE. 
"About 10 percent of seniors apply to ACE each year," said Dallavis, "and what I think it comes down to is an interest in teaching others and the desire to do service." 
The success of the ACE and Teach for America projects has spawned a number of other long-standing teaching pro­grams, through which volun­teers are able to earn credits toward a Masters degree. The Inner-City Teaching Corp in Chicago, Hesponse-Ability in Philadelphia and other loca­tions around the country and Teach for America are exam­ples of such organizations. 
The national movement of the Nativity Prep Academy, whose mission it is to provide tuition-free education to at­risk, impoverished children also draws graduates to one of its many locations -the most popular of which is San Diego. David Hivera, a 1999 Notre Dame graduate, founded the organization. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 


University ofNotre Dame International Study Program at 



Trinity College 
Dublin, Ireland 
Information Meeting 
Thursday, Nov. 13, 2003 138 DeBartolo 5:00PM 
with Sarah Coyle, Trinity College Dublin and Katie Keogh, Associate Director, Dublin Program 
Application Dead/in e: Dec. 1, 2003 All Year 2004-2005 Applications submitted on-line: www.lld.edu/-intlstud 

technic knowledge while co to a team · .· want 

to join a growing organization with expert nurses, who are commit­ted to the health of our community, then call now! 
Nursing Hotline: 609-748-4055 
Email: careers@atlanticare.org www.atlanticare.org  ee.:!v.!ls.giSJ  
A division of AtlantiCare  
EOE,M/F/ON  
Tul.iug Ytm We/1/uto The Futurt•.  

Thursday, November 13, 2003 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
his goal, he must work in the deadly coalmines. 


FiliD 
"I was quite impressed 

continued from page 1 with how deftly the immoral behavior came together in the end and karma finally 
said. In the face of tempta­delivered each character his tion, people have deserved lot," different reac-Matthew 
tions, he said. "I was quite Solarski, a To portray this junior from
impressed with 
contrast. Yang Siegfried Hall presents two con how deftly the said. "I was artists who ques­immoral behavior equally tion the integrity impressed by
came together in
of their avaricious the film's
the end.,
scam after realiz­ability to ing the innocence evoke sympa­of their victim. thy for even
Matthew Soiarski
Yang discusses the most
junior
the importance of unscrupulous 
education in rela­tion to China's economic problems. His protagonist desires to attend school, but cannot afford to do so. To earn enough money to meet 

characters by presenting touches of humanity in each of them, if only momentarily." 
The controversial film elicited negativB reviews 
from a few members of the audience, who questioned Yang's depiction of criminal­ity in conjunction with reform issues. In response to such remarks. Yang said that his intention was to showcase only some of the problems afflicting modern China. 
Filming required much courage, as it went against Chinese cinematic tradition, said Yang. 
The film was adapted from the novel "Sacred Wood," which won a top literary prize in China. 
Yang said that he is very optimistic about the future of China. but that, like the future of the film's protago­nist, is uncertain. 
Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 
Bush approval rating rises 
More Americans approve ofeconomy handling than two months ago 
Associated Press 
Public approval of President Bush's handling of the economy has increased amid signs that the economy is recovering, according to a poll out Wednesday. 
Half in the NBC-Wall Street Journal poll, 50 percent, approved of Bush's handling of the economy, up from 43 percent who approved two months ago. 
Bush's overall job approval was at 51 percent, with 44 percent not approving. That's largely unchanged from that same poll two months ago -when he was at 49 percent. 
Recent economic reports have shown the nation's growth rate is up, while unemployment claims are down -factors which appear to have helped his strength on that measure. 
Bush's overall job approval rating has ranged from 50 percent to the mid 50s in several recent polls. 

The increased optimism about his handling of the economy comes at the same time skepticism about his handling of Iraq has been rising. 
Attacks against U.S. troops are increasing and a new intelligence report suggests that Iraqis are losing faith in U.S.-led occupation forces, a development that is increas­ing support for the resist­ance. 
Almost two-thirds, 63 per­cent, still support the mili­tary action against Iraq, but when asked if that action has been worth the costs -peo­ple were evenly split. 
The poll of 1,003 adults was taken Nov. 8-10 and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percent­age points. 
Kopp 
continued from page 1 
the early days ofTFA. 
Mobil Corporation provided her with a seed grant of $26,000, and after 11 letters, Ross Perot fmally agreed to put up a challenge grant of$500,000. 
"I was blessed with absolute naivete and inexperience," said Kopp. "I believed that if we could show them that college students were interested in the program, everything would fall into place. If I had started this campaign know­ing what I know now, Teach for America might not be here today." 
Kopp said the components of the organization's five-year plan are to grow to 4,000 corps mem­bers, to do more to insure that corps members have the greatest impact possible and to keep alum­ni connected. 
"We are focused on staying the course, and so far, we're on track," said Kopp. 
However. she did address the recent stumbling block placed in front of TFA. On July 11, Kopp received a letter stating that TFA was no longer an AmeriCorps program, meaning a Joss of 5 per­cent of their operating budget, the loss of $15 million in educational grants and an elimination of guar­anteed loan deferment used as incentives to recruit top college graduates. 
"It definitely has been a chal­lenging few months, but we were really able to weather it," said Kopp. "We're still trying to find federal and private funding to replace our loss. but we think we'll be able to defer loans, pay interest and get our teachers the money we promised them." 
Kopp described the problems affiicting America's school system, especially the gap in performance that runs along socioeconomic lines. Students born in low-income communities are as far as three to four grade levels behind by the time they finish elementary school and are seven times less likely to graduate from college. she said. 
"Ultimately, more teachers going above and beyond is not going to be sufficient. We need to solve this problem as a country. We need to improve the economy and quality of life in these urban and rural areas, and improve the school system. This is going to take informed, committed leader­ship, and that's what we hope we're developing at Teach for America," said Kopp. 
Out of the 16,000 applicants for positions in TFA last year. only 1,800 were selected. Kopp said that they look for someone with the leadership skills to take on a monumental task and to deal with the problems the corps members find themselves up against every day. 
Before TFA campus representa­tive Erica Burroughs concluded the event, Kopp posed a challenge to the students in attendance. 
"We can get there. we can get to the point where kids have equal education, no matter where they're from," she said. "The question is whether the leaders, the young, well-educated, com­mitted leaders, will step up and take charge." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 



·N.r
..·•··.· ...·.... 
~. ~
. 
....;_.;,: .... 

Tl18 N&novic Institute for European Studies · Film Series 
w&lVe· hemi r~lty rfil!i~~t!!S~afk;···· 
One~w.m~~ ltoouctioo ~tl'i!:: rtlk mthl.>r du:ntb!: ~p1$artat Hdy Ot~ Culkt?. Oat i::h.~~~s 11H! ,swfaU irid.irtlhn~t*" #tu&em~ r;-~;;;:etw iht hl;g,he-:t.ltweld t:W:I'$i0t1:<1il ammti>Pn lto~11 ad¢J("lt>td; . ·C:arlng. fll.~ulty; &ndtnt$~an~;Inian ~iilttt#ArtsQt~d\df)f · orAtti1-illW<i.+e at. Hd~'CklliS. Pili!, 1iil:ldMk£ lffu hli,g~&.idt'lgWlthtlw 
~ddiikln ~.,)(.;;.\\it fifth J.~~cl~n~ halL 
lf}\?tl~ k~~kin.g fora~hsm~it~~ ~&\nA1rtQntirw:c M~-~rr~~J! ~~kg<, 
:~::r:t~~i::~~~~;~~:~~~=~~~:~~l~t{~i~~~iJ= 
. 
{~'\·ist u$ ~t ""'"'~"*~n.:x"rt.t~dt•-­





,, . ,
····.· ...··...·.· •···· .. · ~~~-.
Nowltere 1n 11, r1ca (Germany :zoo1) 
November 13;1 1hursaar3 ·r:oo pm CareyAutlitorium;l 1/esi!Jargh Library 
Introduced b.Y NO faculty 1tfem~ers Doris Bergen· ttnrtEmilY osoorn 
· ----with QQ-A afterward 
> ' 

.CIJtsP,ol)sqteii wThe t;rlif1ttqte S~I!Jool~ the Institute for SChoiQrshlp mthe .Liberal A.rts" Gender Stuitles., Africalf ~na Aftican-'ANJ~rican ?tuctles" the departments ofHistory Qnd Political Sc1ence 
www.na~eau(....nanovic for more information 
.-----------------------------------------------~--------------------­





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 13, 2003 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Troop, media relations sour 
BAGHDAD. Iraq -With casualties mount­ing in Iraq, jumpy U.S. soldiers are becoming more aggressive in their treatment of jour­nalists covering the confiict. 
Media people have been detained, news equipment has been confiscated and some journalists have suffered verbal and physical abuse while trying to report on events. 
Although the number of incidents involving soldiers and journalists is diflicult to gauge, anecdotal evidence suggests it has risen sharply the past two months. 
The president of the Associated Press Managing Editors, an association of editors at AP's more than 1.700 newspapers in the United States and Canada. sent a protest let­ter to the Pentagon on Wednesday urging oflicials to "immediately take the steps to end such confrontations." 
"The effect has been to deprive the American public of crucial images from Iraq in newspapers, broadcast stations and online news operations." wrote Stuart Wilk, manag­ing editor of The Dallas Morning News. 
Colombia's armed forces chief quits 
BOGOTA. Colombia -His voice cracking with emotion. Colombia's gruff armed forces commander said Wednesday that he is quit­ting his post. adding his resignation letter to a growing pile on the desk of hard-line President Alvaro Uribe. 
In the past week, three Cabinet ministers, the head of the Colombian National Police and four other senior police officials have resigned under pressure following the defeat of political reforms that Uribe said were needed to light leftist rebels and crack down on corruption. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Senate debates judicial nominees 
WASHINGTON -With humor, anger and a show of GOP unity. the Senate on Wednesday launched 30 hours of uninterrupted debate on President Bush's political nominees not mak­ing it to the federal appeals bench. setting up cots and preparing to cast blame at each other throughout the night. 
Most of Republicans marched into the Senate together just before 6 p.m.. sat down and listened to Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn.. open the debate by condemn­ing the filibusters. 
"Tonight we embark upon an extraordinary session," Frist said. "For the next 30 hours Hepublicans and Democrats will debate the merits of three judicial nominees. We will be considering the meaning of our constitutional responsibilities to advise and consent on nom­inations. We will discuss whether there is a need to enact filibuster reform so that nomi­nations taken to the floor can get a vote." 
Democrats, some appearing amused by the pomp and circumstance, were already in the Senate chamber waiting for the beginning of the debates. The Senate had just finished a vote. and many of the GOP senators had to leave the chamber just to be in the group marching back in. 
Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa. held a sign he displayed for television cameras and passing Republican senators as they entered the chamber: "I'll be home watching 'The Bachelor."' 
LOCAL NEWS 

Airport closed due to bomb scare 
INDIANAPOLIS A terminal at Indianapolis International Airport was briefly evacuated Wednesday evening after a passenger's bag tested positive for explosives at a security checkpoint. 
The ticket counter and baggage-claim areas of Concourse A were evacuated as a precaution because authorities could not locate the bag's owner, airport spokesman Dennis Hosebrough said. A bomb squad inspected the bag and did not find any explo­sive material. 
CoMPtuo FROM 'THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 


Truck bomb strikes Italian base 
Attack is the deadliest against an American ally in Iraq, U.S. strikes back 
Associated Press 
NASIRIYAH-A suicide bomber blew up a truck packed with explosives at an Italian paramilitary base Wednesday, killing at least 26 people. The United States struck at the Iraqi insurgency hours later, destroying a warehouse in Baghdad and chasing attackers who were seen firing mortars. 
The Nasiriyah attack was the deadliest against an American ally since the occupation began and appeared to send a mes­sage that international organizations are not safe anywhere in Iraq. It came on the same day the chief 
U.S. administrator for Iraq went to the White House to put forth proposals on transferring more authority to the Iraqis. 
Col. Gianfranco Scalas said 18 Italians were killed: 12 Carabinieri paramilitary police. four soldiers, a civil­ian working at the base and a documentary filmmaker. A spokesman for the U.S.­led coalition said at least eight Iraqis also died. The bomber -whose nationali­ty was not known -also died. 
The blast wounded 79 people, 20 of them Italians, hospital sources and Italian officials said. 
Italians were stunned by their nation's single worst military loss since World War II and its first in the Iraq campaign. At Rome's tomb of the unknown sol­dier, the green-white-and­red flag rippled at half-staff, and parliament held a minute of silence. 
Italian Premier Silvio Berlusconi pledged that Italy's mission in Iraq would not be derailed. Opposition leaders who opposed the deployment to postwar Iraq called on the government to withdraw the contingent. 
Jalal Talabani, the head of the Governing Council, called the slain Italians "martyrs of the fight for the freedom of Iraq." 
There were conflicting accounts of the attack, which took place about 
10:40 a.m. at a three-story building used by the Carabinieri's multinational specialist unit in Nasiriyah, 180 miles southeast of Baghdad. 
Witnesses said the decoy car ran a roadblock in front of a square where the Italian barracks was locat­ed. Guards opened fire but as the vehicle sped away, the fuel tanker approached from the opposite direction and rammed into the gate of the building before exploding. 
Italian Defense Minister Antonio Martino said the truck. followed by an armored car, approached the compound at high speed. Gunmen inside one of the vehicles opened fire at Italian troops guarding the entrance, he said. The guards returned fire, but the vehicle plowed through the gate, and then explod­ed, he added. 


It was the 13th vehicle bombing in Iraq since Aug. 7, when a car exploded at the Jordanian Embassy in Baghdad, killing at least 19 people. Wednesday's blast from the estimated 650 pounds of explosives col­lapsed all three stories of the building, gouged a 6­foot-deep crater in front of it, and set fire to parked cars. Secondary explosions from stored ammunition shook the area. 

The scorched, twisted remains of military jeeps lit­tered the parking lot, and bulldozers cleared rubble. Chunks of concrete and wiring hung from partly destroyed walls. 
"This is terrorism, pure and simple," Scalas said. 
After nightfall in Baghdad, forces from the 1st Armored Division attacked a warehouse used by insurgents. setting off explosions that reverberat­ed through the capital. 
"The facility is a known meeting, planning, storage and rendezvous point for belligerent elements cur­rently conducting attacks 
on  coalition forces  and  
infrastructure,"  the  
Pentagon said.  

Man says feds knew he trained foreign troops 
The U.S. government charges that 
Associated Press 
his company trained soldiers from 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. -A coun­the United Arab Emirates under a terterrorism center director testi­$12.5 million contract using U.S. fied at his federal trial Wednesday defense information without proper that the State Department did not State Department licensing. Hudak, raise concerns about training ses­a Canadian citizen, faces 10 felony sions he offered to foreign soldiers counts, including illegally possess­before accusing him of not being ing 2,400 warheads at the training licensed. center. 
David Hudak said he never Hudak acknowledged under cross­received a warning from the State examination that the UAE soldiers Department about the type of train­had received training equivalent to ing his company, High Energy advanced training in subjects con­Access Tools, or HEAT. provided to sidered sensitive defense informa­soldiers from Israel, Canada and tion. He had testified Monday that Singapore. he had no reason to believe sessions at his training center included clas­sified defense information. 
He also said he had been export­ing small warheads to other coun­tries for eight years. but the State Department had never issued a warning about any of his proce­dures. He obtained an exporting license to ship the munitions, and HEAT never sent munitions without a license, he said. 
Hudak said he had entrusted Steve Mattoon, HEAT's director of operations and training, with licens­ing issues and was never told there was a need to suspend the training because of any legal questions. 
Thursday, November 13, 2003 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 

Disabled 
continued from page 1 
improvement. 
For instance, Hoffman said that during her freshman year, a math professor refused to provide her with a copy of the notes from the overhead projector, and she had to switch to another class. 
Generally, Hoffman has access to large-print materials and is given extra time to complete exams, but ran into different problems when taking the LSAT this year. 
"They require very extensive documentation. I'd heard they weren't very disability-friendly," she said. 
Initially, Hoffman's request for extended time was denied, and then ultimately granted, just days before she was scheduled to take the test. 
"It's something that a student with a disability shouldn't have to go through," she said. 
Disabled students said they would like to see themselves included in the University's defi­disabled has jumped from 35 to 170, said Scott Howland, the Office's director. 

When a student identifies him or herself as having a disability, Howland's office works with the student to provide adaptations for class schedules and in the resi­dence halls. 
"Everything is very individual­ized. It depends not only on the disability but on how the student compensates for it," he said. 
Currently, Howland runs the Office for Students with Disabilities by himself, despite the fact the number of registered stu­dents has increased about five­fold over the past eight years. 
Students said they are highly impressed with Howland's dedica­tion to their needs, but expressed concerns about the priority the University places on helping stu­dents with disabilities. 
"I see him about two to three times per week," said Van Schoick. "He works so hard." 
But since the University moved Howland's office from the front to the back of Badin Hall, Van Schoick said she can't even fit her 
wheelchair into the 
office. 
nition of diversi­ "I don't know that I  "The hallway to get  
ty, which often  would apply to this  to his office is two to  
focuses on racial and ethnic diver­ school now. ,  three feet [wide]. We can't fit into [that with  
sity.  our wheelchairs]," she  
"It  bothered  Becca Van Scholck  said. "He has one test­ 

me that it wasn't 
junior
included in the diversity pro­gram," said Hoffman, who is a diversity educator at Notre Dame. 

"Diversity is about more than just [race and ethnicity ]." said jun­ior Becca Van Schoick, who uses a motorized mobility device to travel around campus. 
Despite using a wheelchair and having a speech impairment, sophomore FTT major Katrina Gossett has enjoyed being a part of the Pasquerilla East Musical Company at Notre Dame. In PEMCO and at residence hall masses, Gossett has distinguished herself with a talented singing voice and stage presence. 
"Last year I performed in the Musical Revue," she said. ''I'm assistant stage manager [for PEMCO]." 
Along with her theatre interest, Gossett also serves as a math teaching assistant and runs help sessions for her students. 

· Since the University opened its Office for Students with Disabilities in 1995, the number of students officially registered as ing room [designated 
for students who use 
special modifications during exams] for 165 students." 
Because of the increasing strain placed on the resources for dis­abled students, Van Schoick s~id she intends to write a letter to the Office of the Provost, which over­sees Howland's office. 
"I don't know that I would apply to this school now," she said. 
According to Howland, he can­not provide students with a wide range of services, such as social counseling and career develop­ment, but focuses mainly on procuring special materials and services for them. 
"It's difficult to do some of these additional things," he said. "We probably fit somewhere in the middle [compared to Notre Dame's peer institutions.]" 
Although some top 20 universi­ties maintain single-person staffs, Howland said many schools rely on three to four people to provide disability resources. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME FILM,TELEVISION,ANDTHEATRE PRESENTS 

Congress nears Medicare agreement 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Republican congressional leaders stepped to the brink of agreement Wednesday on major Medicare legislation to create a pre­scription drug benefit for older Americans and carve out a vast new role for private insur­ance companies in the govern­ment-run health care pro­gram. 
"I think it's a middle-of-the­road deal," s.aid Sen. John Breaux of Louisiana, the first Democrat to swing behind the proposal after Republicans scaled back their demand for competition between tradition­al Medicare and the private plans. 
GOP congressional officials said the administration was ready to embrace the agree­ment, and President Bush was scheduled to discuss Medicare at an appearance in Florida on Thursday. GOP leaders said they also expected the backing of the politically influential AARP, with 35 million members age 50 and over. 
There were critics aplenty, though, and some Democrats began an immediate effort to limit defections and defeat the measure on the Senate floor. 
Senate Democratic leader Tom Daschle of South Dakota attacked it. Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., referring to the remaining require­ment for direct competition, said, "We can't accept a pro­posal that's going to threaten the whole Medicare system." 
Additionally, officials said Rep. Bill Thomas, R-Calif., the lead House negotiator in months of arduous bargain­ing, objected to the terms 

Col1259·1ooo for more details 
that Frist, Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., and House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, R­Texas, had blessed. 
Apart from the drug benefit and new system of private health care, officials said the measure would include steps to ease the availability of lower-cost generic drugs. On another point, though, no change was expected in the ban on the importation of brand name prescription drugs from Canada and other countries where they often sell more cheaply than in the United States. Current law requires the Food and Drug Administration to certify the medicine's safety before imports are allowed. 
In a gesture to conservatives, the legislation would also ere-ate new health-related tax accounts for individuals pur­chasing high-deductible health insurance. It also would estab­lish an unusual requirement for the president and Congress to review Medicare's finances if the cost of the program grows more than expected. 
The breakthrough in negoti­ations occurred Tuesday night, when Frist met privately in his Capitol office with Breaux and Sen. Max Baucus of Montana, the two Democrats who have been permitted to participate in House-Senate negotiations dominated by Republicans. 
The Tennessee Republican dropped a long-standing demand for an open-ended program of competition, and offered to limit it to selected portions of the country. 




Open House 
Fall 2003 
r-rhe]ohn Marshall Law School invites you to attend an open1 house t() Ie.am how flexible schedules, grow1dbrcaking specialties and :i,pt centuty curricula can help you in your career. 
Saturday, November 22; 10 a.m. to noon 
Sfddeim atid(aculty ,yill share their insights into John Marshall's · day and evening programs, give tours of the facilities, and answct' yow: questions about the law school. 
NO Women_,s Soccer 

2003 NCAA.Women"s College Cup Soccer Championship 


First ROund""' Friday~ November 1 4 Oakland (Ml) vs. Michigan #2 Notre Dame vs. Loyola (IL) 
4:30 PM® Alumni Fielq 7:00 PM@ Alumni Field 

Second Round ..... Sunday, November 16 
•Winners from 1st Round play at 1:00PM® Alumni Field 

Ticket Prices 
Adult: ~7.00 Youth; ~3.00 2. & Under: FREE 


~Fre: ctdmission "to firsT 100 St-uden-ts (ND, SMC, HCC), all addi-tional s-tuden-ts mus-t buy Ticke-ts 
•Faculty/ S-taff J:D's and Soccer Season Passes are noT valid for post--season play · 


THE ()BSER\'ER 




USINESS
Thursday, November 13, 2003 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


Dow 9 848.83 +111.04
}ones ' 
~\ Same: QQWr!: Composite Volume Z.Sl3 146 • 1,318,802,048 
AM£X 1 ; . 0 ;7 6:''$j$'i!ii±Jt4.'''~i!,!Qi1 
NASDAQ 1, 973.11 +42. 3( 
NYSE a> Q~e {~~'::ffi:~'~::~·:·~::~ 
S&PSOO 1,058.53+11.9 
NIKKEI(Tokyo) 10, 33Q).Q&if:Ji~g:i!~!iii 
FTSE IOO(London) 4, 371 . 2 0 +2 6 . 1 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.70 +0.18 25.98 INTEL CORP (INTC) +2.07 +0.69 34.10 SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW) +3.47 +0.14 4.20 APPLIED MATL (AMAT) +2.17 +0.54 25.44 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.77 +0.62 22.97 
Treasuries 
30-YEAA BOND -1.16 -0.61 52.17 I0-YEAR NOTE -1.08 -0.48 44.12 5-YEAANOTE -1.39 -0.48 34.13 3-MONTH BILL +0.65 +0.06 9.28 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.0 I 30.89 GOLD ($ffroy oz.) +6.80 395.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.575 85.625 
Exchon Rates YEN 108.4 EURO 0.8589 POUND 0.5968 CANADIAN$ 1.303 

IN BRIEF 
Dollar slides versus European majors 
NEW YOHK-The U.S. dollar weakened sharply against the major European currencies Wednesday as dealers turned their attention to technical factors and away from economic fun­damentals. 
Short-term. speculative and model-driven accounts aggressively sold the dollar down through key technical levels against the euro.. which triggered waves of stop-loss selling. 
The Swiss franc was the other main benefici­ary as the market dumped dollars across the board. which pushed the greenback down to fresh six-year lows against the Australian and New Zealand dollars and a new 10-year low against the Canadian dollar. 
Heightened tensions in Iraq, where a bomb attack killed at least 26 at an Italian police base, was the excuse some dealers used to explain the euro's strong rally. 
The euro's convincing break above $1.1550 was a crucial development, as was its subse­quent break above $1.1600 and impressive rebound from the 10-month low of 124.41 yen plumbed Tuesday. 
In late New York trading, the euro was quoted at $1.1633, up from $1.1509 late Tuesday. The dollar was quoted at 108.75 yen, up from 
108.67 yen late Tuesday. The dollar was quoted at 1.3502 Swiss francs, down from 1.3620, and 1.3025 Canadian dollars. down from 1.3122. The British pound rose to $1.6733 from $1.6651. 
EU appeals to U.S. to drop tariffs 
GENEVA -America's allies appealed to President Bush on Tuesday to back off support for the U.S. steel industry or risk billions of dollars in sanctions that could spark a global trade war. 
Members of the European Union are threat­ening to impose retaliatory sanctions on $2.2 billion worth of U.S. imports unless Bush removes duties on imported steel he intro­duced in March 2002 to give breathing space to the embattled U.S. steel industry. 
"As frank and loyal friends of the United States, we hope that Washington will remove as soon as possible the steel tariffs that are considered illegal by the World Trade Organization," said Adolfo Urso, Italy's Industry Ministry undersecretary. 

Judge denies freeze of ex-CEO's assets 
Conseco Inc. requested freeze in attempt to recover $218 million in loans 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -A 
judge on Wednesday 
denied Conseco Inc.'s 
request to prohibit former 
CEO Stephen Ililbert from 
shifting assets as the 
insurer tries to recover 
$218 million in loan debt 
Conseco says he owes. 
Conseco attorneys con­.tend Hilbert. who presided 
over the company's two­
decade rise and much of 
its fall, has been transfer­
ring wealth, including race 
horses, among various 
family trusts, including 
one for his son. Some 
trusts are controlled by 
Hilbert's wife, Tomisue 
Hilbert. 
The Hilberts in recent 
years "have engaged in a 
pattern of transferring 
assets among each other 
in an effort to reduce Mr. 
Hilbert's estate to an 
absolute minimum," attor­
ney Reed Oslan said. 
Hilbert has denied any 
improper transfers. In a 
recent statement, he said 
the post-bankruptcy suc­
cessor to the company had 
employed "a veritable 
army of private investiga­
tors" that have harassed 
his family and friends. 
On Wednesday. attorneys 
with the company that 
handled Conseco's recent 

bankruptcy asked Circuit effort is part of a cam­type now prohibited. gations. 
Court Judge Judith Profitt paign to recover debt and The biggest debtors -a Hilbert. 57, now heads a 
for a restraining order. It interest from loans Hilbert group known as "The Big business consulting com­
seeks to freeze Hilbert's took out in the late 1990s 11" -collectively owe pany in Indianapolis. 
assets pending a ruling in to buy the company's then­$676 million. including In 1979, Hilbert helped 
a lawsuit Conseco filed soaring stock. interest. Oslan said. found the company that 
Oct. 20. A spokesman for Hilbert, Five of the top 11 took the name Conseco 
Pro!itt denied the motion Ernie Reno, described the debtors are in various four years later. lie was 
without comment in a request for the order as forms of litigation as oth­ousted in April 2000 along 
written ruling hours after "nothing more than legal ers continue talks to settle with his chief financial 
she received the request. maneuvering." their debts. officer. Rollin Dick, who 
She also denied a motion Conseco is seeking a The company puts the company says owes 
by Hilbert to keep under temporary orde·r to speed Hilbert's balance at $155 nearly $97 million in loan 
seal information Conseco the court's consideration million for the underlying debt and interest. 
lawyers introduced that of the asset-transfer ques­loans and $62 million in Hilbert and others were 
details alleged asset trans­tion pending a ruling on interest. It says he has unable to repay the loans 
fers to his wife. the overall lawsuit, Oslan repaid $7 million. when Conseco shares tum­
The lawsuit attempts to said. Hilbert argues Conseco's bled after reaching a high 
foreclose on the $19.4 mil­Hilbert and more than shift to new board man­of $58 in 1998. By last 
lion mortgage Conseco 150 former Conseco exec­agement and ownership December. when Conseco 
holds on Hilbert's 23,000-utives. directors and key during its Sept. 10 emer­became the third-largest 
square-foot mansion near employees took loans in gence from bankruptcy U.S. company to file for 
company headquarters in the late 1990s to buy triggered a "change of bankruptcy protection, 
the Indianapolis suburb of Conseco stock in a compa­control" clause shielding shares were trading at less 
Carmel. The foreclosure ny-sponsored program of a him from repayment obli-than a nickel apiece. 


Stocks bounce back after 3-day decline 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Wall Street broke out of its slump Wednesday, surging higher after a forecasted jump in semiconductor sales gave investors a reason buy after three days of declines. The Dow Jones industrials rose more than 110 points, while the Nasdaq composite index gained more than 2 percent. 
Larger-cap stocks led the day, including technology bellwethers IBM Corp. and Intel Corp., which benefit­ed from the Gartner Inc. forecast. Traders attributed some of the momentum to the week's slow start; the bond markets were closed Tuesday for Veterans Day. Many investors were returning to Wall Street after a long weekend, with money to spend, said Brian Belski, fundamental market strategist at US Bancorp Piper Jaffray. 
"Investors this year have condi­tioned themselves to buy the dip, and today they saw an opportunity," Belski said. "We're in a little bit of a news vacuum ... so right now they're going to react to any news blip at all." 
The Dow ended the day up 111.04, or 1.1 percent. at 9,848.83. 
The broader gauges also closed higher. The Nasdaq closed up 42.36, or 2.2 percent, at 1,973.11. The Standard & Poor's 500 index gained 
11.96, or 1.1 percent, to close at 
1,058.53. 

The market appears to be in a "consolidation phase ... with shallow pullbacks met with buying" said Peter Cardillo, president of Global Partner Securities Inc. 
"Once the consolidation phase is over I think the second leg of this bull run will commence," Cardillo said. "That will probably take us up to new highs by the end of the year." 
Fueling Wednesday's tech rally, market research firm Gartner said it expects worldwide semiconductor sales to increase more than 20 per­cent next year. Chipmaker Intel rose 69 cents to close at $34.10. IBM Corp. also made gains, rising $1.33 to $90.69. 
--~­
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Page 8 Thursday, November 13, 2003 
Debating religion in U.S. foreign policy 
MANAGING £oltoll 
Srott B~ht¢r ASST. MANAGING EDfl'(llt Shcila Flynn 

Freedom, democracy and compassion are values resonating in America that have religious roots. This can make America's efforts in the Middle East pre­carious. In dealing with the Arab region, understand­ing the 
Andrew DeBerry
America's connection between faith 
ND Changing 
and politics is 
Times
key. However, it is critical not to give faith a role-it doesn't belong in foreign relations. 
America is founded on John Locke's premise that all are born with certain inalienable rights. His arguments are logical to Americans of any faith. However, it is seldom mentioned that Locke was a Christian theologian. His views and our nation were shaped accordingly. Since its inception, America has fused Judea-Christian principles into politics in an unprecedented manner. The effort becomes complicated then when America tries to import this democracy into countries such as Iraq. 
Last week President Bush said, "It should be clear to all that Islam, the faith of one-fifth of humanity, is consistent with democratic rule." 
The Arab world has much to gain from a political system other than autocracy, but Bush still has his work cut out for him. Unlike America, Middle Eastern countries are unable to find a basis for democracy in the primary religion of its people. Christian religious institutions such as the Vatican have developed teachings that insist on the importance of religious freedom. In contrast, the Quran provides specific guidance on relevance of Islam to all areas of life, including pol­itics. A democracy like ours having Judea-Christian roots will struggle to take root in the Middle Eastern sands. The very idea of democracy must radi­cally adapt itself to flourish. 
America's religious roots must be acknowledged in working with Iraq. Faith-based teachings have had a posi­tive contribution to America. However, there are clearly areas when church and state must be completely disassociated from each other lest faith wrongly justi­fies political action. 
Osama bin Laden presents a clear case of the misuse of faith in politics by mis­construing religion to justify an attack on a state. In his fatwah urging war against Americans, he claims to communicate "God's order to kill the Americans." In response, the American government must take the very opposite approach of bin Laden and have the state respond without citing.religious motives. 
Consequently, it is imperative to have a clear separation between church and state in relations with the Middle East. If the line is blurred, political conflict may be misconstrued and exacerbated as a religious conflict. 
This is a fine line that President Bush treads. He has often described counter­terrorist efforts as a war against evil. But much to his credit, he has also made exceedingly clear that the enemy is not the religion of Islam in noting that ter­rorists "who commit evil in the name of Allah blaspheme the name of Allah." Within days of the Sept. 11 attacks, he made speeches to tell America, "Islam is peace." This has tempered the risk of Arabs seeing American troops in the Middle East as part of a Christian effort. 
One official who grossly blurred the line between politics and faith was Army lieutenant General William Boykin. General Boykin is the deputy undersec­retary of defense for intelligence. He's responsible for overseeing the search for Saddam Hussein, Osama bin Laden and Mullah Omar. He has recently come under fire for equating the war on terror to a religious battle against Satan. When speaking to a fundamentalist Christian church in uniform, Boykin said that Islamic extremists hate the United States "because we're a Christian nation, because our foundation and our roots are Judea-Christian." This is a wrong and lethal message that has been com­municated throughout the Arab region. 
Such ignorance can lead to a deadly backlash for our American troops. It is of key importance to note that the primary motive for terrorism is not hatred of Christianity but frustration resulting from social injustices. 
The primary demographic promulgat­ing terrorism is the poor, rural Arab who desires a system of revolution. Groups such as the Muslim Brotherhood blame the Western influence in their govern­ment and propose a return to Islam. To the oppressed farmer, this call sounds logical and enticing. Bin Laden cites injustices as the motivation for his attacks. The Wall Street Journal quotes him on Oct. 7, 2001 as saying that in his nation "sons are killed, its blood is shed, its sanctuaries are attacked and no one hears and no one heeds." 
His complaint may be justified, but he then wrongly hijacks the Islamic faith to justify an attack. American leaders must not fall into his trap and polarize America's effort in religious terms. 
If America is to succeed in the Middle East, it must demonstrate a high regard for the Arab culture. While our state leaders should not act in the name of religion, we can act on values of compas­sion shared by Americans and Arabs alike to follow Bush's State of the Union commitment to "encourage development and education and opportunity in the Islamic world." 
Andrew DeBerry is a fifth year senior majoring in aerospace engineering and minoring in Middle Eastern studies. His column normally appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at ade­berry@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Real American heroes 
At approximately 11:30 a.m. on Saturday, Nov. 8, groups of Notre Dame fans of all ages huddled about their parked vehi­cles, enjoying good company, good food and maybe a drink or two before cheering on the Irish. Unbeknownst to them, nearby there was a young woman, just 20 years of age, crouched next to a grill, flipping hamburgers with one hand and holding a Bud Ught in the other. This perilous situation continued for a time as countless families and students, .blissfully ignorant, contin­ued to enjoy the cool fall morning. 
At exactly 11:36 a.m. a NDSP officer spotted this reprobate · holding her beer and suspected immediately that she may have been a minor in possession. Moving swiftly, the efficient team surrounded the criminal, seizing her identification and verifying that she was, indeed, just twenty years old. As the innocent bystanders who witnessed this remained frozen in awe, these true heroes were amazingly able to write the criminal a citation without causing any injury to the many surrounding innocents. 
Mter the chaos of this arrest abated, the parents of this deviant looked on in horror as they realized their daughter's terrible crime. The relived crowd erupted in cheers as the heroes proceeded onward, continuing to defend the parking lots from the persistent threat posed by minors in possession, intoxicated adults, and, worst of all, adults serving to minors. 
Do you find this anecdote particularly improbable and amaz­ing? This is but one example of how these real American heroes risk life and limb each Notre Dame home football Saturday to ensure that peace and justice prevails throughout. Speak to anyone who traverses the tailgating battlefields each Saturday and you will hear accounts even more inspiring than my own: tales of officers able to restrain and cite an entire cir­cle of students shotgunning beers; courageous officers tackling minors who had just cracked open their first beers; selfless heroes who would literally throw themselves in front of can of beer to keep its contents from touching the lips of an underage student. 
In these chaotic times, we can rest easy knowing that, regard­less of what transpires in this violent world, we will always be protected by those heroes whose patrol and protection of the tailgating lots never really ends. 
Steve Mattingly junior O'Neill Hall Nov.J2 
OBSERVER POLL 
Do you support moving the Pass-in-Review, the annual procession by ROTC students, to an outside location? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We have just enough religion to make us hate, but not enough to make us love one another." 
Jonathan Swift Irish writer 



THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Any major can be successful 
If David Barrett is a philosophy major, then he has not been paying attention in class. His failure to present sound reasons for the surplus of business major greatly discredits his entire argument in his Nov. 11 column. Although he is an economics major and has covered his "business bases," he seems to know very little about being a business major. He implies that studying business maintains one's "intellectual integrity" more poorly than reading an 800-page book. One of these two authors has read The Brothers Karamazov for class and one for pleasure; we'll let the readers figure out who is who. 
Barrett says that "college is a time for essays rather than scantrons. It should teach us to think critically and write flu­idly." He assumes much regarding the business education. Harcly does a scantron test pass through the College of Business, and if he thinks that analyzing, designing and implementing an entire computer system does not require critical thinking, he is grossly mistaken. Barrett can judge for himself the fluidity of this essay, co-authored by a busi­ness major. A wise philosopher told us once that the only thing we can truly know is that we know nothing, and Barrett has disregarded this in passing judgment on busi­ness majors. 
Barrett fails to take into account that the one-third of Notre Dame students enrolled in the business school may be studying business because they actually enjoy studying it. College is a time for young men and women to find out who they really are and find out what challenges them to become better versions of themselves. Some students like to read The Hepublic, others want to build them. Business majors arc not any more or less complete because they know the intricacies of finance and may not have read Moby-Dick. 
We would like to ask Barrett how his father accrued his philanthropic capital. Was he sitting on the banks of Walden painting landscapes? We would bet that the Harvard law hopeful mentioned by Barrett's father is grateful that his benefactors were doing something more practical with their time than spending it with Plato in his cave. 
There are students under-whelmed and unchallenged in every college at this University. There are students who do not try and get by on barely passing grades, and there are students who wake up every morning excited about the chal­lenges they will face in "Political Liberalism" or "Systems Analysis Design." Students in all majors can go out and achieve, no matter what they studied as an undergraduate. Plenty of business majors go on to top law schools while Arts and Letters students are preparing to get their MBAs. 
John Stuart Mill defined "liberalism" as being tolerant of the ideas and tehaviors of others. For Barrett to say that there are too many business majors at Notre Dame is evi­dence that he has not benefited from his liberal education. 
Erin Fitzpatrick 
sen tor 

Farley Hall Michael Steedle 
sen tor 
off-campus Nov. 12 

page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Make us laugh 
Like approximately 80 percent of Viewpoint letters, this one discusses diversity. However, the issue of diversity we discuss is one of far greater importance than those of culture and race. That's right, we are talking about diversi­ty in Viewpoint topics. We represent the vast majority of Viewpoint readers who are too lazy to actually write a letter. However, we have been so moved by the appalling lack of variety that we have decided to sit down, in Australia, on a beautiful sunny day in order to bring to light an important issue we feel is vastly undervalued. 
Through extensive statistical research, we have found that over 76.323 percent of Viewpoint pages contain at least one letter on one of the following topics: diversity, Catholicism (including, but not limited to abor­tion, pre-marital sex, homosexuality and pari­etals). the war in Iraq and human rights. Now, we have attended Notre Dame for two and a half years, which is about 400 school days, and with three to four letters published in the Viewpoint daily, that's around 300 letters on one of these topics.. 
Therefore, there is no possible way that any­one can contribute anything new to the discus­sion of any of the aforementioned issues. Please stop trying. The next time you sit down to write an article on any of these topics, think about the poor students who have to sit through another rambling discussion on the lack of diversity on Notre Dame's campus or how unfair parietals and the war in Iraq are. Honestly, no one cares. 

Don't criticize Revue 

Upon reading the article concerning the reactions of Saint Mary's students to the Keenan Revue, I couldn't help but think of the following quote from Jonathan Swift: "Satire is a sort of glass, wherein beholders do generally discover everybody's face but their own." 
In addition to not seeing any part of them­selves reflected in this satirical show, those Saint Mary's students protesting the Revue apparently have missed the fact that it is satire in the first place. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Now we know some of you out there arc thinking, who are these idiots and why do they continue to read Viewpoint articles if they're so disgusted with their content? We are the stu­dents at Notre Dame who frequently skip class­es regardless of what time they start. We arc the students who go out in spite of homework assignments and use study days for strictly recreational activities. 
We are the students who give Notre Dame life outside the classroom. We are also the stu­dents who have hope that Viewpoint can be a vehicle for the discussion of new and interest­ing topics. Let us be clear, however, that we do not read Viewpoint to expand our cultural and spiritual horizons; we read Viewpoint to laugh. As such, we have a few topic suggestions we feel would be worthwhile: yogurt machine reg­ulation, why Zahm sucks, cab drivers that rock, the most effective techniques to steal food from Grab 'N Go, why the sprinkling sys­tem waters the sidewalk more than the grass, the banning of sweat pants on campus, etc. 
In closing, we can be nothing but optimistic that more authors like Joe Muto and Tom Haaf will step forward and lift us out of the stagna­tion that has become Viewpoint with articles that not only address relevant issues, but more importantly, make us laugh. 
Bill Benear Greg Kuhl JUniors Fremande, Australia Nov. II 
The Revue presents its topic in outrageous, farcical and ironic ways, and its skits are therefore to be taken in jest. These Saint Mary's students would cease to be offended if they took a step back and observed the satirical nature of the Revue. Then again, good satire is always misinterpreted by some. 
Brendan Hanehan freshman Keenan Hall Nov. II 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE 
Thursday, November 13, 2003 page 10 
Legends says ~hello' to hot new band this weekend 
Hello Dave shows off its musical style of classic rock and pop, mixed with a bit of country this Friday night at Legends 
By SARAH VABULAS 
Scene Editor 
On Friday night, students can say hello to Hello Dave when they play at Legends of Notre Dame. Described as "The Eagles of the new millennium" and one of Chicago's best-kept secrets, Hello Dave has been rockin' audiences for over a decade and is showing no signs of mercy with their newest studio album. 
"Perfect Day" is set for release in January by Mountain Records. Recorded at Vortex Studio in Burbank, Calif., "Perfect Day" is the band's most accom­plished album to date and explodes with 11 tracks of big radio rock & roll. Sure to land a permanent place in the CD changer, fans will love sprightly new tunes "Broken" and "Come Right Away," and the rich harmonious texture of "Medicine Boy." New remixes of grand hits "Golden" and "Sweetness" have never sounded better at the hands of legendary producer, Don Gehman. The album has already generated radio air­play and the band's fiercely loyal fan base further guarantees the album's success. 
The band's unique mix of classic rock and bold pop served up with a side of country is enough to satisfy even the toughest critic. Known for their uproari­ous live shows, Hello Dave gives music fans exactly what they deserve: com­manding rock & roll with merciless energy and staggering talent. Hello Dave is a guaranteed party in every perform­ance. 
After the success of their live album Wicked Revelry, the band was excited to get back in the studio, this time with producer Don Gehman. With a reputa­tion for only working with bands whose music he likes, Gehman is one of the most respected producers in the indus­try. His rich heartland sound is most familiar to audiences through his collab­orations with John Cougar Mellencamp and Hootie & the Blowfish, and was a perfect match for the melodic sounds of Hello Dave. This three-time Grammy nominated producer has also worked with the likes of Blues Traveler, Stephen Stills, REM, Tracy Chapman, Barbara Streisand and many more. 
Completing the artistic trinity of Perfect Day is art director Gary Burden. Known for creating many famous album covers for legendary classic rock & roll bands of the 1960s and '70s, including The Eagles' Desperados, The Doors' Morrison Hotel and Joni Mitchell's Blue, he happily designed the album cover for Perfect Day. Also a three-time Grammy nominee, Burden hit the top after hook­ing up with photographer Henry Diltz, who documented many of the scenarios dreamed up by Burden. 
The driving force behind Hello Dave has always been lead vocalist, song­writer and rhythm-guitarist Mike Himebaugh. While growing up in Michigan. Himebaugh traveled with his mother and stepfather who were heavily involved in Barber shopping, or singing in four-part harmony. This laid the seed for Himebaugh's love of music. He remembers spending many hours behind his closed bedroom door singing along to his tape recorder. This continued until college, where he began to write his own songs and take up music seriously. Since then he hasn't looked back. Now he says he is lucky enough to travel around most of the country and half the world singing his songs. 
Also growing up in a musical family, bassist Allen Wetzel learned to play gui­tar at an early age. Music became such a large part of his life that after majoring in music in college he moved to Hollywood to pursue his dream. After a couple years of partying and starvation, Wetzel became disenchanted with the industry and moved back to Chicago. Since joining Hello Dave, Wetzel says he has had some of the best years of his life. 
Lead guitarist Mike "Magoo" McGahan joined Hello Dave after playing an acoustic set with Wetzel at an all night party. He was later asked to join Hello Dave and has been with the band for five years. McGahan had been playing guitar since college and was no stranger to music as he had been in several bands, worked making amplifiers and as a DJ all before joining the ranks of Hello Dave. McGahan brings an infections energy to the band and his blues-influ­enced style is something that the audi­ence can really get behind. 

When percus­sionist Bryan Resendiz joined Hello Dave just after returning from Drummers Collective in Manhattan in 1995, his solid yet versatile drum­ming style and dedication added a talent that helped to elevate the band's playing quality to the next level. Answering an ad Hello Dave had placed for a new drummer, Resendiz was quickly added as a member to the band. With his personal musical influences being wide-ranging he introduced several new and different elements to Hello Dave's own unique rock & roll sound while confidently moving the band forward. 
The fifth mem­Courtesy of www.hellodave.com ber of Hello Dave, Michael "Magoo" McGohan, the lead guitarist of Hello keyboardist Tony Dave, sings backup and plays the harmonica. 
Orant has brought a finishing touch to the already rich blend of sounds. Orant was addicted to music early and prides himself on probably being the only kid in America that actually asked for piano lessons. Throughout high school and college he developed his tal­ent and his ability to play in many differ­ent genres. While playing in a band called Gertrude that opened for Hello Dave, Orant began sitting in with them as a guest and has just never left. Now as a full member of the band, Orant helps to pull it all together into the fun and original sound that Hello Dave has become known for. 
Hello Dave played at Heartland a few years ago, attracting a large crowd, who seemed to enjoy the band's music. 
"We haven't played for a couple weeks, since we took some time off after recording the new album, so we are excited to play again," said Himebaugh. 
Hello Dave will play their show begin­ning at 9 p.m. Friday night at Legends. Admission is free and requires a Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross ID. 
For more information about Hello Dave, visit the band's official website at www.hellodave.com, or to sample some of their music at www.freshtracksmu­sic.com. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 

Courtesy of www.hellodave.com Hello Dave shared Its talents around the country on the Fresh Tracks Bands Across America Tour 2000 on April 1, seen here at the VIc Theatre In Chicago. 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Thursday, November 13, 2003 
Page 11 

Offering a fresh approach to music file sharing 
FreshTracksMusic.com is a convenient, cheap and legal source ofMP3s as well as a great place to be introduced to the latest names in music 
on the FreshTracks label. which is dis­just as important
By SARAH VABULAS 
tributed through Warner Brothers. is quality. The 
Scene Ediwr 
"It's an all-you-can-eat buffet for music has to be music downloading," Wanzung said. "It excellent. 
Chicago-based FreshTracksMusic costs about $3 a month or $36 a year. FreshTracksMusic might have stumbled upon the answer You can listen to anything and download is like a Top 40 of for a music industry looking for a way to what you like. We post samples that you independent truly reconnect with the file-sharing can download. It is a simple, friendly bands. generation of new music fans. and easy way to download and be legal. And don't worry. The new music firmly upheld, Schaumloffel adds, "We 
By combining a legal, powerful music When you sign up. we'll even send you a junkies at FreshTracksMusic have have handpicked a team of diverse ears download alternative to file-sharing pro­free CD of your choice from the Fresh demonstrated their uncanny ability to that all share a common identity grow­grams such as Kazaa with a decade of Tracks catalog." find bands that end up becoming the ing up as 'that one friend' who always experience and enduring relationships New members of Fresh Tracks will mainstream. knows about cool new bands before the across the national music landscape, receive as part of their deal. a free copy Having worked for over the last 7 rest of the class." FreshTracksMusic is poised to capture of any CD in the FreshTracksMusic cata­years with who are now some of today's "This is not your average digital down­what co-founders John Wanzung and log. They will be biggest names, load service," said Wanzung. "FTM Kip Schaumloffel saw as the most valu­asked to browse including Creed, offers everyone from high school stu­able segment of today's music industry. the catalog and let "It's an all-you-can-eat buffet O.A.R., Dispatch, dents to the person who was at 
"FreshTracksMusic is about building a us know which CD for music downloading. It is a Jack Johnson, Woodstock a unique and totally legal lis­community on-and off-line where music they want, and we String Cheese tening and downloading experience." 
simple, friendly and easy way
fans feel that they will always be able to will send it to them Incident and many Memberships come chock full of incen­lind something cool to listen to and/or as part of their gift to download and be legal." others, before their tives too. At $36 for a year of unlimited download," Wanzung said. membership. mainstream debuts, MP3 downloads makes And that's what they have done. At the heart of FreshTracksMusic FreshTracksMusic one of the coolest.
John Wazung 
Launched in July 2003, FTM has been their early success, has demonstrated most affordable new music download 
co-founder
steadily getting the word out through a number of factors its ability to stay gifts available. grassroots channels to build a credible have come into ahead of the curve It is no secret that one of the biggest foundation of new members that play. First, FTM by finding music gifts for this holiday season will be MP3 appears to be picking up steam as they believes that downloading should be an early that is destined for greatness. players like Apple's iPod digital music head into the upcoming holiday season. "all-you-can-eat" type of experience. So, FreshTracksMusic is always ready to tell device. But with what music and how 
FreshTracksMusic started seven years for about 10 cents a day, members of you what's about to be huge. are people going to fill their iPods? ago. Wanzung received a business FreshTracksMusic can download unre­"With recent additions to the FTM Hub "It's a great gift for people to give for degree from Vanderbilt University and stricted MP3s of anything in the FTM like Brian Vander Ark [lead singer of the holiday season," Wanzung said. "For was the social chair at his fraternity, catalog. And unlike Kazaa. The Verve Pipe]. Slightly Stoopid, Craig 36 bucks for the year. and we're always booking many bands. After taking a few FreshTracksMusic is fully licensed and Honeycutt [lead singer of Everything]. adding killer, new bands, you can give years ofT to ski in Colorado, Wanzung legal. So there will be no lawsuits from Ari Hest. Pomeroy and over 50 more someone a gift they will use. If you're became the Manager of FreshTracks organizations like the RIAA, or the incredible new artists," Schaumloffel looking for the perfect gift, think about band, Hello Dave, and then hooked up Recording Industry Association of said, "we feel like there is already a FreshTracks. We will send them a card with Schaumloffel. becoming partners. America. ridiculous catalog of music that will and a free CD so they will have some­
During the 1996 Summer Olympics in There are no per-track fees like those quickly win over even the most discrimi­thing to open, too." Atlanta, Wanzung decided to start on iTunes or BuyMusic and the catalog nating music fan ... FTM spends the exposing great, new music to fans every­includes entire COs, live shows and majority of its time finding and featuring where. And so FreshTracksMusic began. exclusive recordings from a rapidly only what is worthy of it's members' 
"It started as an 'of the month' type of growing list of today's coolest new ears. In other words, it's like a fully Contact Sarah Vabulas deal." Wanzung said. "We sent two COs bands. And unlike the new Napster, once downloadable Top 50 catalog of inde­at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu in the mail each month. Creed was the you download the tracks, they are yours. pendent bands first band we sent out. We stopped doing even if you decide not to renew your without the mail order and went digital when the membership. cheesy, pop market turned that way. It used to be FreshTracksMusic features entire COs, overtones." free music, but we had to go to subscrip­Live shows and other exclusive record­And to tion." ings from today's coolest new bands ensure that 
FreshTracksMusic.com features many from across the country. FTM's quality independent bands, some of which are The second major factor, and certainly of music is 
Courtesy of www.treshtracksmuslc.com 

FreshTracksMuslc helps to share the music of bands like Blue Dogs by offering a buffet-like for­Arl Hest Is one of the many rising names that 
mat, sharing all Its MP3s for a fixed monthly price and offering a legal alternative to file sharing. FreshTracksMuslc features on Its "Singer/Songwriter" section. 
Thursday, November 13, 2003 
page 12 The Observer+ SPORTS 
NBA 

Spurs dominate over Nets in Finals rematch 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. ­Much like the NBA Finals, the New Jersey Nets had no answer for Tim Duncan -even with Jason Kidd producing a triple­double. 
Duncan had a season-high 31 points and 12 rebounds and the defending champion San Antonio Spurs defeated the Nets 85-71 Wednesday night in the first meeting between the teams since the championship round. 
Tony Parker added 17 points in just his second game of the season and Manu Ginobili had 12 points and eight rebounds as the Spurs won their second straight game since Duncan and Parker returned to the lineup. 
Kidd, who spurned a free agent offer from the Spurs in the offseason, had 14 points, 13 assists and 12 rebounds for his second triple-double of the sea­son and the 52nd of his career. 
Kenyon Martin added 14 points and 10 rebounds in his first game since spraining his left ankle Oct. 31. 
The Nets also couldn't over­come long stretches of cold shooting -another reminder of what happened in the finals when New Jersey allowed San Antonio to go on a series-decid­ing 19-0 run in Game 6. 
A 3-for-14 slump at the end of the second quarter came during a 21-5 spurt that gave the Spurs a 49-33 halftime lead. 
Parker started the run with four straight points, Duncan added six and Malik Rose had five, including a tip just before the halftime buzzer. 
The disappointingly small crowd of 13,286 was starting to grumble when the game turned on a spectacular block by Martin early in the third quarter. 
Duncan got the rebound in the lane and went up for a jump hook with his arm fully extend­ed. Martin came from the base­line and blocked the shot well above the rim, swatting the ball into the stands. 
The block got the Nets and the fans back in the game. New Jersey closed the quarter with a 17-4 run to pull to 63-56. The deficit was reduced to three points in the fourth quarter, the last time at 67-64 on a jumper by Martin in the lane. 

Miami 88, Cleveland 83 
Eddie Jones scored 25 points and Lamar Odom added 14 points and 10 assists, helping Miami become the final NBA team to break into the victory column with an 88-83 win over Cleveland on Wednesday night. 
LeBron James had 18 points on 6-of-15 shooting for Cleveland, which lost its 26th straight road game since February ami failed in its bid for the franchise's first three-game winning streak since April 2002. 
Zydrunas Ilgauskas added 20 points for the Cavaliers and Carlos Boozer had a game-high 16 rebounds. 
The Heat lost their first seven games, the franchise's worst start since going 0-17 to open its inaugural season, 1988-89. They missed their last five field goal attempts against Cleveland, giving the Cavaliers plenty of chances to pull off a late rally. 
But James was stifled on three key possessions, first committing an offensive foul while driving with 2:08 left, then getting a shot blocked by Udonis Haslem with 1:30 remaining. 
James also failed to handle a quick pass from Ilgauskas with 
18.5 seconds left, committing Cleveland's eighth turnover of the final quarter. 
Cleveland further hurt itself by making only 17 of 30 free throws. 
Miami held Cleveland to one field goal in the fmal 6:52 of the third quarter, turning a 61-60 deficit into a 72-65 lead entering the final period. 
DwyaneWade made two big plays to fuel the quarter-ending burst. He rose well above the rim to block James' layup attempt with 5:15 left in the third, sparking a fast-break bas­ket by Haslem for a 66-61 edge. 
With 1:09 left in the quarter, Wade rebounded his own missed baseline jumper and put down a two-handed dunk to give Miami a 72-64lead-its biggest 

Reuters 
Duncan reaches to block the ball during the game Wednesday. Duncan was a key asset to the Spurs, Including reaclng a season high 31 points and 12 rebounds. 
of the game at that point. 9-of-12 on free throws down the their superior front court to 
In the fourth, any chance stretch. dominate the game and closed it Cleveland had to rally was taken Rose started in place of Eddie out with a 15-0 run featuring away by turnovers. James was Robinson after coming off the two 3-pointers by Posey and one wide open from 18 feet with bench in Chicago's previous two by Jay Williams. 
4:35 remaining, but never got contests. McGrady scored with 6:42 the chance to shoot after the Chicago led 23-21 after the remaining, giving the Magic Cavaliers were whistled for a first period led by 12 points their last lead, 89-87. It was his three-second violation. from Kendall Gill, who was 5-of-only basket of the fourth period, 
6 from the floor in the opening and McGrady limped off in the Chicago 89, Boston 82 period. final seconds with a strained 
Jalen Rose scored 20 points The Celtics took their final tendon in his left ankle. and Eddy Curry added 16 points lead of the night, 44-42, on a 3-The Magic held a 47-37 and 14 rebounds Wednesday pointer by James with 1:18 left rebounding edge, but their lack night as the Chicago Bulls in the second period. Rose of balance cost them. Orlando is defeated the Celtics 89-82 for responded with a 3-pointer on off to the worst home start (0-6) their third road victory, match­Chicago's next possession. and in franchise history. ing their total from last season. the Bulls led 47-44 at the break. Mike Miller, who was traded 
Chicago's third straight road James had 18 points and from Orlando to Memphis last win improved the Bulls to 3-1 Pierce 14 for the Celtics, whose season, fouled out in just 12 on the road. They finished 3-38 modest two-gamewinning minutes after scoring eight away from the home in 2002-streak was snapped. points. 
03. Memphis led 55-49 at inter­
The Bulls never led by more Memphis 107, Orlando 97 mission despite a 25-point first than seven points in the second Memphis Grizzlies withstood a half by McGrady. half until Jamal Crawford season-high 36 points from McGrady gave the crowd a capped an 11-2 run with a Tracy McGrady and handed the scare in the second period when jumper and a 3-pointer that Orlando Magic their seventh he crashed to the floor holding gave the Bulls a 76-65 lead with cons~;cutive loss. 107-97 his left knee. After being helped 9:31left. Wednesday night. off the court, he returned. 
The Celtics responded with a Forwards Pau Gasol and The Magic, much like they 13-4 spurt, and Mike James James Posey had 28 and 24 have throughout their losing made his sixth 3-pointer of the points, respectively, in leading streak, struggled badly at the night with 4:12 left to pull the Grizzlies to their second start by missing their first 11 Boston to 80-78. But Paul Pierce road win of the season. shots. Memphis led 10-0 missed a fadeaway jumper, and The Grizzlies, who beat the beforeMcGrady hit a pair of free the Bulls pulled away by going Lakers on Monday night, used throws. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

FoR RENT 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272­1525 
2 Nice Bedrooms: 1 double, i two signle. Immediately East of the Campus for Game Weekends Only. $80 per person/per night. Call 272­0928 
HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS­ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004­2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 614 S. ST.JOSEPH 8 BED­ROOMS-214 S. STPETER 4 BEDRROMS-718 E. WASHING­TON ST. 2 BEDROOMS. CALL KRAMER AT 234-2436 OR 315-5032 
4 bedroom house. 1136 E Madison. Close to campus, ample parking, AC, huge yard. Contact Mike (216) 408-0780 or Matt (216) 408.0744 if interested 
2 bdrm home, walk to NO 315-8730 

HOTEL ROOM-BYU game; SAT Nov. 15; Red Roof Mishawaka $190 no markup. Steve 518-330­3818. 
Two story house completely remod­eled 2003. Off street parking includes motion sensor light lor security. Four individually locked bedrooms, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student housing, laundromat next door (drycleaning also), basement avail­able lor storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigera­tor, large living room lor TV or entertaining, free trash removal. Call 289-4072. 
NOTICES 

#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in Acapulco now otters 3 destinations! Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get crazy in Cabo·-with BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. Organize a group and travel for FREE. Book now before its too latel Call 800-875-4525 or www.bianci-rossi.com. 
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski &Beach Trips on sale nowl www.sunchase.com or caii1-800-SUNCHASE today! 
ACT NOWIBook 11 people, get 12th trip free. Group discounts lor 6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com or 800·838·8202. 
Doglegleftnews.com "Putting the Pathetic in Apathetic' Brought to you by NDStudents and Alumni 
Vector/Cutco Worklorstudents.com 574-282-2357 

TICKETS 
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT· ED-TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232­2378 PM 288-2726 
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR 
SALE AM -232·2378 PM -288­
2726 
WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232­0964. 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570. 
Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ Pay Top Dollar $$1-866-808-0990 
Buy/Sell Notre Dame Football tick­ets 574-289-8048 
"LOOKING FOR FOOTBALL TIX" ND@Cuse Need at least 2. Will pay BIG $$$$ to get these. Call212.723.6585 or 917.846.8865 if U have tix to sell. 
Stanford tix 4 together + another pair for sale.FACE VALUE obo.l will pay shipping.607-336-7218 
I need NO/UK & ND/IU b-ball tix. 273·9938 


WANTED 
Part time/Full time opportunity for honest, motivated, success minded individual. Exciting !-Commerce internet based business. Contact: waynew54@ pronetglobal.com 
Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO exper. required. All looks and ages. Earn $100-$500 a day. 1-888-820-0167, ext. U187 
Event Staffing $8 hr./pm & week­ends Call lor details 245-61 01 Ampco System Parking 

PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. II you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
A "Reality• Spring Break 2004s Hottest prices Book now. Free Trips, Meals & Parties sunsplashtours.com or 1800·426-771 0 
''" IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY "" Build your dream home next to Notre Dame. A limited num­ber of home sites are available. For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com 
Happy day before your birthday to Ms.Legal Tomorrow Vicky Lee. And Happy birthday tomorrow! 
FOR SALE 

99 Chevy Lumina LTZ. 4dr,leather,power,cruise,CD,3.8­Iitre V6 w/115k. 20/26mpg. $5500. 283-0708. 
LARGE, ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu 
Retro 5-piece bedroom suite, blonde mahogany/oak; $550. Oak entertainment center; $800. All items exc. cond. 269-687-8924 
Thursday, November 13, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 13 
MLB 

McKeon, Pena earn Manager of the Year honors in 2003 


Live M.lsic w/ Er"ic at Guitar 
Thursday 32 oz. Specia1s 
ND vs . BYU Game 
Friday 
Headquarters 


Saturday 
Open at 10: oo am on Saturday morning 

Sunday 
Night -all you can ret ruffet 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Jack McKeon calls himself an "old goat." He can add "wise." 
The 72-year-old manager of the Florida Marlins was voted NL Manager of the Year for the second time after transforming a last-place team into a World Series champion. 
"This is something that topped off all the good things that happened to us this year," he said Wednesday after the voting was announced. 
Kansas City's Tony Pena won the AL honor after the Royals rebounded from their first 100­loss season to stay in contention until the final week. 
McKeon received 19 of 32 first-place votes and 116 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers'' Association of America, becoming the first manager to win the award after taking over a team during the season. 
He is the third-oldest in major· league history, trailing Hall of Famers Connie Mack (88) and Casey Stengel (75). He thanked the Marlins for hiring him. 
"They had the courage to go out and hire an old goat like me," he said in Miami. "I want­ed one more crack." 
Florida was 16-22 when McKeon replaced Jeff Torborg on May 11. The Marlins dropped to 10 games under .500 on May 22, falling into the NL East cellar, then rebounded to finish 91-71 and win the NL wild card. 
"When I came in here, I didn't think they were having any fun," McKeon said. His solution was to tell his team to "play it like a kids' game." 
Voting took place before the postseason, when Florida upset San Francisco in the first round, overcame a 3-1 deficit to beat the Cubs in the NL champi­onship series, then rebounded from a 2-1 deficit to beat the 


NEVER STOP EXPLORINGTM 
A thick ~eece coat is perfect 
for winter. Ask any yak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 

Denali Jacket 
3602 N. Grape Road Mishawaka, Indiana 
259-1000 


·auTPD!iT Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo om-9:00pm~ Sot: 1o:oo om-B:oo pmCold Weather Experts Sun.: 12:00 pm -6:oopm 
"How the ScotsJrish :Became '\Vbite: An Iri~h andAmeriean Tale'~ 
·PitrickGriftln .·..... 

Ohio ttn.IvetsttY · 
Friday, November 14, 2003 
•. •··.·.·. 3;00 pA;hX ..•.. ·... / . L ..... ··.. •
AuditoriwnJ f!esburgh Ce.nteifbr International Peace Studies 

New York Yankees in the World Series. It was McKeon's fii'st time in the postseason. 
He started in professional baseball as a player in 1949 and became a manager six years later. His major league managing career began in 1973 with Kansas City, and he went on to manage Oakland. San Diego and Cincinnati. 
"The biggest thing I think I've learned is patience and under­standing today's young players and realizing these guys are looking for someone to guide them," McKeon said. "They're looking for instruction and they're looking for motivation." 
Dusty Baker, a three-time winner of the award, finished second with 62 points after leading the Cubs to the NL Central title in his first season as Chicago's manager. 
"I like Jack. He earned it," Baker said, saying Syracuse basketball coach Jim Boeheim put things in perspective during an interview a few days ago. 
"He was saying it took him 27 years to win a championship. I'm on No. 12 now. Jack is on what? Fifty-something?" Baker said. "Whoo! Lord have mercy. I don't have nothing to be sad about. Nothing." 
McKeon is not thinking about retirement any time soon. 
''I'm not going to go home and sit in the rocking chair and drive that tractor," he said. "I hope to do it as long as I'm healthy enough and feel it's still enjoyable." 
Pena was an overwhelming choice for the AL award, getting 24 first-place votes and 130 points. Minnesota's Ron Gardenhire was second with four firsts and 44 points. 
"When they told me, I got on my knees to thank God. Then I cried with my family," Pena said in a telephone interview from his home in Santiago, Dominican Republic. "There are no words to describe what I feel." 
After the unexpected success this season, Pena thinks more will be expected· from Kansas City next year. 
"Everybody believes we have a good chance to win." he said. 
Pena, 46, took over the Royals in May 2002 and Kansas City finished 62-100. The Royals won their·first nine games this year, got off to a 16-3 start and were 51-41 at the All-Star break, leading the AL Central by seven games. 
But they slumped in the sec­
ond half and wound up 83-79, 
their first winning season since 
1994. Kansas City used 29 
pitchers, including an AL-high 
15 starters. and set a team 
record by using 53 players. 
"We did not run out of bullets. 
we just ran out of time," Pena 
said. 
He is only the second 
Dominican to win manager of 
the year. Felipe Alou, who 
replaced Baker in San 
Francisco after the 2002 sea­
son, was NL Manager of the 
Year in 1994, when he was with 
Montreal. 
"Felipe was the one that 
opened the gate for us," he 
said. "Dominicans. and all 
Latinos, are showing that we 
can take on large responsibili­
ties in baseball. We know how 
to do more than throw hard or 
hit well." 


Thursday, November 13, 2003
page 14 

The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 ministry.t@nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu




Can1pus Ministry C-M 
• 

Freshman

51 
now 
Get involved, go on a retreat 

Retreat #so 

More info & applications in Room114-and 
December s-6

online at campusministry.nd.edu 
Sign up deadline: November 28 


what' ha enin 
saturdav 11. 1s 
Handbell Clr1oir CD Release Concert 
The Notre Dame Handbe/1 choir and instrumentalists will debut their new recording, "Echoes ofJoy" 
to:oo a.m. Eck Visitors' Center 

sunday 11.16 
RCIA Session 
10:00 a.m. -:11:30 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge · 


tuesday 11. 18 
Campus BiiJle Study 
7:00 p.m. -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse 

tuesday (cont.) 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 

wednesday 11. 19 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 8:oop.m. Wilson Commons 
The Gospel according to Bono: Pray with Africa 
Presented by Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
1o:oo p.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Theology on Tap 
10:00 p.m. -11:30 p.m. Legends 
help ~?nd poverty in Africa 

~FZD.Y ~VITI--I 




FRICA 
WEDNESOAY Nov. 19 10PM CoMo louNGE 
Our response to ... the Church and peoples of ~~ enab!es us to express love "in deed and in twth4f. ~·-J~~18)J alove that creates no borders 

its to what might be accomplished .·.together in Christ 
, ~LL~1LNT or 
mass schedule 

Main Office·· (CoMo 319) & Retreats Office (CoMo 114), Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. CM Welcome Center (room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight. 

considerations... 
Unlimited Minutes 
Can You Hear Me Now? 
by Chandra johnson Assistant Director, Cross Cultural Ministry 
Just about everyone these days has a cell phone clipped to their waist or nestled in their backpack. Even I have one. Although I must admit I'm still a novice user. It took me three months to figure out that by pressing the little button on the side of the phone, I could hear better. I wasn't losing my hearing after all! And I continue to be amazed when each time I flip up the pad protector; a voice always asks, "Who would you like to call?" Compact, practical, and indispensable, the cell phone keeps our family, friends and the entire world at our finger­tips twenty-four hours a day. What a blessing. Or is it? 
When I drive around campus, I can't help but notice students walking with one hand over their ear and head pointed toward the ground. You're in deep conversation with someone who, at that moment, has your undivided attention. Instant access is a modern marvel indeed, however, I often wonder if its utilization has ushered out the age ofcontemplation and ushered in an age of modern self-segregation? 
I raised the cell phone craze with a group ofstudents last week and somehow we got on.the subject of intuition and wisdom, and how you get it. We began to evaluate the many layers of our lives and how it is becoming harder and harder to settle down to pray. How does one shut out the BlackBerry world to hear the voice of reason when making decisions? How do we know when the edge is closer than we think? How do we feel God and not the pressured anxiety of the next meeting or class? 
I reminded them that the word "cell" did not always mean "cellular telephone". Once upon a time it referred to a cave, a prayer space where one could be still to hear the voice and subtle wisdom of God. In fact, monasticism, as we know it today, began almost two thousand years ago in the cave cells of Egypt. First-century Christian men and women left the cities to contemplate what it meant to be a follower ofJesus Christ, and much of what they gleaned from the solitude provided the rubric for later ascetic and mystical writings. Their cave experience was the place where wisdom spoke. 
The first reading for today's Mass is taken from the Book ofWisdom: "In wisdom is a spirit intelligent, holy, unique, clear, unhampered, beneficent, kindly, firm, secure, tranquil, all powerful, all-seeing ... [nor [w]isdom is mobile beyond all motion, and she penetrates and pervades all things by reason of her purity. (7:22b-8:1) Wisdom's fluidity points to the ques­tion in today's gospel where Jesus is asked by the Pharisees when the Kingdom of God will come. Jesus answers, "The coming of the Kingdom ofGod cannot be observed, and no one will announce [it]. For behold, the Kingdom ofGod is among you." (Luke 17:20-25) Among whom? Where? How will we know it and what does it look like? In today's Mass, we are comforted in knowing that wisdom is everywhere, we just haye to stop long enough to listen for and recognize her counsel. The Kingdom of which Jesus speaks is right before our eyes. It is among us. It is in us. It is mobile, flawless and travels with us everywhere. It is all we know God to be. It is the peace ofJesus Christ. It is the power of the Spirit . 
As we prepare for the Advent Season, let us engage in a renewed rite ofcommunica­tion. Let us use our unlimited minutes to call up God, contemplate Christ, and embrace the Spirit within. There is an entire library ofwisdom inside ofyou just waiting to reveal itself as your life in motion. Go to it and trust that all you desire to be is within reach. The measure of your hard work will be revealed when you least expect. 
So now ... who would you like to call? Take a moment to have a conversation with God. Go to the Grotto, your dorm chapel, the Basilica, the silence of your room-anywhere you can find peace and quiet. And sit. Be silent. Be still. Go within and listen quietly. "Can you hear me now? Good." 
33'd Sunday in Ordinary Time 
basHka of the sacred heart 
Saturday Vigil Mass 
30 minutes after the game 
Most Rev. Daniel R. Jenky, c.s.c. Bishop of Peoria, Illinois 
45 minutes after the game 
(Stepan Center) Rev. William D. Seetch, c.s.c. 

Sunday 
8:ooa.m. 
Rev. Rev. Thomas E. Blantz, c.s.c. 
1o:oo a.m. 
Most Rev. John M. D'Arcy Bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend 

1st: Daniel12:1-3 
.·----------------------------­
around campus (every Sunday) 
11:45 p.m.  1:30  p.m.  
Most Rev. Robert N. Lynch  Spanish Mass  
Bishop of St. Petersburg, FL  St. Edward's Hall Chapel  
s:oo  p.m.  
Law School Mass  
Law School Chapel  

2nd: Hebrews 10:11-14, 18 Gospel: Mark 13:24-32 
7:00 p.m. 
MBA Mass 
Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 

____. 
-~--~-----­

Thursday, November I 3, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page I 5 
NFL 

· Vick practices for first time since leg injury 


APPlications for the 2004 Chair of THE SHOW are available. NOW!!! 
APPlications areavailable in theStudentActivities OHice 
naFortune 3151 APPiicauonsare Due onTuesdav, November18th 
THE SHOW is an annual campus-\\~de concert that kicks offthe school year with excitement and great entertainn1ent. The event fosters conununitybuilding and unites students from Notre Dmne, Saint !\1ary's, and Holy Cross. 
Questions-Contact Erin Byrne at 1x7308 or ebyrne2@nd.edu 
Associated Press 
FLOWERY BRANCH, Ga. ­He worked with the scout team. He kept his running in low gear. There were no dazzling moves, no 70-yard passes. 
Still, this was a significant breakthrough. 
Michael Vick was back. 
The Atlanta Falcons quarter­back practiced Wednesday for the first time since breaking his right leg in a preseason game, raising hopes that he'll soon be ready to play. He has set Nov. 30 in Houston as his target. 
"I think I handled it pretty well," Vick said after the two­hour practice. "Toward the end, it got kind of sore on me. But that's what I expected. That's a good thing." 
The rest of the team was already on the field when Vick trotted out from the locker room, wearing his No. 7 jersey and carrying his shoulder pads. At least a dozen cameramen and photographers documented every step. 
Practice was uneventful. Vick served as the third-team quar­terback behind Kurt Kittner and Doug Johnson, which meant working with the scout team and backups. 
At times, Vick appeared to be favoring his leg, and he didn't show off any of his celebrated running skills. Still, the Falcons were glad to have him back in uniform. 
"I didn't have any expecta­tions because I really didn't know how much he could do," coach Dan Reeves said. "I was definitely pleased that he did as much as he did." 
No one was more pumped up than Vick. 
"I asked him how he felt," Reeves said. "He said, 'Coach, I couldn't sleep last night. I was so excited to come out and start practicing.' That's what showed up -the excitement he had all day long." 
Wright to start Sunday for Ravens 
Anthony Wright will start at quarterback for the Baltimore Ravens on Sunday, jumping from third string to replace the 




~r~~~ 
onlyat -=-~ 

Sminutes~
from 
CUT'PCS'T 
Campus 
Cal1259·1ooo for more details 


injured Kyle Boller. 
Wright's start against the Miami Dolphins will be his first since October 2001, when he played in four games with the Dallas Cowboys before a knee injury landed him on injured reserve. 
Ravens coach Brian Billick said Wednesday that Wright's mobility in the pocket earned him the job over Chris Hedman, who was sacked five times and fumbled twice in relief of Boller in a 33-22 loss to St. Louis on Sunday night. 
"That's a tough situation for Chris, but the reason we're going with Anthony Wright is that right now Anthony's physi­cal attributes fit better with what we're doing," Billick said. "That's not Chris' fault; it's just a matter of Anthony's athleti­cism. That's the primary thing. He fits more with what we do in both our running and passing game." 
Wright or Redman, it makes no difference to the Dolphins, who are preparing for a clash with the NFL's leading rusher, Jamal Lewis, and the league's top-ranked running game. 
"It's not going to change our preparation a bit," Miami line­backer Junior Seau said. 'They have a great running back in Jamal, and he's going to be our focal point." 
Jacksonville picks up Johnson off waivers 
When top-line receiver Kevin Johnson became available Wednesday, the Jacksonville Jaguars had a few questions. 
First among them: How soon could Johnson get to town? 
Continuing their nonstop search for receiving help, the Jaguars signed Johnson, the fifth-year veteran who led Cleveland in receptions this sea­son, but was surprisingly released by the Browns on Tuesday. 
To make room, Jacksonville released J .J. Stokes, once viewed as a possible answer to their problems. but who had only 13 catches this year and spent a good portion of the sea­son on the inactive list. 
Browns coach Butch Davis wasn't happy with Johnson's performance of late, but the Jaguars weren't too concerned. 
"Like we do with all players, we researched it, and we feel pretty satisfied with the player changing scenery," player per­sonnel director James llarris said. "He's getting an opportu­nity to get a fresh start." 
Johnson arrives Thursday, and soon after, coach Jack Del Rio will decide whether to acti­vate him for Sunday's game against Tennessee. 

.---------------------------------·------­
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, November 13, 2003 
NFL 

Associated Press 

ALAMEDA, Calif. -Rich Gannon, last yf,ar's NFL MVP, will miss the re:;;t of the season and have surgery on his throw­ing shoulder. 
The Oakland Raiders placed the quarterback on injured reserve Wednesday. 
The 37-year-old Gannon attempted to throw with his right shoulder Tuesday for the first time since getting knocked out of Oakland's 17-10 loss to Kansas City on Oct. 20. He was able to raise his arm to throw, but couldn't release the ball, coach Bill Callahan said. 
Gannon, a 16-year veteran, flew home to Minnesota ou 
interceptions and was sacked 17 times for a subpar 73.5 quarter­back rating. 
He struggled this season com­ing off his MVP year in 2002, when he led the league's top offense as the Raiders won their third straight AFC West title and reached the Super Bowl for the first time in 20 years. 
Last season, Gannon broke the NFL completions record with 
418. He led the league with 4,689 yards passing, nearly becoming just the second quar­terback to go over 5,000 in a season. Dan Marino threw for 5,084 yards in 1984. 
Gannon completed 67.6 per­cent of his attempts, had 26 touchdowns passes and only 10 
intercep­tions. His 
Wednesday to "It's extremely tough to 97.3 rating be examined by was second
lose a player ofthis
the same doctor in the NFL to
caliber.,,

who performed the Jets' his shoulder C h a d surgery after his Pennington.
Bill Callahan

1993 season He also
Raiders Head Coach

w i t h Washington. He missed all of the · 1994 season and then was released by the Redskins. 
Callahan wouldn't go as far as saying the torn labrum is a career-ending injury and expects Gannon to play in 2004 for the Raiders, who are 2-7 and off to their worst start since 1964. 
"It's extremely tough to lose a player of this caliber," Callahan said. "What he provides this team not only with his play, but his leadership and preparation, to have the MVP of the league miss almost half the season is disappointing. He feels bad. If there's anybody who wants to get back on the field, it's Rich Gannon." 
Gannon was hurt in the first half against the Chiefs following two sacks by linebacker Shawn Barber and several other hard hits. 
With backup Marques Tuiasosopo also out for the year with a knee injury, Rick Mirer will be the starter for the last seven games. 
"It's kind of the tale of our s'eason," said Pro Bowl right tackle Lincoln Kennedy, one of the Raiders' team leaders. "It's just the way things have gone. A lot of people we kind of counted on and had high expectations for the season are no longer with us.... Right now, the team is fighting for survival." 
Gannon was 125-of-225 for 1,274 yards, six touchdowns and a completion percentage of 
55.6 this season. He threw four 
i 
I 
threw for 
more than 
300 yards in 
10 games, another record. 
"To lose a leader like that is really hard," Kennedy said. "I know it's harder on him. I've seen him the last couple days and it was hard for him to come to this decision." 
''I'm not surprised. I kind of expected it -not only when it happened, but the fact he was unable to come back the last couple weeks." 
Callahan is holding out hope that Gannon would be ready by spring minicamps. If not, his future with this franchise could be uncertain, because he's scheduled to make $7 million next season. 
"I feel terrible for him," Callahan said. "If there's any­body capable of coming back from injury and fighting through it and getting back on the field, 
enonJ'10LlS 
FLEECE 
Selecti:'• 
~ 
from CUTPCS'T 
Campus s or s 
Cold Weather Expert• 
Cal1259·1ooo for more details 
MLB 
Cletnens retiretnent to go forward 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK With thoughts of an Olympic medal now gone, Roger Clemens insisted his retirement will go forward as planned. 
"No scenario," Clemens said Wednesday when asked what might entice him to pitch next season. ''I'm retired." 
''I'll come back and be a really expensive batting prac­tice pitcher and then, if somebody goes down, then they can work on me." 
The future Hall of Farner acknowledged that he had thoughts of pitching for the 
U.S. Olympic baseball team before the defending gold­medal champions were elimi­nated from a qualifying tour­nament in Panama last week. 
"''m shaking my head just like everyone else that they're going to have an Olympics and we, the United States, is not going to be rep­resented there," Clemens said. "That's kind of a shame." 
An Olympic medal is about the only thing missing from Clemens' resume. He is base­ball's only six-time Cy Young Award winner, 17th on the all-time list with 310 victories and third with 4,099 strike­outs. He also has two World Series rings. 
Clemens said that his agents wanted to make him available as a free agent ­his name was officially filed last week -but the plan didn't get far. 
"I heard that and immedi­ately my four boys picked up my option and said 'You're staying here,"' Clemens said. 
Another person expecting 
to be home when next season rolls around is Don Zimmer, the fiery former bench coach who famously rushed Boston pitcher Pedro Martinez on the field, and left the Yankees after saying he felt unappre­ciated by owner George Steinbrenner. 
Calling speculation that he may end up with Tampa Bay "propaganda," Zimmer said, ''I'll probably be at home sit­ting on the boat dock" next year. 
Still uncertain is the future of pitching coach Mel Stottlemyre. Yankees manag­er Joe Torre said he expects to hear by the end of this week if Stottlemyre plans to be back for next season or not. 
"I don't have a gut feeling," Torre said about what he believes Stottlemyre's deci­sion will be. 

The event is FiEE! 

Just in tlme :for Thanksgiving break... 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, November 13, 2003 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S \VJRE SERVlCES page 17 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
ESPNJUSA Today 
team 

1 Conneetteut 2 Duke 
3 T&U$ 4 Tennessee 5 Kall$ilS Stale 6 Texas Teeh 
1 Stanford 8 Penn Slate 9 Purdue 10 lSU 
11 G&OI'<Jia 
12 loul$lana Tetll 13 Minnesota 14 North CarCIIIna 15 Ohio State 16 NOTI:lE DAME 16 !Mg&r$ 18 Santa Barbara 19 Utah 20 Colorado 21 Oklahoma Z2 Arizona· 23 TCU 24 Vlfglnla 25 Auburn 
1 
2 
3 4 5 6 7 SytaCU$8 
8 Florida .,,,·:·:·:·:':'?':'·'::::'''''' 9 l(entucky 1o North Caronna 
11 Texas 1l GOntaga 13 Illinois 14 WISCOII$111 15 OklahOma 16 lOUISville 16 Slanlofd 18 St.Josepb's 19 Cinclnaau 
20 NOTRE DAM£ 21 Wake Forest . 22 Pittsburgh 23 Marqueue 24 Oklahoma state 
25 Maryland 


around the dial 
NBA 

Bulls at Celtics 1 p.m., FOXCH 22 Rockets at Mavericks 7:30 p.m., TNT Kings at Trail Blazers 10 p.m., TNT 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Memphis at Wake Forest 7 p.m., ESPN2 Marquette at St. John's 9 p.m., ESPN2 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL Virginia at Maryland 7:30 p.m., ESPN 
GOLF WGC World Cup 2 p.m., ESPN 

MOTORCYCLE RACING AMA Red Bull Supermoto 10 p.m., OUTL 
TENNIS Masters Cup 3 p.m., ESPN2 


Associated Press 

OXFORD, Ohio -Ben Roethlisberger passed for 282 yards and two touch­downs through a howling wind Wednesday night, leading No. 23 Miami of Ohio to a 45-6 victory that ended Marshall's domi­nance of the Mid-American Conference. 
Playing with their first national ranking since 1976, the RedHawks (9-1, 6-0) got their ninth straight victory and their most meaningful one yet. 
Marshall (6-4, 4-2) had won all six MAC East titles since the league split into two divisions in 1997. 
Miami's win clinched the title and a berth in the con­ference's championship game. 
There were no clashes during a wind-blown game that had bitter undertones from last year, when quar­terback Stan Hill's 1-yard run with 5 seconds left gave the Thundering Herd a 36-34 victory in Huntington, West Virginia. 
Fans stormed the field and Miami defensive coor­dinator Jon Wauford was Jed away in handcuffs, accused of knocking down a fan. Wauford resigned after the season, and a charge of misdemeanor battery later was dropped. 
Linebackers coach Taver Johnson also was disci­plined for damaging the visiting coaches' box at the end of the game. 
Three sacurity officers stood watch over Marshall coach Bob Pruett on the field Wednesday. Most of the crowd of 26,286 had left by game's end. 
Roethlisberger had no problems throwing in a gusting wind that whistled through the end zone bleachers, making the goalpost uprights sway by more than a foot. 
He put Miami ahead to stay with a 14-yard touch­down pass to Matt Brandt on a game-opening drive into the wind and finished it off with a 10-yard TD pass in the fourth quarter. 
The junior quarterback joined Marshall's Chad Pennington and Byron Leftwich as the only MAC players to throw for 3,000 yards in three seasons. 
Hoethlisberger, who com­pleted 18 of 29 passes, also made the game's signature play, putting his head down and running over line­backer Gladstone Coke for a 14-yard gain that kept the opening drive going. 
By contrast, Marshall's Graham Gochneaur had problems with the wind and the defensive pres­sure. 
IN BRIEF 

Agassi wins over Ferrero 
for chance at semifinals 
Andre Agassi righted himself quickly enough to beat Juan Carlos Ferrero and give Andy Roddick the year-end No. 1 ranking. 
After a miserable 1 1/2 sets, Agassi suddenly began finding his strokes and came back to stun Ferrero 2-6, 6-3, 6-4 Wednesday night at the Tennis Masters Cup. 
Ferrero fell to 0-2 in the round­robin portion of the $3.65 million tournament and can't possibly quali­fy for the semifinals, which means he won't accumulate enough points in the last event of 2003 to pass Roddick. 
Agassi (1-1) can reach the semifi­nals by beating No. 8 David Nalbandian next. 
Hoddick, meanwhile, didn't have to set foot on court Wednesday. IIe replaced Ferrero -the man he beat in the U.S. Open final-at No. 1 in the ATP Tour computer rankings last week and, at 21, will be the 
third-youngest player to close a sea­son there. Roddick (1-0) faces No. 6 Rainer Schuettler on Thursday. 
In Wednesday's other match, Wimbledon champion Roger Federer defeated Nalbandian for the first time in six pro meetings, 6-3, 6-0. Agassi's win over Ferrero allowed Federer (2-0) to claim a semifinal berth. 
Through the first 15 games, Agassi had 24 unforced errors to Ferrero's nine. Agassi was slow afoot and just kept missing shots he usually at least keeps in play. 
Yankees to keeP. Rodris;!uez, 
won't yet consiiler Schilling 
PHOENIX -Alex Rodriguez is not on the trading block. And any deal to send Curt Schilling to New York probably won't happen this week­even after the Arizona ace agreed to speak directly to the Yankees. 
But the Milwaukee Brewers could be close to trading star first base­man Richie Sexson, with the Arizona Diamondbacks the likely destination. 
Those were the developments of Day 3 of baseball's general man­agers' meeting on Wednesday. 
Discussions did not involve Rodriguez, said Texas Hangers gen­eral manager John Hart, who did his best to shoot down trade rumors involving his superstar shortstop. 
"I think we've got the best player in the game. We love him. We have no interest in dealing Alex Rodriguez," Hart said. "We're not having any conversations with any team about Alex Hodriguez. If any­body were to call, of course we'd lis­ten, but we're not interested in any way, shape or form in trading Alex Rodriguez." 
Yankees general manager Brian Cashman said he did not expect his team to make any deals this week ­for Schilling or anyone else. 
Next month's meetings in New Orleans would be "more realistic time" for any trade, Cashman said. 
Thursday, November 13, 2003 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS 

continued from l)age 20 
Saturday rolls around. "Other than that you're curi­ous as to how they can get 
• themselves back up to game speed in that length of time," Willingham said. 
The game will mark the Cougars first appearance back in South Bend since 1994 when BYU upset the Iri!;h 21-14 for its only win in the series. 
Injury bug still biting 
As the season rolls on for the Irish. the grind of playing from day to today continues to take its toll as the injuries have start-
Line 
continued from page 20 
the right guy that they are block­ing, but ifyou are not at the right level you will aEow penetration and therefore you give an oppor­tunity for a sack," he said. "So it's little things of that nature that as they become more expe­rienced, they get better and bet­ter at performing run blocking and also pass protection." 
Along the way, they have also ed to' pile up. 

On the defensive side of the ball, two senior starters -safe­ty Glenn Earl and defensive end Kyle Budinscak -will be out for the season, according to Noti"e Dame coach Tyrone Willingham. 
Earl inured his knee in the Southern Cal game and had sur­gery last week to repair the injury, leaving him sidelined for the season. Budinscak, who has another year of eligibility remaining with Notre Dame, was injured in the Florida State game. 
On the other side of the ball, tight end Anthony Fasano and right guard Dan Stevenson were both listed as questionable for Saturday's game with BYU. Both Fasano and Stevenson were 
helped tailback Julius Jones to a couple of 200-yard performances against Pittsburgh and Navy. Against the Panthers, Jones set a Notre Dame record for rushing yards in a single game with 262. 
But the Irish face a new task this week in a Cougar defense that likes to give quarterbacks and offensive lines many differ­ent looks and brings a lot of pressure on the signal caller. It is a defense that could be similar to the one the Irish faced at Purdue -where Quinn, in his first game as a starter, was heavily pres­
almost call it one of those maniac defenses that we're going to face that you really don't know where they are coming from or what alignment they are really in." Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu  
DUTPDST ~ Cold Weather Experts 5minutes from Campus Cal1259·1ooo for more details  Vars1. y Tenni.s Free of Charge Open to all Dependents 2.3 Years ot Age or Younggr No Advance Registmtion Necessary 8(ing Yo.ur Ovm Racquet Tend$ Shoe:s Required-No R.unn1r.g Shoes Allowed Fo(Mo(e Info. Call Rec$ports at 1-s·;oo  
o'Neill Ilall 1V1ovie Night! C!-t7f11£ Pvn~ re.lll-X, til-t St1ft1-t ff.I,Z f()()J) MU{ h-Pvvt 51701-t LAA9:ff5! ~ren tv eve.r~uae! 5fAA5Qril{hJPr.&Zjun~in1, 9et1:~.14e,ehn~ ftp;,rttt{ 1Jr~h-t with-the. rt?J WI\-' tuf#f  

CJV9tre q]ame 
~-university Club,_, w"w.nd.edu/"'univclub 
P;Vedding .Rece12~~ons Rehearsal Dinners .1-Jnniversary Parties Class Reunions 
Parties 631-4681 

injured during the Florida State game. Sophomore Jamie Ryan started at the right guard posi­tion in place of Stevenson. 
Kicker Nicholas Setta also appears to be out for the BYU game, as Willingham said he was not optimistic about the senior's return this week. Willingham did say, however, that if Setta were to return healthy, he would be the starter again at kicker and punter. Willingham still refused to com­ment on the nature of Setta's injury. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
sured all afternoon and knocked down nearly 20 times. 
"We have to play a team this week that's going to blitz and stunt unbelievably," Willingham said of the BYU defense. "I 
Freshinan 
continued from page 20 

ming] team Saint Mary's has ever had," Petcoffsaid. 
The Belles have been off to a strong start as the season began during the first weekend of October at the Notre Dame Relays meet. As the dual meets began Nov. 1, Fitzpatrick was able to showcase her dominance in the 200 backstroke with a school record time of 2:18:40. Last weekend, another school record was broken by the 200 medley relay Fitzpatrick was a part ofwith a time of1:55:78. 
On a relay team dominated by seniors, it is easy to imagine the difficulties involved in transition­ing from a high school team cap-· tain to a college freshman com­peting with upperclassmen. 
But the transition has actually been anything but strenuous. "All the upperclassman tell us what Greg's [Petcoff's] expecta­
tions are and what he expects," Fitzpatrick said. "All the upper­classmen are extremely support­ive and I'm enjoying [swimming] a lot more. A big part of that is the team." 
This mindset is a significant change to the mentality Fitzpatrick suffered from earlier this year. 
"After swimming year round and competing in high school, I reached a plateau. I became unmotivated," Fitzpatrick said. 
But once reaching college, Fitzpatrick experienced a differ­ent type of training as Petcoff focused more upon the "dry" aspects of swimming, such as weightlifting. 
Despite her success, Fitzpatrick has set higher goals for the rest of the season. 
"I want to become a leader for the team in different parts of the team, not just in the pool," she said. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

Thursday, November 13, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI
FIVES 

ACROSS 35 Sawyer and 56 Like some others cookware

1 Common cavalry emblem 36 Like the 59 White rabbit, 
7 Swings violently technology of e.g. 1-, 7-, 63-and 61 Feeling more
15 Stinger 
64-Across, and pins and16 Detroit's founder 1-, 14-, 38-and 
needles 17 Desk item 46-Down? 
62 Police attacker 18 How some 38 In the bucks 
63 Wrestling hold analgesics are 40 "Holberg Suite" 64 Shed items
administered 
composer19 Olympian, e.g.: 
41 Took steps 
DOWN 42 Passing mark 1 Aviation 

Abbr. 
20 Disney dwarf 43 Allude hazards22 Put a lid on it 2 Like some47 "Hud" Oscar23 Flight stat. 
blood passageswinner24 Butts into 3 The Creator, to48 Symbol of
26 Some church Hindus
hotnessmusic 4 "Star Trek" rank:50 Singer with

28 Lacking pizazz Abbr. ~+--+­
attitude

29 Wood strips 5 Pastoral pipe
51_ Poly

31 Bristle 6 Late Sen. 52 Convention's Thurmond
32 "You Don't Mess end?
Around With 7 Places to go in Jim" singer, 53 Tango England? 1972 requirement 
8 Transpire 30 Full-plus 39 Like some 52 Denizens of 33 Bob Marley fan 55 Pince-_ currents the Sargasso
9 Dunderhead 32 Jug filler, maybe 42 Life's work
10 Pub purchase 34 Regular: Abbr. Sea 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE

-=-r,..,....,::T:,., 11 Org. in 70's 35 "Agnus _ " 44 Limited 54 Miscellany news 45 Plane, e.g.
36 Italian composer 57 Classic sports ....;..+;..:+.+::-1 12 Unaccompanied Alfredo 46 Popular 
cars ~;.;..&..,;...! 13 "60 Minutes" 37 Receive Christmas gifts 
regular for dads 58 Rx writers
38 High, narrow 
R=+:::+i+:::-1 14 Sights in windows ending 48 Sun: Prefix 60 Violist's Sargent's in arches 49 Bunch purchase"Reapers Resting in a 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with aWheatfield" credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
21 South American Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundayanimal 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
l,:.....l~.=..,~~-.;,,.~.;;.~~;;.JII!~~~..;,;.j.;.~ 25 Fruit-filled pastry Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 B.;.t.;:+::-1 27 Sounded like a past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).steel guitar 
Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, ~;::,L:;,a,;:;,~ 28 Gasconaded nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION ­

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
VALAR 
j

I I r I I 
C2:003 Tribune Media Servk:es, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
INVEG 
I I I 


WHAT SHE CON­
ZILZES 
SIDERED HIS 
INTRODUCTION AT 
THE SINGL-ES 
BAR..

rJ []
1 


www.jumble.com
tMOUPID 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

IJ I I I 
Answer here: AN 

"D" [ I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) .... 
I 
Jumbles: PROXY BLOOM JARGON FAMOUS
Yesterday's 

Answer: Developed by the gifted minor league player­"MAJOR" PLANS 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Richard Mulligan, Whoopi Goldberg, Jean Seberg, Joe Mantegna, Tracy Scoggins 
Happy Birthday: You have to put yourself first if you want to reach your goals this year. You must follow your heart and do the things you enjoy doing most. Put your skills to work for you. The more you do to develop your talents, the more you will excel. Success isn't that far away if you focus and arc intent on do what you do best. Your numbers: 5, 17, 22, 28, 37, 41 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You'll be asking for it if you push your partner or use his or her cash to do your Christmas shopping. Get out and do lhings lhat won't cost money. Consider making some of your gifts this year. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't be afraid to speak your mind about a project you are working on. You will do well with clients. lney will appreciate your honesty and feel much more comfortable working with you. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You should make personal changes. Look at your options and find out the cost involved. Whether it's a complete makeover or a new way of dressing, the change will do you good. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll have a problem if you allow your partner to back you into a comer. You should be careful 'When making changes in your home. Take time to catch up on your reading. •• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Friends or relatives may be deceptive, causing friction between you and your lover. A short pleasure trip for two would be an ideal outlet and help you build a closer bond. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You should start to get your home ready for the festive season. Baking, decorating orjust making plans to do these things should be on your mind. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll be a little emotional if you've taken on too much. Rely on some of your friends to help you out. Someone you live with may not be telling you the whole truth. Do a little research of your own. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You need to be careful while traveling. You aren't likely to be dealt with fairly if you have to address authority figures or those heading institutions. **U SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your ideas will be well-received by most of the people you approach. Don't become angry if you have a little opposition from someone you don't get along with anyway. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Be honest with yourself. You are ignoring some key issues that are causing problems in your relationship. You will ruin your reputation if you get involved with someone who is already married. *** AQUARIUS (JAN. 20-FEB. 18): Think things through. Someone you care about may not be doing the right thing. Try to offer him or her suggestions to get back on track, but don't tell your secrets. *** PISCES (FEB. 19-MARCH 20): Joint ventures will not be as they appear. Someone may request your assistance regarding his or her money or possessions. Be careful that you don't get blamed for someone else's mistakes. 
**** 

Birthday Baby: You will keep your loved ones guessing. You are courageous, adventurous and intent on doing your own thing. Your entertaining nature will help you attract many exciting friendships throughout your life. Your loyalty will set the stage for lasting relationships. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ____________________________________ _ 
City ________ State _____ Zip______,_ 
-
PORTS
Thursday, November 13, 2003 
Page 20 
FOOTBALL 
Coming together 
After a rocky start of the year, the offensive line has allowed no sacks in last 3 games 
allowed a single sack on rookie
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
quarterback Brady Quinn. 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame coach Tyrone 
Willingham attributes the 
It's been a real trial by fire for improvement along the offensive the Notre Dame offensive line line to the increased amount of through the first nine games of experience and playing time they the 2003 season. have seen this year. 
The Irish began the year with "As the guys continue to get a near completely rebuilt offen­more time on the field, I believe sive line as only one trv.e starter they develop what I call a library returned -senior guard Sean of football information, which Milligan. Things got really is more off to a rocky start experience;" for the inexperi­':4s the guys Willingham said. enced squad as it "And the more
continue to get

allowed se" en experienced you quarterback saeks more time on the become, the more in the home opener field, I believe they accustomed you 
against Washington are to gain speed, 
develop what I call 

State. the more accus­A season-ending a library offootball tomed you are to injury to Milligan in information, which changes and the Michigan game, adjustments that
really is more 

an injury to riJ~ht take place." guard Dan experience. " Willingham has Stevenson in the noted that it has Florida State game been the finer'
Tyrone Willingham 

and the flip-flop­points of the
Irish coach 

ping of Zach Giles game that the and Bobby Morton offensive line has at center have picked up most as caused nine diff<~rent players to the players along that position start along the Irish offensive have gained more experience line this year. and time on the field. 
But the Irish have overcome ''[It's the] little things, just like this rash of injuries and position getting set at the right -at the changes along t:t1e line and set­same level; which when you face tled into their roles in the second a stunt, everybody can still have half of the season, as in the last three games, they have not see LINE/ page 18 

FOOTBALL 
Montana to speak at banquet 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 
Former Notre Dame quarter­back Joe Montana will speak at the 83rd annual Notre Dame Football Banquet on Dec. 12. 
Montana played an instrumen­tal role in leading the Irish to a national championship in 1977, starting the fina.l nine games of the season that year. Montana's best moment ma.y have come the following season in the Cotton Bowl. helping the Irish overcome a 34-12 deficit to top Houston 35-34 as time expired. 
"Anytime that you have a play­er of the stature of Joe Montana, it's just great to have him around," Willin~:ham said of the banquet's guest speaker. "If he were to just pass us on the street, it would be a great thing. 
But when we have an opportuni­ty to have him come speak to our banquet, and I know he will say something inspirational to our young men that will be a step­ping stone for them to improve and be better in the future ­and not just from a football standpoint, but from a life stand­point -you have to treasure it." 
Montana went on to win four Super Bowl titles with the San Francisco 49ers in the National Football League. He was induct­ed into the NFL Hall of Fame in 2000. 
The Notre Dame Football Banquet serves as an opportuni­ty for the program to recognize outstanding Irish players of the year, as several awards are handed out. It also serves as a chance for Notre Dame to intro­duce high school football recruits to the program. 
BYU back to the field 
The Irish will be catching a very well rested and prepared Brigham Young squad, as the Cougars have not played a game since a 50-12 trouncing at the hands of Boise State on Oct. 30. That means the Cougars have not seen the field in a game for over two weeks. 
"It [worries me] from the stand point that there's always some­thing new that they will put into their system that we may not have seen or that might be a lit­tle different than we anticipate," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said of his opponent's extended layoff. 
The flip side of the coin is that the Cougars may be a little rusty; having not played an actual game for 16 days by the time 
see NQTEBOOK/page 18 
SMC SWIMMING 

Freshman starts year out strong 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 

Caitlin Fitzpatrick is a go-get­ter. Just ask her coach, Gregg Petcoff. 
"[Fitzpatrick] is an exception­ally hard worker who under­stands the goals of the team," Saint Mary's Women's Swimming coach Petcoff said. 
Suffering from the lack of depth in the backstroke· the past couple years, Saint Mary's need­ed someone who could make a difference and that was exactly what attracted Fitzpatrick to the Belles. 
She wanted to contribute to the team individually and as a part of a relay squad, so choos­ing Saint Mary's just made sense. 
"I was aware the type of swimmers on the team and knew I could contribute with my events," Fitzpatrick said. 
Already performing strong in the flrst two dual meets of the season, Fitzpatrick has broken school records both individually and as apart of a relay. Leading a strong pack of freshman swim­mers which includes teammate Bridget Green, Petcoff is already aware of the team's talent. 
''This could be the best [swim-
see FRESHMAN/pagel8 

MlB  NFL  MLB  NBA  
McKeon, Pena named top managers Both men won the award  Vick back at practice1 Wright to start for Ravens against Miami Atlanta's quarterback works at practice for the first time  Clemens says no to comeback The recently retired  James scores 18 as Cavs lose 88-83 against Miami  
by easily outdistancing their  since breaking his leg. Baltimore names relatively unknown  pitcher will not return to  Buckeyes control their own  
competitors.  quarterback for nextw eekend's game against the Dolphins.  baseball.  destiny as the season winds  
down.  
page 13  page 15  page 16  page 12  





