
Holy Cross Associates celebrates 25 years 
recruit students at the Notre By CAITLIN EARLY Dame. Saint Mary's and the News Writer University of Portland. 
In 1978, Holy Cross 
This year, Holy Cross Associates had its official Associates, a post-graduate start when five Notre Dame service program founded by graduates began their service the Congregation of the Holy experience at the program's Cross, marks its 25th anniver­first domestic site in Portland, sary. Ore. Since that time, over 750 
Holy Cross Associates will volunteers have served the begin its anniversary celebra­program in Arizona, tions this Saturday at Moreau California. Colorado, Indiana, Seminary with a day of reflec­Massachusetts, Oregon, tion entitled "Journey of the Pennsylvania and Chile. Heart,.. which is the first in a Each year a large pool of series of other activities and applicants from various gatherings scheduled to take schools throughout the coun­place this year. try apply to become Holy 
It was nearly 25 years ago Cross Associates. when Father Tim Scully and Anne Moriarty. assistant Father Jerry Wilson first envi­director of Holy Cross s io ne d a volunteer service Associates, said that applica­program that would enable tions to the program have recent college graduates to increased. assist and serve in the various "People are applying a lot ministries of the Congregation earlier than in past years. of the Holy Cross. The one obvious trend is the 
"They wanted a program increase in the number of stu­
TIM KACMAR/The Observer 

which would combine ele­dents who are applying for 
Ian Teal, Nathan Wittig, Kelly Smith, Doug Jones ('00), Kate Parsll, Rachel Lustig and
ments particularly fitted to the program in Chile. We 

Katherine Valentyn take time out of their Holy Cross service to pose for a picture.
our own Holy Cross tradition received nearly 30 applica­and charisma which would tions for four or five spots," draw these young people into Moriarty said. pie to learn how to apply their violence services, youth min­include "a commitment to ser­a particular relationship with The application process gifts. We don't have a single istries, education, homeless vice, a desire to live and the Holy Cross community," includes a written application goal for our volunteers, service and HIV/AIDS min­share in an Associate commu­Father Paul Marceau said in a and an interview at one of the rather we encourage them to istries. nity, a simple lifestyle and June 1990 speech he deliv­Holy Cross Associates sites. apply their gifts to the people "The social service agencies option for the poor and a spir­ered at the Congregation's Applications can be submitted they encounter in their min­who work with the volunteers ituality, prayer and Christian History Conference. from December until early istries," said John Pinter, trust us to make a match with commitment." 
In the fall of 1977, Father spring. director of Holy Cross someone whose interests and The program concludes in Richard Warner worked in Students who are accepted Associates. strengths match up with the May with an end of the year conjunction with Scully and into domestic programs make After volunteers attend a needs of that particular retreat at the University of Wilson to present the idea of a service commitment of one formal orientation in August agency," said Moriarty. Portland. the Holy Cross program to the year. Students serving in at the Moreau Seminary, they While in the community, the "Our mission is to empower Indiana Province of the CSC. Chile are required to make a begin service work on-site. Associates are also called to lay people to serve and devel­After the program received two-year commitment. At these sites, volunteers integrate the four pillars of op their own gifts through the the necessary approval. Holy "Holy Cross Associates pro­work in a number of different the program in to their every­Cross Associates began to vides an experience for peo-ministries including domestic day lives. These pillars see HOLY CROSS/page 3 


Roskelly emphasizes importance of teaching 
"I owe much to the teaching of vocational 
By EMILY BRAMMER English," said Roskelly. "Sometimes college 
News Writer teachers forget how good we have it." 
In particular, Roskelly talked about the 
A lecture focusing on the necessity of ana­"team teaching" method practiced amongst lyzing teaching was held at Saint Mary's on the teaching staffin the writing clinic. Thursday. The guest speaker of the event "When you teach alongside another was Hephzibah Roskelly, director of the teacher, you really start to think about your Composition Program at the University of teaching, and you begin to think of teaching North Carolina-Greensboro. in a theorized way," Roskelly said. 
At the beginning of her talk, Roskelly It is precisely in this area of theorized explained why and how she came to focus teaching that Roskelly has devoted much of her energies in the area of pedagogy, or the her scholarly endeavors. In one of her books, study of teaching. An Unquiet Pedagogy, Roskelly offers a new 
"In 1his age of diversifying classroom pop­approach to teaching English in the high ulations, there is a critical need for scholar­school and college classroom and discusses ship on the subject of teaching," said a new relationship between literacy and the Roskelly. student. 
Roskelly said that her concentration in There are certain things necessary in pedagogy began with the challenges she order to do scholarship of teaching, Roskelly encountered teaching high school English. said. "A good pedagogical scholar must not She said there were many underprivileged only be a good theorist and observer, but he students attending the high school, most of must love his students more than his sub­whom had very poor literacy s~. jects," she said. "It makes you believe in your 
"This is unfortunately the case with many students and in yourself." public high schools," she said. This lecture is one in a series sponsored by 
To improve their skills, Roskelly worked the Center for Women's Intercultural with the disadvantaged students in a writing Leadership. clinic during her early years of teaching. The experience led her to realize that she could Contact Emily Brammer at actually write about teaching. bram350l@saintmarys.edu 
ND holds law symposium 
dents from across the country, including 
ByJUSTIN KRIVICKAS 
about 65 from Harvard alone and 
News Writer 

expect about 35 nationally renowned 
jurists and professors to serve as pan­
Law scholars and dignitaries will elists and debaters," said Ross. assemble today and Saturday at Notre Panelists for the event include profes­Dame to discuss issues of law and sor John McGinnis of Northwestern human dignity at the Federalist Society University School of Law, professor Symposium. Peter Edelman of Georgetown 
This event will mark the 22nd year University Law Center and professor that the symposium has been held. Kyron Huigens of the Cardozo School of Notre Dame com-Law at Yeshiva 
peted for the opportu­University.
"We have registered over

nity to host the sym­Other schools being posium and began 400 students from represented by pan­work on the project a across the country. elists include Notre year ago. In May, the Dame, Cornell,
including about 65 from

University won the Brigham Young, the bidding process Harvard alone.·· Hudson Institute, the John Ross. coordi­University of nator for the sympo­Pennsylvania, St.
John Ross

sium, is in charge of John's University,
symposium coordinator

programming and Stanford University, other operations for the University of the event. Chicago and the 
"We are distinct as the host school in University of Maryland. that usually the symposium is held at The Federalist Society was founded in one of the top 10 law schools in the 1982. Its principles contend that the nation," said Ross. state exists to preserve freedom. Also, 
The symposium lectures will be held the society believes that the separation in McKenna Hall. Speakers for the event of governmental powers is central to the include judges Diarmuid O'Scannlain of U.S. Constitution and that it is the duty the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and of the courts to rule on what the law is. Frank Easterbrook of the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals. Contact Justin Krivic.kas at 
"We have registered over 400 stu-jkrivick@nd.edu 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Friday, February 21, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN WHAT'S INSIDE 
Ranking life from 1 fo 10 
Top 10 lists are everywhere these days from video countdowns to Letterman. Just like reality television, America can't get enough of this sen­sation and has used such lists to rank 

every conceivable Justin Krlvlckas 
thing known to 
man. People can 
develop an obses­Assistant 
sion for the list News Editor 
creating process, 
spending several 
hours a day creating and reforming 
them. 

For those of you not at this point yet, I will do everything in my power to transform you into the list junky you never thought you'd be. Sure, top 10 lists allow us to vent frustrations, poke fun and enlighten those around us, but there is more to this phenomenon than meets the eye. 
The beauty of the top 10 list is that to compile one you don't have to host your own TV show. Although helpful, an audience is not needed. All you need is an opinion and half a brain to generate a list. If you happen to be someone who has friends, having a few cronies around to help shape your list can be an entertaining experience as items are dropped and others you never would have thought of are given a placement in the ranks. 

Also, the list can be a fascinating conversation starter. Just walk up to somebody in Lafortune (preferably, a ski mask on) and ask them to name off the worst cars ever mass-produced. Although startled at first, I guarantee that your respond_ent will not fail to name off a few jalopies. This can be a great way to get sprayed with Mace and give you insight into the minds of the fellow students lurking about cam­pus. 
Another example of a terrific place to try out the list is the dining hall. If you're sitting at a table in complete silence and are tired of watching your friend chew on his sandwich give a list some thought. Once a 10-minute awk­ward pause has reached its pinnacle, a debate as to who was the best charac­ter in Scooby Doo can stir up the most banal moments into a fascinating con­versation. 
But once you've compiled the list, the only hard part is deciding where to display it. The recesses of the imagina­tion are an adaquete place for the less refined lists, but for the more perfect­ed ones out there something has to be done in order to share it with the world. For a solution look no further than your computer screen since the IM away message is the ideal place to force your friends to look at it. 
Always remember that your top 10 list, whether it deals with the best fad dances or perhaps the worst haircuts, they are entirely your creations. There are a multitude of lists to be made and it's up to you or someone you know to compile them. I challenge you the reader to nurture and assist these cre­ations, so that they may entertain and enlighten us all. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivick@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
In yesterday's issue of the Observer the photo cap­tion for the article, "Women boxers debut at the Bengal Bouts" misnamed the two people. The two boxers in the photo are Lauren Conti on the left: and Shelley Skiba on che right. 

CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
U.S. professor, gains 
Irish dancing 

7 others face popularity 
terrorism charges 
Marieke Van der 

Palestinian pro­Maelen has faced 
fessor Sarni Amin many obstacles but 
Al-Arian and seven has risen to become 
others were charged Thursdayan integral member 
with funding ter­
of the Irish dance 

rorist organiza­
club. 
tions. 
pages
page 3 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Business students sign deal 
A deal was closed with the Dominican Republic to supply bednets for the country's new dis­tribution program. 
page 6 

. 
Lecture: "Goldsmith, Irdand and Empire," 3 p.m. in room 424 of Flanner I lall. 

. 
\Vomcn's Tennis vs. Duke,<> p.m. at the Eck Pavilion. 

. 
Carnaval, 9 p.m. at the Palais Boyale, 105 \\'est Colfax Ave., South Bernd. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Board of Trustees Spring '03 Meeting, 7:30 a.m. in the Stapleton Lounge. 

. 
SAB Interviews, 11 a.m. in room 304 of tlrn Haggar 


College Center. 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Tortellini with basil cheese sauce, cioppino sauce, bianco pizza, breadsticks, honey-garlic pork chops, white beans with ham, brown sauce, pork gravy. whipped potatoes, collard greens. cherry crisp, baked lemon perch, baked potato, vegetable rice pilaf, and sauteed vegetables. 
Today Dinner: Tortellini with basil cheese sauce, cioppino sauce, bianco pizza, breadsticks, chicken strips, mac­aroni and cheese. brown sauce. chicken gravy, whipped potatoes, green beans. cherry crisp, tofu jerk, lentil and barley stew, baked sweet potatoes, oriental vegetables and potato casserole. 
EDITORIAL 
Defending 
U.S. actions and intentions 
Matthew Klobucher writes a rebuttle to Tom Seabaugh's Thurs. viewpoint letter entitled that was entitled "Speak out against coming war." 
page 14 



SCENE 

Novel 'Region Rat' reviewed 
Scene reviews Richard Laskowski's newly published novel entitiled 'Region Rat.' 
page 16 
SPORTS 
Big East Swimming Championships 
After the first day in this tournament, the Irish womens team currently leads the pack at first place and the mens team is hold­
ing onto fourth. 
page 32 
South Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Manicotti, cacciatore sauce, chicken fajita pizza, quiche lor­raine, chicken cordon bleu, baked cod, delmonico potatoes, honey-glazed baked ham, Italian risotto. cut green beans, grilled vegetable plate, potato skins, onion rings, szechuan beef and vegetable stir-fry 
Today Dinner: Italian beef and mac­aroni, cajun pasta sauce. red clam sauce, chicken fajita pizza, rice and black olives, baked chicken parmesan, kielbasa and sauerkraut, roast pork tenderloin. sesame-baked pollock, corn cobbettes, sauerbraten and zum zum potato salad. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a: 
l&.I
:c 
ti 
;:l&.I -J 
c( 



(,)


.!3 HIGH 40 HIGH 33 HIGH 30 HIGH 22 LOW 32 LOW 26 LOW 12 LOW 0 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
NDSP arrests trespasser 
A visitor was arrested by NDSP for criminal tres­pass at the Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering Wednesday. 
Camera stolen at Fitzpatrick 
A University employee reported the theft of a dig­ital camera from a lab in Fitzpatrick Hall Wednesday. 

Bookstore employee treated after fall 
A bookstore employee was treated at the Hammes Bookstore by NDFD for injuries sustained during a fall Thursday. 

Collision occurs on Juniper Road 
NDSP responded to an accident on Juniper Road Wednesday. There were no injuries reported. 

Car towed for parking violations 
Two student vehicles were towed for parking vio­lations on Wednesday at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Lentil and bulgar pilaf, panini a la nora, pasta, marinara sauce, Cuban roasted vegetables, siz­zling caesar salads with chicken, patty melt sandwiches, fried chicken, grilled cheese, french fries, pasta alla car­bonara, roasted zucchini, garlic bread with cheese and roma and herb salad. 
Today Dinner: Pasta fantastica, veg­gie c.utlet with mushroom sauce, Harvard beets, vegetable corn muffins, tempura vegetable bar, broccoli, zuc­chini, shrooms, cauliflower, sauteed chicken breast, cheese stuffed shells, rice pilaf, seasoned corn, cheese pizza and pepperoni pizza. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 18 HIGH 22 LOW 8 LOW 8 
Atlanta 66 / 53 Boston 42 I 19 Chicago 40 / 26 Denver 48 / 28 Houston 70 / 48 Los Angeles 70 / 50 Minneapolis 32 / 8 New York 45 / 38 Philadelphia 48 / 36 Phoenix 67 / 48 Seattle 48 / 38 St. Louis 45 / 34 Tampa 79 / 68 Washington 48 / 43 
Friday, February 21, 2003 page 3 


The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
BOARD OF TRUSTEES 

Trustees look at next year's budget plan 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Trustees met Thursday to review the budget and plan for next year. The Board, who will reconvene today, is expected to decide on tuition and salaries for next year's budget. 
Last year, the Board approved a six percent tuition increase for the second straight year at its February meeting. Tuition jumped to $20.~50 in 2002-03, a $1,310 increase from the 2001-02 amount of $19,240. Tuition increases go partially toward increasing funding for finan­cial aid and increasing salary for faculty and staff. 
Kristen Matha, the student trustee and member of the Student Life Committee and Facilities and Grounds Committee, reported the agen­da issues for the Student Life Committee consist of presenta­tions by students of various ways to improve the College. 
Kim Jensen, student body president, will give an update on the Reading Day proposal. Sarah Mahoney, Student Diversity Board president, and Francis Bruder, Students with Disabilities chair, will give a presentation on handicap accessibility issues on campus and the Disabilities Awareness Week SDB programmed. 
The Facilities and Grounds Committee will continue dis­

cussion of on-campus apart­ments. 
Matha also plans on giving an update on the Health and Wellness Curriculum Proposal. 
"The Student Life Committee endorsed the idea last meeting and that is the extent of the Trustees role in the plan," Matha said. "I'm currently moving through the different channels of the administration and student government asso­ciation to see the plan imple­mented in the future." 
There was also a reception for student leaders and the Board of Trustees scheduled for Thursday afternoon. Matha invited approximately 150 stu­dents who represent different areas of student life for Saint Mary's. 
The student groups included Board of Governance, Student Academic Council, Student Athlete Advisory Council, Campus Ministry leaders and Resident Advisors. These groups are comprised of both elected and non-elected stu­dent leaders and represent many student interests. 
"At the last meeting there was a reception for faculty and administrators so I hoped to do something similar for stu­dents," Matha said. "I hope the reception will generate quality interaction between the Board of Trustees and Saint Mary's students." 
Contact Natalie Bailey at bail407@saintmarys.edu 

Irish dancing gains popularity 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 
Marieke Van der Maelen, with her straight black hair and olive complexion, is not the typical per­son one would expect to see mov­
ing her feet to the beat of Irish music on top of a bar table. Van der Maelen brought her talent to the 


South Bend Van der Maelen 
community 
three years 
ago and has been astonishing 
and accomplishing since. 
Van der Maelen's first obstacle 
in her Irish dancing career came 
her first year at Saint Mary's. 
She joined the club in spite of 
the officers and found it to be a 
good step in her career through 
practices and exposure to the 
varieties of Irish dance that exist 
across the different regions of the 
United States. 
Van der Maelen became the 
president of the club in 2001 and 
has been trying to institute a 
Saint Mary's Irish Dance Club, 
separate from the Notre 
Dame/Saint Mary's organization. 
"People all over the world do Irish dance," Van der Malen said. "I felt like when I sat at the ND/SMC Irish Dance Club table as president, at activities night, people from different nationali­ties felt comfortable signing up for the club." 
Since her initial encounter with 
prejudice, Van der Maelen has 
become aware of the need for 
acceptance in the Irish dance 
community. 
"Irish dance is open to anyone, you don't have to be five-years­old with read hair and freckles," Van Der Malen said. "Everyone comes from different back­ground. This is something this community needs to work on -to know that you don't have to look Irish to be Irish." 
Van der Maelen learned this lesson in Pittsburgh where she first started Irish dancing with the Irish Reelers from 1998 through 2000 under Maggie Follan and started competing under Julia Bell in Pittsburgh in 2000. 
Van der Maelen's training was unconventional. At 16, she learned in sean-nos or traditional style, while most people learn a modern form of Irish dance influ­enced by ballet and tap when they are three or four. In the Irish dancing community, 40-years-old is considered young to know the old style of dancing. 
Van der Maelen has been 
teaching since she started danc­
ing. She believes it reinforces the 
steps. 
"There's nothing logical about 
Irish dance, you just have to do 
it," she said. "With sean-nos your 
feet are playing to the music. It 
cannot be taught, it can only be 
learned." 
Van der Maelen continued her 
activities in dancing, teaching 
and preforming once she began 
college by practicing with the 
club, performing with local bands 
such as Kennedy's Kitchen, Mira 
and Cree and teaching Irish 
dance for the Celtic Heritage 
Society. 
Dr. Catherine Shoupe. social 
work and anthropology associate 
professor, connected Van der 
Maelen's love for Irish dance with 
St. Patrick's Church and an Irish 
dance school was formed. 
It started out as a school with 
three young pupils and one 
teacher to more than 50 pupils, 
ranging from five to 50, and two 
teachers, Van der Maelen and 
Mary Pauline Moran, a sopho­
more at Saint Mary's. The group 
meets from 5:30-8:30p.m. on 
Wednesdays in Madeleva. 
Van der Maelen's next obstacle with Irish dancing came her sec­ond year at Saint Mary's. Her activities abruptly came to a stop in spring of 2002 when a high impact accident left her with a fully detached retina in her right eye and a retinal tear in her left eye. She had surgery to repair the damage, but was blind for five months and was on bed-rest for the summer. 
"I shouldn't be able to dance," Van der Maelen said as a result of her accident. "And I shouldn't be able to see." 
Visiting her specialist in South Bend biweekly and unable to complete her sophomore year of college, she was unsure of her future as a student as well as a dancer. 
"Everyone kept on saying 'you aren't going to dance again.' People told me to take up an instrument," she said. "There was a lot of fighting about danc­ing between my parents and I." 
When the doctor gave her his approval to return to school in August, Marieke had trouble retraining her eyes to read and regain her muscles to dance. First semester challenged her commitment to her hobby. 
"Everyday I just wanted to quit and never dance again," she said. "But there were always things pulling me back in." 
Dr. Marilou Eldred, president of Saint Mary's, asked her to dance for Mary Robinson, the for­mer president of Ireland. In addi­tion, Fiddler's Hearth opened, giving her a place to perform for fun. The children in her dance classes also inspired her. 
"Every time I saw the little kids 
and their excitement and how 
they look up to me and Mary 
Pauline I just couldn't quit," she 
said. "I have so much invested it 
would be a shame to quit and 
since I have the talent to teach, I 
feel obligated." 
Van der Maelen has now 
rebuilt the muscles in her legs 
and is considering auditioning for 
both Lord of the Dance and 
Trinity Dance Company based in 
Chicago. Lord of the Dance would 
be a full-time position, while 
Trinity Dance Company would be 
a seasonal job for the summer. 
This English major plans on fin­
ishing school but sees a future in 
what is right now just an activity. 
"I will at least give dancing pro­
fessionally a shot and I will defi­
nitely have my own dance 
school," she said. 
If there were 'Irish Dancing is 
Life' shirts, Van der Maelen 
would own one. 
"It is pretty bad when you see signs in the bathroom stalls that say 'no dancing . .' I have danced in the bathroom stall, on a lab table, on bar tables, on a dining hall tray, in the bell tower, on chairs, in vendoland, in the show­er, in the pool. and on the foot­board of my bed when I was sick," she said. "I even dance in dressing rooms because I won't buy an outfit unless I can dance in it." 
Accustomed to wearing out the band she is dancing with,.Van der Maelen uses Irish dance as a way of getting rid of extra energy and expressing herself. 
"Irish dancing is a way of expressing myself without saying anything." 
It is also an ideal for her because of the lack of demand on the upper body. Van der Maelen arrived in the United States with two broken collar bones as a baby and has never had normal range of arm motion; the lower body movement is perfect for her. 
''I'll dance until I die," she said. 
Van der Maelen's latest activity with Irish dancing is a benefit concert she is hoping to stage in early April for the new Uganda sister school program the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership is starting. Three Saint Mary's students and two Notre Dame students, along with students from her Irish dance school are planning on dancing to the sounds of Mira, a local Irish group. 
"Once you get to a certain point you can't compete for the rest of your life and you have to bring it outside of yourself into the com­munity," she said. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at bail407@saintmarys.edu 

Actc)rs Frclr1111l1e L)tld(ltl Stage 
~;  .  The Tempest  
~'Ii  ,':J'.,..,:  b y  Wi I I I a m S h a k e s p e a r e  
0011  

Wednesday, February 19... 7:30 p.m Thursday, February 20... 7:30 p.m. Friday, February 21 ... 7 :30 p.m. Saturday, February 22... 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-81 28. The Actors residency-tS supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
Holy Cross 
continued from page 1 
four pillars," said Moriarty. "We provide the structure, the placement and the logis­tics and we leave it up to the individuals and their commu­nities to shape their group spirituality and to live out a simple lifestyle." 
While many past and pre­sent members of Holy Cross Associates will come together this weekend to celebrate 25 years of service, the program continues to look to its future horizons. Board members will meet today to discuss the possibility of extending Holy Cross Associates into Haiti and parts of east Africa. 
Saturday's Day of Reflection, "Journey of the Heart" will be lead by Father John Dunne, and will include between 50 and 60 former Associates, their family mem­bers and friends. The retreat will begin at 9 a.m. and will conclude around 4 p.m. with a Mass. Students, who recently returned from their Associate experience in Chile will also be sharing their pre­sentations with the rest of the community. 
While many of the former Holy Cross Associates are planning regional gatherings in the spring in Oregon and Arizona, Notre Dame will hold a special reunion for the over 700 Associate alumni from July 18th until July 20th of this year. 
"I would encourage any students interested in Associates to come to our Day of Reflection on Saturday. While my service with the Associates in Hayward, Calif., may have finished 21 years ago, I con­tinue to apply the pillars in different ways throughout my life," said John Pinter. 
If any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student wants to attend the Day of Reflection, Pinter asks that he calls Holy Cross Associates at 631-9930 or stop by the office in Moreau Seminary. 
Contact Caitlin Early at cearly@nd.edu 
Friday, February 21, 2003 
page 4 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
NASA inquiry focusing on foam 
• Application of foam insulation getting special attention of board 
Associated Press 
SPACE CENTER, Houston 
Just how the foam insula­
tion was applied to the fuel 
tanks of NASA's space shut­
tles is getting special atten­
tion by the board investigat­
ing the Columbia accident, 
officials said Thursday. 
One leading theory is that the insulation or the heavier material beneath may have damaged Columbia during liftoff. enough to trigger a deadly breach as the space­ship hurtled toward a Florida landing 2 1/2 weeks ago. 
The foam insulation is applied at a Lockheed Martin plant in New Orleans. More of the foam is applied about a month before liftoff in several small areas of the tank need­ing touchup at NASA's Kennedy Space Center in Florida. 
The investigation board has visited both sites and is going back for a second, harder look at the techniques -and safeguards -used. 
"That is getting a good bit of attention by more than one of the groups," said NASA's Steve Nesbitt, referring to the board's three working groups. "A couple of the groups are looking at the thermal protec­tion on the tank in this area, and some of them will be going back to see the manu­facturing facilities, to talk to the people involved. So it is getting some special atten­tion." 
Nesbitt said the theories that focus on the left side of Columbia -where all the overheating and other prob­lems developed -..will be getting the earliest attention." 
The shuttle broke apart. killing all seven astronauts, as it re-entered Earth's atmosphere on its way home to Florida on Feb. 1 after a 16-day mission. 
Late Thursday. NASA said investigators were searching around Caliente, Nev.• near the Utah border. for what is believed to be a piece of Columbia debris that was tracked falling to Earth by air traffic control radar. 
Imagery, trajectory and bal­listics experts have been ana­lyzing video images of the descending shuttle. National Transportation Safety Board officials are using those find­ings to hunt for any unusual radar trackings in an attempt to pinpoint wreckage. 
Air Force Maj. Gen. John Barry said earlier this week that he and other board mem­bers are reviewing NASA's troubled history of foam com­ing off the so-called bipod area, where a pair of struts holds the tank to the upper gen and oxygen during the belly of the shuttle. final hours of the countdown. 

That is the spot where a The foam also helps protect chunk of foam came off 81 the tank from engine and seconds into Columbia's flight aerodynamic heating. 
on Jan. 16;  In  some  
the  debris  small hard-to­ 
slammed into the left wing during  "There is no favorite theory. There is no  spray areas, workers at Michoud  
launch. An engineering analysis days later  favorite approach to this. There is no preferred cause ...  handpack the gaps with foam. At Kennedy,  
concluded  more foam is  
that any damage  Sean O'Keefe NASA chief  applied hand in  by the  

was mini­mal and posed no safety threat. 
NASA officials said that finding was based, in part, on the fact that previous foam impacts had not caused severe damage. 
Barry said that four previ­ous shuttle flights had foam falling from the bipod area: Challenger in 1983, Columbia in 1990 and again in 1992, and Atlantis just last October. A 10-year gap exists between those two last flights, he pointed out, "so we've got some backtracking to do to be able to look at the history and make the analysis." 
Last week, the board inspected Atlantis and its fuel tank at Kennedy and a com­pletely assembled fuel tank at Michoud Assembly Facility in New Orleans that is identical to the one used by Columbia on its doomed flight. The Michoud tank has been impounded by the board for testing. 
NASA estimates that the chunk of broken foam was 
2.67 pounds and 20-by-16-by­6 inches. The weight would be more if ice were attached, a possibility under considera­tion by the board. The 
panel also is ..We,re looking at tom of one of looking into [moisture] as maybe an the two 
whether the booster rock­
option on why the foam 
underlayer ets, officials 
may have came offand why we ·ve said. broken off. had some problems in During a 
Barry said V i S i t
that area.··

he has Thursday to learned that Stennis Space the heavier John Barry Center in premolded, Mississippi,
Air Force major general
ablative NASA chief material Sean O'Keefe beneath the told reporters foam "really doesn't serve a that the analysis into the pos­purpose." He asked workers sible problems from the whether moisture could have external fuel tank alone fills accumulated there and loos­an entire room at Michoud. ened the insulation. Everything is under consider­
"We're looking at that as ation. though, he stressed. maybe an option on why the "There is no favorite theory. foam came off and why we've There is no favorite approach had some problems in that to this. There is no preferred area," he said. cause," O'Keefe said. "There 
At Michoud, polyurethane is nothing right now that foam insulation is sprayed would be argued as the most robotically about an inch likely condition that I've seen thick over the entire 154-foot yet, and that is also the view tank to prevent ice buildup on of the Columbia accident the metal tank, which is filled investigation board, I am with super-cold liquid hydro-advised." 
area around 
the bipod and 

also around the other attach points. 
Internal NASA reports obtained by The Associated Press describe damage during some of the earlier shuttle missions, caused by foam from the bipod area. 
Columbia suffered damage to three insulating tiles dur­ing a June 1992 liftoff when a large chunk of foam from the bipod -26-by-10 inches -fell off. After the mission, NASA determined that the shuttle fleet had suffered an unprece­dented amount of serious tile damage over 18 preceding flights. 
Investigators believe dam­age to those three tiles was from foam or similar material because of the size and depth of the damage. On the same mission at liftoff, ice and other insulating foam caused a "significant concentration" of damaging strikes to tiles near Columbia's right landing gear compartment. The shut­tle returned safely from that mission. 
The damage to Atlantis in October was not considered significant, at the time. by NASA. The foam from the bipod area hit the bot­
Church court cases delayed in Boston 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

The Boston Archdiocese and lawyers suing the church in more than 400 sexual abuse cases filed a request in court Thursday seeking a 90­day hold on all litigation while they pursue a settle­ment. 
If Superior Court Judge Constance Sweeney approves the request, both sides will suspend any action on the lawsuits and try to work out an agreement through medi­ation. 
"We will try to spend our time exchanging information, evaluating the cases, mediat­ing them, negotiating them, trying to work out a settle­ment," said attorney Jeffrey Newman, whose firm repre­sents 270 people who say they were molested by priests. 
"Our hope has been that these cases can be resolved to the satisfaction of all par­ties through some form of mediation process, without the necessity of formal tri­als," the archdiocese said in a statement. 
Several months ago, a simi­lar agreement to suspend action on the lawsuits lasted 40 days and ended without an agreement. 
Two lawsuits filed in the case of the Rev. Paul Shanley are not included in the pro­posed moratorium. Shanley is awaiting trial on charges he abused four boys from 1979 to 1989. 
Also excluded from the 90­day moratorium are 108 law­suits filed by attorney Mitchell Garabedian, who has refused to sign the request. 
Last year. Garabedian negotiated a settlement worth between $20 million and $30 million for 86 alleged victims of defrocked priest John Geoghan. But the archdiocese backed out of the deal after its finance council said it could not afford the settlement, given the many other pending lawsuits. 
The two sides ultimately agreed to a $10 million set­tlement in September. But Garabedian said Thursday he is not willing to suspend action on the additional law­suits he filed alleging negli­gence on the part of church supervisors in their handling of several priests accused of sexually abusing children. 
"If the archdiocese wants to settle these cases, they should make an offer to settle these cases, which they have not done so far." Garabedian said. 
In its statement, the arch­diocese said it was disap­pointed that Garabedian has decided against participating in the moratorium. 



Friday, February 21, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
U.S. professor, 7 others face terrorism charges 
Matassini. said after a prelimi­
Associated Press 
nary court hearing, "He's a political prisoner right now as WASHINGTON we speak." The attorney 
A Florida computer engi­denounced the indictment as neering professor and seven "a work of fiction." other men were charged The indictment accuses the Thursday with overseeing and eight men of operating a crim­financing the Palestinian inal racketeering enterprise Islamic Jihad terrorist group. since 1984 supporting which has been blamed for Palestinian Islamic Jihad and killing more than 100 people with conspiracy to kill and in Israel and adjacent territo­maim people abroad, conspir­ries. acy to provide material sup­
The University of South port to the group. extortion, Florida professor, 45-year-old visa fraud, perjury and other Sarni Amin Al-Arian, and three charges. Each defendant could other U.S. residents were face life in prison if convicted. arrested after the 50-count Al-Arian and two others indictment was returned by a were arrested in Tampa and a federal grand jury in Tampa, fourth man was arrested in Fla. The indictment describes Chicago. The other four are Al-Arian as the Islamic Jihad's leaders of the group who live 
U.S. leader. head of a terrorist abroad and are being sought, cell in Tampa and secretary of Ashcroft said. the group's worldwide council. Palestinian Islamic Jihad 
Attorney General John was founded in the late 1970s, Ashcroft said the indictment and its roots go back to the sends a message: "We will Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt hunt down the suppliers ofter­that also spawned the Hamas r orist money, we will shut terrorist group. Its goals, down their sources and we according to the indictment, will ensure that both terrorists are to destroy Israel and end and their financiers meet the Western influence in the same swift, certain justice of Middle East. organization are two U.S. citi­wheels of justice -they grind ally more closely with terror the United States of America." The group's alleged killings zens: Alisa Flatow. 20, and slow, but they grind exceed­groups Hezbollah and Hamas. 
Shortly after his arrest in have included suicide bomb­Shoshana Ben-Yishai, 16. ingly fine." There is no mention of al­Tampa, Al-Arian told ings, car bombings and drive­Alisa Flatow, then a junior at The indictment describes Qaida. reporters. "It's all about poli­by shootings, including a June Brandeis University, died in a numerous intercepted tele­The men frequently talk in tics." On forced leave from the 5, 2002, suicide attack in 1995 bus bombing in the Gaza phone calls and faxes in which apparent code, substituting university, he has publicly Haifa, Israel. that killed 20 Strip. Her father, Stephen those charged are said to have words like "magazine" and rejected the idea that he has and injured 50. Flatow of West Orange, N.J.. discussed Islamic Jihad bomb­"shirt" for thousands of dollars ties to terrorism. Among the people whose said Thursday, "This demon­ings and other attacks, finan­they were allegedly funneling 
His attorney, Nieholas deaths are blamed on the strates the old saw about the cial problems and whether to to Islamic Jihad. 

SOUTH KOREA 
N. Korean jet enters South airspace amid nuke tensions 
Associated Press 
SEOUL 

Rattling nerves along the border, a North Korean fighter jet violated South Korean airspace over the Yellow Sea on Thursday before turning back as warplanes in the South scrambled. The flight -the first such incursion in 20 years -was the latest in a series of North Korean provocations. 
The incursion, which lasted two min­utes, came only days after North Korea threatened to abandon the armistice keeping peace along the border if the United States imposes sanctions on the communist regime. 
The flight also underlined heightened tensions just days ahead of a visit to South Korea by Secretary of State Colin Powell to discuss the standoff over the North's nuclear program. 
South Korea protested the intrusion, the first by air since 1983. 
"Our military sternly protests the North Korean provocation and demands that the North take actions to prevent a recurrence of similar inci­dents," Defense Ministry spokesman Brig. Gen. Hwang Young-soo said. 
He said the incursion "could result in very serious consequences in the cur­rent situation on the Korean Peninsula." 
North Korea recently has taken a series of steps apparently designed to draw international attention in hopes of getting direct negotiations with Washington over its nuclear program. 
Pyongyang made no comment on the incursion. But late in the day, North Korea's official news agency, KCNA, described the situation on the Korean Peninsula and in northeast Asia as "so alarming that a nuclear war may break out any moment." 
Despite the tensions, President-elect Roh Moo-hyun said Thursday he would push for greater reconciliation with North Korea and called for a peaceful resolution to the nuclear standoff. 
..North Korea's nuclear develop­ment attempt will never be tolerat­ed," Roh told a dinner party at a Seoul hotel. "However, the problem should be resolved through dialogue and diplomatic means in a peaceful manner." 
The nuclear dispute gathered pace in October, when U.S. officials said North Korea admitted having a covert nuclear program. Washington and its allies suspended fuel shipments, and the North retaliated by expelling U.N. monitors, restarting frozen nuclear facilities and withdrawing from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. spy plane aids in Iraq inspections: 
Iraq allowed another flight by an American U-2 spy plane Thursday as President Saddam Hussein's gov­ernment sought to convince the world that it is cooperating with U.N. weapons inspectors. In New York, a U.N. spokesman said Baghdad had also sub­mitted a list of people reportedly involved in the destruction of banned weapons -fulfilling a key demand by chief weapons inspector Hans Blix. 
Butterflies rebound after harsh winter: 
Scientists are marveling at the impressive comeback of Monarch butterflies, which once again are carpet­ing the fir trees of central Mexico in a sea of orange and black wings -despite a deadly freeze last year that killed hundreds of millions. Hard rains and biting cold in the central states of Michoacan and Mexico in January 2002 killed 75 percent to 80 percent of the Monarch butterflies that make a 2,000-mile journey from the eastern United States and Canada. 
. ---' ­
L ­
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Blast rocks Ky. factory, dozens hurt: 
An explosion and fire ripped through an insula­tion plant Thursday, sending black smoke spiral­ing across the southern Kentucky countryside and injuring 26 workers, 11 critically. The cause of the explosion at CTA Acoustics was not immedi­ately known. State inspectors were sent to the site. The injured employees were taken to at least five hospitals. 
Pentagon employees to get gas masks: 
The Defense Department plans to begin handing out gas masks Monday to more than 23,000 Pentagon workers, the latest in continually increasing security started after the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. At a town hall meeting Thursday. officials demonstrat­ed use of the devices -actually called "emergency escape hoods" because they protect victims for only up to the hour or so it might take to evacuate an area after a chemical or biological attack. 
Astronauts get help for Columbia grief: 
Mental health counselors on the ground have helped the three-member crew aboard the international space station deal with their grief following the Columbia disaster, the crew's commander said Thursday. "One thing we talked a little about is standard grief responses and the types of emotion you might feel," American astronaut Kenneth Bowersox said during a broadcast interview. 
Truck sinks in Calif. canal, four drown: 
A pickup truck veered off a Mojave Desert highway and plunged into the California Aqueduct on Wednesday, killing four people, including three chil­dren. Another child was in critical condition after being pulled out of the murky water without a pulse. At least five people were in the truck when it sank in about 15 feet of water. Divers were searching for other possible victims in the aqueduct, which carries water to Southern California. 
-.
-·• ---~ ­


The Observer . NEWS
page 6 Friday, February 21, 2003 
N.J. car dealer offers Saddam car 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BRUNSWICK, N.J. 
The way car dealer Brad Benson sees it, even a ruthless dictator like Saddam Hussein needs a good car. 
Especially if decides to hit the road in a hurry. 
Benson, who runs a Mitsubishi and Hyundai dealership in sub­urban New Jersey, ran a radio advertisement last week, offer­ing a brand new car to Saddam if he leaves Iraq. 
"If he'll just give up now and get out of Iraq, I'll give him a brand new Mitsubishi, nicely equipped, every year for the rest of his life," Benson said in the ad. 
"How about a four-wheel drive Mitsubishi Outlander, a perfect choice for running away in the desert?" 
The response was overwhelm­ing -overwhelmingly negative. 

"How dare you give a car to that guy, when he's going to be responsible for killing a lot of people," one caller said. 
"I can't tell you how sickening it was to hear you making fun of a very serious situation," anoth• er said. 
He said he decided to pull the ad after two days, however, given the response, and he apol­ogized in another ad. 
That one bombed, too. More than 700 people complained that Benson had nothing to apologize for to begin with. 
Benson, 46, says he can't tell whether the ads have drummed up business or hurt it, in part because of a snowstorm this week. 
Now he's at work on a third ad that aims at mollifying those offended by the second ad. 
Oh, and the offer for Saddam still stands. 
Tractor chase ends in crash 
Associated Press 
SISSETON, S.D. 

A man on a stolen tractor led authorities on a low-speed, two­state chase that ended when the farm vehicle crashed into a police car and pickup truck, totaling both. 
Thomas Arthur Dahl, 29, of Herman, Minn., faces charges including intentional damage to property and possession of stolen property. 
He made his first court appearance Wednesday and was being held in lieu of $2,000 bail. Other charges were pend­ing in Traverse County, Minn., Sheriff Donald Montonye said. 
Authorities said after his pick­up truck ran into a snowy ditch early Tuesday, Dahl allegedly stole a tractor from a farmyard and then led sheriffs deputies on a more than 20-mile chase from western Minnesota to a Hutterite colony in eastern South Dakota. 
The big tractor stopped after it slammed into the squad car and pickup truck, Montonye said. 
The sheriff said the man had allegedly been drinking but was "rational, coherent, cooperative and apologetic" when the chase ended. 
Mom: Genie circumcised baby 
complications as a result of the 
Associated Press 
operation, which allegedly took 
place early Wednesday close to 
JAKARTA, Indonesia the town of Tasikmalaya, on 
A mother has claimed that a Java island 250 miles southeast genie circumcised her 10-of Jakarta, the agency report­month-old son while she was ed. cooking breakfast, the state "When I heard Riyan crying, I news agency Antara reported went straight to his bedroom Thursday. and couldn't believe what my 
ThA report did not say eyes saw," Riyan's mother, whether the toddler, Riyan identified only as Ineng, told Abdullah, experienced any Antara. "He had been circum-
WHAT ARE YOU CALLED TODO? 
NOT-FOR-PROFIT CAREERS AS VOCATIONS 
Sunday, February 23, 4 -6:00 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns Pizza will be served. 
A panel presentation with: Jay Caponigro '91 Director, Robinson Community Learning Cente~ Experience in Community Organizing and Community Development 
Annette Henderson '98, Clinical Social Worker, Bureau ofJuvenile Justice -Maxey Training Center, Lansing, MI 
Kate Mccann '97, ACE graduate, Jesuit Volunteer in Tanzania, Teacher at Cristo Rey High School in Chicago 
• 


SOCIAL
NOTRE DAME 
CONCERNS
VOCATION INITIATIVE 
cised." 
The family tmmediately sus­pected it was the work of a genie, belief in which is wide­spread in Indonesia. They sum­moned a local paranormal to the house who confirmed their suspicions, the report said. 
More than 90 percent of Indonesia's 210 million are Muslim, though many still believe in sprits and the unseen world. 
Bachelorette talks about 
•

experiences 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

No, Trista isn't pregnant. No, she never went joy-riding with Charlie. 
Dispelling false rumors was on the agenda Thursday when "Bachelorette" Babe Trista Rehn and her man, Ryan Sutter, took questions from reporters as part of a publicity blitz. 
The night before, on the finale of ABC's dating-game series "The Bachelorette," Trista had surprised most oddsmakers by choosing Ryan, a poetry-writing firefighter from Vail, Colo., over the more dashing finalist Charlie Maher, a financier from Los Angeles, where Trista also lives. 
"There was an unspoken chemistry that Ryan and I had that told me he was the one," Trista explained. "We comple­ment each other very nicely." 
Of course, they've been com­plementing each other mostly over the phone since shooting on the series wrapped about three months ago. Maintaining sus­pense for the audience was a paramount concern. 
Even so, "I like to think of my relationship as being a relation­ship, and not just a relationship on television, even though that's how you guys see it," Trista told reporters. 
"The Bachelorette" premiered Jan. 8 with Ryan and 24 other suitors vying for roses from Trista, a 30-year-old physical therapist and former Miami Heat cheerleader. Though it scored healthy ratings, the series suffered in comparison to Fox's similar "Joe Millionaire," which premiered the same week and concluded Monday by draw­ing an enormous 34.6 million viewers. 
The two-hour "Bachelorette" finale attracted 20.4 million viewers, according to Nielsen, against strong competition including 90 minutes of "American Idol" on Fox that averaged 18 million viewers. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, February 21, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch February 20 
DowJones
,f

7,94.96  -85.64  
NASDAQ  
1,331.23  
 -3.09  
S&P500  
837.10  ,_  -8.03  
AMEX  
816.99  ~  +3.27  
NYSE  
4,730.84  •  -32.61  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
FIBERNET TELECO(FTGX)-23.91-0.02 0.07 
iiii~ill1liiiiilliliri~iitiill~iiijJji!i~l:lilil~i:iii~iiili1;
NASDAQ-100 INDEX(QQQ) -0 .40 -0 .10 24. 98 
~~ii1ii!iillil~iliiiil!iliill!ll1iiiliiil:ililiiii~lii~liiii~i~i 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -1. 55 -0. 38 24 .15 
IN BRIEF 

AOL to crack down on junk e-mail: 
America Online on Thursday said it would 
form a task force and seek tougher legislation 
against spammers to bolster its efforts to cut 
the barrage of unsolicited junk mail that clut­
ters inboxes with pitches for everything from 
mortgages to ways lose weight. 

The effort comes as AOL, the Internet arm of AOL Time Warner Inc. struggles to build its high-speed business and keep its dial-up sub­scribers from leaving while contending with federal probes into its accounting and calls from some investors to spin-off AOL if it does not show a recovery soon. 
Nextel posts gain on investments: 
Nextel Communications Inc. Thursday said it swung to a fourth-quarter profit, reflecting an investment gain and an increase in wire­less subscribers. 
The cell-phone company posted net income of $1.47 billion, or $1.38 a share, compared with a net loss of $1.73 billion, or $2.25 a share, a year earlier. 
The latest results included a $1.22 billion gain from the spin-off of Nil Holdings Inc., a wireless service in Latin America and the Philippines. NII filed for bankruptcy in May. 
Revenue climbed 24 percent to $2.33 billion from $1.88 billion. 
J4P. Morgan to pay $6 million fine: 
A major Wall Street firm, J.P. Morgan, has agreed to pay $6 million to settle allegations that its Hambrecht & Quist investment bank got inflated commissions from customers who improperly received hot new stocks, regula­tors announced Thursday. 
J.P. Morgan neither admitted to nor denied the allegations by the disciplinary arm of the National Association of Securities Dealers, the brokerage industry's self-policing group. J.P. Morgan also was censured. The violations by Hambrecht & Quist allegedly occurred from November 1999 to March 2000, before J.P. Morgan acquired the San Francisco-based firm. 
Business students sign deal 
. Plan to supply bednets to Dominican gov't 
By NICOlA BUNICK 
News Writer 

Members of Notre Dame's 
Student International 
Business Council recently 
closed a $25,000 deal with 
the Dominican Republic to 
supply bednets for the 
country's new national bed­
net distribution program. 
Junior Pat Dillon and 
senior Matt Walsh, mem­
bers of SIBC, both recently 
spent time in Leogane, 
Haiti, consulting for KOLE­
MO, a company set up by 
the group. KOLEMO (an 
acronym which stands for 
the name of the company in 
Creole) produces bednets 
made of pesticide-coated 
fabric. These nets protect 
people from being bitten by 
disease-carrying insects 
while they sleep. KOLEMO 
sells these nets to the peo­
ple of Haiti at a subsidized 
price. 

This means that the com­pany actually loses money on each net it sells, but this is not a problem for the SIBC. The group originally created KOLEMO as a ser­vice project to help the Haitian people. 
"The SIBC is mostly play­ing a consulting role in run­ning the company," said Dillon, who has been involved with the bednet project since last year and has spent several weeks in Leogane. "The company is mainly about capacity building for the Haitians. We're just helping by putting our Notre Dame education to good use." 
Members of the SIBC's Haiti Bednet Committee assist in running KOLEMO, which is directed primarily by a board of Haitian entre­preneurs. The students per­form various administrative tasks for the company. Every year, the committee tries to send several stu­dents to Leogane to directly assist the company. Dillon and Walsh, both this year's coordinators of the HBC's project. visited Leogane , over Christmas break to attempt to obtain additional sources of funding for KOLEMO so that the com­pany could be sustained over the long term. 

According to the SIBC's Director of Global Development, sophomore John Boots, the company was originally funded by a grant from the Kellogg Institute for International Studies but until very recently was almost out of money. 
"We lose money on every bednet," Boots said. "But if we were to sell them for more then [we do], they wouldn't be affordable for the Haitian people." 
In order to obtain an additional grant, the Kellogg Institute stipulated that the company would have to expand its market to buyers who would be able to fund further pro­duction. The Institute agreed to at least match any funding which the HBC was able to obtain for the company. 

In Haiti, Dillon and Walsh worked with recent Notre Dame graduate and former SIBC member, Justin Campbell, who is spending some time in Leogane working for KOLEMO on a Fulbright Scholarship. Along with the Haitian entrepreneurs, Dillon, Walsh and Campbell, were able to convince the Ministry of Health to take a tour of the company's facili­ties. 
Because of this visit, the Ministry was impressed and decided to start a national bed net distribution pro­gram in the Dominican Republic using nets pur­chased from SIBC's KOLE­MO. The Dominican Republic, unlike the Haitian people, will purchase the bednets at cost. This will be a substantial boost to the company which will have to triple its production to fill the Dominican Republic's order of four to five thou­sand bednets. Now that they have met the Kellogg Institute's stipulations, the SIBC is anticipating receiv­ing their second grant. 
They plan to use addi­tional money to employ more seamstresses to meet the new product demand as well as purchase additional sewing machines for the company. 
Contact Nicola Bunick at nbunick@nd.edu 
Consumers cry foul as gas tops $2 
Associated Press 

The middle of winter feels more like the heart of summer at gas sta­tions nationwide, as fuel prices surge past $2 a gallon in some places and motorists grumble about being gouged. 
When a gallon of gas costs more than a cup of gourmet coffee around the July 4 holiday, drivers chalk it up to industry greed during the peak driving season. Now consumers are accusing oil companies of taking advantage of the prospect of war in Iraq -an allegation the industry brushes aside as a conspiracy theory. 
Gas station owners tell a more 
complicated story, explaining that today's high pump prices are partly the result of avarice, but not their own. 
The average retail price of regular unleaded has risen 56 cents since the beginning of the year to $1.66 a gal­lon. Meanwhile, wholesale gas prices have increased only 14 cents over the same period of time. That dispar­ity is the source of ire for much of the public, while others accept high gas prices as a consequence of war rhetoric from the Bush administra­tion. 
"This is ridiculous," said 20-year­old Jose Quiles, a tanning salon man­ager in Dallas, who paid about $10 Thursday for a little more than 6 gal­lons of Exxon-branded gasoline. 
Corina Alba, 22, sees some correla­tion between gas prices and the pos­sibility of war in Iraq, but the Anaheim, Calif.. resident doubts international affairs solely explain the situation. 
"I think it's just an excuse to raise prices," Alba said. 
Earlier in the week, Sen. Charles Schumer. D-N. Y .• called on the Federal Trade Commission to launch an investigation of industry prac­tices. "It appears as if price gouging is taking place across the country," Schumer said in a letter to FTC chairman Timothy Muris. 
-

page 8 Friday, February 21, 2003 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

..:::({
~=~tit! 
:':f;(f{{) 

VIEWPOINTS ON 
.t 
IRAQ A series of events to 
:i!:it~ 
ti;tj 

eneourage diseussion. 
"WE PRAY WITH OPEN HANDS: VOICES OF ,.fHE IRAQI PEOPLE" WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2003 
3:30 pm STAPLETON LOUNGE 
A conversation with Sheila Provencher, who recently returned froma Pax Christi delegation to Iraq. A11 exhil)it of some of her photos will accompany. 
"IRAQ BRIEFING" WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2003 
7:00 pm CARROLL AUDITORIUM 
Background information on tl1e cor1flict with Iaq from a variety of perspectives, to initiate an inforn1ed dialogue with the audience. Moderator: Sr. l(athlee Dolphin, Director,_ Center for Spirituality Panel Participants: Teresa Marcy-the political/historical background on Iraq 
Linda Berdayes-media coverage of the conflict Joe Miller-the psychology of war-n1aking Jerry McElroy-the econo1nic costs of war 
A STUDENT PANEL DISCUSSION ON IRAQ MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2003 
5:00 pm WEDGE ROOM OF THE DINING HALL 
Hosted by the Political Science Student Club and Peacemakers 
"IRAQ: A JUST WAR?'' MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2003 
7:00 pin CARROLL AUDITORIUM 
Margaret O'Brien Steinfels has been editor of Commonwealth from 1998. Her writing has appeared in the New York Times, the Los Angeles Times, the New Republic, and other publications. Her book, Whos Minding tlie Ch,ildren? Tlie History arid Politics o Day Care in America was published in 1974. 
Sponsored by: Ca1npus Ministry, Center for Women's lnterCultural Leadership, De1lartn1ent of J>olitical Science, lnterCultural Co1n1nunity Living Progran1, Justice Education, Peacen1akers, The Political Science Student Club, Won1en's Studies. 
.. 
Friday, February 21, 2003 

The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
FCC to let states control phone laws 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Federal Communications 
Commission on Thursday over­
hauled rules governing competition 
for telephone and Internet services, 
creating uncertainty for consumers 
as companies, observers and regula­
tors disagreed over how the changes 
will affect prices and choices. 
The FCC voted 3-2 to let states decide whether to spur competition between the regional Bell phone companies and their rivals, rejecting arguments from agency Chairman Michael Powell and the Bells that existing federal competition rules should be eliminated altogether. 
Another split decision eased requirements that the Bells provide rivals discount access to fiber-optic lines for the high-speed Internet access called broadband. The Bells have complained they have no incentive to invest in costly new net­works ifcompetitors profit. 
Consumers could benefit from the decision to shift authority to states because local regulators tend to focus more than the FCC on keeping phone bills low, said Kathie Hackler, an analyst with Gartner Dataquest. 
..States have more of a capability to deal directly with consumer issues,.. she said. 
But Powell, in his first dissenting opinion as chairman, said the deci­sion "could prove quite harmful to consumers." 
"This decision will prove too chaotic for an already fragile tele­com sector," he said. He said having states evaluate the rules will take years and the process will be plagued by lawsuits. 

Behind the commission's divided 
ruling is a requirement that the 
regional Bell companies lease parts 
of their local networks to competi­
tors such as AT&T Corp. and 
WorldCom Inc. at discount rates. 
The policy was adopted seven years 
ago to encourage companies to com­
pete in the Bells' markets while giv­
ing the Bells the chance to offer 
long-distance service in their 
regions. 
The Bell companies -BellSouth Corp., SBC Communications, Verizon Communications and Qwest Communications -say the rules allow competitors to use their net­works at artificially low prices. The Bells said Thursday they were disap­pointed with the FCC ruling. 
James C. Smith, an SBC senior vice president, called the decision "a pipe dream of people who have spent no time working in the real world." Smith and officials from other phone companies said they would increase lobbying of Congress and state regu­lators and appeal the FCC decision in the courts. 
Bell rivals say the competition requirements allow them to offer alternative service and prevent the Bells from having an overwhelming advantage. 
Jim Cicconi, general counsel for AT&T, praised the commissioners who voted for more state authority, saying that they "rejected radical proposals that would have killed local competition." 
"Consumers will see lower prices and more choices in the market­place," he said. 
Shares in the Bell companies all were hit hard on the New York Stock Exchange. Qwest stock plunged 14.1 percent, while SBC stock lost 7 .5 percent, BellSouth fell 
7.0 percent and Verizon sank 5.0 percent. 
Among key rivals, AT&T shares 
dropped 1.7 percent, but shares in 
Sprint's landline division gained 1.2 
percent. Shares of DSL provider 
Covad Communications Co., which 
leases access to Bell networks, tum­
bled 43 percent in over-the-counter 
trading. 

Mark Cooper, research director of the Consumer Federation of America, echoed the FCC's Democratic commissioners, saying the agency decision would maintain local phone competition, but lifting broadband restrictions would mean higher prices and fewer choices for high-speed Internet access. 
Powell took the opposite view. He applauded the broadband decision as promoting investment in new net­works, but called the phone compe­tition ruling a "molten morass of regulatory activity" filled with legal errors that will ultimately doom the measure. 
Courts have rejected the agency's previous two attempts to revise the rules, saying they failed to meet the requirements of a 1996 telecommu­nications law. 
Republican commissioner Kevin Martin, who voted with the panel's two Democrats to shift authority from the federal government to the states, was the only commissioner happy with both that change and the broadband decision. 
Republican commissioner Kathleen Abernathy, who joined Powell in voting against the phone rule change, said dealing with differ­ent rules in different states "will be a nightmare for anyone to carry out a business." 
Professor had 
vitrolic history 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. 
The University of South Florida profes­sor charged with being a leader of a Palestinian terrorist group 
f i r 5 t See Also
caught t h e "U.S. at ten­
professor, 7
tion of the FBI others face 
nearly 
terrorism 
a 
charges"
decade a g o page5 a n d has made vitriolic pub­lic remarks about Israel since at least the early 1990s. Sarni Al-Arian, 45, a balding, bespectacled computer engineering instructor. was jailed in Tampa after he and seven others were charged in a federal indictment unsealed Thursday. He dis­missed the charges as politically motivated. Al-Arian, who is married with five chil­dren, is well known as a community activist who founded a Muslim school and community center. He denounced the mistreatment of 

Muslims in the United 
States following Sept. 
11 and helped orga­
nize blood drives to 
assist survivors of the 
terrorist attack. 
The Kuwaiti-born 

emigre earned com­
puter-engineering 
degrees from Southern 
Illinois University and 
North Carolina State 
University, according 
to a Web site estab­
lished by supporters. 
He was at South 
Florida since 1986 
and won an outstand­
ing teacher award in 
1993. 
The very next year, a PBS documentary first accused Al-Arian of raising money for Islamic Jihad, the ter­rorist group named in Thursday's indictment. The show, which cited unidentified law enforcement sources, also said Al-Arian had links to Omar Abdel­Rahman, the radical Muslim cleric tied to the World Trade Center bombing in 1993.Al-Arian said the program was poorly translated and called it a deliberate attempt to distort the cause of 
U.S. Muslim organiza­tions. 




Lads ofComedy 

seen her on campus? 
You can this Friday when the "Lads ofCornedy" visit Notre Dame! 
Your Irish eyes will be smiling while your face laughs hysterically at the 11 Lads ofComedy!" A mixture ofstand up comedy, characters and sketches all centered around the Irish American experience. lt1s a show for the Irish, about the Irish, by the Irish! Eve,)'thingwill be covered from Catholic school, wakes, Notre Dame, and our families! 
Friday February 21, 9 pm, Lafortune Ballroom 

Friday, February 21, 2003 
page 10 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush works to build support for tax cuts 
\, the 2001 recession, the blow to 
Associated Press 

the economy from the Sept. 11 
J 
terror attacks, corporate KENNESAW, Ga. accounting scandals and a 
President Bush worked to need to spend more money on build support for his tax-cut homeland security and the mil­proposals Thursday, including itary. an appeal to America's stock "We're going to make sure "ownership society" to help his we spend enough to win this embattled plan to eliminate war," Bush said to applause, a taxes on stock dividends. reference to both the broader 
"More consumption and war on terror and a possible investment means somebody war against Iraq. more likely to find work," Bush By spending "enough to win told an invitation-only audi­a war, we may not have a war ence at a high school in this at all," he added. Atlanta suburb. Included in Bush's tax-cut 
Bush picked up the first sup­package is $674 billion in pro­port for the plan from a Senate posals he made in January, Democrat, Zell Miller of roughly half for elimination of Georgia, a conservative who dividend taxes. also supported Bush's first "It used to be only a few round of tax cuts in 2001. would own stocks. All that has 
However. a larger problem changed," Bush said. "America for Bush than lack of is now an ownership society." Democratic support for his "There are millions of our broader tax-cut plans is that fellow Americans who own many majority-party stocks either directly or Republicans aren't too keen on through pension plans," he them, either. said. 
For example, Sen. Olympia Bush highlighted a private Snowe, R-Maine, said early "blue chip" economic forecast this month that it was hard to projecting the economy would predict future emergencies grow increasingly stronger and asked whether it was wise through the year. But he sug­to cut taxes when Medicare gested that would happen only was about to see dramatic cost if Congress accepted his tax increases. And in January cuts. Republican Sen. Lincoln Bush steered clear of a polit­Chafee of Rhode Island, said, ical controversy in Georgia "I can't see giving away any over a proposal by Republican more of our revenues, which Gov. Sonny Perdue to let we're doing in tax cuts." Georgians vote on whether to 
Charles Grassley of Iowa, the bring back the old state flag Republican chairman of the with its big Confederate Senate Finance Committee, emblem. suggested last month that it Bush, who aggressively might be easier to win relief in backed Perdue in last year's the area of taxes on capital election, "thinks it's a matter gains -profits made from the for the people of Georgia to sale of assets such as stock -decide," spokesman Ari rather than in eliminating the Fleischer said. The president federal tax on stock dividends. tried to stay out of a similar 
But Grassley said last week, controversy during his own after meeting with Bush. that campaign in 2000, saying the he supported the president's matter was a state issue. plan and believed most of it Perdue had a seat on the would win passage. platform during Bush's speech. 
Miller, who is not seeking re­From Georgia, the president election after his current term, was heading to his ranch in said "President Bush is not Crawford, Texas, for a long only our commander in chief, weekend. On Friday and he is our chief of common Saturday, he was to meet with sense who knows that the best Spanish Prime Minister Jose and fairest way to grow an Maria Aznar. a staunch backer economy is to simply not take of Bush's Iraq policies. that hard-earned money from 
the taxpayer in the first--------­place." 
!i 
I 
"I agree with Zell with this economic theory that when a person has more money in his I pocket, they're likely to demand that somebody pro-, duce them a good or a ser­


Regan may face death penalty 
Associated Press 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. 
Former Air Force Master Sgt. Brian Patrick Regan was convicted Thursday of offering to sell U.S. intelli­gence information to Iraq and China but acquitted of attempted spying for Libya. The jury now must decide whether he can be executed. 
The U.S. District Court jury deliberated 24 hours over five days before return­ing the verdict. Regan, standing, showed no emo­tion as the verdict was read. 
The jury then resumed deliberations on whether Regan offered Iraq docu­ments concerning nuclear weaponry, military satel­lites, war plans or other major U.S. weapons sys­tems. After an hour, the panel recessed until Monday without reaching a decision. 
If the jury finds that Regan offered those secrets to Iraq, he could be subject to the death penalty. Jurors would hear a second round of testimony to consider such a sentence. 
Ethel and Julius Rosenberg were the last Americans put to death for spying. They were executed in 1953 for conspiring to steal U.S. atomic secrets for the Soviet Union. 
Attorney General John Ashcroft said Regan's "attempts to sell our nation­al security were a direct vio­lation of his repeated oaths to protect and defend the United States of America, its Constitution and its national security secrets." 
U.S. Attorney Paul J. McNulty said the guilty ver­dicts demonstrate "that trai• tors can and will be held accountable. Mr. Regan betrayed his country and the men and women in uni­form with whom he served. He put his love of money before his love of country." 
Regan, a 40-year-old mar­ried father of four from Bowie, Md., was arrested Aug. 23, 2001, at Dulles International Airport out­side Washington while boarding a flight for Zurich, Switzerland. 

He was carrying informa­tion with the coded coordi­nates of Iraqi and Chinese missile sites, the missiles that were stored there, and the date the information was obtained. He also had the addresses of the Chinese and Iraqi embassies in Switzerland and Austria in his wallet and tucked into his right shoe. 
Regan had worked at the National Reconnaissance Office, which operates the government's spy satellites, first for the Air Force and then as a civilian employee for TRW, a defense contrac­tor. 
It was unusual for the case to even reach trial. The government, wary of dis• closing classified material in public, normally agrees to plea bargains in espionage cases. 
It also was surprising that the government sought the death penalty in a case where prosecutors acknowl­edged sensitive material never was passed. In cases much more damaging to the government, the CIA's Aldrich Ames and the FBI's Robert Hanssen were sen­tenced to life in prison. 
Special security measures were used in the Regan case, with a machine resem­bling a high-tech overhead projector displaying secret documents on monitors that the jury could see but the public could not. 
Prosecutors said Regan owed nearly $117,000 on his credit cards when he wrote a letter to Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein offering to sell satellite intelligence that could help Iraq hide anti­aircraft missiles. His asking price was $13 million. 
The letter was found on a computer taken from Regan's h.ome after his arrest. The computer con­tained a nearly identical let­ter to Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi, prosecu­tors said. 
During the two-week trial, government witnesses por­trayed Regan as a man des­perate to get out of debt and willing to sell American secrets. 
Using his access to a clas• sified Internet network, Regan looked up dozens of top-secret documents, including satellite photos of Iraqi missile sites and confi­dential documents about Libya's biological warfare program, the prosecution said. 
Defense lawyers said Regan might have fanta­sized about spying, but never copied anything of value and had no real inten­tion of selling secrets. Attorney Nina Ginsberg called his actions "childish," "unprofessional," "non­sense" and "harebrained.'' 
"No serious foreign power would ever want to deal with this person," Ginsberg said in her closing argu­ment. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Patricia Haynes, in her final presentation to the jury, argued Regan was not play­ing spy. 
"Brian Regan is not a fan• tasizer," she said. "Brian Regan is a traitor.'' 
Government witnesses said if_ Regan passed the information he was accused of possessing, American security would be compro­mised and U.S. and British pilots who patrol the no-fly zones in Iraq could be endangered. 
The defense argued that Regan wasn't carrying any­thing of value when arrest­ed. 
"The information was not terribly significant," said Maynard Anderson, former acting deputy undersecre­tary of defense for security policy. "It did not provide anyone any information that was not publicly known." 
Defense lawyers also argued that Regan was doing research to keep him current on topics he once specialized in. His resume, for example, said he evalu­ated "all sources of intelli­gence on Iraqi operations." 
They contended it was not unusual for employees with access to classified material to look up information about countries in the news, such as Iraq. 
vice," Bush said. 

Senate Democratic Leader I DISABILITY AWARENESS WEEK

----------------¦¦•¦¦--¦¦¦-¦-•• 
Notre Dame 

Thursday, Feb. 27th 
Keynote Speaker, 
Girard Sagmiller, Author of Dyslexia, My lije 
Discover how you can help someone with a Learning Disability. 7p.m. DeBartolo Hall 
Room IO IFree Admission. __ 
I I I I I I I I I I I I 
l 

.. 
Friday, February 21, 2003 

The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Rumsfeld talks about Turkey 
• Secretary says 
that denial in 
Turkey could be overcome 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Failing to win Turkey's 
approval to base American 
ground forces there for a 
possible invasion of Iraq 
would be a big setback for 
U.S. war planners, but Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld says it could be overcome. 
"It's doable," Rumsfeld told a Pentagon news con­ference Wednesday. "There are work-arounds." He declined to discuss any specifics. 
Plan "B" might involve air­lifting infantry directly into northern Iraq from another country or from aboard ships in the northern Persian Gulf, bypassing Turkey, private analysts said. 
"That's what the alterna­tive is going to have to be," said Michael Peters, a retired Army colonel who served in the 1991 Gulf War. In that fight, U.S. and allied ground forces attacked Iraqi-occupied Kuwait from the south and west, using desert encampments in northern Saudi Arabia. 
The standoff comes as U.S. ships loaded with tanks and other armor awaited orders off the Turkish coast. 
Nicholas Burns. the U.S. ambassador to NATO, said Thursday on ABC's "Good Morning America" that the United States and Turkey will remain allies no matter what happens in the current dispute. 

"Turkey is a very impor­
tant ally," he said. "We have 
had good relations and they 
will continue to be allies. We 
have had an excellent rela­
tionship over many, many 
decades and that's not going 
to change." 
Using U.S. armored forces in Turkey to open a north­ern front is a major feature of the U.S. war plan. It would force Iraq's army to defend from several direc­tions. Around 100,000 U.S. and British ground troops would lead a charge into southern Iraq from bases in Kuwait, but there is no other country in the region bor­dering Iraq that will host large U.S. ground forces. 
The war plan, as drawn up by Gen. Tommy Franks, the commander who would run a war against Iraq, calls for positioning the Army's 4th Infantry Division, supported by parts of the 1st Infantry Division, in southern Turkey. 
As a mechanized infantry division, the 4th would use tanks and other armor, cou­pled with artillery, Apache attack helicopters and high­ly mobile infantry, to spear­head a quick drive into northern Iraq, large parts of which are not controlled by the Iraqi government. 
Turkey is a longtime American ally, but its public opinion is strongly against a 
U.S. invasion of Iraq. Turkey's government is holding out for U.S. promis­es of a multibillion-dollar aid package that would com­pensate Turkey for damage to its economy from a war and its aftermath. 
Five U.S. cargo ships are waiting off the Turkish coast 
with weaponry and equip­
ment of the 4th Infantry 
Division, and dozens more 
ships are scheduled to fol­
low with supplies to sustain 
the division ·in combat. If no 
deal is struck with Turkey. 
the ships presumably would 
be ordered to head for the 
Persian Gulf, via the Suez 
Canal and Red Sea, to 
unload at a Kuwaiti port. 
The approximately 17,000 
soldiers of the 4th Infantry 
Division are still at their 
home bases -Fort Hood, 
Texas, and Fort Carson, 
Colo. They will fly to Turkey 
or Kuwait by passenger 
liner. 

Peters. the retired Army colonel who is now at the Council on Foreign Relations, said in a tele­phone interview that if armored forces cannot open a northern front from bases in Turkey, then the Army's 101st Airborne Division might move by air from Kuwait into northern Iraq to set up forward operating bases. 
Similarly, Marine forces could establish such bases by flying from assault ships in the northern Gulf. 
The Marines demonstrated their capabilities for such missions in the Afghanistan war. At distances of up to 750 miles from their war­ships off the coast of Pakistan, troops from the 26th and 15th Marine Expeditionary Units set up the first U.S. land base in southern Afghanistan. Never before in military history had an amphibious objective area been located so far inland, according to Lt. Gen. Martin R. Berndt, comman­der of U.S. Marine Corps Forces Atlantic. 
Victim of transplant mistake still critical 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. 

With perhaps only hours left 
to live, the 17-year-old girl 
mistakenly given a heart and 
lungs with the wrong blood 
type was miraculously handed 
a second chance Thursday 
after doctors -against all 
odds -located another set of 
organs. 

Surgeons rushed to trans­
plant the new heart and lungs 
into Jesica Santillan, whose 
relatives had feared she would 
be dead by the weekend. She 
was in critical condition after 
the four-hour operation, and 
doctors warned it was too 
early to say whether she would 
pull through. 
"She's as critical as a person 
could be," Dr. Duane Davis 
said at Duke University 
Hospital. 
The Mexican teenager with 
O-positive blood had waited 
nearly three years for a trans­
plant. But in a mistake that 
still has not been fully 
explained, Duke surgeons gave 
her organs from a donor with 
type A blood on Feb. 7. 
Her body rejected the new organs and she suffered a stroke and had to be put on life support. Her doctors had held out little hope of finding a new heart and lungs in time to save her life, in part because of her blood types and because she is so small at 5-foot-2 and 85 pounds that any organs would probably have to come from a child -and child donors are rare. 
But new organs were found late Wednesday. 
Lloyd Jordan of Carolina Donor Services said the donor family had requested anonymi­ty. He said the donation was not "directed" -that is, the family did not specifically request that the organs be given to Jesica. 
"So far, so good," said Renee McCormick, a spokeswoman for a charity raising money for Jesica's care. "Her parents feel some relief right now. Everyone is incredibly hopeful and we're just so pleased, so thankful." 
Doctors said Jesica's body suffered damage while on she was on life support. The organs removed Thursday 
could not be salvaged. 
Jesica and her family moved 
from a small town near 
Guadalajara, Mexico, to the 
United States to get a trans­
plant because a heart deformi­
ty kept her lungs from getting 
oxygen into her blood. Doctors 
said she would have died with­
in six months without the 
transplant. 
Duke officials are still inves­
tigating what led to the Feb. 7 
error, but have already identi­
fied a couple of mistakes. 
Dr. James Jaggers, the sur­
geon in the case, wrongly 
assumed that compatibility had 
been confirmed, said Dr. 
William Fulkerson, the hospi­
tal's chief operating officer. 
The hospital has added more 
levels of verification for organ 
compatibility. and Fulkerson 
said those procedures were 
followed Thursday. 
Jaggers also performed the 
second transplant, though the 
hospital said other surgeons 
were involved because of 
Jesica's complicated condition. 
"We have faith in the sur­
geon," said Mack Mahoney, a 
leader of the fund-raising 
efforts to pay for Jesica's care. 
"We feel there was a grave 
mistake made. We do not ques­
tion his skill as a surgeon." 
The United Network for 
Organ Sharing, which matches 
organs and recipients, is 
reviewing what led to the 
flawed transplant. But the New 
England organ bank that sent 
the first heart and lungs said 
the organs were delivered with 
paperwork correctly listing the 
donor's blood type. 
Duke must also answer to the agency that accredits hospi­tals, which investigates unusu­al deaths that might signal a problem with the hospital's systems. 
In the Santillans' hometown of Tamazula, relatives prayed for her survival and safe return to Mexico. Ramona Santillan, Jesica's aunt, said she hoped to bring the girl to Mexico City's Basilica of Guadalupe, where a cloak with the image of the Virgin of Guadalupe is displayed. 
"I promised the virgin that if she saves her. I would bring her (to Mexico City) as a thank you," she said. 


Friday, February 21, 2003 
page 12 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
VENEZUELA 

lI Opposition protests arrests 
l 
l 
CARACAS ly confirmed. with justice is the presi­
! i Associated Press Opposition sympathizers dent." at Thursday's rally near an Chavez, who was elected air force base in eastern in 1998 and re-elected in 
•Thousands of angry gov­Caracas lambasted Chavez, 2000, has accused the two ernment opponents chanting accusing the leftist leader of opposition leaders of plot­"This is a dictatorship!" ral­trying to establish a Cuban­ting to overthrow his gov­lied in the capital's streets style dictatorship in this ernment with the strike and Thursday, protesting the South American nation of by orchestrating "an eco­midnight arrest of a strike 24 million n o m i c leader by secret police. people. coup." 
But President Hugo "This is Chavez's Chavez triumphantly pro­an escala­"This is an escalation of allies justi­claimed that he authorized tion of vio­violence by the fied the the arrest of Carlos lence by the government. which has arrest. Fernandez even though it govern­" E a c h
arrived at the extreme of
threatened to re-ignite mas­ment, which member of sive demonstrations and has arrived repression ... the opposi­again paralyze the country. at the tion must "One of the coup plotters extreme of assume ...
Carlos Feijoo

was arrested last night. It repression,., the legal
retired oil worker
was about time, and see said Carlos c o n s e ­how the others are running Feijoo, 88, quences of to hide," Chavez said at the a retired oil acts of oil foreign ministry. "I went to worker. "He sabotage bed with a smile." wants to copy Fidel and the attempt to topple a 
Chavez said judges should (Castro)." legitimate government," rul­not "be afraid to issue Fedecamaras vice presi­ing party leader Nicolas arrest warrants against dent Albis Munoz warned of Maduro said. coup-plotters." another nationwide strike in Opposition leaders called 
Carlos Fernandez, head of response to the arrest. for more street protests and Venezuela's largest busi-"Definitely there will be appealed to the ness federation actions, and very strong Organization of American Fedecamaras, was seized by actions," Munoz said. States, the United Nations 
about eight, armed agents The Confederation of and the Carter Center, run around midnight Wednesday Venezuelan Workers also by former President Carter, as he left a restaurant in said a 12-or 24-hour stop­for mediation. Caracas' trendy Las page was possible. OAS Secretary General Mercedes district, said his Fernandez's wife, Sonia, Cesar Gaviria said in a bodyguard, Juan Carlos spoke briefly with her hus­statement that Venezuelan Fernandez. band and said he was in judges have the autonomy 
The men fired into the air good condition at secret to make such decisions, but when patrons tried to pre­police headquarters. they must respect constitu­vent the arrest, the body­Fernandez was meeting tion al norms and human guard said. with his attorneys, she said. rights.
Carlos Fernandez faces Chavez supporters gath­U.S. State Departmentcharges of treason and ered near the headquarters spokesman Richard Boucher instigating violence for and a downtown plaza to said officials in Washingtonleading the two-month celebrate the arrest. worried that Fernandez's strike that began Dec. 2, "It's what had to be done. arrest could hinder efforts 
seeking to oust Chavez and These opposition leaders to end the stalemate 
force early elections. tried to destroy the country, between Venezuela's politi­The strike ended Feb. 4 in now they must be pun­cal rivals. 
TURKEY 
Parliament to vote 
on U. S. troops soon 
Associated Press 
ANKARA 

Brushing aside U.S. warn­ings that time is running out, Turkey's foreign minister said Thursday that a parlia­mentary vote on basing tens of thousands of U.S. troops for an Iraq war is unlikely before early next week. 
But Yasar Yakis left open the possibility the govern­ment could decide in princi­ple earlier and leave the final authorization for next week. 
Economy Minister Ali Babacan was quoted as say­ing that the U.S.-Turkish dis­pute on the deployment could be resolved "within the coming days." 
The standoff centers around a Turkish demand for billions of dollars in U.S. aid to offset losses in case of an Iraq war and comes as 
U.S. ships loaded with tanks and other armor awaited orders off the Turkish coast. 
Turkish leaders have said they will not agree to the deployment until the aid package is finalized. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell called Turkish Prime Minister Abdullah Gui on Wednesday, a move that emphasized how critical the issue is for the United States. 
In Washington, Powell said he expected an answer from Turkey by the end of Thursday. 
Asked when Turkey would send its reply, Yakis said: "There is no question of an answer going today," the Anatolia news agency report­ed. 
A Turkish parliamentary committee met Thursday and made no decision to open parliament this week, mean­ing that without a special request from the govern­ment. the legislature will remain cJosed until Tuesday. 
"We have reached impor­tant results, however negoti­ations have not concluded yet, they are still ongoing," Yakis told legislators in par­liament. 
"If needed we will submit a motion. We're not there yet," he added. 
"It is difficult for the authorization to come to par­liament this week," Yakis was quoted as saying by the Anatolia news agency shortly before he spoke to the legis­lators. 
"Even if there is an agree­ment, it may not come (to parliament) by Tuesday, because our lawmakers need to be informed," Yakis said. 
Turkey's top politician, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, was 
quoted as  saying that the  
timing of a  Turkish decision  
depended  on  the  United  

States accepting Turkey's demands for aid. 
"We don't have a timetable in mind," the Yeni Safak newspaper Thursday quoted him as saying. 
"Whenever there's an agreement, that's when a motion will be brought to parliament." 
all sectors except the criti­cal oil industry. Before the strike, Venezuela was the world's fifth-largest petrole­um exporter and a major 
U.S. supplier. 
Government allies warned that more than 100 opposi­tion leaders, from labor bosses to news media exec­utives, who supported the strike also could be arrest­ed. 
"More than one hundred are on the list to be cap­tu red," ruling party law­maker Luis Velasquez said. 
The existence of such a list could not be immediate­ished," said Tomas Ordonez, a 49-year-old taxi driver. 

Carlos Fernandez called the strike with Carlos Ortega, president of the Venezuelan Workers Confederation -the coun­try's largest labor union. 
Ortega was ordered to surrender on treason and instigating violence charges, magistrate Maikel Jose Moreno said, but the tough­talking labor boss said he would not turn himself in. 
"We have nothing to fear," Ortega told Globovision TV channel via telephone. "The only one who has a date 
INDIA 

Two dead after riots 
Indian towns after police Associated Press stopped hard-liners from storming centuries-old 
BHOPAL Bhojshala monument. 
Religious rioting left two Muslims pray at the monu­people dead in central India ment weekly and authorities on Thursday after Hindu allow Hindus to pray there extremists stormed an ancient only once a year. Hindus want monument they say is a tem­more frequent access. ple but Muslims consider a On Tuesday, police used tear mosque. gas to disperse rioters and 
One of the dead was a arrested 150 people when Muslim who was attacked by they tried to storm the monu­Hindus in Charawat village in ment. Madhya Pradesh state, police The monument is in the said. In nearby Anjhera, police town of Dhar, about 170 miles opened fire on a crowd setting south of Bhopal, capital of fire to a Muslim-owned shop, Madhya Pradesh state. killing a Hindu farmer partici­The violence appeared to be pating in the attack, police part of a buildup of pressuresaid. by Hindu nationalists ahead of 
Earlier Thursday, Hindus a "religious senate" this week­burned buses in four central end in New Delhi. 
Now2ATMS 
In Lafortune Student Center! 
For your convenience, Notre Dame Federal Credit Union has nine ATMs on campus-all with no-surcharge!" 
Hammes Bookstore Main Building Decio Hall Reckers Grace Hall Joyce Center North Dining Hall LaFortune Student Center (2) 
Plus, there's a full-service branch in Lafortune Student Centerl 
'§:. 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
57 4/239-6611 • 800/567-6328 www.ndfcu.org 
GJ1-NCUA I•Members of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union are not charged a surcharge when using • Notre Dame Federal Credit Union ATM. LENDER -...=.-=-Non-members, however, may be surchanged when using a non-campus Notre Dame H!deral Credit Uruon ATM. Independent of the university. 
page 13

Friday, February 21, 2003 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Office of Child and Youth Protection, former Governor of Oklahoma 
Monday, February 24, 2003 • 4:00 p.m. Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium Reception to follow 

page 14 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Kare Nagengast Lori Lewalski 

Assr. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER 
Andrew Soukup Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm 

SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hettler, Matt Lozar SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna SAINT MA.Rv's EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer CoNTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX. ............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIBF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT, ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARV's.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0 ........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.tdu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
I POLICIES
( ! 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither 
I 
I institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. 

Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe 
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 

Q~tions regarding Observerpolicies should bt direct­ed to Editor in Chu/Jason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

TlK Obocrv« (USPS 599 240) ii published Monday dunugh friday cxa:pr during exam and vac.ation period1. A subscription to The or.nu is: SlOO fororu:." academic 
I 
ynr; $:SS for one scmnrcr.

I I I 
Th< Ob.crvcr upublished ar. l'OHMASTER 

l I l I 
024 Sou,h Dining H.tl Send addf<u corm:tion, ro: Nouc Dame, IN 46556 The Ob.en,« 
P.O. lloxQ 
Pc:riodiul po,ag,, paid at Notte Dame: Noru !Jam<, IN 46556-0m artd ..t.lirion.t moiling ollica. 

I I 
: i Th, Obto,v,. ii • m<mbcr aldi• ~•l<d Pr,u. All "'l'roduaion righa .,, ........i. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 



Friday, February 21, 2003 
ND should be free to pursue diversity 
Notre Dame and 37 other private academic institutions took a strong stance Tuesday in supporting the University of Michigan's affirmative action policy in an amicus brief to the U.S. Supreme Court. In the interest of obtaining a student body that is racially and ethnical­
ly diverse, colleges and universities should have the right to adopt policies that effec-· tively pursue that goal. This right is even more crucial in the case of private colleges and universities, where cost, past discrimi­nation and socioeconomic factors still pre­sent a disproportionate obstacle to racial and ethnic minorities. 
O
Jhe 

Notre Dame needs more diversity. Students have said it, the faculty have said it and administrators have said it. Understandably, this is hard to obtain by a school whose character is rooted in Irish-Catholic culture and tradition. This is all the more reason why the University's aggressive recruitment efforts and its sup­port of affirmative action are helpful to the recruitment of a more diverse class. 
Perhaps the adoption of Michigan's policy is not the solution to Notre Dame's predicament. Indeed, there are questionable areas of the Michigan's affirmative action 
userver 
• .
egones.

Editon 
In supporting the Michigan policy, Notre 
policy. In a 150-point system, the allotment of up to 20 points for "membership in an underrepresented minority group, socioeconomic disadvantage, attendance at a pre­dominantly minority high school, athletics or at the Provost's discretion," as the school says, raises eye­
brows. However, in addition to minorities, 
this 20-point clause could potentially benefital whites who fall into one of its other four cat-
Dame and the other 37 schools explicitly 
state in their brief that they are not sup­porting the Michigan policy as the standard rule of thumb in college and university admissions offices. Rather, it is taking a stand with the other schools to remind the U.S. Supreme Court that, as the 1978 Bakke case decided, diversity is still desirable in an academic setting even if quotas are not. Thus, it is imperative that the Supreme Court does not make a decision that could hurt the ability of private institutions to try to obtain some diversity through affirmative action. In that sense, Notre Dame is completely justified in its stance and is right to support the other schools in the brief. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Defending U.S. actions and intentions 
I would like to respond to Tom Seabaugh's Thursday letter, "Speak out against coming war." In it, he claims that United States action in Iraq is nothing more than "open colonial brutality" against an "already desperate and war­ravaged nation for strategic or financial gain." Furthermore, he argues that the United States is willing to do this "regard­less of public opinion" and cited the recent peace marches against the war around the world. Not believing that the blame for these anticipated atrocities lay solely on the shoulders of the United States, Seabaugh's letter also targeted the United Nations and specifically European nations, quoting Lenin in call­ing the former "a thieves' den." 
There are several major oversights in this argument that border on gross mis­representations. The claim that the United States is acting in hope of colonial expansion or economic gain seems to me ridiculous, as no leader has yet suggested that the war to disarm Iraq include assimilation or colonization. The simple fact that the United States has chosen to go through an international body of nations and not conquered Iraq on its own is ample proof of that. The United States has also put forward convincing reasons to take such action -namely that Iraq has recently been guilty of unjust aggression (Kuwait, 1991) and is currently guilty of stockpiling prohibited chemical and biological weapons, which it clearly has used before. The United States is essentially trying to hold Iraq responsible for treaty obligations signed more than ten years ago. In addition, Seabaugh's claim that Iraq is "desperate and war-ravaged" overlooks the fact that Iraq itself has unjustly been the cause of the wars it has suffered already at the hands of the United States. Finally, the representation of the United Nations, which has thus far been very concerned with giving Iraq the benefit of the doubt when it comes to treaty-authorized weapons inspections and avoiding war, as a "thieves' den" is incongruous and unfair. 
The most difficult evidence and argu­ment that Seabaugh puts forward, how­ever, was in citing the many recent protests against the war as implicit evi­dence of its wrongness and a clear indi­cation that President Bush is tyrannically indifferent to their impassioned pleas. "Over 10 million people," he righteously declares, "lined the streets in major cities in every continent around the world in opposition -Jews and Arabs even marched together in Tel Aviv. Bush, how­ever, has made it clear he is not the slightest concerned." Perhaps it would be helpful to make clear that the president of the United States is not responsible to the opinions of non-American citizens, as he is our president and not theirs. Moreover, even had all those 10 million protesters been U.S. citizens, they would still only constitute a meager fraction of the population. If he believes that the president should follow popular opinion, perhaps Mr. Seabaugh should look at the recent poll documenting the 66 percent of Americans in favor of military action in Iraq. 
More telling, however, is how Seabaugh ignores the fact that our presi­dent is bound not blindly to implement the policies he hears expressed most vociferously, but to act to preserve our country and the ideals it stands for. 
He believes, after access to the com­bined efforts of different intelligence agencies and the advice of professional political analysts, that Saddam Hussein and Iraq are a threat to those ideals because they suspiciously buck U.N. inspection teams, they stockpile prohibit­ed and horrible weapons systems and most importantly because they have a history of aggression that they have not apologized for or for which they have shown any signs of recanting. 
Finally, the claim that the United States is acting chiefly out of colonial or eco­nomic gain touches upon a familiar argu­ment used by anti-war protesters: that the United States has a long history of sordid and bullying colonial enforcement around the world, especially in South and Central America. Though such a claim cannot be refuted, a distinction needs to be drawn between those incidents and the current situation. Such past colonial brutality always occurred clandestinely, hidden from the eyes of the international community and American citizens, explicitly to further secure American influence in those regions. The current American push against Iraq is being con­ducted before the full complement of neighbor nations, in pursuit of answers to the just and necessary question of whether Iraq has fulfilled its treaty requirements or continues to illegally build its military. More important than our past history, however, is the under­standing that we should do the right thing regardless of shameful acts com­mitted in the past. In urging the use of force to the United Nations in order to disarm Iraq, Bush and our country are doing just that. 
Matthew Klobucher 
junior Stanford Hall Feb.20 

. I 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Justin Krivickas Will Puckett Matt Bramanti 
Viewpoint 
Teresa Fralish 
Graphics 
Chris Naidus 
Sports 

Matt Lozar Chris Federico Heather Van Hoegarden 
Scene 

Sarah Vabulas 
Lab Tech 

Lauren Forbes 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Can academic departments justifiably restructure themselves in a search for higher national rankings? 
*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 132 responses. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

..Mankind must put an end to war or war will put an end to mankind." 
John Fitzgerald Kennedy president 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, February 21, 2003 page 15 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Notre Dame should not support Michigan policy 
President George Bush wants to go to war. Many U.S. generals, such as Scowcroft and Schwartzkopf, do not. As Marine Gen. Anthony Zinni, former head ofthe U.S. Central Command in the Middle East put it: "It's pretty inter-.-... esting that all the generals see it the same way, and all the oth­ers who have never fired a shot, and are hot to go to war, see it another ... we Frechette 
are about to do something that will ignite a fuse in this region, that we will rue the day we ever started." 
Assmning we agree that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein is a dangerous tyrant who lies about his weapons, then why war against Iraq? Why war? Why war now? 
Bush correctly claims that Iraq possesses weapons of mass destruction. But Bush pulled out of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and the Department ofDefense admits that 12 nations have nuclear weapons, 13 have biological weapons, 16 have chemical weapons and 28 have ballis­tic missiles. North Korea, in particular, rep­resents a threat. Will the United States wage war on all these nations? Will we police the entire world? If The Guardian is right, invasion and occupation ofIraq would cost $1.9 trillion. Regardless ofcosts, perhaps terrorists should be stopped -but no Sept. 11 terrorists were Iraqi citizens, 
Kristin Shrader-
Questioning reasons for war 
and British and most European intelligence admits there are no Iraq-Al Qaeda ties. Besides, 15 of the 18 hijackers were Saudi, Bin Laden is Saudi and Saudis finance reac­tionary actions all over the world. Yet Bush does not pursue our Saudi allies. Why war against Iraq? 
Bush also correctly claims the United States ought to take the moral high ground. Does morality also involve admitting U.S. complicity in Iraq? When the United States supported Hussein during the Iraq-Iran War in the 1980s, the United States turned a blind eye to Hussein's use of biological weapons, purchased from a U.S. company near Fort Detrick, Md., the world's largest biological and chemical weapons laborato­ry. 
The United States has more arms and trades more arms than any other nation. The United States also experimented on Native Americans, blacks and retarded chil­dren. A recent National Academy of Sciences committee, which I served on, examined covert U.S. Army experiments using agents such as zinc cadmium sulfide, Bacillus subtilis and Serratia marcescens on millions ofcivilians. U.S. biological, radio­logical and chemical releases from sub­ways, boats, trains and planes caused increased U.S. deaths and epidemiological ..blips" in public-health statistics. 
But these "blips" were not causally trace­able witil 1990, when President Bill Clinton released formerly-classified military docu­ments. Ifother nations read of these contin­uing experiments in National Academy and Congressional publications, would they be justified in threatening preemptive attacks 
against the United States? Facing such an 
attack, would the United States appeal to 
the United Nations and to the rule oflaw? 
Why war? 

Bush likewise correctly argues that Hussein violates human rights. But there are many repres.sive dictators, and the United States gives political protection and economic support to corrupt authoritarian regimes like those of Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. Most U.S. military aid goes to Egypt and Israel, both ofwhich have disturbing human rights records. Even if Iraq is the worst, why war? 
Human Rights Watch says the United States should ask the United Nations to dis­patch international human-rights monitors to Iraq and press the U.N. Security Council to create an International Criminal Tribunal like those established for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda. These would gath­er evidence ofIraq's crimes against human­ity. Pursuing a tribunal might save lives and money, strengthen international law and cooperation, promote democracy and deter other rights violators. War, however, could cause innocent deaths -children make up half of the Iraqi population-exacerbate the $300 billion U.S. budget deficit, weaken the United Nations and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, jeopardize U.S. alliances, undercut democracy and set a precedent of "might makes right" U.S. action outside of international law. Why war? 
Bush again correctly argues that Iraq has violated U.N. resolutions to disarm. But why violate U.N. accords to punish someone who has violated U.N. accords? Israel and Turkey, two U.S. allies, have violated 59 
U.N. resolutions, yet the United States has made no war threats against them. If more Iraqi weapons were destroyed during the first week ofinspections than during the entire Gulf War, inspections seem more effective than war. Why war now? 
Is the United States pursuing war against Iraq. not North Korea, because Iraq has the world's second-largest oil reserves? Is the United States pursuing war against Iraq, not Saudi Arabia, because the United States has access to Saudi oil? Inspections and multilateral action would not give the United States direct access to Iraqi oil fields. War would. Oil could explain why the United States ignores alternatives to war, the increased terrorism war will bring and war's distracting us from fighting Al Qaeda. 
Princeton economist Paul Krugman says war also will wreck the U.S. economy. I can think ofeight ways to enhance national security, all of which cost les.s, ethically, politically and economically, than war. But they are a subject for another time. Ifwe are concerned about national security, if Hussein is a tyrant who lies about his weapons, then why war against Iraq? Why war? Why war now? 
Kristin Shrader-Frechette is a professor in the departments ofphUosophy and bio­logical sciences at Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Don't standfor ND's hypocrisy 
There will be no large demonstra­tions and probably not even any debates in response to Father Edward Malloy's latest decision to join 38 other private colleges and universities in a brief supporting the University of Michigan's aftlrmative action admissions policies, but that doesn't mean there shouldn't be. Why are we backing that policy? Well, it seems like a nice gesture. I guess it's the right thing to say. Unfortunately, that was most likely the response you gave when reading Malloy's decision and exactly the response he's grown accustomed to hearing from our campus: a quiet murmur followed by silence. 
While it is good and important for our University to promote diversity, it is certainly wrong for us to stand in support of a flawed and wiconstitu­tional system in trying to do so. Our intention may be right, but our method is both hypocritical and patronizing. Does Malloy really believe that Michigan's policies are just and fair? Does he believe that a non-minority applicant with a 4.0 GPA, a 1600 SAT, who is also a lega­cy, should be considered equal to a minority applicant with a 3.4 GPA and an 1100 SAT, as the Michigan policy proclaims through its point system? Of course Malloy doesn't, but it looks good for him to say he does. It makes him look like a cham­pion ofethnic diversity despite what the Notre Dame population statistics show. 

We should be a.shamed that the president of our University is able to rely on our apathy as students, in order to knowingly make a wrong decision in backing a discriminatory affirmative action program so that he can paint a false picture of Notre Dame as an ethnically diverse cam­pus. Ifhe truly thought Michigan's affirmative action policies were so enriching, then he should implement a similar sys­tem here. 
Despite Malloy's words ofsup­port, don't hold your breath waiting for a system simi­lar to Michigan's to reach this campus. I've got a sneak­ing suspicion Malloy is going to stick with the Notre Dame cor­nerstone of diversity in viewpoint over racial diversity. It tends to help the academic rankings and most impor­tantly future endowments. Just ask Michigan. 

Matthew Davey 
sophomore 
Dillon Hall 
Feb.20 

Policy is inherently discriminatory 
As an alumnus, I would like to express my profowid dismay over the brief submitted by Notre Dame on behalfofthe discriminatory admissions policies at the University of Michigan. For one thing, Notre Dame should never stick up for that school. Never, not ever. 
Even ifMichigan were a decent school, how­ever, its admissions policies are grossly wijust. Some of you are already aware that having per­fect entrance exam scores earns 12 points on 
the Michigan admissions scale, while being black or Hispanic earns 20. This clearly is ridiculous and vio­lates the constitutional princi­ple of equality under law. Father Edward Malloy used the specious argu­
ment that "diversity" as an educational aim justi­fies discrimination on behalf of certain minori­ties. I personally cannot recall thinking as an 
undergraduate that if there had been more blacks in my differential geometry class, for instance, the material would have made 
When we speak ofdiversity, we 
should specify what sort ofdiversity we mean. Do we mean just external diversity, hav­ing people around who look different, as if for decoration purposes? Or do we mean diversity ofperspectives? In which case, why not make sure there are enough rednecks on campus too? After all, rednecks and suburbanites may look the same, at least with respect to skin color, but their perspectives are vastly different. Strange that I never hear anyone at Notre Dame or Michigan complain about the fact that 
rednecks are under•represented and need spe­
cial help in admissions. 
Of course, poor rural whites are not the only ones suffering from aggressive affirmative action. Other minorities suffer as well. People of East Asian descent, as many ofyou know, are over-represented at many elite schools in America. Their story deserves examining and emulating. Hence they face tougher criteria in seeking admission. Imagine a family of North Koreans who somehow manage to escape their nightmarish homeland and come here with lit­tle or no belongings seeking a better life. Imagine when their children, after working hard and studying, apply to a top university, but are effectively told there are too many yellow students there already. Is that just? Or what about recent immigrants from Eastern Europe, who come here to find freedom and opportuni­ty and end up being penalized for happening to be white? 
I would be the last person to defend rich sub­urban whites. I think people from affluent backgrounds should face tougher standards, since their accomplishments mean less, having come with less adversity. However, not all whites should be punished, nor the poor of other races. Blacks and Hispanics must learn to succeed in situations which are not rigged in their favor. Affirmative action undermines fair­ness, casts doubt on black and Hispanic achievement and perpetuates racial animosity. A Catholic university has no business support­ing this injustice. 
Paul Allegre class of '00 Feb. 19 
THE OBSERVER 


:1 
)' 
page 16 Friday, February 21, 2003 

A semi-autobiographical book by an Indiana author 
By MARIA SMITH 
Scene Editor 

"Regionrat," the first book by northern Indiana author Richard Laskowski, is nothing more and nothing less than an extended look into the mind of an aver­age underachieving Midwestern teenag­er. 
The book is semi-autobiographical, mixing real events from Laskowski's life, imaginary events and stories he heard from friends or overheard in restau­rants. The main character, Raymond Kozlowski, essentially represents the Polish-American author, and while the events of the story might be fabricated the attitudes of the character are not. With his own character as with all the others, Laskowski simply wrote what he perceived. 
The result is a long and sometimes rambling description of parties, fights, girls, skipping classes and above all smoking marijuana. Ray is a self-con­fessed pothead, getting high multiple times every day and generally using marijuana to cope with a large percent­age of his problems. He and his friends have few plans for the future, and do lit­tle besides party and get high. Nothing really momentous occurs until Ray wit­nesses the death of a local girl in a car crash near the end of the book. 
Laskowski's book does not stand out as a literary achievement, as the author himself would probably be the first to admit. Laskowski began writing as a method of therapy after his experience in the car crash, and only gradually decided to pull his story together into a book. 
"When it comes to literary character development, I didn't really set out to do anything," Laskowski said. 
The plot of "Regionrat" is often dis­jointed, and characters that seem like they might be important at first disap­pear or are never developed. A girl who may or may not be pregnant and have AIDS seems like an interesting character 

to explore, but then completely drops 
out of the plot. Sympathizing with his 
central characters is often difficult after 
reading his vivid descriptions of their 
selfish or neurotic tendencies. Laskowski 
also shows distressingly little trust in the 
perceptive ability of his readers. His 
explanation of exactly what he means by 
not wanting a party to turn into a 
sausage fest, for example, is unneces­
sary and patronizing. 
While Laskowski's book is not a techni­
cally accomplished piece, its greatest 
strengths stem from the same source as 
its greatest flaws. Since the author was 
not trying to achieve a particular pur­
pose with his book and merely attempt­
ed to make scenes as lifelike as possible, 
"Regionrat" has become an honest and 
detailed depiction of a culture that may 
not be the prettiest face of the United 
States but is undeniably a part of the 
nation's character. 

Laskowski had no intention of defend­
ing Gary or the other towns that make 
up the area of northern Indiana known 
as the Region. He views Gary much as 
people around the nation view Gary, 
describing it as "a gang-infested shell, 
[which] bubbles with crime and mayhem 
on nearly every streetcorner." 
"When I left northern Indiana I hated it," said Laskowski of his move to Seattle. "I hadn't been back until November, and I had the remaining impression that I didn't like it here." 
Nevertheless, Laskowski indirectly defends the people living in the Region and their lifestyles through his charac­ters. Ray not only refuses to be ,embar­rassed about his drug habit, his lack of goals or interest in school, or his tenden­cy to get in fights, but seems to be defy­ing the people who expect him to share their ideas of morality. 
Laskowski's work is intriguing in the same way as the work of Detroit rapper Eminem -it challenges those who might criticize a person for their atti­tudes or lifestyle to think about how that life looks a lot closer up. Unlike Eminem, Laskowski's main character does not complain about his disadvantages in life or actively accuse people of not under­standing his background, but he shows no more regard for the people who have never seen a joint than they might show him. While Laskowski is not especially proud of his background, he is also not ashamed of where he is from or what he is writing about. 
"Regionrat" will not dispel any stereo­types about the Midwest, but it could be an effective eye-opener for people with little knowledge of the actual lives of teenagers in the Midwest. 
Laskowski began working on his book at 22, working for three and a half years before producing something he wanted to publish. Even now, less than a month before final publication, Laskowski is not entirely satisfied with his result. 
This is the most difficult thing I've ever tried to do in my life," Laskowski said. "I though that once I finished life would be totally different, but I don't feel any dif­ferent." 
"Regionrat" will go on sale during the second week of March, and will be avail­able for about $15 through Barnes and Noble Bookstores or www.amazon.com. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith.l@nd.edu 

VFir 
The voic 



THE 
OBSERVER 

Friday, February 21, 2003 page 17 

~e of the fighting Irish continues to work hard to please listeners 



excited about it," said Davidson. This
By SARAH VABULAS 
project will increase awareness around 
Assistant Scene Editor 
campus for the local music scene as well 
as the popular music scene. 

The varying sounds of WVFI Radio, The Web site 
the student-run radio includes the MINDset 
station at Notre online magazine,
Dame, broadcasts via schedules of DJs and a
7MINDsetJ didn't exist 
the Internet using top 30 list of songs
RealPlayer. With last semester, so we ·re that are most request­
about 180 disc jock­ed on WVFI. The top
really excited about it ... 
eys, the station offers 30 list is submitted to a show for every type a college magazine
Joanne Davidson 
of music taste earn­periodically to exhibit 
ing the title, "The Assistant Station Manager the music college stu­
Voice of the Fighting dents listen to across 
Irish." the country. 
The station runs Most of WVFI's mainly by organizational committees efforts are being put into MINDset and and a strong commitment from the DJs and executive board. Tim Bradley, the station manager said that joining the staff of WVFI is a "great meeting place for non-mainstream music lovers" and provides an opportunity for music lovers at Notre Dame to unite and real­ize there are other music lovers on campus. The DJs compile their own shows and play the music of their choice. The station has eight genres of music: rap­R&B, jazz-blues, folk-country, blue­grass, metal, techno, modern rock, indie and punk. There are about 15 CDs for each genre in the rotation, which is updated weekly. 
The station's online magazine co­director, John Fanning, said, "The sta­tion plays a lot of diverse music to get 
the Notre Dame community at large to listen." 
Not only does the station play music, but they also broadcast many sporting events at Notre Dame. Football games are some of the most popular listening times. Both mens and womens basket­ball games are streamed over the Web, along with hockey a.nd other popular sporting events. Most recently, \iVVFI is broadcasting Bengal Bouts. This pro­vides students the opportunity to listen and work on assignments simultane­ously, while promoting the station's other showtimes. 
Broadcasting times are from 8 a.m. to 1 :30 a.m. the following night. Different DJs are on all week, so tune in and find the DJ that suits even the most unique and off-the-wall music taste. 
The station also sponsors concerts and promotions for local bands. One of the goals of the station is to "encourage campus bands and the local music scene" in South Bend, said Assistant Station Manager Joanne Davidson. The station plans to release a campus band compilation CD by the end of the year. Many of the members of the Executive Board are involved in bands, so they hope to push not only their own bands, but also other talented musicians across campus. 
The newest project that WVFI is working on is a printed magazine ver­sion of MINDset, WVFI's online maga­zine. Fanning's hope is that MINDset becomes "a resource for campus music. It involves elements including music reviews and concert reviews." WVFI plans on distributing 2,000 hard copies and distributing them around campus before spring break. It will be "a collection of reviews from the Web site," said Fanning. "[MINDset] didn't exist last semester, so we're really continuing to improve the radio station, while increasing listener numbers. Issues with streaming the station have been resolved and the station is avail­able worldwide at wvfi.nd.edu. The lat­est version of RealPlayer is recommend­ed to have the best listening experience. 
WVFI is located on campus at 200 LaFortune Hall and on the Web at wv.fi.nd.edu. Bradley encouraged any­one who is interested in being a DJ or writing music reviews to contact WVFI Radio at 631-6400 or wufi@nd.edu. WVFI is also on AOL Instant Messenger, WVFI Radio, where students can instant message requests for songs. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 


Friday, February 21, 2003 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 

Mavericks limit Duncan and defeat Spurs 95-87 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 
The Dallas Mavericks did exactly what they had to do in what coach Don Nelson consid­ered the most important game of the season. 
They limited Tim Duncan and beat surging San Antonio, to snap a nine-game winning streak that had gotten the Spurs within four games of Dallas for the Midwest Division lead and the NBA's best record. 
"It's good to break that streak," Mavs guard Nick Van Exel said. "Our defensive game­plan was unbelievable. The plan was to limit Duncan's 1­on-1 catches, always have someone in front of him and somebody behind him." 
Duncan, with at least two defenders in his face every time he touched the ball, was held to 11 points on 3-of-10 shooting before leaving the game for good after being poked in the right eye. 
'Tm not going to go into detail about what we did," Mavericks coach Don Nelson said. "We were able to execute some things we were never able to execute before and switch into a zone and do a really good job in a couple of their favorite areas. 
"It was a really good win for us, probably one of the best of the season." 
San Antonio set an NBA record with eight straight road wins on the same trip, including victories at Sacramento and the Los Angeles Lakers, before returning home for a 101-76 victory Tuesday night against Denver. 
Steve Nash had 29 points and 10 assists to lead the Mavericks. Duncan left the game with 
8:13 remaining after behind poked by Michael Finley on a hard foul. Duncan walked unaided to the locker room after staying down for a couple of minutes. 
While Duncan's eye was swollen and remained sore after the game, Spurs officials said there were no scratches or other damage to the eye. He will be checked Friday. 
Once play resumed without Duncan, the Spurs responded with a 16-2 run. 
Tony Parker hit a 3-pointer. Malik Rose then scored eight of his 25 points in the run, includ­ing two free throws with 3:08 left to pull the Spurs within 84­82 -the closest they would get. 

.., was really happy with our group for continuing to play. A lot of teams would have cashed it in," Spurs coach Gregg Popovich said. "Dallas played aggressive and went out and got a great victory." 
Dirk Nowitzki. playing on a sprained right ankle, hit a 3­pointer from the right corner with 2:53 left to end the Spurs run. 
Even though the Mavericks have the NBA's best record (42­12), they have struggled against some of the top teams. They've already lost twice to Sacramento -which eliminat­ed them in the second round of the playoffs last season -and once to the Lakers. 
"This was the biggest win because this game has been built up and up," Nash said. "I don't think any of us think we shouldn't beat that team." 
Nets 98, Pacers 91 
With teammate Kenyon Martin imploring him to take over in the second half, Jason Kidd couldn't be stopped -not even by one of the NBA's best defensive players. 
Kidd scored 18 of his 31 points in the fourth quarter while being defended by Ron Artest and the New Jersey Nets rallied for a victory over the Indiana Pacers. 
"He was in attack mode," Nets coach Byron Scott said of Kidd after the Nets rallied from a 15-point third-quarter deficit in yet another chippy game between the two young, emo­tional Eastern Conference foes. 
"The only thing I asked the other guys to do was run with him," Scott added. "Get out on the break with him. Give him some options." 
Kidd had five points, seven assists and four rebounds in a so-so first half that saw Indiana take a 55-45 lead. 
Martin, who had 15 points in the half, knew that wasn't the way the Nets were going to win, so he went up to Kidd in the locker at halftime. 
"I told him at halftime that, 'I need you in the second half,"' Martin recalled. 
Kidd responded. He played all 24 minutes, hit 8-for-11 from the field, 9-for-10 from the foul line and added five of his 12 assists and five of his nine rebounds. 
"Any time a teammate comes up to you and asks something like that, you have to respond," Kidd said. "And I did." 

Tempers flared repeat­edly and the officiating crew called six technicals and one flagrant foul. Artest, the Pacers' bad boy, got the flagrant and a techni­cal, and gener­ally seemed a little out of control. 
Martin fin­ished with 19 points for the Nets, who lim­ited Indiana to 12-for-39 shooting (31 percent) in the second half. 
"We under­stand what the problem is. The problem is Jason Kidd," Pacers coach Isiah Thomas said. "Just because you know what the problem is 
Mavericks guard Steve Nash drives the lane against Spurs forward Malik Rose
doesn't mean 
In Dallas' 95-87 win over San Antonio Thursday night. 
you can solve 
it. We 'II keep trying to figure out how to get him under control." 
Al Harrington came off the bench and had 22 points and 11 rebounds to lead the Pacers, who dropped their season-high third straight game. Jermaine O'Neal and Brad Miller had 18 apiece and Reggie Miller added 14. 
"I understand that there's going to be some adversity in a season, you're never going to have a smooth-going season where you rise above and play good basketball for 82 games," Thomas said. 
Indiana had a chance to tie it in the final minute after Artest hit a 3-pointer and Reggie Miller made two free throws to close the Nets' lead to 94-91. 
After Richard Jefferson missed a shot for New Jersey, the Pacers came down the floor and Reggie Miller ran around the 3-pointer perimeter looking for a pass to attempt a tying shot, much like he did in Game 5 of the Pacers-Nets first round playoff series last season. 
Kings 105, Celtics 83 
The Sacramento Kings' team­work on offense draws all the attention. Recently. their team­work on defense has been even better. 
Doug Christie had 18 points, nine assists and eight rebounds, and Keon Clark had 18 points and nine rebounds as the Kings beat the Boston Celtics. 
Showing all the cohesiveness Boston lacked, Sacramento methodically built a huge lead with patient passing and steady defense against the Celtics' array of outside shooters. Boston, easily leading the league in 3-point attempts, took 31 3-pointers -a Kings fran­chise record for an opponent ­but shot less than 35 percent. 
Led by Christie and Clark, Sacramento's defense was a big reason for the Celtics' struggles. The Kings have held four of their last five opponents under 38 percent shooting, winning all four games. 
"I don't know why we don't play like that all the time, because the end result is beau­tiful, said Clark, who helped hold Antoine Walker to 15 points on 5-of-17 shooting. "Everybody had an assignment, got to his spot and made things difficult for Boston. If they're missing, we should get some credit for it." 
Vlade Divac had 16 points as the Kings improved to 22-5 at home with a blowout win over the Celtics, whose most success­ful West Coast road trip in 12 years ended with a resounding thud. 
Paul Pierce had 22 points and 12 rebounds for Boston, which had won four of the first five games on the trip. But the Celtics were put away early by the Kings, whose five starters and reserve Hedo Turkoglu all scored in double figures. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content wi~houc issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
TICKETS 
Dallas bound? Will pay for transport of baby bassinette. ND alum 2145590868 ciclb@aol.com 
DOMUS PROPERTIES· HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR-WELL MAIN­TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAM· PUS-STUDENT NEIGHBOR­HOODS· SECURITY SYSTEMS­MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL­WASHERS/DRYERS CALL TODAY-HOUSES GOING FASTIII -CONTACT KRAMER (547) 315­5032 OR (574) 234-2436 -ALSO LEASING FOR 2004.2005 VISIT OUR WEBSITES @ DOMUSKRAMER.COM 

#1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space is Limited!!! 1­
800-234·7007 www.endlesssummertours.com 

FOCUS (the Fellowship of Catholic University Students) is seeking recent college graduates for cam­pus ministry positions nationwide. Six-week summer training in Montana with over 75 other recent college graduates; serve on cam­pus in a team of 4; work one-on­one with students; help create and sustain catholic communities on college campuses. 
Contact FOCUS (970) 336-9881 www.focusonline.org 
STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE 3-4 OR 5 PERSON 2 STORY. 8 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW EVERYTHING. WIRED FOR COM· PUTERS ECT. AVAIL SUMMER OR FALL. 235-3655 
WANTED 

NETWORK MARKETING MEETS BIOTECH Local Domer (BSBiology n/MBA 84)seeks hard working ND/SMC students who want finan­cial security by graduation. 
Take your business home on breaks -work from anywhere. 
can Charlie 

574-289-2803 for info. 
Officials Wanted. Apply w/RecSports by Clinic Dates: Lacrosse Feb. 25 @7p RSRC. Floor Hockey Feb.25 @Sp RSRC. Soccer Feb. 25 @ 9p RSRC. More info email hadams@nd.edu 
Residential Instructors needed for developmentally disabled adults in Niles group home. Flexible schedul­ing. Successful applicants must be compassionate and responsible. Inquire at: 269.687.0875. 
NETWORK MARKETING MEETS BIOTECH Local Domer (BSBiology 77/MBA 84)seeks hard working ND/SMC students who want finan­cial security by graduation. Take your business home on breaks ­work from anywhere. 
Gall Charlie 574-289-2803 for info. 
FOR SALE 
4-bdrm, 2-bath home, close to cam­pus. Clay Twp. 271-5144. 
FOR RENT 
Rooms for rent. $250 month includes utilities. 
272-1525 mmmrentals@aol.com 
Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1 /2 mile from campus. mmmrentals@aol.com 
272-1525 www.mmmrentals.com 

LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF ND FOR 3-5 PEOPLE 2773007 
PERSONAL 

Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it alone. It you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Linda, you rock my world. 
What's a Hokie 
Who'd you rather? 
John Carney-50 yard game winner 

page 19

Friday, February 21, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 

around the dial 
FRIDAY 
NBA 

Dallas at Houston 8 p.m., ESPN Milwaukee at Seattle 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
SATURDAY 

COLLEGE BASKETBALL Georgetown at Miami 12 p.m., ESPN St. John's at Connecticut 2 p.m., CBS Wisconsin at Iowa 3 p.m., ESPN Louisville at Marquette 4 p.m., ABC NC State at Duke 4 p.m., CBS 
PGA 
Nissan Open 3 p.m., ABC 
SUNDAY 
NBA 

Dallas at Washington 12:30 p.m., ABC Spurs at Kings 3:30 p.m., ABC 
NHL 

Dallas at Chicago 6 p.m., ESPN2 Minnesota at St. Louis 8:30 p.m., ESPN 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Syracuse at Michigan State 2 p.m., CBS Kansas at Oklahoma 4 p.m., CBS 
NBA 


Friday night against, of all guard Kenny Anderson for Babcock said. "You rarely
Associated Press 

teams, the Sonics. center Elden Campbell. see a trade just talent-for. 
NEW YORK The nine-time All-Star In the day's only other talent." 
In a blockbuster five­guard's contract expires deal, Boston sent guard Many owners told their player deal Thursday at after this season, and the Shammond Williams, a basketball executives they the NBA trading deadline, Sonics risked losing him second-round draft pick would not take on added Ray Allen was sent from over the summer on the and cash to Denver for payroll commitments, :: 
the Milwaukee Bucks to free agent market with center Mark Blount and especially if it would put the Seattle Supersonics for nothing in return. forward Mark Bryant. them over the expected 
Gary Payton and Desmond Allen, a six-year veteran The Hawks were expect­luxury tax threshold of $52 Mason. and three-time All-Star, ed to be one of the most million to $ 5 3 million. 
The Sonics also received has spent his entire career active teams before the Teams with payrolls high ­guards Kevin Ollie and with the Bucks. A gold deadline, but 3 p.m. er than that amount will Ronald Murray and a con­medalist for the United passed without any of their have to pay a dollar-for­ditional first-round draft States at the Sydney best players -Shareef dollar tax on the overage. pick. Olympics, he also will be a Abdur-Rahim, Jason Payton's arrival presum­
The trade ended member of the 2004 Terry, Theo Ratliff and ably will force Bucks Payton's career in Seattle Olympic men's basketball Glenn Robinson -being starter Sam Cassell into a after 12 1/2 seasons and team. traded. backup role, with sharp­reunited him with coach Seattle also made a trade "The tax had added shooter Michael Redd tak­George Karl. His first game with the New Orleans another layer of issues you ing over Allen's old spot at with the Bucks will be Hornets, exchanging point have to work through," shooting guard. 
IN BRIEF 

that may have contributed to the
James' jersey to be retired James, expected to be named 
Ohio's first three-time Mr. Basketball death of pitcher Steve Bechler. 
LeBron James is getting another next month, moved into seventh place Bechler, an Orioles pitchingclassic sports jersey -his own. 
in the state's career scoring list prospect, died Monday, a day after he St. Vincent-St. Mary officials plan to Sunday. was unable to complete a workout.
retire James' No. 23 jersey following Following the game, James told a Xenadrine, which contains ephedrine, 
the school's regular-season finale 
sellout ·crowd of more than 13,000 at was found in his locker. 
Sunday against Toledo Scott at 
the University of Dayton that he "Unfortunately, we're all humanAkron's Rhodes Arena. 
wasn't worthy of being named the and don't move until something veryJames, who will not play in the game's MVP and handed his trophy to grim and very tragic like this occurs," game as part of a two-game suspen­teammate Corey Jones. Angelos said Wednesday. 
sion ordered earlier this month by a "I had it in my head even before the 
The Ephedra Education Council judge, will be presented with his end of the game that if I would've said Thursday that Bechler's death framed Fighting Irish jersey by senior won the award, I was going to give it 
should not automatically be linked to teammates during a postgame cere­to Corey," James said of Jones, hit six the dietary supplement. 
3-pointers and scored 20 points. "He
mony. "Ephedra is banned by the NFL, the The jersey will be mounted in the had a great game." NCAA and IOC but not by majorJones promised to cherish the
school's gymnasium after James league baseball. The Food and Drug
award.

graduates in June. The school plans Administration has reports of at least
"You won't find this trophy on eBay.
to release an official announcement 100 deaths linked to the supplement. 
you can be sure of that," he said. 
on Thursday. Over 55 clinical studies testify to its James, expected to the No. 1 pick in safety. It is popular because people
Orioles owner Angelos asks 
this year's NBA draft, had been ruled need help losing weight." ineligible by the Ohio High School for ban on ephedrine Major league baseball has delayed Athletic Association on Jan. 31 for Baltimore Orioles owner Peter a decision about ephedra until 1110,.,. accepting two retro sports jerseys for Angelos called on major league base­is known about the rirrum!-tan 
free from a clothing store. ball to ban ephedrine, a stimulant Bechler's death. 
Friday, February 21, 2003 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
BOXING 

Tyson and Etienne ready to fight 
Associated Press  
TUNICA, Miss.  
The sight of Mike Tyson play­ 
fully nibbling on the arm of his  
baby boy wouldn't have been so  
startling except this was the guy  
who once threatened to eat  
Lennox Lewis' children.  
This was the new, gentler  
Mike, though, who looked like  
he was having so much fun at  
the prefight press conference  
that he hated to leave.  
Of course, there was no reason  
to leave when Tyson had his  
new facial tattoo to show off.  
"I just wanted to put some­ 
thing on my face," Tyson said. "I  
I'.: I) il  didn't like the way my face was looking." Normally petulant in the days before a fight, Tyson was down­ 
right jovial at both the press  
conference and the weigh-in,  
where he actually showed up  
early and then had some fun  
playing to the crowd.  
Maybe it was because he had  
just gotten out of the ring after  
sparring five rounds and split­ 
ting open the lip of his sparring  
partner.  
!J  Or maybe it was because he  
I ,,  was thinking of the $5 million he  
I  was going to make to fight a  
boxer who once wouldn't have  
even been allowed in the ring  
with him.  
'Tm thinking about what I'm  
going to buy with all the cash  
I'm going to get," Tyson said.  
The atmosphere surrounding  
Tyson's fight with Clifford  
Etienne was already circuslike.  
The carnival officially opened for  
business Thursday at a news  
conference goofy even by  
Tyson's standards.  
The former heavyweight  

champion played with his 9­month-old son, chatted amiably with the media and acted sur­prised that there was such a fuss about his tattoo. 
Behind him, Tonya Harding flexed her muscles, while University of Memphis instructor Kya Reaves talked nearby about the Maori warrior roots of the design on Tyson's face. 
"It's indicative he wants it to represent the warrior in him," Reaves said. 
Tyson, meanwhile, appeared to be healing rapidly from what­ever ailed him earlier in the week. He split the lip of a spar­ring partner before making a jovial appearance to promote a fight he desperately needs to rescue his floundering career. 
"They offered me more money. That makes you very, very well real quick," Tyson said. "If I don't get it, I get sick rapidly real quick." 
Tyson was to get more than $5 million to fight Etienne -huge money unless you're Mike Tyson and used to purses that routine­ly top $20 million. The free­spending Tyson needs as much as he can get because he is low on funds and owes his ex-wife $6.5 million from his future earnings. 
Tyson's manager, Shelly Finkel, denied his fighter got any more money and said Tyson was justjoking about his illness. 
Though various reports from Tyson's camp have described him as being sick and bedridden over the weekend, he showed no ill effects when he went five rounds with sparring partner Stan Allen and sent Allen to the hospital to get stitches on his lip. 
That could be bad news for Etienne, who came nattily attired to the press conference and then threw a playful jab at Tyson. 
"I'd like to thank Mike for finally showing up," Etienne said. 
Tyson's tattoo was the center of attention. 
He got the tattoo last week but said he has been thinking about it for two years. He said there would be more to come. 
"A tattoo is personal. You guys know everything about me," he said. "There's billions of people outside with tattoos. This is nothing. This isn't even halfway done." 
Tyson stopped training after getting the tattoo, then a few days later came down sick. He didn't return to the gym until Wednesday, when he sparred four rounds and went back Thursday for five more. 
"It was a great workout. I was real happy." trainer Freddie Roach said. "Mike hit his spar­ring partner with an uppercut and busted his lip in half." 
In Tyson's prime. someone like Etienne wouldn't worry him at all. But Tyson has been exposed in recent fights -par­ticularly his loss to Lennox Lewis -as a fighter with declining skills and dwindling dedication. 
Tyson weighed in Thursday at 225 3/4 pounds to 222 3/4 for Etienne. 
Oddsmakers had made Tyson a 7-1 favorite, but that dropped to 4-1 after a week of missed workouts and illness. At the Stardust sports book, most of the money was on Etienne until he vowed not to fight on Tuesday, only to change his mind the next day. 
NFL 

Brooking signs 7-year extension 
Asaociated Press 
ATLANTA 
After eating dinner at owner Arthur Blank's house Monday night, Atlanta Falcons line­backer Keith Brooking called his agent and told him to bridge the gap on a new con­tract. 
Blank and Brooking shared another meal Thursday night, this time to celebrate a seven­year, $41 million deal the two sides agreed to earlier in the day. 
The Falcons called a news conference to announce the contract, which includes a $10.5 million signing bonus. 
'Tm 110 percent satisfied," Brooking said. "I'm extremely happy with how everybody involved in this and came together, and I believe in all my heart we have the resources to go out and get the players we need to make us successful." 
On Wednesday night, Falcons chief administrative officer Ray Anderson declared his talks with Pat Dye Jr., Brooking's agent, to be at an impasse. 

contentious. 
"I know not to take things personally," Anderson said. "An agent's job is to work out the best deal he can for his client, but we still have to protect our interests and leave ourselves room to sign other players." 
Brooking, who grew up southwest of Atlanta in Senoia and starred at East Coweta High School and Georgia Tech, never wanted to leave the hometown NFL team that draft­ed him No. 12 overall in 1998. 
"I'd be lying if I said the money wasn't great," Brooking said. "It's a big part of this ­no doubt. But the biggest thing is winning championships, and I think we're in a great position to do that." 
Blank, who paid $545 million for the Falcons a year ago, took the same approach to Brooking that he used to lure running back Warrick Dunn from Tampa Bay last March and right tackle Todd Weiner from Seattle. 
The owner wanted to let Brooking know the franchise appreciates a linebacker that led the NFL in solo tackles last season and was picked for the last two Pro Bowls. 
This Weekend in the Department ofMusic 
Saturday, Feb. 22: Michael Holderer, basso (Senior Recital) w/ Kristen Moskow, piano 2 pm, Annenberg Auditorium 
Sunday, Feb. 23: Sean Martin,tenor (Senior Recital) w/ Jacqueline Schmidt, piano 2 pm, Annenberg Auditorium 
PGA TOUR 
Funk shoots 65 to grab first-round lead 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

Fred Funk worries that golf is becoming all about power, playing right into the hands of big hitters like Tiger Woods. 
That sure wasn't the case in the Nissan Open. 
Funk, one of the shortest hitters on the PGA Tour, proved again that the shortest club in the bag -his putter -can atone for a lot of, well, shortcomings. 
Funk had 11 one-putts and holed another from just off the green on his way to a 6­u n de r 65 that gave him a three-stroke lead, the largest 18-hole margin on tour in 54 events. 
"I don't even pretend to have the game Tiger has," Funk said. "I've got to be doing a lot of things good and really putting to do well on a course like this." 
One thing Funk was not about to trade with Woods was his score. 
Woods, coming off a strong victory last week in San Diego, struggled to a 1-over 72 in tough, blustery condi­tions at Riviera Country Club. 
"It was a long, tough day," Woods said. 
What really got to him was a cell phone that rang in the midst of a three-putt bogey from 6 feet on the par-5 17th, which sent him over par for the first time in the opening round at the Nissan Open. 
Woods might have missed the competition during his two-month break from knee surgery, but he certainly didn't miss the distractions. 
"Turn off the [expletive] phone," Woods shouted at the fan, loud enough for everyone to hear even with television having shut down for the day. 
Woods later called it a long, tough day, and indeed it was. 
The firm, fast conditions were made even more diffi­cult by strong gusts that swirled through the tree-lined fairways. Play was so slow that it took more than five hours to complete 18 holes, and 15 players failed to finish before it got dark. 
Jeff Sluman had the best round among the later starters at 3-under 68. 
That tied him with Steve Elkington, who won the '95 PGA Championship at Riviera, three-time major winner Nick Price and Cameron Beckman. 
David Duval played with Woods and turned in a 69, and clearly the most enter­taining round of the day. On one hole, officials had to push a cart and a popcorn stand out of his way. At the end, his approach bounced off a tree and onto the green. 
"It was fun for the whole family," Duval said. It was anything but that for Woods. 
Unlike Duval, he didn't overcome some of his adven­tures. · 
Woods' tee shot on No. 9 sailed to the right and under the television booth. He scrambled out of trouble, only to miss a 2 1/2-foot par putt -making a 5-footer coming back. 
But the real damage came on the par-5 17th. Woods was on the front apron of the green in two and chipped 6 feet past the hole. A birdie would have put him under par. Instead, he pushed it right and cursed loud enough for everyone to hear. 
Just as he made contact on the 4-footer for par, a cell phone rang. 
Woods glared, and when the phone kept ringing, he cursed the fan. Making it worse, the phone kept ringing even as marshals escorted the man off the course. 
Woods had no regrets for cursing him. 
"He shouldn't have had the cell phone. Period," Woods said. 
CARDINAL CHARTERS
. 

IF QUALITY cauNrs... e~ aft ~, 

•
Since 1923 •Group Services •Professional Drivers 

•
Luxury Buses •Competitive Rates •Wheelchair Accessible 


Though both sides agreed no 

. DIAL TOLL FREE
one would benefit if the team 

Sunday, Feb. 23: ND Symphonic Band & Symphonic Winds 
used a franchise tag to keep Brooking from becoming an 

Kenneth Dye, director 
-1-800-348•7487unrestricted free agent Feb. 28, 
4 pm, Washington Hall 
conversations between Anderson and Dye had turned 

www.cardinalbuses,com
ALL CONCERTS ARE FREEi 
Call 631-6201 or visit www.nd.edu/-congoers for more Info! 
Friday, February 21, 2003 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 
BENGAL BOUTS -170-HEAVYWEIGHTS 
Cosse and Joyce enjoy byes 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Writer 
In the 170-pound division, seniors Clay Cosse and Rob Joyce received first-round byes as the No. 1 and No. 2 seeds, respectively. Cosse also serves as the division's captain. 
Zahm junior Patrick McGarry and Alumni junior John Wahoske face off for the chance to fight Cosse in Sunday's quar­terfinals. 
Brian Michalek, a junior from Siegfried, and graduate student Matt Durbin face off against each other in the second fight. 
Siegfried senior Matt Padilla and Stanford senior Richard Gonsiorek are scheduled next. Padilla defeated Nate Schneid in his first-round matchup last year, only to lose to Evan Oliver in the quarterfinals. 
Off-campus seniors John Lantz and Jason Voss battle each other in the fifth fight. Last year, Voss advanced to the 160-pound quarterfinals after beating Dusty Segretto. 
Stanford junior James Ward and Keough junior Will Holley complete the division's matchups, with the winner fight­ing Joyce. Holley lost to Mark Yost in the first round last year. 
180-pounds 
A relatively large contingent of 16 fighters means there are no first-round byes in the 180­pound division. Alumni junior Tommy Demko is the division's champion and top seed. 
Demko faces off against Stanford freshman Michael Leukam in the first fight. Demko advanced to the semifinals of the division last year, only to lose to 
eventual runner-up Matthew Sarb. 
Freshman Erik Rocca and sophomore Brian Murphy, nei­ther of whom competed in last year's Bengal Bouts, fight next. 
Two more newcomers, off­campus senior Jarrett Bingemann and Alumni junior Denis Sullivan face off in the divi­sion's third preliminary match. 
Christopher Pearsall and Michael Ryan go against each other next. Pearsall lost in the first round last year to freshman James Christoforetti. 
This year, Christoforetti and Zahm freshman Patrick Brown do battle in the final bout of the night. Unfortunately, the only way that Christoferetti and Ryan could have a rematch is if both were to advance to the finals. 
Alumni junior Larry Rooney and Dillon sophomore Chris Orenchuk face off in another preliminary match. Last year, Rooney competed in the 190­pound division and lost his first­round bout against Jason Mayes. 
O'Neill junior Eric Callahan and Fisher sophomore John Baker face off against each other in another of the eight prelimi­naries. 
Off-campus senior Andrew Groebner and Morrissey fresh­man Christopher Cavanagh face off in the bottom half of the bracket. Neither competed last year. 
190-pounds 
Off-campus junior William Zizic and off-campus seniors John Lynk and John Caver all have first-round byes in the 190­p o und division. Lynk is the defending champion, this year's captain and No. 1 seed. 
Caver lost his first-round match up to Eddy Vulin, but both Lynk and Zizic advanced all the way to the semifinals, where they faced off against each other. Lynk defeated Zizic and eventu­ally went on to win in the finals against Kevin Brandl. 
For a rematch to occur this year between Zizic and Lynk, both would have to advance to the championship round. 
Dillon sophomore David Escobales and Zahm sophomore Nicholas Green fight to see who will face off against Lynk. 
Off-campus senior Jose Ronchetta and Keough sopho­more Tom Degnan face off next. Last year, Ronchetta advanced to the quarterfinals before losing to Joshua Kaskua. 
Off-campus senior Dan Donlan and Alumni senior Mwangi Gathinji meet each other in a preliminary matchup. Neither upperclassman competed last year. 
Alumni freshman Jeff Golen and Morrissey senior Patrick Otlewski fight for the right to face Caver. Otlewski lost his first­round match last year to Douglas Pope. 
Stanford sophomore Michael Abel and Zahm freshman Nathan Schroeder complete the bracket, and battle to face Zizic in the quarterfinals. 
Heavyweight 
The heavyweight division does not have any preliminary matchups. All eight participants automatically advance to Sunday's quarterfinals. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
..············'·····················································J···········································.. . 
•
.
.
•••••• Domus 
. PROPERTIES 
.
••••••• OFF CAMPUS . . •• HOUSES 
.
•••••• FOR RENT 
FOR 

2003-2004 2004-2005 
SCHOOL YEAR 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT . 
domuskrame~com 
. . ••••• • OR CALL 
. 
.••. 574-315-5032 OR 574-234-2436 
. 
. ••• ASK FOR KRAMER 
. 
• 
• 
.•• .
•
.
• 
.•
. 
.•• 
•
.
•
. 
.• . 

BENGAL BOUTS -160-165-POUNDS 
Tschanz wins to face DeSplinter 
By LUKE BUSAM 
Sports Writer 
Steve Tschanz will face Mark DeSplinter this Sunday after winning a unanimous decision over Rian Sweeney. Sweeney was caught off-bal­ance in round one and went to the mat after a right hand by Tschanz. 
Sweeney bled a bit near the end of round two and continued to do so through­out round three. Tschanz took advantage of Sweeney's tendency to lower his head with a number of good jabs. The match ended unevent­fully after a stoppage to clean blood from Sweeney's face. 
Enterline def. Flaherty 
The next fight of the evening was between John Enterline and Patrick Flaherty. Enterline looked good as he delivered a num­ber of upstairs punches that kept Flaherty off balance throughout the first round. 
Enterline scored a stand­ing eight count to end round one. Flaherty came on strong in the second but Enterline stayed composed and earned a second stand­ing eight courit. 
After a tangle in round three, Enterline boxed well to finish the fight 50 seconds into the third round. 
Phllllp def. Dwyer 
Bill Phillip's straight jabs were too much for Ryan Dwyer as Phillip earned a unanimous-decision win. After being pushed to the ground early in the second round, Phillip responded with an impressive array of punches and knocked down Dwyer 45 seconds into the round. 
In round three, Phillip stuck with his upstairs punches and boxed well. Dwyer was unable to find a rhythm and bled as the fight ended. 
McCarthy def. Fltzgerald 
Kevin McCarthy and Keith Fitzgerald matched up well as both boxers moved wen, and the first round produced no dominant fighter. The boxers traded jabs and both kept form well in the sec­ond. McCarthy found suc­cess in leading with his strong right and caught FitLgzrald with his left at times. 
Fitzgerald threw a number of good single jabs in the third, but McCarthy's right dominated in the final round as well, giving him a unani­mous decision win . 
Shallcross def. Borowelckl 
Jesse Shallcross earned a unanimous victory over Alex Borowiecki in the closest match of the middleweights. The first two rounds were evenly matched with good exchanges. A series of good rights by Shallcross closed the second and set a brawl­ing pace for the third. 
Both boxers' form suffered a bit in the third, but Shallcross' rights straight­ened out in the final half of the round and held up to grant him the unanimous, yet close. victory. 
White def. Ysasl 
In a match postponed from earlier in the evening, Todd White won a unanimous decision over Rick Ysasi. White initiated contact throughout the bout and Ysasi had trouble counter­ing. 
White landed solid punch­es upstairs in the second and early in the third round. Ysasi was successful in countering late in the match and the bout ended with White's mouthguard on the mat. 
Rector def. Saroca 
Reid Rector will advance to fight Pat Dillon in the 165-pound quarterfinals without fighting Mike Saroca in the preliminaries. 
The first round bout between Rector and Saroca was cancelled because of medical reasons. 
MIiiiron def. McDonald 
In the first fight of the 165-pound class Chris Milliron won an excellent fight against Mike McDonald. Milliron was strong in the first round with several combinations to McDonald's head. 
A number of hooks and one-twos brought Milliron more success early in the second round as well. McDonald fought well in the latter half of the match. Milliron. however stuck with his one-two combinations upstairs and proved too much for McDonald . 
Bartels def. Burlsh 
Ross Bartels won a split decision over Brent Burish in the final bout in the 165­pound class for the night. Bartels dominated early in a fight that began and ended in a brawl. 
Both fighters settled down to box in the second round with Bartels dominating the action and throwing more punches. Late in the third round Bartels connected on a number of flurries and proved to be the dominant fighter. 
Knust def. Gaffey 
The final match of the night was a 170~pound match between Matt Knust and James Gaffey, which Knust won in a unanimous decision. Gaffey turned his head a bit throughout the fight to avoid Knust's punch­es and began to bleed early in the second round. 
Knust fought a good bout, but Gaffey did not go down easily. He pushed hard to the final seconds, but Knust's jabs proved too much. 
Contact Luke Bwam at lbusam@nd.edu 
' I 
Friday, February 21, 2003

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
BENGAL BOUTS -15O-155-P0UNDS 
Experienced Vargas overpowers Lorenzo 
ond. Gorynski worked Sienko's
By LUKE BUSAM 

body well in the final round, scor­
Sports Writer 

ing often and convincing the judges to grant him the decision. 
The 150-pound class began with an impressive display by Heaton def. Schnorr 
Nicaraguan Juan Diego Vargas. Chase Heaton scored a decisive Vargas' previous boxing experi­victory with a powerful shot to ence showed in this slightly mis­Charles Schnorr's head 62 sec­
onds into the second round.
matched bout with Jonathan Lorenzo. Vargas was successful Heaton had a distinct reach 
in countering all of Lorenzo's advantage, yet Schnorr was able to slip under his jabs and scored 
advances throughout the match. Lorenzo fought hard, yet Vargas' several to the body in the first three-and four-punch combina­round. tions led to an early end as the Thirty-eight seconds into the 
second round, the fight was
bout ended 62 seconds into the 

third round. momentarily stopped to clean Schnorr's nose. After the break,
Arevalo def. Blebl 

Schnorr initiated contact withOn Sunday, Vargas will fight Heaton a number of times, butSteven Arevalo, who also looked was stopped and dropped by the strong in his first fight in Bengal Heaton's impressive shot whichBouts. Arevalo dominated the brought forth a splash of blood bout against Hans Biehl and was late in the second round. Schnorrable to back his opponent into a hit the canvas hard and the fightcorner early in the third round. 
was ended.
Both boxers stumbled in after a flurry to end the round. Lohmeyer def. Dowling In the final fight of the 150­
Rogers def. Koegel 

pound weight class, Nathan
Ryan Rogers will once again Lohmeyer earned a unanimous move on to the quarterfinals after 

decision over Matt Dowling.
winning a unanimous decision Mark Basola connects with a Jab on Ryan Morton In a 155-pound preliminary round fight
Lohmeyer moved well and held 
· over Christopher Koegel. Rogers his form throughout the bout, Thursday night. Basola defeated Morton by unanimous decision. was able to control the center of 
delivering straight punch combi­holding him there. Early in the Boylan to the ropes twice in the shots attempted. Hansen coun­ring and connected well several nations to Dowling's head. third round. Morton charged and second round. Boylan bled a bit in tered Arnold's one-twos welltimes in a flurry in round one. 
Dowling's headgear needed scored on a nice flurry, but the third round and the fight when he chose to, but the bar­In round two Koegel looked adjustment in each round after Basola's reaching jab proved ended with a strong shot by rage of punches proved too muchstronger. but Rogers had a reply 
taking a number of shots from dominant. Keppel to Boylan's head. Keppel in the end. 
for every punch and countered 

Lohmeyer. Lohmeyer controlled was declared the winner in a split
well. After a brief stoppage to fix Loughrey def. Chrlstoforettl Schaefer def. Campbell
the center of the ring throughout decision.
Koegel's head gear in the third Galen Loughrey's impressive Greg Schaefer dominated in his
the match and boxed well. show­
round, Rogers landed of number ring speed and constant motion Peters def. Nanovlc unanimous win over Joe
ing his experience in the ring. 
of straight one-twos upstairs to earned him a unanimous decision Michael Peters overcame a sig­Campbell. Campbell's hands left end the fight. Melby def. Solis against Jeff Christoforetti. nificant reach advantage in his his face simultaneously at times Mike Melby showed his years of Loughrey was constantly in split decision victory over Nick as he tried to counter the con­Cardillo def. Prlbaz experience in winning a unani­motion, making himself a difficult Nanovic. Nanovic controlled the stant headshots from Schaefer. A 
Craig Cardillo overcame the mous decision over Christopher target. He dominated the ring ring well and pushed Peters to welt developed under Campbell's experience and left hand of Jon Solis in the first fight of the 155-space and closed in well against the ropes, but found himself there left eye in the second round after Pribaz to gain victory in a split pound weight class. Melby con­Christoforetti. shortly after in the first round. a strong display of straight jabs decision. Pribaz slipped in round trolled the ring and used his jab Christoforetti chose to protect The second round brought even and power punches by Schaerer one after being backed up to the well to keep on his heels through­himself rather than counter exchanges with neither fighter which prompted a standing eight ropes by Cardillo. Cardillo's out the fight. Melby's hard jabs throughout the first and second dominating. A series of advances count on Campbell. defense was strong as he blocked moved Solis around the ring and rounds, but scored several by Peters that back Nanovic into In round three, Schaefer scored many of Pribaz's lefts. the third round ended in the gold punches against Loughrey late in the corner in the final round a second standing eight after sev­
Throughout the second round corner of the ring with Melby the the final round. Loughrey moved proved to be the winning factor in eral one-twos upstairs. Schaefer Pribaz found himself backed to dominating winner. comfortably and dominated the this close match. stuck with his combinations to the the ropes by Cardillo's constant fight. head throughout the match and
Kerrigan def. Maglione Arnold def. Hansen
jabs and the round ended with boxed well. Referee Tom Suddes
Colin Kerrigan will meet Melby Keppel def. Boylan Cliff Arnold offered a consistent
Pribaz's leaning on the ropes. stopped the fight 30 seconds into
Sunday after winning a unani­Steve Keppel returned from serving of one-two combinations
Pribaz had an impressive third the final round, declaring
mous decision against Ted London to earn a close victory in his split decision victory over
round. but Cardillo's straight jabs Schaefer the victor. 
Maglione. Each boxer threw to over Colin Boylan. The match Brian Hansen. The fight stayed 
upstairs proved too much for the 

the body a great deal, but began with a number of high primarily in the middle of the ring 
southpaw. 

Kerrigan began to dominate early exchanges. Keppel controlled the and was dominated by upstairs Contact Luke Busam at Gasser def. McClellan in the second round as he forced center of the ring and forced punches with virtually no body lbu.sam@nd.edu 
Luke McClellan's first fight in Maglione to the corner. Bengal Bouts was a quick one A number of closed flurries due to an injury to his shoulder ended the second round, which that ended the match 27 seconds was controlled primarily by into the first round. Brandan Kerrigan .. Kerrigan boxed Gasser looked impressive in the extremely well to begin the final short time he was in the ring. round and used his jab to set up 
right and left hooks to Maglione's
Gorynskl def. Sienko 

body, convincing the judges heA strong third round granted was the dominant boxer in thisBobby Gorynski a split decision bout.
victory over Ryan Sienko. Sienko, a southpaw, used his left hand Basola def. Morton well and landed more scoring Mark Basola won a unanimous punches than his opponent in the decision over Ryan Morton in the first round. However. Gorynski next bout. Basola moved Morton turned the fight around and dom­around the ring with a strong inated by going high and low in a series of upstairs combinations, number of exchanges in the sec-forcing him to the corner and 



MENS TENNIS 

,[:··_. 
I
It . . -
I;· ~­
~t;l 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
~ 

·:q_. 
As the Irish prepare to host No. 41 Northwestern Saturday, it would be hard for them to forget the tendency of these two teams of late. 
The past two years, Notre Dame defeated Northwestern. but in tightly contested match­es. This season, Northwestern returns six of nine letter win­ners, while Notre Dame lost six to graduation. 
Yet both the young Irish squad and the more experi­enced Wildcats had similar results against two of the same opponents this season. They both suffered narrow 4-3 defeats against Indiana. and they both dominated Wisconsin, 7-0. 
1__.i a' 
"I expect we'll have our 

~ 
hands full but I'm expecting a
D_ 
very close match,., Irish coach 
l ~ 
~~1.
R."· ~. Bobby Bayliss said. "We are 
~·t optimistic, guardedly opti­mistic."
~ 
. 
Overall, the Wildcats, 5-2 on 

' 
the season, have had a more 
.. 
successful start to their sea­J,t son, with their only losses
,,if 
coming against No. 14fl Alabama and No. 40 Indiana.
;·:(; 

The Irish, on the other hand, struggled early on, and now stand at 3-5. Of late though, Notre Dame has been improv­ing. 
"Our inability to win the 


Friday, February 21, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
2003 SPORTS BUSINESS FORUM 
Interested in a career in sports? 

The ND MBA Sports Business Club cordially invites you to join us as executives from the industry share trends, career advice and networking philosophies. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21st 
1:00pm -3:00pm Eck Visitor's Center Auditorium (located next to the bookstore) 
Q&A, Refreshments and Industry Insights Participants include: Chris Bevilacqua: Fornier Director of Global Negotiations and League Affairs at Nike Inc. and currently Co-Founder and Executive VP of College Sports Television (CSTV) which debuts with the ND-UConn game on Feb. 23rd Keith Melaragno: VP Custon1er Development, Pepsi Americas Alan Zucker: VP Athlete Marketing, IMG 
doubles point has really hurt us this year." Bayliss said. ••we're really working on it. We played Michigan State really close in doubles." 
Winning the doubles point could have come in handy for the Irish during close matches with Duke and. Florida State, for example. Bayliss said that the doubles lineup is an area of major concern for the team. 
"Between injuries and a lot of things that have happened, we just haven't been able to come up with [the right] com­binations," he said. 
The No. 1 doubles duo, junior tri-captain Matt Scott and sophomore Brent D'Amico has been successful compared with the No. 2 and No. 3 pairs. The question for the Irish is whether D' Amico and Scott should be split up, in an effort to spread the talent among the pairs, or whether the bottom of the lineup should just be allowed time to gain experi­ence and to improve. 
With the match against Northwestern looming tomor­row. the question of who will play with whom remains to be settled, at least in an earthly sense, according to Bayliss. 
"Coming into this morning only God and I knew what the doubles lineup was going to be, and right now only one of us knows, and it's not I," Bayliss said. 
Bayliss stresses the Irish are considering all of their options in hopes of finding the proper combination that could trans­form their losing record into a more favorable one. 
"We really look at every­thing," he said. "We'll run a poll in The Observer as to what our doubles team should be." 
Still, the three victories the Irish have had, and a narrow loss to Duke. have given the team confidence. Additionally, all of their victories have come on the road, and that reas­sures the team that they have the talent needed to win. 
"We're a w01 k in progress," Bayliss said. 
According to Bayliss, one of the reasons why the Irish have yet to win at home is the cal­iber of the competition they have faced this season. This situation does not seem like it will change anytime soon, given that Saturday's match is at home against another tough squad. 
But the Irish seem to be breaking out by gaining confi­dence through experience. 
"We're beginning to get a little bit of confidence. We're starting to scrap and claw a little bit better," Bayliss said. "We've actually one a couple of close matches, which is a good feeling." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
ND WOMENS TENNIS 

By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish have had two 
weeks of relative ease. Now 
they face a weekend of formi­
dable challenges. 
Last weekend, the Irish easily 
dominated two Big East oppo­
nents, winning 6-1 in each con­
test. Prior to that. Notre Dame 
had a week off from competi­
tive play. 
But today, Notre Dame hosts 
No. 1 Duke. 
Then, the Irish head south 
for a two-match road trip 
against No. 11 Tennessee 
Sunday and No. 25 Kentucky 
Monday. 

The No. 19 Irish, who stand at 4-2, believe they have noth­ing to lose in the face of a trio of collegiate tennis powers. 
"We don't have to worry about anything," said junior Caylan Leslie of tomorrow's match with Duke. "We can just go out there and give it our all and see how it goes." 
Today will mark the first time a No. 1 team has ever visited the Eck Tennis Pavilion, and the Irish are excited by the prospects of testing their mettle against the nation's very best. 
"It's a good opportunity," junior Alicia Salas said. "We have nothing to lose. It will be fun to go out there and have them here." 
The undefeated Blue Devils trounced strong opponents such as No. 5 North Carolina, No. 10 California, and Kentucky in the National Indoor Team Championships. Additionally, Duke also tri­umphed over No. 12 Northwestern. The Tar Heels defeated the Irish 5-2, and the Wildcats triumphed over Notre Dame 7-0 during the same weekend. 
Fortunately for Irish morale. those two consecutive losses were followed by their strong home victories over Boston College and Virginia Tech last weekend. 
Against the Eagles and the 
Hokies, every member of the 
Irish squad earned at least one 
victory, and Notre Dame sees 
that as a crucial step forward 
in developing the talent of this 
relatively youthful team. 
"I think everyone gained a lot 
of confidence in those," Leslie 
said. "It's just nice to get some 
wins under your belt." 
Leslie's two singles wins last 
weekend were a considerable 
boost for her. She sat out all 
last season with an injury and 
has been struggling a little in 
her comeback this spring. 
"It's been difficult," Leslie 
said. "It's slowly coming back. 
It's a lot tougher than I ever 
imagined." 

This weekend will be tough 
for the entire team. 
"We're a young team and I think we definitely have the ability to do well against [Duke, Tennessee, and KentuckyJ." freshman Lauren Connelly said. "But, it will be definitely tiring." 
Leslie said the team is focus­ing on today's challenge and trying not to concern them­selves with Tennessee and Kentucky. Considering that Duke will probably be the toughest opponent of all, most of the challenges for the Irish lie early on in the weekend. 
"We'll all excited about this weekend," Leslie said. "\Ve know it'll be tough. You can't look too far ahead, otherwise you'll lose sight of what's right in front of you." 
Salas, a veteran of many Irish matches, is optimistic. Last season the fourth-ranked Blue Devils topped the 23rd-ranked Irish, 6-1 in Durham, N.C. Salas expects the home court advantage to help make the Irish a more challenging oppo­nent today. 
"I think it was harder for us last year," she said. "We played them at Duke outdoors. I defi­nitely think that the match will have a different flavor [today] since it's at home." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 21, 2003 
Womens 
continued from page 32 
A-cut time by .04 seconds. 
The other major victory for the Irish came when junior Lisa Garcia stole the 200-meter indi­vidual medley from teammate and defending Big East champi­on Marie Labosky. Garcia won with a time of 2:01.21, ousting second-place Pittsburgh swim­mer Carolyne Savini by .47 sec­onds. Labosky (2:03.37) came in 
sixth  place  and  freshman  
Courtney  Choura  (2 :03 .47)  
placed seventh.  

Even more notable is Garcia's record-setting time in the pre­liminary heat, which she com­pleted in 2:01.00, breaking the old record of Miami's Jennifer Weir, who swam the 200 indi­vidual medley in 2:01.43 in 2000. 

..I felt really strong this morn­ing so I went into tonight with a lot of confidence," Garcia said. "And I'm just excited to swim. This team's been swimming well so that helped me [and] psyched me up a lot. Starting off winning the relay tonight was awesome." 
Meghan Perry-Eaton took sec­ond in the 3-meter diving. Perry-Eaton finished with 
501.05 points in the final round behind only one Miami diver. 
The rest of the team became motivated, as well. The Irish had three swimmers place in the top two of the 500 freestyle heats. Freshman Christel Bouvron (4:57.33), senior Nicole Kohrt (4:58.44) and sophomore Kelli Barton (4:59.76) placed 13th, 14th and 15th, respective­1y. First place in the 500 freestyle went to Becky Koch of Villanova, who swam the event in 4:42.19. 
In the 50 freestyle, Eckholt took sixth with a time of 23.58. Hendrick won the consolation heat and took ninth place, and Peterson came in 14th. 
Weathers knows his team is deep and is pleased with the effort and results so far. 
"We thought if we could end in fourth place today we could still have a real good chance of winning the meet," he said. 
With the first-day lead, it looks like the Irish are in good position. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
l SMC SWIMMING 
f 
l Ramsey on the verge of history 
By ERIK POWERS 
Sports Writer 
Megan Ramsey will go down in the history of Saint Mary's swimming as a trailblazer. 
Those unfamiliar with the Saint Mary's junior's swim­ming career should start to take note, for Ramsey could be making history this weekend. 
As a Type B qualifier. Ramsey travels today to Carthage, Wisc. with hopes of securing a place at the NCAA Championships in Atlanta. 
At last weekend's MIAA con­ference championships meet, Ramsey became the first Saint Mary's swimmer to win a con­ference race when she swept the preliminaries and finals of the 100-meter butterfly. If she qualifies for the NCAA Division 111 Championships, Ramsey would be the first Belle to individually qualify for an NCAA Tournament in any sport. 
Generally, 22 or 23 swim­mers from the 100-meter but­terfly will advance. Based on her conference championships meet time, Ramsey is project­ed at 49th, but only eight­tenths of a second separates Ramsey from where she needs to be. 
In general, the 22nd or 23rd person qualifies after all the automatic berths are given, but this number may fluctuate because some schools have not completed their confer­

ence meets yet. and make my times quicker. 
For Ramsey, this is, as coach There's some fine-tuning. I Greg Petcoff put it, a "one shot realize that there is nothing to and out time-trial." Ramsey lose." will have one opportunity to Personal accolades such as record her best possible time, Ramsey's should only help the 
which will  Belles  for  the  
likely have to be  "/t,s only the beginning  future. Petcoff has assembled a  
around  for me and the team. ,.  promising foun­ 
59.2  sec­ dation of hard­ 
onds better  or to  Megan Ramsey  working swim­mers. The suc­ 
qualify. If  Belles junior  cess of the indi­ 

she swims 5 8 . 2 , Ramsey automatically quali­fies for the Championships. Anything less, and she has to wait to learn her fate. 
Petcoff feels Ramsey has a mental advantage over some of the field. "The good thing about Megan is that some peo­ple have the pressure of not being a B qualifier," Petcoff said. "Megan knows that she has made the B cut, and that she has a shot." 
Shaving .8 seconds off of her time appears feasible as well. After an entire season of training and improvement, Ramsey should be in peak physical and top mental condi­tion. 
"There won't be the pres­sure of conference [meets]. There, I had to contend both for myself and the team," Ramsey said. "I was nervous at conference. Now. I'm try to refine some points of strokes, get out of the stands faster 
vidual members 

of the team will only attract stronger contribu­tors in the future. 
"It should help recruiting," Ramsey said. "The more accomplishments there are on the team, the easier it is to use it to recruit good swimmers. Also. more accomplishments will gain more respect in con­ference." 
Hopefully this year will mark the advent of a storied lineage of Saint Mary's swimmers qualifying for the NCAA Championships. 
"It's only the beginning for me and the team," Ramsey said. "It will be disappointing if there aren't 100 swimmers behind me who win the MIAA and reach the NCAA Championships." 
The 100-meter butterfly should begin at 6 p.m. 
Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 
Sports execs to speak at ND 
Special to The Observer 
The MBA Sports Business Club is bringing in three top executives from the sports industry to discuss different aspects of careers and net­working. 
Alan Zucker, vice president of Athlete Marketing. works with numerous players across the country, including Joe Montana, Tim Couch, Vince Carter and Derek Jeter. He markets and endorses his clients and has been involved in promoting other personalities such as models. television anchors, boxers and coaches. 

Zucker also builds relation­ships with Fortune 500 compa­nies, such as McDonald's, Sears and Sprint PCS. 
Chris Bevilacqua is a co­founder of a new college sports network. The station begins Sunday when it shows the Notre Dame-Connecticut game across the country. The station will show college sports 24 hours a day. 
Bevilacqua has worked with Nike, Major League Baseball and was a Manager of Programming for NBC Sports where he worked on several high profile program acquisi­tions. 
Keith F. Melaragno has 19 years experience in the market­ing profession and specifically in the consumer products industry. He is Vice-President of Sales and Marketing for Pepsi General Bottlers. Inc. In this job, Melaragno secured soft drink pouring rights for the Chicago White Sox and Chicago Blackhawks. He is the Division Coordinator for all National Marketing Initiatives as well. 
The event goes from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Eck Visitors Center. 
Students will be able to ask questions and meet the three executives. 
ND WOMENS SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Hulick leads relay team to Big East title 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Wricer 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. 

Danielle Hulick has won three Big East championships in her career. 
All three championships have come on relay events alongside the likes of Notre Dame all-time record holders Carrie Nixon and Kelly Hecking, who have since graduated. 
So when Hulick stepped to the pool Thursday at the Nassau County Aquatic Center, she rec­ognized she was the experi­enced veteran. She had to lead now. 
And lead she did. 
Hulick helped the 200-meter freestyle relay team to another first place finish after last year's record breaking performance, won the 50-meter freestyle in 
22.93 seconds and swam on a second place 400-meter medley relay team all in the first day of events in Uniondale. 
"Everyone's being really sup­portive. We lost a few of the big girls last year like Carrie Nixon and Kelly Hecking," Hulick said. "We really relied on them, so this year it's really time for us to step up and still be dominat­ing everything." 
The determined junior came close to making the NCAA championship A-cut list with a couple ofThursday's times. 
"I was pleasantly surprised," Hulick said. "I have never been that close to an A-cut before, so to almost have two in one day is amazing." 
Hulick, a four-year All­American from Galesburg, Ill., set records in 10 different events at Galesburg High School. She came to Notre Dame and contributed immedi­ately her freshman year, finish­ing second in the backstroke at Big East and winning the 200 medley relay and the 400 med­ley relay at the championships. the latter being a record-break­ing event. 
Notre Dame coach Bailey Weathers has nothing but 
praise for how the junior has matured in work ethic and atti­tude. 
"She's done a great job and has continued to plug away at things," Weathers said. "She stays focused as much as she can on what she's doing and has been a lot of fun to have around the team." 
Contributing to part of Notre Dame's team total leading 176 points, Hulick's 50 freestyle championship was her first individual title at Big East. Still, the junior does not seem con­cerned with her own efforts. The entire team, led by such examples as Hulick, is one large relay in which all individual efforts and goals point right back at the whole, the team. 
"This year we've really pulled together as a team, just because we know we can't do this alone," Hulick said. "We can't rely on a single person to win every event just because they're awesome in it. We're going to have to ·each step up and do what we can." 
Hulick is confident in her teammates to step up their efforts as well. 
"Everyone's doing well," she said. "Lisa Garcia split awe­some in the butterfly in the relay. She's having a great meet so far." 
Garcia won the 200 individual medley, a title previously held by teammate Big East champi­on Marie Labosky, in 2:01.21. She also set a Big East record with her time in the preliminary heat of 2:01.00. 
Despite her individual and the team's overall success, Hulick even acknowledges her own desperate concern at times. 
"Through my head today I was behind the block praying, 'Lord, I don't even want to swim fast for myself I just want to help my team beat those other girls,"' she said. 
The earnest concern of a leader. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

9--·BALL 
DOUBLES 
TOVJ<·NAl\l\E 
(2-PE.J~SON TE.Al\l\S) 
fJ<·tDAYl fEB, 28 
8:30PAJ\ AT 
ND EXPJ?C5:5: 
Lower Level. LaFortune (Open practice begins at 8:00pm) 
Prizes: 

1st Place: 2-$100 gift certificates from BEST BUY 2nd Place: 2-$S0 gift certificates from BEST BUY 3rd Place: 2-$2S gift certificates from BEST BUY 
Space limited to first 16 teams to sign up-­Sign up at NO Express. (Open to ND STUDENTS ONLY-­Must present I.D. when registering.) 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------~-~-r 
Friday, February 21, 2003 page 25
The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Maggio a star in the pool and the classroom 

third (297 .65). In the next event, the 200­
Mens 
meter freestyle relay, the Irish team of Tim Randolph, Frank
continued from page 32 
Krakowski, Jason Fitzpatrick 
Krakowski in the 50 freestyle all broke existing school records Thursday. 
"We swam very, very well today, and especially well this morning," Irish 
and Matt Obringer finished second with a time of 1 minute, 22.02 seconds, setting a new Notre Dame record. Rutgers claimed the victory in 1:20.12, 
coach Tim followed
"/ think we·re well set up
Welsh said. "We b y 
had 13 swims to swim fast the rest of Pittsburgh 
this morning the meet." (1 :21.46) and 11 [of the a n d times] were life­Virginia
Tim Welsh 

time bests." T e c h A f t e r Irish coach (1:22.30). 
Thursday morning's pre­liminaries, the stage was set for the championship competi­tion. In the 1-meter diving event, Notre Dame senior Andy Maggio finished fourth with 283.20 points. Miguel Velazquez of Miami took first with a score of 347.10, Dennis Nemtsanov of Pittsburgh was second (311.05) and team­mate Matthew Schwartz was 
Junior 

M a t t Obringer placed sixth in the 500-meter freestyle with a time of 4:30.50. Winner Eric Limkemann of Pittsburgh fin­ished in 4:23.16, followed by Rutgers' Sean Smith (4:25.99). Notre Dame's Matt Bertke also qualified from the morning's preliminary, finishing 15th overall (4:34.64). 
In the 200-meter individual 

By LISA REIJULA 
Sports Writer 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. 

The average spectator at a collegiate swim meet might find it easy to overlook the divers. They compete in only two events, the 1-meter and the 3-meter contests, which usually take place when the crowd is taking a break from the swimming action. 
However, Notre Dame's ros­ter boasts a diver who deserves attention for his accomplishments in both ath­letics and academics. 
Senior co-captain Andy Maggio has established himself as a consistent performer for the Irish. This season, Maggio finished in the top three in the majority of dual meets in the one-meter event. He also excels in the classroom. own­ing a 3.7 grade point average. 
"He's the complete Notre Dame student-athlete," Notre Dame coach Tim Welsh said. "He's been one of the elite divers here in the conference and been to the NCAA zone meet. He's a very strong stu­dent, a very strong diver, a very strong leader and a really good person." 
Maggio began diving when he was eight at his summer club in Cincinnati. When he was 12, he began training nationally. 
"One of the coaches there {in 
medley, both Jamie Lutkus and Josh Dermott qualified for the afternoon. Lutkus. a fresh­man, finished fifth overall, touching in 1:51.15. Dermott placed seventh in 1:51.45. Winner Joey Piekarski of Virginia Tech set a meet record with his time of 1:49.57. 
Krakowski had a strong per­formance for the Irish in the SO-meter freestyle, finishing seventh in 20.53. Returning Big East champion Michael Grube finished a surprising third for Pittsburgh, behind Matt Campbell of Rutgers 
(19.79) and Chris Lingberg of Virginia Tech. 
In the last event of the event, the 400-meter medley relay, Notre Dame's team of Doug Bauman, Fitzpatrick, Krakowski and Randolph fin­ished fourth in a time of 
3:19.45. Virginia Tech's team set a meet record (3:15.24} in their victory. Pittsburgh 
(3:17.60) and Rutgers (3; 19.36) were second and third, respectively. 
Welsh is pleased with his team's performance in the . opening day of the conference championships, especially in light of their travel difficulties. 
"It's a real credit to the team that [the plane delay] didn't interfere," he said. "That could have been a major distraction and a big downer, but the preparation was great, their focus was great, and their performance was great. 
"I think we're well set up to swim fast the rest of the meet." 
The Big East Championships continue today and Saturday. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lrcijula@nd.edu 
Cincinnati] is one of the top national coaches and things just took off from there," he said. 
Notre Dame has been a good fit for Maggio, who entered in the fall of 1999. A finance and government double major, he will be trading stocks for Morgan Stanley in New York after graduation. 
"Notre Dame is one of the best academic schools in the country and also one of the best athletically, so it's a good balance," Maggio said. "Also, my diving coach Caiming Xie is one of the best diving coaches in the world. He was the Chinese national coach for a long time." 
Thursday evening at the Big East Championships at the Nassau County Aquatics Center in Uniondale, N.Y., Maggio fin­ished fourth in the 1-meter 
diving  event  with  283.20  
points.  
"I'm  a  senior  so  it's  my  

fourth time around," he said. "I'm happy with my perfor­mance, I was aggressive. I'm happy with the way things turned out." 
In addition to his diving tal­ent, Welsh considers Maggio an asset to the team due to his leadership and ability to over­come adversity in the form of injury. 
"Last year he dove great, then had some knee trouble," Welsh said. ··He missed some time this fall but he's back 
here and he's done an out­
standing job." 
Maggio has suffered from knee problems for the last two­and-a-half years. 
"It's made it tough to have any kind of sustained good, healthy training," he said. "But I was never out for any specific amount of time." 
As a senior, co-captain and as a diver. Maggio has a spe­cial and important role on the team this season. Welsh is aware of his significance to the group. 
"He's also done a wonderful job bridging the swimming­diving gap," Welsh said. 
Maggio credits his fellow senior divers, Joe Miller and Tong Xie, with helping him integrate the team. 
"Obviously there is kind of an inherent separation between the two sports. but it's really important that we're all part of the same team," he said. "Throughout our four years, we've all tried to think of what we do as more of a team sport rather than an individual one. I think it's been more of effort by our entire class of divers to try to bridge that gap." 
Maggio will continue his weekend at the Big East Championships today, when he is slated to compete in the 3­meter springboard. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 
MENS LACROSSE 
After rough 2002, Irish ready for season 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
After making an appearance in the Final Four in 2001, the Notre Dame lacrosse team struggled in 2002 as they lost seven games by a combined 10 goals. 
However, there is nothing but optimism for this year's 
come
"We are a relatively

team that ment-time, and 
starts its young team. but it is not playing against season a bad thing.·· good teams will Sunday help us to be when the well-prepared." Irish travel Brian Glordano This year's 
to Penn Irish midfielder team boasts an 
Simon look to anchor a unit that will be the strength of the Irish. 
Notre Dame will need the experience of their defense to lead them, as they play a sched­ule that features 11 of the top 25 teams of the Inside Lacrosse Poll in which the Irish were ranked No. 17. 
"It is a good thing for us because we want to play against the best," Giordano said. ••we want to be ready tourna­
State to face the Nittany 
Lions at 1 p.m. 
With six returning starters. the Irish have just the right mix of experience and youth to be successful. 
"We are a relatively young team, but it is not a bad thing," sophomore midfielder Brian Giordano said. "The young guys have to step up, and the starters bring their experience." 
Among the returning players is leading scorer Dan Berger. Last season, he netted 21 goals on 47 attempts, giving him an outstanding .44 7 shooting per­centage. 
On defense, the Irish boast an experienced corps. Preseason honorable mention All­Americans John Souch and Eric attitude that has 
surpassed those of previous years, as the Irish are extremely optimistic. 
"This year, we have great leadership," Giordano said. "In practice, the captains and the upperclassmen are getting peo­ple excited to play." 
This positive attitude could prove to be crucial for the Irish, as many young players will be counted upon for contributions early in their careers, especially in the midfield positions where freshmen Matt Karweck, Matt Ryan, and Drew Peters will compete for playing time. 
"We are really excited for the season to start." Giordano said. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 21, 2003 
TRACK 

Team titles in sight at Big East Tournament 



Devils 
continued from page 32 
great deal at stake concerning bragging rights and retribu­tion. 
Last season, Arizona State coach Pat Murphy, who took great steps to build up the Notre Dame baseball program as head coach of the Irish from 1988-1994, made his home­coming to South Bend on April 26, but was defeated 9-4 by Mainieri's Irish. 
Notre Dame would later go on to win its NCAA regional, defeat No. 1 Florida State in the NCAA Super Regional, advance to the College World Series in Omaha, Neb., for the first time in 45 years and finish with 50 wins and a sixth-place ranking in the both the Baseball America and Collegiate Baseball polls. 
With the excitement of the anticipated matchup between two of the nation's premier programs, Mainieri is trying to be sure that his team does not overlook its first two opponents of the weekend. 
"I'm not even looking at Arizona State right now," Mainieri said. "All everyone is thinking about is playing Dayton. We know what's lurk­

I. ing, but I don't want our play­ers to look past these first two games, because obviously those first two games are important. "We want to get ourselves off to a good start, get our feet wet and get our confidence going," Mainieri said. "Then we'll take on the fourth-ranked team in the country in their ballpark." 
The four games this weekend should provide a good early test for a young Irish squad that returns without five every­day players from its 2002 line­up as centerfielder Steve Stanley. third baseman Andrew Bushey, catcher Paul O'Toole and designated hitter Matt Bok graduated. Junior left fielder Brian Stavisky decided to leave for the pros after being select­ed in the sixth round by the Oakland Athletics. 


The new-look Irish lineup against Dayton will likely have juniors Joe Thaman at first base and Steve Sollmann at second on the right side of the infield with highly-touted sophomores Matt Macri at shortstop and Matt Edwards at third base on the left side. 
Javier Sanchez. who spent the majority of 2002 as the starter at shortstop in place of the injured Macri and Edwards, worked in the off­season to adapt to a new posi­tion, and the junior will start behind the plate for the Irish at catcher. 
The Irish outfield will feature a pair of fresh faces for the first time in three years, as freshman Brennan Grogan will likely take over left field for Stavisky and classmate Craig Cooper will replace the four­year starter Stanley in center field. 
Senior Kris Billmaier, who along with Sollmann and relief pitcher J.P. Gagne will serve as the 2003 Irish captains, will reclaim his regular spot in right field for Notre Dame. 
Despite the season-ending shoulder surgery to ace right­hander Grant Johnson, who was 9-5 with a 3.46 ERA in 
101.1 innings pitched for the Irish in 2002 as a freshman, Notre Dame returns to action this season with one of its deepest pitching rotations. 
The starters scheduled to pitch this weekend are sopho­mores Chris Niesel in the open­er against Dayton and John Axford against Newman. Seniors Pete Ogilvie and Ryan Kalita will get the nod as the starters on the mound against the Sun Devils. 
The four pitchers combined for 45 percent of Notre Dame's innings pitched last season, with a combined record of 21­7. 
While Niesel missed a portion of the 2002 season with mononucleosis, he shone in the NCAA post-season, earning the World Series-clinching 3-1 vic­tory over Florida State and allowing only two earned runs over 6.2 innings pitched in Notre Dame's 5-3 College World Series victory over Rice. 
Gagne, who began the 2002 season as a starter but ended up as the team's leader in the bullpen, should be the squad's feature closer this season. Gagne finished 2002 with a 9-4 record and 3.14 ERA in 94.2 innings pitched. He also had six saves on the year, including his one-inning, three-strikeout performance against the Seminoles in the NCAA Super Regional to help the Irish advance to the College World Series. 
The Irish officially begin their 2003 season at 1 p.m. today at Arizona State's Packard Stadium against Dayton. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfcdcric@nd.edu 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
Despite having no individuals win Big East Championships last season, the womens track team came home with the team title. They will look to repeat and add individual championships as both Notre Dame track teams head to Syracuse for the Big East Indoor Championships this weekend. 
Both teams expect to be among the primary contenders for the team titles, but the women's depth will give them an advantage in their quest. The Irish have a number of athletes in most events across the board. Tameisha King and Kymia Love both have the top time in the 60 meters and will have multiple opportunities to win individual crowns. Tiffany Gunn. Kristen Dodd, Tanya Cheatham and Ayesha Boyd are among the other sprinters looking for good performances this weekend. 
In the distance events Molly Huddle, fresh off her school­record performance in the 3,000 meters at the Meyo Invitational, will lead the dis­tance group that includes Lauren King, Ana Morales. Megan Johnson and Jennifer Handley. 
In the field events, Jaime Volmer, Laura Huarte and Jill Vanweelden will be looking to give the Irish a one-two-three sweep in the pole vault, while Stacey Cowan and Emily Loomis lead the Irish in the high jump. Meghan Horn is the lone Irish representative in the shot put and weight throw. 
For the men, Luke \Vatson will be looking to add to his already impressive indoor sea­son by competing in the mile and 3,000 meter's. Watson should be favored to win both races. as he finished second in the 3,000 meters and third in the mile last year. 
In addition to \.Vatson. the Irish will have depth on dis­play in the distance events. with Eric Morrison, Kevin Somok. Thomas Chamney, Tim Moore, John Keane and Mac Striowski competing. 
Selim Nurudeen, who won the 110-meter hurdles at the outdoor conference meet last year. looks to add indoor titles in the 60 meters and 60-meter hurdles. He holds the top qual­ifying time for both events. Jules Vandersarl and Ryan Hurd add depth to the sprint contingent as well. 
For the mens team to cap­ture the crown this weekend they will need great perfor­mances from their field spe­cialists, including Godwin Mbagwu in the triple jump and long jump, Chris Staron and Ryan Mineburg in the long jump, Brian Thornburg in the weight throw and Juan Alba in the shot put. 
Contact Andy T roeger at atroeger@nd.edu 

Irish second baseman Steve Sollmann takes a swing In a game last season against Valparaiso. 

f'ee~e~ 

Friday, February 21, 2003 

The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish battle defending national champs Cal 
ByAARON RONSHEIM 
Sports Writer 
After the No. 23 Irish (2-2) 
split their first four games of 
the season, they look to 
improve this weekend at the 
NFCA Leadoff Classic 
Challenge in Columbus, Ga. 
The task won't be easy as the Irish open round-robin play this afternoon against No. 4 California, the defending national champions. Even though the Irish are fac­ing one of the top teams in the country. senior shortstop Andria Bledsoe is confident of their chances of winning. 
"If we go out there and play our game we can definitely beat any of the teams that we play," Bledsoe said. "It all depends on if we play our game and not to the level of the competition." 

This will mark the second straight season that the Irish have faced the defending champions. Last year they played Arizona, the 2001 national champions, twice. 
Besides playing California, the Irish will play Illinois State tonight and No. 17 Alabama Saturday afternoon before moving on to championship play. 
Notre Dame has earned the reputation for playing one of the toughest schedules in the country and this year is no different. 
Besides playing tough com­
petition this weekend, the 
Irish will have to battle 
against teams that have had 
the chance to practice outside 
and already play between ten 
and twelve games. Bledsoe, 
though, is not making any 
excuses for her team. 
"We make sure that when we are practicing indoors that we're focusing on the basics and mechanics and when we get to where we are playing we make sure we take a lot of cuts and lots of grounders. It all comes back very quickly... Bledsoe said. "We're inside Loftus and the turf gives us a good feel for throwing and fielding ground balls. I don't think it will be an issue in any of the tournaments." 
One of the pleasant surpris­es of last weekend's games was the play of Notre Dame's five freshmen. All five played last weekend with pitcher Heather Booth and catcher Mallorie Lenn playing impor­tant roles in the Notre Dame's two victories. 
"They did an awesome job for their first couple of games. They were both really confi­dent for being freshmen and played their roles just like the older girls," Bledsoe said. "They are young, but they stepped up and caught on very quickly." 
This past summer, Lenn played on the U.S. Junior National team. She hns big 
shoes to fill at Notre Dame with the graduation of All­American catcher Jarrah Myers. 
Last weekend due to travel conflicts, the Irish could not finish their fifth game of the weekend against Rhode Island. The Irish were up 12-0 

after four innings. but the game had to be called to enable Notre Dame to make their returning flight. Even though the game will not enter effect their record. it gave the Irish some confi­dence heading into this week­end. 
"That was great,.. Bledsoe said. "Everyone going out and being able to hit well and our pitcher's also doing a great job. That game really ended the weekend on a high note." 
Contact Aaron Ronsheim at aronshei@nd.edu 


Close to campus! (Behind Dairy Queen on S.R. 23) 
Special Event Friendly!! Student Atmosphere!! 
Campus View Apartments 1801 Irish Way (574) 272-1441 Fax#(574)272-1461 



Friday, February 21, 2003
page 28 The Observer . SPORTS 
HOCKEY 

Irish riding 1st winning streak of new year-
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team is on unfamiliar territory for the first time in 2003; they're on a winning streak. 
The Irish (11-13-6, 9-10-3 in the CCHA) hope to continue their good fortune when they face off against conference doormat Lake Superior State (5-21-4, 2-19-2) in a two-game matchup today and Saturday at the Joyce Center. 
Notre Dame is currently on a two-game winning streak after going winless the previous nine. The last Irish winning streak for the season was last year, from Dec. 7 to Dec. 14, in which the Irish defeated Bowling Green twice and Wayne State once. 
Last weekend, the Irish started their new winning streak with a two-game sweep of Bowling Green, beating the Falcons twice by the score of 3-2. 
Irish sophomore goaltender Morgan Cey was stellar in both games, making 65 saves. Senior forward and alternate captain John Wroblewski paced the Irish offense with two goals on the weekend. 
"I think we had the most bal­anced attack I've seen in a while," Notre Dame coach Dave Poulin said. ..All four lines were contributing." 

The wins moved the Irish up to eighth place in the CCHA stand­ings, just one point behind sev­en th-pl ace Western Michigan and two points behind sixth­place Northern Michigan. The top six finishers in the league get home ice for the first round of the playoffs. 
"It's the right time of the year to be winning," Poulin said. "You'd like to do it all year, but now's the time when you like to get on a roll." 
Notre Dame's remaining schedule is as convenient as it can possibly be, with the Irish facing Western Michigan and Northern Michigan, the very teams they are chasing for the coveted sixth-place spot, over their last four games of the sea­son. 
"It's nice because we don't have to worry about watching the scoreboard and getting help from other teams," Poulin said. "We control our own destiny." 
For now, the Irish have to take care of business against the worst team in the CCHA. The Lakers have yet to win on the road, posting a 0-11-2 mark in those contests. 
Lake Superior State is led in goal by sophomore Matt Violin, who has posted a respectable . 904 save percentage despite fac­ing an average of 36.0 shots per game. 
Offensively the Lakers are led by one of their few seniors, for­ward Jeremy Bachusz, who has eight goals and eight assists. The Lakers are one· of the youngest teams in the CCHA, with a roster that features fifteen freshmen. 
Historically, Cey has been incredible against the Lakers. In three games against Lake Superior State last year, Cey allowed only one goal on 57 shots and recorded two shutouts. 
All signs point to an Irish sweep, but Poulin has already cautioned his players from over­looking anybody in such a close race. 
"You address the fact in prac­tice that we're looking at our­selves regardless of who we play," he said. "This week, we broke down our tape into the five little things that we always have to do to be successful." 
The Irish hope to be successful in front of their home crowd, who saw the Irish recently go 0­4-2 over the most recent homes­tand, including a 3-1 loss to Yale at Allstate Arena in Chicago. 
"We have a chance to play well in front of our fans," Poulin said. "We've played some exciting hockey games at home, but we'd like to win those games." 
Notes: 
. Cey was named the CCHA's Defensive Player of the Week for the week ending Feb. 16 after stopping 65 of 69 shots in the Irish's two wins over Bowling Green. He was also named Perani Cup first star in both con­tests. 

This is the first time Cey has been named defensive player of the week. He was a two-time rookie of the week during the 2001-02 season. 
. Former Irish star Ben Simon scored the first point of his NHL career this week, helping the Atlanta Thrashers to a 4-3 over­time win over the Buffalo Sabres on Feb. 17. 
Simon assisted Dan Snyder on the Thrashers' second goal. It was Simon's seventh NHL game over the span of two seasons. 
Simon played for the Irish from 1996-2000, and was drafted by the Chicago Blackhawks in the fifth round of the 1997 NHL Entry Draft. He was later traded to Atlanta for a ninth-round draft pick on June 25, 2000. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles look to keep momentum after victory 
going into Tuesday's confer­six rebounds a game. In the their rebounding if they want game as well. Both played wellBy HFATHER VAN ence tournament. Belles last meeting with the to avoid the negative 10 in Wednesday's win, with HOEGARDEN However, Alma will be no Scots, Creachbaum dropped rebounding margin from the Boyce scoring 10 points. 
Sports Writer 

pushover, as they have three 18 points while pulling down previous matchup between Also coming off a strong players who average in double six boards, in a 68-54 loss. these teams. game against Adrian is senior 
After getting their first win figures. Shelly Ulfig leads the Katie Miller also played well in Alma is a well-balanced Shaun Russell, who scored 15 since Jan. 8. the Belles look to way for the Scots. as she aver­that loss, dishing out seven squad that will force the Belles points to go along with five build off that momentum and ages 15.9 points and 12 .4 assists to go along with her to play good defense in order assists on Wednesday, and win consecutive games for the rebounds per game. She is eight points. to pull off the win. In addition Creachbaum (16 points, 9 first time since December in a also the first woman in Alma However, the Belles look to to Ulfig, Karen Hall (15. 5 rebounds). Saturday afternoon matchup basketball history to score avenge the Jan. 29 home loss points. 12 .4 re bounds per Saint Mary's and Alma 

I, with Alma. 1.000 career points and grab to the Scots on Saturday. game). and Janell Twietmeyer square off Saturday at 3 p.m.
'· 
Saint Mary's broke an 11-1,000 career rebounds. Saint Mary's will have to (10.2 points per game) will be at Alma's Cappaert game losing streak Wednesday On the other side of the play better than they did the forces to reckon with for Gymnasium, where the Scots with a 71-5 8 victory over court, Saint Mary's has their last time these two teams met. Alma. have only lost two games all Adrian (10-14, 3-10 in the own standout player, in Emily as the Belles only shot 33 per­For the Belles, Bridget Boyce season. MIAA). Another win Saturday Creachbaum. who recently cent from the field, compared averages 7 .2 points per game, would propel the Belles above returned from an ankle injury. to the Scots' 52 percent. Also, and Anne Hogan adds 6. 9 Contact Heather Van Hoegarden 
. 
t' Adrian in the MIAA standings She averages 12.9 points and the Belles will have to pick up points and 4.6 rebounds per at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Huskies 
continued from page 32 
Sunday. 
"If we can just fix that 10­minute period, we can make it a game," McGraw said. "That's how were trying to approach it. .. 
McGraw also said her team can use the underdog role as a motivational device. 
"[The underdog] is a nice posi­tion to be in." McGraw said. "Jt·s not a must-win game for us, but we feel like we're playing a lot better than we were when we played them last time. We're a lot more confident." 
The Irish have won four of their last five games and have started to gain some momentum as they head into Sunday. One reason behind the Irish surge is guard Alicia Ratay. Ratay, the reigning Big East Player of the Week, averaged 24.5 points and seven rebounds in Notre Dame's last two games. She knocked down seven 3-pointers in the Irish last game against Providence. 

Notre Dame has also improved their defense in recent games. Since McGraw changed from a 2-3 to a 1-3-1 zone, Notre Dame has held four of its last seven opponents under 60 points and five of their last seven under 35 percent shoot­ing. 
In their last meeting. fresh­man Barbara Turner scored 25 points and was 9-for-11 from the field. Ann Strother added 15 for the Huskies. Connecticut led Notre Dame by 19 at half, before the Irish played them even in the second half. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Attention First-Year MBA's 
Would you like to earn a FULL TUITION fellowship for your second-year? 
The William G. McGowan Charitable Fund has just awarded the MBA program a grant that covers full tuition for the second year for one MBA student! Applicants must comply with the following criteria: 
-Must currently be enrolled full-time in the first year of the MBA program. -Must currently have a 3.0 GPA or higher. -Must submit a 500-1000 word essay on the contributions of William G. McGowan, founder and Chairman of MCI, to today's business world in general or to the telecommunications field in particular. -Must submit one letter of recommendation from a faculty member. -Must exhibit attributes such as scholarship, talent, leadership qualities, character and community involvement. 
All First-Year MBA's are eligible, excluding those that are already receiving a full tuition fellowship. 
Deadline: Applications are due in the MBA Office by Monday, March 17, 2003. 
Winners will be announced in the spring. Contact: Jennifer.Bleile.1@nd.edu 
Friday, February 21, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
BENGAL Bours -145-POUNDS 
Dillon all business ill preliminary round 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 
Last year. junior Luke Dillon just missed winning the 135­pound division when he dropped a split decision to senior Matt Fumagali. This year, Dillon is the top seed and favorite in the 145-pound division, and he began his quest for a title Thursday with a decisive second round TKO over sophomore Stephen Hill. 
Dillon came out of the corner aggressive in the first round and did not let up for the duration of the shortened fight. 
Dillon used a steady diet of jabs followed by overhand rights that connected with Hill's temple on nearly every punch thrown. 
At the start of the second round, Dillon landed one of those hard rights that bloodied Hill's nose and sent the sopho­more to the corner. When Hill came back out, Dillon went back to work with the jab and right, and the referee quickly called the fight. 
Sylllng def. Plposar 
In the second fight of the 145­pound division, freshman John Piposar tried to use an "upright" style and his height advantage over junior Andrew Sylling. 
But the tenacious Sylling was determined to get inside of 
Piposar's reach to eliminate his 
competitor's advantage. 
In the second round, Piposar appeared to gain the upper hand when he sent Sylling to his cor­ner with a cut on the cheek. 
But by the time the final round rolled around, it looked like Piposar had run out of energy. Sylling became the aggressor as the arm and leg-weary Piposar had trouble fighting off Sylling's attacks. In the last round, Sylling brought a cut to the cheek of Piposar and later nearly sent the freshman to the canvas. With his strong effort in the final round, Sylling was able to come away with the split decision. 
Robinson def. Sims 
If you were to measure by his nickname. Thursday night was a failure for junior Paul "One Punch" Robinson. After all, it took him more than one punch, but Robinson still defeated senior Tim Sims by unanimous decision. 
Robinson used a deadly jab to keep Sims off-balance for much of the fight and then often fol­lowed up with a punishing right when Sims was dazed. 
But at the start of the second round, Robinson was sent to his corner to take care of a bloody lip, and it would be the only set­back for Robinson. 
The junior came out of the corner and soon hit Sims with a 
strong jab that sent blood flying 
from his nose. Robinson spent 
the rest of the fight pummeling 
Sims with jabs and rights and 
constantly drawing blood. 
In the third. Sims was given a standing eight count to more or less seal the fight for Robinson. 
Harris def. Shonkwiler 
Junior Joseph 'Tm Still, I'm Still Joey from the Block" Shonkwiler didn't fool law stu­dent Paul Harris with rocks or fists or just about anything else Thursday as the experienced Harris used a conventional style to defeat the brawling Shonkwiler by a unanimous decision. 
Harris used his size and rich over Shonkwiler to feel the shorter fighter out early in the fight and let the younger boxer make the first mistake. 
By the time the last round arrived, Shonkwiler appeared worn out from throwing a heavy wave of punches in the first two rounds, and Harris took advan­tage. The final round proved the difference as Harris got Shonkwiler into a standing eight count that gave the decisive edge to the law student. 
Ham def. Schoppe 
Senior Jeffrey "Honey-baked" Ham had an easy night Thursday, as the third-seeded fighter advanced to the next round by way of forfeit by grad student Andrew Schoppe. 
Streit def. Hurni 
In the battle for West Quad bragging rights, sophomore and O'Neill Hall resident Jon Streit escaped a highly competitive fight with sophomore and Keough Hall resident Tim Hurni with a unanimous decision. 
For much of the fight it looked as if neither fighter wanted to take control. Both threw a lot of out-of-control punches that often missed their targets, but in the end, it was the underdog and No. 12 seed Streit who was able to come away with the victory. 
DeBoer def. Murphy 
It looked like sophomore Rob "Irish Fan" Murphy was trying to resurrect former heavyweight champion Muhammed Ali's patented Rope-a-Dope style in his fight against freshman David "The Flying Dutchman" DeBoer. 
The idea of the Rope-a-Dope is that one fighter lures the other into throwing a large number of punches early in the match to tire him out so he can easily attack the fatigued boxer later in the match. 
But it looked like Murphy just didn't have enough at the end of the match to make a decisive charge over DeBoer as he dropped a split decision to the freshman. 
Through the first two rounds, the taller Murphy threw very few punches and simply felt out DeBoer. In the last round, Murphy finally tried to make a move, but the effort was not enough to secure the decision. 
Duffy def. Vagllo 
Senior Ryan "The Quiet Man" Duffy was anything but in his preliminary round matchup with law student John "The Notorious V-A-G" Vaglio. 
Duffy used several long jabs_ and a more controlled style of boxing to earn a unanimous decision victory over Vaglio in the final fight of the 145-pound division Thursday. 
Duffy was often able to take advantage of several long left misses from Vaglio that left him open to Duffy's jab. 
In the third round, the effects of Duffy's punches began to show as Vaglio grew woozy and became an easier target for the senior. In the last round, Vaglio was given a standing eight by the referee. Just as Vaglio came back into the fight, Duffy hit him again with another hard right that sent the law student stum­bling back and brought on a sec­ond standing eight count to all but secure Duffy's victory. 
Contact Chris Federico at 
cfederic@nd.edu 
BENGAL BOUTS -14O-POUNDS 
Freshman firepower: Liva defeats senior Hool 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Writer 
Usually in Bengal Bouts, the more experienced fighter has the upper hand, especially when one is a senior and one is a fresh­man. But in the most competitive fight of the night in the 140­pound weight class, freshman Edward "Money" Liva overcame senior Kevin "I pity the" Hool in a tight split decision. 
PHARMACY DEPARTMENT 
Now 
-~ 
~~A-
Qpen -~-­
24 HOURS 
CVS/pharmacy· 
2210 E. Edison Road South Bend 574-472-3233 
Both fighters had quick hands 
and moved around well in the 
ring, and the first round was 
pretty even as the fighters felt 
out each other's styles. 
In the second round, Hool came out of the corner strong, but the younger Liva was able to effectively counter and hold off the senior with a steady diet of jabs and rights. 
In the final round, Liva's punches began to show some effect as Hool started to bleed from the nose, and the senior was sent to the corner by the ref­eree to stop the bleeding. 
When Hool came out of the corner, Liva quickly hit him with three more solid combinations to secure the victory. 
Marks def. Connor 
In the opening fight of the night, junior Chip Marks outlast­ed freshman Matt Connor to win by unanimous decision. The pair of first-year fighters slugged it out through three rounds, but Marks appeared to have the upper hand through the bout. 
The difference came in the third and final round as the freshman Connor appeared to run out of gas and Marks was able to take the upper hand. With the stronger set of legs, Marks was able to land more punches and sway the judges. 
Davidson def. Welsh 
The fight between senior Stephen Davidson and junior Matt Welsh began with both fighters throwing a lot of punch­es and not landing very many. The fighters didn't appear to bother too much with blocking. as both fighters employed an early strategy of throwing a bevy of punches. 
In the second round, Davidson tried to used his height advan­tage and reach to keep the short­er Welsh at bay. But the smaller boxer fought hard to get inside and take away Davidson's advantage, and he even got Davidson stuck in the corner for a couple of combinations. 
In the final round, \Velsh again appeared to be able to outmuscle Davidson on the inside and take away a close victory. But the early efforts of Davidson were too strong, and the senior won in a split decision. 
Pftzenmayer def. Velez 
Junior Mark Pfizenmayer from Stanford Hall and sophomore Adrian Velez from Keenan Hall waged the war of the conjoined dorms in the last fight of the pre-liminary rounds for the 140­pound class. The elder Pfizenmayer's more aggressive strategy helped him earn the unanimous decision. 

After a tentative first round, Pfizenmayer began to settle in during the second round and overpower Velez. Pfizenmayer used some long jabs and right hand combos to stay on top of Velez. 
Pfizenmayer made his strongest statement for victory in the third when he got Velez trapped in the corner and threw a barrage of punches that had the sophomore stuck in a defen­sive position. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 21, 2003 

FENCING
MENS BASKETBALL 

Irish back in action at Michigan State 

ing postseason competitions. 
ByMATTLOZAR 
"In womens sabre we are 
Sports Editor 
still working with the walk­ons," Bednarski said. "We are Irish coach Janusz Bednarski trying to improve as much as is borrowing a line from the we can to be ready for the 
Three Musketeers. nationals. They are slowly
"Our motto for this weekend improving. It takes time and it is 'All for one and one for all,"' is not easy to make somebodythe first-year head coach said." a top national fencer.·· 
'l 
After taking last weekend off Juniors Destanie Milo and from competition, the Irish Maggie Jordan hold the top
travel to the Michigan State two spots on the womens sabre Duals Saturday for their last squad while junior Danielle regular season meet. Sweeping Davis has seen the most action 
the four dual matches at 
at sabre of the walk-ons. Michigan State will give the Coming into this season with a Notre Dame mens team its 7-7 record in prior collegiate
third consecutive undefeated bouts, Davis has greatly season and run their dual improved and is currently 31­match winning streak to 82. 17 this season. The country's No. 1 mens \iVhile Bednarski is con­team (19-0} will more than cerned with developing the likely be without foilist Derek rest of the womens sabre 
Snyder. The sophomore, who team, for the NCAA earned All-American honors at Championships, which are less last year's NCAA than a month away, only two 
Championships, injured his leg individuals from each weaponand is questionable for the can qualify per school. Michigan State Duals. Notre · Dame will fence 
"We will find out about him Detroit-Mercy, Michigan,[today)." Bednarski said. "He Purdue and the host Spartans. says he is recovering quickly. With none of these schools but we'll take it one match at a qualifying a fencer at last time. He is our top foilist and year's national championships, we will try to beat others with­the competition level for the 
out one of our top fencers. Irish is not what they usually"Hopefully, it will motivate see. the other kids." Despite the weak opposition,Bednarski's mens foil team is 
Bednarski knows his team can 
one of the deepest squads on get some things accomplished 
the team with 2001 All­with the postseason startingAmerican Forest Walton and 
next weekend. three-time All-American Ozren "It will be part of our fightingDebic having a 77-10 com­to preserve first place on the 
bined record so far this season. mens side and keep the wom­Debic, a senior captain, has a ens side growing," Bednarski 42-1 record himself and is first said. "I hope the kids stay on the mens foil list and third strong because they work hard in all weapons for career win­and they are prepared for the ning percentage. season." 
On the womens side, the No. home loss came Feb. 17, Indianapolis, just three hours 
3 womens team (17-2) looks to 
ByANDREW SOUKUP 

2002. away from South Bend. And 
continue the development of Contact Matt Lozar at 
Sports Writer 

Right now, the Irish are con­while the Irish won't openly 
the sabre team for the upcom-mlozar@nd.edu centrating on winning the Big admit it, the prospect of play­Life on the road hasn't East West Division -a task ing nearby -where legions of treated the Irish well lately. that became slightly more dif­fans can watch in person -is That's part of the reason why ficult with a loss to the an enticing one indeed. the Irish can't wait to get Orangemen on Saturday. But before the tournament, back into the Joyce Center Notre Dame is tied with before Connecticut, the Irish this weekend. Pittsburgh for second in the have to handle themselves But they'll face the difficult West Division, a half-game against Virginia Tech. challenge of playing two behind Syracuse. The Hokies are a team games, with a day of rest in And with games against pinned against the ropes, as between, against one of the Connecticut, Rutgers and they have lost their last three worst and then one of the best Syracuse looming ahead on games by an average of 16 teams in the Big East. the schedule, the Irish end the points. But before the losing No. 12 Notre Dame's merry­season on a difficult stretch. streak came upset wins over go-round begins Saturday, But in the back of the play­Connecticut and St. John's, when the team plays lowly er's minds, the Irish are also when Virginia Tech knocked Virginia Tech. who is tied trying to position themselves off those opponents by an with Miami for last in the Big for the NCAA Tournament. average of 19 points. East East Division. Monday. Few doubt the Irish will hear Notre Dame's big men have the Irish play Connecticut, their name called on Selection been tested all season long. who are a half-game behind Sunday. The only question and they'll face another big Villanova for the East Division remaining for Notre Dame is challenge in Bryan Matthews lead. how high they'll be seeded. and Terry Taylor. The 6-foot-However, the Irish (20-5, 8-Besides having an easier 7 Matthews, who leads the 3 in the Big East) insist their path through the tourney. team in rebounds and points focus is first on the Hokies earning a high seed means the with 16.9 and 7 .2, respective­(10-14. 3-8). even though Irish could also play closer to ly. is capable of playing either they'll have scarcely 50 hours home. Last year, the NCAA on the perimeter or inside the to get ready for the Huskies instituted a new seeding poli­basket. when Saturday's game is cy, where it grouped teams of But Matthews is dwarfed by over. four into "pods." giving teams Taylor. who averages 14.9 The Irish are excited to be that were seeded higher the points and seven rebounds a back at home this season, and chance to play closer to home. game. At 6-foot-8 and 292 for good reason. In their last The Irish saw firsthand how pounds, the offensive line­three road games, the Irish struggling down the stretch man-sized Taylor poses a lost to Seton Hall and can hurt their location­dominating inside presence. Syracuse and nearly lost to instead of nearby Chicago, the The Irish and Hokies tip off West Virginia Tuesday. Irish were sent to South in the Joyce Center at 1 p.m. More importantly, the Irish Carolina to face top-seeded 
I . have yet to lose in the Joyce Duke. 
t. Center in 13 games this year. This year, the closest tour­Contact Andrew Soukup at In fact, Notre Dame's last nament site for the Irish is asoukup@nd.edu 








Friday, February 21, 2003 
The Observer . TODAY page 31 
.. 
-
_...,.. 
.. ' 
HENRI ARNOLD

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
Almost done Give me a
one letter to each square, 
with rtw chapler refill, Charlie
to form tour ordinary words. AAS \ / I/_,.
DARAW 
rJ I 


C2003 Tooune Media SeMces. Inc. All Rights Aeaerved 
BRILO 
-
!

I rJ 
21 

HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 
t
FEETOF j WHAT THE NOVE:L..­15T C.OMPL..E:TE:D IN nl: Nf=I~
www.jumble.oom 
PUB.

I RAGIST j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
rJ r [J 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans:His[ I I I IJ"( I I I I]"
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday' J Jumbles: PAUSE DOWDY MODIFY RELISH 5 Answer: Where the ne'er-do-well ended up on the family tree-ON THE SHADY SIDE 


===============================================================.:::.:::.::::::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.::::.:::.:::.:::.::::::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.::::::-_ 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  29 Trinity part  52 Grumbler  
 
1 Theater  30 Harbor vessel  53 Captain  
 
professionals 8 Suddenly hits  32 Lays to rest 35 Setting for  portrayer in 1960's TV  
 
15 Sign-off from there  Robert Frost's "A Masque of  DOWN  
17 Camper's supply 18 Elegant  Mercy" 39 Not used to 40 Eastern Hemisphere  1 Rustles 2 Some plates 3 Delta team work  
19 Twit 20 Full-size  island visited by Magellan, 1521  4 "The Altarpiece." a  
41 Samuel  painting by ...  
21  monde  Gompers org.  5 ... Jan van_  
22 Olympian Katarina et al.  42 Sack  6 Rubbish  
23 Info  43 Train  7 Translation aid  
44 Loaded  at an opera  
24 Schubert's "The _·King"  45 Ashcroft and  8 Number two  
25 "Misery" Oscar winner Bates  Reno: Abbr. 46 Acknowledge  9 Former Israeli minister Moshe  
47 Acknowledged26 Order with udon, maybe 48 "Time to go" 27 Fixed beam? 51 Phone line? ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  10 Sore spot 11 Hart Trophy awarder: Abbr. 12 Grouper, for one 13 Bird: Prefix  Puui. by Manny No1ow1ky 31 Refuses to deal with 32 Giving birth 33 Part of the  37 Insult or injury 38 One showing promise? 40 Daybook  46 It may say "DINER" 47 Float's base, maybe  
14 Profit  Cenozoic era 34 Ballroom  43 Grammy's Best Male Jazz  49 1979 nuclear accident site•  
16 Like oceanfront  dance  Vocalist of  Abbr.  
houses. often  36 like some  1982-83  so Speedometer  
22 Doesn't take off  voodoo  44 Pin  letters  
23 1993 Sinatra  

co For answers. call 1·900-285-5656, $1.20 a mrnute; or, with a credit card. 1-800-814-5554.
25 S. S Kresge, Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaytoday 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888•7-ACROSS. 26 Throw ott Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nyt1mes.comid1versions ($19.95 a year).
28 Real effort Crosswords for young solvers• The Learning Network, nyt1mes.com11eam1ng/xwords, 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
' 

~ .._, ,t l ·i '\.-•· -1 a 1, ._,_. l l 'I, •••.r .C ~ ._• .,. i I 'I,•••,· ,. 11,.., -...-., • ~ 11,•.0 > • 4-,__.._...., --. ,._.-"' 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­Address------------------­
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: David Caruso, Lany Fonensky, Betty White, JimCaney, Jmres Fad Jooes 
Happy Birthday: You will work toward stabilizing yoW' life this year. Tie up loose ends and start new beginnings. YoW' creative talent will be at an all-ti.me high. You will discover the inspiration you are looking for. Your nwnbers are 2, 7, 15, 21, 39, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Keep your secrets to yourself today. Your reputation may be ruined if you have been involved in something that you are not proud of. You1I have to oo alime darmge COOIIOI. irk TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You'll look good in the eyes of others today. Take a powerful stance when it comes to your beliefs. Social activities and romance sro.tld be highlighted tooay.• * * • GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Not everyone will be happy with the things you choose to do. Avoid discord by including others in your activities. You will pick up information today that will enable you to advance professionally. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Love interests are present, however, the tunnoil you are experiencing is all-consuming. Pull yourself away from the stress and spend 
t:irre enjoying yoorself ** 
LEO (July 2J-Aug. 22): Travel and communication shouJd be on your agenda. Take a break from your regular routine. You don't have to be the center of attention all ltK! tirrr. irk* VIRGO (Aug. 2.~pt. 22): Make your move and speak your mind. If someone interests you, tell TI-IEM. You will get the response you are looking for. This is a day to celehate. irkirk LIBRA (Sept 2.'\-0ct. 22): Find your own little space, free from the disharmony that surrounds you. You have the ability to look at all sides of a situation and, given the right setting, you will find a solution to whatever is bothering you. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 2.l-Nov. 21): Be prepared to deal with people who are judgrrental. Ifyou are rn,mt'(i to defeoo ~00 00:: wooq,pa;esyou will stand a chaoc.e. *•••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your help will be valued, so offer assistance to someone who is in dire need. Don't feel limited if you can't physically travel. Menial gains will be gratifying. *irk CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Deception is in the picture, so don't believe everything that you're told. Read between the lines and ask pertinent questions. Doo'tneglect to oo your share ofltK! wok rooay. tt AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your creative ideas will rise to the swface today. The new friends you make today will be important to your future direction and 
~IS.~ 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The changes you make to yourself, your home or your life in general will lead to increased self-esteem. You'll have a better understudng ofwhat you really want to oo with ycu life. ** * * * 
Birthday Baby: You will be perceptive, energetic and always willing to take on rrae than is required. You will be enterprising. engaging and always gaining experience. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com. eugenialastcom, wnetwork.com 
CDPYRIGHf 2003 UNNERSALPRESSSYNDICATE 



Friday, February 21, 2003 
ND SWIMMING AND DIVING 
At the front of the pack 

Devil of time lies ahead for Irish 
Arizona State. and no lower than No. 6 in
. No. 11 Notre 

The Irish begin competition any of the four major polls.
Dame opens season today with Dayton, followed are 18~1 and off to their best 
with Dayton, by a pair of games Saturday start since 1972. 
with Newman and Arizona But even with the arduous
Newman and No. 4 

State. Notre Dame will close task at hand, Irish head coachArizona State out the opening weekend with Paul Mainieri relishes the a matchup at 1 p.m. Sunday opportunity for his club to j with the Sun Devils. face such tough competition 
As is the issue nearly every so early in the season.
By CHRIS FEDERICO 

season for Notre Dame, the "[This weekend] will be a
Spores Writer 

Irish will need to overcome a great opportunity for our kids lack of experience early in the to make a statement early in 
Just eight months after the season against warm weather the year," Mainieri said. "But completion of their historic competition. While Dayton if nothing else, it's going to be 2002 season that ended at the and Notre Dame will open the a great environment and a College World Series, the Irish season against each other, great experience, and it will begin their quest today for a Newman has been in competi­make us better as the year return trip to Omaha's tion since Feb. 1, and Arizona goes on, there's no doubt Rosenblatt Stadium. State will have played 20 about it." 
Notre Dame, ranked as high games by the time they face The pair of games between
r 
If 
as No. 11 by Baseball the Irish Saturday. the Sun Devils and Irish will America, travels to Tempe, To make matters worse, the likely be the feature events of Ariz., for a four-game opening Sun Devils, ranked as high as the weekend, as there is a weekend against Dayton, No. 4 by the Sports Newman University and host Weekly/ESPN Coaches poll see DEVILS/page 26 
• Womens squadclaims the early lead in Big East Championships 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. 
Rutgers won the 400-meter medley relay in Thursday's final event to close the gap, but the Notre Dame womens swim m i n g See Also 
and diving "Hulick leads t e a m 
relay team to
emerged from the first day Big East title" of competition 
page24
at the Big E a s t Championships in Uniondale, 
N.Y. in first place with 176 total points. 
Rutgers is close behind with 165 points, while Miami's 116 points put them in a distant third. 
The 400 medley relay went down to the wire. Rutgers had a time of 3 minutes, 42.25 sec­onds for first, inching out Notre Dame's time of 3:42.33. Still, this day belonged to Notre Dame coach Bailey Weathers and the defending Big East champions. 
BASEBALL 


~.. ~:.. ·:;~:.<:.. 
.~­

=@*<\; :t;;,r
:·:;~,
I 

--,-,,:;.,, ....~<li;f:>'<\'?,: :~:-~::*~\i;
-~ i< :'.<• 
'-!•. 
:·; > 
ANDY KENNA/The Observer 

The Notre Dame freestyle relay team takes Its place on the stand after winning the event at the Big East Championships Thursday. The womens squad is In first place after the first day. 
in 2003 Big East The Irish, who were origi­
• Irish off to record 

Championships. nally scheduled to arrive in
start in 1st day of 

The Irish are fourth overall New York much earlier in the 
Big East Tourney in the field week, didn't land until of 12 with See Also Wednesday due to the bliz­1 2 7 5 zard that blanketed much of points. "Maggio a star the East Coast. But the late
By LISA REIJUlA 

Pittsburgh, in the pool and arrival slowed the Irish little. 
Sports Writer 

the meet The Irish started the first
the classroom"

favorite, is day of competition with a UNIONDALE, N.Y. in first page25 bang, setting three new Notre 
Despite a delayed flight and through Dame records. The 200 other travel-related twelve events with 227 points. freestyle and 400 medleyheadaches, the Notre Dame Rutgers is next with 170.5, relay teams and Frank mens swimming and diving followed by Virginia Tech with 
team got off to a strong start 160. see MENS/page 25 
..That's the second-fastest relay time ever as a team, which is incredible because none of those girls except for Danielle [Hulick] in her fresh­man year have swam it before," Weathers said. 
After good showings across the board in the morning's pre­liminary events, the 200-meter freestyle relay team of Katie Eckholt, Hulick, tri-captain Heidi Hendrick and Kristen Peterson won the night's first womens event with a time of 
1:33.21. Hulick and Eckholt swam on this same relay team with Carrie Nixon and Kelly Hecking last season, and that set a conference record with a time of 1:32.01. 
"I thought [the 200 freestyle relay] would be a real challenge for us," Weathers said. "Virginia Tech and Rutgers are good there so I was really pleased with that. I think we could have been a little bit faster. Our exchanges were pretty conservative, but I thought overall it was a good swim." 
Hulick, a three-time Big East champion prior to Thursday's events, won the relay and her first individual championship, the 50-meter freestyle. She won the 50-meter freestyle in 22.93 seconds and missed an NCAA 
see WOMENS/page 24 

ND WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Irish have a chance to break the streak 
ens college basketball record 64 By JOE HETTLER straight games dating back to Sports Editor 
March 30, 2001. Their last loss 
came against the Irish in the 
Connecticut's basketball team NCAA Tournament that season, will not have lost a basketball 90~75. Notre Dame eventually game in 694 days Sunday when went on to win the national the Huskies face Notre Dame. championship that season. 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw Notre Dame had a shot at end­thinks that's just too long. ing the streak earlier this season 
The way McGraw sees it, on Jan. 20 at the Joyce Center, Connecticut has to lose eventu­but doomed themselves by ally, so it might as well be allowing a 30-10 run in the mid­against the Irish in Storrs, Conn. dle of the first half. The Huskies 
"We're thinking 'Why not went on their run despite having us?'" McGraw said. "Their their best player. Diana Taurasi, streak has been going on for on the bench with three person­quite a long time, so if you can al fouls. But McGraw wants to get them in a close game, use the Irish last meeting they're not [going to be] familiar against Connecticut as a confi­with that. We've got nothing to dence builder for their contest lose." 
The Huskies have won a worn-see HUSKIES/page 28 

MENS BASKETBALL 
BENGAL BOUTS 
HOCKEY 
ND TENNIS

TRACK AND FIELD
ND SOFTBALL 
A complete wrap-up

Virginia Tech at 
Lake Superior 
Notre Dame at 
Notre Dame at 
Duke at Notre 
off all of Thursday's
Nofre Dame 
Big East 

State at 
NFCA Leadoff 
Dame 
Bengal Bouts action 
Ctiampionships

Notre Dame 
Classic 
from the Joyce Center,

Saturday, 1 p.m. 
Friday, 6 p.m.
plus a look ahead to

The Irish try to stay 
Friday, 7 p. m. 
The Irish look to upset 

Friday-Sunday 
Saturday-Sunday
weekend competition.

focused with a home 
The Irish look to extend 
the top-ranked Blue

The Irish squads hope
The Irish face tough 
victory over the Hokies. 
their win streak to three. 
Devils.

to take first at tourney.
teams over theweekend. 
page 30. 
page 23
page 28 

page 27 
page 26
page 29 











