
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXVII NO. 91 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Leaders propose fee hike 
By MATT BRAMANTl 
News Writer 
Student government offi­cials will propose an increase in Notre Dame's student activity fee this week. This year's proposal, however, provides for small annual increases. instead of the larger. more infrequent hikes of the past. The financial Management Board, a unit of the Student Union Board, will recom­mend increasing the fee each year by 3/4 the rate of tuition increase. Tuition i ncreascs have generally been raised by 5 Lo 6 per­cent per year. 
This year's student activity fee was $80, compared to $65 of la~t yMr. The money is a key source of funding for student organizations. Amy O'Connor, chair of the Club Coordination Council, said the plan is necessary to promote the "overall finan­cial health of the student union." 
"Most student activities are under funded." O'Connor said. "Currently, tho student union is unable to meet the demands of the student body." 
She said that The Shirt project generates a signifi­cant amount of money for student activities, hut those revenues can be unpre­dictable. "If the market was saturated this year, we have 
see FEE/page 4 
JACC ATTACK 

The sea of green stormed the court In the flnal second of Notre Dame's most anticipated men's basketball game Sunday as the Irish take a bite out of No. 4 ranked Pitt. 

Women boxers may open Bengal Bouts 
tion spars to open the men's proposal was a response to ning and sponsoring the com­

By JESSICA DALSING boxing competition. RecSports the advanced status of many peti tio n. Yet, the issue of New Writer 
and Health management must of the women boxers. women's involvement as con­ratify the proposal before the "We wanted to offer the tenders had never been The Women's Boxing Club is women will be allowed to spar girls something more and we addressed. in public. felt that they were ready for Young said, "The idea was
embarking on a new era of 
competition. Currently, com­"As of yet, the proposal has U," Young said. assumed as not [being] plausi­petition between women box­met no major opposition," Since 1931, the men's box­ble, so [previous team cap­ers has been limited to unoffi­Young said. ing club has been entertaining tains] never asked. It is a nat­The women's boxing club audiences at the Bengal ural progression for the club,
cial sparring, but soon women boxers may be opening was started in the spring of Bouts, a fundraiser for Holy but it will be a big step." Bengal Bouts. 1997 and has grown to over Cross missions in Bangladesh. A proposal by the team's co­100 members. The club has a Throughout the six years of presidents, Shelley Skiba and novice season and a veteran the women's club's existence, Laura Young, will allow for season ending with two weeks the female members have Contact Jessica Dalsing at six women's bouts, or exhibi-of sparring in the ring. The been silent partners in run-Jessica.R.Oalsing@nd.edu 
Poet reflects on past, hopeful of future 
emerged from the crowd as familiar homes to an you 're always going to be If Martin Luther King were By KIFLIN TURNER she spoke of her own life's unknown destination. With lost." said Giovanni. The alive today, Giovanni Associate News Editor story, as a mother, and about their lives torn apart, they experience should be univer­announced with confidence 
her recent bout against can­managed to hold on to their sally shared she said. that he would have braids. 
As outspoken today as she cer. own sense of humanity said "I believe in what I call the Commemorating the 30th was in the civil rights era, Giovanni voiced her sup­Giovanni. 10 percent solution. Every Anniversary of King's death poet Nikki Giovanni captivat­port of the Mars probe and "Black Americans were the tenth person should know Giovanni read, "This Is a ed her audience Saturday the similarity between the only people on earth taken someone who's been to Sacred Poem" on the strug­with edgy journey into space and that somewhere they had no idea space." Bringing the past and gle of leaders in the black h um or 
of the plight of Africans dur­where they were going," she future together with the par­community. and wilty ing the Middle Passage jour­said. "But they made the allels between the slave "It would be great to have story­ney. decision to be human." trade and the disorientation Martin's voice speak for telling. "I know that the trip to The Mars probe would that goes along with space peace," said Giovanni. For 
And for Mars has only one prece­change the way we look at travel, Giovanni brought her those who voice skepticism atten­dent," said Giovanni. "The space as well as discovering talk back down to earth in about the future, she advised d a n t s trip to Mars can only be how human beings behave the present day. offered hope and inspiration. expecting understood through Black with no known landmarks, Pointing to the hip-hop cul­"There is everything to be the aver-Americans." she said. tu re and rap music as a done-the world is opening," ago poet-Nikki Giovanni Introducing her poem, "I don't know anything as movement to bring the youth she said. ry read-"Quilting the Black-Eyed Pea: important in the 21st century to the forefront in actualizing Infused with political and ing. they were certainly We're Going to Mars." than going to Mars," she change, Giovanni revealed a social commentary, amiss. Addressing the audi­Giovanni described the quali­said. "We're going to Mars tattoo -"Thug Life," as a Giovanni's anecdotes ranged ence as though everyone ties of traversing without because it gives us a reason testament to her faith in the from protecting social justice were all lifelong friends, she certainty. to change." power of song. to animal rights. invited them into her heart The psychological trip to The time to explore is now, "[The slaves] decided to Giovanni pointed to the and mind as she would her another planet is much like said Giovanni. fight a war with song," said blatant hypocrisy of Notre own home. the unnerving distress and "It is very important to Giovanni. much like today's Dame alumna and U.S. 
Outpours of laughter and hardship experienced by know your moment. If you generation speaks through spontaneous cheering slaves as they left their own, don't know your moment, hip-hop and rap she said. see POET/page 4 
Monday, February 10, 2003

page:: 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 

What are youlistening to? 
Did you know that you are possibly missing the best radio show streaming out of Notre Dame's Internet frequency, WVFI? The show I 
am referring to is "This is not America" brought to you by Llndsay Mollan and Kate Kala.sky every Monday from mid­night to 1 :30 a.m. 
The show brings the cool sounds of Brit Pop Rock to 

the Internet air­Shannon waves. There is a 
Nelligan
special emphasis on artists like Travis, David Gray, News ColdPlay and often Production 
revisits an old 
Editor 
favorite, David 8o¼1e. 
Just last week, I was a guest on the show so I was able to personally witness the enthusiasm for the British sounds. The two banter over the newest music coming over the Atlantic, weaving in sound bites about their recent trip to the David Gray concert in Detroit. 
And ifby a pure miracle, David Gray or someone close to him happens upon this humble column, I am positive that Lindsay [your biggest fan] would be more than thrilled if you called her show. 
Beyond spinning tunes from the British Isles, the hosts sometimes try to liven up the radio waves and try their hands at match making. As a guest on the show, I became a target oftheir tomfoolery as they decided to auction me off for a date. 
Describing me as a blond haired, blue eyed, political science major from New York caught me a date with their favorite listener from Virginia. My better judgment told me to forfeit this chance considering that Virginia is a bit far from the Bend and I can't say I am too intrigued by the idea oflnternet dating. 
But, it is these experiences that make college life interesting and add to the pile of possible stories to integrate into a political campaign speech or to tell the grandkids one day. 
Whether you are into British Pop or just want to treat your ears to new sounds, it will he worth your while to give this little college show broadcasted out ofLaFortune a try. It is an excellent accompaniment to help you finish up your work for the day or even some­thing to lull you off to dreamland. 
Ifyou like the show I am sure Llndsay and Kate would love an Instant Message and you, too, could be mentioned on air or possibly auctioned off. 
But, ofcourse, I am a bit partial con­sidering one of the hosts was my old roommate from my year abroad in Ireland. How can I not support the per­son who shared many moments as we traveled through Europe? From the time she insisted that we drink every brand ofScotch available in a sleepy Edinburgh pub to buying a flask for our new acquired taste for Scotch and nam­ing it Braveheart. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Shannon Nelligan at nelf2040@saintmarys.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards ir..elfas a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. If we have made a mis1ake, pl<:ase contact us ac 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS NEWS  WORLD& NATION  BUSINESS NEWS  VIEWPOlNT  SCENE  SPORTS  
Saint Mary's  Bush tells the  Published  Marchand  Woody Allen  Torin makes  
plans trip to  UN that this is  report sheds  reflects on  leaves his  game winning  
New York City  the 'moment  light on Enron  Columbia  mark on  basket at  
of truth'  collapse  shuttle  cinema  Joyce on  
tragedy  Sunday  
Saint Mary's Business and Economics Department is now accepting applica­tions for its sum­mer NYC trip.  President Bush told the UN that it has become increasingly clear that Saddam Hussein is deceiv­ing the UN and is not disarming.  Former Enron Corporation Chairman and Chief Kenneth Lay had faith in compa­nies stock, despite steel< plunge.  Columnist Mike Marchand reflects on space travel in light of the tragedy of the shuttle Columbia.  Scene looks at the life of the prolific filmmaker and actor Woody Allen and his many con­tributions to cine­ma..  No. 10 Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team defeat­ed no. 4 Pittsburgh, 66 to 64, Sunday afternoon at the ]ACC.  
page 6  page 5  page 7  page 10  page 12  page 24  

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Lecture with Fritz Heimann, General Electric "Operating in a Corrupt Political Environment" :1 p.m. at Jordan Auditorium. Mcdnoza College of Business 

. 
Lecture with Nikos Salingaros "New Science, New Architecture. New Urbanism" 

4:30 p.m. at Bond Hall, room 104 

. 
Heading with Joe Garden, The Onion Sophomore Literary Festival 


7:30 p.m. at Washington Hall 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Lecture with Kathleen Dolphin "Sexual orientation: questions and concerns" 

3:30 p.m. at LeMans Hall, Stapleton Lounge 

. 
Booksigning and Hcception with Hachel Harding 


Author of Hefuge in Thunder 6 p.m. at Haggar College Center, Brezny Room 
. Meet the Candidates For Residence Hall association and Student diversity Board elections 7 p.m. at Haggar College Center, room 303 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Employee reports theft 
A University employee reported the theft of her cellular phone and keys from her locker in South Dinning Hall last Thursday. The theft occurred between 6 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. and there are no suspects. 

Employee loses license 
On Feb. 3 a University employee reported losing her driver's license in the ROTC, South parking lot. 
Student injured at Rolf's 
Last Thursday NDSP transported a student from Rolfs Sports Center to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 


Employee's car towed 
Last Thursday a University employee's vehicle was towed from the Stadium circle for a parking violation. 
Complied from the NDSP crime blotter. 



WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Turkey tetrazzini, mushroom marinara, spinach-cheese tortellini, calzones, pretzel sticks, gar­den quiche, baby Hrna beans, baked potato neptune, beef tips and mush­rooms, kluski noodles, roast top sirloin of beef, long grain and wild rice, Italian chicken sandwich, crinkle fries 
Today's Dinner: Turkey tetrazzini, mushroom marinara, spinach-cheese tortellini, eggplant parmesan, herbed vegetable medley, swiss steak, grilled salmon fillet, rotisserie chicken, roast­ed herb-garlic russet potatoes, shrimp poppers, crinkle fries, soft pretzel, pork tempura 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Penne with gor­gonzola, puerto rican pasta sauce, cheese and pepperoni, french bread, pizza, breadsticks, fresh corned beef, boiled cabbage, brown sauce, chicken gravy, whipped potatoes, peas and car­rots, apple crisp, cheese strata, italian risotto, baked potato, spinach 
Today's Dinner: Penne with gor­gonzola, pastaria pesto sauce, cheese and pepperoni french bread pizza, breadsticks, southern fried chicken, collard greens with ham hocks, brown sauce, chicken gravy, whipped pota­toes, corn, apple crisp, spinach quiche, baked herbed zucchini 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Vegetarian paella, wild mushroom strudel, herbed pasta, marinara sauce, seafood international saute, grilled hamburger, grilled bratwurst, grilled cheese, french fries, BLT's, chicken breast teriyaki, veg­etable lo mein, peas and carrots, deluxe pizza, cheese pizza 
Today's Dinner: Biriyani rice with cashews, baked potatoes, broccoli cuts, fettucine pasta toss, sweet potato bis­cuits, tortellini, dawg house bar, yan­kee pot roast, lyonnaise potatoes, corn and tomatoes, chicken fajita pizza, cheese pizza, bread sticks, vegetable and cheese chimichanga 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0: 
w 
:c 
~ 

3: w 
..I 
<
(,) 

.9 HIGH 23 HIGH 13 HIGH 25 HIGH 22 HIGH 29 HIGH 29 LOW 15 LOW 7 LOW 13 LOW 14 LOW 17 LOW 14 

Atlanta 52 / 30 Boston 34 / 23 Chicago 18 / 4 Denver 44 / 24 Houston 64 / 43 Los Angeles 73 / 50 Minneapolis 6 / -3 New York 34 / 21 Philadelphia 34 / 20 Phoenix 70 / 47 Seattle 51 / 36 St. Louis 32 / 21 Tampa 71 / 49 Washington 36 / 27 
Monday, February l 0, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Reading day hlnges on trustee vote 
By LAUREN CONDON 
News Wrircr 
The Saint Mary's reading day proposal continues to move forward through the proper channels, toward approval. Two weeks ago, Board of Governance President, Kim Jensen. and Vice President. Elizabeth Jablonski-Diel presented their proposal to the Saint Mary's Academic Standards Committee and now awaits the Committee's decision on approval. 
The reading day proposal, previously known as the study day proposal, has been a con­cern to student government since 1992. The purpose of tho reading day proposal is to leave the Friday before exams week open. so students could study, work on projects or meet individually with profes­sors. 
The Student Academic 
Council and the Board of "There was positive discus-Governance already unani­sion [at the Academic 
mously approved the reading "There was positive dis-
day propos­
al. cussion { at the Academic S i n c e Standards Committee pre­Jensen and sentation} and it wsa look­
Jablonski­
ing very good at the meet­

Diehl's pre­sentation, ing." the com­mittee has 
Ellzabeth Jablonskl-Dlehl

talked to 
Student Body Vice President

several 
academic depart­ments to obtain their opinions. 
The Academic Standards Committee will formally vote Friday. If the Academic Standards Committee votes "yes," then the proposal will move on to the Academic Affairs Committee. However, if the proposal fails then the process will be set back. 




Transpo changes route service 
Mary's and Holy Cross will be altered slightly to accommo­date residents of University Village. 
"Notre Dame was not the decision maker for these changes," said Daniel Skendzel, director of Administrative Services. "However, when we became 
to change route No. 7 to bet­aware that these ter serve the Notre Dame cam­
"Notre Dame was not the 
pus area. 

decision maker for these 
Transpo public bus route No. 7 changes." now services stu­dents to and from 
Danlel Skendzel 
main circle, Hobinson Center director of Administrative Services and legal aid every half hour, free of charge for anyone with a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's greatly enhanced ID card. 
change." 
changes w o u Id t a k e place we saw a benefit to using t h i s public service. Service and con­venience a r e with this 

be implemented into the 2003-2004 College calendar as a pilot program. 
Contact Lauren Condon at cond5030@saintma.rys.edu 

By LINDA SKALSKI 
NewsWritcer 
Transpo, which operates the public bus routes in South Bend and Mishawaka. recent­ly completed an extensive city bus route evaluation of sever­al existing routes and decided 

As a result, Notre Although the change was Dame/Saint Mary's afternoon implemented to benefit stu­shuttle bus No. 2 will be dis­dents, many volunteers at continued March 1, and the Robinson Center expressed route for shuttle bus No. 1 apprehension about the new serving Notre Dame, Saint bus system. 
Change the World of Healthcare .... Become a 


Doctor ot· Chiropractic
Help People 
Gain the skills to assist your patients to achieve and maintain a healthy lifestyle. 
Income 
Earn a substantial salary commensurate with your position as a Doctor of Chiropractic 

Be Your Own Boss 
Most Doctors of Chiropractic are in private practice working an average of 40 hours per week. 

Become a Doctor 
Prestige, respect and expanded leadership opportunities are available as a Doctor of Chiropractic. 
Cart Logan College of Chiropractic today to change the world of healthcare! 
1-800-533-9210 www.logan.edu

Logan 
loganadm@logan.edu 
College •of•Chiropractic 18!i1 Sd'IOE!ttlllr R(1, Che&terfMtfo'. MO 8J006 
Standards Committee pre­sentatio n I and it was looking very good at the meeting," Jablonski-Diehl said. 
If passed by both the Academic Standards Committee and the Academic Affairs Committee the reading day proposal will 
"I hope it works out because 
don't know the city well," said Arianne Watkins. "The other bus was pretty simple, and I'm not sure how this one is going to work out." 
Skendzel does not foresee problems in the future, and believes that many people simply have a misconception about public transportation. 
"I hope that through educa­tion and experience students will realize that this [is] a safe, convenient and efficient mode of transportation," he said. "It just makes sense to utilize public services. such as Transpo, when possible." 
Operating hours are 5: 30 
a.m. to 10 p.m. Monday through Friday, and 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. Saturday. Schedules are available at the LaFortune Information Desk. Center for Social Concerns or Student Government Offices. 
Contact writer at Lskalski@nd.edu 
Young alumni want more board activity 
By JULIA MILLER--LEMON 
News Writer 

For many young Notre Dame alumni, graduating from the University presents one of the most significant changes of their lives. Thanks to an expanding network of young alumni, recent gradu­ates are being provided with increasing opportunities for maintaining close ties with the life they had on the campus. 
"When I graduated I was devastated. I loved Notre Dame so much and knew exactly who I was when I was there," said Laura Merritt­Bird, a 1996 graduate and current Young Alumni Director. "I had this wonderful family on campus, and I felt like that was ripped from me when I graduated," she said. 
Two years after graduating from the University, Bird con­tacted her local alumni club in Wisconsin looking to recon­nect with the community atmosphere that she left behind in South Bend. She now sits on the Board of Directors of Notre Dame's Alumni Association as a Young Alumni Director. part of a group composed of 26 voting members who oversee 210 local clubs in 18 Unites States regions, as well as 40 international clubs. 
Until the early 1980s, there were no Young Alumni repre­sentatives sitting on the Alumni Board -there was no one providing a voice for the recent graduates. In 1980, members realized that there needed to be a better mecha­nism for young alumni to voice their concerns to the national board. Thus, the position of Young Alumni Director was born. 
The primary purpose of Bird and the two other Young Alumni Directors is to encour­age the active involvement of young alumni in their local clubs. as well as to makes sure that the Alumni Association provides "great opportunities for young alums to stay con­nected to the University," Bird said. 
Aside from being a channel for graduates to stay connect­ed to other members of the Notre Dame community, the clubs provide a number of dif­ferent activities ranging from volunteer opportunities, spe­cial masses and group game watches. Bird said that the main mission of the club is to "keep people connected to each other and to the core val­ues of the University." 
While the Alumni Association does not provide a formal career placement ser­vice for recent graduates of the University, the organiza­tion has worked to increase awareness about the concerns of young alumni. "[It] has been very receptive to the changing needs of graduates," said Bird. 
According to Bird, the Alumni Association wants to welcome every single person into this extended Notre Dame family. Part of this means that at the local level, members are generally very receptive about linking recent graduates with good contacts for career net­working among the area alumni. 
Bird also emphasized the importance for recent Notre Dame graduates of becoming involved in the Alumni Association in whatever regional area students live in after graduation. In addition to joining their local clubs, seniors should register on IrishOnline during mid-July, a directory of all alumni and a prime resource for locating the whereabouts of other alums, said Bird. 
When recent graduates add their name and contact infor­mation to this database, they will be included on the Alumni Association's mailing list. a direct way to obtain more information about local clubs and happenings. 

Contact Julia Miller-Lemon at jmillerl@nd.edu 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 10, 2003 
Lack of jobs keeps students in classroo111.S 
By LYDIA LEUNG Michigan Daily 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

The job market is at a 20-year low, according to recently released statistics by the U.S. Labor Department. This information, combined with the uncertainty cre­ated by the possible war with Iraq and the flagging economy, caused University of Michigan engineering students from all disciplines to form long lines at booths of differ­ent companies at the Engineering Internship Fair Thursday. 
Down from 150 companies that participated in the career fair held last September, only about 30 companies which included Shell, IBM, UBS Warburg and many other firms from across the nation came to recruit University students this semester. 
The decline in companies' incen­tives to hire new workers was illus­trated by a report conducted by Conference Board, a research rum that said the number of help-want­ed advertisements in newspapers in the United States hit analmost 40-year low in December. Students said the wave of bad news con­cerning the job market is forcing them to think up ways to avoid entering the job hunt rat race. 
"I think po-;tponing graduation is a good idea," Engineering senior Francine Calderon said. 
In anticipation of the gloomy economy, many graduating seniors have opted to value-add them­selves by staying one more year at school to pursue their masters degrees. 
"Last spring, we saw a lot of panicked students. This year, I think seniors are more prepared," way that they are asking us to help. But there really is no effect on us," Townsend said. "We are strong and healthy, and have quite a few new contracts." 
While Townsend said Lockheed Martin Corp. is hiring over 2,000 full-time positions and 500 interns nationwide tWs year, job-cut state­ments were making news all week Bank of America, Circuit Oty and WorldCom announced that they are going to slash 900, 2,000 and 5,000 jobs respectively. 
Although it was an internship fair, many students in line were trying their luck at securing full­time positions. 
Alum Jonathon Frohlich, who graduated last December, said despite being optimistic about his ability to land a career soon, hisjob hunt was slowed down by the dis­mal economy. 
''I've been to a couple of career fairs, done a little bit of online job search ... but I've got nothing more than an interview," Frohlich said. 
With fewer participating compa­nies and more students trying to find a job at the career fair, stu­dents said they did not get much time to talk to the recruiters because ofthe long wait. 
"It's really impersonal. They just took my resume and stored it in their databases. I don't have much hope. There're just so many peo­ple,"Engineering sophomore Joel Donoghue saidAlthough it was an internship fair, many students in line tried securing full-time posi­tions. 
With fewer participating compa­nies and more students trying to find a job at the career fair, stu­dents said they did not get much time to talk to the recruiters because of the long wait. 
Poet 

continued from page 1 
National Security Advisor Condoleeza Rice as well as President Hush for support­ing affirmative action given their own, respective legacy status as college students. 
She described her quest to promote awareness through­out her neighborhood about the unnecessary "murder" of squirrels as hurried drivers run them down. 
Through her fight against cancer, she noted how watching a family of robins build a nest gave her peace and helped her recovery in her poem entitled, "A Robin's Nest in Snow." 
About the irresponsibility of society when it comes to the environment, her obser­vations are filled with scorn. 
"We're glad Earth won't put us on trial -who would vote for us, water?" said Giovanni. "Human beings need to get their lives together." 
O'Connor said. "It's about fiscal responsibility for the
Fee 

future," continued from page l The Financial Management 
Board is currently writing a a lot to lose in the future," resolution. Members of that she said. board are working to gain 
Andrew Oxenreiter, stu­the sup­dent union port of treasurer, m o r e
"It's notjust about the 
agreed. "The officials fixed fee that money. It's about fiscal a c r o s s is now in s t u d e n t
responsibility for the 
place is too govern-low to ade­future." m e n t quately meet including the needs of t h e
Amy O'Connor 
campus orga­Student
Chair of Club Coordination
nizations." Senate
Council

Both offi­a n d cials stressed Executive the long-term Cabinet, nature of the proposal. "It's before presenting it to the not just about the money," Campus Life Council. "We 
Giovanni is currently a professor of English· at Virginia Tech, and has been named Woman of the Year by Ebony, and Mademoiselle. She is also the recipient of the Rosa Parks Woman of Courage award, NAACP Image Award and the Langston Hughes Award for Distinguished Contributions to Arts and Letters. 
Contact Kiflin Turner at kturner@nd.edu. 

want to do this in the next couple of weeks, before the final budget is approved [in March]." O'Connor said. 
"Our proposal is basically a strong and informed rec­ommendation," Oxenreiter said, adding that the ulti­mate decision lies with the University's officers. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 

Recycle The Observer. 

:Not sure how to te[[ tliat special someone liow youfee[? ffak! out a 'f/afentine atfin fflie O6seroer. Ca{[J-6900 orvisit us in tlie 6asement ojS(J)Jf. 
said Stephani Townsend, campus 
recruiting representative of 
Lockheed Martin Corp. "We've CMfJJM . ACAPllt.CO . JAMAICA 
seen more seniors are looking for 
SAHAMM . R.OiIDJ\ 
internships because they are going 
to grad school." But some compa­
nies, such as Lockheed Martin 
Corp. an advance-technology com­
pany that supports NASA's shuttle 
program are "still strong in staff' 
and actively recruiting new blood, 
Townsend said. SELL TRIPS, 
"The (Columbia) shuttle was a EARN CASH, 
tragedy, and we are doing every­GOFIEE! 
_4849
thing we can to support NASA any 
www.ststravel.com 
2002-03 Season 
Notre Dame film. Television, and Theatre presents 
I 
I 
Thursday, February 20... 7:30 p.m. 
Saturday, February 22... 7:30 p.m. 






Congregation ofHoly Cross 


Be part of the solution. 


tt~ ;_,y~,~11 


www.nd.eilUf~vocation 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at laFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-81 28. 
The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
ANSWER~ THE CALL'<!:/ 



WORLD & NATION 
Monday, February 10, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Bush to U.N.: moment of truth approaches 
disarmament. U.N. nuclear
Associated Press 
chief Mohamed El Baradei said 
he expected the Security
WASHINGTON Council to give the inspectors
President Bush said Sunday more time "as long as we are that Iraq has fooled the world registering good progress." for more than a decade about Asked later about Blix's state­its banned weapons and the ment. White House spokesmanUnited Nations now faces "a Ari Fleischer noted that the moment of truth" in disarming president has said: "Given the Saddam Hussein. fact that Saddam Hussein is not 
"It is clear that not only is disarming, time is running out." Saddam Hussein deceiving, it is Blix and El Haradei are to 
clear he's not disarming. And make their next report to the so you'll see us over the next U.N. Security Council on Friday.short period of time working That could be pivotal toward with friends and allies and the determining whether the United Nations to bring that United States should launch 
body along," Bush told congres­military action against Iraq. sional Republicans at a policy In his speech, given while the conference. inspectors held a televised 
lie said the terrorist acts of news conference from Iraq,Sept. 11 changed America and Bush said, "It's a moment of the world. truth for the United Nations. 
Before the attacks. Hush said, The United Nations gets to "We were confident that two decide shortly whether or not it oceans could protect us from is going to be relevant in terms harm .... We are now a battle of keeping the peace, whether ground. We are vulnerable." or not its words mean any­
Bush said the U.S. public thing." needs to understand that the "But one thing is certain, for country is expanding the fight the sake of peace and for the against terrorism to Iraq and sake of security of the United elsewhere. States and our friends and 
Saddam "wants the world to allies, we will disarm Saddam think that hide-and-seek is a Hussein if he will not disarm rity adviser, Condoleezza Rice, German proposal to increase Powell said on NBC's "Meet the game that we should play. And himself." dismissed movement toward the number of weapons inspec­Press." it's over," Bush said. Bush said "it is important for compliance by Iraq as another tors in Iraq in hopes of averting The plan would call for the 
The president spoke as chief the country to realize that attempt at "cheat and retreat." U.S. military action is "a diver­deployment of thousands of 
U.N. weapons inspector Hans Saddam Hussein has fooled the "We have seen this game with sion, not a solution" to disarm­U.N. soldiers, reconnaissance Blix said in Baghdad that he world for 12 years, is used to Iraq many times before, ing Saddam. flights and a tripling of the saw a beginning of Iraq's fooling the world, is confident throughout the '90s," she said. "The issue is not more inspec­number of weapons inspectors, understanding that it must seri­he can fool the world." Secretary of State Colin tors. The issue is compliance on according to the German maga­ously observe U.N. demands for Earlier, Bush's national secu-Powell said a reported French-the part of Saddam Hussein," zine Der Spiegel. 

SOUTH KOREA 
Antericans gain support for action against North Korea 
Associated P rcss 
BUSAN 

Thousands of South Koreans staged a pro-U.S. rally Sunday. prayed for North Korea to give up its nuclear ambitions and an envoy of South Korea's president­elect urged Washington to hold direct talks with the communist nation. 
Returning from a visit to Washington and Tokyo, President-elect Roh Moo­hyun's envoy said he had made the case for dialogue. 
"I asked Washington to open direct U.S.-North Korea talks soon without con­dition," Chyung Dai-chul told Korean reporters, according to his aide Park Jin­hyung. Roh takes office Feb. 25. 
President Bush believ.es the standoff can be resolved peacefully, but said Friday that "all options are on the table," suggesting that Washington would con­sider military action. 
Relations between the United States and North Korea deteriorated in October, when U.S. officials said North Korea had admitted developing nuclear weapons in violation of a 1994 agreement. The United States then backed out of its part of the bargain, canceling fuel oil ship­ments. 
U.N. nuclear chief Mohamed E!Baradei 
on Sunday cautioned North Korea about indulging in "nuclear blackmail." 
E!Baradei acknowledged North Korean humanitarian and security needs but said those issues "should be resolved quite independently." 
"The lesson would be very dangerous if it shows that nuclear blackmail pays," ElBaradei told The Associated Press. "That, I think, is a very dangerous prece­dent." 
Also Sunday, about 3,000 people attended a pro-U.S. rally in South Korea's second-largest city, Busan. The demon­strators, mostly Christians, burned a pic­ture of North Korean leader Kim Jong II, waved American flags and prayed for an end to North Korea's nuclear ambitions. 
"North Korea must stop nuclear devel­opment," said a statement by the National Council of Churches in Korea, which organized the rally. 
But there is little sign of an end to the standoff after the North suggested it reac­tivated nuclear facilities that U.S. officials say could produce weapons within months. 
North Korea accuses the United States of inciting the current nuclear tension as a pretext to invade the communist coun­ty, and has warned of a "total war" that could devastate both Koreas. 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Papal envoy seeks Iraq's cooperation: Pope John Paul II will send an envoy to Iraq to appeal for peace and to encourage Iraqi authorities to cooperate with the United Nations. Their mission is to "show to all the plea of the Holy Father in favor of peace and to help the Iraqi authorities make a serious reflection on the need for effective interna­tional cooperation, based on justice and internation­al rights," spokesman Joaquin Navarro-Valls said. Meetings with top Iraqi officials, including possibly Saddam Hussein, were expected. 
German-French Iraq plans spark anger: 
Germany said Sunday it would join with France in presenting to the U.N. Security Council an initiative to disarm Iraq without war, a proposal that has heightened resentment by the United States. U.S. officials bluntly dismissed the French-German pro­posals as ineffective and a ploy to delay military action opposed by Berlin and Paris. 


NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Lawmakers push missile-defense funds: 
Two New York congressmen on Sunday outlined proposed legislation for the federal government to spend as much as $15 billion to install missile defense systems on all commercial airliners. The electronic equipment proposed by Democrats Sen. Charles Schumer and Rep. Steve Israel could be turned on in case of attack to jam the guidance systems of portable, shoulder-fired anti-aircraft missiles. An unsuccessful attack on an Israeli air­liner last year in Kenya raised concerns about the weapons. 
Lawyer group considers enemy rights: 
The American Bar Association is set to condemn the government's refusal to give legal rights to American enemy combatants, part of the Bush administration's terrorism fighting strategy. The ABA also is expected to press for more openness about government surveillance in the U.S. 


Colo. may OK pet companionship law: 
Several Colorado lawmakers arc supporting legisla­tion to elevate the status of cats and dogs from property to companions. The measure would allow people in Colorado to sue veterinarians and animal abusers and seek damages for "loss of companion­ship," up to $100,000. Current law classifies them as property, and pet owners can seek only "fair market value" in a lawsuit. 

End near for Galileo after 14-yr. orbit: 
As NASA temporarily grounds its shuttle fleet fol­lowing the Columbia disaster, an unmanned space­craft that has been exploring the solar system for 14 years is nearing the end of its mission -and still revealing the secrets of a planet hundreds of mil­lions of miles from Earth. Like many extended jour­neys, Galileo's will end soon with countless miles traveled, its fair share of breakdowns and album after album stuffed with snapshots. 
Monday, February 10, 2003 
page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Students learn about disabilities 
By AMANDA MISNIK 
News Wirter 
Saint Mary's Student Diversity Board wanted to educate the student body about how difficult it would be being disabled, but its focus was not only on physical dis­abilities but "invisible disabili­ties". 
Two representatives from the Counseling and Career Development Center partici­pated in "The Invisible Disability" discussions. Psychologist and director of the Counseling and Career Development Center Mary DePauw gave the presentation "Depression: An Invisible Disability." Counselor and Academic Success Program specialist Gina Christiana pre­sented "Anxiety Disorders: An Invisible Disability." 
DePauw spoke about the symptoms of depression and mania, how to recognize these medical disorders and treat­ment. 
"People can't see it, and people can't recognize it for what it is," said DePauw. "[Depression] is an illness of the whole body, not just the mind." 
The presentation began with a video that discussed symp­toms of depression. DePauw explained that professional help should be obtained if at least five symptoms are expe­rienced for two weeks or longer. Signs of depression include: sad or anxious moods, feelings of guilt or worthlessness, loss of interest in things once enjoyed, insom­nia or over-sleeping, weight loss or weight gain and diffi­culty concentrating or making decisions. 
According to DePauw, many people don't seek treatment because they don't realize noticeably increased energy they are depressed or they and disconnected or racing blame the depression on per­thoughts. Experiences of sonal weakness, believing that mania have mixed features, it is just life's problems. where some symptoms may be DePauw explained the differ­categorized under mania 

ence between "a case of the while others appear to be of blues" and depression. "You depression. Physical examina­must sit down and talk it tion and diagnostic evaluation through with someone. When will help treat this disorder. did it start? What are the pat­"Know where you're going, terns?" and know what you want. 
"See where you learned Take time to invest in your­negative messages ... enjoy self," DePauw said. the higher highs. Keep things On Feb. 7 Gina Christiana, 
in  per- Counselor and  
spective," s a. i d DePauw. S h e explained  "People can't see it. and people can't recognize it for what it is."  Academic Success Program Specialist, pre­sented "Anxiety  
that  a  Disorders:  An  
way of identify­i n g  Mary DePauw psychologist  Invisible Disability." "[Anxiety] is  

depres­sion is asking someone else, "Do you know what's wrong with you?" and "Do you feel like yourself'?" If the answers are "I don't know" and "No, I don't," professional help should be sought. 
According to DePauw when helping someone who is depressed you should be hon­est and show that you care. Know when your friend needs his or her own space, and always be supportive. "Let's be committed to support one another." 
Depression affects approxi• mately 18.8 million U.S. adults. Ten percent is adults, and 12.4 million are women, while 6.4 million are men. One in five people suffer from depression at some point in their lives, serious enough for medication. 
Symptoms of mania consist of inappropriate irritability, severe insomnia, grandiose ideas, increased talking, the No. 1 health 
issue of women in America. and is No. 2 for men," Christiana said. "It interferes with normal, every­day functioning of life ... it affects your whole being." 
Several types of anxiety dis­orders exist. Panic attacks, obsessive-compulsive disor­ders, post-traumatic stress disorder, and generalized anxiety disorders are some of the most common mental ill­nesses in America. Forty mil­lion people in the United States are affected by these weakening disorders. 
"There are treatments for everything," said Christiana. "[These disorders] basically take control of your life, [but] there is always light at the end of the tunnel," 
The Student Diversity Board sponsored these events. 
Contact Amanda Misnik at emisnS648@saintmarys.edu 


Business Department organizes trip to NYC 
take time to see some of the Big By MELANIE BECKER Apple's other tourism sites. News Writer Sanders and Vihtelic would like 
to complete their tourist experi­
The Business and Economics ence by standing outside of "The department (BUEC) at Saint Today Show" for a morning. Mary's is now accepting applica­"The New York program is a tions for their third biannual trip wonderful way for Saint Mary's to New York City from May 10 to students to connect with alums 
and other professionals in the17. 
Every other year the business real world. By visiting companies department sponsors a one-cred­like MetLife, Sports Illustrated it course that focuses on business and Macy's Department Store, in New York City. we were exposed to many differ-The New York ent careers program was 
in account­
'The New York program
created by the ing, market­
is wonderful way for 
Business and ing, finance Economics Saint Mary's students to and retail," Department in said Sarah
connect with alums and
1997 in order to Bluntly, a 
other professionals in the
expose students senior and to a range of real world.,, May 2001 career opportu­participant. nities and give The cost of 
Sarah Blundy
them connec­the program tions to alumnae senior for this 
in powerful positions. 
This yea.r's coordinator is Mike Sanders, director of student pro­grams to the BUEC department and cosponsoring the program is Jill Vihtelic, chair of the BUEC department. The two will accom­pany the students to New York. 
The itinerary includes visiting approximately 10 corporations and many Saint Mary's gradu­ates. This year's itinerary includes meeting Marguerite Schropp-Lucarelli, a 1993 gradu­ate who now works for CNN Sports Illustrated, LeslieAnn Wade, 1985 graduate who now works at CBS Sports and Beverly O'Grady, 1963 graduate and president of the Wilkinson O'Grady Global Asset Management firm. 
The group wiU visit the New York Stock Exchange, the Federal Reserve and will also year's trip is 
$1,195 plus the cost for one credit of summer school through the college, which has vet to be determined. Roundtrip airfare, all transporta­tion, hotel expenses for seven nights at the Lyden Gardens and at least seven meals are included in the price of the program. 
The program is limited to 20 students and is targeted towards sophomores and juniors, but freshmen and seniors are invited to apply. Notre Dame and Holy Cross students also are allowed to apply, but Saint Mary's stu­dents will be given first priority. For further information, contact Sanders at 284-4499. 
Contact Melanie Becker at Beck093 l@saintmarys.edu 

Attention Sophomores Interested in Business... 
Make yourself 



STAND OUT! 
Here's an opportunity for you to learn about the 
University's accounting system while gaining valuable 
experience as 

Assistant Student Union Treasurer 
As an Assistant Treasurer you will: 
• 
Become an integral part of the Student Union Treasurer's Office, the primary controlling body of student activities funds. 

• 
Be responsible for managing, consulting, and maintaining various student organization accounts. 

• 
Serve as a liaison for "The Shirt" Project($ 200,000+ revenue operation) or the Student Businesses (Adworks, Irish Gardens, Dome Designs). 

• 
Sit on the Financial Mana..9ement Board, which is responsible for allocating over $ 700,0U0 in student activity fees among various orgaizations as well as controlling "The Shirt" Charity Fund_ 


This commitment requires approximately 5-6 hours per week and is a possible two-year commitment, as one assistant shall take over the rote of Student Union Treasurer the following year.
Don't miss out on this great chance for 
extra-curricular involvement! 
Applications are now available outside the Treasurer's Office (314C LaFortune) and are due no later than 5pm on Monday, February 24th_ Interviews will be held Tuesday, February 25th. Please sign up for an interview when you submit your application. 
Questions? Contact Andrew Oxenreiter at aoxenrei@nd_edu or the Office of the Treasurer at 631-4557. 

Monday, February 10, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch February 7 
DowJones 
7,864.23 -65.07 



NASDAQ 

1,282.47  -19.26  
S&P500  
829.69  -8.46  
AMEX  
811.83  •NYSE  -4.86  
4,713.66  -43.64  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDE (QQQ) -1.65 -0.40 23.81 
1




::".: ... 1~!!!il!!:i1Itl!~l~i:1111111~lilllli~!li!il1!!!11!::1:; 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.15-0.33 15.05 

~liiilliiiii!IUmi::::~~li~1!ilf,:l~!:llll~~::i:111~:111 
LUCENT TECH INC (LU) +8.61+0.13 1.64 
IN BRIEF British treasury chief considers Euro 
Treasury chief Gordon Brown -said Sunday he has not ruled out recommending that Britain join the single European currency, with his department on track to complete its review of the issue by June. 
Brown told the British Broadcasting Corp. that government analysts were examining the many ways in which adopting the euro would affect Britain's economy. 
Prime Minister Tony Blair's government has said it favors joining the euro in principle, but will assess by June whether five self-imposed economic tests have been met before putting a decision on membership to voters in a refer­endum. 
Bethlehem Steel board sells assets 
Bethlehem Steel's board voted unanimously Saturday to sell its mills to International Steel Group, a deal that could bring the once­mighty industrial giant out of bankruptcy and create the nation's largest steelmaker. 
Bethlehem has been reviewing a $1.5 billion offer from Cleveland-based ISG since Jan. 6, and the companies reached an agreement in principle last week after chief executive Hobert Miller said he and financial advisers agreed ii was "the best value achievable." 

Venezuelans to exploit natural gas 
Venezuela has signed contracts with two foreign oil corporations to exploit the coun­try's largest naturul gas reserves. 
ChevronTexaco from the United States and Norway's Statoil were awarded the rights to d(lvelop two blocks in the Deltana Platform, off the northeastern Venezuelan coast. 
Energy and Mines Minister Rafael Ramirez said the deal will open the door for Venezuela to enter natural gas markets in the United Stutes, Europe, Argentina and Brazil. 
Venezuela, which has the largest oil reserves in the Western Hemisphere. is trying to reduce its dependence on oil by developing natural gas. 


Report: Lay had faith in stock 
. Published report sheds light on Enron collapse 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Former Enron Corp. 
chairman and chief 
Kenneth Lay had nearly 
absolute faith in the com­
pany's stock, even as it 
plunged, with many of his 
share sales made only to 
cover margin calls, accord­
ing to a published report. 
Lay's personal finances 
were structured similarly 
to those at Enron -a firm 
belief that the company's 
stock would never tumble, 
The New York Times 
reported Sunday after 
reviewing some of Lay's 
financial records, provided 
by people sympathetic to 
him. 
The records appear to 
cast doubt on the widely 
held notion that Lay urged 
employees to buy Enron 
stock while he was secretly 
unloading his own shares 
in 2001, the newspaper 
said. 
The records present evi­dence of reckless financial planning and hubris, potentially complicating prosecutors' efforts to along the way, we felt like said. month, Lay began selling build a criminal insider­today is the bottom and When falling share prices private equity investments trading case against Lay, tomorrow is going to be reduced his collateral -that required additional the paper said. Prosecutors better." Enron stock -Lay sold cash, even though further are nearing a decision on Still, prosecutors might other investments and per­sales of Enron shares whether to charge Lay, the conclude that Lay struc­suaded a bank to accept an would have provided that paper said. tured his selling to hide his illiquid asset before he sold money. 
Lay has maintained that actions from the market or Enron shares. Lay insisted that Enron his sales were only to cover was aware of nonpublic In July 2001, Lay stopped shares be sold only to calls on money he bor­information that should his daily share sale begun cover margin calls, advis­rowed to fund stock buys have led him to stop trad­a year earlier because he ers said. That left him with and other investments, and ing, the newspaper said. felt Enron's stock price 1.2 million shares as not the result of his knowl­As calls to pay his debt was too low. Enron 's stock price spi­edge of Enron's deep flaws. mounted, Lay sold nearly And in September 2001, raled toward zero. 
"There was no concern, $100 million of Enron Lay used a $10 million "He was always a bull on no worries that Enron was stock in 2001, but the incentive payment to pay the stock, right up to the going to collapse," one of records show that he went down debt -relinquishing day that the company filed 
_Lay's former advisers told to great lengths to hold cash instead of selling for bankruptcy," one advis­the newspaper. "Every step onto the shares, the Times Enron shares. That same er said. 

Cost-cutting lifted corporate earnings 
grow," said Marc Gerstein, director for all of 2002 grew by 4.7 percent,
Associated Press 
of research at the investment strate­the strongest showing since 1950, 
NEW YORK gy firm Multex.com. the Labor Department said. 
The jump in corporate earnings Operating earnings, which But while productivity has last quarter didn't come because excludes special gains and charges, improved, companies haven't been there was a sudden surge in busi­jumped more than 16 percent this able to grow their businesses. And ness. Much of it was fueled by cost­fourth quarter over last, compared that is really cutting into sales. cutting across corporate America. with about a 6 percent gain in sales, They can't raise prices because 
Profit growth far exceeded sales according to a study by Prudential financially strapped customers will growth for many companies that Securities of the more than 300 flock to cheaper alternatives. Those recently reported their quarterly companies in the Standard & Poor's who are buying aren't going above results. That means they successful­500 stock index that have already and beyond what they absolutely ly lowered expenses and were more reported earnings. need. And new clients are hard to productive with the resources they That stark difference exemplifies come by. had, but still struggled to sell more the weak economy's effect on busi­But while cutbacks have helped lift goods, raise prices and find new ness. recent profits, it will become more customers. Since the dot-com collapse and the difficult for companies to rely solely 
At least many were making start of the economic decline almost on that to fuel earnings gains. money, but it's tough to keep profits three years ago, companies have On Thursday, the government growing this -way over time. been forced to slash staff, curb capi­reported that the amount of output Operating efficiencies don't help tal spending, close unprofitable per hour of work at U.S. companies much in the long run if there isn't facilities and sell or shutter under­dipped in the final quarter of 2002. corporate expansion. performing divisions. It was the biggest decline since tho 
"In a bad economy, cutting costs is The result has been a surge in first quarter of 2001, when the how companies achieve profits, but productivity that has helped boost economy was heading into a reces­you still want to see your revenues profits. The output per hour of work sion. 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, February 10, 2003 
© 2003 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. PricewaterhouseCoopers refers to the U.S. firm of PricewatemouseCoopers LLP and the other member firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited. each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. 
PRJcEWA1i:RHOU5F(aJPERS I 
VOTED •1 IDEAL EMPLOYER BY BUSINESS STUDENTS, UNIVERSUM UNDERGRADUATE STUDY, 2002 

Investors need assurance to make decisions. Help us help them and the companies whose stock they buy, and we'll help you build a career. 
For opportunities and information go to: 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere 
Look beyond the numbers. 

Monday, February l 0, 2003 The Observer . NEWS page 9 

ABA may oppose U.S. on enemy combatants 
SEATTLE 

The nation's largest lawyers' group is set to condemn the government's refusal to give legal rights to American enemy combatants. part of' the Bush administraLion 's terrorism fighting strategy. 
The American Bar Associalion also is expected to press for more openness about government surveillance in the United States. 
The war on terror has been a prominent theme at the associ­ation's winter meeting in Scuttle, a port city where signs of the heightened terror alert were evident with tighter secu­rity on the water, at the airport and the state border with Canada. 
/\BA leaders will vote as early as Monday on the proposal call­ing for lawyers to be provided to Americans and U.S. residents held as combatants to help them argue in court that their detentions are illegal. 
The government will not release lhe names of those held as combatants. and only a cou­


,):i, \, 

•  <''  
,,.-·  :t  >  
,.  .  

..,,.,.. I­;.. 

pie of examples of detentions in America are widely known. The most high profile is Jose Padilla. accused of plotting to detonate a "dirty" bomb, which would use a conventional explosive to spread radioactive material. 
Enemy combatants, a type of wartime prisoner, arc held without charge or trial and are not allowed to see lawyers. 
Miami lawyer Neal Sonnett said it is un-American to deny legal rights to Americans or anyone else in the country when they arc apprehended. 
"We cannot allow individual rights to be eroded as part of the war on terror," Sonnett said. 
Supporting the government's policy is David Rivkin Jr.. a lawyer from Washington. D.C., who said the administration has foiled crimes with information obtained from combatants. Giving them lawyers would ruin interrogations and threaten the public, Rivkin said. 
"If we go in that direction it will disrupt our ability to stop attacks and a lot of people are going to die," Rivkin said Sunday during a debate with Sonnett at an event jointly spon­sored by the ABA and the more conservative Federalist Societv. 
The resolution was bci;g revised to satisfy some critics, by spelling out thatjudges could impose restrictions on lawyer­combatant meetings so that national security is not compro­mised. 
The 400,000-rnernber lawyers· group also is weighing in on the increased surveillance power Congress gave the gov­ernment after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. An ABA resolu­tion would ask lawmakers to amend the law and order more oversight of wiretapping and searches granted by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. 
That panel of federal judges, who meet in secret, handles government requests to gather intelligence on suspected spies, terrorists or foreign agents in the United States. The court was created in 1978. 
The administration has argued that the surveillance is important for its terrorism investigations. 
The ABA would urge 
Congress to require the court to give annual statistics of its work and clarify when it can allow surveillance. 
Mark Agrast. a Washington, D.C., lawyer who heads the ABA committee that developed the proposal, said the court's activities are too secret, and the secrecy may conceal constitu­tional violations. 
"You never know whether you've been under surveillance. That's a sobering power io give to anybody," Agra.st said. 
Scott Silliman, director of Duke University's Center on Law, Ethics and National Security, said he is not worried that the judges on the court are "going to be under the thumb of the attorney general." 
He expects legal challenges to the government's monitoring in criminal cases that arise from information collected. "The courts need to speak before the ABA comes on too strong," he said. 
Little was known about the secret court until last year, 
when it rejected a wiretap  
request  by  the  Justice  
Department.  

Explore your career potential at 
www.gecareers.com 
or check for us at your career center 
:< 
·•"' r--..,., \._i l 

.r ·~~:,~·,
',.-..,,___,,, 
-:: .. ".t·i-~... 
ii 
I-~•....,-,
. ­
-., 
/• •. I 'f'' 
~~~~-~,.. . ) 
..-~ ,-i 
,,, . ' .,Ii 
i :. , --·" 
, ~. I '' ·. 
,,., I,,....,.._...,, 
-··/
/
\ 
.:... 

l~ 
imagination at work ~ 

Cult 

pursues claims 
As5ociated Pre.s 

NEW ORLEANS 
It was a brutal and ultimate­
ly deadly confrontation that 
transfixed the nation for weeks 
in the spring of 1993: govern­
ment agents facing off against 
a fanatic cult leader and his 
followers in Waco, Texas. 

Nearly 10 years after the firn 
that ended the standoff and 
killed Branch Davidian leader 
David Koresh and scores of his 
disciples, survivors and their 
families arc still pushing claims 
against the federal govern­
ment. 

On Monday, they're sched­
uled to make a last-ditch effort 
before the U.S. Circuit Court of 
Appeals here, seeking to have 
the judge removed from their 
wrongful-death lawsuit and 
asking for a new trial. 
In September 2000 in Waco, 
U.S. District Judge Walter Smith dismissed the lawsuit, backing the federal contention that agents had not used exces­sive force in their tear-gas assault on the cult compound. Smith found that the Davidians themselves set the fire that killed nearly 80 men, women and children. 
Monday's appeal arguments 
are being made on behalf of 
the estates of 14 children who 
died in the fire, a 15-year-old 
girl who was badly burned and 
three parents whose children 
died in the blaze. 
The Davidians, whose beliefs 
encompass fierce hostility 
against the government, say 
Smith's rulings in related 
cases, and comments on and 
off the bench. betray "deep­
seated antagonism" and "pre­
conceptions" against them. 
They say he expressed "nega­
tive characterizations" of them, 
including calling one Branch 
Davidian follower "crazy" and 
a murderer. 
Government lawyers dismiss 
the bias claims. 
"To the contrary, Judge Smith displayed patience and diligence wading through enor­mously complicated legal and factual claims and gradually winnowing down the issues for trial," they say in their brief. 
A lawyer for the Davidians, James Juranek, acknowledged that the odds are against him in court. Appeals such as his are "granted less often than they are denied," he said. 
On Feb. 28, 1993, federal agents stormed the Branch Davidian compound looking for stockpiled automatic weapons and hand grenades. Four fed­eral agents and three Davidians were killed in the clash. 
For 51 days, the government attempted to get the cult fol­lowers to come out. On April 19, agents fired tear-gas rounds into the compound and fire consumed it. 
got news? 

Aircraft Engines • Consumer Products • Consumer Finance• Commercial Finance• Equipment Management• Industrial Systems 
631-5323.

Insurance • Medical Systems • Plastics • Power Systems • NBC • Specialty Materials • Transportation Systems 

O
THI BSERVER 











IEWPOINT 
page 10 Monday, February 10, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Noue Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jo.son McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BusINF.SS MANAGER  
Kare Nagengast  Lori Lewalsk.i  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

N!:.'WS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Ycmrn SPORTS EDITORS, Joe Hettler, Matt Loz.ar SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR, Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKcnna SAINT MARv's EDITOR, Sarah Nestor 
AovERTISING MANAGER: Maura Ceneddla 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR, Scott Brodfuehrer 
CoNTROllER: Michael Flanagan 
CONTACT Us 
OmcE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 
NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoint. !@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................ 631-4543 observer .sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE. ........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu 
SA!Nf MAR\"s............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEIi ADMINISTRATORS................ .631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe au rhors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Edi tor must be signed and must include contact infurmation. 
Q~,tioru regardmg Observer policks should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obscrvu (USPS 599 240) ii. pub1illd. Monrlay through rriday C!'Xa"pl dwing tt.1.m and v~.arion pcrio4s. A subscription to The Obicrver .i1 S100 for one-a.:adcmic: )'t'-U> 15) for enc: scrncsu:.. 
Th~ Obsen-u is pnblid\('d ar J'0,1'MASTEK 0Z4 South Oinlllg-Hall Smd &ddrcu wrm:rio111 ro: 
Na1rc l};ua,c, IN 46SS6 The Obsetver 
P.O. Bo:r.Q_ re,wdh:al posu.gc paid at Noue 02Ul(' Notte Ditnc, IN 46)56-0n9 .1nd ad.Jiriunal mailing office. 
The ObJc,:rvcr i~ a member orthe ~~ted Pn:si. All rcprod11ct:lon righu .ui: ro:~ed. 



Considering costs ofhuman suffering 
As the nation prepares for war with Iraq, the suffering of the war's likely vic­tims, including untold numbers of non­combatants, weighs heavily on our minds. During the initial forum of "Peace and War 2003: 
Debating the Issues," theolo­gian Father Michael Baxter delivered a report on his recent visit to Iraq. where he 

celebrated 
ScQtt Appleby
Christmas with members of the Christian community and interacted with other ordinary Iraqis. Baxter spoke movingly of a people who have been denied basic human needs, including adequate nutrition and health care, by the sanctions imposed on Iraq by the international community over the last decade. Antibiotics are absent or in short supply, for example, and the economic and social infrastructure of Iraq society has virtually collapsed. 
Baxter came away from the experience, he said, with an rueful awareness that Iraqi Christians, who number approxi­mately 1 million, are no more willing to oppose the brutal regime of Saddam Hussein than U.S. Christians are willing to launch a sustained and effective protest against the destructive and perni­cious policies oftheir own government. 
The consequences ofsuch public oppo­sition, ofcourse, are far more severe in Iraq, where freedom of speech, assembly and religion are a distant dream and state torture and execution of dissidents are commonplace events. Respondents Dan Philpott, professor of political sci­ence, and sophomore Teresa Hansen made this point, albeit indirectly, in dif­ferent ways. 
Hansen. who is strongly opposed to war, spoke of her own participation in organized protests against the U.S. mili­tary build-up. One might add that such protests are protected by U.S. law and even encouraged by some public figures as expressions of a thriving democracy. 
Philpott underscored the paucity of effective options in responding to Saddam's ruthless repression of his own people and his designs on regional power. (During Saddam's rule perhaps 1 million Iraqis have been killed. Hundreds of thousands died in needless war, and oth­ers were simply murdered by the regime.) In an attempt to de-fang Saddam, the international community has tried diplomacy, sanctions, embargoes, positive inducement and even limited mil­itary strikes. None of this has worked. 
Over the course of three panels thus far, no one has minimized the monstrous nature of Saddam or his regime. But some have questioned the motivations and intentions ofthe Bush administra­tion. 
Theologian Margaret Pfeil, invoking the John Howard Yoder's call for a just war theory "with teeth," expressed doubt that the U.S. government satisifies the "right intention" criterion for making war. If we are so concerned with liberating the Iraqi people, she asked, why did we wait decades to do so? The U.S. government showed little interest in the people of either Iraq or Iran, P{eil noted, when it supported Iraq in the bitter and pro­longed war of the 1980s. Nor was the senior President Bush particularly con­cerned with liberating the people of Iraq following the 1991 Gulf War. The current Bush administration, in it'> "realist" con­cerns with "regime change," whatever the cost in innocent lives, demonstrates that international law was indeed devel­oped as a law for states rather than a law for the people. 
Were the U.S. government truly con­cerned with the people who would become the victims of war, the following estimates would give pause. The United Nations, in a once-secret report (now available on the web) that draws upon data provided by the World Health Organization, estimates that 500,000 peo­ple would require medical treatment as a result of the military attacks upon Iraq. One hundred thousand citizens would be wounded, and an additional 400,000 would fall ill after the bombing of water and sewage facilities and the disruption of food supplies. More than 2 million chil­dren under the age of five would require therapeutic feeding. 
Wit such estimates in view, Vittorio Hosle raised the question of proportional­ity in considering the consequences of a pre-emptive strike against Iraq. What if the proposed war would end in the deaths of far more innocent Iraqis than would die otherwise (e.g., by a policy of containment, constant harrassment and scrutiny of Saddam's regime)? How could we consider this a justifiable "humanitarian intervention"? 
Christopher Rupar, a senior undergrad­uate in Air Force ROTC. argued that the 
U.S. military, far from being trigger­happy, shares a strong presumption against the use of force and seeks to limit the number of casualties on both sides. The military can play a constructive role in rebuilding war-tom societies, Rupar noted, in part by providing physical secu­rity and stability for post-war govern­ments dedicated to democracy. 
Pfeil nonetheless lamented the fact that Americans, and Christians in particular, have a long way to go in preparing them­selves to pursue peace in the fullest sense of the term -the restoration of right relations with God and with one's neigh­bor. We are far from being converted to peace, far from exhausting every possible alternative to war. 
Future panels will address the impact of a war on the Middle East and U.S. rela­tions with Islam, the role of the media in framing perceptions of the crisis and the financial cost of the war. 
Scott Appleby is a professor ofhistory and director ofthe Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. To respond to this or another other column in the "Viewpoint: Iraq" series, please contact viewpoint. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDtT0R 
Column wrong to disagree with funding 
Theresa Fralish's Inside Column makes some generalizations and claims that fail to hold up upon closer reading. Fralish's main problem is that Saint Mary's is a Catholic institution and thus should not, and on some esoteric moral ground, cannot fund students to attend a conference of their choice. First, an institution of higher learning has an obligation to let their stu­dents learn, and this does not merely take place in theology class or church-sponsored catechism classes. Forming opinions, religous and otherwise, must be allowed and encouraged to occur on and offcampus. Fralish makes the erronenous claim that Saint Mary's would not give funding to pro-life students to attend a D.C. rally, but instead sponsored the pro-choice trip. The fallacy of this statement is even acknolwedged by the author. Those students who chose to travel to D.C. did not choose to ask the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership for funding. These students are surely capable of making an application for funding and there appears to be nothing in the mission statement of the grant or the College that would dissal­low a grant to these pro-life students. 
The mission statement of the grant from the Lily Corporation speaks to allowing the women of Saint Mary's to experience "innovative thinking, reflection and action." The approval of a grant and the giving of monies, donated to the college by a pri­vate organization, does not make a statement regarding the morals of a student or their interests. Saint Mary's in its response and future actions will choose the path of education at a Catholic institution or to become intolerant and resemble insti­tutions commonly refered to as Bible colleges, where morals are imposed and disent is disallowed. The choice is clear: indoctri­nation should not be supported by Saint Mary's; inquisitive, edu­cated students must be. 
Maureen Gottlieb senior off-campus 
reb. 7 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Sarah Nestor Bryan Kronk Shannon Kurt Bogaard Nelligan Christine 
Kevin Allen Armstrong 
Viewpoint Scene 
Kristin Y emm Maria Smith 
Graphics Lab Tech 
Katie McKenna Brian Pucevich 



NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
What do you consider most in voting for student body president? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"America has tossed its cap over the wall ofspace." 
John F. Kennedy 35th U.S. President 

O
THE 
BSERVER 




VIEWPOINT 
Monday, February I0, 2003 page 11 
40 miles closer to heaven 
It took the space shuttle Columbia becoming a shooting star in the Texas sky to make space travel seem as extra­ordinary as it was so long ago. 
The Soviet Union's launch of' the bowl­ing-ball-on-a-tripod called Sputnik shocked the world, but mostly because the U.S.S.B.. had momentarily sur­passed the U.S. technologically. But on May 25, 1961, when President John F. Kennedy boldly announced that America would send men to the moon and back, it was not solely for a Cold War advantage. but for the advancement of all people. Dospite his assassination and the deaths of the three /\polio 1 astronauts on Jan. 27, 1967. Kennedy's vision prevailed. When Neil Armstrong stepped on the moon, his first words didn't praise America. but all of' humanity. 
Sadly, since then space flight has made no further giant leaps for mankind. Beginning with the Apollo­Soyuz rendezvous in 1975 and continu­ing to the international space stations of today, the space program has mostly promoted diplomacy and peace. This is a fine goal, especially when compared to the superpower hostilities that spawned the space race, but not the exciting stuff of NASA's heyday. 
Even the scientific missions, which Columbia's final voyage was, don't exactly thrill us. Among the studies the STS-107 crew undertook were for human physiology, fire suppression. global climatology and the German Space Agency's earth-shattering experi­ment involving "development of the gravity-sensing organs of fish in the absence of gravity's effects." This is why we're spending billions of dollars to put human beings in a fragile pod attached to half a million gallons of rocket fuel? For lish? 


Many publications have lamented the fact that Americans treat the shuttle program as so routine that it captures less of our imagination than television shows. However, the sad reality is that few people were consciously aware of the seven people who spent 16 days on Columbia because, quite frankly, their mission wasn't even as exciting as a Gene Roddenberry artHicial creation. It had nothing to with which to capture our imaginations. The shultles, which were given namfls likfl Entflrprisc. Challenger, Discovery and Endeavour, for the most part haven't lived up to them. 
[n the aftermath of the Columbia's explosive descent. the entire purpose of manned space flight is under scrutiny. If all we're doing is studying fish and fire suppression, it's been asked, why are we risking lives to do it? Shouldn't we just replace the shuttles with unmanned probes? And the blame may fall on an institution that's seen its ideals derailed and its budget slashed, yet still asked to perform miracles of modern science like putting people in orbit on a rocket and bringing them back in a glider (all with no real emergency contingencies), or deploying technological marvels like the Voyager satellites, the Hubble Telescope and the Mars Rover. 
These criticisms lack both vision and imagination. Space flight represents the pinnacle of man's scientific achieve­ments, quests to explore and fantasies to fulfill. It's like putting Marco Polo, Christopher Columbus, Marie Curie, Albert Einstein, Bill Gates and the Wright Brothers on a DC-9 (with nothing to consume but freeze-dried food and Tang) and strapping them to a Manhattan Project that launches them into Carl Sagan's and Isaac Asimov's dreamscapes. Along the way, technolog­ical revolutions occur for the rest of us bound by gravity, from personal com­puters and the Internet to Teflon and Velcro. 
Why do we go to space? Ask John F. Kennedy, who understood both the bur• dens and the rewards of the most awe­some undertaking in human history. Ask the members of Apollo 11, who left a plaque on the moon that reads. "We came in peace for all mankind." We go to space for the same reason every brave soul who probes an uncertain new frontier, consequences be damned, has attempted their missions since the beginning of time: to see what's out there. 
Now is precisely the wrong time to scrap manned space exploration. In addition to sending a horrible message to the future scientists of the world ­that discovery isn't worth the risks -it nullifies the cause for which the brave crews of the Columbia, Challenger and Apollo 1 gave their lives (which, in an eerie coincidence, all happened during a six day span on the calendar). However uninspiring the Columbia's experiments might have been, the best way to honor its fallen heroes is to expand both the ideals and the missions of NASA. 
After Apollo 17 left the moon in 1972, no human has ever traveled beyond low­earth orbit. After the massive commit­ment required to reach the moon, we were content to simply pack up and spend the next 30 years performing the cosmological equivalent of circling the block. There are no visionary dreams, no pushing the boundaries of human knowledge. In short, we need the courage to accept a Kennedy moonshot quest for the new millennium. 
Something similar was proposed once, but although it sunk in a sea of bureau­cratic red ink, it remains a feasible goal. On July 20, 1989, the 20th anniversary of the first moon landing, President George H.W. Bush laid out a three-step project for an endeavor to Mars with an ultimate target year of 2019. Fourteen years later, on the 17th anniversary of the Challenger explosion, and four days before Columbia's breakup. President George W. Bush decided not to officially greenlight a new NASA project called "Prometheus," which will explore using nuclear power to fuel space travel, in his State of the Union Address (though he may still include funding for it in his 2004 budget). Bush instead included a $1.2 billion proposal for hydrogen fuel­cell cars "so that the first car driven by a child born today could be powered by hydrogen." Children born in 2003 will reach their 16th birthdays in 2019. 
With that synthesis in mind. it's time to combine these efforts. In 1961, John 
F. Kennedy issued a challenge to place not just an American flag, but a human being, on the moon in just over eight years. To reach Mars by 2019. we have twice the time and two new potential fuel sources to go with all the technolog­ical breakthroughs space exploration has brought us since. All we need now is the temerity we've lacked for three decades when, after taking that bold first step into the void, we retreated back to square one. 
But if there's any legacy that Rick Husband, William McCool, Laurel Clark. Michael Anderson, David Brown, Kalpana Chawla and Ilan Ramon can leave us, it's that despite the risks. the voyage to the stars is still a noble enter­prise and worth expanding upon to infinity. 
This column is dedicated to the seven members ofSTS-107, every NASA mem­ber who saw them through on their voy­age into space and their families. Godspeed to all ofyou. Mike Marchand's e-mail address is Marchand.3@alumni. nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Trip to Timbuktu allows for adventure rarely experienced stateside 
I just returned from Mali the relative tourist Mecca of West Africa, Mali. Mali is most famous for Timbuktu, the mysterious city of gold that Europeans searched for and imagined about for decades and the murderous Niger River that prevented European penetration with mysterious tropical diseases and earned Malte Uranga West Africa the fabled title of "The White Man's Graveyard." Anti-malarial drugs and the dis­covery of Timbuktu have since Life in Africa made travel in Mali less of a physical threat. 
As a result of these develop­ments, 1convinced my brother to venture to Africa. Bush taxi problems and time did not allow us to go to Timbuktu, but we decided we got close enough to tell people we went there. Similar problems and inability to understand the river system eliminated a boat trip on the Niger. Instead we hiked for five days along cliffs and mud huts and took a boat trip on the Bani River. 
All of these problems, accidents and lack of plans led to an adventure. We were in Mopti, a city on the confluence of the Niger and Bani Rivers, about to get a taxi home when some man came up to us. After brushing him off for a minute or so I asked him ran­domly if we could take a boat from there to Djenne. It started off as a game to sec if it was even possible and, if it was, to hear the sales pitch he would give us. Our destination city was in the complete opposite direction from where most tourists go and also, as I 
later learned, the wrong river. 
Luckily this is one of the few instances that Africa is easier to get around in than other places. Tourist operators. being any local hustler on the street. make everything possible for a few dollars. So around 8 p.m. at night we met some random man, argued about which way the river flowed, wrote a "contract," gave him some money and said we would meet the next morning at 7. We went home that night uncertain whether it was some elaborate scheme to get some money. 
Early the next morning we made our way back to the place we met the guy last night and realized nei­ther of us can remember what the "guiden looks like; we hoped that he would remember us. Five minutes later he found us and we walked to our boat and met the two men responsible for our safety and security for the next two days. 
The boat was about the size and space of three or four canoes put together. It was solid wood, with two long poles to propel us forward, a sail made out of old sewn together plastic rice bags and a mast that was already leaning slightly to the right. 
We checked for water in the bottom of the boat, water to drink and enough food for the two days. With no real idea how far we were going, how we would get there or what was in between. we got into the boat and set off. Immediately one of the boat operators attempted to raise our rice bag sail. One if the strings that held the sail in place broke. The sail fell into the river in a hopeless mass. Through 
McGyver-like ingenuity he repaired the sail with an 
old fishing net, and we were on our way again. 
Moments like this continued for the next two days. All of our meals were cooked on the boat. Never before had 1 thought that an open fire on a wooden boat would be a good idea. 
The entire boat was an example of an amazing recycling program of old rope, plastic and wood scraps. The endless hours on the boat allowed my brother and I to return to childhood imaginations. or perhaps African reality. In the pitch black we got stuck on a sand bar and became completely turned around. I was Tom Sawyer and he was lluck Finn. We passed villages where children cried or stared in amazement when they saw us. 
Thirty-six hours later we arrived at our destination both relaxed and satisfied with the way the chaos and uncertainty went. 
These are the types of days and adventures that 1 appreciate the chaos here that my life in the United States rarely allowed. Some days it is nice to not know how. where. what or even why. And also not to worry when the mast leans a little to the right. 
Maile Uranga graduated from Notre Dame in 2000 as an anthropology and government major. She is currently a Peace Corps volunteer in the Islamic Republic ofMauritania. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
THE 
OBSERVER 


page 12 Monday, February 10, 2003 
The quotable Woody Allen 


Scene Writer 

Woody Allen has been in the moviemaking business longer than most Hollywood directors and knows his Freud better than most analysts. Of course, it'd be hard to know where to start untangling the Gordian knot of neuroses of Hollywood's favorite schmuck. 
Born Allen Stewart Konigsberg in 1935 to father Martin and moth­
achieve immo 
er Nettie in Brooklyn, Ny., Allen changed his through my.· name to Woody during a 
want to ach 

brief stint at New York 
not dyi

University when he began writing quips for famed New York Post Woody Alie gossip columnist Earl 
writer
Wilson. 

Disinterested in col­lege, Allen dropped out of school (and by some accounts was suspended from) after only a year to begin writing for television. Allegedly he failed a class called "Motion Picture Production" during his time at NYU. 
Allen became a writer for standup comedian David Alber. Two years later Alber brought Allen on board as a writer for Sid Caesar's legendary "Your Show of Shows." The young writer worked alongside other soon to be famous names like Neil Simon and Mel Brooks. 

Allen left television writing after five years to try his hand at his own materi­al. He quickly made a name for h. as a standup comedian, ofte ing at ultra-hip Manhat.ta like The Blue Angel. ltw in standup that Alle neurotic Jewish N persona for 
his creati in theatre a starred in hi Pussycat?" in box office and ber of plays and sh including the James B Royale;" Allen was r break. 
In 1969, Allen's first ture "Take the Money firmed, or is it mitzvahed, of Hollywood's most cuttin provocative directors. 
Though a familiar Hollywoo the New York native forewent th fortune and fake breasts of C and moved into an apartmen Park East in 1970 where h himself as one of New prominent enthusiasts and 
Biography aside, findi Woody Allen is a bit trickie than it seems. Allen, w shirked fame, insists tha different man than the o the silver screen. But t hard to digest. For e Allen's 1977 magnum Hall," which won the Ac for Best Picture, Best Writing (Screenplay Writt Screen) and saw Diane Best Actress in a Leadin was nominated for Bes Leading Role, but lost Dreyfuss). Allen's characte Hall," Alvy Singer, is a sexual verse standup comedian, an a Jewish New Yorker who's been i choanalysis for 15 years. Alvy is a·. rotic mess of a man who can't sec keep his love life together. 
The real life Woody Allen is an ap ently neurotic Jewish New Yorker, award winning comedian, who has a number of high profile marriages aif high profile divorces including his 1 split with longtime partner (though wife) Mia Farrow that culminate charges of sexual abuse of their ad ed daughter and having an "unnatu close'' relationship with their so top it all off, Allen began a relatio with Farrow's adopted daughte Yi Previn, whom he eventually and with whom he now has two chil­


THE 
OBSERVER 



Monday, February 10, 2003 page 13 
dren. Hotel every Monday when he is not oth­So, despite his insistence that he is erwise occupied with a film project. actually a balanced, normal man. it's Allen has been so dedicated to his sometimes hard to separate the real music that he does not attend the Woody from his onscreen personae like Academy Awards, which are always .thG chronically depressed Singer in held on a Monday night; he did make a 
"Annie Hall" who sees the world as notable exception in 2002, when he 

''l11m ie Hall• 
1977 

ettheryile or acutely vile. appeared to plead the case for 
"I feeLtlmt life is divided inlo the hor­Hollywood to continue shooting movies rible artd 0tne miserable. That's the two in New York after the attacks of Sept. categories': i}.eJ1orrible are like, I don't 11, 2001. know. term!uai \.~~es, Though Allen often you know, arid·.}> seems like a morose and people-crippl~ "/feel that life is hopeless neurotic, he 
don't know howr: quit therapy after
divided into the 
get through life. almost 35 years. For a
horrible and the
amazing to me. man whose writing the miserable is e is;rable. That's the obsesses over a one else. That's a Nietzschean recurrence you should be th of reliving his own that you're mis shortcomings, Allen has because that' matured not only as a 1ucky, to be(lni writer writer and filmmaker, able/~ AJl~n ,§ald: in t but as a person as well. movie. ·.·• . t..· .· <•'l . Allen has survived 40 
Allen has been"one o'f'Hollywood 's years of' show business, 35 years of most prolific filmmakers: )-le has writ­analysis, and hordes of nay-saying crit­ten. directed, a11d starredin at least one ics and continues to produce film after film almost every year since 1969. Allen film. 
·cc has. beeri nominated for 15 Academy Woody Allen has left, and continues to '·Awards; he ha:,wori three, two for Best leave, his mark on cinema -not that Writing (Screenplay Written Directly for he'd ever admit it. In his own words: "I Screen}-;;;-one for "Annie Hall" in 1977 don't want to achieve immortality and another for "Hannah and Her through my work, I want to achieve it Sisters" in 1986 -and best director for by not dying." "Annie HalL" 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at 
Allen demands almost exclusive artis­
beggs.3@nd.edu 2001
tic control over his film. Often, the stu­dios he works with are unsure of quite what they will receive until Allen turns over the footage. In fact, Allen has his 
,cast members sign confidentiality agreements prior to shoots and only gives them the pages of the script that have their lines on them. 
Allen's films tend to garner a mixed 
... 
reaction from critics. Some feel that he's a bit formulaic in his writing; often casting himself as the angst-ridden schmuck they presume he really is against a hot-to-trot ingenue. It has been said that Allen's recent career appears to be a fall from grace from the innovative and edgy comedy of "Annie Hall" and ''Ilannah and Her Sisters." 
But Woody is far from being washed up. His recent films, though not block­buster~style successes like "Spiderman" 
· and "Titanic" have enjoyed a positive reviews from audiences and critics a.like. After all. Allen is one of the hard­est workiHg people in show business ­producing at least a film a year for the pase35 years. 
. Movies haven't been Allen's only cln,im to fame. Woody began playing the clarinet at age 12 and has had a deep lov¢ for jazz music ever since. Allen nhnost always uses jazz in the sound­tracks to his movies. Often. he sets his films in periods in which jazz was popu­lar, such as his 2001 caper comedy "The Curse of the Jade Scorpion," 
' which was set in 1940's New York big hand jazz era. 
(n fact. Allen has his own _jazz band (and a decent one according to a num­ber of major reviewers in the scene). Allen headlined at Michael's Pub in New 
~.>.,York Jor over 2 5 years before the jazz hotspot closed its doors in 1997. Now Woody plays with Eddie Davis & his N~w Orleans Jazz Band at the Carlyle 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 10, 2003 
NHL 

Canadiens defeat Capitals to end losing streak 
as the Stars beat the Los Angeles
Associated Press 

.. 
Kings 3-1 on Sunday night. "You can look at a six-game
WASHINGTON 

homestand, but if you think
Before Sunday, letting Mathieu things can take care of them­Garon play in goal was about the selves, that's not how things

only thing the Montreal 

work." said Stars coach DaveCanadians hadn't tried to end Tippett after his team stretchedtheir four-game losing streak. 
its franchise-best home start toThat streak disappeared after 19-2-4-1. "We came out hard25 saves from Garon in his first and got ourselves emotionallystart of the season, Montreal's 2­into the game. That set the tone0 victory over the Washington for us." 
Capitals. 

Modano and Rob DiMaio"I think it was really important scored in a 48-second span offor us to end that streak," Garon the second period to give Dallassaid. " I hadn't played for three a 2-1 lead, then Turco took overweeks and I felt like I played last with 10 saves in a third-periodnight. I felt really good." 
shutout. Turco is 10-0-4 over his
"That was one of the best 

last 14 games to tie the franchise games that I have ever seen a mark of Don Beaupre, who wongoalie play," said Koivu, who 
14 straight for the Minnesota
scored the first goal late in the North Stars in the 1985-86 sea­

second period. "As a teammate, it's great to see a young guy son. 

"I got a couple of good passes,coming up, being a backup, and got some speed in the neutralgetting two points for his team." 
zone," Modano said. "I think IWashington. which had won caught them flatfooted. We knew
three of its last four. tested 

we had to get that one to get
Garon throughout in just his everyone in the flow of the

17th NHL game. He was forced game."

to turn away two short-range 

Modano wrapped up the victo­
chances by Jaromir Jagr and 

ry with 2:19 to play, working his Michael Nylander. 
way from the right boards to the 
"They started their young 

front of the net for his 23rd goal. 
goalie and we just weren't ready "Every team we play against, to play," Washington goalie Olaf at some point before the game

Kolzig said. "He made some big Western Conference. The Carolina Hurricanes are still the road, getting outscored 37­
the coaches tell the players that
saves for them. But I'd like to Backup goaltender David going in circles, and the needle 14, and are only four points
Modano can be dangerous," said 
think that we've got a better Aebischer had 38 saves for is stuck. ahead of last-place Buffalo in the
Tippett. "Then when he scores,
hockey team in here than they Colorado, while Calgary's Paul Kariya scored his 20th Eastern Conference. 
the players say, 'That's what the 
do." Roman Turek had 21. goal and Jason Krog got his first "We kind of got a step behind, 
coaches were talking about."' 
"It was a tough night for Forsberg, scoring on his first career short-handed goal as the and we've been fighting it ever
The Stars, 14-1-4 over their
everybody," Jagr said. "I wish three shots, had the sixth hat Ducks dealt Carolina its sixth since. We know we can play bet­
last 19 games to increase their
we would fight through it and trick of his career and second of straight loss. 2-1 Sunday night. ter.... We're extremely disap­
league-best point total to 77,
score some goals. I had the feel­the season. It also was Jean-Sebastien Giguere made pointed, obviously. We've got to
beat the Kings for the third
ing that we were going to get Colorado's second hat trick in as 28 saves for the Ducks, who find ways to win."
straight time. Los Angeles won
one, then we could get another many games: Milan Hejduk did it have won five of their last six Sykora, playing in his 500th
the first two meetings in the five­
one and maybe win the game. It Saturday in a 5-3 win over games and 10 of 14 after going NHL game, has combined with 
game season series that con­
didn't happen. We had some Detroit. 0-6-1 in their previous seven. Kariya and Adam Oates for 38
cluded Sunday night. 
chances, but when we had it he After Tanguay won a faceoff in They have a two-point edge over points and 14 goals in their last
"We have a lot of guys out, but
would stop it." the Calgary end, Forsberg dug Chicago for the eighth and final 14 games. Oates who needs 
our team battles," Kings coach
In the second period, Garon the puck off the boards and skat­Western Conference playoff spot. three assists to tie Gordie Howe
Andy Murray said. "Tonight,
made a save on Jagr that started ed out to the blue line, where he "We have guys with more for sixth place on the career list. 
some mistakes hurt us. We can't
a rush to the other end that set spun and faked the Flames' experience in our lineup, and "I saw the turnover as I was
feel sorry for ourselves, because
up Koivu's goal. Koivu took a Craig Berube. He then skated that's giving us a little bit more coming toward the puck, and I
the Dallas Stars aren't feeling
pass from former Capital into the slot and fired the puck of an edge," Giguere said. "We saw Sammy grab it," Krog said. 
sorry for us. That's what we
Richard Zednik and snapped a over Turek's left shoulder. have so many guys now who "He looked at me, so I turned
have to deal with." 
wrist shot over Kolzig's shoul­Jeff Shantz made it 3-0 when know how to win, and it shows and headed up the ice, and he der. his shot from right of the goal the young guys how. made a great pass on my stick. 
Jagr failed to earn a point for Avalanche 4, Flames 2 deflected off Calgary defense­"We've been playing a good "I wanted to make a deke on the first time in six games for Peter Forsberg scored three man Micki DuPont's skate and team game, and the defense has the goalie and the puck started Washington, which was shut out goals, Alex Tanguay and Greg de skid across the line just before been allowing one shot and tak­rolling on me, so I tried to corral for the first time since a 2-0 loss Vries each had two assists and Turek could swipe it away. ing the rebounds away. If you it and go five-hole with a quick to San Jose on Dec. 14, 2002. the Colorado Avalanche beat the Iginla got his 20th goal at 8:43 put all that together, you get the shot. Luckily, the puck came 
... Calgary Flames 4-2 on Sunday of the third period. Conroy result you want." right back on my stick." Stars 3, Kings 1 night. scored a power-play goal four Jeff O'Neill scored his 20th Weekes, who sat out the third 
Mike Modano and Marty Turco The Avalanche, extending minutes later on a rebound from goal for the Hurricanes, who period of Friday's 8-2 loss at Los made sure the Dallas Stars got a their unbeaten streak to nine (7-right of the net. have gone from Stanley Cup Angeles after giving up seven season-long six-game homes­0-2), moved ahead of Minnesota finalists to bottom-feeder in less goals on 34 shots, won his first tand off on the right foot. into second place in the Mighty Ducks 2, Hurricanes 1 than a year. They are last in the two games following his return 
Modano scored two goals, and Northwest Division. With 64 The Anaheim Mighty Ducks Southeast Division with 14 losses from a concussion. He's lost 10 Turco made 24 saves to stretch points, the surging Avs also have are in a groove that has them in their last 15 games. They straight since. his unbeaten streak to 14 games the fifth-best record in the thinking about the postseason. have dropped eight straight on 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.rn. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. · 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Acapulco s #1 Spring Break Company, Bianchi-Rossi Tours, is 'Going Loco" with a "Last Chance to Dance· Special! Book now and get $100 off our already low price! Your seat is available now, but may be gone tomorrow! Call now 800· 875-4525. www.breaknow.com 
SPRING BREAK on South Padre Island, ranked #3 S.S. destination by the Travel Channel. South Padre Resort Rentals has the best 1,2&3 bedroom condos. Great location and amenities, close to Mexico. Call 800-944-6818 Visit gosouthpadreis­land.com 

#1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space is Limited!II 1 • 800-234-7007 www endlesssum­mertours.com 
FOR RENT 
New four bedroom 3 bath home tor rent with two car garage. Gas heat, central air conditioning, all appli­ances, fire place. Call 574-232­4527 or 269-683-5038. Rent $1600 plus utilities. 
Rooms For Rent $250 month includes utilities 272-1525 mmm· rentals@aol.com 
Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus mmm­rentats@ao1.com 272-1525 www.mmmrentals.com 
2 or 3 BDRM Ranch House. Completely remodeled/ New stove, Refrig. Incl. washer/dryer. Great neighborhood. 4 blocks to ND. 273­1717 FPM,LLC. 
3-6 BDRM HOMES. 03/04 YR. SEC SYS. WASHER/D 272-6306 
Brand New Everything. 2-story rental house with porch and yard just blocks from campus. Off-street parking. 3,4 or 5 students. Summer or fall availability. 235-3655. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES -HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN­TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS -STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS -SECURITY SYSTEMS -MAIN­TENANCE STAFF ON CALL ­WASHERS/DRYERS -CALL TODAY-HOUSES GOING FAST -CONTACT: KRAMER (574)315­5032 OR (574) 234-2436 ALSO LEASING FOR 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 
Four bedroom house for rent: CALL Anlan Properties, L.L.C. 532-1896 
LIVE IN A GREAT NOT OUES­TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF ND. 3-5 PEOPLE. 277-3097 
LOST AND FOUND 
FOUND: Black pea coat Call 634-4283. 
TICKETS 

Two tickets for CATS appearing on March 22 at the Morris Performing Arts Center. 
Good seats on main floor $45 each. 
Please call 271-9539 
PERSONAL 

Unplanned pregnancy? Don I go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819 For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
DON'T FORGET TO SEND YOUR SWEETIE AN OBSERVER VALEN­TINE CLASSIFIED. 
Meg and Pat-Happy Engagement. Congratulations! 

Monday, February l 0, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MENS COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Marquette defeats Wake Forest for 28th straight hotne win 
Associated Press  added 16 points and nine rebounds as Marquette won its  ing to the NBA after complet­ing his sophomore season.  a 7-0 run to close within two. Then, when it was 45-43,  rebounding Marquette 48-35 as Levy grabbed 12 and  
ninth straight  "  T  h  e  y  Merritt scored consecutive  Howard 10.  
MILWAUKEE Marquette needed Robert Jackson and Scott Merritt to be at their best. The two post players certain­ game and ended Wake Forest's four­game winning streak.  "'They always chant 'One more year' but I've got two more years left."  always chant 'One more year' but I've got two more years left,·•  baskets and Wade's slam made it 51-43. The run was capped by two free throws by Merritt as Marquette built its biggest lead.  But Wake Forest shot only 33 percent (22-of-66). failing to take advantage of a 37 percent (21-f'or-57) effort by Marquette. The Deacons also  
ly were, combining for 35 points. and Dwyano Wade had  Wade's mile­stone came on  Dwayne Wade  Wade said. Then, asked  It proved to be enough to hold off the Deacons.  had 17 turnovers Marquette's 12.  to  
18, including a 1,000th point,  memorable as No. 15  a breakaway dunk. his third  Marquette player  if that meant he was com­ "Every time we made a run, they answered," Wake Forest  "I thought both teams guard­ed hard and you could see that  
Marquette beat No. 14 Wake  of the game.  ing back for  coach Skip Prosser said.  in the shooting percentages,"  
Forest 68-61  on  Sunday, the  that  was  part  certain  in  The Golden  Prosser said.  
Golden Eagles' 28th consecu­ of  an  8-0  run  that  gave  2003-04, Wade said, "No com- Eagles led by  Crean said  
tive home victory. "I would say it was (their best game) because they had  Marquette (17-3} a 53-43 lead. Wake Forest (16-3) closed within four points twice over  ment." Josh Howard scored 14 of his 20 points in the second half  as many as seven points and didn't  "Every time we made a run, they answered. "  the game's festive atmos­phere with an  
to guard really good (play­ the final two minutes before  and Taron Downey added 10  trail the entire  announced  
ers)." Marquette coach Tom Crean said, referring to Jackson and Merritt.  the Golden Eagles wrapped it up from the free throw line. Fans chanted "One more  for the Demon Deacons. who average 81 points a game. Wake Forest scored the first  first half, which ended 29-26. Wake  Skip Prosser Wake Forest coach  crowd of 17,370 had "a March feel  
Jackson had 19 points and  year." an obvious reference to  five points of the second half,  Forest stayed  to it."  
11  rebounds.  and  Merritt  the possibility of Wade jump- all by Jamaal Levy. to take its  close despite  "It  was  a  
Robert J. Shiller 


The O'Brien-Smith Visiting Scholars Program 
Strmley fl. Rr,or l'rofessorofEco11omics, Yale U11i11mity 
Aurhor oflrratirmnl E-mbemnce, New York I1mcs Nonfiction Be5tscller 


Confronting the Economic Risks ofthe 21st Century 
Wednesday, February I 2, 2003 
11 :45 a.m. to I:DO p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Rusiness University of Notre Dame 
Sponsored by: Department of Fina.nee, Mendoza College of Business 
Free and open to the public For information: {574) 631-3277 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME ' Mendoza College ofB,,,iness 
.., .._ ,. 4 ,_..,. • .....,..,.._,,.,, ,.._.,,......,...,~ '" a.-..... #.r,,,l,..,. ,&..,.,. ••• _. 1AioM._loc,l,i:.,LC 
,. 11~}1"~ ": ,_., •-;""-:-=-~~-. :r.· ~ :·' -~ :,u.-,7, i ~m~~~~~':"""~n.·\;:,t 


11 .r1 
...cefefo1tin3 theyawer tftlie written w~r£. 

l l);\HOYII '&1Nll 

Wedne1day, February 05 •155 DeBartolo Hall, 7:30 pm ~ Aulhor ol Hardball, reteption in lhe Goeman-Morse lounge leal1!1~g music ol sludenl acappella groop Big Yellow Taxi 
I 
SR.JEAN LENZ, OSF '67ND 
Thursday, february06 • lafortuneBallroom7:JOpm 

Aulhor of Loyal SOIis and Oaughlers orNo•re Daf11!l: AMem-Oir ofNor,i; Dam&, co-sponsored by Qivanaugh Coffeehouse,I l fealuoog lhe music al female acappen, group Harmonia. book signing, and rekeshmenls 
NIKKI (ilOVANNI Saturday, February 08 • Jortlan Auditorium, M@ndoza (OBA, 7JO pm Poel ol Ouillmg Ille Biacl-Eyed Pea and low Poems. intmducklry remai'!1 by ND head foo!baff coach Ty Wrii,gham Co-spons«ed by ~e Hammes No~a Dame Book1fore, lhe College of Ms &Lellers, Gender Studies Program, Oe~a~menl of [n<Jl~h. the C1ealwe Wul~g Program, and lhe Department ol African and Afircan-American Sludies 
STUDENT SLAM Sunday, February 09 • Washington Hall, 7:30 pm realumg sludenl slam poels and spokell·word arfisls in amulfi-media s~le followed by an 01)€11-mic sessiOll 
JOE GARDEN 

Monday, february 10 • \1/a,hlngton Hall, 7:30pm OM ol kmmg "1helsol Tile (mt, in~or!udory remarts by ND professor o1 art Robert Sedlack reception loloi~win Ille basemen! ol Zallm Hall 
REUmCOYOt Tue,day, February 11 • Washington ffall 7~0 pm Aul,Jrol O,,,,,,,_ recep~on in laForl>Jne Ballroom lealuring lhe mus,; of male acappela group 1he Undertones 
JOHN BUFFALO r,'AJl£R 

Wednesday, February 12 • Washlngtonffall 7:30 pm P!a,,,,m/adu of "Hello, Hamian", receplioJl in lhe Lafortune Balwoom lo follow 
11D UNPtuGG!D II 

lhursday,Feoruary ll • LafortuneHuodle, 9:00 p.m. -1:00a.m. Sludenls and lacullj ol lhe Universilyo[ Noire Dame, ll~y Cross Coilege and Saini MalJ'S College showcase !he, wort as srnger-song\1/!ila~, poets, liciiOll alld non-liciion wrileis. spoken-word a11rs1s, essa~s~. and ~sual a~islS 
don1ilfoni1 wlll b>(lnef/f tfl• s,. Joseph Cgunty l..lt•.racy Ccuncll tor mo111 lnfo,m•tlon•. ~ont•r~ ":aghan M•rtln (mm•rfln@nr'l.edu} or Jo•n,,. Crirm,.,n (Jcotm.,. f@nd.ffdvJ 
www:nd.eoll'll7EislilllSL¼e/Jpa',le~'l/lea/lSl!i4)/llVso/.iO:VJlde.i01lllm 
only lead at 31-29. Marquette foul problems on center Eric hard-fought game and we scored the next 11, starting Williams, who had three called knew it would be," he said. with two field goals by Jackson against him, two within 20 sec­"It's the best team we've and ending with Travis onds. Williams played only 23 played this year.... And that's Diener's 3-pointer for a 40-31 minutes. fouling out with 2:06 what makes this win so special lead. left after scoring four points. for us. It was a great win." 
Wake Forest answered with The Deacons lost despite out• 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 10, 2003 
MLB 
Pitchers and catchers begin to report to spring training 
Associated Press 
Mike Piazza stepped off the plane and shuddered. Like a lot of places, New York was in a deep freeze. 
"Man, my ears almost fell off," the Mets star said. "I'll be glad when we get going." 
He's not the only one. Because with much ofthe country covered by snow and ice this winter, it just takes a few words to warm up baseball everywhere: It's time for pitchers and catchers to report to spring training. 
The Seattle Mariners will be 

the first team to open camp. They get going Sunday, and there's a reason for the quick start -lchiro Suzuki, Freddy Garcia and the Mariners will play the major league opener real early, on March 25 in Tokyo against Oakland. 
Within a week, every team will break out the bats, the balls and the big hopes. From Florida to Arizona, from Vero Beach to Scottsdale, optimism will mix with the sun and sand. 
All over. teams arc excited, particularly with so many top players having moved. Jim 
Thome, Tom Glavine, Mike Hampton, Ivan Rodriguez and Jeff Kent s,-vitchcd sides, and the New York Yankees brought two newcomers to the big leagues -­Japanese slugger Hideki Matsui and Cuban pitcher Jose Contreras. 
Plus, camps will be fuU of fresh young faces, guys who sooner or later may become household names. Could the new star be 19­year-old Mets shortstop Jose Reves, Cleveland first baseman Travis Hafner, or Phillies center fielder Marlon Byrd? 
So why not be enthused, espe­

cially after what the Anaheim 
Angels accomplished last year? 
Yet even the fabulous K-Rod, 

now about to receive a champi­
onship ring at 21, sounded like a 
seasoned veteran as the Angels 
prepared to open camp on 
Valentine's Day in Tempe, Ariz. 
"Everything starts with zero," the reliever said. "The most diffi­cult thing in baseball is to be consistent. You can have one good year but if the next is bad, you're defrauding everyone." 
And remember how the spring started for the Angels last year? They got in an exhibition fight with San Diego, and Troy Glaus and Scott Spiezio were suspend­ed. By October, Glaus was the World Series MVP, and Spiezio was a postseason star. 
On the field, if there's ever a time to think big, it's now. 
So maybe that's why Milwaukee ace Ben Sheets was looking ahead after a season in 
which the Brewers lost 106 games. 
"To be honest with you, I don't even think about last year. It all goes away --good year, bad year, doesn't matter. Just like a good game, bad game, you can't bring it with you," he said. "Clean slate." 
The Rangers left Port Charlotte, Fla., where alligators used to sun themselves in ponds around the ballpark and former owner George W. Bush would stroll the grounds. The Royals exited· their old Boardwalk and Baseball site in central Florida, which opened wil.h a lot of fan­fare in 1988 but quickly lost pop­ularity. 
This also will be the last time Philadelphia trains at Jack Russell Stadium in Clearwater, Fla. Nearly a half-century old, the ballpark is one of the coziest anywhere, with perfect touches -where else can fans find a warning track made of crushed seashells? 
Meanwhile, a few familiar faces are still looking for jobs. Reggie Sanders and Kenny Lofton, who started for the Giants in Game 7 of the World Series, remain free agents, as do Rickey Henderson, Kenny Rogers, Chuck Finley and B.J. Surhoff. David Justice and Andy Benes, mean­while, say they're done. 
"Fourteen seasons is long enough," said Justice, whose teams made the playoffs in his last 11 years. "I have a dimin­ished desire to play." 
For everyone else, the exhibi­tion games begin Feb. 27. That's when Baker and his Chicago Cubs will take on his old team, the Giants. The same day, Cincinnati will visit the Yankees in Tampa, Fla. 
The Yankees already are gear­ing up for Matsui's arrival, and there's a plan to sell sushi at the concession stands at Legends Field. 
Derck Jeter, David Wells and manager Joe Torre also arc pre­parcd for owner George Steinbrenner's bluster. The Boss was not happy that his guys were whacked out of the playoffs by Anaheim in the opening round. and he let them hear it. 
"We know what it's like to win, and we also know what it's like to lose. You don't want to lose anymore," Jeter said. 
Besides, the Yankees don't need to look far for a reminder of the success Steinbrenner expects. Beyond the center-field fence at Legenrls Field, there's a message board that reads: Congratulations, Super Bowl Champion Tampa Bay Buccaneers. 
The Bucs' home is Raymond James Stadium, right across the street from the Yankees' com­plex. 
"I was happy for Tampa Bay. It's great. It's good that they won it," Wells said. "Now that spring training is here, and we're a Tampa product, hopefully it will be catching. The guys can catch on to what the Bucs did." 



AROUND THE NATION 
Monday, February 10, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 17 

11.,
2}\Atiii:i
tlft•~•l... 
. l\?PHWM 
!i!!llipill II

i.•, ~­
23 t.liffb~lppf~l J•ti!l!/i .:: :.~~ot 1i!lll!lll!i ··. •·• . 
· ··· ·.. / · • c: ·"':;:: ... iiiiill~i1i~ 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Syracuse at Connecticut 7 p.m., ESPN Oklahoma at Texas 9 p.m., ESPN 
NHL HOCKEY 

Sharks at Red Wings 8 p.m., ESPN2 
Blackhawks at Canucks 10 p.m., FSN 
NBA 


Asso,ciated Press 

ATLANTA 
Yao Ming has seemed comfortable most of his rookie season, showing composure on and off the court. 
His first All-Star game might have gotten to him, though. 
Voted a starter for the Western Conference, Yao had only two points and two rebounds in 17 min­utes, sitting out the fourth quarter and both over­times. 
Shaquille O'Neal, Tim Duncan and Kevin Garnett were the big men who got most of the play­ing time down the stretch as the West beat the East 155-145 in double over­time. 
Yao, picked No. 1 over­all by the Houston Rockets in last year's draft, became the first rookie to start in the All­Star game since Grant Hill in 1995. His selection was helped with ballots printed in Mandarin for the first time; he out­polled O'Neal by nearly a quarter-million votes, even though Shaq aver­ages nearly 27 points a game and Yao just 13. 
But the 7-foot-6 Yao rarely looked to shoot when he had the ball, 
making his only attempt. His lone basket was a dunk 65 seconds into the game after an alley-oop pass from Houston team­mate Steve Francis. 
His highlight of the night might have been winning the opening tip from Ben Wallace, finally stepping into the circle after fellow West starters Duncan and Kevin Garnett prodded him. 
Yao did wear a pair of powder blue low-top shoes. a tribute to Michael Jordan's alma mater, North Carolina. The brightly colored shoes clashed with the red uniform of the West, but Jordan was making his final All-Star appear­ance. 
Yao's former teammates with the Shanghai Sharks were watching the tele­cast in China, where the game started at about 9 
a.m. Monday morning. He joined Houston after the team reached an agree­ment with the Sharks and Chinese officials. 
Yao was the 16th rookie in NBA history to start in the All-Star game, and the sixth center -joining O'Neal in 1993, Elvin Hayes in 1969, Walt Bellamy in 1962, Wilt Chamberlain in 1960 and Ray Felix in 1954. 
IN BRIEF 

Brodeur continues streak with 4:09 remaining in the period. will certainly tumble in the new rank­Martin Brodeur made NHL history Minnesota had three shots in the ings on Monday, losing again on the Sunday. final 32 seconds, but Brodeur knocked heels of an 86-78 defeat at home to 
Brodeur stopped 19 shots for his them all down. The game ended with Virginia. league-leading 30th win of the season, a physical altercation between White Georgia Tech (12-8, 5-4) continued leading the New Jersey Devils to a 3-2 and Darby Hendrickson. its Jekyll-and-Hyde season by improv­victory over the Minnesota Wild. He ing to 11-0 at Alexander Memorial now has won 30 games for the eighth Yellow Jackets remain Coliseum. The Yellow Jackets have yet straight year, a feat no other goal­undefeated at home to win a road game, picking up their tender has accomplished. Jarrett Jack got a chance to chat only other win at a neutral site. 
Brodeur gave up two goals but also with his favorite player -then went B.J. Elder led Georgia Tech with 23 made some good stops. He made a out and played like him. points. including two key baskets that sprawling glove save on Andrei The freshman point guard scored a stemmed Maryland runs in the second Zyuzin midway through the second career-high 20 points, banking in a half. period to thwart a scoring chance, crucial 3-pointer with 39 seconds "He's college basketball's biggest then kicked aside three shots in the remaining, and Georgia Tech beat No. secret," Georgia Tech coach Paul frantic final 32 seconds to preserve 8 Maryland 90-84 on Sunday. Hewitt said of Elder. " the win. Jack was inspired by the presence Jack, whose previous high was 16 
The victory moved New Jersey with­of Stephon Marbury, in town for points, added a free throw with 25 in a point of the Ottawa Senators for Sunday night's NBA All-Star game. seconds left and Anthony McHenry the best record in the NHL. New The former Georgia Tech star sat a finished off the Terrapins with an Jersey is 13-2-1 in its last 16 games. few rows behind the Yellow Jackets' emphatic slam, posing for the crowd 
Minnesota had several good scoring bench. with 11.3 seconds remaining. chances in the second period, includ­"I talked to him before the game," The student body stormed the court ing a blast from the point by Filip Jack said. "He's my favorite player, after the horn sounded on Georgia Kuba, but Brodeur made a diving and I modeled my game after him." Tech's most impressive victory of the glove save to turn aside the attempt The defending national champions season. 
"" _____ ------------------------------------------------------, 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February I 0, 2003 
MENS TENNIS 

Duke overpowers Notre Dame 
will face some of the
ByJOE LINDSLEY 

nation's very best squads.
Sports W ricer 

"We're trying to look at it in a positive way," fresh­
The weekend started off man Patrick Buchanan well for the Irish mens ten­said. "We're obviously a nis team, as it won its sec­young team right now. ond match of the season We're getting stronger from Saturday at Purdue, but each of our matches and Duke put Notre Dame's learning from our experi­fledgling win streak to an ences." end as the Blue Devils dom­Buchanan in part symbol­inated, 4-2, Sunday. izes the team's gradual 
N o t r e D a m e , which fell to 2-5 on the  "We're getting stronger from each ofour matches  improve­ments. The Irish have a  
spring sea­s on, has struggled  and learning from our experiences.  youthful roster, a n d  
with secur­ing the dou­ Patrick  Buchanan  inexperi­ence has  
bles point all  freshman  played in  

season. The Irish rallied after the Boilermakers swept the doubles portion of the match Saturday, but Notre Dame was not able to recover in singles after los­ing the doubles point against Duke Sunday. 
No. 43 Notre Dame's close loss to No. 8 Duke was dis­appointing for an Irish team that began the season with the worst start in program history. Nevertheless, after playing the Blue Devils, the Irish believe they have what it takes to contend with a top-ranked team. Such a confidence will be crucial to the Irish in the upcoming weeks, during which they 
a role in 

their los­ing start. Buchanan came into the week with a five­m a tch losing streak, but Tuesday he clinched victory for the Irish against Wisconsin, and Saturday he contributed to the Irish win with his singles victory against Purdue. Sunday, the freshman defeated the Blue Devils' Ryan Heinburg, 6-4, 6-1. Additionally, transfer Nicholas Lopez-Acevedo defeated York Allen, 6-3, 6­
1. 

Sunday was not a great day for Irish veterans, but they had to deal with tough competition. Junior Matt Scott, ranked 119th, was defeated by No" 77 Ludovic Walter, 6-3, 6-4. No. 72 Luis Haddock, a junior, was upset by the Blue Devils' Phillip King, 6-3, 6-1. 
Jonathon Stokke pre­vailed over Irish senior Brian Farrell, 3-6, 6-3, 7-5. 
The Irish were also lack­ing one of their best. Sophomore Brent D'Amico, who has gone 6-0 in singles play this spring. was injured during the doubles portion and could not play singles. 
Saturday, playing at No. 46 Purdue, the Irish partici­pated in another close match. Yet they were able to win, as they came from behind to triumph 4-3. The Boilermakers began the match by winning the dou­bles point and the first sin­gles contest. Then the Irish won the next four singles events to secure the victory, their second of the season. Haddock, Scott, D'Amico, and Buchanan were the contributors to the Irish 
win. 
Notre Dame will have some time off, to reassess its doubles lineup and to improve their confidence on the courts, before they head to East Lansing, Mich. Feb. 19 to take on Michigan State. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jllndsle@nd.edu 
MENS SWIMMING 
S-wimmers look to Big East Tourney after loss 
By LISA REIJULA 
Spores Writer 
In one of the fastest and com­petitive meets of the season, the Notre Dame men's swimming and diving team was edged by Oakland University, 151-149 on Saturday. The Irish finished the dual meet season with a record of 6-8. 
"Obviously it stinks to lose, but it was a test to see where we were," said junior Matt Obringer. "We're partially resting for the Big East meet and we had some season-best times." 
Notre Dame had the momentum to start, as the 200-meter medley team of Doug Bauman, Jason Fitzpatrick, Frank Krakowski and Tim Randolph took first. 
In the 1,000-meter race, Patrick Davis notched a victory, while teammate Matt Bertke was second. 
Other event winners for the Irish included Bauman in the 100 backstroke (50.75) and Jason Fitzpatrick in the 100 breast­stroke (57.63). 
Oakland answered back with victories in the 200-meter freestyle, 200-meter butterfly and the 50-meter freestyle to end the first half of the meet. 
The Irish divers gave their team the lead again, as Joe Miller, Andy Maggio and Tong Xie swept the top three places in the one-meter event. 
However, Oakland soon took control of the meet. The Grizzlies grabbed victories in the 100 freestyle, 200 backstroke, 200 breaststroke and 500 free to catch up to the Irish" 
The Irish stayed even with wins by Krakowski in the 100-meter butterfly (50.08) and Maggio in the three-meter diving competi­tion (313.80). 
The turning point of the after­no on was the 400 IM, as the Grizzlies finished one-two-three and gained crucial points. The 16 point gain pushed the Irish into a corner going into the final event 
In the 400 freestyle relay, Oakland overtook the Irish on the last leg, winning the race and the meet. However, Notre Dame's team of Randolph, Krakowski, Fitzpatrick, and Matt Obringer posted their fastest time of the season (3:06.31). 
The Irish are optimistic even after the close loss. 
"Overall the results were pretty positive," said Obringer. "It was definitely a good sign of our progress and hopefully a sign of good things to come." 
The Irish will compete next in the Big East Championship on Feb. 20-22 in Uniondale, N.Y. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 


Monday, February l 0, 2003 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 
Meyo 
continued from page 24 
3:57.83. 
In addition to his record time, four other runners broke the four-minute barrier and the top five runners recorded the live fastest miles in the world this year. The top five runners were separated by less than half' a second. Watson, who did not make his move until the final lap, did not take the lead until the final 30 meters. Watson credited his competitors for pushing him throughout the race. 
"The pacing was perfect," said Watson. "I know this track so well that I know when it's time to make every move and that was an advan­tage. I like to finish hard [and] I like to beat people in the last 100 or 200 meters. That's always been a strength of mine, and I exploited that today." 
"Watson has been just a terrific per­former in cross country. indoor, and outdoor," said Irish coach Joe Piane. "Ilc's a many time All-American and a real positive influence. He works extremely hard and everyone else fol­lows his lead." 
Two other Irish competitors also provisionally qualified for the NCM Championships in the mile, as Eric Morrison finished at 4:01.90 and Kevin Somok finished at 4;03.82. They must wait for other results around the country to find out whether or not they will make the NCAA field. 
"Somok and Morrison train with Luke every day," said Piane. "They know that if they can run with him they're going to run well and we saw that today." 
In addition to Watson's record­breaking accomplishments, freshman Molly Huddle shattered the school record in the women's 3,000 meters. Huddle, who automatically qualified for the NCMs in the event along with teammate Lauren King, broke the old school record by more than fifteen seconds with her 9:14.33 time. She finished second in the race to Nike­sponsored professional Colette Liss, while King finished fifth with 9:19.52. 

Selim Nurudeen provisionally quali­fied for the NCAA Championship with his best 60-meter hurdle time of the season in 7.83. That time easilv bet­tered the NCM provisional quaiifying mark and could put Nurudeen in the NCAA field. 
Other strong Irish performances for the men included Vincent Ambrico who won the regular mile, and Chris Staron who finished third in the high jump. 
For the women. Emily Loomis tied for first in the high jump, Kymia Love won the 400 meters, Jaime Volkmer tied for first in the pola vault, Tameisha King won the long jump, and the 4x440-yard relay team (Love, King, Tiffany Gunn, and Kristen Dodd) finished second with one of the fastest times in the nation. 
"The sub-four minute mile and Chuck Aragon's record (3:59.9 in 1981) have been things I've been 
chasing for two minutes now with a realistic chance of breaking. I needed all the conditions to come together on the right day, and that's something that really doesn't happen all that often. Today was just perfect. I felt great, the pace was perfect, the race was perfect, the competition was there, and all the elements fell into place." 
"We had a wonderful day," said Piane, who credited both the facility and the packed crowd. "We had a couple of ladies [Huddle and King] qualify for the NCAA in the 3,000. Selim is ranked either eighth or ninth in the country [in the 60-meter hur­dles] so that's marvelous. Luke's ranked number one in the country. What a day." 
Contact Andy Troegec at 
atcoegec@nd.edu 


The College of Arts and Letters Invites Student Nominations for 
Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Each year Kaneb Teaching Awards recognize approximately 25 Arts and Letters faculty for excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Tenured faculty as well as professional specialist and adjunct faculty who have taught at least five years are eligible. 
Take advantage of this opportunity to have a voice in the selection of these recipients by nominating one of your outstanding teachers for this award. 
Send a brief letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Hugh Page, Associate Dean 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Friday, February 28, 2003 
Watson 
continued from page 24 
But sometime during Watson's run for the records I realized something. Running really can be exciting. There are no timeouts, no breaks in the action. It is sport at its simplest, a race against the competition and a race against time. 
Having five of' the fastest runners in the world pitted against each other doesn't hurt either. Watson was in fifth place during much of the 
race. 

He was behind after a quarter mile. 
At a half mile he remained in the lead pack. 
After three quarters of a mile, he still trailed 
four other runners. 
It was not until the final stretch, the final pos­sible moment. that Watson made his move. "I like to finish hard, I like to beat people in the last 100 or 200 meters," he said after the race. 
And beat them he did. 
Watson's surge came just in time, as he took the lead within 30 meters of the finish line. To put that in perspective, the final 30 meters or a mile-long race is about the same margin that remained when Torin Francis gave the men's basketball team its final lead over Pittsburgh Sunday. 
So it's easy to say that many races have close finishes. After all, some of the shorter track events are won by hundredths of seconds. Being close doesn't inherently guarantee great­ness or excitement. 
But Watson had one more thing going for him. Besides having a flair for the dramatic he also ran the fastest mile on the planet so far this year. The four men that he passed over the course of the last lap fared pretty well too. They finished with the second through fifth fastest miles in the world this year. Watson's time broke the old school record by two seconds, and he also became only the second Notre Dame runner to ever run a mile in under four minutes. 
So next time you think about exciting moments in sports, think about that last second shot, the home run, and the touchdown. But don't forget about the fastest man on the planet this year. 
His name is Luke Watson. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
Thank you Jackie Clark 
and the Freshman Class for the pizza, puppets and movies Parents' Night Out 
Signed, Your favorite 30 kids on campus and their grateful parents at University Village 
Nerf Football Rules! 
Summer Employment 
The Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC), at Saint Mary's College and Notre Dame, is seeking individuals to work in the 2003 summer day camp program, June 5 through August I and Augsut 11-21. If you are 18 years or older, enjoy children, and have experiences with preschool and/or primary children ages 5-10, please contact one of the numbers below for further information and an application. 

Early Childhood Development Center, Inc. 
284-4693 
(ECDC-SMC) 
631-3344 (ECDC-ND) 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 10, 2003 
was Notre Dame's fourth over a three points. top-10 opponent this season. After a missed three-point
Declawed 
"Everyone knows that Pittsburgh attempt by Panther guard Julius is very experienced and well• Page, Carroll found Francis down 
continued from page 24 
coached. They are a great defen­on the block, and the freshman ter Torin Francis, whose bucket sive team, and I'm very proud of worked around Pittsburgh for­with just 0.6 seconds left. to play our guys because we never gave ward Ontario Lett for a layup to put the Irish on top by two. up." get the Irish within one. 
"Matt Carroll was saying how After a lackluster first half in ''Coach Brey makes us under­he'd never experienced that here, which they allowed the Panthers stand that there is a lot of game to and we thought it shouldn't [be over 55 percent shooting, the Irish be played, especially when it is the that way.J So we just came out went into the locker room with an first couple of minutes of the sec­here and we knew we wanted to eight-point deficit. ond half and anything can hap­win this game, and that we had to "After the first half, we came in pen," said Carroll, who finished win this game, and in the end, it here down eight," Francis said. the day with 14 points and six was a great feeling seeing our "We said to ourselves. that as a assists. "We can put some points crowd run out there." team, we just have to pick it up. It up quickly. and since we played 
Pittsburgh guard Brandin was embarrassing being down at good defense, especially in the Knight drained a three pointer -our home court. They were hav­second half, that was the turning his only basket from the field all ing their own way all through the point in the game." day -with 30 seconds left to knot first half, but The Irish the score at 64. in the second would get no 
With the shot clock turned off, half we went "Everyone knows that closer than one Irish point guard Chris Thomas let out there and until just over
Pittsburgh is very 
the game clock run down to close little by little 10 minutes to five seconds before making his started mak­experienced and well­remained, move on Knight. The sophomore ing some coached. They are a when Thomas drove left from a few feet outside stops." interr,epted a
great defensive team, 
the key and jumped near the free T h e weak pass by
and I'm very proud ofour
throw line for an apparent last Panthers built Knight and second shot. But just before he their lead to guys because they never drove to the came down, Thomas slipped a 10 points early basket for an
gave up.". 
pass off to Francis in heavy traffic in the second easy layup to under the basket, and the fresh­period. but the tie the game at man laid the ball in for the win~ Irish gradually Mike Brey 52. ning score. worked their head coach Notre Dame 
TIM KACMAR/The Observer

"I saw [Thomas], and he was way back into guard Torrian 
Irish center Tom Timmermans dunks during Notre Dame's 66­
penetrating, so I cut to the basket, the game, as Jones then 
64 victory Sunday afternoon. 

and he went up and saw me," the senior leader of the team -pressured the in-bounds pass and Francis said about the sequence Carroll -began to take control. was able to tip the ball up to him­point, because it showed that our ished the day with 24 points and of the play. "I was right under the With the Irish down nine points self and move in for a shot when defense was what was making us eight assists, and fmished as the basket, and I got it. He threaded and just over 18 minutes to play, he was fouled. Jones sank one of win the game. That's when we're game's leading scorer. the needle, and I was right there Francis missed the second of two his two free throws to give the at our best, when our defense is "We challenged [Pittsburgh]," to make a good catch. Then I just free throws, but Irish center Tom Irish their first lead since 5:16 into really playing well." Brey said. "We got the hall and went up with it, just like that." Timmermans swatted the the first half. Pittsburgh reclaimed the lead made better decisions, and I think 
A list-ditch effort to get the ball rebound out beyond the arc to The play put the Irish on top on a pair of free throws from for­we took a big step forward today." in by the Panthers was stopped Carroll, who was able to drain the and gave them the momentum ward Chevon Troutman. The victory moved Notre Dame when Irish forward Jordan three and narrow the Panther heading into the last 10 minutes With the Irish down 56-55 and to 19-4 on the season and 7 -2 in Cornette swatted the in-bounds lead to six. of play. just 5:58 to play, Thomas dealt a the Big East, while Pittsburgh fell pass out of the air near mid-court. Just over a minute later, Notre "We really feed and build off of deadly blow to the Panthers with to 16-3 and 6-2. 
'Tm very proud of our team. Dame forward Dan Miller found [the crowd]," Jones said. "At that a three-pointer from about five We beat a very good basketball Carroll on a break again from point, with a little momentum, I feet outside the arc, the first of his team today," Irish coach Mike behind the arc, and the senior felt like I had a good time to make seven points in the last six min­Contact Chris Federico at Brey said after the victory, which sank the shot to close the gap to a play.... That was a big turning utes. The sophomore guard fin-cfederic@nd.edu 
the wings as decoys, simultaneously clearing out the middle of the floor for Thomas and giving
ThoIDas 

Francis room to work around the bottom of the basket. In a perfect world, Thomas would first
continued from page 24 
penetrate the paint and then look down low. opposing point guard. "When he looks at me with that confidence in 
A couple weeks ago, Thomas found himself in his eyes," said Brey, who had a timeout left but a similar situation at Boston College. He was fac­let his sophomore call the play, ''I'll second the ing Troy Bell, the clock was winding down, the motion." game was on the line with two of the Big East's A few seconds later -Brey told him to wait best guard's squaring off. until seven seconds were left, but Thomas wait­
In Boston. Thomas waited until the clock ed two more ticks just to be sure the Panthers ticked to less than five seconds, dribbled across couldn't get another shot off -Thomas came the lane, and forced up an ugly shot that hit alive. He dribbled across the lane, elevated for a more of the floor than it did the rim, and the wild shot, saw two Pittsburgh defenders elevat­
Irish needed overtime to escape from Conte ed with him, and noticed six other players on the Forum with a win. court turned to look for a shot. 
So here smiled Thomas again, with the game Francis was the only one whose eyes were on on the line, the fans going nuts. He waited until Thomas, not the ball. He slid across the lane and the clock hit five seconds, took Knight across the into Thomas' line of sight, grabbed a pass and floor laterally, elevated into the air, and ... flipped it home. "Catch and shoot, really," 
passed? Francis said. "It was pretty simple." 
That's not the Chris Thomas fans rip into for The crowd exploded, but Francis didn't hear it playing too out of control, for forcing up ugly -at first. He was too busy letting a primal shots at inopportune times, for playing more like scream escape from his throat and slapping a future NBA guard than a college point. high-fives with Thomas to hear the deafening 
That's not the Chris Thomas who is merely roar inside the Joyce Center. shooting 36 percent from the field in Big East "It was one of the biggest shots I've made," he play. admitted. 
That's not the Chris Thomas who, despite Sure, six-tenths of a second remained, but handling point guard duties. leads the Irish in Cornette knocked away the inbounds pass to shots attempted. end the game. Sure, officials said they had to Coach Mike Brey loves to talk about how review to see if there was any more time left on Thomas plays best when the lights are brightest. the clock, hut the game was over. Two hundred­But when the spotlight shined brighter than it plus students on the court with the fate of the had before, Thomas passed. game in the balance tends to bring new mean­
Somehow Thomas had rifled a pass between a ing to the phrase "home-court advantage." horde of Pittsburgh defenders to Torin Francis, Thomas is still learning the nuances of playing who grabbed the pass, flipped it up off the back­point guard, of how to pass the ball to team­board with his left hand and then exploded with mates, of how to balance his incredible athleti­jubilation as the ball floated through the net, giv­cism with necessary prudence. He scored 24 ing the Irish a 66-64 lead. Sixth-tenths of a sec­points against Pittsburgh, but few will remem­ond remained, but the game was basically over. ber any of his baskets. 
In the 32 seconds between Knight's game­His last pass, on the other hand ... tying 3-pointer and Francis' game-winning 4-"I told him he cheated because he was sup­footer, Thomas grew up. A lot. posed to take the shot," a bewildered Knight 
What was Thomas thinking when Knight said after the game. "I said, 'It was just me and started flapping his trap, when he said, "This is you. And you cheated and passed.'" how it's supposed to be"? Who said cheaters never prosper? 
"He must have been thinking individually," Thomas shrugged after the game. "I was think­The views expressed in this column are those ing about the team." of the author and not necessarily those of The 
Thomas called 2-Cross. which had Matt Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at Carroll and Dan Miller coming off screens out to asoukup@nd.edu 



PORTS 
Monday, February ] D, 2003 
MENS BASKETBALL 

It's the 'Pitts' for Panthers 
. Francis' late layup lifts Irish over No. 4 Panthers in 66­64 comeback win 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame tri-captain Matt Carroll had recently lamented that he had never experienced the thrill of being mobbed by a crowd of crazed fans and stu­dents rushing the court of the Joyce Center in his four years with the Irish. 
Sunday afternoon, that all changed as No. 10 Notre Dame puUed of a 66-64 upset of No. 4 Pittsburgh before a sellout crowd at the Joyce Center. 
"We couldn't ask for anything better. The fans were unbeliev­able today," CarroU said after the last-second victory. "I had no idea. There were 20 people jump­ing on my back. I looked up and there was a big wave of green coming on me." 
Just four days after being on the losing end of such a celebra­tion after Notre Dame's 78-72 to Seton Hall, the Irish players saw Sunday's matchup with confer­ence rival Pittsburgh as an oppor­tunity to turn the tables. 
"We had talked the other day about crowds rushing the courts, because at Seton Hall. their crowd rushed the court when they beat us," said freshman cen­
see DECI.AWED/page 20 


. Thomas grows up with game­winning pass 

Chris Thomas dribbled down the court, bouncing the ball in his left hand, pointing to his team­mates wilh his right. 
About five feet in front of him, crouched in his defen­
sive stance, Pitts­burgh's Brandin Knight started yap­ping at Thomas. goading him 


on, egging Andrew Soukup the sopho­more to challenge 
Sports
him. 
Columnist

"This is how it's supposed to be," the senior barked at the sophomore. 
Thomas just smiled. Clock winding down. game on the line, two of the Big East's best guards squaring off. "Those kinds of situ­ations don't come along too often," he said. 
Normally, Thomas thrives on the one-on-one matchups. In fact, he often thrives so much on them that the game and even the team get forgotten as Thomas wages his own personal war against the 
see THOMAS/page 20 
TRACK AND FIELD 

..... 
• Senior finishes first in Meyo Mile, claims world's fastest mile time this year 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Spom Writer 

< 
An impressive performance earlier this month in Boston qualified Luke Watson for the NCAA Championship in the 3,000 meters, and created high expectations for Watson in the running of the Meyo Mile Saturday. 
All those expectations were exceeded, as Watson came from behind on the last lap to fin­ish first in the Meyo Mile in front of an ener­gized crowd at the Loftus Sports Center. In the process, he broke the four-minute mile barrier and the school record in the mile, automatically qualified for the NCAA Championship, and ran the fastest mile in the world so far this year in 
see MEYO/page 19 
Cf) SMC BBALL 
w
_._~ 

Kalamazoo 69 
cc: s Saint Mary's 43 
The Belles dropped their ninth consecutive match
Cl: 
Saturday. 
"-ti

Cf) page 21 

Watson: 3:57.83 
. Watson's last-second surge added excitement to a usually mundane event 
When you think of an exciting moment in sports what usually comes to mind? A last sec­ond shot? A last minute touchdown, or maybe a bases loaded home run in the bottom of the ninth inning? A race perhaps? 
Wait a minute, a race? Exciting? 
Andy Troeger
So maybe most sports fans would not consider a race, such as Luke Watson's 
Sports

school record mile at the 
Columnist
Meyo Invitational. to be high on the list of exciting moments. We might con­cede that it was a great accomplishment. but 
TIM KACMAA/The Observer
exciting? Probably not. 
Irish runner Luke Watson circles the track at a recent meet. Watson see WATSON/page 19 broke the four-minute mlle mark Saturday at the Meyo Invite. 
WOMENS BBAU 
MENS LACROSSE MENS TENNIS
MENS SWIMMING 
Notre Dame 15 Oakland 15.1 
Notre Dame 4 No re Dame 50 
Virf.inia Tech 53 Titan Tour 9 Notre Dame 149 Purdue 3 
A back-and-forth match 
The Irish kicked off their 
Duke 5

The young Irish squad fell 
ended as a setback for the season with an exhibition 
Notre Dame 2

to the Grizzlies Saturday. 
Irish Sunday. 
victory Saturday. 

page 21page 22 page 18 
page 18 
-

Monday, February 10, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 23 

SCHOOL DAZE 
W~ PfZOPOS~1D W& WILL C-ONVEgT A.tT A "1-\00T~S" AL-l.-17012/v\~ !NfO 
HAPPY TOWN 
CLARE O'BRJEN 


N..L 71,ili/DN WILL-BE WE-WlLL. PAY 1/DU fDR., 
f111Pf0e Wm\ B R VDTE,B& You~ 
JACK MONAHAN 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these lour Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TIDOT 

j 
I I 
Cr.2003 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Flights Reserved. 
LINAF 
t J GOYNEX 
j 
[]
www.jumble.com 
GEENER ~ 
[IJ J I 
Answer, 

'lI I I J' rI I I I I I J 
(Answers Monday) I Jumbles: EMPTY HUSKY INFUSE MARLINYesterday's Answer: 
What he reached when he completed the mountain race -HIS FITNESS "PEAK" 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRJON 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnola ana Mike Argirlon 

WHE:N THI= PLAYi=!< WOf<.KE:0 HARO TO 5UCCE=l=O, HIS C.OAC.H SAID IT 
WA5--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

34 It's no mansion 35 "Tosca," e.g. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
70 Ballfield cover 71 Byrd and Hatch, e.g.: Abbr. 
DOWN 

1 "Ta-ta· 2 Merchandise 3 "Halt!,' at sea 4 Mosaic piece s Physicist Niels 6 Mideast prince 7 An almanac 
lists its highs and lows s Prepare, as tea 9 Pepsi competitor 10 Mobile home? 11 Big hunk 12 "Wise" bird 13 SSW's reverse 21 Leg shackles 22 Cave dweller 25 It goes m the hold 
26 Sewing machine inventor Howe 
27 Everglades grass 

29 "You could've knocked me over with a leather!" 
30 Bator, Mongolia 31 St_ fire 
WILLSHORTZ 

....,_,.._...,..__,.'-­
Pl1Ul• by Gn,gory E. Poul 
36 Sign of 49 Lungful 59 Ivan, for one boredom 
52 Zagreb resident 
60 Rope material 

40 Kung_ 
54 1974 Tom T
shnmp 
61 Grant-in-_ 41 Neighbor of 
Hall hit 
55 Peaceful protest 62 Org. for the Israel Nets and 
56 Gets better, as
44 College period Nuggets
a wound 46 Axis soldiers 
58 Mentor for Luke 63 Ship's weight 48 Thickset Skywalker unit 
For answers, call 1·900-2B5·5656. $1.20 a minute: or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814·5554 Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-B8B·7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes com/diversions ($19. 95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nyI1mes.com/learnmg/xwords. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name Address------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Robert Wagner, Laura Dem, Judith Anderson, George Stephanopoulos 
Happy Birthday: You'll have what it takes to turn your life around and do what you know in your heart is best for you this year. You are about to replace your complacent attitude with one of force and determination. This is your year to make the decision that will set the pace for the rest of your life. Your numbers are 6, l 9, 23, 27, JI, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Lend a helping hand to those going through a bad time. When it comes to getting things done, you are a master. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): If you keep your composure and deal with each issue as it arises today, you will find yourself in a good position. Your strength .,_ and patience will pay off for you in the long run. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't get too cocky when dealing with your peers, or you may end up with some professional enemies. Try not to stick your nose in other people's private affairs. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your self-control will pay off. By being observant and listening to what others have to say, you will have the added knowledge needed to find solutions. **** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your unpredictable nature will leave those around you feeling confused and uncertain. Don't take action too quickly. Sit back and observe those around you. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Experience will play a big role in your life today. If you aren't 100 percent sure of your actions, don't make them. Positive thought will lead to positive action. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): It's time to spruce up your home. It will help you to get things done a little faster and more efficiently. You will save money and feel content. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't believe everything you're told. Go to the source. Be informed before getting involved in something that is likely to cost you money. ** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You have to start taking better care of 
yourself. Use moderation. Don't spend time gossiping. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Plan a fun-filled activity that will please everyone. Get back to basics and family values. The time spent together will result in a closer bond. ***** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Sit tight and don't feel pressured to make a move. Wait until you feel comfortable with the changes that you are contemplating. Someone may not be thinking of your best interests. ** PISCES (Feb, 19-March 20): You may have to force yourself to get out and do things today. You can meet an ideal mate if you are single, or perhaps a business partner who likes your ideas. Act on your first instincts. **** Birthday Baby: You will always follow your own instincts and will stand by your convictions no matter what. You will be stubborn, loyal, steadfast and even a little aggressive. You will be the one who will take a stance and make things happen 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Sultan of_ (Babe Ruth) 5 Gaming table 
stacks 
9 Tease 14 Roof's edge 15 Leave out 16 Performer with 
a painted-on smile 17 Bygone times 18 Conceal 19 HBO deliverer 20 "You said it!" 23 September bloom 24 Royal residences 28 Knave 32 Tex-Mex snack 33 "Stop right there•• 37 Dry-as-dust 
38 Short flight 39 Oceanographic 
charts 42 Comedian's bit 43 Currier's partner 
in lithography 45 "Uh-uh!" 47 Mather_ 
(Nobel-winning nun) 
50 Siesta sound 51 Stretchy, as a waistband 
53 Notre Dame's Fighting_ 57 "I'm afraid not!" 61 Madcap 64 Seep {out) 65 Smidgen 66 Apple laptop 67 Eve's man 68 Demonic 
69 Hollywood's DeVito or Glover 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 10. 2003 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Hokies deal Irish a close road loss 
By KATIE MCVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
It was too close to ca1l until the last second ticked off the clock. Fourteen ties and 12 lead changes highlighted the back and forth game between Notre Dame and Virginia Tech Sunday that left the question who would come out on top. 
With only 34 seconds remaining and the Irish down by two, Irish guard Alicia Ratay made two free throws to tie the score at 50. But it wasn't quite enough to make the Irish winning streak any longer than two. 
After a solid second-half performance against Georgetown Wednesday, the Irish (13-8, 5-5 in the Big East) found themselves back on the losing end of the court, as they fell 53-50 at Virginia Tech (15-5, 7-3 in the Big East) Sunday. 
After the two Ratay bas­kets from the charity stripe, it looked like Notre Dame might have been able to piece together a three-game winning streak. But Hokies guard Carrie Mason convert­ed a three-point play with 13 seconds left and the Irish couldn't respond, despite a final effort by forward Jacqueline Batteast to make a trey with just two ticks left on the clock. 
Sunday's game was a bat­tle to the finish line. 
Neither the Irish nor the Hokies led by more than four points at any time. Spurts that put the Irish up by four fell short in carrying momentum through the rest of the game. And with only two players in double digits, Notre Dame could not sus­tain any significant scoring run. 
Neither the Irish nor the Hokies could claim that it was their shooting that kept them in Sunday's contest. 
Only two Irish players fin­ished the game in double fig­ures and, while Notre Dame shot a below-average 38.6 percent from the field, the Hokies shot a dismal 28.6 percent. Notre Dame did manage to dominate Virginia Tech inside, outscoring the Hokies 24-4 in the paint, but the Irish just couldn't get the job done. 
The Hokies found their only offensive success on the foul line. Virginia Tech hit 22 of its 24 free throws, recording a new team-best 
91.7 percent from the free­throw line in Big East play. Hokies junior forward Ieva Kublina was a perfect 11­for-11 from the charity stripe, on her way to leading the team with 21 points. 
Mason and teammate Chrystal Starling also hit double figures for Virginia Tech, recording 11 and 16 points respectively. 
After recording its first positive assist-to-turnover ratio in several games against Georgetown, the Irish fell back into mid-sea­son woes with 21 turnovers and only 10 assists. Although they out-rebounded the Hokies by three, the Irish still struggled to shut off their opponent's ability to make second chance points. 
Batteast led the Irish with 13 points while forward Katy Flecky added 11. 
The loss marks the fifth Big East loss for the Irish and the seventh Big East victory for the Hokies. Sunday's game was an important one for both teams as the second half of the season gets under way and they vie for good position in the Big East tour­nament. 
Notre Dame will have three days off before facing St. John's Wednesday at home. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 

l:lHIAN PUCtVICH/The Observer 

Allcla Ratay defends a Temple player earlier this season. She made two clutch free throws as 
time ran down before Virginia Tech went ahead to win 53-50. 
·------· ·------..
I I I I $15 I $26 I 
I I I I Mens Cut I Cut & Style I
.______ ..

I I I
·------~ 

r-------. r------, 
I I I
$69 

I I I I
$69

I Color, Cut & I I I I Style I I Perm, Cut & Style I
.. ______

I One Process ..I .I ______ ..I 
r------• 
I
$69 I 
I
Highlights, 
Cut & Style
.______ .. I I 

Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY ­
-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-

Must be presented to Receptionist Before Services Are Performed 
Melissa-Connie-Serge' -Kristin-Jennifer-Elaine -Michele -Efena -Jennifer 
ATRIA SALON 2
ATRIA SALON 

Nornalid funpinl perm< Lnngor tinted hair add $!0, No oihmlisa,un" ,wi)' Open ,omc:cvcning,-I\TIUA Martin's Shopping Ccn !er 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 

&don n:..-.c:avcsd-ic~(roidi..ncsc:rvicctoanydienrwllOSl:haircondir~11 is.untre.i.tablc. Next to Sprint
Corner ofEdison 
271-8804
289-5080 
OFFER EXPIRES 2-25-03 
Less than I mile from campw 


-

abbbb.....massage[ 
I 
; 
;
TlirnAprn1ic MASSAGE foR Op1iMAL HEAhli ....... STRESS REduCTioN, PAiN Rdid & INjuRy....... 
~ 
My offiCE ,. $}5/liAlf 1-touR; $60/ltouR 
I 
. 
(oN,.SiTE AVAilAblE-lioME OR offiCE) 
' 
~ 
___________________,,__ ___ 
{ 

Meoitation for healing mino & bo~~ { ; 
{ , I 
~ 
{ . /or c/;oosing to Relax in a turbulent 1110rloJ { ; 
8 Wuk ClAss STARTS MoNdAy, FEbRtJARY 17, 200} 
-I 
')
( 

foR MORE iNfORMATiON, CONTACT: 
PENNiE CliRiSTiE, CMT PlioNE! 574,247,0661 
I ', 

E,MAil: ToudmiGliT@Aol.coM 
WWW. 1oucliRiqli1MASSAGE.COM 
' 
. 

Monday, February I 0, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Hornets sting Belles in blow-out 
Kalamazoo post players. ninth straight loss.
By HEATHER 
However the Belles were Kalamazoo's shooting did not 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
once again without their keep Saturday's game within 
Sports Writer 
leading scorer, forward reach, as they shot 51 per­
Emily Creachbaum (13.3 cent from the field as a team, 
Saint Mary's (5-16, 1-9) points, 6.3 rebounds per and 54 percent beyond the didn't give themselves a game). three-point arc. Meanwhile, chance on Saturday after­On a positive note, Saint Mary's only shot 33 noon, as the Hornets of Maureen Bush, played percent from the field and 54 Kalamazoo (13-7, 7-3) extremely well for Saint percent from the line. jumped on the Belles early, Mary's, scoring eight points Katie Miller led the Belles building a 14-point halftime to go along with her game with 10 points, on 4-for-8 lead on the way to a 69-43 high 10 rebounds. Despite shooting. However, she was victory. her efforts, Kalamazoo was the only Belle in double dig­
Amanda Weishuhn led the just too much for the over­its, as Saint Mary's struggled charge against the Belles matched Saint Mary's, as on the offensive end. with 18 points on 7-for-10 they jumped out to a 32-18 Contributing to the Belles' from the field. She was one of halftime lead. offensive woes was the three Hornets in double fig­"We got off to a slow start Kalamazoo defense, who cap­ures. as Vanessa Larkin shot and we just never got going italized on 25 Belle turnovers 4-for-5 from three-point to make up for the points," with 33 po.ints. range, on her way to 16 said Bush. "Every loss is dis­However. despite claimingpoints and five assists, and appointing, but we really did last place in the nation's old­Alissa Johnston added 10 expect to play with them." est conference, the MIAA. the points. Despite only losing 60-53 to Belles continue to uphold the 
Post play was the story of Kalamazoo earlier in 1.he positive attitude Lhat has 
Saturday's game, as Saint year., Saint Mary's is not get­been apparent in both coach Mary's was outscored in the ting down on themselves, Suzanne Bellina and her paint 28-8 by the dominating however, even after their players. as they return home 
Irish show chemistry 
in exhibition game 
MENS LACROSSE 
c:::-:::--.. -7 


,-~, ~?~, ;~.fai1o./ il. ii~ ihtl't Pw "/~"l' 
fk-e 5tai:e11tlftfii,,iff-85 fJ#tt-e (G o.a-eptt11g hgtJ i.-t6{glf5 /OI' tft-e /'fi;W 
'lfGfN!JG ,,(lo~ftr 5EH/Cf'8Af).
,f(}(}pl'fz,e /IJI' tft~ Mirlri1t9 l.-t6~1t, a11d tk-t dt6i91tel' 5flwflJ a11d h91J MIiIJ,e dt'6p/4.t(d artf,.:e 11,e,:v ''teg,e11ti.5." rl<rl.6t6~ ii Hom PtJ111e 6tu/-e,rtn5P.rn,,,ito. 1.e6~11.J 
Pt-aifi1t-t tp,, 51.1.h,1itttirg h9P dt,5iglr5 l5 &fd4!{, NIJPfA.o.Pf( 2(. Pnf Pl/ ,e,11tJ,i-e6 flJ tlt,e, Gtrd.,e,11tl!ttfvtfi,e,5 fll/ci;,e,, !ffWonw,.,e,. fbl' aii1rtf1J1ra.l[Jr/lJl'ftlAT{P,t, COl!f~ftft,e, Gf«i,e,11f,4,;fr.'vitft5 fll/ctt, 6!{-7!0S,, 

Students ride free on Transpo Route #7 between Main or Library Circle and the Robinson Center and Legal Aid with a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's ID. 
OPERATING HOURS: Monday-Friday: 5:30 a.m. -10 p.m. Saturday: 6 a.m. -6 p.m. 


TRANSPO BUS SCHEDULE  
.  ·-•---­ 
From Downtown toward :\lall  From :Vlall toward Downtown  
l\linutes p:1st the hour (A11prmimate tim~sl  
Legal Aid  25 & 55  08 & 38  
·Robinson Center  '27&57  06&36  
l\lain Circle  29 & 59  04 & 3-1  
Librarv Circle  0 I & 3 I  02 & 3'.2  

Schedules are a, ailable at 1he LaFonune lnfonnation Desk. Center for Social Concerns or Student Gon:nimem Onices 
:\OTE: '\otrc Dame:SL\laf',', a tlcrnoon shuttle bus .'i-2 n ill be discontit1L1ed as ,)t' \larch I~L Stude!l!s should hegin t1s111g the Transpo bus instead Shwtle bus;:: I ,en·ing "<om: D,11nc. St \lar.'s and H,)!y Cross \\ii! C()i1!111ue as scheduled 
for Wednesday's game. 
"We have to go into every game with confidence," said Bush, a sophomore. "We just need to find a way to win them, but these next teams we feel are very beatable teams." 
Saint Mary's returns to the Angela Athletic Center to face Albion (13-8, 6-4). The Britons enter the game after a big victory at Calvin College tied them for third place in the MIAA. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER Spores Writer 
In front of a rather large crowd at Meyo Field in the Loftus Center last Saturday, the Irish lacrosse team impressed with a 15-9 exhibition win over the Titan Tour Major Lacrosse League team. 
Titan Tour was composed of -several top world players, including former Irish All­Americans Todd Rassas, Jimmy Keenan and Tom Glatzel. The team also featured three mem­bers ofthe U.S. National Team. 
One thing the MLL players didn't have was chemistry, as it was the first time they had played together, and h showed in the first two periods as the Irish leapt out to an impressive 12-3 lead at the half. 
"What I was looking for was to see how we could play as a team," said head coach Kevin Corrigan. "I was extremely happy with our first team defense." 
Junior Irish goalie Stewart Crosland was impressive with the start, turning away 13 of 16 shots from a team that claims the top two offensive players in the world. Senior Nick Antol replaced him in the fourth peri­od. 
In the first period, it looked as though the scrimmage would be a close match. as the teams knotted at a 2-2 tie early in the first period. 
With a series of beautiful passes and impressive deflec­tions, the Irish were able to score 10 straight unanswered goals. 
Impressive individual play allowed the Irish to score one of the 10 unanswered goals, as junior attacker Dan Berger stole a clearing pass from the Titan Tour goalie and shot it into the vacated goal to give Notre Dame a 10-2 lead. 
The Notre Dame defense almost achieved a shutout in the second period, but Titan Tour was able to score with just six seconds remaining to spoil that chance. 
Each team scored once in the third, with midfielder Travis Wells collecting the loose ball and banging it past the Titan Tour goalie to answer a goal from the MLL players and make the score 13-4 going into the fourth. 
In the fourth, Titan Tour started playing like the talented team they were, scoring five unanswered goals at one point and six total in the final period. The Irish only scored two more goals in the final 15 minutes. 
"I think we may have lost a bit of our aggressiveness after the first half," Corrigan said. "But [Titan Tour] is a good team, and they had a lot of pride to keep ihat game from being a blowout." 
The 17th-ranked Irish lacrosse team will begin the 2003 regular season on the road against No. 15 Penn State Feb. 23. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

Ride FREE to and from 
MAIN CIRCLE, ROBINSON CENTER, and LEGAL AID 
_;r 





