
VOL. XXXVII NO. 131 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Increase in lay service cuts religious vocations 
Ry ANNELIESE WOOLFORD  Founded by the Congregation of the SLi;ters of the IIoly Cross in  within the last few years. so there has probably been an  track position at the College at the request of others, applied  Catholic-Muslim Women·s Dialogue program initiated this  
S.iint Mary's Editor  1844, Saint Mary's has faced a  increase more now than four  and was hired.  semester.  
decline  in  years ago,  Other sisters employed by the  Based on her experience work­ 
It shouldn't come 11.':i a surprise to sec sisters walking, biking or  the number of sisters  "I think there may be  but cer­tainly not  College are Kathleen Dolphin, director of the Center for  ing with other educational com­munities in the United States and  
driving around Saint Mary's. There is a convent on campus after all. Not ,L'> commonly seen. howrwer, is thn role that sisters  holding positions within the Collr,ge  creati1}e ways to explore the way sisters, priests and brothers could share more with  more than 20 years ago," said Patrick  Spirituality, Linda Kors, director of the Volunteer Center, Elena Malits, professor emeritus in tho Heligious Studies Department,  Bangladesh, Farina feels that Saint Mary's couid better incor­porate religious vocations into its campus.  
play in fultilling vocations at the College.  i t s e I f . Within the  students."  White. interim  Rose Anne Schultz. vice presi­dent for Mission, Agnes Anne  "I think there may be crnative ways to explore the way sisters.  
"Numbers entering the com• munity have dropped sharply,  past few years. posi­ Marianne Farina  vice presi­dent and  Roberts, director of' facilities and Marianne Farina, a Center for  priests and brothers could share more with students," she said. "l  
probably because there am so many other different things that  tions have opened up  Leadership Fellow  dean faculty  of at  Women's lntercultural Leadership fellow.  enjoy being with the Saint Mary's women and look for opportuni­ 
a young girl can to do, like the  allowing  the College.  In addition to fulfilling her two­ ties to get together with them  
Peace Corps or other volunteer  sisters to become more involved  Klene. for example, attended  year fellowship, Farina teaches  out.side of the classroom."  
services," said Sister Jean Klene,  in the community.  Saint \1.ary's as a student before  several courses within the Social  Although there is no apparent  
a  professor  in  the  English  "Persons as individuals and in  entering the religious communi­ Justice Education Department  
l)(~partment.  some cases, positions,  are new  ty. In 1970, she began a tenure- and is the coordinator for CWIL's  see VOCATIONS/page 4  

OIT expects new server to run today 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
News Writer 
Performance issues with the back-up mainframe server now running Irishlink caused problems for Notre Dame students attempt­ing to register for classes or lookup class information Monday. 
"We were experiencing a slow down in registration, but we think we are back on level ground," said University Hegistrar Harold Pace. 
Pace said that the slowdown came to a head for an hour at 2 p.m., when 150 to 200 students were scheduled to register. The server rejected some attempts to register for courses or view infor­mation about open classes. The llegistrar's Office assisted any stu­dents who called them and report­ed problems using Web registra­tion. 

CCC allocates 2003-04 club funds 

By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Wrirer 
The Club Coordination Council released its budget for the 2003-04 academic year, allocating over $256,000 to 215 student clubs and the Student Senate approved it Thursday. The annual funding alloca­tions represent less than 1/4 of clubs' estimated expenditures, said CCC president Seth O'Donnell. 
Controller Tim Lavelle agreed and said the limited amount of resources makes the allocation process difficult. 
"Clubs need as much financial sup­port as possible," the pair wrote in a letter explaining the budget report to the Student Senate. The report also identified trends in student activities over the past l'cw years, including "improvements in club activities, increased number ol' clubs, and increased desire for clubs to become more active on campus." 
Lavelle said the clubs' competition for funds leads Lo close budgetary scrutiny by CCC ofTicials. 
"Each club goes through extensive iptervicw processes," Lavelle said. ''We look at how fiscally responsible the dub is." 
Student clubs' budgets and demand for money havf1 outstripped tho CCC allocations, leaving clubs with the task of raising large sums of money. The total predicted spending by all dubs amounts to about $1,125,000, but only $305,000 is being allocated. The funding comes primarily from the annual student activities fee that all undergraduates are required to pay, though some money also comes from proceeds from the sale of The Shirt. 
see BUDGET/page 8 

In-hall dance resolution fails 
. Senate, Office of the President vow to continue debate next year 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 

Members of the Campus Life Council met Monday afternoon in the McNeil Boom of' the LaFortune Student Center to discuss the Senate resolution calling for a probationary reinstatement of in-hall dances. 
Sarah Bates, former Pasquerilla West senator. presented letters written by both the former and the current Senate recommending the dance re­instatement. After a debate that dominated the CLC agenda, the resolution failed by a secret ballot vote of 8-8. Resolutions require a 2/3 majority to pass. 
"I definitely thought it was a productive meeting; I was extremely impressed with both sides," Bates said. "I felt today that a lot of us [students] went into the meeting not really expecting the resolution to pass but more hoping we cotrld open up the lines of communication. Talking to the rectors and administrators and getting their ideas and opin­ions definitely helped." 
Libby Bishop, former student body president, said that rectors wanted to give the new policy requiring dances to be held outside residence halls more time before changing the policy. 
"The sentiment of rectors ... would be to see the resolution in two to three years," she said. "(The rectors·! want to give the new policy a chance." 
Brother Jerome Meyer, Knott Hall rector, said that some rectors also had concerns about a lack of space to hold in-hall dances as w,>.11 as the belief' that in-hall dances contribute to an unhealthy drinking culture. Meyer said that he supported the Council's decision. 
"[Some people feel that] we should go a couple of years without dances in the halls to break the drinking culture," he said. 
Students addressed concerns that dances out­side of residence halls cost more to put on and that the removal of dances from the halls has lost a tra· dition. 
Students also said that because the policy changes banned both hard alcohol and in-hall dances during the same year, thoy could not directly attribute a decrease in alcohol consump­tion to the banning of in-hall dances. 
Bates said that the student proposal and ensuing discussion attempted to increase communication between students, administrators and rectors to 
see RESOLUTION/page 6 


Tuesday, April 15, 2003 

The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Hey Belles 

I would like to point something out. 
A school's mascot is just that, it's a mascot. It is not intended to be a term to refer to all students. nor is it intended to be a 
general term used when addressing all members of a particular institu­tion. 
For example, at Harvard I am cer­tain that gradua­tion speakers do not greet the grad­

uating class with Katie McVoy the statement "Hey there Crimson!" 
Senior Staff 
For at least the 
Writer

300th time this year I opened my Saint Mary's email and was once again irritated to see an e-mail that ended, 'Thanks Belles." Now, not all e-mails end, "Thanks Belles," but many of them begin "Hey Belles," or contain "Hang in there Belles,'' "We can work through this together Belles," and, my favorite, "Go Belles." 
Now, it is important to point out here that I am not advocating the removal of Belles as Saint Mary's mas­cot, nor am I saying that I am embar­rassed to be a Saint Mary's student. What I am saying is that I just can't take reading anymore e-mails that make constant use of the term Belles. Isn't there anything else we can be called? 
As far as I can tell, I am a 22-year­old college senior and, unless I am mistaken, that should point to the fact that I'm at least in the age bracket of adulthood, if not always there by maturity. However. the constant bar­rage of "Hey Belles" makes me feel about as old as the preschoolers my mom teaches. 
What happened to addressing e­mails "Dear students?" Not everything at Saint Mary's has to be blatantly rah-rah. In fact, as far as I'm con­cerned, the ongoing need to refer to the Saint Mary's student body as "Belles" seems to decrease our respectability. 
I would not mind the occasional use of the word Belles in e-mail. In fact, in e-mails advocating school spirit -like Midnight Madness e-mails or e-mails supporting our athletic teams -I think it is quite appropriate. However, it is entirely ridiculous to use "We can do this together Belles" in e-mails dis­cussing the Saint Mary's alcohol poli­cy. the cancellation of classes or the discussion of parking lots. 
In that vein, I'm pretty sure that next on the list of ways to encourage Belles are "Eat your broccoli Belles," "Get eight hours of sleep Belles" and "Brush twice a day Belles." 
Some people, at least. have tried to change things up a little, including closings like "May the force be with you." Now mind you, it's not a brilliant literary ending. but it sure was differ­ent. And it certainly didn't make me want to scratch my eyes out. 
General information e-mails can be addressed to students, not Belles .. The word Belles does not define each of us entirely, so an attempno address us as something else would be greatly appreciated. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
In a Letter to the Editor in Friday's Observer, Dame! Rah's last name was misspelled. The Observer regrets the error. 

WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
BOG grants $7,000 to The Show 
BOG officers dis­cussed and granted a request for finan­cial support from the organizers of The Show at Monday's meeting. 
pages 
WORLD& NATION 

Pentagon: Major combat in Iraq finished 
When Tikrit fell Monday with little resistance it was the last Iraqi city to succumb to U.S. led ground and air forces. 
page 5 
BUSINESS NEWS 

Indexes jump on bargain hunting 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose over 140 points as investors were attracted by low prices resulting from last week's declines. 
page 7 

WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
. 
Bookstore Basketball Hound or 64 all clay at the Bookstore courts 

. 
Campus Bible Study 


7 to 8 p.m. at Coleman-Morse Center, Room 114 
. Lecture on Biotcrrorism with Col. Charles llolt, D.C)., U.S. Army H.escrvc 7 to 8 p.m. at DeBartolo !Iall, Hoom 102 
WHAT'S HAPPENING@ SMC 
. 
Recital Forum -Music Comp noon at Moreau Center for the Arts, Room 114 AT 

. 
Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership Film Festival 


6:30 p.m. at Madcleva Hall, Carroll Auditorium 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Buffalo chicken lasagna, meatball with sauce, Hawaiian pizza, pretzel sticks, roast top round, champagne rice pilaf, cherry crisp, baked Cajun pollock, cheese and veg­etable pie, winter-blend vegetables, oat­meal, bacon, scrambled eggs, biscuits, hash browns, crinkle fries, snow peas and noodles with soy dressing, black beans with tomato and cilantro 
Today's Dinner: Roasted turkey breast, bread stuffing. whipped potatoes, baked sweet potatoes, tuna casserole, corn, sugar-snap peas, stewed tomatoes, wilt­ed spinach, steamed vegetable plate, BBQ pork spareribs. hot applesauce corn bread, broccoli garlic tofu 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a:: 
w 
ti ~ 
w 


==... 
cc 
(.) 


South Dining Hall 
VIEWPOINT 
Saying 'good­bye' to the Dome 
Columnist Amy Schill admits that despite often mak­ing fun of Notre Dame, she doesn't want to leave. 
page 10 
SCENE 
Sit back, sink into the Stripes 
Maria Smith awards four sham­rocks to Elephant's new album, The White Stripes in her review. 
page 12 
SPORTS 
ND baseball just 1 short of school record 
Notre Dame has 17 straight wins and faces Eastern Michigan tonight at home to try to tie the record. 
page 24 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Vehicle found with engine running 
NDSP secured a vehicle discovered with its engine running at Eck Baseball Stadium Friday. The keys were later returned to the vehicle's owner. 
Se~urity, Fire Department respond to 
2 fire alarms 
NDSP and NDFD responded to a fire alarm at Keenan Hall Saturday afternoon, and another in Howard Hall Sunday morning. 
Student reports assault in Fisher 
A student reported being assaulted in Fisher Hall Saturday. The case is being referred for adminis­trative review. 
3 students cited for liguor law viola­
tions, 2 taken to hospital · 
NDSP issued a University citation to one minor for consuming alcohol in violation of a state liquor law in Siegfried Hall at roughly 3 a.m. Saturday morning, NDSP also responded to reports of two intoxicated students, one late Saturday night in Stanford Hall, the second early Sunday morning at LaFortune. Both students were transported via ambulance to St. Joseph Medical Center. All three cases have been referred for administrative 
review. 
Today's Lunch: Baked cheese ravioli, gorgonzola sauce, Mexican beef pizza, toasted pretzel sticks, macaroni and cheese, cauliflower, BBQ chicken, grilled tuna with lemon, roast turkey breast, whipped potatoes, cut corn, long grain and wild rice, bread stuffing, baked potato. broccoli cuts, baby carrots, cut green beans, chicken breast, seasoned fries, onion rings, BBQ cantonese pork stew, chicken taco 
Today's Dinner: Spinach pie, green bean casserole, fried perch, roast top round, herb-sauteed mushrooms, baked potato, Cajun chicken breast sandwich, seasoned fries, onion rings, chicken Kung Pao 
WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
.9 HIGH 84 HIGH 77 HIGH 73 HIGH 55 LOW 65 LOW 57 LOW 52 LOW 50 
-compiled from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Panini forno primav­era, veggie quiche, orzo, plum tomato sauce, sauteed fajitas, wing bar, beef kabobs, rice pilaf, sauteed snow peas, cheese burger pizza, BLT loafer, Oriental turkey salad, sliced honey ham, sliced smoked turkey, olive hummus. lemon cheesecake bar, ginger snaps, potato soup, beef vegetable soup, maca­roni salad 
Today's Dinner: Marinated broccoli salad. fruit salad. assorted rolls and sweet potato biscuits, baked manicotti, carved leg of lamb and carved pit ham, chicken marsala, wild rice pilaf. potato casserole, vegetable medley, lamb cakes, frost your own Easter cookie 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 60 HIGH 60 LOW 55 LOW 40 

Atlanta 78 / 56 Boston 76 / 54 Chicago 80 / 54 Denver 64 / 35 Houston 82 / 61 Los Angeles 64 / 45 Minneapolis 68 / 44 New York 75 / 58 Philadelphia 80 / 58 Phoenix 70 / 50 Seattle 58 / 42 St. Louis 81 / 57 Tampa 83 / 63 Washington 82 / 58 




Tuesday, April l5, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Women honored for leadership, contributions at ND 
By ERlN FOX 
Ni,w, Writer 
The Wom<rn's Hnsourcc Center held their fourLh annual Distinguished Notrn Dame Woman Award Ceremony Monday evening in the Oak Hnom nf' South Dining llall. The ceremony honored four women who have made significant contri­butions to Univcrsily life 
through service,  academic  
e x c td I e n c e  a n d  fo s Le r in g  
community.  

The fou·r recipients of the Distinguished Notre Dame Woman Award for 2003 were professors Andrea. Smilh S h a ppel l. Co I l l\ e n Hy an -ScheuLz and Barbara Szweda. and former Pasqucrilla West Assistant Hector Cynthia Phillips. 
The ceremony included an invocation by Father Bill Lies. executive director of the Center for Social Concerns. and remarks bv gunst spoakers Dean Av11 Preacher, a past recipient of 
thf! award. and Ma rev Simons. supervisor at the llcsburgh Library. Preacher and Meredith Foley, presi­de n t of t Im W o m e n · s B.esourcc Center. distributed the awards. 
Professor Joseph Stanfiel of the Classics Department, Sister Sue Bruno, rector of l'asqucrilla West and Ca11dacr. Carson. rector of Welsh Family llall, served as judges and pichd the women 
honored with the Distinguished Notre Dame Woman Award. They chose from a field of 12 women who had been nominated by colleagues an<l students. 
The criteria used to judge the nominees included the extent to which the nominee has contributed to the advancement of women at Notre Dame, the overall con­tribution made to the University, the con tributio n made to the nominee's field of excellence and the degree to which the nominee could serve as a role model for stu­dents at Notre Dame. According to Lies. the women honored "a.re examples of all 
we  want to  be:  servants and  
leaders,"  
Shappell.  a  theology pro­ 

fessor, is the Director of Senior Transitions Programs at the CSC Ryan-Scheutz leaches in the Italian Department and serves as Language Director. Phillips is a second vear law student who has \vorked with the Office of Student Affairs. She is also currently president of the Women's Legal Forum. Szweda is an immigration and asylum law professor, immigration clinic attorney and the student attorney supervisor. 
Foley congratulated all the recipients and said they are "truly role models for all stu­dents and faculty." 
Contact Erin Fox at efox@nd.edu 

' 
I 
S.8JJ<i£;. .a 1-.a . Centerfior Socia{ Concerns .&A & 
~0°N~~R~~ ·.1tT~...nl' oo ru rp [J) @ oo n oo fE ~ rn-~Tn.· 
http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
The Center for Social Concerns is Celebrating its 20th Anniversary! Thursday, April 24th 
All members of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College campus communities are invited to join the CSC in marking two decades of service and justice programming! 
Please join us for: Cake at Stonehenge Noon -1:30 p.m. A Celebratory Open House & Prayer Service at the CSC 3:00 -5:00 p.m. Prayer and Blessing Service 4:15 p.m. 
(Fr. Bill Lies, C.S.C., current Executive Director ofthe Center; and Fr. Don McNeill, C.S.C., former Executive Director ofthe Center) 
.,,The Prophetic Voice of Peace" Rosary for Peace 
April 24th, 7:00 -8:30 PM 9:00 PM Monday -Friday Presentation and Questions, 
The rosary will be said in different Debartolo 141 residence halls each weekday night from 8:30 PM Procession to Grotto for 
Monday through Friday.
concluding prayer for peace TONIGHT'S rosary will take place in 
A Talk by Fr. John Dear, S.J. 
Lewis Hall.

Peace Activist and author/editor of20 books on peace & justice, TOMORROW evening's will be in Former Executive Director of the Stanford Hall. Fellowship ofReconciliation 


Tuesday, April 15, 2003

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 


Irishlink 
continued from page 1 
"At 12:55, it finally let me in to register, but two or three courses that had mini­mal spots open earlier were no longer open .... I then tried to check the open class schedules, but it was taking an enormously long amount of time to see what courses were open so [ could fill my schedule," Forte said. 
According to Bob Schaffner. director of opera­tions and engineering for the Office of Information Technologies, the problem with the server has been identified and was scheduled to be fixed in the early morning today. When engi­neers configured the backup server Thursday, it was lim­ited to allowing 512 connec­tions to the database at one time. 
Because the database sup­ports a number of applica­tions -including student services, the financial sys­tem, the payroll system and the development system ­the server was running close to the maximum number since being brought up Thursday. 
This problem is magnified by the fact that when a stu­dent requests course infor­mation on Irishlink, it may require up to 40 of the serv­er's 512 slots to return the information. 
If the maximum number of connections is reached, the server rejects requests for information, meaning stu­dents will not be able to reg­ister for classes or retrieve information. 

As a temporary solution, Schaffner said an e-mail was sent to departments who use the server, asking them not to use the database for any non-critical work so stu­dents could use it to regis­ter. Following a scheduled backup this morning, UIT intended to increase the maximum number of con­nections to 768, which should fix any problems. Engineers could not com­plete the change during the day Monday, because it requires the server to be restarted, which would cause an outage in registra­tion. 
orr implemented the back­up server Thursday after­noon after the mainframe server crashed, causing a 32-hour outage. Technicians from Hewlett-Packard are still working to fix the origi­nal server, hut have not been successful. 
Schaffner said the techni­cians thought they had fixed the problem on Thursday evening, but the server crashed again while running diagnostic programs Saturday. 
"The signs are now point­ing to a bad processor board. HP ordered a new processor board, but it was dead on arrival. When another one arrives, it will be installed," Schaffner said. 
At that time, OIT engineers will thoroughly test the machine to make sure that it is working correctly. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu. 

Vocations 
continued from page 1 
reason as to whv the number of sisters involved·on campus has decreased, speculations have been raised. 
"I think it's partially a question of the number of Sisters of the Holy Cross who are getting older," White said. "As we have retirements of certain positions. 
they're sometimes not appropri­ate applicants at the appropriate point in their careers for consid­eration." 
Saint Mary's, however, is con­tinuing to make an effort. As cited in the College's Governance Manual, "To the extent permit­ted by law, qualified members of the Congregation will be given preference for administrative, faculty, staff and campus min­istry posit.ions. The College will actively recruit members of the Congregation for these posi­tions." The campus community also offers programs such as "Adopt a Sister" to better incor­porate sisters into daily life at Saint Mary's. 
"I don't worry about the lack of numbers," Klene said. "God raised up sisters in history and, if He wants us to continue, He'll take care of things." 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 


Editorial Positions Available 
COMMON SENSE 
IS NOW SEEKING ••• 
PROGRESSIVE STUDENTS, INTERESTED IN ISSUES OF SOCIAL JUSTICE, WHO WOULD BE INTERESTED IN WORKING WITH THE ONLY INDEPENDENT, LIBERAL VOICE IN OUR CAMPUS COMMUNITIES. 
AN EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY TO BRING TO THE UNIVERSITY COMMUNITY IDEAS AND ISSUES THAT WOULD OTHERWISE NOT BE HEARD. 
AN EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE YOUR ORIGINAL WORK PUBLISHED AND READ BY A LARGE PART OF OUR UNIVERSITY COMMUNITY. 
BECOME AN PARTICIPANT IN THE STRUGGLE FOR EQUALITY AND JUSTICE. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE EMAIL US AT RVACCA@ND.EDU OR COM_SENS@ND.EDU 
"COMMON SENSE IS ALWAYS A BLESSING OF GOD, AND THESE DAYS 
COMMON SENSE IN GOVERNMENT IS A PRECIOUS JEWEL." 
•JOHN CARDINAL O'HARA, C.S.C. 







Sex...Yon never knew it was so good. 
"It is necessary to rediscover continually in what is"This is the body -a witness to creation "By its nature, human life is erotic the nuptial meaning of the body and the true 
as a fundamental gift, and so a witness to 'coeducative.' Its dignity and 
dignity of the gift. This is the role of the human Love as the source from which this same balance depend, at every moment spirit. a role of an ethical nature. If it does notgiving springs. Masculinity and of history and at every point of assume this role, the attraction of the senses and the femininity -namely, sex -is the original geographical longitude and latitude, passion ofthe body may stop at mere lust devoid ofsign of a creative donation and an on who woman will be for man and ethical value. Then man, male and female, does notawareness on the part of man. male­who man will be for woman:•· experience that fullness of cros. which means thefemale, of a gift lived in an original aspiration of the human spirit toward what is true,way." 
good. and beautiful, so that what is erotic also becomes true. good, and beautiful." 
"Continence for the sake of the 
1

kingdom of heaven, the choice of T 0.f1.. 'Y;: '"U1:iting with each other (in thevirginity or celibacy for one's whole 
~ 

=--.. ,,'~·) ·. conJugal act) so closely as to life. has become in the experience of .: .. · 0 become "one flesh,,. man and Christ's disciples and followers the act 
OF woman rediscover, so to speak,of a particular response of love for the 
every time and in a special way. the divine Spouse. Therefore it has 
THE mystery of creation. They return in acquired the significance of an act of 
this way to that union in humanity nuptial love. that is. a nuptial giving of 
which allows them to recognizeoneself for the purpose of 
each other and call each other byreciprocating in a particular way the 
name. This means reliving. in a nuptial love of the Redeemer. It is a Pope John Paul II on the human 

se11se, the original virginal value of giving of oneself understood as 1>erson, the body and sexuality: mm,, which emerges from the re11unciution. but made above all out 
mystery of his solitude before God of love." 
Notre Dame Right to Life presents and in the midst of the world." A WEEKEND WITH CHRISTOPHER WEST 
expert on Pope John Paul !l's Theology of the Body 
Evening Talks (open to all!): Friday April 25th 7:30pm 141 DeBartolo Hall Bu;/d;ng a Culture qll(fe Saturday April 26th 7:30pm 141 DeBartolo Hall li4arriage and Celibacy for the Kingdom Day of Prayer*: Saturday April 26th 9am-5pm CoMo Lounge A Crash Course in the Theology ofthe Body 
*Due to limited space, please register for the Day of Prayer. For registration details, email mcokeley@.1.1d.edu, or see posters around campus. 




WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, April 15, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
Tikrit falls, Pentagon says major combat over 
vital services. 

Associated Press 
American forces found prodi­

Saddnm llussein's hometown gious amounts of Ira.qi weapon• of Tikrit fell Monday wilh unex­ry, French-made missiles and pectndly light resistance, tho last Hussian anti-tank rocket launch­Iraqi city to succumb to ovcr­ers among them. And Army powfiring U.S.-led ground and troops discovered thousands of air forces. A senior Pentagon microfilm cartridges and hun­general said "major combat dreds of paper files inside a engagements" probably are over Ba'ath Party enclave as the dead in the 26-day-old war. regime began yielding its 
As fighting wound down, secrets. l'!intagon officials disclosed In Tikrit, about 90 miles north plans to pull lwo aircraft carri­of Baghdad, "There was less ers from lhe Persian Gulf. At the resistance than we anticipated," same time, Iraqi power brokers Brig. Gen. Vincent Brooks told looked ahead lD discussions on a reporters. as American ground postwar government at a U.S.­troops moved into the city aller arranged meeting set for days of punishing airstrikes. Tuesday. American forces captured a 
"I would anticipate that the key Tigris River bridge in the major combat engagements arc heart of town and seized the over," Maj. Gen. Stanley presidential palace without a McChrystal told reporters at the fight as they rolled past aban­Pentagon. Tikrit foll with no sign doned Iraqi military equipment. of thn ferocious last stand bv They set up checkpoints to Saddam loyalists that some milt­keep prominent regime figures lary planners had feared. from leaving, and a line of 
Secretary of State Colin Powell armored vehicles was parked in hinted at economic or diplomatic front of a bazaar inside the city. sanctions against Syria, saying "We have had engagements, the government is developing a and we have defeated the enemy A U.S Marine sits atop his armored vehicle in front of Tlkrlt's Saddam Hussein Palace. On weapons of mass destruction in every one of those engage­Monday, U.S. forces seized the city -Saddam's hometown -with suprlsingly light resistance. program and helping Iraqis llee ments," said Capt. Frank Thorp. the dying regime. Syrian otncials a spokesman at U.S. Central With Saddam and his two sons returning to its base in Japan ards, two soldiers with the denied the charges. Command. dead or in hiding, his regime and the USS Constellation to San Army's V Corps were killed and 
Looting eased in Baghdad The operation inside Tikrit, gone and his armed forces rout­Diego. Each carrier has about two wounded when a grenade after days of plundering at gov­Brooks added, "is really the only ed, U.S. commanders took steps 80 warplanes, including F/A-18 exploded accidentally at a ernment buildings, hospitals and significant combat action that to reduce American firepower in and F-14 strike aircraft as well checkpoint south of Baghdad an antiquities museum, and occurred within the last 24 the war zone. as surveillance and other sup­and a third soldier was killed group of religious and civil oppo­hours." Mc Chrystal told A U.S. defense otncial said two port craft. and another wounded in an sition leaders met in the capital reporters, "I think we will move of five aircraft carrier battle­The Air Force already has sent accidental shooting near to plan efforts at renewing into a phase where it [combat] is groups in the region would soon four B-2 stealth bombers home. Baghdad International Airport, power, water. security and other smaller, albeit sharp fights." be leaving, the USS Kitty Hawk In a reminder of lingering haz-Central Command said. 

Gunmen kill student, wound 3 in New Orleans gym 
At least 200 students were in the gym­booked on first-degree murder charges. guards at the school. Students and 
Associated Press 
nasium when the suspects entered the The fourth suspect arrested, Larry school security officers said there was a 
NEW OHLEANS building in search of the victim, 15-year­Moses, 19, allegedly hid the trio after hole in the fence near the gym. 
Gunmen armed with an AK-47 rifle old Jonathan Williams, authorities said. the shooting and was booked as an School board member Elliot Willard and a handgun opened fire in a packed Jie was apparently seated on the bleach­accessory, police said. said students told him that the boy was school gymnasium Monday, killing a ers with other students when the gun­Warrants were also issued for two the target and the girls were accidental l1ic11age boy and wounding tbree girls in men confronted him. They shot repeat­more suspects late Monday. Police Chief victims. a spray of 30 bullets that sent some 200 edly, striking the victim in the head and Eddie Compass said he did not know if Leon Myles, a 17-year-old junior, said students scrambling for cover. body and sending panicked students any of the suspects attended the school. he knew Williams. "lie was an OK guy," 
Four suspects were arrested in a screaming. The suspects managed to slip out of he said. "It was probably gang stuff." sweep of the neighborhood near John "They started shooting and I started the gym and they were arrested about Charity hospital spokesman Jerry McDonogh lligh School, about a mile running," said ninth-grader Garick three blocks away. Two were in a get­Hornig said a 15-year-old girl had north of' the French Quarter. Police said Jacob, who was in the gym when the away vehicle and two others were at a surgery because a bullet went through the shooting appeared to be retaliation shooting began. "I was really scared." nearby llouse. both her legs. Michelle Brown, 16, and for a killing on April 7. Students said the Tyrone Crump, 17, Herbert Everett, It was not immediately clear how the Trakeido Barracks, 16, were both treat­feud was apparently gang related. 18, and Michelle Fulton, 17, were all gun got through metal detectors and ed and released. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Quebec separatist party loses races 
Quebec voLers have told the rest of Canada the French-speaking province will not seek indepen­dence again soon, ending the pro-sovereignly Parti Qucbncois' nine-year run in office. 
i\lmost complete results showed the Quebec Liberal Party led by Jean Charest won a strong majority in the 125-mcmber National Assembly leg­islature to form a now provincial government. 
The Liberal victory was thorough. reaching across the province. 
Israeli committee selects new chief rabbis 
A committee of rabbis and Israeli public orticials on Monday chose two new chief rabbis, who have spoken out on genetic engineering and plastic surgery. 
Vona Metzger, 50. was chosen Ashkenazi Chief Habbi. guiding Jews of European extraction. Shlomo i\mar. 55, will serve as Sephardi Chief Rabbi of Jews who originated in North Africa and Spain. 
Chief rabbis are state ol1icials. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
"COPS" producer found dead from fall 
A body found on an Oregon beach was identified Monday as that of reality TV pioneer Paul Stojanovich, a former producer of the long-run­ning series "COPS," officials said. 
The remains were discovered Sunday about a mile from where Stojanovich fell from a bluff on March 15. They were identified through dental records. 
Stojanovich and his liancee were hiking when he slipped while stopping to pose for a picture. 
AOL sues to prevent mass e-mail ads 
America Online has filed five federal lawsuits targeting spammers it accuses of sending some 1 billion junk e-mail messages promoting mort­gages, steroids and pornography to its sub­scribers. 
The case resulted from about 8 million individ­ual spam complaints from subscribers, most of whom used a "Report Spam" feature AOL intro­duced last fall. the company said Tuesday. 

INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Group proposes off-track betting parlor 
The owners of an Indiana pari-mutuel track want to open a betting parlor near Louisville, Ky., that would compete with one operated by Churchill Downs. 
Indiana Downs ofTicials told members of the Clark County Council on Monday that they want to offer off­track betting in either JefTersonville or Clarksville. 
The parlor would compete directly with Churchill Downs' Trackside parlor in Louisville. Ky., which is less than five miles from both southeastern Indiana cities. 
Clark County, with a population of more than 97,000 and a traditional interest in horse racing, is an especially suitable site, Indiana Downs oll1cials 
said. 
"We really feel Clark County is probably the strongest OTB site iri the state," said Gil Short. presi­dent of business development for the Shelbyville track. 
Indiana Downs also operates a betting parlor in Evansville. 
Tuesday, April 15, 2003 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
on their side," said Lao.

R I t•
eso u IOD "Whereas, my class, the sopho­mores will be the last students 
i

continued from page 1 to have experienced in-ha!J -----------. dances if [tho policy] doesn't 





Notre Dame Apartments 
Hop on down North Notre Dame Avenue and check us out ! 
Look at what we're doing ......... 
We1re undergoing some updating .............. Let us show you !!!!!! 
•2 Bedroom/ 1Bath -1,000 SF 
•If you're looking for spoct &convenient location, ND Apts '1re for you! 
Call today to-make an appointment ~N 574-234-9923 Tclark@cbresb.com 
gauge where each group stood 
on the issue and to bring lip the 
possibility of in-hall d,rnccs if 
other venues were not foasible. 
"lWe were] asking for oµen 

communication with tho ad1nin­
istration to see if dances could 
be in the dorms or at least to 
have the option of having 
dances in the dorms." Bates 
said. 
Rates said that although the 

resolution failed. the student 
interest in allowing dances to 
occur in residence halls has not 
abated. 
"The idea itself is not dead, 

but the resolution has not 
passed so we need to go 
through different means to try 
and get things done," Bates 
said. "The next step would hlt to 
work with next year's Senc1.te 
and the Office of the President. 
It's definitely something that 
Pat [Hallahan] and Jemmy 
[Lao] and their office plan on 
fighting for." 
Lao, student body vice presi­dent, said he and Pat I lallalmn, student body president are will­ing to continue work on the in­hall dance issue. Specifically, Lao said they would address the rectors' concern over the lilck of ·adequate space for dances to be held in the halls. Lao said. if necessary, he and Hallahan would ask the Fire Department to evaluate the capacity of vari­ous residence hall basenwnts 
and lounges. 
"With the University adm inis­

tration and any issue that is hot 
with students, they have time change." 
In other CLC News: 
. 
BatPs presented the results of an online referendum passed by the 2002-03 Senate to gather student opinion on in-hall dances. Out of 3,138 students who voted, 2,240 "strongly sup­ported" dances being allowed back in halls and 681 "support­ed" dances occurring in halls; 1,433 students were "strongly opposed" and 1,167 students were "opposed" to dances being on campus but outside the halls. The majority of students said they felt "neutral" about regulations stipulating a specific time requirement to leave the room or to attend the dance. 

. 
The leadership taskforce of the CLC presented its final report to the Council. The task­force will meet today with Father Mark Poorman, vice president of Student Affairs, to discuss opportunities for greater student leadership on campus. 

. 
The Senate resolution calling for parietal extension was tabled due to lack of time and will be addressed at the final CLC meeting of the year April 28. 


Kate Nagengast contributed to this report. 
Contact Joe Trombello at tcombello.l@nd.edu 


254 Nieuwland Science Building Notre Dame, IN 46556 631-0622 
INFORMATION OPEN HOUSE 
FOR 

SUMMER LONDON 2004 & 2005 
DROP IN BETWEEN 6:30 AND 8:00 P.M. 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16, 2003 
IN 136 DeBARTOLO HALL APPLICATIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED FOR 2004 

Tuesday, April l5, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSEHVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch April 14 
DowJones 

8,351.10 ~ +147.69 

N4SDAQ 

1,384.95 ~ +26.10 
S&P500 

885.23 
+16.93 


AMEX 

838.08 ~ +16.93 
NYSEe

4.956.28 +80.65 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +2.27 +0.55 24.75 
CISCO SYS!€MS (CSCQ)c•: ,~t:;,:i~!ll:~~:it!;i! INTEL CORP (INTC) +2.39+0.4017.16 SUN MICROSYSTEM·•i(SON\1) ;~jj(jQ :1~'.;;~~Ji:i!!~~ 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) 
+3.28 +0.37 11.66 

IN BRIEF 
Judge slashes Philip Morris verdict 
Philip Morris USA got a partial reprieve Monday when an Illinois judge cul in half the amount the nation's biggest cigarette maker must come up with to begin appealing a $10.1 billion verdict over how it marketed light ciga­rettes. 
The decision also will preserve Philip Morris' ability to make a $2.6 billion payment due Tucsday to 46 states under a 1998 tobacco set­Uem ent, company spokesman David Tovar said. 
The maker of top-selling Marlboros had argued that having to pay the $12 billion appeal bond it had faced would bankrupt the company. It then would have been left unable lo make Urn payment to the states, many of whom were counting on the money to cover budget gaps. 
Big Blue earnings rise, miss Street 
IBM Corp.'s first-quarter earnings rose 16 percent from a year earlier but narrowly missed Wall Street expectations even as acqui­sitions helped lift revenue by 11 percent. 
IBM said Monday it earned $1.38 billion, or 7lJ cents a share, in the January-March period, up from $1.19 billion. or 68 cents a share, in the same quarter last year. 
Analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call had on averagu expected earnings of' 80 cents a sham for tlw latest quarter. 
U.S. taxpayers can file for extension 
Taxpayers who procrastinated and now find themselves up against Tuesday's filing dead­line can get n four-month extension from the Internal Hcvcnuc Service by liling a one-page form. no questions asked. 
But even those requesting an extension must pay their taxes by April 15 to avoid penalties. 
Taxpayers musl make a good faith effort to estimate how much they owe when they use form No. 4868 to file for an extension. and they must pay 90 porc1mt of their taxes owed for the year to avoid penalties. 






Bargain hunters lift markets 
• Trading light; investors wait for earnings info 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Investors attracted by lower prices but still wary of first-quarter earnings sent stocks soaring Monday, a break from last week's· declines. The Dow Jones industrials climbed more than 140 points but volume was light, a sign that many investors want to see more profit reports before making any major moves. 
"I think guys are going to stay flexible until they see some conviction. There is a reluctance by large institutions to really commit to the market. This isn't a momentum driven market," said Michael Murphy, head trader at Wachovia Securities. 
Although stocks were quite a temptation, Wall Street was still concerned after hearing companies say first-quarter and year­ly results will be soft. The market is again focused primarily on earnings and economic news, paying less attention to the war in Iraq now that allied suc­cess seems assured. 

Amid extremely light trading, the Dow closed up 147.69, or 1.8 percent, at 8,351.10. The blue chips well in the coming weeks Marines overtaking pock­to $38.43 after posting more than erased .last as companies report their ets of resistance in first-quarter earnings that week's loss of 0. 9 percent. results; analysts say the Saddam Hussein's home­surpassed analysts' expec­
The broader market also numbers will look far bet­town of Tikrit. Maj. Gen. tations by 2 cents a share. finished sharply higher. ter than those of last Stanley McChrystal said, "I Bank of America rose 66 The Nasdaq composite year's first quarter. would anticipate that the cents to $72 on prolits that index rose 26.10, or 1.9 "The markets have some major combat operations beat Wall Street's forecast percent, to 1,384.95. The reasonably good compar­are over." by 11 cents a share. Standard & Poor's 500 isons to work off of and Still,· his assessment had IBM advanced $1.32 to index advanced 16.93, or expectations are fairly little effect on trading as $80.07 in advance of its 2 percent, to 885.23. low. And, that that being investors have already earnings report scheduled 
The gains put the Dow the case, we might get anticipated success in to be released later and the S&P 500 back into through this earnings sea­Iraq, sending stocks high­Monday. After the market positive territory for the son without too much psy­er during earlier fighting. closed. IBM posted profits year. The Nasdaq has chological damage or mar­In economic news of 79 cents a share, a been in positive ground for ket damage," said A.C. Monday, the Commerce penny shy of expectations. the past month. Moore, chief investment Department reported busi­Its stock rose 72 cents in 
Despite Monday's strategist for Dunvegan ness inventories grew by the after-hours trading advance, analysts don't Associates in Santa 0.6 percent in February, session. expect many big upswings Barbara, Calif. while sales declined by 1 Intel rose 40 cents to on Wall Street for quite a Monday's rally came percent, the biggest drop $17.16 ahead of its quar­while. But they predict the amid reports of heavy since November 2001. terly results due out market will hold up rather warfare in Iraq with Citigroup climbed $1.08 Tuesday. 

Lockheed aircraft workers strike 
our company had not been in a good operations and critical production
Associated Press 

position," said Mark Hill, a strike tasks during the strike," Stout said. 
FORT WORTH, Texas captain for the Machinists union's The plant has made hundreds or 
Members of the union represent­District Lodge 776. "But this year we P-16 fighters for the U.S. military, ing about 4,000 workers at absolutely are in a different position but now only builds that particular Lockheed Martin Corp.'s aircraft -there are record profits at aircraft l'or Israel and Greece. Since manufacturing plant went on strike Lockheed Martin. We are asking for last year, Lockheed has been making Monday, seeking higher wages and a fair contract." the center section of the F//\-22, better medical insurance. Lockheed Martin spokesman Joe which will replace the F-16 but is 
Picketing began outside Lockheed Stout said the plant, which operates not in use yet by the U.S. military. Martin Corp.'s plant at 12:0l a.rn .. around the clock, remained open Lockheed also builds the F-2. anoth­as the International Association of Monday and the company would try er lighter, for Japan. Machinists and Aerospace Workers' to maintain aircraft production with "Because we don't make anything contract with Lockheed Martin nonunion salaried employees. The for the IU.S.J military now. l don't Aeronautics expired. The plant plant employs about 15,000 work­think this strike has any bearing on makes fighter jets. ers. the war," said Doug Grimes, a pick­
"We have forgone a lot of raises "The company has contingency eting 18-year employee with the over the last few contracts because plans in place to continue plant plant. 
Tuesday, April 15, 2003
page 8 The Observer . NEWS 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
BOG grants $7,000 funding to The Show 
. Feminist United earns club status 
By MEGAN O'NEIL News \'{' rirer 
Board of Governance offi­cers discussed a request for financial support from the organizers of The Show Monday. 
The Show, an event that takes place the first weekend of the school year in Aug11st, is a tri-school event, with Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students partici­pating. Well-known guest 
Budget 
continued from page 1 
This year's student fee was $80, which University administrators raised from last year's $65, though O'Donnell said student clubs still can't get all the funding they need. "There's just not enough to go around," O'Donnell said. 
In light of the overwhelm­ing demand for funding, the CCC has put measures into place to encourage fiscal responsibility among club leaders. The Student Activities Office must approve all expenditures by student clubs. 
"They're pretty strict about that," O'Donnell said. 
The new CCC regulations, outlined in a recently drafted strategic plan. include a requirement that clubs sub­mit periodic reports to CCC representatives. 
O'Donnell said he hopes the new measures will help to improve student life, as well as stretch the club fund­ing dollar. The budget includes two discretionary funds designed to provide supplementary funding to clubs. The Contingency Fund contains $25,000 available by application to clubs who encounter unforeseen cir­cumstances and need addi­tional funding. 
"If an athletic club makes it to nationals and needs to travel, this is where thev would come," O'Donnell said. 
The $5,000 Collaboration Fund helps promote efficient programming by offering extra money to clubs who work together to plan an event, instead of holding­potentially competing events: 
The budget also provides for a reorganization of' thn CCC into six divisions: acade­mic. athletic, cultural. per­forming arts, social service and special interest groups. Each division has three rep­resentatives who make allo­cation decisions for the clubs in their jurisdiction. Representatives also offer advice and collaborative help to club leaders. O'Donnell expressed confidence that. the revamped CCC will help improve student activities while making the most effi­bands perform, and an esti­for The Show this fall. year. They were also paign. SURV is collecting mated 2,700 students attend­While questions were raised impressed by the efforts made money from students in all of ed this past year. as to whether The Show is by the event's organizers to the residence halls for Saint 
Originally organized by the targeted exclusively to fresh­include the Saint Mary's stu­Margaret's House. Notre Dame campus club men, Board members agreed dent bodv and to reach out to FlipSide, The Show grew to that the event deserves the freshmcri: in general. . Club status was granted to become a signature event, support of Saint Mary's stu­"I don't really see a problem Feminist United, a new closely associated with dent government. pushing it to first years Feminist group on the Saint Freshman Orienlation week­"lt is a very worthwhile because I would much rather Mary's College campus. The end. event," said Notre Dame see first years at this event new club, led by Women's 
"It was originally done to Senate Representative Linda then at Hally in the Alley," Studies Department head combat Rally in the Alley in Evans tn discussion following said officer Katie Harrison. Astrid Henry, intends to bring Turtle Creek,'' said fundraiser Flaherty's presentation. "I Board members eventually speakers to the campus and Jimmy Flaherty to BOG mem­think if it is within uur budget voted to give $7,000 to the provide· a link between the bers. "Now it is presented as we should give them the production of the show. Women's Studies Department just another option." money." and the student body. 
Flahertv noted that as result Officers also commented on In Other BOG News: of budge\ cuts, Notre Dame the high attendance and par­. BOG voted to provide Student Activities would need ticipation rate of Saint Mary's matching funds up to $100 to Contact Megan O'Neil at the support of' BOG even more students at The Show each the SURV collection cam-onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

Join Coach Brev and the Irish in wrapping up the season at the banquet. 
TONIGHT-1:30pmJovce Center Enter gate 2, Sit in the Gold seats 
•
Team Awards 

•
Video highlights 


•
Hear from Coach Brev andthe seniors: Dan tustig, Jere Macura, Dan Miller &Matt CarroH 


cient use of limited funds. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at bramanli.1@ncl.edu 
Tuesday, April I5, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

Institute for Latino Studies/ Kellogg Institute for International Studies 

LOOKING OUT, LOOKING IN Film Series Latino and Latin American Perspectives 
VAMPIROS EN LA HABANA (CUBA/SPAIN/WEST GERMANY, 1985) 
Tuesday, April 15th, 2003 
8:00 p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
IN STI Tu· rr E for 

' ,i.· 




Latino Studies 


Study* in Tokyo 
*{Anthropology, Art History, Business, History, Literature, Philosophy, Religion, Sociology, Political Science...and, of course, Japanese!} 

Spring 2004 

No previous study of Japanese language required! For more information 
127 Hayes-Healey Tuesday, April 15 at 5pm 

Picnic, ecology fair draws large crowd 
By MARY BETH BROVIAK 
NewsWricer 
A band, games and food all entertained students as hundreds turned out Monday for Saint Mary's Student Diversity Board picnic and Ecology Fair. 
"Most girls look forward to the picnic because it's a nice change of pace," said Andrea DeLeon, picnic chair and SDB treasurer. "Each year we try to make it big­ger and better." 
The SDB picnic has been an annual event for the past three years, but this is the first year that the Ecology Fair has been added to the festivities. 
Biology Club President Tori Cox has been organizing the Ecology Fair since last year when she went to Valparaiso University and saw a similar event there. Cox said she liked the idea of a social event to promote ecological awareness so she went to Student Activities with the proposal. 
"I saw the need for better recy­cling here on campus," Cox said. "So all proceeds from the event goes toward the recycling fund." 
Currently, the students do all recycling on campus. 
Students set out boxes for recy­cled products. then go around and pick them up weekly. They drive the products to the recycling plant themselves in a vehicle that tlwy borrow from the College. Studcnis are hoping to implement a per­manent recycling program but the starting fee is $10,000. 
"I decided to do the Fair in con­junction with the SDB picnic because there are always so many picnics this time of year and I wanted it to be a big event," Cox said. 
The Students Environmental Action Coalition, Art Club and Biology Club were all represented at the event. Booths were also run by various businesses from the Michiana area including Harmony Market, Organic Food Store and Moon Beads Earthware. 
Aside from the band. Groovatron, the talk of the event was the Toyota Prius, which stu­dents could test-drive for 50 cents. The Prius, brought to cam­pus by Gates Toyota, is a Super Ultra Low Emission Vehicle that uses less gasoline to help improve the environment. 
Contact Mary Beth Broviak at brov9962@saintmarys.edu 


Turtle Creek Apartments 
Leasing for 2003-2004 
• Town Houses • 2 bedrooms • 1 bedrooms • Studios 
Call 2 72-8124 for details '\.Vv-VVV _turtlecreeknd. con, info@1turtlecrceknd_co1n 
IAM TRYING JO BREAK YOUR HEART i:' 
AFIL~ ABOUT WllCO BYSAM JONES -= 
-
c::t= 
c.:»
.. 
. =
= 
-=-• 
c::t 
= a:i 
-=­ca
I 
-= 
a:»
•I • 
en 
CD 
:I: 
0 
• 
en 
CD 
=­
=­
c::t 
-= 
en 


··,= 
en 
c:::I,= 
e 
ca 
= 
c.:»

WILCO 
OBSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, April 15, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nouc Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHlff 
Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER ScoH Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kri•ri.n Yemm 
SPORTS EDITOR, Joe Hect\er 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smich 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
SAINT MI\Rv'S EDITOR• Anneliese Woolford 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek 
CONTRO!l.ER: Michael Flanagan 
SYSTEMS MANACF.R.: Ted Bangert 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAC£R/GF.NF.RAL INFO.............631-7471 FAX....................................................... ......631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CtttEF........................................ 63I-4542 MANAGING EmrnR/AssT. ME.................... 631-454 l BUSINF.SS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr.l@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. I @nd .ed u 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 

SAJNr MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.rul.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du uc and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is noc governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q~stiom regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to Ediror in Chief Andrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
ThrO~"'(USPS 5-9' 240} is rub!iihed Monday 1hrnugh Friday aeq,rduring awn~ ¥&,uion pcriod,1. A 1ubtcrip£iun w The Ohti,;nv i,. SIOO f,ur OIU' aadcntii; yr:.r. ('}) foa om-~can'. 
1'br OMervtt ir puhli,hal •u; POSl~S:rt?:R 02-4 .»uth Dining HJI Send adJNSI «irm:Uocu co: Now lJanx. EN 465S6 The Obs.crn, 
P.O.llo,Q J>eriodk.al ~~ p.aid ~ Noc,~ D.imc Nom-l>am~, IN 4655,6.-0779 ;,nd ~iQGn;J ma.Iii"& aff'k.a 
ThrOb~ it a rnffl!her of the A:uociartd Pns1. Al! reproducrion righb m 
=al 
Saying goodbye to the Dome 
I'm a senior, and graduation is just around the corner, Many can't wait to get out of here, and some might be tempt­ed to think that I feel the same. l, who have made a habit of making fun of a school that is charmingly ridiculous at best (circus lunch, anyone?) and absurd at worst (parietals, hav­ing to go to class). should be thrilled to be finally free from the clutches of 
Amy Schill
Malloy and friends. But that couldn't be further from the truth. In reality, I just don't want to leave. 
Dazed and
It might be that I'm just not ready for the real world yet, but despite its Amused warts, I really love this school. Though the weather often sucks, many policies are antiquated, the administration is unneces­sarily paternalistic and the students are at times intellectual­ly uninterested, you're still going to have to pull me away from the Uome, perhaps not kicking and screaming, but at the very least drinking and rhythmically chanting. 
Much to my Arts and Letters professors' despair, I love football and I'm going to miss it terribly. I'm one of' those kids who grew up watching Notre Dame on Saturdays, dreaming of the day when I could watch the games from the stands as a student. People like Mike Brown, Psycho Cheerleader, Ty Willingham and of course, the shirtless cow­boy, have kept my love for Notre Dame football going even when having classes with some players has somewhat trou­bled my illusion of the greatness of Our Lady's loyal sons. Regardless, I will always love Notre Dame football and its ball-bearers, though I think I like the academic life even more. 

My English professors cringe when they hear that football was a reason for my coming here, but because I am a decent writer they have to like me despite themselves. I love, seri­ously love. being an English major, and I love the faculty. How can you not find adorable someone who gets that much , joy out of the discovery of the original manuscript for Lord Boring's Poems of Boringness, revealing that line four start­ed not with "And" but with "For," making the poem not about Lord Boring's sexual obsession with his mother, but instead about parakeets? That's just sexy. 
Oh, and if any of you young English majors out there are having trouble impressing your profs, here's a hint. Just ran­domly insert words and phrases like "discourse," "intertex­tuality" and "feminized other" into your papers. They will wet their Harry Potter underpants and demand you go to grad school. It works every time, 

But anyway, I've learned way too much about how the world works from studying literature, and I have the English faculty to thank for turning this football-loving papist into a pseudo-intellectual, if not a real one. I want to make out with all of you .. , and then we could read. 
Of course, leaving Notre Dame means not only leaving school, football and a world where there is never a good excuse to miss Mass (In the time it took to write this sen­tence, there were five Masses). It also means I have to leave this column. As you might have guessed by the slightly increased self-indulgence factor this week, this is my last col­unm. Although it is possible that The Observer might ask me to continue writing as an alum (undistinguished though I might be), I wiJI not do so. A big part of me wants to keep the column, but I fear that if I do I won't be able to let go, and five years from now I'll be staring at the bottom of a bottle or gin, telling my companion,.. um, Ginny. "I have no job, I have no friends, but I have an Observer column!" That would be really sad, and I can do all that without a column anyway. 
Its been a pleasure making jokes about monkeys and presi­dents (occasionally monkey presidents) over the past three years, and I've really enjoyed becoming a (very) minor cam­pus celebrity, I've developed quite a fan base among bored alumni with internet connections and kids who have no one to talk to during lunch, and I appreciate your loyalty. Without your supportive emails, my only feedback would have been from my friends ("Amy, I read your column" or "Amy, I heard your column was okay today") and my mother ("Please stop shaming the family"). 
In other words, thanks for making me want to keep writ­ing, even when some nights I just wanted to sleep or do homework (I'm a wild one), instead of meeting my deadline. It's good to know your work is being read and interesting to know that the same column can inspire love in some (mar­riage proposals and other unmentionable propositions) and hate in others (condemned to hell a couple of times). 
So with that I leave you to your stir fry and to the rest or your lives. Thanks for reading, and thanks Notre Dame. In four great years, you've left me often dazed and always amused. 
Amy Schill is a senior English major and Catholic Social Tradition minor. She can be reached at aschill@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

War is not a game 
After reading Matt Bramanti's April 1linside column, I couldn't help but feel sick to my stomach. The final words of his column were, "after a big win on the road, our team deserves a rest." I cannot believe the ignorance shown by Bramanti in likening this war to a sports game. Mr. Bramanti, what is happening in Iraq is far from a game, it is a war. People are dying every day, people just like you. But, as sad as it may be, the likening of the war to a game is not limited to one uninformed mem­ber of our student body. 
The American media is acting like what can be described as a "cheer­leader" for war. We do not see the terrible images that are broadcast in other nations. For example, when CNN showed the toppling of Saddam's statue, CNN International showed the same image with a split screen of the dead and wounded in the hospital. I challenge Bramanti to watch international coverage of this war, and then decide if he still feels it is all a game. 

If he still is convinced to talk about this war in terms of a game, he should consider more than the events in Iraq over the last few weeks. I agree America has accomplished its narrow goal of removing Hussein from power. But we also consider the war's international impact. 
First of all, as a result of the attack on Iraq, North Korea has put in place a plan to mobilize the fourth largest military in the world, something much more dangerous than Saddam Hussein, 
Secondly, the leadership of India has publicly stated that it is now con­sidering a pre-emptive strike against Pakistan. With the new precedent that Bush has set, the pre-emptive strike is already being used by other nations, a major setback to ever reaching the goal of a peaceful world. 
I think that with this information Bramanti should reconsider the one conclusion he reached in his column, the conclusion that "we're winning big." 
Finally, Bramanti should think more carefully about the big picture of what is happening in the world and the fact that war is not a game. war only breeds more violence and war. and nobody wins. 
Randall Janiczek graduate student South Bend April 13 
TODAY'S STAFF NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 
News Sports 
Sarah Nestor Katie McVoy Maureen Lauren Dasso 
Do you agree with the decision to hold the 

..Even more important than a friendly 
Reynolds Charee Holloway 

ROTC Pass in Review indoors again this year? 
meeting .is a friendly parting." 
Claire Heininger Scene Viewpoint Julie Bender 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Chinese proverb
Dolores Diaz Lab Tech 
Graphics Tim Kacmar Chris Naidus 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
T,mday, April 15, 2003 page 11 
Congress should step up to wartime responsibilities 
"Military Mirrors a Working-Class Amnrica." 
Question: What constitutional Li,sue is rnL,;ed by this March 30 New York Times lwadlimi? It titled a long analysis conclud­ing that the armed forces resemble "the makeup of a two­year commuter or trade school outside Birmingham or Biloxi far more than that of a ghetto or barrio or four-year university in Boston.'' 
Compared to civilian contempo­raries. the armed l'orcos have a higher proportion of minorities and high school grads and "bfltler reading levels," but with "the wealthy and the underclass essentially absent." Although the nation's "wealthy and more well-educated youth have shunned the military, others less privi­legPd have gravitated toward it." Minority members see the military as egalitarian and racially harmonious with prejudice trumped by merit, discipline and the need to get along to survive. Vietnam caused many in the nation's elite to disdain the military, "leading their children to lose the propensity to service that had character­iwd earlier generations of America's priv-ilegcd." 

The embedding of reporters in Iraq brought home the edifying quality of the men and women who have carried out a war plan exceptional in its design to avoid civilian casualties and disproportionate damage. Those volunteers evoke the line from The Bridges ofToko Ri. "Where do we find such men?!!" The Times analysis, however, confirms the social -and potentially political -divide "between those who light and those who ask them to." 
The answer Lo that divide is not to rein­state the draft, which would weaken the armed forces and send the draftablc chil­dren of the elite into their protesting tantrum mode. One unlikely answer would be for the economically and socially privi­leged to recover the tradition of service established by their forebears. 
A more realistic answer involves the constitutional issue raised by the Times analysis. To see it, let's go back a few days to Aug. 17, 1787. when the delegates to the Constitutional Convention gave Congress the power to declare war, leav­ing "to the Executive" the power to "make" war "to repel sudden attacks." As reported in James Madison's notes, Roger Sherman said, "The Executive [should] be able to repel and not to commence war." Elbridge Gerry said he "never expected to hear in a republic a motion to empower the Executive alone to declare war." Oliver Ellsworth stated "It [should] be more easy to get out of war, than into it." 

George Mason "was against giving the 
power of war to the Executive. because 
not [safely] to be trusted with it ... He was 
for clogging rather than facilitating war; 
but for facilitating peace." 
The framers built wisely. Over the years, however, Congress has declared war only five times while the President has used his power to "make war" more than 200 times, all apparently with explicit or implicit approval of Congress. Since Congress last declared war, in 1941, we have had three major wars by Presidential initiative. 
The Iraq war calls for a reconsideration of the abdication by Congress of its duty to decide whether this nation should go to war. This has nothing to do with whether one supports or opposes the war in Iraq. I believe that the decision of President Bush to go to war is entitled to the benefit of any doubt, and that it satisfies the criteria for the just war as taught by John Paul II and the Catechism. All wars, however, are debatable. As Bishop Wilton Gregory, president of the Conference of Catholic Bishops, said on March 19. "People of good will ... disagree on how to interpret just war teaching and how to apply just war norms to ... this case. We understand and respect the difficult moral choices that must be made by our president and oth­ers." 
Whatever one's view of the Iraq war, it should be clear that any deliberate deci­sion to go to war should be made by the elected representatives who are more 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
America rally falls short 
Is civilization skin deep? 
The choice of the College Republicans to invite Don Feder to speak at the pro­America rally was a bad decision. First, in 1998 Feder wrote an article titled,"No Statehood for Caribbean Dogpatch." In this article he explains why he does not want Puerto Hico to become a state. While some of his points are valid, others are down­right offensive. Maybe it's because I'm half Hispanic, but I was offended by the article, and to be perfectly honest, it takes a lot to offend me. 
Shortly after the release of the article, Congressman Jose E. Serrano, D-N.Y., wrote in a letter to the editor of the Boston Herald, "Whatever the final political future may be, the 3 million Puerto Ricans living in the United States will be adversely affected by Don Feder's racist and deni­grating comments." In my opinion, some­one who writes an article like that isn't someone who should be asked to speak at a University. I'm all for having all political views represented, but racism is some­thing that no one needs. 
Now, I'd like to address Fedcr's com­ments at the rally. At one point during the speech Feder stated that one of the great things about this country is that we all have the right to dL-,sent. I agree. The problem however, rises when, in the same speech he called anti-war protesters un­i\merican. Mr, Feder, the anti-war protest­ers, whether you agree with them or not, are simply using their right to dissent. Another problem with Feder's arguments was thnt he failed to substantiate them when confronted by myself and some other "un-American" students. At one point. a friend of mine was making a point con­cerning the payments that Saddam Hussein made to families of Palestinian suicide bombers. Rather than respond with an argument of his own, Mr. Feder simply laughed and said something to the effect of. "I can't respect you." 
Furthermore, during his speech. Mr. Feder mentioned that people who say "No war for oil," are ignorant. Sorry Mr. Feder, wrong again. Numerous times, the govern­ment has stated that the companies involved in the reconstruction in Iraq will be paid by the Iraqis. Where will the Iraqis get the billions of dollars necessary to pay them? Oil. When I pressed Feder on this question, he denied that fact at first, but eventually relented, admitting that yes, some money from oil would be going to American corporations. 
Finally, Mr. Feder brought up International ANSWER, a subsidiary of International Action. International Action is an anti-war organization; I called International ANSWER and checked out the websites of both Action and ANSWER. Feder told us that International ANSWER was a communist organization. Both orga­nizations are obviously leftist organiza­tions, but communist? I sure didn't find any signs that supported that claim. Then Feder went on to say, "Call it McCarthyism, well, it is ... " So, Feder is a fan of McCarthy? Wow, that's way past right wing, that's practically fascist. Besides, even ifyou don't agree with com­munism (I don't), it is any American's right to be a communist. We live in a free coun­try, remember? 
The point is, the College Republicans should have found someone else to speak at the rally. I didn't necessarily agree with everything that Floyd Brown said, but at least he wasn't offensive and didn't have any blatant hypocrisy in his speech. Maybe the College Republicans neglected to do a little research on Feder. (I found out about the "Dogpatch" article in about two min­utes on the internet.) Either way. a racist right wing extremist, who is unable to back up his points against some college students, was probably not the best choice. 
Nick Shepard 
freshman 
St. Edward's Hall 
April 14 

"These are hard times," said one "analyst" from the TV screen referring to the people of Iraq from her comfort­able air-conditioned studio in Qatar. Then came the pictures of a group of angry and hungry looters breaking into a small shop in the downtown (if there is anything left to be referred as down­town, of cowse) Baghdad. The pictures of dead bodies of small children, say for instance, of Fatima, were omitted from the show as usual. Then I read the racist and worse still, ignorant, populist piece of John Litle, Mr. to-be-William Safire Jr. in the Observer on Friday. A feeling of hopelessness filled my mind, asking to myself, how can so much ignorance be possible in the technologi­cally most advanced country on Earth? 
Martin Bernal, after a couple of sec­onds of hesitation, gave the answer reminding me that the rise of racism in the Western Hemisphere has always been linked to imperialism and the sense of national solidarity that was built up against the barbarous non­European "natives" starting from early 18th century. Once Europe and North America gained complete control of the world after the 1800s, and once the indigenous peoples of Africa and Australia had been largely exterminat­ed and those of Africa and Asia were totally subdued and humiliated, there was no reason for "the White Man" to take them into any political account. 
What a coincidence that at exactly around this time the image of the East started to be redrawn from a refined and enlightened civilization to one of a society filled with drugs, dirt, corrup­tion, oppression and torture. The need to justify the increasing Euro-American expansion into other continents and maltreatment (and humiliation) of their peoples revealed itself in both cultural (academia) and political spheres. The immediately responsible to the people 
than is the President. 
And here is where the Times analysis comes in. The sons and daughters of the economically and socially privileged, who arc the likely leaders of tomorrow, are under-represented in the officer corps as well as in the enlisted ranks. "The number of veterans in the Senate and the House is dropping every year," said Northwestern Professor Charles C. Moskos. "It shows you that our upper class no longer serves." It is no reflection on President Bush to suggest that if'the choice of war or peace remains with one man, it could open the door to the future exploitation of non-wealthy volunteers by politicized deci­sions manipulated by influential -and in this context parasitical -elites who place neither themselves nor their children in harm's way. Instead, the power to decide on war or peace should be reclaimed by the branch of government closest to the people whose sons and daughters will fight that war. Unfortunately, that would require a backbone transplant for most members of Congress, especially the Senate. In any event, it is time to reconsid­er the process by which we go to war. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Tuesday. He can be reached at Plawecki. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
mass scale racism towards the East (as well as the South) comes from the deeply rooted claim, or better to say, belief that the West (which means the European or Aryan) have, (and always will have) the capacity to conquer (and civilize) all other peoples and to create advanced, dynamic civilizations -as opposed to static and undeveloped soci­eties ruled by Asians or Africans. 
The myth of the "Master Race," hence, is neither something new nor an old distasteful memory in the history of human civilization. As a last remark, I just want to ask you all a simple ques­tion: Why do you think that the Coalition forces did nothing to protect Iraqis' National Museum in Baghdad? They failed to protect invaluable human artistic creations left from Assyrians and the Babylonians, the Sumerians, the Medes, the Persians and the Greeks and watched the destruction of the evidence of this nation's thousands of years of civiliza­tion by the looters. 
The museum was not the only one visited by these mobs; it was preceded by the Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Irrigation, the Ministry ofTrade, the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Information, all of wWch have been sacked and then burnt. The Coalition forces, however, did indeed use all their might to protect two ministries, the Ministry of Interior. with its vast wealth of classified intelli­gence information on Iraq and, yes you guessed right: the Ministry of Oil. 
Firat Demir 
graduate student Department of ~nomics April 14 
THE OBSERVER 


Tuesday, April 15, 2003

page 12 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Sit back and sink in to the Stripes 
By MARIA SMITH 
Scene Editor 
Classic rock fans should turn up their ears to its newest incarnation in The White Stripes' April Fool's Day release. Elephant. The minimalism of Jack White and Meg White's guitar and drum duets are nothing like the pleasant pop of Avril Lavigne. nor do they resemble the bass and synthesiz­er driven sound of noise bands like Limp Bizkit or Linkin Park. Elephant is not music for anyone who wants to pump up the car stereo and sing along. But the gritty guitar will take you right out of this decade to a time when real solos and a bit of gothic angst made bands like Led Zeppelin great. 
Sitting back and sinking into the CD ls the only way to get its true effect. It is a skillful progression of loud and soft tracks. never becoming grating the way their last album, White Blood Cells is prone to do. Although the songs do not all have masterful lyrics. again, "sinking in" is the only way to really get their true effect. Jack's lyrics walk the line between relation­ships going right and relationships gone wrong. The singer captures the doubt that anyone is ever quite honest or ever quite real. "And in your own mind you / you're lucky just to know her / but now she might leave like she's threatened before / grab hold of her fast before her feet leave the floor," croons Jack in "You've Got Her in Your Pocket." 

Halfway through the release you may wake up and realize these kids came from Detroit, and it will be a shock. Not only does the music sound like Brit rock. the tracks w e r e recorded in Toe-Rag Studios in London. the singers a d o p t British accents at the end and 

even sing about "the 
Queen of England to 
the hounds of hell." The White Stripes 
proved their original­ity from the outset in tracks like "Dead Leaves and the Dirty Ground." They uphold their reputa­tion on Elephant by trying out some blues in "Ball and Biscuit," covering Burt Bacharach and Hal David's "I Just Don't Know What to Do with Myself." They also introduce a fic­
tional character 
named Holly Golightly 
to help them out on 
"It's True That We 
Love One Another." 
Meg also tries out her 
vocal chords on "In 
the Cold Cold Night," 
which captures a 
mood much like 
Dusty Springfield's 
rendition of 
"Spooky." Jack and Meg both capital­
ize on haunting voices that compli­
ment their musical style perfectly. Though Jack and Meg may love attention, they earn it by loving their music, and its shows in every track. The White Stripes have been hailed as 

the saviors of rock and roll, and while this is hard to justify, they certainly represent a distinctive and memorable movement within the genre. 
Contact Maria Smith at smith.S25@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Switchfoot refuses to be a letdown 
By BECCA SAUNDERS 
Scene Music Critic 
Four guys, drums, guitars, great lead singer: the typical make-up of any "up and coming" rock band. However, the San­Diego based band Switchfoot is anything but typical. Best known for the appearance of their songs in the movie "A Walk to Remember," Switchfoot has been growing over the past years, developing a strong presence in the Christian music industry. The Beautiful Letdown is Switchfoot's newest album and their first album record­ed while being on the Columbia label. As their fowth albwn, this one shines as both original and unique. The album forms a group of songs well written, well played and overall well done. 
\\'hile Switchfoot is currently straddling the realms of Christian and mainstream rock, in the album it is clear that they feel no need to be defined by either realm. The Beautiful Letdown is filled with strong messages and is anything but sermon-like. Lyrically, there is a lot of questioning, but it is not at all overwhelmingly preachy in any sense of the word. 

The overall album carries a general theme of getting to a higher place and quality in life. The lead singer, Jon Foreman, describes The Beautiful Letdown as being, "about real life: the good, the bad and the ugly." And that is about right. The album covers everything from the extreme presence of the media in society, to ful.fillment in life, to desperation in gen­eral. 
Musically, The Beautiful Letdown is very strong. An extreme presence of energetic and original guitar carries much of the album. The well-known song, "Dare You to Move," is rerecorded and acts as a very soothing pres­ence on the album with soft guitar and thought-pro­voking lyrics. The crescendo at the end of the song, with harder guitar rifts and vocal octave increases, brings to a cli­max not only 

the song, but also the emotions of the listener. The soothing and varied voice of Foreman carries the listener throughout the album, bringing them up and down, and always leaves them thinking. 
Many of the tracks through­out the album have a synthe­sized tone. This synthesized feel is especially prevalent in the title track. The song lyrical­ly depicts the separation of a person from the material world. The lyrics state, "It wa.,; a beautiful letdown / the day I knew / that all the riches in this world had to offer me / would never do." It has an almost echoing sound on Foreman's lead vocals, thus enhancing not only the sound, but the mes­sage of the song. Foreman's voice itself is as disconnected from the song as each person is from the world. 
The song, "Gone," is a highlight of the album, showing a strong display of both Switchfoot's quality musical talent as well as their original lyrics. "Gone" has a very different sound and can almost be consid­ered a hybrid of a catchy pop song and a guitar heavy rock song. With catchy lyrical phrases such as, "We've got information in the information age/ but do we know what life is outside of our convenient Lexus cage?" Switchfoot asks simple questions that require more complicated answers from the listener. 

The Beautiful Letdown is a beautifully composed album and is anything but a let­down. Switchfoot is a band that wants to get a message out into the world. The message is subtle and gentle. and some­thing that nearly anyone can thoroughly enjoy. 
Contact Becca Saunders at saunders.8@nd.edu 

r-------------------------------------------. 
THE 
OBSERVER 


Tuesday, April 15, 2003 page 13 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Mellow out to 'Sum.m.er Sun' 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Punk goes synth and sad 

By RYAN RAFFERTY Su,nc Music Crick 
When you first pick up an album titled Summer Sun, you would expect to hear happy, pop, mainstream radio summer music; buL lh11n you see the artist is Yo La Tcngo and you completely change your mind. 
After nearly 15 albums, the Hoboken trio scnms to havu found a new niche in the musical world. Their earlier albums were characterized by several layered distorted guitars, but on their last two albums thP.y have slowly begun to delve into the quieter side of music. Their last album, And Then Nothing Turned Itself Inside Out, was filled ,vith layered, lo-fi, electronic songs that were very dark and brooding. The theme has continued with their latest effort, SwnmerSun. 
Summer Sun is not as dark as their pre­vious album; instead it is filled with encouraging lyrics about love and hope. The album is characterized musically by brushed drums and lo-fi guitars·and bass. Most of the guitar rifts are barely audible, but when they can be heard, they are flow­ing and beautifully played. Sonic keyboards play the melody throughout the album, and many of the quiet drum lines arc played electronically. The musical mood presented on Summer Sun is very positive and cheery, albeit the music is very minimalist. 
The quiet subdued feeling on Yo La 
Tengo's new 
album works 
very well and is 
a breath of fresh 
air for a band 
that is continual­
ly evolving. This 
is their most 
relaxing album 
to date with soft 
Beach Boy-like 
symphonies 
such as the 
spectacular 
"Tiny Birds." 
The song begins 
with a soft gui­
tar riff barely 
audible over the 
looped cymbal and key­b o a r d melody. Eventually the song picks up to beautiful lin­ger picked guitar melody over a humming organ loop. All the per­cussion on the track is played on a timpani and maracas. This very light approach works beautifully and creates a very laid back sonic symphony. 

Although on this album Yo La Tengo does not explore their rock side, it isn't neces­sarily a bad thing. Even though the album is very relaxed and toned down and there isn't a distorted guitar in sight, there are still several excellent songs. The first track, for instance, seems to build out of total silence into an ethereal trumpet solo played over whispered lyrics. The song then fades out into complete silence again. Another standout track is the cover of Big Star's "Take Care." Yo La Tengo has trans­formed the song into a wonderful closing number. The song takes on an entirely new country feel with a pleading pedal steel guitar playing lightly over the comforting lyrics. 
While Summer Sun is one of Yo La Tengo's best albums, they do misstep on a few tracks. "Nothing But You and Me" for 

YO t•, mrx, SUMMER SUN 

example is horrendous. The lyrics arc awful and barely carry a melody. There is no musical accompaniment save for an annoying wavering bass line and a few chqrds pounded out on a piano every now and then. 
Another subpar song is the 10-minute epic, "Let's Be Still." While the melody is very catchy and fun, it is way too long. The listener quickly loses interest in the song after the first five minutes. 
Minus those two songs. Summer Sun L'i one of Yo La Tengo's best albums since their masterpiece, I Can Hear the Ileart Beating As One. The quiet, subdued feel of this album works perfectly for Yo La Tengo's new sound. Summer Sun, with its hushed and hypnotic songs, is the perfect album to listen to on a warm, starry night. 
Contact Ryan Rafferty at rafferty.3@nd.edu 
By STEVE HO EPLIN GER 
Scene Music Critic 
AFI is the perfect band for people who are in a good mood and don't want to be. Equal parts punk, hardcore and nu metal, their latest album, Sing the Sorrow, explores the darkest and most miserable aspecl'i of human existence possible, with a drum machine and synthesizer thrown in Lo give it a litllc tcchno flavoring. 
To call this record the most depressing thing anyone is ever likely to hear would nut be too far off the mark. With titles like "Tho Leaving Song," "Bleed Black," 
"Death of Seasons," "The Great 
Disappointment" and " ... but home is nowhere," the songs' tones range from "bleak" to "I have completely and utterly lost the last vestiges of my will to live." On previous albums, the band produced spooky as well as depressed material. but on Sing the Sorrow, they stop trying to scare people and aUow their darkest feel­ings to come out; the music is not so much eerie as sad, not so much sinister as melancholy. 
Lead vocalist and goth-punk poster child Davey Havok makes Trent Reznor seem like a sweet, happy Prozac milkshake. His lyrics brutally and raucously express his personal anguish and depression. There is a beautifully mournful quality to his poetry 
that is sometimes hidden by the layers of cutting guitars. Though it is sometimes hard to under• stand what exactly the words are, a quick glance at the liner notes reveals the depth and emotional scars that lie in every syl­lable. 
The band's musical style has always been unique, and Sing the Son-ow is no exception. It features the nuanced, punchy bass lines, alternating virtuoso and buzzsaw guitars and free-form melodics that 
h a v e marked 

Sing the Sorrow
previous albums and give the band 

A.F.I. 

-its distinc­
tive sound. 

Dreamworks Records 
There are, how­ever, a few n e w aspects. The band 


om ploys 

tcchno beats from time to time to boost the album to a level it hasn't been before. Also, the hooks dangle a little closer to the listen­ers' ears than they ever have before. This and the fact that Sorrow is the band's first major label release have had some punk 
purists decrying the album as a sign that AFl have sold out. But the music has an honesty to it that indicates that the band is just refining its sound and making an album the way they wanted. 
The album's one and only flaw is that there isn't a whole lot of diversity. The songs blend together well, but almost all of them cover the same material and have the same "feel" to them. 
There are a few exceptions. "The Leaving Song" is a subtle guitar and vocals only piece that lacks the other songs' aggressive fury. "Miscria Cantarc -The Beginning" has a drum beat straight out of the theme music from Terminator 2: Judgment Day. The most surprising song on the album is the final, unlisted track, "This Time Imperfect," which featurns a haunting, melancholy piano playing against a spoken-word poem recited first by a young boy and later by an old man. It .,is completely different from anything ehw on the record and adds a nice finishing touch. 
Overall. Sing the Sorrow is a solid album by one of the most original underground bands today, but it isn't for everyone. It's a quality piece of music, but definitely not something to put on at a party. The listenor consumes at his own risk. 
Contact Steve Hoeplinger at shoeplin@nd.edu 
Tuesday, April 15, 2003
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
GOLF 
Despite lineup changes, Irish get the same result · 
By ERIK POWERS 
Sports Writer 
New faces, new places, but the same overall result. 
Two weeks ago, the Irish finished 14th of 19 teams at the Laredo Border Olympics. This weekend Notre Dame tied for 13th of 18 teams at Ohio State's Robert Kepler Invitational. The Irish finished the tournament in 936 strokes (307-318­311 l. 43 strokes behind champion Ohio State. 
Coach John Jasinski unveiled a pair of changes to his usual lineup. South Bend natives Gavin Frelic and 
K.C. Weisman replaced spring main­stays Tommy Balderston and Eric Deutsch. Frelic (78-83-82) finished in 84th place and Weisman (79-80-82) tied for 78th. Both Frelic and Weisman made their spring debuts after each appearing in one fall tour­nament. 
"With the recent struggles that we've been having, coach decided to shake things up," Scott Gustafson said. "We had a one round qualify­ing, and [Weisman and Frelic] came out on top." 
Brandon Lunke and Mark Baldwin finished the best among Irish golfers and tied for 30th place. Scott Gustafson (79-81-76) continued his strong season by capturing a tie for 60th place. Lunke (75-77-78) had a five stroke lead over Baldwin (75-80­
75) after 36 holes, but Baldwin mounted a comeback during Sunday's final round in order to pull even. Afterwards, Lunke teased Baldwin about the freshman's ability to catch (but not overtake) him. 
"[Lunke's] kind of like that, those Texas boys," Baldwin said. "He's a good captain and fills the role well. He's usually the only upperclassman who travels with us, so he rattles us freshmen well." 
The invitational was played on Ohio State's 7 ,258-yard Scarlet Course. Although par was listed at 72, very few golfers threatened to break even. Individual champion Brad Heaven of Toledo (74-69-76) shot a three-over par 219, while run­ners up Zach Doran of Ohio State (69-77-74) and Patrick Nagle of Illinois (74-73-73) shot four-over 220's. As a team, even the Buckeyes {297-294-302) shot 29-over par on their home course. 
"This was a very challenging course," Gustafson said. "We had pretty nice weather, but the course was really tough. The Ohio State coach is known for being tough with the pin placement. The shots were tight over bunkers and it was tough to get a good chance at birdies. It was the most challenging course of the spring." 
The Irish hope that their own course will not be so treacherous this weekend. Notre Dame hosts the Big East Championship on April 21st­22nd. The winning team at the Warren Golf Course will automatical­ly qualify for the NCAA champi­onships. 
"The Big East is the big one," Lunke said ·earlier in the season. 'Tm working hard to get my game in shape. Last spring, the weather was bad. It will hopefully be better this year. We still need to work much harder." 
Lunke, Baldwin, Deutsch and Gustafson are virtual locks for this weekend's roster. Either a healthy Balderston or the winner of a quali­fying round will round compete in the fifth and final spot. 
Gustafson knows how he and the other top four golfers will spend this week. 
"I think all of us are planning on getting a lot of good preparation," Gustafson said. "We'll make sure our game is ready, and it's a relief that we don't have to worry about quali­fying. It's a nice advantage to have the tournament right here." 
The Irish host the Big East Championship at the Warren Golf Course from April 21-22. Play begins each morning at 8:00 a.m. 
Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 
MENS TENNIS 

Irish want one last win 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 

A taxing regular rea­son is finally nearing completion for the Irish as they seek out one last chance to boost team morale before heading into an all-important Big East Championship -an event that will likely determine whether or not No. 60 Notre Dame reaches the NCAA Tournament. 
Today, playing at their outdoor homecourts for the first time all season, the Irish will host No. 69 Indiana State. 
Notre Dame is coming off a 5-2 loss Sunday to a very strong and youthful Kentucky team, ranked 12th in the nation. 
Although today's match is the last of' the regular season, in a sense, the Irish want to view it as an embarking point. 
"[Today} is a good start," junior tri-captain Luis Haddock said. "We still have the playoffs ahead of us. If we get a win tomorrow, it will be a good start [heading into} the playoffs." 
Throughout the sea­son, Notre Dame has struggled with close matches -close match­es that have, more often than not, resulted in a loss. 
"We've been so close to really doing well but we haven't been able to cross that line," Haddock said. "We've done a little better at the end of the season, but we had such a bad start and that affected us." 
Since spring break, the Irish have had some bright moments -such as a 6-1 home victory over Big East foe Virginia Tech. They have also had grim days ­such as a 6-1 road loss to another conference rival, Miami. The loss to the Hurricanes came only a week after the tri­umph over the Hokies. 
The win against Virginia Tech showed that the team has talent. What seems to have hurt the Irish, according to Haddock, was their 0-4 start -the worst in pro­gram history. 
"We've tried to put [the season's start] behind us, but it kind of set a tone," Haddock said. "When you start kind of scared Iabout} what's going to happen, and things do not go as well, it kind of sets a tone. We've been trying to overcome that, but it's been a little harder to make that happen." 
According to Haddock, the team's struggles have involved issues of attitude rather than a lack of talent or stamina in this young Irish squad. 
"We have been in the position [to winl many times, but we haven't been able to finish." he said. "We got into the position to play so we have the ability to be there. Since it happened so many times it kind of built up, and we lost a little confidence. I think that's what affected us." 
Nevertheless, the Irish. in their close losses as well as their season highlights and individual achievements, have gar­nered many important lessons. 
The continual desire to use lessons learned from past matches suggests that Notre Dame has not given into despair. 
"I think we've grown a lot and I hope we can put it together with what's left in the sea­son," Haddock said. 
Additionally, Haddock believes this season can be critical for the young team come next season. 
Like past year's, the Irish still have talent ­although it is less devel­oped, particularly com­pared with last year's squad. 
"Every match we've had has been so close, but we haven't been able to capitalize," Haddock said. "That's been the difference between this year and year's bef'orc." 
Today will likely be a close match for Indiana State and Notre Dame. Haddock believes it is a crucial opportunity to gain "that little extr'.1 confidence we need" as they prepare for the Big East Championship in Coral Gables, Fla. April 
25. That weekend, the Irish will once again face the Hurricanes and Hokies. 
Because of their lower ranking. a win at the conference tournament is required for the team to enter into the NCAA Tournament. 
And Notre Dame has not given up hopes of that yet, which is why their main goal in these next few weeks is clear: to win the Big East. 
"If we use what we've learned throughout the season, then we will be in really good." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame o_ffice, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be p_repatd. . 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edtt all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES FOR SALE
-
Study Abroad with CEA. England, Ranch home, 3 bdrm, 1. 5 bath, fire-
Italy, Spain, France, Australia. place, full bsmt, 2 car all garage, 
Request a Free fenced yard, 1 mile from ND. 
Catalog www.GoWithCEA.com 288-2001 
3-6 BDRM HOMES.  Oak Hill Condo. 574-243-2621  
$195.PPIMO.272-6306  
New Schwinn w/lock $100. Call  
Leaving town? We JI buy your car.  Mark @ 4-2061  
574-243-0000. Dealmaker Auto  
Sales 52081 933 No. So. Bend, IN  JUDAY LAKE HOME ON LAKE.  
WALK TO ND. GILLIS REALTY  
Babysitter, May-Aug., 3 kids ages  272-6306  
2, 6, 8. 10-12 hrs./wk, 2 morn., 1  
eve.  $7/hr. Robyn@ 271-3646.  98 HONDA CIVIC EX COUPE 20;  
LOADED; 5 SPEED MANUAL;  
58000 MILES; $8250;  
A BUSINESS MAN IS LOOKING  574-631-6295  
TO BUY YOUR ND FOOTBALL  
SEASON TICKETS. (TOP DOLLAR  Acura lntegra LS 1996 Red 60,000  
PAID)Discretion Assured.  miles, sun roof, CD player, power  
Call:277-1659 Thank you.  locks and windows $9850 or besl  
offer. 287-4306  
WANTED  - FOR RENT  
Part Time Summer Employment  
Looking for Teachers & Student  Walk to School. 2·6 Bedroom  
Advisors. Great pay, fun environ- homes 1/2 mile from campus.  
ment Call 272-4135. Kaplan Tesl  mmmrentals@aol.com  
Prep.  272-1525 www.mmmrentals.com  
house: 2-3-4 bedrooms; 234-9334; B00-966-8399 


Very nice 3 bdrm home. Avail. June 1st for summer or fall. East Race dist.near Corbys Pub & St. Joe Church. Incl. alarm syst,washer/dryer. Can email picts. Call Joe Crimmins @ 
273-0002(h)or 514-0643(cell)or JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com. $650/m negotiable. 
HOUSE AVAILABLE furn. 4b2ba, walk to campus. jo5225@aol.com 
2 BDRM House, AJC, close to cam­pus. 269-699-5841 
1 bdrm apt. summer sublease at Turtle Creek. Fully furnished, price negotiable dboudon@nd.edu 
Student Rental House 3-4 or 5 per­son 2 story. 8 blocks from campus. New everything. Wired for comput­ers etc. Avail. Summer or Fall, 235-3655 
LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF ND 2773097 

WRIGLEYVILLE Large, bright, 2 bedroom, 1 bath, cable ready. Great security, woodwork, crown moulding. bookcases, oak hutch, hardwood floors. New kitchen dishwasher, pantry, central heat ale, celing fans, mini blinds, bal­cony, deck, laundry in building, off street parking included. Quiet ND prof owner-occupied. $1475. Call 773-348-5832 or 312-543-3572 or pgm3740@hotmail.com. 
Spring Semester 2004 only! 4 Bedroom, 2 Bath..GOOD Student Area. Dave. 243-5353 
Two bedroom cottage in good stu­dent area. $350 per month. Dave 243-5353 
PERSONAL 

Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE. Are 'sniffle' 
you pregnant and dent know what to do? Loving, open-hearted, finan-GO BELLES! cialty stable woman would like to consider adopting a baby. Free The weather is here. counseling, living expenses and medical expenses. This can be a I wish I wasn't... good thing for you and your baby. Discreet and legal. The Billy Goat is wailing for you, Call 904-824-7006. Rob ... ;) 
Good job to the boys of Hickory  
THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF  High and good luck in your game  
THE OBSERVER IS WEDNES- Wednesday!  
DAY, APRIL 30  
Lauren,  
Prepare with Kaplan tor the June  You're cool because you're SO  
LSAT. Classes Start 5/03.  Italian.  
Just one week until this really, real- Amy­ 
ly, really ridiculously good looking  Did you get that memo?  
person's birthday• ;)  
Hey Adam- 
Hey Adam, what is April's Iheme  Would you tell us about your very  
again?  diverse grandmother one more  
time? Oh, I forgot, you don't really  
I hear you should ask Kalie. She  like to talk about it.  
might be able to help you out with  
that.;)  Mer- 
You cleaned your room??II WOAH!  
Adrienne, I hope you SARS is  
 
clearing up!  Renne- 
I hear glass eyes are going cheap  
Tony Kukoc  this time of year!  

Thanks for the balloon party, Are you serious, Clark? 
Ramon, even though it turned out to be a little crazier than expectedI I missed your desk tonight. ;) 
Tuesday, April I5, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
CLUB SPORTS 
Kleiber crashes and is unable to finish road race 
+ Cyclists finish 6th in team trials at Indiana 
Special lo The Observer 
Indiana University was the venue for both the regional championship road race and the time trial this weekend. In Urn mens 42-mile road race, Doug Gunzclmann tried several limes to break away in the last two miles. but was checked in place and finished 15th among 57 racers. Irish standout Grant Kleiber was taken down in a large crash on the first lap and unable to complete the race. Among 43 entrants in the mens 28-milc novice race, Mike Dnnny finished sixth, with Bill El!worth finishing 32nd. 
Individual time trials wer1~ held on Sunday over a 10-milc lrck of constantly rolling ter­rain. Kleiber averaged 24.5 
mph to finish 14th in the men's category. Denney averaged 
23.1 mph to finish seventh in the novice. with teammate Ellsworth finishing 17th with a 
21.9 mph average. 
In the team trials, the Irish llew over the course at 26 mph to linish sixth among 14 teams, trailing Northwestern by only two seconds. Next week. the Irish travel to Marian College for the regional criterium 
Ultimate 
A short-handed womens ulti­mate squad, consisting of only 12 players played five games on Saturday at the Sectionals, hold at Purdue. The club started well and beat the University of Chicago in the opener, 11-0. The Irish then dropped a pair of close games to Illinois, 8-5, and Purdue, 8-7, in overtime. The Irish regrouped to beat Indiana. 10-7, and finished the day with a 13-12 victory over Northwestern. one of two mid-west teams to qualify for nationals a year ago. Freshman Chrissy Hedges on defense, sophomore Meredith Sheperd on. layout grabs . and Saint Mary's freshman Lizzy Shiel as star handler distinguished themselves throughout the tournament. The club will next compete in the Regionals, May 3-4 at Oberlin. 
Womens Water Polo 
The womens water polo club fell in the Midwest Conference championship game to Miami OH. 6-4 this weekend, to con­clude its season. The Irish had opened the tournament with a 13-1 victory over Miami B and ihen defeated Ohio U. 11-2 to set up the championship show­down between the two perenni­al powers. 
Mens Water Polo 
The mens water polo team traveled to the University of Tennessee for the 10th Annual 


-~::.:it~....::.:•:" ~IIY.•.t-K-:.~.r,,-:,t!Y;.:.~:',:;'.•-,:._··r/i.~~..~-:.-!11'-,1d1J'~/41t'JJ"/~!,;~'P'/4"1!,X.-.~,.--;,fi','7;/..J1:;,:,t;!;?.,:;.:m.'./ :; :1· ·.-.,..-..·.~-..._•._ • 
GOT HOUSING? ~:
r,
**Turtle Creek Apartments** \c I 

KING'S EXPRESS 
We have ALL STYLES Available for 2003-04! 

i 
,. !I Chines::;::~~:-~~:~:urant 
Prices as low as $280 per person! ~; ; 360 I Edison Road, Suite D Open Hours: 
Call 272-8124 ""'\.V\.~·· _turtlecreekncLcorn in-fo@turtlecreeknd.co1n 
. :-.r,,<.1;,;., ,,_.:; > • 

-
Dogwood Invitational over the 
weekend. With only one man on 
the bench, the lrish placed 
third in the 12-team field. 
In the first game, the Irish 
f[)lled over the Green Wave of 
Tulane, 15-3. Pat Watts shut 
down the Tulane offense while 
newly-elected captain Mike 
Grow put away five goals to 
secure the victory. Notre Dame 
shut out Auburn in the second 
of their three games Saturday. 
The game was highlight by the 
"Scott Tagwerker Defense" and 
high scorers Greg Szecyzk and 
Jon Marchetta. In the semi-final 
game, Indiana University 
outscored the Irish 6-5 for their 
only loss of the weekend. Hory 
Cleary scored three goals while 
Grow added two in the roughest 
game of the tournament. 
Sunday brought a battle for 
third place against Ohio State. 
After being down 1-0 at the end 
of the first quarter. Mike 
Silhasek vaulted the Irish into 
the lead with two quick goals. 
Keith Hauenbuehler put in 
three more goals and the Irish 
shutdown the Buckeyes 7-2. 
The third place finish ends the season for the Irish, who will return a very strong squad in the fall. 
Salling 
Two Notre Dame teams trav­eled to Ohio State to compete in the jointly held Buckeye Intersec tio nal/1 n vi tation al. Competing in the lntersectional were: A division. Jack Gaither. skipper, Katie Honey crew: B division. Mike Stephens, skip­per, Kalie Thompson, crew. 
In the Invitational, the Irish entries were: A division, Katie Brandes, skipper, Kathy Monticello, crew. and Kate Kennedy. skipper, Katie Bush. crew; B division, Andrew Lappin, skipper, Kathryn Hoodech eek. crew. Official results of the two events will be released mid-week by the MCSA. 

------------------'I 
i I ?outh Bend, IN 46615 Mon-Thurs: l lam-!Opm 
_;I fcl:574)271-8811 fri&Sat:llam-llpm ~: Fax: 574)231-1862 Sun: llam-lOpm 
,e<,,.,,,,._,,}:: 10% Off with this coupon!! 
~-----------------------------------­
ATTENTION GRAtJl.JATII\IG SENIORS!! . . . . Notre Dame's Office of Ona~rgrag1..1ate ~dmissions i~<:accepting applicati·ens fo.r... twa.·.•·a\/dila.l:il.e.•••Agm·iss·iei)~·•··.oo1.1n·selor•...positi·ons!. '' ' . -.. -· . ' '' . ' ', . _::::::::/:" . ;.:iti)=t· :., . ,­,. '. . . . . -As part of the Undergraduate Atlrriissions staJf, the counselotisexpectedt.make an inipottantcontributiontotherecruitmentand selec­tion ofthe first~year class by managing relations 'With the pro~p~ctiveappli<.:an.ts, theirpaj;~nts; high schoolpersonneland alumni in anassigned geographicalarea. .·.·. · · ·. · .·.. ·.·...· · ··· · · · · ..· ·· · · · ·..· ·.·. .· ·· · ·· ··.· .· · · · · ·· · -Responsibilities include extensive planning, trav~l, communications within)he geographical area, <1ssessment and evaluation ofapplica­tions and conducting group/individual informationsessions o.ncampus.Additional responsibilities wi1lbe assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. · · · · · · -Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree andJamiliaritywith all aspects ofstudenflifeatNot:re Dame; One ofthe positions will specifically require computer and research responsibUities. Weaskthat caijdidates detail their skills in computer tech­nology. · ··· -Essenfo1l qualities include strong communicati6ri andofganizatioiials1ull~/ttfrfrd$fasm:aij1Jma~far.dthe willingrt~ss to work long hours including many evenings and Saturdaymornings: · · · ·· · ·· ·· ·· · · ·· · · · · · · -Preferred st.).rt date is July 1, 2003.. Apply on-line via Human Resources web site ofsubmrfresurhC·ci¢over letter ond reference information by Monddy;·.,..Aprit.•••·i1\••2003.tl:J~c':.·.>··....... Admissions couhse1ot >··•··· Department of·HUrhohResddrces ·u· ..·"··•,•.·' .·. ·.· ·.·ty·.... ·r·. N.····. ···t·.·c.•o··...... ··. •· •.'.;iccCCc ·;n*vers1.... o o re ame, Notre Darne,.lN 46656 . Please send or deliver an additional cove(letter and resume to: Admissions· Hiring Committee; .. 220.Mc::Jil'l Buifd;ng  

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April l 5, 2003 
ND SOFTBALL 
Ruthrauff and Booth receive awards from Big East 

By JUSTIN SCHlNER Spores Writer 
When you go 6-0 against your conference in a week, people are going to notice. 
That was the case for the Irish (20-11, 6-0 Big East) as freshman designated player Meagan Ruthrauff and classmate Heather Booth earned weekly awards from the Big East conference for helping the Irish to the only undefeated record in the confer­ence. 
Ruthraulf was named co-player of the week along with Boston College's Erin Mackey, and Booth earned co-pitcher of the week honors along with Kim Ryan of Boston College. 
For the week of April 6-13, Ruthrauff hit .438 with two dou­bles, two home runs, and six RBI. She factored in game one of the hish's doubleheader sweep of St. John's on Friday, when she belt­ed a three-run home run to pro­vide some insurance. 

Booth had two one-hit game pitching gems last week, one against Pittsburgh and one against Seton Hall. She carried a no-hitter into the seventh inning on Sunday against Seton Hall, but gave up a heartbreaking two-out hit to ruin her chances. 
Booth finished last week 3-0 with 19 strikeouts in 19 .1 innings pitched. lier 0.36 conference EHA is first overall. 
Booth, Ruthrauff and the rest of the Irish travel to Rhode Island to take on Providence Tuesday in a make-up doubleheader of a series that was rained out on April 5. 
The Irish were scheduled to face powerhouse Nebraska Tuesday, but that doubleheader had to be cancelled to allow the Irish to fulfill conference obliga­tions. 
The Friars (11-13, 1-7 Big East) are coming off a split double­header with conference foe Rutgers at home. Providence lost the first game 5-2, but came back to shut out the Scarlet Knights 2· 0 in game two, picking up their first conference win for the year in the process. 
Providence is led offensively by freshman Elena Romero, who leads the team with a .362 bat­ting average and 14 RBI. Junior Cori Van Dusen leads the team in home runs with just three; as a team, the Friars have only hit seven long balls all year. 
Van Dusen not only leads the team in offensive categories, but also is part of the Friars' pitching rotation along with senior Melissa Peterson. 
Peterson is 5-1 on the year with a 3.57 ERA, and was the pitcher of record in her team's 2-0 shutout of Rutgers. Van Dusen has an ERA of 3.17, but ha_<; not gotten as much offensive support as Peterson in compiling a 4-4 record in 12 appearances. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 



TWI NIWI 






Tuesday, April 15, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
ROWING 


Notre Dame finished 1st In the 2000 meter dual regatta Sunday against the University of 
Dayton. The Irish were pleased to finally see weather conditions In their favor. 
I 
~,{~ ,
'-..~

. 
? 
( 
~ 
~ 

.. 

··if'· I 
I I II

-
~ ~ lfNITm STAHS ~T l'ATFNT AND 


••~-. TI\AD~MARK Or ncE j V e
ft ft t 

Winners will 0110 receive $2,000 lo spend ol www.hpshopping.<om 
plus Gilt Certificates lo the HP Company Store at www.hpslore.com 
'.,•I~ }:~~, 
. .. ·-,·
.. .,.,·
.··} ·,';.· :. 
_....,-. 


Enter Now Deadline: June 1, 2003 
Call Maria Cardle 

www.inven1".org/collegiate IN PRIZES! 
$160,000 
360-3334 

GRAND PRI_ZE_,.______ '2 GRAOUATE P~IZIES 2 UND!'AGSIADUATE PRIZES 
CRESSY and EVERETT/GMAC

. ---•---·-..-·­$50,000 $ 2 S .,000ecoch $1 S ,,000•,each plv• $10,000 lo adviocr plv~ $5,000 to advi501·s p~u3, $5,000 to advi.so,,. 
Realty Office 233-6141 

Weather helps Irish soar above Flyers 
the Irish to a tremendous victory
By CHRISTINE 
in the second varsity eight race.
ARMSTRONG 
The Irish easily took first place
$pons Writer 
in 7:19.20. The Flyers trailed, 
finishing almost a full minute 
Though poor conditions pre­behind, with a time of8:14.15. vented Notre Dame from com­In the varsity four, Notre peting against Michigan State on Dame's coxswain Kacy Saturday. the Irish enjoyed McCaffrey, Katie McCalden, Sunday's sunny skies, a warm Christy Donnelly, Katie O'Hara breeze and a strong fan turnout and Andrea Amoni finished 36 as they annihilated the seconds ahead of Dayton, post­University of Dayton. In the 2000 ing a first-place time of 8:14.30. meter dual regatta, held on the After crossing the finish line. St. Joseph McCal'frey River, the waved enthu­Irish boats siastically to
"The weather conditions 
swept all cheering
were finally in ourf auor. 
seven races. Notre Dame In the varsity Our boat was ahead of fans that eight race. the Dayton from the start. lined the Irish crew of bridge above.
This race will set the
coxswain "It was a Cassie foundation for our boat nice way to 
Markstahler, against {Michigan make up for Natalie not being
State}."
Ladine, able to race Ashlee yesterday," Warren, Danlelle Protasewich said Katie C a s e y McCalden.
Irish rower 
Buckstaff. In the sec­Rachel ond varsity Polinski, Alice four racP, the Bartek, Mcghan Boyle, Katie Notre Dame B boat of coxswain Chenoweth and Danielle Maureen Gibbons, Ann Mulligan . Protasewich finished first in six Jacquelinn llazen, Antionette minutes. 59 seconds, a solid 33 Duck and Megan Sanders fin-
seconds ahead of the Flyers. "We're pleased with the 
" T h e 
turnout and seeing
weather con­ditions were people at the start and at finally in c1ur each bridge. " favor. Our boat was 
Danielle Stealy 
ahead ol' Dayton from Irish rower the start. This race will set 
the foundation for our boat also had stellar performances as against [Michigan State)." said the boat of coxswain Shannan Danielle Protasewich. Lettieri, Pamela Jefson. Julie 
Notre Dame's coxswain Lewis. Morgan Ertel. DaniellP Kathryn Long, Shannon Mohan. Stealy. Jenna Hedgate, Catherine Kerri Murphy, Kathleen Welsh, Schmidt, Andrea Doud and Meredith Thornburgh, Kati Sarah French. had a 7:37.:rn Sedun, Devon Hegeman, Erica first-place finish. while the Drennen and Melissa Felker led Flyers posted a time of 7:59.08. 
The Irish second novice eight 
had an astonishing pr.rformance, defeating Dayton by over a minute. Coxswain Alison Kelly, Megan Sheehan, Meghan O'Neil, Nikki Karis, Fallon Shields. Laura Joyce, Marcia Luttio. Katie Hanafin and Hachel Kemp finished in 8:04.90. while Dayton posted a time of 9:07.28. Aft<\r the winning all seven races. tlw delighted rowers joined family and friends for a barbecw' along the river. 
"'We're pleased with the turnout and seeing pnoplc at the start and at each bridge. We really appreciate our fans." Stealy said. 
Contact Christine Armstrong at carmstro@nd.edu 
,r===:-======---:" 
Buy or Sell your Home with aGrad from the Dome 
ished in 8:35.20, 11 s e r. o n d s ahead of tlw Notrn Damt-C crew. The A crew was first in 8:05.90, while the B crew finished in 8:29.95. 
The Irish novice crews 



AROUND THE NATION 
page 18 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, April 15, 2003 

~);ii?~~:
~;:;:::g.··-. 
{)~! 
~;t1~ 
:i II:~;:~:~1~11ilil!'i~il;t:;:, 
;: 
ii
,:zn>n••••?t 
Ii 
around the dial 
STANLEY CUP PLAYOFFS Devils at Bruins 6 p.m., ESPN Lightning at Capitals 6 p.m., ESPN2 Stars at Oilers 8:30 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 
Reds at Cubs 2:10 p.m., WGN 
NBA 
76ers at Bulls 7:30 p.m., FOXCH 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 


Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 
Roy Williams returned home to North Carolina, hoping to win the national championship that eluded him for 15 seasons at Kansas. 
The basketball coach, who grew up in the North Carolina mountains and learned his craft as an assis­tant to Dean Smith, resigned as the Jayhawks' coach Monday to take the job at his beloved alma mater. 
"There's no doubt that I'm excited to be here, or I wouldn't be here," Williams said during a news confer­ence on a practice court at the Smith Center, before a crowd of cheering boosters. 

Smith and former coach Bill Guthridge stood nearby, and the Tar Heels' players wore suits and sport jackets. Outside, a crowd of students gathered, and they could be heard cheering before the announcement. 
Williams met with his Kansas players in Lawrence earlier in the day to inform them of his decision. He then flew by jet to Chapel Hill. where his hiring was announced at a news con­ference. 
The decision came one week after Kansas lost to Syracuse in the NCAA championship game in New Orleans. Williams replaces Matt Doherty, who resigned April 1. When he left the meeting with his players at Allen Fieldhouse, a choked­up Williams tried to put his feelings about Kansas into perspective. 
"This is personal, fellas. There is something I want to say," he told reporters, fighting back tears. "This has been a special place. I really appreciate the way you have treated me." 
Williams took the Kansas job only a few months after Larry Brown coached the team to the 1988 national title. After going 19-12 in his first season, Williams guided the Jayhawks to the NCAA tournament 14 straight times. 
The fourth-fastest coach in Division I history to reach 400 victories, Williams (418-101) won nine confer­ence championships and took the Jayhawks four Final Fours, including two appearances in the title game. 
"It's sad for the program and the players who are here," said Jeff Boschee, who graduated from Kansas last year and attended Monday's half-hour meet­ing. "It's tough for them." 
Stephen Vinson, a fresh­man walk-on, added: 'Tm sure you can imagine it was not a good time in there." 
IN BRIEF 

Paxson new Bulls GM an integral part of the first three people standing all around him," said 
John Paxson, whose game-winner championship teams. A 6-2 guard, he Kevin Poston, Rogers' agent. "He clinched the 1993 NBA 1itle, was offi­was frequently the open man when couldn't go, so they gave him a lot of cially introduced as Chicago's execu­Michael Jordan was double-and water and 30 minutes later, he did." tive vice president of basketball opera­triple-teamed. 'Tm very comfortable with this. This tions Monday. He replaces Jerry It was, in fact, his 3-pointer with 3.9 does not put Charles in the league's Krause, who resigned unexpectedly a seconds left that clinched the 1993 title drug program. If they want to evaluate week ago, citing health reasons. in Game 6 against Phoenix. him, that's fine, because Charles 
'Tm tremendously excited about this After retiring in 1994, he was a Bulls doesn't use anything." opportunity," Paxson said at a news assistant during the 1995-96 season. Rogers had a spectacular two-sea­conference. the Bulls' six golden NBA He's spent the past seven years as part son career at Michigan State. Many trophies sitting just a few feet away. of Chicago's broadcast team, both on believe the Detroit Lions will take him 
"I understand how big a challenge it radio and television. second overall if a team doesn't make is. But I feel very lucky that I'm step­a trade with Cincinnati to obtain the ping into a position where we have so Rogers' drug test is positive first pick to draft Rogers. 
Charles Rogers, Michigan State's All­NFL spokesman Greg Aiello could
much potential. so much upside. Ultimately, our goal is to get this fran­American receiver, had excessive not comment on any specific player 
chise to win." water in his urine when he took a drug regarding the drug policy, but shed test in February, Rogers' agent said
Stocked with young talent, the Bulls light on the program. 
have shown promise this year. But Monday. "Diluted urine is considered a posi­they're still 29-52 going into Tuesday's The NFL told Rogers, expected to be tive test under the program." Aiello sea.son finale against Philadelphia, and one of the first players taken in the said. "If a player tests positive for a 
draft April 26, that excessive water is banned substance at the combine for
they won just three road games all year. regarded as a masking agent under diluted urine, he is subject to possiblethe league's drug policy. 
If anyone knows how to Vlin, though, entry into our program, which would it's Paxson. He spent nine of his 11 "He had to go to the bathroom for result in his undergoing frequent test­NBA seasons with the Bulls, and was them at 5:30 in the morning and with ing for some time." 
Tuesday, April 15, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
way I feel he can affect every when Macri tripled in left fourth to extend the Irish lead Michigan Today at 5:05 at gamo." fielder Cody Hizzo in the bot­to 4-1. Frank Eck Stadium.
Baseball 
Notrn Dame fell behind 1-0 tom of the inning. In the sixth inning, Macri 
continued lrom page 24 in the second inning when First baseman Matt Edwards manufactured a run by steal­Notes: Central I\Hchigan's first base­gave the Irish the lead in the ing third and scoring on a . Notre Dame has had 16 man Mike Gates tripled and third inning with an RBI sin­wild throw from Central game win streaks or better in 
lie tutally affccl<!d that game then scored on a Brian 
gle that scored second base­Michigan's catcher. The run each of the last three seasons, 
-hitting. playing dcfew;c and Campbell RBI single. man Steve Sollmann. Macri gave Notre Dame a 5-1 lead. including last years 18 ganwrunning the bas,~s. That's the Notre Dame tied the game added a two-run shot in the After Central Michigan streak. 
scored in the top of the sev­enth, Edwards added his sixth home run of the season in bot­tom of the inning to give the Irish a 6-2 lead. Catcher Javi Sanchez picked up an HBI on a groundout that scored right fielder Kris Billrnaier. 
The Irish face Eastern 
. Irish pitcher Brandon Viloria allowed his first run of the season in the ninth inning. lie had pitched 12 1/3 innings without givirrg up any earned runs this season. · 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettlcr@nd.edu 
2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR 
OFF CAI\1PUS HOUSING 
OFF CAl\-1PUS HOUSING 
OFF CAI\1PUS HOUSING 




Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
she'll have to. 
Immediate Threat 21, Team 
98 3 
Pollowing the biggest theme 
of the day at the bookstore courts Monday, Immediate Threat used size to domi­nate on courts with rims that have a repu­tation of 
"This is my first year playing, but I haven ·t seen good competition yet .... 
Dennis Creed Immediate Threat captain 
said. "but I haven't seen good competi­tion yet. Then again, w11 have three guys over 6­
foot-2  and  
over  200  
pounds.  I  
mean  out  

shooting 
We have Town Houses and 2-Bedrooms available from as low as $280 per person per month! 
$280 per person/month! $280 per person/month! 
Can you really pass that up? Call us today for details! 272-8124 www.turtlecreeknd.com info@turtlecreeknd.com 
**we are now renting single one bedroom and studio's for 2003-2004** 

being a jump-shooter's worst enemy. 
Running backdoor cuts and out-rebounding Team 98. Immediate Threat disposed of the younger and smaller oppo­sition. 
Immediate Threat. which led at halftime 1 J-2, fields fiv<' law students. 
They say they have not been challenged yet in the tourna­ment. 
The team advances further in hopes of upsetting ranked teams. 
"This is my first year play­ing," captain Dennis Creed 
could be better, but we do have a distinct size advantage. So that should help us in the later rounds." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


page 20 Tuesday, April 15, 2003
The Observer . SPORTS 

SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles slip to 3rd in MIAA 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team turned a big weekend into a dis­appointing one. 
The Belles, who before this weekend sat atop the MIM con­ference with 12 wins and two wins in league play, lost four of six games over the weekend and dropped to third in the league behind Olivet and Alma. The Belles lost one game to Albion, one to Hope and two games to a 10-16 Adrian team. 
Saint Mary's (14-10-1, 4-4 
Libby Wilhelmy got the start and allowed four runs (one earned) on five hits in four innings. Junior shortstop Marnie Walsh made three errors and the team had five total. Saint Mary's tied the game at 1-1 in the third inning when Walsh singled to bring Wilhelmy home. But Albion tacked on three runs in the fourth inning and added three insurance runs in the top of the sixth to seal the victory. 
The Belles bounced back in Friday's second game with a 4-2 win. Freshman Bridget Grall allowed five hits and one run in five innings. Grall also 




MIAA) strug­"I am anxious to see how scored two gled at the runs as the
the team bounces back 

plate and in Belles put ten
and how they handle 

the field all hits on Albion weekend. adversity." pitchers. While a lack of The game offense hurt pattern stayed
Anna Welsh 

the Belles in the same dur­close games, Saint Mary's coach ing Saturday's 
defense and errors took them out of games too. 
"We played very poorly this weekend. It was a very impor­tant weekend and we did not play how we could have," coach Anna Welsh said. "We definitely did not play like we did in Florida [at the Fort Myers tour­nament, 8-2-1]." 
To open the six-game week­end stretch, the Belles had as many errors as they did hits in a 7-2 home loss to Albion. Junior 
doubleheader 
versus Hope in Michigan. The Belles lost the first contest, 5-1, and then came back in the second game to win, 6-4. Grall's infield single in the third inning of the first game saved Saint Mary's from being no-hit by a team that is 10-11 overall and 3-3 in the MIAA. Walsh blew up in the second game, going 3-for-4 with two runs and three RBIs. The team, however, made four errors in both games. 
The mistakes carried over into Sunday. After losing to Alma College 18-0 and 15-2 in a dou­bleheader on Saturday, Adrian traveled to Saint Mary's and stole both games to shock the Belles and put a damper on league title hopes for Welsh's squad. 
In a 9-2 defeat, Wilhelmy pitched 3 2/3 innings and allowed seven runs and two earned runs on eight hits. The backbreaker was a five run fourth inning in which both Wilhelmy and Greta Linde made key errors to keep the Adrian rally alive. The final game saw Saint Mary's leave 11 players on base. Each team had eight hits. 
Saint Mary's made the game 3-2 in the top of the fifth when Bridget Grall crossed home plate on a throwing error. Still, Adrian answered with two runs in the bottom of the inning and held on to a 4-3 victory. 
The Belles have had a suc­cessful season to this point. This will be the first time Saint Mary's will have to rebound from a tough performance. 
"I am anxious to see how the team bourices back and how they handle adversity," Welsh said. "This was a tough week­end for us. Since we didn't do as well as planned, we really need to step it up for our next three conference opponents." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

MLB 
Big hitting puts Reds over Cubs 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Jason LaRue doubled three times and Sean Casey had three hits as the Cincinnati Reds beat Mark Prior and the Chicago Cubs 11-3 Monday night. 
Jose Guillen hit a two-run homer, while Casey and Felipe Lopez each drove in two runs. It was an encourag­ing victory for the Reds, who placed All-Star shortstop Barry Larkin on the 15-day disabled list with a strained left calf earlier in the day. 
Jimmy Anderson (1-1) went five-plus innings for the win, and Brandon Larson scored three times. 
Prior, who shut out the Montreal Expos in his last start, came in with a 0.60 ERA. But the Reds got to him in the second inning. 
The right-hander walked Adam Dunn before LaRue doubled, snapping an 0-for-11 slump. Dunn scored on Prior's wild pitch, and Reggie Taylor put down a sacrifice bunt to score LaRue, giving Cincinnati a 2-0 lead. 
LaRue led off the fifth with his second double of the game. One out later, Larson reached safely on a throwing error by Prior. A two-run sin­gle by Felipe Lopez made it 4­
1. 
LaRuc doubled for the third time off Prior in the sixth, scoring Casey to give the Reds a5-1 lead. 
Prior (2-1) pitched six innings and gave up five runs, three earned, and two walks. He struck out six. 
John Riedling allowed one hit in three innings for his first save. 
Anderson got into trouble in the sixth inning -he gave up four consecutive hits before being pulled. He gave up a lead off double to Sammy Sosa. Moises Alou drove in Sosa on an RBI single, Eric Karros followed with a single and Mark Bellhorn drove in Alou on a double to right, cut­ting the Reds lead to 5-3. 
Anderson allowed 10 hits and three runs and got help from the Reds bullpen. 
Kent Mercker relieved Anderson and struck out Corey Patterson, the only bat­ter he faced. Scott Sullivan struck out Damian Miller and intentionally walked pinch­hitter Troy O'Leary to load the bases. Sullivan got out of it by getting Mark· Grudzielu11,·k to hit into a fielder's choice. 

The Student Activities Office salutes its 2003 Indiana Collegiate Press Association award winners: 
Scholastic magazine 2003 Newsmagazine of the Year 
Editor: Sarah Childress 
Staff -Best single issue, first and second place Katie Freddoso -Best news story, first place Annie Robinson -Best news story, second place MattVereecke -Best essay, second place Michael Griffin -Best essay, third place; best feature photo, 
third place Mlke Borgia -Be5t investigative/in-depth story, first place Chris Kelly -Best investigative/in-depth story, second place Carolyn Sweeney -Best feature story, first place Molly Griffin -Best entertainment review, first place Tracy Evans -Best entertainment review, second place Cristin 1:enzel -Best column, second place Jeff Eyerman -Best column, third place David Murray Best sports story, first place Gerard Meskill -Best sports story, third place Eric Doversberger and Mike McNary -Best illustration, first 
place; Best cover design, second place Eric Doversberger and Ryan Greenberg .. Best story design, 
third place Staff -Best overall design, first and third place Mike McNary · Best sports photo, first and third place; best 
news photo, second place Crissy Manary -Best photo essay, third place Ryan Greenberg --Bes.I informational graphic, second place 


Dome yearbook 2003 Runnerup, Division 11 Yearbook of the Year 
Editor: Maggie Clarke 

Maggie Clarke and Sally Hosey -Best theme, second place; Best overall design, second place 
Julie Schade --Best portrait section, first place Chris Nickele -Best student life section, second place Jennifer Morgan -Best sports section, second place Molly Walsh -Best academics section, second place Robyn Mandolini -Best organizations section, first place Kate DiNardo -Best special section, third place Allison Walsh -·· Best news photography, third place Brad Goff -Best sports photography, second place 

Juggler magazine 
2003 Literary Magazine of the Year 
Editor: Paul Camarata 
Staff Best single issue, first place 
Alexis Urda ·· Best short poem, third place 
Michael Griffin -Best free verse poem, second place 
Tony Lusvardi Best short story, first place 
Shane Culey, Josh Rich, Suzanne Kellman, Nichole Kenney, Kristin Gleason and Jeremy Renteria •-· Best cover design, first place; Best overall design, first place Jonathan Adler Best photo illustration, third place Heather Marshall Best hand-drawn illustration, first place Kate Nienaber -Best hand-drawn illustration, third place 

Tuesday, April 15, 2003 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 ministry.1@nd.edu www. nd .ed u/~ministry
Campus Ministry C-M 

considerations ... 
As we enter into Holy Week, may we accompany Jesus Christ through his passion and crucifixion, to his resurrection. Let us keep these thoughts from scripture in prayerful reflection during these special days. 
Holy Thursday 
While they were at supper, Jesus took bread, Said the blessing, Broke the bread, And said take this all of you and eat, This is My Body which is given up for you. (I Cor 11:24) 
Good Friday 
Jesus became obedient unto death, even death on a cross. (Phil 2:8) 
Holy Saturday 
Therefore God raised Him on high And gave Him a name above every other name. So that at the name ofJesus Every Knee shall bend, And every voice proclaim That Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of the Father. (Phil 2:9-11) 
Easter Sunday 
We worship your cross, 0 Lord, and we praise and glorify your holy resurrection, for the wood of the cross has brought joy to the world. 
The Lord has risen as He promised, Alleluia! 
TRAVELING ----­

Tonight's Location: 
Lewis @ 9:00pm
[~I~!Y 

(tomorrow night: Stanford Hall) 
today 4.1s 
Campus Wide Stations of the Cross & Sacrament of Reconciliation 
7:00 p.m. Procession departs from the Grotto Concludes in Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00-8:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 
wednesdav 4. 16 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:oo p.m. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
HtT/y r!mrs,f,1v 4.11 
.I ~ 

All Holy Week services: Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Morning Prayer 
9:00 a.m. 
Evening Mass of the Lord's Supper 
5:00 p.m. 
Adoration in the Lady Chapel 
6:30 p.m. 
Tenebrae 
11:00 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
don't miss this 

; 
All Holy Week services: Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Morning Prayer 
9:00 a.m. 
Silent Hours of Prayer 
12:00 noon-3:00 p.m. 
Celebration of the Lord's Passion 
3:00 p.m. 
Stations of the Cross 
7:15 p.rn. 
H(1lv saturd,1v 4. 19 
,I • . ) 
Mornmg Prayer 
9:00 a.rn. 
RCIA-Morning Retreat 
10:00 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
The Paschal Vigil 
9:00 p.m. 
Rev. Peter Rocca, c.s.c. Rev. Peter Jarrett, c.s.c., homilist Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
EJ1stn s11wfov 4.20 
, 
All Easter Masses: Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Easter Sunday Mass 
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, 8:oo a.m.  c.s.c.  
Solemn Mass Rev. Peter A. Jarrett, 10:00 a.m.  c.s.c.  

Easter Sunday Mass 
Rev. Richard V. Warner, c.s.c. 
12:00 noon 
Solemn Easter Vespers 
7:15 p.m. 
C A M P U S W I D E C A N D L E L I G H T 


tations 
of ~t 
(!Iross 
TONIGHT 

Procession begins at the Grotto at 7 p.m. * Opportunity for Reconciliation to follow Every ntght1 until the end of the conflict in 1ra.q1 in a 11all chayel around at approximately 9: 15 p.m. in the Basilica 
*In case of severe weather, Reconciliation will begin at 9 p.m. cangms, we will be Ljathered in a PRAYER FOR PEACE. Please Join us. 
Sunday's Scripture Readings . 1st: Acts 10: 34a,37 -43 2nd: Col 3: 1 -4 Gospel: John 20: 1 -9 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April I 5, 2003 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles fac·e crucial conference matches 
. Belles hope to put recent losses behind and reclaim conference lead 
By LISA REIJULA 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team, the defending MIM conference champions, has already dropped two conference matches this sea­son. However, the Belles will get a chance to rebound and contend for the conference lead this week. 
"This week's matches are real­ly important," captain Kaitlin Cutler said. "Some teams bave only played two conference matches. There isn't one domi­nant team this year, but there are four teams that are really even." 
First up for the Belles is a road 

match at Hope College today. The 
Flying Dutch are 9-7 this season 
and 3-2 in the MIM. Like Saint 
Mary's, Hope defeated Olivet, 
Alma and Adrian in 9-0 shutouts. 
Hope's conference losses came 

at the hands of' Calvin College 
and Albion College, by scores of 
6-3 and 8-1, respectively. The 
Flying Dutch stand third overall 
in the MIAA. 
"Hope is always a really strong 

r ¦ --¦ -¦ _._ 
a 
I 
¦ 
I 
I ¦ 
¦ 
I 
¦ 
I 
¦ 
-·I 
¦ 
I 
¦ 
I. 
team," Cutler said. "You know to expect a tough match when you play them. They alsd have a new freshman at No. 1 singles." 
The Belles face Calvin at home on Wednesday. Calvin is 5-4 for the spring season and 1-1 in con­ference. The squad won against Hope, but fell to Kalamazoo in a 7-2 contest. Calvin stands fifth in the MIAA overall. 
"The match against Calvin is the same situation as Hope," Cutler said. "We have to be pre­pared to come in and fight for the match." 
Saint Mary's holds a 11-5 over­all record and is even in the MIAA at 2-2. The Belles are fourth in conference play behind Hope. At last weekend's competi­tive Midwest Regional Invite, Saint Mary's had a respectable showing, with close losses to Kenyon and Luther, and a solid victory over Carleton College. 
"We're happy with how we did [last weekend] and we're looking forward to the two matches this week," Cutler said. ''We have to win these." 
The Belles face Hope away on April 15 at 3 p.m. On April 16, Saint Mary's returns home for a match against Calvin College at 3 p.m. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 
¦ -¦ -Ill --¦ 
-


Plan to attend an informational meeting where Prof. Brad Gibson, Director of the Fellowship Office, and Andrew Serazin, 2003 Rhodes Scholar, will provide information on the application process and take questions regarding these great awards. 
This meeting will take place: 
Wednesday, April 16th in Debartolo 155 at 7:00 pm 
For additional information, contact the Fellowship Office (103 O'Shaughnessy Hall) or fellows@nd.edu 

¦ On Wednesday, April 16, 2003 from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. You're invited to 
I I 
¦ the J ACC to test drive a state-of-the-art Drunk Driving Simulator. 
¦ 
I This is a safety program that's both challenging and fun. I 
¦ 
I ¦ I 
¦ Brought to you by PILLARS and the Office of Alcohol & Drug Education. ¦
(.. 
For more information, visit www.kramerintl.com or call 1-7970.
I I 
,
¦ -¦ -¦ -¦ --¦ -¦ -¦ -¦ -¦ .... ¦ 
I ¦ I ¦ I ¦ ¦ 
¦ 
¦ ¦ 
L .J
¦ -¦-¦ -¦ -¦ -¦ -• -¦ -¦ -¦ -¦ -¦ -¦ -¦ _,1'. ¦ -¦ -¦ 

Tuesday, April 15, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 23 

------------------~------------------------------------------------------­
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 
~~~~!TH-I$ \S Gi~'f-rtN~ 13~1Dtt5! 

\ 
JACK MONAHAN

HAPPY TOWN 

HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
He U5ually He made anone fetter to each square, 
gels on base offer they to form lour ordinary words 

couldn't reruse 

RAHME 
rJ I lu
C2003 Tribune Media Ser,,,icoo., Inc. 
uw

rffb 
AMOWED WHY T!-i= Mc»5Tf:R 
PL.AYEC' ON THe' 

W"Nw jumble.corn 
BA•:%=f>ALL. TE:AM.

tTHINCS 
I Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
IIJ I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

AM: 
HE r x x JA "r x x J' 
(An..,sw-e""'r"'-'s""'to....mu.o....rro-w4 

i,· 
Yesterday's j Jumbles: TEASE ELATE JABBER WALLOP Answer: That position at the candy factory tumed out to be -A "SWEET" JOB 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
lht New !J!ork 0imes
Crossword Edited by Will Shortz No. 0304 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa~ nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
66 Proximate, to poets 67 Capital of Samoa 68 Marsh growth 69 ''The Creation" composer 70 Classic computer game 
71 Novus_ seclorum (phrase on a dollar) 
DOWN 
1 Winter melon 2 Evil-repelling charm 3 Sang like a 
canary 4 Hoops turnover s Cutie pie 6 Eggs, to 
biologists 7 Strikeout king Ryan 8 Surfing the Net 
9 _-mutuel to Slop eaters 11 Waits awhile 
12 Alias 13 Director Craven 19 Big times 21 Persistent, as a 
backache 24 Autobahn auto 26 Unimpressive 
brain size 27 Suffix with deposit or repos1I 31 Miner's tool 
Pun.Le by Al¦ n ArtMateld 
34 Geisha's sash 35 Nautilus locale 37 Classic Jaguar 39 Monopoly 
corner square 40 Come to 41 Nada 42 Hawaiian 
strings 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year)­Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords, 
43 Fancy British 57 Nutty as a wheels fruitcake 
45 "Batman' villain 58 Aiio starter 
48 Aid in crime 60 "Show Boar composer
49 "Batman· setting 52 Gassed up 
62 Cry from Scrooge
53 Big name in swimwear 63 Italian article 
55 Dieter's fare 64 Fleur-de-_ 

Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ----------------------------­Address ---------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIIS DAY: Roy Clark, Emma Thompson, Annie Ca;tner, Emma Watson 
Happy Birthday: Don't let confusion and emotional issues get the better of you this year It is important that you are prepared to take on whatever comes your way If you are willing to put the situations in your life that are causing you grief on the back burner and focus oo what it is you really want to do, you should be able to reach your goal~­Your nUlllbers are 2, 6, 19, 28, 33. 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Pannership problems will occur if you haven't been keeping the communication lines open. This can be a great day to network.*** TAURUS (April 20-M.ay 20): Lots am be accomplished ifyou work aloog.,ide your peer., tcday. You can resolve any health issues ifyou do a little research oo the lntL.met. *** GEMINI (M,ay 21-Jlllle 20): Get involved in an activity thai you enjoy or start a new creative project Do something that will make you feel good about yourself ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get out of the house to avoid the trouble that is brewing. You will find it difficult to deal with emotional issues and should consider putting your etfoos into doing thing; by yourself. tt LEO (July ll-Aug. 22): Help the people who depend on you by doing a little extrJ for them today. Pleasure nips will be lots of fun and should be on your agenda-**** VIRGO (Aug. 2.1-SepL 22): Concentrate on your career and what you can do to get ahead, It is crucial that you don't miss an opportunity that comes your way. Your errotional involverrent with a oolleaguc will lxtckfire.*** LIBRA (SepL 2.1-0cL 22): Loosen up before you become paranoid, Concentrate on enhancing your looks, l(s time you started ID enjoy life inste.ld ofalways wmying *** SCORPIO (Oct. ll-Nov. 21): Soireone who is off limits may intrigue you. However, it's time to nurture what you already have, Changes will be a necessity. *** SAGITTARUJS (Nov. 22-Doc 21): Group activities wiU lead to business oppatunitics and romantic 001111cctioos. You will gain valuable knowledge by discussing the problem, you face with people ofe11perience. ~ CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may want to pursue your persooal and professional goals, but obstacles are li~ely to stand in your way today, Don't let this frustrate you. Fine-tune your ideas so you are wcll-prepanrl *** AQUARRJS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Travel and picking up valuable infonnation should be penciled in today. Be hmest with otrers and you will get ahelpful response. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Your involvement in other people's affairs will not tWll out as planned. Don't put your trust in someone who is going through an unstable 
period.*** 
Birthday Baby: You will touch the hearts of those you encounter and will be an inspiration to thc6e less fortunate. You will be accorrumdating, generous and !hougl11ful 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadv1ce_com. eugenialastcom, wnetwork.com 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
ACROSS 1 Sounds from a coml1eld s Sonny who sang "Laugh at Me" 9 "Fiddlesticks!" t 4 Part of a Latin 
101 tno 15 •_calling· 16 Nol In 
dreamland 17 "You bet!" 18 They're often on 
their loes 20 Capital on the 
Hudson 22 Being broadcast 23 Poisonous plant 25 Hockey great. 
Phil, familiarly 28 Broke a fast 29 46-Across 
belonged to it
. 
30 Mentalist's claim 32 Not 'neath 33 Golf course 
bend 36 "Forget it!" 38 1971 Tom 
Laughlin cult film 41 Conductor Mehta 44 Piece of bingo equipment 46 50's nickname 47 Not swallow easily so Nest egg, of a sort: AbbL 51 Uncertainties 54 Puts in wri1ing 56 Bungled 59 Become fond of 61 Buyer 62 Bit of forensic evidence 65 Glamour rival 


PORTS 
Tuesday, April 15, 2003 

.. 
BASEBALL 

Irish just one short of school record 1 
ByJOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
A pair of win streaks contin­ued at frank Eck Stadium 
Monday night. 
Notre Dame won their 17th straight game, one short of the school record, and right handed pitcher John Axford won his. seventh straight deci­sion of the year in the Irish 's 8-3 victory over Central Michigan. 
Matt Macri fell a double short of hitting for the cycle and Axford went a solid seven innings, yielding two earned runs and striking out four to help Notre Dame improve to 26-6 on the year. 
"It was a good, solid game with good pitching and we got some offense as well and we had no errors," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "I don't know what more you could ask for." 
Axford (7-0), who struck out 12 batters against St. John's in his last start, gave Notre Dame another impressive out­ing. He walked five, but allowed only five hits and worked out of a tough bases loaded jam in the seventh inning. 
"That's the big thing ­being more consistent," 
Axford said. 'Tm blessed to be where I am right now and that's a credit to my team­mates play." 
Last year. Axford struggled at times to find the plat. walk­1ng an average of 7.5 batters per nine innings as a fresh­man. He's lowered that num­ber to 3.4 heading into Monday's game. 
"I feel a lot better about [limiting my walks]," Axford said. 'Tm just working on keeping the ball down in the zone." 
Mainieri said it was impor­tant to get Axford through the first few innings so he could settle in as the game went on. 
"He gets stronger as the game goes on," Mainieri said. "The key is to get him through the first couple innings and have him not expend himself too much. Once he gets in a groove. he's tough to stop. That's a great quality in a pitcher." 
Macri, who had one of the best games of his career. complimented Axford's per­formance by driving in three runs and hitting a homer. 
"That was Matt Macri's best all around game," Mainieri said. "That was the kind of player I expected him to be. 
se-e BASEBALL/page 12 


c.. 
#­
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXI I 

Former football player leads team to 3rd round 
"His being out there added a new degree to the game," said Ryan Goes, an Angry Pirates forward. "Overall. they were just bigger and stronger." 
The Angry Pirates did play strong in the first half, and trailed only 11-9 at the break. Missed shots, however, hurt the Angry Pirates in the sec­ond half. Long rebounds turned into quick offense for Killer Boots Man, and the sec­ond half saw Weaver's squad advance. 
Team 35 21, Diamonds ... she'll have to 9 
Team 35 dominated from start to finish in a second round game that took an odd turn midway through the sec­ond half. 
Opposing players collided heads and one of the 
Diamonds ... she'll have to players was forced to sit out the remainder of the game with an injury. The teams played four-on-four the rest of the way. 
"We're two-ton man-moun­tains that like to bust heads," Dillon sophomore Mike McNamara said. 
Freshman Justin Doyle had key defensive stops against the guys from Zahm. His one­man trap along the baseline sent opposing players into a frenzy. 
The offensive juices were also flowing for Team 35. 
Sophomore Kevin McCarthy got hot in the second half and drove to the hoop at will, cut­ting through the Swiss-cheese man-to-man of Diamonds ... 
see BOOKSTORE/page 19 

By PAT LEONARD Sports Wrirer 
In a tough game between the younger Angry Pirates and a more experienced Killer Boots Man squad, not only experience but size proved to be factors in the 21-16 win for Killer Boots Man. 
Quick guards caused prob­lems for the Angry Pirates through good shooting and penetration. Still, the victors dominated down low and got second, third and even fourth chance shots. 
Former Notre Dame football player and Baltimore Ravens defensive lineman Anthony Weaver played the middle of a two-three zone and discour­aged the Angry Pirates from bringing the ball inside. 
ROWING 

ND SOFTBALL 
GOLF 
Notre Dame easily 

Irish softball players 
Despite making
placed first in every race 

Meagan Ruthrauff and 
changes in the lineup, 
enabling the Irish to 

Heather Booth received 
Notre Dame still fin-
soar over the Flyers. 

awards from the Big 
ished 13th at the Robert 
East for their contribu-
Kepler Tournament at 
tions to the team. 
Ohio State. 
page 16
page 17 

page 14 
MENS TENNIS 
Notre Dame vs. Indiana State 

The Irish are looking for one last win, which will ensure a trip to the Big East Championship. 
page 14 








