
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Weekend retreat targets ND tnen 
By MATr BRAMANTI NowsWrircr 
In an cll'ort to increase male participation in its retreat pro­grams. the Notre Dame Office of Campus Ministry will spon­sor a "Man's Weekend" begin­ning Friday afternoon. The pro­gram, which will be held at a Congregation of Holy Cross property in LaPorte, Ind. is designed for men who dislike the "touchy-feely approach of many retreats," said Father Kevin Husseau, who coordi­nates retreats for Campus Ministry, 
Russeau said that weekend retreats, like the Freshman Hetreats. Sophomore Road Trips and Notre Dame Encounters. have been more popular among female stu­dents. 
"I realized that it was a lot easier to recruit women," he said. "There were three women to each man on some retreats." 
lie attributes this disparity to the idea that men generally keep matters of faith to them­selves, whereas women are more open with their religious beliefs. Accordingly, the week­end is designed to be very dif­
see RETREAT/page 6 
WEDNESDAY. OCTOBER 8, 2003 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Papal appoinbnents smprise experts 


Pope appoints 31 cardinals earlier than expected 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Writer 
Fueling already-circulating speculations about his declin­ing health, Pope John Paul II, 83, surprised the Catholic community Sept. 29 when he appointed 31 new cardinals -the group that will choose his successor-months earli­er than originally expected. 
Last Sunday's announce­ment came three weeks in advance of the week-long Vatican celebrations of the pope's 25th anniversary, which will now coincide with the consistory ceremony in which the new cardinals are installed. While Vatican offi­cials gave no specific expla­nation for ~he consistory's earlier date, which is set for Oct. 21, two Notre Dame experts on Vatican issues said they believe the announce­ment reflected a combination of John Paul Il's poor health, his intention to ensure his continued legacy and his eagerness to make these cele­brations special. 
"I think he knows he is coming to the end of his life, and he wanted to reward cer­tain bishops for their loyalty and service," said Father Richard McBrien, professor of theology and Crowley-O'Brien Chairman of Theology at Notre Dame. "At the same 
Pope John Paul II walks to the altar Inside St. Peter's Basilica surrounded by pilgrims during his world tour over this year's Holy Week. The pope recently appointed 31 new cardinals. 
time, perhaps [he wanted] to ensure that his successor ... will carry on his program. Combining the 25th anniver­sary celebration, the beatifi­cation of Mother Teresa on the 19th, and the consistory of new cardinals simply makes it more convenient for cardinals visiting Rome for these closely scheduled events." 
Lawrence Cunningham, act­ing O'Brien Chairman and 

Themed nights at Legends result in mixed opinions 
By TERESA FRALISH Assistant News Editor 
Students heading to Legends this weekend expecting to hear their favorite radio songs may lind a surprise they didn't expect. 
Over the past two weeks, man­agers and DJs at Legends have instituted a schedule of theme nights that involves playing a cer­tain type of music on "heavy rota­tion" for one night, said Jonathan Jorissen, program manager for Legends. 
According to Jorissen, Legends will play Top 40 music on Thursday nights, hip-hop on Fridays and salsa or reggae on Saturdays. 
However, some students are upset the nightclub will mostly play songs that they may not have ever heard before. 
Anthony Albert said he disliked the sudden changes in music styles, as when DJs insert a block of songs of a dillcrent genre than the one being played on a given night. 
"!The Latin music! killed my dancing mood," said Anthony 
Patriot Act affects ND 

Concerns raised about censorship issues 


Albert. "You have to completely change your dance style. 
Other students said that the nightclub might see a drop in attendance if students choose other weekend dance options besides Legends. 
"With [the theme nights] I don't think they can compete with off­campus parties or clubs," said Katie Hunter. "Legends needs to establish itself as a good nightclub first." 
However, Jorissen said he feels 
see THEMED/page 6 
professor of theology, agreed that all of these factors should be taken into consid­eration when interpreting the pope's decision. 
"I suspect that it was pri­marily for health reasons," he said. "Secondarily, he may have wanted to do something dramatic on the eve of these papacy celebrations." 
Pope John Paulll's selection of new cardinals revealed his willingness to extend his con­servative influence, as well as his goal to increase aware­ness of the Catholic presence in countries where Muslim­Christian tensions are high. 
"The new cardinals fit the profile of the kind of people he's traditionally chosen: doc­trinally orthodox but socially conscious," Cunningham said. 
Cunningham also empha­sized the global nature of the 
see POPE/page 6 

By JOE TROMBELLO News Writer 
Although the Patriot Act has had little direct effect on University Libraries according to Director of Libraries Jennifer Younger, the applica­tions of the legislation allow for the restrictions of intellec­tual freedom and patron record confidentiality -two issues. that she and other librarians lind troubling. 
Libraries and civil rights groups have reacted strongly to the legislation signed into law by President Bush Oct. 26, 2001. The Berkeley, Calif. public library instructed employees to tell law enforce­ment officials that they were unable to act on subpoenaed 
see PATRIOT/page 6 

Wednesday, October 8, 2003
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Books and Butt Shorts 
The soothing, tinkling classical music. The gentle, subdued lighting. The rows and rows of Irish butt shorts, which come in more colors than a bag of M&M's and are just as much ofa guilty pleasure. 
The sensual over­load that is this shopper's high is mostly elusive on campus-no bou­tiques line the Bubble. So when that insatiable itch hits, we flock to the consumer's paradise that is the Hammes Notre Dame bookstore: a not-quite-Barnes and Noble with everything from keychains to Kant, shot glasses to Scripture. 
Its title is innocently misleading. Yes, there are books for sale, a fact that most of us whine about at least four times a year when we shell out $80 for a text­book we will likely open twice, and then are dismayed when we get a buyback price of$15. But all concerns about books are forgotten and all remaining bitterness is forgiven when we consider the real attraction-Notre Dame apparel. 
Few things in this world scream ''I'm classy! I conform! I'm connected!" as well as a Notre Dame hooded sweat­shirt. I'm not talking about the annoy­ingly Easter-eggish new arrival of pastel pink, or the snobbish superiority con­veyed by the phrase "Notre Dame Engineering" imposingly splashed across gray cotton. You know the one I mean -always gray, hunter green, or navy blue with an interlocking ND or cursive "Irish" -simple, traditional and yet almost as satisfying to put on as it is to utter those magical words, "put it on my student charge." 
A Notre Dame apparel craving is as real as that of any other drug -it strikes quickly, tugs strongly and can only be subdued with a good hit. And like any addiction, it only gets worse every time you appease it. My own story started off innocently enough last year, with a Return to Glory shirt and a bean­bag bear. Soon it was hoodies. And san­dals. And a sweatshirt skirt. And anoth­er bear. Before I knew it, I was spiraling into spending class time thinking about how incomplete my life would be with­out one of those fascinating Play Uke a Champion Today coffee mugs. 
I fear that it'll just get worse when I graduate. I can see myself as part of the swarm of alumni that descends on the bookstore on every home game week­end, straining to reestablish ties to my alma mater with just one more T-shirt of a silhouetted leprechaun. I will be that mom who dresses her kids in little foot­ball jerseys. I've even accepted that my addiction will probably be with me when I'm 80 and I actually like the pas­tel-clearly, once it gets in your blood­stream, Notre Dame apparel sticks .with you for life. 
And the best part is, Notre Dame knows it. Champion and Russell Athletic certainly know it. The bookstore is irre­sistible, and they're smart for taking full advantage. That said, I think I'll wear the baby blue butt shorts today. 
Contact Claire Heininger at chein­ing@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Claire Heininger 
Production Editor 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S THE BEST ORIGINAL NINTENDO GAME? 



Hunt ... duh!" Bowl.'' 


IN BRIEF 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents Moliere's "Tartuffe" Wednesday through Saturday at 7:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2:30 p.m. All per­formances will be held in Washington Hall. Advance tick­ets are available at the Lafortune Student Center. 
Bring your friends to Rolfs and play Drop-In Volleyball tonight from 7 to 11 p.m. on court 4. 
Richard Trumka, secretary and treasurer, AFL-CIO will present a McBride Lecture: "Today's Economy and You: How Unions Help" tonight at 8 
p.m. in DeBartolo room 116. The lecture is sponsored by the Higgins Labor Research Center. 
Anthropology professor Greg Downey will be kicking off the fourth year of the Last Lecture Series, focusing on "the pleas­ure of dissent." His lecture will take place tonight at 8 p.m. in the basement of Lewis Hall. 
Rabbi Michael Signer will speak on "Jewish-Catholic Relations since Vatican II" tonight from 9:15 to 10 p.m. in Alumni Hall Chapel. Mass will be held at 10 p.m. followed by a 
10:40 reception. 
A panel discussion on "50 years of the Double Helix" will be held Thursday from 7 to 
8:30 p.m. in DeBartolo room 
102. The panel will focus on, "How genes affect our lives: Cloning, Insurance and Genetically Modified Food for the Soul." 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 
HIGH 73 LOW 44 


HIGH LOW 
Elizabeth Voss  Elyse Dawn  Gabe Mascaro  Jim Murray  Dan Zychlnskl  
Sophomore  Freshman  Freshman  Senior  Senior  
LeMans  Regina  O'Neill  Keenan  Off-Campus  
"Definitely Duck  "Duck Hunt!"  "Tecmo Super  "Contra."  "Duck Hunt. "  


first lady's spokeswoman said Tuesday. 
While speaking at a domestic violence confer­ence at Hood College in Frederick, Kendel Ehrlich said it is important for women to get as much education as possible to avoid becoming dependent on anyone else. 
"It is incredibly impor­tant to get that message to young women. You know, really, if I had an opportu­nity to shoot Britney Spears, I think I would," Ehrlich said Friday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
ALLISON NICHOLS!The Observer 
Students enjoy studying outside Tuesday afternoon. Tuesday's weather reached the 70 degree mark, making It one of the warmest days yet this fall. 
OFFBEAT 
German Bar Offers Kindergarten for Men 
HAMBURG, Germany ­A German bar is offering women who want to go shopping without their partners the chance to park them at what it bills as the country's first kindergarten for men. 
For $11.80, the Nox Bar in downtown Hamburg is offering boys' games and home-improvement coach­ing as well as a meal and two beers for men left there for a Saturday after­noon, while women are free to shop in the city's swanky boutiques. 
So far, the 
"Maennergarten" has been a hit, with 20 men dumped there the first week. and 27 last Saturday, bar man­ager Alexander Stein said Tuesday. 
"Many of the guys see it as just a gag, but thert were surprised to find they got on really well with the others," Stein said. 
Governor's Wife Spears Singer 
BALTIMORE -The wife of Gov. Robert Ehrlich made an "inadvertent fig­ure of speech" when she said she would shoot pop singer Britney Spears if she had the chance, the 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
w 
::c 
t( 
w 
~ 
..I 
c::c 

(.) 

.9 HIGH 81 HIGH 67 HIGH n HIGH 75 LOW 72 LOW 52 LOW 51 LOW 52 

Atlanta 75164 Boston 60 I 42 Chicago 61 135 Denver 761 46 Houston 84170 Los Angeles 76 160 Minneapolis 74 I 46 New York 60 I 48 Philadelphia 61 I 44 Phoenix 92 I 72 Seattle 65 I 54 St. Louis 78 I 56 Tampa 87 I 71 Washington 67 I 49 
Wednesday, October 8, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Pope Duarte tells 'Cinderella story' 
By NICOLE ZOOK News Writer 
Stella Pope Duarte lit the stage at Saint Mary's Carroll Auditorium Tuesday night -lit­erally. 
In keeping with the theme of her talk. "Tending the Flame: Writing Through Hevelation and Self-Knowledge," the award-win­ning author lifted the ban on can­dles at Saint Mary's lor one night. 
"This flame, this light preceded prayer at home," Pope Duarte said. "I love to encourage people to tend who they are. Tend your flame." 
Pope Duarte encouraged and entertained an audience of roughly 70 with stories, quotes from famous authors, and read­ings from her two major works, "Fragile Night" and "Let Their Spirits Dance." 
She stressed the importance of self-discovery. 
"I come from this modern world. I come from Ia Sonorita barrio, but also this ancient world, and I also come from an Irish background," she said. "I come from many worlds. And those of you who are writing, you need to understand your world. The more worlds you have. the more you can give to your char­acters." 
Pope Duarte was active and energetic onstage, bringing not only candles, but a whole table of props. including a binder of pic­tures and an apron her mother wore. She donned the robe and acted out her stories, encourag-


STEPHANIE GRAMMENSIThe ObseiVer 

Author Stella Pope Duarte stressed faith, self-discovery and perseverence In her "Tending the Flame: Writing Through Revelation and Self-Knowledge" lecture at Saint Mary's Tuesday. 
ing the audience to wear items that empowered them. 
She challenged her listeners in other ways, urging them to take risks, leave their stories for their children, and never give up. 
"Stay with your manuscripts when you want to quit. Your work is like a marriage. You write for better, for worse, and sometimes until death do you part. Writing is a relationship. If you're faithful to that relationship, it will be faithful to you," she said. 
Pope Duarte is a self-described Cinderella story. She did not intend writing to be her main career, and began as a grief and loss counselor. She said she start­ed writing only after her father came to her in a dream. and chal­lenged students to follow their own dreams. 
"Dreams are sacred ground. Nobody can touch you in your dreams," she said. 
Many audience members agreed. 
"She catches our attention," said senior Rocio Estrada. "Especially now that we're young, we need somebody outgoing to speak to us. These are inspira­tiona! words for writers, and not just from our professors." 
The lecture was co-sponsored by the Office of Multicultural Affairs and the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership as part of the 2003-04 Diversity Series. 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

Winning econ paper focuses on poor 
By ANDREW THAGARD Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame assistant profes­sor James Sullivan's disserta­tion, which recently co-won the annual Upjohn Institute for Employment Research contest, focuses on the financial behav­ior of low-income households in the United States. Sullivan com­pleted the dissertation at Northwestern University while pursuing a doctoral degree. 
Sullivan, an assistant profes­sor of economics, submitted a summary of his dissertation to the Upjohn Institute over the summer and was asked to send the complete paper for the sec­ond round. He learned last week that his dissertation co­won the award along with Rucker Johnson of the University of Michigan. 
"It's always nice to have your work recognized," he said. "I think the most exciting aspect is the company I'm with. The peo­ple who have won this in the past have gone on to do imp.;es­sive work." 
Sullivan's dissertation, which consists of four chapters, focus­es on the consumption, saving and borrowing behavior of poor households in the U.S. 
The frrst chapter explores the access such households have to unsecured credit markets and whether they can cushion 

income variations. including 
those resulting from unemploy­
ment. Sullivan concludes that 
such a resource is frequently 
not available to those who need 
it most. forcing the poor to curb 
expenditures instead. 

"It [utilizing unsecured credit 
markets) sounds good, but 
when you look at the data, the 
most disadvantaged households 
don't have access to the credit 
you would want," he said. 
"When unemployment insur­
ance runs out, they essentially 
have to reduce consumption." . The second chapter analyzes 
the rate of savings among poor 
households and suggests that 
the requirements of public 
transfer programs. specifically 
those involving transportation, 
may hinder the ability of the 
poor to build up savings. 

The final two chapters 
explore the most effective 
means of measuring the mate­
rial wellbeing of the poor ­

whether by rate of consumption 
or household income -and 
how recent policy changes in 
tax and welfare have altered 
their material well-being. 

"You want to think of a means 
of measuring the well-being of 
the poor," he said. "Do you look 
at the resources they have or 
the expenditures they make?" 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 

Student International Business Council It's Not Too Late!!! Interestecl in joi.n.i.n.g~ th,e SIBC b1tt '''ere un.able to lttten.d -t· "'t , . ·? It' · l ... . . ' tl1.-e 1 1-rs . nte(,tJ.n.g. . s not too .ate to JOI-n.• ALL MAJORS ARE WELCOME! •Hands on real life experience •Establish contacts with alumni *Gain valuable leadership skills *Summer internships and teaching positions around the globe Co11tact A Divisio11 Leader For More Information ActoWlting-Bill Coffey Marketing-Melanie Lauck• • wcoffey@nd.edu mlauck@nd. edu Business Consulting-Bob Goedert Finance-Jake Roffman• • rgoedert@nd. edu jroffinan@nd.edu Global Development-Jolm Boots Human Resources-Courtney Zeph• • jboots@nd. edu czeph@nd.edu Internships-Dan Silva and Pewo Bollmarm Information Teclmology-Michael Flyrm• • dsilva@nd.edu and pbollman@nd.edu mflyrm3@nd.edu  •  

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 8, 2003 
Allocation of faculty budget resources reexamined at ND 
Student credit hour demands, National Resource Council rankings, Catholic identity and diversity are considered 
Mark Roche, the college-level for what Roche called 'targets of past few years, Roche said. Right difficult process. especially in the 
ByWILLPUCKETT resource allocation process is per­opportunity.' now, departments who are midst of budget cuts. Nonetheless. NewsWri[er 
haps more complex. Three criteria are used to evalu­approved for such a 'target of all parties feel that it is important Roche delineated four sources of ate these possible hires: if they opportunity,' funded out of cash, that the allocation of resources is 
At the beginning of each semes­new funding: the Provost's Office, advance the Catholic identity, if must be willing to give up replacing equitable and in line with the ter, there is no guarantee for stu­development, internal reallocation, they advance diversity, and/or if a faculty member who later leaves University's mission, as well as the dents that classes will be available and cash. they would be a very strong faculty or retires. This process does have goals of each college and depart­to them, and that faculty will be Of these sources, the largest por­member. Ideally, some combination some advantages, largely that it ment. while keeping sight of the available to teach those classes. tion of funding comes from the of the above would be present, avoids having to hastily search for students. However, the process that makes Provost's Office, which currently is according to Roche. faculty and that it lets a depart­"Ultimately, we want to give stu­this happen as well as expansions not providing any new resources, "We look for at least one and ment be assured that its lines will dents the best possible education in faculty lines, or long-term faculty Roche said. Departments submit hopefully two or even all three of stay in that department, instead of we can in a way that respects the positions that have space in the an annual report around June 1, these criteria when evaluating a being reassigned. Catholic tradition." Affieck-Graves budget, is more complex than it and the dean's office then priori­possible 'target of opportunity,' but According to all the University said. might appear on the surface. tizes those requests in much the we weigh them differently," Roche officials who spoke with The 
There are several different levels same way as the Provost's Office said. Observer, the process of allocating Contact Will Puckett at that the allocation of resources is prioritizes requests further up the This process has changed in the resources such as faculty lines is a wpuckett@nd.edu analyzed at, starting in individual ladder. departments and progressing on "We try to consider several fac­up to the Board of Trustees, tors, [including] student demand, according to University spokesman i.e. credit hour per faculty member Matt Storin. Given the economic or majors per faculty member, 





Congregation ofHoly Cross 

downturn, the process has become National Resource Council rank­increasingly difficult in recent ings, Catholic identity, and diversi­years, he said. ty," Roche said. 
The University received approxi­Additional questions must be mately $126.75 million in gifts and asked as well, such as ifthe depart­pledge payments in 2001-02, ment is making good decisions with according to the Office of their current resources and if they 
Afraid of giving up too much?

Institutional Research. This is down are measuring students well. from $142.24 million in 2000-01, The end result of this is a prioriti­and $140.67 million in 1999-2000. zation in the request the dean's 
The endowment has also office sends to the Provost's Office decreased, with the 2000-01 fiscal for consideration and possible re­year showing $2.8 billion in prioritization. This is where much endowment assets, down from of the discussion and debate takes $3.1 billion in the 1999-2000 fiscal place, since obviously not all year. requests can be funded. 
'The reality is there's going to be Development, often funded by decisions made at all levels, donations of some sort, proyides a because it's a tougher economic cli­sizeable chunk of resources as well mate than we've had in the past," for Arts and Letters, with the prior­Storin said. iti~ed items in the Strategic Plan 
When asked about the possibility coming first in those decisions. of an improvement in the economic However, it can rise and fall from climate having an effect on year to year, making it somewhat University budgeting or allocating more difficult to predict how to use processes, Storin took a wait-and­those funds. Peter McCormick, C.S.C., Moreau Seminarian, with 


see approach. Internal reallocation, or the 
students from St. Adalbert's grade school. 

"It's too early in the budget switching of a faculty line or other process to tell what's going to hap­resource from one department to pen," Storin said. "It's an ongoing another, is fairly minor, according 

Come and rec~i~~ even more. 

process, which ends up with a to Roche. This does occur fairly budget being prepared for the regularly, but again, Roche said Board of Trustees for their winter that the dean's office usually leaves meeting." lines in departments, unless there 


While the Board of Trustees is a reason not to, such as a depart­decides the final budget for the ment that is having problems gov­



www.nd. e/1111-Vocation

University, a lot of work goes into erning itself or that is no longer assembling that budget. Deciding highly popular. which colleges and departments The fourth source, cash, is essen­within the University are allocated tially money that the dean has to resources, as well as analyzing spend. Out of this, for example, what each department or college Roche funded undergraduate really needs in accordance with its research grants this past year. strategic plan and other long-term However, as far as faculty, the most 
Be Not Afraid! 

indicators, makes up most of the significant use of this resource is allocation process. 
John Affleck-Graves, vice presi­dent and associate provost, said that this process of integrating budgets and plans is central to the process of allocating resources. 
"We look at peer schools and try to see where it looks like we are out of line [with respect to faculty and programs]." Affieck-Graves said. "We try to do as good a job as we can fulfilling the University's mission with the faculty and resources we have available, but we also try to look at what other programs are doing." 
Each college sends a Strategic Plan to the Provost's office, which is analyzed next to the other colleges' plans. The different requests in each plan are prioritized after a discussion of University priorities and college priorities. 
"Assigning priorities is always hard, especially since no one col­lege is more important than anoth­er," Aflleck-Graves said. "However, we do have to make decisions about what can be funded, and what we can do with the resources we have." 
Those resources have been less plentiful in recent years, and this has resulted in even more discus­sion at all levels of what really needs to be done. According to College of Arts and Letters Dean 


~---------------------------------------------------------­



ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, October 8, 2003 Cn\1P1LED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
China will put man in space 
BEI.IING -China will launch its first human being into space on Oct. 15 in a flight that will last about 90 minutes and will orbit the Earth once. a major Chinese Web site reported, quoting a top government rocketry orticial. 
The comments by Xie Guangxuan, director of the government's China Hocket Design Department, were reported by the Web site Sina.com, China's largest. 
"China's space technology has been creat­ed by China itself. We started later than Hussia and the United States. It's amazing how fast we've been able to do this," Xie was quoted as saying. Sina.com said he was "full of confidence" about the launch. 
China would become the world"s third spacefaring nation. Only the United States and the former Soviet Union have sent manned craft into space. 
Iraqi women in democracy 
HILLA, Iraq -The U.S. administrator in Iraq told a gathering of Iraqi women Tuesday that they could make a vital contribution to a free and democratic society. 
"The work you do will make a difference for years to come," L. Paul Bremer told about 200 women attending a conference on women"s rights in llilla, 40 miles south of Baghdad. "There is indeed hope in Iraq today and women across the 'country are working to improve the society." 
The audience also heard a videotaped address by National Security Adviser Condolceza Hice, who urged them to take an aetive role in the rebuilding of Iraq. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Leaker may not be caught 
WASIIINGTON -President Bush ques­tioned on Tuesday whether investigators would be able to determine who leaked the identity of an undercover CIA officer but said his staff was cooperating. "I want to know the truth," he said. 
Bush's chief of staff. Andrew Card, urged some 2.000 White llouse employees to turn over any relevant documents by Tuesday night. White House lawyers will screen the materials and decide which ones to send to the Justice Department as part of a criminal inquiry into the leak, Bush spokesman Scott McClellan said. 
Tiger taken from apartment 
NEW YOHK-A man who raised a tiger in his New York apartment limped out of a courthouse on a badly bitten leg Tuesday, wishing he could be reunited with his wild pet. 
"I'd love to see my tiger," Antoine Yates said of the 400-pound cat, Ming, as he left state court, released without bail. "He didn't really attack me. He got confused and I got caught in the crossfire." 
Yates, 31, faces a charge of reckless endangerment and two counts of possession of a wild animal. Conviction for reckless endangerment carries a sentence of up to seven years. 
Judge Melissa Jackson rejected a prosecu­tor's argument that Yates should be held on $15,000 bail because he lied about his injuries to doctors and then lled. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Supermarket won't sell beer 
WINCIIESTEH -A supermarket withdrew its application for a license to sell beer and wine after dozens of residents turned out to oppose the request. 
After listening to comments from seven people Tuesday to the Handolph County Alcoholic Beverage Board, Buss White, a dis­trict manager for Aldi supermarket, said he would drop the bid for an alcohol license. 
White's announcement drew immediate applause from the audience, many of whom for weeks had spoken against a license. 
Davis conc~des race to Schwarzenegger 
'Terminator' star is now California's chief executive 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES Californians banished Gov. Gray Davis just 11 months into his second term and overwhelmingly elected action hero Arnold Schwarzenegger to replace him Tuesday a Hollywood ending to one of the most extraordinary political melodramas in the nation's history. 
Voters traded a career Democratic politician who became one of the state's most despised chief execu­tives for a moderate Republican megastar who had never before run for office. Davis became the first California governor pried from office and only the second nationwide to be recalled. 
"Tonight, the voters did decide it's time for some­one else to serve, and I accept their judgment," Davis said in conceding. He pledged to work for a smooth transition. 
To the victor goes a spoiled American paradise -a state mired in eco­nomic troubles, awash with deficits, now gov­erned by a Republican chief executive with no 
, political experience and a Democratic legislature. Voters also rejected McClintock and Green interviewed in exit polls tenant governor, before Proposition 54, a con­Party candidate Peter said they had made up becoming governor in tentious initiative that Camejo. their minds how they 1999. would have banned state But the biggest name would vote on the recall By contrast. and local governments was Schwarzenegger, who question more than a Schwarzenegger's political from tracking race in was bedeviled in the cam­month before the election. inexperience seemed a everything from preschools paign's 11th hour by Long lines were reported virtue to many voters. The to police work. Voters reports that he had groped at polling places through actor eschewed the usual across the racial spectrum women over decades. the day. By late afternoon, political rally to announce rejected the measure, Voters faced two ques­Terri Carbaugh, a spokes­his candidacy in August on according to exit polling. tions -whether to recall woman for the secretary of "The Tonight Show With Re-elected last Davis, and who among the state, said a turnout of 60 Jay Leno." November with less than other candidates should percent appeared likely -The campaign included a 50 percent of the vote, replace him if he was higher than the 50.7 per­parade or bit players Davis fell victim to a removed. On the first cent turnout in last among the 135 candidates, groundswell of discontent question, they voted a November's gubernatorial including Hustler publish­in a state that has strug­resounding "yes," based on election. er Larry Flynt, former gled with its perilous an exit poll survey of more As colorless as his name, child actor Gary Coleman, financial condition. than 2,800 voters conduct­Davis was also known as a a publicity-hungry porn A total of 135 candidates ed for The Associated canny politician with sharp actress who wanted to tax lined up to replace him, Press and other news elbows. Once chief of staff breast implants and an including the Democratic organizations by Edison to Gov. Jerry Brown, he artist who dressed in all lieutenant governor, Cruz Media Research and rose through the political blue and described his Bustamante, conservative Mitofsky International. ranks as a state assembly­candidacy as the ultimate Republican state,Sen. Torn About seven in 10 voters man, controller and lieu-piece of performance art. 


U.S. supports Israeli raid on Syria 
held U.S. citizenship was killed its enemies in every place and in
Associated Press 
Monday in a shooting Israel blamed every way," Sharon said, emphasiz­
JERUSALEM -Bolstered by U.S. on Hezbollah, the Shiite Muslim ing that Israel must prepare "as if support for Israel's bombing raid in guerrilla group that is backed by the next war is waiting just around Syria, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon Syria and predominantly Shiite Iran. the corner." said Tuesday his nation won't hesi­The Israeli military said it raised its "We are not immune to surprises," tate to attack its enemies anywhere state of readiness on the Lebanese he said at a memorial service for -heightening concerns it may border Tuesday because of the Israeli soldiers killed during the widen the Palestinian conflict by increased tension. 1973 Middle East war with Syria and again striking countries it accuses of Sharon's vow to pursue militants Egypt. "Only if we are forever ready harboring terrorists. wherever they are also came after will we reach peace, and we will 
Since the attack on the reputed Israel accused Syria and Iran of pro­reach it." Islamic Jihad training camp in Syria viding key backing to Islamic Jihad, President Bush said Tuesday the on Sunday, the regional conllict has the militant group that claimed Israeli airstrike -the first Israeli already escalated with shooting and responsibility for a suicide bombing attack deep into Syria in three mortar fire across the border that killed 19 people in the Israeli decades-was part of an "essential" between Israel and Lebanon, where port city of Haifa on Saturday. campaign to defend the country. and Syria is the main power-broker. "Israel will not be deterred from drew a parallel between Sharon's 
An Israeli staff sergeant who also protecting its citizens and will strike actions and U.S. policy on terrorism. 
l. J­

page 6 Wednesday, October 8, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS 

Dame-Pittsburgh game watch the faith." want to burden him with vari­
op, and perhaps they didn't 
and poker gll'mes. Russeau Russeau noted the Church's
Retreat

Pope 
said. history of men who have emu­nals are expected to occupy on 
ous Vatican jobs that all cardi­continued from page I Russeau said he was particu­lated St. Paul.
continued from page I 
larly struck by a segment of "We have 2.000 years of selections, which included many trips to Rome," McBrien 
a part-time basis, involving 
ferent from other retreat envi­the movie "Pirates of the saints who have gone before "appointments from all parts of said. "He'll eventually be a car­
ronments. Caribbean" in which charac­us. As men, we have to be the world -North America, dinal." 
For example, the program ters discuss the pirates' code saints too," he said. "We can't Latin America, Africa. East Cunningham suggested that 
will forego the small group dis­of ethics. be passive about our faith." Asia ... it is clear that he recog­"perhaps the pope didn't want 
cussions that are a mainstay of "We men used to have a code The weekend experience is nizes the increasing Muslim to take a slap at Law," who, not 
Campus Ministry events, in of chivalry. We were supposed open to all men at Notre presence." yet 80 years old, is still eligible 
favor of more unconventional to take care of women, chil­Dame. Students may sign up at McBrien pointed out that to elect the new pope and is 
activities. dren, and each other. If pirates the Campus Ministry office in "(his choices] are heavily also still acting as a member of 
"Singing 'Kumbaya' and hav­can have a code like that, why the Coleman-Morse Center. weighted on the side of loyal­several Vatican commissions. 
ing cheesy icebreakers aren't can't men?" he said. "The applications I've ists who will follow the policies Although Pope John Paul II's 
necessary for a successful spir­Russeau said the weekend received give me hope that this of the Vatican, but there are announcement was read with 
itual experience," Russeau will focus on images of reli­is something to talk about," some exceptions to that pat­halting breaths indicative of his 
said. "I hope that getting gious masculinity and struggle but space is still available, tern." Parkinson's disease, both 
together over a bonfire and a that have been downplayed in Russeau said. One somewhat unanticipated Vatican officials and Notre 
pig roast in an informal setting recent years, but might appeal ''I'd love to fill a bus, because omission from the list was Dame experts expressed confi­
will help us bring those things to competitive Notre Dame I've go't a lot of pig and steak Archbishop Sean O'Malley, who dence that he would be able to 
alive." men. He quoted St. Paul's sec­to go around," he cracked. replaced Cardinal Bernard Law participate fully in the cere­
Participants will also enjoy ond letter to Timothy: "l have as the archbishop of Boston monies, which begin Oct. 19 
"a lot of unstructured free fought the good fight, l have Contact Matt Bramanti at after Law resigned in the wake and continue until Oct. 26. 
time," as well as a Notre finished the race, I have kept mbramant@nd.edu of the church sex abuse scan­"By all accounts, he is near­dals last December. ing the end of his life on this While Boston traditionally earth," McBrien said. "But he 
owned computers. able to control what the publichas had a cardinal' in the past, has extraordinary powers of The national library commu­may view, and by implication,
Patriotboth McBrien and Cunningham resilience, and he may very 
nity has voiced concern about a what material researchersdismissed the idea that well be with us next spring." 
continued from page 1 potential for the intrusion of have to draw from. 
O'Malley's absence is a signifi­federal government into what "Any time there is a restric­
cant exception. Contact Claire Heininger at 
requests for information. Cities reading materials or websites tion of information flowing to"He just became an archbish-cheining@nd.edu 
such as Ann Arbor, Mich. and library patrons have viewed. the public ... that is at funda­
Cambridge, Mass. passed legis­"Everyone should be able to mental cross-purposes with the 
lation that dubs the act threat­read any information they Bill of Rights," Younger said. 
the idea of theme nights several 
ening to their citizens' civil want to without it becoming a "The idea that if you are months before the nightclub 
rights. matter of public record," researching a topic that is off

Thented 
debuted. 
Specifically, Section 215 of Younger said. the main stream, anything you continued from page I Jorissen said that while DJs 
the Patriot Act allows the fed­Younger also expressed con­are reading or using is subject would play a majority of a night's 
eral government to access any cern at the potential for dam­to seizure without you even the theme nights have been well songs from the designated theme, 
item in business records that age to academic research as knowing it [is troubling]." received by students and woul~ not they would still take some requests 
may prove useful in a federal the government has become Although the possibility for hurt Legends' popularity. for any type of music from stu­
investigation of international more restrictive of what mate­government intrusion is small, "I don't think [the theme nights] dents. 
terrorism or foreign intelli­rials it allows the public to Notre Dame librarians said will affect [attendance] all that "They base what they play on 
gence. Although the Section view. they find the legislation gives much. I think our students are what the crowd's reacting to," he 
applies only to general busi­The federal government too much power to the federal open to different things," he said. said. 
ness records and may only be sends documents to libraries government. Whereas federal But if students express dislike McAlpine said the idea of theme 
used narrowly in efforts to pro­monthly as matter of record, agents were previously allowed with the new theme nights, nights might be a possibility and 
tect the U.S. against interna­and Younger said that she is to gather information based on Jorissen said he would consider suggested that they should be held 
tional espionage or to gather aware of two instances in the probable cause, the Patriot Act changes to the programming on weeknights instead of the heavi­
foreign intelligence information past two years where the fed­allows requests for information schedule. ly attended Friday and Saturday 
on non-U.S. citizens. the legis­eral government has recalled sought "in connection with" a Although Legends played mainly nights. 
lation by implication allows documents from Notre Dame terrorism investigation. hip-hop music for the first two 
access to patron records as that they had previously sent. weeks after it opened, Jorissen said Contact Teresa Fralish at 
well as e-mail correspondence This de-selection of informa­Contact Joe Trombello at Legends managers had discussed tfralish@nd.edu 
and website logs from library-tion means the government is jtrombel@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER. 


USINESS
Wednesday, Ocrober 8, 2003 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 9,654.61 +59.63 
]ones 
• 7.: • "i.r.tr~~ 
NASDAQ·····;s;=p;;·!mm;;:·•·•·.···••!;hQU7i~$.:)::::!)):!)iji))iii!iffi!iil~!lili•:::;:!iii!i 
NYSE 5,876.56 +18.54 
AMEX .,~··· ·;:m···· T~qt~;~a.::::t••::::::::::&$~nfj:•;::::;•:~;::; 
S&PSOO 1,039.25 .. +4.90 NIKKEl (Tokyo)' 1Q~8!Q;gq)..;;jijj!i)i)ij)j)jffil)tl.~ ;... Fr5E IOO(London) 4,272.00 +1.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN IPRICE 
LOOKSMART LTD (LOOK) -52.32-1.58 1.44 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.17 -0.05 29.14 INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.32 +0.39 29.95 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 0.00 0.00 3.39 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.08 +0. 01 12.20 
Treasuries 

30-YE'AA BCMJ +1.80 +0.91 51.47 10·YEAR NOTE +2.24 +0.93 42.44 5-YEAR N01'E +2.67 +0.81 31.13 3-!oQoml BILL -0.33 -0.03 9.02 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.06 30.41 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.50 377.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.90 87.00 
Exchange Rates YEN 109.9 EURO 0.849 POOND 0.601 CANADIAN $ 1.331 
IN BRIEF 
Do-not-call list made legal 
DENVEH -A federal appeals court on Tuesday cleared away a hurdle that has kept the government from fully cracking down on tclcmarketers who contact people on the national do-not-call list. 
The 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals tem­porarily blocked a lower court order barring the Federal Trade Commission from enforcing the registry of more than 50 million numbers. 
The court questioned the conclusions of U.S. District Judge Edward Nottingham of Denver, who said the list violates the telemarketing industry's free-speech rights by barring calls from businesses but not charities. 
"The Supreme Court has held that there is undoubtedly a substantial governmental interest in the prevention of abusive and coer­cive sales practices," the appeals court said. 
The court also noted Congress had found some telemarketing calls "subjected con­sumers to substantial fraud, deception and abuse." 
FTC Chairman Timothy Muris called the rul­ing a victory for American consumers and said his agency will return to enforcing the list. 
Coke whistleblower is paid 
ATLANTA -The Coca-Cola Co. has agreed to pay $540,000 to a former finance manager to settle a whistleblower lawsuit that led to a criminal investigation of fraud allegations at the world's largest beverage maker. 
Matthew Whitley sued for wrongful termi­nation in state and federal court in May. The suit accused Coke of rigging a marketing test three years ago to inflate the popularity of Frozen Coke at Burger King restaurants in Virginia. 
In a joint statement Tuesday, Coke and Whitley said they had settled their disputes. 
Whitley has agreed to dismiss his com­plaints against the company and each of the individuals named. The company has agreed to pay him $100,000, the severance benefits he was to receive from being laid off. about $140,000, and $300,000 for legal fees. 
Whitley and Coke said both would continue to cooperate in the federal investigations of the company. 


Fonner Tyco CEO's trial begins 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK Prosecutors accused L. Dennis Kozlowski and another executive Tuesday of raiding Tyco International to pay for lavish homes and decadent parties, while defense lawyers said the pair deserved every dollar they got. 
The former Tyco CEO and Mark Swartz, the com­pany's former chief finan­cial officer, are accused of stealing $600 million and lying about it in a case that came to symbolize execu­tive excess, down to a $6,000 shower curtain. 
According to prosecutor Kenneth Chalifoux, they "didn't win the jackpot, they stole it." 
Chalifoux said the crimes came despite the duo's handsome salaries. In 2000, Kozlowski earned $106 million in pay and Swartz $54 million. 
Kozlowski, 56, and Swartz, 45, face larceny charges, enterprise cor­ruption -a charge usually aimed at organized crime figures -and lesser offenses that include filing false business records and conspiracy. 
Each could get up to 30 years in prison if convict­Kaufman. including paintings by birthday party for his wife ed. "There is no second set Renoir and Monet. on a Mediterranean island. 
Prosecutors say the two of books. There is no per­A closer look by the The party featured an ice stole $170 million by son who's going to come in Manhattan district attor­sculpture of Michelangelo's claiming unauthorized here and speak in hush­ney's office and the federal statue David squirting compensation and made hush tones about secret Securities and Exchange vodka into crystal glasses. another $430 million on payments," Kaufman said. Commission later revealed Swartz is accused of their Tyco shares by lying "How could Mark have huge expenditures, pay­using millions of Tyco dol­about the conglomerate's been trying to steal when ments and loans that pros­lars for personal invest­financial condition from the company's external ecutors say were illegal. ments and real estate 1995 into 2002. auditor was aware of Besides the shower cur­speculation. He allegedly 
Defense attorneys everything?" asked Charlie tain, prosecutors say worked with Kozlowski to argued in court that Tyco's Stillman, Swartz's lawyer. Kozlowski used company take millions of dollars in compensation committee The Tyco leaders' luxuri­money to buy a $15,000 improper bonuses and rewarded senior execu­ous lifestyles first attracted umbrella stand, a $2,200 loans, which he did not tives based on annual attention when Kozlowski gilt metal wastebasket and have to repay. goals. Pay and bonus rec­was charged in August a $445 pin cushion. Tyco, which has about ommendations were 2002 with evading more In a now-famous exam­270,000 employees, makes approved by an outside than $1 million in New ple, Kozlowski also electronics and medical auditor, said Kozlowski York state sales tax on $13 allegedly charged Tyco for supplies and owns the ADT attorney Stephen million worth of art, at least part of a $2 million home security business. 

Winter heating prices ready to rise 
last winter, according to the Energy head of the Energy Information 
Associated Press 
Department. Administration, the department's While normal weather would statistical agency, which issued its 
WASHINGTON -With natural gas require less fuel to be used com­winter fuels forecast Tuesday. costing twice what it did a few years pared with last winter, heating costs He said supplies are tight not only ago and crude oil at $30 a barrel, still would increase about 5 percent for natural gas but as well for crude homeowners can be sure of one on average '($841 for the season) oil and petroleum products, includ­thing: This winter's heating bills will because of higher fuel prices. ing heating oil. · be expensive, even if the winter is Those who heat with oil, a widely David Terry, managing director of not severe. used fuel in the Northeast, could see the National Association of State 
The Energy Department said heating bills drop by 8 percent from Energy Officials, said after a year of Tuesday it expects wholesale natural last year ($927 for the season) if the surging natural gas prices, soaring gas prices to be 9 percent higher this winter is normal -and if the price summer gasoline prices, a major winter than last, at between $4.50 of crude oil prices were to stabilize. electricity blackout and volatile and $5 per 1,000 cubic feet. Given a colder than normal winter, crude oil prices, people are worried 
Only a few years ago it was in the however, heating oil costs would be about what might come next. $2.50 range. expected to jump by as much as 17 "There's more of a heightened 
How much of the increase will be percent on average over last winter, sense of urgency," Terry said. The felt by homeowners and businesses to $1,084 for the heating season, state officials are responsible for will depend largely on how cold it officials said. Propane users can dealing with state energy emergen­gets, federal officials said. expect a slight decline if the weather cies. He said the higher fuel costs 
If a severe winter increases fuel is normal ($1,094) but could pay 16 will affect many people already fac­
use, residential users of natural gas percent more than last year ($1,301) ing hard economic times. could pay an average of nearly in a severe winter. Caruso said supplies of natural $1,000 this winter to heat their "The key factor as always in winter gas. heating oil and propane should homes, about 22 percent more than is the weather," said Guy Caruso, be adequate. 
Expect the World' nytirnes.corn 


Role Models 

ll:;arn1ng IS all about discovering new meaning in the world around us. Ennch your learning exrxmence l!y using the nation's most honomd newspapw and T(1e r\JeN York T1mes Knowleciqe ~~etwork. At nytirnes.com/college, access OL;r r1ews by subject search ens:pne, receive e-rnail alerts or1 your areao~ of interest, and advance your job search through Jot.1 tv1arket. f'or more information, and to 01·der a subscription to The Times at student rates, visit nytimes.com/college or call 1-888-698-2655. 

--------, Wednesday, October 8, 2003 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
ND, SMC students explore career, internship options 
Career centers, career fairs and counseling services offer opportunities to early job-seekers 
The Career and Counseling  companies including Johnson  nies that have visited campus  internship. 
By ANGELA SAOUD  Development Center at Saint  and  Johnson,  Price  seem  to  be geared toward  "I think Go Belles is a huge  
News Wricer  Mary's invited representatives  Waterhouse Coopers and the  students in business-related  asset," said Saint Mary's jun­ 
from  Ford  u  s  fields,  more  companies with  ior Teresa Healy.  "Even if  
As  summer  has  quickly  M  o  t  o  r  "Finding a job is a lot like  Securities  liberal arts backgrounds  are  there is nothing available for  
turned to fall, many students have already begun their search for future career and  Company, General Electric and  running a marathon. You have to train for it. II  a n d Exchange Commission.  slated to come as the year progresses. "Early recruiting involves  me right now, I can keep checking back for updates and new prospects."  
internship opportunities.  Northwestern  However,  mostly business and engi­ For students graduating  
Notre Dame's Career Center and Saint Mary's Career and Counseling Development  Mutual Life Insurance to visit campus  Lee Svete director  despite the amount of visiting cor­ neering majors," said Lee Svete, director of Notre Dame's Career Center. "Other  this year, getting an early start on the job search pro­vides many advantages.  
Center aid students in their  earlier in the  Notre Dame Career Center  porations,  majors, such as publishing,  "By starting early, you're  
searches by bringing a  vari­ semester.  some  stu­ advertising and government  competing  with  a  smaller  
ety of companies to campus  Notre  Dame's  Business  dents  are  finding the search  usually recruit in the spring."  applicant  pool  than  you  
for informational meetings  Career Fair, held last month,  more successful than others.  Johnson  and  Johnson,  would be competing against  
and on-campus interviews.  also  attract~d  a  variety of  Although many of the compa- General Electric and IBM  are  in the springtime," Hoberts  
just a  few of the companies  said.  

EXPLORING SEXUALITY': QUEER IDENTITIES IN COMMUNITY October 6-9, 2003, Saint Marls College 
A week long series of events sponsored by PinS (People in Support) in cooperation with the Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership, the Center for Spirituality, the Office of Multicultural Affairs, and the Departments of Philosophy, Psychology, Sociology, and Women's Studies 
MONDAY OCTOBER 6 
7:00 p.m., Regina 152 
"Hide and Seek" (1996) a film by Su Friedrich A fascinating portrait of lesbian childhood. 
WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 8 7:00p.m., Welsh Parlor, Haggar "Stages Parents Go Through When a Child Comes Out" A presentation by Nancy Mascotte, Michiana P-FLAG (Parents, Families, and Friends of Lesbians and Gays) 
THURSDAY OCTOBER 9 
7:00 p.m., Regina 152 
"The Match that Started My Fire" (1992) a film by Cathy Cook An experimental comedy about initial experiences of female sexuality 
followed by 
"Closer" (2000) a film by Tina Gharavi An experimental documentary character study of a 17 year-old lesbian living in Newcastle, England. 
scheduled to visit Notre Dame In addition to a career later this semester. Ford search, Roberts stresses the Motor Company has already importance of obtaining an 
committed to  internship.  
return  to  "It's early in the season.  "The benefit  
Saint Mary's. "It's early in the sea­ We build up the list of ·companies throughout  of having internship some kind  an or of  
son,"  said  the year so opportunities  experiential  
Jeff Roberts, Saint Mary's associate  become available during the fall and spring  activity you can do while in college to help  
director for  semesters. II  you  get  your  
c  a  r  e  e  r  foot  in  the  
opportuni­ door  will  be  
ties.  "We  Jeff Roberts  advantageous  
build up the  associate director  in job search­ 
list of  com­ SMC career opportunites  es," he said.  
panies  com­ "It will  add  
ing through- to  your  

out the year so opportunities resume, give you more con­become available during the tacts in the field, and it will fall and spring semesters." offer more insight into what 
In the meantime, Go Belles you want to do." and Go Irish are two career Svete finds that students networks offered to students who have been successful in on their respective campuses. finding a job use many Through these systems, stu­resources. dents can access career and "Finding a job is a lot like internship opportunities from running a marathon," Svete companies across the United said. States. "You have to train for it. By 
The networks are accessible conducting on and off campus 24 hours a day and provide job searches, building a students with specific contact strong network of alumnae information. Students are and friends and participating also able to publish an online in every preparation program resume that can be accessed possible, you're giving your­by potential employers. self the best chance for suc­
Since establishing the Go cess." Belles and Go Irish networks, some students are finding it Contact Angela Saoud at easier to search for a job or saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
Recycle the Observer. 

O'NEILL HALL'S 
Ist Annual SAND VOLL£Y8ALL TOURNAMENT 
·:· 



Thursday, October 9; 9 to 11 PM 
Location: McGlinn Courts 
FREE FOOD and DRmKS! $1 00 of PRIZES to the Winning Teams FREE TO PLAY! BRJNG YOUR FRIEliDS! Co-Sponsoredby D.I.C.E. Funding 

r-~·-------. 
page 10 The ob;erver + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS Wednesday, October 8, 2003 
Hollyw-ood big shots talk 111ovies 
Guber and Bart promise laughs on new "Sunday Morning Shootout" 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Peter Guber and Peter Bart want you to under­stand: Their new talk show is called "Sunday Morning Shootout." Not "Shoutout." 
Guber, a legendary film produc­er, and Bart, the editor-in-chief of Variety, are dueling co-hosts on "Shootout," which premieres on AMC this Sunday at 11 a.m. EDT. 
"We're going to discuss and argue about some of the key issues that involve the entertain­ment business, particularly movies," says Bart, who last year collaborated with Guber on "Shoot Out," a book about the entertainment industry. "We have been friends for an alarming number of years and we enjoy our feisty exchanges, so maybe other people will, too." 
Set in a Hollywood coffee shop where big shots can be found on a Sunday morning (but, oddly enough, not on their cell phones), each "Shootout" will feature a guest -a star, filmmaker or other insider (first up: Edward Norton). There'll be some gossip, maybe a little news. 
But no Tell Me About Your New Film And Let's Show A Oip. 
"And no reviews," Bart promis­es. "No thumbs-up or thumbs­down. Thumbs will be inactive." 
At the same time, look for trig­ger fingers to get twitchy (figura­tively speaking). In the movie­world parlance of Bart and Guber, "shootout" refers to a cre­ative clash; conflict in the service of collaboration; a demonstration of power and the willingness to use it, even if a shot is never fired. 
"Shootout," says Guber, "will mean something, rather than just two guys on 'The Best Damn Sports Show' screaming about whether Kobe Bryant is guilty." 
Of course, it usually means something when Guber or Bart opens his ·mouth. That's a given with power players of their mag­nitude. 
At 61, Guber has headed stu­dios and been an independent producer since the 1970s, with credits including "The Deep," "Midnight Express," "Rain Man," "Batman" and "Gorillas in the Mist." 
After a rollicking term running Sony Pictures with Jon Peters (an escapade in excess that cost Sony tens of millions), Guber in 1995 formed Mandalay Entertainment, whose films have included "I Know What You Did Last Summer" and "Donnie Brasco." 
Editor since 1989 of Variety, the so-called "show business Bible," Bart, now 71, wrote for the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times. Then he took a 20-year detour as a studio executive, helping develop such films as "The Godfather," "Harold and Maude," "Rosemary's Baby" and "Being There." 
"We have been in the business many years," Bart declares. "And yet we're not two old guys sitting around saying, 'Things were bet­ter in 1970 than they are now" ­because in many cases they weren't." 
"We have a completely different view on most things," adds Guber, insisting, "It's not necessarily just to create drama or conflict on the show. We actually believe differ­ently!" 
"For instance," says Bart, eye­ing Guber's garb, "I would never wear a shirt that says 'Prada' on it." 
"But there's a reason," grins Guber, whose casual togs strike a contrast to Bart's Saville Row nattiness. "He told me not to wear it. I said, 'Now that I found something you don't like, I'm going to be really active in its pursuit."' 
Their differences don't end with their apparel. "I am volatile, emo­tional," Guber says. "He speaks firmly, quietly, deeply, thoughtful­
..

!y. 
"But I know that he's danger­ous," Guber continues, grinning again as he gestures at Bart. "You have an argument with him, and you leave the table and then you drop dead five blocks away and you don't know why. Me, I pick up a fork and stab you right in the heart while you're sitting here." 
Could be great TV. But Guber makes movies, as well as arguing about them. Isn't he worried that, on public display every week, his candid style might rub the wrong person the wrong way? 
"The reality is, if I have a proj­ect that somebody wants to do and they hate me, but the script's really good, they'll do it," he replies. 
But don't mistake defiance for fearlessness. 
''I'm at a place in my career where I still have fear, but I'm not fear-filled," he explains. "When I was in my 20s, I thought the world would come crashing to an end if everybody didn't love me. When I was in my 30s, I realized that nobody loved me. And now, I don't care if they love or they hate me, as long as they do the work." 
"That's probably including his wife and children," jokes Bart, referring to Lynda, Guber's wife of 38 years, and their four kids. 
"Probably does include them," Guber fires back with a laugh. 



Judge orders man to stop stalking Spears 
Associated Press 
SANTA MONICA -A judge ordered a Japanese business­man to stay away from pop idol Britney Spears, ruling Tuesday 
he  was  "was  abnormally  
obsessed  and  fixated  with  
Spears."  

"It was an obvious pattern of harassment and emotional harm done to a person of notoriety," Superior Court Judge Alan Haber said in issuing the perma­nent injunction. 
Spears, 21, first sought a restraining order against Masahiko Shizawa in December 2002, alleging that he "tracked and attempted to contact" her at her home in Los Angeles, as well as at her second home and one of her parent's homes, which are both outside California. He also allegedly sent photos of himself and notes reading, ''I'm chasing you." 
Shizawa, whose visa expired, has been back in his native Yokohama, Japan, since last December. 
The judge said the evidence showed that Shizawa was men­tally "off." 
Shizawa's lawyer, Simon Robert Hiller, said his client was a law-abiding citizen. 
"He was in love," he said. 
The injunction calls for Shizawa to stay 300 yards away from Spears for three years. 


FCC: Bono didn't violate decency rules 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -When it comes to cursing, the govern­ment says, it's all in the deliv­ery. 
That's the view of the Federal Communications Commission in its decision that U2 singer Bono's colorful language during the Golden Globe Awards didn't violate federal indecency rules. 
The FCC rejected complaints from the Parents Television Council and more than 200 people, most of them associated with the council, who accused dozens of television stations of violating restrictions on obscene broadcasts by airing portions of the awards program last January. 
The complaints objected to Bono's uttering the phrase "this is really, really, f------brilliant." 
The FCC, using the F-word more often to explain its deci­sion than Bono did on the air, said the word "may be crude and offensive, but. in the con­text presented here, did not describe sexual or excretory organs or activities." That dis­tinction is a key test to measure whether a statement meets a federal standard for broadcast indecency. 


Low Interest Auto Loansl (new or used: same rate) 



"The rates are competitive­but it's the member service that will bring me back to Notre Dame Federal Credit Union." 
0 


NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us 
to be better 

574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
Wednesday, October 8, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 11 
NATO allies expected to take on bigger roles 
European nations build peacekeeping efforts 
Associated Press 

COLORADO SPRINGS ­America's European allies are expected to otTer this week to play a bigger peacekeeping role in Bosnia and Afghanistan, helping U.S. forces stretched by the occupa­tion of Iraq and their fight against ai-Qaida. 
European nations firmed up plans for both operations at talks ahead of a two-day meet­ing of NATO defense ministers, which opens Wednesday in this Rocky Mountain city. 
NATO also has already asked the United Nations for permis­sion to expand its peacekeep­ing mission in Afghanistan and move troops beyond the capi­tal, Kabul, into other Afghan cities. 
"My top priority is that we get Afghanistan right," NATO Secretary General Lord Hobertson told reporters Tuesday. "It's a big responsibil­ity." 
NATO currently runs a force of 5,000 -mostly German and Canadian -troops maintain­ing order and supporting the Afghan authorities in Kabul. The mission is separate from the larger U.S.-led combat mis­sion fighting remnants of al­Qaida and the ousted Taliban regime in the countryside. 

Plans under consideration would send more NATO-led troops -possibly up to sever­al thousand -out to other Afghan cities to support civil­ian reconstruction teams and help extend the authority of the Afghan government in areas currently under control of local warlords. 
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said Washington he supported a wider role for the Kabul force, which operates under a U.N. mandate. 
"We've always favored expansion outside Kabul," he said. 
However, Robertson has acknowledged that a shortage of properly trained and equipped European troops could limit the scope. 
Are you consideri~g. theological edu.cation? Meet with an admiSSIOns representative from 
HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 

THURSDAY, OcTOBER 9TH n:oo A.M. -r:oo P.M. CoLEMAN-MoRSE 
Learn about our graduate programs, including the Master of Divinity and the Master ofTheological Studies, and about related resources within Harvard University's other graduate faculties and the nine-school Boston Theological Institute. 
ALL STUDENTS, ALL MAJORS AND ALL YEARS WELCOME 
For more information, contact the Office of Admissions and Financial Aid at (617) 495-5796 or consult the Harvard Divinity School website at 
http://www. hds.harvardedu 




Clark's catnpaign tnanager quits 
Presidential candidate loses manager in feud over campaign direction 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Wesley Clark's campaign manager quit Tuesday in a dispute over the direction of the Democratic presidential bid, exposing a rift between the former general's Washington­based advisers and his 3­week-old Arkansas campaign team. 
Donnie Fowler told associ­ates he was leaving over widespread concerns that supporters who used the Internet to draft Clark into the race are not being taken seriously by top campaign advisers. Fowler also com­plained that the campaign's message and methods are focused too much on Washington, not key states and the burgeoning power of the Internet, said two associ­ates who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Spokesmen for the cam­paign declined to comment. 
Fowler has been at odds with communications adviser Mark Fabiani of California 
and policy adviser Ron Klain 
of Washington. All three are 
veterans of AI Gore's 2000 
presidential campaign, part 
of a large group of Clinton­
Gore activists hired by Clark 
as he entered the race Sept. 
17. 

From the start, there has been tension between the campaign's political profes­-sionals and the draft-Clark supporters. 
Fowler has complained that while the Internet-based draft-Clark supporters have been integrated into the cam­paign, their views are not taken seriously by Fabiani, Klain and other top advisers, many of them based in Washington. He has warned Clark's team that the cam­paign is threatening to be overly focused on Washington, a charge leveled against Gore's campaign in 2000. 
Fowler, son of former Democratic Party chairman Don Fowler, was quietly installed as chairman of the campaign in the first days of the bid. 
Fowler's departure is the latest blow for a campaign that has gotten off to mixed reviews. 

National polls put Clark near the top of the nine-per­son field and he raised more than $3 million in the first two weeks of his campaign, a sum that surpassed what sev­eral rivals raised in three weeks. However, he has been criticized for nip-flopping on whether he would have sup­ported the Iraq resolution, and his commitment to the Democratic Party has been questioned. 
Clark voted for Presidents Reagan and Nixon, praised both Bush administrations and had not registered to vote as a Democrat in his home state of Arkansas before entering the race. The high number of Clinton-Gore offi­cials on his campaign has caused Clark's rivals to ques­tion whether the former pres­ident is quietly pushing Clark's campaign, a charge strongly disputed by the can­didate and Clinton's associ­ates. 
Split brewing in Episcopal Church 
Associated Press 
DALLAS-An insurgent con­servative movement that could split the Episcopal Church opened a national rally Tuesday with prayers, heartfelt singing and sobering messages about a break with liberals. 
The meeting's goal is to shape plans for Episcopalians who oppose their denomination's increasing acceptance of gay relationships. At its national con­vention this summer, the church confirmed the election of a gay bishop living with his partner and voted to recognize that bish­ops are allowing blessing cere­monies for same-sex couples. 
"Our church has embraced schism and heresy," Bishop Robert Duncan of Pittsburgh told the 2,674 participants at the meeting, including 799 priests and 46 of the denomination's 300 bishops. 
Dunean, who mentioned the temporary split the church went through during the Civil War, was just one of several speakers who delivered emotional speech­es to the gathering. 
The Rev. David Roseberry of Christ Church in suburban Plano said "people are confused and hurt and angry and concerned and grieved." 

Canon David C. Anderson, president of the sponsoring American Anglican Council, said his movement welcomes people of all sexual orientations "gay and straight and ex-gay people who are committed to a biblically moral life," implying that homo­sexuals are expected to be celi­bate. 

Information Meeting 


Perth, Australia 
IFor students in the Colleges of Science and Engineering Onlyl 
Wednesday, October 8, 2003 
Room 210 DeBartolo Hall 5:15-6:30pm 
Application deadline: Dec. 1, 2003 for Fall 2004 only Apply on-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 
A draft version of a declaration the meeting will issue at its con­clusion Thursday says the Episcopal Church is "under God's judgment," and commits partici­pants to withholding money from the national church and dioceses that support the Minneapolis decisions. 
It also calls on the archbishop of Canterbury and the 37 other leading bishops in the Anglican Communion, of which the Episcopal Church is the U.S. Branch, to create an undefined "new alignment for Anglicanism in North America." Those 38 leaders will hold an emergency meeting in London next week to debate what to do about the brewing Episcopal split and a parallel spat in the Anglican Church of Canada over gay rela­tionships. 


Write 
for News. Call Megs at 1-5323. 
THE 0BSERVIR 





IEWPOINT
Page 12 Wednesday, October 8, 2003 

The w-aves of white 
This summer, after sifting through the bombardment of Notre Dame e­mails concerning the remarkable diversity of the Class of 2007, I half­expected to arrive on campus to see a rainbow of skin colors joining 

Joey Falco
hands in front of the Golden Dome and singing "We 
40 Ounces to
Are the World." On 
Falco
the contrary, one of my very first Notre Dame musi­cal experiences consisted of about a dozen white kids squeezing bagpipes outside of the LaFortune Student Center. 
Clearly, this University's definition of diversity bears absolutely no resemblance to that of any contempo­rary dictionary, which tend to stress words like "difference," "variety" and "mixture." Unfortunately, on a college campus where a large part of a stu­dent's education is expected to devel­op through peer interaction, diversity in the form of Confirmation name, favorite du Lac guideline or desire to perform a colonoscopy on Bob Davie are not the preferred social back­grounds for spurring the erudite, multi-ethnic discussions characteris­tic of a University of such prestige. 
Frighteningly enough, it seems as though the only true diversity to be found in South Bend is in the bever­age sections of the North and South dining halls, where a Texan, an East or West Coaster and a Midwesterner can spend hours fiercely debating the differences between Coke, soda and pop. This, however, does not consti­tute diversity. Actually, it is merely a misconception on the part of Texans who associate the drinking of Coke with a former illegal habit of their hometown hero, President George W. Bush. 
Administrators are quick to point out that members of the Class of 2007 come from all 50 states and 36 differ­ent countries, thereby ensuring noth­ing more than that a wide variety of beers will be served at most campus parties. However, learning the subtle differences in taste between the bev­erage of choice in these varying Caucasian nations is not the type of diversity· that is necessary to create a truly open-minded and cultured stu­dent body, even if it does add some spice to a game of Beirut. 
In addition, with a high percentage of Notre Dame students coming from similarly Caucasian Catholic high schools, most of the student popula­tion has still managed to avoid open­ing their eyes to a world that does not revolve around a prosperous family lifestyle, Sunday Mass and white homogeneity. I would be extremely interested to know how many Darners have ever sang along to the horah at a Bar 

The wave ofthe future is 
Mitzvah, had a tradi­most notable tional Hindu mother not the conquest ofthe Catholic university, cook them a Tandoori had an African
world by a single
Chicken or danced the American President
dogmatic creed, but the 
Spinning Cone Dance as early as 1874.) with a citizen of liberation ofthe diverse Likewise, Notre Benin, Africa-all of Dame's decision to
energies offree nations 
which can be incredi­admit women in the 
andfree men.
bly enlightening expe­riences. 
Consequently, some changes must be made to one of the worst examples of a Notre Dame mis­nomer -"The Sea of Green." This apparently verdant coming together of the student body in their corner of the football stadium may include the occasional green face on anyone who had a little too much keg with their egg. Generally speaking, though, one cannot deny the fact that "The Wave of White" would be a much more accurate representation of the tint in Notre Dame Stadium every football weekend. 
John Kennedy once said, "The wave of the future is not the conquest of the world by a single dogmatic creed, but the liberation of the diverse ener­gies of free nations and free men." Why then, has this supposedly transnational campus chosen to forgo riding Kennedy's metaphorical "wave of the future?" Why then, has it cho­sen to leave behind its aspiring lead­ers of America by depriving us of the "diverse energies of free men?" 

Perhaps it has something to do with the fact that this is a University rich in age-old tradition, including strong Catholic heritage, incomparable ath­letic pride and support and first-class academic excellence. Unfortunately, along with these noble remnants of the past lie the far more disturbing traditions of white, male-dominated homogeneity. It took 105 years for this college to graduate its first black which, in 1947, was a long,timeJqOffir ing compared to other top-tier U.S. universities. (Harvard's first coming in 1860, Yale's in 1874, and even 
Georgetown, 
America's other 
early 1970s came 
nearly 100 years 

after most other major colleges did so. It seems as though this University is always just a little behind the times when it comes to diversification, and the time has come once again for it to either catch up to its competition, or risk falling behind permanently. 
According to an excerpt from the Multicultural Student Programs and Services section of du Lac, "At Notre Dame, we believe variety is the spice of life." Well, if that's the case, then maybe this campus needs a little more Tabasco sauce. 
Joey Falco is a freshman marketing major. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contact­ed at jfalco@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
The Vatican is considering curtailing female 

"To accomplish great things, we must
altar service.
Barker 

not only act, but also dream; not 
Illustrator Have you ever been an altar server? 

only plan, but also believe. " 
Pat Quill 

Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
Anatole France 
writer
www.ndsmcobserver.com 


THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 8, 2003 page 13 
Focus on the present 
I'm sitting on South Quad with my back toward Main Circle and leaning against the nag pole, my feet and legs stretching straight out in front of me. I take a deep breath and take in what is around me. It is dark and there is no one on the quad but me. Why would there be anyone out at this Adam Cahill hour? It's 4 a.m. and I try to push that thought from my head, though, A Domer's and focus on other 
Outlook 
things. 
The Dome is brilliant tonight, even more so than usual. The majestically serene statue of Mary atop the Dome seems to command the rest of the campus. And for the first time in a while, the stars salt the sky above me as I lean my head up against the cold aluminum. The wind has died down from before into a soft breeze that barely dis­
turbs the trees that line the path up to the Admissions Building. There aren't too many nights like this. 
A security officer on a bike rides up to me and asks if I'm OK. Yeah, I say, I just could not get to sleep. Don't let your wor-
We need to focus on what there is to do today instead ofwhat there is to do tomorrow or a decade from now. 
ries get you down, he says, it's not worth it. Thanks officer, I say, I'll try. He rides off down the sidewalk toward Rockne Memorial and disappears into the distance. 
I come here sometimes when I cannot sleep. It seems like a lot more often as of late but I cannot figure out why. For a num­ber of nights, I have had this feeling that there was something inside of me that has been mounting in pressure almost to the poln1. of. eruption. But for whatever reason, I cannot put my finger on it and it pesters me even more. The depressing questions of self-confusion have dawned on me and the answers are not coming. I know it has to do with more than just the major I dislike or the classes that require all my time. I think back on the decision to come here. more of a statement than a decision. It was always here that I wanted to go. 
But why, I ask myself. Why have I always wanted to come to Notre Dame and why am I here now? 
A light breeze stirs up the trees in front of me and almost as if I am subject to divine intervention, I know. The clouds of confu­sion and mystification clear and my mind 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
could not have more clarity. I know why I wanted to come here. why I am here. 
I wanted, or rather, want to be somebody. I said to myself that the dreamer is only as good as the dream. And I realize now that I have lived my whole life under the pre­sumptuous idea that the world is going to need me to run it someday. And if it is not me who is running it, it's going to be me that advises the ones that do. After all, is no't a dreamer only as good as a dream? 
But I realize now that keeping my eye on the ultimate goal never got me any closer to making it a reality. It was like trying to win a marathon by looking for the finish and not noticing the 26 miles I needed to run to get there. 
Like all dreams, my ideas of life were large and without limit. When I was younger. I was going to play in the World Series and be mentioned in the same breath as the Babe and Cobb. I was going to go to 
break all the records in the 
book and then be elected 
president. I had it all figured out. 
But looking at the Dome right now I am granted a revelation. I see that dreams are only as difficult to 
achieve as we make them. I 
become conscious of the fact that the loftier the goals, the more we need to do the small things to get there. We need to focus on what there is to do today instead of what there is to do tomorrow or a decade from now. Reading .assignments, eating healthy and taking care of myself are all things that will help me reach my final goal. 
Distractions got in my way then and dis­tractions will probably get in my way again, but one thing is certain, I'm going to try and take it one step at a time. 
And as I rise to my feet and cross the quad back to my dorm. the breeze that had died down picks up again, revealing the underbelly of all the leaves on the trees. It's going to rain soon, I predict, but that's no matter. I have work to do. But first, it's time to sleep. 
Adam Cahill is a senior history and American studies major. His column nor­mally appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted at acahill@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Consider facts 


carefully 
Pardon my frankness, but Peter Quaranto, in his Oct. 7 column, needs to bring his head down from the clouds and take a glance at the real world. 
So Pope John Paul II and John Mearsheimer challenge the United States' case for going to war. Does this make the case wrong? I believe the Pope to be a wise, keen and benevolent man, one of my favorites amongst world leaders. But he is aging, and even in the sharpest of men, age takes its toll. Further, did he have all of the information? If. as we now see, the United States did not, and the United States has extensive security and intelli­gence networks, how could the Pope? The fact is that despite ensuing problems, such as unemployment, as Quaranto cites, the Iraqi people are free of the oppressive Baathist regime. As a Catholic, I see this as some­thing of a justifica­tion of the war on Iraq, if not a complete jus­tification. As the United States is a mem­ber of the United Nations, it would seem appropriate that the United States desire to remove Hussein from power, by any means necessary ifit comes down to it. 
However, neither the United Nations nor Quaranto seems to agree with this. Sadly, members of the United Nations were more concerned with putting their own concerns ahead of those of the Iraqi people. It seems that say, the French, were more concerned with Iraqi oil than the Iraqi peo­ple. And what of the weapons found in Iraq that have been pre­liminarily linked to France, though the French deny it? 
Yes, I will concede that oil was likely a major influence in the American decision to go to war. However, in doing this selfish deed, the United States would by necessity alleviate the Iraqi peo­ple by removing Hussein. So we see two similar ideas in which the nations put their own desires above the needs of the Iraqi peo­ple. But·by carrying out the Americans' selfish goal. some good was done. So we must decide, which is better, a bad thing that leads to good, or a bad thing that leads to continued oppression? I would think the for­mer to be the lesser of two evils. But what do I know? 
Having said that about the United Nations, how can we trust the organization to be given authority over Iraq? With all of its in-fighting and the selfish desires of its members, how can it be said to still even have a strong pur­pose? I agree with Quaranto in his claims about the problems with the United States continuing as the primary re-builder, but to me this is, sadly, the lesser of two evils. 
Quaranto cites a United Nations claim that $40 billion would be enough to end world hunger and provide every child with clean drinking water, basic health care and education. He mentions the growing poverty and unemploy­ment in the United Sates. Here, I do sympathize with his argument. I personally am fiercely anti-free trade, and think our government should be taking more proactive steps to bring jobs back to 
Americans instead of giving 
them to foreign workers 
who suffer from 
labor abuses by 
corporations not 
made account­
able for their 
actions. 
However, I 
find one 
major fault 
with 
Quaranto's 
idealistic 
notion of 
ending 
world 
hunger and doing all of those other wonderful deeds. How on 
earth do we do it? Do we really think that Hussein 
would have let all of 
the amenities reach his 
people in full quantity without 
keeping some for himself and his 
soldiers? Or what about Kim Jong 
II? The man is infamous for keep­
ing humanitarian aid out of the 
hands of the many North Koreans 
starving at the hands of his 
oppressive reign. 
How have we managed to get food where it needed to go? Through force. A case in point is Somalia. While as a military ven­ture to oust General Aideed and his war machine, as well as com­peting warlords, the mission was a failure, it was successful in end­ing the famine affecting such a huge majority of the Somali peo­ple. How did we succeed? We sent in troops to defend convoys and poor areas from the war­lords. 
I have attempted to, in the most intelligent and coherent way I can, point out why force is some­times necessary, and how it may be justified in Iraq. Carefully note that I said "may." I do not know if this venture by the War Party is justified. I do not know if I will ever believe it to be just, or unjust. Perhaps even 20 years from now I shall still be on the fence. But it is not the place of Quaranto, or anyone, to be so hasty as t~ judge this war without frrst seeing what ensues over the coming years. 
Nathan Origer 
sophomore 
Fisher Hall 
Oc[. 7 



THE 0BSER\'ER 
CENE

page 14 
Wednesday, October 8, 2003 
Scene music critics reveal 
"American English" brings back memories 
By LIAM FARRELL 
Scene Music Critic 
Nick Hornby wrote in his brilliant book 31 Songs that "sometimes, very occasionally, songs and books and films and pictures express who you are, per­fectly. And they don't do this in words or images necessarily; the connection is a lot less direct and more complicated than that." One of the most impressive abilities of music and simple, sometimes incredibly inane rock and pop songs is to transport their listeners back to a specific place and time and allow them to recall exactly how they felt. Day after day, week after week, music is my own personal time machine. 
The best songs -the ones that stick with me -are the ones that I can place within a specific time and place. Coldplay's Parachutes, the first side of Sigur Ros' () and just about every U2 and R.E.M. song ever written has its place on my own personal timeline. Like Hornby's character Rob in High Fidelity, my music collection is less a definition of musical taste than of auto­biography. 
Last May, I was in the Dublin airport coming back from a semester abroad, and I thought the perfect last purchase in Ireland would be a CD. After glanc­ing through the racks I picked up Idlewild's The Remote Part, an album and an artist I had never heard of. It's always a dangerous proposition to buy something costing over 10 euros on impulse alone, but I gave it a shot. 
Once it hit the third track, "American English," I was sold on it. The rest of the album was very good, but that third track had me hitting repeat all the way from Ireland to New York, and I still lis­ten to that song about once a day -the driving beat, the pulse, the beautiful refrain that promises to "keep singing a this means I 'cause you already know." Other songs I listen to may be better. and Idlewild will probably never be loved by millions of people, but almost no song can bring me back to better 


Contact Liam Farrell at lfarrell@nd.edu 
song about myself I not some invisible world." Every time I hear that song, I am brought back to the moment I walked through JFK and saw my girl­friend, Caitlin, running toward me after months of being apart, and, in the words of the song, "I won't tell you what 

Pink Moon possesses subterranean Inusical beauty 
By RYAN RAFFERTY 
Scene Music Critic 
If I were to ask you to name your favorite album of all time, how quickly would you be able to answer? Would you quickly rattle off a widely-accepted clas­sic album like Led Zeppelin's IV, or Pink Floyd's Dark Side ofthe Moon? 
If you're a true music fan, you would fear this question like leprosy. Music is a hugely emotional medium, and, like emo­tions, it is always changing. So when my editor asked me to write about my favorite album or artist, I spent hours racking my brain. I spent the entire day going through all of my albums, trying to fmd the perfect one. I finally decided on Nick Drake's Pink Moon. 
My reasoning behind choosing Pink Moon was actually easier than I thought. I asked myself what album I could listen to at any time of day or any time of the year and have it feel brand new. There were other albums that followed that criterion, but Nick Drake has always struck that emotional E minor chord in my heart. 
Pink Moon clocks in at only 28 minutes -but a delicate and beautiful 28 min­utes. It was the final album from a bril­liant folk artist who committed suicide shortly after recording this album in his basement. What makes this album so special is the nakedness of the music. The only instruments that appear are Nick's wonderfully finger-picked acoustic guitar and his gorgeously melancholy vocals. One song. "Know" is only four notes played behind Nick's hummed vocals. Despite its lack of depth, Pink Moon is incredibly subterranean in its musical beauty. 
Many will recognize the title track from its use in Volkswagen commercials, but there is so much more to this album. Pink Moon captures a certain tender yet hope­ful sensation through the 11 tracks. When 


heart and make you feel a wide range of 

U2' s Inusic defines a generation 
By REBECCA SAUNDERS 
Scene Music Critic 
Like most 15-year-old girls, my absolute favorite song after 15 boy band-filled years of musical develop­ment was "Crash" by Dave Matthews Band. Dave Matthews Band fandom was my mature move into what I con­sidered to be "real" music. This new­found appreciation of "real" music, which came directly from my clearly extensive musical expertise, opened up new worlds for me. 
Eventually, I turned off my "Today's Hits" radio station and determined to find real music I could truly appreci­ate. I nobly went out -and borrowed my friends' Beastie Boys and Whitney Houston's Greatest Hits albums. After committing both albums to memory, I still found myself hungry for a deeper level of musical genius than party songs and divas. At this time. I entered an art class composed of a handful of musical connoisseurs, and somewhere between Britney and Metallica, some­one played the U2 The Joshua Tree album. Enough said. With the huge · rock ballads "With or Without You," "I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For" and "Where the Streets Have No Name," I became an instant fan. 
Since my initial life-changing experi­ence of U2, I have only become more and more addicted to the Irish band that fills stadiums without a second thought. "All That You Can't Leave Behind" came out right as my addic­tion began to peak. While this is slightly glorified, in all seriousness, I believe that U2 has been the defining band of our time. They are one of the 
few bands 
today known 
worldwide, 
and as much 
as they hate 
this compari­
son. they are 
The Beatles 
of our gener­
ation. Not 
only do they 
write amaz­
ing and 
groundbreak­
ing music, 
but they also 
use their 
fame for the 
improvement of the world at large. 
Political activists from the start, U2 
strive to bring peace to the world 
through their art form. They are great men, and the band of our time. 


Contact Rebecca Saunders at rsaunderl@nd.edu 

2003-2004 Service Opportunities in the South Bend Area An Insert to The Observer 
Service opportunities have the power to transform lives: Fr. Lies 
By Father Bill Lies 
T
hrough the years; thousands of students have taken part in the diverse opportunities offered through the Center for Social Concerns and our many partners. Each student has made an important difference. 
Very often these students' service involvement, and the learning that comes through and with it, has transformed them. In turn, their transformation allows each of them to be ever more impressive agents of transformation and/or goodness within others' lives and within communities. These students continue to reach out long after their time at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross College. 
Directory of Service Organizations 
ADDICTIONS 
Life Treatment Centers Center for Basic Learning Skills 
ADULT LITERACY 
Literacy Council of St. Joseph County South Bend Community Schools Adult Education 
ADULT-OLDER 
Basil Moreau Convent Cardinal Nursing Center Oasis Milton Home Portage Manor REAL Services 
CHILDREN & YOUTH Big Brothers & Big Sisters ofND/SMC Boy Scouts of America Boys and Girls Club ND/SMC Campus Girl Scouts Casie Center Circle K Notre Dame El Campito Day Care Center Family and Children's Center 
Home Management Resource Hugh O'Brian Youth Foundation 
Alumni Association (ND HOBY) Junior Mental Health Assoc. ND/SMC Lunch P.A.C.K. Madison Center Ms. Wizard Day Program Team Neighborhood Study Help Program Southgate Dream Center St. Hedwig's Outreach Center There Are Children Here Teamwork for Tomorrow University Young Life Youth Services Bureau 
CRIMINAL JUSTICE 
Amnesty International Dismas House Indiana Legal Services United Religious Community 
CULTURAL ISSUES 
Broadway Christian Parish Community Alliance to Serve 
Hispanics (CASH) East Timor Action Network@ ND La Casa de Amistad South Bend Heritage Foundation 
DISABILITY SERVICES 
Rest Buddies Corvilla, Inc. Council for Fun and Learning Logan Center ND/SMC Logan Club Reins of Life Special Friends Club SuperSibs 
ENVIRONMENT 
ND for Animals Net Impact Students fOr Environmental Action (SEA) 
HOUSINGIHOMELESSNESS 
Broadway Christian Parish Center for the Homeless ND/SMC Center for the Homeless 
Children's Group Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity Hope Rescue Mission St. Margaret's House St. Vincent de Paul Salvation Army South Bend Heritage Foundation YWCA Women's Shelter 
HUNGER CONCERNS 
Foodshare World Hunger Coalition 
MEDICAL 
AIDS Ministries/Aids Assist American Cancer Society American Red Cross Chapin Street Clinic ND First Aid Services Team Global Health Initiative Helpful Undergraduate Students (HUGS) Hospice ofSt. Joseph County, Inc. SouthernCare Hospice St. Joseph's Chapin St. Volunteers 
MULTI-SERVICE GROUPS 
Arnold Air Society Catholic Charities Experiential Learning Council Home Management Resources Knights ofColumbus Council1477 Muscular Dystrophy Association Potawatomi Zoo Trident Naval Society 
PEACE AND JUSTICE ISSUES 
Amnesty International Peace Fellowship Progressive Student Alliance Notre Dame Right to Life Service Network, NO 
WOMEN'S CONCERNS 
Campus Alliance for Rape 
Elimination (CARE) Sex Offense Services (SOS) Women's Care Center Women's Resource Center YWCA Women's Shelter 


Learning at the Center for the Homeless 

T
here's a caveat to y.our Notre community. become aware ofsocial injustices in Dame experience that you South Bend by moving beyond the
'Two hours a week' 

may have forgotten. campus boundaries." 
For most volunteer opportunities, 
It is the unspoken understanding While the need to have students
organizations expect students to

that as a student ofNotre Dame, perform community service is a
contribute about rwo hours per 

you will see your way clear to help large part of the Catholic social 
week. Cahill Kelly suggests that

the South Bend community that mission at Notre Dame, Cahill
students budget their time as they

you currently call home. Kelly points out that there are
would for a class or a job. 

other compelling reasons to take "The time commitment is''As part of Notre Dame's action. 
very manageable for the average Catholic mission, it is hoped that 

students actively engage in the local "For people who have been 
student," said Cahill Kelly. "If you

community," said Annie Cahill involved with social justice issues, 
manage your schedule well, you'll 

Kelly, Director of Community it's understood that to affect change 
find that it won't cut into your

Partnerships and Service Learning in society, you have to begin by 
academic or social time." 

at the Center for Social Concerns. helping in your community. In "Many students find that they 
other words, the old maxim ofNotre Dame's mission states that 
actually manage their time better 
'think globally, act locally."'
"the University seeks to....create 
when additional demands are 

a sense of human solidarity and Without question, community
placed on them." 

concern for the common good that service groups have significant will bear fruit as learning becomes 'Think globally, act locally' unmet needs within the South service tq justice." Bend community. In some cases,
"In your home town, you may organizations need tutors to help
As part of its mission on be more familiar with society's children struggling in school; in
campus, the Center for Social problems because they are in your Concerns helps to facilitate student own back yard," said Cahill Kelly. 
Continued on Page 4
involvement in the community. ''As a student, it is your choice to 
The Center does this is a variety of ways. 
First, it has "community based learning partnerships" with seven organizations in the community. These organizations-such as the Center for the Homeless, Logan Center and Robinson Community Learning Center-work hand­in-hand with the Center to train students for community service. 
Second, the Center works closely with nearly 40 other community organizations to help find student volunteers for their programs. Finally, the Center encourages student groups that work to facilitate student efforts in the 

Center Hours 
M-Th 8:00 a.m. -10:00 p.m. Fri 8:00a.m.-7:00p.m., Sat. noon-2:00p.m.* Sun. 6:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. On home football weekends, the Center opens 2 1/2 hours before game time and closes 1/2 hour before game time. 
You can also reach the Center at 631-5293 or nd.cntrsc.l@nd.edu. or http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu 

PAGE2 
Se:rvicf: C( Svcia! &lctitJJi grtJJjJ 
AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY 
Volunteers organize on-campus awareness raising and fund-raising events. Student Contact: Katherine Spitz@ Katherine.D.Spitz.5@nd.edu 
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL 
Volunteers are needed for letter writing, petition signing, special 
campaign work, and informal discussions about human rights issues 
worldwide. Student Contact: Terriss Conterato@ Terriss.A.Cont 
erato.l @nd.edu or visit http://www.nd.edu/...-peace/ 
ARNOLD AIR SOCIETY 
Arnold Air Society advocates the support ofAerospace power. 
Instills in its members an attitude of unselfish dedication to the 
mission of the Air Force and AAS and makes contributions to the 
community and campus. Student Contact: Lynn Wojszynski @ 
Lynn.K.Wojszynski.l @nd.edu or visit http://www.nd.edu/ ~aas/ 
BEST BUDDIES 
Club members develop relationships with people with mental 
retardation and other developmental disabilities by going to 
movies, sporting events, concerts, and by participating together in 
recreational events. Student Contact: Madeleine Gagnon @ Madel 
eine.M.Gagnon.6@nd.edu or visit http://www.nd.edu/ ~bbuddies 
BIG BROTHERS & BIG SISTERS OF ND/SMC 
Volunteers provide shared time and friendship between 
a student and a child. Student Contact: Mark Zepf@ 
Mark.A.Zepf.3 @nd.edu 
CAMPUS ALLIAN("E FOR RAPE ELIMINATION 
Volunteers are studen•-and faculty/administrators from both ND and SMC. C.A.R.E. members make dorm presentations about rape on campus and sponsor rape support groups on campus. Student Contact: Anastasia Envall@ Anastasia.M.Envall.l@nd.edu 
CAMPUS GIRL SCOUTS 
Notre Dame-Saint Mary's volunteers work with younger Girl Scout 
groups in the area and perform a variety of other service activities. 
Student Contact: Reina Montes@ Reina.M.Montes.5@nd.edu 
ND/SMC CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS CHILDRENfS GROUP 
Volunteers spend time once a week with the children who live 
at the CFH. Volunteers might tutor, organize field trips and 
plan art & craft activities. Student Contact: Kathryn Lent @ 
Kathryn.D.Lent.6@nd.edu or visit http://www.nd.edu/~hscg/ 
CIRCLE K NOTRE DAME 
Join this service club that offers 21 weekly projects with transportation that will satisfy anyone's volunteer desires. By performing 7,000+ hours of service each year, offering over 50 leadership positions, and 800 students participating every year, Circle K was voted Club of the Year 2001-2002! Weekly meetings: Sunday at 5:00pm in the Library auditorium. Student Contact: Eric Wooldridge @ Eric.W.Wooldridge.4@nd.edu or visit http://www.nd.edu/~circlek/ 
COMMUNITY ALLIANCE TO SERVE HISPANICS (CASH) 
Volunteers reach out to the Hispanic community of South Bend 
through service activities, educational programs, and awareness 
projects. Student Contact: Caitlin Polley @ Caidin.E.Polley.1 @nd. 
edu or visit http: //www.nd.edu/ ~cash/ 
COUNCIL FOR FUN AND LEARNING 
Serves learning disabled children from ages 6-16 at the Children's 
Dispensary in South Bend. Contact: Kathleen Jackson @ 234­1169, Children's Dispensary 
EAST TIMOR ACTION NETWORK@ NO 
The East Timor Action Network seeks to build support 
at Notre Dame for fundraising efforts to benefit East ' 
Timorese reconstruction initiatives in education and 
medicine. Student Contact: Jim Madden@ 634-1102 or 
James.M.Madden.30 @nd.edu 
EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING COUNCIL 
The Experiential Learning Council provides resources and 
support for student-facilitated experiential learning seminars 
offered through the CSC. Student Contact: Jennifer Gaisser@ 
Jennifer.L.Gaisser-Sadler.1@nd.edu or visit http://www.nd.edu/ 
elc/ 
NO FIRST AID SERVICES TEAM 
Volunteers provide coverage for inter-hall sports, concerts, home football games, AnTostal, Keenan Review, campus runs, and any other ND/SMC activity that requests the team's service. Student Contact: Christopher Reifsteck@ Christopher.N.Reifsteck.1@nd.e du or visit http://www.nd.edu/~fast/ 
FOODSHARE 
Volunteers deliver, in groups of four or five, the leftover food from the campus dining halls to the Center for the Homeless and Hope Rescue Mission in South Bend. Student Contact: Maria Destino @ Maria.C.Destino.3@nd.edu 
' 
GLOBAL HEALTH INITIATIVE 
GHI educates and promotes awareness of health related issues around the world. Members participate in local outreach, raise money for international projects and attend medical service seminars. Student Contact: Jacquelenn Aragon@ Jacquelenn.M.A ragon.3 @nd.edu or visit http: I/www.nd.edu/~ghi/ 
NOTRE DAME HABITAT FOR HUMANITY 
Volunteers work on construction crews, donate materials and provide meals for the work groups. Student Contact: Kevin McCormick@ Kevin.P.McCormick.22@nd.edu or visit http: I/www.nd.edu/~habitat/ 
HELPFUL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS (H.U.G.S.) 
Volunteers work with the Memorial Hospital Pediatric Intensive Care Unit. Student Contact: Jessica Bechtold@ Jessica.C.Bechtol d.2@nd.edu 
HUGH O'BRIAN YOUTH FOUNDATION ALUMNI ASSOCIATION (NO HOBY) 
ND HOBY provides a forum for HOBY alumni at Notre Dame to continue developing their leadership through service and social action activities. Student Contact: Gale Bowman @ Gale.D.Bowman.26@nd.edu or visit http://www.nd.edu/ 
~ndhoby/ 
IRISH FIGHTING FOR ST. JUDE KIDS 
Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids is a service organization that dedicates itself to year-round fundraising activities in support of St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, TN. The hospital is one of the world's premier centers for research and treatment of catastrophic diseases in children, primarily pediatric cancers. Student Contact: Kristen Simko @ stjude@nd.edu or visit http://www.nd.edu/~stjude 
JUNIOR MENTAL HEALTH ASSOCIATION 
Fosters leadership and improves mental health through service and educational projects with high schools and organizations in St. Joe County. Student Contact: Jennifer Rudenko@ Jennifer.B.Ruden ko.1 @nd.edu 
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS COUNCIL 1477 
Volunteers help to raise funds in order to support various service and social action facilities in the area. Student Contact: John Watkins@ John.F.Watkins.25@nd.edu or visit http:// www.nd.edu/~knights/ 
LOGAN RECREATION CLUB 
Students volunteer for Friday night bowling, Friday night dances, and Saturday recreation. Our website: www.logancenter.org/ Volunteers/Activities.cfm Student Contact: Margaret Spring@ Margaret.M.Spring.4@nd.edu 
ND/SMC LUNCH P.A.C.K. 
Lunch P.A.C.K. serves the elementary school children of the South Bend community by providing much needed personal attention and care, which are crucial to social development. Student Contact: Dana Cullen@ Dana.E.Cullen.IO@nd.edu 
MS. WIZARD DAY PROGRAM TEAM 
Volunteers organize a one-day science fair in February for young women in middle school. Student Contact: Jennifer Luff@ Jennifer.L.Luff.1 @nd.edu or visit http://www.nd.edu/~mswizard/ 
NO FOR ANIMALS 
ND for Animals promotes a compassionate, cruelty-free lifestyle. Visit our website to learn more about how you can help animals: http://www.nd.edu/~animals/ Contact: animals@nd.edu 
NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY 
HELP PROGRAM 
Volunteers tutor at a variety of centers twice a week for a one hour period each time. Student Contact: Frances Bott @ Frances.M.Bott.2@nd.edu 
NET IMPACT 
Net Impact is a club ofMBA's dedicated to the issues of corporate social responsibility. The club focuses on areas such as environmentalism, corporate ethics, and community development. Our focus for the 2003-4 school year is to be champions of the MBA programs ethics initiative. We are looking at making a direct impact on our campus this year. Watch for events and find out more. Contact: Benjamin Wilson @ Benjamin.M.Wilson.16 8@nd.edu 
OPERATION SMILE STUDENT ORGANIZATION 
Volunteers work hand in hand with Operation Smile International raising funds to provide reconstructive surgery to children around the world. Leadership, awareness, community and FUN! Student contact: Dan Musick@ Daniel.J.Musick.l@nd.edu or visit http: I/www.nd.edu/~opsmile/ 

PEACE FELLOWSHIP 
Educates andJromotes awareness of issues related to peace and justice aroun the world. Student Contact: Thomas Feeney @ Thomas.D.Feeney.9@nd.edu or visit http://www.nd.edu/ 
~paxchris/ 

PROGRESSIVE STUDENT ALLIANCE 
PSA works for social justice by organizing around issues of interest to create change, working with other people and groups on both a local and global level. Recent focuses have been economic injustices, student power, and rights for all. Student Contact: Tad Skotnicki@ Tad.P.Skotnicki.1@nd.edu or visit http:// www.nd.edu/~psa/ 
NOTRE DAME RIGHTTO LIFE 
Volunteers focus on the national abortion issue. Activities include praying outside an abortion clinic in town, dorm forums, trips to Washington, D.C., and a Right-to-Life week during the year. Student Contact: Janel Daufenbach@ Janel.L.Daufenbach.1@nd.e du or visit http://www.nd.edu/~prolife/home/ 
ST. JOSEPH'S CHAPIN STREET HEALTH CENTER VOLUNTEERS 
Volunteers are needed to help serve the indigent population in the South Bend Communty. Student Contact: Njideka Motanya@ Njideka.C.Motanya.1 @nd.edu 
SERVICE NETWORK, NO 
A periodic e-mail sent out to interested students which lists the social action events going on around campus. Stay updated on various ND groups and individuals with one e-mail! Student contact: Jennifer Prins@ Jennifer.C.Prins.3@nd.edu 
SPECIAL FRIENDS CLUB 
Volunteers work with autistic children in the South Bend community on a structured educational program in a home situation. Time commitment is 2-4 hours per week. No experience is necessary to be a "Special Friend." Student Contact: Teresa Fralish@ Teresa.M.Fralish.1@nd.edu 
STUDENTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION (SEA) 
Volunteers promote awareness of environmental issues among the student body and the South Bend community. Student Contact: Virginia Kelly@ Virginia.E.Kelly.I57@nd.edu or visit http: //www.nd.edu/~sea/ 
SUPER SIBS 

All club members have siblings with disabilities. College sibs mentor children (8-14 yrs. of age) who also have a sibling with a disability. Bimonthly activities include bowling, skating, holiday parties, and pizza and chat sessions. Student Contact: Teresa Fralish@ Teresa.M.Fralish.1@nd.edu or visit http://www.nd.edu/ 
~supersib/ 

TEAMWORKFORTOMORROW 
Teamwork for Tomorrow, an after-school tutoring program open to all NO and SMC students, is committed to brightening the futures of children of the South Bend area through improved reading, structured recreation, and purposeful mentoring. The program meets at Saint Patrick's Center, South Bend, every Tuesday and Thursday from 4-6PM. Visit our website at http: //www.nd.edu/~teamwork/ Student contact: Mary Murphy@ Mary.E.Murphy.227@nd.edu 
TRIDENT NAVAL SOCIETY 
Develop the professionalism and camaraderie among NROTC Midshipmen and ND students necessary to assume the highest levels of citizenship and command. Volunteers provide much needed support to the South Bend Special Olympics. Student Contact: Justin Gallagher@ Justin.A.Gallagher.64@nd.edu 
UNIVERSITY YOUNG LIFE 
Volunteers plan outreach events to teach non-Christian local high school students about Christ. Student Contact: Courtney Follmer @ Courtney.Follmer.2@nd.edu or visit http://www.nd.edu/~yll 
WOMEN'S RESOURCE CENTER 
Volunteers provide assistance to the women of Notre Dame with issues andJroblems that are particularly acute for women, such as rape an sexual assault, eating disorders, etc. Student Contact: Meredith Foley@ Meredith.C.Foley.51@nd.edu or visit http: //www.nd.edu/~wrc/ 
WORLD HUNGER COALITION 
Volunteers raise awareness and support for the poor and hungry in South Bend and around the world. Volunteers aim to explore pertinent issues involving hunger and become more involved in alleviating hunger worldwide. Student Contact: Katharine LaPlante@ Katharine.M.LaPlante.2@nd.edu 

------.---,-----­
PAGE3
Tltt quidtto ComJ+CXJLit:y Strvict 


AIDS MINISTRIES/AIDS ASSIST 
Volunteers work with the agency to support and enhance the lives of those infected with or affected by HIV and AIDS. Contact: Community-Based Learning Coordinator Debra Stanley at 234-2870. 
AMERICAN RED CROSS 
Community Volunteer Services plans, programs, recruits, 
trains and places volunteers to meet community needs through 
community education and emergency services. Contact: Darlene 
Waits at 234-0191 ext. 22. 
BASIL MOREAU CONVENT 
This small, personal convent for retired nuns is very close to Notre Dame's campus. Volunteers needed for one-on-one visits with the sisters, to help with group and evening activities (game night), and to assist with special projects. Contact: Lee Ann Konkey at 271-1376. 
BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA 
Were you a Boy Scout? We need -your help. Volunteers act as helpers and mentors for several packs at the South Bend Housing Authority. The packs meet on Tuesdays from 4:30-5:30 at Harbor Homes, 501 S. Scott Street, South Bend. Contact: Charles Vonderheid at 289-0337 ext. 311. 
BOYS & GIRLS CLUB 
Volunteers assist with tutoring, health and recreation programs for children ages 6 through 18. Contact: Community-Based Learning Coordinator Kregg Van Meter at 232-2048. 
BROADWAY CHRISTIAN PARISH 
Volunteers help with the Sunday meal (cooking, serving and cleaning up) as well as the food pantry and neighborhood, economic and cultural development projects. Contact: Anne Kumeh at 289-0333. 
CARDINAL NURSING CENTER 
Volunteers are needed to visit clients on a one-to-one basis and organize evenings of bingo. Also looking for a group to take a younger crowd to play pool in the early evenings. Contact: Linda De hayes at 287-650 I. 
CASIE CENTER 
CASIE Center provides services for abused and neglected children. Volunteers assist staff with both routine duties and special projects that benefit children and their families. Contact: Caron Marnocha at 282-1414. 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES 
Various Catholic Charities programs provide a variety of services including services for women, children and refugees. Contact: Rob Ercoline at 234-3111. 
CENTER FOR BASIC LEARNING SKILLS 
Volunteers tutor adults working toward their GED for two hours once a week. Hours: 8am-12pm M-F. Contact the CSC at 631­5293 for more information. 
CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS 
Volunteers provide a variety of services to homeless adults and children. Contact: Community-Based Learning Coordinator Felicia Moodie at 282-8700. 
CHAPIN STREET CLINIC 
Volunteers work in a medical clinic that provides services to low­income adults and families. Contact: Community-Based Learning Coordinator Michelle Peters at 239-5299. 
CORVILLA, INC. 
A small organization that provides loving homes and services for people with developmental disabilities is seeking volunteers to help with "FUN" activities for residents, i.e. bowling, picnics, dances, hayrides & movies. Contact: Diana Dolde at 289-9779 or go to www.corvi lla.org. 
DISMAS HOUSE 
Volunteers are needed to cook for the residents M-TH and mentor residents. Students are also needed to live at Dismas House. Contact: Maria Kaczmarek at 233-8522 or at michianadismas@cs.com. 
EL CAMPITO DAY CARE CENTER 
Volunteers act as role models for young children from single parent families. Volunteers also assist regular day care instructors in planning and implementing their organized program, and with child care during parenting classes. Contact: Rosa Rickman at 232-0220. 
FAMILY AND CHILDREN CENTER 
Join the family Partners Program to take a child to your place of worship or become a sponsor if you can give 3-4 hours per month sharing activities with a child. Contact: Doug Brown at 259-5666 ext. 256. Intern opportunities arc also available. Contact: Bobbie Jones at 259-5666 ext. 237. 
HOME MANAGEMENT RESOURCES 
Home Management Resources is a charitable organization dedicated to strengthening the family. Volunteer positions exist in child care, clerical, and computer technology. Contact: Evelyn Goad at 233-3486 
HOPE RESCUE MISSION 
Volunteers answer phones, prqvide meals, assist with chapel services, programs, new ministry opportunities, prayer support and projects, and are the hearts and hands that care for the forgotten in the community. Contact: Don Bloore at 235-4150 ext. 231. 
HOSPICE OF ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, INC. 
Volunteers provide support services for terminally ill patients and their families. Contact: Jackie Boynton at 243-3127. 
INDIANA LEGAL SERVICES 
Volunteers serve as Intake Workers to assist potential clients with the application process and summarize legal problems for staff attorney review. ILS is funded to provide free legal representation to low income persons in civil matters. Contact: Pam Claeys at 234-8121. 
LA CASA DE AMISTAD 
Volunteers work in a youth and adult center on the west side of South Bend that serves the needs of Hispanics. Contact 233-2120. 
LIFE TREATMENT CENTERS, INC. 
Life Treatment Centers provide professional, caring treatment services to indigent adults addicted to alcohol and other drugs, to help guide them to healthier, more productive alcohol and drug free lives. Volunteers are needed to assist with a variety of services. Contact: Ryan Butt at 233-5433, ext. 235. 
LITERACY COUNCIL OF ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, INC. 
Volunteers tutor adults in both basic reading and English as a Second Language. Requires a 6-month commitment. Contact: Tara Holloway at 235-6229. 
LOGAN CENTER 
Volunteers interact with people with mental retardation and other developmental disabilities in swimming, bowling, singing and other activities. Contact: Community-Based Learning Coordinator Marissa Runkle at 289-4831. 
To Learn more about the CSC check out our Web side at http://centerforsocialconcerns. nd. edu 
MADISON CENTER 
This private, non-profit behavioral health care facility providing various levels of treatment to all age groups has volunteer opportunities available to assist children and adolescents who have emotional and behavioral difficulties. Contact: Human Resouces at 283-1123. 
MILTON HOME 
Volunteers visit elderly residents on a one-to-one basis and also assist with evening activities from 6:30-7:30 p.m. Contact: Jenny Aguilar or Lou Ann Nebelung at 233-0165. 
OASIS 
The OASIS Older Adult Safe House provides a Safe Haven for senior citizens who have been neglected/abused. Volunteers provide for the security, safety and comfort of residents. Call Mary Czarnecki at 246-0144. 
PORTAGE MANOR 
Volunteers needed to pay regular visits to individual residents who have no family. There are also opportunities for students who do needle work. Group volunteer opportunities also are available. Contact: Toni Grisham at 272-9100. 
POTAWATOMI ZOO 
The zoo in South Bend has many opportunities in all facets of zoo operation for students to volunteer or to intern. Located just 10 minutes from campus. Contact: Jason Jacobs at 235-9801. 
REAL SERVICES 
Volunteers are needed to assist elderly/disabled clients of REAL Services with one time assignments for outside yard work projects. Contact: Diane Heimberger at 284-2644. 
REINS OF LIFE 
Volunteers act as horse leaders or side walkers for people with disabilities during therapeutic horseback riding classes. There are also opportunities to help with special events and care for the horses. Contact: 232-0853. 
ROBINSON COMMUNITY LEARNING CENTER 
The RCLC serves adults and children in the community by offering computer, art, and exercise classes, tutoring and much more. Contact Vernell Ball-Daniel at 631-8750 or vballdan@nd.edu. 
ST. HEDWIG PARISH'S EDUCATIONAL OUTREACH CENTER 
Volunteers help to mentor and tutor the children who come to the center. The program runs Mondays and Wednesdays from 4­6pm. Contact: Ian Kennedy at 289-5651. 

Volunteers assist nursing staff with various duties. Choose one day a week. Choose one time slot: 11am-2pm, Noon-3pm, 3pm­6pm, or 4pm-7pm. Contact: Denise Kapsa at 237-7242. 
ST. MARGARET'S HOUSE 
Volunteers help with children, answer the phone, provide tutoring, help with computers and serve as hosts for guests. The House is open to adult women, girls, and boys under twelve. Contact: Patricia Marvel at 234-7795. 
ST. VINCENT DE PAUL 
Volunteers work in the thrift store to prepare used goods for sale and help with special projects at Christmas time. Anyone organizing a food or clothing drive can work through this grassroots organization. Contact: Joan Ash at 234-6211. 
SALVATION ARMY 

Volunteers provide food for Thanksgiving, Christmas and Easter baskets for families in South Bend. Student volunteers can "adopt" a South Bend family through the Salvation Army. Agency Phone: 233-9471. 
SEX OFFENSE SERVICES (SOS) 
Volunteers work at Madison Center and assist victims of sexual assault and their families. Agency Contact: Laurel Eslinger at 283­1308. *24-hour Helpline: 289-4357. 
SOUTH BEND COMMUNITY SCHOOLS ADULT 
EDUCATION 

Volunteers work individually or in small groups with adult students who are learning basic job and life skills, ESL, studying for their GED or simply learning literacy skills. Contact: Gayle Silver at 283-7563 or gsilver@sbcsc.k12.in.us. 
SOUTH BEND HERITAGE FOUNDATION 
Volunteers are able to work in all facets of neighborhood revitalization. Also available are internships and course-based work in community development. Volunteers also may assist with after­school tutoring at the Charles Martin Youth Center. Contact: Gladys Muhammad at 289-1066. 
SOUTHERN CARE HOSPICE 
Volunteers needed to run errands, office help, visit with patients, transport to MD appointments or store, read at bedside, relieve caregivers, assist with household chores and yardwork. Contact: Ardie Gareau at 259-0895. 
SOUTHGATE DREAM CENTER 
Volunteers work with at-risk youth on the south side of South Bend serving as mentors, tutors, and ambassadors of love. An ESL program also offers opportunities to work with the adult, Latino population in South Bend. Contact: Efrain Figueroa at 231-6008. 
THERE ARE CHILDREN HERE (TACH) 
TACH has a 15 acre facility and hosts an after-school program M-F for about 20 children (ages 4-11) per day. Volunteers are needed to work with the children and to coordinate special projects. Contact Jim Langford at 299-8767. 
UNITED RELIGIOUS COMMUNITY 
Volunteers are trained in mediation skills and work on special projects, the Victim Offender Reconciliation Program and the Advocacy Center. Contact: Carol Mayernick at 282-2397. 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
Volunteers help welcome pregnant women and couples by helping them gather the resources that they need to complete the pregnancy. Volunteers also needed for child-care assistance for clients. Contact: Volunteer Coordinator at 273-8986. 
YOUTH SERVICES BUREAU 
The Youth Services Bureau wants you! Opportunities abound from assisting with recreational activities for teens to giving parties for young mothers and kids. Contact: Bonnie Strycker at 235­9231. 
YWCA WOMEN'S SHELTER 
Volunteers listen, provide transportation, work with children, monitor the crisis line, make welcome bags, sort donations, plan parties for clients, and help with food drives. Contact: Sanya Applegate at 233-9491 x323. 
Annual Service And Social Action Events 
CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 
Volunteers upgrade neighborhood homes and lift residents' spirits. Contact: Darrel Paulsen at 631-7800. 
PROJECT WARMTH 

Volunteers help collect, sort and distribute jackets and coats to share with individuals in need. Contact: Elizabeth Zwickert at ezwicker@nd.edu. 
ST. JOE REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER 

PAGE4 

... Transforming power 
Continued from page 1 
world's transformation. The Center for Social Concerns invites you to push the boundaries of your classroom into the neighborhoods of South Bend and beyond. Come and enter the lives of those who live and study and work there. Jesus called love the greatest ofall commandments-to love the Lord God with all our hearts and to love our neighbor as ourselves (Mark 
12: 28-31). It is not easy but it remains no less our challenge and call. It is the foundation on which we will build the justice we seek and the peace we long for. 
Be a part of the transformation we are called to, and be transformed. Give yourself away. One or more of the opportunities on these pages could quite possibly change you forever. 
... Enriching experience 
Continued from page 1 
other situations the elderly may need assistance or companionship. 
"There are so many needs­and by extension-so many opportunities to help," said Cahill Kelly. "There really is something each student can do to help." 
Service & Learning It is also clear that being ofservice goes both ways for the student. Cahill Kelly explains that often the experience of volunteering contributes to the overall educational experience at Notre Dame. "For many of our students, 
volunteering is a chance to broaden their education. They have a chance to learn new skills as well as utilize the skills they are developing in their courses," says Cahill Kelly. 
For the student, service work provides an opportunity to build relationships and affect the lives of others as well as their own. 
"There are countless stories out there of students who have been changed by their service experiences. Many have learned that service is rewarding because of the people they meet and the relationships of mutual benefit they develop." 
Community Based Learning Sites 
AIDS MINISTRIES/AIDS ASSIST 
Debra Stanley P.O. Box 11582 South Bend, IN 46634 234-2870 WuZuWuZu@aol.com 
BOYS & GIRLS CLUB 
Kregg Van Meter 502 E. Sample Street South Bend, IN 46601 232-2048, ext. 2102 kvanmeter@bgcsjc.org 
CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS 
Felicia Moodie 813 S. Michigan South Bend, IN 46601 282-8700 fmoodie@cfh.net 
LOGAN CENTER 
Marissa Runkle 1235 N. Eddy St. P.O. Box 1049 South Bend, IN 46624 289-4831,ext. 1043 marissar@logancenter.org 
MENDOZA COLLEGE OF BUSINESS 
Jessica McManus Warnell 254 College of Business Notre Dame, IN 46556 631-9182 Jessica.McManus.l3@nd.edu 
ROBINSON COMMUNITY LEARNING CENTER 
Marguerite Taylor 
921 North Eddy Street South Bend, IN 46617 631-9425 mtaylor43@juno.com 
SAINT JOSEPH REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER -COMMUNITY OUTREACH 
Michelle Peters 234 S. Chapin Street South Bend, IN 46601 239-5299 petersmi@sjrmc.org 


Facilities available for student use 
RESIDENCE HALL  NAME  EMAIL  
Alumni  Joseph Campbell  jcampbe7@nd.edu  
Jamie Kralovec  pkralove@nd.edu  
Badin  Erin Pauken  Erin.N. Pauken.1 @nd.edu  
Kelli DeLay  Kelli.A.DeLay.3@nd.edu  
Kenna Brewer  Kenna.R.Brewer.14@nd.edu  
Breen-Phillips  Janel Daufenbach  jdaufenb@nd.edu  
Amy Padjen  apadjen@nd.edu  
Liz Tran  etran@nd.edu  
Carroll  Brian Kirzeder  bkirzede@nd.edu  
Prince Lowe  plowe@nd.edu  
Cavanaugh  Biz Callahan  ecallah 1 @nd.edu  
Catherine McGeeney  cmcgeene@nd.edu  
Dillon  Nick CaJacob  ncajacob@nd.edu  
Farley  Theresa Davey  tdavey 1 @nd.edu  
Julie Pearce  Julia.S.Pearce. 7@nd.edu  
Fisher  Michael Clements  mclement@nd.edu  
Howard  Morgan Monte  mmonte@nd.edu  
Lauren Pallone  lpallone@nd.edu  
Keenan  Colin Dowdall  cdowdall@nd.edu  
Keough  Ryan Brady  brady.39@nd.edu  
Michael Barrett  mbarret5@nd.edu  
Knott  B rian Tracy  btracy@nd.edu  
Lewis  S arah Floyd  sfloyd@nd.edu  
Amy Kranz  akranz@nd.edu  
Lyons  Amanda Lindberg  alindbur@nd.edu  
Joni Tejada  tejada.3@nd.edu  
Morrissey  Nick Klein  klein.41 @nd.edu  
McGlinn  Erica Nason  enason@nd.edu  
Stephanie Vandervorste  svanderv@nd.edu  
Kara Barczak  kbarczak@nd.edu  
Erin Barker  ebarker2@nd.edu  
O'Neill  Trevor Gass  tgass@nd.edu  
Pangborn  Emily Hanson  ehanson@nd.edu  
Melissa Hentges  mhentges@nd.edu  
Michelle McCarthy  mmccart3@nd.edu  
P.E.  Katie Key  kkey@nd.edu  
Elizabeth Shelleby  eshelleb@nd.edu  
P.W.  Kendall Anderson  kanders6@nd.edu  
Selena Santillo  ssantill@nd.edu  
Margaret Tucker  mtucker 1 @nd.edu  
Danielle Webber  dwebber@nd.edu  
St. Edward's  Michael Neupert  neupert.1 @nd.edu  
Siegfried  Matt Skinner  mskinne 1 @nd.edu  
Sorin  M ike Willard  willard.6@nd.edu  
Stanford  Michael Anderson  anderson.186@nd.edu  
Walsh  Maggie Malone  mmalone 1 @nd.edu  
Dayna Ridderman  dridderm@nd.edu  
Naomi Cordell  ncordell@nd.edu  
Welsh Family  Halle Kiefer  hkiefer@nd.edu  
Jackie Clark  jclark2@nd.edu  
Kamaria Porter  kporter@nd.edu  
Zahm  Kevin Lashlee  klashlee@nd.edu  
Pat Kurz  tkurz@nd.edu  
Greg Durm  gdurm@nd.edu  
John Park  park.26@nd.edu  


THE 0BSERV'ER 
CENE

Wednesday, October 8, 2003 
Page 15 
heir tnusical preferences 
The Bends conveys raw emotion 

By EMILY TUMBRINK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
There are certain moments in my life that would be entirely. forgettable were it not for the music playing in the background. That may sound strange to some of you, but I am almost certain that anyone who truly loves music can remember at least one such experience. I can remember the very first time I encountered Radiohead's The Bends. Sitting in front of my computer, sending IMs to my friends on AOL (as I can often be found doing today), I decided to pop in the CD that I had recently borrowed from a friend. As I continued typing, the music that I had intended to be mere background noise began to assert itself more and more into my consciousness. Soon, I found that I was unable to force it into the back­ground, and not only that, but I was also unable to let the album play past the fourth track without starting it over again. I was so taken with the music I heard that I kept playing "High and Dry" and "Fake Plastic Trees" over and over again. Luckily, when I had finally had my temporary fill of those two songs, I was able to listen to the album in its entirety and immediately christened it my new favorite, a title that it retains to this day. There is some unexplainable quality in Thorn Yorke's voice that drives his emotion into the ears of lis­teners, even though he is not what we might call a conventionally "tal-ented" vocalist. "High and Dry" is one of those songs that can make you want to cry even if you are in a good mood. 

Though that may not necessarily sound like a good thing, there is some­thing to be said for experiencing raw emotion. And that is exactly what you 

get when listening to The Bends. 
Contact Emily Tumbrink at etumbrin@nd.edu 
Blackalicious shows another side of hip hop 
By KENYAITA STORIN 
Scene Music Critic 
Unlike most of you, who probably began listening to music in elementary school, it was not until the rise of Napster in high school that I really began to get interested in music. Before then. I had always enjoyed music, but I had known very little about it. Napster allowed me to download just about any­thing my friends told me was good, and from that I was soon able to develop the tastes in music that I have today. I now enjoy listening to many different genres of music, but hip-hop has always been my favorite. Although it is obviously one of the most popular genres of today, I find that modern hip-hop too often gets 
wrongfully criticized for being solely about money. sex and violence. Pop rap may typically fall under this criticism, but this generalization does the genre as a whole no justice, and it does not take into account the numerous contempo­rary hip-hop artists out there that dis­prove this criticism. 
The progressive underground rap scene has much to offer those who want to hear rap that is a little deeper and, in some cases, more intellectual than what is usually heard on the radio. I believe that the rap act Blackalicious exempli­fies this better than anyone else. Blackalicious is one of the most talented and unique duos out there of any genre of music, with excellent, poetic rhymes from Gift of Gab and complex, experi­mental production from Chief Xcel that draws from a number of different genres. Gift of Gab raps at an alarming speed com­plete with allusions, metaphors and a vocabulary that would make an English professor proud. And best of all, rather than being misogynous or violent, Blackalicious is both spiritual and uplift­ing. If you are one of those people who dislikes the rap you have heard for its shallowness, give Blackalicious a chance to enlighten your view on hip-hop. 


Contact Kenyana Storin at kstorin@nd.cdu 
Weezer' s Pinkerton, a heartfelt release 
By BRIAN FOY 
Scene Music Criric 
Hemember when Weezer came out with "Buddy Holly" and "Say It Ain't So" and everybody bought the Blue Album? Then, they seemingly fell off the face of the Earth before they resurfaced with "Hash Pipe" and "Island in the Sun" from the 
Green Album? 
Well, Weezer didn't fall off the face of the Earth, but instead recorded one of the best albums that almost nobody has heard. Weezer's sophomore release Pinkerton is the most honest album of the last d1!cade and maybe the greatest dis­play of sincerity ever recorded on one album. 
When I heard Pinkerton, I was immedi­ately taken back by '"Tired of Sex." The song is a slow-brewing, simple track about Hivers Cuomo's desire to find a girl that he can love so that he can stop just having sex. When the song closes with the line "So why can't I be making love come true?" I knew this was not the same Weezer I had heard before or have since. "The Good Life" is Weezer at their finest, with a catchy guitar riff and lyrics like "I should have no feeling, 'cuz feeling is pain." Rivers is pouring himself out on the album and is coming from some very deep places to do this. "Across the Sea" might be the strongest song on the album, as it mixes multiple layered instruments with heartfelt lyrics. "Why are you so far away from me? I need help and you're way across the sea" set the tone for the chorus and the song as a whole. My favorite song on the album is "EI Scorcho" because of its increasing pace music and identifiable lyrics. Every time I hear ''I'm a lot like you. so please llello. I'm here, I'm waiting I think I'd be good for you and you'd be good for me" I am reminded that every­one goes through difficult things in life. The most humorous and comforting song on the album might be "Pink Triangle." The chorus opens up with ''I'm dumb, she's a lesbian. I thought I had found the one." Anyone who has been wrong about someone that they thought they knew can take solace in these lyrics. Hivers has obviously been through some troubling times, and from the lyrics it sounds like they are worse than any I might go through. 

Weezer's Pinkerton was heartfelt and true before guys like John Mayer ruined the entire genre by taking it way too far. Rivers proves you can be emotional and sentimental without being overly sappy. Musically, the bass, drums and guitar all follow the same pattern, so we are not dealing with Mozart, but The Beatles' music wasn't the most complex, either. Pinkerton is an outstanding album because of its lyrical content, not its musi­cal complexity. Pinkerton proved that Weezer is not a typical band and that they have musical substance. They were will­ing to push the envelope and take things in a different direction. The problem is that the general public has been slow to receive this album, but it is gaining popu­larity and developing a cult status. Weezer's Pinkerton is not only the best album you've never heard, but it's also my favorite album. 

Contact Brian Foy at bfoy@nd.edu 
Wednesday, October 8, 2003 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB PLAYOFFS 

James shines in first exhibition game win 
Associated Press 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -LeBron James' second assist was more impressive than his first basket. 
Making his professional debut in the Cleveland Cavaliers' first exhibition game, James was a better passer than scorer in a 100­96 victory over the Detroit Pistons on Tuesday night. 
James shot 4-for-12 while scoring eight points and had three rebounds and seven assists -the prettiest of which came as he was cutting across the lane midway through the first quarter. As a sec­ond defender Davis for an easy basket. 
His favorite pass, however, was the early one to Ilgauskas. 
"I see a lot of things before some of my teammates even see it, so I'm going to try to put them in position where they can score a basket," James said. 
One heckler made James laugh by telling him his car was ugly, but James had little other interaction with a crowd sprinkled with fans wearing replicas of James' wine-and-gold Cavaliers jer­sey. Many more No. 23 jer­seys will be bought and worn this season as most fans get their first look at the most hyped prep 
came over, James "Where he gets p·layer ever to quickly delivered make the jump
that vision, I don't 
a no-look, behind­directly to the the-back bounce know because he NBA. James pass to Zydrunas can come up with was the No. 1 Ilgauskas for a pick in last
some passes like 
dunk. June's draft. 
It was the play noboday can. ,, "The biggest of the night from difference the 18-year-old between this
Paul Silas 
phenom on an and high school
Cavs coach 
evening when he struggled with his outside shot but would have had more assists if his teammates had convert­ed other nifty passes. 
"Where he gets that vision from, .I don't know," Cavs coach Paul Silas said, "because he can come up with some passes like nobody can." 
James' only basket of the first half was a breakaway dunk off a steal by Ricky Davis. Knowing he was all alone, James fully extended his right arm and flushed home a one-handed jam. The dunk was replayed twice on the main scoreboard. 
James made three outside shots in the third quarter when he handled more of the playmaking chores, and he added a deft touch pass to 
is that I don't have to go to class any more," James said. "The level of play is so much higher here. In high school, you could take a few minutes off and coast a little. You can't take a second off in the NBA." 
James was under the watchful eye of veteran refer­ee Joey Crawford as the play­ers came out for the opening tip. 
James, unadorned by the headband and arm sleeves he wore in high school, walked over toward the Detroit bench and greeted each starter indi­vidually, calling several Pistons by name while exchanging hugs and pound­ing fists as Crawford watched bemusedly from the center circle. 
Crawford later made sure 


James tucked in his shirt, then called the rookie for the type of ticky-tack hand­checking foul that referees use in the preseason to test a young player's response. James shrugged off the call, similar to his non-response in the fourth quarter when he tried to draw a charge against rookie Ronald Dupree but Crawford whistled a blocking foul instead. 
"I just want to see what he's going to bring to the table. There's a lot of hype around him," said Detroit's Ben Wallace, whose curiosity mir­rors that of many who have not yet seen James play. 

The Pistons credentialed more than 100 media for a game in which the enduring image of James was his pass­ing. He had assists off two other no-look passes, although he also had a drive swatted away by Wallace and shot an airball on one of his first attempts from the out­side. 
James spent only a few moments on the court togeth­er with Serbian teenager Darko Milicic, who was taken second overall in the draft by Detroit. Milicic was only 2-of­8 from the field and 1-for-4 from the line for five points. 
"The other kid was sensa­tional," Detroit coach Larry Brown said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO  WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  Need 2 GA tix for USC & FSU. Call  ADOPTION:Irish, affectionate, child- 
NOTICES  exper. required. All looks & ages. Earn $100-$300  FoR RENT  TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232­0964.  276·8507. AlterS pm,  less, stay-at-home mom and envi· ronmentalist  
a day. 1-888-820·0167,  288-2877.  dad, dream of sharing love with  
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306  ext. U187.  2·6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  Caucasian or Hispanic newborn  
CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM  LOWEST PRICES. (574)251·1570.  Selling GA USC ticket ­ through adoption.  
- GUITAR LESSONS harmonica,  A SPRING BREAKER NEEDED  MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272·  Legal & confidential.  
banjo & mandolin. Hoosierdads  2004 Hottest Destinations & Parties  1525  JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER,  klindgre@nd.edu  Call Jacqueline and Allan  
Music 4609 Grape Rd Mish, IN  2 free trps high  NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT·  toll free at  
2775038  commission sunsplashtours.com  That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast  BALL GAME. PLEASE CALL  1-800-484-6754,  
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in  1800-426-7710  has space available for football/par­ent  674-6593.  PERSONALS  PIN: 8642  
Acapulco is now offering 3 destina­ wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, full  Just Between You And Me, ADire  He told me he was a bad boy  
lions! Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get Crazy in Cabo-all  FoR SALE  hot breakfast, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30  Fan in NEED of 2 or 4 usc GAs ONLY PLEASE  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  The Panther ­ I saw it  
with BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS.  miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit  PH:277-1659  Do not go it alone.  
Book by Oct 31-get FREE MEALSI  IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW LUX­ #107, 1-800-418-9487.  If you or someone you love  Hey Eric, you lost to Indiana  
Organize a group and travel for  URY VILLA COMMUNITY. Build  SMC grad needs USC tix. Email  needs confidential support or assis- 
FREE. Call for details. 800-875­ your dream home next to  Rent one of the best 5 bedroom  Colleen: Eumachia13@aol.com  lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise  We have a Japanese beetle colony  
4525 or www.blanchi-rossi.com  Notre Dame. A limited number of  homes left for 2004/5. Rent a 4-bed­ Gude,CSC, at 1-7819.  in our room and there are probably  
home sites are available. For more  room house and  Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$  For more information,  about 105 Japanese beetles in  
***ACT NOWIBook 11 people, get  info go to:  get the 3 bedroom house next door  Pay Top Dollar $$ 1-866-808-0990  see our bi-weekly ad in  Charley's.  
12th trip free. Group discounts for  www.lrishCrossings.com  for free. AN LAN PROPERTIES 532­ The Observer.  
6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com  1896  BUY?SELL ND FOOTBALL TICK- Greg, the Yankees suck  
or BOQ-838-8202.  931suzu Trooper $3,610 and 99  ETS> CASH PAID> 574-289-8048  Spring Break 2004 w/STS,  
Honda Accord $10,650. John 231-·  
 America's #1  LeBron James is the Savior of  
WANTED  0420. LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  TICKETS  Alumni family needs USC tickets for reunion. Call Pat, 574-289-8048  Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for discounts:  Cleveland and the Browns are going to make the playoffs  
FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND.  ND FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL.  2 ALUMS NEED 2-4 USC GAME  800-648-4849 or  Pittsburgh Steelers and Tommy  
SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns  NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR  GAs TO TAKE 6-yr OLD SON TO  www.ststravel.com  Maddox both are awful at football  
Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for  ELED.  TOLL FREE 877-773-3911.  GAME. dventrelle@yahoo.com  
a few good men and women who wish to work in a FUN and fast pace  FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. Email: Williamson.1@ nd.edu  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED  or 925-457-1057.  A 'Reality' Spring Break  Eric Tarnowski is God of [nterhall  
environment. A new store will be  -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378  2 GA TIX FOR USC/B0/832-428­ 2004s Hottest prices  football  
opening up in early October. We  1995 Olds 98 Regency 3.8 V6  PM 288-2726  3937.  Book now  
have aggressive pay. Hrs from 11am to 3am. In-shoppers, drivers and mgmt available. Call Andy at  Engine, New Tires, 10 Disc CD Changer Runs Great, front end damage-$600 neg. 574­ ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288­ I am willing to trade 2 FSU tix for 2 USCtix...  Free Trips, Meals & Parties sunsplashtours.com or  Nice job Guthrie, you blew it for all the wanna be Cubs fans on campus  
574-277.0850 fo interview.  271-1202  2726  Call Bob (818) 219-0856  1800-426-771 0  

Wednesday, Ocrober 8, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NHL -
Heatley allowed to attend teammate Snyder's funeral 
Associated Press 
DULUTH, Ga. -Atlanta Thrashers All-Star Dany lleatley will be allowed to trav­el to Canada for the funeral of teammate Dan Snyder, who died of head injuries sustained when Heatley's sports car crashed. 
Charges against Heatley were l!Pgraded to vehicular homicide Monday, one day after Snyder's death and a week after the accident. 
"lie's an emotional wreck," said lleatley's attorney, Ed Garland. "lie's grieving the tragic death of Dan Snyder. That's been almost his entire focus." 
Magistrate Hichard !licks on TuPsday cleared the way for lleatley to attend Snyder's service Friday in Elmira, Ontario, with the rest of the team. The judge also signed a consent bond adding the upgraded charge. 
Heatley will remain free on the $50,000 bond he posted on lesser charges filed shortly after the Sept. 29 crash, said a spokeswoman in Hick's office. 
Snyder died Sunday at a hos­pital, where he had been in a coma since the crash. He was 25. 
Heatley, the 22-year-old leader of the team, broke his jaw and tore ligaments in his 
right knee. lie was released 
from the hospital Monday to 
spend time with his family, but 
he returned Tuesday for knee 
surgery. 
A spokesman for the district 
attorney's office, Erik Friedly, 
said the vehicular homicide 
charge was based on a prelimi­
nary finding that Heatley was 
driving recklessly. It carries a 
prison sentence of three to 15 
years. 
General manager Don 
Waddell said team officials held . internal discussions about pos­sibly delaying Thursday night's season opene~ but the Snyder 
family persuaded them to play. 
"When I talked to the Snyder 
family, they really expressed 
their concern for the team and 
how we mDve forward," 
Waddell said at a news confer­
ence at the team's headquar­
ters in suburban Atlanta. "They 
really felt the team needed to 
play." 
The Thrashers open the sea­
son Thursday against the 
Columbus Blue Jackets. Last 
season, Heatley scored a team­
record 41 goals and was MVP 
of the All-Star game. 
Heatley also faces four mis­
demeanor counts, each of 
which are punishable by up to 
a year in prison. He is free on 
$50,000 bond. 
"We are overwhelmingly sad­
dened and distraught over this tragic loss," the Heatley family said in a statement released by the Thrashers. "Dan was a genuine and caring individual, and a tremendous friend to us all. 
"Our deepest sympathies and compassion go out to his par­ents and their entire family." 
Police said Heatley was driv­ing his Ferrari at about 80 mph on a narrow two-lane road when he lost control, spun off the road and smashed into a brick and wrought iron fence. 
Heatley's case has yet to be presented to a grand jury, which would decide on the for-mal charges, Friedly said. Prosecutors are waiting for more evidence before taking their case to the grand jury. 


Police were also awaiting test results to determine if Heatley was drinking on the night of the wreck. There is "no conclu­sive indication" that Heatley was drinking, Friedly said. 
Heatley and Snyder had been at an event for season-ticket holders at Philips Arena shortly before the crash. 
Snyder, a center who had 10 goals and four assists in 36 games for Atlanta last season, had surgery on his ankle in September before the start of training camp. He was expect­ed to start the season on the injured list. 


Snyder signed with the Thrashers as an undrafted free agent in 1999 after playing four seasons of junior hockey for Owen Sound in the Ontario Hockey League. " 
How many undrafted guys make it to the NHL? Not many," Waddell said. "He had to work his way into the lineup to play in the minor leagues. The sec­ond half of last year, he really proved he was ready to be an NHL player." 

-

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 8, 2003 
NFL 

-
McGahee passes physical, will return to Bills 
Top pick only needs clearence from doctors 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. -Bills rookie Willis McGahee passed a physical on his injured left knee Tuesday, one of the final steps that would allow the running back to begin practic­ing as early as next week. 
John Uribe conducted the physical in Miami. Uribe is the University of Miami team physician who surgically repaired the three torn liga­ments McGahee sustained dur­ing the Hurricanes' loss to Ohio State in the Fiesta Bowl last January. 
"He's ready to play," Uribe said. "He's worked pretty hard to get back to where he is and the fact that his biology coop­erated is pretty amazing. He looks very good." 
McGahee's agent, Drew Rosenhaus, was excited by the findings, and said the results all but clear the way for his client to begin practicing. 
"It was a successful visit and he's on his path to an amazing recovery," Rosenhaus said. "There doesn't appear to be any reason not to go ahead." 
Rosenhaus said the Bills approved McGahee's exam in Miami, and that Uribe was passing along the results to the team's training staff. 
The final step for McGahee's 

-
return is getting clearance from Bills team doctor John Marzo. 
Bills president Tom Donahoe declined to comment on the test results. 
"We will offer a comment when Willis has been cleared by our doctors for practice," Donahoe said. 
The findings back up the results of the Bills' most recent tests, which showed McGahee's injured knee to be between 90 and 92 percent rehabilitat­
ed. "There doesn't a stationary Uribe said the position.
appear to be any
most important Last August,
reason not to go
measure was com­he signed a paring the strength ahead." five-year con-in McGahee's tract that could injured leg to his potentially be
Drew Rosenhaus 
healthy one. worth $15.53
agent
"I would like to million. The 
see more mass in his [injured] leg, but it was pretty close to normal," Uribe said. "His strength certainly measured proportional to his other knee. He's not going to be in any danger because of that, so it's OK for him to play." 
McGahee, selected 23rd overall, opened the season on the reserve nonfootball injury list. The earliest he could take the field is next week, after the Bills (3-2) travel to play the Jets on Sunday. 
NFL rules bar a player on the injured list from practicing until between Week 6 and 9. Once McGahee begins practic­ing, the Bills would have three weeks to determine whether to place him on the active ros­ter. 
Because of his long rehabili­tation, McGahee is expected to require at least two weeks of practice before the Bills would consider using him in a game. 
McGahee has spent the last two months working out on his own while being limited to watching practice from the sideline. The most he has been allowed to do is catch passes in 
deal is laden with incentives that more than double a base contract worth just over $7 million, including bonuses. 
McGahee's presence could spark a running back competi­tion in Buffalo. Returning starter Travis Henry was ini­tially unhappy -calling it "a slap in the face" -the day McGahee was drafted. 
Henry, who finished fifth in the NFL last season with 1,438 yards rushing, has since said he is open to competing with McGahee, who set school records with 1,753 yards rush­ing and 28 touchdowns last season. 

Reuters 
Buffalo running back Willis McGahee takes questions during an Interview session. McGahee passed his physical and start prac­ticing soon with the Bills. 

. _,. \ Wednesday, October 7, 2003 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 

NBA 
Bryant considers waiving initial hearing 
Associated Press 
EAGLE, Colo. -Attorneys in the Kobe Bryant case huddled with the judge Tuesday but didn't answer the biggest ques­tion: Will the NBA star waive his preliminary hearing to keep potentially damaging evidence from being heard publicly? 
That decision might not be made until minutes before Thursday's hearing, where prosecutors will present evi­dence they say proves Bryant raped a young hotel worker in his room at a mountain lodge on June 30. 
Though everyone involved in the case has been silenced by a gag order, many legal analysts expect the defense to waive the preliminary hearing and acknowledge there is enough evidence for a judge to order a trial. 
"If they have the hearing the public is going to hear basically all the details of what hap­pened that night and it's going to be told from the prosecu­tion's perspective," said Karen Steinhauser. a former prosecu­tor and law professor at the University of Denver. "There's a lot of unfavorable evidence going to be brought out in pub­
...
[IC. 
Another reason for waiving the hearing is that the defense has little to gain, said Denver defense attorney Dan Recht. 
"There's no way the defense will win a preliminary hearing. No way. None," Recht said. 
Even if the hearing is waived, Bryant must appear Thursday in front of Judge rrederick Gannett for a bail hearing. Bryant, free on $25,000 bail, would also at some point have to appear in another court to enter a plea to the sexual assault charge. 
Bryant was in Hawaii this week, where the Los Angeles Lakers were training and play­ing their first exhibition games. 
The basketball star's attor­neys met earlier in the day with prosecutors and Gannett for more than an hour. dis­cussing what a court spokes­woman called logistical issues. Exiting the courtroom, Gannett wouldn't comment. Earlier, he said he didn't expect the issue of waiving the preliminary hearing to come up. 
Attorneys were to meet with the judge once more Thursday, just 45 minutes before the hearing. to resolve other issues. At that point. defense attorneys could move to waive the hearing and take their· chances at trial. 
Prosecutors planned to bring a sheriff's detective to the stand at the preliminary hear­ing to discuss the investigation and the conclusions reached by a nurse who examined Bryant's accuser. 


Reuters 

Los Angeles Lakers Kobe Bryant speaks to reporters after a team practice at the Stan Sheriff 
Center In Hawaii Saturday. 
"The vast majority of the psychological records, and on time defense attorneys waive Monday Gannett ruled they the hearing," Steinhauser said. cannot have access to notes "They don't stand to gain a taken by a rape crisis center whole lot by having it."' worker during an interview 
Bryant's attorneys haven't with the accuser. had much success in front of Eagle County authorities, Gannett so far. They have meanwhile, moved ahead with already lost efforts to get the preparations for Bryant's sec­alleged victim's medical and ond court visit, which appears 
The Treaty on European Union (Maastricht Treaty) was signed on 
QUOTES &FACTS December 11 1 1991; it entered into force after ratification by member states on Nouember 1, 1993. This treaty was amajor
The Nanovic Institute 
ouerhaul of the founding treaties that had established cooperation
for European Studies 
among some Western European countries beginning in the 1958s. It
IWNI.nd.eduHanovic 
created the "three pillar" European Union that eMists today. 

likely to generate the same cir­cus-like atmosphere as his first appearance Aug. 6. 
Bryant uttered just two words during that seven­minute hearing. which brought out dozens of his supporters and created a media frenzy the likes of which this quiet moun­tain town had never seen. 
.... 
-


LAST DAYS TO SIGN UP! 
Do you usually avoid retreatS? ' I
Do small groups make you sq,.ltlft? I I
Do you like roasting hogS? 
I 
I
Then this might 
I be for you. I I 
Are you a man? I 
Be a man, 
I sign up today. I

: '1,111~ I 
I 
I 

I 
I 

I 
I 

I )JilN'S I 
I I! I I l\rl~l~lli~NI) 
I I 
L••••••••••••••• 
Tht• rt•trt•ut with at Y Chromosome. hoJ( roust I J(nmt• wut,•h I ft•ut.s of str..ngth I pruyer I brotherhood 
/Jt•Jid/iJu• (Jt•( /Jth. Jlpp/it•JititJIIS IIVIIi/llb/t" Jl(: 
www.nd.edu/~krusseau C-M 

Wednesday, October 8, 2003 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS 
WORLD CUP SOCCER 

U.S. women focus on Canada, 2004 Olympics 
Loss to Germany disappoints team as they look towards their next chance 
Associated Press 
BEAVERTON, Ore. -Barring a massive youth movement, the World Cup is not the end for Mia Hamm and the other 30­somethings who make up the core of U.S. women's soccer roster. 
There could still be a tri­umphant finale next year in Athens. 
"With the Olympics just 10 months away, if you believe that we need to get rid of some of these older players, clean house and go younger, then I think it's a mistake," U.S. coach April Heinrichs said Tuesday. "It's really a mistake." 
The Americans went through a spirited workout at the Nike World Campus on Tuesday, singing "Happy Birthday" to 29-year-old Shannon MacMillan, then taking turns kicking soccer balls at her as she bent over in front of the net. 
The team will leave Wednesday to prepare for its third-place World Cup match against Canada on Saturday in Carson, Calif. 
"Right now we have a very recent goal of beating Canada and leaving this World Cup with our heads held as high as we can hold them," Abby Wambach said. "There's a lot of pride in still being in the World Cup right now, and there's a lot of pride going into the next 10 months of our preparation for the Olympics." 
Hamm would have nothing to do with any Olympic talk, not with Canada to play. 
"·I don't want to assume that I'm part of anything next year," she said. "I can't control that 

-
right now. All I can do is focus on our task at hand and that's the consolation game on Saturday against Canada. I mean, that's going to take our full concentration." · 
Hamm had an ice pack on one -knee. When asked if she was all right. she nodded yes, then added, "Haven't you read? We're old." 
She was not smiling. 
The idea that this is a team with too many players past their prime does not sit well in the aftermath of Sunday's 3-0 semifinal loss to Germany that ended any chance of repeating as World Cup champion. 
"Some people say that we have old-timers on this team," said the 23-year-old Wambach, one of the brightest young stars in international soccer. "But if you ask anybody in this organi­zation, in the federation, there's no way that we even put them in an old-timer sentence. Just because you're a veteran, doesn't mean you're an old­timer and that you don't have the stuff." 
Hamm is 32 and has said she will retire after Athens. Brandi Chastain is 35 and is recover­ing from a broken foot. She wants a shot at the Olympic team, too. Joy Fawcett is 35. Briana Scurry, Julie Foudy and Kristine Lilly all are 32. They all want to go for another Olympic gold. 
"For some of them it's going to be their last go-round for an international event," Wambach said. "I think that's going to be all the more motivation." 
Wambach makes no secret she expects her older team­mates to be around for a big finish next year. 


API 
No. 9 Mia Hamm, a member of the U.S. women's soccer team, tries to hide her tears after her team's loss to Germany earlier this week. 
TONIGHT 
The United Steelworkers ofAmerica and the Higgins Labor Research Center welcome... 

RICHTRUMKA 
Secretary-Treasurer of the AFL-CIO 
Today's Econotny & You: How-Unions Help 
Wednesday, October 8 8:00p.m. in 116 DeBartolo Hall 

RICH TRUMKA was first elected in 1995 as part of an insurgent campaign to reinvigorate the American labor movement. Trumka led the creation of the AFL-CIO Capital Stewardship Program in 1997 to promote the retirement security of American working families. Under Trumka's leadership, the Capital Stewardship Program promotes corporate governance reform, investment manager accountability, pro-worker investment strategies, international pension fund cooperation and trustee education and support. 

Is the Reality of Graduation sneaking upon you? 
Tight job·market-got

-you worried? 
Consider Getting YOUR Gra.duate Degree 
MS in Engine~tin9 or ~9.,puter Sclencp MAT or MST ln Educatic>nafStud.es MBA:···· MBA in Health System$ Adlrih1isttatlon MS In BiomedicaiiSthics 
Visit us on Graduate SchoolDay Thursday, •octobet9 frdift 4;.7 pm· or calf the 
Graduate Collegt:Sof Onion Univetsity 
Formertyknown.as Union College'sgr~fJ.Uatit programs {518)388~6~42·_·-.· .. Or visit us on the w~b at: 


Wednesday, October 8, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
RUGBY 
Scandals leave English football reeling 
Associated Press 
LONDON -English football has been left reeling by a string of scandals which threaten to rip up the founda­tions of the game's unprece­dented growth over the last decade. 
Allegations that a group of Premiership players were involved in the gang rape of a 17-year-old high school stu­dent have been followed by a series of revelations that will repel both traditional fans and the new wave of middle-class supporters who have helped to underpin the football boom. 
In the space of barely 24 hours, it emerged that England defender Rio Ferdinand had skipped a dop­ing test, Newcastle striker Craig Bellamy was convicted of being drunk and disorderly and two Leeds players were questioned by police in con­nection with a serious sexual assault. 
Ferdinand claims he was the victim of a simple oversight, Bellamy was acquitted of more serious charges that he had racially abused a night­club doorman and the investi­gation into the Leeds players is only in its preliminary stages. 
But football chiefs have been powerless to contain a wave of repulsion and concern over the huge wealth bestowed upon young players and the resulting hedonistic, and irresponsible, sub-culture which is seen as contributing to such unsavoury incidents. 
Even a relatively unknown player in the Premiership can count on an annual income in the region of one million pounds. Stars can command up to live times that amount, thanks in large part to the huge television revenues English football generates around the world. 
Police have yet to charge anyone in connection with the alleged gang rape of a 17­year-old in a London hotel at the end of last month. 
But ooe of the men involved in the alleged attack has claimed the girl consented to sex with several men, a prac­tice he described as "roasting" and said was commonplace among Premiership players. 
Late Tuesday, it emerged that West Yorkshire Police had questioned two Leeds United players in connection with an an alleged sex attack on a 20­year-old woman in the north­ern city on Monday. 
A statement from the club said: "Leeds United Football Club has been advised by West Yorkshire police of an ongoing investigation, and in line with club policy full cooperation has been extended to the police." 
Leeds are no strangers to criticism over the conduct of their players. Their former defender Jonathan Woodgate was convicted of affray in con­nection with the savage beat­ing of an Asian student by a gang of drunken youths in the city in January 2000. His team-mate Lee Bowyer was described by the judge in the case as an unreliable witness but escaped conviction. 
Ferdinand meanwhile has described himself as "absolutely devastated" after being excluded from the England squad for failing to provide a urine sample for a random doping test after training with his club on September 23. 
The England defender claimed he had been preoccu­pied with moving house on that day and had simply for­gotten to go for the test. He subsequently had a test, 36 hours later, which proved neg­ative. 
Ferdinand's club Manchester United, his union: the Professional Footballers' Association, and his interna­tional manager, Sven-Goran Eriksson. have all made it clear they believe the FA acted prematurely. Ferdinand himself has denied taking any drugs, recreatio11al or per­formance-enhancing. 
But judging by the opinions of callers to radio talk shows and a series of snap polls on the Internet, most English football fans back the FA's tough stance. Innocent or not, the Manchester United star could find his chances of a fair trial prejudiced by the excesses of his' peers. 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Texas looks to knock down OU 
Associated Press 

Chance Mock and Vince Young will try to help Texas do something Chris Simms couldn't: Beat Oklahoma. 
The 11th-ranked Longhorns look for their first win in four years against the top-ranked Sooners when the teams meet for their annual matchup at the Cotton Bowl in Dallas on Saturday. 
Simms, who graduated last season, was intercepted eight times, sacked nine times and did not throw a touchdown pass while losing three straight games to Oklahoma. 
This season, Texas coach Mack Brown has a pair of quarterbacks to he rotates in and out -Mock, a strong passer, and the freshman Young, an impressive scram­bler. Brown has not announced who will start against the Sooners (5-0. 1-0 Big 12) and has said that both will sec action. 
"We told both guys, 'We're going to continue to play both of you and we're not going to discuss it during the week,"' Brown said. "So let's talk about OU instead of getting into a discussion of who should start." 
Mock, who is listed as the 



Longhorns' No. 1 quarterback 
on the team's depth chart. has 
already thrown 11 touchdown 
passes, including a 51-yarder 
in a 24-20 win against Kansas 
State last Saturday. 
However, Young has guided 
Texas (4-1, 1-0) to touch­
downs on 11 of the 17 drives 
he has led, including a game­
winning march against the 
Wildcats, highlighted by a 52­
yard pass. And his ability to 
scramble would provide a 
challenge to a Sooners 
defense that dominated the 
immobile Simms. 
"Everybody has trouble 
defending mobile QBs," 
Oklahoma co-defensive coor­
dinator Mike Stoops said. 
"Obviously, [Young] is a guy 
we have to account for. It's a 
different style of Texas than 
we're used to seeing." 
The players seem to be 
impressed with Young as well. 
"I don't know if anyone has 
really tackled him yet," 
Sooners defensive end Dan 
Cody said. "It looks like he 
just kinda fell down." 
Young twisted his right 
ankle in the third quarter of 
Saturday's game and had to 
be helped off the field before 
returning in the fourth. 
However, he said that he 
would be fine for the 
Shootout. 
Of course, two quarterbacks ... 
might not be enough to stop a 
tough Oklahoma squad that 
has outscored opponents 221­
75 and scored at least 50 
points in each of its last three 
games -the first time they 
have accomplished that feat 
since 1956. 
"They are playing great 
right now," Brown said. "We'll 
lose some sleep over the next 
couple of days to try to figure 
them out." 
So far, Oklahoma's defense 
has been as strong as expect­
ed, and the offense, led by 
quarterback Jason White, has 
been much better than 
thought. 
In their 53-7 win over Iowa 
State last Saturday. the 
Sooners gained 613 yards, the 
most ever under Bob Stoops, 
while holding the Cyclones to 
234. The defense forced six sacks, two interceptions and a fumble recovery. 
"I think they're the best team in the country," Brown said. "Great defenses are usu­ally better than the offenses they play. They have no weak­nesses on defense. Then no one talks about the offense and the offensive line. Their talent is as good as anybody in the country." 

Stoops is understandably ­pleased with the way his team is playing. 
"We're probably peaking at the right moment," he said. "We're getting into the Big 12 schedule and looking forward to next week." 
Texas leads the all-time series 55-37-5. 


OUND THE NATION 
Page 22 CoMPILED I· ROM THE OBSERVER WIRE srrzvic:Es Wednesday, October 8, 2003 

around the dial 

-
MLB PLAYOFFS Florida at Chicago Cubs 7 p.m., FOX Boston at New York Yankees 7 p.m., FX 
NHL 
Anaheim at Dallas Stars 7 p.m., ESPN 
POKER WORLD SERIES 4 p.m., ESPN 
MLB PLAYOFFS 


A.sociated Press two-run shot was clearly emotional twists. I'm sure 39,567 started rocking CHICAGO -Mike Lowell the most dramatic. He everyone is emotionally early as Moises Alou finally delivered a big exhausted. homered in a four-run
sure wrecked this Wrigley Field party in a hurry. postseason hit, and when "It's disheartening. We first. But the Marlins, who 
the ball landed beyond the had an opportunity to win posted three comeback
With the old ballpark 

left-field wall, it turned a the game," he said. "Sad wins over San Francisco in 
still shaking after Sammy Sosa's tremendous, tying packed Waveland Avenue we came out on the short the opening round, 
into Bedlam Boulevard. 

homer with two outs in the end, very sad." stormed back when 
"We didn't celebrate, for

ninth, inning, Lowell led off An Ali-Star third base­Rodriguez, rookie Miguel
sure," Marlins manager

the 11th with a pinch-hit man, Lowell missed Cabrera and Juan 
Jack McKeon said. "I think

home run that sent the almost all of the final four Encarnacion homered in a Florida Marlins over the there was a pause right weeks because of a broken five-run third. Chicago Cubs 9-8 Tuesday there." left hand, and has played "These guys don't quit, night in the NL champi­Too bad for the Cubs, sparingly in the postsea­and it was very evident onship series opener. Lowell's drive won it. He son. He was ready for his today," McKeon said. 
"It just kept going back had help, too -playoff first pinch-hitting appear­Braden Looper pitched and forth. Weird," Lowell star Ivan Rodriguez home­ance this year, batting for the 11th for a save, giving said. "It was kind of like a red and drove in five runs winning pitcher Ugueth the Marlins a win and a boxing match." for Florida. Urbina and launching a nice omen. The last 10 
In a game featuring "That's playoff base­drive over the center-field teams to win the NLCS seven homers, four triples ball," Cubs manager Dusty wall off Mark Guthrie. opener have reached the and six doubles, Sosa's Baker said. "It was full of The sellout crowd of World Series. 
IN BRIEF 

Detroit Uons lose Rogers have to pick up the slack. Hakim and all three divisions decided to keep DETROIT -Charles Rogers will Schroeder, who signed with Detroit the rectangular free throw lane, not be around to help the Detroit as free agents last year, have com­rejecting a switch to the trapezoidal 
Lions break out of their slump. bined for just 20 receptions lane used internationally. 
The rookie receiver broke his right "I told the team after practice "In Division I, it's essentially done." collarbone in practice Tuesday and when somebody is out for a while, Marty Benson, the NCAA liaison to is expected to miss at least a month. somebody or some group of players the basketball rules committee, said Rogers, the No. 2 overall pick in the have to make up for that," Mariucci Tuesday. "In Division II and III, the draft, got tangled up with corner­said. management councils have to look at back Dre' Bly, landed on his shoul­Injuries have also sidelined it and either approve what the der and was taken to a local hospi­Detroit's top running back, James championships committee did or tal. Stewart, kick returner Eddie change what the championships 
"I told Dre' Bly it wasn't his fault," Drummond and the team's No.2 and committee did." Detroit coach Steve Mariucci said. "It 3 cornerbacks, Chris Cash and Earlier this year, South Carolina happens sometimes when guys com­Andre Goodman. coach Dave Odom, a rules committee pete. We do the best we can as play­member, said the extra 9 inches ers and coaches to minimize it, but NCAA to move college 3-might discourage marginal shooters it's a contact sport." point line from taking longer shots. 
The Lions have lost four straight NDIANAPOLIS -The 3-point line "That would make the shot more games since Rogers scored two in college basketball is about to be meaningful," he said. touchdowns in the season-opening moved 9 inches farther from the bas­The management councils meet game against Arizona. Rogers leads ket beginning in the 2004-05 season. Oct. 21-22. If they agree, the 
the Lions with 22 receptions for 243 Barring unexpected dissent by the changes in all three divisions will yards and three TDs in five games. NCAA's two smallest divisions, the take effect in the 2004-05 season. If With Rogers out, Mariucci said Az.­new line will be set at 20 feet, 6 they don't, the matter will be decid­Zahir Hakim, Bill Schroeder, Scotty inches. ed by the NCAA executive committee 
Anderson and Shawn Jefferson will The championships committees of Oct. 31. 
Wednesday, October 8, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
MLB PLAYOFFS 
Rivera rocks the postseason 
Associarcd Press 
NEW YORK -When the New York Yankees have their way, all that postseason pres­sure is left in the delicately thin lingers of one man's right hand. 
Mariano Hivera rarely dis­appoints. 
"It's a good feeling. That's why you're the closer. Otherwise, you wouldn't be doing that job," he said. 
The Yankees have counted heavily on Rivera throughout their run of four World Series titles and Jive pennants in the past seven years. They expect to do so again when the AL championship series against the Boston Red Sox begins Wednesday night at Yankee Stadium. 
"We would not be here, we would not be wearing the rings that we are wearing now if it was not for Mo. lie's like a regular player, whether he's a shortstop or a center fielder or catcher or whatev­er," manager Joe Torre said. "I think Mo has to be in the back of teams' minds when you know he's sitting there in that bullpen. Right now, he's throwing the ball as well as he has thrown in all of the years I've been here." 
That's a scary thought for the Red Sox, who have seen plenty of Rivera over the years and know how domi­nant he can be. After starting the season on the disabled list with a strained right groin, he converted 40 of 46 save chances and ended the year with a career-best 1.66 ERA. He did not allow a run in his last 15 appearances. 
"I think every starter on the staff is glad that Mo is back at the back of the bullpen and throwing the ball the way he's been throwing it," said Mike Mussina, who will start Game 1 against knuckleballer Tim Wakefield. "We know if we can get to the ninth inning with a lead, we'll take our chances out there with him every single time." 
Often in October, Torre won't even wait until the ninth to go to Mo -especially this season with New York's shaky setup situation. The four-time All-Star had a pair of two-inning saves in the first round against Minnesota, further demonstrating" his ability to turn it up under postseason pressure. Rivera retired all 12 Twins he faced, extending his postseason record for career saves to 27. 
The right-hander converted 23 consecutive postseason save opportunities before tak­ing the loss in Game 7 of the 2001 World Series against Arizona, and he once pitched a record 33 1-3 straight scoreless innings in postsea­son play. 


EPA 

Johnny Damon, right, and second baseman Damian Jackson collide while attempting to catch a ball hit by Oakland's Jermalne Dye In Game 5 of the American League Division Series playoffs 
Concussion could keep Damon out of Game 1 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Hed Sox 
center fielder Johnny Damon 
was discharged from an 
Oakland hospital Tuesday 
and instead of joining his 
teammates in New York, 
went to Boston to see a neu­
rologist. 
Damon's concussion is 
expected to keep him out for 
at least part of the American 
League Championship Series 
against the Yankees. 
He was injured in a fright­
ening collision with second 
baseman Damian Jackson in 
Game 5 on Sunday night and 
was unconscious for several 
minutes before being 
removed on a stretcher. 
Manager Grady Little tried to be upbeat about the condi­tion of his leadoff man. "We certainly feel like he'll be ready to play before the series is over," Little said Tuesday. "Whether he's ready to play tomorrow, we're not sure right now. He did suffer a pretty severe concussion out there and he was taking some more tests this morning. Hopefully, he'll be ready to get back in a couple of days." 
In the meantime, Little said he would use Gabe Kapler in center field to replace Damon. Kapler batted .291 in 158 at-bats after coming to the Hed Sox in midseason. 
Boston general manager Theo Epstein would not rule out Damon. 
''I'm not saying it's a loss yet," he said. "Let's wait and see." 
Playing without Damon for any length of time would have a major impact on Boston's chances against the Yankees. 
"It would be tough," sec­ond baseman Todd Walker said. "He's a big part of this team. Without him, it would be difficult. From what we hear, things are fairly good." 
First baseman Kevin Millar• said as important as Damon is to the Red Sox, the team does not depend on just one or two players. 
"It's been amazing," he said. "There's a lot of char­acter and a lot of chemistry in this clubhouse."' 
Kapler said he noticed that 
almost immediately after 
signing with the Hed Sox fol­
lowing his release by 
Colorado. After stretches 
with Detroit, Texas and the 
Rockies -"not good teams," 
he said -the Hed Sox expe­
rience has been completely 
new for him. 
"These are guys who love 
each other," he said. "These 
are affectionate, caring indi­
viduals, guys who pull for 
each other and care for each 
other." 
They are also bonded by 
buzz haircuts. Damon is one 
of the last Hed Sox with a full 
head of hair. Almost all the 
others have shaved heads. 
And that includes Little and 
Epstein. "They even got me 
and Theo last night," Little 
said. 
Damon's injury shook the Sox when it occurred. Pitcher Derek Lowe was one of the first players to reach the center fielder. 
"I went out there," Lowe said. "He had no idea what happened or where he was or why we were all looking .. at him. When he came to, he wanted to know if the ball was caught." 
As he was placed in the ambulance, Damon waved, a signal to his teammates that he was OK. 
Still, Little must prepare to be without him, probably at least until Saturday's Game 3. 
"I think what Johnny Damon brings to the lineup is well understood," Little said. "lie's a good leadoff hit­ter. lie's a good center field­er. He's a tough man to replace, but we feel confi­dent Gabe Kapler can do the 

-
job whenever he's in the game. He did a good job 1111­ing in for Trot Nixon for a couple of weeks going toward the end of the season in right field. He's very respectable."' 
Little said he would start knuckleballer Tim Wakefield in Wednesday's opener with Lowe set for Game 2 and Pedro Martinez in Game 3 on Saturday in Boston. That would make Martinez, the ace of the staff, available for a Game 6 or 7, if the series goes that long. 
Wednesday, October 8, 2003 
page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS 

Vball 
continued from page 28 
we started out strong and kind of fell apart at the end," Schroeder-Biek said. "Today we just kept fighting back whenever we started to get down. 
"It just shows how much we've grown as a team since then." 
Outside hitter time to set up their defense," Schroeder-Biek said. "[Middle hitter] Shelly Bender also had a great night. 
"A lot of Kristen [Playko]'s success was because of Shelly's fakes, which would give Kristen more options." 
The Belles have five more conference games remaining before the end of the season, but their coach believes that if they can play like they did 
Kristen Playko Tuesday, they
"It just shows how 
led the team will win a lot of with· 30 kills and much we've grown those matches. also added 18 as a team since "I really think digs. Defensive we're going to
then.,
specialist Alison do some good Shevik was the things the sec­
team leader with Julie Schroeder-Biek ond half," 33 digs. Belles coach Schroeder-Biek 
"She was just on fire tonight," Schroeder-Biek said of Playko, who made only five hitting errors in 82 attempts. 
The Saint Mary's coach also singled out a few players whose contributions didn't necessarily show on the final statistics sheet. 
"[Outside attacker Ann Carpenter] didn't have her best game statistically [five kills]. but she really sent Calvin scurrying with a lot of her hits and didn't give them 
BASEBALL 
Tham.an gets win in Blue/Gold 
•
scr1m.m.age 
Special to The Observer 
Senior lefthander Joe Thaman -Notre Dame's starting first baseman during the past three seasons and an accomplished high school pitcher -had a solid outing to pick up the victo­ry in Tuesday's opening game of the annual Blue-Gold intrasquad scrimmage at Eck Stadium. 
Thaman yielded five hits and no walks while striking out three batters in his maximum four innings, staking the Blue team to a 2-llead. 
The Blue then tacked on seven unearned runs in the sixth and held off a rally by the Gold for the 9-7 victory Wednesday's starting pitchers will include junior righthander John Axford for the Blue and freshman righthander Derik Olvey for the Gold. 
said. "We just 
need to gain some more confidence and keep playing to get better in the future." 
Saint Mary's travels to the Tri-State Triangular Saturday, where they will face non-conference oppo­nents Tri-State University and the University of Michigan-Dearborn. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
MAKE 
STUDY J?\f>AN 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish finish 15th at tournament 
Special to The Observer 
GLENVIEW. Ill. -The Notre Dame men's golf team wound up in a tie for 15th place at the Windon Memorial Classic which concluded Tuesday at the par­72, 7,058-yard North Shore Country Club in Glenview, Ill.. just north of Chicago. 
The tournament, which was hosted by Northwestern University, featured eight of the top 50 teams in the nation, according to the latest Golfweek/Sagarin Performance Index rankings, led by No. 10 Minnesota and No. 25 California. 

The Irish fired a final-round 302 on Tuesday, highlighted by an even-par 72 from sopho­more Scott Gustafson and a l­over par 73 from freshman Cole !shan. 
Notre Dame finished the tour­nament with a score of 909, tying them with SMU for 15th place. Minnesota won the event with a S-under par 859 team score, nine shots clear of Purdue and California. 
Individually, the Irish were strong in their top two posi­tions. Gustafson was the top fin­isher for Notre Dame, placing in a tie for 11th overall with a career-low score of 1-over par 217. 
His previous best 54-hole total was 219, which he set at the 2002 Kansas Invitational. Gustafson's score in relation to par also was the best of his career. 
The ND/SMC German Club proudly presents 


Saturday October 11th 

LaFortune Ballroom FREE Join us for free food, beverage, and 
authentic German music 
Featuring a live German band with Polka dancing 9-11 and a DJ playing all the hits 11-1:30 
WAVES... 
.·.. 
··.·KY·
·.· ...·.... 
· •. ···0.··<
.... ·.·. 
·. :_···>._.·· .·· ·...
TO 
SPM 

WtGt. oetobey g 123 HAt::Jts-HtRLtt-j 
DR.. 

Thurs. ocro"B.5R.. 30 :12-' Hat:jts-HtCILt!-j 
or N·AGOYA, 


Wednesday, Ocrober 8, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 


Rush 
continued from page 28 
gained 49 yards rushing against the Boilermakers, which ties the 49 rushing yards in the Michigan game for the team's lowest output of the sea­son. The Irish know they will have to be more productive on the ground if they are to beat Pittsburgh Saturday. 
"Your passing game right now is probably your biggest plus, but if you're going to con­tinue to improve across the board, you've got to be able to run the ball," Irish offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said. "I don't think it can be a thing where you want to throw the ball 60 times a game. You have to develop a running game, and 
ADAM MIGLORE/The Observer 
Notre Dame running back Julius Jones tries to gain yards

you've got to be patient with it 
against Purdue. The Irish have struggled running the ball.

sometimes." 
Hight now, the Irish are still committed to running the ball tions, due to the struggles with effectively, even if that means the running game. But hurting the production of the 
Willingham just sees that as passing game. Willingham one aspect of the running game 
maintains that the Irish cannot they need to improve to start 
give up on the running game at winning games. 
this point in the  "On occasions, if  
season,  even  you have to endure  
when  it  may  "We've got to be  [second-and-long  
seem that few aspects of the scheme have  committed to the run, and we have  situations] to give you an opportunity to be successful, 
worked well.  to be patient with  yes [we are willing 
"We've got to be committed to  the run ...  ·to do that)." said. "Because  he no  
the run, and we have to be  Tyrone Willingham  one moans or groans when you 
patient with the  Irish coach  throw one incom­ 
r  u  n  .  "  pletion. But if you 
Willingham said.  have one run of less  

"And that's very difficult to be than three or four yards, then patient, because the only thing the whole -and coaches are that makes you really patient is the same way -the world is, success at it, and you want to 'Gosh, they're in a downslide."' stay with it." The Irish are still confident 
At some times, the Irish find that they have the tools to themselves in difficult second­become a dominant rushing and third-down-and-long situa-team. Even with an inexperi­enced offensive line, Notre Dame has a pair of talented running backs in a Julius Jones and Ryan Grant. 

"We're only going to go as far as our running game goes," Grant said. ''I'm adamant about that. We have a very talented backfield, and I think everyone knows we have a very talented backfield. It just shows that once we get things going how dynamic we can be as a team." 
For now, the Irish are com­mitted to running the ball and running it effectively. Even if the passing game puts up hun­dreds of yards on its own, the Irish know they will see little success until they can move the ball on the ground first. 
"You have to be able to run the ball to make things happen in college football," Grant said. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edudu 
Attend the 2003 ND Law Fair 
October 8, 2003 McKenn.a Hall 11:00 .. 3:00 
Representatives f·rom over 60 law schools 

will be avaliable in an informal settl=ng to answer questions and provide informa:=tion to students about their 1a.w schools.. 
Victory 
continued from page 28 
Butler 18-0 while scoring twice more. Senior Amy Warner scored the first goal on a breakaway after taking the pass from freshman Jen Buczkowski. 
"Warner is one of those players I want to get rest for," said Waldrum. "But if our pressing isn't working right, she and Mary Boland do such a great job at 

"We have a lot of
creating havoc "Tancredi is for the opposi­communication. just what she tion by the got this week
We're on the same
effort. Tonight [as the Big East 
page.
she was Defensive responsible Player of the for two of the Melissa Tancredi Week). you goals and for could give her
Irish captain 
-
instead of Warner because of the deflections. 
In addition to the offense, the Irish defense again dominated, continuing their streak of allowing two or fewer shots on goal in each of their last 10 games. After getting two early shots, the Bulldogs did not sniff the net in the last 75 minutes of 
action.  
"With  Tancredi  and  
Christie  Shaner  and  
Vanessa  Pruzinsky back  

there they've been very good," said Waldrum. 
probably six or eight other opportunities. I can't say enough about her; she's really one of the best for­wards in the country." 
Warner also set up the final goal for the Irish. Her shot from close range on the left side was deflected off of two Butler players before ending up in the net. After a discussion, the goal was credited to the team 
that any week 
and justify it. She's playing on another level right now." 
"We have a lot of commu­nication," said Tancredi. "We're all on the same page. We needed the fresh­men to get the little things, but it comes down to confi­dence and communication." 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles pound Olivet in im.pressive fashion 
Observer Staff Report 
The Saint Mary's soccer team got off to a quick start and never looked back in its' 4-0 blanking of Olivet Tuesday night. 
"The team played a solid game where we dictated the pace and controlled the offensive half field through­out the majority of the game, Belles coach Peter Haring said. "I am happy with the overall play of the team after this game and it was good to give some bench players quality field time towards the end of the match." 
Wendy Irvin scored in the 13th minute from the assist of Ashley Hinton. Irvin took the ball and fired it from just inside the penalty box area. 
The Belles were held scoreless for the rest of the first half, but exploded in the second half to put the game out of reach for Olivet. 
In the 53rd minute, Jen Concannon shot a low ball into the corner of the net to give her team a 2-0 edge. In the 79th minute, the Belles continued to pour it on with another goal by freshman Megan Mackenzie. Finally Katie Green scored in the 86th minute to finish the scoring and give the Belles the 4-0 win." 
"It was nice to see some of our bench players come onto the field and contribute in the scoring," Haring said. "Green and Mackenzie com­bined for the final two goals and they worked well with each other." 
Overall, Haring was pleased with the effort of his team. 
"We used our outside players more during this game than we have during our last two outings and it showed because we had so many good shot opportuni­ties in front of the goal," he said. 

"l~~ =~"~,ces Ohe tollow;ng '"""d""""" 
r----•r---•r----••----••----• 
I I I I I $69 I I $79 I I $79 I $18 1 1 $26 I I Color, Cut & I I II I
I Perm, Cut & Highlights,
I Mens Cut I fut & Stylel I Style 1 1 Style 1 1 Cut & Style I 
~----~~---~~~~~:~~----~~----~ 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You 11 be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your =nfidence and patronage. We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-Must be presented to Receptionist Before Services Are Performed Jennifer -KJ -Kelly -Elena 
Not valid forspwal perms. Long or tinted hair add $10. No other­
ATRIA SALON

discounts apply. Open some even1ngs. ATRLA$alon raservee lhe r1g"\tto refuse ...,....;ca to any dienl who&e hair COI"'dfbon Is 1357 N. Ironwood Dr. untreatable. 
Corner of Edison OFFER EXPIRES 12-31-03 289-5080 
page 26 

The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, October 8, 2003 
.... 
"We did everything well Purple Weasel Heather Van tonight," Purple Weasel defen­Hoegarden caught yet another
Interhall 
sive line'fftan Lynne Francis said. Schmidt touchdown midway 
"Our defense was fantastic and through the second half to cap
continued from page 28 
we had some great stands right off the scoring. taking advantage of a rough when we needed them. Despite knocking off first-seed­tackle penalty by the Pangborn Everyone was on their game ... ed Cavanaugh, Pasquerilla West defense during a fourth-down we've never played this well." fell just short of qualifying for the conversion with time expiring. Starting the game with the playoffs. Nevertheless, Schmidt On the final play of the half, ball, Pasquerilla West ran a believes the victory will function Koski completed a short 2-yard seven-play, 65-yard drive as as a building block for future 
touchdown pass to Lauren Schmidt picked apart the success. Gianuzzi. Again, the conversion Cavanaugh defense and found "We're probably the most failed. receiver Alyssa Howell on a five­underrated and disrespected 
The Phoxes did not have to yard slant for the score. team in the league," Schmidt wait long to regain the lead, as "I started on the left outside said. "We finally proved we're a Koski threw a pass right into the and did a drag across the mid­decent team and we'll definitely hands of Riemersma, who ran dle," Howell said. "Leslie put a be a force to be reckoned with in 
the interception back 15 yards perfect pass right into my arms." years to come." for the score. Pangborn complet­Schmidt hit receiver Maureen Cavanaugh, on the other hand, 
ed the 2-point conversion suc­Spring for the conversion, spot­hopes to treat the throttling as a the Wild Women a 7-0 lead. of Walsh's stagnant offense to tiecessfully. ting Pasquerilla West a 7-0 lead. learning experience as the Chaos The Babes were held scoreless the score 13-13 on co-captainMost of the second half was a The quick score proved to be heads into the playoffs. 

for most of the first half as the Kelly Decklman's touchdowndefensive struggle, until the very instrumental in catalyzing the "We now know what to fix," Walsh defense, led by junior reception.
end when Farley threatened to dominating performance for the captain Jessica Leibowitz said. 

defensive lineman Karla Bell, Despite the final score, Walshtie the game. The Finest began traditionally slow-starting Purple ''I'm glad that we had this expe­had two early sacks to stop the already has high expectations for with the ball on their own 9-yard Weasels. rience and it will make us want Babes offense. next year. 
line with 49 seconds remaining "We haven't scored on our first [the championship] that much Forcing Breen-Phillips to punt "We all did a wonderful job. Soin the game, and managed to drive all year," Schmidt said. "It more." 

on their first three possessions, much enthusiasm, so much move the ball all the way down usually takes us a while to get Walsh 13, Breen-Phllllps 13 Walsh took advantage by reach­heart, and so much fun!. Next to the Pangborn 20-yard line going, but today we just picked it Walsh nearly came out with ing the 1-yard line on a stunning year we are going to be fierce!,"
with several long passes to Kent. up, kept marching down the field the upset over Breen-Philips pass to junior Amanda Borys. Bell said. 

With nine seconds remaining and punched it right in." Tuesday night with hopes of jock­Campbell quickly found receiv­The Babes, who alreadyin the half, Koski was again After the Purple Weasels failed eying their way into the fmal spot er Laurie Wasikowski for a secured their playoff birth, nowintercepted by Riemersma to seal to convert a key interception of the playoffs. 

touchdown to make the score 13-have a mission to succeedthe Phoxes' win. near midfield into points, But the Wild Women came up 0. because ofthe loss ofDecklman. 
Neither team will participate in Pasquerilla West forced short -tying the second-ranked But Breen-Phillips cut the "We are going to take it all the the playoffs. Cavanaugh to punt and resumed Babes, 13-13. 

Walsh lead when freshman Tara way to the Stadium," CheatomPasquerllla West 21, possession at its own 35-yard Starting the game with deliri­
Johnson broke a 40-yard run to said.Cavanaugh 0 line. ous cheers and rowdy chants, make the score 13-7 at halftime. One of the biggest concerns for
Any team can win on any given Stringing together yet another the Wild Women began with a 

To start the second half, the Breen-Phillips was an injury today. The old cliche held true last impressive drive, the Purple 13-0 start, exposing their poten­Babes defense proved why they Decklman. She hurt herself on anight as heavy underdog Weasels converted a pair of third tially dangerous offense. are the second-ranked team in 
punt return during the closing
Pasquerilla West (2-2-2) stunned downs as well as a fourth-and­Behind the leadership of quar­the Blue League. Their defensive minutes of the game. 

previously undefeated goal from the five-yard line, as terback Carrie Campbell, Walsh pressure, led by captain MilaCavanaugh (5-1) 21-0 behind a Schmidt hit three different 
were able to score early as Cheatom, stopped the Wild 
Contact Justin Schuver attrio of touchdown passes from receivers during the drive and Campbell ran 23 yards into Women from moving the ball into jschuver@nd.edu, Mike Puglisi captain Leslie Schmidt and a ultimately connected with Laurie Breen-Phillips end zone to score the Babes territory. 
at mpuglis@nd.edu and Dan
sparkling defensive effort. 

Lelo for the touchdown. the first touchdown and to give Breen-Phillips took advantage Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 


uThose who look for beauty, find it." -Unknown 
Co~ne to Walsh Hall's 

MR. NOTRE DAME PAGEANT 
and find some beauty ofyour own. 
Wednesdav, October 8th LaFortune Ballroom· Bpm 
Wednesday, October 8, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
HENRI ARNOLD
CLARE O'BRIEN JUMBLE

SCHOOL DAZE MIKE ARGIRION ­

FIVES 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME bv Henrt Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

~ 
Unscramble these lour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form lour ordinary words. 

LITTE ­
(I) 
C2002 Trl>ooo Modlo Servlceo. Inc. AI Rlglrto Ruervod. 
OCKAL 
j

I I ( () 
NICKES j 
WHAT HE OOT
I rr I
1 

WHEN· HE TOOK KARATE U:S50NS. TIFFUL 
WfiW.jlnDie.oom 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I (I) b suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: A 

( l I I ) ( I I ) OF rn 
(Answers Monday) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: MUSTY FLAME VESTRY BROKER Answer: When he skipped agrade, his teacher said it was a-"SMART MOVE" 
... 

JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 20 • To onler, oencl your nome, oddreoo onc1 $1.41 onc1 
maucheclcpoy-lo Tribune Medlo -·P.O.Bor4330, ~.IL -.a30. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Chevy Chase, Hayes Davis, Paul Hogan, Jesse Jackson, Matt DaR\On, Sigourney Weaver 
Happy Birthday: You will be determined to make things better in your life by advocating a change. Strengthen relationships with family and friends, but also try to make amends with enemies. Always remember that beauty coomes from within. Your numbers: 4, 8, 13, 15, 35,46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Although few plans or ideas are perfect, you're working on something pretty darn close to perfection right now. Others may feel kicked to curb and left out of your brand spanking new future, don't rub it in. Be extra patient with others and leave on good terms. 3 stars. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may be making more out of a problem than is necessary. Try not to focus on the faults or weaknesses in people, ideas, and things. Your grumbling is understandable but is doing nothing for your happiness. 2 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A question of taste or style may surface today. You and someone you live or work with may have very different views about what is ideal or appropriate. 3 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): Everything seems to come full circle now. When you look at others, you notice how similar or different they are from you. When you think about the past or future, you compare it to what you are presently experiencing. Don't limit yourself today. 4 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Today is an excellent time to think about attachment. Since very attractive options and relationships are on the horizon. you may find it easier to separate from people and things that diminish you. 5 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Since you've turned service and personal attention toward others into an an form, a number of people have become dependent on you for pretty basic things. 3 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): There are no free rides right now. There are, however, a number of impressive opportunities. You'll earn everything you get and may work longer and harder than you have in ages. 2 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Certain personal plans may still be in the infancy stage, but are exciting, nonetheless. You get so much benefit from private "alone" time. Today is ideal for constructing a few wondrous castles in the air. Instead of frustrating yourself with a pile of rules and warnings, follow your heart. 4 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Reveal your changing priorities and goals today. Open up the discussion with friends, mentors, and others you admire and trust. There's a special kind of magic and energy to be found in small group endeavors today. 5 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You're in the spotlight now. People really want to know your opinions and plans. Don't hesitate to speak up and express your views. Instead of assuming that your points are self-evident, explain each idea in-<lepth. 3 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Things are finally going in your favor. The buzz is very good, creating more excitement and interest in what you're doing · and even who you're doing it with. Allow your electric energy to come through. 4 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): When you feel a little weak in the knees, remember what you've already accomplished and overcome. Then think about the people who are willing to support you emotionally because they have faith in you. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are sincere and very strong, wise, serious-minded and driven. These qualities will have a profound affect on your dealings with others and their acquaintances. Never settle for the first thing that comes along. 
CROSSWORD 
Note: 18· & 22-Across and 53· & 57-Across have a hidden connection to 36-Across. 
ACROSS 35 "Oh, sure!" 61 Fair-hiring inits. 
1 whisker 36 Bodies making 62 Fab Four their closest member
4 Jazz (up) 
approach in 
63 See 56-Across9 City across the 

more than

Missouri from 64 Hill dweller
50,000 years on

Council Bluffs 
August27,2003 65 Bygone 14 Balderdash 
41 Users of 66 Fence 15 Bean seen on electro location alternative 
TV 
42 Shredded 67 Opener16 Wizardry 
43 G.P. grp.11 XXX counterpart 44 Reasons DOWN 
18 Pay for, with 
46 Takes off 1 Worries 

"of" 50 Surroundings 2 "Anyone 
20 Electrical units 
home?" call 22 Sweet wtne 
52 Waldenbooks competitor 3 Kind of number 23 Havtng some or weight 

success 53 Parade chief's rank 4 Crying out loud?
25 Crown 56 With 63-Across, 5 Canine neighbor
29 Church party where the Kings 6 "Forever Blue" 
30 Keep_ 
play in singer Chris (persevere) 

Sacramento 
7 Field reporter:32 Jeans name 

57 Remove Abbr. 33 Woven strands uncertainty 
8 Tolkien's of FangornANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
9 Breakfast order 
1 0 Big parrot 11 Back, in time 12 The guy's 13 Pretense 
19 Muslim pilgrim 21 Shoots from 
cover 24 Celebration 26 Italian island 
27 Look like a creep 
28 Places for props 30 A Musketeer 


WILLSHORTZ 

31 Leader before 40_ mater 51 Picture Lenin (brain 
52 Bleated
membrane)
34 _·billy 
54 Onetime throne 44 Irritate
35 Old family occupier Chevy 
45 Smart 
55 This spot 47 When it's blue,
36 Lions or Tigers 57 _·Magnon
it's fast 
37 Half in front? 58"_ Abner"
48 Epoch when 38 Israeli airline mammals arose 
.
39 Teasing 49 Nose-in-the-air 60 "Norma_ 
For answers, call 1·900-289-CLUE (289·2583), $1.20 a 
minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814·5550. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords . 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
-two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
-
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip_______ 

THE 0BSER\'ER 

-
PORTS
Wednesday, October 8, 2003 Page 28 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Phoxes beat Farley, win second straight 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER, MATT 
PUGLISI and DAN 
TAPETILLO 
Asscoiate Sports Editor and Sports Writers 
One week after ending a four­year losing streak, Pangborn is hoping to continue a streak in a new direction. The Phoxes won their second straight game Tuesday with a 20-13 win over Farley. 
Led olt defense by Katie Riemersma, who returned one interception for a touchdown and picked off two more passes, the Phoxes (2-4) withstood a late drive from the Finest (0-5-1) to come away with the close victo­ry. 
Farley wide receiver Lauren Kent had seven receptions for 115 yards in her team's loss. 
"Our girls are mostly fresh­men," Pangborn coach Robert Coly said. "We wanted to go out on a winning note. 
"It's good to have something to show at the end for the work 

-
we've done." 
After going three-and-out to start the game, Pangborn was forced to punt. Farley needed only three plays to score on their frrst drive, as quarterback Karrie Koski found Kent in the end zone for an 18-yard touchdown. Koski passed to Kent again for the 1­point conversion. 
Pangborn would then answer the score in just three plays of their own. Quarterback Christina Dunn completed a short pass to wide receiver Mary Davis, who initially bobbled the ball before catching it and running in for a touchdown. The 1-point conver­sion failed, giving Farley a slim 7-6lead. 
The Finest would turn the ball over on downs at their own 38­yard_line, and Dunn went right back to work, scoring on a 9­yard touchdown run four plays later. The conversion attempt failed, making the score 12-7 in Pangborn's favor. 
Farley would come back to retake the lead before the half, 
see INTERHALL!page 26 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish win again, blank Butler 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
In the first half of its gaine against Butler, the women's soccer team looked like a team that has now played five games in the past 10 days. But the second half was another story, as the Irish remained undefeated with a 3-0 win over Butler. 
"It's very tough," said sen­ior defender Melissa Tancredi of having played many games in a short peri­od. "So far we've been really good getting through it." 
The Irish, still No. 2 and now 12-0-1, have now won six games in a row since their lone tie of the year against Stanford. Since allowing a late goal against North Texas, they have shut out the last four teams to visit Alumni Field. 
Butler did not make it easy on the Irish at the beginning of the game, getting both of their shots in the opening minutes as the Irish got off to a sluggish start. 
"We tried to do the same 

MAHKS/l he Observer Notre Dame's Becky Tweneboah kicks the ball past North Texas defenders during a recent game. 
thing as Sunday by starting a different lineup to rest some players," said Irish coach Randy Waldrum. "I think it was the right decision because we got some rest for those starting players. It's not that they didn't do a great job, but we just didn't get off with the right mind­
. set." 

The Irish had only attempt­ed three shots in the first 32 minutes before midfielder Kim Carpenter continued her recent scoring surge after a failed clearance by the Bulldogs. The Irish were dominant in the second half, outshooting 
see VICTORY/page 25 
FOOTBALL 

-
Runaway problent 

Despite struggles, Irish still committed to the ground game 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 
The last time the Irish offense took the field, fresh­man quarterback Brady Quinn threw for a season-high 297 yards, but the Irish only scored 13 points in a losing effort to Purdue. Even with the newly­found production through the air, the Notre Dame offense still struggled, due in a large part to its inability to establish a running game. 
"Throwing the football is great. It's exciting. Fans love it," Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "But if you go by the statistics of it, usually if you're throwing for 300, 350­plus yards, with no running game, then you usually don't fare well." 
While Notre Dame made 62 pass attempts -the most since the 1960s -the offense strug­gled to move the ball on the ground. Notre Dame only 
see RUSH/page 25 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles play well, but lose in five 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 

The Belles again showed some of the form which helped them to an 8-4 start this season, but it wasn't quite enough to beat one of the best teams in the MIAA. 
Saint Mary's fell to Calvin at home Tuesday night in five sets, by the scores of 30-28, 28-30, 30-25, 21-30 and 13-15. 
The Knights (15-4, 8-1 in MIAA) came into the match tied for first in the MIAA. but they were able to fend off the Belles' (10-10, 2-6) upset attempt. 
"This game was 100 percent better than Saturday [when Saint Mary's lost to Kalamazoo in straight sets]." coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "It was an absolutely great match." 
It was also a better match than the last time the Belles played the Knights, on Sept. 9, when Saint Mary's lost in straight sets on the road. 
"Against Calvin on the road, 
see VBALL/page 25 
en 
NHL
SMC SOCCER 
BASEBAlL 
MEN'S GOLF 
MlB PlAYOFfS 
LLI
1--
c.,) Saint Mary's 4 
Blue 9 
Golfers finish 15th 
Heatley allowed 

Florida Marlins 9 
z Olivet 0 
Gold 7 

Chicago Cubs 8 
to attend funeral 
The Irish shoot in the
a: s 
Joe Thaman picks up
The Belles cruise to 
low 300s every day to 

The Marlins win in extra innings on the pinch 
The Thrashers' All-
the win in Notre Dame's 
easy win against strug­
place 15th at the 
star will be at his team-

hit home run by Mike Lowell. Florida has a 1-0 
intrasquad scrimmage. 
gling Olivet. 
Windom Memorial 
mate Snyder's funeral 

lead in the NLCS. 
== Classic 
this week. 
I:J.t;: 
page 25 
page 17 

page 22
page 24
en page 25 




