



By EMILY BRAMMER News Writer 
Many accepted students con­firmed their decisions to attend Saint Mary's next fall as they toured campus and met with faculty and administers Sunday on Accepted Student Day. 
After Mass in Angela Athletic Facility, Saint Mary's President Marilou Eldred for­mally welcomed the students along with Director of Admission Mary Pat able to them next year." 
Afternoon events included two sessions of open houses sponsored by Student Activities and Academic Affairs. Faculty and staff in the academic departments spoke with interested students, and all student life offices such as Campus Ministry, Residence Life and other clubs and orga­nizations presented students with information. 
"This is the first year that we have expanded [Accepted Student Day] for more student involve­ment," 
Nolan and "Accepted students need s a i d 
Board of Nolan.
to have that chance to
Governance "The ses­President Kim .come back one more time sions are 
Jensen. to confirm their now set 
"Accepted up more
decisions. " 
students need l i k e to have that Student chance to Mary Pat Nolan Activities come back one Night, giv­
director of admission 
more time to confirm their decisions," said Nolan. "And they're very excited to see where they're going to be for the next four years." 
Saint Mary's students gave the potential students a tour of campus which included a trip through the new Student Center and Noble Family Dining Hall. 
"Students were really amazed with the new facility," said Jensen. "They're excited to know that it will be avail­
ing them 
the oppor­tunity to actually go around and talk to representatives of academic departments and student life activities." 
About 155 families from 21 states traveled to attend the day's events. 
Accepted student Gemma Edwardo currently attends Vincentian Academy in Pittsburgh. She applied to Saint Mary's because she was 
see ACCEPTED/page 4 


PUTTING OUT FIRES 

Irish Belles spend a night out 
theme of "spa night" by allow­Funnell raised $64 Friday
. ND, SMC women 
ing students to sample a vari­night.bond at 'spa night' ety of their products. "[Irish Belles Night Out] went Saint Mary's freshmen Anna really well and we got some
at Lafortune 
Bauer and Anna Hickner won good feedback," Brown said. gift certificates for a free hair­"I think students are interestedBy ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 
cut at Atria in doing it 
Saint Mary's Editor 
and Michael again." 
and Co. "The purpose ofthe event Friday built Saint Mary's and Notre salons. was to bring the two on ·the success Dame women found common Included of last year's
groups ofwomen
ground Friday night at the sec­Friday were Irish Belles
together to work through 
ond annual Irish Belles Night perfor­Night Out, Out. mances by stereotypes, because headed by the The freshman and sopho­Notre Dame former sopho­
there's been animosity 
more class boards from both senior Zack more class schools organized the event. Burkhart there in the past. " board and Saint 
"The purpose of the event and fresh­Mary's student was to bring the two groups of man Tom Sarah Brown body president women together to work Schreck, Elizabeth
SMC student body vice president Jablonski-Diehl.
through stereotypes, because regular per­there's been animosity there in formers at Because last the past," said Sarah Brown, t h e year's event Saint Mary's student body vice AcoustiCafe, and The took place in Saint Mary's president. "I think it's so Undertones, a male a cappella Regina Hall and this year's important to show that we group also from Notre Dame. occurred in LaFortune, Brown have a lot more similarities Tables were set up advocat­anticipates it will switch cam­than differences." ing various charity events in puses from year to year. 
Over 100 students from both which students can partici­"We plan to bring it back to campuses attended this year's pate. Jill Funnell, a Saint Saint Mary's next year to get a Irish Belles Night Out on the Mary's freshman, sold pink variety of settings," she said. second floor of LaFortune. breast cancer awareness rib­
In addition to complimentary bons for $1 each to raise hairstyling and facials, repre­money for her participation in sentatives from Mary Kay May's Avon Breast Cancer Contact Anneliese Woolford at Cosmetics added to Friday's Walk. wool8339@saintmarys.edu 
Sr. Helen Prejean to lecture at ND 
of the poor."
. University 
In 1981, Prejean movedsponsors death with a small group of other penalty speaker sisters to the St. Thomas housing project in New Orleans, where she began
Special to The Observer 
teaching high school 
Sister Helen Prejean, dropouts. The following death penalty abolitionist year, at the request of a and author of the book friend, she began a corre­"Dead Man Walking," will spondence with Elmo deliver a talk and partici­Patrick Sonnier, a 27-year­pate in a book signing old death row resident beginning at 7:30 p.m. convicted in the brutal today in 101 DeBartolo murder of a teenage cou­Hall. ple. As the date for 
Sponsored by the Notre Sonnier's execution Dame Vocation Initiative, approached, she became the event is free and open his close friend and spiri­to the public. tual counselor, eventually 
A native of Baton Rouge. witnessing his electrocu­La., Prejean has lived and tion. Since then she has worked in Louisiana all accompanied other men to her life. She joined the the electric chair as a Sisters of St. Joseph of counselor and witnessed Medaille in 1957, when their deaths. she was 18, and traces her Prejean related her involvement in the issue of experiences with Sonnier capital punishment to her in "Dead Man Walking," a religious community's for­mal pledge, made public in 1980, to "stand on the side see SISTER/page 4 

Monday, April 7, 2003
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
You vote for 
this? 
Their plans go far beyond war on Iraq. 
They want to multiply military spend­ing, create a "U.S. Space Force" to milita­rize outer space and completely control "cyberspace," target China. Iran, Syria and Ubya for "regime change," 
Pat McElwee 
test and build new nuclear weapons, consider developing 
Senior Staff
biological weapons, 
Writer
undermine the United Nations, "fight and decisively win multiple, simultaneous major theatre wars" and maintain American global superiority at all costs in order "to shape a new century favorable to American prin­ciples and interests." 
Sound like a conspiracy theory? It's not. The relevant interests have conveniently declared their positions on the Web site of the think-tank, Project for the New American Century (½"MV.newamerican­century.org). Check it out. 
Nor are these the rants and ravings of irrelevant fanatics. This group has defined the ideology behind the current U.S. for­eign policy. The powerful signatories to the Project's "Statement ofPrinciples" include: President Bush's brother, Jeb, Dick Cheney, Donald Rumsfeld, Paul Wolfowitz (Rumsfeld's deputy secretary) and Lewis Libby (Cheney's chief ofstaff) -none ofwhom was elected by the peo­ple ofthe United States. 
In fact, the true rationale for the war on Iraq has never been examined or dis­cussed by we, the people, largely because it has been shrouded in secrecy and masked by absurd hints at a connection between Saddam and Osama bin Laden or by disingenuous justifications such as eliminating weapons of mass destruction {which, high-ranking American and British officials recently admitted, may not even exist). The real goal ofour leaders has been American control ofthe Gulf all along, as evidenced by a 2000 report released by the Project entitled, "Rebuilding America's Defenses: Strategies, Forces and Resources for a New Century." 
As this report makes clear, Bush's cabi­net planned the takeover ofIraq long before the attacks on the World Trade Center. They were not even motivated by the human rights abuses ofSaddam's regime. On the contrary. they wrote, 'ihe need for a substantial American force presence in the Gulf transcends the issue ofthe regime ofSaddam Hussein." 
Why? The New American Century strategists want to promote "American principles and interests." It is not immedi­ately clear what this phrase means, espe­cially given the domestic opportunity costs of maintaining a warlike posture through­out the world and the diplomatic costs of alienating old allies (not to mention the human costs of burnt and blown up Americans, Brits and Iraqis). 
A little context makes it clear enough, however. Halliburton, the energy con­glomerate of which Cheney was recently CEO, was awarded a lucrative contract to work in Iraqi oil fields just last week. Other U.S. companies with ties to the administration have been offered similar­ly juicy deals in the "reconstruction" of Iraq. "American interests," for this admin­istration, means big business interests. 
There we have it: an ambitious plan for world domination in service ofthe rich, paid for with our blood and tax dollars. And the whole thing is posted on the Web. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Pat McElwee at mcel­wee.2@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-454 l so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Saint Mary's welcomes accepted students 
Roughly 155 fam­ilies from 21 states traveled to South Bend Sunday for Accepted Student Day at the College. 
page 1 
a: 
LI.I 
% 
~ 
LI.I 
~ 
.J 
cc 
(.) 
0 
...I 
WORLD& 
NATION 
U.S. may rule Iraq for 6 months 
Setting up a new Iraqi government may take more than six months once coalition forces take full con­trol of the country, according to Bush administration offi­cials. 
page 5 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Mixed results on stock market 
Stocks closed mixed Friday as investor enthusi­asm about U.S. advances in Iraq was muted by a weak employment report. 
page 7 
WHAT's HAPPENING @ ND 
. Film "At the Hivcr I Stand" 
4 to 5:30 p.m. at Ilesburgh Center Auditorium, C-100 
. 
Called to \Vitness Lecture Series with Sister Helen Prejean 

7:30 to 8:30 p.m. at DcBartolo Hall, Boom 101 

. 
Divine Mercy Chaplet 9 to 10 p.m. at Keough Hall Chapel 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Hecital Foru1n -Music Comp noon at Moreau Center for the Arts, Boom 114 AT 

. 
Spring Choral Concert Hehearsal 

5:30 p.m. at Moreau Center for the Arts, Little Theatre 

. 
Boom Selections 


6:15 p.m. at LcMans Hall, Heignbcaux Lounge 
VIEWPOINT 
Always faithful 
Viewpoint colum­nist Mike Marchand remem­bers e-mail he exchanged with Dustin Ferrell, the 2000 Notre Dame graduate injured in Operation Iraqi Freedom. 
page 10 
SCENE 
Bookstore Basketball 
Scene looks at Notre Dame's 32­year tradition of Bookstore Basketball. 
page 12 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Baked manicotti. Cajun pasta sauce, pepperoni calzone, honey-mustard chicken breast, smoked red bliss potatoes, cherry crisp, cheese and vegetable pie, wild rice with wild mushrooms, baby lima beans, malt-o­meal, scrambled eggs, sausage patties, Texas french toast, hash browns, Italian beef sandwich, crinkle fries, chicken and pea pod stir-fry, fiesta corn and black beans 
Today's Dinner: Beef tips and mush­rooms, kluski noodles, broccoli cuts, grilled salmon fillet, mushroom quiche, cauliflower au gratin, Egg Foo Yong Surimi, beef fajita, Lone Star rice, baked potato 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Tortellini with basil cheese sauce, bianco pizza, Greek pork loin, white beans with ham, cornbread, hot chunky applesauce, vegetable rice pilaf, sauteed Julienne vegetables, turkey pot pie, steamed spinach, chick­en nuggets, seasoned fries, onion rings, chicken macadamia, cheese enchilada 
Today's Dinner: Peppered flank steak, herbed sauteed mushrooms, lentil and barley stew, black beans with tomato and cilantro, Buffalo chicken wings, grilled cod, whipped potatoes, BBQ rib sandwich, steamed spinach, peppered tangerine chicken, spicy grilled chicken, flame-roasted fiesta corn and black beans 
SPORTS 
ND baseball 
dismantles Red Storm 
Notre Dame swept St. John's in an 11-3, 18-3 dou­ble header Sunday in New York. 
page 24 
Visitor arrested for driving intoxicated 
NDSP arrested a visitor for driving while intoxi­cated on State Road 933 Friday morning. 
Cell phone stolen from Alumni Hall 
A student reported the theft of her cell phone from the basement study lounge of Alumni Hall March 20. The larceny case's status has been updated to pending, but there are still no suspects. 
6 student vehicles towed 
NDSP had six student vehicles towed for parking violations last Thursday from the following loca­tions: three vehicles were removed from the post office, one from B2 library parking lot and two from Rolfs Sports and Recreation Center. 
Student's jacket stolen 
A student reported the theft of her jacket from South Dining Hall Thursday afternoon. There are no suspects in this larceny case. 
~complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Ratatouille wrap, sweet potato, omelets with hash browns, broiled chicken burger, Mexican potato skins, egg plant parmesan sandwich, pasta alla carbonara, roasted zucchini, garlic bread with cheese, roma and herb salad, chicken club loafer, Cajun chicken salad, sliced ham, sliced turkey, hum­mus, lemon bars, chocolate cookies, Greek salad 
Today's Dinner: Red onion grit cake, tri-pepper rice pilaf, spicy garbanzo beans, herb pasta, garden tomato sauce, chicken fettuccini alfredo, pork empanadas, arroz con frijoles. alca­chofas, bizcocho borracho, roasted red skin potatoes, corn on the cob 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 

*..
***,' * ** 

HIGH 36 HIGH 41 HIGH 50 HIGH 60 HIGH 61 LOW 27 LOW 22 LOW 30 LOW 42 LOW 42 

HIGH LOW 
Atlanta 73 / 57 Boston 35 / 28 Chicago 36 / 28 Denver 38 / 24 Houston 81 / 58 Los Angeles 7 4 / 55 Minneapolis 41 / 25 New York 34 / 31 Philadelphia 38 / 34 Phoenix 81 / 55 Seattle 54 / 46 St. Louis 52 / 36 Tampa 83 / 68 Washington 43 / 38 
.,_ .,·· .. 
..... 
page 3
Monday, April 7, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
BRINGING DOWN THE CSC 

SARAH SCHNEIDER/The Observer Campus band Grabolds, Including Ryan Rogers (left) and Nick Malnlerl (right), performed at "Progressive Rock" at the Center for Social Concerns Friday. 
rr==::;====;;;;;=====_;;_====::5;;:=====-=====:================:. field medical unit, said Allison
,.OU 'NA-ArNr
D A
nLL Il .. J, ~"'''·.

PNlo;,szM;:cc STUDENTS ONLY ... ~ :>. 
VNtV£RStTY PAW< AN,LL &lfT URTiflCATES (2 PE.I"< PtAa) fsr PLA(.l -$f00 
2ND PL~a .. $5'0 
.., p 5 .:,RD L~a -$2 

fr<tDAY) APt'<·IL " 
8 ,1}0p J\ 
-'~ 0 --" .· ­
ND r.XP·l~,_r.ss
t;,.. I~I;­

-fluD LIMlTW TO f~~sr J6 Tt.AAJ\S -TE.A.MS MUST SE I WY Sf &lf~L ...OPEN Pl~A(TK£ SEhl~ 8PM 
-ND E.NTI~Y fU 
S'f_N UP NQul lf ND rXP•~rss~­
O' rt l'\ ~ -~~ . 
SPONSORED 8Y THE STUDENT Acnvtn£5 0ffKE. 
NBC correspondent dies from blood clot 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
NBC News correspondent David Bloom, one of the net­work's most prominent young stars and a near constant televi­sion presence reporting from the Iraqi desert, died Sunday from an apparent blood clot. the net­work said. 
The 39-year-old co-anchor of the weekend "Today" show was about 25 miles south of Baghdad and packing gear early in the morning when he suddenly col­lapsed. 
He never regained conscious­ness and was pronounced dead from a pulmonary embolism after being airlifted to a nearby 
~~!~~ts:esia~~e::~~:t~ ~:sN:o~
~1~~;~:I~~'.IB~~h~~e~:il;~
~1~~:t;~:n~:c~!;~~;~1r:1T~i 
Thursday night along with a U.S. soldier when their Humvee plunged into a canal. 
Both Bloom and Kelly were traveling with the U.S. Army's 3rd Infantry Division. 
NBC News had built a special vehicle, dubbed the "Bloom-mobile," to send striking­ly clear pictures of him riding 
atop a tank through the Iraqi desert. He reported memorably on the sandstorms that brieflydelayed American forces. 
"He was both a genuinely nice 
guy and an incredibly tenacious
reporter," NBC News President 
~=a~e!~:Ji~~ ~a~~~:~~~:~f~~~! 
";==================;===================!' kept us in the game." 
· From the Iraqi desert, Bloom
D0 ffl US 
reported on what the American forces were doing militarily, but he also took the time to convey
PROPERTIES what their lives were like there. including the meals they were eating and what it was like trying to work in the middle of a sand storm. 
"He was a rising star here,"
OFF CAMPUS 
Shapiro said. Bloom, a native of Edina. 
Minn., lived in the New York
HOUSES 
FOR RENT 
FOR 
2003-2004 2004-2005 
area with his wife, Melanie, and three daughters. After attending Pitzer College in Claremont, Calif., Bloom started his career as a reporter for NBC-owned WTVJ in Miami in 1989. He joined NBC News in Chicago in 1993, moving to Los Angeles in 1995. 
He became a White House cor­
respondent for NBC in 1997, dur­
ing the Clinton administration. 
He reported on presidential 
races, the O.J. Simpson trial, the 
Washington-area sniper shooting 
and the Sept. 11 terrorist 
attacks. 
Former President Clinton said Sunday that Bloom's "integrity and good humor will be missed." 
"David Bloom was a smart, energetic professional whose enthusiasm for the job was evi­dent in every question he asked and every story he covered," Clinton said. 
Shaken NBC colleagues, includ­ing "Today" co-anchor Soledad O'Brien, paid tribute on the net­work's broadcasts Sunday. "It's a hard morning for all of us," Katie Courie said. 
Bloom. who had no apparent health problems, was indefatiga­ble during the Gulf War. He reported at all hours for NBC News broadcasts, and also for the cable outlets MSNBC and CNBC. 
On the Monday after the war started, Bloom delivered live reports at 2:22 a.m. ET for MSNBC, at 6:55, 7:09 and 8:04 for "Today," at 10:43 for NBC, 
10:47 for MSNBC, 11:12 for NBC, 
12:31 p.m. for NBC, 12:36 and 
2:33 for MSNBC, at 6:37 for NBC's "Nightly News." and at 
8:07 and 9:35 again for MSNBC, according to The Washington Post. 
"Given the fact that we're filing at all hours of the day and night, you try to pace yourself and get a little sleep," Bloom told the Post. "You're sleeping with your knees propped up around you." 
That may have been a risk fac­tor: blood clots frequently form in legs when they've been immo­bilized and travel through the body. said Dr. Harold Palevsky. chief of pulmonary critical care with the University of Pennsylvania health system. 
Enjoy a double order of faji±as
SCHOOL YEAR 
(enoush for fwo) for jusf $11! 


,,
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT 
,--~­
,f...r
YIJ',, 
,.,•~II•"~ \ .L '; l' i
www.domuskramer.com 

' . ­
~ 
I' 
' ,-, ."'-"' ­~·-, ;-.. ' 
GRILL &BAR
OR CALL 


574-315-5032 OR 574-234-2436 MISHAWAKA •4810 Grape Road 574-271-1330
ASK FOR KRAMER *Offer valid ever Monda 11 a.m, unfil dose. 
Monday, April 7, 2003 
page4 The Observer . NEWS 
Accepted 
continued from page 1 
interested in experiencing educa­tion in an all girls environment. She said Saint Mary's impressed her because she felt it has a fami­ly atmosphere. 
"The students here seem just as nice as everyone says they are," said Edwardo. "I think it would be easy to make friends here." 
Most importantly, accepted stu­dents left with a strong sense of resolution. 
"It solidified the choice of stu­dents who were already serious about Saint Mary's," said Nolan. "And those that were on the fence walked away with the feeling that this could be their home away from home." 
Lauren O'Brien contributed to this article. 
Contact Emily Brammer at bram3501 l@saintmarys.edu 
Sister 
continued from page 1 
book that was turned into an Academy Award-winning motion picture in 1996 and made her an internationally prominent opponent of capital punishment. 
Notre Dame conferred its highest honor, the Laetare Medal, on Prejean in 1996, and in recent years she has been a finalist for the Nobel Peace Prize. 
IRAN 
Controversial professor released from prison 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN, Iran 
A university professor whose death sentence pro­voked nationwide protests until it was lifted by the Supreme Court began a one­week prison leave Sunday, his lawyer said. 
Hashem Aghajari, a histo­ry professor at Tehran's lawyer, Saleh Nikbakht. 
Teachers  Training  
University.  was  released on  
$125,000  bail.  said  his  

Although the death sen­tence was lifted in February, an appeals court must still reconsider the rest of his sentence, including 7 4 lash­es, a 10-year teaching ban and eight years of banish­ment to three remote cities. 
Aghajari was sentenced for insulting Islam and questioning clerical rule during a speech he gave in June in which he said that each new generation should be able to interpret the faith. 
His sentencing last November provoked the biggest student protests in Iran in three years and highlighted the power strug­gle between the country's liberals and hard-liners. 
Aghajari initially said he would not appeal the death sentence, challenging the judiciary to carry it out. But his lawyer filed an appeal over Aghajari's objections. 
Both the parliament and President Mohammad 
Khatami denounced the ver­dict. 
But hardliners defended the sentence. Conservatives, who dominate government bodies such as the judiciary and police, oppose reformists allied to Khatami, accusing them of undermin­ing the principles of the 1979 Islamic revolution. 
In overturning the death sentence, the Supreme Court ruled that the charges were not compatible with his speech. 
RUSSIA 
Mass graves discovered in Chechnya 
Associated Press 
ROSTOV-ON-DON, Russia 
Police in Chechnya have dis­covered four graves filled with disfigured bodies, many of them with their heads and arms cut off, officials said Sunday. 
Three sites were found in the northern Nadterechny dis­trict, usually a relatively peaceful area, Chechnya's Emergency Situations Ministry said. 
The heads and arms had been severed from the corpses, which were stacked in a shal­low grave and covered with soil, the ministry said. It did not say how many bodies were in the graves. 
Another grave with two bod­ies was discovered in the vil­lage of Solyonaya Balka out­side the capital, Grozny, the ministry said. The dead men's heads were wrapped in black plastic bags. Both bore signs of strangulation and their teeth had been knocked out, it said. 
Investigations were launched into both cases. 
Such grisly discoveries are not uncommon in Chechnya, where Russian forces have been battling separatists. Human rights organizations claim Russian troops are responsible for the killings, while the military blames the rebels. 
Also Sunday, the body of a pro-Moscow Chechen police official was discovered, an offi­cial in the Kremlin-backed administration said. The body of Madzhid Aguyev, the deputy commander of a rapid-reac­tion squad, was found with multiple bullet wounds in a car near the village of Itsi-Su, the Interfax news agency report­ed, citing the Chechen Interior Ministry. 
Meanwhile, Chechen police­man Ruslan Visarigov was killed by a mine near his home in the Shelkovskaya district, the official said on condition of anonymity. 
Rebels frequently have tar­geted Chechens who work for the Kremlin-appointed govern­ment. 
In other action, rebels killed four servicemen and wounded 10 others in attacks over the past 24 hours, the official said Sunday. In a clash near the vil­lage of Nozhai-Yurt, two rebels were killed and four soldiers were wounded. 
Russian forces fought a dis­astrous 1994-96 war with Chechen separatists before withdrawing. Troops returned three years later after rebel raids on a neighboring Russian region and after apartment­house bombings blamed on the rebels killed more than 300 people in Russian cities. 
TRAVELING 

FOR PEACE 

CAMPUS MINISTRY AND THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS, IN COOPERATION WITH THE RESIDENCE HALLS, INVITE ALL TO JOIN TOGETHER TO 
PRAY FOR PEACE. 
S.~ C-M
SOCIAL CONCERNS Campus Ministry 
Tonight's Location: 
Welsh Family @9:00pm 
to be continued around campus each weeknight @ 9:00 p.m. until the end of the war in Iraq. 
This week's schedule: Tuesday, April 8: Keough Hall Wednesday, April 9: O'Neill Hall Thursday, April 10: McGlinn Hall Friday, April 11: Carroll Hall 
For more info or to help with the Rosary for Peace, contact Kelly Rich@ 1-3390. 

Monday, April 7, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
U.S. may rule Iraq for six months or more 
Shinseki has suggested hun­
Associated Press 
dreds of thousands might be 
needed, but Pace noted only WASHINGTON 10,000 are being used in 
Setting up a new Iraqi gov­Afghanistan, which is larger ernment likely will take more and more populated. than six months once coalition "What you need to determine forces take full control of the is what missions need to be country, a Bush administration accomplished, and then how official said Sunday. many forces you need to do 
Deputy Defense Secretary that, to give the Iraqi people a Paul Wolfowitz said the interim chance to rebuild their own government the United States army, get their own police force will run with coalition partners up, get their own government and Iraqi opposition leaders is working, so we can in fact leave designed to be a bridge to as quickly as possible," Pace whatever government the Iraqi said on NBC's "Meet the Press." people choose and is not British Defense Secretary designed to dictate the coun­Geoff Hoon indicated the vast try's future leadership. majority of the 40,000 British 
"The goal is not to install troops in Iraq could be home by some particular group as the the end of the year. When new leaders of Iraq. That asked how many British troops absolutely contradicts the should be in Iraq in six to nine whole notion of democracy," months, Hoon said: "I would Wolfowitz said as focused hope that it would be a very attention on postwar Iraq while small number." making the rounds on the Wolfowitz said the U.S.-led Sunday talk shows. coalition will spearhead the 
As for a timetable, Wolfowitz effort to set up an interim gov­note it took six months for a ernment, but he stressed the government to form in northern Bush administration is eager to Iraq after the first Gulf War. see Iraqis rule themselves. 
"This is a more complicated "You can't talk about democ­situation," he told "Fox News racy and then turn around and Sunday." "It probably will take say we're going to pick the tration does not want to see the Iraqis, for the Iraqis," "This Week." more time than that." leaders of this democratic U. N. supervise and run the Wolfowitz said. "Not to make "We learned a lot in the 
Gen. Peter Pace, vice chair­country," he said on CBS's country. them a colonial administration Balkan situation, where the man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, "Face the Nation." "I think the right goal is to or a U.N. administration, or run U.N. suddenly moved in," he said no decision has been made And he was adamant that move as quickly as we can ... to in any way by foreigners." said. "And here we are 12 on the size of the force that will while the United Nations should a government that is -if I Senate Armed Services years later, still struggling to be in Iraq during the transition. have a role in helping with the could paraphrase Abraham Chairman John Warner, R-Va., try and put those pieces back Army Chief of Staff Gen. Eric new government, the adminis-Lincoln -of the Iraqis, by the echoed that sentiment on ABC's together." 

SOUTH KOREA 
N. Korea: handling of nuclear issue a prelude to war 
Associated Press 
SEOUL North Korea on Sunday rejected the 
U.N. Security Council's plan to discuss the standoff over its suspected nuclear weapons development. Meanwhile, South Korea canceled high-level talks with its communist neighbor. 
A South Korean Unification Ministry spokesman said the Cabinet-level talks, which were to have taken place Monday to Thursday in Pyongyang were canceled after the North did not confirm the meetings. 
"North Korea did not respond to our offer last week, and therefore the talks have been automatically canceled," ministry spokesman Kim Jong-ro said. 
Seoul had hoped to use the meeting to try to persuade its communist neighbor to scrap its nuclear ambitions in return for aid and better relations with the outside world. 
North Korea called off two working­level talks with South Korea last month. 
The 15-nation Security Council is scheduled to discuss North Korea's nuclear program on Wednesday, and Pyongyang has said that any sanctions imposed on it will be tantamount to war. 
The U.N. discussions are "a grave provocation act intended to scuttle all [the North's] effort for dialogue and aggravate the situation on the Korean Peninsula," a North Korean Foreign Ministry spokesman was quoted as say­ing by state-run news agency KCNA. 
The Security Council's "handling of the nuclear issue on the Korean Peninsula itself is precisely a prelude to war," the spokesman said. 
For months, North Korea has insisted on direct talks with the United States to negotiate a nonaggression treaty. 
Washington has refused, saying a multilateral solution to the crisis was needed. The U.S. administration has been pressing the Security Council to adopt a statement condemning Pyongyang for failing to meet its obliga­tions to prevent the spread of nuclear arms. 
But KCNA quoted the spokesman as saying that the U.S. invasion of Iraq showed that Washington was not bound by international agreements. A nonag­gression treaty with Pyongyang would not necessarily avert war because it might not be honored, he said. 
It was not immediately clear if Pyongyang would drop its demand for a nonaggression pact. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Friendly fire kills 18 in northern Iraq 
U.S. aircraft mistakenly bombed a convoy of allied Kurdish fighters in northern Iraq on Sunday, killing at least 18 people and wounding 45, Kurdish offi­cials said. Two or three Americans may have been injured. U.S. Central Command said coalition air­craft .. may have engaged special operations and friendly Kurdish ground forces" 30 miles southeast of Mosul. It said early reports indicated one civilian death and six injuries. 
Congo civil war attacks claim 966 lives 
At least 966 people were killed in attacks on more than a dozen villages in northeastern Congo last week, U.N. officials said Sunday. Rival tribal fight­ers, rebel factions and Ugandan troops all have been involved in the fighting in the 4 1/2-year old civil war in the mineral-rich province. Witnesses said the attackers included women and children while others were men in military uniforms. 
•~ --I ~-•r,;,ti;"1• .#• .-,.--,.~ ..,..·;.•••..,. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Va. Tech reinstates affirmative action 
Virginia Tech reinstated its a_ffirmative action policy Sunday, despite assertions from the attor­ney general's offi.ce that some of its diversity pro­grams are unconstitutional. The school's Board of Visitors voted to rescind a March 10 ban on pref­erences for racial minorities and other underrep­resented groups in hiring. admissions and schc.,l­arships. The vote came after a four-hour meeting punctuated by outbursts from a crowd of about 250 people, most supporters of affirmative action. 
Bush and Blair review Iraq progress 
President Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair are meeting for the third time in a month to discuss the war in Iraq, but this time their agenda also includes peace initiatives in the Middle East and Northern Ireland. The reconstruction ques­tion has divided Bush's advisers and the United States and Britain. 
Prisons hold record 2 million inmates 
The number of people in U.S. prisons and jails last year topped 2 million for the first time, driven by get-tough sentencing policies that mandate long terms for drug offenders and other criminals, the government reported Sunday. 
The federal government accounted for more inmates than any state, with almost 162,000. That number includes the transfer of about 8,900 District of Columbia prisoners to the federal system. California, Texas, Florida and New York were the four biggest state prison systems, mirroring their status as the most populous states. But Texas. California, New York, Illinois and five other states saw their inmate populations drop compared with the year before as prison releases outpaced admis­sions. Some states modified parole rules to deal with steep budget shortfalls. leading to an overall growth rate in state prison populations of just under 1 per­cent from June 2001 to June 2002. 
>s~"·• a•·• •, ~, ~ -~--•••·~ -,.. _. • ..,..~ ­
..,.
' 
.~ ,.;t 
' • •) 1 t
IJ: J . •:~;-,._~; 

.. I ~ (t. ,..•.•_,_,---;-­
1 .. • .... 
~;•.._ > ;)
·1•.:;, ,-.~~• lu. • 
• ~ ,,,( f. ..,,-.,,,_ ¥ _;_ 1"' • .( 
~ .l ... ,-· _.,.,,. •.•~\~,l 
• ~ ..I• . 
, I • ,, •; 
' . "'. ,/'> , ' 
... .,. .,,,~~* ·-~~----__...~ 
": -· ,."' ..........~~ ~ _/ ... 
. . . .::_,/ /' _____i . ' ,'
..,. -~-•/ 

. .. ,, . 
'.' 
',.Y. 
"',. ~ ,.,,.,.4'1 . )" .-,c~Y .I # 
.~ Y'f;.j_,: •-, -•• -';:••_,.•.• 
"' ·' .'. . , >•""• t 
• '. ~': .' < ........ _*-~
:.::,: ..i1· .,~,-~ ... --~"J"r ·
"" --.. I , , • J 
...-__..-,...,. \' t •.· • ' ,-• . • 
:~ .... rl'\•·*\.. 14 ,,.. 
,._,,-,,.. j , •" 'f ·\-,...Y
•.._,..""' .._. '.~ ....
t,t. • ,_.;..--,, t' . .,,,..•
._:.~:,.-::-_;-~-',, .:-., ~~·,._,_,., .' 
~~ _.._, • ./ ., ii ,. r ":,-.. ~ . , 
• "' $-~--·" ,_ ... ..,.. • ,--~ .• 
• l ~" <·Y.,, l't '\ '\. , ,t, ,' :·· , , , J -,; "• t ••• c.f'l,} -,/';,., • ; . , • 
2
vz_·£_~;~~.:)-;~f'.~::?;-~>-·:. ;·;::~~-:~~•." 
.... "t.°' ti'\ ... ,,.~;.--_;,,,..._·___...,.._~.-' .... ,. ) 

,t ·',"-~·1/ 

• 
re ean, 

author of Dead Man Walking 
Monday, April 7, 2003 7:30 p.m. DeBartolo Hall Room 101 



INSTITUTE FOR N O T R E D A M E 
CHURCH LIFE 
VOCATION INIT IAT IVE 
------------------------------------------------------------·-------------------------· 

O
THE 
BSERVER 
Monday, April 7, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch April 4 
Dow Jones 
8,277.15 ~ +36.77 
N4SDAQ 
1,383.51 • -13.07 
S&P500 
878.85 ~ +2.40 
AMEX 
820.00 • -6.36 
NYSE 
4,898.05 ~ +27.76 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.96 -0.52 17.05 
1
~1:~~01~1:•illl!i!i!i!!!lll~lli:!:! ••:1J:i :i~i1!1•i!li!•!!l!!l!l!J!i•ii~lll 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0. 51 +0. 07 13. 71 
~[9:ij¥~~i:!:~!!~![!!!iii~lii:l!i!1!illi~l!l~~ltiii!iil;i:Jii:iiffii 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW)-4.02 -0.14 3.34 
IN BRIEF 
Treasury changes debt borrowing 
Treasury Department debt managers intend 
to soon carry out an accounting maneuver 
that would free billions of dollars on paper to 
prevent the government from breaching the 
$6.4 trillion ceiling on the national debt. 
The step, announced Friday, is the latest in a series of moves Treasury has taken to prevent the government from defaulting on the national debt. 
Treasury is maneuvering because it has run out of room in its statutory authority to bor­row. It has asked Congress to boost the gov­ernment borrowing authority, a matter still pending on Capitol Hill. 
Mobil being investigated for bribes 
Federal prosecutors said Friday they are looking at Mobil Oil Corp. as part of the inves­tigation into bribes paid by Americans to secure lucrative oil contracts in Kazakhstan. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Peter Neiman made the disclosure as businessman James Giffen· pleaded innocent to conspiracy. money laun­dering and tax charges. He is accused of extending more than $78 million in bribes in the 1990s to two senior Kazakh officials. 
Tom Cirigliano, a spokesman for Exxon Mobil said the company has no knowledge of any illegal payments made to Kazakh officials by any current or former Mobil employees. 
GOP to abandon Alaskan oil plan 
There will be no attempt to revive drilling in an Alaska wildlife refuge as part of a Senate energy bill, says the Republican senator who will guide the legislation. 
Sen. Pete Domenici, R-N.M .. said the Senate's recent rejection of a proposal to develop oil in the refuge has made it clear that another such confrontation will only fail and, perhaps, jeopardize broader energy leg­islation. 
This week the House signaled that it again will call for opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska to oil companies. 

Mixed results on stockmarket 
• Investors wary as war in Iraq continues 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Stocks closed mixed 
Friday as investor enthusi­
asm about U.S. advances 
in Iraq was muted by a 
weak employment report 
and speculation that 
Saddam Hussein was still 
alive. Tech shares sagged 
on an earnings warning 
from PeopleSoft. 
Analysts said trading was choppy as investors made quick bets about the war's prospects. But most were choosing to sit on the sidelines, wary of making major purchases before the weekend. 
"A conflicting news day is leading to a conflicted market," said Stephen Massocca, president of Pacific Growth Equities. "We have continuing good news coming out of Iraq. But on the other side, we have disappointing employment numbers cou­pled with other negative economic news." 
The Dow Jones industri­al average closed up 
36.77, or 0.5 percent, at 8,277.15, having declined 44 points Thursday. 
The broader market fin­Saddam calling on his peo-ful." ous estimates, citing the ished mixed. The Nasdaq pie to fight back, dampen-Analysts say investors weak economy. composite index dropped ing rumors the leader have been largely opti­Affymetrix fell $9.67, or 13.07, or 0.9 percent, to might be wounded or mistic about a short and 34.5 percent, to $18.33 1,383.51. The Standard & dead. His remarks includ-successful war, leading after the maker of gene Poor's 500 index rose ed a reference to the them to drive stocks most­chips lowered its first­2.40, or 0.3 percent, to downing of an Apache ly higher in recent weeks. quarter earnings esti­
878.85. helicopter that occurred But they add that trading mates, blaming a slow­
For the week, the Dow after the March 19 strike will likely be uneven in the down in capital spending. rose 1.6 percent, the aimed at killing him. coming days as investors Altria declined $1.40 to Nasdaq gained 1 percent, An Iraqi official also respond to the latest war $28.30 after the Illinois and the S&P 500 advanced promised an ..unconven-headlines. Legislature rejected a plan 
1.8 percent. tional" retaliation, refer-Meanwhile, a Labor to cap the amount its 
On Friday, U.S.-led ring to commando and sui-Department report showed Philip Morris tobacco unit forces edged closer to cide attacks. U.S. companies slashed has to deposit to appeal Baghdad after seizing con­"People are a little more 108,000 jobs in March, legal verdicts. trol of Sad dam fearful about what might more than analysts' esti­Gainers included lnternational Airport, hit over the weekend," mates of about 40,000 Research in Motion. which located nine miles away. said Ned Riley, chief cuts. The overall civilian rose 42 cents to $14.88, 
U.S. Central Command investment strategist at unemployment rate held after the maker of said about 2,500 Iraqi State Street Global steady at 5.8 percent. BlackBerry pagers report­Republican Guards sur­Advisors. "There is con-PeopleSoft dropped ed a quarterly loss that rendered between Kut and cern that when we start to $1.48, or 9 percent, to was narrower than ana­Baghdad. ferret out the last of the $15.02 after the software lysts' expectations; the 
Stocks, however, Republican Guard, we may company lowered its quar­company also raised its trimmed early gains after be confronted with some-terly outlook below Wall first-quarter revenue fore­Iraqi television showed thing that is not very taste-Street's and its own previ-cast. 
FBI to investigate Internet wiretaps 
er. more efficient and cheaper than tra­
Associated Press 
But privacy advocates fear that ditional calls. which require that a 
NEW YORK because online eavesdropping tech­dedicated circuit remain open. 
Wiretapping takes on a whole new nology is crude, tapping into the The technology creates gray areas meaning now that phone calls are data stream for voice means getting in applying the 1994 being made over the Internet, pos­more than what a court ordered -Communications Assistance for Law ing legal and technical hurdles for including possibly e-mail and other Enforcement Act. That law required the FBI as it seeks to prevent the digital communications. that then-emerging digital phone emerging services from becoming a Service operators also question technologies, which are more diffi­safe haven for criminals and terror­who should pay. cult to wiretap than analog circuits, ists. The increasingly popular "Voice be designed so authorities could 
The FBI wants regulators to over Internet Protocol," or VoIP. monitor them. affirm that such services fall under technology breaks phone conversa­Lawmakers exempted information a 1994 law requiring phone compa­tions into data packets, sends them services like the Internet, but didn't nies to build in surveillance capabil­over the Internet and reassembles anticipate Net-based voice calls. ities. It is also pushing the industry them at the destination. Because VoIP is so new, standards to create technical standards to Such calls, made on handsets or don't exist for setting up networks, make wiretapping easier and cheap-using computer microphones, are let alone for eavesdropping. 
--------------------·--­
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, April 7, 2003 


A new era for corporate America is upon us. 
New standards in financial reporting and new obligations to investors are being created. The effect these new standards will have on the 
future of business remains to be seen. 
What is certain is that everyone, in every field, will be affected. But let us not forget that the integrity of business lies on the shoulders of individuals. Beyond laws, beyond rules, regulations and processes, 
integrity is and always has been a personal responsibility and obligation. Integrity is about asking the tough questions, making the 
right decisions, and simply doing the right thing when the consequences are great and even when they are small. Over the past few months, PricewaterhouseCoopers has been working to help rebuild public trust from the inside out. By beginning a much needed conversation. Internally and externally. By helping to create new standards and accepting new responsibilities. By not only embracing the letter of the law but the spirit, as well. In the months and years to come, you too will have the opportunity to stand up and be an example of integrity. To make decisions that will have a profound impact on the future. We urge you to proudly accept this responsibility. We urge you to stand and be counted, alongside those who have already begun. 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere 
Look beyond the numbers. 
0 2003 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. "PricewaterhouseCoopers" refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. a Delaware limited liability partnership or. as the context requires, the network of member firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited. each of 
which 1s a separate and independent legal entity We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer 
~ 
page 9 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, April 7, 2003 
Citizens and politicians rally for troops in Florida 
Associated Press as "the next greatest genera­Harlem, Chicago and else­Clearwater park waved of police officers. an estimat­tion," Gov. Jeb Bush led more where assailed the U.S. inva­American flags and patriotic ed 1,500 people marched 
CLEARWATER, Fla. than 15,000 people in a patri­sion of Iraq. Hailing U.S. troops in Iraq otic rallv. while protesters in A sea of oeoole at 
Friends and Brothers in Holy Cross 


www.nd.edu/"'vocation 
ANSWER ~ 
fflECALL \(!::I 
The Third Annual Notre Dame Erasmus Lectures 
Nicholas Boyle, University ofCambridge 
Sacred and Secular Scriptures: a catholic approach to literature 
"Literature as Bible" 
April 8, 2003 *  Faces: Melville's Moby Dick and Austen's Mansfield Park  
April I 0, 2003  Rewards and Fairies: The Idea ofEngland and The Lord ofthe Rings  

The lectures will begin at 4 p.m. and are expected to be two hours in length (with a refreshment break). They will be held on consecutive Tuesdays and Thursdays in the auditorium ofthe Hesburgh Center for International Studies except for the April 8* lecture that will take place in Room C 103 ofthe Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
signs as they listened to Bush, through downtown Chicago to a the president's younger show their opposition to the 
brother, whip up support for war. the men and women fighting "Control your horses, con­in Iraq. trol those sticks in your 
"Each generation has its hands," former death row defining moments," said inmate Aaron Patterson urged Bush. "This generation's lega­police in a speech before the cy is being written now. on march. "Let's march peace­the seas and in sands of the fully today." Middle East." Patterson was referring to a 
The Rally for America was demonstration two weeks ago the latest in a series of gath­when thousands of people erings across the country created a massive traffic jam inspired by syndicated radio on Lake Shore Drive, prompt­talk show host Glenn Beck, ing police to made more than who was seeking a way to 500 arrests. Department counter anti-war demonstra­spokesman Pat Camden said tions. there were no arrests 
Such anti-war protests were Saturday. held Saturday in cities around In Hartford, Conn .. several the nation. hundred people stood in a 
In New York City's Harlem cool drizzle to show their sup­neighborhood, several hun­port for the troops. 
dred demon­ "People  
strators ral­lied to com­memorate the  "Our youth joins the armed services to escape  who are against this war just  
nonviolent calls for world peace made by slain civil  paverty. Our youth joined the armed services to get better education, not be  don't get it," said Bob Tomasiewicz 0 f  
rights leader Martin Luther King. King  somebody·s cannon fodder for oil. "  Glastonbury, Conn., who drove to the  
was  assassi­ rally  in  a  
nated  35  Charles Barron  pickup truck  
years Friday,  ago on  city councilman  with Protest  "Go in  
April 4, 1968.  Iraq" painted  
Some in the  on back.  

crowd held signs pointing out "Sept. 11 changed every­that the military is made up of thing," he said. "We have to a large number of minorities. fight terrorism wherever we 
"Our youth joins the armed find it. Saddam Hussein is a services to escape poverty," terrorist." said Charles Barron, a city The Enduring Families Walk councilman. "Our you th in Jacksonville, N.C., was joined the armed services to billed as a nonpartfsan bol­get better education, not to be stering of the troops, many of somebody's cannon fodder for whom hail from nearby Camp oil." Lejeune. 
Also among the protesters "This ain't time to be a were several Muslims. "We Democrat or a Republican," have no business in this war," said Chuck Dellasantina, a Hamzi Latif said. "They say retired Marine and one of it's not a war against Islam, about 1,000 who made the 1 but to me it is.·· 1/2-mile trek. "It's time to get 
Surrounded by a blue wall out and support the troops." 
Ir------------------------------------• 
I I
KlNG'S EXPRESS 1 I 
Chinese Toke Out Restaurant 
Save-a-Lot-Plaza 
360 I Edison Road, Suite D Open Hours: 
South Bend, IN 46615 Mon-Thurs: 11am-1Opm 
Tel: 574) 271-8811 Fri & Sat: l lam-11 pm 
Fax: 574)231-1862 Sun: 11am-10pm 
10% Off with this coupon!! 
~------------------------------------· 
~7
www.1~.,3.edu
~'-­
University Web Administration Summer Positions 
Come join our team and work on the University Web Site! 
There are two Web Page Programmer positions available. Requirement: Fluent in HTML and JavaScript. Familiar with Coldfusion and Dreamweaver/Firework or PhotoShop a plus. 
Hours: M-F 8-5 20-40 hours a week will work around student's class schedule 
Submit application at https://greentree.hr.nd.edu/asewebexternal/ 
, , • 1,."> _ . .., •' • Ji ."' , , '. l l " · h L I~ 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Monday, April 7, 2003
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 Sou1h Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Scott Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITOR: Joe Hettler SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek 
C0NTR0I..LER: Michael Flanagan SYSTEMS MANAGER: Ted Bangert 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0.............. 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 AoVERTISING..................................... 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................ 63 l-4 542 MANAGING ErnroRIAssT. ME....................631-454I BUSINESS OFFICE........................................ 631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint.1 @nd.edu SPORTS........................................................ 631-4 543 observer .sports. I @nd.edu 
SCENE................................................ .........631-4 540 
observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ....... ..........631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advercisemencs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the vi~s of the aurhors and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefAndrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob.crm (USPS 59'! 240) i, publi,hcd Monday through Friday ""cq>' during exam md "'a:ation periods. A sul,scription to The OMC'n-cr ls S100 for one-.ai.:.ukmk 
)'<ar; SS5 for on<""'"'""·  
The Observer i, puhlishcd ~t:  PO~TMASTER  
024 South Dining Hall  Send .addmi com:crions to:  
Notre-Oamr. IN 46556  Th, Obs.rvc,r  
P.O. Bo,Q  
rC'fiodiul postagt r<lid ar Nunc Dame  Not« Dame, IN 46556-0779  
.nd addi,iona.l mailing offil,;C's,  

The OhKrvtr is .a mcmhc:r of tht-A»ociated Prc:u. All reproduction righu arc­fnITT<d. 

The moments of greatest faith often come in the deepest despair. Such is surely the case for First Lieutenant Dustin Ferrell. a 2000 Notre Dame graduate who was injured in Operation Iraqi Freedom. 
A March 25 arti­cle in the VVashington Post told the story of troops who suf­fered injuries in Iraq and were flown to Landstuhl Regional Medical 

Center at Ramstein Mike Marchand 
Air Base in Germany. One of them in particu­
Undistinguished
lar, a member of 
Alumnus
the United States Marine Corps, had facial injuries and was on a ventilator, but still com­municated to an Army chaplain that he wished to pray. 
The March 27 Observer said that marine might or might not have been Dustin. But I believe it is, because that's the type of person he is. 
I believe that despite the fact that I've never actually met Dustin face-to­face. Deborah Sederberg, Dustin's mother-in-law and a reporter for the Michigan City News-Dispatch, wrote that he is "bright and funny and gen­tle." She, of course, knows Dustin bet­ter than I, but I believe that. I surmised those qualities from the many Inside Columns he wrote for The Observer while he was a student. Well, actually, only the first two qualities: "gentle" is absolutely not the word to describe his compositions, which had titles like "Bombs away" and hit with all the force and accuracy of a bullet from a sniper rifle. 
But I also learned his personality from the many e-mails we exchanged. 
While a majority of them concerned Viewpoint columns and idiots who deserved to be insulted therein, some of them were more personal. We kicked around the idea of meeting somewhere for a few drinks, but I wasn't 21 at the time and we could never seem to get our ducks in a row. He sent me correspondence (and praise for my Viewpoint pieces) even as late as last May when he was still a second lieutenant. He said he was "doing the USMC thing" and that he "spent some time in Bahrain but I'm getting ready to head home from Japan right now." According to The Observer last week. he wound up being deployed overseas again in January. 
His orders were to "float east," even­tually serving in Operation Iraqi Freedom. According to reports. he was injured when a Humvee he was riding in overturned on March 22. I make it clear, however, that it was not a "Humvee accident" since their vehicle was being chased by RPG (rocket-pro­pelled grenade} fire. 
This is a sticking point for me because my grandfather was injured in the Italian campaign during World War IL His motorcycle hit a land mine and went speeding into an apple cart, which nearly severed his left leg. So, while he was technically injured in a "motorcycle accident," I credit the land mine for his wound and not the apple cart. Similarly, I assign the RPGs the blame for Dustin's crash because it wasn't anything like the "accident" that happens when a Ford Explorer rolls over. 
When the Humvee flipped, the impact killed the driver, but it crushed Dustin's windpipe. His life was saved by a fellow corpsman who performed a field tracheotomy, which sounds like a complicated medical surgery but is really a crude emergency measure consisting of cutting underneath the adam's apple and inserting a tube into the incision to allow air in and out. The medic who was brave and swift enough to accomplish that has the gratitude of everyone who knows Dustin. 
After being evacuated to Kuwait, he was airlifted to Landstuhl with other injured troops, where he. I'm sure of it, was the one who communicated his wish to pray to Army chaplain Colonel David McLean. I know this because in addition to earning an accounting degree, fulfilling the service of his ROTC scholarship, being the public affairs officer for the Navy ROTC. edit­ing their newsletter, editing Viewpoint columns, writing Inside Columns and spending time with his then-girlfriend Rachael (they were married last August in the Basilica). he somehow found the time to become Catholic while he was at Notre Dame. Father Jim Lies. his rector at Zahm Hall and the one who baptized Dustin into Catholicism. said he is "a model of all that we hope our graduates will be." 
He, of course, knows Dustin better than I, but I believe that, too. 
After being transferred to Bethesda Naval Hospital last week, Dustin was awarded a Purple Heart for his sacri­fice and service. 
I don't get as much information as those who are closer to him. so I assume he's still there. But since he is a fan of my columns, I know sometime soon he'll read this, wherever he might be: If you still want to get some drinks, Lieutenant Ferrell, they're on me. 
Semper fi. 
Mike Marchand 'OJ joins the entire Notre Dame community in prayer for Dustin's speedy recovery. Mike ·s e­mail address is Marchan d.3@alumni. nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Kate Nagengast Shannon Nelligan Kevin Allen 
Viewpoint 
Patrick McElwee 
Graphics 
Mike Harkins 
Sports 
Bryan Kronk Kurt Bogaard Christine Armstrong 
Scene 
Emily Howald 
Lab Tech 
Claire Kelley 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you think that women are sufficiently represented in the University's administration and faculty? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Every gun that is made, every warship launched, every rocket fired, signifies in the final sense a theft from those who hunger and are not fed, those who are cold and are not clothed. ,, 
Dwight D. Eisenhower former U.S. president and general 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Monday, April 7, 2003 page 11 
Anticipating and worrying over the trip back home 
I just got back from our final confer­ence in Peace Corps. Most of it focused on the transition from life in an African village to life in an American city. And of course we talked about the 
government logisti­ 
cal nightmare of  Malte Uranga  
completion. It was  
also wonderful to  
spend time with  
the 18 people left  Li[ e in Africa  
in my group away  
from the stress of  
Mauritania.  

The realization also hit as I looked around the room that I made it. I made it through a difficult country to begin with, then there was 9-11 and now it is Iraq. I have seen an incredible out­pouring of support for America and I have also experienced hatred. My par­ents' stress levels mirror mine as they ask every time we have contact the exact date I will get home. 
The answer is I still do not know. It still depends on international rela­tions. It depends on if there are any more accidental bombing of civilians. It depends on if the protests in Cairo continue to grow. It depends on if I actually listen to my parents. It depends on if I let myself see how tired I am from two years here in this time. It breaks my heart. 
I came here with the desire to save the world. I know that everyone says that is impossible, but deep down everyone wants to do that. I saw the 9­11 attacks and the embrace of America by countries, kings and people who did not really like us. I talked to people at home about life for an American in an 
Islamic republic. We joked among 
Peace Corps volunteers about fighting 
the war on terrorism one girl's soccer 
game or computer center at a time. 
And in a sense I believed that and still 
do. 
Now we are the only Peace Corps representatives left in an Islamic republic and again they are giving us the option to leave. And again I do not want to. Tomorrow is the big meeting with details and options explained. Now there is a lot of speculation. Whatever happens tomorrow will be difficult because it will not be on my terms. Throughout my whole service I planned how and when I would leave the site and return to the United States. Maybe that will happen. But probably lots of people who have been with me from the beginning wi11 go. 
Most likely I will go. A small part safety and a very large part exhaustion with uncertainty and a need to go to the next phase of life. In a month, I could be in a coffee shop or in a car on a freeway. It sounds so safe and secure. It sounds so boring and aver­age. Here. I feel like I am doing some­thing for the United States and also the Arab world, some days positively and some days negatively. In America I will feel helpless. I will watch the 24-hour coverage of the war from a couch and complain about the state of the world. Here when I walk down the street to buy bread in the morning I am doing something. Home to me represents passivity. 
I am sure after a few weeks at home 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Asian-American experience 
In June of my senior year at Tenafly High School, during our class's final hurrah together on our senior trip, my track coach approached me and asked, "So Ed, where are you heading to next fall?" I replied that I'd be attending the University of Notre Dame. 
I almost expected her response: "Oh, that's wonderful! But Ed. I know that people in the Midwest haven't been exposed to many Asians, so if anyone gives you a hard time, get out." 
What really irked me was that I thought I was being paranoid, pessimistic and too defensive about my premonitions of Notre Dame not being as accepting of Asians, but to hear this from a history teacher and track coach from my high school was very unnerv­ing. However, I still attempted to maintain an open outlook at coming to this school, hoping that college would be a broadening experience of diverse people, and if not that, at least diverse in thought and experience. 
But once again, I knew of Notre Dame's adamant Catholic tradition, its overwhelm­ing homogeneity and its conservatism. I don't think these characteristics are nega­tive attributes, but I think these qualities prevent Notre Dame from having a more open and broader perspective. I am not sure if it colored my outlook coming into the school or if I was simply seeing the institu­tion for what it was. 
I came to campus in hopes that things weren't what I assumed. But during my first taste of college life at Notre Dame, it felt as if the world was going in one direction, and I was going completely against the grain. 
I know this is cliche by now, but it still has an impact to see just how many articles of clothing are from Abercrombie & Fitch, Hollister, American Eagle. etc. It sent me the message that either I should conform or feel alienation. 
So I chose the latter. Then I thought to myself, "You know what? Clothing, music taste, all those factors are just personal preferences that shouldn't really matter." So I tried to talk, to explore and to experience new people. 
But somehow I would feel this constant sense of inferiority among a crowd that was quite different from me in terms of appear­ances, likes and dislikes and overall out­looks on life. Sometimes, I would be treated differently, either subtly or overtly. When conversing in a crowd, it is as if people don't even address or acknowledge you, that you don't exist in the conversation. Or I hear about other experiences in which an Asian is the butt of a joke. It's funny to everyone else, but it immediately singles the Asian kid out, creating self-consciousness and a feel­ing of inferiority to those who are Asian. 
I seriously wonder if I am being overly sensitive or defensive, but I talk to other Asians on this campus, and the subtleties and the lines drawn between races is clearly evident in listening to other Asian-American experiences on campus. 
People can hate and discriminate, con­sciously or unconsciously in their words and actions. Nevertheless, Asians on this campus are trying to educate rather than recipro­cate. We want to create understanding and broaden perspectives despite the struggles we encounter along the way. We want that true college experience, and hopefully you all do too. 
Edward Song 
freshman Fisher Hall April 4 
I will have found some way to change the less I complain about Mauritania that. And as I start law school I will and the more I worry what life in imagine all of the things that I can do America will really be like now. It is a with a law degree just as I imag­different place than when I left. 
-----My group finished our close
ined all the things that could be done with a Notre Dame undergraduate degree. 
I used to laugh at the people that said going home is harder than leaving home. I did not worry about it at all until I watched CNN on satellite TV and later a television program try to explain all of Islam in five minutes. Also from the other side, I have heard my friends here defame America -the same friends that begged for help to get an American visa and praised every­
thing American only six months ago. volunteer in the Islamic Republic of 
My thoughts since my last column Mauritania. are a little more coherent, but that is The views expressed in this column all relative. I am still very, very excited are those ofthe author and not neces­to go home. Although the closer it gets, sarily those of The Observer. 
of service conference and drove between the two main cities of Mauritania, between which there is no road. Our three SUVs spread out across the open sand, dunes, beaches and rocks. some­times fast and 
sometimes 
stuck in sand 
up to the axles. My trip 
is done. Now 
it is someone 
else's turn. There will be people brave enough, stupid enough and pas­sionate enough to 
follow. 
Maite Uranga grad­uated from Notre Dame in 2000 as an anthropol­ogy and government major. She is currently a Peace Corps 
In defense ofMoore's documentary 
In his Viewpoint column last Thursday entitled, "Michael Moore's gutterball," Peter Wicks claims that Michael Moore's Oscar-winning film, "Bowling for Columbine," uses lies and deception to further Moore's own political agenda. 
Mr. Wicks further criticizes Moore for his overabundance of expla~ nations for the problem of violence in the United States. In fact, Moore attributes American gun violence to one thing: a climate of fear. Moore mocks political activists who claim one party is culpable for the violence at Columbine. "Bowling for Columbine" highlights the various factors which create this climate of fear which distin­guishes America from other nations. 
Mr. Wicks attacks one such example, "the implied parallel between the NATO campaign in Kosovo and the Columbine massacre." Mr. Wicks terms this deception and idiocy. However, I cannot imagine the parallel was intended to suggest that NATO is analogous to Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold. Moore simply uses these coincidentally simultaneous events to demonstrate the depth of the fear problem in our society. This ironic coincidence illustrates how fear influences our military as well as domestic affairs. 
Mr. Wicks also labels the South Park cartoon burlesquing American history "propaganda." Mr. Wicks himself notes that. by their very nature, cartoons are not intended to depict reality. This cartoon grotesquely identifies two historically controversial American organizations (the Ku Klux Klan and the National Rifle Association) that sprang up from fear. Moore connects the two orga­nizations only to suggest that they are both fruits from the same poi• sonous tree. 
I grant that Moore likely edited his documentary for the purpose of persuading his audience. However, this hardly justifies labeling the entire film propaganda. Mr. Wicks seems to have missed Moore's core message: America is a nation controlled by fear. 
Maybe I am biased because I live in the community {Littleton, Colo.) where much of the documentary was filmed. I hope that Notre Dame students will take the opportunity to see this film and make their own judgments when it comes to campus April 24. 
Katie Murray 
freshman Pangborn Hall April 4 
THE 
OBSERVER 

page 12 Monday, April 7, 2003 
Bookstore Basketball: A tradition at Notre Dame 
Bookstore Basketball is a campus phenomenon unlike any other. 
Where else could your typical Joe Business Major square off against var­sity athletes and other campus icons? 
The fact that Bookstore, which began its 32nd edition on Saturday, just recently gained national promi­nence in the pages of Sports Illustrated last year illustrates not only the stay­ing power of such a popular event but also the mag­nitude to which it has grown since 1972. 
And every aspect of the tournament has contributed to its popularity and success. 
For starters, the fact that each and every game is conducted entirely out­doors is a unique aspect of Bookstore Basketball. This year's opening round -assuming today's games go accord­ing to schedule -will likely feature not one, but two days in which players will have to endure snowfall. 
In addition, in every year that I can remember, games have been won or lost by shots that are definitely affected by South Bend's biting wind. Driving rainstorms are not all that uncommon, either. It is a testament to the teams involved that they can succeed, or even thrive, in what can only be explained as less-than-ideal playing conditions. 
Then there are the players. From Joe Montana and Tony Rice, to those guys a couple years ago who covered them­selves in sandwich condiments, the players bring a great amount of appeal to the tournament, and not necessarily for their athleticism. 
Sometimes, most often in the earlier rounds, it is in fact the teams' lack of athleticism -most often as a result of drunkenness -that brings out a crowd ready to laugh and enjoy them­selves. 
There is an aspect of Bookstore that appeals to everybody. Whether it is watching your friends shoot airball after airball, or watching Notre Dame's best go all the way to winning the championship, the competition works on every possible level. 

Also, Bookstore Basketball is a quin­tessential springtime activity. Hypothetically speaking, the weather's nice -which is a rarity for South Bend -so why not take advantage of it while it's here? Soaking up some rays, while often just a byproduct of attend­ing a Bookstore game, is a great way to spend a lazy weekend afternoon in the midst of spring. 
Everyone on this campus knows that it has been deemed the world's largest five-on-five basketball tournament, but how it got there is a mystery to most. 
The first edition of Bookstore fea­tured 53 teams. This year's tourna­ment boasts 10 times as many, with that number peaking above 700 teams 11 years ago. 
The number of teams has exceeded 500 every year .since Bookstore Basketball XII, 20 years ago in 1983, which broke the 500-team level for the first time, boasting 511 teams. 
Fast-forward to this year. 
539 teams. Five players per team. That adds up to almost 2,700 students -roughly a quarter of the combined Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross communities taking part in one of the most popular of many Notre Dame legends. 
And that's just the players. 
Combine that figure with the average turnout for a bookstore game -which can vary widely from team to team and round to round -and you've got a solid majority of these three campuses turning out to support a worthwhile cause. 
That's right, not only do these hard­core players play for free, but they also donate a registration fee to charity. 
Just another Notre Dame trademark on a campus tradition that has never -and likely will never -be duplicat­ed anywhere else in the world. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Bryan Kronk lives in Knott Hall and is an accounting major. Ile writes at The Observer during his free time, so he is here pretty much all the time. 

CHIP MARKS/ The Observer 
Some men playing quite Intensely Sunday afternoon fight for possession of the ball. The tournament games are held at all available courts on campus. 

With March Madness coming to a clo. 
bringing smiles and competition a/on. 
By EMILY HOWALD 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Bookstore Basketball is back once again, and with it comes not only laughter at the strange and unique names, but heavy competition among the top teams for the coveted title of bookstore champi­on. 
The tournament "Where else can you boycotted the games.
unites the Notre 
Bookstore Basketball
find drunken idiots, 
Dame community in has become a known tra­one event that unathletic Notre Dame dition on the Notre Dame 
seems fit for every­campus.
engineers and 
one. 
Alumni from all over
superstar athletes all 
"Where else can the country show interest you find drunken competing in one in the event and are idiots, unathletic tournament against always eager to learn Notre Dame engi­about the tournament's
each other." 
neers and superstar growth and development.athletes all compet­"The rivalry, the com­ing in one tourna­Lee Gettler petition, the camaraderie ment against each sophomore -they are all things that 
other," Fisher soph­omore Lee Gettler said. 
The Bookstore Basketball Tournament is the largest 5-on-5 tournament in the world and has grown with each year. It began in 1972 with 53 teams, and reached a peak in Bookstore XXI with 705 teams. This year there are 539 teams participating comprised of faculty, staff and students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College and Holy Cross College. 
The tournament is held for the duration of the month of April and began this Saturday and the finals will be played on Sunday, April 27. 
In recent years, Bookstore Basketball has gained national atten­tion with their increased number of teams participating in the event. 
Additionally, former players have gained national recognition such as Heisman Trophy winner Tim Brown in 1987 and both Adrian Dantley and Bill Hanzlik were chosen for Olympic basketball teams. Dantely participat­ed in the 1976 Olympics in Montreal and won a gold medal, while Hanzlik was supposed participate in the 1980 Olympics in Moscow, but the US team 
will stay with me for the 
rest of my life." Notre 
Dame graduate and for­mer Dillon resident att Walsh said. 
Other graduates have been very inquisitive about the upcoming events at the bookstore games. 
Bookstore Basketball has become a part of the Notre Dame community just as much as any other time hon­ored tradition at the University, with an added twist of humor. Not only do students dress up with themes and interesting costumes, some show up merely to make fools of themselves. It is an added comic relief to the University before things start to wrap up during finals week. 
"Bookstore Basketball is the best thing to happen to this University since the time Wolfman Jock ran through Stonehenge," Dillon sopho­
-, 
THE 
OBSERVER 

Monday, April 7, 2003 page 13 

)e Bookstore Basketball is commencing, ?with tradition to Notre DameS campus 
more Tom Raaf said. Although some of the teams appear 
Not only do the players find the as though they may not have mas­competition amusing, but some take tered the art of basketball in their the competition very seriously as well. earlier days, generally , the teams 
"We practice a lot and take the appear to have an enjoyable time on game pretty seriously. I know this is a the court. There are usually screams joke to some peo-of laughter coming from all ple, but to me, the general areas of the bookstore basket-games, and cheers can be 
ball is something that should bring happiness from the joy of the game and a sense of pride from the excellent feeling that comes with accomplishment.  "The rivalry, the competition, the camaraderie -they are all things that will stay with me for the rest ofmy life ...  heard at all areas on cam­pus. Bookstore Basketball has become an integral part of the Notre Dame community. It not only serves the pur­pose of enhancing the Notre Dame tradition, but it is an enjoyable event that gives  
I think bookstore  students  a  
basketball  is  Matt Walsh  chance to relax  
swell."  sopho­ class of 2001  and have fun.  
more  Ken  "Bookstore  
Champa said.  basketball  is  
Some, however,  great; it gives the  

take bookstore basketball with the engineers a chance to see nonchalant attitude that accompanies the sun, and the rest of us many of the comical teams that hit just have a great time," the courts. Gettler said. 
"Bookstore makes me dribble. Ha­For more information on ha. get it? I am probably one of the Bookstore Basketball or top ten players in the tournament, not updated schedules or to mention the best looking. If looks ranking go to could kill I'd be an Uzi," Luis Arguello www. nd. edul~bkstr. of St. Edward's said. Check out the games at 
Although the competition has any of the regulation bas­increased as the tradition grows, it is ketball courts on campus, still a game at the heart of it. such as Stepan or Lyons, 
Basketball is a sport that gives a but especially at the cen­large variety of people a chance to tral location of the book­play, and although it is competitive, store courts. Games will be many people find amusement in the running through all of game, other take it somewhat serious­April. ly. 
"The ball is round. The game is to 21 points. The rest is just theory," sophomore Matt Schulte from Dillon 
Contact Emily Howald at 
said. 
Howald.2@nd.edu 
The Top 32 Teams 
1. 
Adworks 

2. 
NDToday.com 

3. 
We Get Wet 

4. 
Hoosier Racing Team 

5. 
La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries 

6. 
Mmmmm ..... Cheese 

7. 
Michael Jackson's Buddies 

8. 
Roe's Sports Cafe 

9. 
Growers Not Showers 

10. 
S.P. Shockers 3 

11. 
Big Down Low 

12. 
Speaker City 13.RBC 


14. 
Coco Butter 

15. 
Killer Boots Man 16. Channel 595 


17. Linebacker Lounge 
18. 
Irvin Jones 

19. 
Nunc Dimittis 

20. 
H.P. 

21. 
1/2 Men and 1/2 Amazing 

22. 
Support Your President 

23. 
ASC Enterprises 

24. 
5 Guys Who Want a Hummer Like LeBron's 

25. 
Derelict 

26. 
Da Booty 

27. 
Future Welfare Recipients 

28. 
Off the Heezie 

29. 
RCLC Clericuzio 

30. 
Piss Poor 

31. 
High Thread Count 

32. 
Dolly Parton, Finnegan's, and 3 Other Huge Busts 


Interesting facts about Bookstore Basketball: 
Most Points by an lndlvldual In One 1997-Mike Denvir 1996-Dave Fannon 
Game: 
1995-Jason Williams 1994-Eric Jones21 -Gus Herbert {1985) 1993-Eric Jones19 -Tom Healy (1985) 1992-Dave Bose 19 -Dan Mullen (1997) 1991~ Derrick Johnson18 -Rob Simari (1982) 1990-Joe Scott
17 -Mike Borders (1976) 
1989-Joe Scott 1988-Gary Voce tast Champions: 1987-Wes Shorter 1986-Jim Dolan 
2000-Keyplay.com 1985-Steve Treacy 1999-Malicious Prosecution 1998-PRIMETIME 
Among the Best Names In 2003:
1997 -Dos Geses 1 996-Dos Kloskas 
Testicular Fortitude1995-Models, Inc. 
5 Guys Who Know a Thing or Two
1994-NBT About a Thing or Two1993-Tequila White Lightning 5 Guys Who Know a Guy Who pooped1992-Gauchos His Pants1991-Adworks We are Seamen ... Watch Us Shoot1990-Malicious Prostitution This is the Most We're Ever Going to1989-Malicious Prostitution Score at Notre Dame 1988-Adworks All-Stars Dolly Parton, Finnigan's, and Three1987-Da • Brothers of Monhood Other Huge Busts 1986-Lee's BBQ Roundhouse OneBallhandler and Fourplay1985-Revenge of the Fun Bunch 

I hope you know up, up, down, down, left, right, left, right, B, A select, start b/c you'll need 30 guys to beat us
Past MVP's: 
5 Guys Who Want a Hummer Like LeBren's2000-Tom Dietrich Stop That Dog! It has my Gum! 
1999-Jeremy Cole Juan Comes Early and the other Four1998-Raam Jani 
Play 

THE 
OBSERVER 

page 14 Monday, April 7, 2003 
Everclear satisfies students 
By REBECCA SAUNDERS Scene Music Critic 
It was a cold and very rainy night last Friday when the Portland, Ore.­based band Everclear came to the Epcot Center of Notre Dame, other­wise known as the Stepan Center. Showing true dedication to ... well, something, students trudged across the. in spots, flooding campus with hope that this show would be worth the swim to the Stepan Center -they left satisfied. 
The show started off with the open­ing band Long Shot who, while very good, seemed almost juvenile. The dancing of the lead singer around the stage, at one point with the micro­phone cord wrapped around his neck, distracted from the music which oth­erwise was reasonably good. The sec­ond band, The Exies, was excellent. With a Notre Dame alum drummer from Keenan, the band was very well received -and they deserved to be. Their music was terrific and they are definitely a name that will be heard in the future. 
Then it was time. When the lights came up and the bass echoed through the building the literally dampened spirits of the crowd shot up. Starting off with a straight set of about four of their new songs, Everclear played for almost 20 minutes before a word was spoken. With plenty of cracks about the overly protective and conservative nature of the administration, Everclear quickly won over the stu­dent crowd. In their opening greeting, Art Alexakis, the lead singer, announced in a sarcastic tone that the tattoo-covered punk rock band had been asked to "lay off the profanity" for the night. 
The cracks continued as Alexakis introduced their newest single "Volvo Driving Soccer Mom," proclaiming 
that this song described the destiny of the women at Notre Dame. This comment of course was greeted by cheers, displaying the semi-blatant fact that the majority of the crowd was not composed of large enough Everclear fans to know any of their new stuff, but only their major hits (the song in reference being about how porn-stars become the "Volvo driving soccer moms" of the future). and as such just cheered at anything one of the band members said. However, this lack of a hugely dedi­cated fan base did not slow down the momentum of the show. 
Everclear started off with a good number of their new songs and then, about 45 minutes into the set, transi­tioned into playing some of their major hits, which boosted the energy of the crowd to whole new levels. 
Everclear exploited as much of the crowds· energy as they could. They asked numerous times for clapping, hands in the air, singing along, and they received each one with out even a moment of question from the audi­ence. 
This crowd participation made the audience love Everclear more and more as the show went on. The entire Stepan Center was filled with the sound of the crowd singing the na, na, na-na-na-na chorus of Everclear's hit, "Everything is Wonderful Now." 
The cooperative and enthusiastic show even led the bass player, Craig Montoya to declare the Notre Dame's show as, "the best fA'@%Aing college show we've ever had." 
This is quite a complement, espe­cially considering the restrictions placed on the band's content by the university and the venue of the Stepan Center in which they had to perform. 
Throughout the show there was even a steady dripping of water directly onto the hack area of the 


stage. Everclear put on a great per­
formance throughout their set and the crowd had fallen in love with them by the end. As if that wasn't enough, Everclear took the status of their show from good to excellent in their encore. Coming back onto the stage, each member had a very 
i. m p r e s s i v e solo moment as the band displayed their real musical talent. Then, in what ended up being a highlight of the night, the band invited a member of the crowd up to play a song with them. 
A random Notre Dame student, lived a dream when he performed "Santa 
Monica," singing and playing guitar. with Everclear. This performance was followed by Everclear bring up about 50 people onto the stage; they had to receive and sign a waiver in order to be allowed up onto the stage. This was explained with laughing by Alexakis, because well, that is just the way rock concerts go at Notre Dame. 
The performances of some of the students on stage were more memo­rable than much of the concert; the power of Everclear was on that stage, in every sense of the word. Some boys even tried to live their rock · n roll dreams by jumping off the stage onto the crowd, one was successful, the others met bitter defeat in the form of a cold and hard concrete t1oor. 
When the concert did end, most walked away very much satisfied and for the most part surprised that the show had been so excellent. Everclear's songs aren't all amazing musically, but despite all the weak­nesses the band may possess as a whole, they put on a terrific live per­formance. 
It was cold and wet that night. even inside the leaking Stepan Center, but Everclear came through as a truly professional and talented band and made what could have been a good show a truly excellent show. 
Contact Rebecca Saunders at Saunders.8@nd.edu 
Monday, April 7, 2003 page 15
The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS TENNIS 
Bright moments for Irish can't keep Mustangs at bay 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
It was a great day for two Irish singles players and one doubles duo, but a tough day for the team as No. 49 Southern Methodist defeated No. 55 Notre Dame in a closely-contested 4-3 match Sunday. 
Junior tri-captain Luis Haddock and sophomore Brent D'Amico had personal proud moments, though, as they each triumphed over players ranked in the top 60 nationally. 
With both teams splitting the singles matches, the Mustangs, who moved to 10-7 on the season, were able to survive by securing the doubles point. 
Notre Dame, 6-11 on the season, has become familiar with close matches this season. Sunday's loss was the fifth 4-3 defeat for the Irish this season. Those losses were all to challenging teams ­No. 28 Indiana, No. 37 Florida State, No. 47 Northwestern, No. 56 Tulsa and now SMU. Michigan State and No. 50 Purdue are the only teams Notre Dame has defeated in 4-3 matches. 
The match culminated with four matches that extended to three sets, and with the top two flights finishing in final-set tiebreakers. 
Haddock, playing at the No. 1 flight, upset No. 55 Johan Brunstrom, 3-6, 6­4, 7-6 to put Notre Dame within a point of the win, but No. 87 Lukasz Senczyszyn prevailed over junior tri­captain Matt Scott to hand the victory to the Mustangs. 
D'Amico finished off No. 52 Gwinyai Chingoka, 6-4, 6-2 to obtain the first Notre Dame singles win. The Irish sophomore had never topped a player rated that highly before. 
After SMU's Peter Oredsson defeated Irish freshman Patrick Buchanan 6-2, 6-4. Irish junior Nicolas Lopez-Acevedo survived a three-set fight with Henrik Soderberg, 2-6, 6-3, 6-1, to tie the match. With the Sunday win, Lopez­Acevedo put to rest a three-match los­ing streak. 
After the Irish had tied the event, the Mustangs' Alexis Rudzinski put his team on the verge of victory with his defeat of senior tri-captain Brian Farrell. Rudzinski outlasted his oppo­nent 1-6, 6-3, 6-3. 
The Mustangs began strong by win­ning the first two doubles matches to leave the court. Eric Cohn and Ryan Mauck won 8-6 over Farrell and Haddock at the No. 2 position and Chingoka and Senczyszyn topped the duo of junior Ben Hatten and sopho­more Paul McNaughton. 8-4. 
The Irish did enjoy an upset at the No. 1 flight. D'Arnico and Scott, who were on a three-match losing streak together, claimed their second defeat of a ranked team this season Sunday. The Irish pair defeated the 55th-ranked partnership of Ryan Livesay and Dustin Taylor, 9-8. 
Notre Dame is now preparing for its penultimate home contest of the season when No. 61 Ball State comes to the Eck Pavilion. After that, the Irish will go on the road with hopes of improving their NCAA Tournament chances by upsetting No. 13 Kentucky. Then the Irish will complete the regular season back at home against No. 67 Indiana State. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish cancel_ spring opener 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
Snow was falling and the wind was blowing Saturday morning at 9 a.m. As a result. the Notre Dame Spring Opener was cancelled. The only home meet of the season for the Irish track and field squad was called off by the coaches over concerns about the well-being of the student-athletes. 
Notre Dame and Western Michigan were the only two teams on site, as Central Michigan pulled out of the meet Friday afternoon and didn't even make the trip to South Bend. 
However, Friday night's 10,000 meter race was run and the Irish quali­fied three runners for the Big East Championships. Brian Kerwin, Marc Striowski and freshman Kaleb Van Ort all qualified with times under 31:40, the qualifying minimum. Also finishing was Austin Weaver, who finished fifth in the first 10,000 meter race of his career. 
The Irish return to the track this weekend at the University of Missouri for the Tom Botts Invitational where they hope to encounter some warmer weather. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
WOMENS FINAL FOUR 
Huskies, Vols will duel in final 
. Two No. 1 seeds will meet for the third time in the championship 
Associated Press 
With her offense down 
the stretch and her 
defense on the final play, 
Diana Taurasi put 
Connecticut back in the 
women's national champi­
onship game. 
Taurasi, bothered by a sore ankle and back, still managed to score 26 points and keep the Huskies on course for their third title in four years with a 71-69 victory over Texas on Sunday night. 
Connecticut (36-1) will meet Tennessee in the championship game, the third time the teams have met for the title. Earlier, the Lady Vols beat Duke 66-56 in the other semifi­nal to advance to Tuesday night's final. 
The seemingly inevitable meeting didn't come easi­ly. 
The Huskies closed the game with an 11-3 run to dispatch the Longhorns (29-6). who were in the Final Four for the first time since 1987. 
Taurasi's 3-pointer from well behind the arc gave the Huskies the lead for good, 67-66 with 2:07 remaining. 
Appropriately, Taurasi made the key defensive play, too, knocking the ball away from Alisha Sare as the Texas player attempt­ed to go up for a jumper just before the buzzer. 
Taurasi grabbed the loose ball and held up her right index finger as the horn sounded. Yes, the Huskies still have a chance to finish No. 1. 
Taurasi, who had not practiced since the region­al final in an attempt to heal, appeared a bit tenta­tive and pulled off few of the flashy moves that made her the best player in the country. 
But she came through when her team needed her most. 
With Texas leading 66­
60. Taurasi zipped a great no-look pass from outside the arc to Willnett Crockett standing alone under the basket, sparking the game-ending run. 
On Connecticut's next possession, Taurasi worked into the Iane, made the shot and drew a foul, leading to a three­point play that drew the Huskies closer. 
Finally. she put them ahead to stay with the long 3-pointer. 
The Longhorns went nearly three minutes with­out scoring, finally break­ing the drought on Jamie Carey's 3-pointer with 28 seconds left. That was the last basket of the game. 
Crockett gave Texas a chance by missing two free throws with 8.2 seconds left, but Taurasi made sure the Longhorns didn't get a chance to tie or win it. 
The little-used Sare raced downcourt and tried to get off a shot. As the 5­f o o t -8 senior talented group of fresh­men and teamed them with the player of the year for another winning com­bination. 
The Longhorns pushed the lead to 50-41 with 12 1/2 minutes remaining, prompting Auriemma to call a timeout. Texas wouldn't fade away, and Taurasi had to fight through an uncharacteris­tic night. 
Grimacing at one point after a miss, she shot only 1 0-of-22 -including 4-of­11 from behind the arc. An 82 percent free-throw shooter, she went only 2­of-5 at the line. 
It was barely enough. 
Stacy Stephens scored 16 points to lead the Longhorns, but she missed a crucial shot in the final minute. 
Connecticut scored the first five points of the game, including a pull-up 3 by Taurasi, and led nearly the entire first half. Texas shot poorly but 
began to "[Taurasi's] not afraid. Connecticut go up at had trouble
That's the biggest thing 
the 3-hanging
you can say about her.
p o i n t on to the line, the She's not afraid. She ball, finish­6-foot ing the half
wants the ball in 
Taurasi with 11
crucial situations ...
got a turnovers. hand on T h e the ball Longhorns
Geno Aurlemma 
a n d finally went
Connecticut coach
knocked 
it away. 
"She's not afraid," Connecticut coach Geno Auriemma said. "That's the biggest thing you can say about her. She's not afraid. She wants the ball in crucial situations." 
Connecticut beat the Lady Vols 63-62 in over­time during the regular season. The Huskies hold a 10-6 lead in the series. which includes two victo­ries in the title game. 
Last year, Connecticut romped to a 79-56 victory over Tennessee in the semifinals, then finished off a perfect 39-0 season by beating Oklahoma in the title game. 
Taurasi was the only holdover starter from that team; the other four went in the first six picks of the WNBA draft. But Auriemma brought in a 
ahead for 
the first 
time, 30-29. on Stephens' follow with two minutes left. They went to the locker room with a 35-3 3 lead when Nina Norman hit a straightaway jumper as the buzzer sounded. 
Texas, the only non-No. 1 seed to make it to Atlanta, was a perennial power in the formative years of NCAA women's basketball. The Longhorns were the first women's team to go through a per­fect season, winning the national title in 1986 with a 34-0 record. 
They went to the Final Four for the second year in a row in '87, but had not been back since as other schools notably Tennessee and Connecticut -became the sport's most dominating teams. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Noue Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Oak Hill Condo. 574-243-2621 
NOTICES 
New Schwinn w/lock $100. Call Study Abroad with CEA. England, Mark @ 4-2061 Italy, Spain, France, Australia. Request a Free Catalog www.GoWithCEA.com JUDAY LAKE HOME ON LAKE. 
WALK TO ND.. GILLIS REAL TY 
272-6306 Leaving town? We II buy your car. 57 4-243-0000. Dealmaker Auto Sales 52081 933 Oakhill Condo. Bdrm down/loft up. No. So Bend, IN 2 baths. Asking $88,500. Mike @ 
330-393-1584. 
FOR SALE 
FOR RENT 
Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom  1 bdrm apt. summer sublease at  
homes 1/2 mile from campus.  Turtle Creek. Fully turoished, price  
mmmrentals@aol.com 272­ negotiable dboudon@nd.edu  
1525 www.mmmrentals.com  

DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR· WELL MAIN­TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAM­PUS-STUDENT NEIGHBOR· HOODS· SECURITY SYSTEMS­MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL­WAHSERS/DRYERS CALL TODAY· HOUSES GOING FAST!!!­CONTACT KRAMER (574) 315­2436. ALSO LEASING FOR 2004· 2005 VISIT OUR WEBSITE @ WWWDOMUSKRAMEA.COM 
HOUSE AVAILABLE furn. 4b2ba, walk to campus. jo5225@aol.com 
1-Bdrm apts 1/2 mile from ND. $500/mo. 283-0325 
Student Rental House 3-4 or 5 per• son 2 story. 8 blocks from campus. New everything. Wired for comput­ers etc. Avail. Summer or Fall, 235-3655 
Ranch home, 3 bdrm, 1.5 bath, fire­place, full bsmt. 2 car att garage, LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES-fenced yard. 1 mile from ND. 288· 3-6 BDRM HOMES. 2 BDRM House, AIC, close to cam-TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH 
2001 $195. PP/MO.272-6306 PUS 269-699-5841 OF ND 2773097 Summer Sub-lease Turtle Creek townhouse. PERSONAL 
Call (217)417-4223 
Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it 
alone. If you or someone you love 
needs confidential support or assis-
WANTED tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in 
Spend a great summer in NY. ND The Observer. 
alums in Westchester County look• ing for live-in help this summer to help with the care of their children ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE Are including their autistic daughter. you pregnant and dont know what Person will be trained in the princi-to do? Loving, open-hearted, finan­pies of applied behavior analysis. cially stable woman would like to Job will include ABA therapy & consider adopting a baby. Free childcare responsibilities. counseling, living expenses and Weekends free, private room. medical expenses. This can be a 
good thing for you and your baby. Call 914-241-9238. Discreet and legal. Call 904-824­7006. 
page 16 
MENS LACROSSE 
Scoring streak helps Buckeyes topple Irish 
'l
·,, 
\ 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
Matt Howell didn't play. That could have been one excuse. 
The Notre Dame mens lacrosse team had won nine of its previous ten meetings with Ohio State and simply took it for granted. That could have been another. 
But regardless of distrac­tions or statistics, coach Kevin Corrigan saw no excuse for his team's 11-5 loss to the No. 19 Ohio State Buckeyes on Sunday at Jesse Owens Memorial Stadium and seri­ously jeopardizing its chances at postseason play. 
"We weren't good in any phase of the game," Corrigan said. "You're not going to beat a good team when you don't have something to hang your hat on. You want to play well offensively. and you want to play wen defensively, but you can't get beat in every phase and expect to win a game." 
The Irish fall to 5-4 on the season and 1-1 in GWLL play. With a close call against unranked Denver last week­end and now a blowout loss to a league opponent, Notre II Dame feels it has to get its act ) together down the home
I 
stretch of its schedule. 
"We've got to decide what we're going to be," Corrigan said. "We're nine games into the season and we haven't established what kind of team we want to be." 
d 
In the opening moments of the game Sunday. Notre Dame was doing more than simply ! I) \ holding its own. They were 
I 
establishing themselves offen­sively. 
After the Buckeyes opened scoring, Irish leading scorer Dan Berger netted a goal at the 8:23 mark of the first quarter. Freshman attack­man/midfielder Brian Hubschmann scored his third goal of the season with 7:27 remaining, and Berger scored again at the 1 :07 mark to give Notre Dame the lead after one quarter. Freshman attackman Pat Walsh assisted on all three goals. 
From that point, Ohio State began to crawl back. The Buckeyes tied the game with goals at 11:52 and 11:41 of the second quarter. Walsh answered to put the Irish up 4-3. Ohio State scored two more goals, however. to go up 5-4 going into halftime. 
An early third-quarter goal by sophomore midfielder Brian Giordano tied the game at 5-5. But the Buckeyes rat­tled off six unanswered goals and took the GWLL game in what appeared on paper. and in Corrigan 's mind, as a blowout. 
Starting goalie Stewart Crosland made 18 saves in addition to letting up 11 goals. That amounts to 29 shots on goal for Ohio State and a whole bunch of questions for the Irish defense. 
Corrigan was almost at a loss for words. 
..We are playing poor funda­mental team defense right now," he said. 
More than just a defensive breakdown and an overall defeat, the loss to Ohio State means Notre Dame has some serious thinking and playing to do as they only have five games, and three league matches, remaining. 
..I think it means we need to win the rest of our games to go to the postseason." Corrigan said. "We don't know what's going to happen in the league. We can't worry about what other people will do, but we have to worry about what we want to do. We have to win the rest of our games because we control our own destiny." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Uniiue women's cloth;"!}, ~ accessories for the c'fass_J, chic-Jou! 
Open: Tuesday -Friday 11-7 Saturday -11-5 Closed: Sunday & Monday 
1713 South Bend Ave. (St Rd. 23) South Bend, IN 4663 7 574/277-0621 
The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 7, 2003 
Interested in drawing comics for the paper ne1et year? 
r 
Call Hndrew at 1-4542 
GET A TASTE OF LIFE AT THE Tor. 
If you've ever dreamed of being behind the controls of an airplane, this is your chance to find out what it's really like. 
A Marine Corps pilot is coming to campus 
who can take you up for trial flights. We're looking for a few college students who have the brains and skill -as well as the desire -to become Marine pilots. 
If you're cut out for it, we'll give you free civil­ian flight training, maybe even $300 a month cash while you're in school. And someday you could be flying a Harrier, Cobra ~ or F/A-18. ~:tt'~~ 
l·c . ~•~•~'.0
Get a taste of what 11e 1s //J,a; ...,;,·•,.~-· like at the top. The flight's \-~.I on us. ;~>' 

SEE YOUR MARINE CORPS OFFICER SELECTION TEAM 
To reserve your seat on April 9th for a free orientation flight over Notre Dame, contact CAPTAIN JOHN WILLIAMS 1-877-299-9397 OSOLAF@9MCD.USMC.MIL 
MARINE OFFICER PROGRAMS MarineOfficer.com 
PPE THE MINOR IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The PPE minor invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, philosophy, political science, and economics. 
If you are looking for 
(1) 
an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second major, and 

(2) 
an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, 


then PPE wants you! 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy 
Department, doconnor@nd.edu, 631-6226, or Professor John Roos, Political Science 
Department, Roos. I@nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply $end a request to Professor Roos or Professor 
O'Connor. The application deadline is noon on Friday, April 11. Late applications will be 
accepted only if openings are still available. 
PPE INFORMATION MEETING TUESDAY, APRIL 8, 4:30-5:30 PM, 116 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL. 
Monday, April 7, 2003 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 
Football 
continued from page 24 
to Beckstrom's grasp. 
A week into spring practice, the quest is well under way to find the player who can fill the void left by Shane Walton, Notre Dame's most decorated departing senior. Two-year starter Vontez Duff is firmly entrenched at one cornerback slot, and while Beckstrom fig­ures his experience gives him the inside track to the other opening, he knows he is going to be pushed by players like rising junior Preston Jackson and rising sophomore Garron Bible. 
But had Beckstrom been healthy last season, he figures he might have been the guy challenging, not trying to hold onto, a starting position. 
"It could be a blessing in disguise for him," Irish sec­ondary coach Trent Walters said. 
A year ago, Beckstrom was slotted as the third defensive back behind ·walton and Duff, likely to play only in situations where nickel and dime defen­sive packages were used. 
It could have been a disap­pointing end for a player who dreamed about start­an arm cramp. 
The doctors, however, told Beckstrom that the MRI results showed that if he didn't have surgery, he'd lose a lot of strength in his arm. A n d although he 
"As the season went on
thinks he could have and I got healed, I played the 
wanted to play even
last few 
more. It was the worst
games of the season, thing I've ever done as Beckstrom 
far as my ego, to sit on
decided to 
the sidelines." 
sit the entire year out to heal. 
Jason Beckstrom 
"As the 
comerback 
season went on and I got healed, I wanted to play even more," he said. "It was the worst thing I've ever done as far as my ego, to sit on the sidelines." 
Despite the injury, Beckstrom refused to lose his trademark enthusiasm for football. While his teammates donned uniforms and pads on game days, Beckstrom's left arm rested in a sling while his right arm carried a clipboard. He ferried some players from the field to the telephone so they could talk to coaches in the press box and helped give 
other play­
ers advice. 
ing for as "Ifyou can't play, you do "If you long as he can't play,
whatever you can to help
C O U l d you do
out, and that was my
remember. whatever 
It could way ofhelping out." you can to have been help out," he the end of said, "and
Jason Beckstrom
an other­that was my wise unre­cornerback way of help­markable ing out." career for a In the player who had missed only process, Beckstrom learned a three games since he arrived lot about football he said he on campus in 1999. never would have noticed had 
But then Beckstrom charged he been healthy. downfield on a kickoff drill, "A player gains a great deal reached his arm around the of experience watching other ballcarrier and felt a twinge in players do things -if he has his arm. He continued prac­the right mindset," Irish head tice that day, and the next two coach Tyrone Willingham days, thinking all he had was said. "I think Jason had that." 
Stuck on the sidelines wear­ing a baseball cap instead of a helmet, Beckstrom studied tendencies of receivers he is likely to be assigned to cover come fall. He watched how 
his teammates. 
the line­backers, cornerbacks and safeties all worked together in various defensive schemes. He analyzed adjustments made to the game plan and how t h o s e adjustments could affect 
"I got a chance to sit out and see how the defense works and my responsibility and the game plan," Beckstrom said. "Now this year, I get a chance to go out and showcase my ability." 
His strength now at 100 per­cent, Beckstrom was able to begin working out with the team during preparations for the Gator Bowl and entered an intensive lifting program in the winter. 
Right now, Beckstrom is try­ing to impress coaches who only saw him on the field dur­ing a handful of spring prac­tices and even fewer fall prac­tices. He's trying to catch up to teammates who played an entire year in a new system that Beckstrom has committed to memory but hasn't yet put into practice. 
But he'd rather be rusty, as Walters jokingly described Beckstrom's progress, than finished. 
"If he'd graduated last year, he'd have played sparingly," Walters said. "This year, if he keeps playing well, he has a chance to be the guy." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asou.kup@nd.edu 
18-3. Both Sollmann and Edwards had <lingers in the
Sweep 
sixth and seventh innings, respectively.
continued from page 24 
"Today was just one of those bombs on the day. days when we were feeling 
Meanwhile, Niesel shut down really comfortable in the bat­the Red Storm's offense all ter's box," Edwards said. afternoon. The right-hander Kalita continued his early didn't have his best stuff but season success by winning his still went six innings, allowing fourth game. two earned runs and striking Kalita went seven innings, out four, to improve to 3-1 on yielding only one run and walk­the season. ing zero. The senior recorded 
Matt Laird pitched the sev­14 ground ball outs and only en th and gave up one struck out two solid hit all Red Storm bat­"Today was just one of day long. He ters. is now 4-0
those days when we
Notre Dame this season
were feeling really 
picked up in and 11-0 the second comfortable in the during his game where Notre Dame
batter's box ... 
they left off in career. game one by "There scoring a run Matt Edwards were a lot of in the ground balls
third Irish infielder 
and five more in the fourth to stake a 6-3 lead. 
The Irish were holding onto that lead with the bases loaded and two outs in the fifth inning when the floodgates opened. 
Rizzo singled to third base and scored Grogan to extend Notre Dame's lead to 7-3. Designated hitter Craig Cooper then walked to score Edwards and Joe Thaman knocked in two more runs with a single to put the Irish up 10-3. 
After St. John's made a pitch­ing change, Sollmann doubled to score Cooper. Grogan fol­lowed with a triple to center, scoring Sollmann and Thaman. Ed wards, Billmaier and Sanchez then all singled in suc­cession before Matt Macri walked to plate the ninth Irish run of the inning and give the Irish a 15-3 lead. 
"Right now, everyone is bear­ing down. We're finding ways to get runners on base and then get hits with two strikes or two outs," Edwards said. 
Notre Dame added single runs in the next three innings to extend their advantage to 
and I was 
just letting our defense do their job behind me," Kalita said. "[Run support] takes a little bit of the pressure off, but you have to focus on throwing strikes and getting outs so your offense can get back up as soon as possible." 
Game Notes: 
. 
Infielder Greg Lopez was hit by a pitch early in the first game and did not return. According to Notre Dame offi­cial, he was a little "woozy" but the injury was not serious. 

. 
In their last five games, the Irish have outscored their oppo­nents 20-0 in the second inning. 

. 
In the nine-run fifth inning, Notre Dame had nine batters bat with two outs. 

. 
Friday's scheduled double­header between the Irish and Boston College was cancelled due to rain in the area. Under Big East doubleheader rules, the two-game set will not be made up. 


Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
SUMMER 1()()J TOUR GUIDES NEEDED 
The Office ofUnderwaduate Admissions Office is seeking full-time tour guiddofficeworkern for iliis summer (Ma~ 1~ •Au~ust 1~) Our ,,.minute tours are offered M-F at 11 a.m. and) p.m. 
Notre Dame students from the SouthBend area and students planning to attend Summer Session are encouraged to consider iliis opportunity, 
Please visit Room 220 in the Main Building to apply for !his position. ~:00 am• ):00 pm ~1-F 
Application deadline is \Vedne~da~, April lo 
~~Bargain Book:s
~....!1----~ Why Pay More? 
The Browsing Bookstore at 5505 Grape Road 
574;271~1273 
Hundreds of new Oxford and University Press Titles at 50-90% off Publisher's List price delivered fresh every month. 




COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Monday, April 7, 2003 
MENS FINAL FOUR 
Getty 
Kirk Hlnrich of Kansas looks for an opening through Travis Diener and Terry Sanders of Marquette. Kansas advances to the NCAA tournament finals against Syracuse tonight. 
Kansas, Syracuse move to championship game 
Associated Press his first national title. work. They hit 10 3-point­accounting for 44 percent Boeheim has coached ers, five by Brandon of Syracuse's points. NEW ORLEANS Syracuse to 652 victories Mouton and three by Brian Boeheim admires his 
Kansas now becomes in 27 seasons. but lost title Boddicker. team, which has just one Syracuse's problem, and games to Indiana in 1987 But Anthony was impos­senior on the roster. Carmelo Anthony becomes and Kentucky in 1996. sible to contain. He made Anthony said the team's the Jayhawks' headache. Williams is in his 15th sea­12 of 19 shots from the confidence is high as it 
Kansas routed Marquette son at Kansas and lost the field, gr~bbed 14 rebounds looks to cap the season 94-61 with a jaw-dropping 1991 championship game and had three steals. And with the ultimate prize. display of flawless basket­to Duke. when he wasn't hounding "That's what players ball in the NCAA tourna­For Syracuse, Kansas Texas, freshman sidekick come to college for, to try ment semifinals Saturday will be the third straight Gerry McNamara was pes­and be in a situation like night before Anthony's 33 Big 12 opponent. following tering the Longhorns with this, to play in a champi­points carried Syracuse Oklahoma and Texas, both 19 points. four steals and onship game," he said. past Texas 95-84. No. 1 seeds in the tourna­four straight foul shots Kansas turned the first 
That set up a Monday ment and both distracted down the stretch that kept game into a rout early, night championship game by the Orangemen's tena­Syracuse comfortably in scoring 59 first-half points, between Roy Williams of cious 2-3 zone defense. front. the second most in Final Kansas and Jim Boeheim The defense forced Anthony (22 .0) and Four history. The 33-point of Syracuse, two of college Texas to shoot from out­McNamara (13.0) were the margin made it the fourth­basketball's most success­side, and for a while, the top freshmen scoring duo most lopsided game ever in ful coaches, each seeking Longhorns made that in the country this season, the event. 
IN BRIEF 
Injury sidelines Griffey Jr. 469th of this career. He was hurt in grass to avoid a wild 27-car crash. Ken Griffey Jr. will be out for at the fifth game of the season -one The bumpy ride tore up his front air least six weeks while he recovers earlier than last year. dam, messing up the car's aerody­from a dislocated right shoulder. Griffey is the game's second super­namics and forcing a series of pit 
Griffey landed on the shoulder star to dislocate a shoulder in the stops for repairs. while diving for a fly ball on opening week. The Yankees' Derek Earnhardt charged back to become Saturday, the third straight season Jeter hurt his left shoulder while slid­the first driver to win four straight the Cincinnati Reds outfielder has ing into third base in the season Winston Cup events on the 2.66-mile suffered a major injury in March or opener. Talladega oval, but afterward he April. The Reds haven't made a roster spent more time explaining a disput­
Dr. Timothy Kremchek popped the move to replace Griffey. Manager ed pass than talking about his eighth shoulder back into place at the ball­Bob Boone planned to start Larkin in career victory. park on Saturday. X-rays and other center field on Sunday, but changed The 28-year-old son of the late Dale tests found no fractures or major his mind after talking to him for a Earnhardt, the career leader at
around the dial 
injury to the rotator cuff. half-hour. Talladega with 10 Winston Cup victo­
Griffey will try to rehabilitate the "At some point, you'll probably see ries, came up with his first win of the shoulder rather than have surgery, him out there," Boone said. "It's real­season and moved to second in the and optimistically could be playing ly a matter of when and how to do standings, 129 points behind 
MENS COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
again in six to 10 weeks, Kremchek it." Kenseth. 
Kansas vs. Syracuse 8 p.m., Ch 12 WBST said. But there is a possibility that he Earnhardt's victory Sunday broke might have to have surgery anyway. Earnhardt Jr. triumphs the record of three in a row here, FIGURE SKATING The 33-year-old Griffey repeatedly Aaron's 499 held by Buddy Baker, who won twice 
has been sidelined by injuries since About the only thing that went right in 1975 and once in 1976. 
World Championship 8 p.m., ESPN 
he returned to his hometown team in for Dale Earnhardt Jr. on Sunday "There ain't too many [drivers] a February 2000 trade with Seattle. was winning the Aaron's 499. ever won four races here, period,"
BOWLING He got the first hit at the Reds' new Four laps into the 188-lap event, Earnhardt said. 'Tm stepping into 
PBA World Championship 7 p.m., ESPN2 ballpark and later hit a homer, the Earnhardt drove through the infield some awful big shoes." 
....... ., ........................... ~---~-.. 
-


page 19
Monday, April 7, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMENS SOCCER 
Want to write for The ObserverSports? 
Healthy Irish defeat
Call Joe at 1-4543 
Mexican national team 
INTERESTED IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND ETHICAL QUESTIONS? Ethical issues involving technology assessment, bioethics, human genetics, environmental management, computer technology, engineering, and architectural design constantly raise new and difficult dilemmas for society. To explore these issues in depth, investigate the unique Notre Dame Science, Technology, and Values Program (STV). This is an academic Minor requiring 15 credit hours that may be taken in conjunction with any major. Within the STV Program, you can develop specific emphases on STV issues in relation to Business; Environmental Studies; Biomedical Ethics; Philosophy and Theology; History and Philosophy of Science; and Government and Public Policy. Adescription of course offerings for FALL 2003 can be obtained at 346 O'Shaughnessy, or visit our website at http://www.nd.edu/-stv. Call 631-5015 for apersonal appointment.  
Theodore lVI. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Lectures on Ethics ~nd Public Policy MICHAEL WALZER UPS Foundation Professor School of Social Sciences Institute for Advanced Study Princeton, New Jersey . _-,!..if~·. Emancipation and Empowerment: Domestic Society Tuesday, April 8, 4:15 p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium Emancipation and Empowerment: The Global Order Wednesday, April 9, 12:30 p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium The Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies  

By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 
Despite only being able to play one game in the 2003 International Showcase, Notre Dame's womens soccer team came out of the weekend in strong fashion by defeating the Mexican national team 3-1 Saturday. 
After a 2002 season that saw numerous Irish players miss time with injuries, the game against Mexico gave a glimpse into the 2003 season for the Irish, who were only missing starting defender Melissa Tancredi from the lineup. 
The defense 
..It was good to get 
was especially first game, affected by everybody back. They really Michigan injuries last defeated the
did a goodjob and they
season, and Canadian
make us so much deeper.., Under-19
Saturday's unit was comprised team 2-1 on of senior Amy Warner a late goal 
V a n e s s a 
Pruzinsky, sophomores Candace Chapman and Gudrun Gunnarsdottir and freshman Annie Schefter. all of whom returned after having nursed injuries at some point last sea­son. 
Freshman Erika Bohn also played very strong in goal for the Irish. 
"Erika has had a great spring," said Irish coach Randy Waldrum. "Also throwing Annie Schefter played very well. she is going to be very good for us. For Candace Chapman. it was her first game back and it was Vanessa's first full game in almost a year. For all that, we were very good defensively." 
"It was good to get everybody back," said junior Amy Warner. "They really did a good job and they make us so much deeper." 
The Irish scored at the end of the first half off a set play. Junior Amanda Guertin's free kick bounced off the crossbar. Mexican goalkeeper Jennifer Molina-Shea was out of position for the loose ball and Schefter put it into the net for a 1-0 lead. 
Early in the second half the Irish scored on a similar play. Freshman Katie Thorlakson's shot again hit the crossbar and Guertin scored off the rebound for a 2-0 lead. 
Fifteen minutes later, Notre Dame put the game away. Thorlakson passed to \Varner on the right flank. Warner flew past the defender and scored off the left post to put the Irish up 3-0. 
Mexico scored on a goal from Erica Audelo in the 75th minute to avoid the shutout. 
"Guertin, Thorlakson, and Warner are really starting to fig­ure each other out," said Waldrum. "All three had pretty solid games and it was good to see them on the same page. Maggie Manning didn't see a lot of minutes in the fall but has probably made the biggest strides this spring." 
I n 
.,..
Saturday's 
by Colleen
Jumor 
McAndrews. 
Canada had a 21-8 in total shots and a 6-4 edge in shots on goal but were unable to capitalize. 
Before the games Saturday, severe weather postponed Friday night's games. The games origi­nally scheduled for Friday were the ones played on Saturday. while Saturday's scheduled games were cancelled. 
Despite the weather. which included temperatures in the 20s when the Irish finally took to the field. Waldrum was pleased with the event. 
"At least we got the two games in," Waldrum said. "We had a fairly decent crowd of about 800 for the Mexico-Notre Dame game and it was still a successful event. I was really pleased with how we've made a lot of strides this spring. The last two weeks we've played very well. Mexico was very complimentary. There were two very good teams out there." 
The Irish spring schedule con­tinues with a game April 12 against Purdue before conclud­ing with home games against Missouri and Iowa State on April 
26. The Irish are 4-0 this spring with a total scoring edge of 1 7 -1 . 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 

RecSports has openings for this summerand the 2003-2004 academic year in the following positions: 
~tudent ~upervi~or~ front De~k ~upervi~or~ fitne~~ Room t;upervi~or~ l~ue Room ~upervi~or~ Lifeguard~ 
Any one who is interested in applying for these positions should stop by the RecSports office and fill out an application. Office hours are 8:00-12:00 & 1 :00-5:00. First consideration will be given to those who apply before April 10, 2003. 

Monday, April 7, 2003
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
Hoops
i 
,1 
i \ continued from page 24 
\ 
handlers into numerous sloppy turnovers and capitalized on the 
,\ 
i 
fast break with a weave offense that would have made the Harlem Globetrotters jealous. 
Steve Perry's vocal on-court leader, Matthew Cirenza, provid­ed some highlight reel entertain­ment late in the second half. 
Bringing the ball up court, Cirenza decided to call the "two" play, an intricate offensive sys­tem that involved weakside movement, numerous screens and precision timing. 
But he settled for a 3-point sky­hook instead. 
After hitting the basket, Cirenza held both arms high in the and yelled out that it was "the play of the decade!" 
Down 20-3 after Cirenza's shot, Capes was able to mount a come­back and cut the deficit to 16 before finally falling by the final score of 21-4. 
"The score doesn't really reflect our team's character." Capes forward Kristina Lundquist said after the game ... It doesn't accurately represent our ability." 
Asked about where the idea for the uniforms came from, Capes guard Katie Bell replied, "Just cause they're fun and we had them lying around." 
A jubilant Cirenza talked about his amazing shot after the con­test. 
"It was great," he said. "Someone said, 'What do you take in your coffee,' and I said, 'Kareem.' Get it? It's a joke, see?" 
All kidding aside, Steve Perry was very proud of its perfor­mance overall. 
"This was a classic battle between good and evil," said Steve Perry forward Ralph Pantoni, who scored three points in the game. "It was a classic David-and-Goliath matchup. And strangely enough, Goliath won." 
Team457 21, 
Future Welfare Recipients 4 
Sunday began with one of the
r
,I 
biggest blowouts of the after­
I 
1\ noon, as Team 457 knocked off Future Welfare Recipients, 21-4. Team 457 got off to an early 11-1 lead and never looked back, thanks to a shaky shooting per­formance by the team comprised of law students. 
.Between the Buns 21, PPP 13 
This game began as a back­and-forth affair, with teams exchanging baskets up until a 7 • 7 draw, but Between the Buns gained a lot of momentum by taking an 11-8 lead at halftime. PPP was worn down by the hus­tling Between the Buns squad, who dominated the second half offensively, both outside and inside, though they were hin­dered by a gusty wind through­out the game. 
Are You Serious? 21, 
LeBron gave us a Hummer 16 
LeBron gave us a Hummer was able to keep up with Are You Serious? early in the match, with the two teams drawing even at 4­
4. However, Are You Serious? took control from there, heading into halftime on a 7-1 run to take an 11-5 lead into the break. 
LeBron gave us a Hummer made it interesting late, pulling within 20-15, but it was too late, and a basket by Are You Serious? put the game away. Seriously. 
Bunion Predators 21, Cheese­
eating Surrender Monkeys 18 
After falling behind 10-5 early, the Cheese-eating Surrender Monkeys made a run at the Bunion Predators in the second half, sneaking up to within two at 19-17. 
However, it wasn't a surren­der, but a late offensive surge that sent the Bunion Predators home victorious, knocking down two key shots to hold off the surging Cheese-eating Surrender Monkeys. 
The Matriarchs 21, Jenn Smells 2 
This blowout actually began as a 3-2 game in favor of the Matriarchs early on, as the two teams exchanged sloppy offen­sive possessions which eventually led to a few baskets. 
However, a more focused ­and sober -Matriarchs squad advanced with an 18-0 run to close out the disorganized Jenn Smells squad. 
Really Bad 21, Don't Make Us Use the Bank Shot 11 
The inappropriately-named Really Bad dominated the game with Don't Make Us Use the Bank Shot, getting out to a 13-6 lead before closing out the game ­and the outmatched Don't Make Us Use the Bank Shot -on an offensive run. 
Fabolous Fuve def. Team 24 
This very slow-paced and slop­pily-played match was called at halftime with Fabolous Fuve leading 11-7. 
After Team 24 got out to an early 3-1 lead, Fabolous Fuve roared back to grab a 7-5 lead, and the lead grew steadily head­ing into halftime. 
La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries 21, Team 200 6 
Facing up against the fifth­seeded team in the tournament, Team 200 knew the odds were stacked against them. 
Which is precisely why they went out in style. 
Sporting knee-high socks and various props -such as a jock­strap, athletic supporter and flip­up sunglasses -Team 200 actu-
Buy or Sell your Home with aGrad from the Dome 
Call Maria Cardle 
360-3334 CRESSY and EVERETT/GMAC 
Realty Office 233-6141 
Magna Cun1 Laptop 
You don't need to be valedictorian to get a hot deal on a cool laptop 

Gateway 450EB 
1.3 GHz Pentium M 256MB DOR SDRAM 3GB Hard Drive DVD/CD-RW Drive 
~"' .. ._,_.,\ ·:·1t-· 
$1679* 
Visit the Solutions Center, 112 IT Center Bldg. or order online at http://solution.nd.edu 
_FREE EasyDisk 16MB USB Hard Drive ·;with the purchase of either laptop *Plus shipping and tax; prices and Phone orders also accepted availability subject to change Call (574) 631-7477 or (877) 561-7477 

ally took a 1-0 lead with the first basket of the game. 
Unfortunately for them, then La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries started playing, getting to half­time -and victory -in convincing fashion. 
Azn Thug Ballers 21, Mounds Don't 17 
After dominating the first half by jumping out to an 11-5 lead, Azn Thug Ballers forgot to play defense in the second half, letting a dressed-up all-female Mounds Don't squad get back into the game. 
The game went from 16-9 to 20-17 because of the lackadaisi­cal defensive style of Azn Thug Ballers. Mounds Don't made it close, but turnovers cost them in the end, literally handing their opponents the game. 
iBook 
800GHz G3 
256MB SDRAM 
30GB Hard Drive 
DVD/CD-RW Drive 
$1686* 
Shroud of Torin 21, Dulac? More Like Don't Lac 14 
Shroud of Torin stormed out to an 11-2 halftime lead, thanks to pinpoint accuracy from the field and strong defense. After allow­ing the DuLac? ... team draw to within five at 14-9, Shroud of Torin responded with a run of its own to advance to the round of 256. 
Master P's Theatre 21, Furry Monkeys4 
This one just wasn't close. 
Offensively and defensively, Master P's Theatre controlled this game throughout. though poor shooting and defense by the Furry Monkeys contributed to the lopsided victory. 
Master P's Theatre got out to an early 7-0 lead, while the Furry Monkeys, who at times seemingly couldn't buy a shot. were able to put a few points on the board and avoid the shutout. 
Naughty Foxes 21, Amish Midgets 8 
In the final scheduled match of the day at the bookstore courts, the upstart Amish Midgets squad were subdued and frustrated by the defense of the Naughty Foxes squad. From a 2-1 lead. the Foxes went on a run to get ahead at the half, 11-5. 
Using their tough defense once again. the Naughty Foxes were eventually able to string together a 6-1 run to close out the verti­cally-challenged female squad. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu and Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 
L<\o,i'11e \(,nc,,.,.'-' me: Bu'T" ljav•~'E ON1..•f!E"' ~liAt.S S11.'£1.t>or4-T111,,-'s 01..t>.1 l\•w h ™'i 1'0$-S 1'8l.-'£?! (':.. "Rf>,.\.. "'Be.Allt> ?.' ~kL1.., :I: \.4Apf'ENL '!> T­
\\A\lf. 'STvtn'tL'£t> Vvo.. A °'PA!.'S.~~E I.. t.AAS m..is 
~t-\lC¾ ('(\A1>11i­~Eff.fl!.t1C.£ To ~ p,,. 1\,-c.,!....,. I\,,.,t: 
~~O~T\\ f,,11,.l'n\il.-A ••. 
\ ·­
Choosing a Major? You too can unlock the secrets of the ages in PLS! 
~llfrr~ Sam£. Lf~i,1o11.w:, :C l>i\tov£~lt>Tiv.~ t.,.,\muS HAt> "BEl:r• ~E.fEU•""' To A 1i1,1,E. i~-Cu•~""'\ ii.xT. 
1-r WP.S ~£it£ 1\IM :r: 
fout<1> \!\£ Fot:l'lu<.6', ..~ 
Ever wonder why 
PLS students bring Plato, Dante, and Virginia Woolf to lunch . instead of leaving them in the class room? · The answer is because PLS is demanding, fulfilling, and because we have fun. 
Interested in reading great authors from Homer to Ellison in small groups with professors who have a special commitment to undergraduate education? 
THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 
recently selected as an 
"Outstanding Example of the Best in American Higher Education" 
We are accepting applications for the entering sophomore class until April 8. Applications are now available in 215 O'Shaughnessy and on the web ay www.nd.edu/ ~pls . 


Monday, April 7, 2003 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles blank Bulldogs 9-0 
By LISA REIJUIA Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team got back into the win column April 5 with a 9-0 shutout victory over host Adrian College. The Belles brought their 
MIAA conference record to 2-1 and are 10-2 overall for the season. 
Saint Mary's Jeannie Knish defeated Laura Kelley 6-3, 6-2 at No. 1 singles play. Fellow Belle Kristen Palombo was victorious over Liz Filipiak 6­0, 6-1 at the No. 2 spot. No. 3 Kaitlin won the first set over the Bulldogs' Sears and Lindsey Davis, 6-1. The Sears-Davis duo came back to take the second set 6-2. In the decisive third set, Cook and Mikulyuk secured the shutout for the Belles with a 6-1 win to take the match. 
"We played really well on Saturday," 
"The court was kind of a weird surface, so that took awhile to get used to. But we had fun and overall it was not too difficult ofa match'' 
Jeannie Knish junior 
Cutler beat Adrian's Cindy Krusienga 6-0, 6-1. 
In No. 4 singles for the Belles, Kris Spriggle blanked Heather Fraser 6-0, 6-0. Adrian's Shannon Sears fell to Elisa Ryan 6-3, 6-1 at the No. 5 slot. Saint Mary's Angela Sandner also won. defeating Sarah Kim 6-0. 6-1 at No. 6 singles. 
The Belles cruised in doubles action as well. Knish and Palombo were win­ners over Kelley and Kruisenga 6-0, 6­2 at No. 1 doubles. At No. 2, the team of Cutler and Ryan dispatched Fraser and Filipiak handily, 6-0, 6-2. 
The No. 3 doubles match was the closest contest of the afternoon. The Belles' team of freshman Lindsay Cook and sophomore Miranda Mikulyuk said Knish. "The court was kind of a weird surface, so that took awhile to get used to. But we had fun and overall it was not too difficult of a match." 
With the loss, the Bulldogs fell to 1-1 in the MIAA and 5-3 overall. The Belles were supposed to con­
tinue their road trip and travel to Chicago April 6 for matches against host University of Chicago and Carthage College. 
However, those matches were can­celled due to the cold weather and lack of indoor courts at the University of Chicago. 
"We were looking forward to playing in Chicago," said Knish. "There was going to be some tough competition there." 
The Belles resume play at home Tuesday against Albion College in an MIAA conference match. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreiju1a@nd.edu 
WOMENS ROWING 
Irish upset No. 15 Hawkeyes 
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG 
Sports Writer 
The womens rowing team over­came rough weather conditions on Sunday to upset No. 15 Iowa. The Irish, ranked 21st in the nation, won four of its five races in Iowa City. 
Because of the weather, the usual 2 ,000-meter course was broken down into two 1,000-meter stretch­es. 
Coxswain Kathryn Long, Shannon Mohan, Kerri Murphy, Kathleen Welsh. Meredith Thornburgh, Kati Sedun, Devon Hegeman, Katie Chenoweth and Melissa Felker led Notre Dame's second varsity eight to two wins, taking the first heat in 
3:32.40. Iowa finished seconds later in 3:34.30. In the second piece, the Irish crossed the line in 3:33.7, fol­lowed by the Iowa in 3:35.16. 
Iowa secured two wins in the first varsity eight. The Hawkeyes won the first race by over four seconds and the second by almost five seconds. The Irish crew of coxswain Cassie Markstahler. Erica Drennen and Natalie Ladine. Alice Bartek, Meghan Boyle, Casey Buckstaff, Rachel Polinski, Ashlee Warren and Danielle Protasewich finished in 3:26.65. In the second race, Iowa finished in 3:28.42, and the Irish were seconds behind with a 3:33.30 finish. 
Notre Dame bounced back with wins in the varsity four races. Coxswain Kacy McCaffrey, Katie McCalden, Christy Donnelly. Katie O'Hara and Andrea Amoni won the first piece in 4:03.60, a solid eight seconds ahead of Iowa. The Irish barely escaped the Hawkeyes in the second race, though, with a 4:06.28 finish. Iowa finished less than a sec­ond behind them. 
The second varsity four crews only raced one piece, but the Irish pre­vailed yet again. The Notre Dame "B" crew of coxswain Caitlin Rackish, Kristen Mizzi, Sarah Keefer. Tricia David and Courtney Quinn took first place in 4:15.0. Iowa was second in 4:21.0, while Notre Dame's "A" crew of coxswain Maureen Gibbons, Ann Mulligan. Jacqueline Hazen, Antionette Duck and Megan Sanders was third with a 4:21.61 fin­ish. 
The Irish novice boats also had noteworthy performances in the novice eight races. Coxswain Shannon Lettieri. Pamela Jefson, Julie Lewis, Morgan Ertel, Danielle Stealy, Jenna Redgate, Catherine Schmidt, Andrea Doud and Sarah French led the "A" crew to a 
3:47 .01 win. The Hawkeyes took a close second in 3:52.91, while Notre Dame's "B" crew of coxswain Nicole Barczak. Meghan O'Neil, Megan Sheehan, Fallon Shields, Nikki Karis, Marcia Luttio. Katie Hanafin, Rachel Kemp and Laura Joyce finished in third. In the second race, Notre Dame's A boat won in 3:50.60, fol­lowed by Iowa in 3:58.40 and the Notre Dame B in 4:23.8. 
Contact Christine Armstrong at carmsto@nd.edu 

I J 
----------------____ _,,_ -------____,..,._ -------~..... --. -i::. =:-...-.,,.--.. ---------.... _..._.._ ..... ----·---........ --___ ._. --------.. --__..._ ... ---------.....-• .._ ­
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 7, 2003 
SOFTBALL 
More rain holds Irish back 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Sports Writer 
As the Notre Dame softball team enters a new month of play, the last thing they want to hear is that old saying, "April showers bring May flowers." They have seen enough showers already this season. 
The Irish were scheduled to play two games in Providence Saturday, but that doubleheader had to be can­celled because of rain and snow in the Rhode Island area. 
In a season that just gets stranger every day, the Irish missed their 11th game due to inclement weather. Six of those games have been Big East con­ference matchups. 
"It's definitely not something we've been used to," said senior Andrea Loman. "It's never happened like this the past three years I've been a mem­ber of the team. It's just one of those things where Mother Nature decides to take its course and you can't do anything about it." 
The cancelled doubleheader versus the Friars is the third such Big East series that has been postponed the season. 
Earlier in the year at the USF/Wilson Tournament in Tampa, Fla., the team's scheduled games were pushed back a day after rain. The Irish were easily beating Rhode Island 12-0 in the fourth inning, but the game had to be cancelled so the team could catch its flight back to South Bend. 
At the NFCA Leadoff Classic, the Irish lost at least two games due to heavy rain in Columbus, Ga. Notre Dame also lost at least two games to rainy weather at the Kia Klassic in Fullerton, Calif. 
"[Losing these games] could just make us that much stronger,'' Irish sophomore pitcher Steffany Stenglein said. "Those teams that have been playing all year have a slight advan­tage, so we'll have to keep up our competitiveness even more." 
The Irish have been on a tear as of late, winning four straight against Purdue and Loyola (Chicago) while outscoring their opponents by a com­bined score of 24-5 in the four con­tests. 
"I think it just took us a while for us to straighten everything out," Loman said. "All three aspects of our game started clicking -hitting, defense, and pitching. I think we'll still play fine whenever we get back on the field." 
That is still the main question for this year's Irish -when exactly they will get back on the field. With fewer weeks in the school year remaining, rescheduling the missed games could grow more difficult. 
"The most difficult thing is that a lot of us will have to miss classes because ofrescheduling," Loman said. "A lot of us have projects due, so it puts a little more pressure on us." 
The lrish's next scheduled matchup is Wednesday in Pittsburgh, where they will attempt to make up the dou­bleheader against the Panthers that was originally scheduled for March 29. 
Of course, that series is weather permitting. 
Contact Justin Schuvcr at jschuvcr@nd.edu 



I : 
I 
,('I 
/
i 
I 
rr
I , 
I I I 
I 
Ii 
If 
If 
WOMENS LACROSSE 
Irish muzzle Huskies early 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
After falling behind against No. 8 Syracuse last week, the womens lacrosse team knew it needed to get off to a strong start in their critical game against No. 19 Connecticut. 
The Irish got their strong start with a goal in the first minute as they rolled over the Huskies 15-7. 
"We knew that we came out a little slow against Syracuse and we needed to turn it around," said Mccardell. "It was a big game for us, being a Big East game." 
Junior Meredith Simon got No. 15 Notre Dame rolling with a goal 55 seconds into the game. The Irish controlled the first 10 minutes and finally cashed in again when senior defender Kelly McCardell's score began a three-goal spurt for the Irish that gave them a 4-0 lead at the 16:04 mark of the first half. Seniors Anne Riley and Danielle Shearer contributed the third and fourth goals, respectively. 
"We got off to a very good start," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "I thought our shooting was excellent and we capital­ized on a lot of opportunities. We have some objectives that we set in the pre-game and I think we met those pretty well." 
The Huskies finally got on the board with 13 minutes left in the half, but the Irish built their lead to 7 -1 at halftime on a goal by junior Lauren Fischer sandwiched between two goals from freshman Crysti Foote. 
The Irish used a strong defensive game, headed by a strong effort from senior goal­keeper Jen White, to hold the Huskies to one first-half goal while building the big lead. 
"I was really pleased with Jen's play," said Coyne. "She created a lot of turnovers; she had some interceptions and ground balls and some key saves. I also thought Kelly Mccardell played very well. The defense really just had a solid game." 
"We wanted to really come out strong," said McCardell. "We knew if we left it off for the attack that they would fin­ish it off for us." 
Notre Dame jumped out to a strong start in the second half as well, as Foote scored her third goal only 18 seconds in to make it 8-1. After a Connecticut score, junior Kristen Gaudreau scored on a free position goal and Simon added another score to push the lead to 10-2. Connecticut rallied to within five at 12-7, but the Irish added three more goals for the comfortable final margin. Angela Dixon, Jackie Bowers, Abby Owen, and Mary McGrath all scored in the second half for the Irish, while Simon scored a third time to provide the final mar­gin. 
Eleven players scored goals for the Irish. with Simon and Foote posting three goals each. Shearer and classmate Eleanor Weille each added four assists for the Irish 
"I think Danielle is doing a good job," said Coyne. "She obviously draws a lot of atten­tion and has been drawing a double team. She recognizes and finds the open player. I think four assists is great." 
The Irish had 31 shots to 19 fer the Huskies. Each team collected 19 ground balls. while Connecticut had 13 draw controls and Notre Dame hatl 11. With the win, the Irish evened their record at 4-4 (3-1 Big East), while Connecticut fell to 5-3 (0-2 Big East). 
"We've played a really tough schedule with a lot of ranked opponents." said Coyne. "When you play a tough schedule it really prepares you for a higher level of play and I think how we played today is a benefit of that." 
The schedule doesn't get any easier, as the Irish are in the midst of playing five consecu­tive games against ranked opponents. Next up for the Irish is a game at No. 3 Duke Friday, followed by home games against No. 16 Stanford and No. 6 Georgetown. 
Contact Andy T roeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
Monday, April 7, 2003 page 23
The Observer . TODAY 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 
IF RE,C~IZS CO~TI~UE.S L\11\-\ l~V2CNEME:NTS ••. JU::~1-0'IEAi..S f'2DH f.J(;JW: ~~ lS OU~ a.J~ZEJ2. Pl.E:AS£ UHM.:TJ.lt; F'IL£f MlThk'.£ CAJZE. OF rr-1fSMAD£ OF p l.Of½'TER..QWISSIU/€rl A.ND lO 1"G. $ e:,c,DD.• ,  H* EH[;Ea., 2.'-1,W(LWA~N'i rre.1  w. eI  
~  

HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 

... 
SEHCS 
± 
1 rx J 
C2002 Trbune Media Services, Inc All Rights Reserved. 
GEHIT 
j
I I CtFRAITY 
XJ I 

www.jurrble.com 
EDGITS I 

A: 
rrxxIJ"[XXIIXJ"
(Answers tomorrow) 
I Jumbles: CLOVE NOOSE VERBAL METRIC
Yesterday's 
Answer: A good thing to do when cattle stampede ­"STEER" CLEAR 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jackie Chan, Francis Ford Coppola, Billie Holiday, Russell Crowe 
Happy Birthday: You will have the courage and desire necessary to reach your goals. There is nothing too difficult for you to take on this year. You will master whatever is necessary to lead you in a positive direction no matter what you face. Your numbers are 4, 15, 18, 23, 36, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Travel will lead to all sorts of possibilities that could tum out to be quite lucrative. Keep an open mind and don't be afraid to pursue unfamiliar territory. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You have to stop waffling and start domg what you have always wanted to do. Get serious about your professional goals and make satisfying career changes. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be emotional if things don't go according to plan, and you will discover that you aren't quite as in control as you'd like to be. Take a step back and you will find concrete answers. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Secret affairs will lead to your demise. Rumors will run rampant and affect your reputation professionally and personally. Do not make a poor choice today. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You must stabilize your position if you want to become a leader. Make sure that your motives regarding your generosity are for the right reason. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Try to work on creative endeavors and avoid too much interaction with others. If you are confrontational you can expect to face strong opposition. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Stick to your objectives and talk to those who can help further your cause. This is a great day to deal with people who can offer you knowledge and wisdom. Listen carefully.***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): This can be a difficult day if you have to deal with legal or health issues. Talk to someone in a position of authority. Your all-or-nothing attitude may cost you dearly. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You must be careful how you handle a loved one. Misunderstandings will lead to tension. Communicate openly and honestly. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take the initiative and ask your peers to pitch in. This is not the time to consider making a career move. Sit tight and do your best. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Travel, entertainment and spending time with people and groups that interest you will give you a new lease on life. You deserve a little pampering. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keep your thoughts to yourself today. Don't expect the people you live with to understand what you're going through. Listen to close friends who have insight into your latest predicament. ** 
Birthday Baby: You will be positive and progressive throughout your life. You will stand up for others and will be quick to respond when necessary You will always know what is best for you. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com. eugenialast.com, wnetwork,com, 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS, 
1 Office station 
5 Arthur Stadium 9 "Hurrah!," e.g. 
14 School for princes William and Harry 
15 Swing at a fly 
16 Fool (around) 
17 Bounce back 
18 "Stop right there!" 
19 Ringmaster 20 Judge's query 
23 Foal's father 
24_League (56-Down's group) 
25 Krazy_ 
28 Bureaucratic stuff 
31 "_, humbug!"
. 
34 Cake topper 36 Little devil 
37 Voice below soprano 
38 Doctor's query 
42 Sliver 43 18-wheeler 
44 Desert spring 45_Canals (Great Lakes 
connectors) 46 Light lager 49 Farm bale 
50 Sidekick 51 See 40-Oown 53 Bartender's 
query 59 See 8-Down 60 Beach 
composition 61 Shade of blue 63 Raise the 
curtain 64 Wings: Lat. 65 Deep_ bend 66 Nose, slangily 67 Baby-sit 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

68 E-mailed 
DOWN 
1 Lousy grade 2 Carve in stone 3 Old warehouse 
district in New York 
4 "Who what evil .. , • (intro to "The Shadow") 
5 On dry land 6 Moved to the 
music 
7 Crown of light 8 With 59-Across, words before "Then fall, Caesarr 9 Make ready for use, as library books 10 Warm and 
comfortable 11 SeaWorld whale 12 Not new 13 Tilleist 
supporter 21 Sad song 22 Longstocking lass 
25 Fuzzy fruits 26 Sneeze sound 27 link with 
29 Supermodel Cheryl 30 Morning hrs. 31 Turn red from embarrassment 32 Heart chambers 
WILLSHORTZ 

Punl1 by Gregory E. Paul  
35 Gun lobby, briefly 37 "Eureka!" 39 Dentist's tool 40 With ·or· and 51-Across, a facial moisturizer  47 Former White House speechwriter Peggy 48 Sidestepped 50 Outdoor party site  54 Justice Black 55 Future atty.'s exam 56 New Haven institution 57 Barn topper 58 Neck and neck  
41 Religious scroll  52 Foes of Aebs  59 Air rifle ammo  
46  leather  53 Chirpy bird  62 However  

For answers, call 1·900·285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1 ·800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $1OG for one academic year 
,. 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ----------------------------­
Address City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 
hw 
' I•'' 


\ , \ \ 
\' 

\ 
i, 
' 
.,.,-....
i,, 
\ I ' ' 
, li i I 
l 
! 
{'.: 
r1 
i
}I
.ti 
i 

U. 
f 
fr; 
'/1
;,1 
r/, 
I. 
1· 
.f~ 
',f ,/· ! 
'(' 
{':: 
'. 
(11
:i 
i1
f 
( 
r 
'1 
'1 .\ 
j 
(
1:t 
(1J"/
,Ii
I, 
..,.,
t 
1: if 
:l 
'f 
BASEBALL 
Irish distnantle Red Storm. 
By JOE HETTLER Spores Editor 
Notre Dame played 16 innings of baseball Sunday, scored 29 runs, collected 25 hits, allowed only three earned runs and won two Big East games. 
Not a bad way to end the weekend. 
Notre Dame used two offensive explosions and solid pitching from Chris Niesel and Ryan Kalita to sweep a doubleheader from St. John's, 11-3 and 18-3. The wins were the Irish 10th and 11th in a row, which is the fourth-longest winning streak in Irish baseball history. 
"Everybody's feeling really good right now," infielder Matt Edwards said. "It's big getting any Big East win. It's always good to win in confer­ence." 
Notre Dame jumped on St. John's early in game one by scoring 11 runs in the first three innings. Javier Sanchez tripled in teammates Kris Billmaier and Brennan Grogan to put Notre Dame up 2-0 in the first inning. Left fielder Cody Rizzo opened up the second inning with a solo homer. Steve Andres followed the homer with a walk and was driven in on a Steve Sollmann two-run shot to right field. 
The Irish put the game away in the third inning by scoring six runs, capped by an Edwards three­run home run. It was the first of two Edwards 
see SWEEP/page 17 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXII 
Monday, April 7, 2003 
SPRING FOOTBALL 
Beckstrom gets one more shot 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Spores Writer 
A preseason arm injury sent Jason Beckstrom to the side­line in what should have been his last season in an Irish uni­form. 
B u t Beckstrom, granted a fifth-year of eligibility, returns to the practice field hungry to earn a 

starting  Beckstrom  
spot at cor­ 
nerback  - a  spot that has  

long-eluded the Irish veteran, and a spot that, thanks to the injury, may be closer than ever 
see FOOTBALL/page 17 

SOFIA BALLON/The Observer Javier Sanchez swings at a pitch against Valparaiso Aprll 2. The lrlsh swept St. John's In a Big East doubleheader over the weekend. 
Jack Frost takes its toll on opening round matches 

gave the rest of the game a valiant effort, but it was Beasts who eventu­ally prevailed as the victors. 
McConnell had something to say about each of his players after the game. 
"Jen Eves had a strong game down low. Amy Reiff played excellent 'D'. Kathryn Kinnier was our offensive powerhouse. Ivette Flores provided leadership as our team captain. Courtney Grattan ... well. she goes with the flow and hangs out. Basically just walks up and down the court and stands around," McConnell said. 
"She's looking forward to the post­game party," he added. 
Steve Perry 21, Capes and Cowboy Hats 4 
Maybe it was the green uniforms. 
The all-female Capes and Cowboy Hats were bamboozled and discom­bobulated by the all-male Steve Perry 21-4 Saturday in Bookstore Basketball action at Hammes Courts. 
Capes, so named because every member of the team was clad in a green cape and a black cowboy hat, simply could not handle the intense pressure defense of a hungry Steve Perry squad. 
Steve Perry forced the Capes ball-
see HOOPS/page 20 

excitement of March Madness can indeed run into April. 
The game featured a thrilling first half in which the Beasts seemed to be in total control after jumping out to a quick lead. It was Slushies head coach Sean McConnell and assistant coach Dubber Johnson who helped maintain his team's composure. 
"Shoot," McConnell yelled at a play­er who had the ball five inches from the basket. Other times, he instructed his team to pass, dribble, or shoot at the correct hoop. 
The coach-player relationship was not monopolized by McConnell, how­ever. His teammates provided input right back to him throughout the game, as well. 
"My fingers, I can't feel them," said Slushies point guard Allison Christie early in the first half. 
The teams traded baskets back and forth, with the Beasts holding a 11-8 advantage at halftime. The second half got a little chippy, when a jump ball situation erupted between the two teams. 
A Beast tried to wrest the ball away from Christie, but the point guard remained firmly wrapped around the rock. Undaunted, the Beast simply decided to pick up Christie as well. 
Order was eventually restored, remarkably, and cooler -perhaps colder -heads prevailed. Slushies 
SMC TENNIS 
Saint Mary's 9 Adrian 0 
After their win against the Bulldogs, the 10-2 Belles' matches in Chicago were can­celled due to weather. 
page 21 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER and BRYAN KRONK 
Sports Writers 
If the first two days of the 32nd annual Bookstore Basketball Tournament could be summed up in a word, that word would almost. undisputably be "cold". 
With temperatures hovering in the mid-30's and the wind making it feel even colder, players were having trouble warming up -both physically and in playing their games. 
Rve Sexy Beasts 21, Off to Slushles 15 
On the frozen tundra of Lyons bas­ketball court No. 1 Saturday, in front of an announced attendance of five, the athletic prowess of one team overcame the clinical coaching of another, as Five Sexy Beasts toppled Off to Slushies in an entertaining, thrilling and stupendous first-round matchup. 
In weather that would have made Frosty the Snowman seriously think about putting on a sweater, the weekend warriors battled valiantly for a piece of Bookstore glory. 
It was a classic battle of the sexes, with the all-male Beasts taking care of the spunky all-female Slushies in a game that proved the basketball 
WOMENS SOCCER 
Notre Dame 3 Mexico 1 
Three consecutive goals by the Irish sealed the victory over the Mexican National team at Alumni Field Saturdax. 
page 19 
WOMENS LAX 
Notre Dame 15 Connecticut 7 
The Irish rebound in a big way over the week­end with a huge home Big East win. 
page 22 
ND SOFTBALL, TRACK & FIELDMENS LACROSSE 
The Irish softball matches at Providence, as well as
Ohio State 11 Notre Dame 5 
the track team's home Spring Opener, were can­celled due to inclement weather over the weekend. 
After tying the Buckeyes, the Irish give up six consecutive goals to lose the match. 
Softball: page 22 page 16 
Track: page 15 

