
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Ten-year strategic plan released 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Editor 
Those affiliated with Notre Dame will see both structural and conceptual changes over the next ten years as the University embarks on its next strategic plan to enrich the academic, student, spiritual and residential life on campus. 
"Notre Dame 2010: Fulfilling the Promise" follows the recently com­pleted, "Colloquy for the Year 2000" and is Notre Dame's fourth strategic plan in as many decades. 
"Fulfilling the Promise" empha­sizes the need for Notre Dame to enrich its research and academic programs by attracting scholars, expanding undergraduate pro­gramming and strengthening graduate and doctoral programs. 
The plan refers to Notre Dame's financial base, capacity for growth and quality of its staff as indicators that this is the optimal time for the University to accomplish these goals. 
Academically, the University wants to strengthen and develop its programs. The administration stresses a need for balance between access to and within the undergraduate colleges. One example ofthis need for balance is in the Mendoza College of Business's acknowledgement that there is an overabundance of stu­dents enrolled in the college. Another example is the constraint in the curriculum in the School of Architecture. This balance and academic programming enrich­ment and expansion will be accomplished by diversifying, innovating and integrating the teaching and learning process and developing departmental pro­grams. 
Notre Dame's commitment to developing its research base will be complemented by increasing 
see PIAN/page 4 
Groups continue time-honored traditions 
ND band spends football weekends 

exciting fans 
By BETH ERICKSON 
News Writer 
The Band of the Fighting Irish is the oldest and most visible emblem of football spirit on campus. As the old­est university marching band, it has inspired fans and 
infused every home game with pageantry and spirit since 1887. 
The Band practices together every night in preparation for the game and meets in sec­tionals once to go over music. Throughout the season, mem­bers· must learn many intri­cate routines choreographed by the assistant directors. 
In recent years, the Band has gained much popularity amongst students as its per­formances have become increasingly innovative. 
This week is no exception, as the Band has gone to great lengths to impress fans attending the final home game of the season. 
see BAND/page 6 

Irish Guard brings dignity, discipline to games 


By BETH ERICKSON 
News Writer 

The signature marches of the Irish Guard lend football Saturdays ceremony and tradi­tion, but little is known about the hard work and dedication required ofits 10 kilted men. 
The members of the Guard practice every night from Monday to Thursday with the marching band. Each week, they must coordinate with the band to learn the new halftime routine, in which they often play a large role. 
··Practices are actually pretty serious for us," senior Guardsman Matt Coleman said. "We sometimes only have a week to learn the new routine for every game." 
The Guard continues to perfect its traditional marches during every practice, for it must main­tain the strictest standards of performance. 
On the Fridays before home games, the Guard 'marches off' from the Dome, leading the band through campus to the practice field. They then preside over the pep rally. 
The Guard does not have a Friday curfew, but because the Guardsmen take their roles as overseers of game day tradition very seriously, they tend to have "pretty tame Friday nights," Coleman said. 
Game day responsibilities nor­mally take up 12 hours, Coleman said. 
While this is a huge commit­ment, the experience makes it worthwhile. 
"The Guard is part of the whole Saturday game day experience," Coleman said. "It's so exciting to be there in front of 80,000 fans." 
The 12-hour game day begins with a 'march out' through cam-
see GUARD/page 8 

Cheerleaders enthuse game-day crowds 
By BETH ERICKSON News Writer 
Being a Notre Dame cheer­leader requires athleticism, spirit and dedication,· but despite the enormous amount of work the team puts into the job, the perks of being a symbol of game-day spirit make it, for the cheer­leaders, one of the best posi­tions on campus. 
During football season, the team practices four times a week, and each individual works with a trainer twice a week. In practice, they work on partner stunts and pyra­mids for the upcoming game. 
"[Practice is] the place I go to get away from everything else during the day," senior cheerleader Meredith Capshaw said. "Believe it or not, practice is one of the most fun parts of cheerlead­ing." 

"I spend that two hours laughing harder than I've laughed all day and most of all, having a good time," she said. "I love my team." 
Two years ago, the team was cleared by the athletic administration to perform more difficult stunts. These stunts had previously been restricted because of injuries at other schools. Many of the formations performed during this year's time-outs have been introduced in light of these new allowances. 
Most of the team's cheers are traditional cheers that the program has used for many years. The team is very traditional, as seen in their traditional uniforms, and unlike most collegiate cheer squads, does not compete. 
"Our primary focus is sup-
see CHEER/ page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Residence 
changes proposed 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES  
News Editor  
The student affairs portion  
of Notre Dame's next strategic  
plan, "Notre Dame 2010:  
Fulfilling the Promise,"  
includes suggestions to  
enhance undergraduate and  
graduate programs in an  
effort to integrate student and  
academic life and to construct  
new campus and residential  
facilities, including the possi­ 
bility of coeducational hous­ 
ing.  
This section focuses on resi­ 
dential life at Notre Dame,  
noting the hallmark experi­ 
ence of living in the resi­ 
dences and the opportunities  
for growth and learning that  
exists in the halls.  
"In an ideal world students  I  
would feel, and for the most  I I  
part I feel they do, residence halls would be a place where they share their concerns and their excitement for what they  I l  
are learning. Similar to in the  
classroom they could talk  
about moral and ethic issues,"  
said Ann Firth, executive  
assistant to the vice president  
ofstudent affairs.  
Possibilities for accomplish­ 
ing this include a recommit­ 
ment to building a Christian  
community within the dorms.  
Notre Dame hopes that an  
increased emphasis on min­ 
istry, service and retreats  
within residences will form  
intellectual, moral and spiritu­ 
al leaders who will become  
leaders in the Church.  
Goals are also outlined to  
expand diversity on campus to  
encourage learning through  
the exchange of culture and  
personal experiences.  
Firth said the Office of the  
Student Affairs intends to cre­ 
ate an environment where  
learning is ongoing but that  
this integration is not intend­ 
ed to subject dorms to non­ 
stop academic programming.  
In response to overcrowding  
in dorms and the diminishing  
numbers of upperclassmen,  
especially seniors moving off  
campus, Firth said the  
Univserity intends to build  
four new residential complex­ 
es. The plan emphasizes the  
importance of the residential  
community as the percentage  
of on campus students has  
dropped steadily over the  
years from 83 percent to cur­ 
rently 79 percent.  
Though Firth said it would  
be premature to comment on  
the recommendations for  
these new residential com­ 
plexes the Ad-Hoc Committee  
on the Future of Residential  
Life would recommend to  
Father Mark Poorman, Vice  
President for Student Affairs,  

see AFFAIRS/page 4 


Friday, November 14, 2003 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Soccer deserves fan sUpport 
This weekend provides Notre Dame sports fans with a number of wonderful options. The football team plays its last home game of the year against BYU, and the 
men's basketball Andy Troeger 
team plays an exhibition game on Friday.

Don't forget, Sports Writer however, when making your weekend sports plan, to come out and watch the No. 2 seeded women's soccer team as they open the NCAA Tournament at home against Loyola of Chicago. One of the big benefits to earning a top seed in the NCAA Tournament is home-field advan­tage throughout the first four rounds of the tournament. Yet, for the Irish to be able to completely enjoy that advantage, they need to have the support of the Notre Dame community. With the thousands of people that flood the area on home football weekends, and a game time conve­niently coming near the end of the pep rally, Friday night's game is the perfect opportunity to begin supporting the soccer team in their efforts to bring home an NCAA Title to Notre Dame. Further reason to come out and support the Irish is that the teams coming to Notre Dame are certain to bring fans with them, consider­ing that the games are only a few hours from the other respective schools. For example, Loyola is sponsor­ing a free bus ride to South Bend for Loyola students so that they can cheer on their team. It would be a pretty sorry state­ment if the visiting team could match the number of fans of the No. 2 team in the country. The Irish have amassed a record of 19-2-1 and are the only team in the nation with four players that have scored at least 10 goals in seniors Amy Warner and Amanda Guertin, junior Mary Boland and sophomore Katie Thorlakson. The Irish sport two Hermann Trophy Finalists, reserved for the top fifteen players in the country, with Warner and classmate Melissa Tancredi receiving that honor. Tancredi, Boland and Warner all were first team All-Big East selec­tions, providing the Irish with a lot of firepower for a possible NCAA Tournament run. So don't pass up the chance to cheer on the No. 2 women's soccer team as they take on Loyola on Friday at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field. If the Irish win, they will also be in action on Sunday afternoon at 1 p.m. The time is now for the Irish to start their postseason run, and for you to be there to see it all happen. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andy Troeger at troeger.4@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a reporting error, the article "Disabled stu­dents flourish at Notre Dame" in Thursday's Observer stated that sophomore Katrina Gossett uses a wheelchair and has a speech impairment. Gossett does nor have a speech impairment. 
Due to inaccurate reporting, the maker of the film "Blind Shaft" was incorrectly identified as Li Yang in the article "ND screens controversial Chinese film." His name is Yang Li. Additionally, the Department of Film, Television and Theater was inadvertantly omitted from a list ofsponsors for the film's showing on campus. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WILL YOU BE BRINGING MARSHMALLOWS TO THE GAME ON SATURDAY? 


Mary Komperda 
Senior Pasquerilla East 
"No, I will be bringing the 

T.J. Laubacher 
Senior Knott 

"Whose legs do you think were 
Jeff Newcamp 
Senior Knott 

ccYou'llfind me at Meijer 
Mudlt Agarwal 
Senior Knott 
·7 am not going to the game 

Lorenzo Valladolid 
Senior Knott 
"No, my seats suck. I sit with 
Todd Nieto 
Senior Knott 
CCNo, according to the Gospel of 





chocolate and in CThe stocking up.,, Saturday. , graham Gipper?,, crackers. ,, 
juniors. JJ Notre Dame, it's a sin to throw marshmallows.·· 
IN BRIEF 
WVFI radio presents Pedro the Lion with Clark tonight at Legends at 9 p.m. Seattle native Pedro the Lion is an acclaimed acoustic/indie rock group. and campus band Clark will be opening. The show is free, so support WVFI radio and the local music scene. 
Get an insider's look at the rehearsals of the Notre Dame Glee Club. They will hold an open rehearsal today from 
4:45 to 5:15p.m. in room 115 of the Crowley Hall of Music. They will rehearse music from the program for their upcoming concert, but they will also sing some of their famous fight songs, including "Hike, Notre Dame" and "The Notre Dame Victory March." 
Support the football team tonight at the Football Pep Rally for the game against BYU. The pep rally takes place today from 6 to 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. Doors open for students at 
5:15 p.m. and for the public at 5:45. 
The Notre Dame hockey team takes on the United States under-18 team in an exhibition game tonight at 
7:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
The Student Union Board is sponsoring a showing of the movie ••American Wedding" tonight at 8 p.m. There will be a second showing of the move at 10:30 p.m. Admission is $3. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 


TIM KACMAR!The Observer 

With the Thanksgiving break only two weeks away, many professors have assigned major projects and exams to be due before the holdiay. These students are taking advantage of quiet study space In Colman Morse to finish projects and papers and to study for upcoming exams. 
OFFBEAT 

Man Fined for Scratching While Driving 
MADRID,  Spain  
Highway  police  who  
stopped  a  driver  they  

believed was using his cell phone erred twice. First, he was just scratching his ear. Second, he was a lawyer. 
Tomas Valdivielso showed the two officers that the last call from his phone went out the night before. The duo huddled, then came back and fined him $70 anyway. 
The charge: driving while "holding his ear with his right hand in a permanent fashion." 
"Am I on hidden cam­
era?" Valdivielso recalls saying, according to Thursday's edition of the newspaper El Mundo. 
The flap happened Nov. 7 while Valdivielso drove into Madrid on a busy highway in the morning rush hour. 
Skydiver Jumps 534 Times From Plane 
LAKE ELSINORE, Calif. ­A 47-year-old man jumped out of a plane 534 times in 24 hours in hopes of land­ing a new world record. 
Jay Stokes of Yuma, Ariz., used 22 parachutes and two planes in completing the stunt Wednesday morning. Each jump from 2,100 feet took an average of less than three minutes to complete. 

Stokes set the Guinness World Record in 1999 for parachute jumps in 24 hours, but Michael Zang took the title from him in 2001 with 500 jumps. 
He took pledges and con­tributions for the latest attempt and plans to donate the money to charity. 
''I'm certainly glad it's over," he said after his final landing on a field turned muddy by heavy rain in this community about 70 miles east of Los Angeles. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY c:: 
L&J 
X 
tct 
L&J 
3: 
... 
cc 
(.) 0 
.... 


44 28 

HIGH LOW 


50 
38 

HIGH LOW 
• 

Friday, November 14, 2003 page 3
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Students apply to go abroad despite violence 
University takes measures to reassure students who may study abroad 
By LAURA VILIM 
News Writer 

Despite an international culture that has become increasingly violent and anti­American in recent months, students at Notre Dame who are considering studying abroad have relatively few fears about leaving the coun­try, a trend that shows stu­dents feel safer today than they did at the start of the U. 
S. invasion of Iraq less than one year ago. 
Last year, the fear of vio­lence against Americans kept several students from carry­ing out their plans to study abroad. 
Meredith Foley, a senior who was thinking of studying in Dublin last year decided of world events that could against it in part because of negatively affect their travels her desire to be near her abroad. The directors of the family in the event of another department receive constant 
terrorist attack.  updates on travel  
"My  decision  advisories from  
not to go abroad  ..In times of  the  State  
was not primari­ly based on what was occurring  political tension, we routinely  Department as well as U.S. embassies across  
internationally,:·  monitor the  the world. These  
Foley said. "However, I was afraid that if  situation in the places Notre Dame  advisories, which provide detailed information  
there was any type of national  students live . .,  about everything from protests in  
crises and there was a reason 1  Anastasia Gutting  a country to civil unrest, are then  
would need to be  director of the London  sent to students  
with my family, it would be much  Program  traveling to that particular coun­ 
easier  to  get  try,  so that they  

home from South Bend than can be kept aware of any arrange any kind of travel possible dangers they may from overseas." face. 
Current students are less According to Anastasia afraid to leave the country Gutting, the director of the due in large part to the London Program, recently emphasis the International issued advisories do not con­Studies Department has cern countries most Notre placed on informing students Dame students choose to visit and instead deal with nations that have had a long history 
of political turmoil, such as Saudi Arabia, Bolivia, Somalia and states in the Middle East and North Africa. 
When advisories do contain warnings on often-visited countries such as England, France and Australia, Gutting cites the security measures her department has estab­lished to protect its students. 
"In times of political ten­sion, we routinely monitor the situation in the places Notre Dame students live," said Gutting. "We have a University Committee that meets regularly to discuss security matters. We consult with other universities, shar­ing information and learning about their safety precau­tions." 
For the most part, both stu­dents and their parents have realized the lengths the International Studies Department has gone to pro­tect them, and few are fearful of the prospect of studying abroad. This sense of well­being was not felt to as great an extent last year when sev­eral students cancelled their trips due to concerns about their safety. 

Peg life starts Saturday, Maggie Priest if FINALLY 21 ! ! ! ! 
Junior Cassandra Gomez is ferent countries as long as preparing to spend her spring they check the travel advi­semester in Athens, Greece sories and exercise caution. and is relatively unconcerned "I will still try to travel; I about leaving the United will just have to be safe in States despite anti-American how I do it. If you use com­sentiment in that country. mon sense. the administra­Gomez, who has traveled the tors of the Fremantle pro-world extensive-gram said it can ly, thinks that the be very safe for opportunity to ..My decision not to Americans," said 
experience a for­Conterato.
go abroad was not
eign way of life is Although the 
too important to primarily based on relationship pass up. what was between China Although she and the United
occurring
understands why States has also
internationally.,
other students been strained as may feel endan­of late, Notre gered while Meredith Foley Dame students 
abroad, she does have shown rel­
student 
not feel that fear. atively little fear She plans to about traveling travel to the various islands to Asia. Sophomore Dana Lee that surround Greece as well has applied to the program in as visit friends in other Shanghai for the fall of 2004 European nations during her to study Chinese culture and stay in Athens. She said trav­further her interest in inter­eling is not something to fear national relations. Lee is as long as one uses common aware of the various dangers sense and is aware of the that are associated with trav­surroundings at all times. eling to Asian countries, but 
"If you adapt to a culture says they do not concern her and have respect for that cul­enough to prevent her from ture, there is nothing to studying abroad. She also fear," Gomez said. "I want to realizes the recent outbreak take advantage of being in a of the SARS virus could pose new part of the world." a potential risk to her health, 
Terriss Conterato. a junior but said the International who will be studying in Studies program will inform Fremantle, Australia this her of any dangers. spring, is also not overly "I trust that ND wouldn't fearful about send us some­the possibility where they think 
of danger to be unsafe,"
"Ifyou adapt to a
abroad. She said Lee. 
believes that, culture and have Justin Doyle, a because she is respect for that sophomore that is American, she­in the process of
culture, there is 
might be asked deciding whether 
to explain cer­nothing to fear. ,, to study abroad in tain policies Dublin, Ireland or that the United Tokyo, Japan,
Cassandra Gomez 
States has used sums up the sen­
student

in its foreign timent of many relations, but students in his does not feel remarks that he that there is a significant does not fear for his safety in probability of day-to-day vio­these countries, but rather lence directed toward has concerns about how easy Americans. Australia has sent it will be to immerse himself forces to fight with the United in a foreign culture. States in Iraq, and its govern­"My biggest fears deal with ment has generally been sup­assimilating to other cultures portive of America's efforts in rather than violence," Doyle that region. She stressed that said. her program director has given all students in Australia Contact Laura Vilim at the freedom to travel to dif-lvilim@nd.edu 
Zahm drainage pipes back up 
ByJOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
Waste backup left Zahm Hall residents without water for nearly four hours Thursday afternoon and evening, said Zahm Hall rector Daniel Parrish. 
Parrish said that the water backup occurred once Monday and twice Thursday. 
Housekeeping staff reported some backup in the basement around 2 p.m. Thursday after­noon, after which they cleaned out the water and reported the problem to building services. 
Plumbers then ran a snake through the water cleanout area Thursday afternoon and hit a root ball, causing a water out­age, as all the toilets, showers and sinks go through one drain. 
Phyllis Campbell, supervisor of building services, said workers were dispatched immediately to pump out the water. Parrish estimated that there was about half an inch of water in the downstairs basement and the food sales area. 
Parrish said the cleanout for the waste water 
seemed to have little effect on residents. 
"Things are pretty normal," said Andrew Sherman, Zahm Hall resident assistant. "People 
are just going to 

line was located in other places to the electrical "People are just use the bathroom room, where the going to other and take showers. water had risen to It's no big deal ­
places to use the 
a height of about we haven't really four inches. bathroom. , had any problems Parrish said that a with it." 
few inches more of Parrish said that 
Andrew Sherman 
water level rising he was very
Zahm Hall RA
could have caused appreciative of an electrical sys-Keenan Hall, tem failure, but fast action by which allowed Zahm residents plumbers prevented the prob­to use their restrooms and lem. showers when water was 
"They worked quick and unavailable at the dorm. avoided that problem," he said. "Keenan was very helpful and 
Parrish said the water was calming to us in our time of turned.on around 9:30 p.m., need," he said. "We appreciated with all water removed and the it very much." food sales area sanitized and open for business. Contact Joe TrombeUo at 
Students said the incident jtrombel@nd.edu 
Friday, November 14, 2003 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 




Saint Mary's holds student safety forum 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's held its second annual Safety Forwn to provide the students and community with advice on deal­ing with a wide range of security issues at 7 p.m. Thursday in O'Laughlin auditorium, although less than 10 students attended. 
The Safety Forum was modeled off last September's Security Forum that was geared towards the incoming freshman class. That event was the first time the Security Department attempted to hold such a large event. The success of last year's event prompted the department to initiate this year's event, which was open to the entire community. 
Security Program Coordinator Chris Pennino was in charge of the Safety Forum. 
"I am attempting to provide presen­ters who will address the issues that concern our whole student body as well as our faculty, staff and sur­rounding community," said Pennino. 
The forum's speakers informed the audience on a wide range of topics from sexual assault to Internet preda­tors. 
Mitch Kajzer, investigator for the Saint Joseph County Prosecuting Attorney, discussed and demonstrat­ed how he goes undercover online to target Internet predators. His eye­opening demonstration illustrated the immense number of predators that exist on the Internet. 
"I am able to arrest about one predator per hour," Kajzer said. 
He stressed the importance of pro­tecting oneself and children while on the Internet. Kajzer's investigative work can eventually lead to the arrest of cyber criminals. 

Saint Mary's Director of Information Technology, Keith Fowlkes, continued the Internet safe­ty discussion. He spoke about ways to be safe online and the steps to take to ensure safety. 
Brett Hemmerlein of the St. Joseph County Special Victims Unit and Cindy Eastman of the South Bend Police Department's Sexual Assault Unit, spoke on the issues of rape and date rape drugs from a legal perspec­tive. Hemmerlein's knowledge on these topics comes from serving for 28 years as a South Bend Police offi­cer. Eastman has worked 20 years in the South Bend Police Department and has had 12 years experience in the Sex Offence Unit. 
Mary Waggoner, the Community Outreach Coordinator for SOS of Madison County, informed the audi­ence of their options after being a vic­tim of sexual assault. As an advocate for victims of sexual assault and rape, she spoke about seeking help at the hospital and the involvement of law enforcement after the incident. 
Despite offering a wide variety of information, turnout was lower than expected. The Saint Mary's Security Department hopes to reschedule the event at a time more convenient for the student body. 
"I would like to think that Saint Mary's College is helping to provide information that will possibly prevent future crimes against our students and community. The focus is on bringing in professionals who can share their valuable knowledge in an effort to help us become more active players in our own safety," said Pennino. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Plan 
continued from page 1 

the number of distinguished faculty and setting a goal of raising $100 million in exter­nal research funding. 
Though Notre Dame is known predominantly as an undergraduate institution, the plan outlines goals to improve doctoral programs so that at least 25 percent are ranked nationally in the top quartile. 
Noting that the Univserity has much ground to cover con­sidering diversity, the plan makes a commitment to attract underrepresented stu­dents and faculty and to expand ethnic academic pro­grams, specifically African American studies; internation­al research institutes; and international programs in China, India and Africa. 
Importance is placed on inte­grating academic, residential and student life to diversify and expand learning. Possibilities for accomplishing this focus on creating an envi­ronment that encourages aca­demic expansion in residence halls. 
Multiple campus and resi­dential facilities are featured in the plan as a way to achieve this integration. 
The plan emphasizes the need for Notre Dame to devel­op its Catholic intellectual life and become the premier cen­ter of Catholic intellectual life. 
"When most of the great uni­versities in the world are utter­ly secular in their missions, there seems to be a special need for an institution where religious faith seeking under­standing can provide a com­mon frame of reference for the diverse areas of learning and a sense of moral obligation in the relationship between theoreti­cal reflection and practical application," the report said. 
This will be accomplished partly through enhancing Catholic scholarship, applying values of the Church to reflec­tion on contemporary issues and strengthening foundation­al and applied ethics. Retreats, increased ministry in dorms, service and hiring faculty and staff that foster Catholic teach­ings are also intended to expand the Catholic founda­tion. 

The strategic plan carries over into athletics as well as Notre Dame continues to focus on recruiting coaches and ath­letes who value integrity, aca­demics and spirituality. Expansion of scholarship allo­cations and facilities are intended to foster this focus. 
Though the University halted construction last year due to the decrease in the endow­ment, the plan states that structural and conceptual pro­posals can be accomplished through prudent fiscal polices, stewardship and capital plan­ning. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl @nd.edu 


Affairs 
continued from page 1 
early next year, the strategic plan did discuss potential options. This includes senior suites or apartments, coedu­cational housing and smaller themed residences. 
Firth said the committee is discussing several options, including coed housing. 
"We are exploring coeduca­tional housing in part because of the national trend that was to have coed halls," Firth said. "The fact that it does exist means that it is something that Notre Dame has to visit." 
Premier Catholic institutions such as Georgetown and undergraduates. 
Firth said that this focus on graduate students would not detract from undergraduates. 
"[We want] to try to be a place that is more attentive to graduate students," Firth said. "We want to do a better job at taking care of them." 
Student Affairs first began exploring possible goals and formulating plans during the 2002-2002 academic year. 
Firth said though the office sets goals and may set them high, Student Affairs hopes to accomplish most if not all of the objectives outlines in "Notre Dame 2010: Fulfilling the Promise." 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl @nd.edu 

Boston College have under­graduate coed housing. 
Other facilities projects that will be explored include con­structing an enlarged student center complex, new apart­ments for married students, additional graduate student housing and a retreat center; replacing Stepan Center; and renovating the University Health Center. 
Firth said Student Affairs intends to focus on expanding student services, especially in health services and student organizations. 
Though Notre Dame is pri­marily an undergraduate institution, the plan empha­sizes enhancing graduate services and collaboration between graduates and 



Gay in a Straight World 
......... · 

Gay, Bi, and Straight A Retreat Open to All 
The GLB Retreat is an annuat 24-hour event for gay undergraduate students and their friends and supporters. The retreat begins at 7pm on Friday, November 21, 2003 and ends after dinner on Saturday night. Applications are available in the Retreats Office in 114 Coleman-Morse by the elevator. Applications are due by Wednesday, Nov. 19th. 
·.1-" 

lfyouhavefurther qvestions. you can reach Fr. J. Steele., CSC at 1-8144 or at 
We'v•~ l:Jeeu re:ady f'or over 35 years... 
Ont"i.M1.*f~ tt\SU'uct:tntli~ tl£: ruk: rath.ei· ~fun~ txa!pi.klnatHdy Cro&;, O:t:l.kg¢. Oar da$~~ an~ ,~m~al:l :nnd .ft.\lb't"li.tt¢•,•~ ~tt:Jd(no. r£:~tw dw ·nighe-~ l~til oit:-tr~n~d attentl>tm ftrim a dedti':~ned~:..·· Cftitng faculty. Sl.udeh:$ean ~am :ltl ~me: ofAtts:etl &cllil& afAtt~de.fVll."lt at lldy Gri!sS.<AtlS1 rhlid~ :Ide~ gr~1t~gw1th tl:~ ,aJ.dlian door fifth r~side:noe halt 


lf}'"~.~~ 1ri(:ikin.gfocach~n~ t~1l~i!in9r ~mttny.r ~-~, ~n ~'*k~~ 
· ·w:her~ ~J, l.iuk on~~,::trH::in.e b ininte:grlll pn(QJ mttmis~iori ·. ~and philO&lphy, g)Yr: Iioly Cro.55Col~~ amitilt(57~} 239~ {lf \'t~l n~ ro;. \\"l""\ht;~;....:J'l(i,~xh.h . 

jsteele1@nd.edu. 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 


Firday, November 14, 2003 Co~1PILED FROtv1 THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Japan delays Iraqi deployntent 
BAGHDAD, Iraq-Japan put off a deci­sion Thursday on sending troops to Iraq, a day after the deadliest attack on coalition forces since the war, and South Korea capped its contribution at 3,000 soldiers ­new setbacks to U.S. hopes for easing the pressure on its forces. 
U.S. troops pounded suspected guerrilla targets in the capital for a second straight night under a new "get-tough" campaign against the insurgency. And the top American administrator, L. Paul Bremer, headed back to Baghdad after two days of White House talks with orders that Iraqis should take more responsibility for govern­
ing. 
On the eve of a visit to Tokyo by Defense Set:retary Donald Rumsfeld, Japan decided the time isn't right to send its forces to Iraq, indicating its deployment might be delayed 
until next year. 
AIDS transmissions up in India 
NEW DELHI, India-The virus that causes AIDS is being spread through India's general population mainly by married men, who have unprotected sex with prostitutes. according to a study released Thursday. 
About G 1 0,000 Indians contracted HIV last year, increasing the overall number of infect­ed Indians to about 4.5 million, said the study funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. That is the second-highest total in the world after South Africa. 
In four of the six most affected states, the virus was contracted by businessmen, men in the service sector and hotel employees. said the study, which used federal and state government data. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Parties split on judicial nominees 
WASHINGTON -President Bush accused the Senate of "shameful" inaction on his judi­cial nominees, lending his voice Thursday to a 30-hour Senate debate over Republican efforts to pry conservative nominees loose from Democratic filibusters. 
After an all-night session, senators were bleary-eyed but firmly on message. Republicans insisted there was no precedent for refusing to allow votes on the president's judicial choices. Democrats said the GOP-led Senate was championing judges who do not represent American mainstream views. 
Bush's visit called 'bad timing' 
WASHINGTON -It seems like a colossal case of bad timing on both sides of the Atlantic, a state visit to Britain while both President Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair are mired in slumping approval ratings because of continuing turmoil in Iraq. 
Blair stands to lose the most politically from the visit, U.S. and British analysts sug­gest. Recent polls show a clear majority of British voters think Bush was wrong on Iraq and regard Blair's closeness to the president as bad for Britain. 
But it also is hard to see what benefit Bush can claim by offering a fresh reminder that he and Blair marched lockstep against most of the world in deciding to invade Iraq. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Winds knock out electricity 
INDIANAPOLIS -Winds gusting more than 50 mph across the state left thousands of customers without electricity and blew down two walls at a shopping mall on the city's north side. 
A cinderblock wall collapsed at a Chinese restaurant at the Keystone at the Crossing shopping center Wednesday night, injuring a man and two women who were inside, Washington Township Assistant Chief Howard Marer said. 
"A cinderblock wall collapsed inward, causing a portion of the ceiling and a shelf to fall," Marer said. 
Ala. judge forced out of office 
Chief Justice Roy Moore loses his position on the bench over Ten Commandrnents 
Associated Press 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. ­

Alabama Chief Justice Roy 
Moore, who became a hero 
to religious conservatives 
for refusing to remove his 
granite Ten 
Commandments monument 
from the state courthouse, 
was thrown off the bench 
Thursday by a judicial 
ethics panel ·for having 
"placed himself above the 
law." 
"I have absolutely no 

regrets. I have done what I 
was sworn to do," M8ore 
declared afterward, draw­
ing applause from dozens 
of supporters at the court­
house. "It's about whether 
or not you can acknowl­
edge God as a source of 
our law and our liberty. 
That's all I've done." 
The nine members of the Court of the Judiciary handed out the harshest penalty possible, saying Moore left them with no choice by repeatedly insist­ing he would never obey a federal judge's order to move the 2 1/2-ton block of granite from the court­house rotunda. 
"Anything short of removal would only serve. to set up another con­frontation that would ulti­mately bring us back to where we are today," the panel said. 
Moore spent eight judges, lawyers and others acknowledgment of God is his removal stands, Gov. months designing the mon­appointed variously by very much a vital part of Bob Riley will appoint a ument and helped move it judges, legal leaders and the public and private fab­new chief justice to finish into the building one night the governor and lieu­ric of our country." his term, which expires in in 2001. He soon became a tenant governor -began Moore, 56, had been sus­2007. Moore could still run lightning rod for criticism hearing · testimony pended since August but for a seat on the court next from civil-liberties activists Wednesday on Moore's was allowed to collect his year, provided he is not who said the stone tablets defiance and issued its rul­$170,000 annual salary. disbarred. promoted religion in viola­ing Thursday. The panel Moore said he would The governor issued a tion of the separation of could have continued the .consult with his lawyers statement saying he was church and state. suspension or reprimanded and with political and reli­"disappointed and con­
A federal judge ordered Moore. gious leaders as to cerned that the federal the monument removed, "The chief justice placed whether to appeal and courts continue to attempt and it was finally wheeled himself above the law," would make an announce­to remove references to away Aug. 27 to a storage said Presiding Judge ment next week that could God and faith from public room on instructions from William Thompson. "alter the course of this arenas. All of us must, Moore's eight fellow jus­The court emphasized country." He did not elabo­however, respect the work­tices. that its ruling was not a rate. ings of our legal system 
The Court of the judgment about the monu­He could appeal to the and trust that it remains Judiciary -a panel of ment itself, stating, "the Alabama Supreme Court. If the best in the world." 



ISRAEL 


Israelis, Palestinians prepare for summit 
political wrangling. Palestinians say they want to avoid 
A.uociated Press 
With a government finally in place, the mistakes of their· first premier, 
JERUSALEM -Looking ahead for Qureia can focus on his priorities. He Mahmoud Abbas. He met four times the first time after months of first wants to persuade militant with Sharon but failed to win conces­impasse, the Israeli and Palestinian groups to halt attacks on Israelis and sions, including easing Israel's travel prime ministers on Thursday pre­then get Israel to agree to a truce, ban in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. pared for a summit, possibly within including a stop to military strikes in That failure, along with turf battles days. the West Bank and Gaza Strip. with Yasser Arafat, led to Abbas' res­
Despite conciliatory statements, In the past, Israeli Prime Minister ignation Sept. 6, after just four however,expectations are low that Ariel Sharon has refused to halt such months in office. the U.S.-backed "road map" peace operations, including targeted killings Qureia said Thursday he would plan can be revived. Neither side of militants, unless the Palestinian meet Sharon only if he gets assur­appears closer to making concessions security forces begin dismantling ances that the travel bans would be -a crackdown on militant groups by armed groups, something the eased significantly. A network of the Palestinians, a removal of dozens Palestinians refuse to do. Israeli barriers, meant to keep away of settlement outposts by Israel. Israel's position appears to have militants, has crippled the Palestinian 
Palestinian Prime Minister Ahmed softened somewhat in recent days, economy. Even the Israeli army chief Qureia convened his Cabinet for the and officials have said they want to has said the closures are counterpro­first time Thursday, a day after it was give Qureia a chance. ductive, breeding hatred and more sworn in following two months of In preparing for a summit, the terrorism. 
Friday, November 14, 2003 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Cheer 
continued from page 1 
porting Notre Dame's athletic teams and that wil1 never change," Capshaw said. 
The team leads the student sec­tion in cheers on Friday pep ral­lies, one of the team's favorite aspects of home football weekends. 
"The main focus of the students essentially is to help us out, and ... they do a great job of it," Capshaw said. "No matter if we're having a winning season or not, Notre Dame pep rallies will always be packed and will always be upbeat." 
The pep rally is immediately fol­lowed by a dinner held at the house of athletic director Kevin White. There, the team eats and then greets alumni, former football coaches, former football players, 
Heisman Trophy win­ners and NBC execu­tives. 
Typical game days begin about three and a half hours before kickoff. The team leads a short pep rally at the bookstore and another for tail­gaters in the Senior Bar parking lot, which draws an espe­
cially excitable crowd, Capshaw said. 
The team then performs with the porn-squad in a more organized pep rally at the JACC, in which the Leprechaun speaks to thousands of fans, and at a special pep rally held in the corporate tent behind the JACC for those affiliated with the game, such as NBC and adidas. 
Later, the team sprints through Lafortune yelling and screaming on its way to the Dome to meet the band and Guard, which they lead to the stadium. 
"Step-off is special for us," Capshaw said. "[We] see how much the fans truly love and support the Irish. You can see it on their 


faces." "Once we enter the tunnel with 
Band the Irish Guard and the band, we have a second to catch our breath 
continued from page 1 before the opposing team walks back through and up to their lock­
"The halftime show er room," she said. "When they 
promises to please anyone walk through, we all stand at 
in our generation," drum attention with no facial expression 
major Katie O'Sullivan whatsoever. It's actually funny to 
said. see the opposing players and 
The Band practices a coaches walk through with the 
great deal in preparation most intimidated looks on their 
for a home faces." 
football week­

end, the begin­"The halftime show O'Sullivan shaved. Any person who
During the game, the team must retain this intensity of focus in 
ning of which said. arrives late "most likely
promises to please
is marked by Five and can't march during the
order to cheer. 
anyone zn our
the group's a half game," O'Sullivan said. 
"It is a little hard to pay full attention to the game when we 
'march out' to generation. , h o u r s To O'Sullivan, the best have to dance or stunt between 
the Dome on before part of game day is when every single play, but bottom line, 
Friday after­kickoff. the the band turns the corner
Katie 0 'Sullivan 
noon. B a n d past DeBartolo Hall to goyou have to know what's going on 
drum major 
A lesser-repeats into the Stadium. There,with the game to be able to cheer 
known Friday

for a team," Capshaw said. 
tradition is the

Despite the intensity of the game, 
fanfare of the trumpets at

Capshaw said that cheering for the 
"We see how much the fans truly love and support the Irish., 
Meredith Capshaw title 

doing just that." 
Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 

Dinner starting at $6.45 222 Dtxieway S., S.B. 574 ..272-7376 
Directed by Siiri Scott 
Playing at Washington 
Hall 
Wednesday, November 19 7:30pm Thursday, November 20 7:30pm Friday, November 21 7:30pm 

$10 Reserved Seats Saturday, November 22 7:30pm $9 Senior Citizens Sunday, November 23 2:30pm $7 All Students 
Tickets are available in advance at the LaFortune Student CenterTicket Office. MasterCardNisa orders call 574-631-8128. 
4 p.m. in the Dome. The
student section is one 
section assembles within
of the best experi­
the Dome itself to play the
ences of her life. 
Alma Mater and the Fight
As the last home 
Song.
game rapidly 
"The whole building fills 
approaches, Capshaw 
with music," O'Sullivan
reflected on what it 
said. "It's energetic and
means to step onto the 
uplifting-if you've never
turf one last time. 
witnessed it, you really
"Then it hit me that 
should go."
the day I would cheer 
On Fridays, band mem­
for the last time in 
bers dress up as sections,
Notre Dame's stadium 
striving each year for the

was rapidly approaching, and I got 
most original, spirited and

a sick feeling," she said. "I will 
humorous sectional T­

never forget all the fun times on 
shirts and accessories to

the away trips. I'll never forget the 
wear during the pep ral­

times we got lost in huge cities try­
lies.

ing to find a random tailgate or 
Before the pep rally on

alumni pep rally to cheer at." 
Friday. the Band rehears­

"Thinking back, I can safely say 
es on the practice field

that I have grown to appreciate the 
behind the JACC, per­

opportunity more and more as the 
forming Saturday's entire

years have passed. There won't be 
repertoire. The announcer

a next year, so this is my last 
even attends in his official

chance to make this the best, most 
capacity, running the

special opportunity I have ever 
Band through its routines.

been given and I fully intend on 
After this practice, the band marches out around campus, screaming casual and fun cheers on the way 

to the JACC, where they front of the Dome. During perform for the thousands inspection, any person of fans at the pep rally. who wishes to do so may 
Game day commences 'inspect' a member of the with a tradition known as band. Most frequently, "Captain Crunch band alumni and their Breakfast," during which friends will inspect band members of the band eat members, taunting them cereal and read the signa­in an attempt to make ture Fifer Newsletter. The them 'break,' or smile. newsletter is filled with Members must be prop­information, gossip and erly dressed and any male 
funny anec­member who is not prop­
dotes. erly shaven will be dry­
Friday's the band and thousands of 
compre­onlookers chant "Here hensive practice, tweak­come the Irish!" in uni­ing any marching seg­son. ments and going over the "The chills never stop," music once more. O'Sullivan said. 
They then dress for the "Sometimes I wish I could game and attend tradi­tailgate or sleep in, but 
tional break­fast in South Dining Hall, 

"It is almost a
where all 

300 mem­religious 
bers sing the experience when Victory 
we march through 
March for 

hundreds of the tunnel. being in 
dining fans. the same place as "It is such 
the greats like 
a cool feeling 

Rockne ... , · 
to be in uni­form at the dining hall," Katie O'Sullivan 
O'Sullivan 

drum major
s a i d . "Everyone asks you questions and house!'" 
it's worth it, without a doubt." 
"It is almost a religious experience when we m a r c h through the tunnel," she said, "being in the same place as all the greats like Rockne and chanting 'Whose house? Our 

you feel almost like a And during their half­campus celebrity." time shows, every fan 
The uniform and spirit­believes that the band ed songs cause quite a really does own the few people to ask for pho­Stadium. 
tographs, she said. At 1:45 p.m., the Band Contact Beth Erickson at undergoes 'inspection' in eerickso@nd.edu 
''WHO IS MY NEIGHBOR? 
SUBlJRBANSPRAWL, CATHOLIC SOCIAL THOUGHT, AND THE COMJ\tlON GOOD" 
PROFESSOR VINCENT ROUGEAU 
·LAW SCHOOL, NOTRE DAME 
An expert on the relationship between American law and Catholic sochd thought, Professor Rougeau also teaches course$ in contract and real-estate law. He taught at Loyola University ChicagoSehool of Law before coming to Notre Dame. His publicatiQils argue that the American undet·standlng ofthe free market bas diverged from Catholic social teaching and that US legal culture tends to promoteindividual well-being over community cohesion. 
GAME DAY NOV.15 12:30-1:15 
HESBURGH INTERNATIONAL CENTER AUDITORIUM, ALL WELCOME 
' .· 

PREVIOUS LECTURES, ALSO SPONSORED BY THE ND PROGRAM IN CATHOLIC SOCIAL TEACHING 
9-l0-03 ..CATIJOLIC TEACHING AND LABOR: THE WAR ON WAL.MARTWORKERS," PROF.~SSOR THERESA GHILARDUCCI, ECONOMICS, ND 1 1-l-03 
..KILLING THE PPOR: CATHOLIC SOCIAL TEACHING, PUBLIC HEAI,TR, & I!:NVlRONMENTAL JUSTICE," PROFESSOR KRISTIN SHRADER-FR~CHETf E, PHILOSOPHYfBlOLOG ICAL SCIENCES, ND ..CATHOLIC SOCIAL TEACHING AND RACISM,"PROFESSOR MARGARET PFEIL. ND 
THEOLOGY 


Friday, November 14, 2003 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow /.
}ones 9,837.94 -10.89 
Same: ~: CDmposite Volume: 

1,862  176  •  1,352,957,056  
AM£)(  1,077.66  +1.51  *­ 
NASDAQ NYSE.  1,967.35 6,036.81 ;  -5.76 +17:87  
S&P 500  1,058.41  -0.12  

NIKKEI(Tokyo)} 10,337.67 o.oorr~~ FTSE IOO(London) 4,373.00 +1.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.12 -0.29 25.69 APPLIED MATL (AMAT) -2.75 -0.70 24.74 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.94 -0.32 33.78 BROCADE COMMS (BRCD) +5.86 +0.44 7.95 CISCO SYffi~S (CSCO) -1.18 -0.27 22.70 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -2.11 -I. I 0 51.07 10-YEAR NOTE -3.20 -1.41 42.71 5-YEAR NOTE -3.87 -1.32 32.81 3-MONTH BILL -0.11 -0.01 9.27 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) 0.54 31.43 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.70 394.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.825 87.45 
Exchon Rates 

YEN 108.2 EURO 0.8522 POUND 0.5928 CANADIAN$ 1.299 
IN BRIEF 
Microsoft faces antitrust charges 
BRUSSELS, Belgium -Microsoft Corp. con­cluded its defense against European antitrust charges on Thursday, reiterating its hope of reaching a settlement to stave off hefty fines and tough sanctions. 
After nearly two days of closed-door hear­ings, Microsoft turned the floor over to its crit­ics, who argue the U.S. software giant is trying to corner new markets with its Windows monopoly. 
On Friday, Sun Microsystems Inc., which filed the original complaint against Microsoft in 1998, and RealNetworks take the stand, fol­lowed by two Microsoft-friendly trade groups. Microsoft then gets an hour and 15 minutes for a final statement. 
The European Commission is expected to issue its decision in the nearly 5-year-old case next spring if no settlement is reached. Microsoft is. hoping for a deal to· avoid penal­ties that could be the toughest it has faced on either side of the Atlantic. 
"We've come to Brussels not only to discuss the issues but to work things out," Brad Smith, ~1icrosoft's senior vice president for law and corporate affairs, told reporters after the hearing broke for lunch. 
Putnam agrees to reforms 
BOSTON -The Securities and Exchange Commission announced a partial settlement Thursday with Putnam Investments, under which the company will undertake significant reforms and agreed to a process for repaying investors harmed by excessive market timing. 
Boston-based Putnam, which had no imme­diate comment, neither admitted nor denied the findings, the SEC said. The company had previously promised to make full restitution to investors harmed by improper market timing by Putnam employees or customers. 
The SEC said the amount of any civil penalty or monetary relief remains open and will be determined later. It described the administra­tive proceeding as "ongoing." 
Market timing is the use of quick, in-and-out trades that skim profits from longer-term shareholders. The practice is not illegal but most funds do not allow it. 
CHINA 

Nation buys into space craze 
First Chinese in space spawns national pride, golden marketing opportunity 
Associated Press 
SHANGHAI -Thirsty? Try the "official milk of the Chinese spaceman." Running late? Maybe you need the "official chrono­graph of the Chinese astro­naut" -or perhaps just a taikonaut calendar to mark off the coming months. 
This is China's final fron­tier of modern marketing -or, at least, its most recent one. 
After joining Russia and the United States last month as the only coun­tries to send a human into space, China's space pro­gram is eagerly marketing its name and logo to com­panies looking to share the reflected glory. 
Sponsorships are splashed on billboards, product packaging and in radio and television ads. At least two magazines have appeared focusing exclusively on the Chinese space program. One news­paper, China Space News, sells a 2004 Shenzhou 5 calendar. 

There's "space" milk from Mengniu ("Mongol Cow"), which promises to "fortify the Chinese peo­ple" and shows a space­suited boy clutching a glass of creamy goodness. Mengniu is headquartered grams is a decades-old the government and seems run by the military and in Inner Mongolia, where tradition. Commercial tie­to be genuinely popular -shrouded in secrecy, so it Shenzhou 5 and astronaut ins with NASA have pro­although public opinion isn't known how endorse­Yang Liwei landed Oct. 16 duced product endorse­isn't always easy to discern ments have been awarded. after a 21 1/2-hour mis­ments from Tang and in China, where media are The program has no sion. Velcro to Omega watches tightly controlled. But the known publicity office. 
There's the "Chinese and Parker pens. potent mix of pride and Yet its managers are Inaugural Manned Space In China, though, an odd popularity makes it a safe anxious to exploit potential Flight Command Watch," blend of enthusiastic mar­bet for hungry companies. windfalls and avoid produced in a limited run keting and zealous secrecy A space-program unscrupulous operators in of 2,003, available by mail reflects the paradox of the endorsement is "definitely a country where piracy is for 980 yuan ($120) com­"socialist market econo­good for establishing rampant. A body called the plete with compass and my" -Beijing's moniker brand name," said a direc­China Aerospace pedometer. Another manu­for its current mix of rigid tor of promotions at Fiyta, Foundation has demanded facturer claims to offer the communist control and which made the watch the approval for commercial model Yang wore in space uncharted, freeform capi­taikonaut Yang wore in uses of the program's -less flashy but costlier. talism. space. The man gave only name and logo and threat­
In the United States, The space program is a his surname, Liu. ened legal action against marketing the space pro-huge source of prestige for China's space program is violators. 

Businesses suffer with the team 
efited from Saturday's victory. On-campus businesses have been By AMANDA MICHAELS "Last weekend, we had the best variably affected by the recent slump. News Writer weekend we've had in six weeks," Bill Beirne, manager of the Morris 
said. manager Mike Holt. "Business Inn, said the restaurant itself had not 
Dependent on the students and fans has been slightly down, but our num­seen a decline in customers, but the of Notre Dame for their livelihood, bers are still up from last year, and courtyard tents behind the Inn had many businesses in the South Bend with the support of Notre Dame fans, seen a light drop in business. area have felt the effects of a losing it's not enough for us to be concerned Like many of those whose restau­football record. at all." rants saw no drop in profit, Jim 
Carol Meehan, manager of Fiddler's While a few area· restaurants are O'Connor, director of the Hammes Hearth, said that the restaurant has hurting, others like the Olive Garden, Bookstore, attributed the business' been far emptier on recent Saturday Rocco's and the Linebacker Lounge continued success with the loyalty of nights than in the past. have not seen a change in sales; Notre Dame fans. 
"When the team loses, we get some some, like Farr.ous Dave's, have actu­"We're pretty pleased with the way of the people in from out of town who ally seen a more profitable season the year's been going so far," have dinner, but not the fans that than usual. O'Connor said. "Fortunately, most of come in to celebrate. I'd say we lose "In fact, in the past three weeks, the people we have as customers at least a couple thousand in sales we've actually picked up and have have been long supporters of Notre each Saturday they don't win," she been really busy," said Deanne Reed, Dame and will continue to give us said. manager of Famous Dave's BBQ. patronage." 
Meehan also said that after last Some nights it's more of the fans, and weekend's win against Navy, business other nights it's not, but we usually was booming again. have a lot of the team that bring their Contact Amanda Michaels at 
The Chicago Steak House also ben-families in after the game." amichael@nd.edu 
page 8 Friday, November 14, 2003
The Observer + NEWS 



Congress fights over Medicare bill 
Current prescription drug legislation may not make it past Democratic blockade 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Republican congressional leaders struggled Thursday to shelter their emerging Medicare prescription drug legislation from the rising opposition of Senate Democrats and the recalci­trance of a powerful GOP com­mittee chairman. 
"This program is 

untested. It's "The likely result days, he untried.... It's play­will be significant added, urg­ing roulette with the ing his audi­
increases in 
lives of senior citi­ence to bring zens," said Sen. traditional pressure on Edward Kennedy, D­Medicare lawmakers Mass., taking aim at to send him
premiums for 
a feature that would legislation put traditional seniors ... and soon. Medicare in direct could destabilize In his competition with remarks, the
the Medicare 
new private insur­president ance plans begin­program." made no spe­ning in 2010. cific refer­But if Democrats ence to the
letter signed by 38 
argued that the call proposal
senators
for competition went too far, Rep. Bill Thomas, the lead House nego­tiator over months of negotia­tions, argued it didn't go far enough. "It's guaranteed not to work," he said of the plan, while one of its authors, Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., stood by his side. 
At its core, the emerging bill would provide seniors a pre­scription drug benefit begin­ning in 2006, at a cost of $35 a month. 
The low-income would 
receive subsidies to defray the cost. At the same time, the plan would encourage private insurance companies to offer coverage under preferred provider organizations for seniors willing to opt out of traditional Medicare. 
While lawmakers clashed over one of the few remaining issue in dispute, President Bush said in Florida it was time for Congress to act "for today's seniors but also for tomorrow's retirees." 
"Either we'll have more debate, more delay and more deadlock, or we'11 make real progress" in the coming 
chief executive sug­gested the plan for direct competition in four metropolitan areas and one region be scaled down. "That sounds big," William Novelli said in an interview, adding the issue was "an example of what others should negotiate." 
Republicans argue that the new private health plans would help modernize Medicare and possibly give seniors access to benefits such as preventive health care that are not currently covered by the government-run program. At the same time, they hope it will slow the growth in the cost of the program. 


brokered by 
Frist and Speaker Dennis Hastert and embraced thus far by only two Senate Democrats. 
Despite the sharp rhetoric in the Capitol, GOP leadership aides said the legislation remained on track to be brought to a vote next week, and Democrats stopped short of threatening a filibuster that could delay or derail passage in the Senate. 
In addition, sources familiar with negotiations said Republicans had agreed dur-

Students and parents of students will receive a 

10°/o discount 
on all merchandise at the Golf Satellite Shop in the Joyce Center Friday and Saturday of the BYU game weekend. Students must show their I D'S. 

The Satellite Shop is open on Friday 11-4 on the second floor of the Joyce Center, across from the Varsity Shop. On game day the Satellite Shop is open in the fieldhouse from 9am until 30 minutes following the end of the game. 
ing the day to concessions to delay the beginning of their plan for competition, and to provide further protection against the type of premium increases that Kennedy and other critics forecast would spell the doom of Medicare. 
Rather than start in 2007, the program would begin in 2010, these sources said. And instead of limiting p.remium increases to 10 percent annu­ally for seniors remaining in traditional Medicare, the cap would be 5 percent. Unresolved was the number of recipients to be covered. 
Already, the special interests were beginning to line up. 
The American Hospital Association announced its sup­
Many Democrats are wary of such a large role for private companies, but have been willing to accept it as part of a grand bargain that also included Republican support for the new drug benefit. 
But in months of closed-door talks, lawmakers were unable to bridge their differences over Republican demands for direct competition between the two forms of coverage ­the private and the public. 
The plan blessed by Republicans Hastert and Frist called for a three-year pro­gram limited to four metropol­itan areas and one additional region of the country where managed care already has 30 percent of its Medicare 

port of the bill, "This program is beneficiaries pleasing enrolled.
untested. u·s
Republicans. T h e GOP officials also untried. It•s Department said they expected to playing with of Health gain the approval of and Human
people·s lives.·· 
the politically influ­Services ential AARP. c o u I d although the group's Edward Kennnedy approve a 
senator three-year 
extension of 
the pro­
gram, but after that, it would 
expire without action by 
Congress. 
But Sen. Olympia Snowe, R­
Maine, circulated a letter criti­
cizing the provision for com­
petition and urging its 
removal from the measure. 
"The likely result will be sig­
nificant increases in tradition­
al Medicare premiums for 
seniors living in the affected 
area and could destabilize the 
Medicare program for all sen­
iors," said the letter, signed by 
30 Democrats, seven 
Republicans and one inde­
pendent. 


LikeESPN? Like Chess?? 
Guard 
continued from page 1 
pus and practice at Loftus. 
The Guard then dons its tradition­al Scottish garb, which normally takes an hour to put on. The group's adherence to traditional Scottish dress has been its trade­mark since the Guard's inception in 1949. 
After dressing, it performs with the marching band on the steps of Bond Hall. The Guard 'slow march­es' in front of the Band and per­forms its time-honored 'victory clog.' After marching from Bond to the quad in front of the Dome, members are 'inspected' in order of oldest to youngest by the captain and by alumni Guardsmen. 
The Guard then leads the march­ing band through campus to the stadium and out onto the field to perform its pre-game routines, half­time show and post-game rituals, including the signature victory clog after a Notre Dame victory. 
The Guard represents dignity and eminence to campus visitors, who delight in meeting the Guard and posing for pictures with its 10 kilted members. 
"I've had people take pictures of me with their baby and then tell me the picture is going to be the family Christmas card," Coleman said. 
"It makes you feel appreciated after all your hard work to get to go out and meet people and perform," he said. 
Coleman· said his most memo­rable experience with the Guard was the group's trip to Florida for the FSU game in 2002. The group, which is "very tight-knit," vaca­tioned in Panama City that week. 
"I'm going to miss it," Coleman said. "I've enjoyed my time on the guard." 
"When I come back next year I will be really jealous of the guys who are out there," he said. 
Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 


Like Pizza???
........ 
The Notre Dame Chess Club will be hosting an ESPN .game watch of the latest Garry Kasparov vs. Computer match televised THIS SUNDAY from lpm -3:30pm. 
Come By the Morrissey Manor Basement Lounge on Sunday November 16, 2003 from 12:30-3:30pm and enjoy the festivities. 
Also, there will be competitions throughout the event to win Bookstore Gift Certificates. Contact mfailor@nd.edu for Questions. 
r l
Friday, November 14, 2003 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Midwest windstorms knock out power lines 
Associated Press 
Windstorms gusting to more than 70 mph swept across the Midwest and the East, knock­ing out power to more than 
1.4 million customers and bringing rain and flooding that flushed out buildings "like a toilet." 
A motorist who drove past a roadblock was swept away by a creek in West Virginia, and in New York a tree fell onto a car, killing the driver. A Virginia teenager was serious­ly injured when a tree fell on her as she waited for a school bus on Wednesday. 
Michigan and Ohio were the hardest hit by power outages, with about 375,000 customers affected in each state. The majority had electricity restored by late Thursday. 
Gusts up to 74 mph knocked down trees and power lines in Michigan. Scores of school dis­tricts canceled classes, and a live power line fell across Interstate 94 near the Detroit airport, creating a monster traffic jam. 
Winds halted boat traffic on the Great Lakes, where waves of up to 16 feet were recorded on lakes Erie and Ontario. 
New York-area airports had 
flight delays of up to three 
hours Thursday. 
Seven people were injured Wednesday night in Wooster, Ohio, when a tornado darn­aged a Rubbermaid plant. The twister, with w"inds of 110 to 130 mph, was on the ground for about 12 miles, said mete­orologist Mark Adams of the National Weather Service. 
"We've had substantial dam­age," Rubbermaid spokes­woman Keri Butler said Thursday. The company was still running its distribution site, but manufacturing was shut down. 
Another tornado that hit Lexington Township near Alliance, about 50 miles southeast of Cleveland, had winds of 75 to 100 mph and damaged a few homes and a school, Adams said. 
In West Virginia, heavy rain caused flooding Wednesday. A car that had driven around a fire truck and into a creek was found early Thursday. jammed under a bridge in Kanawha County's Loudendale area. The driver had been swept away. 
Clark to take public money 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Democratic presidential hopeful Wesley Clark, who flirted with the idea of skipping public financing despite a late fund-raising start, announced Thursday he will stay within the system. 
The decision means Clark will be limited to $45 million in overall primary spending and will face state-by-state spend­ing caps. He will be eligible for up to about $19 million in gov­ernment funding. 
Former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean last week became the first Democrat ever to turn away public financing and its spend­ing limits for the primaries. Massachusetts Sen. John Kerry is considering skipping the sys­tem, which offers a match of up to $250 for each contribution up to the limit. 
Clark, who started his cam­paign in late September, raised $3.5 million in the first two weeks. He expects to raise at least $6 million in the current fund-raising quarter, which runs from October through December. 
That would have him finish­ing the year with less than half the amount that money front­runners Dean and Kerry have 
raised. Dean collected $25 mil­
lion through September, 
according to the most recent 
figures available, while Kerry 
raised $20 million. 
"We're raising money at a significant clip, which was why we waited so long to make the decision," Clark spokeswoman Kym Spell said. 
However, she said, Clark ulti­mately decided to stay within public financing out of respect for the system and because it is the best decision for his cam­paign. 
Clark has filed the initial paperwork with federal election regulators to qualify for the government campaign money. The Federal Election Commission will make the first payment in January. 
The retired general's decision will provide him with an impor­tant cash infusion heading into the early primaries. If Clark becomes the Democratic nomi­nee, however, there is a risk he will be near the spending limit as President Bush, with no pri­mary opponent, has millions left to spend next spring and summer, before the general election season starts. 
Bush has opted out of public financing for the primaries, as he did in his first bid, and is 
already at or over the record 
$106 million he raised in 2000. 
He plans to accept full public 
funding for the general elec­
tion. 

Spell said Clark decided not to let Bush's prolific fund rais­ing affect his own campaign strategy. The retired general will have the resources he needs to run, she said. 
Other Democratic candidates, including Joe Lieberman, Dick Gephardt and John Edwards, have also committed to -taking public financing. 
Clark has been capitalizing on Dean's decision to opt out of the system. 
Clark campaign chairman Eli Segal sent a donor appeal Thursday noting Dean's recent decision to skip public financing and the accompanying spend­ing limits, as well as the possi­bility that Kerry will follow. 
"Both have been raising money for over a year and are blanketing the key early states with television advertising and paid campaign workers," Segal wrote in the e-mail. "As you know well, Wes Clark's cam­paign began just eight weeks ago." 
Segal told donors a $1,000 contribution would help pay for a month's rent on the cam­paign's new South Carolina office, $500 would buy a com­



page 10 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 14, 2003 

Kerry apologizes to former staff 
Associated Press 
CONCORD, N.H. Democratic presidential hopeful John Kerry called three former aides Thursday to apologize for saying his campaign will be "better ofT" without them. 
Kerry made the calls hours after he said in an interview with The Associated Press that the firing of campaign manager Jim Jordan on Sunday was proof of his ability to make tough decisions. 
Within days of Jordan's dis­missal, Kerry's press secretary and deputy finance director quit. 
"When you change one per­son, it is not at all unusual that a couple of people that person hired, that I barely know, who are not really involved with me, decide to go," Kerry said. 
Even some of his top advisers privately complained that Kerry's remarks threatened to further divide his staff and add steam to an internal squabble that has raised questions about his management style. 
Robert Gibbs 
"'/ enjoyed working 

had been chief 
for Senator Kerry 

spokesman for the Massachusetts and wish him the senator and Carl best.,,Chidlow had been deputy finance director since late Robert Gibbs January, accord-former chief ing to the cam-spokesman for Kerry's paign. Both quit campaign 
on Tuesday after nearly a year on campaign will be better off shakeup and pledged "there moving ahead with people who will be no changes" on his staff. want to be there. I think it Jordan had no comment on 
underscores why  the  official's  
I had to make  a  remarks.  
change." A senior Kerry  "'When you change  Kerry, mean­while, reassured  
adviser, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Kerry called  one person, it is not at all unusual that a couple of  congressional sup­porters in a con­ference call Wednesday night 
Jordan, Gibbs and  people that person  that change would  
Chidlow to apolo­gize for the remarks.  hired, that I barely know ... decide to  energize his cam­paign. "There was cer­ 
Gibbs  will  be  go.,,  tainly  no  hand­ 
replaced  by  wringing,"  said  
Stephanie Cutter, a former spokes­ John Kerry  Rep. Richard Neal, D-Mass. "He  
woman  for Sen.  Democratic  said they had pri­ 
Edward Kennedy,  presidential hopeful  vate polling that  

D-Mass. and cur­rently the spokes­woman for the Democratic National Convention. 
Jordan was replaced Monday by Mary Beth Cahill, who was Kennedy's chief of staff. The switch, less than three months before voters in Iowa partici­pate in the first-in-the-nation 
caucuses, was designed to jump­start Kerry's cam­paign by signaling to fund-raisers and activists that he was address­ing problems that have caused his campaign to slump. 
Another senior Kerry adviser, also speaking on condition of 
put them in pretty 
good shape." 
Rep. Edward Markey, D­Mass., praised Kerry's choice of Cahill and said lawmakers on the call were supportive and believe that the presidential race is still wide open. 
Responding to Kerry's com­ments, Gibbs said, "I enjoyed working for Senator Kerry and wish him the best. I believe he will make a great president of the United States." 
Kerry had described the fir­ing of Jordan as a "one-day story," but the departures of two other staffers and ques­tions about whether he could revive his struggling campaign have lingered. He trails rival Howard Dean by double digits in New Hampshire, a must-win state for the two New Englanders. 
Questioned Thursday, Kerry said, "It's time for this cam­paign to get really real and focused. It's been frankly very superficial in many ways, and I hope voters are now beginning to really focus." 
Guidant takes insurers to court 
Fight prompted by medical device failure 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Guidant Corp. said it is suing its insurers over coverage of costs from safety problems with a medical device that led to $92 million in federal fines, product liability lawsuits and other expenses. 
One of Guidant's insurance carriers also has sued the med­ical device maker, the Indianapolis-based company 

said  in  a  filing  with  the  
Securities  and  Exchange  
Commission.  

The fmes grew out of a crimi­nal investigation of a Guidant subsidiary's failure to report problems with the Ancure blood-vessel patching device. 
As part of a plea agreement reached in June, the subsidiary, Menlo Park, Calif.-based EndoVascular Technologies Inc., acknowledged it misled the Food and Drug Administration by not disclosing that the device was linked to 12 deaths and thousands of injuries. Doctors who implanted the device reported parts sometimes got stuck in arteries. Some also reported trouble removing the device's plastic sleeve. 
Guidant recorded a $17 mil­lion second-quarter charge from costs to discontinue the device, which was used to cure aneurysms in the blood vessels leading to the heart. Guidant also closed EndoVascular, which accounted for less than 2 percent of the parent compa­ny's $3.2 billion in sales last year. 
In addition to the federal 
fines, Guidant faces lawsuits 
seeking damages over patient 
deaths and injuries. 
Guidant said in its SEC filing 

Wednesday that it had settled 
11 of 14 lawsuits filed before 

the June plea agreement. 
Since June, Guidant has been 

served with about 15 more indi­
vidual complaints. Two lawsuits 
that could gain class-action cer­
tification in Northern California 
also are pending. 
Guidant had previously said it 

expected its liability insurance 
would cover any losses. 
But Wednesday's filing said 

one of Guidant's carriers, 
Allianz Insurance Co., had flled 
a lawsuit in DuPage County, Ill., 
that seeks to rescind or deny 
coverage. 
Guidant said it has sued Allianz and other carriers in Marion County Superior Court in Indianapolis to preserve its coverage rights. 
Guidant ·said it "continues to make progress in managing its product liability exposure" from the Ancure device. 
Allianz, a German insurer, seeks financial damages in its lawsuit and relief from cover­age obligations to Guidant. The company's complaint says Guidant's insurance claims "include a request for reim­bursement for a $49 million civil settlement made in con­junction wi.th a criminal plea and multiple civil actions" involving the Ancure device. 
Do you like music? Are you a student leader? Are you interested in 
concert promotions? 
available in the Student Actrvities offrce (315 laFotune) 
due TUESDAY, Nov 18th 

Have Questions? 
contact Erin Byrne 1.7308 or ebyrne2@nd.edu 
the Kerry team. 
"What's important is that I as a chief executive made a tough decision. And if somebody else is not loyal to me but is loyal to the manager, they don't belong in the campaign," he said. "My anonymity, defended the sena­tor's actions by saying the cam­paign did not function properly under Jordan. The official said Jordan's firing had been in the works since September, even as Kerry denied reports of a 

linguage lnst~at~. offering ;wkle ~ng~ ofm4!ots in Et19incet1ngf Bu~iDt!ss~ Social Sciences# Hu manf.tie., an4 Sdcm:~~ ·stau~of-the-art f~borato~y~cilitie5 an4 rcs~~n ccntc~f An4. you gcl_NP cte4iti Appli~an 4~adline is .. D~mber t http-J/~,nd,~·u/fotl$hldACQttoM/mexfeo/
·DU!bb.Mm ····· . .. 
Vars1. y Tennis 

· Fr~ at Chafge Open to a!l Dependents 23 Years ol A~e or Younger No Advance Registration Necessaty ··/·• 
.. Bring Your Own Racquet 1 . 
TennisF~~~~::~~~~I ~~~u;n~~ga~~~e1~~11owea· · .·•·• ·• / .. • .. 
Friday, November 14, 2003 page 11
The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
SAUDI ARABIA 




Bombing increases push for democracy 
Associated Press 
RIYADH -The bombing that killed 1 7 people in the Saudi capital is intensifying pressure for democratic reform in Saudi Arabia, and is likely to under­cut the militants' support among Arabs who previously sympathized to some degree with their goals. 
While some have rejoiced over Saturday's suicide car bombing, many in the Arab world are shocked that it tar­geted Arabs and Muslims. 
The bombing -the work of Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network, according to U.S. and Saudi officials -hit a housing compound in Riyadh that the attackers must have known houses Arab families. As a result, said Saudi political ana­lyst Dawood al-Shirian, many Saudis who felt some sympathy for bin Laden or even saw jus­tification for the Sept. 11 attacks are now beginning to question his goals. 
"When they see the images of dead children, when they see the images of a dead moth­er, if one of their own dies, they will turn away from the militants," said al-Shirian. "That's what will isolate the militants." 
On the streets of the capital one evening this week, after breaking their daily Ramadan fast, some Muslims expressed fear such attacks would sully Islam or encourage its ene­mies. 

Khalid al-Sultan, 32, a cater­ing company employee, called it "un-Islamic." Abdul-Rahman al-Sheikh, a 41-year-old busi­nessman, said al-Qaida mili­tants are "not only a threat to the people in the kingdom but also a threat to humanity and our peaceful religion." 
That feeling was not univer­sal, however. In Saudi Arabia and elsewhere, many Arabs have fallen back on conspiracy theories about America and Israel engineering the bombing -or at least letting it happen -in order to discredit Islam. 
"I have the feeling that those who did it can't be Muslims. Why not Americans?" lawyer Fatma Lasheen said in Cairo. "The American Embassy closed the day of the opera­tion. And if not, why didn't they foil this operation if they knew about it? Don t you think it is strange?" 
The U.S. Embassy in Riyadh had closed because of fears an attack was imminent, but U.S. officials said the intelligence did not say where it might happen. 
UNITED KINGDOM 

Royal tabloid rumors abate 
Associated Press 

LONDON -It was all good news for Prince Charles on British front pages Thursday. For the first time in nearly two weeks, he wasn't mentioned on any of them. 
The storm over the allegation that couldn't be reported has abated. 
But can it last? Given the public's media-fed fascination with Charles, his former mar­riage and royals in general, don't count on it. 
"Why are we reading this endless bilge about the 'dam­aging allegations' against the Prince of Wales?" Conservative legislator Boris Johnson said in his Daily Telegraph column Thursday. 
"Is it the media's insatiable lust for readers and viewers, that they will print what they know to be the most pathetic and ludicrous lies?" 
The odd affair of the unspo­ken allegation began Nov. 1, when a British court granted an injunction to stop the Mail on Sunday newspaper from printing the allegations of a 
. former royal valet, George Smith. It also forbade identifi­cation of a "royal servant" who had claimed the story was libelous, and sought the injunc­tion. The gag order began to unravel, however, when The Guardian newspaper went to 
court to argue that the identity of royal servants who sue should not be given a cloak of anonymity which was denied to ordinary Britons. 
The Guardian prevailed, and identified the suing servant as Michael Fawcett, former senior aide to Charles. 
The Guardian emphasized that it didn't believe the allega­tions, adding that they "differ from the highly colored rumors about royal affairs which have surfaced recently in the tabloids." 

With Charles clearly in the spotlight, he authorized a statement identifying himself as the "senior royal" who did­n't do whatever it was that hadn't been reported. 
"This allegation is untrue. The incident which the former employee claims to have wit­nessed did not take place," said the statement issued by the prince's private secretary, Sir Michael Peat. 
It added that the former ser­vant who made the allegation "unfortunately ... has suffered from post-traumatic stress dis­order and has previously suf­fered from alcoholism." 
Nonetheless, it soon became known that Smith alleged that he had been raped by another royal servant, and that he also claimed to have seen Charles involved in an "incident." 
Newspapers in Britain didn't say much more about the "inci­dent." But a name reported in one story, an apparent fact dropped in another, and a large hint in one of the pictures published in several papers fed the rumors. 
Charles' denial seemed only to make it worse. 
Graphic versions of the "inci­dent" turned up on the Internet. Some newspapers on the continent, not restrained by British courts, were explicit about the report. 
But those papers weren't on the newsstands in places like 
W.H. Smith, Britain's big news and book retailer. Not our fault, said Smith, saying the distributor hadn't delivered the papers. The distributor would­n't talk. 
Charles' former press aide, Mark Bolland, who said he was trying to be helpful, disclosed that a senior royal servant had once asked him whether Charles was bisexual. That question fit neatly, in huge type, on the front page of last Sunday's News of the World, the nation's largest-selling 
newspape~ Bolland~ unequ~­
ocal denial was in the small type. 
The episode followed yet another round of raking over the ashes of Charles' marriage to Princess Diana. 
The Daily Mirror tabloid was basking in its success in serial­izing a book by Paul Burrell, Diana's former butler. 


THE OBSERVER 
p
Page 12 


Friday, November 14, 2003 
Praising student input into search process 
Searching for a new President of a college or university Engaging students in the discussions, encouraging them to EoJroam CBilW can be a tedious task, one necessitating input from various send the committee their thoughts and feelings and allowing . AndreW Soukup parties to ensure the compatibility of the chosen candidate. a student representative on the committee shows that the The process of interviewing candidates and allowing them College understands and acknowledges the importance of a
MANAGING Eolll)~ · BUSIN£SS MANAGu. ScQu Btodfuehtel" · · Lori Lewalski to familiarize themselves with the College is essential to this strong relationship between the new president and the stu­process. But normally, the interviewing process is left to dent body. The flip side of opening this process to students,
.• . Am: .MANAGING f»t't'Ok . .. 

Board members or administrative higher-ups of course, is to ensure that their feedback is 
Sheilafly® 

and students are virtually excluded from the Qlihe seriously taken into consideration when the 
..·• NEWS Eotroib. Meghanne Downes . entire procedure server •a1 final decision is made. Because the new presi­. VlEWPOINT £ofroRt Te1eSll Fr:l.lish .. · So credit Saint Mary's, as the College hires ~ dent will affect the College in so many ways, SPOtTS£Dnoib)o(Hertlet . its 11th president, for allowing students to Edil..On ensuring student satisfaction is an important engage in conversation with the candidates. step to maintaining solid administrative-stu­
SC£m £titrol6 $arabVahufas This open process has permitted the students dent relationships. to meet the candidate, get to know her and evaluate her Holding some of the selection process with an open door afterwards, if they so choose. At student-candidate lunch­policy furthers the students' willingness to be active on or eons, students have had the opportunity to ask questions around campus. It is a sharp contrast to Notre Dame's cam­. . .... AD Dl!SIGN MANAG.EIU ToutHaight ....... and get to know the candidate. Following the forum, stu­pus, where administrators rarely give students input into dents may log onto a Web site and send a feedback form to key decisions. This policy has led to poor student-adminis­
.SY$'W4S At>MOOnlVJOIU T¢dBangetf 

the Presidential Search Committee so that the committee trator relations, as students believe their input is cast aside
~B ADMrNlsnwuiU J~nCreek · 

knows how the students viewed the candidate. The adopt negative attitudes. 
· CoNTitp~ll: ¥ik~ Ftancman 

Presidential Search Committee consists of 13 members and Saint Mary's should be commended for its hiring process. also has student representation: -including Elizabeth With the opportunity for so many people to express so many Jablonski-Diehl, the student body president, is a member of opinions, it is hard to imagine the College community will be the committee. displeased with the final choice for President. 






The rape of the land 
During his presidential campaign, President George W. Bush declared himself a "conservationist" rather than an environ­mentalist. While for once his panache for linguistic inventiveness happened upon an actual word, his statement remained mis­leading. In the 

time since his elec- John lnfranca  
tion, Bush has done much to  
undermine envi- Dissident  
ronmental initia­tives: increasing logging on public  Poetry  

land, lowering emission standards and fail­ing to investigate potential violations of the Oean Air Act. His decisions have repeatedly put the concerns ofspecial interests and industry above public opinion and public health. 
This past week the attorneys general in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut instigated litigation to compel power plants in that region to decrease pollution. Thic; followed the Bush Administration's decision to abandon over 50 investigations ofpoten­tial Oean Air Act violations. The Environmental Protection Agency's new standards, which halted these investiga­tions, are the product of industry com­plaints presented two years ago to Vice President Dick Cheney's clandestine energy task force. While in the past the upgrading ofpower plants required improved pollu­tion controls, the utility companies man­aged to compel Cheney to eliminate this rule for the sake ofproducing more power (and of course greater profit). In addition to dismissing their own litigation, the EPA's new standards have also weakened the legal basis of the cases being pursued by the states. 
Unfortunately, this is only the most recent example ofthe Administration's failure to take advantage of the federal government's ability to protect the environment and the health ofAmerk.an citizens. President Bush's decisions often pay little heed to either the conclusions of studies made by his own EPA or to public opinion. Consider the recent decision to reverse a Clinton Administration plan to phase out snowmo­bile usage in Yellowstone National Park. After conducting its own study, the Bush Administration's EPA concluded that allow­ing snowmobiles in Yellowstone caused unnecessary pollution and disturbed wildlife. When the Interior Department asked for public opinion on the issue they received 360,000 responses and four out of five supported banning snowmobiles. In the end the administration not only decided to continue allowing their use, they even increased the number ofsnowmobiles that will be allowed. 
Disdain for public opinion on environ­mental policy appears to be a common practice for this administration. An even more glaring example can be found in the decision to open two million acres of land in Utah to exploration for gas and oil. The Bureau of Land Management received 25,200 comments opposing the project and less than 200 in supported. Nonetheless, the plan was approved anyway. Such lack of concern for the opinion ofenvironmentally concerned citizens should not be surprising from a president who, according to a biog­rapher, refers to environmentalists as "Green-green-lima-beans." 
Many of these environmental policies are the product ofVice President Cheney's Energy Task Force, a group that met short­ly after the beginning of the Bush presiden­cy to devise administration energy policy. Their meetings, which occurred behind closed doors, involved testimony from hun­dreds ofindividuals. Many were energy industry lobbyists and executives (including Enron's Kenneth Lay) but few were envi­ronmentalists. This past September, for the fourth time, the courts rejected efforts by the Bush Administration to keep documents from those meetings secret. Nonetheless, the administration continues to seek ways to avoid releasing them. 
Earlier this year New York's Republican Governor, George Pataki, annolll1ced a new standard that will require, within the next 
10 years, that one-fourth of all electricity 
sold in New York come from renewable 
energy sources. In light of such bold action, 
what seems to be missing from President 
Bush's administration are the political will 
to refuse the demands of the energy lobby 
that helped finance his election and the 
desire to show any interest in the opinions 
and health of concerned citizens. 
The result is an energy policy focused on production in the form of coal, oil, natural gas and nuclear energy, but which offers only distant hopes ofmore renewable ener­gy sources and no incentives for energy conservation. Ironically enough, President Bush's own Western White House (his pri­vate home in Crawford, Texas) boasts a geothermal heating and cooling system. a passive solar design and a cistern that col­lects water for irrigation use. These fea­tures do not simply conserve energy. they also save money. But they are features the average American cannot afford absent government initiatives directed at energy conservation and an increased commitment to renewable energy sources. 
Such initiatives are not part of this admin­istration's policies, nor will they be so long as our energy policy is formulated behind closed doors and absent respect for both the environment and public opinion. American citizens should demand their president show greater concern for the wel­fare ofhis citizens and the land they inhab­it. So long as the energy industry's dona­tions fill this administration's campaign cof­fers a change in policies seems wilikely. As much as it might soon be necessary, I would not hold your breath waiting for such a change. 
John lnfranca is a theology graduate stu­dent. His colwnn appears every other Friday. He can be reached at jinfran 1 @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
News Graphics· 

Maureen Graham Ebestcb OBSERVER POLL 
Reynolds . Sports··>·• 
Will Puckett Chris Federico 
Megan O'Neil PatLeonard.· 

Viewpoint· Do you support moving the 
HeatherVan · 
Pass-in-Review, the annual 
Nicole Clery · Hoogafden >/ ·· 

Scene<····· procession by ROTC 
lllustratQr 
students, to an 
Vanessa Saenz Sarah Vabulas 
outside location? 
*Poll is based on 209 responses. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
..Two roads diverged in a wood and I-I took the one less traveled by, and that has made all the dif" "ence ... 
Robert Frost poet 


THE OBSERVER 




University must support Solidarity Sunday 
Friday, November 14, 2003 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Fashion isn't important at Notre Dame 
As a senior who can't help but read the train wrecks in the Viewpoint section, I've looked at the same four or five arguments repeated each year. The charming debate between students and religious Nazis over whether or not homosexuality is okay is my personal favorite for anI-can't­believe-this-person-exists smirk, but the rants on student body unity are always a great source of unintentional humor as well. Emily Howald did little more than state the obvious in her Nov. 10 column about our homogenous fashion sense. Anne Morrison, in her letter to the editor, apparently thinks that following the "fash­ion trends" of the majority is prerequisite for being a part of the community. 
In her Nov. 12 reply, Morrison was "appalled" by the column, believing that Howald's article could "further detach" students with less economic privilege who can't afford such all-important brands as Abercrombie. Howald's article was a decla­ration of war, apparently, as Morrison states it "is actually a united front with which you pit the people that can afford to dress that way against those that can­not." 
Morrison cares a bit 

too much about fash­ion. She also overesti­mates the fashion authority and overall coolness of the student body. The Notre Dame girls I see around campus do dress similarly, but I wouldn't necessari­ly call an oversized sweatshirt, sweat­pants, sneakers, reading glasses and a ponytail a big chunk of anyone's pay­check. Nor would I say that it hinges on being part of the community, unless you're the type who needs to blend in with your surroundings. Maybe one of the aforementioned girls is buying $50 sweat­pants at the bookstore and the other found her pair at Salvation Army for $2, but I can't tell the difference as I pass them on the quad. 
Why be threatened by the fact that a large percentage of students have bland, unoriginal and interchangeable wardrobes? You probably know exactly who I'm talking about when I say "that one girl with short black spiky hair who 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
always wears funky pants," but have no idea who "that girl with the black pointy shoes and wool sweater" is. To this I give a resounding "so what," and you should, too. As someone who can barely afford utilities or replacement tires (my car is, a week later, still sitting on a street near Roseland with a flat), I am quite happy to dress in old T-shirts and the same three pairs of pants for no other reason than I like them. The same goes for many of those who are swimming in a sea of Old Navy sweaters. Does Dave Matthews make you feel threatened, too? He's also bland and all over campus. 
I would argue that Notre Dame students are defmed by their lack of effort to keep up with fashion trends. It doesn't take nearly as much time to pick something out of one of your roommate's catalogs as it does to read fashion magazines, haunt 
consignment shops, and find that 
Homogeneity in fashion is cer­tainly not an act of exclusion by the Notre Dame com­
munity, unless one thinks 
that clothes defme the person, in which case most of us could be defined by the word "blah." We actually pro­mote blending in with everyone else here, if 
you haven't noticed, and all10 of the underprivi­leged here can easily 
choose to do so by fmding something boring to wear. Apparently, being part of 

Morrison's community requires 
wearing "vintage clothing, band T-shirts or even homemade clothes." She was even so kind as to point out where we should look for her in the dining hall. In short, Morrison's article read more like a plea for recognition than a plea for unity. Your friends "don't wear Notre Dame apparel on any given day" -good for them. I'll be sure to wave as I pass the "first table on the left" in North Dining Hall. Maybe I'll even throw you a copy of ''The Hipster Handbook. .. 
Dan Maguire 
scntor off-campus Nov. 13 

page 13 
According to Campus Ministry, 
Solidarity Sunday is "an annual 
event each fall semester to high­
light our community's 'spirit of 
inclusion' for gay, lesbian, and 
bisexual students, faculty and 
staff." 

There are two components of SS. 
First, students, recruited through 
OutreachND (an unrecognized 
organization of gay, lesbian, bisexu­
al, transexual and questioning stu­
dents), distribute prayer cards 
bearing a symbol of "solidarity" at 
the Basilica Masses and to dorms 
for Sunday night Masses. Second, 
the priests at each mass discuss the 
issue of homosexuality at Notre 
Dame and the "spirit of inclusion" 
in their homilies. 
SS was designated for Nov. 9 this 
year not only because it was a 
home football game, but also a par­
ent weekend -the University 
would be able to demonstrate its 
"spirit of inclusion" to its extended 
Notre Dame family. 
This year, however, SS did not 
happen. 
Although Campus Ministry ordered the prayer cards, recruited volunteers to glue 3,000 stickers onto the cards and reserved a room to assemble them, they did not save the date. As a result, Nov. 9 was scheduled as Mission Sunday. The 
11:45 a.m. Basilica Mass collection went to Holy Cross missions and the homily praised ministering in Bangladesh. Outside, six students warmed their hands and waited to distribute prayer cards for Solidarity Sunday. Sadly, their efforts were futile. 
As one of those six students, I dis­tributed cards at four Masses over the weekend. I took charge of the event when I realized Thursday that a sign-up sheet for volunteers to distribute the cards hadn't been established. On Friday afternoon, I discovered that there were still 500 stickers to glue onto prayer cards but that the office they were in had been locked for the weekend. By Saturday, only five people had signed up to distribute. I assigned them to four Masses (two after Saturday's game and two Sunday morning). Plans had not been made to distribute cards to dorms. 
To make a long story short, 
thanks to frantic delegation, all of 
the cards were delivered to the 
dorms by Sunday afternoon. But no 
one knew what they were for. 
SS is annual tradition: why did it 
go so badly this year? . 
In previous years, students with several years of experience with OutreachND and the Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs made the event hap­pen almost single-handedly. This year's leadership, however, in both OutreachND and the Standing Committee, is largely new and inex­perienced. This led to three-way pointing where Campus Ministry looked to OutreachND, OutreachND looked to Campus Ministry and the Standing Committee, and the Standing Committee looked to Campus Ministry to take care of it. 
So no one did. 
It is particularly ironic that CM relies on OutreachND to create the event when Student Activities has rejected OutreachND's applications for club status claiming there is "no need" for the organization. 
This year Notre Dame was ranked first on th<' Princeton Review's list of schools where "alternative lifestyles are not an alternative." In an effort to disprove this ranking, I suggest the University take full responsibility for SS. 
The way SS faltered reflects very badly on the University. A more cynical person could claim it demonstrates a systematic and even intentional marginalization of "alternative lifestyles." The nega­tive atmosphere toward gay, lesbian and bisexual students is prevalent on campus. A true promotion of the "spirit of inclusion" would fight against this atmosphere by assuring Solidarity Sunday is a well-publi­cized and well-run event. 
With continued effort by the Notre Dame community, particularly the administration, I believe our foot­ball ranking can easily exceed our "no alternative lifestyle" ranking. 
Rose Lindgren scmor off-campus Nov. 12 


page 14 Friday, November 14, 2003 


am 
er 
rc 
estra an~ 
The sounds of Bach and Schubert echoed through the ceili as the University of Notre Dame Chorale and C 
on [freshman] orientation weekend," something their first year and
ByJONATHAN RETARTHA 

Blachly said. At these auditions, all of to meet people is a unique
Scene Writer 

the directors of the vocal groups are and rewarding experience. 
present, and the applicants choose a The thing that sets the 
The sounds of Bach and Schubert preference of what program with Chamber Orchestra apart echoed through the ceilings of the which they would like to be involved. from the Symphony Orchestra Basilica of the Sacred Heart "The kids just audition once," is its repertoire. "They [the Wednesday night as the University of Blachly said, "and almost always they Symphony] do big 19th centu­Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber tend to get in their first choice. The ry orchestras," Blachly said. Orchestra presented their fall con­priority, however, is in assigning stu­"Chamber does mostly cert. dents into the programs with which Baroque music." 
The majority of the Basilica's nave they fit the best. They [the different This contrast in musical was full of spectators as the Chamber vocal groups] have different person­styles stems from the fact Orchestra and Chorale opened their alities, different sounds," Blachly that the Chamber Orchestra performance season. The Notre Dame said. "Some that may be suited for is a much smaller group, con­Chorale was started in 1974 and is one choir may not be as well suited sisting of 16 students playing the official concert for another." violins, violas, cellos, basses, choir of the The Chamber oboes and harpsichords. The University. The Orchestra is com­absence of other instruments Chamber Orchestra prised of students warrants the 18th century was started in 1994 "We sing in the Basilica from the Notre Baroque style. by the current direc­because it's got a fantastic Dame Symphony As for the Chorale, its music tor of choral music, Orchestra, and the repertoire is somewhat limit­
acoustic and because it's 
Alexander Blachly. University bands. ed due to the venue for their Blachly is an asso­got a fantastic atmosphere; Students who choose performances. Since the fall ciate professor of it's kind ofa magic place to participate in the and spring concerts are in the music at Notre Chamber Orchestra Basilica, the Chorale may
there, and a wonderful
Dame and has are a.:tive members only sing non-secular texts,
place for concerts. " · 
served as director of both the Chamber that is, liturgical music..~ since 1993. Since and Symphony Blachly, though, this limita­earning his post­Alexander Blachly Orchestras, an effort tion is "hardly a hardship." graduate degrees in that demands a dif­Blachly adds, "We sing in the
director of choral music 
musicology from ferent level of devo-basilica because it's got a Columbia University, tion. fantastic acoustic, and he has gone on to "They have to because it's got a fantastic found the acclaimed want to do it," atmosphere; it's kind of a vocal ensemble Pomerium, which Blachly said, "They have to be pretty magic place there, and a God)" are both essential parts to the specializes in recording a capella dedicated." wonderful place for concerts." The contemporary Roman Catholic Mass, Renaissance music. The Chamber Orchestra and Chorale has a membership of around and the Chorale illuminated them 
In addition to teaching at Notre Chorale are two of a small collection 50 students in all vocal range·s who both through the unique arrangement Dame, Blachly has been a music edu­of organizations at Notre Dame that are involved with every field of study and traditional Latin text. The cator at Columbia, New York cater directly to freshmen and give at the University. Chorale went on to perform Franz University, Rutgers, and the underclassmen a chance to be promi­Wednesday night's performance Schubert's arrangement of "Salve University of Pennsylvania. Along nent figures early on in the program. featured individual performances Regina," which features the verse with his teaching and directing "It tends to be weighted towards from the Chorale and Chamber inscribed on the seal of the Brothers duties, he also co-directs the Schola freshmen, partly because when they Orchestra, as well as a combined of the Holy Cross that describes Our Musicorum of Notre Dame with Calvin come in, they know they like to sing, piece. The concert opened with the Lady as "Our life, sweetness, and 
M. Bower and hosts a radio program but they don't know about all the Chamber Orchestra performing hope." They then performed Cristobal Wednesdays on WSND. other wonderful things there are to "Ouverture in D" by Georg Philipp de Morales's 16th century adaptation 
The audition process for the Notre do," Blachly said. Telemann. The Chorale then took the of Psalm 17, "Circumdederunt Me," Dame chorale is very similar to the Even though the program has a stage, set up on the altar of the which is a short passage that auditions held for the other vocal hard time keeping students involved Basilica, and performed two pieces laments, ..The groans of death have groups on campus. for all four years, the opportunities from Antonio Lotti's "Mass in A." The surrounded me; the sorrows of hell 
"We have general chorale auditions for freshmen to get involved with "Kyrie" and the "Agnus (Lamb of have surrounded me." The Chorale 



The majority of the Basilica's nave was full of spectators as the Chamber Orchestra and Chorale opened their performance season. 

Friday, November 14, 2003 Page 15 





en season 
ings of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Wednesday night :hamber Orchestra presented their fall concert. 

then presented their first piece in English, a three-part arrangement of Orlando Gibbons's ··A Hymne to God the Father," which implores the Lord for forgiveness for a life of sin. 
The Chamber Orchestra then returned to the stage and performed Johann Sebastian Bach's "Brandenburg Concerto No. 3," with selections from the Allegro and Adagio portions of the piece. "The reason we were able to do the 3rd Brandenburg tonight is because we had strong violas," notes. Blachly. He also went on to say that a strong viola section has often been hard to find in his experience and that being fortu­nate enough to have Adam Shanko and Christina Knuth provided the opportunity to perform the "Brandenburg" for the first time in close to 10 years. 

The Chorale returned and performed "Nunc Dimittis," by Henry Purcell, an arrangement of Luke 2:29, which provides the source for the "Glory Be" which is recit­ed during such services as the Rosary. They then per­formed two by Francis Poulenc. The first was "Videntes Stellam," based on Matthew 2:11, which describes the Magi's trip to shower the newborn Jesus with gifts. The second. "Timor et Tremor" is based on Psalms 54, 6, and 30, and reflects a fear for the Lord and an imploring for His help. The Chorale's two grad­uate assistants, Ivana Savanosov4 and Stephen Lanc(l~t~~. respectJv.ely con­duit:ed eadt piece. What makes "Circumdederunt Me," "Nunc Dimlttis," "Videntes Stellam," and "Timor et Tremorso" unique is that· they are very short scripture passages sung in many dif­ferent ways and combina­tions of voices that lend 
themselves to five-or six-minute pieces. 
Finally, the Chamber Orchestra joined the Chorale on stage and gave a combined performance of Bach's Cantata, "Aus der Tiefen (Out of the Depths)." The Cantata is an arrange­ment of Psalm 130 in five parts. The first movement is titled "Aus der Tie fen," and is based on verses one and two of Psalm 130. The second movement, based on the third and fourth verses, is titled "So du Willst," and featured Matthew Smedberg as the bass soloist. 
Smedberg gave an inspiring per­formance filled with very low notes held for long periods. "Ich Harre des Herrn," the third movement, is based on verse five and is three simple verses presented with remarkable depth and complexity by the Chorale. The fourth movement, "Meine Seele Wartet," featured Brian Manternach of the music Department as the guest tenor soloist. 
The concert concluded with Bach's fifth movement, titled "Israel, Hoffe auf den Herrn," based on verses seven and eight of Psalm 130. "The Bach cantata tonight was selected because we had a great bass singer to sing the bass solo," Blachly said, and dent in charge who begins by choos­ing a general section of the country they want to tour in. They then call alumni groups in that area to see which ones would like to sponsor per­formances. 
"We'll get one concert set before the others, and the rest fall into place," said Blachly. Every three years, the group travels abroad dur­ing the summer, performing in such locations as Rome, Orvieto, Spoleto, Assisi, Siena, Florence, Venice, Padua, Bavaria and Austria. 
The Chorale and Chamber Orchestra have two recordings on CD. 
··we have three won­derful oboes." 
In addition to the fall and spring con­certs, the Chamber Orchestra and Chorale annually perform George Frideric Handel's "Messiah" during the Christmas season. This year's perform­ances witl be Dec. 3­
5. The Chamber Orchestra artd Chorale also perform a concert during Commencement weekend and at the Baccalaureate Mass. 
"Many ofthe touring opportunities present for the Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra come from the benefit of Notre Dame's strong Alumni Association ... 
Alexander Blachly director of choral music 
The first is "Cantate Domino," featuring a portion of their "Messiah" perform­ances. The second is 
•'The Notre Dame Chorale in Concert" and features large selections from Handel, Joseph Haydn, Orlande de Lassus and Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. 
In all, the concert provided for a won­derful evening of classical music that was enjoyed by the "respectful and 

As with many of the other perform­ing groups at Notre Dame, the Chamber Orchestra and Chorale have a tradition of performing around the country during semester breaks. They have three trips to Florida, four to New Orleans and many to Columbus, Ohio and Indianapolis. Ind. They have also performed in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Louisville, St. Louis and Chicago. among other locations. 
Blachly explained that all of the tours work in basically the same way. Many of the touring opportunities present for the Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra come from the benefit of Notre Dame's strong Alumni Association. They have a stu­enthusiastic" crowd, Blachly said. 
The skill needed for such difficult pieces presented in several languages reflects the hard work put into rehearsing for the evening's perform­ance. The Orchestra blended very well as a group for such a small ensemble, and it balanced itself very well with the Chorale in the Cantata. 
"I thought the kids did great," Blachly said. He, along with his per­formers. looks forward now to "Messiah" in December, an event that normally brings sellout crowds each year to Washington Hall. 
Contact Jonathan Retartha at jrctarth@nd.ec:lu 

Students who choose to participate In the Chamber Orchestra are active mem­bers of both the Chamber and Symphony Orchestras. 

page 16 Th~ Observ~r + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, November 14, 2003 
NBA 

Bryant makes first court appearance 
Associated Press A 
EAGLE, Colo. -Kobe Bryant made his first court appearance Thursday before the judge who will handle his sexual assault trial, saying nothing as the parents of his accuser sat just a few feet away. 
It was the first time family members of the 19-year-old woman have attended a hear­ing in the case and the first time they have seen the Los Angeles Lakers' guard in per­son, prosecution spokes­woman Krista Flannigan said. 
Besides the parents, two brothers and a cousin of the woman were present. The family left the courthouse without commenting, though Flannigan said they told her they were glad they came. 
Bryant, who played a home game in Los Angeles the night before, sat calmly through the 12-minute procedural hearing, occasionally whis­pering to one of his attorneys. He left immediately after­ward but Lakers officials said bad weather kept him from arriving in time for practice. 
The defense waived Bryant's rights to be advised of the sexual assault charge against him and the penalty he faces if convicted -four years to life in prison and 20 years to life on probation. Bryant's $25,000 bail was left unchanged. 
"We have decided to follow the court's usual procedure and not enter a plea as of today," defense attorney Pamela Mackey said...1 fully advised my client of the charge against him and the possible penalty." 


Judge Terry Ruckriegle set a pretrial hearing for Dec. 19 and another for Jan. 23 to settle various motions. Bryant will have to appear at both hearings to show he is com­plying with conditions of his bond, Flannigan said. 
Attorneys on both sides said they would need two to three weeks for a trial, and the· judge said his staff would begin looking at potential dates. 
Bryant is accused of raping the woman June 30 at a mountain resort near Edwards where she worked and he was a guest. Bryant, 25, says the two had consen­sual sex. 
He isn't expected to enter a plea until his arraignment, which hasn't been scheduled. After a formal plea, state law requires the trial must be scheduled within six months unless Bryant waives his right to a speedy trial. 
The Dec. 19 hearing will examine whether the woman's medical records and records from a rape crisis center should be given to the defense and whether anyone involved in the case has been leaking information. 

COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Marquette tops St. John's in opener 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Opening games are seldom works of art. Marquette and St. John's proved that Thursday night in the Coaches vs. Cancer Classic. 
Travis Diener scored 18 points and No. 23 Marquette, despite not having a field goal over the final 4:20, beat the Red Storm 52-45 at Madison Square Garden. 
This was a sloppy season open­er for two teams looking to replace their stars -Dwyane Wade at Marquette and Marcus Hatten at St. John's. After one game both spots are still up for grabs. 
"We are a work in progress." Marquette coach Tom Crean said. "We have some veterans like Travis and some young guys try­ing to step up. I am excited with the win. We earned it. We have a ton of things we have to get bet­ter at and that's a first game." 
Marquette shot 29.6 percent (16-for-54), while the Red Storm were 16-for-51 (31.4 percent). The Golden Eagles had 20 turnovers, two more than St. John's. 
"Both teams did a good job defensively but one team missed more free throws and layups than the other and that was the difference," Red Storm coach Mike Jarvis said. 
Diener was the offensive star of the game -no one else scored more than 11 points -and he was 3-for-11 from the field. 
including missing all five of his 2­point attempts. He was 9-for-1 0 from the free throw, however, and that's where Marquette pre­vailed, going 14-for-16 compared to 11-for-22 for St. John's. 
Diener, who played all 40 min­utes at the point. didn't have a turnover. 
"We weren't expecting to shoot that bad but we'll take a win when we can get one," Diener said. "Credit St. John's. We didn't take care of the ball the way we wanted to. We'll get better at that." 
Grady ~eynolds led St. John's with 11 points, while Kyle Cuffe had 10. The Red Storm were 2­for-12 from 3-point range. 
"We didn't quit," Cuffe said. "We made a few mental mistakes and that can be fixed." 
Marcus Jackson's tip-in with 
4:22 left gave the Golden Eagles a 44-36 lead, but that was their last field goal of the game. 
Freshman Daryll Hill hit a 3­pointer and then scored on a layup after a steal at midcourt to bring the Red Storm to 46-43 with 2:27 to go. 
Diener and Steve Novak then made six straight free throws for Marquette to seal the win. 
..I'm not worried about us shooting the ball," Crean said. "We'll get there." 
The Golden Eagles announced last week that they would leave Conference USA and join St. John's in the Big East. In 2005­06, this will be a conference match up. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Handmade Eros scarves. Great for  Two story house completely remod- I need ND/UK & ND/IU b-ball tix.  five ...ghetto superstar  
X-mas gifts! 4-4683  eled 2003. Off street parking  273-9938  
NOTICES  FOR RENT  includes motion sensor light for  cecilia..passimate love  

 
 security. Four individually locked  
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski &Beach Trips on sale now!  WANTED  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM  bedrooms, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house,  PERSONAL  Wawa  
www.sunchase.com or call  MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272­ surrounded by other student hous­ my boss was high  
1-800-SUNCHASE todayl  Movie Extras/Models Needed.  1525  ing, laundromat next door (dryclean- UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
NO exper. required.  ing also), basement available for  Do not go it alone.  Welcome to NO Amanda.  
•••ACT NOWI Book 11 people, get  All looks and ages.  2 Nice Bedrooms: 1 double, i two  storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks,  If you or someone you love needs  Good to have you.  
12th trip free. Group discounts for  Earn $100-$500 a day.  signle. Immediately East of the  etc., new furnace and central air,  confidential support or assistance,  
6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com  1-888-820-0167, ext. U187  Campus for Game Weekends Only.  new kitchen including new stove  please call  One of the proud few to be able to  
or 800-838-8202.  $80 per person/per night.  and refrigerator, large living room  Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC,  answer 'yes' to the question, ~Did  
Part time/Full time opportunity for  Call 272-0928  for TV or entertaining, free trash  at1·7819.  you really buy a Matt Carroll jersey  
Vector/Cutco  honest, motivated, success minded  removal. Call 289-4072.  For more information, see our bi- today?"  
workforstudents. com/57 4-282-2357  individual. Exciting !-Commerce  2 Bedrooms, Immediately East of  weekly ad in The Observer.  
internet based business. Contact:  the Univ. Less than a 1/4 mile.  tool  
Doglegleftnews.com "Putting the Pathetic in Apathetic" Brought to  waynew54@pronetglobal.com  Football weekends only. $80/night/person. 574-272-0928  TICKETS  Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America s #1 Student Tour  the season  
,L  you by ND Students and Alumni  Event Staffing $8 hrlpm & week- Operator.  that was sweet  
ends Call lor details 245-6101  HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED  Hiring campus reps.  
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in  Ampco System  PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS·  -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378  Call for discounts  dickie v is back  
Acapulco now offers 3 destinations!  Parking  ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004­ PM 288-2726  1800-648-4849 or  yesss  
Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in  2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 614 S.  www.ststravel.com  
Vallarta, or get crazy in Cabo--with  ST.JOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS-214 S.  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  wrestle time  
BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. Organize a group and travel for FREE. Book  FoR SALE  ST PETER 4 BEDRROMS· 718 E. WASHINGTON ST. 2 BEDROOMS.  SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288­2726  A "Reality" Spring Break 2004s Hottest prices  this is just getting to be no fun.  
now before its too late! Call 800­ CALL KRAMER AT 234-2436 OR  Book now ..  
875-4525 or www.bianci-rossi.com.  99 Chevy Lumina LTZ.  315-5032  WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  Free Trips, Meals &  No more proposals this weekend  
4dr,leather,power,cruise,CD,3.8-Iitre  TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232­ Parties sunsplashtours.com or  At least i hope not  
PRAYER TO THE VIRGIN  V6 w/115k. 20126mpg.  4 bedroom house. 1136 E Madison.  0964.  1800-426-n1 o  
MARY(NEVER KNOWN TO FAIL­ $5500. 283-0708.  Close to campus, ample parking,  lt"s a good day to be a Gagne.  
SAY 3 CONSEC DAYS, PUBLISH,  AC, huge yard. Contact Mike (216)  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  #1 Spring Break Vacations!  
WILL BE GRANTED). Oh most  LARGE, ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  408-0780 or Matt (216) 408-0744  LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570.  110%  Soukup how did that cold house  
beautiful flower of Mt. Carmel, fruit- FOR SALE.  Best Prices!  and cold shower taste this morning?  
ful vine, splendor of heaven,  ONE MILE TO NO.  2 bdrm home, walk to NO 315-8730  Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$  Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco,  
blessed Mother of the Son of God,  NON-RENTAL.  Pay Top Dollar $$  Bahamas, Aorida.  MegHANNE, (THE MONKEY), was  
Immaculate Virgin, assist me in my  NEWLY REMODELED.  Two story house completely remod­ 1-866-808-0990  Book Now & Receive Free Meals &  in a cage.  
hecessity. Oh Star of the Sea, help  FULLY EQUIPPED.  eled 2003. Off street parking  Parties  
me and show me here you are my  $84,900.  includes motion sensor light for  Buy/Sell Notre Dame Football tick- Campus Reps Wanted!  Don't feed her.  
Mother. Oh Holy Mary, Mother of  email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu  security. Four individually locked  ets 574-289-8048  1-800-234-7007  
God, Queen of Heaven and Earth. I  bedrooms, six blocks from Notre  endlesssummertours.com  Please don't.  
humbly beseech you from the bot- Retro 5-piece bedroom suite,  Dame, bus stop in front of house,  **LOOKING FOR FOOTBALL TJx••  
tom of my heart ttl succor me in my  blonde mahogany/oak; $550.  surrounded by other student hous­ ND@Cuse Need at least 2. Will pay  •••• IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW  410 is a musical extravaganga of  
necessity...(make request)...There  Oak entertainment  ing, laundromat next door (dryclean- BIG $$$$ to get  LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY ••••  genius!  
are none that can withstand your  center; $800. All items exc. cond.  ing also), basement available for  these. Call212.723.6585 or  Build your dream home  
power. Oh Mary, concieved without  269-687-8924  storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks,  917.846.8865 if U have tix to sell.  next to Notre Dame.  sheila, you are completely right..  
sin, pray for us who have recourse  etc., new furnace and central air,  A limited number of home sites are  
to thee (repeat)(repeat) Holy Mary, I  2001 Mercury Sable LS, 34,000  new kitchen including new stove  Stanford lix 4 together + another  available.  Meghanne = greatest person ever.  
place this prayer in your  miles, anlilock brakes. alarm sys- and refrigerator, large living room  pair for sale.FACE VALUE obo.l will  For more info  
hands.(repeat)(repeat) Grateful Thanks!  tern, CD, $12,000. Call287-1147.  for TV or entertaining, free trash removal. Call 289-4072.  pay shipping.607-336-7218  go to: www.lrishCrossings.com  Well, sorta :)  

Friday, November 14, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
IOC says transsexuals can enter competition 
Associated Press 
LONDON -Athletes who have undergone sex change operations will be eligible to compete in the Olympics for the first time under new rules being finalized by the IOC. 
The International Olympic Committee convened a meeting in Sweden last month of med­ical experts in the field and will announce its policy in the next few weeks. 
"We will have no discrimina­tion," IOC medical director Patrick Schamasch told The Associated Press on Thursday. "The IOC will respect human rights." 
Details are still being worked out, but Schamasch said trans­sexual athletes will be eligible for the Olympics once they have passed a certain amount of time after sex-change sur­gery. 
"The trend is to have an inel­igibility period," he said. "Then after certain conditions have been fulfilled, the athlete will be able to compete in his or her new sex." 
The exact length of the wait­ing period hasn't been deter­mined. Schamasch said offi­cials want to make sure that any side effects of hormone therapy have worn off. 
Schamasch said he didn't know whether there were any potential transsexual athletes in line to compete in next sum-
You turn 21, and all you've got for me is lite beer? 
Happy Birthday, MeFly! 
-Biff 
mer's Athens Olympics, but noted that several international sports federations have asked the IOC for guidance. 
"We need to be proactive," he said. 
The rule covers both male-to­female and female-to-male cases. 
Some contend transsexual athletes have a physical advan­tage against other women. Men have higher levels of testos­terone and greater muscle-to­fat ratio and_ heart and lung capacity. However, doctors say, testosterone levels and muscle mass drop after hormone ther­apy and sex-change surgery. 
Until 1999, the IOC conduct­ed gender verification tests at the Olympics but the contro­
versial  screenings  were  
dropped  before  the  2000  
Sydney Games.  

One reason for the change was that not all women have standard female chromosomes. In addition, there are cases of people who have ambiguous genitalia or other congenital conditions. 
Over the decades, there have been various accusations of men impersonating women and competing in the Olympics. 
"The eligibility of transsexu­als to participate needs to be clarified and dealt with," Arne Ljungqvist, the IOC medical commission chairman who organized the meeting of experts in Stockholm. 
NFL 

Wheatley's te,mper flares 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO Oakland Raiders running back Tyrone Wheatley hit a photographer outside a feder­al courthouse Thursday, hours prior to testifying before a grand jury probing a nutritional supplements lab. 
Wheatley was one of five NFL players -including four Raiders to appear Thursday before the panel. Others included former NFL defensive player of the year Dana Stubblefield and Kansas City Chiefs wide receiver Johnnie Morton. 
Also appearing before the grand jury Thursday was Marion Jones, who won an unprecedented five track medals in the 2000 Sydney Olympics. 
"I can't make any comment, you guys. I would if I could, but I can't," Jones said as she left the grand jury room fol­lowing her afternoon appear­ance. 

Wheatley threatened and cursed at a group of photog­raphers and TV cameramen outside the building, then raised his right fist and slapped photographer Noah Berger hard on the right wrist after Berger took a photo of him Thursday morn­ing. 
Berger, a freelance photog­rapher on assignment for The Associated Press, said he was not hurt. He filed a report with the Federal Protective Service, but it was not clear whether Wheatley would be charged. 
Wheatley, who appeared before the grand jury in the afternoon, declined to com­ment when asked repeatedly about the incident. 
The five players -also including Raiders fullback Chris Hetherington and defensive tackle Chris Cooper -were the first non-track and field athletes to testify in the case. 
Stubblefield, the NFL defen­sive player of the year in 1997 while with the San Francisco 49ers, declined to comment after his morning appearance. His attorney, Michael Armstrong, also refused to comment. 
Morton, who had four sea­sons with more than 1,000 yards receiving for the Detroit Lions before joining the Chiefs two seasons ago, also refused to comment after his morning appearance. 
Track and field stars includ­ing Tim Montgomery, the world record-holder at 100 meters and Jones' boyfriend, have appeared before the panel in previous weeks. Dozens of other athletes, including baseball's Barry Bonds and Jason Giambi and boxer Shane Mosley, also have been subpoenaed. 
It's not clear what, if any, drug charges might result from the investigation. 

Green suspended for drug use 
Browns' leading rusher, was
Associated Press 

suspended for four games by 
BEREA, Ohio -William the NFL on Thursday for vio­Green can't seem to outrun lating the league's substance his troubled past. abuse policy. 
Green, the Cleveland Browns president Carmen 

Position: 
I.T.GURU 
St~lary: 
$701000+ PER 
Productivity Point £d~rotion; .)\:·\\il,lll::,ll\:\'\·\i . 
27WEEKS 
IT r.xperiem:e~
Pre~tious '-· 
NONE 


At Productivity Point, we take "smart" people, many v-,;thout computer experience, and put them on the path to becoming an I.T. Guru. 
We have financing options for anyone \Nho wants to 
succeed. 

So, to answer all of your questions about how to land 
one ofthe 493,000 Information Technology careers that 
are becoming available overthe next 12 months,join us 
for our FREE I.T. CAREER NIGHT this Thursday at 
6:30pm. 

Come and see us at 3840 Edison Lakes Park\AJa.y in 
Mishawaka. 


Policy said Green was already enrolled in the league's treatment program, and the suspension indicated the second-year back had twice violated his personal program. 
Because of confidentiality, Policy does not know if Green's involvement in the program stemmed from him twice being suspended for marijuana use while at Boston College. 
The Browns said the viola­tion involved the use of alco­hol. · 
Under the NFL's treatment policy, any player who fails a drug test for the first time is referred to a doctor. A second violation results in an auto­matic four-game suspension. 
''I'm confident he's going to work at overcoming whatever problems he has and we are going to support him 100 percent," Policy said. 
Green was arrested Oct. 27 on charges of drunken driv­ing and marijuana posses­sion. 
The Browns suspended him for last Sunday's game at Kansas City for "conduct detrimental to the team," and the league will count that game as part of its suspen­sion. 
Green, who will lose $70,588, was informed of his NFL suspension on Saturday and decided to forgo an appeal, the league said. He is not eligible to return to Cleveland's active roster until Dec. 1, and can't play until Dec. 8 when the Browns host the Rams. 
e11.ot~r-nous 
FLEECE 
Selection. 
Sminutes~~ 
{rom DUTPDiiT 
Campus~
Cold Weether Expert• 
Coll259·1ooo for more details 
Friday, November 14, 2003 

The Observer + SPORTS 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Terrapins win 27-17 as Allen runs wild 
Associated Press 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. -Josh Allen picked the ideal stage to shed his image as Maryland's "other" running back. 
Allen ran for a career-high 257 yards and two touchdowns, and Maryland kept its Atlantic Coast Conference title hopes alive by defeating Virginia 27-17 Thursday night. 
Bruce Perry, the sixth-leading rusher in Maryland history, could not play because of a severe ankle sprain. It didn't matter, though, because Allen carried the load all by himself in the nationally televised con­test. 
"Josh Allen had an unbelievable night," Terrapins coach Ralph Friedgen said. "He really came through for us big-time." 
Allen ran for 154 yards in the first half,. when the Terrapins scored on four of five possessions to take a 24-7 lead. That proved to be enough offense to provide Maryland with its second win over the Cavaliers in 11 tries since 1991. 
The Terrapins {7-3, 4-2) can finish tied atop the ACC if North Carolina State beats league-leading Florida State on Saturday and Maryland wins its final two games. 
A year ago, Maryland's bid for a second straight ACC title was ruined by a 48-13 loss to Virginia. Not only did the Terrapins extract a measure of revenge, but they fin­ished unbeaten {6-0} at home for only the 19th time in the 111-year history of the program. 
Allen, a sophomore, carried 38 times . The 25 7 -yard effort ranks third in school history and was nearly twice his previous career high of 136 yards. 
"I wanted to make sure I could carry the load like my team needed me to," he said. "The offensive line played a great game. My performance is just a reflection of what they did." 
His numbers may have surprised the 51,027 fans and the TV audience, but Virginia coach AI Groh knew Allen had the potential to shred any defense. 
"He's been doing it for quite a while," Groh said. "Unless you've been out of the country, you know that Josh Allen is a quality back. He played like one tonight." 
Matt Schaub ran for a touchdown, threw for a score and nearly brought the Cavaliers {5-5, 3-4) back in the second half. He passed for 186 yards to overtake Shawn Moore as the school's career leader in passing yardage. 
"We gave it a good go, but in our busi­ness there are no medals for trying. It looked to me like another chapter in the same story," Groh said. "Once again we just made it too hard on ourselves." 
Schaub's 14-yard touchdown pass to Alvin Pearman got the Cavaliers to 24-14 with six minutes left in the third quarter, and he directed a 46-yard drive that pro­duced a field goal with 9:15 left. 
But Maryland's Nick Novak kicked a 45­yard field goal with 3:42 to go after a 19­yard run by Allen produced a first down at the Virginia 29. 
The game was played in a 40 mph wind, and the temperature dipped near freezing. 
Maryland took the opening kickoff and moved 84 yards in 11 plays to go up 7-0. Allen ran eight times for 38 yards and the Virginia twice extended the drive with third-down penalties before Scott McBrien threw an 11-yard touchdown pass to Latrez Harrison. 
The Terrapins made it 14-0 early in the second quarter when Allen scored from 1 after Jafar Williams outleaped Virginia safety Jermaine Hardy on a 41-yard com­pletion. 
At that point, Maryland held a 168-53 advantage in total yardage. 
Virginia quickly remedied that, moving 80 yards in nine plays to close to 14-7. A well-timed screen pass to Wali Lundy cov­ered 62 yards, setting up a 4-yard touch­down run by Schaub on a quarterback draw. 
• 

For businesses of any size, please caii1-866-USC4BIZ (1-866-872-4249). 
Elkhart wai-Mart. 175 county Rd. #6 Ivalparaiso wai-Mart, 2400 Morthland or., (219) 465-4286 
Granger 215 E. University Dr., Ste. 150 


Elkhart  Go wireless-Kiosk. concord Mall, 3701 s. Main St.  Mishawaka  wai-Mart, 316 Indian Ridge  
Goshen  wai-Mart. 4024 Elkhart Rd.  Mishawaka  Premier, 514 w McKinley  
Merrillville  Go Wireless-Kiosk, 2109 Southlake Mall, Ste. 748  Schererville  urban Media Group, 7178 Main St.  
Mishawaka  Go Wireless-Kiosk, University Mall,  south Bend  Premier, 117 N. Main St.  
6501 N. Grape Rd., Ste. 650  south Bend  Premier, 4615 Miami Rd.  

Airtime and phone offers valid on two-year consumer service agreements of $40 ~ higher. 50"-'> access discount valid for the first 6 monthS of a two-year order at home. FRee dehvery contract on plans of $40 and up. Promotional phone subject to change. Phone pricing includes a $30 maJI-in rebate. Customer IS responsible for all ~les taxes. Offers may expire if you change your calling plan. Nigh1 and weekend minutes are valid M-F 9pm to 5:59am and all day Saturday and Sunday. N~ght and weekend minutes are available in local calling area only. Roaming charges. fees, surcharges and taxes may apply, includ•ng a Federal and Other Regulatory Fee charge of $.55. All service agreements subject to an early termination fee. Activation fee is $30. Other restrictions may apply. See store for 
1·888•BUY•USCC 
uscellular.com 

details. Umited time offer. Offer valid in Illinois and Indiana only. Not valid in Rock Island or Henry Counties in Illinois. @2003 U.S. Cellular Corporation 


--~------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, November 14, 2003 page 19
The Observer+ SPORTS 

NO CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish prepare for Terre Haute run 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
About a year ago, both the men's and women's cross country teams ran in Terre Haute, Ind. in the NCAA Championships. 
Saturday, the Irish return to Terre Haute and its challeng­ing Lavern Gibson Championship Course to quali­fy for the national champ1­onships at the NCAA Great Lakes Regional. 
Both Irish squads have the opportunity to earn automatic bids to the title race if they fin­ish first or second in their respective races. Teams that do not finish that high can still make the national race 
beginning Monday, Nobember 17, 2003 through Friday, January 23, 2004 
through at-large bids, and the Irish are optimistic that they will qualify one way or the other. 
"If everyone runs well, we hope to qualify, either by auto­matic, or surely by an at-large bid," senior Brian Kerwin said. "We just want to get into nationals." 
While the men will take either an automatic or an at­large bid, the women's team­ranked No. 4 in the nation ­are favored to win the Regional title. The women, fresh off their second-consecutive Big East conference victory, are returning to the regional race as defending champions. Last year was the only other time in program history the Irish had won the regional title. 
2004-20"05 

will be available in the Office of Student Affairs 
' 
316 Main Building 

The women, who have been ranked in the top five all sea­son, have a strong lineup that will not bode well for their competition this weekend. 
Led by former All-Americans Molly Huddle and Lauren King, the Irish will be aided by two runners who were not able to contribute to last season's post­season success on the course. 
Senior Megan Johnson missed the end of last season due to an illness, and junior Kerry Meagher, who is in her first season running regularly with the varsity team, was sec­ond for the Irish at the Big East race two weeks ago. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles eager for revenge on road, 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
Everybody loves a good chal­lenge. 
This Saturday, the Saint Mary's swim team will be com­peting against conference rival Albion College. 
Despite Saint Mary's defeat­ing Albion in dual meets for the past two years, Albion found its revenge at the conference finals last year finishing one place ahead of Belles. 
Saint Mary's must avenge the defeat away from home, as the 
Applications will also be available for downloading and printing at http:/ /www.nd.edu/-stdntaff/RAinfo.html 

. THE CUSHWA CENTER 
FOR THE STUDY OFlllllliill-AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
presents 

·····u 
"How the Sc9ts Irish Became White: An Irish and American Tale" 
Patrick Griffin Ohio University 
Friday, November 14, 2003 
3:00p~m. 
Auditorium_, Hesburgh Centerfor1nternational Peace Studies 
Belles will be competing at Albion for the first time under coach Gregg PetcofT. But Saint Mary's 17 swimmers are willing to face the challenge against an Albion squad of 30 swimmers and divers. 
Even before Saint Mary's hits the water, the Belles are already_at a 32-point disadvan­tage as the team does not have any divers. 
"We are going to have to per­form 32 points better than [Albion] in swimming," PetcofT said. "It doesn't grant us any room for error or else we'll never make up that deficit." 
The swimmers must also beat out an Albion swimming team that is very comparable to Saint Mary's in several events. 
"Albion's times were very similar to our's last year," PetcofT said. "But [Albion] could really surprise us ... we are just going to have to get lucky." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

(Student & Staff discounts with I D) 

Col1259·10DO for more details 

CHEESEC-AKE CHEESECAKE 
[J) 
0 
< ~ 
[J) 
UJ 
:::.:: 
< 
u 
UJ V'l UJ UJ 
:I: 
u
e~ o~ ..ro~~ ~ 
::i.1 
~
1~~ ..co~' ~ 

(574) 282-3233 ~ u 0 Fax (574) 282-3234 <, 
-

415 North Hickory Road 
-
,~ 

South Bend, IN 46615 c; ~ 
-
-. 
.., 


~ 
\\ 
~\ 
',\ 'f. 
\\ 
\\ ,, 
~~ 
~~ 
~\ 
~' ~\ 
) I 
\ 
)~ 
)'> 
~) 
_.., 
I 1\ 
:\ "· ,,:~ 
i.. 
.~ 
,, 
,.., ,\ 
,) 
.~ 
,\:~ 
~ 
i\ 
,) 
~ 
:( 
.~ .~ 
:~ 
~ 
,\ 
.\ 
I 
II 
,., 
\ 
~ 
,· 
I 
~· 
~ 
\ 
' 
\ ' 
\'
,, 
\• 
~ 
~ 
\ " 
~ ~ 



,, 
OUNDTHE 
ATION
~ ~ ~ 
page 20 C01\1PlLED FRO:\\ THE OBSERVER'S Willi SERVICES Friday, November 14, 2003 
~ ~ 
MLB 

::;:::::!.:::  :::=:  
:;::;::;:;;:::;::;:;~j  ::::=::  t  
:=::::::::::::;:: ili  ::=:=::!  =~=~  
:};;i;:  ~==  ':'~::;:::;:;::; ~=  :'!:':  ::=~  
:tt::  ~:;  :tt::If E ;:::  
·~  '{  :::::::::;::::::; ~;;:;::  !!::1  ::::·  
::::;::~;:::;:::; !!;J  
~=~mt:::=:=: I  
:t:r  ;:;:;:  ~=~:::::::::::; ::::::  ::::::;  



around the dial 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Arkansas at Kentucky 7 p.m., ESPNC 
NBA 
Timberwolves at Magic 8 p.m., ESPN Trail Blazers at Supersonics 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
GOLF PGA Tour Championship 1 p.m., ESPN 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Eric Gagne was almost as perfect in NL Cy Young Award voting as he was on the mound. 
The Los Angeles Dodgers relief pitcher who convert­ed all 55 of his save chances this year received 28 of 32 first-place votes and 146 points to win the honor Thursday from the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
It was just the ninth time a reliever won a Cy Young, the first in the NL since San Diego's Mark Davis in 1989. 
"We haven't seen a lot of relievers win that award, so I was a little worried," Gagne said during a tele­phone conference call. 
San Francisco's Jason Schmidt was second with two first-place votes and 73 points. Chicago's Mark Prior got the other first­place votes and was third with 60 points. 
Gagne, a 27 -year-old right-hander, was 2-3 with a 1.20 ERA and had 137 strikeouts and 20 walks in 82 1-3 innings. He was con­verted from a starter to a reliever after the 2001 sea­son and had 52 saves in 2002. 
"I knew I had the mental attitude to be a closer, it was just a matter of doing it in the major leagues," Gagne said. "As a starter, you have to be more relaxed, you have to control your emotions more." 
He is the only pitcher to reach 50 saves in more than one season and has converted 62 consecutive save chances since failing to hpld a lead against Arizona on Aug. 26, 2002, a major league record. 
"I don't really care about the streak," said Gagne, the first reliever to win a Cy Young since Oakland's Dennis Eckersley won the AL award in 1992. 
He is just the second Canadian to win a Cy Young, following Ferguson Jenkins of the Cubs in 1971. 
Gagne failed to hold a lead just once this season' -he allowed a two-run. go-ahead homer to Hank Blalock of Texas in the eighth inning of the All-Star game. 
Growing up in Mascouche, Quebec, Gagne started skating when he was 3 and thought he was headed to a career in the NHL. 
"They called me the goon when I was younger," he said. 
Gagne wears goggles on the mound because he can't wear contacts -his eyes have scars from getting hit by hockey sticks. 

IN BRIEF 
){oddick lo6.,es to Schnettler 
10 Masters t:up 
A champagne celebration follow­ing a defeat? Welcome to Andy Roddick's world. About 12 hours after being guar­
anteed the year-end No. 1 ranking. Roddick went out and lost to Rainer Schuettler 4-6, 7-6 (4), 7-6 (3) Thursday in round-robin action at the Tennis Masters Cup. 
Then Roddick's postmatch news conference was interrupted by a bubbly bath courtesy of friend and fellow pro Mardy Fish. 
"It's a very sweet day for me. I'm going to try to forget the fact that I didn't play well," Roddick said. "This was a culmination of the whole year. And I wasn't going to spoil that by having a bad attitude just because I didn't play well on one day." 
Roddick is 0-3 in 2003 against the sixth-ranked Schuettler, who kept grinding away throughout the windy match. 
"It's always something special if you win against No. 1," Schuettler said. "I don't think we both played our best tennis today." 
Roddick's strength, his serve, let him down late, with six of his eight double-faults in the third set, including one to set up match point. He then sailed a backhand long to end it with his 49th unforced error. 
That made Roddick's record in the round-robin portion 1-1. Schuettler is 2-0 and will make the semifinals regardless of how he fares in his last round-robin match. 
Roddick faces No. 4 Guillermo Coria on Friday for a semifinal berth. Coria defeated No. 7 Carlos Moya 6-2, 6-3 Thursday, converting his sixth match point when the 1998 French Open champion put a fore­hand into the net. Kane leads LPGA 
Tournament of Champions 
MOBILE, Alabama-Canada's Lorie Kane shot a 2-under 70 in windy conditions Thursday to take a one-stroke lead over Australia's Karrie Webb in the LPGA Tournament of Champions. 
''I'm not afraid of the wind," said Kane, winless since 2001. "I enjoy the wind because it's a challenge. 
"It's just one of those things where you have to concentrate on hitting solid shots, but it's tough for every­body. You just have to put your head down. play hard and see what hap­pens." 
Kane and Webb were the only players to break par, with the field averaging 75.9 strokes on the Robert Trent Jones Golf Trail's Crossings Course at Magnolia Grove. 
"We've never played this course with a lot of wind -maybe a half­club wind at the most -and never out of the direction we played it today," said Webb, who had five birdies and four bogeys. 
"The greens are a little firmer and faster, which isn't necessarily a bad thing. It was just different today with the wind." 

Friday, November 14, 2003 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 
NO SWIMMING 

Irish look to reverse early season troubles at home 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
The men's swimming and 
diving team hopes to reverse 
its fortunes when the Irish (0-3 
in dual meets) dive back in the 
pool this afternoon to host No. 
19 Brigham Young, Iowa and 
Louisville at 2 p.m. 
"We like to have a target out there," head coach Tim Welsh said. "Both BYU and Iowa will present a nice [target] for us to chase." 
While Notre Dame's dual­meet record would suggest otherwise, Welsh says the young Irish squad is the best the University has ever had. 
"We know internally that this is the fastest that we've ever been," Welsh said. "It's not showing up in wins and losses because of the raised strength of schedule. Right now [the schedule] ~s still ahead of us." 
Last Friday, despite taking three of the top four spots in six of the eleven swimming events, Notre Dame was edged by Michigan State, 125.5­113.5. 
"If you look at the results, I think what you'll see is depth," Welsh said. "While we don't have that invincible man, the team as a whole is moving for­ward." 
On Dec. 4, the Irish host the three-day Notre Dame Invitational, a key event for the young team. 
"The Invitational is like a final exam for us," Welsh said. "The objective of the fall is to qualify the team for the Big East Championships in February, and we want to come out of [the Invitational] with all of our qualifying times met." 

The women's squad, con­versely, looks to continue its upswing when the Irish (2-1 in dual meets) welcome Louisville and Bowling Green at 6 p.m. this evening. 
"Both teams have some good kids, but I don't think that they're deep enough to chal­lenge us," head coach Bailey Weathers said. "As long as we beat their top kids, the meet should take care of itself." 
While the Irish don't have any particular goals for the contest, Weathers said he hopes to use the meet as an opportunity to gain additional practice and experience. 
"There really isn't any one thing that we are working on," Weathers said. "I just want to get the kids some more races before we leave fbr Texas next week." 
Notre Dame took 12 of 16 events in thrashing Big East rival Pittsburgh 184-116 last Friday. 
Overall. despite a rash of sickness this past week. Weathers said he is pleased with the team's progress on the young season. 
"We were [on track] before all the illness," Weathers said. "We'll have to see how that plays out, but I think we 'r,e 
,..
where we need to be at this point." 
Next Friday, the Irish hit the road to compete in the 3-day Texas A&M Invitational. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglis@nd.edu 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Tough opening weekend to greet Irish 
ByJOE HETTLER Sports Editor 

Muffet McGraw believes fac­ing an easy opponent to begin the season is always nice, but her team will likely get more of out a game against a tougher foe. 
So instead of playing McNeese State or Western Michigan, No. 15 Notre Dame opens its season against No. 22 Auburn in the Women's Basketball Coaches Association tournament this weekend in Boulder, Colo. 
"It's a great challenge for us, to come right out of the gate and play a very good team" said McGraw, who begins her 17th season at Notre Dame. "I think mentally the team is ready for the season to begin." 
Even if the Irish do not win Friday night against the Tigers, McGraw said the team will still gain valuable experience from the contest. 
"It's kind of a no lose situa­
tion. If you lose, you learn and 
you move on," McGraw said. 

Auburn won the Women's National Invitational Tournament in 2002 and return all five starters from that team. They will challenge Notre Dame's ability to run the floor. "Auburn is a great team," McGraw said. "They're very athletic and very quick." 
Auburn coach Joe Ciampi said his Tigers are eager to face a solid opponent such as Notre Dame. 
"Notre Dame, as our season opening opponent, will prove to be an early test to see where we are right now," Ciampi said. 
McGraw believes one of the keys to the game will be the tempo. 
"We're pretty uptempo also so controlling the tempo will be a key to the game," McGraw said. "Our bench is pretty depleted with injuries so we'll have to 
Visa® Platinum gives you 1°/o cash back*! (we expand your world) 
4~With I% cash back it's like saving every time I spend!" 
0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 
574/631.-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
•eon or stop by the Lafortune Branch tor full disclosure infonnation. 

see." 
Notre Dame will be without Teresa Borton and Jeneka Joyce for tournament. Both are out with foot injuries. 
Besides the game's tempo, the Irish will have the difficulty of trying to stop Tiger junior Natasha Brackett. Brackett was named MVP of the WNIT last season and became the school's all-time leading scorer for a sophomore last season. 
McGraw isn't sure how her team will stop Brackett. 
"We're going to let her get her points," McGraw said. "I don't know if we have anyone that can stop her. She's a very good player and a very important player on their team." 
Notre Dame returns four starters from last season's Sweet Sixteen squad. Captain and guard La'Tania Severe will lead the offense, along with sophomore Megan Duffy. Duffy has played exceptionally in Notre Dame's first two presea­son games. 
Juniors Jacqueline Batteast, Katy Flecky and Borton will all play important roles for the Irish. Batteast is a member of the preseason Wooden All­American team and was a Second-Team Big East selection last season. 
Flecky and Borton played major role in Notre Dame's suc­cess in 2002-03 and will be expected to step up their games even more this season. 
Freshmen Crystal Erwin, Breona Gray and Susie Powers could all contribute from the start of the season, especially Erwin. She brings the Irish a physical offensive and defensive player. 
Notre Dame will face either Old Dominion or No. 15 Colorado on Saturday. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
~treq)ame 
~University Club~ 

www.nd.edu/,._,univclu b 
Wedding Receptions Rehearsal Dinners Anniversary Parties Class Reunions 
Parties 631-4681 
FOR RENT 
Oakhill Condomlniutn Spring & Sutnrner 2004 
Available 1/1/2004 -8/15/2004 
2 BR 2 Baths FURNISHED!! 
W'asher/Dryer-Fireplace Central A/C-Fully Carpeted 
$850/Mo Plus Ut:ilit:ies 
(717) 576-8232 

~ 
.~ 
.~ 
~ 
~ 
.\ 
\ \ 
't 
:t ~ 
~ 
'\> 
,I\ ~. 
:t 
:t 
" 
\ 
'\, 
1), 
' 
~ ~ 
~ ~( 
.\.. 
' 
t 
t 
i ~\ 
'-­
~ 
-
page 22 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 




Belles send runners to regionals 
By PAT LEONARD 
Spor[S Wrritcr 
Finishing sixth at the MIAA cham­pionships and nearly inching past Alma for fifth, the Saint Mary's cross country team now sends its top run­ners to the NCAA Division-III Regionals at Hanover College Saturday. 
Jackie Bauters and Jessica Kosco are the only seniors making the trip for a team that improved drastically throughout the season. In addition to the seniors, junior Elizabeth Commers, sophomore Becky Feauto and freshmen Erin Nolan, Sara Otto and Katie White will represent Saint Mary's. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Friday, November 14, 2003 

The Observer+ SPORTS 
ND WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 

Irish go on the road to face Big East rivals 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Spor[S Writer 

It's over. Now it's time to move on to more important things ­the Big East. 
The No. 12 Irish look to get back on track this weekend coming off a road loss on Tuesday to No. 14 Northern Iowa (22-4). The loss snapped the Irish's 14-game winning streak. 
"It was a disappointing loss," senior Jessica Kinder said of the four-game match. "Obviously, we wanted to go in and win, but it by no means stops our confi­dence." 
Tuesday's loss saw the Irish hit a mere .185 on the match and .000 in game three alone, the only game -ironically ­the Irish won, as the Panthers hit -.020 in that game. 
Now, the Irish (21-3) will try to rebound as they return to Big East play, where they are 10-0. Saturday, the Irish face West Virginia (6-19, 2-8) and Sunday they face Pittsburgh (20-4, 9-1) to wrap up the regular season conference schedule. 
"Our whole team is just plan­ning on playing our game," Jessica Kinder said. "I don't think there's any real huge adjustments that need to be made -it is just a matter of knowing that if we take care of our side of the court we can play with anybody." 
If the Irish win Saturday, they claim a share of the Big East regular season title. A win Sunday would give them the outright championship, as Pittsburgh is in second place. 
The Panthers come off a 3-0 win over West Virginia last Friday, and their one confer­ence loss came at the hands of Virginia Tech. But the Panthers are the team to beat for the Irish, having knocked off Miami earlier this season and clinching 


TURTLE CREEK APAR'TMENTS 
Just in time for Thanksgiving break... 
We are extending our special to get this year"s prices for next year. Apply by December 15~ .20(}3 andtake advantage of'the savings! Reserve YQl.l:r apartment today 
· and·•·quit worrying about -where ·to. live tomorrow. 
... ,,' ·.. . . Ypu.r time·i::; Xl1flning out~. so. don~t delay! 

.. ::..·.·.. · 

······ ·· · ·· ·· · A:P:PiyatTC t.o<la)rrt· · · 
1710 'fu~·tle Cree.kDr(right by the tui-tl~~!) • South. Bepd. :i"N 46637 'WVII''W. tut"tlccreek:nd.corn 
Better Ingredients.Better Pizza. 
STMARY'S

NOTRE DAME HOLY CROSS
21]-]171 LATE 
271-7272
.18HT 

SPICIAL 

Sun 12pm-1am 

1 Large Topping 



$6.99 
after 9pm 

Free Delivery Visa, Mastercard 


~o\e 
L13'' ' 
C3t' ~' edS· 

'i'le at\'J ~e Mon-Thu 11am-1am ~out\' Fr-Sat 11am-3am 
a Big East tournament berth for the first time since 2000. 
But the Irish expect a chal­lenge in both games this week­end. They are led by senior set­ter Kristen Kinder, who had 49 assists against Northern Iowa, and sophomore middle blocker Lauren Brewster who had 14 kills and 9 blocks. Brewster is second in the country in blocks per game. Also contributing to the Irish this year have been libero Meg Henican (17 digs against the Panthers), Lauren Kelbley (11 kills) and Emily Loomis (13 kills, 8 digs). 
Still, going on the road will be a challenge for the Irish, who have yet to play their best vol­leyball of the season. 
"We have just been focused on having our best game of the season every game, and we haven't played to the top of our game yet in a single match," Jessica Kinder (8 kills, 9 digs on Tuesday) said. "So, regardless of who's on the other side of the net, we are using each match as an opportunity to play our best volleyball of the season. 
So what should the Irish do to play well? 
"I think it's just a matter of everyone knows what they need to do, individually each of us taking care of our roles on the team," Jessica Kinder said. "As a whole, we have to make sure everyone's on the same page, everyone's focused." 
This weekend will provide the Irish with two more chances to do just that, as they try to win the Big East for the ninth time in 10 years. Since volleyball has been played in the Big East, 17 of the 21 championships have gone to either Notre Dame or Pittsburgh. But the Irish are up to the challenge. 
"We're there," Jessica Kinder said. "We're at that level where we can play with great teams." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

SAY... 
'' 






COFFEE &\VINE 

Domestic &Imported Wine Cheesecake from The· Cheesecake Factory Seattle Best's Coffee &The Republic of Tea Joseph Schmidt's Chocolate from San Francisco 
. Mon-Fri]am·1opmj5at 1oarn·1opm . ($pe<iai Hours to AccommodateEvents at Morris P~rforming Arts C~nter) 
· fBNOrth Main S~t, Downtovm South Bend · ·. ··.· (Behind MorMPerfonning Art5 Center) 
233-Cafe NOW Hiring 

TWO MEN 
ANOA 

TRUCK 

"Movers Who Care®" 
• Residential  • Loc;a! & long Distance  
• Commercial  • Boxes &Pa<king Supplies  
• Pocking Servi<e  •Loading & Unloading of  
• Insured & Bonded  Rental Trucks Available  

(57~) 675-9700 
www.twomenondotruck.com 
Visit Our Box Store/ 
11590 McKinley. Suite D • Osceola. IN 46561 
,. 
Friday, November 14, 2003 

The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
Tourney 
continued from page 28 
The Irish out shot the Friars 
15-6 in a 2-0 shutout victory at 
Glay Field. Captain and senior 
midfielder Greg Martin opened 
scoring 1 :40 into the contest on a 
head ball off a set up from junior 
defenseman Kevin Goldthwaite. 
Providence was overmatched, 
committing 14 fouls to just one 
for the Irish, and forward Devon 
Prescod put the game away late 
with a goal of his own. 

Prescod leads all Irish players with 12 goals, his twelfth coming in the quarterfinal match against Connecticut. The high point man on the team is senior forward Justin Detter, who after also tal­lying against the Huskies has 11 goals and four assists for 26 points. 
Providence will try to answer the Prescod/Detter attack with sophomore forward Eoin Lynch, who leads the Friars in scoring with 17 points and eight goals. 
Goalie Chris Sawyer -recent­ly named the College Soccer News National Player of the 
Week -and the defense have limited teams to one or zero goals in 17 of 19 games. Players in the back like juniors Goldthwaite and Jack Stewart have prevented many opposing forwards from even getting through to Sawyer. Freshman Greg Dalby, senior Kevin Richards and junior Christopher High will also have to maintain their stellar play of late. 
Notre Dame is 7-2-0 in the all­time series. Coach Bobby Clark has never lost to Providence with the Irish. The last time Notre Dame lost to the Friars was in 2000, also the last time the Irish fmished below .500 (7-8-2). 

Providence is also just 1-4-2 
against ranked teams this sea­
son. Notre Dame presently sits at 
No.5 in the nation. 
St. John's vs. Rutgers 
In the other semifinal match. No. 1 St. John's (14-4-1) will try to fend off No. 4 Rutgers (10-6­
3). 
Both teams scored in overtime 
of their quarterfinal matches to 
advance. St. John's beat eight­
seed Villanova, 2-1. while 
Rutgers defeated No. 5 Seton 
Hall, 1-0. 
St. John's hopes not to follow some foreboding Big East tradi­tion. Since the Big East tourna­ment began including eight teams in 1995, only once has the top seed won the Big East tour­nament. Last_ season, top-seed Boston College defeated Connecticut, 3-2, for the title. 
In addition, in the eight cham­pionship tournaments since 1995, the top-seed has advanced to the title game only three times (St. John's 1997, Connecticut 2001, Boston College 2002). 
Rutgers has played in the con­ference postseason·tournament every season since joining the league in 1995. The Scarlet Knights advance to the semifi­nals for the eighth time in nine appearances. 
St. John's and Rutgers each defeated Notre Dame this season by a combined score of 8-2. 
Coverage 
On Saturday, Nov. 15, College Sports Television will air the Big East men's soccer championship semifinals. The first will air at 
2:30 p.m. The second will air at 5p.m. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.du 
ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cuisine *************************** 
Open: Tues.-Sat. llam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) 
_..,.,...,.___________,,...... 4.rlk~.·. ,.,...•
i[o<.···-··-·.,..._,__, ..._..
___  __  
.  ....~~~  
We offer••• ,.;..  

Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and MeatGrape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie 
and many delicious dishes ... How about some Baklawa dessert to complement your meal.. 
***~************* 
Our address: 115 Dixie Way North SouthBemt IN 46637 (574) 277-7239 
We are located within few minutes &om campus, in Roseland ar.ea, near Pendle Road on 3 I 
Injury 
continued from page 28 

back, but it's just a small 
obstacle that I'm going to 
overcome." 

Axford pitched in 17 games and started 12 for the Irish, going 5-2 with a 3. 95 ERA. He struck out 64 batters and walked 59 in just over 70 innings of work. 
Known for his mid-to-high 90's fastball, Axford has been a top prospect for Major League teams. He was eligible this season for the MLB draft, but he said he will now wait another year to see how he does next season before deciding whether to go pro. 
Despite the setback, Axford said he is determined to find his way back into Notre Dame's rotation. 
"It's all about what I do to make sure I come back," Axford said. 


While Axford started reha­this· year." bilitation this week, Mainieri Notre Dame's freshman said the team will need other class is ranked sixth in the pitchers to step up in Axford's nation and Mainieri said the absence. He poiqts to last pitchers from that class are 
season as an indicator of "as good as any we've had what the come in 2 0 0 4 here.:'
"This injury affords 
I r i s h Another t e a m someone else an possible c~tn­needs. didate could
opportunity to pick up the 
A f t e r be converted
slack. Someone has always
G r a n t pitcher Joe Johnson taken advantage ofthe Thaman. had sea­Thaman
opportunity. and I expect 
son-end­played first
that again this year.··
ing sur­base for gery, sen­Notre Dame ior Ryan Paul Malnerl during his Kalita first three
Irish coach 
stepped i n t o Johnson's role and had an impressive year. 
"This injury affords some­one else an opportunity to pick up the slack," Maineri said. "Someone has always taken advantage of the oppor­tunity, and I expect that again 
ACC 
continued from page 28 
pendent forever. 
"At some juncture, it doesn't make any sense to say [we'll stay independent forever]," he said Nov. 4. "We don't know where the world is going to go. We're not going to sit here and guarantee that we're not going to be an independent." 
Notre Dame is currently a member of the Big East in most sports, with the notable excep­
years but was 
moved to pitcher in the offseason. Maineri said Thaman has pitched as well as anyone in fall ball. 
ContactJoe Hettler at j hettler@nd.edu 
tion of football. 
The ACC officials who spoke 
to USA Today said Notre Dame 
is considering sacrificing its 
football independence because 
of its uncertain future with the 
Bowl Championship Series. The 
Irish, who also have a lucrative 
television contract with NBC, 
have an agreement with the 
BCS conferences to be included 
in the season's four major bowl 
games if they finish high 
enough. But both the television 
contract and the BCS contract 
expire in 2005. 
Were Notre Dame to leave the Big East, as the USA Today report suggests, it would have to provide 2 7 months' notice and pay $5 million. And Big East spokesman John Paquette said the 16 Big East teams agreed to an informal five-year commitment to the league when the conference announced a week and a half ago it had expanded. 
"Let's not bury our head in the sand here and make some judgment that we have no idea is going to work forever," Heisler said when the Big East announced its expansion. "Is [football independence] impor­tant? Of course. Will that change? Nobody knows." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 


PataQonia
excltiSively 

ot ~·

Sminute~ ~ 

from CUTPDST 
Campus~
Cold Weather Experts 



Friday, November 14, 2003 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
Roster 
No. Name Pos. Ht. 1 Jared Clark TE 6-4 2 Fredd1e Parrish DB 6-1 4 Ryan Grant RB 6-1 5 Rhema McKnight WR 6-2 6 Carlos Campbell CB 5-11 7 Carlyle Hobday QB 6-3 8 Matt Krueger QB 5-10 8 Quentin Burrell FS 6-0 9 Jason Beckstrom CB 5-10 9 Pat Dillingham QB 6-1 10 Brady Quinn QB 6-4 11 Marcus Wilson RB 5-11 12 Josh Schmidt FB 6-1 13 Nicholas Setta K/P 5-11 14 Gary Godsey TE 6-6 IS Preston Jackson CB 5-9 16 Rashon Powers-Neal FB 6-2 16 Stan Revelle QB 5-11 17 Geoffrey Price P 6-3 18 Ronme Rodamer WR 6-4 19 Glenn Earl FS 6-1 19 D.J. Fitzpatrick K/P 6-1 20 Travis Thomas RB 6-1 21 Maurice Stovall WR 6-5 22 JuliusJones RB 5-10 23 Chase Anastasio WR 6-2 24 Dwight Ellick CB 5-10 25 Nate Schiccatano RB 6-3 26 Garron B1ble FS 5-10 27 Uonel Bolen SS 6-0 27 Mike Profeta TB 5-11 28 Cole Laux FB 5-10 28 Tom Zb1kowski DB 6-0 29 LaBrose Hedgemon DB 5-10 30 Mike Richardson DB 6-1 31 Jake Carney DB 6-0 32 Jeff Jenkms RB 6-0 33 Courtney Watson ILB 6-1 34 Vontez Duff CB 5-11 35 Ashley McConnell FB 6-0 36 Isaiah Gardner DB/RB 5-10 37 Matt Mitchell DB 5-9 39 Brandon Hoyle ILB 6-0 39 Dav1d Bemenderfer SS 5-11 40 Nate Schomas WR 5-10 41 Mike Goolsby LB 6-3 42 Ambrose Wooden WR 6-1 43 Anthony Salvador LB 6-2 44 Justm Tuck DE 6-5 45 Carl Gioia P 5-11 46 Corey Mays ILB 6-1 47 Mitchell Thomas LB 6-2 48 Jerome Collms OLB 6-4 49 Derek Curry ILB 6-3 50 Cedric Hilliard NG 6-2 51 Jarme Ryan OT 6-5 52 Joe Brockmgton LB 6-1 54 David Fitzgerald OL 6-4 55 Zachary Giles C 6-3


I' 
t 
)J 56 N1ck Borseti LB 6-1 j, 57 Dw1ght Stephenson LB 6-3 58 Paul Jancha LS 6-1 
59 James Bent OL 6-2 

I ) I 60 Darrell Campbell UT 6-4 62 Scott Randon or 6-7
l
I 70 Jun Molinaro or 6-6 71 Dav1d Kowalski OG 6-2 71 James Bonelli OG/or 6-6 72 Jeff Thompson C/OG 6-4 73 Mark LeVoir TE 6-7 74 Dan Stevenson 0G 6-5 75 Chns Frome DE 6-5 76 Bob Morton C 6-4 77 Greg Pauly UT 6-6 78 John Sullivan OL 6-4 79 Brian Mattes OT 6-6 80 Omar Jenkins WR 6-2 81 Chinedum Ndukwe WR 6-3 82 Matt Shelton WR 6-1 83 Jeff Samardzija WR 6-4 84 Mike O'Hara WR 5-10 84 Rob Woods WR 6-2 85 B1lly Palmer TE 6-3 87 Marcus Freeman TE 6-4 88 Patrick Nally TE 6-3 88 Anthony Fasano TE 6-4 89 John Carlson TE 6-6 90 Bnan Betdatsch DL 6-4 91 Crillg Cardillo K 6-0 92 Kyle Budmscak DE 6-4 93 Dan Santucci DE 6-5 95 Victor Abiamiri DL 6-5 97 TraviS Leitko DE 6-6 
', 98 Trevor Laws DL 6-2 99 Jason Sapp DE 6-3 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish Record: 3-6 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
Tyrone Willingham second season at Notre Dame career record: 
57-45-1 
at Notre Dame: 
13-9 
against 
BYU: 0-0 








HEADTOHEAD 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish 

NOTRE DAME 2003 Schedule 
Nov. 15 BYU Nov. 29 at Stanford Dec.6 at Syracuse 
COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
> 64 casey Dunn or/OG 6-4 65 Sean Milligan OG 6-4 66 Derek Landri NG 6-2 68 Ryan Harris OL 6-5 69 Darm Mitchell OL 6-4

Willingham could still salvage this season by winning out and possibly earning a bowl berth. By closing out the s.eason on a winning note, the Irish could build some momentum for 2004. A lot will be learned about Willingham and his staff these next few weeks.  Quinn did a solid job of keeping the Irish in the game last week and eventually leading the comeback over Navy. He's only completed 45 percent of his passes on the season and has 11 interceptions with only six touchdowns in six games started.  Jones had another huge game last week against the Midshipmen with 221 yards rushing and two touchdowns. The fifth­year senior has averaged nearly 93 yards a game for Notre Dame in step­ping into the role of the team's primary back.  The Irish likely won't burn too many teams through the air, but they will be happy to stick to the running game if it's working. The Irish can use the play action pass if the running game is working. The receivers need to do a better job catching the ball.  
Crowton has seen suc­ BYU used four different  The Cougars rank 35th in  The Cougars play a lot  
cess on the field as a  quarterbacks in its last  the country in rushing  of pass-happy teams in  
player and a coach. He  game against Boise State.  defense. allowing 125.9  the Mountain West  
has historically had  Berry, the main starter,  yards per game, but BYU  Conference, and they  
teams with high pow­ has completed many of  does not play a schedule  have been successful  
ered offenses, such as  his passes ­64 percent.  that consists of many  stopping the opposition.  
his three seasons at  He has also completed  power running teams.  They rank 16th in the  
LQuisiana Tech, during  many of his passes to the  The Cougars have  country in pass  
which time the Bulldogs  wrong team -10 of his  allowed 14 touchdowns  defense, with 184.5  
averaged 33 points a  201 attempts were  on the ground this sea­ yards given up a game  
game.  picked off this year.  son.  through the air.  
Willingham and Crowton have had similar head coaching careers, with 9Q~, 1:1\avir:yh.ft;!ittin,g ..,oorl : nsf B. d m· r!i.1.:-.-.:·:0:~ • <.­::::~·:·:<~ ~­.;.:lrowtott:~; cat.-eer ~:hl&J. tlgfit~d IJY a ft~z~firt'ish lh his first year at BYU. This is a down year for both coaches and programs.  The Cougars have lacked consistency at the quarterback position this year. Behind Berry W''~tfi ~}:. fr,IJffHi'h ~~o e~¥ f+.b'9'> h~ ~~<9 -~~­tt1.d~~ ck;*'T a3.Ag,~ Qui1\il has improved but con­tinues to make freshman mistakes at the helm for the Irish.  BYU has not had to face  seen and year.  

Wt. YR 230 SR 195 FR 211 JR 
207 so 
194 JR 214 SR 180 SR 180 JR 186 SR 209 JR 210 FR 199 JR 220 JR 
184 SR 259 SR 177 SR 227 JR 183 JR 180 FR 
211 SR 
205 SR 
192 JR 
200 FR 
221 so 
210 SR 
190 FR 
177 JR 
224 so 
197 SR 
206 JR 208 SR 
2.29 SR 185 FR 180 FR 188 so 180 so 211 so 234 SR 194 SR 240 FR 190 FR 
w
184 so 226 JR 
::!: 
195 SR 
<(
165 SR 
Q
243 SR 190 FR 
w
226 so 246 JR 
a:: 
....
165 FR 
0
238 JR 
210 FR 
z
250 SR 228 SR 295 SR 290 so 215 FR 271 so 281 JR 205 FR 237 FR 245 so 253 so 288 SR 300 so 255 JR 291 SR 265 so 270 FR 280 JR 301 SR 249 SR 282 so 287 JR 309 JR 297 JR 264 so 299 so 

291 SR 
280 FR 
2.50 so 204 SR 190 FR 172 JR 190 FR 174 so 
205 so 
251 SR 242 so 243 SR 253 so 230 FR 283 JR 165 so 270 SR 270 so 245 FR 264 so 290 FR 256 SR 




Notre Dame has some momentum after beat­BYU may have had a week off to prepare for 
ing Navy and they should carry that into thisthe Irish, but that won't help them too much. 
week against BYU. The Cougars aren't thatThe Cougars have too many injuries to pose a
Irish 

good, and Notre Dame will be pumped up in
viable threat to the Irish, and they'll have a the seniors' final home game. The Irish should tough time containing Jones. On Senior Day, score some points and get their second straight Notre Dame shouldn't have any trouble start­
experts victory.
ing its first winning streak of the season. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34 BYU13 BYU 10
Andrew Soukup 
Editor In Chief 
Joe Hettler Sports Editor 
Friday, November 14, 2003 

T!Je Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
Cougars



HEADTOHEAD BYU 
BYU Cougars 
BYU 
2003 Schedule 


CoUGARS RusHING COUGARS PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
Notre Dame has been solid this year against some of the nation's bet­ter rushing attacks. The Irish have allowed 134 yards a game on the ground and rank 42nd nationally in rush defense. Notre Dame's opponents average only 3.17 yards per carry.  The Cougars throw the ball a lot, averaging 40 attempts a game. They have had some struggles at quarterback, however, as both Berry and Beck have taken a lot of reps at the position. Christensen -son of NFL great Todd Christensen -is the Cougars' top receiver.  Fitzpatrick may have gotten a big confidence boost with his game­winning field goal against Navy last week­end, but his punting is still struggling as he averages only 37 yards a kick. Duff has almost 200 yards on 20 punt returns this season.  Notre Dame is trying to make a late-season push for a minor bowl game by winning out the last three games on its schedule. The team should be pumped up for its last home game and the seniors should be up for Senior Day.  
BYU's rushing offense has been almost non­existent this season as the Cougars rank 11Oth in the nation in that cat­egory. They average only 102.7 yards per game rushing. Brathwaite has carried most of that load, with 82 yards a game.  Injuries and inexperience have hurt the Irish sec­ondary this season. Earl is out for the season, and Beckstrom and Ellick are still fighting for a starting corner position. The Irish pass defense ranks 43rd in the nation with 207 yards allowed per game.  Payne has been a reli­able kicker for the Cougars, converting 14 of 17 field goal attempts. Christensen is their leading punt returner with nearly eight yards per attempt. Cooper can be dangerous on kickoff returns.  The Cougars have not played a game since Oct. 30. This could be a bless­ing or a curse for them. It gives them a lot of rest and a lot of time to pre­pare for the Irish. but they could also come out for Saturday's game rusty from the layoff.  
The Cougars will likely have trouble movin the b d h th their offense.  The Cougars rely heavily on the pass, but they still have some weak­nesses there. They only a-v-era: e 129"':::111 fd. s ~ jame ~£1>~=b~hi't•.~r. ~,Wlp t_, Ir{§i\J!r~ sbf.. fering from some injuries, they can hold the Cougars in this cate­gory.  The Irish still miss the consistency that Setta brings to the kicking i=mid,~~~elir1m~i:.t~ J.tlll* h~Jtotf'dbIjl'\Jt,~Md,.zort.~ thik,~:¥tii THe Cougars have done little to distinguish themselves on special teams this year.  

z 
0 
-t
::a 
ITI 
c 
s: ~ 
ITI 
m 
-<
c: 
l> 
z 
!:( ~ 
(/)
-
(/) 
Aug. 28 Sept. 6 Sept. 13 

GEORGIA TECH -W at USC -L 
at New Mexico -W 
at Wyoming -L 
atUNLV-W BOISE STATE -L at Notre Dame 
UTAH 
Record: 4-6 AP: NR Coaches: NR 

Gary Crowton third season at BYU career record: 
42-23 
at BYU: 
21-15 

against Notre Dame: 0-0 

Roster 

No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  WI.  YR  
1  Chad Barney  S  6-1  191  SR  
2  David Christensen  WR  5-10  200  JR  
3  Joshua Brandon  S  6-0  185  SR  
3  Naufahu Tahi  RB  6-0  234  so  
4  Jemaro Gilford  CB  6-2  181  SR  
5  James Allen  CB  5-10  160  JR  
6  Taufu1 Vakapuna  RB  6-0  229  FR  
7  Lt'vi Madarieta  LB  6-2  233  SR  
7  Jackson Brown  QB  6-4  206  so  
8  Matt Berry  QB  6-6  227  so  
9  Bnstol Olomua  WR  6-5  250  so  
10  Mark Hansen  WR  6-0  184  FR  
11  Reynaldo Brathwaite  RB  5-10  170  JR  
12  John Beck  QB  6-2  190  FR  
13  Nathan Soelberg  DB  6-0  172  so  
14  Todd Mortensen  QB  6-4  225  JR  
15  Jason Kuhahiko  WR  6-1  191  JR  
16  Thomas Stancil  RB  5-6  167  FR  
17  Curtis Brown  RB  6-0  184  so  
17  Chns Warner  RB  6-0  197  FR  
18  Lance Pendleton  QB  6-0  165  so  
19  Breyon Jones  WR  5-10  193  so  
20  Darnel Coats  TB  6-3  249  FR  
21  Joel Theler  DB  6-3  191  FR  
22  Micah Alba  CB  5-8  160  JR  
23  O'Ne1l Howell  CB  5-11  175  so  
23  Enc Watterson  RB  5-9  175  so  
24  Tyson Dunham  P  6-1  198  SR  
24  Spencer White  DB  6-1  186  so  
25  Corby Hodgkiss  S  5-11  187  FR  
26  Rodney Wilkerson  WR  6-2  181  JR  
26  Kellen Fowler  S  6-0  187  so  
27  Ryan Beck  CB  5-9  175  so  
27  Tr!'nt Williams  K  6-1  186  FR  
28  Matt Allen  WR  6-0  172  FR  
29  Chris Hale  WR  5-9  175  so  
29  Scott Johnson  DB  5-11  172  FR  
30  JMI'd Meibos  S  5-11  206  SR  
31  Kip Nielson  CB  6-0  205  SR  
32 33  Marcus Whalen Aaron Francisco  RB 5  5-11 6-2  213 21>6  JR JR  
33  Cameron Jensen  LB  6-2  228  so  
34  Brandon Heaney  CB  5-11  184  SR  
35  Matt Ah You  LB  5-11  235  FR  
36  Kyle Wilson  RB  6-0  225  SR  
37  Jon Burbidge  S  6-0  197  JR  
38  Matt Payne  P/K  6-4  234  JR  
39  Bryant Atkinson  LB  6-3  224  so  
41  Justin Jory  TE  6-2  245  SR  
41  Adney Re1d  LB  6-1  230  FR  
42  Lawrence Cowan  LB  6-3  229  FR  
43  David Nixon  LB  6-3  208  FR  
44 45  Mike Tanner Dan Van Sweden  LB LB  6-2 6-3  239 205  SR FR  
46  Colby Bockwoldt  LB  6-2  226  SR  
47  Paul Walbnhorst  LB  6-5  252  SR  
48  Lance Reynolds  LB  6-2  257  so  
49  Brady Poppmga  DL  6-3  257  JR  
50  KyleTew  LB  6-2  226  so  
51  fustin Williams  LB  6-2  223  FR  
52  Brent Carlson  LB  5-10  224  SR  
53  Bill Wright  LB  6-3  259  SR  
54  ShaunNua  DL  6-5  264  SR  
55  K.C. Bills  L B  6-1  219  FR  
56  Aaron Acker  OL  6-3  318  JR  
57  Hanale Vmcent  OL  6-5  321  JR  
57  Nate Preston  LB  6-2  227  so  
59  Edd1e Keele  OL  6-5  283  FR  
60  Scott Tidwell  OL  6-2  281  FR  
61  Rob Robmson  OL  6-5  271  so  
62  Brandon Stephens  OL  6-6  280  SR  
63  Ofa Mohetau  OL  6-3  355  FR  
64  Scott jackson  OL  6-5  300  SR  
65  RJ Willing  OL  6-5  300  FR  
66  Nate Hall  OL  6-3  321  so  
67  Gary McGIVI'n  OL  6-4  302  FR  
68  KaiJones  OL  6-6  301  FR  
70  Hala Paongo  DE  6-2  256  FR  
71  Paul F1sher  OL  6-7  316  FR  
72  Cade McMullin  OL  6-4  300  JR  
73  Jake Kuresa  OL  6-4  358  FR  
74  Qwnn Chnstensen  OL  6-6  307  SR  
75  Scott Young  OL  6-4  310  SR  
76  Vmcent Xanthos  OL  6-4  273  SR  
77  Daniel Marquardt  DL  6-2  315  so  
78  Brian Sanders  OL  6-3  335  so  
79  David Sollami  OL  6-3  272  FR  
80  Toby Ouistensen  WR  6-0  196  SR  
82  Cody Fonnesbeck  WR  5-8  160  FR  
83  Brett Cooper  WR  5-11  186  FR  
84  Andy Hadfield  IE  6-7  215  JR  
85  Zac Collie  WR  5-10  195  FR  
86  Philhp Niu  TE  6-5  243  FR  
87  Matthew Snuth  WR  6-2  187  FR  
88  Ryan Slater  WR  6-3  195  JR  
90  Aissac Aiono  TE  6-5  243  JR  
90  Brl'tt Denney  DE  o-5  245  FR  
91  C,J.AhYou  DL  6-4  253  so  
92  John Denney  DL  6-6  275  JR  
93  Nathan Kolbaba  DL  6-2  279  JR  
95  lfo Pili  DL  6-3  325  SR  
96  Jeremy Gillespie  IE  6-5  229  FR  
97  Justin Carlsen-Maddux DL  6-3  253  FR  
98  Manaia Brown  DL  6-3  316  so  
99  MoaPeaua  DL  5-11  285  so  

Chris Federico Sports Writer 


The Irish were finally able to get off the For the first time this year, the Irish have a chance to ­snide last weekend with the win over Navy. build some momentum with back-to-hack wins, as On Senior Day, the Irish will come out they face their first opponent of the season with a strong and establish their ground game losing record. As Jones showed last week, he can against the Cougars. Building off last carry the Irish to victory_ If he gets 25 carries or week's momentum, Tyrone Willingham and more, the Irish should win by a comfortable margin. the Irish get their first easy win of the 2003 campaign. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31 BYU17 BYU20 

Matt Lozar Associate Sports Editor 

~----------------------------------------­
page 26 Friday, November 14, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NOTEBOOK 
Thomas finishes sixth in All-America voting 
TIM KACMAR!The Observer 
Point guard Chris Thomas drives to the basket. 
BBall 
continued from page 28 
that we tried to outscore people. That's the one thing we talked about early in the season ­could we hang our hat on our defense a little bit more. 
"Of course, [when Jordan and Torrian] are on the floor more, you are automatically a better defen<;ive team." 
Jones recognizes along with Brey that this year's team cannot rely on its offensive firepower alone. The Irish need to use their athletic lineup and force turnovers. 
"Team defense has been the biggest point of emphasis since the last game," Jones said. "We are trying to get bet­ter at playing defense for 40 minutes and not just in 

•·.. spurts like I think we did 
,, 
I· last game. [We must be] )·. defending and turning them over a little bit more. I think last game we played good team defense in having them shoot the -·1 ball, but we really didn't get underneath them and force tempo. I think that's something with the per­sonnel we have this year [that] we can do a little bit more than in the past." 

Those turnovers could lead to something the Irish didn't have a lot of last year-easy buckets. 


"I think as a coach, you are always adjusting to your personnel and trying to play off your strengths. Our strength last year was that we were an explosive offensive team, so we rest­ed on defense sometimes," Brey said. "This year with Jones <J.nd Cornette on the floor more, [Chris] Thomas and [Chris] Quinn out there, those four being on the floor a lot together, we feel we can be a better defensive team and take advantage of the person­nel we have. 
"Maybe we can take advantage of the person­nel we have and get some easy baskets off our defense." 
This team has been practicing since early September because of an October trip to Barbados. While Brey tries to simu­late game conditions in 

.' 
,-

Sminute~­
fiom DUTPDirr 
Campus~
Cold Weather Experts 
Cal1259·1oooformore details 
practice, this team is still searching for its identity. 
And they're happy to play in front of a packed Joyce Center. 
"I think we just want to get a better feel for each other even though we've been practicing for a while with this foreign tour," Brey said. 
"Also, I think to get accustomed to playing in front of a sold-out crowd because this building should be sold out for just about every game." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

By MATT LOZAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
Coming back to Notre Dame after declaring himself eligible for the NBA Draft as a sophomore, guard Chris Thomas is earning a number of big-time preseason distinctions. 
The Associated Press named Thomas on 19 of the 7 4 ballots in preseason All-American voting, allowing the junior from Indianapolis, Ind. to finish sixth in overall voting. 
"He probably should have been first-team quite frankly. I agree with 
[ESPN basketball analyst Dick] Vitale's team. I think over the course of the season, [Thomas] will ~ get the individual honors he deserves," Brey said. "My feeling is 
we have the best guard in the coun­try here, the best quarterback. He certainly has been a consistent leader and quarterback since we have started practicing in September."
The list is published on ESPN.com by Vitale. Thomas made Vitale's all-Rolls Royce First Team, to which Vitale names his top five players. 
CNNSI.com writer Stewart Mandel 

'1~~ 
·· 11,rJJ akerSr 
•·~PU:B· 
Thursday 
Friday Saturday Sunday 



Live Music w/ Eric at Guitar 32 oz. Specials 
Traditional Non-Vegetarian, Vegetarian,
ND vs. BYU Game Headquarters 
(Vegan entrees available upon request) and Seafood Entrees. 
Open at I0:00 am on Saturday 
mormng 
Night-all you can eat buffet 
THE }Ol;l ·... ;••... .RSHALL . LAW-SCHOOl 

.

. . . -. 
. -. 

·-·:'' .·.··.' ·___: '.--_ '-·':.:/__ :.::-:··_ '.', ···-. ---_· .:·--·::. :" . -. ··__ -·. -:·· >~:<_.·: :.::::::: :·._: 
also put Thomas on his preseason first team All-American list. 
Cornette to start tonight
After sitting out the exhibition 
opener against the Hoop Group, for­
ward Jordan Cornette is fully 
healthy and will start against the 
Illinois All-Stars. 
"My knee's been healthy since 
Sunday. Basically, I worked myself 
in nice and slowly to get back into 
playing shape," Cornette said. 
"Coach [Brey] has put me in by 
picking his spots. I'm ready to go. 
I'm 100 percent and I'm looking for­
ward to it." 
Easing back into the lineup was ·difficult for Cornette last Wednesday having to watch from the bench. ~Tonight, he'll be the Notre Dame 
player with the jitters. 
"Some of these guys got to release 
that stress [last game]," Cornette 
said. "I had to sit there and watch 
that one. I'm a week overdue. I 
can't wait to get out there and let it 
all hang out." 
Kurz signs with Irish 
Brey signed the first member of his 2004 recruiting class Wednesday with the official commitment of Rob Kurz from William Penn Charter high school in Philadelphia. 
"I was really excited [about the signing]. I guess I was really excited last May when he committed, but we made it official yesterday," Brey said. "I think he's a guy who is so skilled and has such a good feel for the game as a bigger guy, he's going to be a guy who has a chance to help us right away. 
A 6-foot-8, 225-pound forward, Kurz averaged 18 points and 12 rebounds per game as a junior last season. 
Kurz verbally committed to the Irish on May 5, the same day Thomas declared for the NBA Draft. 
Future game time changes 
Two games on the Notre Dame schedule have different tip-off times than initially published. 
The Dec. 1 game at Marquette has been pushed back to 9 p.m. local time and the home game against Central Michigan on Dec. 6 was also pushed back an hour to a 9 p.m. tip­ofT. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

PJ:l:Fl<-~ ·cq;l€/i€7,1-· (J},,;S'./,u_~. 
508 \.V McKinley Avenue f>..·H~hawaka, lN 46.545 
574-254-9070 Come Visit Mishawaka's Finest Indian Restaurant! 
The John Maishall·~aw s~h,.ool invites • you to ~tteri;d ·an open horiseto-•tearn hQw fle~ble sch~drile8, gr<)und.breaking ~pedalties 
THAI RESTAURANT
and 21st century currkula can help you: in your career.. 
Saturday, November 22; 10 a.m. to noon 
Students and faculty will share their insights into John Marshall's day and evening programs, give tours of the facilities, and 
''We-U¥wtXe-yo-w t:o-t:vy wor~ ~ 
aruwer you:r questions about the law school. .. "' -r'l--~ r1.1 ~A..:" ..., o, ~wl.l.,lt
~ I y\.o(A.,.{/ V'V'o'V"cJ"V"F ~, 
~e-Y~ fW~ ~ KWee:l:; ~' uitty, fP{,cy ~~VlL.'' 
Lunch: Mon-Fri I I am -2pm Dinner: Mon-Sat 5pm -9pm 
21 I Main St. Downtown South Bend 232-4455 NOW HIRING 



. 

. . .
. 
-. . : 


_ _. 


Friday, November 14, 2003 page 27
The Observer+ TODAY 
HENRI ARNOLD

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN JUMBLE ---­
MIKE ARGIRION 



CROSSWORD 

WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 33"_Came 57 Amounts of From the Holy laughter
1 Encourage Land" (classic 
59 Year Vespucci
8 Technological poem) sailed to theadvance of the New World 34 Most NPR1950's 
stations 80 Producer of 15 ~I'm glad I stories like you 
35 1998 N.L.
came" wouldn't believe 
M.V.P. 
17 Comment at th$ 63 Hidden asset end of a good 38 Binge 
&4 With splendorsocial occasion 
41 Big sport$ inits. 
65 Telemarketer's 
18 La preceder 
"2 lumps and need 19 In conclusion, in bumps Cannes 
.t5 School founded DOWN 
20 Duck byThos. 1 Handled. as a Jefferson sword
21 "Idylls of the King· character 46 Actress 2 Godlike 23 Removes in a Madeline and 3 "Steps in Time· putsch others au1obiographer 48 Some Maine 4 O.A. V.I.P.'s
25 Scale start scenery 
Sit turns
26 Isn't timid 
SO Coarse hominy eventually28 Anti--Parkinson's 
a_~car
drug 52 Boston pops 7 Trawler's catch 30 Outlying 54_tide 8 Super Bowl 31 Lou Gehrig, for 55 Loss at a bald start


. 
one spot 
9 Diet. !abel 10 Get ahead
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

e.g. ~,;....,-;;.....,.......,. 14 Thin coats 
~~~~~:':':r.:lf"' 11 Bums classic .;.;+:;.+.;;+,..~~~r-1 12 Recite, as from a list ..;.+=~ 13 MNO on a telephone dial, 
16 Recent times 22 Diet. material 
~!+.;~ 24 Secretly watch ~~;.r 27 Was rotten .;.;+;;;;.+;;~ 29 Certain moral 
authority 
.;;.a..;.+;;&.;+;.l~ 32 Some training centers 

Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
, Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

36 Termite-40 Cause for a 51 "The Taming of resistant wood limp the Shrew" city 
43 Ones at the 53 Brains
37 Tennis score 
gate, maybe 

56 Natl. negotiator 38 Topic of a St. 
44 Small, short· sa Spanish parlorAugustine 
billed auk
treatise, with 

61 Collection of "the" 47 Northwest atoms: Abbr. Indian
39 Sin of the 62 J.F.K. aide_ beady-eyed 49 Upright Sorensen 
For answers, call1-900-285·5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1·800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of SUnday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888--7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions~ Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.comlleaminglxwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
-
Name ____________________________________________ _ Address _______________________________________ City ____________ State ____ Zip______ 
Answer:"[ I I I I I]"[ I I I] 
(Answers tomorrow) ;;,;, I Jumbles: LARVA GIVEN SIZZLE PODIUM
Yesterday's 

Answer: What she considered his introduction at the singles bar-AN "I" OPENER 
EUGENIA LAST 
HoRoscoPE 

Sharing this birthday: Prince Charles, Barbara Hutton, McLean Stevenson, King Hussein ofJrnlan 
Happy Birthday: Your outgoing attitude will capture the attention of some interesting peqJie this year. You mu<>t not become so busy having fun, however, that you miss some of the q>portunities that are coming your way. Let your creative imagination lead the way and you'll be sure to reach your goals. Your numbers: 7, 12, 22, 29, 34, 49 
' 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): You'll be upset about pending legal matters. Look out for older family members who could easily be taken advantage of. You're in ado-gocder rr.oOO and yoo will be rewanhl fcr it ** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your partner will be possessive and insecure. Try to be patient. You can help matters by reassuring him or her of your feelings and building his cr her self-esteem. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone you live with will be difficult to get along with. Humor him or her to avoid discord and channel your energy into yoor wak wrere you can a:ccrnplish the nm. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Do something that requires physical exertion with your mate. Idle time may result in boredom. Groups with a serious cause will puve to be beneficial New friendships can re fooned *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You are facing changes in your personal life that will affect your emotional well-being. Your ability to adjust to the alterations and to get into th: swing ofthings will re your saving groce. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Yoo m:rl to fa:e Ya.Jf emotiooall~JMS head-on. Drastic changes will occur if you let your temper flare up. Make sure you have all the facts straight and the proper motives for what you are doing. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You must budget yourself wisely if you want to meet your Christmas demands. Overindulgence will result in bad feelings between you and yoor partrer. You m:rlto get sorre good OOvice. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Depression due to a domestic problem is quite likely. Direct your efforts into your worl< rather than wasting your day dwelling on JESt millakes and regrets. Get back into yoor crealive hobtXes. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You could experience some difficulties while traveling, which will result in delays. You must not take part in debates \\-'ith individuals in higher positioos. *** 
. ·'"
CAPRiffiRN (])a-. 22-Jan.19): Romantic encounters will develql through organizational functions or pleasure trips. You will be able to make unique sugge;tioos when fimd.-r..lising ideas are required *** AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): You mustn't overreact or take drastic measures in order to get things done. Friend~ may lead you a~tray unintentionally. Do not do things fcr th: v.mng reason~. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your persuasive ways will help you convince others to support your efforts. Don't hesitate to use your alluring manner to C<lJ1Ure tlr lrartofa love interest**** 
Birthday Baby: You are caring, giving and intuitively in tune with those you love. You have special talents that must be developed. Creative opportunities throughoot yoor growing year.; will eXJXllld yoor ootlook and give you an OOvarltage Iarer in life. 
Need advice?TI)' Eugenia's Web ~ite at W\\-W.eugenialastaxn 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
SECAE 

I [J [j 
C2003 Tribune Media Services. Inc_ All Rights Reserved. 
FIBTE 
j 
1 
rx

tGLANID ±
J r J
1 
www.jumble.com

tTIFONY ±
J I r J I 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Mommy loves her itsy-bitsy cute-urns 
WH!:N TH!: TABBY C.UOOL....!:O ON Hi:!< L-AP, SH!: WAS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 



Friday, November 14, 2003 

Page 28 
Report says Irish are exploring ACC 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Is Notre Dame still consider­ing changing conferences ­even if it means losing its foot­ball independence? 
In its Thursday edition, USA Today cited two anonymous sources who said Notre Dame had approached ACC officials about becoming full members in the conference. 
Notre Dame athletic director 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Kevin White, through the University's sports information department, issued a statement saying the Irish were "staying the course with the Big East" but that officials are "continu­ing to monitor the landscape" -essentially the same state­ment White issued when the Big East announced a five-team expansion Nov. 4. 
Although Notre Dame spokesman John Heisler did not specifically address the USA Today report, he said the 
school is standing by its state­ment. 
ACC commissioner John Swofford said in a statement his conference "has not initiat­ed discussions with anyone regarding further expansion," although he later added that the conference had "received some informal inquires con­cerning potential membership." 
The ACC did not specify if Notre Dame was one of the schools who had made any inquires. 
The issue of Notre Dame leaving the Big East in favor of the ACC isn't a new one. Almost two months ago, numerous reports said the con­ference -which recently added Miami, Virginia Tech and Boston College-was talk­ing with Notre Dame to gauge the school's interest in joining the ACC. At the time, Heisler said he had "no idea" if the Irish had been negotiating with the ACC and called the stories pure speculation. 
' \
{. _,
:y 
' 

Irish close out exhibitions tonight 
By MATT LOZAR Associate Sports Editor 
"The Phonz" returns to the Joyce Center tonight. 
Eleven years after graduating from Notre Dame, LaPhonso Ellis headlines an Illinois All­Stars roster facing the Irish tonight in what will be Notre Dame's final exhibition tune-up before the season starts at home

?! ' 
.. , ., 

Nov. 24 against Northern Illinois. 
Ellis played four years at Notre Dame and left his name all over the record books. He currently sits 11th in all-time scoring, third in all-time rebounding, second in field goal percentage and first in career blocks. In 1992, the Denver Nuggets selected Ellis with the fifth overall pick in the NBA Draft. 
That type of physical player, along with the rest of the Illinois All-Stars, provides the Irish with a challenge they usually face during their rugged Big East 
MEN's SocCER 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
After a dominating 2-0 hom~ victory over Connecticut in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament, the Notre Dame men's soccer team (13-3-3, 7-3­1 Big East) travels east to chal­lenge for the conference cham­pionship in Storrs, Conn. The third-seeded Irish will take on seven-seed Providence (6-9-3) in the first semifinal game Friday at 5 p.m. in Storrs, Conn. 
No. 1 seed St. John's and No. 4 seed Rutgers will play follow­ing the Notre Dame match. 

,,., FOOTBALL
en 
11.1
1-u Brlf.ham Young at 
z -No re Dame
a: ::5 
The Irish face off with the Cougars in the last
a: 
home game of the sea­son.
a..ra 
en 
page 24-25 

schedule -something coach Mike Brey likes. 
"Physically, they have [big] bodies, which is a good thing. They have Big East bodies," Brey said. "I don't know if they run as many sets as the last team [Hoop Group 1we played. That last team we played See Also was the most 
disci P1in e d "Thomas picked exhibition sixth in All-team I've ever America Voting" 
seen. This team is a little page 26 bit more up and down, fir­ing up a 3-point shot." 
Running up and down the court is not the type of game Brey wants his team to get into this season. The loss of Matt Carroll and Dan Miller to gradu­ation takes away two big-time scorers from his lineup. 
Their graduation increases playing time of Jordan Cornette and Torrian Jones, who are known -at least right now ­more for their defensive skill 
Irish face Providence in Big East semifinals 
Last season, Georgetown ousted the Irish from the tour­nament by a score of 2-1 in a quarterfinal game. Counting the convincing win over the Huskies, however, the Irish are now 6-5 all-time in Big East championship competition. They have reached the semifi­nals of the tournament three times: in 1996, 1997 and 2001. Notre Dame's lone title came in 1996. 
Providence upset No. 2 seed Virginia Tech in its quarterfmal match, 4-2, on penalty kicks to reach the semifinals. 
Notre Dame enters Friday's match on a five-game winning 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Notre Dame at West Virginia Notre Dame at Pittsburgh 
The Irish look to get a 

TIM KACMAR/The Observer 
Irish head coach Mike Brey looks on in a game last year. The Irish close their exhibition season tonight at 9 p.m. at home. 
than their offensive game. team defense," Brey said. "We 
"I don't think we were a team were just so good offensively that took as much pride as we should have last year in our see BBALL/page 26 

TIM KACMAR/The Observer 
Junior mldflelder Jack Stewart goes for a ball for the Irish. 
streak that began with a win 
over Providence on Oct. 22. 
ND WOMEN'S BBALL 
Notre Dame vs. Auburn 
The Irish travel to Boulder, Colo. where 

pair of Big East victories  they play in their first  
this weekend.  tournament.  
page 22  page 21  

see TOURNEY/page 23 
NO SWIMMING 
SMC SWIMMING 
St. Marys vs. 
The Irish host 
Albion 
Brigham Young, Iowa 
White has repeatedly declined to comment on the conference re-alignment and Notre Dame's potential confer­ence future. 
But on the day the Big East announced it had added bas­ketball powerhouses Marquette, DePaul, Cincinnati, Louisville and South Florida, Heisler said Notre Dame fans shouldn't assume Notre Dame would remain a football inde­
see ACC/page 23 
BASEBALL 
Axford out for season 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
It was one pitch too many. 
Irish pitcher John Axford fired his final pitch in his team's last game of fall base­ball and struck out the oppos­ing batter. But as he did, the junior fireballer heard some­thing pop in his right elbow. 
On Nov. 5, Axford underwent Tommy John surgery to repair a torn ligament and will be out for Notre Dames upcoming season. 
"My biggest concern is for the health of John Axford, not the health of the Notre Dame baseball team," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. ''I'm con­cerned for him because he had high expectations -knew he was going to play an important role on the team." 

Tommy John surgery has occurred more frequently with professional and collegiate pitchers in the last several years. The surgery involves removing a tendon from another part of the body and attaching it to the elbow to function as a ligament. The recovery time is usually one year and, according to Mainieri, the player can even come back stronger and healthier than before the sur­gery. 
But even with a positive diagnosis, Axford is disap­pointed he will not pitch this season. 
''I'm trying to stay as posi­tive as I can about it," Axford said. "[My goals] are pushed 
see INJURY/page 23 
COLLEGE BBALL 
Marquette 52 St. John's 45 
The Golden Eagles

and Louisville this 
The Belles look for 
defeated the Red Storm

weekend, as they try to 
revenge as Albion fin-
in both teams' season

improve their 0-3 dual 
shed ahead of them in 
opener.

meet record. 
the conference last year. 
page 16
page 21 
page 19 


~-~·---------~--­

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 14, 2003 
MEN'S INTERHALL fOOTBALL 
Dillon and Siegfried battle as top two seeds 
Coming off of a 10-6 victoryBy DAN TAPETILLO 

over Morrissey last Sunday,

Sports Writer 
Siegfried dominated the game after overcoming early struggles Four overtimes and a stripped in the first quarter. The momen­ball in the semifinal game tum quickly shifted for the against Keenan brought these Ramblers as defensive end Kevin two teams together. Phipps stripped the ball from 
After nearly seeing their domi­Morrissey's quarterback Marty nance during the regular season Mooney. dwindle away, Dillon had to Giving Siegfried confidence, the prove why they deserve to be in Ramblers took the lead by half­the interhall championship game time and never looked back. despite being the number one Despite having to face the seeded team. number one seeded team, 
After meeting the challenge as Siegfried remains confident they Dillon defeated Keenan, the team can avenge their loss against will once again be tested as they Dillon in the 2001 championship face the No. 2 seed and defend­game. ing champions Siegfried. "We're not nervous, we're 
Dillon's path to the champi­ready ... our goal was to go to onship game included several the stadium and defend the title," obstacles including four over­Siciliano said. "[Dillon] is the best times and the inability to score team in the league and it is fit­points. Despite struggling for ting that we will meet them in most of the game, Dillon was the championship game." In order to become victorious, Robert McBride to stop a part of the legacy, everyone able to find the end zone and After last year's victory, Siegfried will have to defeat Siegfried's game. wants to do their best," conquer Keenan 13-6. Siegfried has remained confident Dillon, who overcame a scare in Dillon's offense has only McCarthy said. 
Although the Ramblers are as the team has become stronger the second round of the playoffs. allowed a total of 17 points in six Dillon has been the team to seeded second, Siegfried comes in numbers and has gained After four overtimes, reality set games. beat all season with a perfect experienced as the defending greater support from the dorm. in for Dillon. "The [defense] has never let record. It is Dillon's goal to prove champions will be playing in Siegfried is more focused upon "It was a gut check," Dillon up," Dillon quarterback Michael that they belong in the champi­their third consecutive stadium winning the championship and team captain Kevin McCarthy Johnson said. "The defense has onship. game. But each time Siegfried bringing the victory to the sen­said. carried us the whole season." "We are definite we can prove reaches the championship game, iors for the last time rather than Dillon now realizes that more Although the victory is impor­our number one ranking." it is a new experience. giving into all the excitement focus needs to be placed upon tant to Dillon, playing in the sta­Johnson said. · 
"It is a different team with dif­surrounding the game. fundamentals in preparation for dium is a unique experience that ferent players and different atti­"If you give into the hype, that Sunday's game. They also hope Dillon does not take for granted. tudes," Siegfried team captain is when you don't show up to to rely upon running game and "[The championship game] is Contact Dan Tapetillo at Vmce Siciliano said. play the game," said Siciliano. quick defense led by senior a special event and with it being jtapetil@nd.edu 


Big Red made a habit of playing in close games this ¥ear,,.", 
backup AJ Cedeno performed is a stand out."
By MIKE GILLOON 

well in his place and led the Senior linebacker Robert 
Sports Writer 

team to a 14-8 victory. McBride attributes Dillon's ''I hadn't played a single success to the amount of 
If teams are defined by how down in a game all year," preparation that the team they react when their backs Cedeno said. "But I had confi­puts in. are against the wall, then dence in my team to get the "We practice three times a Dillon is an exceptional foot­job done. All I had to do was week, along with scouting our ball team. The Big Red are hand the ball off, and we got opponents and watching undefeated the victory." film," he said. heading into After another Despite all the close calls the men's close call, a 7-this year, the Big Red haven't interhall ..This year we have 0 triumph over let the fear of a loss affect championship Sorin in the them too much.
executed and played 
this Sunday quarterfinals, "I'd be lying if I said we against smart, and that is the the Big Red haven't been afraid at any Siegfried, mark ofa great team. , prepared for a time this year," Butwin said. with four of rematch with "But even when we have been their six vic­Keenan. This down we've kept a positive
JT Arsenladls
tories coming game was a attitude." by a touch­Dillon captain classic: it went Arseniadis agreed. down or less. into four over-"There is always fear when 
Dillon's times, with you're backed up against the resiliency Dillon coming wall," he said. "But this year was tested early in the year out on top, 13-6. we have executed and played against archrival AI umni. "That game was a nail­smart, and that is the mark of Kicker Brian Fallon booted a biter," Butwin said. "It was by a great team." field goal with 27 seconds left far the tough-When it to break a scoreless tie and est game I've comes to defeat the Dawgs. This kick played in." Sunday's came after three earlier Big The teams game, Dillon
··we pride ourselves in
Red field goal attempts were were tied 3-3 will be happy
finding a way to win.,
blocked. when Keenan with any kind 
"We pride ourselves in find­kicker Andrew of victory. ing a way to win," said junior Warner missed Ben Butwln "It would be tailback Ben Butwin. "We a 35-yard field exciting to
Dillon tailback 
don't have a coach, so we · goal as time have a look to our leaders and cap­expired in reg­'Sportscenter' tains to motivate us." ulation. type of last­
Dillon entered its last regu­Johnson scored the game­minute win," Cedeno said. lar season game against winning touchdown for the "But it would be a compli­Keenan undefeated with a Big Red in the fourth over­ment to our team if we won defense that had yet to give time. big." up a point. This changed The Big Red defense was Arseniadis summed up his quickly as the Knights opened tested like never before in team's attitude. up the first half with a touch­this game but came up with "Hey, a win's a win." down. stops when they were needed As they have shown all year 
The Big Red's woes contin­most to preserve the victory. long, the .Big Red will take ued later on, when quarter­"Our success this season what they can get. back Michael Johnson had to has been a real team effort," leave the game with a dislo­said captain JT Arseniadis. Contact Mike Gilloon at cated shoulder. Freshman "There is no one player that mgilloon@nd.edu 
Friday, November 14, 2003 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Badin and Lewis set to face off in the Stadium 
By ANNE BRUSKY Sports Writer 
The women's interhall football championship Sunday has all the makings of a David and Goliath match-up. 
After months of anticipation, top-seeded Lewis will face third­ranked Badin at noon in Notre Dame Stadium. 
"It's going to be a good game," Badin center Lindsay Wind said. "We know Lewis is a great team. They're very strong offensively and defensively, and they'll put up a great fight." 
Lewis, the largest women's dorm on campus, is undefeated up to this point and, after 
Of course, this will not be the story if the Badin Bullfrogs have anything to say about it. 
With nearly 170 fewer occu­pants than Lewis, Badin is the smallest girls' dorm on campus and is 7-1 after losing to Lewis in the season opener. 
The dorm only housed an inter­hall team for six years, and this is their first year to make it to the finals. 
"It's been our goal for four years," said senior Erin Zachry, one of Badin's quarterbacks. "Each year. we've improved and gotten closer and our goal has become more feasible. This is a big honor for Badin; we've worked very hard for this." 
It's not only the 
team's leader 


receiving a bye in the first round of the  "This is a big honor for Badin; we've worked  that feels a win would be huge for the team,  
playoffs, they arrive at the  very hard for this. ,,  however. "No matter if  
Stadium with a 7-0 record.  Erin Zachry  we win or lose, we're really  
The  Chicks  Badin quarterback  proud  of  our  
dominated the  progress and our  
Gold League,  accomplish­ 
recording five  ments,"  said  

shutouts and running away with Wrnd, also a senior. "But we still victory after victory behind the have the ultimate goal of win­talent and finesse of fourth-year ning." quarterback Erin Na'irallah. When the teams met earlier this 
"We have a great group. We year, Lewis pulled through with keep each other motivated," an 8-6 victory. Nasrallah said. "We're really Obviously, both Badin and Lewis close, and ~e work together well. have grown and made significant Everyone just loves to play." improvements since the beginning 
Two years ago, Lewis lost in the of the season. championship after knocking off "We're not taking anything for Badin in the semifinal round. granted," Nasrallah said. "We 
"Everyone knows what a great know they're a really strong team. opportu.nK}) itls\to ptayHn the ,We koow we have to come out Stadium," Nasrallah said. "We put playing hard the whole game, and a lot of pressure on ourselves to that's what we plan on doing. get to the Stadium, but we're not We've watched them play and I just content to get there. We want think we're ready for whatever 
...

to Will. they may throw at us." 
The Chicks are hoping that the energy from last week's thrilling overtime victory against Welsh Family carries over to the champi­onship game. 
In addition to potent combina­tions on offense, Lewis also boasts a solid defense. 
"We're really confident because of the way our defense has been setting up all year," said Amanda DiOrio, part of Lewis' secondary. "We're so strong and we really think it will be to our advantage in the championship." 
Badin, for their part, will be relying once again on the play­making ability of dual-action quarterbacks Zachry and fellow 
Lewis quarterback Nasrallah gets another shot at title 
senior Steph Heath, as well as the clutch plays of Wind and wide receiver Molly Donnely. 
Zachry credits this season's suc­cess to "a combination of senior leadership and some very talented freshmen and sophomores," as well as to the dedication of fifth­year coach Anthony Pilcher. 
Since the first day of the season, or, as DiOrio said, from the moment they lost last year, both tElams have had their eyes set on the Stadium. 
"At the beginning of the season, we got together as a team and let everyone know this was our goal," Wmd said. "We knew we wanted nothing less than to play every game possible." 
The fact that each team is led by dynamic groups of seniors makes this final game of the season even more intense and emotional. 
"There's so much energy and desire that it really vibrates throughout the team," DiOrio said. 
That desire will probably con­tinue all the way up to the first snap of the ball Sunday. 
"We're all so excited and so pumped," Nasrallah said. "Both teams know how special this opportunity is." 
Contact Anne Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu 

has helped Nasrallah be a "I think the group of seniors Lewis squad to attain a perfect oped a great deal of memories 
By BOB GRIFFIN 
leader all season. and upperclassmen we have as 7-0 record moving into this playing football for Lewis hall 
Sports Writer 
''I think what this year's team a whole are the leaders of the week's championship game over her four-year career. While and the team two years ago team," Nasrallah said. "We've against Badin. Here, Badin, her Michael Jordan-like com­
Erin Nasrallah is by no means have in common is the strong got experi-who is a petitive edge might be what a novice when it comes to com­bond shared by the players. enced players very hot allows her to remain successful ­peting in Notre Dame Stadium. This year's team has its own on both sides team, will on the field, there are other No, she didn't try out for the unique dynamic, different play­of the ball. "We have confidence in our be looking aspects of the game that stand men's varsity football team, and ers and different coaches. This The fun we to pull the out in Nasrallah's mind.
team's ability andfeel
she is not a cheerleader. She year's game is about this year's have at prac­u p s e t 'Tve had so much fun both on hasn't had a stint with the team and the culmination of tice and the ready for Sunday's game.·· against and off the field with my team­Fighting Irish coaching staff, our season. The trip to the sta­focus and Lewis, the mates," Nasrallah said. and she most likely never will. dium is an opportunity we are determina­team that "Playing football with your
Erin Nasrallah 
Nasrallah is a senior quarter­all so excited for. We can't wait tion we carry defeated friends is one of the best things
Lewis quarterback
back for Lewis' interhall foot­to play," Nasrallah said. into the them 8-6 in to do on a Sunday afternoon." ­ball team, who this weekend, Nasrallah is truly a complete games is their sea­Not only is Erin Nasrallah a with the crisp breeze of autumn player in every sense of the something son opener. skilled football player, a and a hint of ethanol in the air, word. She is as humble as that we " W e respected leader and a great will look to knock off No. 3 Barry Sanders, as confident as spread to the entire team." respect Badin's team and know teammate, but she has a sense Badin inside the same stadium, Terrell Owens, but in a good Despite the feel-good atmos­we have to come out ready to of humor as well. which has produced many of way, and more collected than phere that permeates Lewis' play, but we have confidence in When asked the number one Notre Dame's heroes over its Brett Favre down four with two practices, Nasrallah feels as 'Our team's ability and feel reason that Lewis had made it history. minutes left in the fourth quar­though her team has done a ready for Sunday's game," to the interhall finals, Nasrallah 
Nasrallah has been described ter. Nasrallah has dealt with good job preparing for the Nasrallah said. casually remarked, "Celibacy 
.... 

as having a "rocket arm" and pressure Sunday's con­Nasrallah has led Lewis to and sobriety; the strategy sug­her ability to scramble out of all season test, and is several big wins this season, gested by our coaches." the pocket has kept defenses on and has ..The trip to the stadium is optimistic namely last week's semifinal It is too bad Badin won't see their heels all season long. A gracefully about winning against Welsh Fam, a game that this same comedic side of Erin 
an opportunity we're all 
starter all four seasons, she is managed her first inter­Lewis won 14-13 in overtime Nasrallah come Sunday, as the now looking to make the leap to to lead her excitedfor. We can't wait to hall football with a game-winning touch­senior quarterback will do the upper echelon of women's L e w i s play., championship. down by Nasrallah. everything in her power to interhall football quarterbacks offense "We've been "Last week's win against make up for the loss two years that have grazed the fields out­into the doing what Welsh was especially impor­ago with a championship victo­
Erin Nasrallah 
side of the Stepan Center and playoffs as we've been tant," Nasrallah said. "Trailing ry in last game of her interhall on West Quad for years. a number Lewis quarterback doing all year: the whole game, we had to find football career. 
Two years ago, Nasrallah, one seed. staying a way to win in a short period then a sophomore quarterback, Yet, it is relaxed, of time. It really ga-ve us confi­lead the Lewis squad into the no surprise that when asked remaining focused and now dence that we could deal with championship game, only to what her leadership has meant being excited about playing in any circumstance we encounter -· suffer a tough defeat. which is to the Lewis football team, she the stadium," Nasrallah said. on the field." still very fresh in her mind. modestly defers much of the This focus has allowed Regardless of Sunday's out­Contact Bob Griffin at Being in that situation before credit to her teammates. Nasrallah and the rest of the come, Erin Nasrallah has devel-rgriffi3@nd.edu 
\ 
< 
/ 
{ 

-· 


Friday, November 14, 2003

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 


table of contents 

Jason Beckstrom page 7 
David Bemenderfer page 20 
Darrell Campbell page 11 
Vontez Duff page 12 
Glenn Earl page 15 
Cedric Hilliard page 18 
Omar Jenkins page 17 
Julius Jones page 13 
David Kowalski page 4 
Matt Krueger page 8 
Cole Laux page 9 
Sean Milligan page 5 
Jim Molinaro page 21 
Patrick Nally page 6 
Mike Profeta page 14 
Nate Schomas page 10 
Nicholas Setta page 10 
Courtney Watson page 3 
Fourth-year seniors pages 22-23 

Future will reveal seniors' role 

History will judge what role the 
2003 senior class had in shaping 
Notre Dame football, and that's a 
good thing. 

Because right now, this senior 
class' legacy isn't 
looking too good. 
In the 117-year 
history of Notre . Dame football. 
the Irish have 
never had three 
losing seasons in 
a five-year span. 
And if the Irish 
lose to BYU, 
Stanford or 

Syracuse, the 
fifth-year seniors 
playing their 

final game in 
Notre Dame 
Stadium 

Saturday will have been the only 
class of players to see Notre Dame 
through such an ignominious 
stretch. 

Not exactly something you want to 
put on your resume. 
And that's why fans will have to 
wait until future football seasons to 
determine how much of an impact 
this senior class had on the football 
program. 

One thing for sure -this year's 
senior class has experienced 
nowhere near the success that last 
year's class did as the team's lead­
ers. And that's surprising, consider­
ing that a new head coach bent on 
installing his own style often 
neglects the players who will be 
around for just one season. 
But Tyrone Willingham welcomed 
and embraced last year's seniors, 
and they responded by serving as a 
rallying point for Notre Dame's 
remarkable run. Seven went on to 
get drafted by the NFL, and many of 
those who did are playing key roles 
on their respective teams. 
So what happened to this crop of 
seniors? 


QUOTING THE IRISH 
"I missed it a lot. Anytime you have something taken away from you that you love doing, it hurtspretty bad . ... You learn from your mistakes, and I think rve done that. " 
Julius Jones running back 

For one, there aren't many impact players in the lineup -especially on the offense. In fact, aside from Julius Jones, no other senior has had a massive impact on Notre Dame's ability to move the ball­maybe because only three played regularly (wide receiver Omar Jenkins and lineman Jim Molinaro). 
Defensively. the inability of Notre Dame's once-dominating unit to shut down oppo­nents is even more 
seasons). Five years ago, then-Irish coach Bob Davie told his team that fans wouldn't remember how Notre Dame started out the season. "but they'll remember what you do in November." And fans did-Notre Dame lost the final four games of the campaign to record its first los­ing season in 13 years. 
The same holds true for this batch of seniors. Notre Dame fans are 
more likely to 
remember the BCS 

puzzling, consider­The manner in which the bowl run of 2000 ing the Irish at the Irish team ends the and the Return to beginning of the Glory campaign of
season will be the true 
season started 2002 than they will seven players who testament ofthis class' the losing-record attended Notre leadership ability. years of 1999 and 
Dame for at least four years. 
This season is more or less a throwaway, because even if the Irish win the rest of their games to become bowl-eligible, there's little chance they'll actually get selected for one. 
And that is where the evaluation of this senior class can begin. 
Can vocal leaders like Courtney Watson rally the Irish and keep them focused late in the season? When the Irish stumbled to a losing season two years ago, it was in part because some the younger players -who are now this year's seniors -adopted a "wait 'till next year" mentality. How can this senior class prevent others from making mis­takes? 
Can future NFL talent, like Julius Jones or Darrell Campbell, pass what they have learned to the younger players who will take their place? Notre Dame is such a young team right now -the Irish have played six true freshmen-that the youth need the experience the seniors can provide if Notre Dame is to be successful in the future. 
Can Notre Dame actually have a winning record in November? (The Irish haven't in four of the last five 2001 -all teams 
the graduating class 

of fifth-year seniors were members of. 
But the manner in which the Irish team ends the season will be the true testament of this class' leader­ship ability. Because if Notre Dame sputters its way to another losing season -just like the Irish did last year -it's hard to imagine that Irish football will experience a miraculous rebirth in the offseason. 
On the other hand, if the Irish fin­ish the season on a positive note, Notre Dame will finally have some bounce in its step in the offseason, which could in turn lead to repeti­tion of Willingham's miraculous first year at the helm of Notre Dame football. And by doing so, the seniors will show that their final year, the year Notre Dame stumbled again, was merely an aberration. 
Time will judge those playing their final game in Notre Dame Stadium Saturday. But against BYU, the seniors will begin filling the pages of the history books. 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
'7'm just enjoying playing football with a helmet and shoulder pads on for the last time in my life., 
Nate Schomas walk-on wide receiver 
"I see the system just taking offand getting back to the glory days.,, 
Courtney Watson linebacker 


Friday, November 14 2003 page 3 
The Observer + IRISH INSIDER 
COURTNEY WATSON 
An all--around 
Watson gets more out of life at Notre Dame than just football 


tion to be in," Watson said. "IfBy CHRIS FEDERICO you want to go to college and 

Spons Writer 
just play ball, that's fine. But this 
may not be the place for you. If 

Last season, Courtney Watson you want to become a better was one of the leaders of a high­person, this is the right place for flying Irish defense that wreaked you, because I think they do a havoc on opposing offenses. The very god job of trying to incorpo­squad was known for its big hits rate that into everyday life here and big and try to break down those plays in walls and barriers between stu­causing 33 dent-athletes and students." turnovers Like many other students, and scoring Watson has learned a valuable five touch­lesson from his experiences in downs on campus life and in campus poli­defense. tics -stay out of the political 
Playing in world. just 10 of "I don't think [I would like it]," N o t r e he said with a laugh. "The way Dame's 13 politics have been going right games that year, Watson led the now, it's too much pressure. I've team in tackles with 90 and had been in some high pressure situ­10 tackles for loss in being ations with football, but I don't named one of three finalists for know if I could deal with all of the Butkus Award, given to the that." top linebacker in the country. Put him on either side 
This year, the fifth-year senior Like many players in college Watson has already surpassed football today who were too ath­those marks for tackles in nine letically skilled to be wasted on games and is again one of the the defensive side of the ball in nation's leaders at his middle high school, Watson began his linebacker position. career with the Irish on offense. 
But those numbers only tell "I think it's common every­part of the tale. While Watson where, just because a lot of will go down in Notre Dame lore times in high school they put the as one of many standout line­best guys in position to make the backers, he has left an even play for the team, so you have a longer lasting legacy with the lot of defensive players who are University in his five years in playing offense," Watson said. "I South Bend. think that's just the way it is Neo-Mr. Notre Dame when you don't have as much 
For much of his time with the talent on one particular team in Irish, Watson has been more high school as you do on college, than just a football player. In where someone can play more fact, he has broken the mold of a natural position for that and shattered the stereotypical individual person. In high image of the "football jock" by school, you have to try to get the serving as a leader both on the ball to the best athlete on your football field and ofT. team, whether he plays offense 
"You meet a lot of people out­or defense." side of football and you get to Watson was recruited out of meet new people and learn Sarasota, Fla., as a star running about people on more of a per­back who racked up over 2,500 sonal level -not necessarily as, yards rushing and 25 touch­Tm Courtney Watson -football downs in his junior and senior player, and you're such and seasons combined. But when he such,"' Watson said. "I think it got to Notre Dame in 1999, the really helps to break down those lack of depth behind Irish mid­walls in between the people I've dle linebacker Anthony Denman met and learn more about me had then-coach Bob Davie look­than just a football player." ing for anyone to fill in that posi­
Everyone knows that Watson tion in the years to come. is one of the undisputed leaders The freshman tailback from of the football Irish -he has Florida -whom many coaches served as game day captain thought had the body frame to already four times for the Irish grow into a defensive player ­this season. was tabbed forth~ assignment. 
But not everyone may be Four years later. Davie is look-aware of ing like a Watson's dedi-genius -at cation to his least in one
..If you want to become a

fellow students area -as
better person. this is the 

at Notre Dame. Watson has Last year, the right place for you ... developed then-Zahm into one of the Hall senior premier line­
Courtney Watson 

decided to run backers in the for hall senator Irish linebacker country. and was elect-Watson has ed by a com-recorded 267 manding 70 percent margin by tackles over his career and has his fellow Zahmbies. led the team in that category the 
"[Running for senator] was past two seasons. something I did that turned out "I'm happy I changed. I've to be a very good situation for taken to this position and have me," Watson said. "I learned a tried to make myself as good as I lot from it, and it helped me get can be at this position," Watson more involved in being just a said of his switch to linebacker. regular student." "I think I've had a pretty good 
Watson has made a point to career here, so I'm very happy try to experience all Notre Dame about the change, and I don't has to offer an not fall into the think it could have gone any bet­mold of being "just a football ter" player." Through good times and bad 
"I think to get the most out of If there's one thing that college that this is the best situa-Watson has a lot of after nearly five years with the Irish, it's experience. That makes him nearly invaluable as a senior leader on a team with a lot of young talent. 
In his career, Watson's gone through just about everything you can imagine. He's struggled through a position change from offense to defense at the early part of his career. He's waited patiently for his time to get into the game behind older athletes. 
"You see the team struggling and you think you can go out there and help," Watson said of his own experiences at the beginning of his career. "But everybody has to wait their turn, and I think you just learn that as you become more mature and understand college football a lit­tle more." 
Over his five years, Watson has also witnessed first hand the extreme highs and lows that can come with winning and losing as Notre Dame. 
He's seen the good times and bad in Irish football ranging from Notre Dame's 8-0 start last year and Fiesta Bowl appear­ance in 2000 to it's current 3-6 season, a 5-6 finish in 2001, a 5­7 season as a freshman in 1999 and an alleged rape scandal that caused three players to leave the University and left a big hole in the team. 


If anything, Watson hopes his knowledge and the things he has learned can be put to good use in the minds of the younger players coming up through the program now. 
"I try to tell the guys that aren't playing that it's for a rea­son, and the coaches know best," he said, of the advice he gives to younger players who are itching to get playing time just as he was as a freshman in 1999. "Maybe you could go out and perform to the same level as the guys out there, but the coaches have those guys out on the field for a reason. They're going to do the best thing for the team and for yourself to get both you and the team developed." 
Even in Notre Dame's current difficult season, Watson still feels a great sense of duty to the University he loves so much. He knows that even in his short remaining time here, he still has 
I 
1 
I 
more to teach and more to 
learn. 
"Right now, you just play for wins. You want to just put this team in a position to have some momentum for next year," he said. "My goal is to get better as an individual, but at the same time, to help our team get better to win the next game that we have, then after that the next three games, and just try to end the season on a good note." 
If there's one thing Watson can be positive about with all the things he's seen in nearly five years at Notre Dame, it's that the great Irish football tradition will not fade away any time soon. 
"I see the program just going up," Watson said. "I see coach [Tyrone] Willingham staying here and getting a good hold on the program and putting his touch to it and getting a lot of players in here. I see the system just taking ofT and getting back to the glory days." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 
Friday, November 14, 2003 

page 4 The Observer + IRISH INSIDER 
DAVID KowALSKI 

Choice of academics has unexpected result 
Guard didn't hav~ to give up football after high school 
he told me to come on over and I with at practice. By CLAIRE HEININGER thought I was going to a tryout," "As a walk-on, you go through Sports Writer Kowalski said. a lot that people don't really 
He was mistaken. see," he said. "That's kind of 
Faced with what he thought "I got there and [the coaches] become my job, to be a mentor was a decision between football said. •Here's your pads,"' for the younger ones." and academics, Chicago De La Kowalski said. "I had no idea.... Reflecting on his collegeSalle High School valedictorian I was a completely lost little career, Kowaski's emotions were David Kowalski thought he freshman." mixed. picked only Four years later, Kowalski has "It's kind of bittersweet," he academics. found his way and has found his said. "I mean, it's been a longTurns out, he role on the scout team during road, it's been four years ... didn't have to his senior season. that's a whole lot of practices, a choose. "We obviously didn't want to whole lot of different trips. I 
"I was be 2-6 at this point. but in the wouldn't trade it ... but I think recruited to same respect we don't want to I'll be ready to walk away." play football be 2-10 either," the walk-on He paused, realized how soon at a bunch of said. that walk would come, and smaller "My games are played on added, "there will be times,schools, and I Tuesdays, Wednesdays and though, five or 10 years from had it nar-Thursdays.... I don't get to play now, when I would do anythingrowed down to Washington on Saturdays, so nothing to play one more play."University in St. Louis and here," changes for me. We're still going Kowalski, the self-assured sen­Kowalski, now a senior offensive out there trying to win and try­ior walk-on, appreciates his cur­guard for the Irish, said. "I ing to get these guys ready." rent perspective on Kowalski,could've played football there ... In addition to preparing the the intimidated freshman stu­
but after I came and visited starters for Saturdays, Kowalski dent who chose Notre Dame in Notre Dame, I knew it was the has made it his responsibility the first place. He maintains that place for me, football or not. and his priority to prepare this football alone has not defined his There was never really a second year's freshmen walk-ons for the college experience. thought after that. It was aca­challenges of the seasons ahead "I don't want to be known for demics first -that's just how I of them. fjust playing football]," he said. was raised." "I like to think that the other "That's kind of the essence of a 
Even with this choice Kowalski walk-ons look up to me," he walk-on ... I came here to be a 
found it hard to let go of football said. "When I was a freshman, part of something bigger than completely and decided to send the older guys took care of me. myself." 
a highlight tape to a family took me under their wing, going friend who was connected with out to dinner every once in the program. awhile ... it helps to get to know Contact Claire Heininger at 
"After he checked out the tape, the guys that you're out there cheining@nd.edu 

TIM SULLIVANffhe Observer David Kowalski jogs onto the practice field at Cartier Field dur­Ing a recent Notre Dame practice. 

""" 





~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-, 
Friday, November 14, 2003 page 5 
The Observer + IRISH INSIDER 
SEAN MILLIGAN 

Convincing mom turned out worthwhile 

ByJUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sporrs Editor 
Despite the fact her son is now a 290-pound lineman for the Irish, Sean Milligan's moth­er was worried about him play­ing football when he was 
younger. 
" I ' v e always want­ed to play football," Milligan said. "All my friends played foot­ball, but my 

morn wasn't Milligan really for it so I had to coax her into it. She was like, 'Your older brother didn't play until he was in high school, and you're not playing until you're in high school.' 
"I kind of talked her letting me start a year before high school, though." 
As a senior at Norcross High School in the Atlanta suburb of Norcross, Milligan shined as a standout offensive lineman. He was named a USA Today sec­ond-team All American offen­sive lineman and rated a top­100 prospect by both ESPN.com and The Sporting News. 
As a high school standout in the football-crazy state of Georgia, Milligan received a lot of looks from the University of Georgia and other SEC schools, as well as Georgia Tech in Atlanta. From the start, though, he knew where he wanted to go. 

"I kind of just went with my gut and my heart," he said. "I thought Notre Dame had the best mix of academics and foot­ball and I wanted to get a nationally-recognized degree." 
Milligan was redshirted as a freshman in 1999 under coach Bob Davie, and only played a few minutes of backup duty as a sophomore. As a junior, Milligan started his first game against Nebraska in 2001. 
The offensive guard continued to switch between a starter and a backup through 2001, but became a full-time starter in 2 0 0 2 , coach Tyrone Willingham's first year. 
Milligan was forced to learn a different blocking scheme from the option-based scheme which Davie used. He also had to deal with the fiasco surrounding the hiring and five days later, resig­nation, of George O'Leary. 
"It was hard, because I came in to play under coach Davie and his staff, and when they left it was kind of like, 'Well, where do I go from here,"' Milligan said. "And then the new coach came in and he was only here for five days, so we all were at home from Christmas break and we're just kind of thinking -who's going to be our coach. 
"It was kind of frustrating not knowing who your coach was going to be, because the school was keeping quiet about it." 
During his first year in Willingham's system, Milligan was a crucial part of an offen­sive line that sent four players to the NFL and helped the Irish to a 10-3 record. Milligan served an additional role this season as the only returning starter on the offensive line, and was asked to provide extra leadership to the young line­men. 
"What I tried to do was just to help them learn the game speed, the game tempo, and what's expected of them," he said. "The coaches expect lead­ership out of the seniors, with the young team we have, we're expected to really set an exam­ple." 
Milligan injured himself in the Michigan game this year, and hasn't played since. putting a damper on his last year. Despite the injury, he still feels confi­dent about his future after Notre Dame. 
''I'm just going to take next semester and try to get things in order. I'd like to go back home to Atlanta, but I'll really go anywhere someone will hire me," he said. 
''I'd like to play professional football, and if that comes, it comes, but I'm not banking my life on it." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

~ 
I I 

page 6 Friday, November 14, 2003 
The Observer + IRISH INSIDER 
PATRICK NALLY 

Helping prepare the starters is just plain fun 

By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Sports Writer 
For walk-on tight-end Patrick Nally, the oppor­tunity to play Notre Dame football is just plain fun. 
"I'm scrimmaging football most of the time, which is just a blast," Nally said. "To go out there 
and go against some of the best athletes in the world, it's fun to go out and compete." 
As a member of the scout team, Nally helps prepare the defense by simulating the next opponent's offense in practice the week before the game. How he does this -and some­times even the position he 

plays -changes every week. Nally 
"Boston College used a lot of tight ends . . . Florida State hardly used any and Navy doesn't even have a tight end on their team. ... I was a tackle that week," he said. 
And even though his hard work at practice doesn't usually result in playing time, he still has a lot invested in each game. 
"You definitely take pride and definitely look at the defense and see how they do and how they perform and always hope for a shutout or very low points scored on them," he said. 
Nally said he knew he wanted to come to Notre Dame and play football since third grade and always worked toward that goal. And while no members of his family had attended Notre Dame, he was following his father's footsteps, who played football at the University of Tulsa. 
"The first thing was getting into school and 
once I was able to get in to school it was to work 
towards doing the football," he said. 
Nally prepared by adding 25 pounds between the time he arrived on campus and when he tried out for the team in the spring of his freshman year in 2001. After he made the team, he began working towards his next goal -playing during a game. 
That opportunity came during Notre Dame's 42-0 victory over Rutgers last November, when Nally played for just under a minute. 
"It was real exciting and pretty unreal at the time, I couldn't really believe it was happening," he said. "Definitely one of the goals I set out when I joined the team was to get on the field, play at least a play and get my name on the all­time roster." 
Nally would welcome the opportunity to play again, but said wants to see his team win more than anything else. 
"I definitely want to go out on top. I would like to win the games first and foremost," he said. "I'll play hard at practice and play hard at every play, prepare the defense for everything and see what happens. 
"If I have the opportunity to play again, it would be awesome, if not, I just really hope we win." 
An accounting major, Nally has also spent this fall interviewing for jobs, and like many other students, isn't sure where he will end up next year. 
''I'm going back to being a normal guy I guess," he said. "I am going through the interview process and going to get a job, just like a typical, average Notre Dame student." 
But playing on the most storied college football program is an opportunity' few students get and one Nally said he is thankful for. 
"It's a real neat experience, I feel very fortu­nate to have had it and I try to work as hard as I can at it," he said. "I have met some great guys doing this and really have been fortunate with all the people I have met and made friends. It's defi­nitely something I would like to take with me beyond football." 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 



·oNI.VERSITY C~)F .. NOTRE :DAME 
WASHINGTON PROGRAM 
.:.·, .._:f..-.•-.-.• 

The Washington Program is accepting applications for Fall2004 and Spring 2005 Application deadline: December 1 Apply online at www.nd.edu/,_semester All majors welcome 
PLEASE NOTE: The \'X7ashit1gtc)tl Pt<lgtatn (-)ffice has UI<>,rcd! ( ~ ··· . . · · · · ? ?7. B. H 11 11 .·hi 1 1· . . 7"'r . B "l J. .· '\
_;lome v·tstt us at~-.. tO\V11SOt1 ...... a..... ,,)e ;net t 1e .o(_,_atn ut.cttno-~ 
. ~ 
Anna Detlefsen) Director 631-7251 • detlefsen~6@nd.edu 
Friday, November 14, 2003 page 7 
The Observer + IRISH INSIDER 
JASON BECKSTROM 

No regrets 
Despite injuries, Beckstrom would not change any of his decisions 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 

Sports Wrirer 
He lunged to make a tackle on a 

kickoff drill in a preseason practice, 
but mostly missed the runner. Instead, 
his arm wrapped around the ball car­
rier for only an instant, before Jason 
Beckstrom felt 
something twinge in 
his arm. 
Just like that, he 

had torn his bicep. 
Just like that, he 
was out for the sea­
son. 
And so Beckstrom, 

who entered 2002 
with such high Beckstrom 
expectations, 
grabbed a permanent spot on the side­
lines for the 2002 season. Yes, the year 
Notre Dame "returned to glory." Yes, 
the year he had his best chance to 
challenge for a starting cornerback 
slot. Yes, the year he hoped would pro­
pel him to an NFL career. 
So why isn't he upset about it? 

Masked as a disguise 
"Sometimes things come in disguis­

es," Beckstrom said a year after his 
injury, "and I really think this has been 
one of those things." 
When Beckstrom stood on the side­

line of a practice field a year ago in 
pain, he had no idea his season was 
over. In fact, he thought his arm mus­
cles had only cramped up. So he pulled 
his helmet back on, stepped back onto 
the practice field and played football 
for t'Wo more days. 
Then the results of the MRI came 

back. "Well, I guess I have to sit that 
one out," Beckstrom remembers think­
ing when he heard the news. He had 
torn the smaller of his bicep muscles, 
which meant he could still move his 
arm but couldn't do anything as physi­
cal as tackle a wide receiver. So he had 
arm surgery and traded his helmet for 
another year of eligibility. 
The thing was, Beckstrom never got visibly angry that he had to sit out the ANDY KENNNThe Observer season. While he admits that it was Irish defensive back Jason Beckstrom heads toward the ball during the Michigan game this season. Beckstrom returned tough watching Notre Dame have suc­
to Notre Dame In 2003 after missing the entire 2002 season with a torn bleep Injury. 
cess with him on the sideline, he had faced season-ending injuries before. A Business Plan competition, where fall, where Ellick gained a slight edge role and is doing real well." shoulder injury his sophomore year Notre Dame students submit a busi­-and therefore more playing time -Ready for the future kept him out of spring practice, and a ness proposal and compete for a over the fifth-year senior. With just three games left in his final 
torn hamstring and double stress frac­$15,000 grand prize. The choice might have been surpris­year of eligibility, Beckstrom is starting ture in his back made him miss his Beckstrom spent a year on his proj-ing to Beckstrom, who came from an to think about his football future. He'd freshman and ect, which he com­Oklahoma high love to give the NFL sophomore years of pleted Nov. 14. His school defense a shot, but also 
high school. ../know he'd rather be "/realized there's other 
idea? A retaiVelec­that didn't allow wants to try to "Experience is playing a lot and tronics kiosk over nine yards of things out there than football make his business very key in some­starting, but he's machine that could offense four times proposal work.
that I want to do. Football's
thing like that," he be placed any­in his senior sea­"If I can have my 
said. "I knew that accepted his role and is where in the retail son and was con­my passion, but there are cake, and eat it too, I'd feel like when I doing real well ... industry. sidered one of the other things too. , that would be some­came back, and I "I realized there's top prospects in thing" he laughs. 
realize what kind other things out his state. "Sometimes things
Trent Walters 

Jason Beckstrom 
of story that would there_ than football But while don't work that way.
Irish secondary coach

be and how people that I want to do," Beckstrom might Irish cornerback sometimes they do." could take encour-he said. "Football's have been disap-Oh, and that idea agement and inspi-my passion. but pointed that he that he wasn't ration from that to do the same thing." there are other things too." \ might not have been playing as much, ready to face post-graduate life? Contemplating his options The year on the sideline~ gave he shrugged off the second-team desig­Beckstrom says that doesn't exist any­
But the year away from football Beckstrom plenty of time to develop nation as easily as he shrugged off his more. made Beckstrom realize something his business proposal. But it also gave injury. Instead, he looks at the person he else -he wasn't quite ready to leave him the chance to watch the Notre "You always expect to do more, to became while at Notre Dame -"I Notre Dame yet. Although he would be Dame defense from the sideline to help increase every year. But beca·~se of became a man and was able to face graduating with a marketing degree in himself improve. injuries, that hasn't happened," adversity and bounce back" -and May, Beckstrom didn't quite think he And when spring practice rolled Beckstrom said. "The most important realizes that his college career was was ready to face the real world. around, Beckstrom was ready to go. thing for me is to keep a positive mind­worth all the struggles he endured. 
"Last year, I thought if I had to leave Competing for a job set ax:td always ready to be called on." It's easy to wonder if Beckstrom and go into the world, I didn't think I With Shane Walton moving on to the Beck$trom and Ellick became friends regrets coming back for a fifth year. was going to be ready," he said. "I did­NFL, Beckstrom -who had 32 games fast, however, and each continued to But he doesn't. n't think I had the knowledge and the at cornerback under his belt -found push the other in practice. For Ellick, "A lot of times life doesn't go the way tools, even though I was going to grad­himself competing with junior Dwight the competition gave the young corner­you want it," he said. "Football is a uate with a degree." Ellick, who had played only two games back a chance to learn from a veteran. metaphor for life. If I can make it 
Beckstrom's parents had always on defense. For Beckstrom, he got another year through this year, that tells me I can encouraged their son to prepare a Beckstrom was confident he'd earn wearing the jersey of the school he get through anything in the future." backup plan in case football didn't the starting job because he had the wanted to attend since he was a child. 
work out for the talented athlete. So experience, even though spring prac­"I know he'd rather be playing at lot with the extra year, Beckstrom started tice ended with the battle undecided. and starting," secondary coach Trent Contact Andrew Soukup at considering entering the McCloskey The two resumed their battle in the Walters said, "but he's accepted his asoukup@nd.edu. 
Friday, November 14, 2003 

page 8 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
MATT KRUEGER 

Scout team QB finally contributes on Saturdays 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
Matt Krueger had dreams of being part of a Notre Dame victory, but it was as a quar­terback. But against Navy his goal was realized, as he was the holder 
in the game-win­ning field goal by D.J. Fitzpatrick. 
Krueger, a walk-on and the scout team 

q u a r t e r -Krueger back, won the job as backup holder this year, and when Nicholas Setta went down with a leg injury against Pittsburgh, Krueger was summoned to hold for Fitzpatrick, his former team­mate at Mishawaka's Marian High School. 
The duo from Marian was responsible for two field goals and an extra point in their first appearance of the season. and have been successful since. 
"I knew him all through high school and it's a big trust fac­tor," Fitzpatrick said. "I trust him so much and that makes it so much easier in some ways." 
But their role at Notre Dame has been much different than their careers at Marian, where Krueger was an all-state quar­terback and played safety while Fitzpatrick was an all­state defensive back. 

"This is a smaller job [than playing in the secondary together] but it is so much more important, and it takes a lot more trust," Fitzpatrick said. 
But coming to Notre Dame, Krueger didn't think he would be where he is today. 
"I was pretty cocky coming out of high school, and I fig­ured I would come in here and be playing by my sophomore year," he said. "But as the years went on, I understood what my roles were." 
Krueger has been a crucial part of the Irish behind the scenes, as he has been the scout team quarterback for four years. He has been responsible for learning and practicing opponents' offenses against the first -string de~nse. Krueger has embraced this role. 
"It's one of those things, where every week there is something new, a new chal­lenge, and it's one of those things where you rise to the challenge and help the defense out," Krueger said. "It's a lot of fun." 
For Krueger, it was never a tough choice to come to Notre Dame, even as a walk-on. 
"I always loved Notre Dame growing up, and it just felt right," Krueger said. "It was a great opportunity." 
Krueger followed in the foot­steps of his brother Ryan, who was a walk-on quarterback for the Irish from 1998-2001, and his dad, who was also a Notre Dame graduate. For him, get­ting onto the field and being able to hold for Fitzpatrick has been an invaluable experience. 
"It's great, not only was my first time on the field this year. but to be able to share some­thing like that with D.J., who I played with in high school, is extra special, not only for peo­ple at Marian, but for my coach and my parents," Krueger said. 
But now that the two have been reunited, Krueger's grad­uation will find Fitzpatrick searching for another holder that he can trust as much as his friend from high school. 
"Losing someone you trust like that, it's going to hurt, but it is just time for the next guy to step up and for a new rela­tionship to build," Fitzpatrick said. 
And, through it all, Matt Krueger knows that he made the right choice to come to Notre Dame, after moving to South Bend right before high school. 
"When I take a step back and look at everything, you can't go wrong at Notre Dame -great academics and play­ing for one of the best football programs in the country is just an experience that is just unbelievable," Krueger said. "I love the game of football, and pride in -it has been worth even if I didn't make it on the it." field, just coming out here everyday and giving my all and helping out the team is one of Contact Heather Van Hoegarden those things I take a lot of at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


Friday, November 14, 2003 page 9 
The Observer + IRISH INSIDER 
CoLE LAux 

Competitive spirit kept him on the practice field 
Irish. and the other walk-ons are a By MEGHANNE DOWNES Laux said in high school he distinct group who from time Sports Wri[er focused on grades and playing to time hang out together. in 
football for the Marian his eyes there is no distinction 
Returning from vacation on Knights. But after graduation between him and any other Jan. 1, 2002 Cole Laux rushed he relished the opportunity to member of the team. to the packed Monogram compete again and contacted "I think somewhat walk-ons Room to listen to head coach the football staff about walk­will do things together every Tyrone Willingham at his first ing on to the team. now and then because we are Notre Dame 
"Well I competed in high kind of a group all by our­press confer­school and had a lot of fun," selves paying our way through ence. Laux said. "I like and trying to 
"[I met] to compete and keep everything with the after I graduated up -grades and coach for the from my senior football at the first time year and I got ../ try to throw same time." and I into Notre Dame. Laux said. "For
them around as 
remember I thought I would the most part we
much as I can. " 
being excited like to continue are just a part of about the Laux my career and the team like possibilities walk on to the Cole Laux everyone else that he brought," Laux said. Notre Dame foot­and I just look at
Irish walk-on 
While a handful of other ball team." it as pretty much football players were at the For Laux, being the same. We do press conference, Laux's pres­a Notre Dame all of the same ence was surprising. The football player is work and do all then-sophomore had no inten­his life. He shrugs off the hard of the same practices and I tion of playing football for work and focuses on how he really don't see that much of a Notre Dame when he graduat­can prepare his teammates difference." ed from Marian High School in during practice as a member Laux said he worries about Mishawaka two years ago. of the scout team. what it will be like after he 
Laux, whose dad was a "I think I bring a big physi­graduates this May when he Notre Dame graduate, remem­cal guy trying to work [hard] will be not just a Notre Dame bers watching Notre Dame against the defense every alumnus but also a former football and tailgating before day," Laux said. "I try to Notre Dame football player. games with his family. In high throw them around as much "I will miss the atmosphere, school, most of his fall as I can ... and just try to helping with the team and Saturdays involved watching bring everything I can and playing everyday with them," film from Friday night's game make them better for the next Laux said. and tailgating with teammates game." and friends outside Notre Laux did see playing time 
Contact Meghanne Downes at
Dame Stadium. But he never for the Irish in 2002 against 
mdownes1@nd.edu
considered playing for the Rutgers. Laux said though he 

• <)nly 9 Ut~c.ks tro.n'l ('C.runpus 
+ Laundry Area -,.vilb W..l~ltc.-and Dr-y~r.· . . . .. . . . . . . 
+ ~ttlly Equipped KitclK-n. I'xl.Cluding Disbw'tt:Sb~~ and· ONrbug~' Oh~p"~~ai 

+ Private Palkl 
• Optional ADT Ahlt'l1'l. System (Op=tioruH ~fumt9ring) 
• 
(~e-tttt.a;J Air (~ondi:tkHlttlg 

• 
A~~igu~l Par'kit~g 


• 
Energy Efficicm Gt,s Healing 

• 
l>t-ofeJisdonaUy fv.lana:ged .· . . ... 


• 24-1-l>(.lUT' I1m...Tg~"l'l~ y On-(~;~.n rvt~ln~t-eru:tnt::~ 
ForM(..)YC In.formtll~~~~!; R~~.1 P.st.•lh~ M.at1agetnent. (.:'-t~tJ:'torat.ion J'•,C).. Box 540 
s~·-..uth Rerui~ IN 46624 
Tclcphonc;:·574~234-9923 
FacshnHe: 574..-234--992:5 

Rlud·-..'l>;·f:$:Ril·:~:t:hr~h.t.~·Onl
·············· . . ..... ...... . . 

Notre Da.11:1_e Apat-t,n1_ei1_t.s · 
Starting at just $=120.00 :per n~onth, per persont 
4.tO~I·he K~t '\l'a.lu~ for-:,t•our I>ollar!" 
+ Just 4 Blocks South of' the Notre· DLunc Ca1npus 
• :Spacious 2-B·e~o:it'Ot")tn .1\p,rutrnents on Nott-e Dar:ne Avenue 
• Cu.~-nt l-ye~ & l()-:l.fl(.'1=Dth 1.-e:tL':OA;!S A.·v..aHubh:: 
+ (·)n-Site Laundl")>' racihty' 
• 2 Closcl.S and l f)e,;:;k in r~ach lJedrooin 
• Priv:a.tc P:.uk.ing Lots 
+ 24 -ho·m-On.·Call En'lC.rgcncy:Maintcl'um:cc 
+ Ut-. h"\: 4 P'e.t·~nii Pet~ Apartrnent 
l~or 1\<Jore lnform:ation: Real Estate Managctncnt Corporation p ,(,), nox .540 
South Bend~ m 46624 Teleph.:'l-ne~ 574-234-992.3 Fac~im.ile; 574-234-.992.5 Rlud"yigrff?cbrcsb.c.om 
Friday, November 14, 2003

page 10 The Observer + IRISH INSIDER 

NATE SCHOMAS 

Playing in Blue-Gold game fulfills dream 
since the age of six, rejected him. team.
By SHEILA FLYNN Admitted to the University of "I couldn't pick it up off the 

Sports Writer 

Chicago, he started college there side of my body," Schomas said and concentrated on nothing but of his arm. "It was pretty stupid, When Nate Schomas feigned academics, with only the goal of looking back at it." sickness as a child to stay in and attending Notre Dame in mind. The head trainer noticed, watch television, he couldn't fool The work paid off, and though. and told Schomas to stop his father. Schomas entered Notre Dame in practicing. He also told the walk­
"I used to skip my own basket­the fall of his sophomore year. He on not to worry -he was on the ball games to 
didn't play sports and didn't even team for good. stay home get housing, but he didn't care. "That was a big sigh of relief and watch All that mattered to him, he said, for me," Schomas said. Notre Dame was being a Notre Dame student. "I sat out the rest of that week football games "I was, especially at the begin­at practice but convinced them to when I was in ning of the semester, so just glad let me play in the Blue and Gold elementary to be here that I didn't really game," Schomas said. "They school and care about riding my bike to wouldn't throw me any passes or middle campus every day," Schomas anything because I still couldn't school," the said. lift my arm, but I wanted to playsenior wide Schomas "Football was really not on my in the Blue and Gold game so receiver said. mind at that point in time." bad." "I would fake sick. and he would That mindset changed, howev­Schomas had an especially know exactly why I was doing it." er, on a not-so-special· night dur­important motive for playing in 
But Schomas did manage to ing first semester finals in his that game. His father -a long­fool his father a decade later, sophomore year. time fan and supporter -was when he walked onto the Notre "I was studying in the library gravely ill, Schomas said, and "it 
TIM KACMAR!The Observer 

Dame football team as a sopho­late one night, and it kind of was important for me to dress 
more transfer student. He fooled dawned on me that I needed to because nobody knew what was Nate Schomas jogs back to the scout team huddle during a break In action at a recent Notre Dame practice. 
his mother, seven siblings and take advantage of this opportuni­going to happen." everyone else, too. In fact, only ty -would I be able to live with "That was the last game that his roommate and one other myself if I didn't try out?" my father got to see my play in," Rutgers last year. Hindered by doing what I can to get back on friend even knew he was trying Schomas said. Schomas said. "He passed away another injury this year -a her­the field and help this team out." out. The decision made, Schomas just over a year ago." niated disk in his back, for which "We didn't come to school here 
"I was really quiet about the threw himself wholeheartedly "I made sure to tell my family he had surgery -Schomas has to go to the NFL," Schomas said whole thing because everybody into training and put on 30 to come out," he said. "I said it only recently resumed practice, of walk-ons. "For us, we're here had known that I wanted to pounds in about two months. He might be the only time I'm ever but he wants to get on the field to have fun playing football, and come here and play football," made it through tryouts and was on the field playing." again. for people to understand that Schomas said. invited to practice with the team, But it wasn't. When Tyrone ''I'm just enjoying playing foot­and appreciate that, it's kind of 
Schomas didn't need another refusing to yield his Rudy-like Willingham -a former walk-on ball with a helmet and shoulder football at its truest." disappointment. He had already efforts -even when he separat­himself -was hired, Schomas pads on for the last time in my
suffered a crippling blow during ed his shoulder. He kept playing heightened his playing ambi­life," Schomas said. "That's kind the college application process; despite the pain, terrified the tions, and he saw game time of skewed my perspective a little Contact Sheila Flynn at Notre Dame, his dream school coaches would throw him off the against both Maryland and for senior year, because I'm just sflynn2@nd.edu 


------------------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------­
-
Friday, November 14, 2003 page 11
The Observer + IRISH INSIDER 
DARRELL CAMPBELL 
Finding his way 
His father left when he was 3, so Campbell turned to others for guidance 
Editor's Note: A version of this to give him the father's love story originally ran in the Oct. Campbell had been missing his 17, 2003 edition of The Observer. entire life. 
"What Milton did was give me 

By ANDREW SOUKUP the space to kind of make the 
Sports Wrirer determination for myself when I 
was growing up to know who to 

Maybe the reason Darrell put my faith in," Campbell said. Campbell rips through offensive "But at the same time, he stayed linemen is because he's learned there and gave me everything I to harness the rage he felt at needed to let me know he was never, ever having Darrell there." Campbell Sr. be a part of his life. That was something 
Maybe the 
Campbell's biological father had reason never done. But Campbell didn't Campbell understand that yet. appreciates Relieving his frustration Tyrone Time after time, Campbell had Willingham's hoped his biological father would attempt to come back into his life. Time turn football after time, he was let down. players into There was the eighth grade men is~-....:: graduation, where the father because, for Campbell promised his ex-wife he would the longest show up to see his son give a time, he never really had one in welcoming speech. As Campbell his life. stood at the podium speaking, 
Maybe the reason Campbell his eyes were fixed on the rear respects Willingham and position doors to the auditorium, waiting coaches Kent Baer and Greg for his father to walk in. He Mattison so much is because never did. they act as fathers to a player While Campbell inexplicably who never experienced a rela­waited for his true father, McGee tionship with his biological one. unwaveringly waited for 
"Me growing up and not hav­Campbell. ing my biological dad there, or "We were on a rollercoaster him not doing the things that he going up at that point, and it was supposed to do when he was stopped because I detoured and there," Campbell shrugged, focused on my biological father "that's all the more testament to instead of focusing on him," what a man is not. Campbell said. "It takes a man 
The anger has always existed. who really loves his son to step Campbell just had to learn how back and say, 'Go ahead, do to find a place to control it. what you have to do -just know Luckily for Notre Dame, he did. that I'm here if you need me.'" Worrisome of commitment As much as Jeannette and 
Campbell was three years old Milton tried to alleviate when his father exploded into a Campbell's loss, they couldn't. fit of rage, climbed into his blue "There was a lot of anger, a lot Buick and drove away from his of animosity, a lot of hard times, son and his wife. Since Jeannette hard feelings that I had to deal Campbell filed for divorce 19 with," he said. years ago, her son can count on So Campbell, a future English one hand the number of times major, turned to writing and he'd seen his father. poetry as a way of expressing his 
That's not to say he didn't feelings. He turned to football as want to see him. Campbell often a way of venting his anger. cried that he wanted to talk to "That was a way to relieve my his dad, not understanding why frustrations on people," One night, he drove to watch Colorado -Campbell changed applications. In his four-year he couldn't have a father in his Campbell grinned wickedly, "in a Campbell at a wrestling meet. his mind and decided to play for career, Campbell has started 30 life like the rest of his friends legal sort of way." Before he left, he told Campbell the Irish. His mother wasn't of the 40 games he played in, did. He just didn't know how good he was making a mistake if he happy. recording 81 tackles and 11 
"There weren't really he'd be at it. didn't at least check out Notre "His mom is a very loving sacks. instances where he came Change of plans Dame once. mother and taught him that he's But Campbell knows he owes through," Campbell said. "There Two national publications "I liked the kid," Mattison said, a man of his word," Mattison who he is now to his mom and were only glimpses, and they named Campbell, who had "and I felt in my said. "I don't his dad. Not his biological dad, only lasted for a moment in time, emerged as a terrifying defen­heart that he think she under­who has pulled a disappearing and then they were gone. sive force, one of the top 100 belonged at Notre "[Football] was a stood that until act one too many times, but 
"For those moments, I almost players in the nation. USA Today Dame." you sign the McGee, who Campbell always
way to relieve my
had him, but at the same time, I gave him honorable mention All­So Campbell name is when introduces as his father. 
was so far away." American status. He was his drove two hours frustrations in a you become As for Darrell Campbell Sr.? Jeannette, however, was deter­high school football team's MVP east on the Indiana legal sort ofway. •• attached to the Twice, he contacted his son to mined to raise her son not to fol­for three years, qualified for the Toll Road to visit university. She try to re-establish a relationship. low in his father's footsteps. With state track meet, played basket­Notre Dame. There, Twice, he left phony contact
Darrell Campbell wanted him to go 
a strict hand, she made sure he ball, wrestled and even played he got the royal where he origi-information, leaving Campbell excelled in the classroom, treat­baseball for a year. treatment-seeing lrlsh defensive tackle nally said he was frustrated again. If his biological ed people with respect and made When football recruiters his name on an going to go." father called again, Campbell sure he kept his word to others. tripped over themselves trying to Irish uniform, When Mattison would talk with him, but nothing Sports. however, came after the land the highly-coveted wined and dined by a coaching promised Jeannette Notre Dame more. homework and the chores were Campbell, the choice was easy. staff begging for his services, a had everything Northwestern No longer will Campbell chase done. He picked Northwestern. tour of everything Notre Dame. had academically, Campbell's a blue Buick. Instead, he's hunt­
Ironically, the long hours "My mom was just bleeding But it took a conversation from mom started wavering. With ing down quarterbacks. Jeannette worked at a Chicago purple," Campbell said, who someone he had never met McGee's calming influence, she "I'm older, I'm 22 years old. power plant brought the two­committed to the Wildcats before coming to Notre Dame to caved in and allowed Campbell I'm coming into my own," he person family more than money. because of the school's strong convince Campbell to play for to go to Notre Dame. said. "The weaning way from the It also gave Campbell a father academic reputation. "She had the Irish. "She probably wasn't con­childhood where the son always figure. purple coming out of every ori­"If you want to be good, go vinced until the first time she wanted his father to be there, it's 
Jeannette married Milton fice, purple robes, purple every­someplace else," alumni associa­came up here and saw the alum­kind a gone." McGee. whom she had met at thing." tion president Chuck Lennon told ni." Campbell said. "Up until that "He'd have the biological tag, work. in 1995 when Campbell But his commitment didn't the prospect during his visit. "If point, she was like, 'Yeah, you're but he wouldn't be my father." was 12 years old. But Campbell deter Notre Dame or Mattison, you want to be great, come making a mistake.'" It took Campbell a while, but wasn't so accepting of his new the coach assigned to recruit here." Since then, Jeannette he found plenty others who want stepfather at first. McGee could­Campbell. Coming Into his own Campbell has seen her imposing to fill that role. n't understand how important Even though Campbell never Buoyed by his trip to Notre son wreak havoc on opposing Campbell Sr. was to his stepson, took a visit to Notre Dame, Dame -and the fact that offenses and graduate from the 
Contact Andrew Soukup at

and Campbell Jr. couldn't under­Mattison loved everything about Northwestern coach Gary University last May with a stand how badly McGee wanted the talented defensive prospect. Barnett had left the school for degree in English and computer asoukup@nd.edu 

--~---------------------------------------------------------------------... 
page 12 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 14, 2003 
NICHOLAS SETTA 

Injury doesn't diminish kicker's desire to help 
''I'm just excited to be a part ing up to the hype. 
By PAT LEONARD 

of it all," Setta said. "To have For the second straight sea­
Sports Writer 

the chance of playing for the son, the Irish got a career-high 
greatest college in the world, five field goals from Setta in a How dare Julius Jones. it's just an honor." season-opening victory against With his two touchdowns Setta began this season Washington State. Last season, 
against Navy, Jones surpassed shouldering both the place he set his career high of five fifth-year senior place kicker kicking and punting duties for field goals in one game in a 22­Nicholas the first time since he punted 0 defeat of Maryland. He also Setta for the 
just four times in the 2000 sea­hit a career-long 51-yard field Notre Dame son. He averages 40 yards per goal in that game. team lead in punt, but Setta's greatest value Performances like those in points. exists as place kicker. A consis­the Washington State and 
Not a big tent kicking game is even more Maryland games now have deal, really. important in an offense like Setta nipping at the record It's just that Notre Dame's, which has strug­books. the 5-foot-gled in the transition from a If Setta returns to action at 11, 194-power rushing attack to a west some point this season, he pound kicker Setta coast system. could tie or break two records f r o m Setta has hit 46-of-66 field held by NFL and former Irish Lockport, Ill. has led the Irish goals in his career, a 70 per­kicker John Carney. Setta's 66 in points the past three sea­cent accuracy rate. Setta has career field goal attempts are sons. hit 99-of-100 career extra just three behind the 69 Carney 
So why not make it four? point tries and his streak of 87 attempted in his time from Well, injury for one. Although straight extra points is the sec­1984-86. The senior's 46 field Setta began the season hitting ond-longest in Notre Dame his­goals made are just five behind 9-of-1 0 field goals and 5-of-5 tory. Carney's all-time high of 51. extra points for 32 points, a leg Setta has remained consis­The implication could be a injury suffered during a kickoff tent even in down years. bright future for this Irish kick­at Pittsburgh has kept him "Whether we're having a er, although Setta does not see sidelined. Backup walk-on D.J. great season or not, my work it that way. Fitzpatrick has performed well ethic is the same," he said. "The way I look at it is if any in his stead. "The goal is to be the best that record comes about, it was 
Regardless, Setta has been you possibly can be to help the because I was doing something the old reliable of the Notre team. Obviously it's tough los­to help the team," he said. "Of Dame offense during his four ing, but the work ethic always course, I'd love to have [the years as place kicker and one stays the same." record]. I'd love to have every year as punter. Despite a few That work ethic earned Setta record in NCAA football, peri­rocky games toward the end of numerous preseason acco­od. But will it happen like that? last season when the entire lades, being named to 2003 No, and I'm happy with what I team seemed to collapse, Setta first-and runner-up teams in did. At this point, I'm just try­-who graduates this spring -publications such as Street and ing to help the team win some has been steady and sure, Smith's and The Sporting games." whether the coach has been News. Bob Davie or Tyrone Wasting no time, Setta Contact Pat Leonard at 
! ~­Willingham. opened the 2003 season by liv-pleonard@nd.edu 
I 
L
, 


r 
CltyExpress 

. ·.. ... 

Call for our daily schedule ~"-_-_~·
The way to go to the 
/: ~ .. 
,._. ::··r: llS.r\" airports! (574) 254-5000 or 1-800~248-TRl __ 
Friday, November 14, 2003 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 13 
JULIUS JONES 

Fulfilling expectations 
After a year awayfrom Notre Dame, Jones came back to finish what he started 
Editor's Note: A version of this story originally ran in the Sept. 4, 2003 edi­tion ofThe Observer. 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Wrirer 
At Notre Dame's annual football media 
day in August, Ryan Grant sat alone 
patiently waiting for a reporter to 
approach him. After all, wouldn't some­
body want to talk to Notre Dame's first 
1,000-yard rusher in 
five years? 
Under normal cir­
cumstances, Grant's 
table would have been 
surrounded by all 
kinds of media types. 
But on this particu­lar day, Julius Jones had planned to speak publicly for the first Jones time regarding his forced exile from the Irish. So while Grant sat mostly by himself, the crowd around Jones' table stretched three deep. They waited for the player once named to a future NFL all-decade team to explain his academic-related absence. 
And they wanted to hear him explain why he came back. 
To understand why some consider Jones' return the equivalent of the Second Coming, it's easier to show crowd-pleasing clips featuring his elec­trifying kick returns and ankle-breaking moves from his first three years at Notre Dame. 
But to explain who Jones became after he got booted by the Irish, it's easier to explain what he did in his own personal purgatory -away from the Irish, away from the television cameras, away from everyone but his family. 
Making a mistake 
Jones first burst onto the field at Notre Dame Stadium as a freshman in 1999, wowing fans with his explosive speed and devastating quickness. As Notre Dame's primary kick returner for most of the season, Jones tallied 798 return yards for the Irish, the second-highest season total in Notre Dame history. 
He quickly became popular with fans for his big-play potential, which he demonstrated a year later against No. 1 Nebraska when he started his first game at running back and returned a kickoff 100 yards for a touchdown to help send the game into overtime. Just as conduct­ing the band during the 1812 Overture is second nature for Irish fans, so too was lifting their arms, crossing their wrists and raising two fingers raised on each hand to symbolize Jones' uniform num­ber each time he ran onto the field to return a kick. 
But off the field, few things were per­fect for Jones. He missed spring practice one year thanks to a University suspen­sion, and some teammates quietly grum­bled about the star running back's work ethic. His reputation for dodging inter­views with the media was so legendary that one day, a handful of reporters started a pool on whether Jones would show up to speak to them (he didn't). 
By the time Jones had returned to the playing field for his junior year, he had added 20 pounds at the coaches' urging. Sure, he was a bigger back, but he had lost the burst of speed that made him such a dangerous threat in the first place -even though he went on to lead the Irish in rushing that fall with 718 yards. 
Then, the summer before his senior year, disaster struck. 
Jones, a film, television and theater major, met with his parents and acade­mic officials from Notre Dame to discuss something neither party has been willing to talk about. But after the meeting, word had tricklPd out that Jones was going to bf~ suspended for a year. 

TIM KACMAR!The Observer Julius Jones, shown here cutting away from a Boston College defender, returned from a year in exile to break a school record against Pittsburgh by 
rushing for 262 yards in a single game. 
"I was pretty hurt and upset," he said. "But you have to look forward and try to make the best of it." 
The Irish, and their new head coach Tyrone Willingham, weren't fazed. At one point during the sum­mer, when someone asked cheerleaders," he said. He even made several trips to South Bend to visit with his girlfriend and his teammates -and saw a campus feeding off the success of the football team. 
"It just looked so fun 
Iast year," Jones said. 
Willingham if he considered "They were winning and
"I started here and

Jones a leader, the Irish having a good time, and I coach said simply, "No." I want to finish wasn't a part of it." 
things I started.,, In between trips to Looking to his family Indiana, Jones rebuilt When Jones learned he himself academically and 
Julius Jones

had been booted from the athletically. Watching his University, the running back Irish running back brother showed him the 
was 'the emotional equiva­lent of a tornado. He flirted with entering the supplemental NFL draft. He tossed around the idea of transferring. 
But in the end, he realized he wanted to go to Notre Dame. 
"I started here, and I want to finish things I started," he said. "I came here for a reason, I came here to graduate and I didn't feel comfortable going some­where else." 
Jones moved to Arizona to live with his brother Thomas, then a running back with the Arizona Cardinals (he has since been traded to Tampa Bay). He enrolled in classes at Arizona State to maintain his college eligibility while thriving in the relative anonymity as just another regu­lar student on the Pac-1 0 campus. 
Meanwhile, back in South Bend, the Irish had charged to an 8-0 start in Jones' absence. Grant was on his way to gaining 1,085 yards as Notre Dame's featured back and Vontez Duff's kick returning abilities had all but made Jrish fans think, "Julius who?" 
But Jones hadn't forgotten the Irish. As much as it hurt, h(' watched every game on television -··1 was one of the biggest 
work ethic necessary to 
succeed in the NFL. He changed to a high protein diet. He rarely touched a football, choosing instead to work out in weight room four times a week. 
And under the guidance of his brother -whom Jones said he considers one of his best friends -Jones traded fat for muscle and laziness for dedication. 
"When I first got the news about not being able to come back to Notre Dame, it really hurt," Jones said. "But as I look at it, it was kind of a chance for me to grow up a little bit, to get hungry and to get ready to come back here and take care of business." 
By the time a chiseled, 210-pound Jones appeared on an ESPN interview in February, saying he wanted to return to Notre Dame, he appeared stronger, more determined and -most of all ­more mature. 
At one point, Jones met with Willingham to find out what he had to do to rejoin the football team. While Jones doesn't want to talk about thP substance of the discussion or what exactly he had to do to return, he aeknowiPdged hP had quite a bit to change. 
"I had to change my attitude," he said. 
"I didn't really have a bad attitude, but 
as far as taking care of things and get­
ting things done, I wasn't really on top of 
that." 
For his part, Willingham -who had 
said all along that Jones would be an 
integral part of the Irish if he came back 
to South Bend -maintained he set no 
criteria for Jones to rejoin the team. 
"He made a mistake," Willingham said. 
"But he was man enough to admit he 
made a mistake and man enough to do · 
what he had to do to correct that mis­
take." 
By June, Jones had cleared most of the 
University's academic requirements for 
re-admission and enrolled in summer 
classes. When summer school wrapped 
up in early August -and Jones had 
passed his classes -he was back on the 
Irish for good. 
"What kept me going?" he said. "My 
brother. My family. I knew I had let them 
down, and I wanted to prove to them I 
could get back here." 
Moving forward 
The Notre Dame team to which Jones 
returned was drastically different than 
the one he left. Instead, Jones noticed a 
disciplined team fanatically bent on suc­
cess. Practices were faster and more 
intense. The offense was completely dif­
ferent. 
But Jones, too, was different. While 
many of the Irish are hesitant to 
describe Jones pre-exile, many now will 
praise his heightened work ethic and 
improved attitude. 
"I think it wasn't that he had a bad 
attitude before," Grant said. "I think 
maybe he didn't approach things .the 
right way in terms of going all out. 
"But that's all behind him, and he moved forward." 
Jones admitted midway through the season that he wasn't as vocal as he could be, in part because he didn't know how the team would accept him or believe he truly had changed. But he started the season with a 72-yard run­ning performance against Washington State, including a go-ahead touchdown in a furious fourth-quarter comeback. He further cemented his spot on the team with a 262-yard performance in a win against Pittsburgh, where he broke the school record for most rushing yards in one game. Two weeks later, he broke Heisman Trophy winner Tim Brown's record for most career kick return yards. And against Navy, Jones turned in the sixth-best rushing performance in school history with u. 33-carry, 221-yard outing. 
If Jones is reluctant to speak up with words, he's not afraid to lead with his example. Willingham said he now con­siders Jones one of the team's leaders. 
"I don't know what the past was," run­ning backs coach Buzz Preston said. "All I know is that the young man [came] back here and is doing a good job." 
The soft-spoken Jones now appears happier than before he left, and even happier than he was when the season started. Before Notre Dame's season opener against Washington State, he grinned broadly when describing his anticipation about running out of the tunnel after a year-long hiatus -"I remember it, but it's gonna be sweet when I do it for real. It feels like it's been 10 years since I played." 
"I missed it a lot," he added. "Anytime you have something taken away from you that you love doing, it hurts pretty bad. 
"It's like that sometimes. You learn from your mistakes, and I think I've done that." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
~~ ~ 

page 14 Friday, November 14, 2003 
The Obsuver + IRISH INSIDER 
MIKE PROFETA 

~ ~ 
I \ ~ I 
k ~ 
t 1 High school star proves newspapers wrong
I I 
I 
~ hard; I didn't expect to ever play said, 'Well, I tried out for the foot­
\ By MEGHAN MARTIN 
I again." ball team, and I just found out 
Sports Writer 

) I While sports writers at home today that I made it.' He actually may have silently lamented the dropped the phone. He was really
\ 
\ The local papers said he was fact that Bud, as he was known surprised." 
I \ hanging up his cleats. back then, would never don Profeta, who has worn the blue ' ( Four years ago, when he another jersey, Profeta's plans and gold since his sophomore accepted Notre Dame's offer of landed him back on the baseball year, took to the field against both 
~ 
\ 
' i admission, it looked like walk-on diamond for fall tryouts during his Stanford and Rutgers during the . ~ 
I \ running back 
freshman year. He earned a spot 2002 season. 
I \ 
Mike Profeta in the team's fall training sessions, "For the last two years, I had ' I was doing just but was cut from the team before been staring across the line at
: I 
I \ 
that. spring practices began. gold helmets and white or blue : ~ A stand-out "When I got cut from the base­jerseys at practice; that was all I 
I \ 
I ~ outfielder and ball team, I said, 'You know ever did," he said. "And all of a running back what? I'm going to try out again sudden, I looked across the line to
; < 
I 
at Seneca next year.' I'll have surgery on my see the white and the red, and it
I I 
Valley High elbow, which I'd had problems felt totally different for me." School, just with in high school, I'll try out one This season, Profeta was given north of Profeta more year and see what hap­the chance to fulfill another of his Pittsburgh, pens," he said. goals as a member of the Irish. Profeta was recruited by a num­The day that he was cleared to "The biggest long-term goal I ber of Division I college football resume lifting weights after two had set for myself was that I teams as a high school senior. He months of rest, he ran into then­wanted to travel to the Pitt game had decided to use football to get Notre Dame walk-on Tim O'Neill, my senior year." he said. "I was into colleges, but ultimately decid­who suggested he try out for the called in to talk to the coaches ed to follow in his sister varsity football team the following before the Pitt game, and my run­Meredith's footsteps and attend day. ning backs coach, coach [Buzz] Notre Dame, the only school he Profeta's life at Notre Dame Preston, said, 'We think you've had applied to without being would never be the same again. earned the right to travel back to recruited. "I didn't have a whole lot of Pittsburgh for this game.' So they 
"The newspapers [in time to think about it," Profeta took me back for the game, and I Pittsburgh] made a big deal about said. "So I just decided, what the really appreciated it just to go how I was a pretty good running heck, I may as well give it a shot. home. My high school coach was back in high school, and they So I went over to tryouts, I tried there, and my parents were there. the scout team will focus on something everyone else doesn1t were following me throughout out, and I just happened to get It was a lot of fun." preparing their teammates for the usually see. It's good to know you where I was deciding to go to lucky and make the team." Although he has met his major next three games. may not be the guy who's getting school. When I picked Notre Without training or consulta­goals over the course of his "Basically, as a walk-on, you the praise on national television, Dame, a lot of people were sur­tion, Profeta showed up at tryouts career, Profeta, who plans to need to take a certain attitude but you have a direct impact on prised that I was done playing the next day. And the rest is histo­move back east for law school towards everything," Profeta said. that, and that makes it worth it." football," he said. ''There was an ry. after graduation, has not taken "We're covered in dirt every day article talking about how I was "When I found out that I made his focus ofT the team. For the rest now, because we're working on Contact Meghan Martin at basically done, and it was really it, I called my dad," he said. "I of the season, he and the rest of cut blocks and things like that -mmartin@nd.edu 

BROADWAY THEATRE lEAGtJE 
,........~.
2003-2004 ......~~· SERIES 
IS PROUD TO PRESENTTHE 
-

WINNERI 2001 TONve AWARD FOR "BEST SPECIAL THEATRICAL EVENT'' 
STUDENT SPECIAL! 
Bmadu.rayTheatre Lea,gue is pleased to announce a student rush discount for the 7:00 pm performances on Tuesday. Nov. 18. Wednesday. Nov. 19 and Thursday. Nov. 20. From 5:30pm­
7:00 pm . all seats will be on sale for $26 to the first 500 students with a valid colle8e ID only at the Monis Box Office. limit2 tickets per student 
This is an incredible offer for a touri~ Broad'\llay show. BLAST.I is only in town for one 'lie ek. so don't miss this amazing event! 
14SJ1 tilt' official B~s1! ""t'bsi.tt' at wu.w.B~sf1'1u"Show.rom
November 18-23, 2003 


For Groups of 20+, call 574.234.4044 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW! OPENS 
~ lwnabout spttcial discounts. 
IN 4 

CALL: 574.235.9190 or600.S37.6415 ShowSpor~SDY: 
DAYS! 

LOGON: 1NWW~atxett.es~.c~n Blessq Musie Company VISIT: Moms Box omce 
cusbn"lers ask th& box ottice l bout your t.xclus1vo otterI 
Friday, November 14, 2003 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 15 
GLENN EARL 
More than just a play 
Fans remember 'The Miracle Block,' but Earl had an eventful career 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Wrirer 
Seniors out there probably remember 

"The Miracle Block." 
Think back to freshman year, 2000, the Air Force game. The then-5-2 Irish were trying to make a late season push for a BCS bowl, but were currently tied with the Falcons with only three sec­onds to play. And things looked even worse, as Air Force had a 28-yard field goal attempt to win the game and send the Irish packing to just a minor bowl or worse. 
The kick was a chip-shot. A no-brain­

er. A piece of cake. 
Except for the hand of then-sopho­

more Glenn Earl getting in the way to 
block the kick and send the game to 
overtime, where the Irish would eventu­
ally win. 
People called it "The $12 million 

Block" in reference to the purse the 
Irish would later receive for participat­
ing in the Fiesta Bowl. People related it 
to the hand of God coming down to stop 
the ball. 
Observer comic artist Tom Keeley 

even portrayed the play in one of the 
next week's issues, showing a mighty 
hand appearing through the clouds to 
flick the ball away form the goal. 
To so many people that kick meant so 

much. 
To Earl. it was just another play. "· 
"It was kind of a thing where it lin­

gered on for about a year. But after a couple weeks, I kind of got tired of [all the attention)." Earl said of his block that people would remember and con­gratulate him on for months to come. 
After all, that one play in no way summarizes Earl's entire career at Notre Dame. The fifth-year senior safe­ty for the Irish has been a two-year starter in the Notre· Dame secondary and a four-time game day captain. But even with all he's accomplished with the Irish -his 172 career tackles, five interceptions and numerous trademark big hits -Earl doesn't mind being remembered for that one spectacular play anymore. 
"But now, I guess it's kind of a good thing to at least be remembered for something," he says with a smile. "A lot of people can't say they've done that. Looking back on my whole career, I guess it's one of the things I'll remem­ber best. If people remember me for that. so be it." 
The playmaker 
Earl's resume does include many more big plays than just that one against the Falcons as a sophomore. Even earlier that season, Earl had a blocked punt against Purdue that set up an Irish touchdown in Notre Dame's 23­21 victory over the Boilermakers. 
Last season, with the Irish only lead­ing Pittsburgh 7-6 midway through the fourth quarter, Earl laid a crunching hit on scrambling Panther quarterback Rod Rutherford that jarred the ball lose. The senior also fell on the ball at the Panther 12-yard line to set up the deci­sive score in Notre Dame's 14-6 win. 
Later in the season against Florida State, Earl was named player of the game for leading the team with 11 tack­les, snaring an interception and causing a fumble with another big hit on Seminole quarterback Chris Rix. 
"The thing is, [Glenn Earl] is a play­maker," Irish defensive backs coach Trent Walters said of his senior safety. "Those are the key things. When you have guys that are big hitters and that can defend the pass and make plays. 



that's what you look for in a defensive back." 
As a starter the last two seasons, Earl has been a key playmaker on a Notre Dame defense known for forcing turnovers and laying big hits on oppo­nents. 
"I guess I like to think of myself as a football player, and I think I have those natural instincts," Earl said. "I play fast, I'm always flying to the ball, and good things just happen if you play the game the right way. I don't think it's any scientific reasoning. If you just play hard, good things can happen for you." The headhunter 
On top of being able to make big plays at key• ~imes, Earl has also developed a reputation as one of the hardest hitters in 
the nation. ../ try not to think about tide in Notre Dame's "Glenn Earl is one of favor in the eventual
{the final home game]. 

the toughest hitters 31-7 victory. 
because I don •t want to

I've seen in a long "I know what I'm time," said Walters, psych myself out and bringing, and I know who has undoubtedly what I'm going to do,"
be a wreck. •· 

seen some powerful Earl said. ''I'm never hitters, coaching for going to turn down a
Glenn Earl 

eight years in the NFL hit. You could be 250 with the Minnesota I rlsh safety pounds, or you could 
the running back. 

"I guess people wanted to give me that moniker a year ago, but I don't see myself being any bigger of a hitter than anyone else. It's all a matter of opportu­nity." 
Still, Earl has earned his title and rep­utation as a hitter from such jarring blows as the hit he laid on Michigan running back Chris Perry earlier this season to cause a fumble with the Irish still in striking distance. 
But he doesn't just pick on the little guys either, as Earl is unafraid to lay a pop on anybody that comes his way, such as former Stanford wide receiver Teyo Johnson. In last season's battle with the Cardinal, Earl laid out the 6­foot-7 sophomore in a hit that helped turn the 
Vikings before coming to Notre Dame. "He's a head hunter, and he's really quick and fast, and he just loves to hit." 
While many in college football -from reporters, to his teammates, to his own coaches -have referred to Earl as the team's headhunter and big hitter in the defensive backfield, the senior is a little hesitant to accept the title. 
"I don't think [I'm a head hunter]." he said. "If you look at our team, anyone is a headhunter and a big hitter. It's just a matter of time and place and opportuni­ty. You look at last week, I saw [Irish safety] Garron Bible get a good hit on 
be 180 pounds. I'm 
coming to give you all that I have. I may hit you high, I may hit you low or I may hit you in the mid­dle, but I know that I'm definitely going to look to make the play." 
Even if Earl does not want to be thought of as only a big hitter, it's obvi­ous that the 6-foot-1, 205-pound safety understands the importance of being able to lay on a big hit from time to time in a game. 
"That's part of the game. People may say a tackle is a tackle as long as you get the guy on the ground, but over the course of a game, receivers and run­
ning backs, they take a beating and it 
adds up after a while," Earl said. "If a 
running back or receiver gets hit really 
hard a couple of times, they begin to 
wear down, and they become aware of 
where the hitters are on the field. Then 
you get receivers having alligator arms 
across the middle, and you get running 
backs getting slow in the hole, looking 
for the hitters instead of just running. It 
basically changes the complexion of 
their offense." 
As a guy who has seen that fear in the 
eyes of opposing running backs and 
wide receivers first hand, Earl knows 
the impact that the ability to lay a big 
hit on an opponent can have. 
"In my opinion, hitting is a big part," 
he said. "I mean, there's times when 
you need to make the sure tackle, but 
there's also times where you need to lay 
the hit. If the defense doesn't hit, 
they're not going to get the offense out 
of sync and the offensive players out of 
their game." 
The Injury 
Now near the end of the 2003 season 
-Earl's final year with the team ­
things have kind of taken a sour turn 
for the senior, and it has little to do 
with Notre Dame's current 3-6 record. 
The big hitter Earl was hampered by a knee injury in the USC game that seemed minor at the time, but has turned out to be a season-ending injury following the surgery Earl had at the beginning of last week to repair the damage. 
"That's probably the most curious part about it, that I didn't feel the pain that I guess I was supposed to feel," said Earl of his knee injur)!. ;'It wasn't like all of a sudden I'm hurt and I'm down. After I got injured, it didn't really feel like anything different throughout the course of the game. It juts felt like a little nick, a little bruise that you get through the course of battle." 
But the injury turned out to be more severe, and now Earl will have to watch from the sidelines Saturday against BYU on Senior Day. The day that should have been the culmination of a fine career with the Irish, instead may take on a bittersweet tone, as Earl will not be able to play in his last game at Notre Dame Stadium. 
"Right now, just thinking about it, I know that chances are when I come out of the tunnel onto the field for the open­ing kickoff, I'm going to look up at the stands at the student section," Earl said. "It's all the things you don't really notice when you're playing. I try not to think about it, because I don't want to psych myself out and be a wreck. But I guess it's just the reality of the situa­tion, it's tough that it will be my last game -my last time on the field as a player." 
But Earl's career and duties with the Irish are, by no means, finished. The fifth-year senior can still help from the sidelines during practice, review film with his fellow defensive backs and lend whatever support and experience he can to the team over its final three games. 
"The first thing is we want Glenn to spend the majority of his time recover­ing and going through rehab and doing the things he needs to do there," Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "But when he does have the opportunity to be around, his experience can be passed on to the other players. Because there are so many things that he recog­nizes that some of the players that don't have that experience will struggle with. 
''Hopefully he can impart some of his wisdom, some of his experience, and some of his confidence onto our guys that are picking up his slack." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
Friday, November 14, 2003 

page 16 The Observer + IRISH INSIDER 
VONTEZ DUFF 

~­
' 
Editors note: This article orig­inally ran in the Oct. 10, 2003 edition ofThe Observer. 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame cornerback Vontez Duff is like a human can­vas. 
In all, he has seven tattoos. But none are more impmiant ­or more visi-
,..,.,....,...,.,.,.= ble -than the two he wears across his throat. On the left side is "Wynoka," the name of Duff's mother and the woman who Duff raised four children virtually by herself. On the right side is "Warren," the name of Duff's father, who passed away when Vontez was only two years old. 
"I got my Dad in memory of him passing away," Duff says of his most noticeable tattoos. "But I had to get my mom as well, because she'd have been mad if I got him and not her." 
He says it with a laugh, but the tattoos serve as both a trib­ute and a reminder. They pay respect to the father he barely had the chance to know and the mother who helped mold him into the person he is today. 
But they also serve as a reminder of the important things in his life and the obsta­cles he's had to overcome. 
Rottweller 
On Duff's lower right arm is a tattoo of a rottweiler dog. He calls it his "young and stupid" tattoo -the first one he got and the characterization of an eager young man trying to break out onto the big scene. 
But there was really very little "young and stupid" about Duff at the time. As the oldest of four children, Duff often served as surrogate dad to his two broth­ers and one sister while their mother worked. While others may have taken the circum­stances as the freedom to find trouble, Duff was busy making sure his siblings stayed out of trouble and on the right path. 
"Being the oldest child of two brothers and a sister and with my mom working, I was always the big brother in the house," he said. "I spent most of the time just watching after them, mak­ing sure they were on top of everything and not getting in trouble." 
But Duff doesn't like to harp on what could have been or how things could have been better. He is thankful for the opportuni­ties and the abilities he did have. 
"It's like that sometimes, and everybody has their story," Duff said. "You just try to make a positive out of every negative and be glad for the opportuni­tie's that you have ahead of you." 
Excelling on the field 
Those opportunities were many for the Duff, a three-sport star at Copperas Cove High School in Copperas Cove, Texas. In fact, in his younger days, Duff first saw himself as a basketball standout. 

Never forgetting 
Seven tattoos on Duff's body portray his roots 
"Growing up, I thought I was 
going to be a basketball player," 
Duff said "I thought I was going 
to be like 6-foot-9 and the next 
Michael Jordan. But then it 
came to a point where I was 
playing football well, and I knew 
that's what I had to be. So I was 
going to try to be the greatest 
football player that ever 
played." 

But off the field and court, 
Duff's real love came on the 
track, where he was a top-class 
long jumper and sprinter. In 
high school, Duff recorded a 
10.5-second 100-meter dash 
time and a long jump of 23 feet. 
The events really gave Duff a 
chance to show off his superb 
athletic ability. 

"Track -I loved running track," Duff remembers. "It was just fun being out there with all the fellas, running up and down the track and long-jumping. I had a pretty good jumping career and our 4 x 100 [meter] team was pretty good -we went to state. But that was all fun and games to me, although I knew in the back of my head that it helped me with my speed." 
In the long jump, Duff was a major rival of Texas star wide receiver Roy Williams. The two squared off head to head in the event in many important meets.· 
"We competed in the long jump a few times in state and regionals," Duff said. "We both were jumping like 24 feet and everybody else was behind us. We were really the only guys that were competing for first place. He ended up beating me in state, but I beat him at regionals before." 
From a runner to a hitter ing time filling in for cornerback so you have to accept that role." 
At Notre Dame, Duff met Shane Walton against Rutgers Still a little kid another minor challenge as and corralled his first career While Duff's family situation then-head coach Bob Davie interception in that game. He may have forced him to mature asked the young star running moved into the starting lineup in a. little before his time, the sen­back -who in his final two just the fourth game of his soph­ior cornerback is still just a kid 
years of high school racked up omore season. As a junior last at heart. 3,400 yards rushing and 38 season, Duff started every game "Yeah, it helped me grow uptouchdowns -to at cornerback for in some ways, but I still love to change positions the Irish opposite be a little kid," he says. "I love and sides of the the All-American playing the video games and just ball and become a "You just try to Walton. having that opportunity to justcornerback in the make a positive out "Duff's progress relax and have fun. I love beingthin Irish second­has been out­around my brothers and sister 
ary. ofevery negative 
standing," and just watching them grow up
Duff accepted the and be glad for the Mattison said. and things like that." challenge without a opportunities that "That's his other Duff's. fun-loving personalitysecond thought. strong point. He's even carries over to the football
you have ahead of
"When [Duff] totally coachable . field, where he is often the one came in, there was you. •• He comes in every jumping around in the huddle 
a

a real need for day with a great like it was his first game on the 
corner," said 

Vontez Duff attitude and an field. defensive line attitude to want "When you're a coach, you
Irish cornerback 
coach Greg to get better." love to have players around youMattison, who was But Duff has not that have fun playing the game.defensive coordina-forgotten his And [Dum really does -he has tor under Davie at the time Duff roots and how difficult it can be fun playing the game of foot­made the change. "To show you to come into college football and ball," Mattison said. "Vontez is the kind of man he is, he was learn to play in such a new envi­more of a guy that when you one of the most highly touted ronment. Now, as the experi­look in the huddle, he's alwaysrunning backs in the state of enced senior, he takes time to bouncing around. He always has Texas, and he gladly made the coach the younger members of a lot of energy, and that's how 
switch. He just said, 'I'll do any­the Irish secondary who are he leads." thing to play and help the team.' breaking into the lineup. Last season, Duff was part of He's always been an unselfish "I sit with the young guys after an Irish defensive backfield that 
football player and the kind of practice and ask them how they made its presence known to its guy that wants to do something played that day and what they opponent every game. With 
to help." could have done better," Duff Walton in the mix, he and Duff Duff not only accepted the said. "Every time we do one-on­went hand-in-hand bouncing all switch, but he committed him­ones, I talk to the younger guys over the field, joking with each 
self to becoming one of the best and coach them up on what they other, talking to opposing play­corners in the game. Duff did wrong and what they did ers and, generally, just playing
worked diligently on learning right. ofT each other's success. 
the position and perfecting his 
"It just comes with being a With the graduation of Walton, technique. senior, you feel as though you Duff has tried to carry over that 
In just his first year with the have to do it. The younger guys excitement and love for the Irish, Duff saw significant play-will usually come to you anyway, game to this year's squad. 

"Most definitely, it's my job to bring that attitude to the field this year," Duff said. "But it can be kind of different when guys don't have as much experience, and they:re still learning the position a little bit. It's harder for them to get out there and run all over the place and yell and be excited, because they're still trying to learn what their role is and what their position is." 
Three more tattoos 
Back home, in Copperas Cove, Texas, there are three pairs of eyes on big brother Vontez. 
They probably watch him every football Saturday as he bats down a pass or returns a kickoff 100 yards for a touch­down. But they also watch him all the time, day-in and day-out, just as he watched them so many days when their mother was working to support them. 
Even though they may not like to admit it, Duff knows they look up to their big brother. 
"They try not to show it ­especially my brothers, they don't want to show it. But when you go home, they love seeing you," he says. "They want to wear your Notre Dame gear and your shoes and everything else you own, and they want to be just like you. You know they try to hide it on the outside, but you know its there." 
Maybe those three have a tat­too to get too, someday. How about the same one Duff has on his stomach-"Vontez." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

./ 
Friday, November 14, 2003 The Observer + IRISH INSIDER page 17 
0MAR JENKINS 
Finally playing forTy 
Jenkins still ends up playing for Willingham after turning down Stanford 

steady and consistent football

By JOE HETTLER 
player that is an excellent

Sports Editor 
leader. And now I've changed [that attitude of respect] a little
Tyrone Willingham wanted 
bit more because he's on myOmar Jenkins on his team in 

side now." 

2000. He finally got him in During his first season at
2002. Notre Dame, Irish coach BobJenkins was heavily recruited Davie asked Jenkins if he want­
b y 
ed to play or redshirt. Jenkins

Willingham 
told the coach he would do any­

when the 
thing to help the team. So Davie coach was at 

let Jenkins play -but hardly

Stanford 
enough to make the time worth­

before the 
while, and too much to get his

2000 school 
redshirt back. year, but lost 

Jenkins doesn't regret thethe receiver 

decision, but would change it ifwhen Jenkins he could go back in time.visited Notre "I got to play a little and I got Dame's cam-

some experience. The game

pus. When· Willingham was 
slowed down tremendously the

named Irish head coach in 
next season so I think [playing]2002, Jenkins was reunited with 

helped my development,"

the man that recruited him .. Jenkins said. "At the same time
"I was recruited at Stanford I wish I could have had more

and I was committing to 
playing time." 

Stanford and then I took the Jenkins played in six games
visit to [Notre Dame]," Jenkins 
for Notre Dame during his

said. "I was in his office and I 
freshman year, but had zerosaid. 'Coach Willingham I'm 

catches during his playing time. going to visit Notre Dame just "I would rather have that yearbecause I want to say I visited back but I'm not going to say INotre Dame.' Then I ended up regret it because I don't. That'scommitting here and next thing what happened for me. I never

I know he's here two years 
regret anything I do," Jenkins

later." 
said.

And thankfully for Jenkins and the Irish football team, the deci­Emerging threat sion worked out for both, as Jenkins entered his sopho­Jenkins has become a leader on more season a little more expe­offens._~ and a consistent pass rienced and ready to take op. a catthM during his four years at more prominent role on offense.· ' 
Notre Dame. 
When fellow receivers Arnaz Battle and David Givens got An odd choice injured, Jenkins got more play­
When the Texas native ing time. He played in 11 games Jenkins visited Notre Dame, it that season, making his first was cold, snowy and windy, stu­start against Pittsburgh. He also dents weren't at class because had a 4 7 -yard touchdown catch of winter break and there was against the Panthers. hardly a sole on campus. Jenkins became an every Jenkins and several other game starter his junior season recruits simply walked around and evolved into one of the more campus and checked out the reliable offensive players for the football facilities and according Irish. He had started his year off to Jenkins, that was about it The with five receptions for 87 yards warm California weather at against Maryland, and finished Stanford's campus would have the season second on the team suited Jenkins much better than with 37 catches for 633 yards South Bend's, but by the end of and three touchdowns. 
his visit, "it just  But  Jenkins'  
felt right" for Jenkins. ''I've said it a million times, it wasn't the most fun visit ever,.. Jenkins said, an all-state receiver  "I kind oflaughed at mysefbecause I couldn't believe I was actually going to Notre Dame. "  biggest game that season came against Notre Dame's easiest competition ­Navy -and when the Irish perfect season was lu serious jeop­ 
in Texas during his senor season.  Omar Jenkins  ardy. Trailing the 1-7  
"The  weather  Irish wide receiver  Midshipmen 23-15  
was  really bad,  on the road in the  
but  something  fourth  quarter,  

about this place stood out. At Jenkins came through with two the hotel I looked in the mirror of his biggest catches of his and said, 'I want to come to career. The first reception was a Notre Dame.' And then I kind of 16-yard touchdown from Carlyle laughed at myself because I Holiday to tie the game 23-23. couldn't believe was actually Then with only a few minutes going to Notre Dame." remaining in the game, Jenkins 
Jenkins had to tell Willingham broke through the Navy second­of his decision and the coach ary and caught a 67 -yard touch­was obviously disappointed. down that gave Notre Dame a Willingham said he had been 30-23 win and helped keep the impressed with Jenkins style of team's perfect record intact. play in high school and thought "The touchdown against Navy he would fit in well with the is probably [the best highlight of Cardinal offense. my career]." Jenkins said. 
"I had a lot of respect for Omar," Willingham said. "The Leading through disappointment brand of football he played in This season hasn't gone the Texas was the first reason. His way Jenkins would have liked. drive and his desire as well His numbers are down from a touchdown. Worse yet, the Irish are a struggling 3-6 with only three games remaining on the schedule. 

Jenkins said that he is disap­pointed, but winning the last three games of the year will help ease the pain of a tough season. 
"It's disappointing in the sense that you always want to do bet­ter than you are doing," Jenkins said. ··As far numbers, it's a team game. I'm not a selfish guy. I'm just happy to be out there being able to contribute." 
After a slow start, Irish ofTen-· sive coordinator Bill Diedrick said he believes Jenkins has begun to play better of late.· 
"He's beginning to play a lot more consistent," Diedrick said. "During the early part of the season was probably a little bit disappointing to him, but the last part he's picked it up a good notch." 
Despite the lower numbers, Jenkins had impacted his team­mates in other ways and has become one of the more impor­tant leaders on the Irish. 
"When I came in my freshman year, Omar explained the offense to me when I had prob­were on the road also," Irish presents itself. wide receiver Maurice Stovall "When I do say stuff it's when said. we're in the huddle and I'll say 
Freshman quarterback Brady things in the huddle before Quinn said Jenkins has been Brady calls a play," Jenkins said. instrumental in making the "I say things when I feel things offense run smooth at times and need to be said. I'm not going to keeping the team positive dur­be the guy that before the game ing games. He also goes around to said Jenkins' work every single per­
ethic has been a "He tries to get the son and yells in 
good influence on team going and get there face." his teammates. Jenkins will
the team motivated
"He's a hard have one last worker," Quinn anytime we're chance to lead said. "He's the type down." his teammates in that always staying his final home after practice and game Saturday
Brady Quinn
always trying to get against BYU. He 
Irish quarterback
better. He's defi­will leave behind nitely a leader on great recollec­the field. He tries to tions from all his get the team going and get the experiences inside Notre Dame ­team motivated anytime we're Stadium, which included one of down." his favorite career memories -
Diedrick said Jenkins leads his catching that first touchdown teammates by the way he per­against Pittsburgh. forms on the field. "To be here for four years and 
"He's a very quiet young man, be able to play here for four and he's one of those guys that years, it's a great honor," will lead by example more than Jenkins said. "Being out there being a verbal leader," Diedrick for the last time, I'm going to said. put it all out." 
Jenkins admits that he isn't going to get in his teammates 
because he has remained what I year ago, (30 catches for 289 lems and helped me feel com­faces, but doesn't mind saying Contact Joe Hettler at thought he would be -a very yards) and he has only one fortable on offense and when we something if the opportunity jhettler@nd.edu 
-~-----­
page 18 The Observer + IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 14, 2003 
CEDRIC HILLIARD 

Leading by example 
Injuries can't keep Hilliard off the field and out 
changes."
By JOE HETTLER 

And even though Notre Dame 
Sports Edicor 

hasn't had quite the success that Hilliard hoped for when he 
There's something missing in arrived as a freshman, he is still Notre Dame's defensive huddle pleased with his decision to when Cedric Hilliard isn't play­attend Notre Dame. 
' ing. "I have good memories,"
\ 
~ 
I "Ced's presence when he's not Hilliard said. "There are always in the hud­things you wish you were able dle is very to accomplish that you didn't much felt," necessarily accomplish. But it'sr\ '. Notre Dame been an overall good experi­defensive ence. I've learned a lot since I've 
~ ~ 
tackle been here and I've grown into a 
Darrell man. .. I\ ~ Campbell Playing through pain !\ ' :_ s a i d . He might not admit it, but 
"Because Hilliard has probably played there's this hurt, banged up or injured more big gap than any other player on Notre 
! ' 
that's normally filled and it's just Dame's teams since 1999. But 
I 
a little bit smailer when some­for Hilliard, that's just part of\ ·, . body else is in there." the game. ) . After Saturday, the 6-foot-2 "My mentality is that it's foot­
':. \. 
295-pound nose tackle Hilliard ball and you're always going to
i 
will never be back in that Irish be hurt in some fashion or man­
\· 
1 ·~ 
\' defensive huddle at Notre Dame ner and a lot of people on the 
~ : Stadium. And it won't be his big team are hurting every day body that the Irish miss the when they go out there, so it's most -it'll be his leadership part of the game and you just 
J. ! ' 
and the way he plays the game. have to get used to it," Hilliard 
"He's a tremendous football said. "You have to figure out a player," Irish defensive line way to play with certain coach Greg Mattison said. "The injuries. Look around the coun­thing that separates Cedric from try and if you ask anybody if a lot of other guys is that he has they're completely healthy when tremendous pride and he's very they play ball, I don't think. intelligent." you'll find too many people that An unlikely choice will say yes to that." 

Hilliard almost didn't make it Notre Dame coach Tyrone 
to South Bend when he was Willingham doesn't agree with looking at Hilliard. schools in Willinghamhigh school. 
"He makes you want to said the nose 
Growing up in tackle has
run on the field full 

Arlington, been a leader 
·, Texas, Hilliard spring and offthe field by playing ~ admits Notre 
I full spring. He plays the through his 
I. Dame wasn't injuries
game the way it's 

I a team he throughout his
(: 
' rooted for as a supposed to be played.·· career and has kid. had an excep­"Notre tional 2003
Darrell Campbell 

Dame wasn't despite being
\ Irish defensive tackle
a school I beaten up. 

)\. : always want-"I think ed to go to. when you con­Living in Arlington, I was a sider the injuries that Cedric has defense, Hilliard's most vivid "First of all, he's a good play­"He gives so much to the Texas Longhorns fan," Hilliard 
toted this year he's had one memory of his college football er. Anytime he's out there, he team," Campbell said. "Ced's the said. "[During my] junior year of heck of a year," Willingham career was against Navy during makes us better," Notre Dame kind of leader that goes out high school Notre Dame started 
said. "To battle and provide the his sophomore season. defensive coordinator Kent Baer there and plays very physical.
recruiting me with a lot of other leadership for this football team Hilliard saw his first defensive said. "People look at him as kind He's the example. He's the one schools, like Texas and Texas
n that he has. I'm excited and action against the Midshipmen of a warrior and he puts pres­you want to follow. He makes ~ \ A&M." impressed and very pleased and recorded a tackle for a loss sure on everybody [because he you want to run on the field full 
) But Hilliard knew Notre Dame with what he's given us." during the game. But Hilliard plays hurt] and football is a sprint and off the field full
I 
was the place for him after his While Hilliard said it is diffi­recalls his tackle of Navy's quar­game where you play hurt." sprint. He plays the game theofficial visit in December of his cult for him to see how playing terback as the highlight of his Mattison said that when way it's supposed to be played." 
senior year. He had gone to through injuries has affected his first game action. Hilliard and W h i I e , South Bend in the summer 
teammates, Mattison agreed "The highlight for me was my Campbell play Hilliard is dis­
"To battle and provide
before his senior year and with Willingham and said sophomore year playing Navy in together on appointed his
talked to Bob Davie's coaching Hilliard's toughness is one of his Orlando," Hilliard said. "There the defensive the leadership for this final season at
staff and really liked the cam­best attributes. line, they are Dame
was a throwback pass to the football team that he has. Notre 
pus. In the winter, he and many "Just the fact that he's played 
quarterback and it was like I instrumental didn't produce
other future Irish players visited rm excited and 
in these games, tells you every­was the only person on the field in making the more wins, heand, before he left, Hilliard thing about him," Mattison said. that actually saw it, so I had to defense a impressed and very said he will
decided he would be wearing 

Hilliard has been starting in run the quarterback down and notch better. pleased with what he's always remem­blue and gold for the next few the trenches of the Irish defen­make the tackle. That was excit­"You've got ber playing
years. given us.··
sive line since the middle of his ing for me because I was just a Darrell and with his team­"In the end I thought Notre junior year, when he took over young guy trying to get my feet Ced, who mates through
Dame was the best fit for me. I 

for an injured Andy Wisne wet and it was so much fun." came in here Tyrone Willingham all the ups and
thought it was the place for me before the Boston College game 
This season, Hilliard has start­together and downs of the
Irish head coach
and I cancelled all my other vis­in 2001. He finished that season ed in five games this and played are like season.its to go to Notre Dame," by starting the last five games, in two more, despite nagging brothers, and "The biggest
Hilliard said. 

after playing in the first six, and injuries. He has 24 tackles a you can just memories I'll
After Davie was fired, Hilliard ended the season with 27 tack­forced fumble and his first feel the chemistry and feel the have are of my teammates anddidn't haye a tough time adjust­les and two sacks. He also career fumble recovery against lift when they're in the huddle how they played through all this ing to Willingham and his staff, forced a fumble. 
Washington State. together," Mattison said. and still kept everything on a
manly because Mattison, his In 2002, Hilliard started in 10 Being the man "They're very important to the positive note," Hilliard said.defensive line coach, was 
games and had very similar Hilliard's work ethic and tal­team and that's what it's impor­"That's a good memory to have.retained by Willingham. numbers to his junior year. He ents have made him one of the tant to get Ced in the game The friends you make on this
"It wasn't too difficult because 

had 31 tackles, 19 for a loss, key elements in Notre Dame's [when's healthy)," team are going to be your
Mattison stayed on the staff, so forced a fumble and had two defensive play during the last After battling along side friends for life." 
that made it a lot easier on me," 

more sacks. few seasons. He has not only Hilliard for several seasons,
Hilliard said. "It's just something Despite the success he had brought outstanding skills, but Campbell holds his teammate in you have to do. You just have 
during his first two years of also a knack for being a leader high respect for the way he Contact Joe Hettler attom adjust to coaching playing regularly for the Irish to his teammates. plays the game. jhettler@nd.edu. 
'. 
~ 



Friday, November 14, 2003 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISMENT page 19 


selection and enr9'jf0~sict)l~~·0:l!':~~~]~L.0i.j(!{'~jj(::::·]i·jg··.~M$Jml 
-
H 
NOT 

~to1P.ll".,~:~:':::~:~·""' Joyce Center) 5:00pm 
~;;:;:::::::;:::;:::::;:::::;: 7:00pm o;i;Y\1:;:4HJr,::,.-4:00 pm 
I ­
page 20 Th( Obs(T'V(r + IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 14, 2003 
' 
\ 
~ ' DAVID BEMENDERFER 
.. 

I 
l Football is just another accomplishment on list
I
I 
'I 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
David Bemenderfer has trained 

horses, flown airplanes, traveled ~ to Israel, played on a nationally­~ ( ranked high school rugby team 
and is currently restoring a 1972

(' 
\I Corvette. 
Add anoth­er not-so­minor item to his list­being a member of Notre Dame football, a part of his 


life that he Bemenderfer will have to relinquish fairly soon as the sea­son nears it close. Bemenderfer, a senior walk-on strong safety who has not seen action in a game with the Irish, has no regrets of his past four years with the Notre Dame foot­ball program. As a 170-pound nose guard at Penn High School in Mishawaka, Bemenderfer was courted by a number of smaller Division I A, 1­AA and II schools, most of which recruited him as a linebacker. Bemenderfer, who was gifted with speed, had a strong athletic resume in high school, particular­ly because Penn's rugby team was twice nationally ranked -sev­enth in 1998 and 11th in 1999. "My second love is rugby," he said. "It is an equivalent [to foot­ball). It just doesn't have all the 


},
I, 


tand A\r 

tra\ t\ea 
cen

(' 
~ 
I 
l
I 
I 
! ~ 
I 
I 
glory footbaU has." 

Bemenderfer, who first begin playing football in the seventh grade when all 120 boys in his class tried out for the just-starting team, visited many schools, including Valparaiso, but even the opportunity to see more playing time was not enough for him to commit the next four years of his life to a school. 
"(VIsiting schools) was fun to do and all," Bemenderfer said. "But I didn't like some of the coaching staffs, and some of the stadiums were smaller than my high school stadium. It didn't appeal to me." 
So he decided to go for his top academic choice. Notre Dame. 
"l figured if l can't go for it all. l am going to go for my academ­ics," he said. 
"I tried to get the most out of my summer being free," Bemenderfer said. "When I got here, I said, why not give it a run, and so I walked on the fall of my freshman year." 
At Notre Dame, Bemenderfer has had a full schedule. adding two majors, management infor­mation systems and sociology, to the rigors of Irish football. 
At times, football has made it hard for him to maintain desir­able grades. 
For his 18th birthday, Bemenderfer was giving flying lessons, with the requirement that he keep his GPA above 3.0. After he tore his ACL freshman year, his grades also suffered some injury, particularly because "being on all the painkillers was really tough." 
Since then he has brought his GPA much above 3.0, but he has not had the time to add to the nine hours he had previously logged towards his pilot certification. 
"It is definitely something I have to go back to," Bemenderfer, the son of two Notre Dame alumni said. "My grandfather was a pilot. My dad was a pilot. It is some­thing I really enjoy doing, getting up there, and just, you're free. You are not controlled by any­thing." 
Perhaps Bemenderfer appreci­ates that freedom given his strin­gent schedule down on land, but he nevertheless registers no com­plaints about that. 
"Some days you don't think you'll ever be done, and some days you just don't want it to end," he said. ''Now, getting towards my end, and looking back on it all, every minute was worth it." 
Bemenderfer, who undoubtedly has had an array of experiences, has goals of obtaining a technical consulting job and of completely rebuilding his 1972 war-bonnet­yellow Corvette. For now, though, the focus is on finishing school, and more immediately, his last games as an Irish football player. 
"When [football) is over, it'll be an end of a part of my life," he said. "I have no regrets. I tried everything I wanted to try. It'll be just another chapter in my life that I won't regret doing." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 


Close to campus! 
(Behind Dai:ry Queen on S. R. 23) 
Sp:cial Event Frierx:lly! ! Student Atmosphere! ! 
Campus View Apartments 18011rish Way 
(574) 272-1441 
J I 
~ ' 
Friday, November 14, 2003 Th~ Observer + IRISH INSIDER page 21 
JIM MOLINARO 
A change for the better 
Switching to the offensive line allowed Molinaro to get on the field 

new life. 
By MATT LOZAR 
"I think when we got here, he 

Associate Sports Ediror 
kind of sparked up and saw his 
chances at being in the lineup 
If the change in coaching staffs improve and we were very 

two years ago was good to any­encouraged by the things that 
one, that person would be Jim we saw from him," Denbrock 
Molinaro. said. 
He came to Notre Dame as a The difference between 

defensive offense and defense, as Molinaro 
lineman, found out, was as great as night 
thinking he and day. All that pursuit of the 
could get on ball carrier on the defensive side 
the field of the ball had to be forgotten 
faster than with Molinaro's focus now on 
if he had getting ready to stop the pursuit. 
gone to "From offense to defense line 
o t h e r [the difference] is huge," schools who Molinaro said. "The defensive wanted him line really plays on their toes as an offen-while the offensive line you real­sive player. ly have to keep a square base all 
But for two years, Molinaro the time." 

was stuck behind current NFL While the defensive line was 
players Grant Irons and Anthony loaded with players ready to 
Weaver and current starters step in at a moment's notice, 
Darrell Campbell and Cedric Molinaro saw a chance on the 
Hilliard. Then, coaches from the offensive line to make contribu­
former regime approached tions on the field, even if it was­
Molinaro with an intriguing situ­n't right away. 
ation. He jumped at the opening. 
"They came up to me and "I made the switch and it was 

asked him if he wanted to do it," an opportunity to get on the field 
he said. "I talked to the defen­a little bit faster. I saw with the 
sive coach, he's like it's your contributions I had made, it 
decision. I think you would be could be the turning point of my 
better off as cr lineman." career whether to keep playing 
While current head coach or not," Molinaro said. "It defi­

Tyrone Willingham and his staff nitely worked out the best for 
didn't suggest this idea, they me." 
went along with it upon arriving Thrown Into the fire 
at Notre Dame. With the wealth of experience 
What the coaches saw in on the offensive line, Molinaro 

Molinaro interested them, and had a number of teammates to 
they allowed Molinaro to take a look at and learn from in trying 
major risk in restarting his colle­to improve his all-around game. 
giate career. But the players he looked at 
Making the transition the most were the natural choic­
In 2002, Notre Dame had an es, tackles Jordan Black and entire offensive line composed of Brennan Curtin. seniors -three fifth-year play­"They helped me a lot in giving 
ers and two in their third year of me tips," Molinaro said. eligibility. Therefore, the idea of Molinaro saw playing time in using Molinaro's natural abilities 2002 against Michigan State and 
seemed extremely logical to Pittsburgh but got a big break­build depth on a unit that really through when Black was sus­didn't have any. pended for the first half of the 
But it wasn't easy. Rutgers game after violating a 

"I think he was a guy that the team rule. The coaches inserted transition was a little bit difficult Molinaro into the starting lineup for him," Notre Dame offensive at left tackle and he played well 
line coach Mike Denbrock said. in his frrst career start. "I think when we got here as a One week later at USC, coaching staff, through the Molinaro was forced to shift to 
course of the firSt winter condi­the right side of the line and fill tioning with the players and we in for Curtin. In the team's last looked at a _guy 6-foot-6, 295-game against North Carolina pounds at that time who could State in the Gator Bowl, move his feet and really do some Molinaro flip-flopped sides again good things. That was a guy we and finally found a home at left 
had to try to tackle when get on the both Black and field." 
Curtin were
"/saw with the 
Before suspended for
contributions i had made.

Denbrock and the Jan. 1 bowl the rest of the it could be the turning game. new coaching Denbrock
point ofmy career

staff arrived knew Molinaro
whether to keep playing 

at Notre had experi­D a m e , or not.,. enced a lot that Molinaro year, especially used 2001 as in the team's
Jim Molinaro

a transition last two regular 
year from the Irish offensive tackle 
season games,

defense to the but saw offense. He Molinaro, once played on special teams, regis­again, eager at a chance to 
tering six tackles and saw 2 min­prove himself on the field. utes, 50 seconds of playing time "I think it was difficult to a at right tackle against Navy. certain extent just because he 
So in three years, Molinaro doesn't have a lot of experience saw the field very little and his playing up to that point at offen­collegiate career was more than sive tackle," Denbrock said. "I half finished. Therefore, the new think it was a little bit difficult coaching staff came in and put on him, but I know throughouteverybody on a clean slate. the season that he was more Molinaro took advantage of the than ready and willing to get out there and play and contribute to 
our football team as much as he 
could. 
"I know he was anxious to get in there and show what he was capable of." 
Meanwhile, Molinaro felt the significant playing time he saw in those last two regular season games prepared him adequately for the Gator Bowl. 
"It wasn't that difficult, I already had two starts under my belt and I had been playing basi-. cally the whole year," Molinaro said. "So it really wasn't too big of a deal by then." 
Leader by default 
Four seniors left the Notre Dame offensive line when they were selected in the 2002 NFL Draft. 
Therefore Molinaro was one of only two returning offensive linemen, along with Sean Milligan, on a unit being heavily questioned by a number of peo­ple heading into the 2003 sea­son. 
Molinaro's leadership, despite starting only three games com­ing into this year, has fulfilled Denbrock's expectations. 
"He's been tremendous," Denbrock said. "He's really taken those young kids and tried along with us, how to do things the right way, how to practice the right way, how to prepare themselves for a game the right way, he's been invaluable to me trying to get those younger guys ready." 

The need for Molinaro to be a leader on the line increased even more when an injury to Milligan has left him on the sidelines since the Michigan State game. That lack of experience along the line has forced the other four young linemen to look to Molinaro, who has handled all of the responsibilities in stride. 
He helps the younger guys in the film room and at practice explaining plays and working on perfecting technique. The evi­dence of his leadership is not only on the offensive line, but also on the team, as Molinaro has been named a game captain six times in 2003. 
But his first duty of leadership is the offensive line. 
"Jim is the leader of the offen­sive line, there's no dispute over that. When he talks everybody listens," offensive tackle Ryan Harris said. "He's been real helpful in helping me come along especially when I began playing. He was really helpful in terms of helping me see the game and what's going to hap­pen." 
Counting this season, Molinaro has started only 12 games on the offensive line in his four years of playing with the Irish. That lim­ited time on the field has left Denbrock with a feeling Molinaro has a lot of room to grow and improve, just because he hasn't played on offense that much. 
"I really think he's a guy that when you look at home, his best football is ahead of him still," Denbrock said. "He's just going to continue, in my opinion, to get better and better and better as time goes on." 
Spending five years at Notre Dame has seen Molinaro and the Irish reach emotional highs and lows. Prior to this year, Molinaro had two losing seasons and sea­sons of 10 and nine wins. Couple those four years with the disap­pointing 3-6 record in the first nine games of his senior year, Molinaro can only describe his college career in one way. 
"It's been interesting," he said. "It's been a roller coaster." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 
~,--­ .  ~----~~---­~~  
~  l  
~ ~  
r  page 22  The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER  Friday, November 14, 2003  


our 


,, 
CARLYLE HOLIDAY 

! : \ 
L.\' 
\ \·. 
\ \' 
\ \ ' 
f 



• 
... 


ear seniors 
I I 
~,'· 
(' {< ·< 
~­
) ) 

Jason Sapp 
The cousin of NFL star Warren Sapp, Jason Sapp has not seen a lot of playing time in his first three sea­sons with the Irish. 
Sapp suffered a major knee injury during his freshman year at Notre Dame and really hasn't been the same player. Coming· out of high school, Sapp was an honorable men­tion on USA Today prep All­American team. 
Sapp has only appeared in three games for the Irish this year. Stuck behind the very deep Notre dame defensive line, breaking into the rotation is very difficult. 
With one year of eligibility remain­ing, Sapp could return next year and possibly get onto the field. 
Jerome Collins 

With the starters firmly entrenched at the linebacker position, Jerome Collins is the top backup for the Irish. 
He saw significant playing time in Notre Dame's loss at Boston College when the defense switched from its traditional sue of three linebackers to using four linebackers in trying to stop the Eagles' running game. 
Collins came to Notre Dame as a wide receiver but moved to linebacker upon arriving in South Bend. The graduation of Courtney Watson leaves an opening at the linebacker position, but the uncertain status of Mike Goolsby doesn't ensure Collins a start­ing spot. This spring will bring anoth­er heated battle for a starting posi­tion. 
Billy Palmer 
In the deep tight end position, Billy Palmer has mainly been used as a blocking tight end for the Irish. 
Palmer only has one catch on the season for 13 yards, matching his total from 2002. 
The loss of Gary Godsey to injury and the transfer of Greg Olsen allowed Palmer to have more play­ing time. 
Palmer came to the Irish from Lake Highland Prep in Orland, Fla. and played mainly at defensive end through high school. 
As the younger tight ends contin­ue to develop and the uncertainty surrounding Godsey continues, Palmer's role in 2004 remains undetermined. 
Ronnie Rodamer 
The 1999 Gatorade Player of the Year in West Virginia, Ronnie Rodamer really never fulfilled the expectations he brought to Notre dame. 
At 6-foot-4 and 211 pounds, Rodamer only has three career receptions in his three years of playing with the Irish. 
The coaching staff expected big things from Rodamer after he made significant strides during spring practice. 
The loss of only Omar Jenkins to graduation leaves Notre Dame very deep at the wide receiver posi­tions. Rodamer would really have to show something in practice to break into the rotation in 2004. 
DEREK CURRY 


BUG DAVISSON/The Observer Derek Curry celebrates a play where he tackled a Navy defender for a loss. A two­year starter, Curry has one more year of eli­gibility remaining. 

When he was replaced as the starting quar­terback, Carlyle Holiday didn't complain abut the demotion but he worked to find other ways to contribute on the field. 
Holiday lost his starting job after the Michigan State game to freshman Brady Quinn after being inconsistent through Notre Dame's first three games. Holiday completed 
49.3 percent of his passes for 303 yards, but only threw one touchdown. 
In a somewhat ironic situation, Holiday lost his job to a freshman after Holiday claimed the starting position as a freshman two sea­sons ago. 
Holiday tried to make the switch from the option-style quarterback Notre Dame recruit­ed him as to a passing quarterback in Tyrone Willingham's offense. 
During his first year as a starter in 2002, Holiday led the Irish to nine wins by throwing for 1,788 yards and 10 touchdowns. 
Notre Dame fans started calling for a quar­terback change this season when Holiday 
He's the other "D.C." on the Notre Dame defense. 
As part of a linebacker corps featuring all the return­ing starters, minus an injured Mike Goolsby, Derek Curry has continued to improve and has emerged as a vocal leader for the Irish. 
Curry was one of the last players heading into the Notre Dame locker room before its season-opening win against Washington State, shouting into the locker room, "don't ever give up." He is always one of the loudest players on the Notre Dame defense. 
A starter for the past two seasons, Curry has made the most of his move from the inside to the outside before his junior season. 
After making only 34 tack­les in 2002, Curry is currently fourth on the team this season with 50 tackles. He also has four tackles for a loss and three sacks, good for second on the team. 
Curry came to the Irish from the football-rich state of Texas and was rated as one of the top 100 players in the state by the Fort Worth Star­Houson Chronicle. When Rocky Boiman graduated after the 2001 season, Curry battled Jerome Collins for the starting spot -a spot Curry won thanks to a strong per­formance in the spring. 
appeared to regress in offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick's pro-style offense. The fact Notre dame lost two of its first three games didn't help Holiday in saving his starting job. 
Now the backup quarterback, the coaching staff wanted to use Holiday in other fashions to take advantage of his natural athletic abili­ty. By knowing the passing plays already, the coaches used Holiday as the fourth receiver in a number of formations. So far this season, Holiday has only caught one pass for 10 yards. But last weekend against Navy, the coaches sent Holiday into the game as wide receiver. However, this time the play. call was for Holiday to become a running back as he took a reverse around the right end for 16 yards. 
What the future holds for Holiday remains a little up in the air as Quinn appears to be the coaches' choice for the quarterback of the future. Holiday seems relegated to the backup job while working into the offense at other positions. 
JARED CLARK 

JARED CLARK/The Observer 

Jared Clark lunges for extra yards during Notre Dame's 38-0 blowout at Michigan Stadium. 
Something seemed different halfway That's because he's emerged as Notre through Tyrone Willingham's frrst spring dame's most prolific pass-catching tight practice. end threat. Once considered too slow to 
It seemed unusual to see Jared Clark be an option quarterback, Clark is one of wearing a blue No. 1 jersey catching Notre dame's fastest tight ends as he saw passes in pre-practice drills instead of increased playing time with Gary throwing passes while wearing a red jer­Godsey's injury. sey. And Clark never regretted the move ­
But that's what happened when Clark even though it's hard to understand why realized he didn't have a good chance to he might want to after he only took two win a quarterback position. So he snaps at quarterback in a game and the became the first member of a vaunted television graphics crew misspelled his three-quarterback class to change posi­name "Gared." tions. Clark's future for the 2004 season is 
And as happy as Clark might have unknown. He isn't the best blocking tight been when he first discussed his decision end, and the emergence of Anthony a year and a half ago, he's even happier Fasano could cut down the senior's min­now. utes, as could a healthy Gary Godsey. 
I I .. 
U·___ --'---..,._ ~·~~ -• 
Friday, November 14, 2003 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 23 


ave one 
ear 

KYLE BUDINSCAK 
A promising season in his second as a starter at defensive end came to a screeching halt for Kyle Budinscak. 
A solid and consistent force on the defen­sive line, Budinscak injured his right leg against Florida State. As he went back to the locker room, Budinscak hobbled slowly on crutches. 
Notre Dame coach Tyrone Willingham knew the loss of Budinscak would leave the Irish with a major hole to fill on the defensive front. In the week leading up to the Navy game, Willingham talked about how the loss of Budinscak would be difficult to replace in only one week against the disciplined Midshipmen option attack. 
Budinscak has stayed firmly entrenched as a starter on the line since the beginning of his junior season. In 2002, Budinscak regis­tered 20 tackles {13 solo) and three sacks. Through eight games in 2003, Budinscak had 10 solo tackles and three sacks. 
Budinscak played in 11 games as· sopho­more after being redshirted as a freshman. He started two of those games in 2002 and recorded 13 tackles. 

When he came to Notre Dame, Budinscak was able to learn behind future NFL players Grant Irons and second-round draft pick Anthony Weaver. 
While Budinscak has progressed steadily on the football filed, he has been equally impres­sive as a student. He is a two-time Academic All-District award winner and came into this season as an Academic All-American candi­date. In his first three year at Notre Dame, Budinscak compiled a 3. 7 grade point aver­age. Willingham said that Budinscak was more than likely out for the rest of the season earlier this week, and his injury appeared fairly serious. 
Whether he can recover quickly from this injury in time for next season will have to be seen throughout the off-season and spring practice. If his knee injury is serious, his rehabilitation could roll into next season. 

Mike Goolsby 
Filling in for an injured Courtney Watson at the beginning of the 2002, Mike Goolsby played his way into the starting lineup with impressive performances in those first two games. 
But Goolsby injured his shoulder in the Gator Bowl and then re-injured it playing Bookstore Basketball in · the spring. While he finally has restarted practicing, it's unlikely he'll crack the playing field this year. 
Since Goolsby hasn't seen the actual game filed this season, he does participate with the scout team in practice, and he'll most likely take a medical redshirt in 2003 to preserve his fourth year of eligibility. 
Goolsby came to Notre Dame as a top recruit after being a member of USA Today's second-team prep All-American team. He earned a monogram his fresh­man year -one of three freshmen to do so -after playing mostly on special teams. An self-described old school linebacker. Goolsby will make an immediate impact if he returns next season. 

Gary Godsey 
He was almost all the way back. Then, he got sent all the way back. 
After suffering a knee injury in the Gator Bowl, Gary Godsey worked through the off-season to get back to the starting tight end position. But Godsey suffered a major knee injury in August during the summer prac­tice and was lost for the season. What the future holds for Godsey is still up in the air. He has already been redshirted and already used his four years of eligibili­ty. Godsey could apply to the NCAA for a special exemption and get a sixth year of eligibility, but those petitions don't have a high success rate. Godsey carne to the Irish as a quarterback and played in two games in 200 when Arnaz Battle was injured in the second game of the season. Godsey led the Irish to a win over Purdue before he lost 1o Michigan State, got benched, and switched to tight end. 
Whether Godsey comes back to the Irish in 2004 remains to be seen. 
Preston Jackson 
A member of the Notre Dame defensive passing packages, Preston Jackson has been a member of the Irish secondary for the past two seasons. 
Jackson has been part of the Notre dame nickel and dime packages of the past two sea­sons. As a junior, Jackson recorded 26 total tackles and got his first interception against Pittsburgh. 
This season, Jackson has 22 tackles and one interception, coming against Florida State, through Notre Dame's first nine games. 
Jackson has made over 100 special teams appearances the past two seasons. The gradu­ation of Vontez Duff and Jason Beckstrom leaves Jackson as one of the most experienced cornerbacks returning to the Irish in 2004. He will have the chance in the off-season to claim one of the starting jobs. 
GARRON BIBLE 


The former high school run­
ning back from the state of 
Texas has had an up-and-down 
season. 

Upon the graduation of 
Gerome Sapp, the coaches · looked to Garron Bible to ftll in at the other starting safety spot. Bible looked to have that job secured in fall camp but suf­fered an injury that caused the 
c()aches to make other plans. 
The coaches then brought 
Quentin Burrell into the starting 
lineup in preparation that Bible 
wouldn't be ready for the sea­
son opener. However, then 
Burrell was injured and the 
coaches put Bible back into the 
starting lineup. Bible started 
the first three games of the sea­
son but lost his starting job for 
the Purdue game. But an injury 
to Glenn Earl in the USC game 
put Bible back into the starting 
lineup. 

Against Navy's option attack, 
the defense needed Bible to 
stop up and pay a disciplined 
game. He responded with a 
number of big plays in contain­
ing the Midshipmen's running 
game. Bible came to Notre 
Dame after rushing for 1 ,516 
yards and 18 touchdowns in his 
senior year of high school. He 
was moved to defensive back 
after his freshman year. With 
Earl graduating, Bible will once 
again have another opportunity 
to solidify himself in the starting 
lineup if he can stay healthy. 
GREG PAULY 
Last season, Greg Pauly was a vital member of Notre Dame's defensive tackle rotation. This year, he's trying to crack the play­ing field. 
It's not all Pauly's fault, however. He's playing behind Darrell Campbell and Cedric Hilliard, seniors who have to be carried off the field before they admit they're hurt. And the player immediately ahead of him in the rotation, Derek Landri, was considered by many to be the top defensive recruit in the nation when he committed two years ago. 
Still, Pauly, who earned his first monogram as a member of the 2002 Irish, recorded 11 tackles in just under 100 minutes of playing time last season. He also started three games while Hilliard recov­ered from an injury. 
Some think that a knee injury has kept Pauly from emerging as the truly dominant player some thought he would be. His freshman year, Pauly was sidelined with pre­season knee surgery 'lfter he suf­fered an injury during a summer all-star game. 
He was a Parade high school All­American pick and named to top high school list after high school list as one of the nation's best play­ers. 
But while Pauly's knee injury may have kept him from becoming a true big impact player, he may have a chance to see regular play­ing time when Campbell and Hilliard graduate after this year. 








