
VOL.XXXVII NO. 07 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Shots fired blocks from campus 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Assistant News Editor 
A 21-year-old South Bend man who was shot Friday evening at a liquor store one block from Notre Dame's campus died later that night at St. Joseph Regional Medial Center, said Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security Police. 
Witnesses to the shooting said an argument between two individuals started inside Belmont Beverages, located on South Bend Avenue, around 9:50 p.m. and contin­ued out into the parking lot when they heard multiple shots, Rakow said. The victim, 21-year-old Jamaal Davis, was transported to the hospi­tal before police arrived at the scene. 
According to Rakow, the shooting is being investigated by the St. Joseph County Metro Homicide Police. Because the shooting occurred close to areas that NDSP regularly patrols, an NDSP officer responded to the 
shooting, said Rakow. Police were also considering 
"The [man] had already the possibility of connections been taken to the hospital. between the Belmont shooting Our officer just helped secure and another shooting that 
the scene," he said. occurred around 1 :30 a.m. 
According to The South Saturday at a house located Bend Tribune, police had not on Diamond St., The Tribune made arrests as of late reported. Saturday night and an autop­Notre Dame seniors Nina sy was scheduled for Monday. Siggins and Nicole Coolbaugh 
Homicide investigator Lt. left Belmont Beverages just Steven Richmond told the before the shooting occurred. Tribune that the murder "I was kind of shocked, but I 
could be in retaliation for a was glad we weren't there at Feb. 22 shooting that the same time," said occurred at the LaSalle Park Coolbaugh. 
Homes on West Washington Both students. who live off St. in South Bend. campus, said they regularly 

make purchases at the liquor store, but did not think the shooting would discourage them from going to Belmont Beverages in the future. 
"If it happened there its pos­sible it could happen at other places too," said Siggins. 
The shooting death at Belmont Beverages comes after the Jan. 17 mugging of a Notre Dame student on Notre Dame Ave. and the death of Notre Dame freshman Chad Sharon. 
Notre Dame students were notified of the incident in a campus-wide e-mail Saturday informing students that the shooting had occurred and advising anyone with informa­tion about the crime to con­tact police. 

Officials from the South Bend Police Department, who responded to the shooting, did not return phone calls seeking comment on the shooting. A Notre Dame student who was at the liquor store around 
9:50 p.m. declined to com­ment on the matter. 
Contact Teresa F ralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
Student struck by SUV 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
Associate News Editor 
A South Bend resident dri­
ving a sports utility vehicle 
struck a Notre Dame junior 
early Saturday morning near 
Club 23, South Bend police 
said. 
Steve Meyers, a Knott resi­dent, was hailing a cab and walking across South Bend Avenue when Daniel Tarwacki hit Meyers. 
Michael Hannigan, Knott assistant rector, said the vehicle was traveling at about 35 mph when it struck Meyers. 
"The vehicle did quite a bit of damage [to Meyers]." he said. 
Hannigan said Meyers sus­tained several injuries as a result of the severe impact. 
Meyers underwent surgery at Saint Joseph Medical Center Saturday. Hannigan said Meyers condition was stable Sunday. 
"The accident was very life­threatening and he came very close to death,•· Hannigan said. 
Knott Hall rector Brother Jerome Meyer said Sunday that Meyers condition was "improving." 
South Bend Police spokesman Captain John Williams said the police 
see ACCIDENT/page 4 

Independent SMC shl.dents perform monologues 
By MEIANIE BECKER 
News Writer 
Student performers and 70 members of the community gathered to recognize global violence against women at Sunday evening when a perfor­mance of Eve Ensler's "The Vagina Monologues" was held in the Regina North Lounge at Saint Mary's. 
Nine students from the junior and senior classes per­formed "The Vagina Monologues" for interested members of the Saint Mary's Community. 
The V-Day website said that, "Saint Mary's College is proud to present a benefit production of 'The Vagina Monologues' to raise awareness and for local organizations working to end violence against women and girls." The V-Day website lists senior Susan Almeda as the official organizer of the Performance at Saint Mary's. However, Almeda had no com­ment for The Observer. 
A disclaimer was read to the audience that the College in no way supported last night's per­formance but students are given the liberty to hold such performances under the acad­emic freedom policy of the col­lege. The performers also noted that they,. felt that the performance of t.lie show was of great importad.ce. All per­formers had no comment for The Observer. . · 
The performers all wore black shirts that read on the back, "Never turn your back on your sisters." Minimal props and costume accessories were used as the students transformed the stories of women from around the globe through their reading. 
Ensler begins the play by defining the vagina as the essence of a woman "The Monologues" expressed the oppression of women through the negative connotation and destruction of the vagina. Stereotypes and stigmas were 
addressed as destroying the basic nature of a woman by the denial of such an essential part of her. Examples of this oppression ranged from the practice of douching in west­ern cultures to female genital mutilation, particularly in Africa. · 
The monologues within the play were taken from inter­views that Ensler conducted worldwide with women about their vaginas. The play consist­ed of a range of topics from the generalizations and embar­rassment of having a vagina and menstruation, to the denial of its existence, to rape. 
Throughout the show, statis­tical information was provided to the audience about sexual abuse of women. According to Ensler's findings, most home­less women have experienced sexual abuse or rape at some point during their lifetime and homes for abused women become a place of insecurity and fear. 
The affects of abuse and 

rape of women were also examined. After sexual abuse or rape a woman's body becomes a 'crime scene.' The separation of a woman's body and soul after sexual violence was demonstrated through the agonizing tales of women suf­fering from violence. 
"It was a good way to bring about very important issues, such as female genital mutila­tion. It covered the full spec­trum," senior Katie Sandford said. 
The hour and a half perfor­mance ended with a mono­logue about the vagina during childbirth. The vagina is com• pared to a human heart in its ability to love, hurt, heal and sacrifice for others. A woman, like her vagina, changes with the birth of a child. 
Audience members had mixed reactions and many refused to comment. Many stu­dents were surprised at the bluntness of the show and the level of its detail. Audience members were composed of curious students, parents, pro­fessors. faculty and visitors. 
..From a male's perspective, it was shocking, but I'd heard of it before. It's uncommon to think about the vagina, and it makes you think -not about all the pretty stuff either. Overall, it's a good play, it's honest and shows every per­spective from a woman's point of view," Ricky Baron, a junior visiting from Valparaiso University, said. 
"You never see yourself in that light, it's not something you expect. Many things you don't even hear about are brought to light," sophomore Madelyn Estrada said. 
The play has fueled a global movement to end violence against women, which has gained momentum on college campuses across the nation. 
Concerns as to whether the show fit the Catholic character of Saint Mary's arose in January of 2001. After selling 
see PIAY/page 4 


Monday, March 3, 2003

page2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Rest inpeace, weeKend 
Another week has come and gone, and another week has begun with me grieving the loss of the week­end. It arrived just three days ago 
amid much antic­ 
ipation and has  Kevin Allen  
yet again  been  
brutally  
wrenched from  Wire Editor  
our lives by the  
greedy hands of  
another Monday.  

I must admit that I lead a pitifully cyclical existence by spending four days a week anticipating the arrival of the weekend, two days celebrat­ing it and one day mourning its departure. Sometimes, my sorrow grows so extreme that Sunday night Mass almost seems like a funeral ­a final affirmation that the sweet taste of freedom I enjoyed for a mere 48 hours is gone forever, or at least it seems that way in the illogi­cal mind of a sleep-deprived 21 year-old. 
Although I am probably more melodramatic about this than any­one else, I know that I am not the only student who feels this way. I see other students mourn just as I do every Sunday when the weekend suddenly passes away, crushed to death beneath a hefty pile of pro­crastination. 
The passing on of the weekend abandons thousands of distraught students at the beginning of every new week. Robbed of their freedom to sleep in, students' grief is incon­solable as they make futile attempts to attack another busy five-day sprint through classes and assign­ments. In blatant disregard for the Fourth Commandment, students flock to libraries and computer clusters each Sunday to grieve the passing of the weekend. 
By Monday morning. those reminders of the weekend that have survived, like the unfortunate mess in Alumni Hall's second-floor bath­room, the lingering awkwardness from a random hookup at Heartland and the ever-growing fear of the physics test I have on Wednesday will also fade away, leaving me with nothing but hopes for another weekend. But on a Monday like this, or any Monday, that seems far away. 
But of course, the five days always fly by and I find myself enjoying another weekend before I know it. And two days later I'm back to grieving over the loss of another. 
So as I ramble through this pseu­do-eulogy for our close friend, the Weekend, let us enjoy these days. what I like to think of as the time between weekends, because that is the ways the Weekend would want it. Do not pout and stress during mid-term week, one of the busiest weeks of the semester for most. Instead, be optimistic -look for­ward to Spring Break. 
It's five very long days away. And I can't wait. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Kevin Allen at Kevin.P.Allen. 6 I@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itselfas a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTSNEWS NATION NEWS 
Buckeyes stop Irish in Fighting vio­

Students
CIA hurries to U.S. AirwaysNotre Dame 

lence and new science 
clarify
intterogate al-bankruptcyestablishes 

conference championships stereotypesposition on

Qaeda advances in against women peace petitioncourtsuspectinstitute 

A new For the first timeLetters to the edi­
The controversy
U.S. Airways'
The CIA wants to 

Environmental 
since 1983 Notre

surrounding "Thetor argue againstbankruptcy claimget into Khalid
Molecular Science 
Dame's fencing

V a g i n a
war and the pur­advances before
S h e i k h

Institute has been team failed to winMonologues" con­pose of singing the 
the judge who
Mohhamed's head

established at Notre 
needs to approve
to gather informa­

Dame, thanks in part 
its pension plan. 
tion on possible

to one of the largest competitive grants 
future terrorist the University has 
attacks. everreceived. 
page 7page 3 page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Lecture with Harrison Ilagan Schmitt "To the Moon and Beyond!" 

12:50 p.m. at DeBartolo I I all, room 101 

. 
Lt~cture with Dr. Mohammed Mattar "Sexual Slavery: The problem of Trafficking of \Vomcn 


in an International Context" 6 p.m. at Dcbartol<> llall, room 131 
. Lecture with Barb Franklin, Liz Dobbs and Stacie Sowala "Living Next Door to the KKK: Ilow the Klan hurts Americans of all Colors" 7 p.m. at DeBartolo Ilall, room 101 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Must Do Monday , In celebration of Asian American Pacific Islander 1lcritagc Month 12 p.m. at Haggar College Center, room 303 

. 
Lecture with Margaret O'Brien Steinfels 


"Viewpoints on Iraq" 7 p.m. at Madelcva, Carroll Auditorium 
. Lysistria Project Studenl-, will perform the Greek play in protest ofwar with Iraq 
8:30 p.m. at Madeleva, Carroll Auditorium 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Boiled linguine, shells, tri-color rotini, meat sauce. spaghetti sauce, chicago pizza sauce, breaded cheesesticks, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, vegetable pizza, supreme pizza, breadsticks, tomato soup, mine­strone soup, whipped potatoes, corn, apple cobbler, baked potato, hamburg­ers, chicken patty, steakhouse fries 
Today's Dinner: Vegetable pizza, supreme pizza, breadsticks, tomato soup, minestrone soup, whipped pota­toes, corn, apple cobbler, baked potato, hamburgers, chicken patty, steakhouse fries, pork loin, pork gravy, peas, mush­room quiche, au gratin cauliflower 
South Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Minestrone soup, Texas chili, tomato soup, hamburgers, chicken patties, grilled hotdog, chicken breasts, natures burger, steakhouse fries, chicken taco, taco meat, refried beans, fajitas, spanish rice, whipped potatoes, pork gravy, brown sauce, broccoli cheese casserole, corn, rice, carrots, peas, green beans 
Today's Dinner: Grilled hotdog, chicken breasts, nature's burger. steakhouse fries, chicken taco, taco meat, refried beans, fajitas, spanish rice, whipped potatoes, pork gravy, brown sauce, broccoli cheese casse­role, corn, rice, carrots, peas, green 
a combined confer­third year of being 
tinues in the play's 
ence championship performing on 
Saturday. 

Notre Dame's cam­
pus. 
page 20
page 12

page 11 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 

Abandoned bike found 
Friday, an abandoned bike was found in the 81 faculty and staff south lot and is being kept by NDSP for safekeeping. 

Student finds license and cash 
Wednesday, a student found a driver's license and cash in the Cl student lost and turned it into NDSP for safekeeping. 

NDSP issues speeding ticket 
Thursday, a NDSP officer issued a state citation for exceeding the posted speed limit on Juniper road. 

Student reports missing bike 
A student reported the her locked freestanding bike was taken from the east side of LaFortune Student Center between Feb.21 and 24. There are no suspects. 

Student injured at Rolfs 
NDSP transported a student to St. Joseph med­ical Center for treatment of a sports injury from Rolfs Sports Center last Thursday. 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Vegetarian paella, wild mushroom strudel, pasta, mari­nara, caribbean twice baked sweet potatoes, seafood international saute, grilled hamburger, grilled bratwurst, grilled cheese, french fries, BLT's, chicken breast teriyaki, vegetable lo mein, peas and carrots, deluxe pizza, cheese pizza, bread sticks, ham salad 
Today's Dinner: Biriyani rice with cashews, baked potatoes, broccoli cuts. fettucine pasta toss, sweet potato bis­cuits, tortellini, Texas style briskett, lyonnaise potatoes, corn and tomatoes, chicken fajita pizza, cheese pizza, bread sticks, chimichanga 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
La.I 
::c 
~ 

La.I 
~ 

fr.

..I 

. .,. . 
*-.·, ­

ct 


ot••••
(.) 

*~** '* 

0 ...I  HIGH  27  HIGH  27  HIGH  33  HIGH  27  HIGH  43  HIGH  37  
LOW  5  LOW  25  LOW  15  LOW  16  LOW  30  LOW  31  
Atlanta  54 / 39 Boston 25 / 10 Chicago 31 / 24 Denver 49 / 26 Houston 55 / 44 Los Angeles 67 / 50 Minneapolis 26 /  a  

New York 28 / 8 Philadelphia 30 / 20 Phoenix 67 / 50 Seattle 50 / 32 St. Louis 44 / 37 Tampa 68 / 61 Washington 33 / 26 
page 3

Monday, March 3, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 





Institute earns competitive grant 
By KEVIN ALLEN 
News Writer 
A new Environmental Molecular Science Institute has been established at Notre Dame, thanks in part to one of the largest competitive grants the University has ever received. 
Scientists and engineers at EMSI will utilize a $5.5 million grant from the National Science Foundation and the Department of Energy to study the chemical interactions between microparticles and heavy metals in the environ­ment, especially in the context of groundwater contamination. 
"It is increasingly obvious from our poor record in clean­ing up Superfund sites that we don't understand the molecu­lar-scale chemistry that is hap­pening at contaminated sites," said Jeremy Fein, associate professor· of civil engineering and director of EMSI. Superfund sites are uncon­trolled or abandoned places where hazardous waste is located, possibly affecting local ecosystems or people. 
The scientific mission of the Institute is to provide a molec­ular-scale understanding of heavy metal and actinide interactions with nano-and microparticles in the environ­ment, and to determine how these particles affect contami­nant transport in geologic sys­tems. 
"Our researchers are work­ing to develop models that can be used to make groundwater cleanup efforts more efficient and to design more efficient containment treatment strate­gies," said Fein. 
Nano-and microparticles, such as bacteria, natural organic matter and mineral aggregates are invisible to the human eye, but exist in nearly all groundwater systems. It is estimated that roughly half of all Americans depend solely on groundwater supplies for their drinking water. Groundwater is usually safe, but pollutants from a variety of sources, including hazardous waste sites, landfills, chemical stor­age tanks, mining operations, road salt and sewage spills, can lead to contaminated water supplies. 
Fein and other investigators at EMSI found that nano-and microparticles present in water can enhance or hinder the transport of contaminants. 
One threat that is being investigated at EMSI involves situations where heavy metals are dumped at a site and become attached to the cell walls of bacteria. Once the metal binds with the bacteria, it becomes as mobile as the bacteria. 
The potential mobility of neptunium, a by-product of the production of plutonium in nuclear reactors is another research focus of the Institute. Concerns about the potential impact of neptunium in the environment have increased since President Bush recom­mended the Yucca Mountain facility in Nevada as the national underground reposi­tory for high-level nuclear waste. 
EMSI will offer several research positions for under­graduates. EMSI will host a Research Experiences for Undergraduates program this summer for eight to 10 under­graduate students from across the nation. 
"That's been the normal trend for our department -to get students into labs," said Fein. 
EMSI will also attempt to increase the number of under­represented minorities in the field of environmental science. The institute has partnered up with the National Consortium for Graduate Degrees for Minorities in Engineering and Science, Inc., and is developing a master's program specifical­ly for undergraduate minority students. 
EMSI is hosted by the Department of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences and is housed in Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering, where it main­tains a 1,500 square-foot labo­ratory space. The lab was ren­ovated with University funds and new equipment was bought with the grant money. 
The new institute also col­laborates with the University's Center for Environmental Science and Technology (CEST) and with the Argonne National Laboratory, operated by the University of Chicago. 
The principal investigators for EMSI are Fein, Peter Burns, Massman Professor of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences and Patricia Maurice, associate professor of civil engineering and geological sciences and director of CEST. 
EMSI also employs an educa­tion and outreach administra­tor who will organize educa­tional programs that target the scientific and general commu­nity. One proposed program would bring faculty from EMSI into local high schools to make scientific presentations. Several graduate and post­doctorate positions are still available at the Institute. 
Contact Kevin Allen at kallen@nd.ed. 

Congregation ofHoly Cross 

Be part of the solution. 

Special prosecutor appointed to trial 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
Associate News Editor 
The office of St. Joseph County Prosecutor Michael Dvorak pre­sented a request for a special prosecutor in the trials of the four former Notre Dame football play­ers accused of sexual assault at a hearing Wednesday, according to court records. 
A Notre Dame student claimed Lorenzo Crawford, Donald Dykes. Abram Elam and Justin Smith sexually assaulted her in March 2002. The four were charged with conspiracy to commit rape and Crawford, Dykes and Smith were charged with rape. 
The need for a special prosecu­tor arose because two of Dvorak's chief deputies were connected to the cases before joining the pros­ecutor's office. 
Ken Cotter, chief deputy prose­cutor, represented Lorenzo Crawford before Dvoark appoint­ed him to his current position. Frank Schaffer. chief deputy prosecutor, previously worked for Tony Zappia, who represents Justin Smith. 
The petition did not name a special prosecutor, and the pros­ecutor's office did not return phone calls seeking comment. 
Mark Lenyo, Elam's attorney, previously said he did would not ask for a special prosecutor and 
did not see the need for one. Andre Gammage currently rep­resents Crawford. Chamblee rescheduled Crawford's trial date to June 2. 
. Jefferson trial 
The trial of a former Notre Dame football player accused of raping a former Saint Mary's stu­dent in March 2001 has been rescheduled. 
Clifford Jefferson's civil jury trial will begin tentatively Sept. 23. 
The case was reassigned to St. Joseph County Superior Court Judge William \Vhitman. St. Joseph County Superior Court Judge Jenny Pitts Manier recused herself from the case Jan. 21 without providing a reason. Jefferson did not appear at two previous court hearings regard­ing the case and was unrepre­sented by counsel at his Jan. 21 trial date where Manier instruct­ed Jefferson to hire an attorney before she recused herself. 
A clerk from the civil division of the St. Joseph County Clerk's office said Jefferson had not yet hired an attorney. 
Attempts to reach Jefferson were unsuccessful. 
Contact writer at Downes. l@nd.edu 
PILLARS promotes healthy break options 
By CAITLIN EARLY 
News Writer 

A student-led alcohol and drug awareness and education group has launched a series of events to encourage students to make healthy choices over spring break. 
Peers Inspiring Listening Learning and Responsibly Socializing, began in 1995 to pro­vide peer drug and alcohol edu­cation programs to students. The group has since grown to com­prise of nearly 60 students rang­ing from sophomores to seniors. 
The group has organized a weeklong pledge signing cam­paign which asks students to make a commitment not to drink and drive during spring break. 
All Notre Dame students that sign the spring break pledge are entered into a nationwide draw­ing for a chance to win a Jeep Wrangler. 
PILI.ARS has also organized a presentation for Tuesday at 7 
p.m. in Debartolo 102, entitled, "DUI: A Powerful Lesson," where Mark Sterner is scheduled to share how his own spring break experience in Florida ended in the death of three friends after he chose to get behind the wheel drunk. 
"We want to emphasize that PILLARS is not an abstinence­based group, rather we focus on harm reduction," said Gina Firth, director of the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. "Drinking is a personal choice, but it is also a community choice because it affects other people around you." 
Each fall semester, PILLARS sponsors a first-year program in each residence hall to provide freshmen with information about healthy decisions and to expose them to the different resources that are available on campus through the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. 
"We prefer to do the hall pre­sentations within the first two weeks of the semester because studies have shown that fresh­men establish their drinking pat­terns within these first few weeks on campus," said Firth. 
PILIARS is also responsible for coordinating a number of other activities and events throughout the year. The group, which con­sists of 13 different committees, focuses on diverse aspects of alcohol and drug education. Through the committees. stu­dents work to organize events such as Alcohol Awareness Week, Mocktails, and Tobacco Prevention Week. 
"We haven't quite met the attendance goals, but it's getting better," said Kelly Lawrence, assistant director of the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. 
"There is no magic bullet when it comes to alcohol and drug edu­cation. We struggle like so many other colleges and universities across the nation to come up with creative incentives to raise an awareness within students," said Firth. "This year's group has been amazing in their continued commitment to the program and we hope to keep this momentum going in the coming year." 
Contact Caitlin Early at cearly@nd.edu 

Monday, March 3, 2003 

page 4 The Observer . NEWS 
ND dining halls try new healthy bread 
chemistry. Stitt worked for
ByJESSICA DALSING 

an oil company with a
News Writer 

grant to find a product that could fight worldNew bread products 
hunger.
considered to be a healthy 

"We found a productalternative to what the 
that could feed people
University currently uses nutritiously for two cents

will appear in North and 

a day," Stitt said.
South Dining Halls on 

Yet Stitt was soon to find
March 17. The new breads 

that his dream of "doing
and muffins from Natural 

something to make a dif­Oven's Bakery will be 
ference in the world" was
offered because of the not shared by all. Afterbread's healthy ingredi­

being blacklisted from 
ents. 

food companies, Stitt
The dining halls will be 

started his own company
testing the HealthMax and 

with $5,000. Customer
100 percent Whole Grain response has turned his

bread along with blueber­dream into a reality, with ry muffins from Natural Stitt selling his products

Oven's Bakery. 

all over the Midwest and"The wheat bread in the supporting 300 employees.
dining hall is just white 

"Running the company is
bread with a tan," Food 

only about making enough
Services Dietitian Josie 

money to help more peo­
Antonelli said. 

ple with it," Stitt said.
According to Food 

After five years of hard
Services, the nutritional work and a tip from a 

content of current breads physician, Notre Dame haslack many key ingredients 

decided to give Natural 
to healthy living. However, Oven's Bakery a chance at

Natural Oven's breads 

being a staple in the din­
have a high fiber content, 

ing halls. 
no preservatives or trans 

The products will appear
fatty acids and contain on local Martin's

flaxseed, a leading source 

Supermarket shelves
of Omega 3. 

today. Tours are alsoIn the words of available at the newAntonelli, it contains Natural Oven's Bakery"nothing that you can't plant in Valparaiso,
pronounce." 

Indiana.
Though this bread might 

.. We are so proud of
sound too good to be true, 

what we do that we want
the product's creator, Paul 

to share it," Stitt said.
Stitt, had a hard time con­

vincing future users of the bread's worth. With a Contact Jessica Dalsing at master's degree in bio-jdalsing@nd.edu 
"I think that it's impor­tant to talk about violence.
Play 

Look at how many women 
continued from page 1 are raped here. We feel so sheltered because we are at a white Catholic school.
out Carroll auditorium 

As an all woman's college,twice in the spring of 2000, 
it is important to address
the college withdrew its 

issues of rape because it is
support of the show and a reality," senior Ann

prohibited its performance 

Hoover said.
at Saint Mary's. 

A collection was taken at
Students have continued 

the door of the perfor­
to perform the show since mance and proceeds will bethe College's support was 

donated to the Sex Offense
withdrawn. The students 

Services, the Young
that performed the show in 

Women's Christian2001 were requested to 
Association and a shelterapologize to the student for battered women in the
body, but the College did 

St. Joseph Community.
not place any sanctions on 

Additionally funds were
the students involved with raised through the sale of

last year's performance. 

chocolate shaped vaginas.
After two years of contro­

These funds will go to the
versy surrounding the 

V-Day Campaign at IUSB.
ethics of performing "The Interested students who

Vagina Monologues" at 

missed last night's perfor­Saint Mary's, the adminis­mance can see "The Vaginatration says that they will 
Monologues" on Tuesday or
take a neutral stand to the Wednesday night in Notre

student led performance 

Dame's Washington Hall atlast night. 
7:30 p.m.
Even without the col­lege's endorsement of the show, students have contin­ued to express the need to Contact Melanie Becker at perform it at Saint Mary's. Beck093l@saintmarys.edu 
Accident 
continued from page 1 
report did not indicate whether charges were filed against Tarwacki, although Williams did not rule out the 

possibility that charges could be filed. Williams said the report did not indicate whether Tarwacki had been drinking. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
Air Force rape scandal jars to~n 
academy, said Cari Davis, the The academy has responded
Associated Press 

center's executive director. to sexual assaults involving 
She said many of them are cadets in the past. 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. afraid to complain for fear After rape allegations sur­
As a song lamenting the fate they'll lose their chances to faced in 1993, the academy of a wounded soldier plays on advance in the military. established the Center for the VFW Post jukebox behind "If you want to be a fighter Character Development to pro­him, Bob Campbell talks with pilot, you don't have any other mote ethical conduct. disgust in his voice of the treat­options," she said. A 24-hour rape hot line was ment some young cadets say On the academy campus, set up in 1996. Since then, there they've been getting from the beyond the large letters at the have been 99 calls reporting Air Force Academy. entrance that spell out, "Bring some form of sexual assault, 
"I think it is terrible that these Me Men," young men and from inappropriate touching to kinds of things can happen. It women in uniform walk from rape, according to the academy. should be an honor to be there," the coed Twenty reports the Vietnam veteran says of dorms to their of sexual
"ft is healthy to see that
reports that female cadets were classes along assaults of punished by the academy after the wooded our leadership will take cadets on or off reporting they had been raped hillsides of action where action is campus. have or sexually assaulted by upper­Pikes Peak. been investi­
needed to remind
classmen. The property gated since "I believe it is going on now is closed to the ourselves properly. Ifwe 1996, and two and has been in the past," he public because do not, it is good that cadets have says. of heightened been convicted
there are consequences
Across this spit and polish security mea­for off-campus
for misconduct ... 
military town of 500,000, sures, but dur­sex offenses. Campbell's sentiment echoes ing an appear­Freshmen among the civilians as well as ance last week also take a
Lt. Col. Tom Budzyna
the military employees and by Air Force course called
Fort Carson spokesman
retirees who make up more Secretary "Street Smart" than a fifth of the population. James Roche, to learn how to 
"This is a terrible black mark military public protect them­on the academy," says retired re Iatio ns officials escorted selves in potentially dangerous Air Force Col. Dick Rauschkolb, reporters in to speak with some situations, including personal who directed the office of of the cadets. relationships. Last year. the enrollment programs at the Two female cadets, both academy i_ncreased its class­academy. "We want the best members of a voluntary group room emphasis on ethics amid and brightest here to come set up to help victims of the biggest drug scandal in the here." assaults, said the students at the school's history; 38 cadets were 
Since late January, at least 22 academy work together to over-implicated. female cadets come gender In addition to the academy have said they barriers. About and NORAD, the Colorado were ostra­"I honestly believe this is 4,000 cadets a Springs area is home to the cized or repri­year train at newly created Northern
a wonderful place, and a
manded for the academy. Command to di..fend against ter­minor infrac­few bad apples are created in rorism, Peterson Air Force tions after they spoiling the bunch .•, 1954. It Base, and the space warfare reported being opened its and satellite control center at raped by doors to the Schriever Air Force Base.
Katie Veseth 

upperclass­first female Nearby Fort Carson has men. The Air Cadet 1st Class cadets in 1976. 15,000 soldiers, of whom Force is con-"You're all 11,000 are being deployed to ducting inves-face down in the Middle East. tigations and at least four sena­the mud together,"said Cadet Army commanders are closely tors have called for an outside 1st Class Sarah Miller of Enola, watching activities at the Air investigation, which Air Force Pa., who wants to be a pilot. Force Academy, and particular­Chief of Staff Gen. John Jumper "I honestly believe this is a ly the military's response. has said he would welcome. wonderful place, and a few bad "It is healthy to see that our 
Academy Superintendent Lt. apples are spoiling the bunch," leadership will take action Gen. John Dallagher. speaking said Cadet 1st· Class Katie where action is needed to Friday on ABC's "20/20", said it Veseth of Malta, Mont. remind ourselves that we are was as serious as the 1991 Janette Tinianow said her expected to conduct ourselves Tailhook scandal, when women twin daughters, who graduated properly. If we do not, it is good at a hotel were groped or at the top of their academy class that there are consequences for assaulted by drunken pilots at a in 2000, never had any trouble misconduct," said Fort Carson Navy booster group's conven­with classmates. "I never heard spokesman Lt. Col. Tom tion. of anything that was hushed or Budzyna. 
At Colorado Spring's primary put down. I am very skeptical He said soldiers both in this rape and crisis center, coun­that that is true. My girls were country and abroad are con­selors have helped 22 alleged always respected by every­stantly reminded to treat civil­rape or assault victims from the body," she said. ians with dignity. 


© 1985 FUN TAN. INC. 
Corner of Ireland & Ironwood 

Monday, March 3, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
CIA hurries to interrogate al-Qaida' s Mohammed 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The CIA wants to get inside Khalid Sheikh Mohammed's head. But his interrogators ­CIA, FBI or from a foreign secu­rity service -are working against the clock. Mohammed's information about impending terrorist operations and the location of al-Qaida leaders and cells grows more dated by the hour. 
Whether the CIA can learn anything useful from the alleged Sept. 11 mastermind depends on the skills and meth­ods of the interrogators, Mohammed's willingness to talk and perhaps simply time. 
Captured early Saturday in a raid in Pakistan, he is now believed to be in U.S. custody overseas. 
Of top priority during the questioning is gaining intelli­gence that could help quickly disrupt attacks being planned or lead to added precautions, American counterterrorism offi­cials said. 
That could mean a domestic law enforcement raid to break up a cell ready to strike, or an increase of security at areas Mohammed names as targets subject to imminent attacks. Intelligence about Mohammed's activities led in part to the orange alert that lasted most of February, counterterrorism officials said. 
Overseas, it could mean an operation that leads to the cap­ture of al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden. 
But such information is just what he is most likely to try to keep secret, or lie about. Still, terrorists who learn of Mohammed's capture may alter their plans, abandon safe hous­es or make hurried telephone calls -actions that could expose them to detection. 
The only al-Qaida capture that approaches the magnitude of Mohammed's was that of Abu Zubaydah last March. Zubaydah more than once pro­vided information that sent American security officials scurrying to provide warnings to cities and sectors of the econ­omy, knowing all the while that he could be lying. 
Zubaydah did provide some information that was later veri­fied through other sources, offi­cials said. That included intelli­gence that led to the detention of Jose Padilla, the American whom federal officials allege was plotting to use a radiologi­cal weapon on U.S. soil. 
U.S. officials were elated by Mohammed's capture. 
"This is equal to the libera­tion of Paris in the second World War," said GOP Rep. Porter Goss of Florida, chair­man of the House Intelligence Committee, on ABC's "This Week." 
"This is a giant step back­ward for the al-Qaid a," Republican Sen. Pat Roberts of Kansas, chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, told "Fox News Sunday." "Now their operations commander is sim­ply out of operations." 
Officials were not releasing 

AFP 

Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the suspected mastermind of the September 11 attacks, Is shown In two FBI mugshots. Mohammed Is being Interrogated by U.S. and Pakistani agents after he and two other al-Qaeda suspects were apprehended In Rawalpindi, Pakistan on Saturday. 
details of Mohammed's deten-ture, although it is unclear if all experts say. An interrogator tion. Previous high-level al-of America's allies live by a may try to appeal to Qaida captives have not been similar code. Mohammed's vanity, his fears, brought to U.S. soil; they would "We don't sanction torture or whatever lever seems to have rights not afforded on for-but there are psychological and offer the best avenue to getting eign soil, U.S. officials say. other ways that we can get information that will stop ter­Where they are, however, has most of what we need," said rorist attacks. not been disclosed. Sen. Jay Rockefeller, D-W.Va., As his interrogation moves 
Another secret is how officials vice chairman of the Senate away from the immediate, will attempt to get information Intelligence Committee. Mohammed can provide coun­from Mohammed. Whatever the method, the terterrorism officials with a 
U.S. officials insist they goal is to get inside a prisoner's deeper understanding of al­eschew physical, violent tor-head and get him talking, Qaida and its history. 
U.S. Iraq mission riskier without support of Turkey 
Parliament rejected a motion that would airlift a force into northern Iraq from administration was evaluating the situa­
Associated Press 
have granted a U.S. request to position Kuwait or elsewhere in the Persian Gulf. tion but did not regard the vote as nec­
WASHINGTON tens of thousands of ground forces for Instead of having the Army's 4th essarily final. Another official said the 
Without Turkish bases to open a the assault into northern Iraq and to Infantry Division -a heavily armored Turkish vote was a disappointment and northern front against Iraq, the U.S. mil­station about 200 additional strike air­force -roll into northern Iraq from that the U.S. ambassador to Turkey was itary still could take Baghdad, but with craft at two other bases. Turkey, Franks might choose to use the seeking clarification from Ankara. more difficulty and risk, officials and Defense officials, speaking Sunday on 101st Airborne Division, a lighter, air Several senators were less sanguine. analysts said Sunday. condition of anonymity. said Gen. mobile force. "It's a huge setback for our purposes. 
The U.S. war plan calls for attacks on Tommy Franks, who would command a It was not clear whether that was It stunned me," Sen. Jay Rockefeller, O­Iraq from two directions, Kuwait in the U.S. war in Iraq, had not yet decided to Turkey's last word on the matter. W. Va., ranking Democrat on the south and Turkey in the north. That give up on Turkey. Franks said in an Reconsideration could come as early as Intelligence Committee. "We spent the approach would complicate Iraq's Associated Press interview last week Tuesday, but the head of Turkey's ruling last 50 years defending them in NATO. defense planning and ease U.S. logistical that his war plans are flexible and take party said Sunday there are no plans in And along comes this opportunity, and problems. into account such problems. the "foreseeable future" to seek another by three votes they decline the opportu­
In a weekend move that surprised U.S. If Turkish bases were not available to parliamentary vote. nity to allow us to come in through the officials, however, the Turkish U.S. ground forces, Franks could opt to Still, a senior U.S. official said the north." 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Israeli tanks move into refugee camps 
Israeli tanks firing shells and machine guns moved into the Nusseirat and Bureij refugee camps in the central part of the Gaza Strip early Monday, wit­nesses said. No casualties were reported. The Israeli military said its forces were concentrating in the area for an operation. It was the second Israeli incursion in as many days in Gaza.Two Palestinians were killed in the conflict on Saturday. 
Bahrain calls for Saddam's resignation 
Bahrain's king said Saddam Hussein should step down to spare Iraqis and the region another war, the official United Arab Emirates news agency reported Sunday. Sheik Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa was quoted as saying that a proposal by the Emirates that the Iraqi leader go into exile was "honest advice to the Iraqi leadership." Several other Persian Gulf nations echoed these senti­ments. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Families of GuH War victims back Bush 
Mothers and fathers, brothers and sisters paid tribute Sunday to loved ones killed in the first Persian Gulf War and said they supported President Bush's efforts to again send Americans against Saddam Hussein. A ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery remembering the more than 400 men and women who died in the Gulf War. 
Congressmen meet with Cuba's Paya 
Reps. Jim Davis, D-Fla., and Jim Kolbe, R-Ariz., were the first American congressmen to meet with Cuban opposition leader Oswaldo Paya, a top organizer of the Varela Project. The congressmen expressed support for Varela's attempt to ensure freedom of speech and other civil rights for Cubans. The Varela Project seeks a referendum on several proposals that would guarantee civil liberties such as freedom of speech, assembly and the right to private business ownership. 
NYC mayor marches in gay St. Pat's parade 
Mayor Michael Bloomberg marched Sunday in a gay-inclusive St. Patrick's Day parade, delighting organizers who protest the exclusion of openly gay groups from the much larger Irish celebration on Fifth Avenue. ''I'm glad everyone's here marching," said Bloomberg, who walked at the front of a group of several hundred participants in the 15-block parade through heavily Irish sections of Queens. "I wish all parades could be th?-t way." 
NASA debated shuttle risks for five days 
Before the Columbia broke apart, NASA experts debated over five days the risks to the space shuttle, moving from a telephone inquiry about tires to remarkably accurate fears focusing on the left wing. Toward the end, engineers even identified with haunting precision which sensors might fail in sequence as the space shuttle raced through searing temperatures. 
page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, March 3, 2003 
f'R/cEWATfRHOUsf(sr>PERS I 


, . 
' 
·' 

VOTED NUMBER ONE IDEAL EMPLOYER. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers was voted the number one ideal employer in the 2002 Universum Undergraduate Survey of more than 4,000 business students and the number one recruiter in our profession in the 2002 Emerson Company Campus Recruiting Survey. 
For opportunities and information go to: 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere. 
Look beyond the numbers. 
<O 2002 PncewaterhouseCoopers LLP. PricewaterhouseCoopers refers to the U.S. firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and other members of the worldwide PncewaterhouseCoopers organization. We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, March 3, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch February 28 
DowJones  
7,891.08  ~  +6.09  
NASDAQ  
1,337.52  ~  +13.58  
S&P500  
841.15  ~  +3.87  
AMEX  
830.63  ~  +2.43  
4,716.07  NYSEt­ +22.54  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +3.35+0.56 17.26 
~··.iifiillJ!!tfii•.s·:<•,··/\ ·-~·· i . -.~, ... ,..·. . . .. . . . . .. ·,•...,
s · 
fOOa.•-~-~~ ;.::+f~J&lq? ~i~it,. 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +l.67+0.23 13.98 NASDAQ-100 INDE (QQQ)+l.57 +0.39 25.16 
IN BRIEF 
Wall St. has 3rd straight losing month 
Investors vacillated between jitters about a possible war with Iraq and optimism from upbeat economic news for much of the day Friday, finally sending the market's gauges higher in the final minutes of trading. But the gains weren't enough to save most stocks from their third straight monthly decline. Analysts remain dubious of Wall Street's abil­ity to forge an upward path in the face of uncertainty about Iraq. And despite Friday's advances, the major indexes ended the week lower, snapping a two-week winning stretch. 
German railworkers threaten strikes 
Germany's railroad unions threatened Sunday to continue pressing their demands for 5 percent more pay through brief strikes throughout the coming week, beginning in eastern Germany. Strikes would concentrate on the east of the country, where workers are seeking wage increases to match salaries in the more affiuent west of the country. About 140 rail workers took part in temporary strikes on Saturday in the western cities of Cologne and Dortmund, disrupting local and long-distance trains in the region. Union lead­ers called the Saturday action a first signal to the national railway company. Deutsche Bahn, that the nation's 160,000 rail workers are prepared to launch a full-blown strike if their demands are not met. 
Intel releases new wireless technology 
For years, Intel Corp.'s microprocessors for laptop computers differed little from those powering desktop PCs. This month, the world's largest semiconductor company, ush­ers a new high performance and wireless capability with slower battery drain. The technology, dubbed Centrino. combines the energy-efficient chip with components designed to work reliably together and ensure the greatest power savings. The previous chips were designed for machines plugged into the wall, not juiced by a battery. 
Airline bankruptcy advances 

• Judge backs US Airways on pension plan 
Associated Press 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. 
A bankruptcy judge agreed Saturday to allow US Airways to terminate its pilots' pension plan. but said his ruling will be subject to the pending decision of an arbitrator. 
The pension issue is the last hurdle US Airways faces in its plan to emerge from bankruptcy by March 31. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stephen Mitchell's ruling means the airline has not yet completely cleared that hurdle and will be under immense pressure to resolve the pension issue quickly. 
"We think this is an important ruling because it allows us to stay on track," US Airways spokesman Chris Chiames said. "We're calling on ALPA to join us in imme­diate negotiations." 
Roy Freundlich, a spokesman for the Airline Pilots Association, said the union is pleased that an arbitrator will decide if terminating the plan vio­lates the pilots' collective bargaining agreement. 
The key issue is whether the pilots' union agreed to allow the airline to termi­nate the pension plan in a secret agreement reached back in December. 
In the agreement, man­agement promised to begin a new, smaller pen­sion plan if the old one were terminated. They kept the agreement secret because if it became pub­lic, they thought it would 
AFP 

David Siegel, president and CEO of US Airways, the nation's sixth-largest alrllne, Is moving ahead with bankruptcy proceedings after a favorable ruling on Saturday. 
torpedo efforts to get Congressional legislation to fix their problem. 
But union and manage­ment differed on the agreement's meaning. US Airways said the letter constituted acquiescence from the pilots to termina­tion of their plan. 
But the union said the agreement was only designed to give them pro­tection in the event that the federal Pension 

Benefit Guaranty Corp. instituted efforts to termi­nate the plan. 
Judge Mitchell said Saturday it was a close call but sided with the union's interpretation. 
On all other matters, Mitchell sided with the airline. He agreed that the airline faces imminent threat of liquidation if it does not resolve the pen­sion issue and he agreed that the airline does not 
have the money to fully fund its pension plan. 
The union said most pilots would receive annu­al benefits of $50,000 to $70,000 a year under the old plan. Under the new plan, those benefits could be cut in half. 
An arbitrator is sched­uled to hear the issue March 13. The final hear­ing for US Airways to emerge from bankruptcy is scheduled for March 18. 

Experts worry about stagflation 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

No sooner did hints of rising infla­tion emerge then the muttering began on Wall Street about the pos­sible return of dreaded stagflation. 
It was last seen three decades ago, when rising inflation. surging unem­ployment and failing growth crippled the U.S. economy. 
No one would welcome its return. 
It's not that the economy is faced with this grim scenario just yet. But a prolonged war, continued gains in oil prices or the economy's failure to recharge soon might make stagfla­tion a possibility in the not-so-distant future. 
In periods of stagflation, economic growth remains very weak, but infla­tion roars ahead -as it normally would during times of rapid expan­sion. 
It's a term that was coined in the 1970s after the OPEC oil embargo caused a dramatic surge in the cost of crude oil and gasoline and sent inflation soaring. 
"High inflation pushed up interest rates and eroded buying power, and as a result consumer and business spending remained soft, preventing the economy from growing," said Sung Won Sohn, an economist at Wells Fargo & Co. in Minneapolis. "It was ·a vicious combination of fac­tors." 
Every few years, fe_ars of returning stagflation turn up. Most recently, there was some talk of it in the spring of 1994. 
This time around, a slight gain in inflationary pressures -after months of no inflation concerns at all -spurred some speculation about stagflation making a comeback. 
Much of that was fueled by the recent surge in oil prices, which have reached levels not seen since 1990 as the United States prepares for a potential war in Iraq at a time when crude supplies are extremely tight. 
There also have been price jumps in other commodities, including met­als, cotton, aluminum and food prod­ucts like wheat, corn and beef. 
All that led to the much bigger­than-expected 1.6 percent January 
gain in the Labor Department's pro­
ducer-price index, which tracks 
wholesale costs. It was the biggest 
monthly increase in 13 years. 
There has been very little in the way of job growth. There are still huge numbers of new jobless claims each week. while companies take lit­tle initiative to add to their work force. 
Corporate earnings remain depressed. despite improvements in productivity. Companies face higher material costs but lack any ability to raise prices. Manufacturing in many sectors has come to a halt. 
Since consumers have been the economy's backbone through the last few, tough years, there are concerns about what will happen if they scale back their spending. 
"The economy is still very weak and unemployment is not coming down," said Gary Thayer, chief econ­omist at the St. Louis-based invest­ment firm A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc. "We don't want a flashback to the 1970s when people were seeing their job situation deteriorate while their earnings were getting squeezed." 

Monday, March 3, 2003 

page 8 The Observer . NEWS 
Myers takes home film Institute award 
Associated Press 
ASPEN, Colo. 
When comedian Mike 

Myers was growing up, 
anyone who wanted to be 
invited to his home more 
than once had to be funny. 
"My dad was very like, if 

somebody came in the 
house that wasn't funny, it 
was like. 'Can't come any­
more"' said Myers. accept­
ing the 2003 American 
Film Institute Star Award. 
Myers, who grew up in 

Toronto, told the audience 
at the U.S. Comedy Arts 
Festival that his charac­
ters on the big screen and 
on "Saturday Night Live" 
were all based on his fami­·Iy members. "Wayne is me," Myers said Friday of the film 
"Wayne's World," while the 1960s swinger Austin Powers resembles his father, a native of Liverpool. England, who never let his son forget his roots. 
"It would be 11 o'clock at night and the local TV station would have some­thing with Peter Sellers or Alec Guinness and he'd say 'You're going to bloody watch this and you're going to bloody enjoy it. It's your bloody heritage."' 
When his father died in 1993, Myers took a two­year break from acting because "nothing seemed funny to me." It was then that he crafted what would be the basis for his "Austin Powers" character. 
Broadway union sets strike deadline 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The union representing Broadway musicians set a strike deadline of midnight Thursday in its battle with theater producers over the thorny issue of the mini­mum number of orchestra players required for Broadway shows. 
"The parties continue to be very far apart, and there's not going to be a settlement tonight," Bill Dennison, an assistant to union president Bill Moriarity, said Sunday. "We have set a strike dead­line for Thursday midnight March 6." 
Dennison said the pro­ducers have proposed the number of musicians required for the large Broadway theaters be reduced to seven. The min­imums at those large the­aters currently range from 24 to 26. 

There's No Place Like Rome 

~ f ..~ 
' ·' LoY,9la University Chicago •. i!For mor~ information 
I 
Rome:'"Center ofLiberal '.i _conta<;t: j Art~ of~ers/ully a,~CJ~dited . 
• 
clas~es m: t : i"\ ·:' ·. , ,. i; Rome'Ceiiter's 

I. 
I l ; ·· ·,·. · · · · 'Chicago Office . F:·.·• Classic.il Civilization 6525 N. Sheridan Road 


• Ecbnoqiics ·:.., r· .. ;1'. : .Chicago, IL 60626-5385 
• I fl:· 1,1 . . . , 

•· History · .t•\'.',. Phone: (773) 508-2760 
• International St¥.dies <Toll Free:(800)344-ROMA 
.. • Literature Fax: (773) 508-8797 E-mail: romeinfo@luc.edu 
• Philosophy ·.•Theology 
www.luc.edu/romecenter/ 
Chicago's Jesuit University .t 
LOYOLA ~ B·.~ UNIVERSITY 
. ;: CHICAGO
3:: 0 ' 
?!;. ....J 
0 (.:,,r,¼ . 'D<i.,\. . 

' . 
ITALY 

Milan shows unveil pampered look 
too. 
Associated Press 

Despite the figures published by the Italian fashion chamber MILAN more than 3,000 accreditation In these difficult times, requests from buyers and press designers have decided to pam­to attend the shows. the usual per their customers. hype which surrounds the 
For fall-winter 2003-2004 semiannual "moda Milanese" they issue none of the usual presentations is not there. dictates, from black to sexy to There are fewer parties, fewer glam overload, but rather con­shoppers and shorter cab lines. 
centrate  on  the  Gone  are  
personal touch. "What today's woman needs is  "Our peace message is creativity. "  the extrava­gant floral decorations  
something super  which  in  
special and super  Stefano Gabbana  past  sea- 

beautiful," said Tom Ford of Gucci after his romantic show Saturday night, where every detail was designed to make his client fall in love with the clothes. 
Dolce and Gabbana ended their Sunday show with 13 handmade, one-of-a-kind dresses. 
Stefano Gabbana calls the series "special dresses," and said before the show they rep­resented the designer duo's current commitment to creativi­ty. 
"Our peace message is cre­ativity," he said. 
Earlier in the week. Miuccia Prada's return to the pared­down debutante sophistication which triggered her fashion fame in the early 1990s was met with a standing ovation. 
"Right now you feel a little desperate and want to be attached to something," Miuccia said after Friday evening's show. 
The Iraqi crisis and the gen­eral economic slump have cast their shadows off the runway, 

s o n s
designer 

adorned Milan's famed bou­tiques, 
while bittersweet rainbow-col­ored flags bearing the Italian word for peace hang from win­dows of elegant downtown Milan palazzi. 
On the runway, Ford translat­ed what he called his "melan­choly mood" into romance. 
The petals of 50,000 white roses fell gently like snowflakes as demure models with their hair falling lightly on their shoulders, their eyes welled up with a makeup-moistened tear, walked the runway with surreal pace. 
More goddess than gal, the new Gucci woman is a romantic warrior who wraps herself in leather and silk tied around the bodice, like a breastplate. She likes her boots thigh-high and spike-heeled. Her sleeves are as wide and romantic as her rearview silhouette is tight and tough. She loves to cuddle up in a little shrug fur jacket, and never forgets to wear her gloves. The latest Gucci bag 
sports a prominent trademark equestrian bit. 
Miuccia Prada said her collec­
tion was born out of a "need to 
find beauty." And lovely it was 
from beginning to end. from 
high-waisted, collarless tweed 
coat to faded chiffon evening 
wear. 
The show, based on tradition­al British country wear, offered a proper wardrobe from head to glove to bare-toed sandal or clumpy-heeled pump. The look was man-tailored. but never masculine. The latest Prada bag comes in cheerful silk prints. Prada's only luxury fling was the generous use of opu­lent crocodile leather. 
\Vhatever their mood, the Dolce and Gabbana designer duo always make fashion look like fun. And front-row guests actress Fanny Ardant and ex­Spice Girl Victoria Beckham seemed to be having a great time at Sunday's show under a tent set up in the garden of the designer's downtown Milan home. 
Shiny oversized nyIon ski jackets, br1ght tights, colorful thigh-high boots and necklaces made out of multicolored plas­tic charms all combine to lift the fashion spirit. 
For those tugging at their purse strings, the designers invent the "do-it-yourself' look, where jackets and coats are held together by buttons or snaps, allowing the wearer to add or subtract as she pleases. Unsnap the hemline of a mink coat and you have a mink jack­et. Unsnap the sleeves of a suit jacket and you get a chic vest. 
"We want to make our woman feel special," Gabbana said. 





Hours
Frankies BBQ 

1132 South Bend Ave 
TH 11 am-10:45 pm
·232-4038 

FS 11 am-1 :45 pm 

Monday, March 3, 2003 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
RUSSIA 
In Eurasia, Stalin still carries clout 
GREECE 
Terrorism trial spells big relief for Athens 
Republican Army. 

Associated Press  The group was eventually  
exposed after a bungled  
ATHENS  bomb attack last summer  
Between allegedly plot­ left one suspect seriously  
ting assassinations and  injured and triggered  
bank robberies, Dimitris  dozens of raids. It is the  
Koufodinas tended to his  first time Greece has  
beehives at a house near  arrested and put domestic  
Athens. Having dodged  terrorists on trial since the  
police for 28 years, he  dictatorship collapsed in  
spent his last month on the  1974.  
run hiding on a nudist  The breakup of November  
beach.  17 comes as a huge relief to  
On Monday, Koufodinas  Greece's Socialist govern­ 
and 18 others go on trial in  ment and security planners  
Greece's biggest criminal  of next year's Olympics.  
prosecution in three  Senior American officials  
decades, bringing past and  once claimed that the  
present together: Greece of  Socialist party, in power for  
the 1967-74 military junta,  19 of the past 22 years, was  
and the democracy and  somehow shielding the ter­ 
host of Olympic Games that  rorist group.  
is the country today.  It also signals an end to  
Once Europe's most elu­ decades of ugly political  
sive terror cell. the far-left  divisions here, rooted in the  
November 17 Revolutionary  Cold \Var.  
Organization, is blamed for  Named for the date in  
more than 100 bombings, a  1973 when tanks crushed a  
string of armed robberies,  student uprising, November  
and 23 murders judges,  17 was the deadliest of sev­ 
politicians, industrialists  eral Greek militant groups  
diplomats from Britain and  to emerge after the fall of  
Turkey, and four American  the dictatorship that had  
officials.  received American support.  
It looted military arse­ It first appeared with the  
nals, fired or tried to  1975 murder of CIA station  
launch anti-tank rockets at  chief Richard Welch, shot  
police and British aircraft  as he drove home from a  
carriers, and gunned down  Christmas party. Its last vic­ 
its victims on Athens  tim, in June 2000, was  
streets.  British military a ttache  
Greek authorities had  Brig. Stephen Saunders,  
long been under U.S. pres­ ambushed and killed  
sure to act, and more  because of what a claim of  
recently received advice  responsibility referred to as  
from senior British anti-ter­ NATO's "barbaric  
rorism experts experienced  airstrikes" in neighboring  
in fighting the Irish  Yugoslavia.  

Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

The typewritten letters on a 
yellowing page spell out the end 
of an era in striking shorthand. 
Next to the time 9:50 p.m., 
March 5, 1953 is just a brief 
entry: "Comrade I.V. Stalin died." 
So ends a medical report 
detailing Josef Stalin's last four 
days, as he lay dying in his 
Moscow dacha. It is part of a new 
exhibit at Russia's federal 
archives, whose officials hope it 
will help dispel decades of specu­
lation that the Soviet dictator 
was done in by a Kremlin 
intrigue. 
If mysteries about Stalin's 
demise persist, they are dwarfed 
by the conflicting views and emo­
tions that surround his life and 
his role in the troubled history of 
a country that seems unable to 
break hjs spell 50 years after his 
death. 
"There may be no other figure in Russian history of the last cen­tury who has provoked such dif­ferent evaluations, from fierce hatred to consecration," said his­torian Yuri Polyakov, a member of the prestigious Russian Academy of Sciences. 
For some, Stalin was a giant who bore the Soviet Union on his shoulders to victory in World War II, hauled it onto the front line of the industrial age and kept ironclad order at home while turning the country into a superpower with the clout to make its Cold War foes shudder. 
"He was the best as a chief, as a leader. He lifted the country out of the ruins," said Natalya Vekshina, 64. who took her grandson to a separate exhibit, across town, focusing on Stalin's cult of personality the propagan­da that portrayed him simultane­
ously as a god and a good guy. 
"We need a leader like him 
now," Vekshina said. 
Larisa Tsvizhba, at the archive 
exhibit, disagreed. She said 
Stalin left a "sinister mark" on 
the Soviet Union and stunted its 
growth by decimating a genera­
tion. "When millions of people 
die for no apparent reason what 
kind of progress can there be?" 
Stalin's repressions "touched if 
not every person, then every 
other person in the country," 
said Tsvizhba. 
Russian officials have said they 
believe more than 20 million 
people were victims of commu­
nist purges before Stalin's death. 
More than 10 million are said to 
have died. 
Like many of Stalin's ardent admirers, Vekshina is from a generation that mostly suffered from the Soviet collapse. She lost her engineering job, while her scientist husband is ''a big man in his field but now he's impover­ished." 
But it's not only the elderly who yearn for Stalin's strong hand. 
"He is the symbol of a healthy nation," said Alexei Fedyakin, 27. a political science graduate stu­dent who came to see the "Stalin: Man and Symbol" exhibit and wrote a diatribe in the visitors' book complaining about material showing Stalin in a bad light. 
Those items, records of execu­tions and artwork depicting Stalin holding the keys to a prison cell stretching across the Soviet Union reflect the backlash that came in two waves, one soon after his death and another in the late 1980s with Mikhail Gorbachev's glasnost. 
In 1956, Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev denounced Stalin's cult of personality, and his body 
was removed from its place next 
to Lenin in the Red Square mau­
soleum in 1961. But it was 
buried nearby, alongside the 
Kremlin wall, and much of the 
truth about Stalin's excesses did 
not emerge until the Gorbachev 
era. 
The sharp criticism of Stalin 
that held sway as the Soviet 
Union collapsed waned along 
with the euphoria of Russians 
hoping for a swift, smooth transi­
tion to democracy. Stalin's star 
has brightened for those angered 
by lawlessness, economic uncer­
tainty and their country's decline 
on the world stage. 
Oleg Orlov, head of the human 
rights organization Memorial. 
said that frustration helped fuel 
the rise of President Vladimir 
Putin, a former KGB colonel who 
has restored some Soviet-era 
symbols and has been careful in 
his criticism of Stalin. 
"Putin arrived on this wave on promises of stability and pride for one's country as a great power, and of a restoration of order and a major part of this ideology was pride in the past," Orlov said. 
According to poll results by the Public Opinion Foundation last week, 37 percent said Stalin did more good than bad for the country -compared to 29 percent who believe the opposite. The organization contacted 1,500 respondents across Russia on Feb. 22-23. No margin of error was given. 
In the visitors' book at the "Man and Symbol" exhibit, one person mused: "I wonder, will our country live to see the moment when Stalin is perceived as an ordinary person, instead of as either the devil incarnate or the Father of the Peoples?" 

WISPS Presents: 

~ 
J
Color C,( ;1ousness 

. 



Date: Wednesday March 5th Time: 5:30 Place: CSC Coffee House 
R.S.V.P: by Monday March 3rd 1-6841 
SOUTH KOREA 
N. Korea warns of disaster if attacked 
around the peninsula on 

Associated Press 
"semi-war footing" and "is 
pushing ahead with nuclear 
war preparations in full 

SEOUL swing." 
North Korea warned Pyongyang accuses Sunday of "nuclear disas­Washington of inciting the ters" around the world if nuclear standoff as a pretext Washington attacks the com­for an invasion. Washington munist state, while its civil­has repeatedly said it has no ian leaders urged greater plans to attack North Korea, cooperation between but stresses that "all options Pyongyang and Seoul to ease are on the table." , the crisis on the Korean In Seoul on Sunday, North Peninsula. Korea's religious and civic 
The North's official Rodong leaders took part in inter­Sinmun newspaper accused Korean religious masses and the Central Intelligence urged greater cooperation Agency of preparing a sur­between the two Koreas. prise attack on the nation's "Preventing war through nuclear facilities that are national cooperation is the suspected of being used to most urgent task of the make atomic bombs. nation," said Ri Mun lhvan, a 
"If the U.S. imperialists senior North Korean dele­ignite a war on the Korean gate. "If war breaks out, the Peninsula. the war will turn South cannot be safe and the into a nuclear war," Rodong entire nation will face disas­said. "As a consequence, the ter." Koreans in the north and Another delegate. Oh south and the people in Asia Kyung Woo, said the "United and the rest of the world will States is threatening a suffer horrifying nuclear dis­nuclear war. but if war asters." breaks out both South and 
The report, carried by the North will incur damages," North's state-run KCNA news according to South Korea's agency, claimed that national Yonhap news Washington put its forces agency. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, March 3, 2003 

page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Lori Lewa1ski  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Herder, Mau Lozar 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 

SAINT MARY"s EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer 
CoNTROUER: Michael Flanagan 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHI.EF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmToRIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFIC.E........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT...............................................:.631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4 543 observer .sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer .scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY"s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS....... ..........631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obsm1er.nd.tdu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters co the Editor muse be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding ObsfflJerpolici.rs should bt direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarlty. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob1<rv« (llSPS ~99 240) is puhli,hcd Monday through Friday """"P' during o:am and "\'acation period,. A sulncription kJ Thi: Obscncr is SlOO for On< acadc:mi,· ~-~ SSS for one imlntcr. 
The Ob11trva l, published at: l'OSTMASTF.R 024 Sou<h Dining Hall Smd addros co1TCCrio1u. w: Notn: Dame, IN 46556 Th<Ob.cn-cr 
l'.O. llo, Q Periodical po1tag< paid at Nom, Dame Nocn, Dame:. IN 46556-077'> and additional mailing offias. 
The OhKrva i1 • member ofthe Auociat«l Pr<SI. All rq,roduction righu .,, -.I. 

This semester I've done all I can do. I have exhausted every social resource in an attempt to kick this January through March malaise. Every one. Recently I've resorted to Paintshop Pro. When things 
David Barrett 

aren't going my way at school, I look to my art­
Notre Bum 

work and my beautiful pictures to pacify me. Even if they are going my way, I still just want to toss up a little Paintshop Pro. So basically, it has become quite the addiction. 
I make wallpapers for my friends, for special occasions and for little old me. Sometimes I feel the 28 colors they give me to paint with are simply insufficient, so I whip a few up on my online palette. I have saved some clas­sic, custom-made blues. Blues that hit you like a rush of mountain air and blues that leave you breathless. 28 colors? Color is boundless man. Lately I have been really into blues. And ser­pents. 
So I come home from class and express in paint what I am unable to in words. Words can be incredibly limiting sometimes. These past few days I have been expressing things like, "Woohoo, spring break, woohoo," and some other things like that as well. My Paintshop preoccupations I feel are more or less indicative of a growing campus sentiment: "Get me up out of this motha·." 
It's just that time of year. I have approximately 26 pages of paper to write by this coming Thursday, plus an examination. Not minus an exami­nation, plus an examination. It's not like I am disillusioned about Notre Dame in general, it's just a bad time of the month for me. I, like many oth­ers, understandably look to spring break as an opportunity to nurse this three-month hangover. It makes sense. Some others look to improve upon that hangover. Whatever be the motive, we are all hating Notre Dame right now. But don't hate the player. Hate the game. Hate midterms, but look past them. 
When we get back from break you are all welcome to a grill out at my. place. Or a grill off, which I would probably win. This upcoming stretch after spring break is arguably more fun-filled and excitement-packed than the very beginning of the year. The weather is already warming, sooner than recent years if I remember cor­rectly. Nuclear war may be imminent and last I checked the terror level was high, but let us not forget the sun is shining. 
There is Saint Patrick's Day loom­ing. Apparently the administration was unsuccessful in its yearly ploy to place it during spring break, so we won't have to celebrate a week late or a week early. However, the jury is out on whether we'll be forced to do it in our room and without the Domino's stand. 
There is March Madness and Bookstore Basketball, block parties and Pig Tostal. Remember those beloved first few weeks of fall? I think it's better. 
I remember cutting out of Intermediate Spanish at noon one week late last year to catch a party at Marion Street. You stand there on the porch, with sandals on your feet and a smile on your face and pan the crowd for someone you know. I think I saw 10 kids from my Spanish class that day, kids I had never talked to before and would probably never talk to again. And for a few minutes there, you forget that there is some unwrit­ten rule forbidding you from acknowl­edging somebody from class. You learn their name, fill their cup. You know what I'm talking about. The end of the year is awesome. 
Girls start looking better and shed their oversized Irish sweatshirts in favor of more flattering shorts and tank tops. Guys start thinking they look better, and shed their clothes as well. This is a bad idea. Chances are you look really lame, and rather than helping your chances with Susie from science class, you might help your chances of getting hit by rocks. 
Some will be drawn to the quads for decadent games of slip and slide, questionable music and mixed drinks. Others will head to the lakes for quiet study and bird watching. The bottom line is that there is something for everybody. 
Go to Daytona and get your tan. Get over midterms and come back with a fresh perspective. Just don't think you can get naked on the quad or blare Smashmouth out of your room speak­ers. It's not going to be loud enough, and you are annoying. Prepare your­self for my kiosk, coming soon, with my favorite Paintshop prints. Prepare yourself for noontime parties and unexpected conversation and remem­ber to save a couple of skips. 
David Barrett is a junior economics and philosophy major. His column appears every other Monday. Contact him at barrett.43@nd.edu. 
The oiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Sarah Nestor Shannon Nelligan Kevin Allen 
Viewpoint 

Patrick McElwee 
Graphics 

Katie McKenna 
Sports 
Bryan Kronk Kurt Bogaard Christine Armstrong 
Scene 
Maria Smith 
Lab Tech 
Lisa Velte 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Do you feel that local bars take adequate steps 
'i1n optimist is the human 
to ensure the safety of their customers? 
personification ofspring . ., 
Susan J. Bissonette author 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, March 3, 2003 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
About peace petition signers and non-signers 
\%r rhetoric drowns out calls for peace 
I challenge Timothy Bonadies' suggestion that the students. faculty and staff of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross who did not sign the petition in opposition to a war in Iraq did not do so because they favor war. I know many people who would have included their names in the collection, but they were unaware of the effort to make the voice for peace heard on our campus. Bonadies' asser­tion is a transparent attempt to distort the weak case for a war in Iraq. 
I have read many student opinions within these pages expressing support for a war. and too few that speak out to challenge these views. I acknowledge that Saddam Hussein is responsible for many horrendous human righl5 abuses, which create great suffering for the people under his rule, but I do not agree that war will lessen their pain or bring justice. 
It will instead further the devastation of a nation already impoverished by previous mili­tary action. In 1991, U.S.-led military forces targeted Iraq's civilian infrastructure, destroying electric plants, water treatment facilities, food warehouses, roads, bridges and factories. A United Nations report following the Gulf \Var stated that Iraq has been "rele­gated to a pre-industrial age." 
Sanctions imposed in 1990 prevented any possible recovery for the destroyed country. After 12 years, conditions have grown pro­gressively worse, and Iraq civilians are espe­cially vulnerable to disease, food shortages and injury or death as a consequence of war. 
I have heard the arguments that a war in Iraq should be waged in order to emancipate the Iraqi people and ease their suffering. It is clear to me that war will increase their pre­sent suffering. It is difficult to know what harm it will bring to the future. If history is any indication, the Iraqi people will endure more hardships as a consequence of a war supposedly fought to help them. 
Bonadies sited a 1983 U. S. Catholic Bishop's pastoral on general war and peace to support his position. He fails to notice numerous other documents published by Catholic leaders within the past six months that clearly speak against war in Iraq. On Nov. 13, the U.S. Catholic Bishops stated that "resort to war, under present cir­cumstances and in light of cur­rent public information, would not meet the strict conditions in Catholic teaching for over­riding the strong presump­tion against the use of mili­tary force." 
The Catholic Bishops Conference of India stated on Feb. 3, "The remedy for putting an end to terrorist activities and organizations should not be worse than the malady itself. and that is what is feared: a full-scale armed conflict. Let peace prevail and not war." 
In the last several months, numerous leaders throughout the world have taken strong stances against war in Iraq and have urged that more ener­gy be spent on creating less destructive solutions to the cur­rent conditions in the nation. 
Despite what some claim, there are many people within the Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross com­munity who oppose war in Iraq. Unfortunately, our presence is not felt because the rhetoric of war overpowers the cries for peace. 
Molly Jacob 
senior off-campus March2 

Inaction says nothing affirmative 
I am a bit surprised that anyone would consider the lack of action on the part of "9,000 other stu­dents, faculty and staff' as endorse­ment for a war. Inaction has never meant support for anything. It usually just means peo­ple do not care 
enough. Otherwise, we may be faced with a world where sci­entific the­ories would 
be dis­proved before they 

were proved and elections would be based on the number of peo­ple who did not 
vote rather then those who did. It is also interest­
ing to note that Timothy Bonadies points 
to a whole slew of evidence of chemical weapons use between 1983 and 1987 (several years prior to the Gulf War}. No doubt this is all true and I do not ques­tion it. However this was at a time when Iraq was a strong ally of the United States, with both 
military and economic aid and 
strong trade ties. It begs the 
question: If a person teaches 
another how to make chemical 
bombs, who really is morally and 
ethically responsible for the con­
sequences, the student or the 
teacher? The hijacker or the ter­
rorist group? The supplier of 
chemical bombs or the user? 
In case it is not clear to Mr. Bonadies, there is a big differ­ence between not supporting war and supporting Saddam Hussein; the petition signatories focus on the earlier and not the latter. No doubt thousands of Iraqis wish for Saddam's removal. just like I do, but do they seek that through the explosion of more bombs in two days than occurred through­out the Gulf War? Do they wish for that through 10 years of sanc­tions that has killed over half a million children and only consoli­dated Saddam Hussain's grip on power? Probably not. Fighting wars is easy; it is the peaceful part that is difficult. 
That said, I look forward to see­ing the 9,000 signatures seeking a just war in the center pages of The Observer in the near future, hopefully with the likes of Father Theodore Hesburgh as signato­ries. 
Haseeb Mahmood 
graduate student 
off-campus February 28 

Clarifying our position and the arguments for peace in Iraq 
There appear to be three common mis­perceptions about those who oppose this impending war against Iraq. The first is that those who oppose this war support Saddam Hussein. Now there may be a small minority of "Sadd~m­Husseinophiles" out there, but such igno­rant and insane people fall into the very small minority. The majority of us who oppose this war recognize that Hussein is a serious threat who needs to be chal­lenged, contained and addressed. However, we believe this can be done in a non-violent way. 
The second common misperception 
about those who oppose this war is that 
we are anti-American. Again, there 
appears to be a small minority who use 
this issue as a platform to push their 
anti-American agenda; however, we sub­
mit that the majority are opposed to the 
• war out of concern for humanity, and further, patriotism. 
To be patriotic or to care about one's country means calling that country to strive for the highest of ideals and truth. As is written in the United States Catholic Bishops' document "The Challenge of Peace," "The virtue of patri­otism means that as citizens we respect and honor our country, but our very love and loyalty make us examine carefully and regularly its role in world affairs, asking that it live up to its full potential as an agent of peace with justice for all people." 
The final misperception that we wish to examine most strongly is the misper­ception that those who oppose this war are out of touch with reality, lack good arguments against the war and fail to present legitimate non-violent alterna­tives to deal with the problem. First, it is again important and realistic for us to note the existence of some in the peace movement who lack good arguments for their stance or understanding of the complexity of the situation. We believe and submit, however, that there is a strong and realistic argument against the war, including non-violent alterna­tives to war in dealing with the situation. 
To begin to make the argument that a war against Iraq would be unjust, it is important that we note the context which we choose to use to evaluate the nature of impending war. Our context as Catholics is just war theory, which states that a war must meet the criteria of just cause, legitimate authority, probability of success, proportionality, right intention, last resort and comparative justice in order to be considered just. 
Just war theory is meant to be seen as a whole theory of criteria for just war, not as something we can adapt or pick from to justify war. An important thing to remember about just war theory is that it presumes peace and states that a strong case, meeting the above criteria, must be met for a war to be considered just. People who propose war should always he the ones faced with making 
arguments for such a decision. It should 
not be the other way around. Thus, the 
U.S. government has a responsibility in our democratic country to make their case for going to war to the American people. It is our responsibility to analyze and evaluate such a case. 
In the situation with Iraq, we do not pretend to be experts on the application of just war theory in an analysis of the complex situation. However. we concede and look to the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops and the Vatican for such an argument. Both the U.S. Catholic Bishops and Pope John Paul II have made strong statements that a U.S. war against Iraq would not meet the criteria ofjust war theory at this time and there­fore would be unjust. Further. a large number of major scholars, theologians, philosophers, political science professors and other people whose fields of study would give them legitimacy on this issue have stated that a war under present circumstances would be unjust. 
Further analysis of the issues of just cause, legitimate authority and propor­tionality should be addressed in explain­ing our stance and we encourage anyone interested to read the recent statement from the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops. 
In conclusion, we wish to address the "last resort" part ofjust war theory, which says that war can only be justified if all reasonable approaches to a peace­ful resolution have been exhausted. In the situation with Iraq, we do not believe all reasonaLle approaches to a peaceful resolution have been exhausted. As pointed out by David Cortright, George Lopez and Alistair Millar in their docu­ment "Winning Without War: Sensible Security Options for Dealing with Iraq," there are many "nonmilitary options that have been effective in the past and can be strengthened now to disarm and con­tain Iraq." Such options include "improved monitoring of Iraq's borders, the establishment of sanctions assistance missions, tightened controls on Iraq oil marketing, strengthening collective deterrence against potential Iraqi aggression and much more." 
This is why we signed the petition claiming a war against Iraq under pre­sent conditions would be unjust. We do not ignore the threat of Saddam Hussein. We do not ignore the evils of war. And most of all, we do not ignore our call as Christians to be "peacemakers". That is also why we will be in the O'Shaughnessy Great Hall on Wednesday from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., praying, signing and talking for peace. Come join us in this great struggle for peace. 
Peter Quaranto and Catherine McGeeney freshmen Sorin and Cavanaugh Halls March l 
THE 
OBSERVER 


Monday, March 3, 2003
page 12 

Fighting violence and stereotypes 
The controversy surrounding "The Vagina Monologues"continues in th 
By CHRISTIE BOLSEN Assistant Scene Editor 

When can a production founded on the ideal of ending violence against women become such a heated controversy that, weeks prior to its debut on campus this year, there is already debate brewing amongst members of the student body, faculty and alumni about its appropriate­ness on a Catholic campus? 
When the production is entitled "The Vagina Monologues" and when it openly discusses traditionally taboo problems in society. 
Eve Ensler based the play on an exten­sive series of interviews with women. What began as an off-Broadway hit has developed into a national and internation­al phenomenon. Whether audiences find the performance enlightening or tasteless, it has raised millions of dollars to stop vio­lence against women and girls. 
In 1998, the success of the show set off V-Day, a non-profit organization funding grassroots groups that work to end vio­lence against women or help women who have been victims. Last year, Notre Dame was one of over 800 college campuses that used the production to help raise money and awareness for the V-Day cause. This year's projected $10 million for charity demonstrates what a massive cultural how significant the money raised can be potential beneficiaries of the money raised states: "It is illegal to sell vibrators in the event The Vagina Monologues has for the charities that benefit. before deciding which ones could benefit following states: Texas, Ohio, Georgia and become. "They had done their budget that day most and would use the money 'in ways Arkansas -it is totally legal to sell guns 
Notre Dame's production donates all and had run out of money for food and the that most reflect the spirit of the produc­in all of these states." profits, raising its own money every year. logistics of paying electrical bills and tion. Last year's show and V-Day move­At times, the monologues speak frankly The charities are not determined by the things like that," Horvath said. "They were ment had a special focus on helping the about shocking or disturbing topics such national production, but are instead cho­going to have to frantically scramble for women of Afghanistan while this year's as detailing what makes a vagina angry. sen specifically by the Notre Dame cam­grant money or go beg corporate spon­has a special focus on Native American "Crooked Braid," new this year, also pus. Last year, around $2,000 went to Sex sors, and we walked in with our check, and first nation women. addresses shocking topics. Ensler wrote Offense Services, $500 to women of and the woman just started bawling -The Notre Dame production is entirely this latest monologue to coincide with this Afghanistan for educational materials and when we heard that, it just shows you student run, from the directing to acting to year's focus on Native American women. $3,000 to the YWCA. what work you're doing here and what we lighting. The V-Day events are also organ­It addresses the challenges of living on 
Lindsey Horvath, director and campus put up with here is all for a really good ized by students, with the final event tak­reservations and the fact that the rate of organizer of The Vagina Monologues, said cause." ing place tonight. Dr. Mohammed Matar rape and sexual assault is 3.5 times higher the donation to the YWCA demonstrated The organizers of the show research the will be giving a presentation entitled in American Indian women than all other 
"International Trafficking races. The monologue is sad and unset• Issues" at 6 p.m. in tling, bringing up abuse and the role of DeBartolo 131. The pur­wives from the Oglala Lakota Nation in pose of the events and V­South Dakota. Day movement is not only This year there are two monologues to raise funds for commu­written by students, one by males and one nity groups but also to by females. The male monologue is in two help raise awareness and parts. the first written by Jared Hizzi and discussion. Sponsors of the Steve Hoeplinger. It has a more serious 2003 movement include and personal message than the lighter such high profile names as second part, written by Tom Sutton, David Liz Claiborne, Hearst Buckley and Mike Romano. The female Magazines and Tune Inc. student monologue is written by Emily 
The show itself will be Tarpoff, Jennifer Roberts and Meegan the finale to the events, Anderson. taking place amidst A performance of the Vagina protest and support, dis­Monologues at a Catholic university goes approval and curiosity. hand in hand with criticism. Mary's The script is fud of highly Advocates, Campaign 2003, describes personal accounts of Ensler as using "college students to spread women and their experi­her pro•lesbian. anti-marriage propagan­ences with their vaginas. da by staging benefit productions of her sex. menstruation, men, verbally pornographic 'Vagina abuse, childbirth, thong Monologues."' underwear, rape and The campaign's Web site, many other subjects. www.MarysAdvocates.com, includes a link Between some of the to letter writing instructions for people to monologues, some of protest its presence on campus. which actually involve sev­Outspoken critics include multiple stu• eral actors, are facts about dents, Charles Hice of Notre Dame Law issues like female genital School and Bishop John D'Arcy of Fort mutilation, or in one case, Wayne-South Bend. vibrators. The script Horvath thinks that people do not exam-


THE OBSERVER 
us 

Monday, March 3, 2003 page 13 

A -weekend of sm.oldering jazz lights up the cam.pus 
on an international level. By BJ STREW At the end of the Friday show came 
Scene Writer 

the climax to the entire festival. The five judges assembled their seasoned Walking into the LaFortune talents in an astonishing display of Ballroom, audience members their technical and improvisational en·countered the jaunty, disjointed virtuosity. In honor of George, Owens rumble of drums, the bass thumping and Arriale played Coleman away, and the sporadic warmth of Hawkins' stirring "Body and Soul." saxophone before realizing the nois• Owens and Tardy topped it all off es were just the band warming up. with a staggering, bravura exchange Then the lights dimmed. that overwhelmed an already over­
Those lucky enough to make it awed audience. there last Wednesday got a free pre­The Judges' Jam is always an view of the 45th Annual Collegiate impossible act to follow. It is a small Jazz Festival. But the festival proper wonder that Saturday's audience kicked off in Washington Hall. seemed a bit diminished. Those who Arguably the most remarkable stu­macie it were treated to vigorous dent act that night was the quintet Duke Ellington pieces, a Reno quar­hailing from the famed Western tet's fresh rendition of John Michigan jazz program. Their jazz Coltrane's "Giant Steps" and orchestra was nearly as good as the "Thelonious Monk" and Notre quintet, owing not inconsiderably to Dame's own own Jazz Band 1. the players sharing places in both. Taken as a whole, and inevitably. 
The CJF was founded by students the concert was oriented mostly in 1959 and remains a Student Union towards big band music, though the Board event to this day. Father small combos -the judges, especial­George Wiskirchen has been the fac­ly -furnished the most engaging ulty advisor since 197 2 and has performances. The only thing that helped draw the nation's top jazz tal­would improve the CJF would be ent to judge. This year, the festival allowing a more diverse variety of boasted its usual class of judges: jazz styles. featuring more bop, tenor saxophonist Greg Tardy, trum­fusion, free jazz, and other styles. peter Jimmy Owens, bassist John It's a minor carp. but it might move 
Clayton, pianist Lynne Arriale and the festival from superb to sublime. touring and session drummer Russ Miller. All of them have distinguished Contact BJ Strew at themselves as eminent performers wstrew@nd.edu 

•

against w-oinen 
,e plays third year on campus 
ine the play closely enough, or not at all. "I just ask that those in opposition at least read it, so that they know the con­tent -the people who are appropriately informed, I think that they get caught up in thinking that we are promoting these lifestyles," she said. "The problem with that view lies in the fact that we are not promoting any one lifestyle except one that is without violence for women and girls. We aren't promoting masturbation, we aren't promoting lesbianism, we aren't promoting sexual promiscuity. We're empowering women to lead the lives that they choose." 
"Everyone's entitled to their opinion and if they don't agree with this, that's fine, but at the same time I think that we definitely have the right to express our view," said Jessie Potish, a member of last year's cast. She said that it is frus­trating when people who are misin­formed claim that they are trying to do damage or hurt people with the produc­tion, and felt that the most important fact to remember is that it is a fundraiser. 
"It is a campaign that is designed to help stop violence -the production itself that the whole V-Day campaign is really
Ir a peaceful movement that is designed to 
I-produce a positive message and a posi­tive view of ourselves," Potish said. She describes her monologue as more posi­tive, "kind of like a vagina celebration, if you will." 
"I think there's this silence that is really acceptable regarding women and sexual­ity -for women it's not talked about as much, or it's unacceptable or improper," said Martha Patzer, a first-year cast member who wanted to get involved because the issues discussed are so fre­quently avoided. Her interest in talking about gender issues has prompted her to want to start a gender relations commit­tee to discuss the issue pertaining to our campus in particular. 
"Most importantly, people need to be aware of these issues," Horvath said. "However you choose to address that in your lives, that's your prerogative,. but the issue is that you do need to address it. It can't just be ignored. And if you don't like the Vagina Monologues. after seeing it or reading it and knowing the purpose behind it, then that's fine, but then choose your own method -if you don't like what we're doing, then take action yourself and help combat the problem." 
The Vagina Monologues will be per­formed March 3 and 4 at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Ti.ckets are $6 for stu­dents and seniors and $8 for non-stu­dents at the LaFortune Box Office. 
Contact Christie Boisen at cbolsen@nd.edu 

CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer Lindsey Horvath, director and campus organizer of "The Vagina Monologues," discusses points of acting and production with the cast and crew. 
Photo courtesy of SUB The University of Nevada at Reno Jazz Ensemble was one of the many groups to play at the 45th Annual Collegiate Jazz Festival Saturday night. 
Monday, March 3, 2003 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Utah defeats New Jersey by tipping in last second shot 
in Gund Arena flashed an adver­Vince Carter had 18 points and 
Associated. Press 
tisement for the •'The Cleveland 11 rebounds, and Antonio Davis Clinic." scored 19 to lead five Raptors in
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 

How fitting. Because for 12 double figures in Toronto's 104­Andrei Kirilenko watched John minutes, that's exactly what the 92 victory over the BostonStockton's last-second shot sail Orlando Magic put on. Celtics on Sunday.
toward the basket and immedi­0 The third quarter was amaz­Boston's Antoine Walker had aately recognized it would be an ing," Magic coach Doc Rivers season-high 38 points but wasairball. 
said. ejected after receiving two tech­Kirilenko timed his leap per­Tracy McGrady scored 28 nical fouls in the last two min­fectly and tipped in Stockton's points and rookie Gordan Giricek utes.
miss just before the final buzzer 
made two 3-pointers when The Celtics were without
sounded, giving the Utah Jazz a Orlando outscored Cleveland 39-Pierce for the second straight
91-90 victory over the New 
12 in the third, leading the game. Pierce, the NBA's fourth­Jersey Nets on Sunday. 
Magic to a 102-76 win over the leading scorer, strained his
"It was airball for sure," 
Cavaliers. lower back when he slipped onKirilenko said. ··1t was bad." 
McGrady didn't have to play in ice about a week ago. The Celtics His tip, however, was good, the fourth quarter as the Magic beat the visiting Raptors onallowing Utah to snap a three­improved to 4-1 since acquiring Friday night without Pierce. 
game losing streak and win for Giricek and fellow rookie Drew "It's very difficult to play with­the eighth straight time on New Gooden in a Feb. 19 trade with out our leading scorer, some­Jersey's home court. 
Memphis. body that commands a lot ofWith Utah trailing 90-89 fol­Giricek had 16 points and attention," Walker said. "We are
lowing Kenyon Martin's shot 
Gooden added 13 points and 14 trying to weather the storm rightfrom the lane with 14.1 seconds rebounds for Orlando, which led now. We're 1-1 without him.
left, Stockton dribbled upcourt 54-50 on Giricek's 3-pointer -Hopefully, we'll get a win tomor­and headed to the right baseline. 
his first of two straight -with row in Memphis before we get
The Nets were in a zone 
10:27 left in the third. back home." 
defense, and Martin found him­Giricek's jumper ignited a 28-3 Davis had 14 points as Torontoself matched against Utah's 40­run by the Magic, who outscored turned a five-point halftimeyear-old point guard. 
Cleveland 34-7 over the final deficit into a 14-point lead by the "Whatever we were running 9:43 of the third to turn a tight end of the third quarter. Toronto 
we didn't do it very well," 
game into another blowout loss scored a season-high 38 pointsStockton said. "So there it was for the Cavs, who dropped to an in the third.
with the time running down and NBA-worst 11-48. Carter's dunk capped a 10-0not much to do, so I just tried to McGrady and Giricek each run as Toronto took a 65-55 lead get it up there somewhere. 
scored 12 points in the third as midway through the third. 
"It basically was a cast-off, and the Magic had runs of 9-0 and Rafer Alston's 3-pointer gaveAndrei made a play out of it. It 16-0 and went 16-for-26 from Toronto a 16-point lead in the was a no-chance shot." 
the floor in the period. Cleveland fourth, but Walker had six points Kirilenko directed it in, the ball helped out by making nine as the Celtics followed \-\ith a 14­bouncing four times on the rim turnovers. 2 run.
before settling through the net 
Davis and rookie Dajuan Walker then was ejected as
as the buzzer went off. 
Wagner had 14 points apiece as Carter made two more free"Yeah, John threw it up just a Cleveland lost for the eighth time throws with a minute remaining.
little bit shorter than I would in nine games. ••1 wasn't frustrated. It was justhave liked," Utah coach Jerry ..This is the way things have in the heat of the battle, you
Sloan said. "It was a success, 
been going around here for the want to win," Walker said...Wewasn't it." 
last two years," Darius Miles let the game slip away from us."
Malone scored 20, DeShawn said. "We have to try and turn it Jerome Williams added 18Stevenson added a career-high around. All we have left is to try points, and Alvin Williams and18 and Kirilenko had 15 points. 
and knock some teams out of the Lenard each had 15 for theKirilenko and Stockton each had playoff and just have fun." Raptors, who are 8-5 sincefour steals for the Jazz, who shot McGrady, the NBA's leading Carter returned to the lineup58 percent (22-for-38) in the sec­
scorer averaging 31.3 points, after missing 23 consecutive
ond half. 
was content to make passes as games with a strained rightMartin scored 24 and Kerry his teammates blew it open in knee. ··we played real well together, The Spurs used a 12-4 run toKittles had 21 for the~ Nets, who the third. "We're not having the best I'm real proud," Ginobili said. build on their 51-39 advantagehave lost four of their last five. 
However, the All-Star guard season, but we've been able to "We have to keep doing the at halftime. Even an 11-1 run byStevenson surpassed his previ­put an exclamation point on turn it around and to show peo­same thing. Twenty points just the Rockets couldn't get their ous career high of 16 on a cor­Orlando's spurt by draining con­ple this what could have been if happened today. I don't know if deficit under 10 points, and San ner jumper with 5:33 left that secutive 3-pointers to put the we were healthy," Carter said. it will happen again. I don't care Antonio kept Houston at bay and cut the Nets' lead to 83-82, and Magic ahead 79-52 with 3:15 Walker had 17 points, most of if it does." led 74-59 going into the fourthKirilenko made a pair from the remaining. them inside, as Boston outscored "He's becoming more and quarter.
line with 3:58 left to give Utah its "We wanted to come out Toronto 28-12in the paint and more important to this team," Parker had 10 points in thefirst lead since the second quar­
aggressive," McGrady said. "A led 49-44 at halftime. Spurs coach Gregg Popovich said first quarter and Duncan scored ter. team that has a record as bad as of Ginobili. "He plays defense, he eight to give the Spurs a 30-18
Kidd hit two free throws after 
the Cavs have, if you come out gets steals, he gets loose balls. lead.
stealing a pass by Stockton with and jump them right away, they Spurs 97, Rockets 88 He's just an outstanding player. Robinson, retiring after this1:07 left to cut Utah's lead to 89­tend to fold and don't want to Five San Antonio Spurs scored The league is beginning to see season, likely played his final88, and the Nets forced a 24-sec­play no more." in double figures. One surprise there's more there than they game at Compaq Center. Heond violation and got the ball McGrady missed two dunks scorer led them all. thought." chatted briefly with Rocketsback. Richard Jefferson grabbed but was still 6-of-9 from the floor Emanuel Ginobili scored a Steve Francis led the Rockets coach Rudy Tomjanovich and an offensive rebound on a miss and scored 16 points and added career high 20 points as the with 21 points, and Yao Ming Rockets broadcaster and Hall ofby Martin, and Kidd threaded five assists in the first half to give Spurs held off the Houston had 14 points and nine Farner Calvin Murphy. 
the ball inside to Martin for a Orlando a 49-45 lead at half­Rockets for a 97-88 victory rebounds. "I have great memories here,"short jump hook that gave the time. Sunday. "We've got to do something Robinson said...Playing againstNets a 90-89 lead. 
The Spurs won for the 13th about our slow starts defensive­Hakeem [Olajuwon] was one of time in 14 games and improved ly," Rockets coach Rudy the motivating factors for me Magic 102, Cavaliers 76 Raptors 104, Cettlcs 92 their record in 2003 to 22-4. Tim Tomjanovich said. ··we got into a early in my career. He was 
As Tracy McGrady stepped to This time, the Toronto Raptors Duncan had 17 points, Tony comfort zone and then when it tough, him and Patrick Ewing the foul line late in the third took advantage of Paul Pierce's Parker and Malik Rose each had got to the embarrassing stage we were the guys I wanted to be like quarter, one of the scoreboards absence. · 16, and David Robinson had 14. picked it up later on." when I first got in the league.'' 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 STUDENT RENT AL HOUSE 3-4 Rooms tor rent. $250 month NOTICES FOR SALE HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 OR 5 PERSON 2 STORY. 8 includes utilities. 272-1525 mrnrn-PERSONAL 
SCHOOL YEAR-WELL MAIN-BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW rentals@aol.com 
TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAM-EVERYTHING. WIRED FOR COM-
4-bdrm, 2-bath home, close to cam-PUS-STUDENT NEIGHBOR-PUTERS ECT. AVAIL. SUMMER Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it #1 Spring Break Vacations! pus. Clay Twp. 271-5144 HOODS· SECURITY SYSTEMS-OR FALL 235-3655 alone. If you or someone you love Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL-LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES-needs confidential support or assis-Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, WASHERS/DRYERS CALL TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Best Prices! Space is Limited!!! TODAY-HOUSES GOING FAST!!! OF ND FOR 3-5 PEOPLE 2773097 Gude, CSC, at 1 •7819. For more 
-CONTACT KRAMER (547) 315· Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom information, see our bi-weekly ad in
FOR RENT
1-800-234-7007 5032 OR (574) 234-2436 -ALSO homes 1/2 mile from campus. The Observer. LEASING FOR 2004-2005 VISIT mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 5 Bedroom house available June 1, www.endlesssummertours.com 5 Bedroom house available June 1, OUR WEBSITES @ www.mmmrentals.com 105 Marquette Ave 232-6964 Crossword Clue: 105 Marquette Ave 232-6964 DOMUSKRAMEA.COM 33 across = Jean Arp 

150-pound title by earning a exchange that drew blood on
Finals 
split-decision victory over the both fighters. Thirty-five seconds quality one-twos of Brendan in, Keppel forced Kerrigan to the continued from page 24 Gasser. corner with a huge charge. Gasser held the ring well Keppel landed quality shots scored often. once on a nice throughout the first round, but before Kerrigan was able to uppercut late in the round. Vargas charged quickly and work his way out and pushHollowell covered well on often. Vargas forced Gasser to Keppel back to the ropes. A simi­defense and Wuest's jab was fight a bit closer than he had in lar exchange took place again at mostly ineffective in the second. the past. Gasser was unable to 55 seconds in. At 1 :35 in KeppelIn round three, however, land a high percentage of his and Kerrigan both were cleaned 
Wuest's jab broke through punches on the advancing after a strong exchange. Hollowell's gloves a number of Vargas until 1:35 into the round, 160-pound class times. Hollowell clinched often at when he forced Vargas to the DeSpllnter def. Pierce 
the end of the round in an effort corner with a series of straight Mark DeSplinter once again to neutralize the now effective one-twos. jabbed his way to a champi­jab of Wuest. Wuest's consistent Gasser looked great at the onship as he defeated senior jab began to pay off late in the start of the second, scoring a captain Tom Pierce in a splitmatch, but it proved too little too number upstairs. Vargas took a decision. late as Hollowell earned his vic­number of shots in the first 45 In round one, Pierce was not tory. seconds of the round often with phased by DeSplinter's jabs and145-pound class his back on the ropes. Gasser DeSplinter was forced to the cor­Harris def. Duffey forced Vargas to the ropes sever­ners three times. DeSplinter
Law student Paul Harris won al times in the second with his threw a large number of punch­his first match in the finals over straight upstairs attacks. es in the first, but most of them Ryan Duffey in the first split deci­Gasser was also strong in the found only the protective parry 
sion of the afternoon. Duffey third, but Vargas's fast hands of Pierce or the air in front of 
scored first and dominated the slipped through the trading him. early seconds of round one as gloves of Gasser several times. Tom Pierce came out strong in both boxers stayed in the center Vargas was often on the ropes in round two and forced DeSplinter of the ring and traded jabs. A big the third, but was able to box his to the ropes often. DeSplinter 
right by Duffey sent Harris' way out with his hooks and foot­kept the jabs coming throughout 
mouth guard to the canvas mid­work. Vargas' speed paid off, the round and Pierce clinched a way through the round. Harris earning him the decision, but bit to end the second. came on strong and snuck in a Gasser's straight punches In round three, DeSplinter number of jabs and rights as upstairs were certainly a major jabbed and used his right a great Duffey's hands dropped at the ~resence in the fight. deal more than he did earlier in end of the round. 155-pound class the fight, standing his ground 
Harris' jab held up in the sec­Kerrigan def. Keppel against the charging Pierce. ond and he closed well finding Colin Kerrigan won a unani­DeSplinter jab scored often in scores either through Duffey's mous decision victory over the final round and Pierce sel­gloves or under while fighting Steven Keppel by holding off a dom replied effectively. close. Duffey landed a big right round three push by Keppel that DeSplinter dominated the third at 1:05 in that sent Harris back a threatened to the fight around. round and his consistent jab paid 
·~ · bit and necessitated a cleaning Keppel held the ring in the first off once again as he earned the
"'. 
1:45 into the round. round as Kerrigan circled and s_plit decision victory. 
I 
Harris began with the jab counterpunched. Kerrigan didn't 165-pound class 
again in the third and was not initiate contact often, but landed Fergus def. Gough
deterred by the lead hooks of 
good shots upstairs on the clos­Alex Fergus had a quick win
I Duffey. Duffey held the ring well 
ing Keppel. over Charlie Gough as the fight,Jf, ·in the final round, but Harris In round two, Kerrigan began was called at 1:36 into the first
;;· dominated the round circling to initiate more, leading with his round.
·1t and sticking. Both were visibly 
? tired as the final bell sounded to jab instead of waiting and coun­Fergus was extremely fast and end the well fought battle of jabs tering. Keppel held the ring once moved well to avoid the aggres­peppered with a number of hard again scoring a number of times sive charges of Gough. The box­shots by each boxer. to head and body, but the cir­ers had only exchanged a few 150-pound class cling Kerrigan shot in hard and times when Fergus landed a stiff Vargas def. Gasser was successful upstairs. jab to Gough•s face that drew 

Juan Diego Vargas won the Round three began with a good blood soon after. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
WASHINGTON PROGRAM 
i 
•Study in the 
·

nation's capital 
•Work in an 
are 
st· 
3
internship 
accept~¼ being • Fulf111 philosophy, on11ne 
t; 
theology, and fine 
arts requirement •Open to 
• 
Study public Sophomores, affairs Juniors, and 

•Live 
in an Seniors from exciting city all colleges 


John Eriksen, l)irector 338 O'Shaughnessy Eriksen. l@nd.edu 
Monday, March 3, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 


1:20 into the bout, time was stopped to clean Gough and a long pause ensued as the ring­side doctor examined his nose. With gauze in both nostrils Gough returned to middle of the ring. Shortly after, the gauze was removed by a shot from Fergus. After a tackle that sent both box­ers to the mat time was stopped to examine Gough once again. 
An RSC was called at 1:36 after it was determined that Gough was unable to fight due to his nose. 
170-pound class 
Joyce def. Cosse 
Rob Joyce's composure and 
footwork earned him a victory 
over the aggressive, hooking Clay 
Cosse. 

Cosse held the ring and initiat­
ed contact as the mobile Joyce 
circled him, deftly ducking and 
avoiding his charges. Cosse 
threw a number of lead hooks, 
but Joyce moved well and coun­
tered effectively. Midway 
through the round, Joyce pushed 
Cosse to the ropes with a strong 
flurry upstairs. 

In round two, Joyce continued 
to move well, once nicely slipping 
and landing two punches at 35 
seconds in. Cosse strung together 
a good flurry at the end of the 
round, forcing Joyce to clinch to 
end the even round. 
Early in the third round, Cosse forced Joyce to the outside of the ring throwing often. Joyce used his excellent footwork and slips to avoid Cosse's hooks. Joyce's right hand became a stronger presence as the round went on and he countered well to Cosse's head. Joyce showed his years of ring experience in his swift movements and composure in the ring. 
Later in the afternoon, Joyce was presented with the award for best boxer of the tournament. 
180-pound class Groebner def. Pearsall 
Andrew Groebner won a split decision victory over Chris Pearsall in a match that couldn't have been closer. 
The fight began slowly as Pearsall held the ring and Groebner circled and the two occasionally traded jabs in the first minute. Pearsall had a big flurry at 1:15 that set off more aggressive exchanges by each fighter. Pearsall's one-twos were straight and accurate while Groebner was a bit wilder with his punches in the first round. 
In round two, Groebner was aggressive and charged often. Pearsall's boxing was more cal­culated and he selected his punches carefully. Groebner landed a high quality shot to Pearsall's head in the closing seconds of the round. 
ln round three. Pearsall was pushed to the corner 30 seconds in by a strong flurry from Groebner and once again at 5 5 seconds. Groebner was warned for what appeared to be a back­hand after the second exchange in the corner. Both fighters threw everything they had left in the closing seconds and Pearsall's mouth guard fell to the mat as the bell rang. 
190-pound class 
Lynk def. Zlzlc 
John Lynk overcame a fierce 
performance by William Zizic to 
earn his second Bengal Bouts 
title. 
Lynk and Zizic exchanged well 
throughout the first. Lynk held 
the ring and forced Zizic to the 
outside with his lead jabs and 
power punches. 
In the second round, Lynk con­
tinued to hold the ring and 
picked his punches more careful­
ly. Zizic's footwork was strong as 
he moved and closed on Lynk, 
who stuck to one-two combina­
tions for most of the round but 
began to add a third in his 
attacks in the closing seconds. 
Zizic replied to nearly all of 
Lynk's advances and the round 
was extremely close. 
Throughout the third round, 
Lynk forced Zizic back and to the 
ropes. Lynk stuck with one-two 
combinations throughout and 
continually found ways to score. 
Zizic continued to move and 
reply well, scoring a hard right 
to Lynk's head to end the match. 
The split decision in favor of 
Lynk reflected the intensity and 
closeness of this cruiserweight 
battle. 
Heavyweight class Borovlna def. Burton 
Stefan Borovina out-boxed 
Darryl Burton to earn his first 
Bengal Bouts title. 
In the first round, Burton used 
his long reach to repel the 
advances of Borovina. Burton 
forced Stefan to the corner sev­
eral times throughout the first 
round. Both fighters exchanged 
well upstairs, Burton sticking to 
his jab while the smaller, faster 
Borovina often used a two as 
well as the jab. 
In the second round, Burton's 
long reach made closing effec­
tively a bit difficult for Borovina. 
Both fighters took and gave seri­
ous shots throughout the round 
that would have easily sent 
lighter boxers to the mat. 
In round three, Borovina's jab was more effective and scored often. Burton's reach was con­stantly an issue for Borovina who chose to concentrate on Burton's head instead of slipping under the long jab and attacking the 
·body. 
Contact Luke Busarn at lhusam@nd.edu 

page 16 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Red Storm comes back to upset Duke 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK Marcus Hatten was alone on the court with 19,610 people. 
The St. John's senior was fouled with no time left on the clock and he stepped to the free throw line with a chance to give struggling St. John's an upset of No. 6 Duke. 
1, I\ With the sellout crowd at 
I\ Madison Square Garden silent, 
I I 
Hatten made the free throw to 
I I 
cap a 12-0 run and give the 
I I 
Red Storm a 72-71 victory that 
I 
1\ snapped a four-game losing
,· 
I, streak. I, Hatten had 29 points, includ­1\'' ing 16 of the last 22 for the Red 
I 
) Storm (13-12), who held the 
' ) Blue Devils scoreless over the final four minutes. "Hatten was really good," Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski said. "He kept making plays and put himself in a position to get fouled." When Hatten made the free throw, he jumped into his teammates' arms and started a celebration, something the Red Storm hadn't been able to do in a while. "No matter how much they got up we never gave up," said Hatten, who didn't even bother with the second free throw. "This has been an up-and­down season with a lot on the downside, but we never quit on each other and this win means a lot to us going to the end of the season and the Big East tournament. At a time when it seemed like everybody was counting us out and not think­ing we could stay within 15 points of this team, we stuck together." Duke (20-5) had the ball with the score tied and 30 seconds to play after Hatten missed a jumper. The Blue Devils did not call a timeout, running their offense to try for a possible game-winning attempt. But Hatten stole the ball from Daniel Ewing near midcourt and went to the basket, getting fouled by Ewing as the buzzer sounded. "They had run the same play the last 10 minutes of the game and I had done a terrible job against it," Hatten said. "This time I just anticipated, to not let him get to the screen, and I was able to move my feet and stay in front of him without the referee calling a foul. The ball was just there, and I stuck my hand in there and came out with a pot of gold." Ewing said he and Chris Duhon were just exchanging the ball at the top of the key. ''I thought I got fouled, but the referee didn't see it," Ewing said. "But I had to make a play, fouled him and he made the free throw. Once I fouled him it was all up to him." The Red Storm had lost seven of nine overall and were 1-5 in their last six home games. They trailed 71-60 with 
4:05 left when Duke's Dahntay Jones, who had 23 points, made one free throw. 
Hatten and fellow senior Anthony Glover took over, scoring all but one of the points in the game-closing run. Each had his only 3-pointer of the game in the burst. Glover's made it 71-70 with 1:51 left and was just his fourth of the season, 12th of his career. 
Kyle Cuffe made one free throw with 1:30 left to tie it at 
70. Duhon missed on a drive with just under a minute left, and Glover grabbed the rebound. Hatten missed a jumper with 40 seconds left, but Glover got the rebound ­only to have Hatten miss the jumper that set the stage for the wild ending. 
Kentucky 7 4, Georgia 66 
With No. 2 Kentucky trailing in the second half, Marquis Estill wasn't worried about the nation's longest winning streak. 
"I was thinking about what we needed to do to win this ballgame," Estill said. 
Estill had 16 points for the Wildcats, who fo.rced five straight turnovers during a game-deciding run to beat No. 21 Georgia 7 4-66 on Sunday for their 18th straight victory. 
The Bulldogs were playing their first game without assis­tant coach Jim Harrick Jr., who was suspended Friday after a former player accused him of paying part of his expenses and committing academic fraud. 
The player, Tony Cole, also told The Atlanta Journal­Constitution he used the per• sonal credit card of head coach Jim Harrick to buy a TV while he was enrolled in school. 
"I don't think that what's happened in the last couple of days had anything to do with this game," said Harrick, who only took a few questions. 
Chuck Hayes added 15 points and 12 rebounds for the Wildcats (24-3, 14-0 Southeastern Conference), who clinched a share of the Eastern Division title. They lead Florida by two games with two games left for each team, including a season-ending matchup in Gainesville, Fla., on Saturday. 
"We are relieved to get the win," Kentucky coach Tubby Smith said. "Our kids kept their composure and played with a lot of confidence. Composure is a quality of a team that expects to win. 
"Our kids came ready to play." 
Ezra Williams had 17 for Georgia (17-8, 9-5), which had won four straight. 
Kentucky hasn't lost since Dec. 28, when Louisville blew out the Wildcats 81-63. During the streak, they've won by an average of 16 points, and they'd won their previous five road games by at least 16. 
"The winning streak is some• thing we're proud of, but we're just taking care of business," Estill said. "We don't talk about it too much." 
The decisive spurt started on two free throws by Estill, which gave Kentucky the lead for good at 56-54. The Bulldogs went six straight possessions without scoring, and the final five of those ended in a turnover. They entered averag­ing a league-best 12 turnovers. 
"That was part of our game plan," Kentucky guard Gerald Fitch said. "They get their offense started with that pass to the wing, and we wanted to overplay the passing lane and get them out of their offense." 
The Wildcats scored six unanswered points for an eight-point lead, and Georgia could get no closer than four the rest of the way. 
The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 3, 2003 
BASEBALL 

Relief pitching snaps losing streak 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's offense strug­gled against tough pitching at the Dairy Queen Classic at the Metrodome in Minneapolis over the weekend, as the Irish were only able to push five runs across the games in its three games against baseball powers Nebraska, Minnesota and Wake Forest. 
However, after dropping the first two games against the Cornhuskers and Golden Gophers, 7-1 and 8-2, respec­tively, the Irish came back to edge out the seventh-ranked Demon Deacons Sunday in a marathon 13-inning 2-1 victo­ry, snapping what was a four­game losing streak heading into Sunday's game. 
Notre Dame's matchup with Wake Forest Sunday pitted two solid pitchers -Tim Morley for the Demon Deacons and John Axford for the Irish -who provided solid outings for their teams. 
The Irish struck first, con­verting on a sacrifice fly by designated hitter Steve Andres in the bottom of the fourth inning. 
The Demon Deacons struck back in the seventh inning as they pushed a run across on a wild pitch by Axford in the top of the seventh. 
The Irish threatened several more times in the late stages of the nine innings, but the score remained tied due to excellent relief work by Notre Dame's J.P. Gagne and the Wake Forest duo of Daniel Davidson and Adam Hanson. 

offee and Conversation for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, March 4, 2003 
...and every first tuesday of the month 
7:30 -9:30 ptn 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Comittee for Gay and Lesbian Sttident Needs 

invites Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends and supporters to an infor1nal coffee at the Co-1\ilo. Everyone is ,velcome. and confidentiality is assured. 
Coffee and refreshments will be served 
However, Hanson would yield the deciding run in the bottom of the 13th inning. After centerfielder Cody Rizzo was picked off of first base fol­lowing a one-out single, Alex Nettey singled. Craig Cooper then smashed a double to left­center. pushing Nettey to third before Joe Thaman knocked in the game-winning run with a single up the middle. 
Gagne earned the victory for the Irish, pitching six score­less innings of relief, allowing only four hits and a walk while striking out two. 
The earlier games of the Dairy Queen Classic featured similarly solid pitching perfor­mances -but only by Irish opponents. 
The opening game Friday against Nebraska featured an outstanding performance by Cornhusker starting pitcher Aaron Marsden, who struck out 10 Irish batters in eight innings of work while Chris Niesel picked up to the first loss of his career, giving up six runs on nine hits in only four innings of work. 
Cornhusker Jeff Liese pro­vided all the offense Nebraska would need, knocking in three runs on a solo home run and a 2-run triple. Nebraska would add three more runs, notching a 6-0 lead before the Irish got on the scoreboard in the sixth. Matt Macri, Kris Billmaier and Matt Edwards all singled to push its first and only run across the plate. 
Irish freshman reliever Tom Thornton finally stopped the bleeding for the Irish by pro­viding four innings of relief in which he allowed only one unearned run. 
But the Irish bats fell silent and the No. 16 Cornhuskers sent the Irish below .500 on the season with the loss for Notre Dame. 
Saturday's game against Minnesota featured a near­carbon-copy game from Friday. The Irish fell behind early and another strong pitching performance kept them from recovering. 
Minnesota starter C.J. Woodrow retired the first 14 Irish batters he faced on the way to a dominant six-inning, 86-pitch outing where he allowed one unearned run on four hits. 
However, Irish starter Pete Ogilvie dug himself an insur­mountable hole by giving up an early 5-0 Gopher lead before the Irish offense could retaliate. 
But once again, when the Irish were able to get on the scoreboard, it was too little too late. An RBI single by Edwards notched one run in 
· the sixth inning while an RBI groundout in the seventh by Macri gave the Irish its second run. But that was all the Minnesota relievers would allow, and the Gophers cruised to an 8-2 victory, set­ting up the marathon pitching duel in the finale Sunday against Wake Forest. The Irish now get five days of rest before heading to Jacksonville, Fla. for a seven­game set over spring break. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkron.k@nd.edu 

Monday, March 3, 2003 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 

WOMENS TENNIS 
Cunha, Irish upset Longhorns 
against Wake yesterday too. It just gets the By JOE LINDSLEY momentum going." 
Sports Wricer 
And the momentum did continue, with each of the six Irish singles players win­
It was a weekend of many good ning her first set. moments for the Irish -good moments 
"For our [singles players] to come out springing from overcoming various levels and win the six first sets took a lot of pres­of adversity. 
sure off of everybody," Louderback said. 
After suffering three close losses a week Leslie, playing at No. 1 singles, put the 
ago, the Irish registered two victories over Irish up 2-0 as she earned her sixth victo­the weekend, including their first upset of ry of the season. The junior defeated No. the season during what was a special day 
105 Strohm, 6-0. 6-2. Then Lauren for senior captain Katie Cunha. Connelly defeated Macey Breece, 6-3, 6-2. Saturday, Notre Dame defeated Wake With Stastny's 6-4, 6-2 win over Grasic the 
Forest and Sunday the Irish triumphed 6-Irish moved ahead 4-0 and victory was 1 over No. 13 Texas. 
clinched. 
SW1day's match, the "Ace for the Cure," When it was too late, the Longhorns was a fundraiser held in honor of Cunha's achieved their first and only point of the mother, who died of cancer last August. day, with Kelly Bari tot defeating Irish 
The first Ace for the Cure was held last sophomore Sarah Jane Connelly, 4-6, 6-1, spring \\1th her mother in attendance, but 6-2. the Irish captain and the team decided to Then Salas encountered a tough match continue the event in memory of Christine at No. 2 singles, but in the end she closed Cunha. her four-match losing streak as she 
"IThe win] felt great, especially because defeated Michelle Krinke, 6-2, 7 -5. we bounced back after two close 4-3 loss­"I think I needed a close match," Salas es to good teams," junior Alicia Salas said. said. "Today I think that was good for me. 
"It was nice to come out here and be able The difference was really serving. It felt to win. Everyone played great, especially good to be able to come back and pull out today." a close one." "Even though we played well, you worry With the score at 6-1, only one match 
that when you lose, you can get down," he was left on the court -Cunha versus the said. But the Irish proved over the week­Longhorns' Lindsay Blau. With her father, end that past losses would not necessarily teammates. and the sizeable crowd all fix­
promote future losses. ated on her match -although the Irish The Irish began strong, as they swept had already secured victory -Cunha was 
the doubles against the Longhorns, a team able to top Blau in a long match, 6-2. 5-7, traditionally known for its doubles 1-0 (10-4). prowess. "She didn't feel like she played as well 
Junior Caylan Leslie and freshman as she has been, but she gutted it out." 
Jennifer Smith won the first doubles Louderback said. match, and the two are undefeated as a For Cunha. it was a tough day, but a still team. Then Cunha and freshman Kristina a good one. 
Stastny clinched the doubles point when "There was just a lot of emotion out they upset the 19th-ranked pair of Kendra there on my part," she said, recalling that Strohm and Ziva Grasic, 8-3. It was Cunha her mother was one of the fans during last 
and Stastny's fourth win over a ranked year's event. opponent this season. "Coming out here and beating a team "We played so well in the doubles," that's ranked above us, it was a really
Louderback said. "That was such a big happy ending, a good day," Cunha said. factor. All three doubles teams played very. very well. We played like that Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
MENS LACROSSE 

Irish crush Quakers 14-5 
From then on, it was all Irish. 
By PAT LEONARD 

Walsh made a behind-the-head pass to Sports Writer 
junior captain Steve Clagget. who scored at 12:53 to make it 6-4. Owen Mulford 
The Notre Dame mens lacrosse team then scored on a Matt Ryan pass at 11 : 19. won their home opener and improved to a Mulford finished with two goals. 2-0 overall record in an impressive 14-5 Penn's Phillips tried to create something blowout win over No. 23 Penn {0-1) on for his team, scoring with 2:02 left in the Saturday. third quarter to make the score 9-5, but 
Led by junior Matt Howell (three goals, Walsh added two goals to his three assists two assists) and freshman Patrick Walsh late in the third to increase the lead to {two goals, three assists), the Irish seven goals for Notre Dame. redeemed themselves from a 7-6 loss in Goals also came from Brian Philadelphia a year ago. Hubschmann (one goal. one assist) and 
Notre Dame led 5-4 at halftime in what Matt Ryan (one goal, three assists). appeared to be a tight battle, but the Irish Notre Dame's points were spread out offense put the pressure on in the second across the roster. The Irish had four play­half. scoring nine goals and keeping the ers with multiple goals and six with multi­ball in the Quaker's zone for a good por­ple points. tion of the half. "I think one of our strengths is that on 
"We played v~ry well all around," coach any given day, we have a lot of people who Kevin Corrigan said. "I think we did a bet­can [score]," Corrigan said. "Balance. is ter job facing off, did a better job running something I look at as a strength. Today, it our otf ense and getting good shots and we just as easily could have been [senior cap­played extremely well defensively. Nothing tain] Travis Wells, Clagget and [sopho­carried us. I think [the win] had to do with more) Brian Giordano. We know Berger a little bit of everything." can do that already. It will be a key this 
Howell got the Irish on the board first, year to have a good balance offensively scoring at the 11 :49 mark of the first and not to be so dependent on certain peo­quarter and added his second goal shortly ple to score points for us." afterwards. Penn's Will Phillips, who had Notre Dame has started well, especially two goals, narrowed the gap to 2-1 with in contrast to last year, when it also played his first goal at 7 :23. Notre Dame fresh­Penn State and Penn in its first two games, man Matt Karweck received a pass from but lost both matches. fellow freshman Walsh only forty-five sec­"We're a year older and a year more onds later and netted it for his first of mature this year," Corrigan said. "There three goals to make the count 3-1 Irish. was not a big senior class last year and 
James Riordan scored two goals in the there isn't one this year. We've just pre­first half for the Quakers. his second being pared better. From the beginning of fall a man-up goal coming at 1 :20 to tie the practice until now, this team has been bet­contest at 4-4. But Notre Dame's Howell ter determined and had enthusiasm and found junior attackman Dan Berger, who talent." scored with 59 seconds remaining to put "Coming out of the first two losses last the Irish back on top at halftime -and for year we played some of our best lacrosse," good in the game. Corrigan said. "If we can come out of 
In the second half, Penn managed only these first two wins, we'11 be in a better one goal. They had one other solid chance position and we can take it from there." in the third quarter. taking advantage of Notre Dame plays next at North an Irish defenseman pinching up into the Carolina on Saturday, March 8. attack zone. Notre Dame goalie junior Stewart Crosland made the save, one of 
ten on the day. Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
2003 Lenten Lecture Series 
llonoring 
the Sisters 
of the 1 loly Cr·oss I 
March 4 
March 18 
April 1 

CENTER FOR SPIRlTUALITY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Hope Springs From S01-rovv: Redemptive Aspects of" Sut·cering 
Margaret O=Brien Steinf'els 
Editor of Co1nn1onweal 
The ...~u.fferin,:: 1-~ro,n Sel.r-I,~fticte,I Wou,u/s: Church Concer11s 
Pauline Viviano~ Ph.I:>. 
Associate Professor of Theology, Loyola lJnivcrsity Chicago 
l-~ro,11 P1111isl11nent to Re,Je,nption: 5,uffering in the Bible 
Pastoral Theologian and 
Evelyn Eaton Whitehead~ Ph.D. 
L)evelopn1ental Psychologist 
Faculty Mcn1hcrs: lJnivcrsity of' San Fn1ncisco 's Ricci Institute Loyola University Chicago, Institute of Pastoral 
Studies Fudan University. Shanghai Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 
The Passio11 of·S11fferi11g 
All lectures will be held in Stapleton I_Jounge~ Le Mans Hall 
1 2: 1 S p.m. -1 :00 1-i.n1. 
Free and <.>pen to the Public 
For infor1nat1011 call: (574) 284-4636 01· E-rnai I: rnan uszak(a?saint111arys.cd u 
.. ·.···"::// It
·::,·,tr 
vou'll always wm· 
our votes! 

Have fun and be safe 
Love, Mom, Dad, 
Stephan '06, and Teddy 


' . 
I. 
l!,. 
l 

'I 
•I 
page 18 


around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Georgetown at West Virginia 7 p.m., ESPN Kansas at Texas Tech 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA BASKETBALL Magic at Bulls 8:30 p.m., FOX 
NHL HOCKEY 

Islanders at Rangers 8 p.m., ESPN2 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 1v1onday, March 3, 2003 
GOLF 

Associated Press 
CARLSBAD, Calif. 

Tiger Woods completed his sweep of the World Golf Championships on Sunday, building a big lead and then holding off a gritty comeback from David Toms to win the Match Play Championship. 
Leading by as many as five holes. Woods finally closed out Toms with a 3­foot par putt on the 35th to win, 2 and 1. 
Woods won a record three straight U.S. Junior Amateur titles and three straight U.S. Amateurs, but he was 0-4 as a profession­al. 
That changed during a dominant week at La Costa, where he made only five bogeys on a tough course and played only 112 holes, the fewest of any winner in the five-year his­tory of the tournament. 
He also became the first player to win all four of the World Golf Championships since their inception in 1999 -three times the NEC Invitational, twice the American Express Championship and the 2000 World Cup with David Duval. 
The missing piece was the Accenture Match Play Championship, a format Woods enjoys the most. He finally showed why, hitting smart shots down the stretch when his game was off and making Toms come after him. 
The former PGA champi­on almost did. 
A 15-foot birdie putt on No. 15 cut the lead to 1 up with three holes to play. After they parred the 16th, Toms missed the fairway and then hit into rough so deep left of the green that he could barely identify his ball. 
He hacked out just short of the green, and his par chip turned away. 
Toms, who only last August said he could not compete on a regular basis with Woods, showed plenty of heart and game. 
'Tm not going to quit," said Toms, who was 4­down after the morning 18. "That's not my nature. We're on national TV and I wanted to last a long time. I didn't want to be embar­rassed. My goal was to chip away." 
Woods won for the 36th time on the PGA Tour and earned $1,050,000, his largest paycheck on tour. 
Since returning from knee surgery after a two­month rehab, Woods has won twice and tied for fifth. His game looks better than ever as he starts preparing for the Masters. 

IN BRIEF 
Starst Guerin faces surgery acquired by Dallas in the offseason Series began racing in Vegas in 
Dallas forward Bill Guerin could and signed a five-year deal worth 1998, Roush drivers Mark Martin. miss the remainder of the regular about $45 million. He has also Jeff Burton and Kenseth have all season after undergoing emergency played in New Jersey and made it to Victory Lane. Burton did surgery to relieve a buildup of Edmonton. it back-to-back in 1999 and 2000. blood in his bruised thigh. The Stars have 17 regular-season Michael Waltrip finished third in 
Guerin, second on the Stars with games left. including Sunday's a Chevrolet and took over the 25 goals and 50 points, bruised his home game against Pittsburgh. Winston Cup points lead. He was thigh Thursday when he collided followed by Joe Gibbs Racing team­with Ottawa defenseman Chris Kensetll hits jackpot with mates Bobby Labonte and Tony Phillips in the third period. Vegas win Stewart. 
The bruise caused a so-called Matt Kenseth solidified Roush Burton was sixth. Ryan Newman compartment syndrome in Guerin's Racing's hold on Las Vegas Motor came back from falling two laps 
thigh, in which severe internal Speedway by winning the UAW­down early in the race to finish sev­bleeding cuts off circulation to the DaimlerChrysler 400 on Sunday -enth in a Dodge. Sterling Marlin, thigh muscle. Team doctor Dan giving his team its fourth victory in Joe Nemecheck and Steve Park 
Cooper operated to relieve the the track's six-year Winston Cup rounded out the top 10. pressure Saturday night at Baylor history. Only 11 cars finished on the lead Medical Center in Dallas. Kenseth, who won a vVinston lap, and the front five were all run­
Team officials said Guerin will Cup-best five races last season, got ning individually at the end of the miss four-to-six weeks. incredible help in the pits -his race with huge gaps between them 
The 6-foot-2, 210 pound Guerin crew gave his Ford four tires in 13 on the 1.5-mile oval. finished the 2001-02 season with seconds on their final stop -to Kenseth was in command for the Boston Bruins, leading the NHL jump out to a huge lead and beat most of the final 100 laps. He had a in shots {355) and tying for second Dale Earnhardt Jr. to the finish line 4-second lead after the final round in the league in goals ( 41). by 9.104 seconds. of stops and built it to more than 9 
The 32-year-old right wing was Since NASCAR's Winston Cup seconds by the checkered flag. 
Monday, March 3, 2003 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 

Ratay 
continued from page 24 
After Notre Dame had fallen 
behind by six at halftime. the 
Irish needed a lift. 
Ratay then took the team and put it on her shoulders. 
In the second half, Ratay took a pass from LeTania Severe mid­way between the top of the arc and the right corner and buried a 3-pointer to get the Irish within 29-27, and more importantly, get the almost-dead home crowd on its feet. That shot was also the 250th trey of Ratay's career -a new school record. 
But the senior wasn't done yet. 
She drove to the hole with 8:40 left, got fouled and made both free throws to give Notre Dame a 46-45 lead. 
The Pirates grabbed the lead back with six minutes left, before Ratay drained another 3-pointer to put the Irish ahead 51-49. She got fouled \\'ith 4:08 remaining and made both free throws again to push Notre Dame back into the lead at 53-52. 
But Seton Hall stormed back and nearly delivered a knockout punch on a Cecilia Llndqvist 3­pointer with 2:59 left in regula­tion that gave the Pirates a 56-53 lead. 
Down three in her final home 
Sprin 

•All Fleece •All Long Sleeve Tees •And morel 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKS'IORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER  *Not valid with any other offer,  
phone: (574) 631-6316  • www.ndbookstore.com  while supplies last, expires 3/21 /03.  

game, Ratay didn't hesitate when 
she got the ball at the top of the 
3-point circle on Notre Dame's 
next possession-she simply start­
ed into her sweet shooting form, 
put perfect rotation on the bas­
ketball and sank the 252rd 3­
pointer ofher career to tie the 
game again. 
On the Irish next offensive trip, Ratay drove to paint and made a layup to tie the game yet again at 58-58. 
The Irish went on to win 62­
60, with much ofthe credit going 
to Ratay for keeping Notre Dame 
close all game. 
"She's made so many big shots in her career that it would be hard to remember all of them," Irish coach Muff et McGraw said. "There's always a big shot in every game where we absolutely need a basket, and she's the one we want to shoot the ball." 
Ratay's hit most ofthose clutch shots in her career. She's con­nected on over 45 percent ofher 3-point attempts, made more 3s than anyone else in Irish history and will go down as one ofthe best shooters ever to play wom­ens college basketball. 
"She has meant so many great things to this program," McGraw said. "She's been an outstanding player for us for four years ... She's, in my opinion, the best shooter in America. We would not be anywhere near where we 
LAUREN FORBES/The Observer Allcla Ratay llnes up a shot during Saturday's game. Ratay has had a key role In Notre Dame's success during her career. 
are right now, and our program  And the Lake Zurich, Ill. prod­ 
wouldn't be where we are right  uct hit big bucket after bucket.  
now, if it wasn't for her."  Just like she has her entire  
Ratay's home career ended  career.  
Saturday in front of over 7,300  
people. And it couldn't have been  The opinions expressed in this  
a more perfect ending.  column are those ofthe author  
Ratay was honored before the  and not necessarily those ofThe  
game.  Observer. Contact Joe Hettler at  
The Irish won.  jhett/er@nd.edu  


-
Pirates 
continued from page 24 
place in the Big East standings 
with the victory. The Irish need 
to win Tuesday against 
Syracuse and then hope 
Virginia Tech loses to St. 
John's to clinch fifth place in 
the conference. 
The Irish struggled most of 
the game against the Pirates' 
tough defense and fell behind 
17-5 midway through the first 
half. Notre Dame missed 11 of 
12 shots and turned the ball 
over seven times before hitting 
their second field goal. Seton 
Hall also used a 14-8 rebound­
ing advantage on the offensive 
glass to hang with Notre Dame. 
"I thought Seton Hall played 
a great basketball game," Irish 
coach Muffet McGraw said. 
"They played tremendous 
defense. They were outstand­
ing. They rebounded well and 
we didn't get anything easy all 
night long, and that's to their 
credit. 
Notre Dame recovered from 
their slow start and got within 
27-21 at halftime before finally 
overtaking Seton Hall with 
13:56 remaining on a layup by Flecky. It was the first Irish lead since early in the first half. 
But the Pirates wouldn't go 
away. After Jacqueline 
Batteast nailed a 3•pointer to 
put the Irish up 42-36, Seton 
Hall scored the next seven 
points to regain a 43-42 lead. 
The lead went back and forth 
for the rest of the second half. 
With 29 seconds left, Seton Hall's LaNedra Brown hit two free throws to give the Pirates a 60-58 lead. On Notre Dame's next trip, Batteast took the ball, drove to the paint and dished a pass to a wide-open Courtney Lavere. who convert­ed the layup to tie the game at 60-60 with seven seconds left in regulation. 
Seton Hall quickly took the inbounds pass, dribbled across mid-court and called a timeout with 3.2 seconds left. 
On the ensuing throw-in. Seton Hall's Ashley Bush want­ed to throw the ball near the hoop, but couldn't find anyone open. She then tried to throw into Brown, but Flecky broke up the pass and Brown com­mitted the costly foul. 
"That's just a heck of a col­lege game to be a part of," Seton Hall coach Phyillis Mangina said. "We were sup­posed to throw the ball to the rim and we didn't. The last place we wanted to throw the ball was toward mid-court." 
McGraw was pleased with her team's play down the stretch. 
"I thought at the end of the game we made some huge plays and everyone con­tributed," McGraw said. 
Notes: 

. 
Alicia Ratay nailed a 3-point­er, the 250th of her career, with 18:42 remaining in the second half to break Sheila McMillen's Notre Dame record. She added two more before the game ended, giving her 252 in her career. 

. 
The exciting game was pre­luded by a pre-game standing ovation for both seniors. Their accolades on the court and in the classroom were announced before Ratay and Swanson walked onto the court, escort­ed by their families. 


. 
Swanson started and played for nearly six minutes at the opening of the game before she was replaced by Le'Tania Severe. 


Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

Brian Gross. The Irish defeated Michigan 

FENCING 
,, 
I ) 
I Buckeyes stop Irish in combined conference championships 
Monday, March 3, 2003 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
. Irish 
Gross went 3-0 in the State 5-0 in the quarterfi­unexpectedly match against the Irish and nals and Northwestern 5-2 won a key bout earlier in the semifinals. In the
finish second 
against Viviani. The two finals against Ohio State, went into overtime, but the Irish jumped out to a 4­

ByMAITLOZAR 
Gross was able to get the 0 lead, but let the Buckeyes
Sports Editor 
winning touch and defeated come back as they won Viviani 5-4. three straight bouts. 
The wake-up call for the While Viviani surprisingly Senior epee captain Anna Irish didn't just come for dropped a bout, Bednarski Carnick closed the door the 8 a.m. Saturday morn­was more disappointed in with a 5-2 win over Ohio ing start to the team com­Sobieraj, who won the State freshman Sherice petition. It came in the North American Cup tour­Gearhart. Carnick, along form of failing to win a nament in December with the other Notre Dame combined conference against a 140-member captains, showed a lot of champi-field. energy while fencing and onship for "A wake­encouraged teammates as the first up call for they watched. Bednarski 
..1t·s not history. but
time since them was in was a main reason for this 
1983. we lost to the same the morning increased leadership. But it team that is always . when they "I was encouraging them 
wasn't the lost the first because we are here on our
challenging us.··
third-ranked bout unex­own home territory and our womens pectedly," kids are very soft," team that Janusz Bednarski Bednarski Bednarski said. "They have didn't get said. "I to be more excited by win­
coach

the job hope they ning." 
done, it was will get this Womens foil also easily 
the No. 1 wake-up won its championships. The 
mens team in the country. call, especially Sobieraj, Irish defeated Case Western 
l 
) ' Notre Dame won a team who has the talent to win. Reserve 5-0 in the quarter­
\' 
i title in foil and finished sec­He won an even bigger finals. Minnesota 5-1 in the 
I, 
ond in sabre, but a semifi­tournament months ago. semifinals and Ohio State 5­nal round lost to the Ohio "Today he lost two impor­3 to claim the title. State in epee cost the Irish tant bouts and he needs to After finishing one spot a chance at winning its improve." behind the Irish at the 2002 19th consecutive combined The Buckeyes also won NCAA Championships, the championship. Ohio State the mens competition with Buckeyes are quickly clos­won the combined team 435 points while the Irish ing the gap on Notre Dame title with a total of 8 5 5 were second with 410. by winning this year's con-points, with Notre Dame Meanwhile, ference finishing second with 835. the womens champi­
..I was encouraging
"On the mens side, we team repeat­ons hip, unexpectedly lost epee. It's ed as champi­them because we are something not history, but we lost ons of the that gives
here on our own 
against the same team that Midwest Bednarski
home territory and
is always challenging us," Fencing mixed feel­Notre Dame coach Janusz Conference our kids are very ings. Bednarski said. "The kids with a team soft ... " W e at the beginning lost a cou­point total of have a ple of bouts and focused 425. The Irish growing
Janusz Bednarski
their attention on previous won foil and rivalry competitions that they won epee while coach with Ohio and it helped. They were finishing State in trying to come back but it third in our region was too late." sabre. and they 
In that semifinal match "On the womens side, the are working very hard," he between Notre Dame and results were like we expect­said. "It is good to have a Ohio State, the Irish dug ed," Bednarski said. "We rival on the one side themselves in a 4-2 hole won easier than I expected, because it is exciting, but and couldn't get out. Senior which was a positive sur­on the other hand we have epee captain Jan Viviani prise." to be prepared for the and senior North Carey Ohio State finished sec­bouts because the Midwest won bouts to tie the match ond on the women's side Championships aren't as
.I 
at four. Sophomore Michal with 420 points. easy as the past." Sobieraj couldn't complete Northwestern was third the comeback and dropped with 385 points. the deciding bout 5-4 to The Notre Dame epee Contact Matt Lozar at Ohio State sophomore team cruised to its title. mlozar@nd.edu 
"~~t . 
~ Announces the following lnlroducto,y offers of••. 
Dudek scored the winning touch

. Irish claim 10 
and denied Viviani a chance at

top-3 finishes in repeating. Junior Kerry Walton easily won
tournament 
her semifinal bout against Ohio State junior Alexandra Shklar 15­

ByMATTLOZAR 
10. Walton struggled in the finals
Sports Editor 
against Anna Vinnikov of Wayne State, who defeated Notre Dame 

Senior foil captain Ozren Debic senior Meagan Call 15-6 in the 
fenced his way into the Notre Dame semifinals. Vinnikov took an 11-6 
history books at Sunday's Midwest lead, and the defending national 
Fencing Conference Champions in champion could get no closer than 
becoming the first Irish fencer to three points as Vinnikov defeated 
win four individual conference 
Walton 15-10. 

championships. 
Notre Dame senior Matt 

He didn't give up any touches in 
Fabricant pushed Jason Rogers,

his preliminary bouts and defeated one of the top sabre fencers in the 
teammates Forest Walton and 
world to the limit in the mens semi­

Derek Snyder 15-3 in the semifinals finals. 
and finals, respectively. 
Fabricant seemed to have control 

And he feels he can do better. 
of the match holding a 12-8 lead. 

Debic and sophomore Alicja 
Rogers then showed why he is 

Kryczalo each repeated as individ­ranked in the top 10 nationally and 
ual conference champions and led came back to defeat Fabricant 15­
the Irish to 10 finishes in the top 14. Bednarski knows the tough loss 
three Sunday at the Joyce Center. 
to Rogers and a quarterfinal round 

"After winning it three or four win over another top sabre fencer times, you are expected to win, so in Ohio State's Colin Parker, will 
anything less than that would be a only help Fabricant at the national 
disappointment," Debic said. "I 
championships in three weeks. 

think I can fence better. I think "Personally, I was not disappoint­
stronger competition is going to 
ed. He lost to a good fencer who is 

push me all the way. I was trying 
very high in the rankings,"

hard today because I wanted to win Bednarski said. "Matt had a bout 
for the fourth time. When the emo­
where he was almost winning.

tions part kicks in fighting for the Theoretically, he should win. He 
{NCAA] title, it will motivate me will now have a little bit more expe­more." 
rience in a stressful situation. He 

Kryczalo easily advanced to the made the mistakes in trying to use 
semifinal round of the women's foil more complicated actions. But, he 
competition by not dropping a bout. 
learned a lot. got the confidence,

Then, the defending national cham­
not only in the match against

pion defeated Wayne State's Inga Rogers. but he beat Parker, and 
Wallrabenstein 15-7 in the semifi­now he is very confident. I think he 
nals and teammate Andrea Ament did a very good job." 
15-9 for her second conference 
Junior captain Destanie Milo lost 
crown. 
15-6 in the semifinals of women's 

"For them it was pretty easy, I sabre to eventual champion Louise 
call it domination. They dominated Bond-Williams of Ohio State. 
in the competition," Notre Dame Claiming 10 of the top 24 spots in 
coach Janusz Bednarski said. 
the individual competition, the Irish 

"Also, Ozren didn't give up any 
showed they have a chance to 

points in preliminary, which looks make some noise when the nation­
like a world record. It doesn't mean al championships begin March 20 
he has any weak opponents. He is at the Air Force Academy. 
simply a high-class fencer." 
..The competition is tough,"

"Alijca dominated the competi­Bednarski said. "We are not one of tion. She needs some work, but 
the top teams in the country, butphysically they are smiling." 

we are strong and we will try to 

In epee. the Irish claimed second 
give them a lot of problems. If 

place on both the mens and wom­everything works right, maybe we 
en's side. Senior captain Jan 
can get a medal." 

Viviani battled back from an 11-9 deficit to force overtime against Wojciech Dudek of Wayne State. 
Contact Matt Lozar at 
Viviani had priority in overtime, but 
mlozar@nd.edu 
·------· ·------· r------• ·------.. ·------· 
I I I I I I I I I I
$69
); 
I $15 I I $26 I I I I $69 I I $69 I 
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE IS NOW
I I I I I Color, Cut & I I I I I
Highlights, 

ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR ALL POSITIONS:
I Mens Cut I I Cut & Style I I Style I I Perm, Cut & Style I I I
Cut & Style

I I I.. ______ ..I I One Process I I I I.. ______..I 
24 Hour Lounge Monitors Ballroom Monitors
·------· ·------· ·------· 

Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. 
Building Set Up Crew 
You'll be pleased with the quality and seivice we provide, 
Information Desk Attendants
and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
LaFortune Building Managers
We hope to see you soon. 
ND Coke Service -VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING SlYLISTS ONLY ­
ND Express Attendants 
-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Program Assistants 
Must be presented to Receptionist Before Services Are Performed 
Sound Technicians 
Melissa-Sergi' -Kristin-] ennifer 
Stepan Center Managers
ATRIA SALON 2 

Student Activities Office Assistants
ATRIA SALON 

Nooalidfutspinlpcmu. Loogortintaihairadd$10. Noodtadnwuntupply. OpmSCAT1<c-.mi~ ATRIA Martin's Shopping Center 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 

Applications available outside the Student Aetivities Office,
Salon ll:!tTVr5 the right ID rdwe saVicc ID any diem whu.e hair oondition uunucwbk. Next to Sprint 
Comer of Edison 

31 S Lo Fortune or on-line ot www.nd.edu/~soo/office/jobs.
271-8804289-5080 

OFFER EXPIRES 3-16-03 
Less than 1 mile from c.ampus 

APPLICAT~O~S DUE MARCH 28. 


Monday, March 3, 2003 
The Observer. SPORTS page 21 
HOCKEY 
Irish score late to beat Western Michigan on Senior Night 

nice pass from Nielsen and somehow managed to break through two Bronco def enders to reach the net, where he flipped the puck past Mantua. 
"Niel [Nielsen] made a great pass to me in the neutral zone and I saw the defense in front of me," Amado said. "I made a move to cut outside and then inside and got by the first defenseman, and ended up beat­ing the second as well. I went to the net, saw an opening, and was lucky to trickle it in." 
Dunlop and Wroblewski added insurance for the Irish in the third, with Wroblewski's empty net goal erasing any hope of a Bronco comeback. 
"Our seniors were big," Poulin said. "You need these guys to pass it on. We want them to be the first group of seniors to go to Joe Louis Arena all four years." 
In order to go to Joe Louis Arena, a CCHA team has to get past the first round of the play­offs. With their win Saturday, the Irish 's home ice chances are still very much in play. 
Coming out of the weekend, the Irish are now tied for fifth with Western Michigan, Northern Michigan, and Alaska Fairbanks. The top six finishers in the conference get home ice for the first round of the playoffs. 
"It's strange," Poulin said. "There's so many dynamics at work. In my ways, this shows the balance in this league." 
Next weekend, the Irish travel to Northern Michigan to face the Wildcats in a two-game series to complete their regular season. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Sports Writer 
On Senior Night, a freshman 
that came up biggest of all. 
Freshman forward Matt 
Amado scored a beautiful goal 
with six and a half minutes left 
in the game to break a 2-2 tie, 
en route to a 5-2 victory over 
Western Michigan Saturday at 
the Joyce Center. Amado 
received the first star in that 
game. 
The win avenged a 4-2 setback 
to the Broncos Friday in 
Kalamazoo, Mich., which broke 
Notre Dame's season-high four­
game winning streak. 
Friday, in front of a sold-out crowd of 4,326 in Lawson Arena, the Irish took the initial lead halfway through the first period when· junior forward Rob Globke collected his own rebound and whipped it past Bronco goalie Scott Foster. 
On the season, the Broncos were 3-11-1 when giving up the first goal, but the odds were against the Irish Friday. 
In the second period, the Broncos came storming back with goals by forwards Vince Bellissimo and Trevor Cook to take a 2-1 lead. The Broncos also outshot the Irish 14-3 in that period. 
The Irish evened the score five minutes into the second when sophomore Yan Stastny beat Foster with a nice wraparound after assists from Aaron Gill and John Wroblewski. 
The Irish momentum was stilled three minutes later when a defensive lapse led to a 2-on-1 in which Irish goaltender Morgan Cey stopped the initial shot by Dana Lattery but couldn't stop Jeremy Cheyne rebound goal. 
The Broncos iced the game 
when Jeff Campbell scored into 
an empty net with 32 seconds 
left in the game. 
The deficit could have been 
much larger had Morgan Cey not 
stopped Bellissimo on a penalty 
shot late in the third period. Cey 
has stopped all four penalty 
shots he's faced in his career, 
including three this season. He 
made 26 saves on the night in 
the loss. 

"We played well in the first 
period and should have been up 
by more than one goal with the 
chances we had," Irish coach 
Dave Poulin said. "We had some 
great opportunities in that peri­
od and just didn't finish." 
In front of a raucous standing room-only sellout crowd the next night at the Joyce Center, the Irish put on quite a show in their last regular season home game. 
Before the game even started, this year's Irish seniors were rewarded for four years of hard work by having their home jer­sey presented to them. The Irish wore their road blues for the game. 
The senior accolades contin­ued into the actual game, when Poulin surprised everyone with an all-senior starting lineup. John Wroblewski, Connor Dunlop. and Michael Chin com­posed the first offensive line and Evan Nielsen and Jake Wiegand were the first defensive pairing. 
The interesting thing is that Wiegand is a natural forward. 
"I decided this morning to start six seniors," Poulin said. "Everyone was excited to see Jake line up at forward." 
The sixth senior that Poulin decided to start was goaltender Tony Zasowski. Zasowski, who has been backup to Cey for most 
SPRING BREAK... 
of the year. took advantage of 
the rare start by making 25 
saves. 
The Irish leapt out to an early 
lead once again in the first, 
when Aaron Gill heat Foster with 
a beautiful backhander after a 
nice pass from junior forward 
Kyle Dolder. It was just the 
team's second shot of the game. 
Four minutes into the second period, the Irish padded their lead with Dolder again getting on the score sheet. This time, junior defensernan Brett Lebda gave Dolder a pinpoint pass through the neutral zone that was just onsides. Dolder skated through two defensemen and whipped the puck between Foster's legs. 
As has been a problem all year, the Irish were unable to hold the lead. Bad penalties led to multiple power plays for the Broncos, and they took advan­tage. 
Mike Jarmuth took a hard slap shot from thA blue line that was tipped by Bellissimo and just eluded Zasowski for the Broncos' first power play goal, less than three minutes after the Irish opened up the two-goal lead. 
Shortly after the goal, Foster had to leave the game after a collision in his crease. Freshman Mike Mantua took his place. 

The Broncos tied the game back up with just 54 seconds left in the second period, after slash­ing minors on Globke and Cory McLean gave the visitors a 5-on­3 advantage. Defenseman Dave Cousineau scored the equalizer for his second point of the game. 
Heading into the third period, the momentum had shifted to the Broncos, at least until Amado scored his pivotal goal. 
With less than seven minutes to go in the game, Amado took a 

-

five raternity brothers. normal college students. partying; drinking; driving. crash. death. jail. 
SURVWAL. 
DUI: a Powerful Lesson with Mark Sterner 
1J! tft1l 6\'l ,'1 Si t9 Itl:ill1t11~ :1 ! 
(45 111inutcs) 

MrJday low fares or OIi' special *$99 round trip _,...,.. you want to go III the U.S. South Bend Bus Station 
4671 Terminal lkive 
574-287-1542 
Brough! lo., ·011 hy: 
~~ ~ 

-.,nontlblL -,.car.atia ..,........_ ~-~ PILLARS/Office of Alcohol & Drug Education., 
Vllft www.,reyhound.com If c1111·800·231·2222 GREYHOUND "$119 lll1'd u1p11111 S1u1ent --en011129 ,.a, C()IIOQelO. ~----Ol'lncldlor-2117~-­
Transportation Services & Student Government 
e--.cdlt•IP!IIY-loll ._,:1 In ,;nmo,,aJIOI! w,U, lr, 041W liloounl In. Same -IIICI lffi--fl'P')C 5'lclolll----lujod10Cll&r9'1111C!.,.ubifJ."'-"'IJilldb<IW,go•lhooA~ 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 3, 2003 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame never got going in upset loss to Rutgers 

VELTE/The Observer Guard Chris Thomas flles toward the bas­ket In a 87-79 loss against Connecticut on Feb. 24. 
aged a league-low 66.6 points a game. But in transition. We had to hustle back every By ANDREW SOUKUP against the Irish, they shot 53 percent time.'' Sports Writer from the field and 61 percent from 3-point Coleman himself was a one-man scoring 
range, as they tallied their highest point machine. He shot 7 -for-12 from behind 
What started out as a simple road game total of the season. the arc for a game-high 27 points. At against the worst team in the Big East Even Notre Dame's chances of finishing times, it seemed like every shot Coleman quickly turned into a Notre Dame night­second and earning a bye in the Big East heaved toward the basket went in. mare. Tournament are in jeopardy after the But he had a lot of help, especially from 
In front of a hostile Rutgers crowd Scarlet Knights lit up Notre Dame in the Calvin Wooden off the bench. Earlier in Saturday afternoon, the Irish never got first half. Rutgers leapt out to an 8-1 lead, the week, a local newspaper had called going, never led and never had a chance and, after the Irish closed the lead to Wooden a Division II-caliber player at after the Scarlet Knights (12-14 overall, 4-three, exploded on a 31-10 run to make best. and Wooden responded by scoring 10 in the Big East) took a 24-point first the score 43-19. 18 points. half lead en route to a 95-82 upset of the "It's a tough hole to dig out of." said The bright spots for the Irish were few ninth-ranked Irish. Brey, whose squad has allowed an aver­and far between. Chris Thomas led the 
The loss -Notre Dame's third in its last age of 91 points in its last two games. way by scoring 24 points, and three other five games -marked the first time the The Irish never got the deficit back into Notre Dame players -Matt Carroll, Dan Irish (21-7, 9-5) dropped back-to-back the single digits, although they were close. Miller and Torin Francis -reached dou­games all season, and virtually eliminated After holding Rutgers scoreless for a four­ble-digit point totals. any chance they had of winning the Big minute stretch at the end of the first half, But the Irish only managed to shoot 37 East West Division. Notre Dame had pulled within 13. percent from the field, and watched 
The loss also hurt Notre Dame's But then Jerome Coleman hit one of his Rutgers' bench outscore Notre Dame's by prospects of earning a high seed and play­seven 3-pointers, and Notre Dame's hopes a 40-11 margin. Carroll, Notre Dame's ing a first-round NCAA Tournament game of a miraculous comeback seemed most consistent player, struggled for most in Indianapolis. doomed. Although the Irish made the of the game and spent the last eight min­
"There's been a lot of talk about tourna­score 55-44 in the second half, they utes watching from the bench. ments, particularly the NCAA couldn't get any closer than that. "The game was probably out of our Tournament," Irish coach Mike Brey said. If the jump shots weren't falling -reach," he said. "It hurt a little bit sitting "We have to reel our focus back in and which didn't happen often -Rutgers sun­there watching the score and watching hopefully get a little momentum before the ply shut down the Irish offense with speed them put up points against us." j,Big East tournament." and quickness. So impressive were the The Irish have another day off before 
It was hard to tell on Saturday which Scarlet Knights that they scored 20 fast they host Syracuse in Notre Dame's home team had its ticket already punched for break points. The Irish, by contrast, had finale Tuesday. They close out the regular the NCAA Tournament and which one zero. season at Georgetown Saturday. _; might not even qualify for the Big East "You read it on paper, but it looks even Tournament. Rutgers entered the game worse out there on the court," Chris Contact Andrew Soukup at dead last in the East Division and aver-Thomas said. "We were just getting beat asoukup@nd.edu ,.,. 
SOFTBALL 
Irish aggressive early in 12-7 win against Demons Sunday 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame softball team righted its season record to 6-6 with a 12-7 victory over Northwestern State (1-11) on Sunday afternoon at the Louisiana Classic. The win gives Notre Dame a measure of revenge on the Demons, who surprised the Irish 3-2 in the first game of the tournament. 
Notre Dame jumped all over Northwestern State starting pitcher Amanda Ortega over the first three innings, piling up 11 runs. Mallorie Lenn (two for three, two RBI) and Alexis Madrid (two for two, two runs scored) led the Irish hitters, while Andrea Loman and Liz Hartmann both hit home runs. The Irish pitchers, however, con­tinued to struggle. Starter Steffany Stenglein was one inning away from ending the game on the eight-run rule, but ended up surrendering four runs in the inning to keep the game alive. 
The Irish immediately got on the scoreboard in the first inning when Megan Ciolli reached on an throwing error. After Lenn popped out, Loman drilled a two­run home run to left-center field. 
The Demons came back to tie the game in the top of the second when Krystle Nichols drew a walk and Katrina Walker fol­lowed with her own two-run home run. 
The tie was quickly broken up in the bottom of the inning. Liz Hartmann led off with her third home run of the tournament to put the Irish up 3-2. Madrid sin­gled and stole second base to get in scoring position and Ciolli earned a walk. Lenn then came through with a single through the left side and advanced to sec­ond on the throw, while Madrid scampered home on an error by the Demon leftfielder. Loman then got her third RBI of the game on a fielder's choice ground ball which allowed Ciolli to score. 
Notre Dame then attempted a double steal and Loman was safe at second, but Lenn was thrown out at the plate. Meagan Ruthrauff fouled out to end the inning. 
The Irish offensive explosion continued in the bottom of the third. Andria Bledsoe led off with a single and stole second base. Lisa Mattison then drove her in with a single up the middle. The Notre Dame first basemen advanced to second on a wild pitch and eventually moved to third when Hartmann grounded out to third base. After deFau lined out, Madrid reached first on a bunt hit which kept Mattison at third base. 
Ciolli stepped in next and sin­gled through the middle, driving in Mattison and moving Madrid to third. Lenn ended up with a two-RBI single next after Ciolli stole second base. The Notre Dame scoring spree finally ended when Loman walked and eventu• ally scored, along with Lenn, on a fielding error by the Demon shortstop. 
Northwestern State got one run back in the fourth inning on an illegal pitch call with the bases loaded, but Notre Dame matched that run total in the bot­tom of the inning. Sara Schoonaert posted her first career double, driving in deFau who had drawn a walk earlier in the inning. 
Needing three outs to end the game, Stenglein ran out of gas. Sarina Noack led off with a single and Lindsey Dansy drove her in with a double. Stenglein then issued two walks to load the bases and Heather Booth came in for relief. She did get a sacri­fice fly for the first out, but Shay Hunt made sure the game would continue with a three-run home run. 
Both teams remained scoreless record at 2-2. The Irish will play a doublehead­the rest of the way. Stenglein Notre Dame returns home for er at Cal State Northridge on picked up the win for Notre the week before heading to the to March 9, then enter the 2003 Kia Dame, evening her season the west coast for Spring Break. Klassic on March 13. 

. 
,. 



Monday, March 3, 2003 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 
1--)~PLAIN H:>W You WArp, I+ Poss,ble ... 
wou1...D qO ABOUT otherwise use -Hie. How 010 ntE 
50L.VINf/ tNflA110N IN tA BC. e>-t-A Fbwer kick TE.s-r <q,O? 
,ODAYS M.AF<Ke1. and exch01nge yo1,.4r
1--------,Rupies .fuf~ seer-et ~/......--:-1-'\ctp and +hen hijack 

--~.., ~ ~ tank...~~-­
HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 

HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
Gimme the ball-
I'll take over _ .. 
NEYOH 
j

cJ r II 
02003 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
YEDEK 

I rJ 
WHAT THE RE:­

tVINSTE 
L-lEYE:f< 010 WHE:NTHE=5T)J<TER GOT HURT.J I I
www.jurrble.mm
tCHISPY t 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.

I I I J 
Ans~r: 

"[ I I I I I I ]" IT] 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: FUZZY MEALY BEAGLE MAROON
Saturday's Answer: A blind date can turn out to be this -AN EYEFUL 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

R T 1 
.......-+.,,,+~~~+-=-~~-=E+A~V-:-t-::~ 
_.,,....,.... 
-,-+-+,..+-,,+,,+,.,,+.,.-t 
-+--+-.,..., ... 
....+...+,..-t

Ev 

s T A star Danny 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
63 City in northern France 64 Cut, as wood 65 Dems.' foes 66 Cosmetician Lauder 
DOWN 
1 Actors Robbins and Allen 2Jai_ 3 Nest builder 4 After midnight, say 5 Fit to be eaten 6 Drinker's total 7 Dictator Amin 8 Surpass 9_good example 10 2000 Green Party candidate 11 Polar jacket 12 Summer ermine 
13 Hermann who wrote "Steppenwolr 
18 _-do-well 
22 City near Fort Lauderdale 24 "-er" or "-ing," 
e.g.: Abbr. 
26 J.F.K.'s successor 27 Ending with 
sched­
28 Oolong, for one 29 Coal-mining city of West Virginia 30 Hidden means of support? 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Alan Arbe1feld 
35 Scott Joplin 44 Be obsequious 49 007 player piece (to) Roger 52 Barely open 
36 Stick out 45 Connections 54 X's, in Greece
38 Spanish gold 46 Ring up? 55 Lean slightly 
39 22-Down's 47 Channel 
state: Abbr. 56 Eye amorously 
swimmer 

40 Nourished Gertrude 57 Korean leader Syngman_
42 Mozambique's 48 To whom locale: Abbr. Muslims pray 60 Light bite 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute: or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). 
Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one acaden1ic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ---------------------------­Address --------------------------­
City _______ State ___Zip_____ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jackie Joyner-Kersee, Mary Page Keller, Herschel Walker, Jessica Biel 
Happy Birthday: Your precision, dedication and determination to succeed will be a driving force that everyone will want to be a part of. Keep the momentum flowing and do not become immersed in personal problems. If changes need to be made in order to move forward, make them quickly and proceed. Your numbers are 9, 14, 22, 25, 27, 39 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Forget the "poor me" attitude; make new friends and form new relationships. Open your mind to all sorts of possibilities. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may be feeling lucky, but don't take a financial risk. Be conservative and protect your assets. Real estate will be ­profitable. **** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll be in the mood for love, but don't put yourself in too vulnerable a position. Your energy is high and groups you join will welcome your stamina and aggressive action. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get busy making the necessary changes in your life that will make things easier for you at home and at work. If you believe in a cause, get involved by volunteering your time or your services. ***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You're in the spotlight today. Your ability to delegate will give you an air of authority, but don't be too pushy. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may end up having to juggle your bank accounlS if you receive an unexpected expense today. Don't lend or borrow; go it alone and take care of your own financial problems. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Focus on your health and well-being. Rest and don't be afraid to ask for help. Clear up important matters quickly. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A chance to make money will develop, but don't get involved in a joint venture. Invest in yourself and your talent. Today's decision could change your life. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Be careful how you handle loved ones. Travel and learning will be your best outlet. and if you can evade personal issues, do so today.** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You'll relate well to friends and family. Have some fun instead of working all the time. Someone you least expect will be able to help you achieve something that you thought was impossible. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Moneymaking opportunities are present so get moving in that direction. Push for a better position or pick up the skills needed to do what you really want. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may be a little sensitive today, and if you let your emotions take over, you may not recognize the opportunities right in front of you. Don't be blind to what life has to offer you today. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You will be sensitive, in tune with what's going on around you and imaginative in your approach to everything you do. No one should ever be worried about your capabilities. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, 
wnetwork.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Put off, as a motion 6 Life stories, for short 10 Poison ivy symptom 14 Trojan War epic 15 As a twosome, musically 16 Initial stake 17 "Norma Rae" director 19 London privies 20 Extra wager 21 Tennis champ Pete 23 The "L" of L.C.D. 25 • to break it to you, but .. ." 
26 Horticulturist who developed the Shasta daisy 
31 Sky color, in Paris 
32 Terra 33 Noted French Dadaist 37Was 
remunerative 41 Princess topper 43 Writer_ 
Stanley Gardner 44 1965 Roger 
Miller hit 48 In the midst of 50 Group of three 51 A truck may go 
uphill in it 53 ·college" member who votes for president 58 Frist's predecessor as Senate majority leader 59 It may follow 
grade school 
61 Ending for buck 
62 Tennis score 
after deuce 



Monday, March 3, 2003 

BENGAL BOUTS FINALS 
Newburg clinches third Bouts title 
By LUKE BUSAM 
Sports Writer 
Senior captain Shawn Newburg earned his third Bengal Bouts championship with his unanimous decision victory over Jon Valenzuela. 
The fight began slower than both boxers' semifinal matches, 
as Newburg and Valenzuela cir­cled each other and tested dis­tance with a few quick jabs. Newburg patiently picked his punches and held the ring well throughout the round, forcing Valenzuela to the outside. Newburg's right lead hook land­ed a number of times in the first and he scored often with flurries. \ Valenzuela ended the round forcing Newburg to the ropes and connected with a few shots upstairs as Newburg covered up. In round two, Newburg moved well and continued to choose his 
I. 
punches as Valenzuela circled. Newburg bled a bit from Valenzuela's round one flurry and was cleaned up one minute into the second. 
In closing, Newburg stuck his jab well and often added a right hook that nearly always scored. Valenzuela came out aggressive 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Seniors go out with a win as Irish nip Pirates 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame didn't want to lose on Senior Day. 
Katy Flecky simply didn't want to run extra sprints at Monday's practice. 
The sophomore forward deflected a Seton Hall inbounds pass with 3.2 seconds left in the game, got fouled and sank two free throws to lift the Irish to a 62-60 victory over the Pirates Saturday afternoon at the Joyce Center. 
"We have team free throws a lot and we're all nervous to make our shots because we don't want to have to run, so I just didn't want to make myself run," Flecky said. 
Senior Alicia Ratay scored 20 points, including hitting three­of-six 3-pointers, while senior Karen Swanson got her second career start in the last home game of the season for the Irish. 
Notre Dame clinched sixth 
see PIRATES/page 19 

in round three, throwing and landing more than in previous rounds. However, midway through the round Newburg took over again, forcing Valenzuela to two corners and ending the round throwing straight one­twos that elicited almost no reply from Valenzuela. 
140-pound class Hollowell def. Wuest 
Tony Hollowell earned his sec­ond Bouts title even though he had to overcome the significant reach advantage of Bill Wuest. 
Hollowell got under Wuest's long jab early and scored a num­ber of shots to his body in round well. Wuest's jab was mostly ineffective and Hollowell contin­ued to slip and counter well with a powerful right hook to Wuest's ribs. Hollowell ended the round with a nasty hook combo to Wuest's head. 
In round two, Wuest stuck with the jab, throwing five and six punches consecutively at times. Hollowell's right contin­ued to find a score and Wuest failed to wrap up both Hollowell's arms in several clinches. Hollowell's free hand 
see FINALS/page 15 


. Reliable Ratay has always come through in clutch 
Alicia Ratay doesn't show much emotion on the court. 
She may not look like she's having fun during practice or games. 
At times, she doesn't seem inter­ested in basketball at all. 
Butone thing Ratay did do, and something she's been doing her whole career at 
Notre Sports Editor Dame, is knock down 
the clutch shot when the Irish need it the most. Senior Day Saturday against Seton Hall was no different. 

see RATAY/page 19 


MENS BASKETBALL 
HOCKEY 
WOMENS TENNIS 
SOFTBALL

BASEBALL 
MENS LACROSSE 
Rutgers 95 
Friday: 
Notre Dame 6 

Nebraska 7 
Notre Dame 14 
Notre Dame 12 

Notre Dame 82 
W. Michigan 4 
Texas 1 

Penn 5 
Northwestern St 7

Notre Dame 1 
Hot early shooting by 
Notre Dame 2 
The 19th-ranked Irish 

Matt Howell and Matt 
The Irish finish the

Minnesota 8
the Scarlet Knights sunk 
upset the 13th-ranked 

Karweck each scored 
weekend's Louisiana 

Notre Dame 2
the Irish, who were 
Saturday: 
Longhorns at the Eck 
Classic with a 2-2

three goals to lead the 
unable to recover from a 
Notre Dame 5 
Tennis Pavilion during 

Irish over No. 23 Penn. 
record.

Notre Dame 2
24-point first half 
W. Michigan 2 
Saturday's Ace for the 

Wake Forest 1
deficit. 
Cure. 

page 16
page 22 
page 21 
page 16 
page 16
page 22 






