
VOL. XXXVII NO. 81 
Suspects arrested for fall robberies 
By NATASHA GRANT 
News Writer· 
Two suspects were arrested Jan. 22 for· two robberies that took place Sept. 6 and 12 on Notre Dame's South Quad, according to Notre Dame Security Police. Chuck Hurley, assistant director of NDSP, said he is fairly confident that the suspects apprehended are indeed the individuals who com­mitted the robberies. 
"We feel relatively cer­tain that one of the per­sons involved in the rob­bery on Sept. 6 was also involved in the robbery the following week on Sept. 12," said Hurley. Because the suspects are both minors, ages 15 and 16, they are currently being held at the Saint Joseph County Juvenile Justice Center. 
While the victim in the first robbery, which occurred outside Fisher Hall, did not see the sus­pect, the victim in the sec­ond robbery, which took place outside the Rockne Memorial, was able to make an identification of the suspect, said Hurley. 
Both victims reported that their attackers 
see ROBBERY/page 6 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Bar bust nabs over 200 students 

By JASON McFARLEY 

News Writer 
About 200 Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's students were 
caught Friday at The Boat Club 
in a raid instigated months ago 
by complaints about underage 
drinking, police confirmed. 
In all, authorities issued 231 citations to 213 underage patrons, said Lt. Greg Deitchley, spokesman for the District 1 ,,ffice of the Indiana State Excise Police, which oversaw the raid. Each received a minor in a tav­ern citation, and some were tick­eted for owning false identifica­tion. 
While he didn't know an exact number, Deitchley said all but 15 to 20 of the people nabbed in the 12:40 a.m. raid were not Notre Dame or Saint Mary's stu­dents. 
In addition, two Notre Dame students, one male and one female, were arrested for public intoxication and taken to St. Joseph County Jail, police said. Police took the woman to a local hospital where she was treated for possible alcohol poisoning and released Friday morning. 
Notre Dame Security/Police officials, who brought campus phonebooks to the raid, have a complete list of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who were cited. 
The sweep by South Bend, Indiana State and state excise police followed an investigation into complaints two months ago about minors consuming alcohol at the 106 N. Hill St. bar, accord­ing to Deitchley. who said he couldn't disclose who provided the information to police. 
But on campus, the bar was well known as a weekend haven for freshmen and other under­age students. Popular belief was that the bar would never be busted. 

Nevertheless, the Boat Club raid apparently became the biggest to occur at a bar popular among Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. It was likely the largest in city history as well. 
Among student taverns, the Boat Club bust tops the January 1998 raid of Bridget McGuire's Filling Station where police cited 165 underage customers and the October 2000 Finnigan's Irish 


Senator discusses multilateralism 
By TERESA FRALISH Assistant News Editor 
In the post-Cold War and post-Sept. 11 world, U.S. for­eign policy must demonstrate careful judgment and a willing­ness to seek multilateral solu­t i o n s 
through organiza­tions such as the United Nations, said Senator C h u C k Hagel. 


Hagel, Neb.-Hagel R, a two-term Republican senator and member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, spoke at Notre Dame on Friday about the topic "U.S. Foreign Policy: Meeting the Challenges of 
Change." "America gains by working with and empowering our 
allies," said Hagel. 
At the beginning of his talk, the senator focused on the dif­ferences in international poli­tics today as compared to the bipolar world order of the Cold War when the main threat to American security was posed by the Soviet Union. "We devel­oped strategic plans to deal with that [threat]," said Hagel. "We knew who the enemy was." 
In a world with a single superpower, Hagel said the challenge confronting America will involve recognizing and appropriately dealing with the new world order. "The kind of world we live in today is far more complicated. A great test of leadership in world affairs is to understand the dynamics of change," said Hagel. 
Hagel also discussed the new threats civilized societies must confront after the Sept. 11 attacks. "Threats [today] come from transnational cartels and a network of terrorism," he said. In addition to terrorism, the senator warned of the dan­gers presented by failed states and unstable governments. 

In particular. Hagel talked about the situations in Iraq and North Korea and said the United States must carefully consider all policy options and not rush to choose a certain course of action for a particular threat. "[These problems] will not be resolved by regime change in Baghdad," said Hagel. "America must deal with all of these problems at the same time." 
While Hagel agreed that the United States stands as the world's most powerful nation, he said that such a status would not automatically preclude ~uc~ cess in resolving global security issues. "America straddles the globe at the start of the 21st century unrivaled [and] we enter this new century with 

see HAGEL/page 8 
Pub raid that caught 147 minors. A November 1998 raid netted citations for 95 patrons at Irish Connection. 
Traditionally. cited students have faced punishment in court and at school. 
Minor in a tavern is a Class C misdemeanor that carries up to a $500 fine and six months in jail and possible loss of driver's license. But off enders are rarely punished that severely. 
In St. Joseph County, for example, the prosecutor's office has typically offered pretrial diversion to minors charged with consuming alcohol. This mea­sure in the past has prevented the charge from appearing on their record if they paid $220 court fees and completed 40 hours of community service. 

Most of the students involved in the Finnigan's bust received pretrial diversion. 
Out of court, Notre Dame stu­dents have faced further disci­pline. 
The University's student hand-
see BUST/page 6 

Economic slowdown may force cutbacks 
By KEVIN ALLEN News Writer 
An economic downturn and subsequent budget cuts are causing some students to worry about the financial health of the University and the effects those cuts will have on tuition and financial aid. 
These concerns have arisen in the wake of a moratorium on the University's ambitious construction projects. the cancellation of plans to sub­sidize a larger, more com­prehensive health insurance plan for graduate students and a 10 percent loss in the University's endowment dur­ing the 2002 fiscal year. 
According to administra­tors, the University remains 

financiaily sound, but said that students could expect a reduction in spending and a probable increase in tuition in the near future. 
As most students realize, tuition goes up every year and this year will likely be no different. However, accord­ing to Dennis Moore, a spokesperson for the University, the financial situ­ation this year is worse than previous years and the next tuition increase may reflect that. 
Moore also said the tempo­rary freeze on construction plans is the only major step that has been taken so far regarding the University's budget, and that all funding cuts are speculation until the 
see BUDGET/page 8 


INSIDE COLUMN 


Start the 

clock 
What can you do in less than six min­utes? Shower? Walle to class? How about beating Super Mario Bros. for your NES? Impossible you say? Just stop by Keough Hall's Section 2B and tell Chuck, Bill and 
myself that. It is here that 5 minutes and 25 seconds stands as the cur­rent Mario record. 
Students ofNotre Dame, I have a new challenge for you. Dust off your 

old Nintendos and Matt Lozar enter the world of Mario timings, where you need Ed. 
quick wits, faster Sports ltor reflexes and dry palms. It is a world where records and Nintendo con­trollers are shattered. It is a world where there is only one speed, as fast as possible. For those amateurs looking for a shot at the big-time, here are the rules. The clock starts when Mario first appears in Level 1-1 and only stops when the final ax behind Bowser in 8-4 is touched. What happens in-between is up to you. You can use any path or any warp, with the exception of Game Genie. Although any path is legal, for the masters only one true path exists. This path separates the novice from the elite. The one true path, or "Doctrine" as we say, is a precise series of jumps, warps and power-ups developed from experience. In this way we have been able to shave the record down from a snail's pace of 15 minutes to the cur­rent record of 5:25.2, held at the time of printing by myself. The challenge began last year when Chuck brought his NES back from win­ter break. He and Bill were both able to quickly beat the game and challenged the other to see who could beat the game faster. Eventually, the timings began and the legend grew. Chuck's ability to keep his cool and deliver in the clutch became a good match for Bill's erratic but fearless style. I entered the mix as a novice and through their tutelage have become a master, as I currently own the record. At this competitive level ofplay, any mistake can be game-breaking. Since each timing is relatively quick, getting up to reset the NES can become tedious and time-consuming. To alleviate the problem, Chuck invented "The Stick," a three-sided engineer's ruler duct taped to a three-foot long wooden pole. Using The Stick, one can easily reset not only the NES, but the Super NES, Nintendo 64, GameCube, Playstation 2, VCR, DVD Players and TV, as well as fetch remotes along the floor. There it is Notre Dame, the gauntlet has been thrown. At the very worst, you have a new study break during these monotonous early days of the semester. At the very best. you can achieve video game greatness. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matt Lazar at mlozar@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 

CAMPUS WORLD& BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTS
NEWS NATION NEWS. 
Irish mens reflects on 
Comedy group Debating the 
VenezuelaHesburgh 
President 

basketball experiences 
entertains stu­importance of prepares for 
Bush prepares 
defeats with King 
dentsrace-relatednew currencyState of the EaglescontroversiespoliciesUnion address 
The traveling comedy group The The Irish defeat­Columnist MikeThe Venezuelan
F o r m e r Bush is expected Second City enter­ed Boston College Marchand discuss­

government issues 
to discuss the econ­University 
tained students at in Massachusettses some of the
new currencyPresident Theodore 
omy and possible 
Washington Hall 
101-96 in overtimerecent news stories
changes while con­Hesburgh explains 
war in Iraq during on Saturday. 
Saturday. with Martin Luther 
related to race.

fronting masshow he worked 
his speech on 
protests against the King during the 
Tuesday. 

regime. civil rights move­ment. 
page 24page 7 page 10page 5 page 12 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
Tw111 cars collide near Stadium 
. National Diaconate Institute for Continuing Education 
NDSP responded to a two car accident All day at McKenna Hall 
near Moose Krause Circle near Notre Dame 
Stadium Thursday afternoon. No injuries 
were reported. 
. Contemporary Impressions: Art by Native Amerivan Artists 
Injury sustained near Fitzpatrick
All day at the Snitc Museu1n of Art 

Hall · 
A university employee was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a 
. Girl Culture: Lauren Greenfield Photographs 
back injury sustained near Fitzpatrick Hall 
All day at the Snitc Museum of Art 
on Thursday afternoon. 

Car strikes guard arm 
A visitor to campus reported that the gate 
arm on Dorr Road struck his vehicle 
Thursday evening. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 

Intoxicated student sent to hospital 
. Indiana Insitutc on Disability 

NDSP was notified about an intoxicated 8 a.m. at Ilaggar Parlor 
student who was brought to St. Joseph 
Medical Center for treatment Friday after­
noon 

. Semester Around the World Interviews 3 p.m. at Stapleton Lounge 
~ Complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
. Heligoius Studies Dinner 5 p.m. at Noble Family Dining Hall Auditorium 
WHAT'S COOKING 

North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Shrimp spaghetti, Southwestern pasta sauce, tomato pizza, apple turnover, pretzel sticks, walnut plum chicken breast, long grain and wild rice, brown sauce, chicken gravy, whipped potatoes, green beans, cherry crisp, cheddar-baked pollock, vegetable rice casserole, vaked pota­toes, cauliflower 
Today's Dinner: Shrimp spaghetti, Southwestern pasta sauce, tomato pizza, pretzel sticks, apple turnover, roast turkey breast, bread stuffing, brown sauce, turkey gravy, whipped potatoes, asparagus cuts and tips, cher­ry crisp, broccoli quiche, vegetables 

South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Linguine with veg­etables, Puerto Rican pasta sauce, sausage calzones, honey-garlic pork chops, rotisserie chicken, winter-blend vegetables, boulangere potatoes, herb­baked pollock, wild rice pilaf with pine nuts, honey-orange glazed carrots, scalloped corn casserol. tangy grilled chicken sandwiches, steakhouse fries 
Today's Dinner: Puerto Rican pasta sauce, sausage calzones. cauliflower au gratin, zum zum potato salad, grilled ham steak, beef potato pie, parslied potatoes, rice valencienne, lemon-baked perch. Jamaican•jerked pork loin, BBQ chicken, soft pretzels 

Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: grilled hamburger, grilled bratwurst, grilled cheese, french fries. chicken breast teriyaki, vegetable lo mein, peas and carrot, deluxe pizza. cheese pizza, bread sticks, ham salad, sliced beef, sliced turkey. pepper jack cheese. oatmeal raisin cookies, seven layer bars, french onion soup, cream of broccoli soup 
Today's Dinner: Biriyani rice w/ cashews, baked potatoes, broccoli cuts, fettucine pasta toss, sweet potato bis­cuits, tortellini, yankee pot roast, Iyon­naise potatoes, corn and tomatoes, chick­en fajita pizza, cheese pizza, bread sticks, vegetable and cheese chimichanga 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
LI.I
:c 
ti 
LIJ 
~ 



...I
c:c 
(.) 

0

-I HIGH 16 HIGH 19 HIGH 32 HIGH 29 HIGH 28 HIGH 33 LOW 13 LOW 13 LOW 19 LOW 11 LOW 20 LOW 26 
Atlanta 39 / 21 Boston 17 / 0 Chicago 19 / 15 Denver 67 / 34 Houston 57 / 45 Los Angeles 76 / 54 Minneapolis 23 / 18 New York 17 / 4 Philadelphia 18 / 4 Phoenix 80 / 52 Seattle 50 / 40 St. Louis 29 / 25 Tampa 58 / 34 Washington 24 / 12 

Monday, January 27, 2003 The Observer . NEWS page 3 

GOP looks to recruit minorities 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Republicans coming off his­
torically successful midterm 
elections are intent on broad­
ening their party's base by 
recruiting more minority can­
didates to bring a gradual 
change in the complexion of 
their party. 
The most crucial task is to develop more support in the Hispanic community. where President Bush is relatively popular. In the 2002 elec­tions, when the GOP increased its hold on the House and won the Senate, Republicans fared well among Hispanics in New York and Florida while Democrats dominated in the Southwest and West. 
Beyond its control of the White House and both branches of Congress, the party will take its usual finan­cial advantage into the next round of elections. 
National GOP Chairman Marc Racicot told party mem­bers in a recent memo: "The Republican Party starts 2003 in a better political position than at any time in the last 60 years." 
Still, Republican pollster Linda DiVall said she hopes the party has some strong approaches to deal with "the sheer math of the changing demographics in America." 
She warned Republicans after the 1998 midterm elec­tions that they must expand their appeal in minority com­munities to remain competi­tive. Two years later. Bush made that a priority of his campaign, then brought in Racicot to head the Republican National Committee with that as a principal goal. 


Hesburgh reflects on MLK' s achievements 
The urgency of the task was reinforced with recent word that the fast-growing Hispanic population has become the nation's largest minority, sur­passing blacks. 
Party leaders will discuss strategy at the Republican winter meeting in Washington this week. 
"Our outreach [in 2002] provided us inspiration," Racicot said in interview. "That mission is not com­plete." 
"A certain amount of catch­up has to be done." 
The party got a reminder that it has a long way to go at a recent meeting with black conservatives. One of those last election cycle, he said. 

The efforts suffered a set­back late last year when then­Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott of Mississippi appeared to praise retiring South Carolina Sen. Strom Thurmond's 1948 run for president on a segre­gationist platform. Lott left the Senate leadership under pressure, and Tennessee Sen. Bill Frist took the post. 
Republicans say Frist brings the kind of polished approach to conservative GOP politics that Bush wants. 
The president's recent stand against affirmative action at th~ University of Michigan, however. could complicate further t h e 
after the meet­ing: "The longer.., Republican· Party has to 
Armstrong WIiiiams 
realize that it 


conservative
cannot be lily white any longer." 
Racicot point­ed to successes in 2002 diversity on minority support. B u s h s a i d the re are bet­ter tools 

t 0 
achieve campus than 

By HI.MANSHU KOTHARI 
News Writer 
As Notre Dame students commemorated the life and accomplishments of Martin Luther King, Jr. last week, Father Theodore Hesburgh, president of the University during the civil rights move­ment of the 1960s reflected on his experiences with King. 
"We were both working very hard," said Hesburgh of his involvement with King in the 1960s. "I was trying to get the laws passed while at the same time we [Hesburgh and King] worked on opening schools so kids could get educated." 

Rights. 
"One time we met in Chicago," said Hesburgh. "It was a march for housing for and I remember the mayor being very angry with us." 
It was this constant support that Hesburgh gave to King that led to the latter asking the former to do an introduction for his book of sermons. 
Hesburgh also recounted a moving story about the first anniversary of King's death. Martin Luther King, Sr., asked Hesburgh to give the sermon to the black congregation at the church in King's hometown. At the beginning of the service King's father told Hesburgh's that he was the first 
black conserva­"The Republican party GOP' s tives, Armstrong has to realize that it can efforts 
Williams. said to win
not be lily white any 

Hesburgh "We are I 80 degrees Catholic 
recalled how priest to 
away from where we
different soci­enter the
.. 

ety was 40 were. church and years ago, and the first white in particular man to give a

Father Theodore Hesburgh
racial diversi­sermon at the 
fonner University president 
church.
ty at Notre Dame. "A black couldn't a drink from a white fountain, couldn't go swimming, [and] couldn't get a decent education," said the former president. "When I came here [to Notre Dame]. there were no black students [or] teachers workers around." 
Hesburgh's involvement with the civil rights movement began in the 1960's when he joined King in supporting civil rights laws and the movement to end segregation. Hesburgh was one of King's closest friends and associates, and he also served as chairman of the 
U.S. Commission on Civil 
CM~ . ACAPlll.~ . JM\Ak:A BAffAMM . R.CilOA 
Sill TIJPS, , 
EIINWH, ~ GO FREE! cu 

1.800.64L4849 
www.ststrovel.com 
Political sci­
ence profes­

sor Alvin Tillery said Hesburgh's most important work may have occured after the assassination of King. 
"His most important work came at the end of the period when he was appointed the chairman of the [U.S.] Commission on Civil Rights," said Tillery. "(He] held the fort in making sure that President Nixon continued to take efforts to redressing the harms that 350 years of slavery and sec­ond class citizenship had exacted against the black Americans." 
Hesburgh feels that his work with the civil rights issue has brought results, but said that more work is needed. 
"We are 180 degrees away from where we. were," said Hesburgh. "The best way to commemorate [King's] legacy is to work hard to get more tal­ented black students in our community:" 
Contact Himansu Kothari at hkothari@nd.edu 
including the election of black lieutenant governors Michael Steele in Maryland and Jennette Bradley in Ohio. Michael Williams, a black Republican, was elected to head the Texas Railroad Commission. 
"We need to reach further," Racicot said. "We need to recruit earlier and at every level. We want to recruit them to school boards, legislatures, county governments." 
Republicans must do a bet­ter job of going into minority neighborhoods to build alliances and recruit support, which the GOP initiated in the race-based quotas, which he alleged the Michigan plan used. 

Republicans must support the cities' financial needs to build support in urban areas, outgoing Connecticut GOP Chairman Chris DePino said. Offering cities federal finan­cial help could win support among minorities, he said. 
Republicans are counting heavily on the continued pop­ularity of the president. His policies on tax cuts and Iraq are facing increased skepti­cism, however, although sup­port remains strong for him personally and for the admin-

Do you want to be Dlore than just a player in the world's 
LARGEST AND BEST 


5 on 5 basketball tournaJDent? 
Fill out an application to be a Bookstore Basketball Commissioner. Applications are available starting January 21st and are due January 31st. Applications can be picked up and returned to the Student Activities Office (315 Lafortune) or the Club Resource Center (314 LaFortune). 
Hey Sophomores!! 
Come work Junior Parents Weekend (February 14-16) 
. Get Paid in Cash! 
. 
Pick your own schedule! 

. 
Work with your friends! 


Informational Meeting Tuesday, January 28th at 7:00 pm in the Sorin Room of Lafortune. Please bring times available to work. There are only a limited number ofshifts available 

Questions? Contact: Sbates@nd.edu or Kwebster@.nd.edu 
Monday, January 27, 2003 
SMC presents diversity series 

By ALLISON ROCHE News Writer 
Saint Mary's students had a chance to experience multicul­turalism in a new way at Friday night's presentation of "Faces of America," a series of dialogues performed by various characters representing different minorities in the United States. The presen­tation, held in the Moreau Little Theater, told the stories of seven diverse characters all performed by the same actress. 
The show began with an intro­duction recounting Christopher Columbus's "discovery" of an already inhabited land and the ensuing attempt by the Spanish to impose their culture on the native people. 
The first monologue told the story of a "happa" girl, meaning half-Japanese and half­Hungarian, from Las Vegas. She told the audience that she learned to value her ethnicity by learning her grandfather's story about being held prisoner in a Japanese internment camp dur­ing World War II. 
The other characters included a Chicano living in the gang cul­ture of East Los Angeles, an East Indian college student raped by white classmates and a well­educated African-American male struggling with the stereo­types surrounding him. 
The basic theme expressed in each monologue was the unity present among the great diversi­ty of American culture. 
Fran de Leon, the show's sin­gle performer, is also one of its co-creators. She said that the show is a product of research done with 60 people from across the United States. 
"Some characters are straight from one individual, others are an amalgamation of different people's experiences," de Leon said. 

De Leon wrote "Faces of America" along with Colin Cox in 1995. The show has now been performed about 500 times for universities, corporations and communities across the country since its creation. 
The positive feedback "Faces of America" has received prompted the creators to write another one person show called ''American Voices," which deals more with issues of religious and sexual diversity. 
"Theatre is means for social change," said de Leon. "At the same time you entertain. you can also educate." 
"Faces of America" was the second installment in the Office of Special Events' "Citizens of the World" series and was also sponsored by Student Activities. 
Contact Allison Roche at Roch0584@saintmarys.edu 
Mexican infant deaths spark nation-wide protest 
said about the death of his son On Tuesday, Indians in the has. "I asked for a glass of water,
Associated Press 
Jose and the others. "We want mountain town of Las Nine months into her preg­but they just ignored me," she 
Alberto Perez was devastated an explanation that is clear Margaritas, 25 miles east of nancy, she went to the clinic in said. I asked for a clean gown when his baby boy died at and makes sense." Comitan, seized their local Las Margaritas complaining of because the one I had was Comitan's hospital. He soon A preliminary investigation clinic and demanded better sharp pains, but was told to go dirty, but they told me to wait found out he was not alone. found no signs of an epidemic access to doctors and medi­home. When the contractions for the next shift." 
"Your baby died too?" some­or virus only desperate poverty cine. didn't stop, she was sent to Other parents have similar one in the waiting room asked. and a rudimentary health sys­"If a baby is born here, it is Comitan, where she gave birth complaints. They said there 
"Did you hear about the tem. born sick," Carmelina Aguilar to a little girl. The baby died were no doctors over twins?" another parent piped Located 40 miles from the said hours after she and three days later, on Dec. 17. Christmas, when many of the in. border with Guatemala, dozens of others agreed to Sitting in her wooden shack babies became sick and died. 
Before long, 13 families were Comitan's hospital has fewer leave the clinic in return for wallpapered with newspapers And they said staff members united in grief and anger over than 500 employees while talks with authorities. "The to keep out the cold, Cruz com­ate Christmas dinner and the deaths of infants at the serving nearly a half million same thing that happened in plained that the hospital staff opened presents in the neona­small hospital. And when they people, mostly rural Indians Comitan is going to happen treated her poorly, serving her tal unit, next to their children's went as a group to the prose­who have to travel hours by here." breakfast with a cockroach in incubators. cutor's office to see about filing foot or bus to get even basic For Irma Cruz, it already the food. Raul Belmonte, the dismissed 
charges, they found 12 more care. families doing the same. The region is one of Mexico's 
Inadequate health r:1re has poorest, and has always suf­long been a fact c :· !1fe in the fered from a higher infant neediest regions u'~ Mexico and mortality rate than the nation­other developing countries, a al rate of 3 percent. Residents condition stoically accepted by rely on herbal medicine, mid­the poor. But the anger that wives and even witchcraft in boiled over in Comitan has trying to stay healthy. touched a nerve in Mexico, set­Infant deaths are even worse ting off a national media furor, in Africa and parts of Asia. In an official investigation and the southern African nation of demands for better care across Mozambique, for example, 13 the country. percent of all infants died at 
Health officials say the 26 birth in 1999, four times infant deaths in December Mexico's rate. were twice the usual number But the deaths in Comitan for the hospital in this south­have shaken many Mexicans ern town. Officials removed the into speaking out. top two administrators. have In the central city of exhumed almost all the babies' Queretaro, lawmaker Enrique bodies for tests, and are not Becerra is denouncing the ruling out criminal charges. deaths of 24 babies in October 
"We want the truth," Perez at a maternity hospital there. 

Faith at Work in the Latino Community: a symposium featuring leading scholars and activists 
-:1..s1U1w stwlits 
..... '.......·.•.·.·.· .... •·.·.·.·.·· 
]«ff((l1C-»¥<"t'V (;I:+' ~h""«.-l)-JC.,.. 
)'<· 
eIT'S A 27-MONTH COMMITMENT 
• 
YOU EARN A MONTHLY STIPEND WHILE AWAY 

• 
HEALTH INSURANCE IS PAID FOR 

• 
AT END OF SERVICE, YOU'RE GIVEN s6,ooo 

• 
UPON COMPLETION, YOU HAVE 1•YR, ENHANCED HIRING STATUS FOR FEDERAL GOV'T JOBS 


Join us for a meeting where you will learn more about the Peace Corps: Wednesday,Jan. 2.9, 6 p.m. Center for Social Concerns 

Monday, January 27, 2003, 2:00 pm 6:oo pm 
McKenna Hall Auditorium, University of Notre Dame 
Keynote Speaker, James Towey, Director of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community 

Want to interview to join the Peace Corps? 
INTERVIEW ON CAMPUS FEB. 13. SCHEDULE THROUGH CAREER SERVICES' GO IRISH WEB SITE AFTER FEB. 2. AN APPLICATION MUST BE 
www.peacecoms.2ov SUBMITTED BY fEB. 7 TO INTERVIEW. 
Initiatives 


Monday, January 27, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Bush plans to confront economic doubts in State of the Union 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

As war talk intensified, President Bush on Sunday rehearsed a State of the Union speech that is meant to con­front Americans' doubts about an attack on Iraq and to sell his plans for new tax cuts and a Medicare overhaul. 
Bush attended church and jogged Sunday morning, then spent time practicing the address with confidant Karen Hughes. He had no public appearances scheduled, giving himself plenty of time to pre­pare for the Tuesday night speech. 
But Monday was sure to be a landmark date in Bush's delib­erations on whether to attack Iraq: U.N. weapons inspectors were to turn over their report on whether Iraq has cooperat­ed adequately. The president's communications director, Dan Bartlett, called submission of the report the start of "this last phase" in the showdown between the United States and Iraq. 
White House officials have sought to play down expecta­tions that the inspections might turn up hard evidence Iraq maintains stockpiles of weapons of mass destruction, a message they brought to the airwaves again Sunday. "I think the real headline is, no proof that Saddam Hussein is 
complying with the United 
Nations in disarming,"White 
House chief of staff Andrew 
Card said on NBC's "Meet the 
Press." 
Amir al-Saadi, the Iraqi pres­ident's science adviser, said over the weekend that Iraq has cooperated fully, but that an invasion appeared inevitable, no matter what Baghdad does. 
Bush's challenge in persuad­ing the public of the need for war was underlined in recent polls. 
More than half -53 percent -responding to a poll by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press said the president has not yet explained clearly what is at stake to justi­fy war. 
With opposition growing overseas, the president will seek to project unity Friday at Camp David with his staunchest ally, British Prime Minister Tony Blair. 
Yet Blair faces a challenge persuading his own public of the wisdom of war. 
Opinion surveys show that support for military action against Iraq is at its lowest level ever among the British public. 
In the United States, the pub­lic has grown increasingly skeptical about Bush's han­dling of the economy. with 44 percent approving of his eco­nomic stewardship and 49 per­cent disapproving in an NBC­Wall Street Journal poll. 


President George Bush discusses the details of his upcoming State of the Union address with advi­sors. Bush Is expected to discuss his plans for the economy and Iraq In the speech on Tuesday. 
Only 35 percent in that poll ing the economy, adding to Medicare. said they expect Bush's $674 Bush's challenge on Tuesday He will also announce new billion, 10-year stimulus plan night. Bush will also use the initiatives and federal spending -most of that committed to speech to reiterate his long• to help the needy, by working tax cuts -will be very effec­standing goal of adding a pre­through community and reli­tive or "fairly effective"at help-scription drug benefit to gious groups. 
BRAZIL 
Forum crowd welcomes Venezuela's Hugo Chavez 
Associated Press 
PORTO ALEGRE 

Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez criticized his opponents Sunday after arriving at the World Social Forum to meet with sympathizers among the 100,000 activists gathered to protest American style capitalism. Chavez, who left his country despite a 56-day general strike, lashed out at Venezuelan opposition leaders. pre­dicting they would fail in their bid to oust him from power. 
"Our struggle against the terrorists 
and fascists has further strengthened the will of the Venezuelan people," Chavez said after arriving at this far southern Brazilian port city. "It is one thing to try to get rid of me, and another thing to succeed. I have the popularity to remain in power." Although Chavez wasn't formally invited to the World Social Forum, a counter-conference to the World Economic Forum being held in Davos, Switzerland, he was attending some events. 
The social forum has shunned gov­ernment leaders in the past but this year welcomed Brazil's new leftist president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, as a keynote speaker. 

One of the forum's founders, Oded Graj ew. said organizers weren't embarrassed by Chavez' decision to come, but warned the Venezuelan leader not to use the event for self­promotion. 
"He will get no sympathy from any­one at the forum if he uses it to capi­talize for his own benefit.said Grajew. 
Activists at the six-day social forum are participating in 1,700 sessions and workshops on topics ranging from corporate misdeeds to Third World debt. 
Also Sunday, an unidentified woman threw a strawberry cake in the face of Jose Genoino, the president of Silva's Workers Party, yelling "Lula does not represent us in Davos." 
Silva, who is popularly known as Lula, was criticized by some for going to the economic forum after attending the social forum. 
The woman left a statement saying she belonged to a group called "Bakers Without Borders" before flee­ing. Genoino called the incident an "act of anarchists," according to Brazil's GloboNews television net­work. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. spy plane crashes in South Korea: 
An American U-2 spy plane crashed Sunday in South Korea, injuring three people on the ground. The Air Force pilot ejected safely. The U-2 pilot was taken to a hospital at a U.S. base in Osan, about 30 miles southeast of Seoul, where he was treated for minor injuries, Air Force spokeswoman Lt. Toni Tones said. The crash comes amid rising anti­American sentiment in South Korea following the acquittals in a U.S. military court of two Army sol­diers whose vehicle hit and killed two local school­girls in June. 
French embassy attacked on Ivory Coast: 
Loyalist mobs, enraged by a French-brokered peace deal they say gives too much power to Ivory Coast rebels, attacked the French embassy and army base Sunday and beat foreigners. President Laurent Gbagbo urged his people to accept the agreement for ending the four-month insurgency. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Columbine survivor dies in crash: 
One of the victims in the deadly crash of two small planes over Denver was a survivor of the 1999 Columbine High School massacre. On Friday, Ladd was piloting a single-engine Cessna bound for Cheyenne, Wyo., with two friends aboard when the plane collided with a twin-engine Piper and both plummeted into a residential neighborhood. All five people in the two planes died. 
Klan chief faces murder charges: 
The grand dragon of a Ku Klux Klan group and the wife of a Klan leader in federal custody were among four people charged with murder in the killing of an unidentified man two years ago, authorities said Saturday. According to a search warrant from the State Bureau of Investigation, a witness led authori­ties to the body and told them members of at least two Ku Klux Klan organizations were involved in the shooting. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
New virus attacks Microsoft software: 
The latest virus-like attack on the Internet exposes more than a software flaw: The ver~1 strategy man­agers of computer networks typically adopt for security has proven inadequate. The worm that crippled tens of thousands of computers worldwide, congested the network for countless others and even disabled Bank of America cash machines Saturday took advantage of a vulnerability in some Microsoft software that had been discovered in July. 
Law protecting fetuses upheld: 
A judge has upheld murder charges against a woman accused of killing the fetus of a romantic rival. rejecting defense arguments that Pennsylvania's fetal homicide law conflicts with abortion rights. But Erie County Judge John Trucilla ruled Friday that although a pregnant woman can choose to have an abortion, she has no choice in an attack that kills her unborn child. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Bust 
continued from page I 
book, du Lac, says students who break, local, state or federal laws may be subject to disciplinary action by the school. Following past bar raids, University punish­ment has included a combination of community service and fines. Most of the Notre Dame students ticketed at Finnigan's received $100 fines from the University. 
Saint Mary's handbook, on the other hand, bars officials from imposing sanctions for off-campus offenses; thus students have faced only legal reprimand. 
As for Boat Club, it may be in legal hot water itself. 
Police expect to forward their report on the raid to the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission by Tuesday, said Deitchley, of the state excise police. 
Serving alcohol to minors is a Class C misdemeanor. Bartenders face loss of their permit, while bar owners are subject to loss of their liquor license and fines up to $1,000 per offense. 
Bridget McGuires and Irish Connection lost their liquor licens­es. The latter went out of busi­ness, while the former now oper­ates as the coffee shop Molly McGuire's. 
The prosecutor in the Finnigan's case offered a deal that allowed the bar's owners to escape severe penalties if they paid a fine and sold their liquor license to new owners. The bar is now called The Library. 
The Boat Club was a popular destination for students on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights. Between 200 and 300 peo­
ple were inside the bar at the 
time of the raid, police said. 
Police shut down the bar. sealed off exits and for more than two hours ticketed underage cus­tomers inside the two-story build­ing. Deitchley said students were surprisingly cooperative with police. 
Word of the bust spread quickly around campus, as students at the bar used cell phones to call friends. Many students braved below-freezing temperatures and rushed to the bar to witness the action. 
As buzz about the bust contin­ued around campus Friday, the student-run Web site ndtoday.com jokingly declared it "a day that will live in infamy." 
"I never thought the day would happen," said senior Dan Good, a regular patron of the club, "but with 20/20 hindsight, Chad Sharon and the mugging last week, we should have known." 
Sharon, a Notre Dame fresh­man, has been missing since he disappeared following a Dec. 12 house party on Corby Boulevard. 
Another Notre Dame freshman reported this week to South Bend police that he was mugged Jan. 17 while walking home alone from The Boat Club. 
In the wake of those events, many students speculated that the raid was tied to school and city officials' concerns about student safety. But police said they were acting on complaints of underage drinking that preceded both Sharon's disappearance and the alleged mugging. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu 

Robbery 
continued from page 1 
demanded money from them. 
Hurley said that NDSP presented the cases to the prosecutor's office, where charges were received and arrests made Wednesday. Though NDSP has investi­gated both individuals since last fall, the suspects have just now been arrested and charged because police needed a warrant to arrest the two men, which had to be authorized by the prose­cutor's office. 
The reason for the delay in charging the suspects, according to Hurley. was likely the change of county prosecutors that occurred after the November elec­tions when former prosecu­tor Christopher Toth was 
voted  out  of  office  and  
replaced  by  Michael  
Dvorak.  

"The case was presented to the prosecutor's office last November," said Hurley. "When the new prosecutor came in last November they reviewed 
that case and charges were filed. The current prosecu­tor gave us the authority to make the arrests." 
Both suspects were charged with a class C felony. Whether or not the case goes to trial will depend on the cooperation of the suspects and the plea that each enters. Hearing dates for both suspects have not yet been set, Hurley said. 
Contact Natasha Grant at ngrant@nd.edu 
Bowl advertisers aim for humor 
Associated Press 
Advertising's auteurs kept it quirky on Super Bowl Sunday, with humor a prime ingredient in most commer­cials as Americans weary of war talk and a gloomy econo­my were given a chance to chuckle. 
Brokerage Charles Schwab noted the fear of Wall Street's three years of declines, offering a man sprinting through his neigh­borhood, pursued by an unseen foe. The man is final­ly cornered in a backyard by the mail carrier -delivering a brokerage statement. 
TV's newest favorite family, the Osbournes. showed up in an ad for Pepsi with Ozzy Osbourne having a nightmare that his children had turned into Donny and Marie Osmond and his wife into Florence Henderson of "The Brady Bunch." 
Around the ads, Tampa Bay won its first Super Bowl, 48-21. The splashiest com­mercials typically air earlier in the game, which fit well with listless offense through much of the first half. 
The game's biggest ad buyer, Anheuser-Busch, tweaked pro football's review rule and the league's trou­bled officiating this season with a zebra pulling referee duty during a game between horses. The ad aired, coinci­dentally, right before the Tampa Bay Buccaneers chal­lenged a turnover call and had it reversed. 
Super Bowl commercials 
are traditionally among the most coveted and prestigious in the advertising world, with a television audience topping 100 million people and few channel surfers. The night offers advertisers a forum for exhibiting their skills, and reach a wide, diverse group of people-. some of whom watch solely for the ads. 
This year's 30-second slots sold for between $2.1 million and $2.2 million, about 10 percen·t more expensive than last year. For the second con­secutive year, Anheuser­Busch was the game's largest advertiser, with 11 spots. 
About 40 percent of the game's ad spots were bought by four advertising behe­moths, Anheuser-Busch, General Motors Corp., Sony and PepsiCo. 
Student Schedule 
C 
24-JAN-03 at 13:03 
Term: 2022 Class Level: First Year School: College of Life Major(s): Undecided 


Degree: Bachelor of Arts 
Call # Course Sec Title Cr Where 
5523 MATH105 01 Elements of Cale. 3.0 DBRT 205 4215 ANTH201 01 Cultures & People 3.0 OSHA205 3679 PHIL201 01 Intro. to Philosophy 3.0 DBRT 119 
0000 THEOl0l (Emmaus) 00 UND MTWHFSatSun 24-7 
/ 

)lodJ tPOrd aftl'i )loti~J fJt..0/t/
JifLYe, ¥~ ~ /:,;mt.. for t,mmtJW J ~ J-/elp... 
Find out more: Drop by ''Office Hours'' 

Monday, Jan. 27, 5-Spm Coleman Morse Welcome Ctr. rm.111 
ask questions or join a group 

Comilumitics of Faith Sharing and Scripture Study 


O
THE 

BSERVER 

Monday, January 27, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch January 24 
DowJones 

8,131.01  lijL NASDAQ  -238.46  
1,342.14  ' S&P5fXJ  -46.13  
861.40  
 -25.94  
AMEX  
815.84 4,880.19  ' NYSE •  -6.22 -115.47  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NORTEL NETWJRKS (NT) +7.50 +0.18 2.58 
~~p.lQW:~e1:n,:~~,?f~~1~:?!i~~!!0~!'~i~1~~~:!~:'.:~~!'.~:¥~l 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -5.00 -0.73 13.86 
~i11;::,11i:~~::~r1:iii~1,11:i:~11t,~~~::1~i11.:w1~i1$.~l~1i11i:~ii 
SPDR TRUST SER (SPY) -2.63 -2.33 86.38 
• 

IN BRIEF 
New lawsuit attacks light cigarettes 
Sharon Price switched from smoking regu­lar cigarettes to brands labeled "light" when she was pregnant in the 1970s. "I knew the better choice was to quit, but I thought I was reducing my risk," the pack-a-day smoker said. Now 52, Price is among the plaintiffs in a class-action lawsuit accusing Philip Morris Cos .• maker of Marlboro Lights and Cambridge Lights cigarettes, of wrongly lead­ing customers to believe the "light" brands are less harmful than regular cigarettes. Unlike many other high-profile cigarette­related lawsuits, the members of the class aren't claiming that smoking made them sick; their argument is that they were tricked by the company. 
Virus infects 39,000 computers 
A fast-spreading, virus-like infection dra­matically slowed Internet traffic, overwhelm­ing the world's digital pipelines and interfer­ing with Web browsing and e-mail delivery. Sites monitoring the health of the Internet on Saturday reported detecting at least 39,000 infected computers, which transmitted floods of spurious signals disrupting hundreds of thousands of other systems worldwide. Monitors reported significant slowdowns, although recovery efforts appeared to be suc­ceeding. 
New cigarettes offer less nicotine 
The first tobacco CEO to acknowledge smoking is addictive is offering a new ciga­rette made with genetically modified tobac­co that lets smokers choose their level of nicotine. Vector Tobacco Inc, based in North Carolina, stops short of marketing its Quest cigarettes as a smoking cessation product ­a claim that could draw the regulatory attention of the Food and Drug Administration. The cigarettes are, howev­er, designed to allow smokers to cut back on nicotine, the addictive element in tobac­co. 
VENEZUELA 

New currency controls persist 
. Protest erupts along highway 
Associated Press 
CARACAS 
Venezuelans awaited 
details of new currency 
controls, while protesters 
continued to press for the 
ouster of President Hugo 
Chavez in a nearly two­
month-long strike that has 
severely hampered the 
economy, although oil pro­
duction was slowly increas­
ing. 
Chavez last week sus­
pended foreign currency 
dealings through Tuesday 
and said he would 
announce new currency 
controls to halt the rush of 
nervous Venezuelans trad­
ing in their currency, the 
bolivar, for dollars. 
Details about the new 
controls and even when 
they will be announced 
have not been revealed, but 
there are fears that the gov­
ernment will largely limit 
the availability of dollars to 
Chavez supporters while 
cutting off those taking part 
in the strike, which began 
Dec. 2. 
Production and Commerce Minister Ramon Rosales was quoted as say­ing by the El Nacional newspaper that importers and exporters who do not back the crippling strike will get priority for access to dollars. 
That would drive many businessmen to a new but flourishing black market for the American currency, sending already-rising prices even higher. 
Rosales also said dollars will be guaranteed for food and raw materials for agri­culture, health and educa­tion. 
Chavez has given no hints about the controls, although he said Sunday he will soon propose a tax on all finan­cial transactions in Venezuela. He did not give more details but said Venezuela's dollar-based reserves dropped $3 billion in December and January. 


Meanwhile, a demonstra­tion on a central Caracas highway continued Sunday morning after thousands spent the night on the asphalt to protest a Supreme Court decision indefinitely suspending a Feb. 2 referendum to ask Venezuelans whether Chavez should resign. 
Tens of thousands pro­testers danced to salsa music blaring from massive loudspeakers as countless red, blue and yellow nation­al flags fluttered in the wind. 
The loosely grouped opposition is trying to recover from the blow of the Supreme Court ruling. The president's opponents had gathered 2 million sig­natures to petition for the vote and launched the strike and daily street protests. Six people have been killed in protests since the strike began. 
Although the referendum wouldn't have been bind­ing, opponents had hoped a negative outcome would have embarrassed Chavez into quitting. 
Searching for a new strat­egy, the opposition Democratic Coordinator movement was gathering signatures to demand a constitutional amendment that would pave the way for early elections. The amend­ment would involve cutting Chavez's six-year term, cur­rently due to run until 2006, to four. 

Amending the constitu­tion requires a popular ref­erendum. Citizens can demand such a vote by col­lecting signatures from 15 percent of Venezuela's 12 million registered voters. 
Chavez harshly criticized his opponents Sunday after arriving in Porto Alegre, Brazil, for the World Social Forum, where he was to meet with sympathizers among the 100,000 activists gathered in the southern port city to protest American-style capitalism. 
..Our struggle against the terrorists and fascists has further strengthened the will of the Venezuelan peo­ple," Chavez said at the air­port. 
TAIWAN 

Plane completes 1st trip to China 
Associated Press 
TAIPEI 
Taiwan's biggest airline completed the island's first commercial flight to China in more than five decades Sunday, a journey many hoped would build trust and ease tensions between the rivals split by civil war. 
The purple and white China Airlines jumbo jet flew to Shanghai, by way of Hong Kong, to pick up 243 Taiwanese passengers returning home for the weeklong Chinese New Year -the most important holiday for many Chinese people. 

About four hours after leaving Shanghai, the Boeing 7 4 7-400 touched down in Taipei after a 30­minute stop in Hong Kong. A long line of reporters, officials and law­makers greeted the passengers, most of whom were business travelers working in Shanghai. 
After stepping off the plane, elec­tronics salesman Gary Kao hugged his wife and said that the special hol­iday flight shaved a couple hours off his trip -which normally involves changing planes in Hong Kong and 
frequent delays. "Today, I can even get home in time for dinner," he said. 
Kao was optimistic that the flight would lead to better ties between Taiwan and China. "This is a great opportunity to improve trust and have more stable relations," he said. 
All six of Taiwan's major airlines have been allowed to fly the holiday charter flights several times a week through Feb. 9. But each flight must stop in Hong Kong or Macau on the way to and from China, according to Taiwanese regulations. 
,I 
Hagel 
continued from page 1 
confidence and promise," he said. 
However, Hagel explained that America's military and economic strength alone would not be suf­ficient to bring about lasting res­olutions to global problems ...We cannot solve completely all the problems of the world," the sen­ator said. "We 
rush to judgment. "America must not fear making difficult decisions, including the decision for war," said Hagel. "We must be patient and exercise mature judgment." 
The senator, a Vietnam War combat veteran, also reflected on the lessons that America's involvement in Vietnam carries for foreign policy making today. "Because of my experiences in Vietnam I know that war brings uncertainty." said Hagel. "The 
burden on 
can do more, but policy mak­
..We can do more but we 
we can not do it ers is to be 
alone." can not do it alone. ,. wise and In particular, judicious. To the United States misread or
Chuck Hagel
must not adopt a overlook the
U.S. Senator
unilateralist poli­cy approach without first con­sidering other options, said Hagel. "This line of thinking is questionable and very chancy." he said. 
The senator stressed the importance of resolving global problems through regional and international organizations, such as the United Nations and NATO. 
As part of this approach, Hagel praised President Bush for working through the United Nations in the administration's attempts to disarm Iraqi presi­dent Saddam Hussein. "[The Bush policy] represents the most responsible and expeditious means to end the threat in Iraq," he said. 
Hagel said the United States must be ready for war if such an option is necessary. but should consider carefully all possible resolutions and not exhibit a 
Budget 
continued from page I 
Board of Trustees makes final decisions about next year's budget at their meeting in early February. 
"People on campus are already aware that 
things are "People on campus are Moore said the 
going to be already aware that University may trimmed consider chang­
things are going to be
back," said ing its invest• 
Moore. trimmed back." 
ment strategies, "Everyone is but that is not looking for necessarily a
Dennis Moore 
ways to econ­result of the
University spokesperson
omize, but 
the situation is not so dra­conian that we'd have to cut research projects and things like that." 
Students can also depend on funding for their financial aid packages to remain stable, said officials. "Financial aid policies employed for this year will remain in tact for this year and next year." said Joe Russo, director of financial aid. 
Russo concedes that other resources may need to be uti­lized in order to maintain the current level of financial aid. The goal of the financial aid office is always to maintain. if not improve, the level of finan­cial aid that students receive, said Russo. 
lessons of 
history 
dooms us to 
repeat." 
T h e Vietnam conflict, arguably the only war the United States has ever lost, eventually developed into a quagmire from which the United States could not extricate itself, despite superior military power, explained Hagel. 
The senator cautioned against becoming involved in foreign nations with similar characteris­tics to Vietnam. In particular, Hagel discussed the problem of Iraq and the possible advantages and difficulties that military involvement in that country would pose. 
"If the president decides to use force to disarm Saddam Hussein we do not know what will fol­low," he said. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
"That's an indication of the high priority the administration has for financial aid for stu­dents,.. he said. 
Long-term decisions about financial aid will be made at the February Board of Trustees meeting. 
After losing 10 percent of the University's endowment, which 
currently totals 
$2.55 billion, 
declining 
endowment. 
"Investment strategies are always fluid, in good times and in bad," he said. "The University has a very diverse portfolio and we use many different fund man­agers." 
A drop in donations has also impacted the University's eco­nomic situation. Overall giving to colleges and universities decreased last year for the first time since 197 5. and many academic institutions have been forced to cut costs and layoff employees. 
Contact Kevin Allen at kallen@nd.edu 

President prepares drug plan 
Associated Press 
The thousands of beneficia­ries who participate in tradi­tional Medicare would be unable to get prescription drug coverage being consid­ered by President Bush unless they enrolled in pri­vate plans. 
The administration is readying a proposal to 
offer the "It's exactly the opposite address to into their own pockets for prescrip­of what seniors want and health care, thousands of dollars a year tion drug and outline for prescription drugs. 
need...

benefits h i s Rep. Pete Stark, D-Calif., and cata-Medicare said the plan "leaves no strophic ill­Senator Tom Daschle p l a n doubt: he [Bush] wants to end 
ness cover­Senate Minority Leader Wednesday Medicare as we know it." 
age to seniors for the first time as an inducement to leave the tra­ditional fee.for•service Medicare program and join private but government-sub­sidiz e d health care plans, according to officials working on the plan with President Bush. 
The majority of seniors ­85 percent -are in the tra­ditional Medicare program, which would still be available but without the new benefits. Medicare currently has a pro­gram where seniors can enroll in HMOs. However, it has been criticized because the private companies have abandoned thousands of Medicare patients as they fled many areas, complaining that the costs were too high. 
The proposal is similar to plans pushed by Republicans last year. The Republican­controlled House passed a $ 350 billion. 10-year Medicare proposal that would have allowed private insurers to administer the Medicare benefit. A similar plan stalled in the then-Democratic con­trolled Senate. 
Republicans have said they hope to enact a plan this year, now that the GOP con­trols the House. Senate and White House. 
President Bush is expected to devote part of Tuesday's 
State of the 
U n i o n 
patients." 

"It's exactly the opposite of what seniors want and need," Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., said in a statement. "The president should go back to the draw­ing board, scrap his HMO drug plan, and write a Medicare drug plan." 
Both Republican plans last year and the vVhite House proposal would leave many seniors still having to reach 
i n Stark is the top Democrat on Michigan. the House Ways and Means F i n a 1 Committee's health panel, details, which oversees Medicare. 
however, are not expected Officials at AARP. the until later. nation's largest senior citizen 
Without providing specifics, lobby, expressed concern, White House press secretary saying the traditional Ari Fleischer said Bush Medicare program should "believes that seniors deserve carry a drug benefit. more choices and more "We feel strongly that there options in their health care needs to be a drug benefit for 
plans."  everyone  
Democrats immediately attacked the  "We feel strongly that there needs to be a drug  regardless of which part of the  
proposal, which was  benefit for everyone ...  system they're  
first reported by The New  John Rother  in," said J o h n  
York Times.  AARP director of policy and  Rother,  
S e n . Edward  strategy  t h e group's  
Kennedy, D- director of  

Mass., the top Democrat on policy and strategy. "People the Senate's Health, for good reasons want to stay Education and Labor with their current Medicare Committee, called it "a bla­program. They should have tant move to privatize something meaningful in Medicare for the benefit of terms of drug coverage. They HMOs and powerful insur­should not be left completely ance companies -not bare." 
Feeling SAD? We l\itay Know Why! 
Have vou felt do,n1 more than usual lately? Arc you having difficulty performing what ar~ usually simple activities? Could it be the winter that is causing these probleins? Yes!!! 
Approximately IO million Americans suffer from Seasonal Affective Disorder 
S.A.D. is a form of depression that occurs during the ,vintcr months \\hen the amount of daylight is reduced, resulting in light deficiency. . 
As humans. we need sunlight in order to advance the production of the neurotransmitter serotonin, which is essential for our well being. Also. sunlight regulates melatonin, the chemical that is responsible for normal sleep pattcn1s. Thus, it is not surprising that the symptoms of S.A.D. include depression and a disruptive sleep pattcn1 (not being able to sleep well at night and drowsy all day). In addition, overeating. craYings for carbohydrates and sweets, lack of energy. problems concentrating. desire to avoid social contact. and inability to make decisions arc all symptoms of S.A. D 
The individuals most susceptible to suffer from S.A.D. arc women between the ages of twent\' and fort\' ,vhosc families have a history of S A.O. and \\ho live in northern latitude~ (that m~ans South Bend), where the days are shorter. 
For individuals experiencing S.A.D., light therapy has proven to be the best cure. Light therapy involves sitting in front of a light box for anywhere from thirty minutes to nvo hours a dav. The light is taken in through the retina of the eye that then transmits impulses· to the brain, promoting healthy serotonin and melatonin levels. Sitting in front of a light box is equivalent to sitting out in the sun on a clear spring dav. 
if vou are interested in learning more about S.A.D. and light therapy come to the Rec ·sports Center on Friday, January 3 I st an~time from 3-4PM. During this time. there will be a demonstration ofa light box and you can enter in a raffle for a chance to win either a light box valued at $169.00, CD's. or full-spectrum light bulbs. If you believe that vou are suffering from S.A.D. you can contact the Counseling Center. There are st~ff members who are trained to assess and treat mood and affective disorders. Any student can call and talk on the telephone with the counselor on call or schedule an appointment with any ofthe staff. A 
The information in this article was found at the follov.ing websites: )~ 
http://www.nimr.mcr.ac.uk/MillHillEssays/l997/sad.htm. http://www.msnbc.com/nev,;s/362592.asp?cp l =l. http://www.lighttherap\products.com/sadinfo.html 
http://www.sada.org.uk/sYmptoms.htm. · T)BWELL2@ND 


.EDU L°'.:.':.~~~.a-•_-_.-_ __, 


Monday, January 27, 2003 page 9
The Observer . NEWS 
SWITZERLAND 
Powell has lost faith In weapons Inspectors 
Associated Press 
DAVOS 

Secretary of State Colin Powell, citing Iraq's lack of cooperation with U.N. inspectors, said Sunday he has lost faith in the inspectors' ability to conduct a definitive search for banned weapons programs. 
A U.S.-led war to oust Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, how­ever. is not imminent, Powell told business and political lead­ers, and he did not explicitly call for the inspections to end. 
President Bush and heads of state were awaiting Monday's report by chief weapons inspec­tor Hans Blix to the U.N. Security Council. The summary of their findings is intended to help determine whether Iraq has pro­grams for chemical. biological or nuclear arms. 
By mid-afternoon Sunday, Blix had written a toughly worded 16-page report that he will deliv­er as a speech during the public portion of Monday's council meeting. "I have been working very hard and very carefully on the details." he told The Associated Press. 
He wouldn't discuss the con­tents and would not comment on Powell's comments. 
White House aides said Bush will listen with great interest to what the inspectors have to say as he prepares for his State of the Union address Tuesday night in which he is expected to go into detail about why Washington considers Saddam a threat to the United States and other nations. 
Polls show most Americans do not believe Bush has made his case for military conflict in Iraq, and the Senate's top Democrat said Sunday, "We ought not be rushing to war." 
South Dakota's Tom Daschle also urged the White House work harder to assemble an international coalition before deciding to go into Iraq. 
Powell said in his address at the World Economic Forum in this Swiss resort that only a strong international response will deter Saddam from sharing his weapons with terror groups or using them himself. 
Even though Iraq has respond­ed to weeks of inspections "with evasions and with lies," the sec­retary said, "We are in no great rush to judgment tomorrow or the day after, but clearly time is running out." 
He also said the United States was willing to act by itself. "\Ve continue to reserve our sover­eign right to take military action against Iraq alone or in a coali­tion of the willing," he said. 
In Washington, Bush's chief of staff said that military force is "the last option, but it's one that the president will be ready to use." 
And Andrew Card, raising the threat of a U.S. nuclear strike, warned: "Should Saddam Hussein have any thought that he would use a weapon of mass destruction, he should anticipate that the United States will use whatever means necessary to protect us and the world from a holocaust." 
Powell said Iraq should not be in doubt that "if it does not dis­arm peacefully at this juncture, it will be disarmed at the end of the road." 
U.S. officials have said war against Iraq could be a month or more away. They said they believe that extra weeks of unsuccessful inspections could weaken the resolve of key Security Council members Russia, France and Germany to maintain their opposition to mili­tary force against Iraq. 
Are you in a Club? 

SWITZERLAND 
China competes in tech sector 
Associated Press 
DAVOS 

China will soon become 
the world's largest Internet 
and information economy, 
surpassing the United 
States, the president of one 
of the Chinese government's 
two main telecommunica­
tions companies predicted 
Saturday. 
By 2008, China will have between 200 million and 300 million Internet devices and millions more users. said Edward Tian, China Netcom Corp.'s chief execu­tive and a pioneer of the country's Internet revolu­tion. 
He spoke at a panel on "China's Hise: Regional and Global Impacts" at the World Economic Forum in this snow-covered Swiss Alpine resort, an annual meeting of top business and government leaders who have singled out China as one of the few economic success stories in the past year. 
In China, Internet use has grown from a few thousand seven years ago to more than 60 million today, putting China ahead of Japan and only second to the United States, which has about 200 million users, Tian said. 
"China can soon become the world's largest Internet and information economy. in both telecommunications and the traditional IT [infor­mation technologyJ sectors," he said. 
Last year, China was the only country where informa­tion technology continued to grow and it has become a key market for Western technology companies No. 1 for Nokia, and number two for Ericsson and IBM. he said. China was also the only 
country to see growth for 
the telecom equipment mar­
ket in 2002. 

"In the past 10 years, most investment has been in hardware to build infra­structures, fiber networks,"said Tian, whose company bought key under­sea fiber-optic networks in November from Asia Global Crossing Ltd., which filed for bankruptcy to facilitate the sale. 
"In the next five to 10 
years, I think investment 
will focus ... more to the 
software side and service 
sector," he said. 

China's economy grew by more than 8 percent last year, and panel members predicted continued growth. 
"I don't think China can build an economy if we just rely on manufactured goods. We must play a very impor­tant role a leading role in the technology side," Tian said. 
In November, he said, the Communist Party congress adopted a "very, very impor­tant policy that in the next 10 years China has to build a new type of economy. an information-led new econo­my." 
As a result of popular sup­port for the Internet and strong government backing for the new policy, he pre­dicted that "the Internet will transform not only the new economy but the traditional economy." He noted that small companies engaging in e-business were now his company's top users. 
"What does it mean for the rest of the world?" Tian asked. 
"China will become a very important player in the information industry," he answered. 
As China becomes "a world-class player," the question and the challenge is whether it can build up its technology standards and its marketing "and export not only low-cost labor intensive goods but ... software and services to the \Vestern world." 

Cheng Siwei, vice-chair­man of the National People's Congress' standing commit­tee, stressed the govern­ment's commitment to improving its technology and software sectors. Answering criticism of rising unemploy­ment, corruption, stagnating state-owned enterprises and other weaknesses, he said China was working to improve its legal system and generate more jobs. 
Victor Chu, chairman of the First Eastern Investment Group in Hong Kong, said the domestic challenges that China faces "will help calm some of the fears of our Asian neighbors that China could become such a big, domineering bully in the region." 
"I think Asia will have to learn to manage with China, and China will have to appreciate the sensitivites and manage some of the fears from our Asian neigh­bors," he said. 
Chu suggested that China work with Thailand and other countries in the Mekong region to promote tourism -and join forces with Japan and South Korea on infrastructure projects in the Persian Gulf region. 
"Korea and Japan -have brands, technology, and management marketing skills and China has raw materials, a huge market, and a desire to learn," he said. 
Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said Southeast Asian nations should worry more about restructuring their economies than about for­eign investment being diverted to China. 
Billy Joel release from 
Do you want to become more involved 
hospital after crash 
at Notre Dame through Student 
Associated Press 
Government? 
NEW YORK 'Piano Man' Billy Joel was 
hospitalized for several

Ifyou answered yes to these questions, hours early Sunday after 
smashing his car into a tree along a highway on far

:hen join the Club Coordination Council! 
eastern Long Island. A hospital spokesman confirmed that the singer

Come to the CCC elections at the Club Information 
was released Sunday morn­Meetings the first week in F ebn1ary in LaF ortune ing but would not comment 
on Joel's injuries.

Student Center: The 53-year-old Rock and Roll Hall of Farner had swerved into the tree as he
Academic Clubs: February 3rd @ 7pm in the ND Room 

was driving his Mercedes• Athletic Clubs: February 4th @ 7pm in Room 108 : Benz in Sag Harbor late 
Saturday, Sag Harbor
Cultural Clubs: February 4th @ 8pm in Room 108 
Village Police Chief Thomas

Performing Arts Clubs: February 6th @ 7pm in Montgomery Theatre 
Fabiano said. Service Clubs: February 6th @ 7pm in Montgomery Theatre 
No charges were filed, police Officer Hugh

Special Interest Clubs: February 6th @ 7pm in Montgomery Theatre 
Caulfield said Sunday. Joel wasn't given a Breathalyzer test, which measures blood 
alcohol levels, he said. Joel was taken to Stony 

Candidate Forms are available on the 3rd floor of 
LaF ortune in the Club Resource Center 
Brook University Hospital. where a hospital spokesman said he arrived around midnight and was
E-mail: ccc(<Dnd.edu for more information . 
.... 

released around 7:30 a.m. 
Joel has had more than two dozen Top Ten hits in his career, including his signature 1974 song "Piano Man." His music, including the title song "Movin' Out," is currently the subject of a Broadway musical. 
Last summer, he volun­tarily checked into a sub­stance abuse and psychi­atric center at New Canaan, Connecticut, reportedly after becoming "very depressed" when a respira­tory infection forced him to cut short a tour with fellow piano player Elton John. 
He told People magazine in July that he had begun "what I ultimately realized was a prolonged period of overindulgence. I don't want to get any more spe­cific." 
Joel was also involved in a motorcycle accident on Long Island in 1983. He and model Christie Brinkley have one daughter, Alexa Ray. The couple divorced in 1994. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 10 Monday, January 27, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BuslNf.SS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Lori Lewalski  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hettler, Matt Lozar 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scon Brodfuehrer 
CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 Fu............................................................. 631-6927 AoVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BusINESS OmcE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE......................................................... 631-4540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .••..•••.••...••. 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Edicor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and depanment editors. Commentaries, letten and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
QurJtions regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to F.ditor in Chiefjasrm McFarley. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Oh,,,,., (USPS S9'J 240) i, publi,h<J Monday ,hrough F,;.l,y "'"'P' Junng ~ant and va..:~1ion pc-rio,h., A 1ubKription ra 1"hc-Obscrva i, J100 for ot1c ac.wffltk ~-; S~S for O.n< Ktnnla. 
The-Ohs-ervcr i• puh-1"hcd at: POSTMASTER 024 So"'h Dining H.JI SM& aJ.Jrru COl1'C(tion, to: 
Norr< D=. IN 46556 The Ob.en,,, 
P.O. lloxQ P<Tiodi<.J po"og,, poid ar Notn: Dam, Non• D~. IN 46556.0779 and ;u!di,ional mailing officn. 
The Oh«-r"ta U a mi:rn.ba of the Auoc.i;itcd Pra.l, All reproduction right1-att mcm,d. 

Abstain from voting in SMC election 
Saint Mary's students have once again true, then why have students have stood been given only one choice for student quietly aside, instead of stepping for­body elections. Elizabeth Jablonski­ward to run in student body, like leaders Diehl, current student body vice presi­would? Student government should be dent, and Sarah Brown. about adequate represen­current sophomore class OJhe tation and who can do the
userver
president, are the only Editorial best job on behalf of Saint 
candidates willing to run Mary's students. When for president and vice students are not even 
president. respectively. This means that for the third year in a row Saint Mary's stu­dents cannot participate in a real elec­tion. Seniors have only had a choice of candidates once, during their freshman year, and no other class has even had this choice. This is a disturbing trend in student government politics that needs to stop. 
Students can help stop this trend by voting to abstain in Tuesday's election. 
Saint Mary's student leaders should not be afraid or hesitant to challenge one another, in meetings or in elections. "One of the great things about Saint Mary's is that they bring a leader out of every Saint Mary's student," vice presi­dential candidate Sarah Brown said in an interview with The Observer. If this is given an option in elec­
tions, it isn't about who can do the best job, but who is going to have to do the job. 
This year it will most likely be Jablonski-Diehl and Brown who have to do the job. If elected, Jablonski-Diehl and Brown plan to continue a lot of the work this past year's administration began. This includes moving forward with the Reading Day proposal, improv­ing the Board of Governance Web site and improving dialogue among students and student government representa­tives. In essence their campaign is a continuation of this past year's adminis­tration. However, new ideas are required in any successful administra­tion and Jablonski-Diehl/Brown had none to present in their Observer 
endorsement interview. "At some point there are not a lot of new ideas," Jablonski-Diehl admitted. 
Jablonski-Diehl/Brown could very well be the best ticket, but nobody will know unless there is a choice of candidates. Students can demand a real election by clicking "abstain" instead of "Jablonski­Diehl/Brown" when voting Tuesday. If a majority of the voting students abstain, it will result in a vote of no confidence and force the election process to begin again. thus granting Saint Mary's stu­dents another chance to demonstrate leadership and step forward with new ideas. 
If students choose to abstain, current student government representatives will know that they are not adequately rep­resenting students. By voting to abstain. the election process will start again, giv­ing students the chance to step forward with fresh ideas to invigorate a stagnant government and give students at Saint Mary's a real election, something most of its students have never had. 
The Observer endorses abstention in Saint Mary's student body election on Tuesday. 
A family tradition of storytelling 
Some of the first memories I have are of camping with my family. We had a sheepherder's tent exactly like the one that my grandfather used when he tend­ed his sheep every summer. It was huge. 
The canvas walls  
and ceiling protect- Malte Uranga  
ed us from every possible element that Idaho's moun­tains threw at us.  Life in Africa  
My younger brother and I thought it was  

heaven. It had a wood stove that we used to heat the tent and also to cook pan­cakes. There was a place for our sleep­ing bags and there was a place for our table and chairs. 
I remember cold mornings when I would refuse to even poke my head out of my sleeping bag until my dad had started the wood stove and there was a cup of hot chocolate on the table for me. On days when the rain came we played endless hours of Old Maid and Go Fish. On extremely hot days we would sit in the shade and drink lemonade. Amongst all of these memories the bedtime stories my dad told stand out. They were always about his misadventures in the moun­tains. 
For some reason he only told us bed­time stories when we were camping, or perhaps that is the only time I remember them. There were stories from the times when he worked with my grandfather and uncles in the sheep camps, others from when he was a smoke jumper and still others after he and my mom were married but before they had kids. The stories seemed almost mythical as I drift­ed between dreams and reality. 
Soon weekend soccer games and vari­ous summer camps ended the summer camping trips. The sheepherder's tent went into long-term storage, and my brother and I became too old for bedtime stories. The stories moved into the melange of reality and childhood imagi­nation that is childhood memory. I remembered bits and pieces. 
Funny things always happened. Sometimes, with his dad, they would loose a sheep and have to wander end­lessly and when they returned to camp the sheep would be there. \Vhile smoke jumping, he would land in a tree. Backpacking with my mom and cousins. one of my cousins would get her fishing line stuck in the middle of a river. They were always stories without endings because I fell asleep. 
I had not thought of those stories for a long time. About a year ago my dad sent me some stories he had written. He had just read a book about Idaho and fin• ished a semester's worth of my columns. Apparently he was not impressed by either and decided it must not be that difficult to write down the stories he had told for years. The stories he sent me filled in the endings that I never heard with a humor I was too young to under­stand. The strangest part about it was that as I read his stories, I saw mv writ­ing style in his and also the way we look at the world and people in that world. 
Yesterday I received an e-mail from my brother. It was not really an e-mail but a short story about his life in Spain. Again the memories of the sheepherder's tent and bedtime stories rushed back. As I read my brother's e-mail I saw the sto­ryteller I knew as a child but this time it was in my brother. It was a somewhat surreal and a magical moment back in time. The tone of sarcasm and humor mirrored my dad's stories. After I read the e-mail and returned to my house I felt lucky to be allowed into the stories of my dad and brother. 
The irony is that if we were all living in the same city or on the same continent, this exchange of bedtime stories would never happen. The last 20 months in Africa have caused moments of loneli­ness and distance from my family and friends at home. Other times in moments like this I feel like I have a closer rela­tionship with people at home while I am here than when I can talk to them every­day. I am the person in Africa who they will not see for another year, so I become their de facto journal. 
I am on the downhill slide of my Peace Corps service, so in my free time I often think about what I am going to do when J get home. One thing I hope is that I still have the time to listen to people's stories. Maybe dust ofT the sheepherder's tent and go camping to reminisce and tell the stories that I have not heard since ele­mentary school and tell the stories that I have personally acquired since then. 
Maite Uranga graduated from Notre Dame in 2000 as an anthropology and government major. She is currently a Peace Corps volunteer in the Islamic Republic ofMauritania. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Teresa Fralish Bryan Kronk Shannon Kurt Bogaard Nelligan Christine 
Kiflin Turner Armstrong 
Viewpoint Scene 
Patrick McElwee Emily Howald 
Graphics Lab Tech 
Katie McKenna Claire Kelley 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Does student government take actions that impact your life? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Good communication is as stimulating as black coffee, and just as hard to sleep after.,, 
Anne Morrow Lindbergh pilot and writer 

O
THE 

BSERVER 

Monday, January 27, 2003 page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Seeking a Catholic response to the call for war 
These are times that try Catholics' souls. If the United States government declares war against Iraq, American Catholics will be faced with perhaps the greatest moral dilemma of our genera­tion. On the one hand, the government of the country that has given us freedom will be asking for our loyalty; on the other hand, the Church that promises us salva­tion will be asking for our resistance. Quite frankly. it boils down to a classic battle of church versus state. 
Since the founding of our country, there has been a convergence in the minds of most Americans between Church teaching and United State foreign policy. This sort of "American exceptionalism" is a belief that the United States is different from all other places of the past and present. It is a confidence in the infallibility, or at least the evolving moral perfection, of our country. It is a blind faith that the United States is essentially always on the side of the good. 
This "American exceptionalism" is not only a blind faith, but a blinding force that limits our ability to see world affairs from a more objective and more compassionate standpoint. 
Further, the belief in "American excep­tionalism" is ultimately faulty. Throughout the course of our country's history, we have committed numerous evil acts. Slavery, our role in the Vietnam War, our acquiescence in the Indonesian massacres in East Tim or, the use of the A-bomb and our institution of military regimes in Nicaragua and Honduras in the 1980s serve as a few examples of "American imperfection." 
Now I am not anti-American, and I do think it important to acknowledge the many freedoms, humane actions and 
peaceful resolutions that our country has 
granted us and the world, but it would be 
invalid to conclude that our country is or 
should be perfect. 
Our country is not moral, nor should we expect it to be. It is a nation-state, found­ed to secure economic, personal and national freedoms and benefits for the cit­izens of the United States. It was not founded to be the next Savior, nor was it founded to be a beacon of hope and peace for the world. It was founded to secure the rights and benefits of a particular group of people. With that purpose in mind, going to war with Iraq does not seem to be very controversial or question­able. 
The problem that exists. however, for American Catholics and Catholics throughout the world is that the Catholic Church does not exist to secure and grant the freedoms and benefits of those under its power. To the contrary, the Catholic Church exists as the Body of Christ on earth, devoted to spreading the love and hope of Jesus Christ through respect for the sanctity of life and as a witness to the living God. In the face of unnecessary evil or unjust wars, the Church calls upon all Catholics to resist and take non-violent action in the spirit of Jesus Christ. 
Today, after years of cloudiness between Church teaching and American foreign policy, the Catholic Church has made clear its stance on an American preemptive war against Iraq. This is where the moral dilemma rests for Catholics. 
On Jan. 13, Pope John Paul II made it clear that the Church would oppose a pre­emptive war against Iraq. He said, "War 


Losing the race: the politics of civil rights 
It seems like every year about this time there's some sort of race-related scandal to perfectly coin­cide with the holiday devoted to America's greatest civil rights leader, Martin Luther King. Last year I wrote about a planned World Trade Center Memorial that would have placed racial sensitivity above the FDNY fire­fighters who raised the American flag over Ground Zero, and also how Notre Dame would have been perceived as racist if they didn't hire Tyrone Willingham. (By the way. Athletic Department: good call.) 
Now, another disastrous duo of political shockers have splashed the front pages around the first of the year. The fallout for one was deserved, though perhaps a little sensationalized, but the outcry over the other is entirely misguided. 
On Dec. 7. then-incoming Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott said the following at a celebration of retiring senator and living mummy Strom Thurmond, ..I want to say this about my state: When Strom Thurmond ran for president, we voted for him. We're proud of it. And if the rest of the country had followed our lead, we wouldn't have had all these problems over all these years." 
By itself, it was not a racist comment. But of course, any student of American political history knows the context: Strom Thurmond's 1948 presi­dential campaign came after he split with the Democratic Party over civil rights for African­Americans. Continued segregation was at the top of the "Dixiecrat" agenda. 
Whether Lott truly meant to applaud Thurmond's legacy of segregation, advocate a more benign plat­form of decentralization of government or simply patronize an old geezer on his birthday may never be known. But it was very irresponsible and idiotic of him not to uncouple the racist baggage from that statement. Such verbal diarrhea should not be toler­ated by a leadership member of any party, and so Lott stepped down under intense pressure from with­in the Republican Party. 


In his apoplexy of apologies to try to maintain some damage control. Lott went on Black Entertainment Television and advocated numerous minority-spon­sored programs, including affirmative action. And it was on that front where a new storm brewed about a month later. 
On Jan. 15, President Bush decided to file a brief to the U.S. Supreme Court concerning admissions poli­cies at the University of Michigan which favor minorities for the sake of "diversity." Predictably, the backlash came swiftly: "They have to decide whether they're for civil rights and diversity, or not," was the response of Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle. Rev. Jesse Jackson labelled Bush, "the most anti-civil rights president in 50 years." 
Bush argued that Michigan's policies were "funda­mentally flawed," and he's right, for multiple rea­sons. First, admissions points are only awarded to minorities who are black, Hispanic or Native American. Asians, Arabs, Jews and Lithuanians are given no preference. Some "diversity." 
Second, diversity is given more weight than acade­mic excellence -being a member of the chosen races nets 20 points, but having a perfect SAT score garners only 12. 
Opponents argue that giving weight to "legacies" is just as racist because of African-Americans' dispro­portionately low enrollment in universities over the decades. But this argument doesn't hold up at Ann Arbor, since legacies are given only a few points (four}, compared to minorities. 
If a university decides only to allow people whose parents or grandparents attended there, or bassoon players, or people with a Z in their name, or people with a working knowledge of Thai, the Constitution says nothing. But the 14th Amendment specifically 
prohibits discrimination on the basis of race. Michigan's system, which uses points to achieve desired goals of "diversity," is a de facto quota sys­
tem and therefore unconstitutional. 
Academic diversity is not a bad thing, but it's also not the be-all and end-all of higher education. There are several fine all-black universities in America; NAACP chairman Julian Bond graduated from one, Morehouse College. And Notre Dame needs only look across the street to find brilliant students from a campus that prohibits 49 percent of the population from enrolling from the outset. Nobody clamors for those schools to be opened. But jury-rigging enroll­ment policies to ensure diversity at the expense of academic achievement shouldn't be tolerated. 
Opponents of the party of Trent Lott and George W. Bush will seek to capitalize on these events {only one of which deserves criticism} in the 2004 election. That year, of course, marks the 40th anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, so what better stage to do a little political grandstanding? It is my sincere hope that we can live the words of a landmark event that also will celebrate its 40th anniversary, in August: that all Americans "will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their charac­ter." 
Unfortunately, if civil rights continues as nothing more than a platform to bash Republicans, I may have to write a similar column again next year. 
But I can dream, can't I? 
Mike Marchand, '01, thought Oakland would defeat Tampa Bay in the Super Bowl, 38-24. For sports or political discussion, or just to say hi, e-mail him at Marchand.3@alumni.nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 
I. 
I ­
1. THE 
OBSERVER 

page 12 Monday, January 27, 2003 

aces o 



The humorous and infamous group known as "The Second City" visited Notre 

By MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Scene Writer 
The Second City performed at Washington Hall Saturday night to a packed house of enthusiastic audience members. The North American comedy institution entertained the student body (or at least those lucky enough to get tickets) with both preplanned and on the spot humor encompassing a wide vari­ety of subjects. 
The Second City originated in Chicago, and the group takes its name from a derisive article about the city once print­ed in the New Yorker magazine. The group's routines are a mix of pre-writ­ten skits and improvisational sketches based on audience suggestions, usually 

near-tears to all who attended their comedy act la5 
with the goal of satirizing someone or some event. 
This rag-tag group of University of Chicago students began performing in various locations around the city in 1959 until they bought an old Chinese laundry and turned it into a permanent theater. 
The theater is still there today, and is considered a landmark of satirical com­edy. The company now has theatres in Toronto, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Detroit and Cleveland and training centers across the country. Touring companies bring The Second City's humor to places across the continent, including Notre Dame's campus. 
In 1973, The Second City expanded up north into Canada, where the group found great success. It spawned a televi­sion show, "SCTV," and a vast array of 

The Detroit Touring Cast at home. From humble beginnings, The Second City has expanded to 
cate enough manner 
regularly entertain six cities and send famous comedians to dozens more. 
so as not to offend. 

famous comedians including John 
Candy, Catherine O'Hara, Rick Moranis 
and Eugene Levy started their careers 
performing in the group. Other notable 
alumni of both the American and 
Canadian branches of the group include 
Martin Short, Dan Aykroyd, "Who's Line 
is it Anyway?" performer Ryan Stiles, 
Bill Murray and current "Saturday Night 
Live" performer Rachel Dratch. The Second City's performance at Notre Dame, in true Second City style, included a variety of pre-written skits, both short and lengthy, and several improvisational skits based on audience suggestions. The six performers of mixed gender and ethnic background brought energy, creativity and a little bit of profanity to the stage. There was even a guest appearance by a Washington 
Hall bat that disrupt­ed the performance and captured the audiences' attention. 
A good portion of Saturday evening's performance focused on the political land­scape of America and its culture, especially the idea of race. Though it sounds serious, the perform­ance was hardly a State of the Union address, unless it was one seen on "Saturday Night Live." 
The evening opened with a bang, as the troupe debat­ed the labeling of people based on their heritage (such as "African-American") by asking imperative questions such as: ..If I'm from Gary, [Ind.] does that make me a Gary-American?" 
The group poked fun at the flag-wav­ing tactics of politi­cians and advertisers by setting random, and sometimes strange, events to patriotic music. An overly patriotic taxi­cab driver debating with a passenger highlighted many opinions of America's "War on Terror," and a skit about random gun violence focused on the firearms debate. 
None of the skits were even remotely serious, so there was no danger of feeling like being in class despite the topics. The group dealt with the subjects in a deli­

The best piece of politically motivated satire came in a musi­cal montage involving Ariel Sharon and Yassar Arafat coming together over a mutual love of Disney movies. Unconventional and politically incorrect insight on serious sub­jects is definitely a more interesting look at culture and current events than a class lec­ture. 
The Second City took time to look at ques­tions and situations particularly important to college students, and they even inte­grated pieces of local Notre Dame lore, such as the infamous Boat Club and Grape Hoad, into the skits. The Observer even made a special guest appear­ance. 
Many of the skits focused on the dating scene, most notably in the Dating Game. Taking their humor 011 which starred an audi-country. The group is ence volunteer and used questions from the audience. A particularly poignant skit for anyone who has ever been at school focused on Student Health Services and the misadventures students could possibly have there. The relation­ships between parents and children also received a great deal of attention, and the group looked at everything from how mom really feels when she's serving dinner (it involved pro­fanity), to how each of us turns into our par­ents no matter how hard we may fight it. There arc plenty of frustrations inherent in college life, and it's nice to have the chance to step back and laugh at them. 

Though the skits were good, the most impressive and enter­taining part of the evening was the group's improvisation­al work. A game where the last line of one skit became the first line of another took some strange turns placed in the contexts of a unisex bathroom, a blind date, and with two people passing on the street. At the ring of a bell performers had to come up with a new line to replace another, The touring cast of Th usually eliciting laughs City relies on sudlence 


THE OBSERVER 
re 

Monday, January 27, 2003 page 13 

eDame and brought laughs as well as 
'St weekend 

and changing the entire context of the skit. The evening culminated with an encore of improvisation based on audi• ence suggestions. The laughs came from both the performers and some of the strange suggestions of the audience members. 
The Second City has a rich history and famous alumni to its name, but the laughs that they bring to the audience are what will remain once they leave. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 


Proud alumni of The Second City 
Many famous people started their careers in comedy on Second City sinfamous stage 
By EMILY HOWALD 
Assiscanc Scene Edicor 
For many actors, The Second City is a jump start not only in the field of come• dy improv but into all types of enter• tainment. Before the big screen or even television. many actors were seen onstage in Chicago and Toronto. 
John Belushi 
Belushi began his career at the Second City and was the youngest "mainstage" performer ever selected to the Troupe. He left Second City in 1975 to go to New York and become part of Saturday night Live. Belushi starred in "Animal House" and the "Blues Brothers" with Dan Aykroyd. Ile also influenced his little brother, Jim to want o join as well. Both Belushis were two of the more memorable cast mem­bers that ever went through Second City. 


John Candy 
Candy entered the Second City Troupe in the early '70s and shared the spot• light with actors such as Eugene Levy, Joe Flaherty, Dave Thomas and Catherine O'Hara. Candy went on to star in "Uncle Buck," "Planes, Trains and Automobiles,' "Summer Rental,' "Who's Harry Crumb" and "Cool Runnings." Candy died in his sleep at age 43. 


Mike Myers 
Myers made his television debut in a com• mercial at age 
8. He then joined The Second City almost immedi· ately after high school. In 1989 Myers fulfilled his longtime dream of being a cast member of Saturday Night Uve, and there he teamed up with Dana Carvey to make the ever popular "Wayne's VVorld." Myers went on to make two '\\!ayne's \Vorld" films and also aided in the making of "Shrek." Presently, Myers is most commonly known for his roles in the 'Austin Powers" films. Myers plays many of the characters in the Austin Powers films, which there arc presently three available. 


Bill Murray 
Murray began his career with his dry and witty sense of humor. He quickly moved from Second City to Saturday Night Live. replacing Chevy Chase. Murray moved from Saturday Night Live to make humorous films such as "Meatballs," 'Ghostbusters," "Caddyshack," 'Groundhog Day," "Scrooged" and "Ghostbusters." 


Dan Aykroyd 
Aykroyd was born July 1, 1952 and made it big at Second City. His film high· lights include "Blues Brothers," "My Girl," "Ghostbusters," "Coneheads," "Exit to Eden," "The Great Outdoors" and "Trading Places." 


Joan Rivers 
Rovers was a stand up come­dian who became a major talk· show host. She has appeared on screen occasionally from 1968. Her best selling films are "The Muppets Take Manhattan," "Spaceballs," and "Intern." 


Martin Short 
Short made his debut in a 1973 produc­tion of Godspell and was ten encouraged by Levy and Thomas to Join Second 


City. Short then went on to star in "Lost and Found." He was a part of the Second City Network from 1982 to 1983 and then Saturday Night Live from 1984 to 1985. Short also starred in "The Father of the Bride," "Innerspace" and 'Three Amigos." 
Contact Emily Howald at howald.2@nd.edu 
Monday, January 27, 2003 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
SUPER BOWL XXXVII 

Bucs get all the booty in the battle of the pirates 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
Just defense, baby! 
The Tampa Bay Buccaneers didn't need much more -for most of the Super Bowl, anyway. 
Coach Jon Gruden and his Bucs won their first NFL champi­onship Sunday. routing the Oakland Raiders 48•21 in the first matchup of best offense vs. best defense. 
The Tampa Bay defense won by a mile, returning three of a record five interceptions for touchdowns and shutting down any hope the Raiders had of a late comeback. 
It was the first Super Bowl vic­tory for the former NFL laugh­ingstock, a team that lost its first 26 games after it started playing in 1976 in those garish orange uniforms. 
"I want to thank Coach Gruden for what he did," said Bucs owner Malcolm Glazer. who a year ago was the butt of jokes for his revolving coach search that finally brought Gruden from the Raiders. 
"He came from heaven and he brought us to heaven. We were waiting for the right man and the right man came -Jon Gruden." 
Gruden, who at 39 became the youngest coach ever to win a Super Bowl, is known as an offensive guru. 
This victory was with a defense run by Monte Kiffin and other holdovers from former coach and shut down the run. 
This was a victory for one of the NFL's long­time sad sacks. 
Between 1983 and 1996, the Bucs were the league's worst fran­chise, going without a winning sea· son and los­ing 10 or more games in 13 of those 14 years. 
Even a year ago, they were a mess after the Glazer family fired Dungy and went after big-name coaches like Bill Parcells and Steve Mariucci before landing Gruden. 
But if this was a glorious day for the Bucs, it was the opposite for the Raiders, who have three Super Bowl victories but hadn't been back to pro football's show­case game in 19 years. 
Oakland's aging warriors did little or worse. 
Jerry Rice and Tim Brown, the 40-and 36-year-old wide receivers, were all but invisible for most of the game. 
Rice, who has a reception in every game he's played since 1985, didn't have his first until 
3:30 was left in the third quarter Sunday and the Raiders trailed by 31 points. 
That came just before Gannon's 39-yard touchdown pass to Jerry Porter gave the Raiders' their first touchdown. They got their second just 44 seconds into the fourth quarter when Tim Johnson blocked a Tom Tupa punt and Eric Johnson caught it in the air and took it in. 
But even those touchdowns 
didn't produce what they could 
have because the Raiders twice 
missed two-point conversion 
attempts. 
Tampa Bay started badly, but it soon took control and led 20-3 at halftime on a 2-yard touch­down run by Alstott and a 5-yard touchdown pass to McCardell. The defense held the Raiders' top-ranked offense to just three first downs at intermission. 
But the Raiders struck the first blow. On the opening series, Johnson 
Tony Dungy. 
Super Bowl MVP Dexter Jackson had two interceptions, as did Dwight Smith, who returned both of his picks for touchdowns, including a 50­yarder to finish off the scoring with two seconds left in the game. Derrick Brooks also returned an interception for a touchdown. 
Simeon Rice had two of the Bucs' five sacks as Tampa Bay romped to a 20-3 halftime lead then scored two quick third­quarter touchdowns. 
That rendered futile a late comeback by the Raiders that included a touchdown on a blocked punt and 48-yard touch­down pass from league MVP Rich Gannon to Jerry Rice. 
"Right now, I wouldn't care if they put Mount passes to Keenan Mccardell. the second an 11-yarder after an 89­yard drive that ate up almost eight minutes of the third quar­ter. 

Just 43 seconds later, Smith grabbed the ball away from Jerry Rice and took it to the end zone to make it 34-3. 
Oakland owner Al Davis' slo­gan "Just win, baby!" wasn't going to work this time. 
How good was the Tampa Bay defense? 
Oakland had just 62 total yards in the first half, second-lowest total in Super Bowl history. And the five interceptions of Gannon were the most he had in any game this season. He finished 24-for-44 for 272 yards and two touchdowns. 
Credit the victory also to 
Gruden, 
who left 
Everest in "He came from heaven and hee Oakland a front of brought us to heaven. We were year ago 
me," said for Tampa
waiting for the right man and
Simeon Bay in 
Rice, who the right man came -John w h a t was play­Gruden ... seemed at i n g the time against a far too 
Malcolm Glazer 

line of all much in 3 0 0 -Buccaneers owner d r a f t 

was hit by Regan Upshaw as he threw toward an open Mccardell, and Charles Woodson intercepted to give the Raiders the ball at the Tampa Bay 28. But Oakland got only one first down and had to settle for Sebastian Janikowski's 40·yard field goal to take a 3-0 lead. 
The Bucs came right back to tie it on Martin Gramatica's 31­yarder. It was set up by two 23­yard plays. a pass from Johnson to Joe Jurevicius and a sweep by Pittman. 
Jackson's first interception for Tampa Bay set up the next score: Gramatica's 43-yard field goal early in the second quarter to give the Bucs a 6-3 lead. 
Jackson got another intercep­tion on the Raiders' next posses­sion, returning it 23 yards to the Raiders 45. Tampa Bay couldn't move and Tom Tupa had to punt. 
But the Tampa Bay defense held the Raiders to three downs and out, and the Bucs finally broke through to take a 13-3 lead. 
First Karl Williams returned Shane Lechler's punt 25 yards to the Oakland 27. then Pittman had runs of 6 and 21 yards to give Tampa Bay a first down at the 2. On the second play, Alstott went in for the game's first touchdown with 6:24 left in the half. 
The Bucs made it 20-3 at half­time on a 77-yard, 10-play drive, which was aided by three Oakland penalties and capped by a quick out to Mccardell on first down from the 5. 
pounders. "I just wanted to be a world champion." 
The Tampa Bay offense did its part, too, led by Michael Pittman, who ran for 124 yards on 29 car­ries. 
Mike Alstott had a 2-yard touchdown run and Brad Johnson added two touchdown 

choices and cash 
-$8 million to be exact. Although Gruden denied it, his 
knowledge of his old team 
worked out perfectly. "Every play they've run, we've run in practice," Tampa Bay safety John Lynch said. 
But Gruden said that was all overrated. 
"I stayed away from the defense. That's a credit to our players. We've got a great defensive club." 
To be fair, the Raiders might have entered this game a bit distracted. 
Their All-Pro center, Barret Robbins. was dismissed from the game for missing team functions Saturday. The Bucs took advan­tage. with Warren Sapp, Lynch and the interior defense pushing up the middle constant­ly against back­up center Adam Treu to put pres­sure on Gannon 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

ND & Smc Women: South Bend SPRING BREAK on South Padre Rooms For Rent $250 month professional couple seeks responsi-Island, ranked #3 S.B. destination includes utilities 272·1525 mmm-
WANTED 
SERVER WANTED Club LaSalle is hiring for a serving position. Club LaSalle is a martini/Jazz Bar serv­ing LaSalle Grill s Diner menu. We are located on the 3rd noor of LaSalle Grill. Part or Full Time work is available. Must be able to work weekends. Must be 21 to apply and previous experience is a plus, but not required. Earning Potential is approximately $400.00 per week. Applications may be picked up at: LaSalle Grill in Downtown South Bend 3pm to 5pm Monday• Saturday 115 West Colfax South Bend, IN 46601 Phone: 288-1155. 
ble female student(s) to provide occasional afternoon, evening or overnight care for two daughters, ages 11 and 5. Located 1 mile from campus in historic district. Must have own transportation. Get away & earn extra money in low-stress setting. Call 707-2047 or email Tommp@mbm.org. 
Part time work, full money. Energetic student to pass out our rewards catalog. Call for details 
877-652-2566 
FOR SALE 
Oak Hill Condo for Sale. 2 Bed, 2 Bath, 0.5 miles from campus. 574· 243-2621 
Acapulco's #1 Spring Break Company, Bianchi-Rossi Tours, is "Going Loco" with a "Last Chance to Dance• Special! Book now and get $100 off our already low price! Your seat is available now, but may be gone tomorrow! Call now 800­875-4525. www.breaknow.com 

by the Travel Channel. South Padre Resort Rentals has the best 1,2&3 bedroom condos. Great location and amenities, close to Mexico. Call 800-944-6818 Visit gosouthpadreis­land.com 
FOR RENT 
New four bedroom 3 bath home for rent with two car garage. Gas heat, central air conditioning, all appli­ances, fire place. Call 574-232­4527 or 269-683·5038. Rent $1600 plus utilities. 
renta1s@aol.com 

DOMUS PROPERTIES -HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR • WELL MAIN• TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS • STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS • SECURITY SYSTEMS -MAINTE­NANCE STAFF ON CALL -WASH­ERS/DRYERS -CALL TODAY ­HOUSES GOING FAST -CON­TACT: KRAMER (574)315-5032 OR (574) 234-2436 ALSO LEAS­ING FOR 2004-2005 SCHOOL 
YEAR. 
PERSONAL 

IF ANY STUDENT HATES SOUTH BEND SO MUCH, GO HOME 
Write for News. 1-5323 
Write for Sports. 1-4543. 
Recycle The Observer. 

Monday, January 27, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
Pierce and Celtics beat Orlando in McGrady's absence 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

Paul Pierce was relieved to 
learn just before Sunday's 
game that NBA scoring leader 
Tracy McGrady wouldn't play 
for Orlando. He was even hap­
pier after the first triple-double 
of his career. 
''I'll take it," Pierce said of McGrady's absence. "Who wants the leading scorer play­ing?" 
Pierce had 27 points, 13 rebounds and a career-high 13 assists as the Boston Celtics beat the Magic 91-83. 
McGrady missed the game to be with his fiancee, who gave birth to a daughter Saturday night in an Orlando-area hos­pital. Jeryl Sasser started in his place and had a career-high 26 points with 10 rebounds and four steals. 
"We hung in there and kept the game at our pace," Orlando coach Doc Rivers said. "I don't think Pierce ever worked so hard for his points." 
He had to since the Magic didn't have to worry about guarding Antoine Walker, who missed his third straight game with a sprained right knee. Boston has won two of them and six of its last seven. 
"I just took it upon myself to really elevate my game," Pierce said. "I haven't had 13 assists since high school." 
Orlando made a late run, cutting the margin to 85-81 on Sasser's 3-pointer with 1:09 to go. Pierce then hit two free throws, but Pat Garrity made a basket for the Magic. 
J.R. Bremer hit two free 
throws for Boston, but Orlando 
still had a chance until Mike 
Miller missed an 18-footer with 
30 seconds left and Jacque 
Vaughn failed on a layup 
attempt with 23 seconds to go. 
Pierce then hit two free throws 
for the game's final points. 
Orlando's starting forwards 
shot very poorly with Miller 
going 2-of-18 and Garrity 2-of­
12. 
"Sometimes that's what hap­pens when you miss a few that you know are really contest­ed," Garrity said. "Open ones are even that much harder to make." 
Orlando cut a 57-46 deficit to 59-58 with 10:41 left in the game. Pierce then hit two free throws for a three-point lead. 
That's when Walter McCarty took over. Scoreless to that point, he hit Boston's next three baskets, all 3-pointers, for a 70-61 lead. The last two came 39 seconds apart. 
"I don't know if we get this game without those two shots," Boston coach Jim O'Brien said. "We were kind of on the ropes." 
Tony Battie had 12 points and McCarty 11 for Boston. Orlando got 12 from Darrell Armstrong and 11 from Miller. 
And none from McGrady. 
"We felt even without him we had a chance to win because we've got a lot of scorers on this team," Sasser said. 
The Celtics led 42-32 at half­time, continuing their excellent first-half defense. In their pre­vious game Friday night, Pierce scored 45 points. Boston led Denver 44-29 at halftime as Pierce nearly outscored the Nuggets with 28 points. 

"This was more impressive than in his 45-point game," O'Brien said. 'Tm very pleased with the leadership he's given us the past couple of games." 
Boston stretched its lead to 50-3 6 with 9: 1 8 left in the third quarter on consecutive baskets by Eric Williams and Battie. 
It was 57-46 before Sasser led a 10-2 surge with six points as Orlando cut the lead to 59­56 with one quarter left. 
Raptors 101, Kings 97 
Vince Carter showed that his right knee feels fine, and the 
good  news  didn't  come  a  
minute  too  soon  for  the  
Toronto Raptors.  

Playing in his first game since Dec. 8, Carter scored 22 points as Toronto defeated the Sacramento Kings Sunday to snap a five-game losing streak. 
Carter, who missed 23 games because of a strained knee, scored Toronto's last six points on his 26th birthday. 
"It was a very nice birthday present," Carter said. "It wasn't just a present for the team, it was a present for the fans. It was an opportunity to show that we can play with one of the best teams in the league, and show that when we get the majority of our guys back, we're a pretty good team our­selves." 
After a two-handed dunk in the second quarter, Carter bent down to dust off his right knee. 
"I was dusting the old stuff off and letting you know that my knee's OK," Carter said. "Actually, it was to let the doc­tors know. so that they could 
WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FORAJOB INTERV1EWTO WORK.AT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 
aresidential sports camp In North Texas tor chRdren who have diabetes 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 
INTERVIEWS: 
Notre Dame 
Winter Career & 
Internship Fair 
Tuesday, January 28th 

Flanner Hall \Vednesday, January 29th 9:00 am to 5:00 pm 
EXPANDED BUS SERVICE TO NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 
Convenient bus access from Library Circle and Notre Dame Avenue Circle, with service Monday through Saturday.* 
*Check #7 Notre Dame/University Park Mall schedule for times. 
Getting to class is just 
or area restaurants. So one of the many reasons f, check out TRANSPO, students ride public offering bus service transportation every day. They also throughout South Bend ride it to go to the mall, the movies, and Mishawaka. 
For route & schedule information please call: 
.t2~~ . ~~~~ 
-fl~!J.~l 
Wherever Life Takes You 


breathe easy." 
Not everyone cheered 
Carter's return. 
"I don't really care about Vince. We lost today. Who cares," said the Kings' Chris Webber, who had a triple-dou­bl e with 24 points. 19 rebounds and 10 assists. "There's a lot of good players in the NBA. All I'm concerned about is the Kings." 
Carter looked tentative in the opening minutes but scored 15 points in the second half. He finished 8-of-16 from the field in 23 minutes. 
"He had just had a great all­around game," Toronto's Jerome Williams said. 'Tm just glad he was able to come in and not re-injure himself." 
Carter was voted to start the All-Star Game by the fans, 
despite playing in only 10 
games before Sunday. Before 
getting hurt in practice on Dec. 
10 -two days after scoring 25 
points in a loss to Portland ­
Carter missed 10 other games 
with an injured left knee. 
"We've been missing Vince for so long," Toronto's Alvin Williams said. "He really did a great job coming in." 
Carter's fadeaway jumper gave the Raptors a 97-91 lead with 1 :36 left, and his two free throws made it 99-94 with 
17.7 seconds remajning. 
Sacramento's Jim Jackson followed with a 3-pointer, but Carter made two free throws with 7. 9 seconds left to give Toronto a four-point lead. 

Mike Bibby scored 30 points to lead the Kings, who lost their second straight. Atlanta beat them 115 -104 Friday night. 
"It's alarming," said Peja Stojakovic, who went 2-for-10 from the field for 10 points. "We haven't lost three in a row this year, so we have to go home and play a Kings game against Utah on Tuesday." 
Carter's 3-pointer, fadeaway jumper and short jumper gave Toronto a nine-point lead early in the third quarter. The Kings followed with a 12-4 run, including 1 O straight points from Bibby. 
Vlade Divac's jumper cut the lead to one, but Toronto began the fourth quarter with a 15-4 run, including Carter's 3-point­er with 6:58 left. 
After Carter made his fade­away jumper with 1:36 left, Webber made one of two free throws. Webber then missed two free throws with 56 sec­onds left, but Bibby made two with 18.2 seconds left to cut Toronto's lead to three. 
Carter then made his two free throws before Jackson's 3­pointer. After Carter made two more to give Toronto a four­point lead, Webber missed a 3­pointer with 3 seconds left. 
"We knew Carter coming back would bring them ener­gy," Stojakovic said. "The other guys looked confident because of him." · 

I I• 
I' 
,·. 
I 
I I I' I\ I 
I 

page 16 
:. ·<:. i)· ·::: >: :y::.=:·:>-·.· .. · -·.· ... 
:;!:)"11111,, 

IfIi: :~!!If: 'LY I@I l!i111ii111li 
•··••·· ·••••••••••••:••·••••••••:¦~ijt,11111:11•1•••-··
l!ll!l)!)f<·•••Oeffl!at >rnti 


around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Connecticut at St. John's 7 p.m., ESPN Texas at Kansas 9 p.m., ESPN 
NHL HOCKEY 
Predators at Sabres 7 p.m., ESPN2 




COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Monday, January 27, 2003 
MENS TENNIS 


Associated Press 
MELBOURNE Andre Agassi just keeps getting better with age. 
The 32-year-old Agassi overwhelmed Rainer Schuettler right from the start and breezed to his fourth Australian Open title 6-2, 6-2, 6-1 Sunday, becoming the oldest man to win a Grand Slam sin­gles crown in 31 years. 
Agassi won his eighth Grand Slam champi­onship. And the victory might also have been enough to lure his wife, Steffi Graf, out of retire­ment. 
Agassi had said earlier 
IN BRIEF 

that if he won this tourna­ment, Graf would be his partner for mixed doubles in the French Open. After the final point, Agassi gave a quick wink into the stands at Graf, who won 22 Grand Slam singles titles before she stopped playing three years ago. 
Agassi was the oldest man to win a Grand Slam singles title since Ken Rosewall won the Australian Open in 1972 at 37. 
"You never know when it's your last, but I'll never forget being here," Agassi told the crowd at the tro­phy ceremony. ''I'll never forget playing for you. I'll never forget the love and support here. I feel like I'm half Australian." 
Agassi now has won the Australian Open four of the seven times he has entered. He also had won in 1995, 2000 and 2001, but injured his wrist on the eve of last year's Australian. 
The second-seeded Agassi was in complete control throughout the match, finishing off the 31st-seeded Schuettler in one hour, 16 minutes. 
Agassi matched the most-lopsided victory ever at the Australian Open. By losing only five games, he tied the mark last done in 1926 when John Hawkes defeated Jim Willard 6-1, 6-3, 6-1. 
Agassi also is the fourth man to win at least four Australian titles. Roy Emerson had six, and Rosewall and Jack Crawford four each. 
In extending his winning streak at this tournament to 21 matches, he lost only 48 games in seven matches this time. 
Agassi collected $654,000 for winning, bringing his career tour­nament winnings past $26.3 million. Schuettler collected $327,000 to add to his previous total of $2.3 million. 
Gannon's MVP season ends 
in misery 

Rich Gannon's MVP season ended with a most dreadful performance in the Super Bowl. 
After one of the finest passing cam­paigns in NFL history, Gannon was under constant pressure from the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in an ugly first three quarters Sunday. 
And he wound up with a season-high five interceptions -half of his regu• lar-season total -and three were returned for touchdowns. 
By the time Gannon started complet­ing some throws with regularity. it was too late for the Oakland Raiders, who lost to the Bucs 48-21. 
He wound up 24-of-44 for 272 yards and two touchdowns -certainly decent numbers. 
Gannon was sacked five times, not counting one by Simeon Rice on a two-point conversion, and knocked down on countless other occasions while the Bucs took what proved to be their insurmountable lead. 
Typical of Gannon's first-half perfor­mance, when he went 7-of-17 for 56 yards, was a series midway through the second quarter that started at the Oakland 11-yard line. 
First, he barely got a pass away before being belted by the blitzing Ronde Barber. The ball fell incom­plete. 
Next, he was sacked by Rice for the second time. 
Third, he was hurried into throwing an incompletion nowhere in the vicin• ity of an Oakland receiver. 
Finally, the Raiders punted. 

Gannon had the seventh-most pass­ing yards in NFL history. throwing for 4,689 yards and 26 touchdowns. 
He passed for 283 yards in leading the Raiders past the New York Jets 30·10 in the divisional playoff and threw for 286 yards and ran for 41 in their 41-24 triumph over Tennessee in the AFC championship game. 
He passed for three touchdowns and 

ran for one in an MVP performance against the Titans on Jan. 19. It was certainly a different story seven days later in the Super Bowl. 
Astros deal slugger to Dodgers 
The Houston Astros traded outfield­er Daryle Ward to the Los Angeles Dodgers on Saturday, clearing room for Craig Biggio to move from second base to center field. 
Ward, who failed to live up to his power-hitting potential. was traded for minor league pitcher Ruddy Lugo. 
Biggio is changing positions to make way for free agent second baseman Jeff Kent, who signed an $18.2 mil­lion, two-year contract with Houston last month after turning down a 
three-year  deal  from  the  San  
Francisco Giants.  
"I  don't  think  anything  went  

wrong," Ward told KRIV-TV in Houston. "I just think the organization has plans and I just wasn't a part of that anymore." 
Monday, January 27, 2003 page 17
The Observeru SPORTS 
MENS SWIMMING WOMENS SWIMMING 
Irish edged out by Northwestern 
second. said Maggio of Saturday.
By LISA REIJU1A An exciting diving compe­"We had some promising
Sports Writer 
tition was a highlight of the performances and we 're afternoon. Notre Dame's looking forward to Big
The last home dual meet Andy Maggio finished his East." for the class of 2003 did home career in style, win­Saturday's loss closed out not end the way the Irish ning both the 1-and 3-the home careers of seniors 
seniors would have liked it meter events. The senior Mike Flanagan, John to. earned his 3-meter victory Hudson, Jason Fitzpatrick, The Notre Dame mens by a narrow .30 margin Matt Hyde, Andy Maggio,swimming and diving team ahead of Northwestern's Travis Kline, Joe Miller and lost a hard-fought contest Mike Oxman. Tong Xie. Entering Notre to Northwestern, 172-126, The Wildcats put the Dame in 1999, the Class of Saturday afternoon. meet away with first place 2003 is 28-14 so far in dual The Irish won six of 16 finishes in the 100 meets in their four years.events, but would eventual­freestyle, 200 backstroke The seven seniors also per­ly come up short against and 200 breaststroke. formed well academically, the Wildcats. Northwestern However, the Irish ended with a combined grade 
got on the board early in the meet with a strong vic­point average of 3.140. 
the meet, with victories in tory, as the 400 freestyle "We're looking to finish the 400-medley relay and relay team of Tim our careers well and passthe 1,000 freestyle. Randolph, Krakowski, J.R. our leadership down to the 
Notre Dame's Matt Teddy and Obringer took junior class," said Maggio. Obringer won the 200 first in 3:07. 93. "We've been working hard freestyle, but Northwestern The Irish (5-6) will look to and the end of the season answered with a win in the rebound this weekend will be when we'll reap the 100 backstroke. The Irish against Cleveland State, the benefits of that." scored points in the 50 first of three dual meets on freestyle, as Frank the road before the Big Krakowski and Drew East Championships. Contact Lisa Reijula at Pittman finished first and "It was a tough meet," lreijula@nd.edu 
Notre Dame wins three matches over weekend 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Wricer 

It took over four hours, but the Irish did it. 
The womens swimming and diving team increased its dual meet record to 8-1-1 on Saturday at Bowling 
handle. 
"Both teams [Bowling Green and Louisville] were about the same," Weathers said. "One would be better in one event and one would be better in the other. But they each were better in dif­ferent spots so that made the meet more challenging and 
exciting for us." 

Green by defeating "The other teams had Entering Bowling the Falcons 70-43 Green on
some good kids in the
at home, and com­Saturday, the 
meet. Our kids were
pleting the weekend Irish knew sweep with victories pretty ready to swim, Louisville's over Louisville (70-strength lay in
though.··
43) and St. Louis the freestyle (89-24). It was a events. Notre strong showing for Balley Weathers Dame responded the Irish in a meet coach by dominating 
delayed by St. Louis' late arrival and trouble with the timing sys­tem. 
Bowling Green and Louisville gave the Irish problems in a few events, but it was nothing coach Bailey Weathers' girls could not 

Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu
Do you see a vvindy day or a 1Nay to generate 
povver for 1000 ho111es? 

Single wind turbines that can light entire communities. We're developing them right now at GE. If you're like us 
and see the world as full ofpossibilities, then you belong here. From advanced medical technology to jet 
engines, from financial services to power generation, the diverse businesses ofGE will give you unlimited 
opportunities to make our world a better place. All you have to do is bring energy, ideas and passion to work 
every day. Visit us at gecareers.com. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Underclassmen -GE will be on campus interviewing for internships in February. For more info: www.gecareers.com/notredame 
Winter Career & Internship Fair Joyce Center January 28, 2003, 4:00 -8:00 PM 


We bring good things to life. 
the mid-and 
long-distance 

freestyle events, and effectively 
dominating the meet. Junior Lisa Garcia won the 
1,000 freestyle and the 100 
backstroke (59.70), senior Heidi 
Hendrick touched first in the 200 freestyle (1:53.14) and 100 freestyle (51.79), and the two were victorious in the 400 freestyle, as well. "Heidi Hendrick probably had her best dual meet times ever," Weathers said. Couple Hendrick's efforts with sophomore Katie Eckholt's victory in the 50 freestyle (24.50) and senior Amy Deger's win in the 400 IM (4:30.82). and no team stands a chance against this Irish squad. . "The other teams had some good kids in the meet. Our kids were pretty ready to swim, though," Weathers said. The Irish are a dangerous team. Last season. the wom­ens swimming and diving team became the first team ever to qualify its entire roster for the Big East champi­onships. Normally, according to Weathers, a school will qualify one or two swimmers. In the meet on Saturday, sophomore Brooke Taylor 
(2:10.04) and senior Christina Jackson (2: 10.26) qualified with "B" times in the 200 but­terfly. Freshmen Courtney Campbell and Courtney Choura swam "A" qualifying times of 2:08.64 in the 200 backstroke and 2:08.97 in the 200 IM, respectively. Freshman Kara Santelli com­pleted the backstroke in 
2:09.85 for a "B" level time. 
The Irish finish the regular season at home against Michigan Saturday at 2 p.m. 
Work for Observer 
Sports. 
Call 

631-4543 
Monday, January 27, 2003 
\ 
I , I'' 
I ; 
I I I , 
) 
,, 
'j 
! 
'/
,t l ~ 
,•, '-... l 
'j 
') 
l 
' 
I 
I 
! 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 
ribs and did not return for the rest of the game. 
With Slater out, the other key component of the Spartan offense -the power play ­gave Michigan State the initial lead. With Irish defenseman Tom Galvin in the penalty box for interference, Spartan for­ward Mike Lalonde beat Cey from the right circle midway through the second period. 
The Spartans struck again on the power play just about six minutes later, when defense­man Kevin Estrada managed to slip the puck behind Cey. 
Down 2-0 going into the third period, the Irish needed to make a move, and they finally did about eight minutes into the period on a power play of their own. 
The Irish took advantage of a rare Migliaccio mistake after the Spartan goalie gave up a juicy rebound off of a Rob Globke shot and Irish senior forward John Wroblewski was able to tap the puck just inside the left goal post. 
"It was a great individual effort by Robby [Globke]." said Wroblewski. "He took out about five guys and 1just had a tap­
.
lil. " 
Despite out-shooting the Spartans 20-6 in the final peri­od, the Irish just could not get another puck past the stingy Migliaccio, even after pulling Cey for an extra attacker near the end of the period. 
Despite the disappointing loss, Poulin had a few positive words to say about his team's effort. 
"We played smart and well in the first period, had our penalty trouble in the second, and played a tremendous third peri­od," he said. "But we need to play like that the whole game." 
Saturday, in front of a sold out crowd, the Irish again had to come back from an early deficit after a MSU power play goal. 
Twelve minutes into the first period, Spartan forward Brian Maloney was somehow able to pick the puck out of a scrum in front of the net and flip it over a helpless Cey. who was pinned to the ice under Maloney's teammate Ash Goldie. Despite complaints from the Irish, the goal counted. 
Six minutes into the second period, the Irish responded with a power play goal of their own. From inside the right cir­cle, Irish defenseman Evan Nielsen made a beautiful cen­tering pass to forward Aaron Gill, who beat Migliaccio from the slot to tie the game 
The tie was short-lived, how­ever, as the Spartans went back ahead just five minutes later. After Cey had trouble handling the puck behind his net, the Spartans' John-Michael Liles was able to score into the vacated goal. 
Cey responded to that bobble toward the end of the period, when he stopped Slater -who returned to action Saturday ­on a penalty shot. With Irish defenseman Neil Komadoski called for hooking Slater on a breakaway attempt, the Spartan forward tried to beat Cey high with a wrist shot, but the Irish goalie was able to get a glove on it and deflect it just high. 
It was Cey's second penalty shot save of the season. He also stopped Michigan's Milan Gajic in a game earlier in the year. 
"That stop was huge," said Poulin. "They had all the play and momentum at that point." 
Even though the Spartans were able to take a 3-1 lead in 

'Nova 
continued from page 24 
Irish came in the starting line-up. After extended discussions with her assistants, head coach Muffet McGraw decided to try bringing freshman post player Courtney LaVere off the bench in order to spark what could be an inert Irish team. She gave classmate Megan Duffy her first career start. 
LaVere, who had held the start­ing spot since Notre Dame's Dec. 31 game against Marquette, pro­vided just what the Irish needed. 
With just under 15 minutes remaining in the first half, LaVere came off the bench and sparked a 9-0 Irish run. 
"I really didn't care [about get­ting the start]," LaVere said. "I just want to do my job. We knew we were going to have a good size advantage. People were able to get the ball do"'11 low to me, and we had a good defensive effort to go with that." 
The decision was a hard one for McGraw, but saw a big payoff in the end. LaVere added a fifth dou­ble-double to her season total with 20 points and 12 rebounds. 
"We thought bringing lLaVere] off the bench could fix a problem," McGraw said. "It was a big deci­sion because she has played so well as a starter. For someone to come off tlie bench and be the team's leading scorer and rebounder, that's real impres­sive." 
What was also noticeably differ­ent about Saturday's game was 
ANDREW KENNA/The Observer 

Notre Dame's control of the ball. The Irish have been plagued by their own mistakes in recent loss­
Junior defenseman Nell Komadoskl sets up a pass for the Irish during Saturday's match with 
Michigan State. After falling to the Spartans on Friday, the Irish forced a tie Saturday. 
es to Rutgers and Connecticut, but the third on an odd-man rush, one. overtime, with both Cey and 
managed a season-low 12 the momentum that Poulin Moments later, Irish fresh-Migliaccio coming up with big 
turnovers against Villanova. In spoke of man forward saves. At one point in the extra 
addition, although the Wildcats finally Tim Wallace period, Cey made three consec­
had only five turnovers, three
"The freshmen had

shined scored just his utive point-blank saves as were forced by the Notre Dame through. tremendous energy third goal of Spartan players crashed the 
defense. Villanova had three With just the season, to Irish net. 
turnovers on shot clock violations.
tonight. The crowd was 

more than bring the "[Morgan] made some huge "That gave us some confidence
great, and yet I thought 

four minutes crowd to its saves down the stretch," said 
in our defense," McGraw said. left in the our team played feet, after Poulin. "He robbed some high­
The victory snapped Villanova's game, the Migliaccio profile players." 
nine-game home winning streak 
composed. ,,

Irish were gave up a With one streak snapped, the 
and provided Notre Dame with its able to score rebound off a Irish hope that they can finally 
seventh true road victory. DePaul two goals Dave Poulin shot by fresh­get that elusive win .next week­
is still the only team that has just 18 sec­Irish coach man Tony end at home against Ohio State. 
defeated the Irish on the road. onds apart Gill. "We have to keep the energy 
The Irish will have a few days to to salvage "The fresh-level up [for Ohio State]," said 
recover before heading back on the tie. men had Poulin. "That's why even just 
the road to face Boston Coliege With the Irish on the power tremendous energy tonight," this one point is important." 
Wednesday. play, Stastny was able to deflect said Poulin. "The crowd was a centering pass by Irish great, and yet I thought our 
Contact Katie McVoy atContact Justin Schuver at 
defenseman Cory McLean past team played composed." 
mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu
jschuver@nd.edu

Migliaccio to cut the deficit to The teams played a scoreless 


Apply Now! 
Spring Break Seminar to 
C-M
SOCIAL 

Coachella, California Campus Ministry 
CONCERNS 

Campus Ministry, the Center for Social Concerns, and the ~eople. of Nues~ra . Senora de Soledad Parish invite you to explore the many d1mens1ons of Hispanic Ministry through a week-long immersion in southern Californi?'s rural Coachella 
1 

valley. Seminar participants will experience the Church s option for the poor . through an encounter with the spirituality, culture, and economy of the community of Coachella. 
Please join us for a 15-minute informational meeting Monday, Jan. 27th, beginning promptly at 6:30 in the CSC classroom. 
You can pick up your application at Campus Ministry, 114 Coleman-Morse, or at the CSC. Application deadline is Wednesday, Jan. 291h • 
Questions? Please contact Kevin Sandberg at 631-4147 or Kelly Rich at 631-3390. 
Monday, January 27, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MENS TENNIS 
Irish men get off to slow dual meet start 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
With two losses to Big Ten opponents over the weekend, the No. 27 Irish are off to an 0-2 start for the spring season. Ohio State defeated Notre Dame 6-1 on Sunday in Columbus, and Indiana triumphed 4-3 Friday at the Eck Center. 
Sophomore Brent D'Amico was the only Irish player to win on both days, and he had the one Irish victory against Ohio State. 
D'Amico, playing Dennis Mertens at No. 2 singles, won in straight sets, 6-2, 6-3. That turned out to be the only bright spot for Notre Dame after three close matches turned in favor of the Buckeyes. 
Freshman· Patrick Buchanan, in his second loss of the season, fell to Kevin McLean, 4-6, 6-4, 1-0 (11-9). Junior Luis Haddock, an Irish captain ranked 72nd nation­ally, fought with No. 45 Vince Ng at the No. 1 flight. Ng survived the battle, 7-6 (7-3), 6-0. Junior Matt Scott, No. 119 in the nation, was prepared to upset No. 7 Jeremy Wurtzman. Scott led in his first set before Wurtzman triumphed, 7-5, 6-3. Senior Brian Farrell and freshman Eric Langenkamp came away with the other singles losses, both in straight sets. 
The Buckeyes easily command­ed the doubles point with their 8­3, 8-6, and 8-1 wins. Friday's match was considerably closer. 
The Irish began well with their clinching of the doubles point. D'Amico and Scott defeated Zach Held and Ryan Recht, 8-5. The RechVHeld duo last year was able to triumph over the Irish pair of Casey Smith and Javier Taborga, 
who were ranked fifth nationally. 
Haddock and Brian Farrell then 
won 8-1 over Viktor Libal and 
Peter Novotny. 
In singles play, Haddock won easily at No. 1 over Libal, 6-4, 6-2. D'Amico defeated Novotny 7-5. 6­
4. Scott suffered the same fate Taborga experienced last year at the hands of Jakub Praibis, and he lost 6-1, 7-6. 
Langenkamp lost in straight sets. 6-4, 7-5, and Farrell and ·Bunchanan both lost in three sets. 
The Irish have rockier road ahead of them, especially with No. 2 Illinois traveling to the Eck Center Wednesday. Last year, the Illini prevailed 4-1 over the Irish in the Round of 16 at the NCAA tournament. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 

WOMENS TENNIS 
Young Irish top Badgers 
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 

Last May, Wisconsin knocked Notre Dame out of the NCAA tournament. 
Although the Badgers returned many of their play­ers this season, the Irish did not. 
Yet No. 22 Notre Dame defeated No. 30 Wisconsin in Madison, 5-2. 
And for the Irish, the match was not a venue for vengeance. Instead, it was an opportunity to show what their young team could accomplish. 
Junior Alicia Salas, who was victorious in both sin­gles and doubles, led the Irish effort and improved to 2-0 in dual match play this season. Salas, after her 6-4. 7-5 victory over Shana McElroy, is now 13-4 overall for 2002-03 and 29-3 in dual match play for her career. 
Freshman Lauren Connelly joined Salas to clinch the doubles point for the Irish with the duo's 8-6 victory at No. 2 doubles over McElroy and Lara Vojnov. 
That Irish pair is now 5-2 for the season. Unlike Salas, Lauren Connelly was limited to one victory for the day, and she was defeated in sin­gles play by Wisconsin's Lindsay Martin. 
The other contributors to the doubles point were senior Katie Cunha and freshman Kristina Stastny, who triumphed over Wisconsin's Katie McGaffin and Linde Mues, 8-3. 

In singles, junior Caylan Leslie, in her second dual match after a 14-month injury hiatus, gave Mues the blues with her 4-6, 6-3. 6-4 comeback triumph at No. 2 singles. 
Sophomore Sarah Jane Connelly survived the Badgers' Vojnov, 6-7 (5-7). 6-0, 6-3. 
Freshman Jennifer Smith rounded out the Irish victo­ries with her 5-7, 6-0, 6-1 performance over Teresa Gonzaga. 
With Sunday's perfor­mance, the Irish are now 2-0 in dual match play. The Irish will travel to Evanston, Ill. Thursday for a . match against the No. 12 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
Overtime 
continued from page 24 
bench, Carroll rallied his team around them, reminding the Irish what happened the last time Notre Dame played an overtime game. 
"I said, 'Think back to Georgetown, we've done this before,"' Carroll told the South Bend Tribune, referring to Notre Dame's quadruple-over­time victory at Georgetown last season. "We were more prepared than they were and we were going to do this. I just wanted to remind everybody to be confident." 
Thomas got the Irish going quickly in overtime, making a nifty pass underneath the bas­ket to Dan Miller. After an Eagle free throw, the Irish then scored nine of the game's next 11 points to pull comfort­ably ahead, 92-83. 

Even as Boston College mounted a comeback, drawing the score to within four, the Irish demonstrated exception­al poise from the free-throw line, connecting on 12-of~ 17 free throws in the overtime period. 
The Irish had the chance to put the game away early, but never did. After taking a com­fortable 4 7-37 lead in the first half, the Eagles then scored the first 11 points of the sec­ond half to take a one-point lead. 
The two teams then see­
sawed back and forth for most coach Al Skinner screaming at of the half, trading baskets the officials. and leads at will. The biggest Thomas was then fouled lead for Boston College came with 37.6 seconds left, but only halfway made one 
through the second half, when they  "We knew it was coming. There's no way I went in  of two free throws. Torrian  
led 55-50. But the Irish slowly began chip­ at halftime thinking this was going to be an easy game."  Jones then fouled Bell, who fin­ished with  
ping away at  a  game­ 
the lead, and w h e n Thomas  Mike Brey Irish coach  high 31 points, who made both  
drilled a long  free throws  
3-pointer  to  set  up  

with less than five minutes to one final attempt for the Irish. go, the Irish led 71-65. But Thomas' wild last-sec­
The two teams then traded ond attempt bounced off the baskets, and with 1:29 backboard, and the game went remaining, Troy Bell hit a pair into overtime. of free throws to pull the "\Ve knew it was coming," Eagles to 81-80. Brey said. "There's no way I 
After Jordan Cornette and went in at halftime thinking Thomas missed a pair of shots, this was going to be an easy Cornette forced a jump ball game." with Bell, which gave the Irish the ball with 41. 9 seconds Contact Andrew Soukup at remaining and had Eagles asoukup@nd.edu 
SYRACUSE SUMMER STUDY ABROAD 

TAKE YOUR PICK! 
35 Summer Programs All Over the World! 
Syra.cuse University Division of Interna.tiono.1 Programs Abroa.d 
(800) 251-9674 
DIPAsum@sum.ma.il.syr .edu http://summero.broa.d.syr.edu 

page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, January 27, 2003 
© 2003 PncewaterhouseCoopers LLP. PricewaterhouseCoopers refers to the U.S. firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and the other member firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited, each of which 1s a separate and independent legal entity. 
f'Rtcf.WATERHousf[roPERS I 
VOTED 11 IDEAL EMPLOYER BY BUSINESS STUDENTS, UNIVERSUM UNDERGRADUATE STUDY, 2002 
.,.... ·~ 
,,e,; ..... 

I· 
I 
. ~ 

C. I
. . ; . . ' . . . 
• / •"• 'C • V 
~,y:~ \1)< ,,L,:,;,:'"~' :.' 
l1Il1 
..., 
~~~t?:}}'. 
. )~~~; 
.. 1'·
~"'~ 
\ ~· 
' .:i¥fi:: 
\. 
·-.~ ~l:. ~~ !~\ 
'..· 
'<l'f:,. 
'· .. 
. , .• ::l":'ll'Co 
t"',~ : ', 
:~. .t... \f3 
''.
,an.. ... 

Investors need to be able to trust the information that companies supply to the public. Help us audit that information and we'll help you build a career. 
For opportunities and information go to: 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere 
Look beyond the numbers. 

Monday, January 27, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Volunteers Needed ·ECDC. at Saint .l\farv·s and Notre Dame, is looking for volunteers to play and interact with young children. If you enjoy reading to children. playing games, building with blocks, art activities and singing songs, please consider voluntee1ing for t\vo hours once per week. It is both rewarding and fun! Paid positions also available at ECDC-ND: M-Th 11:15-12:30 and M-F 12:30-1:30 & 2:30 -3:30. EarlyChildhood Development :·>'i-' Center, Inc. Please call -631-3344 or 284-4693  



FENCING 
Irish shine at Ohio State Duals 
. Mens squad wins all six of its matches, women go 5-1 with a loss to host Buckeyes 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Editor 
After seeing the womens foil team turn in a 45-1 per­formance at last year's NCAA Championships, the mens foil team wanted to get some recognition of its own. 
Led by a 
"[Wi,nning all six matches its own 

51-2 perfor­against the
to start the season] was 

mance from Buckeyes,the mens foil great. I have been going 6-3. 
team, the looking forward to Sophomore 
Notre Dame Michal
starting the season since

mens fencing Sobieraj team won all last season ... continued six of its dual his domi­m e e t s nance in the
Derek Snyder 

Saturday and swept the Ohio State Duals. 
The wins made the begin­ning of a new season, after a disappointing third-place fin­ish at last year's national championships, even sweeter. 
"It was great. I have been looking forward to starting the season since last season," sophomore Derek Snyder said. "I really wanted to improve on how we did last season." 
The foil team led the Irish to a 16-11 victory over the Buckeyes in going 8-1 against Ohio State. Snyder and foil captain Ozren Debic each went 3-0, and senior Forest Walton was 2-1. 
"I think it says a lot. We are healthier and more prepared psychologically and physically this year," Snyder said. "It shows that there are better things to come. We can do better at NCAAs." 
Going against one of the best sabre squads in the country, the Notre Dame mens sabre team struggled against the Buckeyes. turning in a 2-7 record. 
Seniors Gabor Szelle and Matt Fabricant each went 1-2 against Ohio State, but those were their only losses as each was 11-2 on the day. 
The epee 
team held 
regular sea­
foil 
son with a 3-0 record against 
Ohio State, 9-0 record on the day and a 3 7 -1 record in his two-year career. 
With the six wins, the mens team extended its dual meet winning streak to 65. 
The biggest question mark heading into this year for the womens team was its sabre squad, and that weakness showed in the 15-12 loss to Ohio State. 
Junior Maggie Jordan fin­ished 13-2 for the day but was only 1-2 against the Buckeyes. 
With junior captain Destanie Milo missing the competition due to an illness, the Irish were forced to go 

deep into their squad, and 
the inexperience showed. 
Sophomore Tiffany Muller 
and junior Danielle Davis 
came into the weekend with 
limited experience and com­
bined for a 0-6 record against 
the Buckeyes. 

Notre Dame's two national 
champions turned in perfect 
days, with junior epeeist 
Kerry Walton going 3-0 
against the Buckeyes and 14­
0 overall. 

Sophomore foilist Alijca. 
Kryczalo was also a perfect 
3-0 against the Buckeyes and 
was 9-0 on the day. 
Walton improved her career 
regular season record to 64­
5, while Kryczalo is now 48­
2. 

The mens and womens teams each defeated Case Western Reserve, Minnesota, Lawrence University. Michigan State and Cleveland State with ease. 
This Saturday, No. 1 Penn State comes to the Joyce Center for a showdown with the second-ranked Irish at the Notre Dame Duals. 
After seeing the Nittany Lions claim the crown last year, the Irish are ready for some regular-season revenge. 
"We are all looking forward to it immensely," Snyder said. "I am especially since I have a grudge with Penn State. I have some friends on the team and I didn't perform at NCAAs as well as I could have against Penn State. 
"I want to make up for that and show that we are going to be more serious at NCAAs this year." 
Contact Matt Lozar at m1ozar@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles bitten by Bulldogs' late surge 
"We either play well in the first 
By TREY WILLIAMS 

half or the second half. One 
Sports Writer 

thing that we have to learn is playing 40 minutes of basket­As the sports cliche goes: you ball without letting up." 
win some, you lose some. 

From a statistical point of 
Every sport has a last place view, the Belles had a toughfinisher. It's just unfortunate 
game all around. Emily
for the 
Creachbaum,S a i n t 
a usual 

Mary's "We came out strong in 
strength in basketball the first half But we just the Belles' 
team that 
offense, was

couldn't keep our rhythm
they have limited to 
played this going into the second 
only 11 role for half" points, while 
longer than 
freshman 

any athlete Anne Hogan
Katie Boyce
would like. stepped up,Hopes of guard tacking on 
resurgence for the Belles were dashed Saturday afternoon, as they suffered a 65-48 loss to Adrian College, leaving them in their last place MIAA standing for at least a few more days. 
The Belles (5-12). tied for last in the MIAA with a 1-5 conference record, had hopes of an upset over the fifth ranked Bulldogs (10-5), but came up short in the second half. 
"We came out strong in the first half," said guard Katie Boyce "But we just couldn't keep our rhythm going into the second half." 
Pacing right behind the Bulldogs with a 28-27 halftime deficit, the Belles had obviously come ready to play. 
However, they hit a wall in the second half, scoring only 28 points to Adrian's 37. 
"It's been a constant problem with this team," said Boyce 

Work for Obseruer Sports. 
Call 1-4543. 
12. 

Meanwhile, the Bulldogs used to their depth to dominate the score­board, with four players rack­ing up points in the double dig­its. 
"Coach [Suzanne Bellina] often talks to us about capital­izing on our opponents' mis­takes," said Boyce "We weren't able to do that." 
There were definitely enough mistakes to capitalize. Adrian scoring leader Sarah Vincke shot a cold 4-of-15 inside and 0-7 from the perimeter. 
As a team, the Bulldogs only hit 45 percent of their shots overall, and did not make a single shot from 3-point range. 
Saint Mary's will have yet another chance at redemption, as they face third-ranked Alma College at home Wednesday. 
Contact Trey Williams at Williams.3l 7@nd.edu 
page 22 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, January 27, 2003 

: I \ I 
; 
I-' 
l I ·l 
Hi·· 1f 
I,r 
i :t 
1­I , 
l 
j 
l 
__I 
' 
\ '\ 

,­

l 
~ 
adidas and Salomon Advocate Health Care AEP/Cook Nuclear Plant Allstate Insurance Company 
0 
Amate House American Enterprise Institute 
Aon CorporationC. Arthritis Foundation Augustinian Volunteer ProgramE Bastian Material Handling Bet Tzedek Legal Services* 
cu 
Boys & Girls Clubs of America BUNAC 
Camp John Marc Cargill Dow Carson Pirie Scott &Co. Carter Center Caterpillar CBS News* CDW Center for Social Concerns, 
Notre Dame Center for the Homeless Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention Central Intelligence Agency Chicago Consulting Actuaries CIS City of South Bend City of South Bend 
Police Department City Year Chicago Coachmen Industries Coca-Cola College Football Hall of Fame ComEd, An Exelon Company Council on Foreign Relations* Crate & Barrel CSG Systems Culligan International* Deloitte & Touche DENSO Manufacturing Michigan Dept. of Political Science, 
Notre Dame Dominican Sisters of 
Springfield, IL E & J Gallo Winery Easter Seals Wisconsin Camps Eaton Eli Lilly and Company 
The Elkhart Truth 
Enterprise Rent-A-Car General Dynamics General Electric Goodwill Industries of Michiana H-E-B Grocery Company Heritage Foundation Hewlett-Packard Hill/Holliday IBM IES: Institute for the International 

Education of Students Indiana Dept. ofTransportation Indiana Legal Services Indianapolis Motor Speedway* lnterlochen Arts Camp Kauffman Entrepreneurial Intern 
Program, Notre Dame Kellogg Institute for International 
Studies, Notre Dame Kellogg's Ken Herceg & Associates KPMG Liz Claiborne LOGAN Center Lowe's Companies Madison Center for Children Marathon Ashland Petroleum Mayo Clinic* McGladrey & Pullen Mercy Home For Boys and Girls Merrill Lynch Methodist Research Institute 

at Clarian Health* MPI Research NALEO Educational Fund* NAVAIR Neiman Marcus* New England Center for Children* Newell Rubbermaid Northrup Grumman 
Space Technology 
Northwestern Mutual Financial Network -Hoopis Financial Northwestern Mutual Financial 
Network-Indianapolis Office of US Senator Evan Bayh Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, 

a Johnson & Johnson company Outdoor Academy* Parsons Brinckerhoff Partnership Assistance Center Peace Corps Peterson Consulting, a unit 
of Navigant Consulting Porter-Starke Services Press Ganey Associates PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter & Gamble Progressive Insurance Pulte Homes Corporation 
R. A. Smith & Associates Raytheon Refugee & Immigration Services 
of South Bend SCORE Small Business 
Development Center SCORE! Educational Centers* Sidley Austin Brown & Wood Siemens Building Technologies 

January28 
4pm-8pm 
joyce center north dome 
(hockey rink side) ente~ gate 3 

Smith Barney Smithsonian Institution Social Security Administration South Bend Silver Hawks Southwestern Diabetic Foundation/ 
Camp Sweeney State Farm Insurance Companies Strong Financial Corporation Stryker Instruments Stryker Leibinger/Navigation System Parking Target Corporation Teach For America Technology Services Group US Army Corps of Engineers US Army Healthcare Recruiting US Dept. of Justice, 
Antitrust Division US Dept. of Justice, Community Relations Service 
US Dept. ofTreasury, Internal Revenue Service US Environmental Protection Agency US General Services Administration US Marine Corps Officer Selection Station US Naval Criminal Investigative Service US Navy Civilian Jobs US Secret Service US Securities and Exchange Commission United Parcel Service University Directories Walgreens Watson Wyatt Worldwide VAi/Nationai Institute for People with Disabilities* YWCA of St.Joseph County, IN 
*Resume drop 

findoutmore! 
For more information about the participating companies, job descriptions, and contacts, access The Career Center website: 
• 
Go to "careercenter.nd.edu" 

• 
Click on the "Undergraduates" title bar, then click on the "Go IRISH" title bar and enter username and password 

• 
Type in "WCIF" in the "Enter Keywords" textbox in Quick Search 

• 
On "Search For'; click on either "Jobs" or "Internships; 


and then click on "Search"  
• Click on either "Job Title" or "Employer" title bar for  THE CAREER  
an alphabetical list ofjobs or companies  CENTER  

diversity reception 
lafortune ballroom, noon to 2pm all invited 
every college • ev~ry major • internships • full-time 


Monday, January 27, 2003 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 
WONl'"fE'c;.

< ) lHl~lc;::.S HE'S D "''T , 5'l ~LEPA1lCAL.L (S WA'/ rot2-· Ti~ 
10..,. TAU(IN .i;> sH{),vE:J2. ...~ (AlL WE£k'..) 
' 
~ MOSf SUPE~9fll10US 

HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ICHED 

(IJ I I 
02003 Tri>une Media Se,vices, Inc. All Righta ReseNed. 
MAUHN 
r'? i;i
"""--' I,:::--,
-


WHf:N THE: JUDGE: MADE: AN ERROR,tBONGLE 

HIS TEAMMATE:S SAID Hf= 
Bl:=L-ONGE::D HE:Rf=.
IJ I 


www.jumble.com 
VIMOTE I 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon.
[ rJ rJ 
•

AA~r: [I] rI I JrI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow)

I Jumbles: POKED MOURN BEGONE LAWFUL Saturday's Answer.· 
How he looked on his wedding day -WELL "GROOMED" 
CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 41 That Sp. 66 Rounded hills 1 _Vegas 42 See "damp" 67 Word before instead of "Go!"
4 Fisherman "clamp," e.g.
10 Hit, as one's toe 43 Run off to wed
14 AOL, e.g.: Abbr. DOWN 46 However,
15 Harangue 1 Isn't straight up 
informally with16 Llama's land 47 Wasp homes 2 Catching z's17 Building wing 51 Sharp 3 Broken finger 18 Iroquois Indian comeback 
support19 Put up, as a 
53 Christie of 4 Consisting ofpicture mystery 
tiny bits 20 Earthquake 54 "Ahhh" and 
5 Sheer fabric 
measurer "Whew, that 6 Actor Kinnear 
23 Bowling target was close!" 7 Den 
24 Story that's "to 58 Sentence be continued" subject, usually 8 Icelandic literary ......, -+--+----,r---+-­work
27 Sight-related 60 Come by 9 Harvests
28 Ewe's mate 61 Basic cleaner 10 Globe
31 Five: Prefix 62 Turnpike turn­11 Attack
off32 Fred Flintstone aggressivelyand others 63 Tiny acorn, e.g. 
12 Cider server
35 Request after 64 RCA and 13 locust or beetle
an auto Panasonic breakdown products 21 Enliven, with Puu.le by Jim HylM "up"

36 Carry-on bags 65 The "B" in KB 38 Snazzy 1940's 49 "Look What 55 "Star Trek" have them and MB 22 With it, man attire Done to My weapon setting Song, Ma" 
-------------25 Heaps 39 Off-topic 56 "Beetle Bailey" 
(1970 hit) ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 2s Subjects of ramblings 

dog A L A C A A T E F G H A N Congressional 
40 Perfect 50 Least risky 57 Take a tumble

G O T O T O W N O R I N O debate 0 N T H E S E T M E N D S 28 Send in 44 Grosse_, 52 Show gratitude 58 Omaha's state: 
Mich.

R E payment to Abbr. 29 Group in 45 Work unit 
53 The little 59 Prefix withLancaster 48 Circus props Mermaid acetyleneCounty, Pa, 
30 Washington transit system, For answers, call 1-900-285·5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a with '"the" credit card, 1-800-814•5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
33 Vigor's partner crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 


--+R--S.-t 34 Scot's refusal 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000A V O C E N S E A S O N 36 Fortuneteller past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). 
8 E N I C N T E L O P E 37 South Seas Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, 0 N E T O O O S E N E R locale nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name _______________________ Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Mimi Rogers, Bridget Fonda, Tracy Lawrence, Jerome Kem 
Happy Birthday: It's time to take a chance and follow your dreams. Your persuasive manner will help you to drum up the support you need to further your goals. Follow your instincts and you will find success. Your numbers are 2,24,28,31,36,44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your ability to see all sides of an issue will be helpful. Don't hesitate to voice your opinion; however, be sure that you aren't being pushy. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Make pleasing changes to your living quarters. You may have to help older relatives with their financial concerns or personal papers.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Educational courses will turn into a form of entertainment for you. You will meet a potential new mate while attending lectures.*** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't go off on a spending spree. Be cautious and make price comparisons. Your emotional partner will give you a hard time if you have been too busy. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Include the whole family when making decisions about your home. Don't make assumptions about what anyone else thinks. Clear up misconceptions by communicating. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): It's time to do a major cleaning of your house and all of your personal papers. Check to all your policies and financial documents; you may want to get some legal advice. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Your gift for seeing both sides of any situation will help you keep the peace. Although you will enjoy being appreciated, don't take on too much. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your creative way of communicating will help keep you out of trouble. Your lover will be more than receptive if you say the right thing. Tirink carefully before you speak. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Direct your energy into competitive sports events, socializing with friends, or improving your residence. Include family members in whatever you do. ** 
"' 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): It's time for you to get out there and socialize. Romantic involvement will develop through new friendships. Contribute your knowledge. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your desire for freedom and travel may cause more of a dilemma than you anticipated. Make sure all your documents are in order. Difficulties in foreign countries and with authority figures will surface. 
**** 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will face emotionai discord if you have neglected your personal responsibilities. Don't take on other people's problems and, whatever you do, avoid gossip, ** .... 
Birthday Baby: You will be playful, adventuresome and always ready to try something new. You will have a good head on your shoulders and will be an action person rather than an onlooker. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com. eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 



Monday, January 27, 2003 
MENS BASKETBALL 

Irish ground upset-minded Eagles 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Almost an hour and a half after he drifted in and out of conscious­ness lying on the floor of the Conte Forum, Matt Carroll once again found himself staring up at the ceiling. 
Only this time, his teammates weren't watching worriedly, they were screaming ecstatically. 
Carroll had just been fouled after drilling a 3-pointer, and he hit the subsequent free throw to deliver a backbreaking blow in overtime to an upset-minded Boston College squad. Carroll's rare four-point play gave the Irish a five-point lead, helping No. 16 Notre Dame edge past the Eagles 101-96. 
"I'll live with Matt Carroll, shoot­ing that thing with our life on the line, forever," Irish head coach Mike Brey said of the senior guard who left the game for 41 seconds after getting fouled hard in the first half. "I can watch the Super Bowl with a free mind." 
'The Irish, who earned their sec­ond Big East road win in as many games and are off to their best start ever in the Big East, blew a 10-point halftime lead and watched the Eagles nearly pull off a stunning upset. 
In fact, the Irish had a golden chance to win the game at the end of regulation. But Chris Thomas, who scored 25 of his 28 points in the second half, dribbled the ball for Notre Dame's entire possession and forced up a terrible shot from the right elbow, sencling the home crowd into a frenzy and the game into overtime. 
Yet as the Irish walked to their 
see OVERTIME/page 19 
WOMENS BASKETBALL HOCKEY 


Winless streak continues 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Sports Writer 
The good news for the Irish on Saturday \Vas that they final­ly didn't lose the game. 
The bad news is that they still haven't won a game in their last seven contests, either. 
After losing to visiting Michigan State in a 2-1 heart­breaker on Friday. the Irish were able to break their three game losing streak with a 3-3 tie against the powerful Spartans on Saturday. 
"I'd be ·happier with more than one point on the board," said Irish coach Dave Poulin. "We battled and should have made more than one point this weekend. The puck is just not going our way." 
Friday, the puck seemed to be going the way of Spartan sopho­more goaltender Matt Migliaccio. Despite the Irish holding a 41-25 lead in shots against, Migliaccio stole the win for the Spartans by saving all but one of those Irish shots on his way to being named first star of the game. 
Irish goaltender Morgan Ccy got a little help from the right goalpost toward the end of the first period. Spartans' leading scorer Jim Slater skated in on a breakaway, but hit the post when he tried to beat Cey up high. After missing, Slater was injured by an errant stick to the 
see HOCKEY/page 18 
I 
I,. Late lead finally preserved as Irish top 'Cats 
I 
. 
I 
I 
I 
, 
I. 
I I ,I I
I . 
I. I I 
I 
I 
• I 
. 

SUPER BOWl XXXVH 
Tampa Bay 48 Oakrand 21 
The stingy Buccaneers 

r. 
defense returned three intercepted Rich Gannon passes for touchdowns. 
page 14 


By KA TIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
Reading a recap of Saturday's game against Villanova may recall memories of the recent Irish loss to Rutgers -the Irish hold a dou­ble-digit lead late in the game, the opposing team ties, things start to look bad for Notre Dame. 
But watching Saturday's victory against the Wildcats would tell a very different story. 
Although Villanova made a run to tie the Irish, who led by 11 with seven minutes left, Notre Dame's 58-56 win showcased a more con­fident, focused Irish team than has taken the court in any of their recent losses. 
"I though we really played a smart game," sophomore Jacqueline Batteast. who scored 12 points and added nine rebounds, told the South Bend Tribune. "We knew they would make a run, and we knew we could make ours. We played 40 intense minutes." 
The final few of those 40 min­utes were crucial. 
With 2:24 left to play, Wildcats Trish Juhline hit a trey that tied the game at 51, and images of the loss to Rutgers started to come to mind. But this time in the final minutes of the game, Notre Dame made sure its game worked. 
In the final 2:30, Alicia Hatay hit two field goals and Le'Tania Severe hit three free throws, while the defense took away any Wildcat three-point attempts to give the Irish the two-point victory. 
"You can't get eight or 10 point<; behind with four minutes to go and expect to win every time," said Wildcats head coach Harry Peretta. "I think we've done it three times this year." 
But the final two minutes weren't the only things that were different about Notre Dame. 
The most obvious change for the 
see 'NOVA/page 18 
MENS TENNIS 
Ohio State 6 Notre Dame 1 
Indiana 4 Notre Dame 3 
The Irish begin the dual meet season 0-2. 
page 19 

WOMENS TENNIS 
Notre Dame 5 Wisconsin 2 
The No. 22 Irish defeated the No. 30 Badgers in Madison. 
page 19 
FENCING 
At the Ohio State duals held Saturday, the men swept the meet with a 6­0 overall record, while the women fell to host Ohio State to finish 5-1. 
page 21 

MENS SWIMMING 
Northwestern 172 Notre Dame 126 
The Irish fell to the Wildcats in the final home dual meet of the season. 
page 17 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Adrian 65 Saint Mary's 48 
The Belles were unable to keep up with the Bulldogs in the second half, after only trailing by a point at halftime. 
page 21 








