
VOL. XXXVfl NO. 76 
E-mail reports 
•

n1ugg1ng 
Observer Staff Report 
A Notre Dame student was mugged while walking home from Boat Club over the weekend, according to a Saturday e-mail sent to Keough I !all residents. 
The 7:45 p.m. e-mail from Keough rector Father Peter Jarret said "there has been an incident this week that raises issues about safety off campus (a student walk­ing home alone from the Boat Club was mugged and injured." Jarret's message listed no other specifics about the assault. 
Notre Dame Security/Police and South Bend police officials said they had no knowledge of a Notre Dame student being mugged. Student Affairs officials also denied knowledge of the alleged incident. 
Jarret's e-mail cautioned stu­dents to be careful when off cam­pus, in light of the alleged mug­ging and freshman Chad Sharon's disappearance. The e-mail recom­mended that Keough residents leave and return to Notre Dame with other students. 
Jarret declined to comment on his hall-wide e-mail or the alleged assault. He could not confirm whether the mugging occurred but stated that all the information in his message was truthful and came from a source connected to the alleged victim. 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Scully confronts TV reporter 
By TERESA PRALISH Assistant News Editor 
A confrontation between WNDU-TV reporter Bonnie Druker and Notre Dame execu­tive vice president Father Tim scully occurred near the Fisher Hall park­ing lot shortly before the beginning of the 10 
p.m. Mass celebrated Thursday for missing freshman C h a d Sharon, University officials said. 
Druker, a reporter for t h e University­owned tele­vision sta­tion, was on campus to cover the Fisher Hall Mass for Newscenter 16. She was unavail­able for comment. 
"Father Scully told the WNDU crew that they were parked in the wrong spots," said Notre Dame spokesman Matt Storin. 
A Notre Dame Security/Police crime blotter report listed an inci­dent at Fisher Hall under the offense category "other assault." The online blotter narrative said "a visitor reported a confronta­tion with a University employee regarding parking." The incident was reported at 1:14 a.m. Friday. 




While police officials said they were unable to comment on any possible investigation into the report, the incident is listed as "active" on the blotter. 
"If it says it's active then it's been assigned to a detective," said Phil Johnson, assistant direc­tor ofNDSP. 
Storin said he believes the dis­pute occurred over the location of WNDU vehicles parked in the spaces between Fisher Hall and South Dining Hall. 

"I saw the trucks in the parking area that I believe is probably part of the South Dining Hall parking," he said. Storin said the news vehicles may have been parked in spaces reserved for South Dining Hall parking and not Fisher Hall parking. 
Scully apologized to Druker after the incident occurred, according to Storin. "It is my understanding that Father Scully apologized to Ms. Druker the next day and that she accepted that apology," he said. "[Scully apolo­gized] just for what he felt was a misunderstanding." 
The confrontation occurred shortly before the Fisher Hall Mass was scheduled to begin, according to Storin. "It was five or 10 minutes before that," he said. 
Scully also said he apologized to Druker for the incident. "It was a 
see SCULLY/page 4 

By KIFLIN TURNER 
Associate N=s Editor 
Faced with questions about career paths and the personal interests that motivate those decisions, students frequently consider various post-gradua­tion options throughout their college careers. But on the Notre Dame campus, there are few options for this type of career guidance. said Notre Dame senior John Cannon, president of the new student-
run magazine, Changing Times, that aims to provide uncertain students with possi­ble answers about their future plans. 
"J think we realized that it's just not ourselves but all col­lege students wanting an answer," said Cannon. 
Planning began last October when two roommates brain­stormed an idea that eventu­ally became a reality in the form of a non-profit founda­tion. Like most other students. Cannon and John Mirshekari, found themselves puzzling over their futures and dis­cussing their plans for after college. 
ND cancels graduate 
New student magazine debuts 
insurance subsidy plans 

Pholo courtesy ot John Cannon 

John Mlrshekarl (I) and John Cannon recently started a student 
magazine, Changing Times, deallng with career guidance. 
"Challenging students to how to focus on their interests think about these questions and then use these as more and then reaching some strengths to help the world in answers and inspiring them to their own way. do those things with the "In terms of giving our broader society in mind is the readers a good perspective on goal of the magazine," said careers that they could poten­Cannon. tially explore, we feel it's 
Cannon and Mirshekari said important to have people they wanted to help students face their own doubts about see MAGAZINE/page 4 
By ANDREW THAGARD News Writer 
Budget cuts have forced University administrators to cancel previous plans to subsidize the cost of a larger, more comprehensive health insurance plan for graduate students. representatives from the Graduate Student Union and the Graduate School confumed. 
GSU plans to officially infonn Notre Dame graduate students of the lack of subsidiz.ation later this week via e-mail. 
" [University officials] had been saying all along that they didn't think it would fit into next year's budget," said Heather Edwards, GSU Healthcare Committee Chairperson. 
Edwards said she and other GSU leaders were informed of the deci­sion by administrators within the Graduate School early this semes­ter. Administrators, however, also warned them last semester that lack of funds would likely make subsidization for the 2003-04 acad­emic year unlikely, she said. 
James Powell, associate dean of the Graduate School, also con­firmed that subsidized health insurance will be unavailable to graduate students next year. But he said the University will remain focused on the issue and com­mended GSU for its hard work on the issue. 
"GSU has done everything it pos­sibly can to achieve this goal," Powell said. 
Despite these efforts, GSU President Tim Dale said he expects complaints from graduate stu­dents, some of whom have griev­ances with the current health insurance plan. 
'Tm sure there's going to be out­cry and outrage, but there's not much to do," he said. "Negotiating with an empty bank account doesn't really work. The main thing is to keep this on the agenda." 
Subsidizing health insurance remains a priority among University administrators, the GSU president said. 
"It is on the top of their list." he said. "It's on the top of everyone's list. It seems that at the earliest possible moment that funding 
see BUDGET/page 4 

page 2 
The Observer . WHAT'S UP Monday, January 20, 2003 
INSIDE COLUMN WHAT'S INSIDE 
Days to 
ren1.ember 

Last Sunday I walked back onto campus after a long vacation -for the last time. As 1 walked down the hall of my dorm and greeted my friends who I hadn't seen for the last three weeks it 
struck me that 
this was the last time this group of amazing women would be within yelling distance. It wasn't until that moment that the thought finally 

struck home. This 
Katie McVoy
is my last semes­ter of college. 
And as I Associate thought about Sports Editor that, I made a pact with myself. I think it's a fact that all of us who will soon be saying goodbye should take a moment to consider and, per­haps, sign so that we remember to do what really matters now. 
Here it is. 

I, Katie Marie McVoy, being a sec­ond-semester senior, have agreed to the following terms for spending my last four months at Saint Mary's. 
I will not let the stress of school take away the enjoyment of my final semester of being a grown-up kid. I will not let books and homework take away from the things I will real­ly learn in the classroom and out of it. I will not let trying to formulate theses get in the way of letting new ideas really grow. 
I will not let the small annoyances of living with my friends keep me from appreciating how important they really are to me. I will remem­ber to tell them, every time I can, how much I have learned from them since I set foot on campus three and a half years ago. I will remember to take advantage of their company because it will not be available come next fall. Most importantly, I will remember to keep my friendships strong now, so that they will be strong always. 
I will not let the fact that I am leaving and going out "on my own" make me forget that I am never alone. I will still call home to talk to my mom when I am sad and I will still ask to be Daddy's girl when boys are not nice to me. I will not let the fact that some of the world will see me as an adult prevent me from acknowledging that, sometimes, I need someone to come scare away the monsters from under my bed. 
I will not let growing older force me to grow up too soon. I will still keep a picture of my dog and a teddy bear sitting on my window sill. I will continue to allow the number of stuffed animals that I sleep with increase, and I will always, always remember to watch the Smurfs whenever they are on TV. 
Most importantly, I will remember that these days happen only once and, each morning, I will remember to enjoy them. These are days I will remember. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcuo5695@saintmarys.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards icselfas a professional publica­cion and strives for rhe highest srandards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make misrakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
CAMPUS WORLD& BUSINESS 

VIEWPOINT SCENE
NEWS NATION NEWS SPORTS 
ND students 

Powell says San Francisco Student Scene checks 
ND womens 
plan Martin 

he supports outlaws Senate asks out ethnic 
basketball 
Luther King 
affirmative 
Segway side­
for new meal 

cuisine in 
team IQses to 
week events 
action policies 
walk transport 
plan 

South Bend 
Rutgers 
MLK week orga­
Secretary of State 
Segway human 
Student body 

Not satisfied 
The Irish gave up
nizers have 
Colin Powell said 
transporters are 
president Trip 

with the dining hall 
a 15-point halftime 
planned a full week 
he agrees with the 
prohibited by city 
Foley calls for a 

offerings? Head for 
lead and eventually
of activities to help 
University of 
officials because of 
new 10-meal per 

Carrabbas Italian 
lost to Rutgers 64­
commemorate 
Michigan's policy 
safety concerns. 
week option for 

Grill, Siam 
61 on Saturday.
King's life and 
and disagrees with 
students. 

Restaurant, or 
achievements. 
President Bush's 

Fiddler's Hearth. 
position. 
page 3 
page 5 
page 7 
page 8 

page 10 
page 20 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 

Two people apprehended near 
. Art Exhibit: Contemporary Impressions: Art by Native 
parking lot
American Artists 

NDSP apprehended two suspicious people 
All day at the Snitc Museum of /\rt 

near the Cl parking lot Thursday afternoon. One suspect was arrested for criminal trespass 
. Womens Basketball vs. Connecticut 

and the other individual was identified, issued 2 p.m. at the Joyce Center 
a no trespass warning letter and released. The case is being investigated further. 
Visitor reports argument 
. Art Exhibit: Girl Culture: Lauren Greenfield Photographs 
A visitor reported an argument with a stu­
All day at the SNitc Museum of Art 

dent regarding parking near the Main Circle 
on Thursday around noon. The case is being 
referred for administrative review. 
NDSP issues alcohol citation 
Police issued a University citation to a stu­dent Thursday evening near the East Gate for 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 

a minor in possession of alcohol. The case is being referred for administrative review. 
. Interfaith Prayer Service 4 p.m. at Stapleton Lounge 

Student treated for sports injury 
NDSP responded to a report of an injured student near the Stepan Center Friday after­
. Hesidencc llall Association Info Session 

noon. The student was treated at the scene for 7 p.m. at Haggar Parlor 
a sports-related injury. 
complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
. Sister School Project Forum 12 p.m. at llaggar Parlor 
WHAT'S COOKING 
South Dining Hall 

Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Neapolitan spaghetti 
Today's Lunch: Stuffed egg plant,
Today's Lunch: Swiss steak, herb­
garlic russet, potatoes, brown sauce 

basil-pepper-tomato mostaccioli 
fireside risotto, grilled italian vegeta­
bles, light tomato sauce, herb pasta,
chicken gravy, whipped potatoes, mint­

italian sausage marinara, sausage 
pizza, cherry turnover, pretzel sticks, 
fettuccine carbonara, broiled ham­
ed peas & carrots, haddock with herbs, 

burger, south beach Panini, Grilled
cheese & rice croquettes, broiled toma­
curried vegetable rice pilaf, baked 

to halves, chicken jambalaya, beef & 
Cheese Sandwich, french fries, cilantro
potato, sugar-snap peas, 

grilled chicken, coconut rice, cauli­
noodle casserole, rotisserie chicken, 
flower & broccoli, vegtabe ranch pizza,
italian rice pilaf, 
Today's Dinner: Sherried chicken 

cheese pizza 
thighs with mushrooms & water chest­

Today's Dinner: Neapolitan spaghet­
nuts, long grain & wild rice, brown 

Today's Dinner: 
ti, basil-pepper-tomato mostaccioli,
sauce, chicken gravy, whipped pota­

Pierogie bar, sweet corn tamale pie,
italian sausage marinara, four-cheese
toes, broccoli spears, grilled redfish, cut 

pasta fantastica, leek & fennel tart,
pizza, breadsticks, broccoli-cheese-rice 
corn, sliced carrots. baked sweet pota­

grilled chicken breast, cherry muffins,
casserole, italian-blend vegetables,
toes, baked potato, cauliflower. fried 

sweet & sour pork with stickey rice,
buffalo wings, rotisserie beef churras­
cheese ravioli, three-pepper sauce, 

vegetable ranch pizza, pepperoni
carias, grilled pork chops, hot apple­
french dip sandwich 

pizza, bread sticks, hungarian pork
sauce 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
UI
:c 
~ 
UI 
3: 
..I 
c( 
(.) 


0 

...I HIGH 19 HIGH 9 HIGH 18 HIGH 15 HIGH 14 HIGH 20 LOW 9 LOW 8 LOW 8 LOW 8 LOW 5 LOW 12 
Atlanta 58 / 43 Boston 29 / 8 Chicago 23 / 7 Denver 34 / 31 Houston 72 / 57 Los Angeles 68 / 50 Minneapolis 13 / -4 New York 30 / 15 Philadelphia 34 / 14 Phoenix 70 / 47 Seattle 48 / 41 St. Louis 40 / 23 Tampa 67 / 48 Washington 41 / 20 
Monday, January 20, 2003 The Observer . NEWS page 3 

Students celebrate MLK week 
By NATASHA GRANT News Writer 
Beginning today, Notre 

Dame students prepare to 
celebrate the life of Martin 
Luther King Jr. 
While Notre Dame and 

Saint Mary's students must 
attend classes today. several 
groups and individuals hope 
to help students celebrate 
King's achievements through 
events with the overall 
theme, "Making Your Mark: A 
Journey Through 
Leadership." The weeklong 
program will feature a dinner 
titled "Food for a Journey" 
and a Mass, "Light for the 
Journey," said Ken Seifert, 
the student coordinator of the 
series of events and a mem­
ber of the MLK committee. 
Seifert said that 

Wednesday's dinner is not 
open to the public but that 
invitations were distributed 
to students who expressed an 
interest in King and in multi­
culturalism. 
"We're looking for people 

who can contribute to the dis­
cussion and learn from each 
other," said Siefert. Some of 
the issues that will be dis­
cussed at the dinner include 
racism, equality, war, gender 
relations, economic status 
and diversity. 
The Mass, which will be 

held on Thursday at 7 p.m .. 
will be open to all students 
and staff, said Siefert. 
Melody Gonzalez and Andy 

Gomez, who will be singing in the combined choir at the MLK Mass on Thursday night, will play a pivotal role to the success of events this week. As director of Coro Primavera, Gonzalez was encouraged to perform with the Celebration Choir and Voices of Faith by Iris Outlaw. 
"When Iris mentioned the possibility of Coro Primavera participating, I was thrilled and accepted immediately," she said. "Coro has always wanted to sing with other choirs on campus." 
Gonzalez also cited the importance of the event and her admiration for the person being celebrated as reasons why she was honored to be a part of the choir. "For me, 
Martin Luther King Jr. is  a  
remarkable role model and  a  
true inspiration," she said.  

Gonzalez said she hopes that people will gain more from this week's events than simply learning about King. 
"I hope that students can be able to take his message to others and practice it in their own lives," she said. "This is a very strong message, espe­cially in our current times as we think about all the injus­tices around the world, from war to sweatshops and other human rights abuses." 
Although Gonzalez believes the planned events will help educate students, she said more could be done on by the UniversHy to give the holiday the attention she thinks it deserves. 
"In my opinion, holidays like Martin Luther King Jr. Day or Cesar Chavez Day are more important than some of the other holidays we cele­brate", she said. 
Gonzalez said she does not believe that classes should be cancelled because that would make students appreciate the significance of the holiday. "It would be nice to hear more about it in the classrooms or sec more advertisement for the events" Gonzalez said. 
Gomez said he also hopes that the celebration will make people more aware of King. 
"I think it is somewhat nverlooked on campus because it is a national holi­day, but here at [Notre Dame] we still have to go to class and go on with other activi­ties," he said. "A wider recog­nition of MLK is certainly a worthy cause, and I just think that we just want more of an awareness of why there is a MLK celebration." he said. 
Gomez said students and administrators in particular should be responsible for pro­moting awareness of the holi­day. 
"I think the University should make more of an effort to try to promote awareness of [King] to give him the proper credit due even if we are still in atten­dance in class," he said. 
Contact Natasha Grant at ngrant@nd.edu. 

Activists ren,_ember abortion anniversary 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Abortion activists marking this week's 30th anniversary of the Supreme Court's Roe v. Wade decision say they have their first chance in years to put a dent in abortion rights now that Republicans control the House, Senate and the White House. 
"We will pass the first signifi­cant pro-life legislation actual­ly limiting abortions in 30 years," said Sen. Sam Brownback, R-Kan. and a leading abortion foe. He pre­dicted Congress will move quickly to pass a measure ban­ning a late-term abortion pro­cedure called partial birth abortion by opponents. 
Congress passed a measure twice, in 1996 and 1997, ban­ning the procedure, in which the fetus is partially delivered before its skull is punctured. President Clinton vetoed it each time. The House passed the measure again last year. but the then-Democratic-con• trolled Senate never took up the measure. 
"We will pass a partial birth abortion ban," Brownback said. "That's going to hearten people. It's been a long fight. We're finally turning some of the battle." 
President Bush has said he would sign the bill, one of sev­eral abortion-related measures Republicans will push this leg­islative session. Their optimism is expected to be apparent Wednesday when thousands of marchers converge on Washington to mark the anniversary of the Supreme Court's decision three decades ago legalizing abortion. 
"I think we'll hear a great deal of hyperbole about Roe being at risk from the abortion side. I hope they're right," said Rep. Chris Smith, H-N.J. "From our side, we're going to assert even more, with compassion but with earnestness, that the Holocaust of the unborn has to stop." 
But Douglas Johnson, legisla­tive director for the National Right to Life Committee, said passing anti-abortion bills will continue to be difficult in the 100-member Senate, where 60 votes are needed to overcome parliamentary tactics for blocking action on most bills. The Senate has 51 Republicans, 48 Democrats and one independent. 
"This is not a Senate that's going to be approving sweep­ing legislation to challenge Roe," Johnson said. "It is a Congress now in which we have a chance for a fair debate on these sorts of reforms that are supported by most Americans." 
Abortion-rights supporters, who also have a series of events planned for the anniversary, acknowledge that the advantage in Congress has switched to abortion foes. "The Ilepublicans are controlling every branch of government, and we have now entered the anti-choice trifecta," said Rep. Carolyn Maloney, D-N.Y. 
Maloney and others pointed to a series of actions Bush has taken administratively, includ­ing an executive order that bars U.S. aid to international groups that support abortion and withholding $34 million from international family plan­ning programs overseas. 
HOT SPRING BREAKS 
Discount Coupons up to $250 C:mcun. Arapulco, Jamaicn & Bnhamns p11ck11ges with air, Our staffs 18th Spring Break 1-800-328-7513 www.hotspringbrt11ks.com 

DOW~ MILL 
£>~0 IDNOCP 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 24 IWIII VALLEY 
BUS LEAVES LIBRARY CIRCLE AT 5:00 PM COST: $35.00 INCLUDES LIFT TICKET. RENTAL AND TRANSPORT $25.00 LIFT TICKET AND TRANSPORT ONLY RETURN BUS LEAVES SWISS V LLEY AT 10:00PM BEG R SSONS A IL E EE OF CHARGE 

page4 The Oburver . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 20, 2003 
Magazine 
continued from page 1 

from particular fields provide ideas on careers to pursue post-graduation" said sopho­more J.B. Long, editor in chief of the magazine. "To comple­ment those, we want students to be able to read articles from their peers to find out about other student initiatives." 
Changing Times aims to pro­vide this guidance by including stories of successful CEOs. pro­fessionals. professors and other students who pursued careers based on their interests with a focus on social responsibility. 
Though the Career Center offers resume publishing and interviewing courses for those who are confused about what direction they might begin to take in life, Cannon believes there are few resources avail• able for students who need general guidance. 
"They don't help you with the stage of critical analysis or introspection," said Cannon. 
Students who are constantly faced with the pressure of defining success in terms of financial gain will now have the opportunity to read and find inspiration from the stories of professionals and other stu­dents who have impacted the world around them, according to Cannon. 
"Sometimes people feel like they're being thrust in a partic­ular major but at the same time aren't being given any direction with where they want to be after their four years in school," said public relations manager Edward Faustin, a senior. "We intend for our mag­azine to help eliminate [doubts in] the minds of students who are still searching for what to do with their lives." 
As a publication that will 
eventually take a slant toward 
becoming a career magazine, 

r=-­
Reserve Your Superbowl Party-Subs Now!* Call 
mrnrn-mmmm 
editor in chief Long points out that while the first issue out­lines the general focus of the organization, the second issue will concentrate more specifi­cally on the theme of human rights fields and careers. With current talks under way with groups such as Peace Corps and Amnesty International, Changing Times hopes to pre­sent more information on these and other non-profit, social­action organizations. 
Marketing the magazine as easily accessible. free, ener­getic and with an appealing style was the best way to get the message out on college campuses nationwide, said Cannon. Operating as a non• profit organization through the Institute for Educational Initiatives at Notre Dame, the Changing Times Foundation has at the forefront of its mis­sion to make the magazine available for as many students as possible. 
"To achieve our goals of dis­tributing the magazine across the country we believed the best way would be to set up a non-profit organization," said Cannon. "It's also a great way for Notre Dame students to link to other students across the country that is in itself a very quintessential path for yourself and for your path in society." 
The magazine has been fea­tured in Business Today Magazine, another student-run publication operating at Princeton University. That mag­azine has served as an inspira­tion for shaping Mirshekari's goals for Changing Times. 
"The model is that it's sup­
ported by advertising revenue 
from corporations as well as 
from sponsorships and dona­
tions, mainly from corporations 
and individuals, but the rev­
enue side comes from adver­
tisements in the magazine," 
said Mirshekari, Changing 
Times director of external con­
tacts. 
Fausti.n also said maintaining close relationships with other universities as to the mission and distribution of Changing Times is essential to gaining widespread appeal and an eventual strong following among college student readers. 
"We're really hoping for a lot of positive reaction from this first issue; it's been a long time in the making," said Mirshekari. 
The first issue will reach 10 schools with 10,000 issues that in subsequent issues will fur­ther expand in terms of num­bers. 
"We hope to grow as aggres­sively as our funds will permit," said Mirshekari. 
Faustin also points out that the students working to build a self-sustaining foundation and magazine over the years volun­teer their time and efforts to the project. In addition, Faustin hopes that the foundation w.ill provide future generations of college students the inspiration and direction necessary for achieving substantial meaning in their own lives and in the lives of those around them. 
"We want it to be a Notre Dame student organization now and five years later and then 10 years down the line," said Cannon 
Cannon also points to the potential positive aspects that the magazine will provide for its own student organizers in gaining more experience in various aspects of running a _ 
publication, such as adminis-, trative, financial and media I responsibilities. ' 
Cannon asks for any students, regardless of major, interested in becoming a part of the mag­azine to visit the Web site, www.changingtimes.org, or contact jcannon@nd.edu. 
Contact Kiflin Turner at kturner@nd.edu 


DomerDo!lars I 

FOOD COURT 
L Located in the LaFortune S_tu_dent_Center -_J 
I 
I I 
1 

I l1==============================-=: 

Scully 
continued from page 1 

misunderstanding between Bonnie Druker and myself prior to the Mass," Scully said. "I apologized to Ms. Druker after the event for anything I might have done that may have contributed to the misun­de rstanding. Ms. Druker accepted my apology." 
Scully has served as Notre Dame's executive vice presi­dent since July 2000 and as a 
vice president and senior 
Contact Teresa Fralish at
associate provost since 1994. 
tfralish@nd.edu
Scully L'i the founder of the 

Budget 
_c_o_n_ti_n_u_e_d_f_ro_m_p_a_g_e_l___ becomes available, it will be done." In addition to continuing to work with University administra­tors to fit health insurance subsi­dies into future budgets. the healthcare committee is also working on a temporary solution. The ideal, sub~idized plan includes four additional areas of coverage to the existing plan, including eye care, yearly off-campus physicals, mental health­care at an off-campus center and coverage of certain types of aller­
Contact Andrew Thagard at 
gy medication. 

athagard@nd.edu
The healthcare committee is 


AUTHENTIC SUBS SINCE 1956 
sOrEJR. JBoWLt p~JR'TI&? 
LET US HELP WITH SUBS, PARTY PLATTERS ANO OUR HUGH TWO, FOUR AND SIX FOOT PARTY SUBS GREAT PRODUCTS AND PRICES. HURRY AND PLACE YOUR ORDERS NOW..•24 HRS. ADVANCE NOTICE NEEDED FOR PARTY SUBS AND PARTY PLATTERS. ORDER EARLY••• AVOID DISAPPOINTMENT. STUDENTS•.•REMRMBER TO SHOW YOUR STUDENT ID CARD FOR A 15,% DISCOUNT 
ON ALL PURCHASES..~!! CALL 247-00S6 OR 2n-8920 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS To: 

ALL DRIVERS 
for Service /Social Action Groups and Community 
~~. 

Volunteer Services --:~ 
New vehicle request forms mmt be submitted for the sprinK semester if you plan to schedule transportation through the Center for Social Concerns. Request forms are due the Friday prior to the week of first use. 
. Fonns are available at the CSC reception office or can be printed from the CSC web pagehttp://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu/. 
. If you did not attend adriver training session given first semester, please contact Transportation Services at 631-0293 or 63 l-6467 to schedule an appointment for certification. 
Alliance for Catholic Education, a postgraduate ser­vice opportunity that allows recent college graduates to serve for two years by teach­ing in underfunded Catholic schools across the nation. Scully is also the founder or Holy Cross Associates, another postgraduate service opportu­nity that allows college gradu­ates to serve for one year in poor communities in the United States and throughout the world in conjugation with the Holy Cross ministry. 
working to renegotiate the exist­ing plan to include one of these additional benefits while main­t:aining approximately tho same 
cost structure, said Edwards, the committee's chair. The commit­tee plans to send out either an electronic or mail survey to grad­uate student<;, allowing them to prtotitize the benefits. Graduate student healthcare has been a major issue at Notre Dame and around the country for the past several years. Most top national graduate schools offer some type of subsidized health insurance plan to their students. 
WORLD & NATION 
Monday, January 20, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 

Powell supports U.of M. affirmative action 
~sociatcd Pre,. 
WA',HINGTON 

Secretary of State Colin Powell said Sunday he disagrees with President Bush's position on an affirma.live action case before the Supreme Court, as the White House called for more money for histori­cally black collcgC'.5. 
Powell, one of two black mem­bers of Bush's Cabinet, said he sup­ports methods the University of Michigan uses to bolster minority enrollments in its undergraduate and law school programs. The poli­cies offer points io minoriiy appli­cants and set goals for minority admissions. . 
"Whereas I have expressed my support for the policies used by the University of Michigan. the presi­dent, in looking at it, came to the conclusion that it was constitution­ally flawed based on the legal advice he received," Powell said on the CBS program "Face tl1e Nation." 
It was a rare public acknowledg­ment of dissent with the president and with other top White House aides. 
National security adviser Condoleezza Rice said she backed Bush's decision to step into the case before the Supreme Court and to argue that the University of Michigan's methods were unconsti­tutional. She said on NBC's "Meet the Press" Sunday that there are "problems" with the university's selection policies, and cited the points system. 
But she also said race can be a factor in colleges' selection process. The brief the Bush administration filed with the Supreme Court was silent on that is.5ue of whether race can be a factor under some circum­stances. 
"It is important 1.0 take race into consideration if you must, if race­neutral means do nol work," she said. 
Rice said she had benefited from ailim1ativc action during her career at Stanford University. 
"f think they saw a person that they thought had potential, ·and yes, I think they were looking to diversify the faculty," she said. 
"I think there's nothing wrong v.ith that in the United States," Rice said. "It does not mean that one has to go to people of lower quality. Race is a factor in our society." 
In a speech to the Republican National Convention in 2000, Powell sharply criticized GOP attacks on affirmative action. 
"We must understand the cyni­cism that exists in the black com­munity," he said. 'The kind of cyni­cism that is created when, for example, some in our party miss no opportunity to roundly and loudly condemn affirmative action that helped a few thousand black kids get an education, but you hardly heard a whimper from them over affirmative action for lobbyists who load our federal tax codes with pref­ercnces for special interests." 
Sunday on CNN, Powell said he remained "a strong proponent of affirmative action." 
Education Secretary Rod Paige is the other black member of Bush's Cabinet. 
Paige firmly agrees with Bush's stance, a spokesman said Sunday. 
"Secretary Paige believes in equal opportunity for all students and he fully supports President Bush's posi­tion on the University of Michigan case," said spokesman Dan Langan, He wasn't sure whether Paige agreed with Rice that race can sometimes be a factor in university admissions. 
In an unusual Sunday night announcement, the White House said Hush's budget proposal for the upcoming fiscal year would increase funding by 5 percent for grants to historically black colleges, universities, graduate programs and Hispanic education institutions. 
The money affects three pro­grams. The Historically Black Colleges and Universities program makes grants to 99 eligible institu­tions to help strengthen infrastruc­ture and achieve greater financial stability. 
The Historically Black Graduate Institutions program makes 5-year grants to 18 institutions to expand capacity for providing graduate­level education. 
The Hispanic-Serving Institutions program makes grants of up to five years to eligible institutions, those 


U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell spoke on the CBS pro­gram "Face the Nation" about how he supports University of Michigan's affirmative action pollcles. 
with a full-time population of at cies at the University of Michigan least 25 percent Hispanic students, and its law school fail the constitu­at least 50 percent of which are tional test of equal protection for all low-income. under the law, and ignore race-neu­
In its brief to the Supreme Court, tral alternatives that could boost the administration argued that poli-minority presence on campuses. 
IRAQ 
Baghdad officials disclose they have 4 more warheads 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD 
Top U .N. officials said Baghdad dis­closed it found four more empty chemical warheads like a dozen others discovered last week. and said there had been "some progress" Sunday in talks to win greater Iraqi cooperation with arms inspectors. 
In Washington, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said he supports giving Saddam Hussein and other Iraqi leaders immunity from war crimes prosecution if they go into exile. Secretary ofState Colin Powell warned that time was running out for the Iraqis. 
U.N. chief weapons inspectors Hans Blix and Mohamed ElBaradei were in 
Baghdad Sunday for the first of two days of talks whose outcome could determine whether the United States, which dis­putes Iraq's claims that it has no banned weapons, mounts a military attack to dis­arm Iraq by force. 
After more than two hours of talks, ElBaradei said, "I think we are making some progress. It was a constructive meeting." 
"We are saying in no uncertain terms that time is running out," E!Baradei told Associated Press Television News after the first round of talks. "We cannot, the international community cannot, just wait for things to happen in the pace it has been happening in the past few weeks since we started inspections. And I think that message has been registered with the Iraqi authorities." 
As a sign that Baghdad might be more forthcoming, Blix said that the Iraqis told them during the talks that they had found four more empty chemical weapons warheads similar to 12 others discovered by U.N. inspectors Thursday at an ammunition dump south of Baghdad. 
Blix also said the Iraqis offered three or four of 11 documents requested by the United Nations. 
Blix did not say when or where the additional warheads were found. 
The Iraqi news agency also reported that the top U.N. inspectors met Sunday with Iraq's vice president, Taha Yassin Ramadan, who urged them to devote their activities in Iraq to "finding the truth and being in good faith." 
Ramadan has been openly critical of the weapons inspectors, frequently call­ing them spies. 
Blix and ElBaradei meet again with Iraqi officials Monday before departing for Athens, Greece. 
"We have to ask: is this one find or are there weapons hidden all over the coun­try?" Blix asked. 
The White House termed Thursday's discovery of the warheads "troubling and serious" because the Iraqis had not reported the munitions in their 12,000­page declaration to the United Nations last month. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Venezuela's Chavez threatens more raids: 
President Hugo Chavez on Sunday threatened to order more raids on striking private food producers and warned the government may abandon negotiations with opponents trying to force him from office. Meanwhile, thousands of Venezuelans with roots in Italy, Spain. Mexico, Brazil. Portugal and other coun­tries marched for peace, waving the flags of their homelands and Venezuela. Some carried signs that read "liberty" and "union" in six languages. 
Cubans vote in parliamentry elections: 
President Fidel Castro and millions of other Cubans voted Sunday in parliamentary elections where all 609 candidates ran uncontested. Many Cuban dissidents labeled the vote a farce and refused to participate. State television showed Castro voting in the eastern city of Santiago, where he traditionally casts his ballot. He later told reporters the island's dissident movement had been manufactured by the United States. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Demonstrators rally against Iraq war: 
Dancing in a conga line and shouting calls for peace, demonstrators on Sunday pressed as close t.o the White House grounds as they could get to demand that President Bush back off Iraq. Police swiftly arrested those who breached barricades. A crowd of about 1,000 rallied in view of the Executive Mansion, capping a weekend of demonstrations that featured a huge and peaceful rally Saturday and protests around the world. At one point Sllllday. protesters flooded into a street to block traffic; police pushed and dragged them back. Close to 500 protesters assembled first near the Justice Department and FBI headquarters to denounce "racist witch hunts" by U.S. authorities following the Sept. 11 attacks. During a mile-long march in the cold, that crowd met another of a similar size, waiting by Lafayette Park across Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House. That set off a surge of enthusiasm and some began running toward. and over, chest-high bar­ricades blocking the park boundaries. 

Air Force hearing could end early: 
The military hearing into the accidental bombing of Canadian troops could conclude two days earlier than expected because the Air Force has scaled back its witness list. said a lawyer for one of the pilots charged in the case. David Beck, Maj. William Umbach's lawyer, said Sunday that the Air Force has scratched several of its planned witnesses. The hearing could end Wednesday instead of Friday. Beck said. Schmidt and Umbach were charged with involuntary manslaughter, aggravated assault and dereliction of duty after an Air Force investigation found the pilots had disobeyed orders and acted recklessly in dropping a 500-pound guided bomb on Canadian troops near Kandahar, Afghanistan on April 17, 2002. Four Canadians were killed and eight were wounded. The hearing will determine whether the pilots should be court-martialed. If con­victed of all charges in a court martial, they face a maximum of 64 years in military prison. 
page6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, January 20, 2003 
White House would welcome Saddam expulsion 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Top Bush administration officials said Sunday they would welcome Saddam Hussein seeking exile outside [raq, saying it could avert mili­tary action to topple the Iraqi president. 
Also, Secretary of State Colin Powell went to the New York headquarters of the United Nations to meet with foreign ministers of Security Council members about Saddam and the Iraq problem. 
His first two meetings were with the foreign ministers of China and France, two of the many countries who are not convinced the time is right to use force against Iraq. 
North Korea's revived nuclear weapons program also was on the agenda for Powell's separate meetings with China's Tang Jiaxuan and and France's Dominique de Villepin. 
"To avoid a war, I would be 
personally would recommend 
that some provision be made so 
that the senior leadership in 
that country and their families 
could be provided haven in 
some other country," Defense 
Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld 
said on ABC's "This Week." 
White House Would Welcome 

Saddam Exile 
"And I think that that would 

be a fair trade to avoid a war." 
On "Fox News Sunday," 

Rumsfeld said Iraq's Arab 
neighbors are urging Saddam 
to step down and go into exile 
in a bid to prevent war. "It 
would be a good thing for the 
world if he left," Rumsfeld said. 
But Saddam and Iraqi Cabinet 
ministers have said they would 
fight to the end. 
Powell said exile would bring 

about what the United States 
has sought since the Clinton 
administration: a change of 
leadership in Iraq. 
"And the challenge before us 

then would be to see whether 
or not that new regime would 
commit itself to eliminating 
weapons of mass destruction. 
satisfying the international 
community that they are inter­
ested in the welfare of their 
people and not in threatening 
their own people or threatening their neighbors," Powell said. "And we would have had an entirely new situation present­ed to the international commu­nity, and we might be able to avoid war." 
Most of the 15 Security Council members remain opposed to using the military soon, regardless of the contents of a report to the council next Monday by weapons inspectors. 
A senior official said Powell was to meet separately with seven ministers. including those of Germany, Mexico and the permanent members China, France and Russia. The official said Powell is trying to agree with his colleagues on a course of action after the Jan. 27 report is in hand. 
Also Sunday, American and British planes bombed eight unmanned sites that are part of Iraq's military air defense com­mand and control system, U.S. Central Command said in a statement. 
The strikes at about 7:10 a.m. 
EST came after Iraqi air 
defense forces fired anti-air­
craft artillery and surface-to­
air missiles at coalition planes 
patrolling the southern no-fly 
zone over Iraq. according to 
the statement. The sites were 
between Al Kut, about 95 miles 
southeast of Baghdad, and An 
Nasiriyah, about 170 miles 
southeast of the capital. 
Rumsfeld said he remained 
hopeful Saddam would consid­
er living elsewhere, or that 
Iraqis would topple him. 
"I think that the people in his 
country know what a vicious 
regime he runs, and they may 
decide to throw him out. He 
and his family may decide that 
they've run their string and 
that they'll leave," Rumsfeld 
said. 
"War is your last choice," he 
said. "I would be delighted if 
Saddam Hussein threw in the 
towel, said, The game's up, the 
international community has 
caught me, and I'll just leave." 
Some analysts say Saddam 
would have to be given guaran­
tees he will not face a fate like 
that of former Yugoslav 
President Slobodan Milosevic, 
who is on trial on war crimes 
charges. Thousands of Iraqis 
have been killed since Saddam 
came to power in 1979, and the 

Iraqi leader could face calls for States would be willing to offer said that was a question for the retribution. Saddam immunity from possi• White House or Justice Rumsfeld, asked if the United hie war crimes prosecution, Department. 

Keenan Hall Proudly Presents Our2r1 Annual Show 
K 

THE 2003 KEENAN REVUE 
Our Nation's Pastime 
January 30, 31 and February 1 
TICKET DISTRIBUTION: 
SMC Students  ND Students  
Wednesday, January 22  Thursday, January 23  
3:30 -4:30 p.m.  2:00 -3:00 p.m.  
O'Laughlin Auditorium Lobby  JACC -Gate 10  

No lines more than one hour ahead of time. 2 tickets per ID, one ID per person. 
ALL TICKETS ARE FREE!!!! 

Monday, January 20, 2003 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch January 17 
Dow Jones 

8,586.74  •  -111.13  
N4SDAQ  
1,376.19  
 -47.56  
S&P500  
901.78  .Jij  -12.81  
AMEX  
832.26  '  -2.14  
NYSE  
5,108.5 I  •  -56.83.  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW)+l.35+0.05 3.75 
?':!J's!2:J1illll!!I!!!l;11:;,, ,.,,,;@11~ 1!~1!11 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -7.03-3.8951.46 ~ltit1::11:ffi~!a~¦'-l!!~1:;:;;t ..•.;::.·_.,:'_;;~11~::1•;:1~~::1,1-1t~~ INTEL CORP (INTC) -5.00-0.8616.34 
IN BRIEF 
S.C. cable suit gets class-action status 
A judge approved class-action status for a lawsuit accusing cable television company Charter Communications of requiring South Carolina customers to rent unnecessary equipment or pay a bogus wire maintenance fee. 
Circuit Judge Don Beatty also placed no limit in his ruling Thursday on how much Charter's 250,000 customers in the state may recover. Lawyers for the original plaintiffs have said Charter could be ordered to pay tens of millions of dollars in a class-action suit. 
Millionaire kidnapper suspect caught 
The suspected ringleader behind the kid­napping of a Connecticut multimillionaire has been taken into custody in Canada, the FBI said Sunday. 
Henaldo Hose, a 23-year-old former Marine, was arrested without incident Saturday night in Toronto on an immigration charge, said Lisa Bull, an FBI spokeswoman. 
Authorities believe Hose led a group of four people who abducted Edward Lampert. the chairman of ESL Investments Inc., from a parking garage in Greenwich on Jan. 10. Lampert was released unharmed two days later. A source close to the case told The Associated Press on condition of anonymity that Lampert was snatched from the parking garage at his office, blindfolded and taken to a Days Inn hotel in Hamden. Three people were arrested there Jan. 12. 
Testimony to start in la. tobacco bial 
After months of delays caused by appeals, a hurricane and the lack of a courtroom, open­ing arguments are scheduled Tuesday in a class-action lawsuit aimed at making the tobacco industry help Louisiana smokers kick the habit. 
The lawsuit, filed in 1996, seeks funding for smoking cessation programs and medical monitoring for still-healthy smokers. 
1-----·----··------------------------­
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 7 

Segway hits legal pothole 
. Sidewalk use of personal vehicle banned 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANSISCO 
With its love of geek chic and congested streets, San Francisco might have been expected to embrace Segway, the environmen­tally friendly, self-balanc­ing personal vehicle that promises to entice people out of their smog-spewing cars. 
Instead, the city on Monday becomes the first large municipality to out­law the Segway Human Transporter on its side­walks -more than a month before the chariot-like vehicles are made avail­able to the public. 
The Board of Supervisors acted last month following intense lobbying by Segway LLC in state capitols to change laws to permit the two­wheeled vehicles on side­walks. 

Thirty-three states, including California, approved Segway-enabling legislation. But that doesn't mean major cities will roundly embrace the scooters touted by inventor helmet requirements. scooters have been tested Dailida says Segway has Dean Kamen, when he "We don't want to say for 100,000 hours on city worked with many state introduced them to great that it doesn't ever make streets across the nation and local legislators to 
fanfare in December 2001, sense. But in urban set­without injury. show that the scooters are 
as apt to "change civiliza­tings there isn't enough Ammiano also said safe alternatives to cars. tion." California's law room for all the pedestri­Segway's campaign Buyers also must attend a allows cities to opt out. ans," said Ellen rubbed officials the wrong multi-hour training course The upright device is Vanderslice, president of way. before the scooter is controlled by body move­America WALKs, a pedes­"Segway didn't help shipped to them, he added. ments with the help of tiny trian advocacy group themselves by hiring very "We understand that this computers and balance­based in Portland, Ore.· expensive lobbyists," he is an entirely new technol­controlling gyroscopes and In hilly San Francisco, said. "I think that back­ogy that each city needs to has been tested across the officials feared the battery­fired on them, too." regulate," he said. But "we country by postal workers, powered Segways would New Hampshire-based think the action by San police officers and meter cause more problems than Segway hired lobbying Francisco was premature."readers. They're on sale to they would solve, particu­firms but has made no lllinois passed a measure the public at Amazon.com larly for the disabled and contributions to any public allowing Segways in towns for $4,950 each and will senior citizens. officials or candidates, said that specifically pass ordi­begin shipping in March. "There were statistics Matt Dailida, the compa­nances permitting them. 
Critics say the Segway is submitted to us about ny's director of state gov­Most, including Chicago, a safety hazard on side­injuries. and the Segways ernment affairs. have not done so. walks because it weighs 69 themselves did not have Along with California, Scgway expects New pounds and travels at up adequate safety features to about half the states that York to allow the vehicle to 12.5 mph, three times alert people they might be passed laws to allow the throughout the state faster than the typical behind them," said Tom Segway also permit cities except in New York City, pedestrian. No state is Ammiano. a San Francisco to opt out, but so far most where use in the first year requiring that its drivers supervisor who supported major municipalities are would be limited to gov­be trained, although some the ban. taking a wait-and-see ernment and commercial have set minimum age and Segway officials say the approach. Dailida said. users. 

Court to hear drug discount law case 
ance coverage, but a drug industry legal For states, Maine Rx is attractive 
Associated Press 

challenge has blocked it from going into because it doesn't require federal 
SACO.Maine effect. On Wednesday, the U.S. Supreme approval and it costs taxpayers little. 
Carleen Sin1pson planned carefully for Court will hear argumen1s on an appeal. The Pharmaceutical Research and a retirement that would allow her to The Maine Rx law, enacted in 2000, Manufacturers of America, which sued travel, including regular trips north of would let the state negotiate for lower to overturn Maine Rx, contends the law the border for cheaper prescription prices on behalf of more than 300,000 is unconstitutional because it regulates drugs. residents who pay for prescription interstate commerce and runs afoul of 
On her first trip, she saved enough drugs. If prices didn't drop in three Medicaid law. money to heat her house for a year. years, the state could impose price con­The Supreme Court ,vill hear a threc­
"I used to worry about being a little trolc;. side d argument Wednesday with old lady eating dog food so I could pay Twenty-eight states support Maine's lawyers for the state and the drug indus­for my prescriptions," Simpson said. position. And a dozen states are poised try opposing each other, and the Bush "That's a sad situation when you're liv­to act swiftly to adopt similar laws if the administration staking out middle ing in a country that's so wealthy." Supreme Court rules in Maine's favor, ground by arguing that Maine Rx would 
Maine legislators passed a ground­said Bernie Hom. policy director for the be legal if restricted to low-income breaking law designed to lower drug Center for Policy Alternatives in Mainers instead of being made widely prices for state residen1s without insur-Washington. available. 
,-------------------------------------------------------~------­
O
TIIE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, January 20, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  8USINF.SS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Lori Lewalski  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne Vl£Wl'OINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hettler, Matt Lozar 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Sarah Nescor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER, Meghan Goran 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR, Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer 
CONTROll.ER: Michael Flanagan 

CONTACT Us 
OmCE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX. ....................................................... .....631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EmrnR/AssT. ME....................631--4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT................................................. 631-S303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAJly's ............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. J@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of me Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners co the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observrr policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 
Posr OFFICE INFORMATION 

The ObrrVC:r (USPS 599 240) b pub.lishd Monday rhrougii Friday ~cepr duting c:x21n 211.J vacnic,n pmoo~. A illbscripffon to Tiu: Observer i, $100 for one ..i..:aJc,r· ~ 1·nr; $55 fo. one scmcHtt. 
n~OiJa:.11'C1 ;, r..abJifbi-J u: POSTMASTER 024 Sourh Dining H.111 Noc~ Dame. IN 46556 
ThcObicrYcr 
P.O. Rox~ 

Period.bl ponage paid at Notre Dame Notre r:.2.mc. IN 46556-0n9 uid addirion.al m;i..iling officci. 
lbc Ob~rvcr i1 ;a mm1bcr of rhc: Auociar...J Pra;s. All rcprod,1..:tion rights ;;arc rcscnicd, 
Create a 'Flex 10' student meal plan 
The Student Senate Steering Committee believes that stu­dents deserve a new meal plan option, and we have decided to make this the focus of our meeting this week. 
The current meal plan allows students to choose either 21 or 14 meals per week in the dining hall. Statistics show, however, that undergraduates on the 21 plan eat an average of 14.9 meals in the dining hall per week, while those choos­ing the Flex 14 option consume an average of 9.2 meals. Moreover, only 3 percent of students participate in the 21 meal plan. 
We believe a new meal plan of approximately 10 meals per week and additional flex points would greatly benefit the student body. In light of this fact, we believe that more detailed information on current consumption would help for­mulate a meal plan that would appeal to the student body. 
One reason that has been cited against a Flex 10 option is that it would conflict with the mission of the University. It has been argued that eating in the dining hall fosters a sense of community, and therefore a decrease in dining hall meals may hurt this community. 
We believe, however. that the Notre Dame community transcends the dining hall system. Students eating together at Burger King or Subway feel the same sense of community as do undergraduates in the dining hall. An additional meal plan would also benefit students who may have conflicts with class, work or meetings. Certainly we do not want to diminish the sense of community at Notre Dame. However, a Flex 10 meal plan would simply be a realistic response to the current fact that most students only consume an average of 

9.2 meals a week in the dining hall. 
Rules forcing students to choose a minimum of 14 meals per week compel a student to pay for meals which he or she may not eat. While we recognize that a new meal plan may have an effect on revenue, it is in the best interest of stu­dents that we work to overcome this problem. 
We believe a Flex 10 meal option supports the mission and the reality of the University. We hope all parties involved will work with us to realize this goal. 
Student Senate Steering Committee Trip Foley, chairman Jan. 19, 2003 

Winter break is great. There's no homework, my dry skin heals, Jesus is born and there's pie. Christmas of course also means family get-togeth­ers, and the holidays at the Schill house this year featured even 
Amy Schill
more people cele­brating the Lord's 
birth, getting 
Dazed and
ridiculously 
drunk, and pass­Amused 
ing out on the 
lawn in a pool of 
eggnog. 
Normally, we have the immediate family plus my uncle and grandfather. This year gramps thought it would be great fun to invite my aunt and uncle from California and their two kids. Now when my mom first heard that we, the straight-laced conservative Texans who like ~ur salsa mild and our dividencl'.; untaxed, would be host­
ing the k,;oky liberals from San 
Fran~:aco ("Now Amy, you have to 
u11~erstand that both of your cousins 
dre most likely gay"), she went into a 
semi-comatose state followed by an 8­
rnonth, hyper-active cleaning spree. 
No one worries more than my moth­
er. "Where -will they stay'' How long? 
Do Californians eat ham? Where are 
the avocados?" and so forth. l myself 
began to worry about how I would 
entertain my cousins, whom I hadn't 
seen in ten years. With one living in New York working for MTV and the other pursuing a career in photogra­phy when not on tour with her band, I became resigned to the fact that my cousins were infinitely cooler than I and would be thoroughly unimpressed by my school. l began to think my mom had the right idea with the coma thing. 

And then they came. This Christmas was an exercise in eating and awk­ward conversation. Since the relatives definitely didn't buy into the Notre Dame mystique, we lost about ten minutes of potential conversation, and the only interesting thing about me. 
Luckily, my baby niece Autumn came to the rescue. In addition to receiving better gifts than Jesus (with the slow economy and funds being diverted to the baby, I got a ball of lint and a can of Diet Shasta). Autumn also served as a source of entertain­ment when we had exhausted all avenues of discussion. ("So, we share some genes, better not get married.") Who needs to talk when you can watch a 3-month-old roll around and poop? 
Besides being entertaining, Autumn can also be used as a conduit of pas­sive aggressive conversation between my mom and my sister, via baby talk. 
Mom (with high-pitched voice): I'm Autumn, I can't wait 'till I have a baby brother or sister to play with 
me. 

Sister {in slightly annoyed but equally high-pitched voice): What baby brother or sister? 
Mom (still apparently channeling my baby niece's latent desire for compan­ionship): The little brother or sister I'll have in a couple of years. I'll be lonely without one. 
Sister (now also channeling Autumn): Don't you mean the baby cousin I'll have when my aunt Amy has kids soon? 
Me: Hell no -coochie coo -hell 
no. 

This concludes another example of 
how my family is completely insane. 
But hey, everyone's family is crazy, 
and honestly, isn't that what the holi­
days are really about? 
In the end, the big family Christmas 
went better than expected. Though 
my cousins definitely found me about 
as exciting as the Gator Bowl (let's 
just pretend they would know what 
that was). at least there were no 
major injuries or cultural clashes. 
However, if they return next year, I 
refuse to eat another avocado cream 
pie. 

Amy Schill is a senior English 
major. She can be reached at 
schill.2@nd.edu. Her column appears 
every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column 
are those of the author and not neces­
sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Teresa Fralish Shannon Nelligan Sarah Nestor 
Viewpoint 
Patrick McElwee 
Graphics 
Katie McKenna 

Sports 
Matt Lozar Kurt Bogaard Christine Armstrong 
Scene 
Emily Howald 
Lah Tech 
Chip Marks 
NOTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
Should colleges be allowed to use race as a factor in admissions decisions?  ·:4 family is a unit composed not only of children, but ofmen, women, an occasional animal and the common cold."  
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m.  Ogden Nash  
American poet  

O
THE 

V1EwP01NT
Monday, January 20, 2003 
page 9 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
What would King do? 
"Five score years ago, a great American, in whose symbolic shadow we stand, signed the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous decree came as a great beacon light of hope to millions of Negro slaves who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice. It came as a joyous daybreak to end the long night of captivity. But 100 years later, we must face the tragic fact that the Negro is still not 
free. "One hundred years later, the life of the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discrimination. One hundred years later, the Negro lives on a lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast ocean of material prosperity. One hundred years later, the Negro is still languishing in the corners of American society and finds himself an exile in his own land." The date was Aug. 28, 1963, and on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. gave his famous "l Have a Dream" speech to an audience of more than 250,000 people. The speech and the march that followed commemorated the 100th anniversary of President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation. Although King addressed the many men and women present at the memorial and the millions more on television his words were truly directed at the congress and the President of the United States. King spoke in favor of pending civil rights legislation. King and his Peaceful Warriors believed that the rising up of the "Negro" would not only benefit black Americans but Americans as a whole. In his speech, King, showed that the black man and the white man's fate are bound. King's words expressed the reality that if one race is oppressed then in fact all of society suffers. 'The marvelous new militancy which has engulfed the Negro com­munity must not lead us to distrust of all white people, for many of our white brothers, as evidenced by their presence here today, have come to realize that their destiny is tied up with our destiny and their freedom is inextricably bound to our freedom. We cannot walk alone." Not speaking out of anger or with hatred for white Americans, King insured that the fight for freedom would become all inclusive. In a passive voice and a calm but strong demeanor Dr. King answered the critics of the civil rights movement. He did this by drawling a direct correlation between the American idea of freedom and justice with that of the movement's. "There are those who are asking the devotees of civil rights, 'When will you be satisfied?' We can never be satisfied as long as our bodies, heavy with the fatigue of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the cities, We cannot be satisfied as long as the Negro's basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one. We can never be satisfied as long as a Negro in Mississippi can­not vote and a Negro in New York believes he has nothing for which to vote. No, no, we are not satisfied, and we will not be satisfied until justice rolls down like waters and righteousness like a mighty stream." King had a dream, a vision for America. He knew in his heart as all of us do that all men are created equal. He knew that no matter how well off he ever became that if his fellow brothers and sisters suffered around him his appetite for achieving equality could never be satis­fied. "When we let freedom ring, when we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, from every state and every city, we will be able to speed up that day when all of God's children, black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, will be able to join hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual, 'Free at last! Free at last! Thank God Almighty, we are free at last!"' What would King have said about the attacks upon our nation in September 2001'? How would he feel about a possible war with Iraq? What insight would he give if he were alive today? Would Dr. King be satisfied with the state of the union? What actions would he take to improve the ghettos and schools of America? King will not return to rescue our nation but his sprit, though dor­mant, still remains in all of us. I ask you, I challenge you what can we do to make things better? What will our generation be remembered for? The tight for freedom of all people still exists and in the words of King, I have a dream today that our generation will rise up and put aside out petty differences. I have a dream that we will work together for a common goal of freedom. So I put it to you devoted Viewpoint readers and contributors in the spirt of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., let us not bicker but challenge each other. We should not hastily bad mouth political parties and leaders, but speak of issues that will force everyone to think. As stu­dents, as Americans, as humans we are called to be better than we are. We are meant to work together. We can, we must and we will do better. "Some people see things as they are and ask why? I dream things that have never been before and say, 'Why not."' 
Elliott Magers 
Sr. Joe's Hall Jan. 19, 2003 

Media bias still abounds 
Several interesting articles have been printed 
Of course not. It seems it is far graver a sin to 
in these pages recently concerning race, media 
offer ambiguous praise for a senile old man of 
bias and U.S. senators. 1would like to add a few 
formerly evil views at his birthday party than to 
observations which have not yet been made by 
do the same for a man responsible for mass
others. 
murder. 

As for Trent Lott and his foolish. hurtful 
Yet some people still believe media bias is a 
remarks -saying America would be better off 
myth. I wonder, as I watch all the coverage of 
if a segregationist had been elected 55 
the anti-war protests going on today in 
years ago -comparing him to Robert 
___,=;,,,,-.-Washington, whether the same atten-
Byrd is appropriate. But it would be even more illuminating to com­pare what he said to what was said by Senator Patty Murray, a Democrat from the the state of Washington, and notice the vastly difl'erent media reac­tion. 
Within a day of the infa­mous Lott comments, Murray said that Osama bin Laden is popular in the Muslim world because of all the good he does for the people, and that we should do what he does for them ­be more like him, so to speak. 

Not only was it grossly insensitive of her to offer even a small measure of praise for someone whose acts are so odious, it was dis­turbing to see a senator so ignorant. She should realize that the schools Osama builds are built to indoctrinate the young in his form of extrem­ist fundamentalism, and that the other good works he performs are to recruit terrorists. She should also understand that America provides far more material support to countries like Egypt than do rich terror masters like bin Laden. 
Was she raked over the coals like Trent Lott? 
tion will be given to even larger pro­life demonstrations on Wednesday. If there is even as much coverage, will it be nearly as sympathetic? 
Likewise, one can watch hours of reporting about the controversial selection of Charles Pickering, without hearing once that he is endorsed by the Mississippi chapter of the NAACP, which 
knows first-hand the risks Pickering took to stand up for minorities' rights back in the dan­gerous days of the civil rights move­ment. 
Media bias has already been mentioned numerous times in this paper this academic year, and that it is even discussed is a wonder­ful thing. That there are so many media outlets in America is one important safeguard of our freedom, yet it is also true that a few wield inor­dinate power, and we should always look in more than one place to separate fact from opin­ion, whether in the world at large or even right on campus. 
Benjamin Thomas Remmert class of '00 

30 years of Roe v. Wade 
Thirty years ago on Jan. 22, 1973, the Supreme Court of the United States decided in Roe vs. Wade, that "legal personhood does not exist prenatally." In essence, the Court said that unborn children were not human, and there­fore, could be dealt with much like property, to be retained or disposed of at will. The ruling was so broad that it enabled a woman to obtain an abortion at any juncture throughout her nine months of pregnancy, for any reason. 

When the decision came down, I was 14 years old. I remember shuddering at the thought of any woman who would consider doing such a thing. [As a young adult, I was just beginning to understand the tragedies of Vietnam. its prisoners of war and the fallout from the rest of the unforgettably tumultuous events of the 1960's. Such things could not pos­sibly be happening in this world in which I was growing up.] Little did I realize the far-reaching consequences that would follow from this judi­cial meeting of minds. Little did everyone else. 
The last three decades have been more than enough time to evaluate the various effects that legalized abortion has had on today's social fabric. While some may say that causes are dif­ficult to prove, I list a few of many unmistak­able changes I have witnessed since women have been granted the "freedom of choice." 
Between 1973 and 2000, an estimated 40 million abortions have been performed in this country. This number represents a substantial amount of human talent and potential. forever lost. For every American who perished in the Vietnam War, 700 people have lost their lives to abortion. The combined populations of Indiana, Michigan, Illinois and Ohio amounts to 40 million residents. We are just beginning to learn of demographic projections that point to an unsettling economic picture for the large number of middle-aged individuals once they approach their "golden" years. The value of human life has decreased dramatically since abortion was legalized. 
Once prenatal life became disposable, life at every stage has been in peril, regardless of mental or physical state. One's gender, handi­cap and socio-economic standing have all become easy and rationalized targets. Any merit to what possible suffering may come is all but ignored. We now grapple with a host of eth­ical dilemmas such as the treatment of embryos and the cloning of them. 
Legalized abortion has not proven to be the expected panacea for the women's liberation movement. Contrarily, the persona of woman has been reduced or blurred in many circles, to the point where instinct and modern societal expectations are at constant odds with each other. 
ls a woman really better off when she has the "option" to end a natural, progressive, life­affirming event in her own life? Do we hold the father of this child responsible for keeping this family unit together? The supreme law of the land has denied all mothers and fathers in this country due recognition of their God-given instinct to contribute to the human race in the way it was intended, 
Women and their families continue to suffer physically, emotionally and psychologically from abortion. Sterility and infection from this surgical procedure are always a risk. Plentiful data reveals that Post-Abortion Syndrome begins to manifest itself anywhere from five to 10 years after the event. Low self-esteem, guilt and flashbacks may be evident. Drug abuse, depression, suicidal tendencies and hostility towards men have also been reported. Pro-life agencies nationwide are doing their best to meet the increasing demand for their support to those who are hurting after the abortive experience. 
Why should we care about a 30-year anniver­sary? It gives us an opportunity to pause and realize that just because abortion is legal, it does not mean that it is right. Just ask the mil­lions of our sisters, daughters, wives, aunts, mothers and cousins and their families who have never forgotten their unborn children. We must do everything we can to right this terrible wrong. The future cohesion of our civilization depends on it. 
Kathleen J. Black 

President, St. Joseph County Right to Life, Inc, South Bend Jan. 17,2003 

------· --·--­THE 
OBSERVER 


page 10 Monday, January 20, 2003 
Carrabbas Italian Grill: worth the wait? 
Carrabbas Italian Grill provides friendly services and a decent meal, but 
is it worth the time? 
portion. The restaurant is not open

By EMILY HOWALD 
for lunch because they prepare all of 

Assistant Scene Editor 
the meals fresh each day. They offered steak, fish, pizza and 

One usually thinks that when there many signature pasta meals. The is a 2 1/2 hour wait at a restaurant, steak proved to be a bit less than the meal will prove to be worthy of average, and the chicken parmesan the wait. Carrabbas proved that theo­was decent, but nothing too special. ry wrong. All entrees come with the choice of 
The meal was not bad, but after Caesar salad, Italian salad or the waiting for such a long time, not to house salad. The Caesar was surpris­mention. nowhere to sit while waiting, ingly good. the meal did not meet the expecta­Carrabbas does have many things 
tions that one builds up while they going for it, however. The prices were anx-q u it e ious­
reason­I y • a b I e and and the hun­employ­
grily e e s wait 
w er e t 0 
v e r y eat. 
friend­ly. They After w e re 
mak­
anxious ing a mistake in the order, which they to help you and generally created a readily corrected, the meal just wasn't happy atmosphere. all that amazing. A manager wandered around to 
Many of the entrees come with a make sure that everyone was having side choice of some form pasta. The a satisfactory time, and he, too made chicken parmesan cam with the side the evening more enjoyabe. 
choice of either a fettuccini or garlic There was a pasta bar that was mashed potatoes. Perhaps the pota­right by the kitchen. and those seats toes would have been a better choice 
were fair game to anyone who than the fettuccini, for after about one entered the restaurant at any time. bite and a wince, the side was left Therefore. if one was willing to sit at a bar facing the kitchen, the waiting
untouched. The menu offers a variety of choic­time diminished. es, and has a bit of depth within each The cooks are also incredibly nice and they chat with the people seated Outback Steakhouse, Inc. owners. and 
at the bar. a joint venture partnership was Carrabbas was founded in formed in 1993. 
Houston by Johnny Carrabba In January 1995 Outback and Damian Mandala in Steakhouse, Inc. acquired the rights December 1986. to develop Carrabbas nation wide. 
Most of the There ware current­recipes on the ly over 100 menu are 
Carrabbas Italian those of Grill locations, with Mandola's plans to develop 25 mother, Grace "To my Mamma. Grace, more this year. 
and his sister, the greatest cook I ever The Carrabbas 
near school is locat­Rose. Mandala 
knew, who not only 
also makes ed just off of Grape numerous trips taught me the basics of Road. For more information or to see
around the good cooking but also 
world in their rr,enu, visit the
the importance ofhav­
search of Web site 
unique Italian ing a family gather at www.carrabbas.com. dishes to All in all,
the table often" 
Carrabbas is one of menu at those restaurants Carrabbas Damian Mandola that you walk away 
Mandola Carrabbas founder saying "eh, it could attributes have been better. it much of the could have been restaurant's worse. success to his 
enhance the 
On a weekend family. night, the wait will be long. no ques­
"To my Mamma, Grace, the tion, but if you have nothing better to greatest cook I ever knew, do with your time, why not? Just be who not only taught me the ready to make an evening of the expe­basics of good cooking but rience, and don't let the wait build up also the importance of having the meal, because you may be let family gather at the table down. 



often," Mandola said. 
Photo provided by www.carrabbas.com 

Contact Emily Howald at
Carrab bas eventually
Johnny Carrabba and Damian Mandola smlle on the cover of Ciao Y'all as they show howald.2@nd.edu
caught the attention of the 
both their love for Italian foods and Texan meals. 

THE 
OBSERVER 


Monday, January 20, 2003 
page 11 

Something wonderful: getting to know Siam 
By JACK WATKINS 
Scene Writer 
There is a certain rut that it is easy to get into in the South Bend restau­rant scene -a rut that involves going to the same restaurants on Grape Road every weekend. eating the same burgers, the same buffalo wings, and yes. even the same Bloomin' Onions. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who are looking for a change of pace can hardly do better than Siam. 
Located downtown, adjacent (and connected to) the Cheesecake Factory, Siam offers Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students superb Thai food and a quiet atmosphere. well-suited for dates and conversation. 
A distinct aura of class hovers around the place. Service is quick and extremely polite, in a manner that is perhaps typically associated with restaurants featuring Asian food. 
The small tables and low lights cre­ate an intimate feel. There's a large tea menu, which may be a little intim­idating to those not accustomed to drinking tea, but it's fairly straightfor­ward and customers should be able to find something they'd like with ease. 
And of course, for those who like tea, it's an attraction certainly not rivaled at most other South Bend establish­ments. Wine and soda are also avail­able, but it seems incongruous to order anything but tea and water. 
A wide variety of appetizers is avail­able, along with the standard Thai entrees, which are organized by type of meal (with categories such as "Favorites," "Curry," "Noodles" and "Vegetarian") and carefully described, ensuring that Thai food novices are comfortable ordering. 
In addition. the food is rated for spiciness. on a scale of zero through three, although there appeared to be only one dish rating a three, meaning that the average dish is not too spicy for the American palate, although additional spice can be requested with anything. Favorites like Pad Prik Pao (a dish featuring chicken, onions, rice, and various vegetables) and Pad Thai noodles are excellent here, as is the curry. 
Siam does not offer American appe­tizers or entrees. But, slyly, the dessert menu features cheesecake, some made in-house, some from the adjacent Cheesecake Factory, and all ridiculously good. 
Coffee is also avail able. with dessert, and is excel­lent, providing cus­tomers with an excuse to linger and enjoy themselves 
further  into  the  
evening.  
Naturally,  not  

everyone likes Thai food, and for those who don't, Siam will have little appeal. But there are a great many who enjoy Thai food, and oth­ers who have never had any, and for them Siam is a great opportunity. It is worth at least one trip for the experi­ence. and many, many more for those who fall to its charms. 
Contact Jack Watkins at Watkins.25@nd.edu 


Photo provided by Siam.com This window seat at Slam Is an example of the com­fortable environment that Is created at the restaurant. 
Fiddler's Hearth a new hit 
The new Fiddler's Hearth mixes well with the Irish environemnt and gives the students a tasty and enjoyable place to escape 
By JOSE CARLOS DE WIT 
Scene Writer 
"Aw, gimme some more of that juicy tang!" was the first thought that crossed my mind after I took my first bite of the Pork Tenderloin with Treacle and Mustard sauce at the Fiddler's Hearth, downtown South Bend's new Irish restaurant and pub. 
The Fiddler's Hearth opened its doors this past October, establishing itself as South Bend's self-described "local public hous: a gathering place for Celtic artists and the public at large." 
Local artists take the stage on Friday and Saturday evenings at the Hearth to perform music and dance from the traditions of the Seven Celtic Nations, ranging from cheerful and fiery jigs to the most beautiful and poignant ballads. 
The genuinely Celtic atmosphere and entertainment is complemented by an equally authentic food and drink menu, which offers an assort­ment of spirits. meals, and, of course, beers, that are as warm and friendly as the music and the fireplace. Which brings us back to the pork tenderloin. 
Its soft, juicy medallions of tender pork are glazed in a tart, playful sauce of peppery hot mustard and sweet, thick molasses to create a star­tlingly exciting flavor combination. 
All of the main dishes are served with a side dish and a choice of salad, or hot soup from a selection including bacon and tomato cream and their superb potato soup. Their side dishes are just as tasty. 
I ordered the leek with mushrooms, 
which was excellent; the mushrooms were served in large and meaty slices, while the leeks were sur­prisingly crisp and flavor­ful. Other highlights in the menu include the fish and chips. which arc superb, and are served with an excellent homemade tartar sauce; the cream cheese and smoked salmon dip, which is reputed to be very good; the Plowman's Plate appetizer: and the Irish Cream cheesecake. 
The Plowman's Plate is an assort­ment of sharp, colorful imported cheeses, which are served with rustic bread, fresh fruits, and several sweet, pungent relishes that create an inter­esting, tangy contrast with the strong­flavored cheeses. 
The Irish Cream cheesecake is a choice that should be approached with caution; it is as thick and sweet and gratifying as a cheesecake could conceivably be a temptation so hedo­nistic, pleasurable and lascivious that could be felt by some as bordering on morally objectionable. 
Readers beware: while the food at the Fiddler's Hearth is, for the most part, exceptional, diners are encour­aged to exercise their best discretion in the choice of their meals in order to 
avoid disappointment. 
''.Aw, gimme some more of that juicy tang!" 
Jose de Wit Restaurant critic 

While some of their plates are unimagin­ably exiting, others are more reflective of the more. um, bland character that we would tend to expect in food coming from any­where close to England. 
To be fair, 

their flavor does depend a lot on the diner's expectations. If you expect a burst of flavor from his Celtic meal, a dish like their Irish Stew, made with cabbage, lamb, and root vegetables, will seem as disappointing as a bowl of porridge. 
On the other hand, an Irish Stew or a Sheperd Pie can be the perfect meal to eat beside the fireplace along with a large, frothy pint while tapping your left foot to a merry jig. And last, about the pints: the Hearth features a large selection of national and imported brews, both draft and bottled -includ­ing a cream ale from Belhaven's, Scotland's oldest brewery; and Tennant's Lager, from a brewery established in 1556. There is also an ample selection of whiskey, scotch. and fine single malts. 
The Fiddler's Hearth is a very authentic and traditional Celtic estab­lishment, both in its food and in its atmosphere: the food and beverages are excellent in flavor, while not hor­ribly expensive in price (the beers range from $2.50 to $4 -not exactly Boat Club prices, but then you aren't drinking Coors Lite either... ); the atmosphere is warm, fun, and very genuine, very comfortable and cozy, and at the same time good fun. 
Note: if you plan on going on a Friday or Saturday evening, be pre­pared for a crowd; there is also a $10 cover after 8 on those nights, which isn't too steep if you consider that you can apply that sum toward the pur­chase of food and beverages that evening. 
Finally, make sure you bring your ID; entrance is open to all ages, but your age will be verified at the entrance to determine whether you can purchase alcohol or not. 
Contact Jose Carlos de Wtt at 
jdewit@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 20, 2003 
NFL 
Tampa Bay defense sends Buccaneers to first Super Bowl 
Associated Press 
PHIIADELPHIA 

The Tampa Bay Buccaneers forgot about the cold and their past. They simply rolled up their sleeves and let their league­leading defense go to work. 
Now they're off to sunny San Diego for their first Super Bowl -a long, sad history behind them. 
After being stunned by a Philadelphia touchdown in the first minute of the NFC Championship game, the Bucs shut down Donovan McNabb and company to beat the Eagles 27-10. 
"Nobody really expected us to win this game," said Tampa Bay coach Jon Gruden, in his first year with the team. "That fueled our enthusiasm to play." 
Gruden and the Bucs will play next Sunday against his old team. the Oakland Raiders, who beat the Tennessee Titans 41-24 in the AFC Championship game. 
"One more to go," said Warren Sapp, the talkative Tampa Bay defensive tackle. "We ain't going for no vacation." 
After the Eagles' early flurry, sparked by Brian Mitchell's 70­yard return of the opening kick­off, it was all Tampa Bay. The Bucs led 17-10 at halftime and stifled Philadelphia after inter­mission. 
"They were the better team," Eagles coach Andy Reid said. 
"They got after us. We didn't answer the bell on a few things. 
"It's very disappointing. You come this far, 20-some odd weeks of football. You put your­self in position to strike for the Super Bowl and you lose." 
Brad Johnson finished 20-of­33 for 259 yards against a Philadelphia secondary with three Pro Bowl selections, allow­ing the Bucs to control the ball and the clock, especially in the first half. 
The defense, meanwhile, total­ly controlled McNabb, who fin­ished 26-of-49 for 243 yards in just his second game back after missing six games with a broken right ankle. Simeon Rice and Barber had sacks that ended potential rallies. 
"We didn't want to give up the big play," Sapp said. (They didn't -Mitchell's return was against the special teams.) 
"If we could do that, we'd have a real good chance of win­ning." 
The Bucs started playing in 1976, lost their first 26 games, then made a brief run at the playoffs. Then, from 1983-96, they did not have a winning sea­son and lost 10 or more games in 13 of those 14 seasons. 
And the past two years, they had been bounced from the playoffs in Philadelphia, where they also lost in October. 
Mitchell's return of the open­ing kickoff and Duce Staley's 20­yard touchdown run two plays later gave the Eagles a 7-0 lead 52 seconds into the game. But that was the high point for Philadelphia. 
"We came out early and set the tempo, then we did absolutely nothing," Eagles receiver Antonio Freeman said. 
David Akers' 30-yard field goal midway through the second quarter tied the game at 10. 
But the Bucs took the ensuing kickoff and went 80 yards in 12 plays, scoring from 9 yards out when Johnson (Brad) found Johnson (Keyshawn) just over the goal line on a third-down play. 
The Eagles reached the Tampa Bay 24 in the final minute of the half, but McNabb was sacked by his old high school teammate, Rice, who knocked the ball loose and recovered the fumble. 
The same thing happened on the Eagles' first possession of the third quarter, Barber knock­ing the ball loose on a corner blitz and Ellis Wyms recovering at the Philadelphia 47. 
Gramatica added a 27-yard field goal with 1:02 left in the third quarter to make it 20-10 as the Eagles continued to have trouble moving the ball. 
Then Barber made his big play and it was all over. 
"We won a cold game again. We won a road playoff game and we scored a touchdown here in the Vet," Gruden said. 
Who could ask for more? 


Gannon's 3 TD passes leads Raiders to 41-24 win 
will go for their fourth Super good late in the second quarter, 66-yard drive and ran in for a -and win now.
Associated Press 

Bowl title next Sunday in San when Barton stripped 34-24 lead. Brown will go to the Super Diego. They'll play the Tampa Tennessee's Robert Holcombe, That drive, like this game, Bowl for the first time in hisOAKI.AND, Calif. 
Bay Buccaneers, who beat the giving Oakland the ball at the was nothing pretty. but then sterling career. He led theThe Oakland Raiders did Philadelphia Eagles 27-10 in the Tennessee 16. Two plays later, again, Davis has never demand­Raiders with nine catches for 73more than "Just win, baby!" 
NFC championship game earlier Gannon hit tight end Doug Jolly ed perfection. yards.
They won it their way, mixing in the day. for a score and a 21-17 lead. The owner's unspoken mes­Rice will go for his fourth title. 

that famous renegade style of On a clear, perfect day at a On the next play, special sage in "Just win, baby" has He made five catches, including their past with the pass-happy stadium known as the Black teams got into the act, forcing a always been his desire to field a two that gave the Raiders firstmethod of the present to defeat Hole, the Raiders looked as fumble by John Simon and set­team that could pull out even downs inside the 10, en route tothe Tennessee Titans 41-24 in much like the old group of ting up a field goal for a seven­the ugly games. touchdowns.
the AFC Championship game. 

swashbuckling bad boys they point lead at the half. In that vein, he signed a group "This is, what, Jerry Rice'sRich Gannon, the 37-year-old used to be as the new team they Oakland tackled punter Craig of veterans who had endured a 75th Super Bowl?" Porter said.
league MVP. led the way with have become. Hentrich to set up a field goal lot in this league. Mere penal­"It feels good to get Tim Brown

three touchdown passes and 

The old: 14 penalties for 127 for a 10-point lead in the third. ties and a hot quarterback to the Super Bowl. That wasanother score he ran in himself. 
yards, a handful of cheap shots McNair was then at his gutty, weren't going to be enough to one of the team goals -to get
His thirtysomething team­

and a bevy of vicious hits on gritty best, leading the Titans on halt this Super Bowl run. him to the Super Bowl." 
mates -Jerry Rice, Bill 

Steve McNair, who paid a huge a 67-yard touchdown drive to "We fought all year long," They wanted to get Davis back 
Romanowski, Rod Woodson 

price for his 194 yards passing make it 27-24. Rice said. "When we lost four there, too. 
and, finally, Tim Brown -sent and two rushing touchdowns. Tennessee appeared to be straight games, this team stuck The team's eccentric, 73­

the Raiders and maverick 

The new: Unbelievably, stopped on that drive, but together and now we're going to year-old architect will get a owner Al Davis to the NFL title Oakland called exactly one run­Terrance Shaw got called for a the Super Bowl." long-awaited trip to the gamegame for the first time since ning play over the first three personal foul, Oakland's fourth y for McNair to match by him­he, in part, created. He helped1984. 
quarters, leaving the work to of the game. On the next play, self. engineer the AFL-NFL merger
''I've been looking at this 

Gannon. who threw 41 times for McNair ran in from 13 yards for "No one gave us a chance and then became the thorn ingame for 14 years and watching 286 yards and scrambled for 41 his second score. when we were 1-4," tight end the league's side, moving hisother people go," Brown said. 
more, including a fourth-quar­"McNair played like a true Frank Wycheck said. "We can team twice and suing the NFL"Now, I'm finally on my way. 
ter touchdown. warrior today," said Oakland's hang our hat on the fact we while he was at it.
It's a great feeling." 

"We were making a lot of first-year coach, Bill Callahan. were 30 minutes from getting to For all the trouble he'sIt will be a Silver and Black dumb mistakes out there," line­"He had no quit in him, no die the Super Bowl." caused, many in football think
championship game, tinged 

backer Eric Barton said. in him." For the Raiders, this trip is the NFL is a better place whenwith more than just a touch of "Fortunately. we sucked it up But the Raiders kept picking especially sweet considering the Raiders are doing well. Ifgray. 
and stopped it. That shows the on Tennessee·s pass defense, their recent playoff past. that's the case, then the league
The veteran Raiders -the 

character of this team." rated 25th in the regular sea­This time, there was no deny­is enjoying a mighty fine year. 
team built to win right now ­

The Raiders took the lead for son. Gannon led Oakland on a ing the team Davis built to win 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
One room to share for a female roommate in Turtle Creek. 
Contact@ 2n-s966 

FOR SALE 
Oak Hill Condo for sale, 2 bed, 2 bath. 0.5 miles from campus. 
574·243-2621 
1989 Toyota Corolla, 4DR, 5 speed, 148K. 
Runs good. 
$1,300 Call 277-3189 
FOR RENT 

castle Point room tor rent available for female roommate (Sp03 semes­ter), apt fully furnished. 
Please call 243-4537 if interested Freedornl Now renting 2004-05. 
The best furnished houses. Prime locations, sec. systems, wash/dry, util. incl. Some with V-Ball, B-Ball, & pool tables. 
Call Greg 233-9947 
PERSONAL 

37 days till 21. Prepare yourselves. Leroy. Word. 
Monday, January 20, 2003 page 13
The Observer . SPORTS 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Tar Heels upset Huskies 
Terrapins hands No. 1 Blue Devils their first loss 
finishing 29-for-31. Duke (12-1, 3-1)
As,ociated Press 

was 9-for-20, including 5-for-13 in the second half. 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 
"Everybody stepped up," WilliamsCole Field House and the Comcast said of the free throws. "We all knowCenter are across campus from each Duke can score in a hurry but once we
other. Maryland found a bridge got ihe lead we made our free
between its old and new buildings: throws."
beating No. 1 Duke. 

Maryland was 0-4 against rankedThe (No. 15 ESPN/USA Today, No. 17 teams this season, a far cry from lastAP) Terrapins beat the last undefeated season's 9·2 mark against teams in theteam in the country. downing Lhe top­Top 25, including the win over No. 1ranked Blue Devils 87-72. 
Duke.

It was the second straight year 
The Blue Devils had won 14 of the 
Maryland prevailed at home when 
last 17 games played at Maryland, butDuke was No. 1, and it came in the those were all in Cole Field House. 
new arena that sounded a lot like the 
"Maryland played like a veteran
old one when the final buzzer sounded 
team and we played like a young
and the students rushed the floor. 
team," Duke coach Mike Krzyzcwski"This crowd was as good as any said. "They just played better than wecrowd we've had since we've been did. They deserved to win. They played here at Maryland," said Gary Williams, harder and better."
who has been coaching at his alma Maryland scored the first six pointsmater since 1989. 
of the second half to tie the game at 43Cole, which opened in 1955 and had and then turned up the defense. 
a capacity of 14.500, was the place Dahntay Jones, who had a career­where Maryland beat six No. 1 leams. 
high 26 points for Duke, hit a 3-pointer
The 17.950-seat Comcast Center, 
with 14:21 to play that tied it for thewhich opened in November, got its last time at 53.
first taste of the Terrapins beating a The Terrapins went on a 10-0 runtop-ranked team. 
with all the points coming fromnew­Last year's 8 7 -7 3 victory snapped 
comers John Gilchrist and JamarMaryland's four-game home losing 
Smith. The Blue Devils went 5:55 with­streak to Duke. 
out a field goal, missing six shots andDrew Nicholas had 24 points for the committing three turnovers in thatTerrapins (10-4, 3-1 Atlantic Coast span as Maryland went up 75-60. 
Conference) and Ryan Randle had 15 Duke, which shot 33 percent (11-for­points and a career-high 17 rebounds 33) in the second half after shooting 51 as Maryland finished with a 43-32 percent in the opening half, never gotadvantage on the boards. 
back in it. 

"I took it personally. Today we came "The second-half defense was veryout and said don't worry about points, good," Williams said. "We knew we just get every rebound," ~andle said. 
could go inside but thinking that and"Beating a Top 20 team 1s what we doing it are two different things but we wanted and needed. Beating Duke is a got some good second shots." 
big confidence builder." 
Tahj Holden added 10 points for t~eThe defending national champions Terrapins, who took care of the ball malso stood out at the free throw line, the second half, committing three turnovers for a total of 16. 
Freshman J .J. Redick, Duke's leading scorer, had 13 points, two in the second half. The Blue Devils entered the game 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS shooting 38.1 per­cent from 3-point
LfVE WITH US FOR THE 
range but was 7­

8€5T Off CAMPUS UI/ING EXPE~IENCE EVER1! 
for-22, 2-for-13 in the second half. 

~ ?,6.CES AVAILAQLE IN ALL FLOOR J'UNS 
"They made a

FOR THE 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR. 
run to open the CALL ~IS AT 27'2-812_. OR VISIT US AT second half and wo WWW.TURTl,,ECREEKND COM didn't respond," 
QFF:C:F..-wTURTLEC,RE£KNQ.CQM Redick said. "We knew if we made a little run we could blow them out of the water. It was them who made the run." 
The win was Maryland's biggest in the series since a 77 -60 victory at home on Feb. 6, 1982. 
Krzyzewski took nothing away from Maryland but said his team may not have deserved the ranking it took into the game, especial­ly since it has five freshman in the 10-man rotation. 
"I know I have a work in progress." he said. "'Because we won all of our games up to now somebody voted us No. 1. I have coached No. 1 teams and I know that's not where we're at." 

A.sodatcd Pres• 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 

Many people wrote off North Carolina three weeks ago when the Tar Heels lost center Sean May with a broken foot. 
It may be time to re-evaluate things around Chapel Hill. 
Rashad McCants scored 27 points, including the clinching free throws with 3.3 seconds left, as the Tar Heels beat No. 6 Connecticut 68-65, becom­ing the second program in college bas­ketball to win 1,800. 
Kentucky, with 1,830 wins, is the other. 
"I have a lot of respect for the way their kids played," Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun said of the young Tar Heels. "Their kids played hard. I watched a couple tapes of them and I don't think they stayed with it as long. They stayed with ii tonight when we came back at them. That's a credit to them." 
The Tar Heels are now 4-2 without May, winning three by four points or less. 
"We are doing the little things, we're trying to work together to try to fill the void that Sean left," said Jawad Williams, who scored the go-ahead basket with less than a minute left. 
"We certainly miss Sean, but when he comes back we're going to be that much better," added UNC coach Matt Doherty, whose club lost to the Huskies by 32 last season. 
MrCants, the ACC scoring leader, was 7-for-11 from the field and 9-of­1 O at the foul line as the Tar Heels improved to 11-5, beating their second top 1 O warn of the season a year after a program-worst 8-20 record. 
The Huskies are 2-2 in their last four since starting 9-0 against some weak competition. 
Connecticut trailed Massachusetts by 25 earlier in the season and came back to win, and the Huskies dug themselves a 19-point hole on the road less than 10 minutes into this one. 
"It's nice to say. but somebody give me a diagram about how to jump on somebody," Calhoun said of his team's recent slow starts. "We couldn't make a basket so we couldn't even press. 
"Maybe we have to look at our approach in the locker room or the night before," he added. "We can't afford to keep doing this. We pumped a lot of confidence into them." 
However, a strong second half and a fast-break slam by Emeka Okafor gave Connecticut its first lead at 65-64 with 1: 16 remaining. 
Williams countered with the go­ahead basket on a 15-foot jumper 17 seconds later, and after a 3-point miss by Ben Gordon, the Huskies didn't foul until just seconds left as Mccants and Raymond Felton dribbled through the defense. 
After McCants nailed two free throws, Gordon's 25-footer at the buzzer that would have tied it hit off the rim and the crowd at the Smith Center stormed the floor. 
'Tm very confident at the free-throw line even though my percentage right now it not too great," said McCants, who came in hitting 71 percent. "In the clutch, I'm trying to make big plays." 
AROUND THE NATION 
page 14 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Monday, January 20, 2003 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Connecticut at Miami 7 p.m., ESPN 
NHL HOCKEY Blackhawks at Blue Jackets 7 p.m., FOX Stars at Avalanche 8 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA BASKETBALL Celtics at 76ers 7:30 p.m., TNT Clippers at Lakers 10 p.m., TNT 
TENNIS 

Australian Open 10:30 p.m., ESPN2 
WOMENS FIGURE SKATING 


defined her illustrious legends, Maribel Vinson, Olympic champion Sarah 
Associated Press 

career. has more U.S. champi­Hughes and Sasha Cohen, "Besides my friends and onships, with nine. Kwan the most successful skaterDALIAS my family, I think that is now has as many titles as on the Grand Prix circuitHer arms held wide, the next best thing, just any U.S. man, and she also this season, were second
gathering in all the 

being out there,'' the 22-owns four world crowns. and third, and made theapplause, the adoration ­year-old Kwan said. "It's She will go after her fifth U.S. team for the worldthe love -Michelle Kwan just so intense, it's incredi­in Washington in March. So championships. Hughes
was in the perfect place 

ble. It's an incredible feel­even with Olympic gold was the first American
after the perfect perfor­

ing. It's why it's hard for lacking-Kwan owns a sil­woman to win Olympic gold mance. 
skaters to turn profession -ver and a bronze -there is and then skate at the nextOlympic disappointment al. no arguing her dominance national championships. 
was a forgotten memory. 

"It's just like the movies. on ice. Kwan, who competedThe "old lady" of skating It's your own movie." The 6.0 was her 28th only at Skate America ­erased all the skepticism Not all of her movies have perfect mark at nationals, naturally, she won -thisabout her decision to stick had happy endings. Kwan and she had six 5.9s. Her season, won U.S. champi­around. 
program, to Aranjuez, was onships in 1996, and fromdoes not own Olympic gold, And she did it as only but should that really mat­spotless, including six triple '98 through Saturday. She
Kwan can, winning her 

ter, the way she keeps pil­jumps that were so smooth was second to Tara Lipinskisixth straight national title ing up U.S. Figure Skating they seemed automatic. in 1997. 
and seventh overall 

Championships? Just like the way she col­Yet here she is, still domi­
Saturday night with the 

Only one of the sport's lects national titles. nating the Americans. 
style and grace that has 
IN BRIEF 

Hernandez and Reed both became winner over Czech player Denisa
Rockies reach a_greements 

free agents when they were not Chladkova.
with Hernandez, Reed 

offered salary arbitration by their Venus Williams now faces a quar­
Infielder Jose Hernandez and 

terfinal against No. 7 Daniela
teams.
reliever Steve Reed have reached 

Hantuchova, who extended her to
agreements in principle with the 

Venus, Hantuchova to meet three sets in the third round last year, 
Colorado Rockies on one-year con­

after straight-set wins and a possible semifinal against
tracts. 

Venus Williams had Nicole Pratt Henin-Hardenne.
The deal with Hernandez is contin­

sprawling and sighing. Serena, the world's top-ranked
gent on him passing a physical and 

Justine Henin-Hardenne was in player and winner of the last three
management approval, Rockies 

pain and fearing she was finished. majors, plays her fourth-round match
spokesman Jay Alves said. 

Both advanced to the quarterfinals Monday against 18th-seeded Eleni
Hernandez, who also attracted 

of the Australian Open on Sunday as Daniilidou of Greece. 
interest from San Francisco and the 

Henin-Hardenne came back from 1-4 Hantuchova, who reached her third 
New York Mets, was an All-Star 

and a late painful cramp to beat consecutive Grand Slam event quar­
shortstop last season with Milwaukee. 

Lindsay Davenport 7-5, 5-7, 9-7 in 3 terfinal, went all out in her match,
He hit .288 with 24 home runs and 73 

hours, 13 minutes. spraying 39 errors while hitting 27
RBIs. 

Williams stayed on course for a winners. She was helped by 27 misses 
Hernandez could play shortstop or 

fourth straight Grand Slam final by Schnyder, who had won three of
third base for the Hockies. 

against sister Serena by beating Pratt their five previous meetings. 
Reed was 2-5 with one save and a 

Noting that she nearly beat
6-3, 6-2 in 1:17. 
2.01 ERA in 64 games for the Mets 

Henin-Hardenne, the fifth seed, Williams last year, Ilantuchova said.
and San Diego. The Padres traded 

went all out to ,-vin her battle with the "Maybe I needed more experience at
him to New York on July 31. 

American Davenport, who was seed­the time and that's something I feel I
Reed, a right-hander, pitched for 

have now. That's why I feel ready and 
ed ninth. 
the Rockies from 1993-97. He was 

Henin-Hardenne next plays Spain's very optimistic about this match." 
part of Colorado's original roster as 

Virginia Ruano Pascual, a 6-3, 6-3
an expansion team. 

Monday, January 20. 2003 The Obseroer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

r 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 20, 2003 
SMC SWIMMING 

Belles lVin last race on Senior Day to defeat Albion 
sources of inspiration, the Belles in the second half of the dual said. "Any time I swim, the the Belles now have three weeks By ERIK POWERS combined for a resounding vic-meet, 127-110. Saint Mary's biggest competition is myself." to train for the MIAA conference Spom Writer tory. After Maureen Palchak trailed Alma and Albion (2-4) Palchak had the Belles' other championships. Rut the time 
staked the team to an early half­from the start, yet the squad first-place finish, winning the won't be spent solely on rest It came down to the final race. length lead, Lane Herrington refused to succumb to defeat. 200-yard freestyle in 2 minutes, and relaxation. Going into the 400-yard and Kelly Nellis each added a The Belles mounted a furious 1.68 seconds. Freshman Kelly "There's always lots of hard 
freestyle relay, Saint Mary's full body length between Saint comeback, led by junior Megan Nellis continued her string of work. weeks and months of trailed Albion 110-107 and Mary's and the next closest Ramsey. who won the 200-yard strong meets, finishing second hard work," Ramsey said. "This needed to win in order to pull swimmer. From the anchor individual medley and the 200-in the 500-yard freestyle and is kind of the fun part of the off the upset. During the break • position, Ramsey then coasted yard butterfly. Like her team­third in the 50-yard freestyle. year. Most of the hard work is before the final event, the Belles to a first-place finish, ensuring a mates, Ramsey refused to panic "It was a good, positive meet. done, and it's time to focus on received not one but four pep 120-114 Belles victory. and focused only on doing her There were a lot of good swims the smaller parts of swimming talks. "With the lineup the way we best. by everybody," Ramsey said. and get excited [for the confer­
"It was nice," junior Megan had it, this was kind of how we "[Being behind] was definitely ''We've been getting technically ence meet]." Ramsey and. "We had our expected it to be," Ramsey said. inspirational to us. The two better all season. It was mental­[three] coaches and athletic "We had some good, surprising teams we were battling against ly and physically good." director speak." swims right from the start." were close to us. We knew it After a hectic schedule of Contact Erik Powers at 
Drawing from their multiple The Belles lost to Alma (1-4) was going to be close," Ramsey three meets within three weeks, epowers@nd.edu 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Auburn moves to 4-0 in SEC with 77-68 win over Alabam.a 
enth in a row overall and sev­"We are just a little bit off and the Crimson Tide most of the Killingsworth and Derrick Bird 
Associated Pr~ss 

enth straight win at home a little bit out of sync. We have to game. also scored 13 points each for against their cross-state rivals. find a way to fix it." coach Mark "Thls is just a huge win for us. the Tigers. AUBURN. Ala. "This was just a wonderful Gottfried said. It gives us more confidence," Daniels said Auburn's fast 
Coach Cliff Ellis and the win. We added a new dimension Auburn (15-2, 4-0) had been Robinson said. start gives the Tigers "a good Auburn Tigers were glad to keep to this season and kept up what predicted to finish near the bot­Robinson, who missed the first feeling." their streaks going, especially at we have been doing the last sev­tom of the Southeastern 13 games of the season because "We have to remain focused," the expense of (No. 10 ESPN/USA eral games," Ellis said. "We also Conference, but with the win of eligibility questions, scored 11 Daniels said. "We can't get too Today, No. 9 AP) Alabama. continued our streak at home over defending conference points as Auburn took a 37-29 up or down no matter what." 
Reserve Brandon Robinson and we are continuing to build champion Alabama (12-3, 2-2) halftime lead. Alabama was led by Emmett had 13 points and seven momentum." extended its lead to two games "Auburn is a legitimately good Thomas, who hit 3-of-5 3-point rebounds to lead the surprising The Crimson Tide, meanwhile, in the SEC West. team," Gottfried said. "I would shots and scored a career-high Tigers over struggling Alabama have lost three of their la.st five Playing before a loud, capacity say they are as good on defense 20 points. But Thomas also 
77-68. games after being ranked No. 1 crowd, Auburn jumped out to a as anyone that we have played." fouled out of the game with 5:38 The victory was Auburn's sev-earlier this season. quick 8-0 lead and dominated Marquis Daniels, Marco to play. 
Do you know why tP.ese leprechauns are so happy? Because they have j1.1.st been ACCEPTED FOR HOUSIN'G AT TURTLE CREEK APAR.TIVIENTS. DON'T rvfISS YOUR CHANCEJAPPLy TODAY FOR THE 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR!! ~ Tl_JRTLE CREEK APARTMENTS Call 272-8124 or visit us ~n the web ar W"-V"'N.turtlecree.knd.com Q-fl'ice(aJh,u:::tlecreeknd. ,•.onJ.  

Monday, January 20, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
HOCKEY 
Freshman Yale goalie shuts do-wn Notre Dame offense 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Writer 
After a 4•1 loss at home Friday. a change of goaltender and a change of venue didn't have the desired effect as Yale again defeated the Irish, this time by a score of 3-1, in Chicago on Saturday. 
Yale freshman goaltender Josh Gartner, making only his third and fourth career starts, was sensational as he stopped 59 of 61 Irish shots on the weekend for a . 96 7 save per­centage. 
Friday, Yale got on the board first about nine minutes into the first period when the Irish failed to clear the defensive zone and Bulldog defenseman Jeff Dwyer held the puck in at the blue line. 
Dwyer then dished to center Chris Higgins, who whipped a shot through Irish goaltender Morgan Cey's legs from right in front of the goal. 
Notre Dame had difficulty keeping the puck out of its defensive zone, and the result was Yale outshooting the Irish 10-7 in the first period. Several good saves by Cey kept the Irish down one going into the first intermission. 
The Bulldogs struck again 
only 30 seconds into the sec· 
ond period, when Yale forward 
Nick Deschenes skated down 
the left side and beat Cey on 
the glove side with a high wrist 
shot. 
Only two minutes later, Yale 
scored again when Dwyer 
launched a high slap shot from 
the blue line. Cey appeared to 
make the save, but he bobbled it into the air and it trickled behind him, where forward Joe Zappala tapped it in to give the Bulldogs a 3-0 lead. 
The Irish were able to gain some momentum five minutes into the third period when Irish senior captain and defenseman Evan Nielsen skated in on net and wristed a shot over Gartner's right shoulder. 
A Yale power play goal later in the period put the Irish away. 
"We got outplayed and out­hustled," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "We started well but when they got the one goal early we deflated, and that shouldn't happen." 
The Irish may have been due for a letdown after tying CCHA­leader Ferris State in their pre• vious hockey game. 
"It shouldn't matter who you play;'' Poulin said. "Yale is a very good team. You should play the same way every time." 
The Irish traveled to Allstate Arena in Chicago the next day, hoping that a larger pro-Notre Dame crowd might enable the Irish to win its rematch against Yale. 
One part was true, the annnunced attendance was 5,091, most of whom were Irish fans. The extra support made little difference though, as Gartner and the Bulldogs again stymied the Irish offense. 
The Irish gave Darien, Ill., 
native Tony Zasowski the start 
in net and the senior matched 
Gartner save-for-save in a 
scoreless first period. 
Yale struck first early in the 
second period when Zappala 
wristed a shot from the bottom 
left circle that struck the cross­bar over Zasowski's right shoulder before bouncing into the goal. 
The Bulldogs then opened the game wide open by scoring two goals in a 51-second span. 
The Irish spoiled Gartner's shutout bid just 30 seconds into the third period, with forward Rob Globke deflecting a shot from defenseman Brett Lebda past a helpless Gartner. It was Globke's 18th goal of the sea• son. a new career record for the junior. 
That would be all the offense the Irish could muster. 
"We needed to bury our chances," said Poulin. "(Gartner) did very well." 
Zasowski finished the night with 32 saves. 
"This was an exciting game," the senior goaltender said. "It was nice to have the (Notre Dame) band here. Besides a six-minute stretch there in the second, 1 thought I did all right." 
The Irish will have to bounce back from the disappointing Yale series and look ahead to its difficult upcoming 12-game CCHA schedule, which includes a two-game series against perennial powerhouse Michigan State on Jan. 24 and 25 at the Joyce Center. 
"You're really hoping to come into league play coming off a better outcome," Poulin said. ''We have to have posi­tives and the biggest positive is to win ... but we still played a very good game." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


Information Session 
for those interested in the position of 
Assistant Rector 
for University Residence Halls 
Wednesday, January 22, 7:30-8:30 p.m. Reeker's Hospitality Room 
Light refreshments served 
For further information visit 
www.nd.edu/-stdntaff/AsstRector.html 

Observer Staff Report 
Three Irish male athletes won events and two female athletes set school records as the mens and womens track teams opened their seasons at the Central Michigan Opener Friday night. 
Freshman Thomas Chamney won the 800 meters in his first collegiate race, finishing just ahead of Central Michigan's Ron Miller in 1 minute, 54.83 seconds. 
Sophomore Chris Staron won the high jump, clearing 2.00 meters while classmate and reigning Big East hurdles champion Selim Nurudeen started his season well with a win in the 60-meter hurdles in 8.01. 
C~ . /\CA~ . JAMAICA BAf/A!Ma . F!,.C,~OA 

SILL TRIPS, ~ IAIIIWII. 
SOFID! ~ 
I.JIMM84849 
www.ststravel.com 

The Irish also had two sec­ond-place finishers, with fresh­man Ryan Postel finishing sec­ond in the 400 meters (49.60) and Godwin Mbagwu in the triple jump (48 feet, 6 inches) and the long jump (22-11). 
Two-time All-American senior Tameisha King set a NCM Championship qualifica· tion mark with a long jump of 20-8. King broke her own school record by one inch. 
On the track King linished second in the 60 meters with a time of 7 .51. Kristen Dodd fin­ished third in the 60-meter dash and later won the 200­meter race (25.09). 
Senior Jaime Volkmer also 
broke her own school record in 
the triple jump with a mark ol' 
40-2 1/4. Volkmer also won the 
pole vault, clearing 11-9. 
In the 400-meter race, the 
lrish took the top two spots 
with Kymia Love in l'irst 
(56.29) and Tiffany Gunn sec­ond (56.98). Gunn won her specialty race, the 60-meter hurdles. in a time of 8.85. 
The Irish continue their sea· son next weekend against Ball State at the Loftus Sports Center. 
Cross Country Ski Clinics 
Faculty, Staff & Family Wednesday, January 22 • 5:00pm Deadline-January 21 Notre Dame Students Saturday, January 25 • 2:00pm Deadline-January 24 
Clinics held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports Cost is $10.00 Includes Rental 
R~~ 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 20, 2003 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
Irish were ranked in the top 10 at the beginning of the season and won seven of their first eight games, before losing four of seven, including Saturday's loss to the Scarlet Knights. Since its hot start, Notre Dame has struggled to play to its potential for 40 minutes. 
And waiting to kick them when they're down is No. 3 Connecticut, a team that has won a Division I womens record 55 straight games and will visit the Joyce Center today for a 2 p.m. game. 
Things couldn't get any worse for Notre Dame. 
Or maybe, just maybe, Monday's matchup against 16­0 Connecticut could be just what Notre Dame needs. 
It could be the rallying point that the Irish must have to gain some much-needed confi­dence. Or the beginning of a second-half surge for Notre Dame that helps the squad learn how to win again. It might be the game this team looks back on and says, 'That was the turning point of our 

season.' 
Don't get me wrong, beating Connecticut will be far from easy. It'll take an awesome effort and some definite luck. But the Irish do have history on their side. The last time the Huskies lost a basketball game was against Notre Dame by the score of 90-75 in the 2001 NCAA Final Four. 
But Notre Dame doesn't even have to win this game for it to be the turning point in its sea­son. Keeping up with the tal­ented Huskies should still make the Irish feel better about their play of late and give them some momentum heading into the rest of their Big East schedule. They have a long road ahead of them, but this game can give them a good start. 
Something positive just needs to happen for McGraw's squad. You can see her mount­ing frustration at practice. You could see it during the games the team has lost. And you could surely see it in her teary eyes after the Rutgers game. 
The Irish have their backs against the wall and something must be done for them to sal­vage this season. Rutgers was in much the same position a year ago. The Scarlet Knights had a talented squad that couldn't reach its potential for the entire season. 
"Notre Dame is a very good team," Rutgers coach C. Vivian Stringer said. "They've got great size. They're just young, and as soon as they get out of that slump they'll be fine. "They have great talent and they play hard and they're very good. Last year we were in the same position as they are this year, and it plagued us all season long." 
The Irish don't want to let this plague affect them the rest of the season. They have to find a way to win again. 
An easy foe won't help the Irish at this point. They don't need a pushover. They need to play a team that will push them to their limits and chal­lenge their toughness. A team that no one thinks they can beat. 
A team like Connecticut. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhet­tler@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

MENS SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Irish win 1 of 3 meets out east 
By LISA REIJULA 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame mens swim­ming and diving team had a whirlwind weekend, competing in three dual meets in Philadelphia. After a 181-116 loss to the University of Pennsylvania Friday night, the Irish concluded with a split at Villanova. 
The Irish fell 183-59 to Pittsburgh, but defeated Villanova 168-68. 
The Irish (5-5) struggled at Penn, finishing second to the Quakers in 12 of 13 events to begin the competition. The first victory for Notre Dame came the eighth event, when Matt Obringer won the 100-meter freestyle with a time of 48.19 seconds. 
The bright spot for the Irish was the performance of their divers, seniors Andy Maggio, Tong Xie and Joe Miller. Maggio finished first in the one­and three-meter events, while Xie was second in the one-meter and third in the three­meter. The Irish divers con­tributed 30 points to the team's total score. 

A host of Irish swimmers placed second -Obringer in the 200-meter freestyle, Doug Bauman in the 100-meter back­stroke, Tim Randolph in the 100-meter breaststroke, Frank Krakowski in the 50-meter freestyle and 100-meter butter­fly, Tyler Grenda in the 200­meter breaststroke, J.R. Teddy in the 500-mcter freestyle and David Moisan in the 200 indi­,idual Medley. 
The next day at Villanova, Notre Dame easily outswam the host Wildcats but fell to Big East Championship favorite Pittsburgh. Pitt won all 13 meet events, but the Irish won 10 of 13 races against Villanova. 
Obringer again shone for the Irish, winning both the 200 freestyle and 500 freestyle. Jamie Lutkus (200 IM), Teddy (200 butterfly), Bauman (200 backstroke) and Moisan (200 breaststroke) also won against Villanova. 
The Irish wrapped up a busy three weeks that included training camp in Mexico and the three dual meets. The team will have a brief break before resuming competition against Northwestern Saturday. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lrdjula@nd.edu. 
BBall 
continued from page 20 
respond. 

"Ifs a move I've been work­ing on in practice, it's a move I'm trying to own," Pondexter said. "It was a good look. She had me so I just stepped back and had a wide-open shot. So I took it." 
And she nailed the lid on Notre Dame's coffin. 
"We were winning and we should have won." McGraw said. 
The Irish took an early lead and, despite a brief Scarlet Knights resurgence near the end of the first half, held a sub­stantial score advantage most of the game. But with 11 min­utes remaining, Scarlet Knights coach C. Vivian Stringer called a timeout and told her team that it was time to play real basketball. 
"We had called a timeout and Coach told us to act like there were five minutes left in the game, so just play as hard as you can," Rutgers guard Mauri Horton. "So that was my attitude, just to attack and play hard." 
In the next 11 minutes, the Rutgers' attack started to wear on Notre Dame. The Scarlet Knights. who were smaller and faster than the Irish squad, began forcing turnovers. The Irish hit only four field goals in those final 11 minutes and turned the ball over five times. 
Those turnovers were the first ingredient in the recipe for the Rutgers comeback. The second was rebounds. The Scarlet Knights outrebounded the Irish 14-7 in the final 11 minutes of play. 
''We just really did some of the things that we've been plagued with all year long," McGraw said. "No. 1 ­turnovers. We have to take better care of the ball, and No. 2 -rebounds. We need to rebound better." 
What was more. the Irish didn't have anyone step up for the team. When the Irish shut down Pondexter in the early stages of the game, the Scarlet Knights responded by sending Horton in. When Jacqueline Batteast sat down with foul trouble, no one stepped up for Notre Dame. 
"You have to rely on some­one to come out there and play their game," McGraw said. "We can't win with Jacqui sit­ting on the bench. We cannot win the way we're playing right now, obviously." 
Freshman post player Courtney Lavere hit 23 points for the Irish, and Ratay scored 12, although she went 3-11 from the field. But the Irish could not hold the momentum together long enough. They headed into Saturday's game knowing they needed to play 40 minutes. They fell short again. 
"It's incredibly frustrating," McGraw said. 
Today the Irish will take that frustration into a game that could make history -if Notre Dame can play for 40 minutes. Notre Dame takes on No. 3 Connecticut today. If the Irish could manage an upset victory. they would end a Division I womens record 55-game Husky winning streak, making them the fourth Irish team in history to end such a streak. The Irish football team defeat­ed Oklahoma in 1957, the men's basketball team defeat­ed UCLA in 1974 and the women's soccer team defeated North Carolina in 1994. 
Tip-off is at 2:05 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 


Congregation of Holy Cross 
Be part of the solution. 
tt'-'!~,Q,1 

www.nd.iilill!...vocation 

-, ... _,--· 
ANSWER~ THECALLW 


,-----------------------------------~--~--------­
Monday, January 20, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
---------------------------------------------------------------------~~--­
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 

JACK MONAHAN 

HAPPY TOWN 

JUMBLE 
JJ&Willf1JJ:. 
Unscramble these lour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
MEERY 
I I I b
GO~ Tribune Media Services, Inc, 
All Ri9hia R88erved 
HUBSY 
I (I j 
tTINVER 
J I I 
www.jumble.com
ICALHUNj
I I r (J 
Print = 

rere: rI I J"[ I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: BRAWL SPURN DUPLEX STODGY Answer: A lot of whines come from this -SOUR GRAPES 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
This must be the nostalgia 
"' act
0-...I(:,· 
.., 
~)) . 
o•~ 

l·ZD 

TI-f: CRGm Gl<INc:;f;R. Pa<FOl<MW AT 11-E STR.1:=l=T FE:5TIYAL­WHEN IT WAS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
s a u A N D E R E D O p A L 
T u p p E R w A R E H A R I 
J E S S E J A M E S O P T O 
o u T E o ...,:+,;;,+:-N H E A E N 
s ..,;.+......,,+,.,,+-=-1 
-.;.;J.~A.;.,i 29 Without delay 30 Thin puffs 
direct 34 Large amount 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
···········~··········· ............ ,l •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• , •••••• Jlllttl 
57 Wasn't steadfast SB Copy 59 It helps keep a sweater dry 61 Star 62 Have no accomplices 63 Pool player, at times 64 Question to a procrastinator 
DOWN 
1 How some goods are sold 2 Elite 3 Asked lo come 4 Book after Daniel: Abbr. 5 Complete 6 Woos obviously 
7 "Artistry in Rhythm" composer 
8 Sp. title 9 Circus employees 10 Flared dresses 
11 Jazz singer Jones 
12 Slip 
13 Drawing, e.g. 
14 Real 
21 One accepting
a challenge 
27 "Little Nemo" cartoonist Winsor_ 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Rich Noma 
3611 may be 41 Admirer of -48 Tree with heart-filtered Joseph, in shaped leaves Genesis 
so·_ Mio"
37 Inclines 
42_Langer, 
52 Park Avenue,
who wrote
38 Former capital 
e.g.
"Philosophy in a
of Kazakhstan 
New Key" 55 The Phantom of 39 Businessman 43 Baby the Opera who once 
56Wad
45 Rear
owned the San Diego Padres 46 Boxer's group 60 Short order? 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, St .20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the fast 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/!eaminglxwords. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
-
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: David Lynch, George Bums, Slim Whitman, Gary Barlow 
Happy Birthday: You'll be in a bit of a tailspin this year. Don't overspend. Your compassion when dealing with others will bring you great popularity, but don't let anyone take advantage of you financially or emotionally. Your efforts will bring you admirers. Your numbers are 12, 17, 23, 28, 31, 35 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't hesitate to apply for a better position. Your fast response and know-how will make this a great day to show your 
worth. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Romantic opportunities will be yours if you make plans to socialize. Being a participant will help you get out of the funk 
-
that you've been in lately. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Idle time will lead to a dispute with someone you care about, so get busy instead. Don't neglect your responsibilities. Changes are apparent; look to them with enthusiasm. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will meet new friends or lovers through travel or educational pursuits. Don't be shy; say what's on your mind and stick to your beliefs rather than taking the opinions of others. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Focus on your professional future today. You always do best when you're the boss. A new partnership can be fonned if you attend a 
group meeting. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Emotional ups and downs will fill your day. Don't try to fix everyone else's dilemmas. Focus on your own life and the ones who 
are dear to your heart. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You'll have to be on your toes today if you want to 
keep your finances in order. Someone may try to take advantage of your generosity. Put your energy into something worthwhile. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will be attracted to someone very special if 
you attend a charity event today. Helping those less fortunate will enhance your reputation and bring you popularity. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will attract a lot of attention today, but this could lead to some problems with the people you are closest to. Tone it down a little in order to keep the peace. Honesty will play an important role 
today. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make professional gains and acquire important information regarding business today if you attend a 
financial lecture. Re-establishment of a past romantic tie may throw you for a loop.*** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Investment deals may not be as golden as 
they appear. Ask questions and don't fall under pressure. Take the conservative route.** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You need to discuss your ideas and intentions with someone who can give you sound advice. There may be a good reason for the uncertainty that you are experiencing. *** Birthday Baby: You will be a handful for anyone without energy. You will be outgoing and independent. You will have a great curiosity that will lead you into many unusual situations. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. COPYRIGHT2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
CROSSWORD ACROSS 
1 'You don't mean little ol' 
me?" 
9 Tennis Grand Slam name of 
1988 15 1971 
supernatural 
best seller 
16 Traitorous leader of occupied France in W.W. II 
17 True 18 Jibing 19 Dusseldorf 
direction 20 Survivors' concerns 22 Personal ad :ibbr. 23 Early touring 
car 
24 Singer Green and others 25 They employ speakers: Abbr. 
26 Anglo-American poet Gunn 28 Wind 30 Bit of merchandise 31 Seating sect. 33 Keep going 35 Releases 
38 Language in the Dead Sea Scrolls 
40 Some programs, briefly 43 Go (along) 44 Ordinary people 47Temple 49 "High Noon" heroine so Temple player 51 It's a matter of law 
53 Walt Whitman poem"_ Pondered in Silence" 
54 Fusses 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

PORTS 
Monday, January 20, 2003 

WOMENS BASKETBALL 
It doesn't get any easier 
. Irish blow 15­
point second-half 4-lead to Rutgers 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 

Irish coach Muffet McGraw's reaction when she saw Saturday's game statistics tells the whole story. She crumpled them up. 
Saturday's 64-61 loss to Rutgers iced the cake of Irish losses that have come at their own hands. This time, Notre Dame gave up a 15-point lead in the final 11 minutes of play and left the team with little to say about the game. The frustration on their faces was enough to explain. 
"We just didn't do it," McGraw said. 
Saturday's game had only a single lead change. Scarlet Knights guard Mauri Horton hit a trey with 1: 41 remaining, putting Rutgers on top by two, 61-59. Two foul shots by Irish guard Alicia Ratay tied the score, but Rutgers guard Cappie 

-
Pondexter made sure her team's efforts gave them a 15-point come-from-behind win. Despite heavy coverage by the Irish, she nailed a jumper with 26 seconds left and the Irish couldn't 
see BBALL/page 18 


. No. 3 Huskies give Irish a chance to turn their season around 
A Big East opponent at home. A 15-point lead with fewer than 13 minutes to play. A game a struggling Notre Dame womens basketball team need­ed to win. 
A game they some­how lost. 
Letting an almost sure win slip away against Rutgers, 64-61 Saturday, was the lowest point thus far in this up-and­down season for the Irish. 
"I was very disappointed in the outcome of that game," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "I thought that was a game that we really needed to win, a game that we certainly could have won." 
Notre Dame's woes started over Christmas break. The 

see IRISH/page 18 
MENS BASKETBALL 

Cold-shooting Irish turn blue in Kentucky 
open looks, we couldn't get stuff "I was worried about Estill the the end of the first half. ted nine turnovers and had only
By CHRIS FEDERICO 

around the bucket and nothing most, but the entire front line But the Irish would get no clos­six assists. 
Sports Writer 

really in transition." made inside stuff on us," Brey er than six points in the second "[Thomas} was trying to make Again, Notre Dame's weakness said. "You're always worried half, as the Wildcats outshot the plays for his team, but we just 
It was a rough afternoon for in the paint showed as Kentucky about playing a Kentucky team Irish 52 to 35 percent and kept the heat on him and took the Irish shooters. With very lit­center Marquis Estill pounded that has this number of big bod­outscored them 50-43 in the him out of his game," said tle inside game to speak of, his way through Irish big men ies wearing us down. They got to period. Wildcat guard Cliff Hawkins, Notre Dame looked to its perime­Tom Timmermans, Torin us that way." "They got a big advantage on who -along with guard Gerald ter players such as guards Chris Francis and Jordan Cornette to Hayes set much of the momen­the inside early," Thomas said. Fitch -had the chore of guard­Thomas and Matt Carroll for net 18 points and grab eight tum early for the Wildcats, "They really banged us on the ing Thomas for most of the help, but there was only a limit­rebounds. pumping up the Kentucky Rupp boards and controlled the glass. game. ed response as No. 10 Notre "We felt coming into the game Arena crowd with three big Once you get down to a good With the loss, the Irish fell to Dame fell to No. 16 Wildcats 88-that Marquis [Estill} would be blocks on Francis and Cornette team like that, it's hard to come 14-3 on the season and must 
73. able to do well inside offensive­in the first 5 1/2 minutes of play. back." quickly rebound for their return 
A tenacious Kentucky defense ly," Kentucky coach Tubby Smith "I was pleased with our effort, The disappointing loss over­to Rig East play Tuesday against held the Irish squad to just 34 said. "We tried to isolate him on holding a great shooting team shadowed one of the best scoring Providence. percent shooting form the floor. Torin Francis, the freshman, and like Notre Dame to 34 percent efforts by the hot-shooting Irish "That's the best basketball The Wildcat defenders contested give [Estill] an advantage. We from the field," Smith said. "We guard Carroll, who made 50 per­team we've played this year, and nearly every Irish shot and looked for him early, got the ball challenged most of their shots. cent of his shots from the field we've played a heck of a sched­
... rarely left a man open for a to him often and he was able to Chuck [Hayes] set the tone early and sank all 10 of his free throw ule," Brey said. "We're going to clean look at the basket. make plays.'' with his blocks right on the rim attempts to net 29 points on the jump on the bus and get ready 
"We had a hard time getting In addition. Wildcat forward to save baskets." day. for Providence and move on anything easy offensively," Notre Chuck Hayes dominated play in After being down by as much Thomas was next in scoring quickly.'' Dame coach Mike Brey said. "We the middle, tallying his third as 15 with 7 :04 remaining in the for the Irish with 14 points, but rely on our offense to get going a double-double of the season with first half, the Irish crept back the sophomore point guard was Contact Chris Federico at lot of times, and we couldn't get 17 points and 16 rebounds. within eight points to 38-30 at only 4-for-17 shooting, commit-cfcderic@nd.edu 
-
NFL
TRACK & FIELD

MENS SWIMMING HOCKEY 
SMC SWIMMING 
Oakland 41
Saint Mary's 120
Yale3

Notre Dame 168 
Tennessee 24
Albion 114
Notre Dame 1 

The Irish perform well in
Villanova 68 

the first meet of the season 
Oakland wins fisrt AFC
The Belles win last race to
at Central Michigan. 

-
Notre Dame won one and 
The hockey team lost to 
Championship since 1984.
win at home on senior day. 

lost two meets this week­
Yale in games on both 
Friday and Saturday. 
end. 

page 12
page 17
page 18 
page 18 

page 17 
-.. 


