
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
400 volunteer to rake leaves in South Bend 
By MARY MIGLIOZZI 
News Writer 
Nearly four hundred students parlicipatml in Turning Over a Nnw Leaf on Saturday. a proj­eet where students raked loaves and did other yard work for disabled residents in the northeast neighborhood. 
This was the largest turnout ever for the annual project, a collaborative effort of several sponsors including the classes of 2004, 2006 and 2007. Circle 
K. the CSC the Hobinson Center. Lewis Hall and Knott llall. 
"We want to make it a little easier for disabled and handi­capped people to prepare for winter. We rake leaves and do whattwcr the residents ask us to do," said planning commit­toe chair Mike Vitlip. 
This is the project's third year. and turnout was almost double what organizers oxpected. Vitlip said that he originally anticipated about 250 participants. 
The committee planned to staiT 52 sites and added 10 to 20 more when other residents asked for help. 
"It was fun to interact with the lady whose yard we were cleaning. She was very grate­ful. and it was great to help her," said Jenna Farmer, a Pangborn sophomore. ''I've been wanting to get involved with service since I've been here and hadn't done it yet. I thought it sounded like a really fun thing to do with a group of friends and a really great way to help out the community" 
Farmer said she heard about the project through friends, some of whom heard about it through freshman class council or from signs in their dorm and the dorm's social concerns commissioner. 
"The woman we helped was very appreciative," said Michelle McCarthy, a social concerns commissioner for Pangborn Hall who participat­ed for the lirst time this year. "I think she lives by herself, and it was nice to have someone help." 
McCarthy's group cleaned up the resident's yard and swept her porch and walkway. 
Vitlip said that several groups like McCarthy's did chores other than raking leaves, such as chopping wood and cleaning out a porch. 
"I hope in coming years it will expand to more of a win­terization project, so we can do larger projects to help people prepare for winter," said Vitlip. 
Contact Mary Migliozzi at mmiglioz@nd.edu 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER24, 2003 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Mass mourns former student 

By TERESA FRALISH Assistant News Editor 

Aboj.lt 100 students, family members and friends gathered Sunday in the O'Neill Hall Chapel for a memorial Mass in honor of former Notre Dame student Brian Berg, who was found dead Nov. 1. 
"We gather here today to mourn the loss of Brian Berg, someone who was close to us, who was a part of our family. It is also a day to remember him and all the joy he brought into our Jives," said Father Jay Steele, rector of Morissey Hall. 
Berg, who spent the Fall 2002 semester studying in the London Program before police said he committed suicide over three weeks ago in Bloomington, Ind., withdrew from the University last spring and was eventually diagnosed with schizophrenia. 
In his homily, Steele talked· about the time he first met Berg during the summer he spent working in Morissey Hall. At that time, both Steele and Annie Moranski, Berg's former girl­friend, were involved in the Notre Dame Vocational Initiative program, a part of Campus Ministry at Notre Dame. 
"He was very diligent in his work," said Steele, who did not know Berg very well at the time. "One afternoon there was a knock at the door." 
After seeing Moranski serve as an NOV! counselor. Berg became interested in the pro­gram as well and approached 
Asian Allure celebrates diversity 
By KATHERINE GALES 
Nt·ws Wri(a 
l'l'rforrners danced, sang and stl~ppnd at Satt1rday's Asian Allure performance. 
The Asian-American Association. in conjunction with various multicultural dubs around campus. present­ed its Asian Allure show, "Accents," at the Century Center. 
1\ variety of student groups took part in the production. a celebration of /\sian culture and dance as well as a salute to diversity on Notre Dame's campus. 
"This year we had a lot of new things," said Athena Kwey. the show's executive producer. 
"It was our first time off campus and the first time we had student designs lin the fashion show[. We also had a lot of new clubs participating, so in. a lot of ways it was ground breaking." 
The 700-seat Century Center theatre sold out Tuesday for the highly anticipated show. despite the fact that the show was moved off campus this year. 
see ALLURE/page 4 


Steele about being involved. 

"lie could sec her transform­ing before his eyes.... lie want­ed that for himself," Steele said. 
At the end of the Mass, Moranski reflected back on how she came to know Berg. 
"When I met Brian on the third day of freshman orienta­tion, I never knew the e!Tect he would have on my life," she said. "Brian made the ordinary extraordinary. [lie] had a way of filling my heart with joy and happiness." 
Funeral services for Berg were held. Nov. 5 at St. Cecilia Catholic Church in his home­town of Wheaton, Ill. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 

NDex-VP named Portland's president 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Editor 

The University of Portland announced Thursday that for­mer Notre Dame executive vice president Father William Beauchamp will be named Portland's 11Jth president. 
Beauchamp succeeds Father David Tyson as president. Tyson stepped down from the position in June after being named provincial superior of the Indiana Province of the Congregation of the Holy 
·cross. 

Beauchamp has served as senior vice president at Portland since 2002. lie served for over 20 years at Notre Dame and remains a University fellow and trustee. 
"The board is honored to announce the appointment of 
see PRIEST/page 4 
Monday, November 24, 2003 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Preparing 
for the 


holiday 
As one of the most favored holidays of all time, Thanksgiving offers the rare chance to take a break from the hectic workday environment in order to offer thanks for all that we have been given. 
Each year, we 
Emily Tumbrink
anxiously await the final Thursday of Assistant November, for Scene Editor the day that not only marks a time to give thanks, but also marks the official beginning of the holiday season. We remember the Pilgrims and Native Americans who sat down to that first Thanksgiving dinner, and who began an American tradition that has remained unbroken since President Abraham Lincoln declared it a national holiday in 1863. 
Over time, thepurpose of this holi­day sadly seems to have shifted from its original intention. Thanksgiving is no longer solely concerned with-giv­ing thanks, but instead the prepara­tion and engorgement of the meal takes precedence. The holiday now seems specifically designed to pro­mote both gluttony and sloth, as we celebrate by eating more, sleeping more and watching even more foot­ball. 
But here at Our Lady's University, the University of Notre Dame, the faculty and staff have graciously taken it upon themselves to prevent the spread of these two deadly sins. By piling on even more work and making it all due immediately follow­ing this lazy day of thanks, our pro­fessors have almost ensured that gluttony and sloth will not be a part of this year's holiday. 
Instead, we will be intently focused on completing the 10-to 12-page paper that is thankfully due the Monday after break, while also fin­ishing up that 350-page novel that will be discussed in class on Tuesday. 
Rather than spending time with our families this year in an ungodly lethargic state, we will avoid the sleep of complacency and instead focus on the enhancement of our minds, attacking our assignments with the zeal appropriate to God­fearing Catholics such as ourselves. 
Although initially we may resent this sudden onslaught of assign­ments, let us join together in remem­brance of the true spirit of Thanksgiving, and give thanks for the faculty's obvious concern for our well-being. We should cherish each grain of knowledge that we are able to absorb, and remember who is responsible for promoting this absorption. And if we still do not appreciate the efforts of our profes­sors, let us remember that sloth and gluttony are but two of the seven deadly sins -five others remain for us to choose from. 
Contact Emily Tumbrink at etumbrin@nd. edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a production error, Tina Robinson and Sarah Colson were incorrectly identified as Saint Mary's students in the Nov. 21 article "ND students move off campus." They are seniors at Notre Dame. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW MANY CLASSES ARE YOU SKIPPING THIS WEEK? 


John Hart  John Axford  David Duffle  Mlkala Engel  Mark Desplinter  
junior  junior  junior  sophomore  junior  
Keenan  Dillon  offcampus  Farley  Alumni  
"None, I'm a  "!find  "Half between  "Which ever  "You're. allowed  
loser."  education is the  Monday and  ones I decide to  to skip class?"  
intellectual  Tuesday."  wake up for. "  





IN BRIEF 

Come cheer on the Notre Dame men's basketball team as they take on Northern Illinois today at 7:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
View the international film "Never on a Sunday," today at 7 and 11 p.m. in the LaFortune Montgomery Theatre. The film is from Greece with English subtitles and is sponsored by· the International Students Services and Activities. 
Play Drop-In Floor Hockey today from 8: 30 to 10:30 
p.m. at Rolf's Recreation and Sports Center Court 1. 
Head over to Legends for the Monday Night Football Game Watch from 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. today. 
Attend Mass at 5:15 p.m. today in Sacred Heart Basilica. 
Jorge Durand, a visiting professor from the University of Chicago, will speak about "New Trends in Mexican Migration to the United States" today from 4 to 5:15 
p.m. in McKenna Hall Hoom 208. 
Attend the Council of Representatives meeting today at 6 p.m. in the LaFortune Dooley Hoom.. 
Professor Layna Mosley will present a talk on "Rules in International Finance" today at 12:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Room C-103. 
-
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 42 HIGH 52 LOW 35 LOW 34 
basis ofthis University therefore I will attend all my classes." 


MEGAN DAVISSONffhe Observer Political scie~ce professor Dan Lindley discusses politics over lunch with students at the l(roc Institute Current Events Table Friday. 
OFFBEAT 
Chocolate Putln portrait goes on display 
MOSCOW -The sweeter side of President Vladimir Putin has gone on display in Moscow: a portrait of the Russian leader entirely in chocolate. 
Luxury chocolate-maker Konfael created the edible portrait of Putin on a 3.3­pound slab of white choco­late. 
Other kinds of chocolate flesh out the likeness ­while strawberry juice col­ors his lips and blueberry juice shades his tie. 
The chocolate-makers say the chocolate Putin is a work of art, and they are 
TODAY 
0:: 

pricing it at $700. Only two have been created. 
"I would regret eating such a portrait," said a shopper, who only gave her first name, Lisa. 
Konfael employees said the portraits are attracting attention but no buyers so far. And the clock is ticking -in a year, the chocolate will turn ·stale. 
Car passenger convicted of drunk driving 
OSLO, Norway -A 19­year-old Norwegian has been convicted of drunken driving, even though he was a passenger, had a sober designated driver and dido 't even have the keys to start a car that was turned off. 
"I think it's unreason­able," said Oysten Haakanes, whose case made national news on Friday." "It makes you lose faith in the courts and police." 
·Haakanes and a friend were on their way home from a party in April when they stopped at a gas sta­tion to buy some food near the town of Tini)., about 130 kilometers (80 miles) west of Oslo. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
LLI :::z::: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
...I 
<
(,) 0 


.... HIGH 29 HIGH 26 HIGH 39 HIGH 44 LOW 23 LOW 23 LOW 28 LOW 32 
Atlanta 59 I 28 Boston 54 1 44 Chicago 32 I 24 Denver 46 I 25 Houston 56 I 31 Los Angeles 72 I 47 Minne~polis 21 I 13 New York 60 1 39 Philadelphia 681 36 Phoenix 68 I 49 Seattle 44 I 39 St. Louis 35 I 26 Tampa 81 I 59 Washmgton 66 I 35 
Monday November 24, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
ND graduate leads Jackson prosecution team 
Associated Press 
!.OS ANCEI.I;S-The bad b I o o d b~~ t w (W n Mi ch a e I Jackson and the prosecutor who l'ilnd child molestation charges against him goes back morn than a decade. 
It even spawned a song in which tl11~ pop star ralls Santa Barbara County District Attorney Tom Sneddon a "cold man." 
Ten years ago, Sneddon tried to build a child-molestation rase against Jackson. But it f1dl apart when the singer's accuser reportedly accepted a multimillion-dollar civil settle­ment and refused to testify in any criminal case. 
Sneddon "believed Jackson to b1~ guilty of the first offense. and given Tom's personality, he would not let go of that," retired Superior Court Judge James Slater. who handled portions of the 1993 case. said Thursday. "lie would certainly he thinking back on the last time when Mr. Jackson walked away from the judge." 
On Wednesday, Sneddon said a new law that allows prosecu­tors to halt civil suits during related criminal cases should prevent a replay of the 1993 scenario. "I think there's a sense in the public that he did" buy his way out of that investi­gation, the district attorney said. 
Some observers said Sn1~ddon, a former boxer at Notre Dame who earned the nickname "Mad Dog" for his tenacious courtroom demeanor. had waited a long time for another shot at Jackson. 


Sneddon. however, rejected suggestions that he had a vendetta against Jackson or timed the arrest to coincide with the release of Jackson's latest album. a greatest-hits collection. 
"I can tell you it's B.S .. but that isn't going to change peo­ple's observations," Sneddon said. Sarcastically, he said: "Like the sheril'f and I are really into that kind of music." 
When that 1993 case "went to bed ... it went out of my mind. I haven't given it a pass­ing thought," Sneddon said. 
Early this year, after Jackson revealed in a British documen­tary that he sometimes lets children sleep in his bed, Sneddon condemned the "media circus" around the documentary and said Jackson's admission was "much ado about nothing." "It was baffling. perplexing 
Still, some observers said and it didn't have a particular­Sneddon, a prosecutor for 34 ly serious tone," said Laurie years and D.A. for Levenson, a 
nearly 21 of those. appeared to be grandstanding at the  "[Sneddon is] the only D.A. in the  professor at Loyola University Law  
news conference and seemed to take delight in announc­ing a warrant for  nation to have an angry song written about him by pop  School. "A good defense lawyer is going to say he  
Jackson's arrest had been issued. Sneddon joked  megastar Michael Jackson."  was too per­sonally invest­ed and you  
with  a  roomful  of  can't trust the  
reporters,  at  one  National District  investigation."  
point saying drawing chuckles when he  Attorneys Association  During the earlier investi­ 
welcomed them  to  gation,  

Santa Barbara with the line. "I Sneddon ordered photographs hope that you all stay long and taken of Jackson's genitalia. At spend lots of money because the time, Sneddon told Vanity we need your sales tax to sup­Fair the photos matched port our offices." descriptions of Jackson's geni-talia given by boys to investi­gators. 

The ordeal was the inspira­tion of a 1995 song titled "D.S." that Jackson included on his "HIStory" album. The song is widely believed to refer to the district attorney, and contains these lines: "They wanna get my ass I Dead or alive I You know he really tried to take me I Down by surprise I I bet he missioned with the CIA I He don't do half what he say." 
The liner notes say Jackson sings "Dom Sheldon" is "a cold man." But listeners say Jackson clearly sings "Tom Sneddon" and "Thomas Sneddon." 
In a February 2003 profile, the National District Attorneys Association called Sneddon "the only D.A. in the nation to have an angry song written about him by pop mcgastar Michael Jackson." 
Sneddon. who is in his early 60s, graduated from UCLA Law School in 1966 and then served in the Army for two years. He has been a prosecu­tor for his entire law career since then. 
Those who have worked with Sneddon say he is tenacious and tough. particularly when he has made up his mind about a case -sometimes to a fault. 
"There were times, and there still arc, that his tena­ciousness gets in the way of his better judgment and he has to step back. That's maybe more difficult for Tom than other people," Slater said. "lie can be a pretty tough article." 
Do you care about kids? 
What about the issues facing thent? 


Care enougl1 to effect change in ADlerica on their behalf? 


WHYCDF? 
CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FU~D 
Come hear the N'ational Youth ()utreach Coordinator of CDF WYLIE CHEN 1\'londay, Novctnber 24th 7pm 127 Hayes-Healy 
Learn about important issues facing childre-n in America and how you can help! 
Irish author Logue reads new vignettes 
By BETH ERICKSON 
NewsWri[er 

On Friday afternoon, Irish author Antonia Logue read vignettes from her forthcom­ing novel Say of What You Sec in the Dark in a small engagement sponsored by the Keough Institute of Irish Studies. 
Logue received much -criti­cal acclaim for her first novel. Shadow Box, which earned her the Irish Times Literature prize for Irish Fiction. The London Observer appointed her to its distinguished list of 21 writers of the 21st century. 
She introduced her reading with an excerpt from Shadow Box. a fictionalized account of the life of heavyweight-boxing 
e·nor171oz...ts 

FLEECE 

Selection 
Sminutes -· 
from CUTPCS'T 
Campus :!•z.IU: 
Cold Weather Expert• 

Col1259·1ooo for more details 
champion, Jack Johnson. 
When questioned about her choice of subject matter for this novel. Logue said that she felt little pressure to write about Ireland because the country has successfully dealt with many of its trou­bles. 
"II hadl the luxury to write about something that had nothing to do with Ireland," she said. 
Logue also celebrated her freedom to revisit Ireland in her new novel. 
The setting of Say of What You Sec in the Dark returns the author to her native Northern Ireland in I<J72, sho said. 
"It is in a different ballpark. with a totally different tone as well," Logtw said. 
The two vignettes Logue selected for her reading depicted artfully crafted "snapshot" images of two i n c i de n t a I cha r a c t e r s . T IH' entire novel is comprised of brief portraits such as these, Logue said. 
Next spring, Logue will teach fiction writing classes as a full-tinw faculty member at Columbia College in Chicago, Ill. 
Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 
Monday, November 24, 2003 

page4 The Observer + NEWS 

Allure 
continued from page 1 
Kwey cited transportation, time and location of the dress rehearsal and learning a new technical system as major con­cerns. 
"We did encounter some dif­ficulties because we were off campus," she said. "It took us a while to get used to it, but it was worth it in the end." 
The audience warmly received the show's emcees, Richie Dang and Soohan Park. The duo also emceed the show two years ago. 
The Hawaii and Guam Clubs presented "Island· Fiesta," which including traditional island dances, such as the hula. The Filipino-American Student Organization demon­strated Tinikling, a national dance of the Philippines. 
The Japan Club presented a combination of several dances, featuring samurai, girls in tra­ditional kimono garb and male club members in schoolgirl costumes. After the humorous act, the Vietnamese Student Association presented a video they had made called "Floating to Freedom: The Story of the Vietnamese Boat People." 
The Korean Student Association performed a tradi­tional fan dance and "K-pop," a Korean dance accompanied by music. The Chinese Culture Society then presented a rib­bon dance. The Asian International Society gave a dramatic rendition of the tradi­tional "Tale of the Butterfly Lovers," and the India­Pakistan Association per­formed the traditional Punjabi dance bhangra. 

There were also performanc­es by the dance groups Troop NO and the First-Class Steppers. 
"All the acts were really great," Kwey said. "They were so well-prepared -people have been practicing since the beginning of the year -and one thing that is unique from past years is that clubs tried to do something different than they had before." 
Contact Katherine Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


Priest 
continued from page 1 

Father Beauchamp, who brings to the University of Portland a wealth of experi­ence, leadership and dedica­tion to the world of higher education," Chair of the Board of Regents Ted Winnowski said in a state­ment. "We believe Father Beauchamp will build on the many accomplishments of his predecessor Father Tyson; continue to focus on our mis­sion of teaching, faith a.nd service; and lead the University of Portland to becoming the premier 
Catholic university in the West. 
"His skills as an administra­tor, teacher and mentor will help continue to serve our students and faculty well." 
B~auchamp received his bachelor's degree in account­ancy and MBA from the University of Detroit and his master of divinity and law degrees from the Notre Dame. 
The other presidential final­ist was Father James McDonald, who also served at Notre Dame and currently is the rector of St. George's College in Santiago, Chile. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownes1@nd.edu 
LAos 

Dean receives lost brother's remains 
Associated Press 
VIENTIANE -Laos on Monday handed over to the United States the remains believed to be of U.S. presiden­tial candidate Howard Dean's brother, an Australian' friend and two American soldiers who disap­peared in the country decades 

ago. "Today marks lager led the The remains another special investigators to a thought to be of site near a boul­
day for
Charles Dean der in a rice and Australian repatriation of paddy near the Neil Sharman remains from the town of Lakxao, were exhumed about 25 miles
Indochina war.,.
earlier this west of the month in central Vietnamese bor­Laos following a Douglas Hartwick der in tip by a Laotian U.S. ambassador Bolikhamxai Sharman as tourists. Both are believed to have been impris­oned and killed by communist insurgents who took control of Laos in 1975. 
An investigation into their disappearance began in 1991, and the first of two joint U.S.­Laotian excavation teams 
began digging in 
August. 
A Laotian vil­
villager. 
Also excavated from other sites in northeastern Laos were remains suspected to be of two 
U.S. soldiers killed during the Vietnam War. Their names have not been released. 
The remains were trans­ferred to four aluminum cas­kets brought by a U.S. military C-130 cargo plane at the Vientiane airport. An honor guard draped one casket in an Australian flag and the other three in U.S. flags before reloading them on the plane, which flew to Hawaii where a forensic lab will positively identify the remains. 
"I am pleased to hand over to you the remains .... Without the cooperation of the local people.they would not have been able to find the remains," Laotian Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs Phongsavath Boupha told the U.S. Ambassador to Laos, Douglas Hartwick, in a ceremony at the airport. 
He called the hand-over "a symbolic victory" in relations between the two countries, adding that Laos wants to put the past behind and move on. 
"Today marks another spe-· · cia! day for repatriation of remains from the Indochina war," Hartwick said. 
"This cooperation is a key element in bilateral relations," he said. 
Charles Dean disappeared in 1974 while the 24-year-old University of North Carolina graduate was traveling through Southeast Asia with province. 
The site was 

pocked with bomb craters and had to be cleared of Vietnam War-era ordnance, excavation team leader Elizabeth Martinson said Sunday. She would not give any other information about the villager or the remains. 
But Howard Dean said last week that they include bones, a sock, a pair of shoes and a bracelet. He said his family is convinced they belong to his brother. 
Howard Dean is the front­runner among nine candidates seeking the Democratic nomi­nation in next year's U.S. pres­idential election. 
The remains of 182 Americans have been recov­ered in Laos since U.S.-spon­sored recovery teams began operating in the country in 1992. Some 387 Americans are still missing in Laos from the Vietnam War era. 
Phongsavath, the Laotian minister, expressed the hope that the handover would per­suade the U.S. Congress to establish normal trade rela­tions with Laos. 
The United States has diplo­matic ties but no trade links with Laos because of concerns about the communist govern­ment's human rights record. 
"We hope that this will help the .American people and the Congress to understand that we have also shown our good­will to cooperate" on the issue of missing Americans, Phongsavath said. 
AFGHANISTAN 

Helicopter crash kills five 
Associated Press 
KABUL -Five U.S. soldiers were killed and seven injured when their helicopter crashed Sunday near the American military headquarters north of the Afghan capital, U.S. Central Command said. 
The soldiers were involved in an ongoing U.S. military oper­ation, dubbed Mountain Resolve, taking place in the east of the country, the mili­tary said. 

"A U.S. military helicopter crashed today near Bagram, Afghanistan," said a statement sent by e-mail from Central Command, in Tampa, Fla. "Early reports indicate seven service members were injured and at least five service mem­bers were killed." 
It was not clear what caused the crash, and the military said it was investigating. 
.Bagram Air Base, just north of the capital, is home to most of the 11,600 coalition forces in Afghanistan. An additional 5,000 international peace­keepers patrol Kabul. 
Mountain Resolve has been going on since Nov. 7 in east­ern Nuristan and Kunar provinces, but so far no major skirmishes with suspected Taliban and al-Qaida holdouts have taken place. 
Also Sunday, a coalition vehi­cle struck a land mine while patrolling an area of Afghanistan near the Pakistani border, seriously wounding two American soldiers, includ­ing one who lost one of his legs. 
Several reporters were trav­eling with the lOth Mountain Division forces in eastern Afghanistan, but none was seriously hurt, the U.S. mili­tary said in a statement issued at Bagram air base. It gave no further information about the journalists. 
The explosion occurred at about 1 p.m. in Shkin, Paktika 

Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes from Campus Call 259·1ooo for more details 


province, about 135 miles south of Kabul, the Afghan capital. A coalition base also is located there. 
The wounded soldiers received initial medical treat; ment at the scene, then were evacuated by air to a medical facility at nearby Salerno base in the city of Khost, the state­ment said. The men were Staff Sgt. Roy Mitchell, of Batesville, Ind., and Sgt. 1st Class Michael Eichner, of Stonington, Pa., officials at Fort Drum in New York state said. 
Mitchell, 32, suffered burns to his face, neck and back, and had his left leg amputated. 
Eichner, 31, was wounded by shrapnel in his back and had a broken hand, the officials said. The soldiers were assigned to the 1st Battalion, 87th Infantry Regiment. 
Eastern and southern Afghanistan have become a hotbed of attacks by pro­Taliban and pro-al-Qaida mili­tants targeting coalition forces, U.N. workers and relief agencies. 
On Friday, the violence hit Kabul when a rocket landed 30 yards from the Intercontinental Hotel, shat­tering glass but causing no injuries. 









ORLD & NATION 
Monday, November 24, 2003 CoMPILED FROM T11E OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Voters reject pro-Beijing leader 
IIONG KONG -!long Kong voters pun­islwd the territory's top pro-Beijing party in local elections. state radio said Monday, an apparent backlash against unpopular leader Tung Chee-hwa that raises the stakes in next year's lngislative contests. 
Government-owned radio HTIIK said the opposition Democratic Party picked up 93 of the 326 contested seats. The party's politi­cians called the results -and the record­high turnout -proof that voters want Tung to speed the move toward full democracy in the Chinese territory. 
Tlw pro-Beijing and pro-government D1Hnocratic Alliance for the Betterment of !long Kong, or DAB. lost about 20 contested seats as compan~d to the results from 1999. 
Anti-western coalition elected 
ZAGHEB. Croatia-Nationalists who led Croatia to independence -and later to international isolation -were leading against the current pro-Western government In Sunday's parliamentary elections, partial results show1!d. 
Heturns released by the state electoral commission with about 50 percent of votes counted gave the nationalist Croatian D1~mocratic Union's bloc about 72 scats. l'rinw Minister lvica Hacan's Social Democrats were projected to win 55 scats with thnir certain partners, and could get about (J8 seats if smaller parties rejoin the coalition. 
Nationalist lvo Sanador, the coalition's new leader, called his party's showing "a brilliant victory." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

9/11 commuter train returns to wrc 
NEW YOHK -The last New Jersey com­muter train to leave the World Trade Center before the twin towers collapsed in the Sept. l 1, 20<l1. terrorist attack was the first one to return. rolling into a temporary station Sunday with dignitaries and victims' family m1Hnbers on board. 
"It's a resumption of normalcy," said New Jersey Gov. James McGreevey. llc was joined on the short trip under the Hudson River from Jersey City, N.J. to the temporary PATH station by Mayor Michael Bloomberg and New Jersey Sons. Jon Corzine and Frank I.autenberg. 
"Today, we're proud and we're pleased to bring back to the people of this region some­thing that was taken from us on Sept. 11," said Anthony Coscia, chairman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Gary cop convicted of dope dealing 
FOHT WAYNE. Ind. -A federal jury con­victed a man of leading a cocaine traflicking operation in northwest Indiana, and also round a former Gary police officer guilty of assisting in a violent campaign against rival drug dealers. 
Jurors, after hearing 16 days of evidence gathered by local and federal authorities, deliberated a day and a half before returning Friday's guilty verdicts. 
Jurors reached guilty verdicts on all drug­related felony counts against Jay Zambrana, 42, of South Haven, and former Gary police­man James Ervin, 32. 
Investigators said Zambrana directed a gang or 16 members who imported millions of dollars worth of illicit drugs into north­west Indiana and sold them to street-level dealers. Prosecutors said Zambrana used Ervin to extort money from competitors. 
The nine-year veteran of the Gary police department also was ordered to execute Chicago drug dealers Haul Iluartado and Gil Nevarez in 1998. prosecutors said. 

Senate Democrats fight Medicare bill 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The He pub I ic an-controlled Senate pointed toward a showdown Sunday on a sweeping Medicare pre-· scription drug bill that sparked a last stand by outnumbered critics and beckoned Democratic presidential hopefuls to the Capitol to join the fight. 
Even so. the roster of declared Democratic sup­porters for the bill grew to nine, when Sens. Dianne Feinstein of California and Bon Wyden of Oregon announced their inten­tions to vote for it. In less­than-glowing assessments, both ascribed a series of benefits and shortcomings to the bill, and Wyden said his decision was "a very, very tough call." 
Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass .. led a filibuster against the legislation, arguing it would lead toward privatization of Medicare and warning that if they were success­ful, Hepublicans would soon be back for more. "Social Security is next. Medicare is now," he said. 
Sen. Charles Grassley, H­Iowa. quickly disputed that, adding that oppo­nents were playing politics and would regret it. He accused Democrats of blocking a prescription drug bill two years ago, saying they had "wanted an issue" to take into the 2002 election. "They got a defeat at the polls" instead, he said. 
The measure would cre­ate a prescription drug benefit for Medicare bene­ficiaries for the first time since the giant health care program for seniors was created in 1965, with sub­sidies to help lower­income seniors pay the premiums and other costs. Additionally, it would establish a new, expanded opportunity for insurance companies to offer private coverage for seniors -a plan viewed with favor by conservatives and with suspicion by many Democrats. 

The measure cleared the House near sunup Saturday after a roll call that consumed nearly three hours rather than the allotted 15 minutes. The vote was 220-215, largely along party lines. Senate approval would send the measure to the White House, where President Bush is eager to sign it. 
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist set the first in an expected series of test votes for Monday, and offi­cials on both sides of the issue said supporters were likely to gain the 60 votes needed to prevail. 
At the same time, Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle pledged to extend the struggle, and aides said he would join efforts to derail the legislation on other procedural grounds. In a sharply worded speech, Daschle described the bill as a windfall for drug companies. The industry "got almost everything they wanted," he said, including a prohi­bition on the government negotiating for lower drug prices for seniors. 
The Senate's session was less a debate than a series of speeches by sen­ators who support and those who oppose it, enlivened by the maneu­vering of three Democratic presidential hopefuls to inject themselves into the clash. 
Sen. John Kerry, D­Mass., who announced Saturday that he would return to Washington to join the filibuster, waited in the Capitol until his turn came to speak. "This bill is really about President Bush passing the buck on prescription drug coverage and passing the bucks from seniors to the pharmaceutical indus­try," he said. 
Sen. John Edwards, D­N.C., flew to Washington during the day, then head­ed for the Senate chamber so he, too, could under­score his opposition. "We need to stand up to drug companies and HMOs and stand up for the American people," he said. 
Sen. Joe Lieberman, D­Conn., announced his opposition to the bill, becoming the last of the presidential contenders in Congress to take a posi­tion. "As much as I want to give seniors a prescrip­tion drug benefit, they shouldn't have to swallow the many harmful poison pills that Hepublicans loaded into this bill just to get there," he said. 

Two other Democratic contenders, Heps. Dennis Kucinich of Ohio and Dick Gephardt of Missouri, voted against the bill iri the House. 
Among the other con­tenders, Howard Dean and Wesley Clark both oppose the measure. 
The far-reaching bill also would increase Medicare funding for doc­tors. hospitals and other health care providers, particularly in rural areas, where reimbursement lev­els are far below what is paid in other regions of the country. Additionally. the bill provides billions of dollars to companies to encourage them to retain the health coverage they provide their retirees. 

Thousands protest at former SOA 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ga. -Some 10,000 demonstrators chanted and waved signs Sunday outside the Army's Fort Benning in their annual protest against a military school for Latin American soldiers on the base. 
Opponents of the Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation, formerly known as the School of the Americas, blame the school for atrocities committed by some of its graduates in Latin America. 
"We oppose the violence generated by this school and Fort Benning sol­diers. Our way is the way of love with our brothers and sisters who are vic­tirns of violence," said the Rev. Roy Bourgeois, a Maryknoll priest who founded the School of Americas Watch and has been leading demon­strations outside the post for 14 years. 
The crowd, estimated at 10,000 by Columbus police, was the largest yet for the annual protest, said Eric LeCompte, the weekend demonstra­tion's organizing coordinator. "We believe our nonviolent action was effective," he said. 
Between 30 and 40 protesters crossed onto fort property Sunday and were arrested for trespassing, said William Quigley, a legal adviser to protest organizers. The sentence for trespassing on military property ranges from probation to up to six months in prison and a $5,000 fine. 
Quigley said there were 12 arrests Saturday, but Brig. Gen. Benjamin Freakley said there were eight arrests, seven for trespassing and one for damaging government property by painting Fort Benning's main gate. 
"As the installation commander I'm required to protect those who live and work at Fort Benning," Freakley said at a news conference. 
The demonstrators faced about 60 civilian officers plus military police. The heavier-than-usual police pres­ence stemmed partly from concerns that people protesting the Free Trade Area of the Americas in Miami might join the Fort Benning demonstration in west-central Georgia. 

Monday, November 24, 2003 
MEXICO

Farmers find raising 
Vendors fear Chinese com_petition


turkeys re-warding 
Associated Press 

MEXICO CITY -It's a trade 
war being fought in the
Farms produce heritage turkeys for holiday 
Associated Press 
BONDVILLE, Ill. -As the bronze-colored turkeys strut about the farm yard, they fan their tail feathers and break into a simultaneous gobble, completely oblivious to their fate. 
"They're annoying," said 9-year-old Esther Goija, who along with her siblings owns most of the animals on the family farm. "They're gob­bling all day long." 
But Esther's annoyance will soon provide her money to buy clothes, toys or any­thing else she wants. And 

"Each child owns or is 
"It's not just fear, it's panic," that buy one responsible for turkeys this 
the people heritage 
said Mexico City historian 
Lorenzo Meyer. "We were
of the Goij a's different groups of year and easi­
supposed to be the ones mov­B r o a d ly could have
animals." 
ing ahead. We had free-mar­B r o n z e that many. 
Breasted sold twice 
ket reforms, and now we're turkeys will Les Goija "I think it's 
losing out to a communist-run end up with a a real wake­
country. In 500 years, this
farmer 
bird that tastes quite different than the normal mass-produced version. 
The Goijas, who live on a farm about 7 miles west of Champaign, are part of a growing group of Illinois farmers who raise heritage turkeys -breeds that were common on holiday platters before the development of their mass-produced cousins. 
More than 270 million turkeys were raised in the United States last year and 46 million were consumed for Thanksgiving dinner, according to the National Turkey Federation. 
A food stewardship organ­ization called Slow Food USA estimates that all except 10,000 were the mass-produced Broad Breasted White. 
Most heritage 

started airing "Buy Mexican" ad campaigns, and police have rounded up Asian ven­dors and staged increasingly violent raids against street stalls selling contraband imports. 
The anger isn't just over imported goods. Since 2000, Mexico has lost more than 200,000 maquiladora, or manufacture-for-export, jobs, with many factories moving to China. · 
The damage is everywhere. China is producing statuettes of Mexico's patron saint, the Virgin of Guadalupe. And plastic Chinese flip-flops are the preferred footwear in many parts of rural Mexico, replacing Mexican leather sandals that had been worn here for centuries. 
In the north-central state of Guanajuato, dozens of shoe­making businesses have closed recently, including Botas Fox, the family business of President Vicente Fox. Shoemakers complain they are being driven out of busi­ness by cheap Chinese imports. 
"We just can't compete with the labor costs," said Sandra Santamaria, project director for Mexico's Apparel Industry Chamber. "Labor in China costs 48 cents per hour, and in Mexico it's $1.20." 
Mexico has imposed dump­ing duties of more than 500 percent on Chinese apparel, but that hasn't stemmed the influx. Many Chinese goods are smuggled in or imported under labels from other coun­tries. Not including these clandestine goods, China cur­
rently runs a trade surplus 
with Mexico of more than $5 
billion. 
Some Mexicans blame themselves. "We've never been able to defend ourselves against the Americans, or the Chinese," said one anti-import · sign posted outside a Mexican clothing store. "But, then again, we haven't seen any Chinese. All we see are disloy­al Mexicans who don't want 
to pay for Mexican goods." 
Fox, who has described 
China as "an opportunity, not 
a threat," created a special 
anti-contraband police squad 
in October, but it remains to 
be seen how effective it will 
be. 
In one recent raid in Mexico 
City, police rounded up 
Koreans -who allegedly run 
many of the import operations 
-and deported 11 of them, 
drawing complaints of dis­
crimination from the Korean 
community. 
Earlier this year, police 
raids on contraband markets 
in Mexico City earlier this 
year met with resistance from 
vendors who hurled sticks 
and stones and trashed vehi­
cles to defend their merchan­
dise. 
Some have said it's not' a 
bad thing that low-wage jobs 
are fleeing to China. 
"It forces Mexico to do more 
value-added, better-educated 
work," Deputy Economy 
Secretary Angel Villalobos 
said. 
The Chinese have argued 
Mexico should improve its 
own products, rather than 
complaining about other 
countries. 
Woodford County. Describing the taste, she sounds as if she's describing a glass of fine wine. 
"It's a full-bodied and robust kind of taste, a com­pletely different experi­ence," she said. 
Brockman said all 50 turkeys she raised this year were spoken for months ago. even though they sell for about $3.50 per pound, more than three times the cost of a mass-production turkey. Deborah Boehle of Cornell, in Livingston County. said she sold 25 
streets: Mexico's army of 1.6 million street vendors is resisting police attempts to confiscate imports from China, and the government has responded with every­thing from buy-Mexican ads to a special anti-import police squad. 
Long known for the work of its artisans, Mexico now imports such handicrafts -as painted figurines of Mexican saints and leather sandals from China. This year, China also displaced Mexico as the second-biggest exporter to the 
U.S. market, leaving Mexicans feeling cheated and worried the country is being left behind. 
up call that 
people are interested," Wotton said. "They don't just want one breed of anything, whether it be fruit or animal." 
Les Goija said he moved his family to the country about 10 years ago with a desire to raise animals and sell them for food. "I decid­ed to see if I could prove that someone could start farming from scratch," he said. 
While Goija (pronounced JOY-uh) has a job off the farm, he and his wife, Penny, are debt-free and have raised their nine chil­
country has never been able to get ahead economically." 
Newspapers regularly run stories on the threat. "The Chinese want Mexico's oil," "Chinese products proliferate in handicraft markets," and "Border factories fight Chinese threat" are just a few recent examples. 
Mexico's frustration at being outmaneuvered in low­wage manufacturing has gen­erated a rising tide of anger at the Asian giant. Textile and shoe workers have begun trashing Chinese goods in the streets. The government has 
dren on the income from their goats, sheep, rabbits, chickens, turkeys and bees, he said. 
"Each child owns or is responsible for different 
.··:·.-·.. .

groups of ani­
:: ·:· ": . . 
. . . .

mals," Goija •..•. ·.····.·.,··o·····.····.····.···,.·.·r··
'··f······.···.·.·
···· :· .. .; ·. ··: ..· 
.. . .
turkeys-breeds said. "They . .
"You can't go to . . 
such as the learn quite a 
Bronze, your grocer and bit. And then 
Narragansett, find them in the when they Bourbon Red, have the
freezer section." 
Blue Slate or money them­Jersey Buff -selves, they are raised in Angela Wotton learn about small-farm set­Slow Food USA taking care of 
tings and mar­keted to cus­tomers who often reserve them even before they hatch. 
"You can't go to your gro­cer and find them in the freezer section," said Angela Wotton, assistant director of Slow Food USA. . 
Most heritage turkey breeds are considered to be in danger of extinction, Wotton said. Raising them for food helps continue the line because more birds are bred year after year, she said. 
"We really didn't do it for the moral aspect," said Esther's father, Les Goija. "But it is fun to know that the turkeys you have might be among only 60 or 100 or so in the country, to think of the fact that you're raising them for food in order to preserve them." 
Besides that, they taste good, said Terra Brockman, who raises Narragansett and Bourbon Red turkeys near Congerville, in 

themselves." 
"Right now, this is the only profitable way to farm," Goija said. "This is the profitable way to go as well as the healthy way to go." 
As Esther's flock gobbled away, she said she wouldn't miss the turkeys after they're gone. 
''I'll be glad when it's over," she said. "Less chores, more money. less gobbling." 
.ii!i::::i::!::)/ .·. . . ·. . 

·· '""~.:~i~IIIIIJfllt.IMIIIBting




fgr~~
onlyats ~& 
Sminute ~ 
from CUTPCS'T 
Campus EJ•z.Jif 
Cold Weather Experts 

Cal1259·1ooo for more details 


THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Monday, November 24, 2003 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

.Dow 9 628.53 +9.11 
}ones ' 
,~-Some: Down: Composite Volume: 1,925 222 • 1,249,469,056 
AMEX 1,066.28 -0.83 NASDAQ 1,893.88 +11.96 NYSE 5,942.32 +1.40 S&PSOO 1,035.28 +1.63 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 9,852.83 -12.87 FTSE IOO(London) 4,319.00 +11.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
BROCADE COMMS (BRCD) -17.34 -1.24 5.91 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.04 +0.01 25, II INTEL CORP (INTC) + 1.54 +0.49 32.32 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) + 1.05 +0.23 22.17 SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW) +0.99 +0.04 4.08 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND -0.36 -0.18 32.54 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.17 -0.07 27.71 5-YEARNOTE +0.03 +0.01 19.10 3-MONTH BILL -1.08 -0.1 0 12.44 
Commodities 
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.25 31.61 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.30 396.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.725 86.50 
Excha Rates 
YEN I 08.8 EURO 0.8398 POUND 0.5865 
IN BRIEF 
SEC head says more reforms needed 
WASIIINGTON -The head of the Securities 
and Exchange Commission indicated Thursday 
that further governance changes are needed 
at the New York Stock Exchange beyond the 
proposed overhaul creating a board of inde­
pendent directors. 
But SEC Chairman William Donaldson also 
told a Senate panel that despite lapses and 
potential conflicts of interest, the principle by 
which the nation's biggest stock exchange 
polices itself is sound and should be main­
tained. 

Oflicials of the biggest U.S. pension funds, controlling hundreds of billions of dollars in nine states, insisted that the proposed reforms are insullicicnt to restore investors' trust shat­tered by revelations this summer about the lavish compensation of the NYSE's former chairman. 
Boeing jobs out design to Japanese 

SEA'n'LE -Boeing Co. will base design and dnvelopment work for its proposed new 7E7 jntliner at its massive Everett manufacturing eornplex, but Japanese suppliers will build more than a third of the aircraft, including major wing eomponents, the eompany said Thursday. 
Boeing eonfirmed earlier reports that three Japanese eompanies will play a significantly larger role in manufacturing the fuel-efficient jet than in earlier Boeing models and will han­dle the complicated wing production, previ­ously done almost entirely in-house. The Japanese companies will provide about 35 percent of the 7E7, compared with about 21 percent of the Boeing 777 airframe, and 15 percent of the 767. 
UA reports profit on the month 
CIIICAGO-United Airlines said it generat­ed net int:ome of $25 million last month, whit:h iL<; CEO said showed the world's No. 2 carrier was "back in the game" as it continues its efforts to emerge from bankruptcy. 
The company's net income excluded reor­ganization expenses of $149 million that were mostly attributed to the rejection of costly air­craft leases. United reported a positive cash flow of roughly $206 million. 
Conseco sues former executive 
-

Company seeks damages from ex-CFO Rollin Dick, threatens foreclosre on home 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Conseco Inc. sued its for­
mer chief financial officer 
Friday, trying to recover 
part of the nearly $98 mil­
lion the insurer says Rollin 
Dick owes from loans he 
took out to buy company 
stock before Conseco slid 
into bankruptcy. 
The lawsuit seeks to 
recover $28 million in 
loans covering interest 
payments on the underly­
ing $70 million Dick took 
out in loans in the late 
1990s to buy company 
stock. It comes after talks 
to settle the debt out of 
court collapsed, and a 
month after Conseco filed 
a similar complaint against 
former CEO Stephen 
IIiibert. 
The post-bankruptcy successor to the company Hilbert helped found is try­ing to recover his $218 million balance through litigation and threatened foreclosunl on the $19 mil­lion mortgage the company holds on his mansion. 

Dick was pressured to resign along with Hilbert in April 2000 amid mount­ing debt problems at Conseco, an earnings restatement and allega­tions that they failed to disclose key information about an acquisition that David H. Kleiman, Dick's says it holds on Dick's pri­Five of the 11 are in liti­proved disastrous. attorney, disputed Oslan's vate equity investments. gation with Conseco, the 
Conseco expects to file a claims. Dick pledged the invest­company says. Talks are separate complaint soon "Conseco just refuses to ments as collateral during continuing with others to targeting the $70 million acknowledge the fact that negotiations in 2000 over settle their debts. in underlying debt, said Mr. Dick and others have the unpaid balance, Oslan The former ofl1cers and Reed Oslan, an attorney defenses to the claims they said. directors have been unable with Kirkland & Ellis, are asserting," Kleiman The company says Dick to repay the loans because which is trying to recover said. "They have contrac­has repaid none of his debt of the collapse in Conseco's the loan debt. tual rights which are being -a claim Kleiman disput­share price from a high of 
"Once again, like Mr. ignored." ed. $58 in 1998 to less than a Hilbert, Mr. Dick was Like Hilbert -whom Hilbert is the biggest nickel before Conseco liled unwilling to negotiate with Kleiman also represents -debtor and Dick is No. 3 for bankruptcy in us in good faith toward an Dick will argue that among a group of 11 for­December. appropriate settlement," changes in the company's mer Conseco officers and The company estimates Oslan said. "Mr. Dick has management and owner­directors who began tak­the total collectively owed considerable wealth avail­ship since his resignation ing company-backed bank by 11 at more than $676 able to him, but has denied triggered a "change of loans to buy stock in 1996, million, including $190 any willingness to pay an · control" clause that means when Conseco's fortunes million in interest since appropriate amount that he is not responsible for were soaring. Such compa­1996, Oslan said. During would allow us to settle. repayment, Kleiman said. ny-sponsored programs its bankruptcy, Conseco We will pursue all of his Friday's lawsuit attempts are now barred under last said it had recovered only assets where they're held." to collect on liens Conscco year's Sarbanes-Oxley Act. $64 million or the debts. 


Study shows high technological literacy 
techies in their late teens and 20s techies have done that.

Associated Press 
are more likely to create online con­+ Despite being plugged in to the 

NEW YOHK -Technology geeks, tent, like Web logs, or "blogs." Internet and other sources of data unite: There arc more of you than Generation Xers are more likely to more often, only 13 percent of the you might have realized. pay for content on the Web, while tech-savvy crowd feels overwhelmed 
A study released Sunday found that wired boomers and seniors generally by information. By contrast, a sense 31 percent of Americans are "highly plumb the Internet for news or to do of information overload plagues 25 tech-savvy" people for whom the work-related research. percent of the rest of the population. Internet, cell phones and handheld Among the Pew findings on the So why do the people who immerse organizers are more indispensable "tech elite": themselves in information feel less than TVs and old-fashioned wired + They spend, on average, a total of besieged by it? phones. $169 a month on broadband Internet · It could be that technology helps 
John Horrigan, author of the report service, satellite or cable TV, cell some people-organize or take wntrol by the Pew Internet & American Life phones and Web content. That is 39 of their lives, Horrigan said. Or Project, said the size of this "tech percent higher than the national maybe some are simply better at elite" was somewhat surprising. And average of $122. knowing "what to do and how to while this group is predominantly + Some 29 percent have broadband cope with the information that is young, the Pew researchers found connections, compared with 17 per­flooding at them," he said. plenty of baby boomers and seniors cent of everyone else. Pew produced the report after sur­who are equally ardent about using + About 7 percent have canceled veying 1,677 American adults in technology. their land line telephone and gone October. The survey has a margin of 
The difference, though, is that all-wireless. Only 2 percent of non-error of two percentage points. 
---------------------------------------------------~---­

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT 
Monday, November 24, 2003 
page 8 

THE OBS.ER\IER}.. ;:r; 
~~~~!i~~~~:~:~~#.M :;::==:==·=·=· 

... ·:. ····:::.:··· .:.:.::::::;:::::;:;:-:-:·:···.·.· ..... ··:· 
At~<!f<:w .So\lku£ ':/•••••·•··• (•·•. ::~f: t 1\{AN,\GINC EDITOR . l3liS!NJ!SS~AGER :. ::I ·setittil~Odtue~~:· ·· · ::w~{~$ki\r~:i:n::w~t ~=~= 
·····::··..··· 
As$r, .MANAGING EDITOR Sheila Flynn 
NEWS EDITOR! Megbanne [)pwnes 
· VIEWPOINT EmmR: .Teresa frnHSh Svoit'rS Eol'r()R: JoeH#&t• ScENE EP!'rORi Satah \'abut$ ._: ··:·:.: SAINT MARY's Eorrolt: An1neli,i:si:i 'W.O.:ilford Pl:loro EniTbR• .· --,,..... K~rtii~······· ... 


~lllCS EDm:»~t: . AovE.tillSJNG MANA!~-:··:-·i(;Jffi:~-~~.~~~~r':~.::i:iliililli:!l\!\lilll!\1\1\
· · ·:··:
ADDm<>N~ 
W.EiiADMINIST!V.ToR: lUU,,.........lU·"·········· CoNTROlLER: MU~e·Fian:~gai:i.'. 
DFACE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574). 63lc7471 fAX ' 
(574)63t~6927 
AovERSTISING . 
(574) ()3!-G900 observad{ilirid:edti · 

.{~~4t~;l~~~2 < .•. ) \...·.•. ~;1~)-~z;:~;~~~~~,diAEtN~.E~it~:•••···/ .••• 
·...· . ..·.. \$74}~3V5~l~ .} . . .·.··• ._. t574i~5bs~z3···N~~r~~).@Ja,¢J4 / . .I 
.·•.••. \.••·-····.· •.•.• VIEWPOINT..Dn~ }t:•> } · -(571) 63h$303··· ;n¢'Wp()Hitl~M;~~ii >···· 
. . . SPORTS DESK ... (574) 6~ 1.4545 sj:IOrrs.!@nd.cidii SCENE DESK . (574) 631~4540 s¢~~.l@nd,edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK (574) 631-4324 smd@nd.edu PHOTO DESK 
(574) ()31-8767 llh<Jro@nd,e<iu •·..• • • 
SYSTEMS &WES ADMJNISTaA'fOIIS 
·{574:1631•$83'9· 
www.ndsmcobserver.com····· 
POLICIES ••,,•·•··•········· /, i••

TheObs~r\ler is tbei~dependerir;~f~jl~~ J/.:publiShed in print and oruifleby the 5.iu#rtii pf' t~ .... Un~versity ofNom.Dafuedu LacMd Siiitl.t.Mley's College. Edirorial cQnrent+jndudi!lgad~risdnents, is not governed by policies ()fthe adininisti-ati9n ofeither· institucio.n. The Obs<:rverreservtsthe right.tu refu:it advertisement\; b;!Sed Qn i::Qiltent, 
The news iS reponed l!5 .icc:u.racely and ()bjecrively as possible: Unsisned editorials repr~nt~opii\_i?n ()(.. / • the maJority ofthe Eiiifur in Chit;£ M~g Jidiror, .···· · · As$ismm Managirig &htor ~d de~~~~~~or$, Commenw:ies, letters andcolumns present tile ;news 
ofthe.authQr~andnotn~lyth~OfTh6? Ci ::,::,.... observer·===·===· · · · · ·· · · · =/t~~~~ 

~1~!!~1=-IL~l 
Q!<a#om rrgarding ObsmJ~rpiJlii:if$ iliouid be llirrcttd 10 Edil(}r in ChUfAndrrw St/Wtup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th< ow,,.., (i.JSl>S 5?-J l·4IJOill is p<>bli>hc<) M<W<!oy '""'"ill> h;d,y ""1''<luril>g C.:ll:am ~lld (oacJl!Cfl pe1~ /\.5u~iptioJJ·W Th;::O~vc:~~f~lOOfor:oAe~mK: ,)'tat~ 155 {Qt 9lU: ~~It~ . 


Liberals should ditch Michael Moore 
Michael Moore is a disgrace to the left. What is distressing in the extreme is the fact that few members of the left have come to terms with this. As a lib­eral who refuses to join the chorus of hosannas, I'm a bit of an out­
BJ Strew
sider. That might be because. more or less. the 
Straight,
only people with whom I share No Chaser this less-than­reverential view of Moore are on the right. 

This puts things in perspective, how­ever. It sets up an apt analogy: I think the right views Moore in the same way that the left does Rush Limbaugh. And this is exactly correct; they're perfect counterparts. (Not quite Buckley and Vidal, but hey, that's what we're stuck with, I guess.) What unites Moore and Limbaugh is their trio of pathologies: greed, hypocrisy and the need for attention. 
Moore's greed is intimately related to his hypocrisy. After all, he markets himself as a working-class hero, a man of the people. But his carefully-crafted folk-hero persona is at odds with his immense wealth, his palatial New York apartment and his daughter's atten­dance at one of the nation's most expensive private schools. If the charge of "limousine liberal" is leveled at anyone, it should be at Moore. I wonder just how much cognitive disso­nance Moore experiences on a daily basis. 
Or at the Oscars. The millions who watch the Academy Awards every year were forced to endure Moore's frothing tirade. Don't get me wrong: our poli­tics are similar. But the way Moore goes about voicing his dissent leaves a bad taste in my mouth. Why not criti­cize with class, as Adrien Brody did that night? Moore's Oscar speech felt like another advertisement for himself, much like his letter to Gen. Wesley 
Clark asking him to consider a presi­
dential run. 
Because of my many unsavory expe­
riences with Moore's fakery, I was 
reluctant to see "Bowling for 
Columbine." I skipped the chock-a­. block screenings held on campus last 

spring. Since then, a couple dozen peo­
ple have told me it's right up my alley, 
that I absolutely cannot miss this one, 
that it's hilarious. 
But I have to differ. His "documen­

tary" feels like little· riioi"'e than a vehi-'1. 
cle for self-promotion, a product with · 
gun control as pretense. Gun control is 
secondary, of course, to the chief 
theme in all of Moore's work: Michael 

Moore is a hero. Maybe it's the shots of 
him accepting thanks after the K-mart 
protest. Or maybe it's the shots of him 
hugging victims. 
Because the point Moore wants to 
drive home is that he truly is a hero, 
he ends up congratulating himself on 
screen constantly. What's much worse 
is Moore's playing fast and loose with 

the facts; there isn't room here to cata­
log all the lies and shortcuts and 
staged scenes in the movie. The big 
one: his "Open an account, get a free 

gun" segment was entirely staged. Add 
to Moore's frequent deceptions his 
facile conclusions, not to mention the 

exploitative means by which he arrives 
at them. The film trivializes the 
tragedy of Columbine. It is dishonest 

the whole away around and character­
istically so. 

If "Bowling for Columbine," his book 
covers and movie posters. his letter to 
Clark, his Oscar speech, half the title 
of his documentary "Roger and Me" 
and the whole of his book-tour movie 

''The Big One" don't adequately convey 
Moore's penchant for self-aggrandize­
ment, then I don't know what will. 
Greed, hypocrisy and the need for 
attention? These all square nicely in 

the entertainment industry. The indus­try is, after all, an industry-profit's the goal, greed is OK. Plus, it's about image, not issues-hypocrisy is apparently no big deal when the aim is to entertain, not to inform. And need­less to say, the need for attention goes hand in hand with entertainment. To sum up, Moore and Limbaugh are entertainers, nothing more, whether they and their fans realize it or not. 
What is frustrating though is that the vast majority of their fans do not real­ize they are merely entertainers. Jhey,, treat them instead like bona fide politi­cal pundits, if not heroes of the right or left-wing. 
The only reason I can almost tolerate Moore is because he isn't Limbaugh ­he's his counterpart. That is to say, he's a liberal, he brings attention to the liberal cause. But it's the wrong kind of attention; the left doesn't need its own Limbaugh, it needs authentic, credible voices. We shouldn't praise hirri for his "courage" if it's all in the service of self-aggrandizement and profit. 
If you were wondering at first if"dis­grace" was too strong a word, I hope that I have shown why it is perhaps too weak a word. Michael Moore is, to be blunt, a cause of shame -the Oxford English Dictionary's definition. 
He i~ a pandering. narcissistic blowhard and not worth defending. The left needs to distance itself from Moore if it wants to salvage the credi­bility he seems so keen on eroding. I'm tired of his sensationalism and his sophistry. The liberal association with Moore is unfortunate and we deserve better. 
BJ Strew is a junior English major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be contacted at wstrew@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
News Graphics 
OBSERVER POLL

Teresa Fralish Mike Harkins Amanda Sports Michaels PatLeonard· Matthew Meganaawle:Y•·····
Smedberg Matt M99ney 

Vit)WJ)oint . scene··· What are you doing for Thanksgiving? DoloresDiaz···. · EiffilyH(hvaid Illustrator Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at PafQuill 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Hero-worship is strongest '1ere there is least regard for human J eedom. " 
Herbert Spencer British philosopher 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Monday, November 24, 2003 
page 9 
GUEST COLUMN 
Diversity, inclusion are tnerely 'buzzwords' for conservatives 
Compassionate conservatism is the new buzzword surrounding the Hepublican Party. It has been designed to help those who have felt "left out" by the Hepublicans feel warm and fuzzy. 
Julia McCleary

According to George Bush's official 
Iowa State

re-election Web site, "tn Daily a compas­sionate socie­ty, peoplP respect one another and take responsibility for the decisions they make in life." However, in this pn~sidnncy. actions speak louder than words. President George W. Bush and the Hepublican Party have made exclusion a social priority. 
The Iowa Democratic Party Platform supports legislation that prohibits discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender iden­tification and supports domestic partnership legislation. 
On the Hepublican side, Bush has repeatedly made statements con­demning lesbian. gay. bisexual and transgendered lifestyles. lie has abolished the White !louse liaison to the gay and lesbian community established by President Clinton. He has publicly stated he would veto any law that abolished criminaliza­tion of private homosexual sex. If that is not enough, he opposes any legislation that would extend hate­crime legislation and employment discrimination to gays. 
The Ilcpublican Party has come to be known as the "White Boys' Club." This nickname has been backed up by incident after incident. At the Ni\i\CP Conference in 2000, soon-to­be President Bush admitted. "The party of Lincoln has not always car­ried the mantle of Lincoln." Bush was preaching he was a "different 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
kind of Republican," while just a few months earlier giving a speech at controversial Bob Jones University, following in the footsteps .of Pat Buchanan and John Ashcroft (who received an honorary degree there). For more than 70 years, the univer­sity has promoted its values of "sep­arate but equal" racism. 
It has been said that women's rights arc human rights. This administration does not seem to know this. In 2002, women's rights were on the line. The Bush adminis­tration proposed eliminating birth control coverage for federal employ­ees and their dependents, while also trying to cut funding for the Maternal and Child Health pro­grams. 
In addition, a commission to study Title IX (funding for women's athlet­ics) was created to analyze the pro­gram. The commission proposed several new changes that would drastically lower the chances of girls competing in college-level sports. After overwhelming support for Title IX, the Bush administration backed down from changes to the law. 
The Bush administration has made no secret of its exclusionary politics. Americans have suffered from his "abstinence only" view of sex educa­tion, cutting funding to HIVIAIDS programs and discouraging the use of condoms and birth control. The right-wing views of this administra­tion are hurting everyone in the country who is not a white, hetero­sexual man, while the Democratic Party has fought to keep rights equal for all. 
This column originally appeared in the Iowa State Daily on Nov. 21. It appears here courtesy of U-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Bishop flouts church doctrine 
In some respects. I agree with N. Eugene Walls' Nov. 20 criticism of Joe Licandro's argument, in which Licandro stated his reasons for disagreeing with the consecration of Gene Robinson. 
Ucandro's argument was indee.d dam­aged by his subtle prejudice. However, there is another argument against Robinson's consecration that has been very much ignored not only by the media, but also by conservative groups such as the American Anglican Council that fre­quently issue arguments against his con­secration. 
In the consecration ceremony, The Book of Common Prayer requires the following pledge, spoken and written, from the indi­vidual being consecrated bishop: "I do solemnly engage to conform to the doc­trine, discipline, and worship of The Episcopal Church." Since Robinson was consecrated, he must have made this statement. 
Robinson is a man who has admitted publicly that he is having a sexual rela­tionship outside of marriage. He does not see this as sin, but such a relationship is unquestionably contrary to Episcopal doc­trine. What are unwed people supposed to conclude from this? The church has decid­ed to elect an individual a..<; bishop who has sex outside of marriage, and bishops promise to uphold the teachings of the church. Thus, by plain reasoning, one may conclude that sex outside of marriage is accepted by the Episcopal Church. 
It is true that Hobinson has not had the opportunity to marry his partner, as they are homosexual. Should homosexuals bP allowed to marry? That is quite another issue and is not the point here. 
Bishops agree to conform to the doctrine of the church, and Gene Hobinson did not when he was consecrated and does not now. He knowingly made a promise that he knew he could never keep. 
Therefore, he should not have been con­secrated, and he should not presently be recognized as a bishop. Should sex outside of marriage one day be accepted by the Episcopal church as moral or should gay marriages one day be blessed by the Episcopal church, then having a homosex­ual bishop would be perfectly reasonable. But not now. 
Dan Bates graduate srudcnr off-e1mpus Nov. 20 


Show-true African solidarity 

I would like to commend the Notre Dame Interfaith student group for their inspiring prayer meeting "Pray with Africa," held on Nov. 19. 
Students responding to Pope John Paul Il's call for solidarity with Africa gathered to honor and pray for their brothers and sisters in Africa, not in charity but in soli­darity. Song, prayer and a small collection to alleviate the overwhelming foreign debt that ties the hands of African countries were followed by a scripture reading and reflection by Camlus Omogo, a graduate student from Kenya. 
Omogo's well-crafted sermon illustrated how the Bible's story of Sam, whose hospi­tality and generosity toward his guests was returned with cruelty and back stab­bing, gives us insight into Africa's relation with the West. After being plundered by conquest and colonialism, Omogo related Africa is like a late-comer to a game of monopoly where, though the other players have a head start and have bought most the property on the board, Africa is expected to play by the same rules. 
What Africa needs, Omogo sunnised, is not a helping hand, but simply a chance to flourish. free of the restrictions and inter­ventions that have stymied development. Small arms flowing into Africa from the West are fueling violence and killing. 
Strategies to relieve the suffering of the 70 percent of the world's HIV positive people living in Africa are hamstrung by patent laws. Working in partnership with Africa means recognizing its vulnerable position in the global market place, according to Omogo. 
Africa's future depends on a self-reliant civil society of non-governmental organi­zation and religious and community-based organizations that can build consensus and harmony between disparate groups. One of the most useful ways the West can work in solidarity with Africa is to help provide a stable forum for that debate to occur. This means listening to Africa ­respecting African values, perspectives, hopes and grievances. 
Let us continue to pray with Africa, but let us not neglect our history of meeting African hospitality with cruelty and profi­teering. Let us listen to Africa and be a force for unity, not division, a force for peace rather than violence, a force for development rather than increased pover­ty. This would be a more true expression of solidarity. 
Josh Moore graduate srudenr off-campus Nov. 23 


Don'tpanicND 
This is to our administration in response to the reports in the USA Today that Notre Dame is making advances towards joining the Big Ten conference in all sports, including football. 
This is a terrible idea. For starters, it would totally destroy the idea that we play a national schedule. Our few non-confer­ence games would be taken up by tradi­tional rivalries-USC, Navy -leaving no room for variety. 
The best part about our independence is the fact that we can schedule who we want. when we want. We don't have to play Northwestern, Iowa, Indiana or Wisconsin every year. 
I know that the BCS contract expires soon, and the fear is that we'll be cut out of the money, or at least have our share diminished. So what. The $13 million we earned from our Fiesta Bowl trip would be the equivalent of not making a game and splitting that money 12 ways for 13 years. I think we can do better than 1 in 13. 
Finally, the last time I checked, the Stadium sold out every game, and we were ranked the No. 1 most popular col­lege football program in America. Notrn Dame foothall is special. Don't rush into a decision to join a conference just because times are tough now. 
Andrew Warner semor off-campus Nov. 21 

..---------­
THE OBSER\'ER 



CENE

page 10 
Monday, November 24, 2003 
Our second city 
Chicago serves as an 
exciting escape to many 
Notre Dame students 
Four girls wander the streets of the city with only two things on their mind: shopping and nightlife. 
No, this isn't Sex in the City. It is four Notre Dame girls who decid­ed to take a little break from the oh-so-excit­ing South Bend atmos­phere, went on a mini­road trip and ended up on Michigan Avenue in Chicago. 
OK, so it may not exactly be comparable to wandering Fifth Avenue like Carrie Bradshaw, but going to Chicago for a 

Emily Howald 
Assistant Scene Editor 

gifts. Additionally, the entire downtown is lit up with Christmas lights. which gives the city more of a holiday feel than good 'ole South Bend radiates. 
If you can make a post· finals trip, I would recom­mend the new H & M , which sadly replaced the infamous FAO Schwartz, Saks and the little popcorn store that always has a line. Although there is grea1 shopping for everyone, fun in Chicago is not limited to Michigan Avenue. You can walk around at Navy Pier, visit the Shedd Aquarium, the Art Museum or any of the other little treas­ures that the city boasts. There is theatre, culture and even really good food outside of the typical chain restau­rants that line Grape Road. 
Chicago is 
an excellent 
weekend 

quick little escape for
Our second city is 
weekend get­many Notre 
away is about really second to none. Dame stu­as close to life As a Notre Dame dents who in the big city are looking
student, living in th 
that Notre to either get
cultural enclave that 
Dame stu­away from dents can get we call South Bend, try South Bend, during their because we
to make Chicago your 
tenure here. all know 
second city. 
South Bend how exciting 
is not a metropolis. Actually, I would hesitate to call it a city. Although we have some rea­son to make fun of our little city -like when the most fre­quented bar in town is suing the students-we must remember that it isn't all that bad. We are really quite lucky to have such an amazing city only a mere hour away. 
Chicago has a great nightlife. Even though you may be away from Notre Dame, you are still surround­ed by Notre Dame graduates who have relocated and called the Windy City their home. Many bars are heavily popu­lated with Notre Dame alumni who still have fun like they did in South Bend. If you are ever in the city and are in search of friendly faces, I would suggest heading to Johnny O'Hagan's, as you would be sure to run into a pro-Notre Dame crowd. 
And as for the shopping ­Michigan Avenue is the pri­mary place for upcoming Christmas presents. No offense to the Hammes Bookstore, but I know my family is getting tired of the usual Notre Dame bookstore the city can 
be on non­

football weekends, or possibly want to experience a little more cul­ture. And if you really want to step outside the Notre Dame stereotype and are actually "dating" someone, drive to Chicago for a great day or weekend trip, and escape the redundancy of dining hall din­ners and local movie theatres. 
So the next time you are feeling bored or overwhelmed by school work, or just want to have ridiculous big city fun, hop on the South Shore Line or jump in your car and take advantage of this wonderful resource. 
Our second city is really sec­ond to none. As a Notre Dame student, living in the cultural enclave that we call South Bend, try to make Chicago your second city. The tolls are definitely worth it. 
Emily Howald recently went to Chicago and hadfar too much fun at Johnny O'Hagan's and on Michigan Avenue If anyone is planning to take a trip, or has anything to say to her, contact her at ehowald@nd. edu. 


Trying to crack The Da Vinci Code 
ByKCKENNEY Assistant Scene Editor 
Prior to Vatican II, the Church published a lisi of books that were, for all intense and purposes, forbidden to be read by members of the Catholic Church. It began when the Church decided which books were to be placed in the Bible and which were consid­ered heretical. Pope Innocent I published the first listing of the Index of Forbidden Books. The last edition of the Index was that of 1948; it was abolished in 1966. The Catholic Church has, however, not relinquished authority to forbid the reading of books that in its judgment are a danger to the faith and morals of Catholics. Books written by such great minds as Nikolaus Copernicus, Johannes Kepler and Galileo Galilei were placed on this list. It strikes this reader that had The Da Vinci Code been written in that time, it would have joined those books as part of the index. 
This is not to say that The Da Vinci Code is a poorly written or developed story. Quite the contrary, it is spell-binding and enthralling. At the risk of sounding cliche, I never under­stood the phrase "a real page­turner" until reading this book. It draws you in slowly, but picks up speed and intensity, whisking the reader along for a very intriguing ride. It is, at its heart, a thriller and a mystery, but it combines the typical aspects of these genres with an intelligent and compelling look at the history of Western civi­lization for over 2,000 years. 
The prologue opens with the murder of a well-known muse­um curator at the Louvre in Paris. Before he dies, he leaves a trail of gruesome and cryptic clues to help unveil the details of his life. These clues are left for his granddaughter Sophie Neveu, a French cryptologist, and Robert Langdon, a famous symbologist. As they piece together his story, they realize that he was a high-ranking member of a mysterious socie­ty known as the Priory of Scion that has been dedicated to passing on a secret since the days of Christ. The Priory has entertained such famous names as Isaac Newton, Leonardo da Vinci and now this ill-fated curator. Neveu and Langdon are considered suspects by the French police for the curator's death and must run from the law in order to discover the nature of the curator's dying wish. In addi­tion to Interpol, they are threatened by a mysterious albino, responsible for the death of the curator and seek­ing to obtain the secret for his superiors, and The Teacher, a man who has dedicated his life to discovering the secrets of the Priory and who has posi­tioned himself to manipulate very high powers to reach that end. 

Without revealing the nature of this secret, the nature of this book is fairly heretical. It is fic­tion, but one of the most capti­vating aspects of the book is the way that it is able to weave fact and fiction in and out of each chapter until it has entan­gled the reader in a world that is fundamentally different from our own in its truths, and yet at the same time frighteningly familiar. The book itself opens with a "fact page" in which the author, Dan Brown, lists cer­t a i n details of adept at analyzing the paint­ings and putting these familiar scenes into this more revealing light, which helps develop an appreciation for the many lev­els of art that can be obtained by true masters. Whether· you are interested in accepting what he says is one thing. What was most effective for me was the development of differ­ent views on the same subject and providing an explanation for how these views came about. 

A running theme throughout t~e book is how history can be interpreted or told in different ways. This story presents an almost "what if" scenario, playing with questions and doubts about historical 
the book fact to that he recount a feels are different important story of his­to know tory than as facts. It what is com­seems monly told. like a This is not to congenial say . that act, but it there is not r e ally a great deal serves his of fact in end more TheDa Vinci than any­Code. It sim­thing else ply means because it that inter­helps to preting his­perpetu­tory as a ate the subject and idea that expounding there is upon the more fact idea of how than fic­h u m a n 
tion in the book. In addition, it is sure to mention that "all descriptions of artwork, architecture, docu­ments and secret rituals in this novel are accurate." This too can be misleading, especially because of how often the medi­ums of art, architecture and documents are used to support points. 
For anyone interested in deeper meaning in artwork or writing, this is a fantastic read because it allows you to see things at multiple levels with­out stretching your imagination too much. In fact, one of the more important subjects of this book, The Last Supper by da Vinci, is hanging on the wall of South Dining Hall. The imagery and proposals in this book were so fascinating that I had to see it for myself. I imagine it was a somewhat unusual site for me to be standing with my book below the painting amongst people having a meal, but it was interesting to see for myself how the characters were making the conclusions that they did as they looked at the different clues about the secrets that Brown proposes are hidden within the painting. Brown also uses the well­known portrait of the Mona Lisa in his discussions between the characters. He is very 
thought has effected the communication of that history to future genera­tions is an absorbing subject and works well with this man­ner of fiction. 
The book travels all over Europe and its subject matter is taken from throughout histo­ry. The fiction weaves in and out of fact and creates an entrancing mystery novel. I thoroughly enjoyed the book because it was able to play with and expand my mind as a mystery novel and as a thriller. It was difficult to guess what was coming next, but the story itself is very well written and compels you to find out what happens next. I think it is a worthwhile read and deserving of its spot on The New York Times Bestseller List. I would not, however, necessarily rec­ommend it to everyone. Some of the theological issues that it dances with can be sensitive in nature and it does often go so far as to be pseudo-heretical. As a work of historical fiction, or perhaps as a commentary on the nature of history, it is certainly a great story to delve into. 
Contact KC Kenney at kkenney@nd.edu 


flying through their first song, they played "Big Eyes," then before the next ·song Nielsen stated that that the next song was from "one of the finest movies produced in 25 years, Joe Dirt," as they played "If You Want My Love." 
Between the next few songs a few of the ladies in the front decided to relive their youth by flashing the band as the comment "very nice instru­ments," was made. They also mentioned that opening band MC5 had two of their albums listed in Rolling Stone Magazine's Top 500 Albums and that Cheap Trick had two albums on the list as well. They then played "Pop Drone" and the first single off of their newest release. "Special one" called "My Obsession." 
The intro to "I Want You To Want Me," caused fans to shriek with delight and dance as Cheap Trick played the song that almost every band under the sun has remade since it was first released in 1977. The high energy contin­ued during the next few songs as they ripped through "Best Friend," "I Know What I Want," "Words," and "Never Had A Lot To Lose," all of which had a very strong sound to them. That led them to a song many grew up with: "Flame." This was a highlight for many because many enjoyed reliving their youths openly and through the sounds of the music. 
They finished up with the theme song to "That '70s Show" and fan favorite "Surrender" before exiting the stage as a man tried to get on 
-
stage to go back. He was quickly apprehended by the Elkhart police and after he was taken off the stage the band returned to play their last three songs of the evening. There was a huge reaction to the first track off Special One called "Scent of A Woman" as Nielsen climbed up on the monitors and jumped around as the crowd excitedly cheered him on. Following that they played "Dream Police," and finished up the night for good with "Goodnight." As the show ended they all stood there for a while taking in the crowd before saying, "Thank you, thank you, thank you! Hope to see you next year!" 
This was an excellent show and an excellent tour for a band that never seems to take a break. It is obvious that they love what they are doing and that their music transcends time as their loyal fans were there backing them through the whole show. It was refreshing to see a show where there were not huge 
-
amounts of fancy lights or props up on stage, just good old fashioned rock music that sounded good enough to make any critic smile. This was just a band and their fans having an unforgettable night togeth­er in the most unlikely of towns. Many hope rock and roll remembers Indiana again soon. 
Contact Maureen Bush at bush3328@saintmacys.edu 
By MAUREEN BUSH 
Scene Writer 
Hock and roll remembered Indiana Nov. 20 as rock leg­ends Cheap Trick played the Iilco Theatre in Elkhart last Thursday evening to an exu­berant crowd of 40some­things. All of the '70s rockers in the area emerged and gath­ered together for a night rem­iniscing times of old. and they didn't forget their black leather. The show opened with a young New York band named the Damnwells, artist Wayne Kramer and his band, and MC5, and band out of Dotroit that was popular in the '60s and '70s who sang mostly war protest songs. 
Following the three excel­lent opening acts came the main attraction, Hockford, Illinois natives. Cheap Trick. They came out and sat to play an acoustic !ltyle set of four songs opening with "Fan Club." It was a real\.x_ intiip.atp feeling to have ro2k 'stars of this caliber playing so up close and personal in a mid­sized venue where there were no such thing as "bad seats." The acoustic set also com­posed of "Don't Love Here Anymore," "If I Could" and "Lookout," was incredible. It was a great and different way to start out the show, as most bands will slow it down towards the middle of the show, which can sometimes cause the con­cert to drag. This four-song sampling helped to build the excitement for the harder rock to start. 
After the acoustic set the band took away the chairs as a light smoke started on the stage and an organ was playing until the gentlemen dressed t'o the nines in suits took the stage in a furry, rock­ing to a heavy intro into "Just Got Back." Though guitarist and singer Rick Nielsen's amplifier wasn't on through half of the intro, eventually it came back on and sounded 
great. Nielsen, the character of the band, proved he has still got it as he worked the crowd swaggering back and forth to either side of the stage, jumping, climbing atop the monitors. and throwing about seven guitar picks per song to the crowd. Another interesting thing to note was that Nielsen switched guitars between every single song that the band played, pulling out a striking selection of fine guitars for the crowd to marvel at. 
The rest of Cheap Trick is -rounded out by bassist and vocal­ist Tom Petersson, guitarist and vocalist Hobin Zander and drum­mer Bun E. Carlos, w h.o all have the excellent stage presence of a band that is confident in what they are doing and how to please the crowd. After 

THE 0BSER\!£R 



CENE

Monday, November 24, 2003 Page 11 
Rock 1 n roll returns to the Bend 
Cheap Trick visited Elkhart last weekend and awed fans with both their acoustic songs and harder rock from their old days 
Cheap Trick visited Elkhart last weekend at Elco Theatre and played all, they have been on tour
acoustic sets for the excited crowd. 
since 1974. After 
Monday, November 24, 2003 

page 12 The Observer+ CLASSIFIEDS 
NFL 
Vinatieri gets the second chance he wanted in victory
' 
ing so bad.
Associated Press 
Pittsburgh capitalized on 
HOUSTON -For all his mis­five Cleveland turnovers for fortune Sunday, Adam an ugly victory over the bum­Vinatieri wasn't going to let bling Browns on Sunday, New England's winning streak keeping the Steelers' slim end with a tie. playoff hopes alive for another 
He rebounded from a miss week. off the right upright in regula­Jerome Bettis ran for a sea­tion and a block early in over­son-high 93 yards on 24 car­time to hit a 28-yarder with ries for Pittsburgh, which won 41 seconds left. The Patriots despite being outgained 303­escaped Houston with a 23-20 168 in total yards, getting just victory, extending their win­11 first downs, committing 10 ning streak to seven and penalties and running only six establishing their best 11-offensive plays in the third game start at 9-2. quarter. 
Vinatieri appeared poised to The Steelers had only 7 3 win it for the Patriots in the passing yards with fullback opening moments of overtime. Dan Kreider getting two The Texans' Tony Banks, catches for a team-high 21 starting as David Carr sat yards. with a sprained right shoul­"It did not matter if it was der, threw an interception pretty, ugly or 3-0," Steelers right to Mike Vrabel on the quarterback Tommy Maddox first play. said. "You want to be good 
But Ramon Walker gave the statistically, but you want to Texans a stay with the first win games. That's the most. field goal block in franchise important thing." history, coming free from the Chad Scott intercepted Kelly left side to deflect Vinatieri's Holcomb's pass with 1:41 37-yard try. remaining at the Pittsburgh 
"At that point I was a little 39 to seal it for the Steelers down, but I had faith in our (4-7), who had dropped six of defense," Vinatieri said. "I seven and were coming off a just wanted another opportu­short work week after playing nity and I thought the defense at San Francisco on Monday would give it to me." night. 
It did, although it took "Nobody believed in us, but awhile. us," said Steelers linebacker The Patriots and Texans (4-Joey Porter, who is holding 
7) bogged down in a defensive out hope the club can make war that Houston appeared to the playoffs. "We're still in win when Jamie Sharper's this. We run the table, we'll ing, sparking Indianapolis to a together and makes it happen. give Kansas City a victory over sack forced a punt from the 4-be there." victory over the Buffalo Bills .. . That means we can only get Oakland . yard line. The Texans set up The Browns were the ones on Sunday. better." "It is truly an adrenaline on the outer edge of Kris who played like a tired team. The Colts (9-2) overcame a The Colts were good rush," said Andersen, at 43
-
Brown's field goal range at Cleveland didn't score a TD 14-3 fourth-quarter deficit enough to beat the reeling the second-oldest player in the New England 35. despite having the ball inside with leading receiver Marvin Bil1s (4-7), who lost their the NFL. "I think it's 31 now 
Willie McGinest proceeded Pittsburgh's 20 four times -Harrison -back in the lineup fourth straight and for the for· me in 22 years. When you to take over, stopping Texans and came away with only one after missing one game-lim­fifth time in seven games. get them, it's special and it's a rookie Domanick Davis for no field goal on three visits with­ited because a hamstring Buffalo, limited to a com­rush. It's like no other rush of gain, then tackling him for a in the 10. injury. bined 21 points in its last adrenaline you can have." 5-yard loss. Banks fired They were missing two three games, squandered its A boneheaded blunder by incomplete on third down and Indianapolis 17, Buffalo 14 offensive s'tarters, left tackle best offensive performance in Oakland's Phillip Buchanon Houston had to punt back to Edgerrin James had a scary Tarik Glenn and tight end more than a month. and a great play by Chiefs the Patriots, who didn't give thought after carrying the Marcus Pollard, both out with quarterback Trent Green set up the ball again. banged-up Colts to a come­knee injuries. And they also Kansas City 27, Oakland 24 the stage for Andersen's 
"We talk a lot on our team back victory. were missing backup It's a special thrill that SOOth regular-season field about hanging in there and "What if we did have all our receivers Troy Walters (ham­never gets old no matter how goal, which kept the Chiefs playing 60 minutes of football. players?" James asked. string) and Brandon Stokley many times Morten Andersen (1 0-1) one game ahead in the Today was what, 7 4 ?" Patriots Indianapolis didn't need (concussion). does it. race for home-field advantage coach Bill Belichick said. them because James was the "That's what makes this Andersen kicked the 31st in the AFC playoffs. The difference. He scored twice, team special," James said. game-winning field goal of his Chiefs also can clinch the AFC Pittsburgh 13, Cleveland 6 including the winner on a "We don't have all of our play­career Sunday, a 35-yarder West title next week if they The Pittsburgh Steelers have fourth-down plunge from ers, but the players we do that barely cleared the cross­beat San Diego, and Denver 
rarely felt so good about look-inside the 1 with 1:38 remain-have, everybody comes bar with four seconds left to loses to Oakland. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES  Part time/Full time opportunity for honest, motivated, success minded individual. Exciting !-Commerce internet based business.  LARGE, ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED.FULL Y EQUIPPED. $84,900.  Two story house completely remod­eled 2003. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security.  JAMISON (NEAR SOCCER FIELD) 1 BR, 1ST FLOOR, BASEMENT, AVAIL. DEC 1,$695 (INCLUDES UTJL.), CONTACT BOB 607-723­ Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or  
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski  Contact: waynew54@pronetglob­ email:  Four individually locked bedrooms,  7373, EMAIL: rjhdds@pronetisp.net  www.ststravel.com  
&Beach Trips on sale nowl  aI.com  Williamson.1 @ nd.edu  six blocks from  
www.sunchase.com or call  Notre Dame, bus stop in front of  A "Reality" Spring Break 2004s  
- 1-800-SUNCHASE today! '''ACT NOW! Book 11 people, get 12th trip free. Group discounts for  Granger household looking for part-time babysitter. Must be willing to help with toddler s laundry. Experience & references required.  FoR RENT  house, surrounded by other student housing, laundromat next door (drycleaning also), basement avail­able for storage of bicycles, lug- TICKETS Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$  Hottest prices Book now.. Free Trips, Meals & Parties sunsplashtours.com or 1800-426-771 0  
6+www.springbreakdiscounts.com  Fax Jetter or resume to:  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  gage, trunks, etc., new furnace and  Pay Top Dollar$$ 1-866-808-0990  
or 800-838-8202.  (574)247-9253.  CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM  central air, new kitchen including  #1 Spring Break Vacations! 110%  
MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272­ new stove and refrigerator, large liv­ "LOOKING FOR FOOTBALL TIX"  Best Prices! Cancun, Jamaica,  
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in  SMC alumna needs a babysitter for  1525  ing room for TV or entertaining,  ND@Cuse Need at least 2. Will pay  Acapulco, Bahamas,  
Acapulco now offers 3 destinations!  3 children in my home in Granger  free trash removal. Call 289-4072.  BIG $$$$ to get  Florida. Book Now & Receive Free  
Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in  (near UP Mall), Thursdays and/or  HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS  these. Call212.723.6585 or  Meals & Parties Campus Reps  
Vallarta, or get crazy in Cabo--with  Fridays 10am-1pm. Must have own  PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS­ BEAUTIFUL HOUSE FOR RENT:  917.846.8865 if U have tix to sell.  Wanted I  
BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. Organize a group and travel for FREE. Book now before its too latel Call 800-875-4525 or www.bianci­rossi.com.  transp. 247-0690. Go Team Irish Communications has many positions available. Flexible hours, Great Pay! Owned & opera!­ ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004­2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 614 S. ST.JOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS-214 S. STPETER 4 BEDRROMS-718 E. WASHINGTON ST. 2 BED­ 1803 Corby, Wooded Estates, 5 blocks from campus, 3 large bedrooms, 2 full bath, washer and dryer, home totally remodeled, new appliances, two car garage,  PERSONALS  1-800-234-7007 endlesssummer­tours. com .... IRISH CROSSINGS-A NEW LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY ....  
ed by NO alumni. Call 802-893­ ROOMS. CALL KRAMER AT 234­ furnished.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  Build your dream home  
...  WANTED Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO exper. required. All looks and ages. Earn $100-$500 a day. 1-888-820­0167, ext. U187  0558 or send your request for information to Go Teamlrish@myexcel.com FoR SALE  2436 OR 315-5032 4 bedroom house. 1136 E Madison. Close to campus, ample parking, AC, huge yard. Contact Mike (216) 408-0780 or Matt (216) 408-0744 if interested  Need 3-5 students ($400 ea.) for January. Need 5 students ($400 ea.) for fall . 231-8823 evenings. 3 BEDROOM, 2 BATH HOME, MANY XTRAS. CLOSE TO ND AND MALL. $1000/MO. 277-2176.  not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer.  next to Notre Dame. A limited num­ber of home sites are available. For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com Congrats on the job offer Scott, the cardboard box will miss you  

Monday, November 24, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 13 
MLS

NFL 
Johnson willing to 
Earthquakes capture title 
Associated Press 

reconcile with Bucs 
A•sociated Press 
Keyshawn Johnson is still willing to play for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers -despite differences with coach Jon Gruden. 
The star wide receiver spent his first Sunday since being deactivated in a televi­sion studio instead of on the practice field, where the Bucs prepared for Monday night's g a m e against 
CAHSON, Calif. -The many 
fans who sported blue No. 10

tention, Tampa Bay proba­
jerseys at the MLS Cup didn't

bly will have to win at least 
go away disappointed.

five of its remaining six 
Landon Donovan, who at 21

games. 
has become America's pre­

"It's not all Keyshawn 
mier player, scored twice

Johnson's fault and believe 
Sunday to lead the San Jose

me, it's not all Jon Gruden's 
Earthquakes to a 4-2 victory

fault either," Johnson said. 
over the Chicago Fire in Major

The receiver approached 
League Soccer's championship

Gruden and general manag­
match.

er Rich McKay last month 
On a warm, sunny afternoon

after he had one reception in 
before a lively, capacity crowd

a 24-7 loss at San Francisco 
of 27,000, Donovan became
to tell them 
the first player in the MLS
he did not 
Cup's eight-year history to
wish to 

score more than one goal int h e remain in
"It wasn't a matter of 
the championship game.Giants. T a m p a
'1/ey, you're not throwing 
"After the last two weeks, I ask to be me the football.' It was a 2003. 
"I didn't beyond have no emotion left. I'm so 
emotionally drained, it's hard

sitting matter ofdealing with me He doesn't 
to even celebrate right now,"here with regret
as a human being and as 
Donovan said, referring to San .Johnson a man . his feelings, 
you guys," expressing 
Jose's dramatic comebacks in said dur-but said he 
the earlier two playoff rounds. ing Fox's should have 
Even the fans who weren't

Keyshawn Johnson 
wearing San Jose jerseys withweek I y let Gruden
unemployed wide receiver 
Donovan's number on them

N F I. know he 
pregame show. 
The Bucs deactivated .Johnson for the remainder of the year last week, saying his desire to leave Tampa was a distraction the team could no longer ignore. 
Tampa Bay (4-6) has lost three straight games, and .Johnson was frustrated with his role in Gruden 's offense. 
The two-time Pro Bowl selection said it was Gruden's decision to deacti­vate him, but that he shared responsibility for being shut down at a time when the flues soemingly need him most. 
To remain in playoff con-
almost certainly were enter­
planned to 
tained by the action-filled
spend time 
match, which featured the

with his family in California 
most goals ever in the title

rather than fly back to 
game.

Florida with the team. 
"That's what you want out of

"I could have made a lot of 
a final. I'd have rather it

things easier," Johnson said. 
"I should have went to Jon. I stayed 2-0, but whatever, we'll take it. What a good game," Donovan said. 
Even the losing coach acknowledged that. 
''I'm sure people sitting in the stands got their money's worth," Chicago's Dave Sarachan said. "There were two good teams on the field, a lot of attacking soccer, maybe not your normal final. 
"I think it was uncharacter­istic of us on the defending end on a few plays. But then you have a special guy like Landon who can make plays." 
The Fire's Chris Armas has seen Donovan, the U.S. nation­al team's two-time player of the year, score a lot of goals. 
"The thing that makes him so good and why he does so well at both levels, club and country. is the fact that he does very well with his oppor­tunities," said Arnias, a team­mate of Donovan's on the U.S. team. "He doesn't need so many chances to put it into the net. You won't find anyone more composed close to the goal." 
Donovan scored on the only two shots he took. Chicago outshot the Earthquakes 22­11, including a 10-8 edge in shots on goal 

The two goals give Donovan 10 goals in only 12 MLS play­off games. He led San Jose during the regular season with 12 goals. 
His jersey was by far the most popular among the fans at the game, spanning genera­tiQJis as older men and women and young boys and girls wore No. 10 shirts. 
He scored in the 38th and 71st minutes. Honnie Ekelund's goal on a 22-yard free kick at the five-minute mark, and Hichard Mulrooney's goal in the 50th minute accounted for the other San Jose scoring. 
DaMarcus Beasley scored for Chicago in the 49th minute. The Fire's other score was an own-goal when Evan Whitfield's cross went off the head of San Jose defender Chris Honer and into the net in the 54th minute. 
When the game ended and confetti wafted down onto the field, the San Jose players rushed together, hugging each other and jumping to cele­brate their second MLS Cup championship in three years. The Earthquakes beat the Los Angeles Galaxy 2-1 on Dwayne De Hesario's overtime goal in 2001. 
should have said, 'You know what coach, I'm going to stay with my family."' 
MLB 

The receiver said his dif­ferences with the coach did not center on his desire to catch more passes. 
Rodriguez would accept trade 
..
"It wasn't a matter of, 'Hey 
·you're not throwing me the football.' It was' a matter of 
Associated Press

dealing with me as a human 
being and as a man," 
DALLAS -American League Johnson said. 
MVP Alex Hodriguez would 


Second Round-Wed, Nov. 26th 
#5 Notre Dame vs. "Infamous Round 1 Winner" 

7:00 PM @ Alumni Field 
2003 NCAA Men's .· College c._.p Soccer Championship 

Ticket Prices Adult ~7.00 Youth: ~3.00 2 & Under: FREE 





•FREE 
admission to first 100 Students (NO, SMC, HCC), All additional students must buy tickets 

•Faculty/Staff
I D's and Soccer Season Passes are NOT valid for post-seasonplay 


accept a trade to either the Boston Hed Sox or the New York Yankees, The Dallas Morning News reported Sunday. 
Hodrigucz informed the Hangers of his choices. and the newspaper, citing an unidenti­fied major league source, reported the shortstop chose Boston and New York. 
Rodriguez has seven years left on a 10-year, $250 million contract. A clause in his con­tract prohibits the Hangers from trading him unless he agrees. 
Hodriguez said at a news conference Friday in the 

Dominican Hepublic that Hangers owner Tom Ilicks told him there were three possible scenarios: sticking with his con­tract, restructuring it or shop­ping him around. 
The newspaper said that numerous baseball officials have confirmed the Hangers' claims that there arc no serious talks for Hodriguez because of his contract. 
Hangers general manager John Hart has said a few inquiries about Hodriguez .got no further that "kicking the tires," the newspaper reported. 
Hart did not immediately return a telephone call to The Associated Press Sunday night. 
This season Hodriguez hit .298, tied for the major league lead with 47 homers, and led the AL in runs (124) and slug­ging percentage (.600). I lc had 118 HBis. 
Regarded by many as the league's best all-around player, Hodriguez became the first American League player to win the MVP while playing for a 
lr!,_,lllll!··~~~jj~"'"l!ll last-place team. 
-

AA .. 
'R! 

NFL 

McNabb leads Eagles past turnover-prone Saints 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA -Donovan McNabb's passing is just fine. His dance moves need work. 
McNabb completed 16 of 25 passes for 259 yards and one touchdown. leading the Philadelphia Eagles to their sixtlP straight victory, 33-20 over the New Orleans Saints on Sunday. 
New Orleans' Deuce McAllister had 184 yards rushing, including TD runs of 76 and 22 yards, for his eighth straight game with more than 100 yards. Aaron Brooks threw for 287 yards for the Saints, who had won four of five. 
McNabb, the NFL's worst­rated pa,sser through six games, has been outstanding in the last five games, completing 93 of 142 passes (65.5 percent} for 1,224 yards and six TDs. 
His 2-yard TD toss to Jon Ritchie in the fourth quarter gave the Eagles a 33-14 lead. McNabb ran toward Philadelphia's sideline after the pass, threw his arms in the air and kicked his right leg out. The silly gyration didn't seem as though it'll catch on. 
"That was for Michael Jackson," McNabb said. "We have a lot fun during the week." 
The Eagles (8-3) have won eight of nine after starting the season with consecutive losses at home. The two-time NFC East champions are tied with Dallas for first place. They'll play the Cowboys in Philadelphia on Dec. 
7. 

"The first two games were abominations," Ritchie said. "We did a terrible job as a team. We didn't have to do anything to respond other than work hard­er." 
Desperate to stay in the playoff. race, New Orleans (5-6) commit­ted three key turnovers, includ­ing one in Philadelphia's end zone in the first quarter. 
Green Bay 20, San Francisco 10 

Ahman Green gets the records and most of the yards but humbly shares the credit. 
Green ran through San· Francisco's stingy run defense for 154 yards on 27 carries in 
-the Packers' victory Sunday. When he was winded, the Packers lost little with backups Najeh Davenport and Tony Fisher, who combined for 87 yards on 17 carries. "I consider it a 1-2-3 punch," coach Mike Sherman said. Although Green is the NFC's leading rusher. both Davenport (6.3) and Fisher (5.7) have high­er averages than Green's 5.2 yards per carry. 
-
"Najeh's 250 pounds and just as fast as I am," Green said. "I told both of them in training camp that they'd be a big part of this. I keep telling them that they're just as important to the offense as I am." 
The Packers gained 243 yards on 48·carries for a 5.1-yard average that would have been higher had Brett Favre not taken a knee three times at the end. That's their heaviest reliance on the run since Oct. 4, 1981, when they ran 49 times against the New York Giants. 
Minnesota 24, Detroit 14 

Desperate for a victory, the Minnesota Vikings were pre­pared to take one any way they could get it. 
Yes, even an underwhelming win over the Detroit Lions. Corey Chavous and Brian 
Williams each returned intercep­
tions for touchdowns late in the 
game, and the Vikings sent the 
Lions to their 22nd straight road 
loss on Sunday. 
"Everyone's going to say, 'It's 

Detroit,' but a win in this league 
is a win," Minnesota coach Mike 
Tice said after his team ended its 
four-game losing streak. 
The Vikings (7 -4) remained 

one game ahead of Green Bay in the NFC North, despite an offense that looked just as weak . as Detroit's during most of the 
afternoon. 
Daunte Culpepper completed 

20 of 30 passes for 196 yards, no 
scores and an interception. 
Randy Moss sprained his right 
ankle in the second quarter and 
played on, finishing with five 
receptions for 56 yards. 
Minnesota punted six times, 

and none of Culpepper's half­
dozen deep throws to Moss were 
completed. But the Vikings fol­
lowed up four awful games with 
one of their best defensive efforts 
of the season. 
"We just returned the favor," 

Williams said. 
Aaron Elling's 24-yard field 

goal capped a 73-yard drive and 
put Minnesota up 10-7 with 2:45 
left. 
Chavous picked off 

Harrington's pass and returned 
it for a score 19 seconds later, 
and Williams grabbed his third 
interception and ran it back for a 
touchdown 20 seconds after that. 
"It was there for us to take," 

Detroit coach Steve Mariucci 
said. 
The Lions (3-8}, whose last 

away win came on Dec. 17. 
2000, against the New York Jets, 
tied the Buffalo Bills (1983-86) 
for the second-longest road skid 
in NFL history. The Houston 
Oilers (1981-84) own this dubi­
ous league record with 23 con­
secutive losses away from home. 
With visits to Kansas City and 

Carolina left on the schedule, 
Detroit has a good chance to 
break it. 

Dallas 24, Carolina 20 
They've beaten everyone in 

their division and on Sunday 
took down the top team in the 
NFC. 
Now, even Bill Parcells, their 

harshest critic, seems ready to 
proclaim the Dallas Cowboys a 
team to watch in December ­
and maybe even January-after 
the way they beat Carolina 
Sunday. 
"We have a lot of football left, 

but we're going to be in the hunt 
for a while," said Parcells. show­
ing more emotion than he has all 
season. "I think we've got a real 
shot to do something here." 
Quincy Carter threw two 

touchdown passes to revive a 
sputtering offense, then made 
his best plays by keeping alive 
the final drive and running out 
the clock in an otherwise sloppy, 
penalty-filled battle for the best 
record in the NFC. 
Dallas (8-3) remains tied with 


Cal1259·1ooo for more details 

Philadelphia for the NFC East lead and moves into a four-way tie with the Eagles, Panthers and St. Louis Rams for the best record in the conference. The Eagles play at Carolina next Sunday; Dallas is at Philadelphia the following Sunday. 
Next up for the Cowboys are the Dolphins on Thursday. Parcells has been saying all sea­son that he'd reserve judgment on this team until after that game, but his excitement over this win indicates his expecta­tions are rising. 
"I just thought our guys were really good today," he said. "They hung in there, fought it out and made some clutch plays. ... This was by far the best win I've had in Dallas." 
The Panthers are the kings of the comeback, having won six times in the final two minutes or overtime. They couldn't make it seven. 

Carolina had second-and-goal from the 6 with four minutes left when Todd Steussie was called for a false start. It was the team's fourth such penalty, the third by Steussie. Pushed back to the 11, the drive stalled there ­then went to the 16 on a delay of game before fourth down. 
Panthers coach John Fox already had decided to kick a field goal and hope to get the ball back rather than try for a tying touchdown. 
St. Louis 30, Arizona 27 OT 
Through good and bad, and there was plenty of both. Marc Bulger is the St. Louis quarter­back. 
Four interceptions and a lost fumble gave Rams coach Mike Martz every reason to pull Bulger in favor of Kurt Warner. He didn't, and Bulger directed scoring drives at the end of regu­lation and in overtime to lead the Rams to a victory over the Arizona Cardinals on Sunday. 
Jeff Wilkins tied it with a 22­yard field goal at the end of regu­lation, then won it with a 49­yarder with 10:22 left in over­time to give St. Louis its seventh victory in its last eight. The Rams (8-3) are alone in first in the NFC West. 
"If I wasn't confident in Marc. he wouldn't have been out there at the end of the game -end of story," Martz said. "If I was going . to do anything I'd have done it in this game. This is the last time I'm going to say this: Marc Bulger IS our quarterback." 
It was the second straight week Wilkins kicked a game­winner. 
NTS 

Just in tilne for Thanksgiving break... 


Your time is running out, so don't delay! Apply at TC today!! 
171 0 Turtle Creek Dr (right by the turtles!) 
South Bend, IN 46637 
www.turt.lecreeknd.com 
272-8124 



OUND THE NATION 
Monday, November 24, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
-============================================================================ 
NFL 

team record New England 9·2 Miami 7-4 Bullalo 4-7 NY Jets 4·7 
AFC North team rncorrl Cincinnati 6-5 
Balllmore 6·5 Cleveland 4-7 Pillsburgh H 
team 
Indianapolis Tennessee 
Houston 
Jacksonville 
tl'IJ.IU record Kansa$ City 10-1 Denver 6-5 Oakland 3-8 San Diego 2-9 
team 
Oalla,. Plllladelphla 
NY Gli!RI$ Washington 
tHilln record Minnesota 7·4 Groen Bay 6-5 Chicago 4·7 Detroit 3·8 
team Carolina New Orleans Tampa Bay Atlanta 
team 
St. louis 
Seallle 
San Francisco Arizona 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Villanova at Chaminade 2 p.m., ESPN Dayton vs Central Michigan 5 p.m., ESPN2 North Carolina vs Davidson 7 p.m., ESPN2 Ohio State vs San Diego State 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL NY Giants at Tampa Bay 9 p.m., ABC 
NBA 
Chicago at Sacramento 1 p.m., FOX Sports Net 


Associated Press 
BALTIMORE-Down by 17 points in the fourth quarter, the Baltimore Ravens put their comeback hopes on a struggling defense and a quarterback making his seventh NFL start. 
Incredibly, the combina­tion produced a stunning victory. 
Matt Stover kicked a 42­yard field goal with 6:32 left in overtime, capping an amazing comeback Sunday that carried the Ravens past the Seattle Seahawks 44-41. 
Anthony Wright, who was the Ravens' third­string quarterback just 
three weeks ago, brought Baltimore back with the finest performance of his career. He went 20-for-37 for 319 yards and a per­sonal-best four touch­downs, all of them to Marcus Robinson. 
On the winning drive, Wright connected with Robinson for a 19-yard gain on a third-and-5 play. 
Matt Hasselbeck threw a career-high five touch­down passes for the Seahawks, going 23-for-41 for 333 yards. 
But the Seahawks (7-4) fell to 1-4 on the road, in part because they made too many mistakes down the stretch. 
IN BRIEF 
Harrison returns to Colts lineup 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. -Colts receiver Marvin Harrison returned to the Indianapolis lineup Sunday but did not start against the Bills. 
Harrison, who ranks fourth in the AFC with 777 yards receiving, missed last week's 38-31 win over the New York Jets with a hamstring injury. Rookie Aaron Morehead start­ed against Buffalo in Harrison's place. 
The Colts played without backup receivers Troy Walters (hamstring) and Brandon Stokley (concussion), and starting tight end Marcus Pollard, who missed his second straight game with a sprained left knee. 
The Colts were also without start­ing left tackle Tarik Glenn (knee) and starting safety Idrees Bashir (shoul­der). 
The banged-up Bills did have their top offensive threats active for the 

It was 41-24 with 14:16 left, but the Ravens (6-5) got back into the game by taking advantage of the same kind of miscues that put them in a sizable hole. 
First, Ed Reed blocked a punt and took it 16 yards into the end zone. Then the Seahawks played soft defense in allowing the Ravens to march 71 yards in a drive capped by Wright's fourth touchdown pass with 1:12 remaining. 
Seattle recovered the onside kick, but failed to convert a fourth-and-1. The Ravens then used a 44-yard pass-interference call against Marcus Trufant to set up a 40-yard field goal by Stover on the final play of regulation. 
Baltimore closed to 17­10 on its first possession of the second half. After Travis Taylor made a nice one-handed catch on a 43­yard play, Wright connect­ed with Robinson for a 13­yard touchdown strike. 
Hasselbeck then hit Koren Hobinson in stride down the middle with a 38-yard touchdown pass. 
A 24-yard punt by Dave Zastudil set up a Seattle field goal and, after Wright hit Robinson for a score, Hasselbeck answered with 
an  80-yard TO pass to  a  
wide-open Jackson for  a  
34-17 lead.  

game. Travis Henry, their leading rusher, was active despite a broken bone in his lower right leg. Eric Moulds, Buffalo's leading receiver, returned to the lineup after missing last week's game with a groin injury. 
Buffalo was minus one starter, safety Izell Reese, who was replaced by Pierson Prioleau. 
U.S. loses to France in Fed Cup finals 
MOSCOW -The United States lost the Fed Cup finals 4-1 Sunday, beat­en convincingly by a French team that got a clinching victory from Amelie Mauresmo to win the title a second time. 
Mauresmo routed Meghann Shaughnessy 6-2, 6-1 to put France ahead 3-0 in the best-of-five series. 
"I really wanted to bring that third point to the team, and that's what I did," Mauresmo said. 
Mauresmo, undefeated in Fed Cup play this season, ended American hopes for an 18th title in the event. 

France's Emilie Loit then downed Alexandra Stevenson 6-4, 6-2 in a match between substitutes. The U.S. team, captained by Billie Jean King, salvaged a victory in doubles to avoid a sweep. 
Martina Navratilova, 47. extended her Fed Cup Cup record to 39-0, teaming with Lisa Haymond to beat Loit and Stephanie Cohen-Aloro 6-4. 6-0. 
The U.S. team made it to tl-iis year's finals without its top players. The Williams sisters were sidelined by injuries and Lindsay Davenport was recovering from surgery. 
France, which won its only other Fed Cup in 1997, went into the final day at Olympic Stadium ahead 2-0. On Saturday, Mauresmo defeated Raymond 6-4, 6-3, and Mary Pierce struggled past Shaughnessy 6-3, 3-6. 8-6. 
"This year, everything was per­fect," Mauresmo said. 

Nationals 
continued from page 20 
Young, and perennial power Stanford. 
At the Pre-National event ear­lier this season, the Irish women finished with a score of 127 behind No. 1 BYU, with 86 points, and North Carolina, with 99 points. Notre Dame finished just ahead of No. 22 Michigan, a team the Irish beat just last week when they won the NCAA Great Lakes Regional in Terre Haute, Ind. That win gave both the Irish and Wolverines auto­matic bids into today's race. After that race, Connelly was also named Great Lakes Region coach of the year. 

The Irish have some great assets as they contend with the nation's top talent, which has plenty of reason to take Notre Dame seriously. Huddle, who after running No. 2 for most of last season has emerged as the team's top runner, is coming off her individual victory at the Great Lakes regional. The All­American runner is in a position to achieve the highest finish ever by a female Notre Dame runner at the national champi­onship race. In 1996, Joanna Deeter finished third. 
Running close to their top run­ner will be King and senior Kerry Meagher, who finished seventh and eighth, respectively, at the regional championships last weekend. 
The Irish lineup is completed by senior Megan Johnson, who finished 12th at the regional race, sophomores Madia and Jean Marinangeli and senior Katie Wales. Sophomore Elizabeth Webster is on hand as the Irish alternate. 
In the men's race, Mobley will make his fourth-straight NCAA Championship appearance, and he will try to better his 38th­place finish in 2001. 
Moore, who led Notre Dame to its 22nd-place finish in the national championships last year, will seek his first All­America honor. 
Today's race is slated to air on the Fox Sports network Dec. 3 at 3 p.m. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
WOMENS SWIMMING 
Illness a factor in last-place finish 
Lisa Garcia took 12th (1 :02. 97) in the same By MAlT PUGLISI event. Sports Wrirer Carroll finished up a strong weekend meet 
on Sunday, finishing ninth in the 100-meter 

The women's swimming and diving team freestyle (58.00), and contributed along with battled but was unable to overcome an ongo­freshman Ann Barton, Garcia and Johnson to ing rash of illness as the No. 19 Irish (4-1) fin­an eighth-.place Irish finish in the 800-meter ished last in the seven-team field at the Texas freestyle relay (8:21.80). A&M Invitational this past weekend. "As a team, we rested a lot before the meet 
"It was kind of a tough weekend for us," and I had that extra energy saved up," Carroll 
head coach Bailey Weathers  said. "It was my first big invita­ 
said. "We got to swim a lot of races, but we left a lot of kids  "This was a shave and  tional so I was already pumped up, and the adrenaline just  
at home and those that were [at the meet] are still getting over [the illness]." The Irish struggled on  taper meet for a lot of . the teams. We used this meet more as a  kept rolling for me." According to Carroll, Notre Dame's last-place finish isn't indicative of the team's overall  
Friday, managing only a pair of ninth-place finishes. Seniors Danielle Hulick and Lisa Garcia and freshmen Katie  chance to get our feet wet and get used to the big crowds. "  skill level. "This was a shave and taper meet for a lot of the teams," Carroll said. "We used this  
Carroll and Ellen Johnson took  meet more as a chance to get  
ninth  in  the  200-meter  Katie Carroll  our feet wet and get used to the  
freestyle relay with a time of 1:47.77, finishing just over five  freshman  big crowds." All in all, the Irish  were  
seconds behind first place  forced to leave eleven competi­ 

UCLA (1 :42 .57). Carroll recorded the other tors at home and are anxiously awaiting a ninth-place finish in the 200-meter IM return to full strength. (2:16.20), nearly four seconds behind Texas "It probably will take through the end of this A&M event-winner Rebecca Sturdy (2:12.30). week before we're all healthy again," 
On Saturday, undefeated senior Meghan Weathers said. "All the traveling doesn't make Perry-Eaton stole the show again for the Irish, it any easier." winning the one and three-meter diving events The Irish return to action Dec. 4 when they with scores of 294.25 and 511.00, respectively. host the three-day Notre Dame Invitational. 
Carroll also swam to a fifth-place finish in the 100-meter butterfly (1:02.31), and senior Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu. 
FENCING 

Individual competition provides experience 
home a third place finish with By MATT MOONEY senior Michael Macauley at Sporrs Wrirer epee. Other notable finishes 
include quarterfinalists fresh­
There may be no 'T' in the man Eamon Murphy, sopho­word "team," but each member more Craig Brede, junior John of the men's fencing team was Espinosa and senior Brendan competing for himself Prendergast. Saturday. While none of the bouts 
Splitting squads between sites counted for team rankings, the at Penn State and Ohio State, meets served to give the Notre the Irish fencers took to the Dame team some needed expe­strip in individual competition. rience in the young season. 
Notre Dame found the most After a successful trip to success at State College in the Northwestern last weekend, Max Garrett Open. With a the team sought to get further group that consisted of a conditioning at their respective majority of the starters, the sites. Irish brought home two, third­At Ohio State and Penn place finishes in junior foilist State, the young group found Derek Snyder and freshman themselves matched up epeeist Aaron Adjemian. against some of the best colle­
Adjemian headed a core giate talent they will face all group of freshman including year. Last year, Ohio State fourth place sabre Matthew ruined Notre Dame's bid for a Stearns and quarterfinal finish­joint conference champi­ers Frankie Bontempo at foil onship. Penn State were a and Patrick Gettings at epee. close runner-up to Notre Dame Senior epeeist North Carey won for last year's national cham­his consolation bracket and pionship. classmate Brian Dosal took home the same title in sabre. Contact Matt Mooney at 
In Ohio, Notre Dame brought mmooney@nd.edu. 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
goal was a game-winner. 
Goaltending had to come up big for the Irish at several occasions during the weekend, as last year's starter Morgan Cey aggravated an injury Nov. 7 against Michigan 
-
State and will be out from four to six weeks after having surgery on his right knee. 
Freshman David Brown started both games, and played a large part in earning a tie Saturday as the home team was out shot 41-36. He made 16 saves in the win Friday, his offense helping make up 
-
for a somewhat sub-par perfor­mance. "I thought David Brown was good," Poulin said after the tie. "I thought he did very well and made some big saves to keep us in it." Friday, the Irish got off to a quick start as forward Mike Walsh col­lected a bouncing puck in the crease and flipped it past Lakers' goalie Matt Violin just a little over a minute into the game. Lake Superior State came back to tie it about halfway through the first after Bo Cheesman fired a shot into the top left corner. Three minutes later, the Irish retook the lead with a power play goal from Globke, who collected 
assists from defensemen Neil Komadowski and Tom Galvin and slapped a hard one-timer past Violin. 
Seven minutes into the second period, the Irish would increase their lead to two after some good play by freshmen Josh Sciba, Jindra and Paige. 
The two-goal lead would be short lived for the Irish, as the Lakers would score goals from Ryan Reid and Derek Smith to tie it up head­ing into the third period. 
Notre Dame would go back ahead after Jindra's first career goal. The Irish would get an insurance goal from Globke shortly after an Irish power play goal had expired and before the Laker player was able to get out of the box. 
"That's definitely a set play we've been working on in practice and every time we get a power play we've been trying to set that up," Globke said. "The way their power play set up, we were fortunate to get a few goals off that play." 
Saturday, the Irish were out­played early by the Lakers, with the visitors outshooting the home team 14-8 in the first period and then taking a 1-0 lead off a power play goal by Dominic Osman early in the second. 
About six minutes into the second period, Poulin elected to take a time out with his team being out­shot 19-9. 
L_------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
"I didn't like what was happening at all," Poulin said of his decision to take the timeout. "It was more energy than the style of play. Our energy level wasn't there at all" 
Poulin's pep talk must have done the team some good, as they would come out and score the equalizer six minutes later on the power play as defender Wes O'Neill aimed a perfect slap shot just between the post and the left pad of Lakers' goaltender Jeff Jakaitis. 
Lebda would put the Irish ahead, 2-1, midway through the second, collecting a Jakaitis rebound and putting it in the net. A turnover in the Irish defensive zone would lead to the Lakers salvaging a tie as Cheesman collected a perfect cen­tering feed from Trent Cambpell and whipped it past Brown from the slot. 
Neither team would get many opportunities in the five-minute overtime, with Notre Dame out­shooting Lake Superior State 3-1 in the extra frame. 
"There's a little bit of a hollow feeling right now," Poulin said Saturday. "Any time you give up a late goal there's a bit of a letdown. 
"I think the big thing is that in the locker room it felt like a loss, and that's a good thing because the players want more." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


Monday, November 24, 2003 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

Those who participate can earn three credits in either English or FTTwhile getting the chance to work alongside -· professional actors andproduction crew! Roles are available both on stage and behind the scenes, and housing an tuition are paidfor! Don't miss the chance to be a part of this once-in-a-lifetime experience! 

November 24, 7-11 pm November 25, 7-11 pm 
Washington Hall Mainstage 
All those auditioning are asked to prepare two Shakespearean monologues, one comic and one tragic. 
Cal!jeffEyerman at 631-9840 with any questions!! 


-
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS 


Valpo 
continued from page 20 

way the game turned out because I thought Jeneka Joyce was the difference in the game," McGraw said. 
Joyce came in the game, play­ing for the first time in a year and a half, to score nine points, on three three-pointers in ten minutes of action. 
Junior Jacqueline Batteast also played well for the Irish, racking up 15 points and 10 rebounds, to lead No. 20 Notre Dame in both categories. Courtney LaVere added 11 points and six rebounds, and Le'Tania Severe registered 10 points and six assists. 
Severe and Megan Duffy (nine points, seven assists, six rebounds) were key to the Irish success, as they combined for only three turnovers. 
"Overall I thought our guards played with a lot of intensity," McGraw said. "We really, really worked hard defensively and got some fast break opportunities." 
These easy buckets helped the Irish shoot 43.3 percent from the field, compared to the Crusaders' 29.4 percent. The Irish began the game cold from the field, but had a stretch in the first half where they went 7 of 
10. Notre Dame took a 32-23 lead into the second half. 
But the key for the Irish was their defense. On the game, the Irish had 10 blocks and 12 steals as a team. LaVere and Teresa Borton (four points, five rebounds) each had three blocks, which Severe had four steals to lead the Irish, who switched back and forth from man-to-man and zone all game. 
"In hindsight, we probably could have played a little more zone, but I thought we wanted to work on our man to man," McGraw said. "I thought we did a lot of good things out of that." 
In a game where two Irish starters, Severe and Duffy, were battling sickness, the Irish had to fight hard against the scrappy Crusaders. Valparaiso out rebounded Notre Dame 29-26 in the first half despite an obvious height advantage for the Irish. 
"They worked hard and they made us work even harder," McGraw said. "They did a great job with their defense and they are a very good team." 
The win gives the Irish a solid start at home. 
"This year is going to be a spe­cial one for us," Joyce said. ''I'm really excited about the team we have and I think were really going to do some good things and I'm glad to be a part of it. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Senior makes stunning return 
Joyce gets first on­court action after injuries sidelined her last season 
Jeneka Joyce grabbed the loose ball, spotted up from 24­feet out and drained her third 3-pointer in less than five min­utes in the second half of Notre Dame's 74-57 win over Valparaiso Friday night. 
You'll have to excuse Joyce for shooting whenever she was open­even if it 

Joe Hettler 
was from 
nearly five 
Sports Editor 
feet beyond the 3-point arc. The senior had been wait­ing a long time to get back on the court. 
Joyce saw her first action since March 17, 2002 in the home-opener, and the shooting guard made the most of it. She hit all three of her 3-point attempts and, as Valparaiso coach Keith Freeman said after the game, "put the nail in the coffin" for the Crusaders' hopes of winning. 
Joyce was the difference­maker, not onl:\: making clutch shots but energizing her team­mates and fans in the Joyce Center. When the first 3-point­er went through with 14:09 left in the game, stern-faced Irish coach Muffet McGraw threw her hands in the air and broke into a huge smile as her senior guard backpedaled down the court with an equally large smile. That shot put Notre Dame ahead 46-31, its largest lead to that point in the game. On Joyce's next two 3-pointers, the crowd erupted even louder as each shot swished through the hoop. 
Joyce's shooting has always been efficient. Keeping her healthy for any extended peri­od of time has been the prob­lem. She played in 25 games as a freshman in 2000-01 and connected on 38 percent of her 3-point attempts, but a combi­nation of injuries caused Joyce to miss 11 games that year. 

She missed six more games because of an Achilles heel strain during her sophomore season and played in just 24 games, starting eight. 
By the time her junior year arrived, Joyce had been fight­ing through nagging injuries in the off-season, including a hip pointer, stress fractures and heel and ankle problems. After talking with McGraw, Joyce decided to sit out last season to fully recover and be completely healthy for the 2003-04 sea­son. 
But injuries continued to bother the guard as she missed the first two games of this sea­son with an ankle injury. Friday night, Joyce finally got back onto the court and made the most of her chances. Despite barely practicing this season, she played solid defense and ran the complicat­ed Notre Dame offense well­not to mention three 3-point­ers. 
But the most important part of Joyce's performance Friday night was not that she helped Notre Dame beat a lowly 0-3 Valparaiso team. That should be expected. The biggest les­son the Irish learned in their 
home-opener was how crucial Joyce is to taking the team to another level. 
After losing shooting guard Alicia Ratay, who finished her career with the highest 3-point shooting percentage in Notre Dame history, McGraw knew her team would be hurting for perimeter offense. She decided to move forward Katy Flecky to the outside to give the Irish some 3-point potential, but the junior cannot be expected to carry the load. Guards Megan Duffy and Le'Tania Severe can both hit three's, but they aren't the sharpshooters that Joyce can be when she's on. 
Joyce showed that ability against the Crusaders. The Irish will need her if they arc going to make it far into the Big East and NCAA Tournament. 
But only three games into the season, Notre Daine and Joyce can't worry whether the injury­prone guard will be healthy for the whole year. They can only embrace the moments when the senior gets a chance to show what she can do with the ball in her hands. Just like Friday night. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd. edu. 

Unsatisfied 
continued from page 20 
into it. 

But they are the ones who lost possession of the Big East crown to the Panthers one week ago. They are the team who has lost only one Big East Tournament Championship since they joined the league in 1995. They are the ones who have won 61 straight Big East games at home. 
Notre Dame was supposed to be the only Big East Champion -regular season and tourna­ment. But things went awry on
-
Sunday. Pittsburgh came out firing. They played some of the best volleyball the Big Easi has seen this season. The Panthers were confident. They knew they could play with a team like Notre Dame and they showed it. And the Irish didn't respond. They seemed hesitant at times. They held a 5-4 lead in game one, and then never led again that game. They couldn't score off their serving, nor could they put together any sort of run. But most of all, Notre Dame didn't play with the usual confi­dence and swagger that this 
team has had all season. 
Credit Pittsburgh. 

Sunday, Pittsburgh was the better team. From the start, their hard hitting and aggres­sive attitude had the Irish on their heels the entire match. Nptre Dame seemed one step behind the entire match. During the first and second games, the Irish were fighting just to stay within striking distance. 
But this was after a convinc­ing win on Saturday, when Miami only hit .144. Pittsburgh hit .329. The Irish just can't find consistency, and they are run­ning out of time. 
So now, the Irish find them­selves in an unfamiliar spot after losing twice in one week to the same team. 
No. 7 Stanford lurks ahead before the NCAA Tournament begins, and if the Irish play like they did against Pittsburgh, it could be ugly. 
So after a week of few posi­tives, maybe the board in the Irish locker room should send the message that they too should be unsatisfied. 
Maybe this will make Notre Dame hungrier for victory. 
The views expressed in this· column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd. edu. 
down because we couldn't stop them," Brown said. "It was a
Volleyball 

combination of us not blocking as well as we usually do. not
continued from page 20 

playing nearly as good of defense Brown said. "I was really. as yesterday and again, they impressed. I think they were didn't make the errors." very focused, they had. a game Brown was referring to the plan and they went after it. They match against Miami, in which were very strong offensively and the Irish hit .275 compared to I just give them a lot of credit." the Hurricanes' .144. Lauren 
The Panthers' attack was too Brewster led the Irish with 16 much for the kills on .500 Irish, as they hitting and hit .329 on the was in on 11
"Our defense is where it 

m a t c h blocks.
broke down because we

Pittsburgh was Jessica led by Megan couldn't stop them. It was Kinder (13 Miller, who hit kills, 16 digs}
a combination ofus not 

a scorching and Emily
blocking as well as we

.545 en route Loomis (13 to 20 kills. She usually do, not playing kills, 8 digs, 
also added five nearly as good of defense in on 7 
digs and was in blocks) also 
as yesterday and again,

on four blocks. contributed. 
Sara Rollman they didn't make the Senior setter added 17 kills errors. Kristen on .341 hitting Kinder had and eight digs, 47 assists. 
Debbie Brown

while Wendy But Sunday 
Hatlestad Irish head coach was a differ­added 15 kills ent story, as and 11 digs. the Irish were 
With the win, the Panthers forced to play catch-up the receive the Big East's automatic whole match. They never put bid to the NCAA Tournament. together a run of more than four 
Although Notre Dame had 12 points and were unable to score blocks, they were unable to get on their serves. touches on the Panthers' attacks. "I think we played frustrated 
"Our defense is where it broke today," Brown said. "We do rely on our block a !ot and with that a lot of times we can score points on runs -but we didn't have any big runs." 
The Irish found themselves struggling to keep up with the Panthers' volatile offense. As a result, they lost the match in straight games. 

"Winning the points when _ we're serving, that's what's going to win the match," Brown said. "We didn't do that effec­tively." 
Pittsburgh received the Notre Dame serves well, setting the offense up for their hitters. 
"The serving game was very important for us," Brown said. "What [the number of errors] didn't show was that we didn't serve tough enough. [Pittsburgh] passed very well and they were able to run a very efficient offense." 
Loomis led the Irish with 14 kills and five digs. Brewster added nine kills and was in on five blocks. Senior Katie NetT had seven kills on . 368 hitting and was in on five bocks. 
Senior setter Kristen Kinder had 38 assists_, eight digs and five kills on the match. As a team, the Irish only hit .214 on the match, below their season average of .257. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Monday, November 24, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 

FIVES 

JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RAVSO 

rIJ I I 
C2003 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
DEWUN 
j

[] ( I I
tKONYED jJ r I I
1 
www.jurrble.com
tREVUIQ t 

J I I J I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 


WHAT THE NEIGH­BOR5 DID ABOUT THE NOISY PARROTS. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
An~rhere: "(II I I I I I J" 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: SWOOP POISE EXOTIC CLOUDYSaturday's Answer: Important for a roof garden-"TOP" SOIL 


CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 36 Skater Thomas 64 Suffix with switch
1 Sign of injury 37 The, grammatically 65 Many a parenV
5 Military sch. 
child bedtime
41 Hours-lo~lilm,

9 Storied royal ritualperhapselephant 66 All there42 Qui's opposite 
14 "Where the heart is" 43 Put new ground 
67 Irish native 
cover on15 The Bee Gees, 

e.g. 44 Negative DOWN conjunction
16 Like howls in a 1 Circle or square haunted house 45 Unreturnable 
2: 
serve

17 [sigh) 3 Collect 46 Grassland
18 Fruity pastry 4 Sticky pine stuff 48 Branda's wail in
19 Components of 5 Outfit
"A Streetcar molecules 

6 Cowardly 20 +, 
Named Desire" 7 Put on TV50 Tumbled like amathematically 

waterfall 8 You might 23 Tangled up connect them
55 ·459.67"F, 24 Holds, as a scientifically 9 Snoopy, lor one hand 
57 Inviting odor 10 Prudential rival 28 Baseball's 
60 avis 11 Sis's sib 
Griffey 
61 Aquatic bird 12 Order between 29 Suit accessory "ready" and 62 Sophia of "Two 
30 Drivel "fire"
Women" 31 Wipe clean 13 Notes after dos 
63 Author_ 36 Six-sided game 47 Manor and its 53 Swashbuckling 35 Ruby or Sandra Easton Ellis 21 Not available, piece grounds Flynn 
-------------as a seat 38 Early Peruvians 49 Not so good, as 54 Start of a
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 22 More 
39 Sock part an excuse prohibition

hazardous, as winter roads 40 Draw an outline 56 Spheres

.FOUR.PARA 
50 Silent star Bow 
of

25 Builder's plans, 57 Capp and
51 Montezuma, lor

informally 45 The Empire Capone
instance

OB I.RENT.!_ ABODE 
State's capital 26 Artist Picasso 58 Go to waste

.METIERS STALIN 
46 Fashion 52 Steel plow 27 Emulated 007

E L E N A H 0 MJE L A N 0 
designer Ralph maker 59 Spanish gold 

29 Mad Hatter's drink For answers, call 1-900·285·5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
31 Paradises
P R E M EID I 
credit card, 1·800·814·5554.

32 Move, as a Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundayplant 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7 ·ACROSS. 33 Burning 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 34 Order to attack, past puzzles, ny1imes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). with "on" 
Crosswords lor young solvers: The Learning Network, 35 Family room ny1imes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit Jhe Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday:William F. Buckley, Paul Tagliabue, Billy Connolly, 
Linda Tripp, Claudia Dreifus 

Happy Birthday: You are dedicated and eager to finish what you start. If you work hard, you can put your great ideas into play. You'll expect a lot from yourself and from others. Your uncanny memory will rescue you from a situation that refers to days gone by. Your numbers: 15, 18, 26, 31, 34, 39 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Spend your day productively. Interesting 
hobbies may provide some wonderful ideas that could prove prosperous. Don' 
wait for an invitation to socialize or become involved in sports activities; pick 
up the phone. *** TAURUS (April20-May 20): Love is in the air, so interact with others. Your warmth and openness will attract some interesting partners. but don't take unnecessary risks. Get to know someone well before deciding to become intimate. Ifyou are already coupled, enjoy your time together. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't take things the wrong way emotionally. which could interfere with your professional obligations. A colleague has a personal interest in you. Be careful; mixing business with pleasure could be dangerous. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't make rash decisions. Stay put or be cautious while traveling to foreign countries. Travel over the Internet instead and make plans to do something exotic closer to home. ***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It's higlttimc you joined a group that offers the mental stimulation you desire. Join a theater group or attend a play and encourage friends or family to join you. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll have plenty to do, but let trivial matters ride. It won't. be worth the aggravation. Stick to your responsibilities. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Think·· don't retaliate. You may say something you'll regret. Stay busy with events that will raise your spirits. Life is too shor to spend your day pouting. SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Present your creative works and don't be afraic to p'ush your beliefs and opinions. You can persuade others to follow or support your cause. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone may not know which way is ur today. If you can remain calm, it will help him or her come to terms with the problems. You need to reflect before making a final decision.** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Step up to the podium and make yourself heard. If you believe in your ideas, the response will be positive and others will confidence in you. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Lady luck is with you. Helping someone sari out personal papers will bring rewards. You have the insight and knowledge tc balance your budget and build equity. Wheel and deal with confidence. "** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Humanitarian organizations will bring new friendships. Understanding the dynamics of what is going on around you will enable you to make valuable contributions. *** 
Birthday Baby: You always follow your heart and that small voice within you. You like to wander, but will always return to your roots and the ones you love. 
Need advif'e? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.rom 
-------------------~------~----------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer ­and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 ·for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $_55 for one semester 

Name __________________________________________ _ Address _______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
-· 


THE OBSEitVER 
PORTS

Page 20 
Monday, November 24, 2003 
N 0 WOMENS VOLLEYBALL 
Loss in Big East final first home 
defeat in 62 
matches 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 

What a difference a day makes. 
Notre Dame registered 17 blocks, including eight in the first game to defeat Miami 3-1 Saturday. Sunday, however, was another story. The Irish had only 12 blocks and were swept right out of the Joyce Center by 
~ Pittsburgh, 3-0 (20-30, 26-30,
I 29-31).
I 
I No. 17 Notre Dame lost a Big
I 
I East match at home for the first ,I time in 62 matches and the sec­ond time in Big East
..I 
, 
Tournament play since joining the conference in 1995. Notre Dame also lost its second straight match to Pittsburgh, the first coming exactly a week ago from Sunday. 
"I think Pittsburgh played very well," Irish head coach Debbie 
see VOLLEYBALL/page 18 
Swept away 

Irish have much to learn from Pittsburgh's approach to game 
Unsatisfied. 

That is what Pittsburgh head coach Chris 
Heather Van Hoegarden

Beerman wrote on 
Sports Writer 

the board after their 3-2 win against Notre Dame. It 
CROSS COUNTRY 

Seven to run in nationals 
4111 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Spom Writer 

The nation's 510 fastest and toughest long distance runners will compete in the national cross-country championships this afternoon in a city known, appropriately, as the "Gateway to the trails." 
Notre Dame will send the No. 4 women's cross-country team and two individual male qualifiers to Waterloo/Cedar Falls, Iowa, a metro area in the rolling hills of northeast­ern Iowa with 65 miles of trails. 
The race, however, will take place on just 6 kilometers of those trails on the Irv Warren Golf Course. The Irish hope the victory-laden course they have taken all season will cul­minate with a national title. 
"As long as we can all take the line and run as a team, we have a shot of doing really
-
well," sophomore Stephanie Madia said. Notre Dame hails from chilly northern Indiana and could 
have an advantage with cold weather in the forecast. 
Seven Irish runners, led by sophomore Molly Huddle and King under the tutelage of coach Tim Connelly, will rep­resent the Notre Dame women at the national championships. 
While the men's cross coun­try team narrowly missed qualifying, sophomore Tim Moore and senior Todd Mobley qualified independent­ly. 
All runners who did not qualify will support their teammates. 
"Although only the top seven will be racing, all 24 runners are making the trip to Cedar Falls," senior co-captain Katie Ellgass said. 
In mid-October, the women finished third and the men ninth in the Pre-National Championships, with many of the country's top teams com­ing to Cedar Falls. Today, the women are looking for the fall of such teams as defending NCAA champion Brigham 
see NATIONALS/page 16 

HOCKEY 
Power plays help with 
•

wtn, tie 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Against the second-least penal­ized team in the CCHA, Notre Dame's power play came up huge as the Irish came away with three out of four possible points against Lake Superior State this weekend. 
The Lakers, who have fewer penalties than everyone in the league except the Irish, gave up two power play goals and another shortly after an expired power play to Notre Dame, who defeated Lake Superior State Friday 5-3 and tied the Lakers Saturday 2-2. 
"I thought our puck movement on the power play was very good," coach Dave Poulin said after Friday's game. "In tight games like these, you have to take advantage of your chances with the man­advantage." 
The Irish also got a bit of offense from unexpected sources, as fresh­ma1l forwards T.J Jindra and Jason Paige each scored their first goal of the season Friday, and defenseman Brett Lebda scored his first of the season in Saturday's tie. Jindra's 
see HOCKEY/page 16 was a win that gave the Panthersa share of the regu­lar season Big East title and the No. 1 seed in the Big East Tournament. 
But that wasn't good enough for Pittsburgh. The Panthers came out ready to play Sunday at the 
Joyce Center. Even Beerman, the 2003 Big East co-coach of the year, was fired up. 
But what about the Irish, who looked good while defeat­ing Miami 3-1 Saturday? 
Well, they never really got 
see UNSATISFIED/page 18 
NO WOMENS BASKETBALL 

Women win ninth home opener 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
Before Friday's game against Valparaiso, head coach Muffet McGraw said that it would be a tough game despite the Crusaders' 0-2 record. 
Last season, the Irish See Also 
didn't make a basket in the 
"Senior makes final 4:52, but stunning return" 
held on to win 
page 18
74-68. Two years ago, Notre Dame squeaked out a 42­35 victory only after outscoring the Crusaders 7-2 down the stretch. 
But Friday was different, as the Irish improved their all-time record to 17-0 against Valparaiso. Friday, Notre Dame dominated throughout the game, as they won 74-57, to extend their winning streak in home openers to nine games. 
"I was really pleased with the 
see VALPO/page 18 



FENCING 
NFl
MlB

WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
NFL
L&.l 

u Texas A&M 
Team splits squad 
Will A-Rod be 

McNabb and Eagles smoke the 
Kenshawn sw.s he

z Invitational 
at Penn State and 
traded? 
wi play for ucs 

Saints 
Ohio State 

The Philadelphia Eagles' win gives them an
:3 

The No. 19 Irish 
Who knows, but Alex 
The Buccaneers' 

opportunity to take sole possession of first
c:s 

r finished last of seven 
The Irish excelled in 
Rodriguez has 
deactivated receiver is 

place in the NFC East next week with a victory
c cc 

teams on the weekend. 
individual competition 
preferences if he does 
growing apologetic. 

over the Dallas Cowboys. 
this weekend. 
leave Texas. 
r:&m t:i 

en 
page 16 
page 16 
page 13 
page 12
page 13 


Monday, November 24, 2003 

page 2 The Observer + NEWS 
INDEX 
Notre Dame 
Office of the Student Body President 3 
Senate 5 
Campus Life Council 6 
Council of Representatives 
6 

Financial Management Board 
7 
Hall President's Council 
7 
Club Coordination Council 
7 
Graduate Student Union 7 
Student Union Board 7 
Saint Mary's 

Student Body President 
9 
Student Trustee 
9 
Student Diversity Board 11 
Student Activities Board 11 
Resident Hall Association 11 
Student Academic Council 11 
Board of Governance 12 

Student government restructures 
Bodies attempt to fix inefficiencies, affect change quickly 

By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
A common complaint about government is its inefficiency, and student government at Notre Dame is no exception. Scores of student leaders sit on panels like the Student Senate, Council of Representatives and Hall Presidents Council, and posi­tive results carr be few and far between. 
Student leaders have gar­nered criticism for their apparent inability to affect University policy. In February, then-student body president Libby Bishop carne under fire after her report to the University's Board of Trustees did not ask for the reinstatement of hall dances. commonly called SYRs. In May, student leaders met with the University's Board of Trustees, at which time the trustees criticized inefficien­cies throughout the Student Union. In October, student body president Pat Hallahan returned to the trustees. ask­ing them to add wider stu­dent representation to the Campus Life Council, but his appeal failed. 
Part of the problem is the duplication of effort. Some ager Charlie Ebersol said that groups within the student students from each hall union pursue similar goals should have a place on the but don't coordinate their board, so that dorm concerns activities. may be addressed in plan­

Multiple bodies -including ning campus events. the Office of the President, "We need dorm representa­the Student Senate, the tion on SUB, so we won't Council of Representatives have David Spade on the and the Campus Life Council same night as seven SYRs." -work on policy matters. Ebersol said, recalling less­Since each body has a differ­than-stellar attendance at the 
ent composi­ comedian's  
tion,  they  show  in  
tackle simi- October.  
lar issues in  Former  
different  "It can't be instant  Pasquerilla  
ways, which creates the potential for  gratification. We're setting a foundation and  West presi­dent Sarah Finch said  
wasted  building from there."  that  while  
effort.  communica­ 
S e v e r a I  Jeremy Lao  tion between  
groups, such as the  student body vice president  the groups is vital, HPC  
Student  should focus  
Union Board  on hall pro­ 
and the Hall  gramming,  

Presidents Council, handle while SUB should focus on 
campus programming. SUB's campus-wide events. 

mission is to create high­"Each dorm is so unique quality campus-wide events, that if you try to do some­while HPC works with resi­thing that appeals to the dence halls on their own pro­whole campus, you're not gramming. The system might going to get a lot of outside look good on paper, but lack attention," she said. "HPC of communication between shouldn't try to do too much." ·the bodies has led to failures. The current administration, Student Union Board man-led by student body president 
Pat Hallahan. is working to overhaul the system. Under a plan currently being debated by the Council of Representatives, dorm repre­sentation would be increased and student government bod­ies would be condensed into three main areas. allowing for easier communication among student leaders and their constituencies. 
Student body vice president Jeremy Lao said that although reforms are under­way, they will take time to implement. 
"It can't be instant gratifi­cation," Lao said. "We're set­ting a foundation and build­ing from there." 
These changes come along­side another transition. In December, Hallahan will graduate, at which time Lao will assume the presidency. 
Some students, like fresh­man Chris Sebastian, were cautiously hopeful that the leaders' reforms would improve the quality of stu­dent life at Notre Dame. 
''I'm sure they're working hard on it, but I haven't seen anything yet," Sebastian said. 
Contact Matt Brarnanti at mbrarnant@nd.edu 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF STUDENT GOVERNMENT? 


Gina Jardine  James Hill  Kathryn Conley  Joe Fogarty  Marissa Kirkman  Matt Geiger  
Junior LeMans  Senior Off-Campus  Junior LeMans  Senior Off-Campus  Junior LeMans  Senior Off-Campus  
'f!lsk me after they make a decision about the 'Keenan Revue'. Yeah, Keenan!"  "Uppity punks, the lot ofthem. I wish I was in student government.''  "I don't think of student government. "  "Student government is the opiate of students. "  "I support student government, but I think they should leave 'Keenan Revue' alone."  "Don't blame me. I voted Muto."  


Monday, November 24, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
OFFICE OF THE STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT 
Members take time to develop issues, ideas 
Divisions meet with administrators to effect positive change for student body 
step will be presenting that com­about current events. 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS mittee with the proposal. However, no definite plans
NcwsWrirer 
Changes to the TCE process have been set, and time will tell 
will probably not be made this if this program will come to 
This year, the student govern­semester, as not enough progress fruition. ment office on the second floor of has been made on the issues. Tessa Garcia, chair of the LaFortune serves as a command­Hallahan leaves his office in Diversity Division, said that she and-control center for a group of December after his early gradua­researched a program over the studenL'i working for their peers. tion, and he will likely not see the summer called "Sustained 
Members of several commit­end result of this work. But if his Dialogue" that she would like to tees in the Office of the Student administration wants to accom­implement next semester. Body President have spent the plish one of his important objec­"It is a student-run program in semester thus far in the ollices of tives before the end of their which faculty and students can administrators and faculty, dis­term, they must work a lot hard­get together and dialog," Garcia cussing issues pertinent to the er to effect change on this issue said. student body. The committees soon. If progress isn't made more According to Garcia, she deal with very prominent issues quickly, it may be another year already has administration in the life of students, as well as before students see changes to approval for the project; thus, all other issues they believe will the TCE process. that remains is for the division to benefit students in the future. One area where results are set it in motion. Hopefully, there 
The issue at the forefront of definitely will be results student body president Pat apparent is next semester. 
"We've been working 

Hallahan's campaign was TCE with the Last The Service, 
more on the draft ofthe

publication. To date, the Lecture Series. Spiritually and Academics Division in Hallahan's The Academics proposal, and Social Concerns ollice has nwt with administra­Division, Division has
fortunately the 

tors and is discussing ways to go according to focused its
[University] Academic 

about making progress on this Staley, worked efforts on issue. to find profes­Coun_cil decided to form establishing a "We've been working more on sors who volun­service trip,
a subcommittee on

the draft of the proposal. and teered to speak, similar to
TCE's."

fortunately the [University) and the pro­Appalachia, for Academic Council decided to gram has those who can­form a subcommittee on TCE's," worked well so Jeremy Staley not participate said Jeremy Staley. chair of the far this year. during the
academic division chair

academics division. "[The lecture Spring or Fall 
However, after nearly three series] is hitting breaks. They months of work, the division has ofT so well." he said. "The profes­want to establish more service not completed its proposal for sors have been very interested." opportunities, but not much has TCE publication. The series has been occurring been heard of this idea yet. 
"We have not submitted the regularly in different dorms A major concern of the Division proposal yet," Staley said. around campus this semester. on Student Life is the inaccessi­However, he did state that Most of the other projects the bility of the Counseling Center to progress has been made. "We members of the Office of the students. have examples of what other Student Body President are "Some students can't get in for schools are doing. It's ready to working on are long-term proj­two weeks," said division chair take o!T." ects, and no results are easily Joanna Cornwell. 
The proposal will be submitted apparent as yet. "A lot of students here can to the University Academic The Diversity Division plans to have problems with depression, Committee's task force on TCE's. begin a program entitled "Seven and we want to make sure they From there. the administrators Strangers." This program would get help." and faculty will review the pro­allow for seven students from The division is looking into bet­posal and decide what, if any seven different dorms to meet, tering care and services for stu­action to take. llowever. the first have a meal together and talk dents. They have met with repre-



This year, the Office of the ?ttJd~ntBodyp.r~$id#nt ha~ demonstrated an ability to obtain administration sl.lpport tor programs, and they have proventowork int~e .~stJQte(~J~ts of students. Also, th.e great~stJh1Pf9V¢trl~t'lt ppdj¢$ W!~~ $~!¥ dent body president Pat Hall~h9\i:$ effprp; ~o te$~t99f4fe $t(t dent government and improve.inefflciencles;.•• ·.•• >•· i• •>•·••··.········ i.····
However, many oftheir proposed programs, such#$ c;hanges to the Counseling Center and an Alumni Lecture $erles are scheduled to take place in the fUttJre. These are &{)Od ideas, but the St1.1dent Government members INiH.~ave t<:rPr?lle th~m~ selves capable of making the~e g9tiq iqe~~~fi~() ti~!PiHl [¢~IF ties for students. The studentbodywHI•·only.btf~t)!etot~llhoW'effective their student governmentisthrotigh rE!$ults; ·...·.··· ···· 
sentatives from the Counseling 
Center, but changes will probably 
not be apparent for some time. 
A few other projects that com­mittee is debating include work­ing with Notre Dame Security/Police to highlight places on campus that may not be as safe as others and supplying motorized carts for students who are temporarily disabled to facili­tate their movement around campus. 
The division has met with NDSP and Campus Life Council regarding these projects, but no definitive conclusions have been reached and no action taken. Specifically when these projects will have results is unclear. 
Some other small projects coming from this office, but with­out result as yet, include creating an integrated online calendar to coordinate the events of adminis­tration, faculty, student govern-. ment and the student body; sponsoring a hate crime vigil in March; holding a fundraiser enti­tled "Blessing Unto .Others," which would raise money for orphanages run by the Holy Cross and creating an alumni mentoring network and an alum­ni lecture series. 
Student government members have met with administrators on these projects, but results will probably not be seen for some time. 
The Office of the Student Body President has come up with sev­eral good ideas this year, but few of them have seen many, if any results. 
These projects are inherently long term, but with the end of the semester approaching quick­ly, the student government will not have much time during the spring semester to effect change. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 
Observer File Photos 
·Successful 


... ··• :r ••. Campaign ··•· ··· •·• : • · Promises 
Tlteol~ on Tap
Hallahan's administration has indeed implemented this pro­gram at legends, as promised. T~is provlc.les a setting where stu­den~s and faculty can discuss it:;syes rel?ted ~9 spirituality and
faith...·· ····· · · ···· 
NO #11n Service 
.··· Hallahan and Lao's goal to make Notr~. Dame the top Univ~rsity f9C service Js .helped l;llpq~ gy tb!\r ~P.min.i~ratiq~·s Sf:l.r"!~i SP!QttJallty anq •• Sqc1al Co[lcern~ Oiy}sion: This group is formulatihgJ:i program through Which •students .can take a serr. Ice trip during $enlor Week if they cannot atteo<t Appalachia during $Printtor•r:a11 bte$k. 
:~~:~Discussions 
·••.:. Hallahan's> Offtce held a eoffee house discussion with an exchange student from Nigeria to let students hear his experiences anc;l qpiJ'lions. on how relations betwe)en the• United ·states and
Africa can be improved. 

·· Promises in Progress 
:.. : .. ···.. ···.:.: ·· .. ::·. ·. 
T~~ Publication .. 
\{i;hile this campaign promise oas .not·.•ex~ctly •succeeded, :tf~tlaha n's .StCiff has definitely ffi~d~. ~rld~s.tO\VC)rd .·getting.· the Xtlffl§ ~9li~<!r resp<;>nse to th~lt iW9r~~ .JHe.Ur)iy~rsitY
Academic council •has formed a rce $6~omm~ to investigate fl)aking ch~nges to the TCE pro~. if 
.•...... One <:~it CQurses ·.. , 
Th~ Aclaqemi¢s•• DiVision oefHritteJY h~~rtl}h~ on. their list of things to do. ihey have had dis­cussions with some administr& tors to see how more on~redit courses can be offered to stu­dents; 
Alumni Mentoring 
···The University Affairs and Alumni Relations Division met with representatives from the Alumni Relations Office on cam­pus to decide ~ow best to goabqqt set;tingOp an·alumni men­taring program. Watch for signifi­cant steps to be taken within the next few months. 
.. 
E~~·r~l 
SYR's in Residence Halls 
Dvring their campaign, Hallahan arid Lao promised to fight to return the SYR's to dorms, but not a word has been spoken aboQt the issue this year. .The administration probably rea~ ized .this was a near-hopeless cause. 

New LaFortune Store 
·.·. The runningmates told stu­dents.last.Spring that they would like to Improve LaFortune by bringing .ln. a..·alpckbuster Video. 

Top right, student body vice president Jeremy Lao leads a Student Senate meeting. Above, student body president Pat Hallahan Qllit$ obvi()qslft tnl~ has not hap­addresses Senators. Members of the Student Government have worked closely with Hallahan and Lao to create new programs. pened either. # ··· 
Hallahan reflects on semester, prepares for transition 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS Associate News Editor 
Student body president Pat Hallahan entered his office last April with bold plans to help the student body. This fall, however, Hallahan realized that he would have to prioritize those plans, as his time in office was to be cut in half with his early graduation in December. 
Hallahan has spent the majority of his time this semester working to recreate an inefficient student government into one that works well and produces results more effectively. With this focus, some of the issues on which Hallahan campaigned had to be put on hold. 
"A Jot of the focus in my time has been on the Council of Representatives and the restructuring of student gov­ernment," Hallahan said. "Some of the issues that we campaigned on, it would seem they have taken a back seat." 
However, Hallahan has not spent all his time laying out the inner workings of the student government. 
"I put a Jot of emphasis on the Church in Africa Conference, and I took a lot of initiative with it," stated Hallahan, referring to the two-part conference, which began here this fall and will end in Nigeria in the Spring semester. 
Overall, Hallahan believes that the student government has made great strides toward greater efficiency so far this semester. 
"It's a slow process, but I think we're taking the right steps, and I think you'll see by March a structure where the policy bodies and programming bodies work together," he said. 
"We'll be in a position to go to the Board of Trustees and tell them,'This is what you told us to do, and we want to get more involved at the University level.'" 
Of course, Hallahan will not be on 

campus to see those changes happen. think we could have done a better job After his graduation in December, he in all bodies to address more concerns 
will be taking a  job  and issues."  
with the Democratic National Committee,  "When it comes to the  Much of Lao's work next semester will  
and  vice  president  issues, I think we could  surround forming  a  
Jeremy Lao will assume the presiden­cy.  have done ... a better job in all bodies to adress  plan for the reorgani;z;­ing of student govern­ment. Currently, the  
Lao, like Hallahan,  more concerns and  Council  of  
believes that progress lies in correcting the  issues.  Representatives has formed three propos­ 
inefficiencies in stu­ als for  a  new struc­ 
dent  government.  Jeremy Lao  ture, but Lao believes  
However, he is less  student body vice president  there will be more to  
optimistic about how  come.  
far the student gov­ "I think that those  

ernment has come this semester. three models for student government is "When it came to the issues, I think great, and I'm glad we're going some­we could have done more," Lao said. "I where," he said. "My concern is that I 

don't want student government to be non-representative, which is what I think these models may be. I'm sure there will be other plans that other people will develop." 
Lao has chosen current chief of staff Emily Chin to assume the role of stu­dent body vice president next semester. 
"Emily has been with me and Pat since last winter as our campaign man­ager," he said. "We work together real­ly well, and I know she is very commit­ted to the job." 
Chin echoes Lao's optimism. but does realize that there is room for improve­ment. 
"So far, I think we're doing pretty well," she said. "Getting started on projects is pretty easy because we have ... a lot of people that ware willing to learn." 
Her suggestions for improvement centered around the Student Senate, which she will be leading next semes­ter. 
"I think that the Senate is a very unique and diverse group, so I would like to see them be more vocal about diverse issues. I think that we're going to pinpoint more pressing issues that the University is working with and can concern the student body also," Chin said. 
The coming months will likely bring many more changes to the face of stu­dent government, and the results will show how well these student leaders transition into their new positions. 
Lao expressed his enthusiasm at the prospect of continuing to work with the student government. 
''I'm really looking forward to a great year with Pat and Emily, and I'm really excited about what we can do in the next two and a half months." 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 


QUO"JtES & F'ACTS  Tree bugs: for?.sters in Paris arl!! placing computer clups mto trees that u11U noid  
The Nano·"ic ~nstiiuk:  data on tree age. ho:anh. and !.oc.anon.  
for Eurcpaan Studies  [flips win bl! plin:eE.I in 900088 l.rel!s  
VINNI.nd.edul-nsnovic  throughout the-s:ity.  


Did You Know...• ? 
• 
The average American generates 4.4 pounds of waste each day. That's equivalent to 90.000 pounds of wa'ite in his/her lifetime . 

.. Recycling one glass container saves enough energy to light a 100-watt bulb for 4 hours. 

• 
Recycling one alwninum can saves enough energy to light a 100-watt bulb for 20 hours or to run a TV set for 3 hours. 

• 
Recycling 10,000 tons of waste creates 36 jobs while Jandfilling that v,;aste only creates 6 jobs and incinerating it creates only one. 


Do your part-RECYCLE! 
:f"Students For E_nvimnmental Action 
Pasatiempos de la Frontera: Personal Pastimes from the El Paso/Juarez Border Artist: Chuv Benitez 
PasatiEr!p)s is a photographic social docurrentary on life in the vvorld' s biggest l:order camu.mity and the traditions, culture, people and landmrks that have existed. :in this l:or­der ccmm.m.ity for decades. Chuy' s project has also been rrade r;ossible through a UROP grant fran the Institute for Sclolarship :in the Literal Arts. 
Opening Reception: Riley H:ll of Art Monday, December 1, 2003 2nd Floor Gallery 
, r' 

Houses for Rent 
It's not too late to find quality 
houses close to campus for the 2004-2005 school year Call Sean at 
Anlan Properties 574-532-1895 
Monday, November 24, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS page 5 
STUDENT SENATE 
Cotntnittees progress with ideas 
Groups research projects, meet with administrators 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
Associate News Editor 
The Student Senate's mission is to represent student opinion and strive to act in the best interest of all students. This year, they have proven to remain true to this mantra, but sometimes, results are hard to come by. 
''I've been very pleased with the issues [Senators) have brought up and the resolutions that have gone to the CLC and have passed," said student body vice president Jeremy Lao. "Overall, I'm very happy to see what the Senate has produced this year." 
Senators have used their time in student government to find issues that they deem important to students. 
The first important issue pre­sented to the Senate was the resolution proposed by student body president Pat Hallahan asking for Senators to give its power to amend the Student Union Constitution to the Executive Cabinet, which later morphed into the Council of Hepresentatives. 
With their first important reso­lution, however, Senators spent most of their time arguing over which of their powers they should retain, instead of debat­ing the effect the new group would have on the student body. 
In the end, Senators gave up their power to amend the Constitution, but after first spending two meetings arguing over the issue and then failing to approve Hallahan's resolution. 
The Senate has, however, proven they can respond to issues directly atTecting students and make significant strides to improve these issues. 
"Basically, our goal for· the year is in essence that we will attempt to improve campus life through the opinions of the stu­dent body," said lloward Senator Brin Anderson. Anderson is also chair of the Hesidence Life Committee in the Senate, which has dealt with many issues at the forefront of campus life. 
The Hesidence Life Committee in the Senate drafted a resolu­tion regarding resident assistant training procedures that, after approval by the Senate, they presented to the Campus Life Council. The resolution called for the CLC to establish a task force to investigate HA training. 
Despite staunch administra­tion support of its strict policy on RA training, the CLC sided with the Senate and established the proposed task force. 
The Residence Life Committee also authored the petition asking that the administration move the annual ROTC Presidential Pass In Review ceremony to an out­door location. Senators gathered over 2,000 student signatures for this petition and presented it to Bill Kirk, associate vice presi­dent for Residence Life. 
"We had about a quarter of the student body sign the peti­tion," said Anderson. 
Kirk said he was impressed with the Senators' etTorts, but it is not apparent that the petition will change Kirk's decision at all. 
Despite this indecision, the Senators' ability to take an issue and gather such substantial reaction from a usually apathet­ic student body shows their ded­ication to effecting positive change on campus. 
In addition to issues that origi­nate through other bodies, such as the RA training issue, Senators have shown that they have the ability and desire to look at the University and find places where improvements can be made. 
Such an issue is the proposed women's resource center, brought to the Senate by the Senate's committee on Gender Issues. 
This committee has spent the semester researching other top 20 institutions to establish a platform from which to plan a women's resource center for this University. 
"CLC was initially receptive," said Pangborn Senator Kaitlyn Redfield. "We've met with a lot of people individually, and they've been very receptive." 
These administrators do have some reservations about the proposed center, however, according to Redfield. 
"They have some concerns about issues that would sur­round a women's resource cen­ter, such as abortion and homo­sexuality," said Redfield. 
The Senate has indeed shown initiative with this proposal, but if Senators want it to be accept­ed, they must address these con­cerns and provide an outline, if not a specific plan, for how these issues should be addressed on a Catholic campus. 
Finally, the Senate has one project that is very near comple­tion. 
The Ad Hoc Committee on Student/Faculty Interaction established the Hall Fellows Program again this year. This committee recruited faculty par­ticipants and forwarded their names to the dorms. Currently, the dorms are in the process of choosing a faculty member (or two) to be their Hall Fellow. After that point, the dorm will be responsible for implementing the program and taking advan­tage of the opportunities atTord­ed them by this program. 
This is one program the Senate has been able to origi­nate and see through to comple­tion this semester. Although it is obvious that many projects take much more time to implement, the Ad Hoc committee has proven to work hard and accom­plish the goals they set. 
As the Senate has several good ideas in the works, the biggest issue facing Senators is to simply get the job done. The first semester will end within a few weeks, and Senators must then work within a time constraint to accomplish projects before a new Senate will take office in April. 
Several other ideas, which Senators are planning, include implementing a "ND" program, which would connect cell phones directly with NDSP and creating a distance-learning program to establish telecommunications capabilities to conduct lectures for students in a classroom from another location. The distance­learning program would allow for students to benefit from guest lecturers without the lec­turer even p.resent on campus. 
While these are ideas that would improve campus and aca­demic life, nothing has been brought out of the committee meetings. These issues must come to the full Senate meetings if Senators are going to accom­plish anything significant regarding them. Resolutions are necessary on these issues to offi­cially establish Senate's belief that there is a need for these improvements. If no resolutions are passed, these issues may not end up in the hands of the prop­er administrators. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 



FACULTY SENATE 
Group addresses important issues after restructuring 
By BETH ERICKSON 
News Writer 
The Faculty Senate has tackled many important issues this year, such as TCE's and faculty grievance procedures. Their work this year follows restructuring within the group that took place last year. 
"I think that the Faculty Senate is just beginning to stretch its wings," vice -chair Jeremy Fein, director of the Environmental Molecular Science Institute. said. "We re -formed last year, and in many ways. this year is a trial year during which we can sec whether our influence can significantly impact universi­ty policies and practices." 
• -lhe 'Senate hM Wbtked to ImptlWif"'tM' grievance procedures for faculty. In September, the Faculty Senate passed a resolution to amend the Academic Articles, creating provisions for hearings regarding severe 
Brandenberger, are considering ·possible changes in the publication format of Teacher-Course Evaluations. 
"We have begun thinking about possible changes to the TCE 
sanctions against process that would faculty members. "The Faculty Senate is just provide students A second resolu­with some informa­
beginning to spread its wings. " 
tion to establish fac­tion, but still main­ulty grievance pro­tain confidentiality cedures is currently Jeremy Fein of some aspects of under revision by vice chair the form," said Fein. the Administrative The Academic Affairs committee, Affairs committee chaired by music professor Paula Higgins. discussed shrinking library resources and 
The Academic Affairs committee, is looking to develop a better process for chaired by chemistry professor Seth faculty input in the allocation of library Brown, and the Student AtTairs committee, resources, said Brown. chaired by ·p·sychology professor Jay Changes In faculty benefits, Including a new, self-funded health plan and a crisis management program, were announced by the Benefits committee, chaired by business professor Nasir Ghiaseddin. 

Elections for a new chairperson will be held during the Senate's December meet­ing. Under the guidance of a new chair, the Senate will persist in its attempt to make the faculty's voice heard. 
"It's still an open question whether an advisory entity like the Senate has a useful place here at Notre Dame, but I think that there is much goodwill toward the Senate on the part of the Administration, so I'm quite hopeful that progress on a number of fronts can be made," he said. 
Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 
Monday, November 24, 2003 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Council improves productivity, efficiency 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writor 
In the past, the Campus Life Council had a reputation for being unproductive and tending to react to decisions made by other organizations and parts of student government rather than take initiative on its own. This year, however, things are begin­ning to change for the organiza­tion that brings together stu­dents, administrators and faculty to discuss important issues. 
To date, CLC is working with Student Senate to draft a resolu­tion supporting a proposed University women's center and is in the process of investigating potential parking perks for on­campus seniors. 
Perhaps their most important accomplishment, however, is a 


resolution passed to form a task force to investigate issues sur­Composition and Gender Affairs. Kirk, according to CLC member and chief of staff in the government's report to the Board rounding resident assistant train­Relations. All three committees member Wyatt Maxwell, has Office of the Student Body of Trustees on possible restruc­ing and attendance policies. The have been fairly successful in been particularly supportive. President. turing of the organization. issue was brought to the fore­pinpointing reasonable issues to The task force is also investi­The task force began the "Our main purpose at the time front of the campus community focus on and taking the neces­gating the sale and distribution semester by comparing Notre was to get administrator, student when several RAs either quit or sary steps to see that they are policy of class rings. Members Dame's gender relations environ­and faculty discussion for our faced termination because sched­implemented. said they were concerned that ment to 15 peer institutions, Board of Trustees meeting," said ule conflicts prohibited them Perks for seniors advertising is being geared including Duke and Boston Jeremy Lao, student body vice from attending all of the training The Senior Privileges task force toward sophomores despite the College, with similar social and · president and CLC member. sessions. has primarily focused its atten­fact that the privilege is tradition­academic climates. The task force will continue its 
CLC's actions have increased tion on parking awards for on­ally reserved for seniors. The group found that most of investigation into next semester respect among students, faculty campus students. The task force Finally, members are interested the other institutions had some and collaborate with other and administrators, according to is looking into the possibility of in the possibility of establishing kind of option for co-ed living branches of student government Pat Hallahan, student body presi­either reducing or eliminating the time at Legend's solely for se_niors which helped to foster stronger to work on changing membership dent and chair of the organiza­parking fees that on-campus sen­to replace the void created when relationships between the sexes. composition in order to improve tion. iors pay along with offering Senior Bar closed. "We are looking into the co-ed efficiency. · 
"I think it's a good step to give reserved spots for them in the D2 The Task Force has been suc­option and seeing if it is feasible The investigation, along with CLC a lot of credibility," he said. and D6lots. cessful in making progress for our University," she said other actions taken by CLC, is "It's responding to an issue that "The idea was that we didn't toward their goals in part More recently, the task force helping to redefine the organiza­concerns the student communi­want to create a senior privilege because they are reasonable, has committed to work with tion and show the University ty." to keep them on campus but have Rakoczy said. members of Student Senate to community that it is willing and 
By discussing issues together, it as a 'thank-you,"' said Heather "The students wanted to focus draft a resolution to Student able to act rather than simply the group also said that they real­Rakoczy, a council member and on goals that would have imme­Affairs concerning a proposed react. ized they could accomplish things rector of Pangborn Hall. "It's diate and positive repercussions," women's resource center. "It's better to be catching things without always going through the important for the University to she said. Defining CLC early and bringing them up as formality of passing a resolution. show gratitude for keeping senior Exploring gender relations The final working committee of issues instead of waiting for an 
"Everything isn't going to be in leadership on campus. We really The Gender Relations task CLC is the Composition task issue to be implemented and then the form of a resolution," need senior leadership in the force is a new addition to CLC force, which is charged with complain about it," Hallahan Hallahan said. halls, especially for freshmen." this year, replacing the Sidewalk researching into the makeup of said. Outside of their biweekly meet­So far, the group has shared Safety committee. the council's representatives. 
ings, members are divided into their idea with Rex Rakow and "We decided that it wasn't as The task force was initiallycommittees or task forces includ­Phil Johnson of campus security much of an issue as gender rela­formed to gather information and Contact Andrew Thagard at ing Senior Privileges, and Bill Kirk, director of Student tions," said Emily Chin, a council generate discussion for student athagard@nd.edu 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
New body works to restructure, improve government 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
As chair of the Council of Representatives student body president Pat Hallahan effectively sets the agenda for all organizations within the Student Union. 
The council, previously known as Executive Cabinet, is composed of the Student Body Vice President, the Chief of Staff. representatives from each class council, the Student Senate, the Financial Management Board, Hall Presidents Council, the Student Union Board, the Judicial Board, and the Club Coordination Council. 
This semester, members of the council have primarily focused on a complete overhaul of the student government sys­tem. Hallahan characterized the effort as "a down payment on a long term solution." 
The council's ambitious plan is the first step to realizing the student body's desire: a government that works. 
In particular, separating various bod­ies into programming, residential and policy councils is a popular concept among student leaders. Groups would have specific and unique mandates, so that results could be seen more quickly without duplicating efforts. 
However, there have been some prob­
lems. The process is inherently slow. In 
order to proceed with caution and 
thoughtfulness, council members have 
held special sessions to address the finer 
points of the student union constitution. 
In addition, jurisdictional squabbles 
have held up the work of the council. 
The issue of off-campus students' repre­
sentation has kept the council from 
wrapping up the new structure and mov­
ing on to addressing the issues. 
"Student government has been very 
territorial," Hallahan admitted. "But 
we're starting to think outside our own 
organizations." 
That spirit of cooperation is a far cry 
from last year';; student government, 
when the relationship between then­
president Libby Bishop and the Student 
Senate appeared strained as they battled 
over the Board of Trustees report. 
Communication 
Communication with the students has generally been good. The "Under the Dome" calendar, which provides a cen­tral Web-based platform for student activities, is a great step. The only signif­.icant problem is that many clubs and students have not yet adopted the calen­dar, which is available on the "Popular 
Sites" box at the Notre Dame Web site. 
Communication among student gov­ernment leaders, however, is another matter. The council is intended to be a forum for student leaders to coordinate their activities and discuss issues of importance to the student body. For the past several weeks, however, that hasn't happened much. 
The focus on restructuring the Student Union is simply a huge task, and it has taken priority over discussion of the issues. Representing student Interests 
A key responsibility of any elected rep­resentative is to act as an advocate for his constituents. Student leaders should work to be involved in policy making activities on the university level. Issues like alternative housing arrangements, hall dances and the alcohol policy really matter to students. "Students don't care what student government looks like," Hallahan said. "They care about the results that come out of it." 
In dealing with University officials, those results have been largely absent. Last month, Hallahan and his vice presi­dent Jeremy Lao received a similar wel­come from the trustees regarding a pro­posal to restructure Campus Life Council. 
Hallahan characterized the trustees' responses to his presentation as "very honest" but "very harsh." 

Specific Issues 
During their campaign, Hallahan and Lao pledged to work for the release of teacher-course evaluation results, and progress has been made toward this goal. The Academic Council approved the formation of a committee to review the TCE process, and work will continue into next semester. 
That question of representation of off­campus students in student government has been debated vigorously at council meetings. Some see the off-campus stu­dents as a completely different demo­graphic than on-campus residents, while others want off-campus students to be represented just like any dorm. This infighting, however, has distracted the council from the safety and security issues that concern many off-campus students. 
The creation of the Theology on Tap program at Legends has been a success. The events, which bring students and faculty together to discuss issues relating to faith and religion, have been well received. Cold beer, free snacks, stimu­lating conversation. What's not to like? The drinks are full price. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at bramanti.l@nd.edu 

Monday, November 24, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 7 
CCC distributes club money 
By BETH ERICKSON 
News Writer 
The Club Coordination Council this year has worked to fulfill its main objectives, which are representation, allocation of funds. advocacy and encouraging collabora­tion within clubs this semester. 
"Over 75 percent of Notre Dame under­graduate students are in clubs," CCC presi­dent Seth O'Donnell said. "We have served our constituents very well, representing club interests to the student government, admin­istration. and lighting for every additional dollar that can benefit student clubs." 
Tho CCC recnived an additional $20,000 at the Financial Management Board's annual meeting last spring, marking the first time that supplementary funds wern granted to the CCC. 
FMB disperses budget funds 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
This year, the Financial Management Board has worked to effectively and fairly to allocate money throughout the Student Government. 
1\s one of its annually duties, the FMB has heard appeals for The Shirt Charity Fund and proposals for any budgetary expense over $5,000, induding those for the Notre Dame Literary Festival and the Right to life dub. 
"One of the projects currently being con­siden~d is the examination of the technology fund. and discussion regarding the most eflicitmt way to allot the monies to benefit the most student organizations," said Sarah Blake, ofT-campus eo-president and mem­ber of the FMB. 
GSU plans events, sets goals 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
Thus far into the school year. the GSU has already made many efforts to improve the social. cultural. professional and intellectual lives of the graduate students-some of the organization's main objectives. 
Arter orchestrating a successful incoming graduate student orientation, they planned many group events, including the East River Bace, ice skating, a football concession stand and the upcoming Thanksgiving brunch. 
To make the distribution of information to graduate students more ellicicnt, electronic resources administrator Yanto Go pur­chasnd a new computer server and is in the process of designing a new GSU Web site. Also, Post and Byrne lobbied on Capitol Hill 
HPC allocates :money, support 
By MEGHAN MARTIN 
News Writer 
The Hall Presidents' Council began the year with a clear mission in mind. 
"We decided we had two goals: use all programming funds available to us, and plan quality events with the dorms," said co­chair Sarah Keefer. 
In addition to obtaining increased funding from the Financial Management Board, Keefer and Wyatt Maxwell, who jointly facil­itate the operations of I I PC, put together a list of all funding available for programming use on campus for hall presidents to utilize. 
The strategy has worked out well for HPC, a body dedicated to maintaining and improving the quality of residential life on campus. 
Inter-and intra-dorm events arc on the increase this semester, and 26 out of the 27 
In October, the organization began requir­ing monthly updates from individual clubs in an effort to improve communication between CCC division representatives and the clubs they represent. 
It has heard appeals for the Executive Cabinet Collaboration fund and the CCC Contingency/Emergency Appeal funds, which will fmance events after the allocation and budget processes have been completed. 
The organization plans to refurbish its online allocation system and remodel the process of new club approvals in conjunc­tion with the Student Activities Office. 
It hopes to post a CCC Web site, finish revising its bylaws, and organize a Club Officer Summit for the second semester. 
Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 
Starting in January, the FMB will take on its most involved and important task -the budget review process. The spending review itself will take place during the first week of December this year, and the alloca­tion of funds occurs in March. 
FMB president Don Norton said, "Every club and organization will submit a spend­ing review to be approved by the Board, and according to the funds available, the FMB will begin planning the new year's budget ... during this time, we also encour­age student leaders to focus on proper and effective budgeting." 
The FMB is also made up of the two assis­tant treasures and the controllers or treas­ures of the executive cabinet organizations in the FMB. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichaels@nd.edu 

in favor of tax exemptions for graduate housing, as provided for in the Higher Education Act. 
The GSU has several goals set to accom­plish for the next semester. Currently, nego­tiations for health insurance subsidization are in progress, as well as the publishing of a GSU newsletter. An ad hoc parking com­mittee is discussing a new plan for graduate student parking with University administra­tion, and, in conjunction with the University Committee for Women Faculty and Staff, GSU representatives arc developing a policy for maternity leave for graduate students. 
"As with every year," said GSU president Martiqua Post, "the primary objective of the GSU is to promote excellence in graduate education at Notre Dame." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichaels@nd.edu 
residence halls have applied for extra fman­cial support from the University's Matching Funds program, designed to help them pur­chase such items as TVs and exercise equip­ment. 
Dorm collaboration and communication, which lie at the heart of HPC's mission, have increased with the streamlining of HPC's executive cabinet. 
"We're a good way of getting the word out to students," said Welsh Family co-president Demetrius Hall. 
Many presidents say they see an increase in student participation at hall-sponsored events, but agree that room for improve­ment is always available. Keefer and Maxwell said they plan to continually evalu­ate the Council's efforts at fostering a strong residential community at Notre Dame. 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Group plans events, entertairunent for students 
By BETH ERICKSON 
News Writer 
The Student Union Board has pro­vided many entertaining and educa­tional programs for the student body this semester. 
"We try to provide the best possi­ble programs and events to cater to the student body's wants," director of 

comedians, in director of programming This year's Notre 
September. 
In October, it hosted Step Afrika, which Romero described as "a step-dancing group that com­bines American frat and sorority stepping with African tribal dance." 
SUB invited notable comedian David Spade to perform stand-up at the Joyce Center in October. The club received some criticism because of the financial losses it incurred due to low ticket sales. 
The club organized three ticket giveaways this semester, holding lot­teries for the Michigan, Purdue and Boston College away games. 
Several complaints were voiced after the Michigan lottery, in which only 700 lottery tickets were distrib­uted to the 1500 fans waiting in line. 
The lottery process was improved upon for the Purdue and Boston College lotteries, in which every stu­dent in line was furnished with a lot­tery ticket. 
"We got a lot of negative media for the first lottery," said Romero. "Yet, when we did get the process almost perfected, no one congratulated us." 

The organization has continued to coordinate the traditional weekly events Acoustic Cafe and SUB Movies. 
SUB has already accomplished much this fall, but the bulk of its programs will be put on during the 
Dame Literary 

Festival, entitled "Reading Between the Lines," will invite several prominent authors to deliver lectures, participate in class­room discussions, hold workshops and meet with students. 
The 46th annual Collegiate Jazz Festival will be held the last week­end in February. As the oldest col­lege jazz festival in the nation, it attracts jazz ensembles from col­leges around the nation. 
SUB will host several additional musical performances during spring semester, including the band Oval Opus, which is an up-and-coming band similar to Counting Crows. 
Homero related the strength of SUB this year and its ability to deliv­er quality programming to the depth of its staff and the addition of Erin Byrne as its new adviser. 
Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 
sUJdent ·body with 
pus this .snags due u nd­
spring semester. 
"We have been so hard at work planning for next semester," Homero said. 
Two of SUB's most high-profile events, the Notre Dame Literary Festival and the Collegiate Jazz Festival will host their main events in February. 
programming Tai Romero said. 
The club brought a campus favorite, hyp­notist Dale K to Washington Hall in August and sponsored Laughing Irish. a comedy night featur­ing three of Notre Dame's best alumni 

"We try to provide the best possible programs and events to cater to the student body's want. " 
Tal Romero 

Director of programming Tal Romero and Student Union Board manager Charlie Ebersol work to program events, which Include concerts, movies and comedians, for the student body. 
ObseiVer File Photo 
Monday, November 24, 2003 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
Meet Matt Q. Public Setting an example 
Hello. My name is Matt. I am the 
Notre Dame student public. Much like a 
large majority of you out there, I do not 
understand the nuances of student gov­
ernment. Oh, sure, I read most of the 
Observer editorials 
and columns, espe­
cially those radical 
ones, which call for 
replies from Father 
Edward Malloy. My 
personal favorites 
condemn the 
University for instill­
ing a jaded and indif­
ferent attitude in its 
student body. And 
these well-written 
pieces get me think­
ing. I wonder. why oh 
why can't the students get a fair shake 
at this school? I question why I have 
my parents pay upwards of 35 g's a 
year to attend a school that won't let 
my representatives help determine my 
policies. I ponder as to why the SYR ·was so unexpectedly torn from our 
grasp. 
But then I finish my delicious fried 
chicken from North Dining Hall, throw 
The Observer on the table and go to my 
next class. 
As Matt Q. Public, sometimes I sign 
petitions, and I always agree that the 
administration is oppressive. But essen­
tially there is no substantial reason for 
me to put time and effort into believing 
in change that won't happen. So I just 
don't care. That's just the way it is. 
Now I could rant and rave about how 
the lack of results has spawned an apa­
thetic consciousness among the student 
body. But that is beating a dead horse. 
And poor Rusty's been beaten enough 
times with rejections from the Board of 
Trustees. In fact. come to think of it, a 
dead horse might be just the thing stu­
dent government needs to get their big­
ticket agenda through the administra­
tion. If a dead horse somehow made its 
way into the conference room, the 
stench would drive away the unpre­
pared administration officials and the 
students would finally have the majori­
ty they need. But then there goes the 
quorum. They always get you with the 
technicalities. 
In reality, I'm not that different from 
those people that actually participate in 
student government. My resume is 
probably less polished, I'm not 
acquainted with parliamentary proce-

Matt Mooney 
Columnist 
dure, and I've got a lot more time on my hands to write silly columns like this one. But other than that, we all put our pants on one leg at a time, our fecal matter all possesses an odor and insert any other universalizing cliche here. Our most common trait lies in the inability to get any large issues of stu­dent interest passed into duLac Canon. Really all student government has on me is a gavel, and I'm working on that. 
Now don't get me wrong. I am not a proponent of the argument that says student government is completely use­less. Registering for English classes is useless. I'm sure student government does a lot of good things for the student community. But since I can't think of any examples, I will cease with the vague, unsubstantiated claims and finally make a point. (Yeah, I know, buckle up.) Student government will never pass any legislation that even slightly disagrees with the opinion of the administration. That is because the system was set up by the administra­tion for its own well-being. Trust me, it's not coincidence that administrative seats number just enough to prevent student-initiated resolutions, or what­ever the heck those things are called, from being passed into duLac. Pat Hallahan's (he's our president, right?) effort to take on the Trustees was noble, just like the Titanic was noble. The system is set up to fail with respect to student interest. The administration holds all the necessary power. In addi­tion, one quarter of administrative opposition leaves every year due to graduation. In place of resistance and conflict arrive a new batch of fresh faces who don't know any better. We should be so lucky to get a new University cabinet every four years. 
So what's my point? My point is that anything short of a coup and the com­plete overthrow of both the Board of Trustees and the University President will bring change. I am Matt Q. Public and the time has come for me to mobi­lize. I will mobilize myself over to the Playstation and hopefully teach all of you a lesson that columns like this one written by uninformed people like me really have no relevance at all. Thank you. 
The views experienced in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu. 
I recently attended the presidential search student question answer ses­sion as a minority among a majority of student government association leaders. It was easy to differentiate them with their black pants, dress shirts and well groomed hair among masses of un-showered, sweatshirt clad women searching for something edi­ble in the dining hall and flocking to the west wing. 
As I picked at my macaroni and cheese and lis­tened to the candi­date field difficult questions from demanding students, I gained pride for my classmates and for those who represent me on the various boards of student government. Through their questions and interaction with the candidate I sensed genuine concern about the future of the college and what these candidates had to offer. 
Student government is something I had been a part of since my first year of high school until I recently decided I wanted to dissociate myself with the organization. After serving one year as the publicity head on the first year board at Saint Mary's, I developed a prejudice toward members of the group as students who wanted power and prestige, but who were not true leaders. They plan trivial social events, throw around huge amounts of money and benefit from their posi­tion of authority. 
This stigma only increased when I became a resident advisor, a position that requires you to give up executive offices on campus. While student gov­ernment and residence life ought to work together, they seemed to be opposing forces my first year as a res­ident advisor. Personally, I found the opposition to be rooted in the murky definition of a leader. Many people need tactile evidence of leadership, which is easy to come by in the more showy position of student government, but difficult to come by in the confi­dential position of a resident advisor. 
As someone disillusioned with stu­dent government, the tangible evi­dence of the leadership abilities in members of student government was just what I needed. Witnessing the interaction between the student gov­


ernment members and the candidate 
reminded me why I came to Saint 
Mary's two and a half years ago. The student leaders of Saint Mary's, par­ticularly those in student government association. left an impression on me when I visited as a high school senior. 
It was student government who held a question answer session during my visit. they were the ones giving the 
tours, essentially, they were the ones going out of their way to welcome 
prospective students to campus. I left campus inspired to emulate their charisma and confidence and applied 
to Saint Mary's as a result. 
Sitting in the west wing, I suddenly became aware of my daily interaction with such accomplished women and my personal transformation from a meek and ignorant high school senior to a confident and well-versed college junior. This realization burned the fog off my vision of student government as a meaningless activity, bringing a clear appreciation for what members do for our campus out of a pure drive to improve the College for themselves as well as others. 
While I am sure most of the student leaders were required to be present at the presidential question answer ses­sion, it was wonderful to see students taking interest in the presidential search process nonetheless. Members of SGA represent the student body on a regular basis at such functions be it required or not, their position is vol­untary in the long run. 
I will admit that when missing an event like this, I have sadly felt that my opinion has gone unheard. However, after hearing the women of the class boards, board of governance and various clubs ask questions and engage in discussions meant to help the future of what will soon enough be my alma mater. I believe that the stu­dent body of the past, present and future is in good and caring hands ­hands that, in fact, belong to the most prominent student leaders in the Saint Mary's community. 
The views experienced in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Natalie Bailey at bail1407@saint­marys.edu. 


STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT 
Jablonski-Diehl works toward accomplishing goals 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD Saint Mary's Editor 
Before becoming Saint Mary's student body president and vice president, Elizabeth Jablonski­Diehl and Sarah Brown shared many similarities -and now, liv­ing in connected singles, they share a bathroom. 
Both Jablonski-Diehl and Brown were orientation coun­SI~lors, sophomore class presi­dents and members of Saint Mary's Judicial Board and the Volunteers In Support of Admissions program prior to holding their current positions. In addition, Jablonski-Diehl served on her freshman class board and was student body vice president in the 2002-03 academic year. 
After crossing paths through student government and estab­lishing a good work relationship, the two dncided to campaign together for the 2003-04 year. 
"Even just because she was sophomore class president before me. the transition time was a time where we rnally got to work together and got to know one another." Brown said. 
Jablonski-Diehl and Brown centered their campaign on a "Leadership That's Working" approach. /\!though they were the only ticket competing in the race, both were aware they had challenges to face and promises to keep. 
"For me, !the biggest challenge) was the fact that we were coming off of a year that we had done something huge," Jablonski-Diehl snirl. "Passing the study day was something that Kim Jensen and I SJwnt so much time on, so it was like how do you follow up on that and how do you continue from there'?" 
The team introduced ideas on their platform that included cen­tralizing campus information for student<;, making student govern­ment representatives and corn­missioners available and respon­sive to student needs, sponsoring monthly bus trips to Chicago and obtaining contimwd support for the Heading Day proposal. 
"I think we've accomplished almost everything on our plat­form," Jablonski-Diehl said. "What made Sarah and my goals a littln bit diiTerent was that we had set things we wanted to deal 
with, but they were sort of larger, 
general ideas that we wanted to 
get started. Our idea was to make 
sure that each commissioner had 
a project and that's gone better 
than I could have ever imagined. 
When you empower each of them 
with an individual project ... they 
really run with it." 
1\s president and vice presi­
dent, Jablonski-Diehl and Brown have held true to their original goals. They have arranged stu­dent bus trips to Chicago begin­ning after the Thanksgiving holi­day and continuing through next semester. They have brought the Saint Mary's-Notre Dame shuttle back to LeMans Hall, as prom­ised. They ensure that student government representatives are visible and available for daily . contact. To help guarantee accountability, they regularly update news and information on the Internet and activities phone 
line. 
"Instead of us putting out one 
huge project, we're doing a lot of 
smaller things that hopefully 
improve campus life," Jablonski­
Diehl said. "I spend a lot of time 
in one-on-one meetings with stu­
dents. That's probably one of the 
best parts of my job." 
Now. they say their biggest 
challenge is maintaining the 
oversight of projects their com­
missioners and boards are work­
ing on -in addition to upholding 
their responsibilities as students. 
"It's important for us to make 
sure that all of the different 
pieces feel like they're part of stu­
dent government and feel that 
they're getting the support they 
need," Brown said. 
Jablonski-Diehl sits on two 
boards and four to live commit­
tees, including the presidential 
search committee, while Brown 
holds positions on four boards 
and all five academic committees. 
Despite their busy schedules, 
the two are currently working 
with Keith Fowlkes, Saint Mary's 
director of Information 
Technology, to establish a cam­
pus cable station expected to be 
in operation next year. They also 
arc working closely with the 
Ollice of Hesidence Life to update 
the College's judicial procedure 
for students' future benefit. 
Before their administration 
expires on April 1, both 
Jablonski-Diehl and Brown hope 
to conclude revision work on the student government constitution, a process already in its third year. 

"Sarah and I have done a lot of work to make sure that student government is respected not only by the students, but also by the administration and faculty as something that is recognized and that really works," Jablonski­Diehl said. 
Brown anticipates running for student body president in next semester's election and hopes to continue what the pair has estab­lished over the past year. 
"Building on the success of the individual projects of the commis­sioners and just keeping the structure of how things were run this year would be really helpful," she said. "I think we've gotten a lot done that way." 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 


STUDENT TRUSTEE 
Mahoney represents student voice among SMC trustees 
By ANNIE BASINSKI News Writer  On the Facilities and Grounds commit­tee. Mahoney has worked with the other trustees to develop plans for the on-earn­ are going as planned and student con­cerns are not forgotten," Mahoney said. Although the College does not require  insight on their opinions about the can­didates. Mahoney said she also watched to see how students reacted to the candi­ 
pus apartments that are now under con­ its Student Trustee to participate in BOG.  dates as they were speaking. She took  
/\s the lone student on Saint Mary's  struction. The commit- Mahoney believes that  notes on the candidates and plans to  
Board of Trustees. Sara Mahoney said  tee members use stu­ by taking part in stu­ review the feedback forms completed by  
she is the voice for her peers to make change. "I have a very unique opportunity to serve students and work with adminis­ dent input and the results from a survey given to students regarding their con­ "/ want to be there to make sure things are going as planned and  dent government she can better relay stu­dents' concerns to th~ Board of Trustees.  students after each candidate's visit. "I want Saint Mary's to get a quality president," Mahoney said, "I take that job very seriously and understand that I  
trators," she said. "It is a very exciting  cerns about the apart­ student concerns are not  Most  recently,  must make a  wise decision for the stu­ 
position because I am able to represent students in the larger issues."  ments to help make regulation decisions.  forgotten. "  . Mahoney worked with the trustees on the  dents." Another of Mahoney's goals as student  
After applying for the position of stu­ Mahoney said one  of  presidential  search  trustee is to foster diversity and commu­ 
dent trustee last fall.  Mahoney was  her personal goals for  Sara Mahoney  campaign. As student  nity at Saint Mary's.  
appointed to the position by President  the apartments is to  student trustee  trustee, Mahoney will  By not singling out any particular  
Marilou Eldred. ller torm began last  ensure they promote  vote for which candi­ group, but maintaining diversity through  
.June and will end in April.  self-independence for  date she believes will  the creation of community, Mahoney  
Mahoney, a senior, shares full-voting  seniors. She said she  best  serve  Saint  believes Saint Mary's will stay true to its  
privileges with the other trustees. On the  understands the importance of creating  Mary's.  mission.  
board. she serves as a  member of the  an environment that caters to the needs  Mahoney attended all forums for the  
Student Life and Facilities and Grounds  the students who will live there.  four presidential candidates. She spoke  Contact Annie Basinski at  
committees.  "I want to be there to make sure things  with students after each forum to gain  basi0223@saintmarys.cdu  

Career, Job and Internship Fairs 2003 University of Notre Dame The Career Center 

The job and internship search is farfrom over! Look at thefollowing events to continue your searchfor permanent and summer employment opptunities!!! 



Chicago Career and Internship Connection Status: Confirmed Date: January 05, 2004 -9:00 AM-5:00 PM 
Location:  AMA 8655 West Higgins Road Chicago, IL  
Website:  

http://www. rochester. ed u/careercenter/s tud ents/cic/ch i cago. html Details: *DEADLINE to register, upload and submit resumes for Chicago is December 1' 2003 
• Seniors, Juniors, Sophomores and Freshmen Network in Chicago! 
+ The Chicago Career and Internship Connection blends the best of a career fair ar!d a pre-screened interview event. 
• Identify and interact with recruiters from fields i~cluding_: advertisin~. biotech, engineering, healthcare, investment and commerc1al banking, consulting, law, public relations, publishing and more! . . .. 
+ Interview for post-baccalaureate and 1nternsh1p opportumt1es! 
New Jersey Collegiate Career Day Status: Confirmed Date: January 07, 2004-9:30 AM-3:30 PM Location: Browers Commons & Rutgers Student Center 
College Avenue -Rutgers University New Brunswick, NJ 
Website:http://careerservices.rutgers.edu 
Details: · Rutgers University is hosting the 33rd semi-annual New Jersey Collegiate Career Day for anyone interested in working in the New Jersey or New York City areas. 
About 150 employers will discuss current and anticipated openenings with canidates in most career fields and academic majors, including liberal arts, business, science, and technical areas. Students from any college or university who wish to work in the New Jersey area are invited to attend. 
Students can register online and submit a resume to be distributed employers from December 1, 2003 -January 9, 2004 online at http://careerservices.rut­gers.edu 
Washington, DC Career & Internship Connection Status: Confirmed Date: January 08, 2004 -9:00 AM-4:00 PM Location: National Press Club 
529 14th Street Washington, DC 
Website:http://www. rochester. edu/ca reercenter/students/cic/dc. html Details: *DEADLINE to register, upload and submit resumes for Washington is December 1, 2003 
+ Seniors, Juniors, Sophomores and Freshmen Network in DC! 
• The Washington Career and Internship Connection blends the best of a career fair and a pre-screened interview event. 
+ Identify and interact with recruiters from fields in_cluding:_ advertising.' biotech, engineering, healthcare, investment and commerc1al bank1ng, consulting, law, public relations, publishing and more! 
• Interview for post-baccalaureate and internship opportunities! 
Careers 2004 -New York Status: Confirmed Date: January 09, 2004 -8:00 AM-3:00 PM Location: New York City 
New York, NY 
Website:www.careerconferences.com Details: Large event with Fortune 500 employers and some governmental organiza­tions. Open table format with students meeting employers. Students _mu~t reg­ister on-line at www.careerconferences.com. Initial application deadline 1s November 28th, but you may apply up to December 19, 2003. 
Boston Career & Internship Connection Status: Confirmed Date: January 12, 2004 -9:00 AM-4:00 PM Location: John Hancock Conference Center 
40 Trinity Place -3rd Floor Boston, MA 
Website:http://www.rochester.edu/careercenter/students/cic/boston.html 
Details: *DEADLINE to register, upload and submit resumes for Boston is December 1, 2003 v Seniors, Juniors, Sophomores and Freshmen Network in Boston! 
+ 
The Chicago Career and Internship Connection blends the best of a career fair and a pre-screened interview event. 

+ 
Identify and interact with recruiters from fields including: advertising, biotech, engineering, healthcare, investment and commercial banking, consulting, law, public relations, publishing and more! 

+ 
Interview for post-baccalaureate and internship opportunities! 


Careers 2004 -Atlanta Status: Confirmed Date: January 19, 2004 -8:00 AM-3:00 PM Location: Atlanta 
Atlanta, GA 

Website:www.careerconferences.com Details: Expect about 40-50 Fortune 1000 employers and a few governmental orga­nizations attending the event. To register, logon to www.careerconfer­ences.com. The event is invitation only. Initial application deadline is November 28th, but you may apply up to December 19, 2003. 
Careers 2004 -Chicago Status: Confirmed Date: January 26, 2004 -9:00 AM-4:00 PM Location: Chicago 
Drury Lane 
Oak Brook Terrace, IL 
Website:www.careerconferences.com 

Details: . Register on-line at www.careerconferences.com to attend this live event 1n Chicago with 40-50 Fortune 1,000 companies and a f~w governmental orga­nizations. Bus transportation will be provided for the f1rst 45 students -~ho will be attending. Email Bridget at kibbe.1 @nd.edu or call, 1-5200. lmt1al application deadline is November 28th, but you may apply up to January 19, 2004. 
Hire Big Ten Plus Status: Confirmed Date: January 26, 2004-1:00PM End Date: February 16, 2004 -1 :00 PM Location: Virtual 
On-line 

Website:http://careercenter.nd.edu Details: Welcome to the HIRE BIG 10 PLUS Virtual Career Fair for Full-Time and Internship Opportunities! This is the largest virtual_ career fair for college stu­dents in the world. You're invited to browse the fa1r to check out what employers have to offer. Links to the registration interface can be found below every job description. . . Interested students must email Lee Svete at svete.1 @nd.edu for application information. 
2004 Winter Career Fair and Diversity Reception Status: Confirmed Date: January 27, 2004-4:00 PM-8:00PM Location: Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
Website:https://careercenter.nd.edu/winterfair2004.php Details: Register on-line for the largest Career Fair of the year for Notre Dame. In addition be sure to attend the Diversity Reception 1 :00 -3:30 pm (EST)Monogr~m Room located in the Joyce Ce~ter. IJ'!~ are currently seeking Corporate Sponsors for the Reception, which Will Include a studenUemployer business card exchange and networking event. 
Indiana Journalism Job Fair Status: Confirmed Date: February 07, 2004-10:00 AM-4:00PM Location: Ball State University 
Muncie, IN 

Website:http://careercenter.nd.edu Details: · Meet and Interview with Newspaper Editors seeking to hire for FULL-TIME and INTERNSHIP Opportunities. Information about Participating Employers and Scheduling Interviews will be available from The Career Center after December 10. Contact Anita Rees for more information at rees.4@nd.edu 


log on at careercenter. nd .edu 
Monday, November 24, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 11 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
Board provides activities 
However, not all students are as

By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 
eager to get involved as others,
Saint Mary's Editor 
Hansen said. She specifically noted that it is difficult enticing students Thanks to efforts made by Saint who live off-campus to come to 
Mary's Student Activities Board, the events. excuse "There's nothing to do on cam­"We really try to get a lot of student pus," is no longer valid. interaction, but we can only get what 
Headed by president Becca Doll, students are willing to give," she said. 
SAB is the planning board for student "Sometimes we distribute surveys to activities on campus. Though the get a better feel for what students board-sponsored events in the past as want us to do." 
often as five times a week, it now In addition to surveys, SAB advertis­strives to hold at least two each es regularly around campus, on the month on a consistent basis. Internet and through monthly issues 
"SAB is always looking for bigger of stall news. and better suggestions," said Kristin "We get a variety of students at dif­Hansen, administrative executive. ferent events," Hansen said. "Anyone with comments, concerns or Already planned for the remainder compliments can come to our meet­of the year is "Christmas Around the ings and share. We love to see new World," held in December and SAB's faces and hear new ideas." annual SMC Tostal in April, an event 
So far this semester, SAB has spon­similar to Twilight Tailgate, but on a 
sored a variety of events including larger scale. Jamaica Shaka, a mingle for Notre "Our goal is to finish the year off Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross with a bang," Hansen said. 
freshman and Twilight Tailgate, which "We want to get the student bodyincluded a picnic, band and other pumped to be Belles. We do this by activities. continuing to sponsor school spirit 
The group also organizes games and events, by continuing to improve our competitions such as the annual "Hide traditional and entertainment events the Bell" competition and "Belles and by getting new people and new 
Out." ideas involved." The chairwomen on the board are responsible for everything ranging from movies to school spirit in Contact Anneliese Woolford at attempt to gain student interest. wool8338@saintmarys.edu 
RESIDENCE HALL ASSOCIATION 
RHA gives halls a presence 
whole to the student body as a whole,"
By NICOLE ZOOK 
Jolly said. 
NewsWritor 
Katy Docter is the Holy Cross Resident Advisor who holds the RA representativeInstituted just a few years ago, the position. She sits in on all meetings. This Hesidence Hall Association is one of is important to the board because she Saint Mary's newer student government gives the RA point of view on all situa­associations. tions and helps to plan events. She is just
This year's HHA consists of 24 mem­one of the direct connections the RHA bers and their vai'ious advisors. Eleven has made with the students this year. members of the group hold chairwoman The women of the RHA are workingpositions, while four women hold the toward the goal of strengthening connec­
nxeeutive ollicer positions. tions and are holding strong to the prom­In order to earn their spots as RIIA ised platform. So far this year, they have president and vice-president, Shay Jolly worked with the residence hall boards to 
and Jackie Zins campaigned on a plat­provide services to the Saint Mary's com­form pledge to make a greater connec­munity. Some projects that HilA has par­tion between residence halls, the HilA ticipated in include the Regina Hall blood and the Office of Hesidence Life. Zins drive, breast cancer awareness week, 
says that they have delivered on this Handom Acts of Kindness day held last promise. week, and various other hall service "One of our major goals on our plat­projects.form was to make more of a connection The HHA intends to remain fully active between the halls and ResLife," she said. in hall projects for the remainder of the "We are working together to make that school year. 
connection. Shay meets a lot with "We want to develop more program­Michelle Hussell, the Director of HesLife, ming and more attendance," Zins said. and we have a [resident advisor] repre­"Our main goal for the rest of the year is 
sentative on the board, which is a new to provide cohesiveness within the position we created." board, especially through bonding. We The meetings with Bussell and the want to be very connected to the resi­newly implemented position are key to dence halls, because that was not always the HilA's plans. the case in the past." "We want to connect the office of Hesidence Life and all student govern­ment associations, to connect the hall Contact Nicole Zook at councils and student government as a zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
STUDENT DIVERSITY BOARD > 
SDB acts on original goals 
because it brought the cultures directly
By ANGELA SAOUD 

to the student body and it gave us an
News Writer 

opportunity to try something new," said junior Erin Korreck. 
To help promote the issue of campus 

SOB's biggest goal for this year was to 
diversity, Saint Mary's Student Diversity 

increase attendance at all of their events. 
Board has some definite goals in mind. 

"That was one of the biggest things on 
"Student Diversity Board tries to 

our platform," said Saavedra. "We really
include and promote diversity on cam­

wanted to make a conscious effort to 
pus and in the community," said SDB 

promote and have higher attendance at 
president Veronica Saavedra. "We're a 

all of our events this year." 
small board, but we have some big goals 

Future events for SDB include 
for this year." 

Disabilities Awareness week, having
The 14-member board has already 

more discussion panels on campus and 
planned events such as a bonfire, which 

working to gain and maintain an open
included cultural dancing and an open 

dialogue with the Board of Trustees. 
forum discussion panel in October, which 

Collaborating with admissions, SOB is 
focused on the topic of migrant workers. 

starting a mentoring program with 
Some members from the board traveled 

accepted students to Saint Mary's. 
to colleges and high schools over fall 

"We hope that through this program,
break to promote diversity among stu­

we can talk to our new students before 
dents. 

they even set foot on campus," said 
Most recently, SOB sponsored "Cultural 

Saavedra. 
Taste Fest," which took place in the 

Saavedra and Marquez are working
Noble Family Dining Hall. 

diligently to accomplish the goals they 
"In past years, we've always done 

set for themselves upon appointment to 
Cultural Taste Fest in Reignbeaux 

their positions. 
Lounge," said Saavedra. "The food has 

"We've received a lot of positive feed­
always gone really fast, so this year we 

back both from students and administra­
decided to team up with Sodexho and 

tion," said Saavedra. "We are doing
the dining hall, and it was a huge suc­

some things differently from past years.
cess." 

and we're excited for the rest of the 
Students were served a variety of foods 

year."
from many ethnicities. Prizes were also raiDed off. "Bringing the cultural taste fest into Contact Angela Saoud at the dinning hall was a great idea saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
STUDENT ACADEMIC COUNCIL 

Council links departments 
board also works with the CounselingBy MICHELLE EGGERS and Career Development Center. SAC 
News Wri[er 

representatives attend the Academic 
Open House during the campus' Fall Day 
Helping to heighten identity within on Campus and Accepted Student Day to majors, one representative from each of answer questions about particular Saint Mary's 26 academic departments majors. They also volunteered at the sits on the Student Academic Council to CCDC's Choosing a Major night and serve as a liaison between the board and Showcase of Careers. each department's faculty and students. One of the major events the board 
Both students and faculty have seen the coordinates is Major of the Week, a week benefit of this interaction and take of activities planned by the departmentadvantage of the board to initiate various chair and the SAC representative in cele­events. bration of each major. 
According to Sarah Brown, student "Major of the Week gives the students body vice president and coordinator of and faculty a chance to bond," said SAC, the board primarily deals with Brown. campus academic policy issues, under SAC Representatives foster student­
which departmental interactions are a faculty relationships in other ways. Some component. attend department meetings, while oth· 'This is a really fun group of students ers develop more casual relationships. 
to work with," Brown said. "They are Regardless, the council is successful in dedicated to their major and offer a good helping students bond with professorsperspective on liberal arts education." and form close relationships within their 
This semester the board implemented 11'\ajor.the College's first reading day, Brown "As a SAC Representative, I get to said. Next semester, it plans to evaluate know the faculty on a more personalhow students and faculty feel about the basis," Broviak said. 
additional day. Faculty members commonly contact The board also hears student petitions SAC representatives about planning
for academic co-sponsorship or student activities specific to the major, such as government money, Brown said. SAC bringing a speaker to campus, Broviak representatives vote whether to allot said. 
money or co-sponsorship and if so, how much. 

According to senior English writing Contact Michelle Eggers at representative Mary Beth Broviak, the egge2272@saintmarys.edu 

page 12 The Observer + NEWS Monday, November 24, 2003 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Saint Mary's BOG holds true to its tnission statetnent 
By MEGAN O'NEIL News Writer 
It is written in the Saint Mary's Board of Governance mission statement that, keep­ing students as its first priority, the board is committed to upholding the traditions of the institution while simultaneous­ly pioneering change for the future. 
With the College experiencing one of its most revolutionary years in recent history, the cur­rent board has held close to its promise. 
Led by president Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl and vice presi­dent Sarah Brown, BOG has overseen and adapted itself to a variety of challenges the col­lege has faced in recent months, including a major con­struction project and a presi­dential candidate search, all while keeping in close contact with the student body. 
The preeminent student gov­erning body on campus, BOG is composed of 26 officers and holds weekly Monday meetings. The group includes seven exec­utive members, four class pres­idents and fifteen various board commissioners. It is responsible for establishing budgets and overseeing the various student government association constituencies, including Student Diversity Board, Residence Hall Association and Student Academic Council. 

-
; ­
.US.tf airports! 

This year included an addi­tion to the board. In response to student frustration over the quality of the campus dining services and the construction of the new Noble Family Dinning Hall, Jablonski-Diehl and Brown created the position of Campus Food Services com­missioner last spring. 
"If we are opening something new it is easier to initiate something right off the bat," said Jablonski-Diehl. 
The position was intended to help introduce the student body to its new facility, but more importantly to improve communication between stu­dents and food services man­agers. 
The addition of the campus food services commissioner demonstrated foresight and active concern on the part of the BOG. 
Current BOG members have attempted to address the prob­lem of communication with stu­dents by making student out­reach and interaction their pri­ority. 
Building on steps taken last year, BOG fully utilizes campus technology to keep the student body informed. In addition to weekly e-mails, the board maintained an updated Web site throughout its tenure. Students can access BOG offi­cers, contact information, stu­dent activities calendars, meet­ing minutes and board mem­bers' speeches at the site. The difference from previous years has been distinct. 
"This year has definitely been more focused," Jablonski-Diehl said of the board's use of tech­nology, "especially because now you can link right to the student government website off the home page." 
BOG officers have further proven their determination to be a visible and accessible body on campus by actively engaging with students on a daily basis. The board is well represented at every student event from pep rallies to chorale concerts. On election day, they went so far as to don neon yellow shirts that read "vote today" to remind students to participate in the elections. 
BOG's presence was particu­larly felt during the presiden­tial candidates' visits to cam­pus. Many board members made announcements about the selection process in their classes, and encouraged stu­dents to attend the student­candidate luncheons. 
While it is clear the current BOG administration has been reliable in maintaining its more traditional roles, it has also pioneered some of its own improvements. 
"One of our goals was that each commissioner have a spe­cific goal at the beginning of the year and that they achieve it," Jablonski-Diehl said. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu. 










