
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Game brings tragedy and triumph 
Man collapses at game, dies at hospital 
By MEGHAN MARTIN 
A~sociate News Editor 
A fan who was transported from th11 Stadium to the St. .losnph Hcgional Medical Centnr before Saturday's foot­ball ganw against Navy was pronoune11d dmtd at the hospi­tal, University and hospital officials said. 
Hoger Bail11y of Peoria, Ill., was found collapsed on the l'loor insid11 the upper-level men's restroom ncar Section 123 of the Stadium not long after the gates opened to fans, UnivMsity spokesman Matt Storin said. 
Stadium ushers and Red Cross medical personnel responded to the emergency 
see COLLAPSE/page 4 


By DAN O'BRIEN 
News Writer 

Students rejoiced Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium, thankful that a recent statement by Tyrone Willingham held true following the Irish win over the Midshipmen for the 40th con­secutive year. 
"At some point, Navy will play better than Notre Dame and win the football game, but you just tell your team it does­n't have to be this year," Willingham said Saturday. 
Fans were noticeably tense before the game but showed increased enthusiasm as the quarters progressed. 
Freshman Garret Jost said 

he thought expectations for the game were low but the out­come brought new life to a crowd that had witnessed two consecutive home losses. He also said he felt the family presence at the. Navy game ­a parent game -helped the atmosphere. 
see VICTORY/page 4 

NASA official reflects on disaster 
By ANDREW THAGARD Ao;.<istant News Editor 
William Headdy, associate administrator of NASA's Office of Space Flight, offered an insider's perspective on the investigation of the space shuttle Columbia accident and reflected on his career Friday during the first installment of the Distinguished Engineering Lecture Series. 
The Naval Academy gradu-· ate and former astronaut recalled a similar disaster that occurred at the start of his career with the space agency -the explosion of the shuttle Challenger in 1986. 
"Every single day we com­mitted ourselves to making sure that Challenger would not happen again," he said. "I learned on the morning of Feb. 1 [2003] that it could happen and U had happened again." 
Space shuttle Columbia 
exploded while re-entering the atmosphere, killing all seven crew members aboard. Investigations conducted afterwards attributed the explosion to displaced foam insulation that ripped a hole in the shuttle's left wing. 
Readdy said that on that day he and other officials at NASA made a promise to the crew's family to find out what had happened, fix the problem and continue space flight. 
"Nothing good is accom­

plished without great risk and tragedy," he said. "Our agency has been defined by great tri­umphs but also great tragedies. We'll redefine our­selves by getting the shuttle flying again probably by this time next year." 
When it reentered the atmosphere, debris from Columbia were scattered with­in an area 200 miles long and four nautical miles wide, 
see NASA/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
SMC vvelcotnes candidates· 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD Saint Mary's Editor 
Throughout this week. Saint Mary's will welcome the last three of four presidential candi­dates to campus, ofl'ering eaeh an opportunity to meet with fac­ulty, staff, students and to become acquainted with the College's atmosphere. 
The first candidate visited campus Thursday and Friday and held the first student-candi­date luncheon Friday afternoon. According to students who attended, the candidate was helpful in answering questions about their past background and qualifications. Students will be granted equal time to meet with the other three candidates at scheduled luncheons throughout the week. 
Also included in each candi­date's visit is the Heritage Presentation. a campus tour, a tour of South Bend, dinner, an open meeting with faculty and staff. and meetings with the Congregation Leadership Team, Sister Joan Marie Steadman, chair of the board, administra­tors, hourly staff and the Administrative Coundl. 
The second presidential candi­date will arrive at Saint Mary's today and depart early Tuesday afternoon. Shortly after the sec­ond's departure, the third candi­date will arrive on campus and stay until Wednesday afternoon. The fourth and final candidate will arrive Wednesday evening and depart Friday evening. 
Each candidate's visitation schedule is available to be viewed online at the Presidential Search Web site, a component of 
see CANDIDATE/page 4 

Senate sponsors petition for outdoor Pass In Review 
ROTC units stand vigil on Veterans' Day 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
As.<nciatc News Editor 
For one day each year, military members and Amerieans around the world pause to honor those who have served in the armed forces and remember the thou­sands who made the ultimate sac­rifice. Notre Dame is no different. 
HOTC programs will hold their annual ceremony to commemo­rate Veterans' Day on Tuesday. The guest speaker at this year's ceremony will be University President Emeritus Father Theodom llesburgh. 
"It's really simple, but it does a good job of bringing to life the sac­rifices of those who served before us," said Kevin Conley, Tri-Military Commander and member of Navy ROTC. 
The ceremony, which takes place at the Clark Memorial Fountain, ends a 24-hour vigil held at the location. 
"The vigil is four people, in half­hour shifts, standing watch for 24 hours," said Conley. 
The vigil begins at 4 p.m. today and ends 24 hours later. The cere­mony begins Thesday at 5 p.m. 
ROTC members are also await­ing a response to their request to move the Presidential Pass In Review, an annual ROTC ceremo­ny held in the spring, to an out­door location. 
see ROTC/page 4 

Observer lila photo ROTC members are presented at a previous year's Presidential Pass In Review Ceremony. The event was originally moved Indoors to avoid Issues with protesters. 
Monday, November 10, 2003

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



For the love of the game 
I love Notre Dame football. There are those of you reading this who can claim the same affection, I'm sure. I know people who have watched the games since the time they could hold themselves up in front of a TV, who have memorized individual scores, plays, players and coaches through­out the team's his­tory, and who have sat through every game they could get tickets for -beginning to end. 
Unfortunately, I cannot boast an equal dedication. I had no real expo­sure to sports growing up until my mom remarried when I was 11. Without warning, I soon found myself part of a Notre Dame family with a long lineage of alums, including my stepdad and stepbrother, a freshman at the time. Football Saturdays were considered sacred, no questions asked. Weekend after weekend, month after month, year after year, I'd sit with my stepdad in our living room -eyes fixated on the TV screen, ears tuned to the radio in the kitchen. 
When I wasn't watching the game at home, I was visiting my brother and in the Stadium every chance I got. I sat between my parents, squinting down at the field, trying to determine whether or not a run was long enough for a first down. I stood, face peeking from behind my hands, praying that a kick would be successful and yield the extra point needed to set the Irish ahead. I determined Joey Getherall my favorite player simply because of his ability to maneuver through the defense and run the ball, despite his size. 
A lot of has changed over the past 10 years, including my love of Notre Dame football -it only increases each time I step inside the Stadium, to the point where I don't think it can much more. 
For nothing else will I wake up five hours in advance, bundle up in three layers of clothing for 30-degree weather, fly through the air trusting the coordination and balance of the people hoisting me, and loose my voice screaming along with every cheer and every play on the field. 
Nowhere else will I strike up conver­sation with three guys sitting behind me dressed as unicorns and a blue monster, smile on the walk back to my apartment as the horn of a passing RV chimes the Victory March or get teary­eyed when the team pays respect to students at the end of each game. 
Unlike some of those in my section, I would never leave a game early or scream snide remarks at our team and coaches -regardless of what the season reflects. I'll be the first to admit that I don't know who played quarterback in 1972 without looking it up, nor do I understand some of the calls referees make, but I am a fan for better or for worse. I've learned a lot from Notre Dame football-showing support in return is the least I can do. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessari­ly those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF SATURDAY'S FOOTBALL GAME? 



Cole Barker  Ian Anderson  Keith Harwood  
Junior  Junior  Junior  
O'Neill  O'Neill  O'Neill  
"Ifonly Julius  "Two words:  "We should  
Jones could  Julius and  play Navy  
punt too, we'd  Jones.,  every week.,  
be  
unstoppable!"  






Dan Doherty  Steve Carroll  Tommy Gaeta  
Senior  Senior  Senior  
Off-Campus  Off-Campus  Off-Campus  
"It was great to  'Tm glad there  "The freshman  
see Notre Dame  was a  inside ofme  
come out and  marshmallow  wanted to rush  
,win.  fight. Take that  the field, but  
Cappy!"  the senior  
realist was  
simply  
relieved.,  


OFFBEAT 
Naked Hiker Convicted of Breach of Peace 
LONDON -A man attempting to walk the length of Britain naked to promote the right to go without clothes in public was convicted Friday of breaching the peace. 
Stephen Gough, 44, was found guilty of walking naked in the presence of the public in circum­stances likely to produce a road safety hazard. 
Gough set out on his 847-mile (1,363-kilome­ter) trek on June 16 wear­ing only a hat, knapsack, socks and walking boots, but was arrested almost 
TODAY a: 
immediately and charged with breach of the peace. 
That charge was dropped, but Gough was arrested several more times along his route from Land's End in southwest England to John O'Groats in the far north of Scotland. He has appeared in courts across the country and spent more than a month in prison. 
Moscow Reportedly Considers Kissing Ban 
MOSCOW -Don't kiss and tell -and certainly don't tell the police in Moscow, where city 

authorities are reportedly considering levying fines for public displays of affection. 
As part of an effort to "improve morals" in the Russian capital, its gov­ernment is working on an order that would prohibit kissing in subways and other public places, the newspaper Stolichnaya Vechernyaya Gazeta reported on its Web site. It said the ban was being considered at the request of police and the city's education committee. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 

~ 
.... 
cc 
(.) 



0

.... HIGH 51 HIGH HIGH HIGH 50 LOW 48 LOW LOW LOW 30 IN BRIEF 



Stop by the Clarke Memorial and watch cadets and midship­man perform a 24-hour vigil in honor of our great nation's fallen comrades. The vigil begins Monday at 4 p.m. and ends Tuesday at 4 p.m. A Veteran's Day Ceremony commences on Tuesday upon completion of the vigil. Fr Hesburgh serves as the guest speaker. 
"Why Jesus Throws Everything Off Balance: Flannery O'Connor and Catholic Culture," will be presented by Dr. Ralph Wood of Baylor University tonight from 7:30 to 9 p.m. in DeBartolo room 138. The presen­tation is part 1 of a week-long lec­ture series entitled "A Reason to Write: Two Catholic Novelists." 
Gather a group of friends to play drop-in.hockey tonight from 
8:30 to 10:30 p.m. on Court 1 at Rolfs. 
Watch your favorite teams and enjoy the great Legends food and atmosphere during Monday Night Football Game Watch tonight from 9 p.m. to midnight. 
Saint Mary's alumna Cyndy Short, an advocate for indigent clients accused of capital crimes, will deliver a presentation entitled "Rethinking the Death Penalty." Her talk is today at noon in Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall. 
Flu shots will be available to faculty, staff, students and retirees Tuesday through Thursday from 9 
a.m. to 4 p.m. in the library con­course and LaFortune's Dooley Room. Notre Dame ID cards and short sleeves are required. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

43 
47 
29 
34 


Atlanta 61 I 46 Boston 49 I 36 Chicago 52 I 46 Denver 60 I 38 Houston 73 I 62 Los Angeles 66 I 50 Minneapolis 46 I 36 New York 51 I 39 Philadelphia 52 I 36 Phoenix 77 I 57 Seattle 50 I 45 St. Louis 59 I 51 Tampa 81 I 68 Washington 52 I 39 
Monday, November I 0, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Kroc leaves tnillions to NPR 
Associated Press left an additional $5 mil­tural programming to an 
lion to the station. estimated 22 million lis-· 
WASHINGTON "She wanted to make a teners. Billionaire philanthropist difference in the biggest NPH derives about half Joan Kroc left more than possible way," said KPBS of its $100 million annual $200 million to National assistant budget from Public Hadio, a bequest general man­member sta­more than double the net­a g e r 
"She had the most tion payments
work's annual budget. Stephanie based on the 
NPH President Kevin Bergsma, voracious appetite size of local Klose said Thursday it who knew station audi­
for news." 

was the biggest event for Kroc for ences. the network since it more than 20 A quarter of 
Stephanie Bergsma
broadcast its first show in years. the budget May 1970. Bergsma friend of Joan Kroc comes from 
"We arc inspired and said Kroc foundation humbled by this tremen­typically grants, anoth­dous gift," he said at a woke up at er 23 percent news conference. 4:30 a.m. each day to from corporate underwrit­
Kroc died of cancer Oct. catch up on international ing and about 2 percent as 12 at the age of 75. The events on Internet news grants from federally exact amount of her sites. She also followed funded organizations. bequest will depend on NPH's coverage of the war Klose said NPR typically the resolution of her in Iraq closely. has a hand-to-mouth rela­estate and the value-of her "She had the most vora­tionship with its member investments, NPH officials cious appetite for news," stations and donors. NPR said. Bergsma said. broke even last year after 
Kroc, the widow of Longtime NPH special losing $4 million in 2001, McDonald's restaurant correspondent Susan spokeswoman Laura Gross founder Hay Stamberg said said. Kroc, was she was "ren­About $175 million of known for "We are inspired dered almost Kroc's gift will become giving away and humbled by speechless" by part of an endowment hundreds of the size of the fund created in 1993 to
this tremendous 

millions of donation, jok­offset periodic drops in
gift ... 

dollars to ing she would revenue. With the promote change her bequest, the fund's total w o r I d name to will leap past $225 mil­

Kevin Klose 

peace, edu­"McStamberg." lion, leading NPR officials

president of NPR

cation, Best known to anticipate $10 million health care for its daily in annual revenue from and the arts. She was a news programs "Morning the fund. The other $25 longtime donor to her Edition" and "All Things million from Kroc's local NPH member station, Considered," NPR also bequest will go into NPR's KPBS in San Diego, and presents music and cui-operating reserves. 


14 students exhibit art 
The Box Factory shows work of SMC students 
art majors "in a variety of
By EMILIE DesJARDINS 
media, including painting, pho­
News Writer 

tography, ceramics, fibers and sculpture," said Candie Waterloo, a student who work is
Fourteen Saint Mary's art stu­represented in the exhibition.
dents were recently invited to "Legoman and Gun" is an
display their artwork at the Box 
acrylic painting on canvas byFactory for the Arts in St. 
Maria Fontenelle. "It presents aJoseph, Mich. 
satirical look at the prevalence
"It is great public exposure for 
of guns and violence inthe students," said professor 
America," Waterloo

Julie Tourtillote 
said.

who worked with 
Another student,Moreau Art 

"It is great public Jennifer Trachy,
Galleries director Krista Hoefle as fac­exposure for the has three paintings ulty liaisons for the students." and a ceramics 
sculpture on dis­

exhibition. "The students 
play. One painting Julie Tourtlllote is a comparison
were also involved 
in curating and faculty liaison between a blender installing the show," and a palm pilot 
that contrasts the

said Tourtillote. 
roles of women inThe Box Factory the 1950s to 2003. Trachy said

is specifically designed as a 
she simply enjoys the opportuni­venue for community artists to ty to display her work.
showcase their music, poetry, 
"It's a really good experiencedance, drama and visual arts. It to have an exhibition outside thecontains numerous art galleries school," she said. "It is a nicein which artists can display their venue and it's nice to see ourwork. 
The student exhibition, enti­work in a professional environ­ment."
tled "Saint Mary's All Stars," The positive experience hasopened Friday in the Krasal 
underclassmen looking forward
Gallery and will run until Jan. 2. 
to future opportunities.
A reception was held Friday for "The students that are juniorsthe opening. All artists partici­this year are already hoping to
pating were in attendance in participate next year,"addition to families, friends, 
Tourtillote said.
professors and St. Joseph com­munity members. The pieces on display were Contact Emilie DesJardins at created by Saint Mary's senior desj4986@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 Monday, November 10, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS 

ROTC 
continued from page 1 
Conley said that ROTC has requested South Quad as the location for this year's ceremony. 
"It is a good location for it to be a more visible ceremony. Our cadets work really hard throughout the year, and it's good to draw attention to the work they do," he said. 

The Student Senate recently spon­sored a petition asking for student body support to relocate the Pass in Review from Loftus to a more prominent, out­door location. The exact number of sig­natures gathered on the petition has not been reached, but the amount is considerable according to Pasquerilla West Senator Jana Lamplota. 
"We have a large amount of student support. I was surprised ... at how many people were interested in this cause," Lamplota said. 
The final decision will be made by Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for Residence Life, and the senators want to use their petition to show student body support for the Pass in Review ceremony. 

"We're right now in contact with Bill Kirk's office to set up a meeting and show him the support of the Pass in Review ceremony and support for mov­ing it to an outdoor location to get a greater student body involvement," Lamplota stated. 
A date has not been set for Kirk to make his decision, but Lamplota said she believes one will come within the next few weeks. 
There is concern that moving the ceremony to a more public venue will trigger increased protests in opposition. However, Conley believes protests should not stop the ceremony from being moved. 
"[Protesters] certainly have a right to make their opinions known, but I hope they will do it in a non-disruptive way," he said. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynolds@nd.edu 


Collapse 
continued from page 1 
and transported Bailey to the Medical Center for treatment. He died later that day. Bailey was 49 years old. 
"He collapsed in the restroom, they called for assistance and the med­ical people took him to St. Joseph Medical Center," said Rex Rakow, director of the Notre Dame Security and Police Department. "He was pronounced [dead] at the hospital." 
Bailey, who officials say was attending the game with at least one brother, was assisted by medical staff from the upper-level first aid station, located 
just across the concourse as long as it is natural. is from the men's restroom. usually a heart attack," "The usher who first he said. spotted him also was able Medical Center officials 
somehow  said Bailey was  
...  to send  transported to  
another  St.  Joseph  
usher to get the family. It  "He collapsed in the restroom.''  Regional by the South Bend F i r e  
is  my  Department's  
under­ Rex Rakow  ambulance  
standing  director of NDSP  service. They  

that it was done very quickly," said Cappy Gagnon, direc­tor of stadium personnel. 
Dr. Michael O'Connell, deputy coroner for St. Joseph County, said an autopsy will be performed today. When that is com­plete, O'Connell said, he should be able to deter­mine the cause of Bailey's death. 
"Anything that sudden, 
would not 
release any 
information regarding the cause of his death until later in the week. 
"It will be a matter of public record once we're sure everybody has been notified," nursing super­visor Rita Goff said. 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu 


Candidate 
continued from page 1 

the Saint Mary's homepage. Candidate's names and resumes are also available online to those with on-campus Internet access. The information is post­ed 24 hours before each candi­date's arrival. Feedback forms are accessible for on-campus viewing following each visit. 
In the interest of maintaining a fair. search process, The Observer has chosen not to pub­lish information from the stu­dent-candidate luncheons until all four candidates have con­cluded their visits to campus. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 
Sophomore John Burkardt said he was most impressed by


Victory 
the conduct of Navy students at the game and the respect they 

continued from page 1 
showed for Notre Dame fans. 

''I'm glad my parents saw a "Navy fans are among the win at home," Jost said. "Even best in college football, rooting though they were cold, they hard for their team without saw the beauty of being disre­Notre Dame foot­spectful," he ball." "Navy fans are said. 
Juniors Jenna 
among the best in Many band 

Linder and Allison students also
college football, 

Vater were happy to appreciated see such a game rooting hard for the attitude Saturday, following of the Navy
their team without 

the abysmal out­t e a m
being

comes of the past Following the two games. disrespectful. " game, mem­
"It was a good time bers of the for a win, especially team avoided
John Burkardt 

at home," Linder disrupting

student

said. "I was happy the marching for D .J. Fitzpatrick formations as and for the rest of the team." other opponents had done after past games this season. were full considering the "They [Navy fans] were in team's losing record and the 
the Notre Dame  weather, but he  
section playfully mocking our pushups," Vater  "We need to stick with our team and  expressed dis­pleasure at the actions of some of  
said. While the overall atmos­phere was posi­ show our support for the remainder ofthe season. "  his fellow dents in stands. "Some of  stu­the my  
tive  Saturday,  friends arrived in  
there were hints  Troy Montgomery  the middle of the  
of apathy in the actions of some  student  first quarter and left at halftime to  
fans. Many stu­ tailgate,  even  

dents had sold their tickets to though the score was 14-10," the game, evidenced by the Montgomery said. "We need to number of families present in stick with our team and show the sophomore section. Other our support for the remainder students said they saw the of the season." crowd paying more attention to the cheerleaders' competi­tion than the game. 
Senior Troy Montgomery Contact Dan O'Brien at said he was glad the stands dobrien@nd.edu 








ORLD & NATION 
Monday, November 1 0, 2003 COlv\PILED FROM 'THE ()l\SERVER'S WiRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israel approves prisoner swap 
JEHUSALEM -Israel's Cabinet narrowly approved a prisoner swap with Hezbollah after eight hours of anguished debate Sunday, overriding warnings that the deal could signal weakness and encourage more kidnappings of Israelis. 
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon lobbied hard for the swap, which excludes Israel's most famous missing serviceman, Air Force navi­gator Hon Arad. !Vho was shot down over Lebanon 17 years ago. The vote was one of Sharon's toughest leadership tests in three years. 
The deal for the swap could still collapse -and the Lebanese guerrilla grou'p threat­ened Sunday to kidnap more Israelis if that happens. 
Under the deal, about 400 Palestinians and several dozen prisoners from Lebanon, Syria, Morocco, Sudan and Libya will be released in exchange for Israeli business­man Elhanan Tannenbaum and the bodies of three Israeli soldiers. 
Guatemalan voting violence 
GUATEMALA CITY -Guatemalans waited in long lines Sunday to vote in the second presidential election since peace accords were signed seven years ago, a tense poll that will decide the future of a former dicta­tor accused of human rights abuses. 
Fmtrs of violence were fueled when a top aide of center-lel't presidential candidate Alvaro Colom was shot in the leg and hand outside his home the night before voting. 
There were reports of problems during Sunday's balloting, including two women trampled to death as a crowd fought to enter a polling station in the northern city Chajul. Several others were injured. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Biden pushes for NATO in Iraq 
WASHINGTON -Complaining that U.S. policy on Iraq is adrift, a senior Democrat in the Senate proposed Sunday turning to NATO for troops to bring stability to the country and the United Nations to lend political legitimacy. 
The way to start such a fundamental change is for President Bush to sell the idea to European leaders at a trans­Atlantic summit, said Delaware's Joseph Biden, top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Helations Committee. 
"The U.S. is a country right now basical­ly in search of a strategy, and I think it's time to make a fundamental shift in the way in which we're going about trying to win the peace here," Biden told ABC's "This Week." 
Group urges Bishop's removal 
CONCOHD, N .I!. -A Roman Catholic reform group has petitioned the Vatican to remove New Hampshire Bishop John McCormack, calling him unfit to lead his diocese. 
The complaint, filed Oct. 28 by New Hampshire Catholics for Moral Leadership, says McCormack and Auxiliary Bishop Francis Christian lost their moral authority during the clergy sex abuse crisis and that church law requires the resignations of bishops unfit to serve, according to a draft copy of the documents sent to Home and obtained by The Associated Press. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana road fatalities high 
INDIANAPOLIS-The recent deaths of sever­al Indiana teenagers in car crashes have prompted calls for mandatory driver's education classes to combat the state's high fatality rate among teen drivers. 
In 2001, 16.4 percent of all Indiana drivers involved in fatal automobile crashes were ages 16 to 20. That compares with the national aver­age of 14.6 percent. 

Indiana's teen drivers also are over-represent­ed in the percentage of accidents resulting in serious injuries, while the state is one of 17 states that do not require driver's education. 
Saudis blame deaths on al-Qaida 
17 killed, many wounded in suicide bomb attack on Arab housing complex 
Associated Press 
HIYADH, Saudi Arabia ­Saudis blamed al-Qaida militants Sunday for the suicide car bombing of a Riyadh housing complex that killed 17 people, declaring it proof of the ter­ror network's willingness to shed Muslim blood in its zeal to bring down the U.S.­linked Saudi monarchy. 
The attack late Saturday at an upscale compound for foreign workers -where mostly Arabs Jived, also wounded 122 people. The blast, not far from diplo­matic quarters and the king's main palace, left piles of rubble, hunks of twisted metal, broken glass and a large crater. 
"It's no longer an issue of terrorism for them," said Dawood al-Shirian, a Saudi analyst. "It's become a war on the regime, a war to turn the country into a new Afghanistan ruled by a Saudi-style Taliban." 
An Interior Ministry offi­cial told the official Saudi news agency late Sunday that the death toll rose to 17 -including five chil­dren -after search crews pulled six more bodies from the rubble. At least 13 were Arabs, with the others as yet unidentified, the ollicial said. 
U.S. Deputy Secretary of 

State Hichard Armitage said attackers, believed to be in minor injuries and Qaida has long opposed the he was "personally quite a police car, then drove into released." Saudi royal family. accusing sure" al-Qaida was behind the compound and blew In comments published it of being insufficiently
the Saturday night attack themselves up. Sunday on the Web site of Islamic and too close to the "because this attack bears It still wasn't clear late Saudi daily Okaz newspa­West, particularly the the hallmark of them." Sunday how many attack­per, Interior Minister Prince United States. 
Such attacks appear to be ers there were or if they Nayef said he could not rule On Sunday in London, the directed "against the gov­were listed as among the out a connection to suspect­Saudi ambassador to ernment of Saudi Arabia dead. ed al-Qaida terrorist cells Britain, Prince Turki al­and the people of Saudi The victims included targeted in recent sweeps, Faisal. condemned Arabia," he said, adding Lebanese, Egyptian, as a number of suspects Saturday's attack as the that he expected more to Sudanese and Saudis. The from those cells were still at work of an "evil cult" whose follow. Interior Ministry said most large. "sole aim is the destruction 
Al-Qaida "will prefer to of the wounded were Arabs Adding to the al-Qaida of the kingdom." have many such attacks to as well. Most of the com­connection was the similar­By targeting foreigners' appear bigger than they pound's residents were ity between Saturday's housing compounds. the are," he told a news confer­Lebanese, but some Saudis, bombing and attacks also attackers target the back­ence shortly after arriving German, French and Italian blamed on the terror net­bone of the Saudi economy.in the Saudi capital. Such families also lived there. work -particularly the Saudi Arabia is home to 6 attacks showed that "all of Four U.S. citizens were May 12 suicide car bomb­million expatriate workers, us have to work together." among the wounded, the ings of other Riyadh com­including about 35,000 
Gunmen -possibly dis­ministry said. In pounds housing foreigners, Americans and 30,000 guised as police -shot Washington, State which killed 26 bystanders. Britons. The kingdom relies their way into the 200-Department spokeswoman Nine attackers also died. on foreigners in its oil house compound, trading Amanda Batt said "some Led by Saudi-born dissi­industry, security forces fire security guards. The Americans were treated for dent Osama bin Laden. a!-and health sector. 


Gore warns of "Big Brother" policy 
Gore, who lost the disputed 2000 order to be safe from terrorists. 
Associated Press 

presidential election to Bush, said "In my opinion, it makes no more 
WASHINGTON -Former Vice terrorism-fighting tools granted sense to launch an assault on our President AI Gore accused after Sept. 11 amount to a partisan civil liberties as the best way to get President Bush on Sunday of failing power grab that have led to the at terrorists than it did to launch an to make the country safer after the erosion of the civil liberties of all invasion of Iraq as the best way to 
Sept. 11 attacks and using the war_ Americans. get at Osama bin Laden," Gore said. against terrorism as a pretext to He brought the crowd to its feet In both cases, Gore said, the consolidate power. when he called for a repeal of the administration has "recklessly put 
"They have taken us much far­Patriot Act, which expanded gov­our country in grave and unneces­ther down the road toward an ernment's surveillance and deten­sary danger." intrusive, 'big brother'-style gov­tion power, allowing authorities to He also said the administration ernment -toward the dangers monitor books people read and still has "no serious strategy" for 
prophesied by George Orwell in his conduct secret searches. domestic security -charging that book '1984' -than anyone ever Gore chided the administration there aren't sufficient protections 
thought would be possible in the for what he said was its "implicit in place for ports, nuclear facilities, United States of America," Gore assumption" that Americans must chemical plants and other key charged. give up traditional freedoms in infrastructure. 
r-­
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, November 10, 2003 
NASA 
continued from page 1 
Headdy said. Hased on success in recovering wreckage from plane crashes, the National Transportation Board advised 

\ NASA that they would be lucky ·to recover 10 percent of the shuttle and would likely never determine what happened on board during the final moments. Instead, the agency recovered nearly 40 percent of the shuttle and repositioned the pieces both manually and digitally to gain insight into what caused the dis­aster. Readdy also extolled the importance of strong ethics and morals and said engineers must always do what is right and accept responsibility for their actions. "This is a cultural transforma­tion that has to occur because none of us out there wants to be embarrassed ... or deliver the bad news," he said. "That's one of the things you'II [engineers] have to do. You'll have to say what the math and science says rather than what they want to 
Refugee paytnents cut back 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The gov­ernment has begun cutting off payments to thousands of dis­abled and elderly refugees and people seeking asylum who missed a deadline to become American citizens. 
About 4,300 people who have been in the country at least seven years are losing monthly Supplemental Security Income checks. When that happens, they also lose eligibility for Medicaid, the health insurance program for the poor and elderly. 
Unlike other legal immi­grants, refugees and asylum­seekers are not sponsored when they enter the United States. A sponsor agrees to be financially responsible for the immigrant until the immi­grant becomes a citizen. 
"It's not as if these people have anything to fall back on," said Adey Fisseha, policy analyst at the National Immigration Law Center, an advocate for poor immigrants and their families. "The effects are going to be devas­tating." 
Radhi Alsalami, a 50-year­old father of six from Richardson, Texas, said he does not know what he will do without the $550-a-month SSI check. He was perma­nently disabled after breaking his back and injuring his leg ma car accident in his native Iraq, which he fled during the 1991 Persian Gulf War. 
He came to the United States after several years in a refugee camp in Saudi Arabia. Alsalami said he has had trouble learning English and does not know it well enough to pass the citizenship test. 
"When they stop the war [in Iraq], maybe I go back," he said. "It's very hard for me here. I had business in Iraq before. Body shop. Six people work for me." 
hear." 
He praised the decision to form an independent outside board to investigate the Columbia accident. He said that the board produced over 3,000 pages of reports and that the agency is in the midst of sifting through the findings. 
Readdy spoke briefly of his experiences as an astronaut, describing it as "the ultimate human adventure." He is a vet­eran of three shuttle mission, including commanding a docking to the MIR Space Station. Readdy described the bravery and sense of duty that astro­nauts must possess. 
"I can tell you that every one of those crew members [aboard Columbia] was a volunteer and they would have done it on Feb. 2," he said. "It's not about us, it's about building a better future." 
The Distinguished Engineering Lecture Series is designed to showcase engineers who have excelled in their respective fields. The series is sponsored by the College of Engineering. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 


Malvo fights against death row 
Associated Press 

CHESAPEAKE, Va. -A theory advanced by the pros­ecution against sniper sus­pect John Allen Muhammad is being embraced by attor­neys for Lee Boyd Malvo in their efforts to keep the younger suspect off Virginia's death row. 
Malvo's trial was to begin Monday in Chesapeake, and defense lawyers plan to argue the 18-year-old is innocent by reason of insani­ty. 
Prosecutors in nearby Virginia Beach are trying to convince a jury that Muhammad, 42, exerted such control over Malvo that Muhammad should be held responsible for the shootings that killed 10 and wounded three in the Washington area last fall. 
"Our strategy is their strat­egy," Malvo lawyer Michael Arif said. "If you watch the prosecutors [in Muhammad's case] carefully, they will never put on evidence that Lee was the shooter in any of the shootings in question." 
The defendants are being tried for different killings by prosecutors from two Virginia counties. Both face the possibility of the death penalty if convicted. 
Prosecutors from Fairfax County say Malvo, who is charged with murder in the Oct. 14, 2002, death of FBI Analyst Linda Franklin, has admitted committing many of the shootings. 
His lawyers argue that he confessed only to protect Muhammad, whom he c'alled father, and that Muhammad was the mastermind of the sniper attacks.Even if that is true, the prosecutors argue, Malvo is equally responsible for the killings. They say he laughed and bragged about the shootings to interrogators and prison guards. 
During the first three weeks of Muhammad's trial, prosecutors from Prince William County combined emotional testimony from victims and victims' relatives with forensic evidence, including DNA linking Muhammad to a rifle sight found in his car. Like Malvo, Muhammad is on trial only for one killing, but to get the death penalty, the prosecu­tion needs to prove participa­tion in multiple killings or terrorizing of the public. 
For Malvo's attorneys to succeed with an insanity defense, they must convince a jury that he was so brain­washed by Muhammad that he either did not know what he was doing or could not control himself. 
It likely will be a tough sell -and risky. 
In the string of sniper attacks last fall, it remains unclear who actually pulled the trigger in each shootings. 

THE OBSERVER. 






USINESS
Monday, November I 0, 2003 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 9 809.79 -47.18 Jones .. ' 
"'~> Same: ~ Composite Volume:i;n2 163 • 1,402,727,040 
NASDAQ 1,970/74 )~$;~3>•······· 

NYSE 5,989.17 +3.93 

AMEX l;06~~7Q 'fti!~Q S&P 500 1,053.21 -4.84 
NIKKEl (Tokyo) .10,628~98. •··•·•• 0.()0>·
FTSE IOO(London)4,376.90 +52.70 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN IPRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) ·2.45 ·0.56 22.34 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) ·0.50 -0.13 26.10 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -1.89 -0.24 12.46 liNTEL CORP (INTC) -0.73 -0.25 33.87 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -1.44 -0.06 4.11 
Treasuries 

JO.YfAR BOND +0.36 +0.19 52.61 10-YEAR NOfE +0.72 +0.32 44 so >YfARNOfE + 1.35 +0.46 34.46 3-MONTH BILL +0.54 +0.05 9.3 2 
Commodities UGKT CRUDE ($W.) +0.59 30.85 GOLD ($/TIUfOL) +2.70 383.40 I'CJRK BEWES (cmts11b.) -0.65 88.1 s 
Exchange Rates YEN I 09.5 EUPO 0.8692 POUND 0.5975 CANADIAN$ 1.324 

IN BRIEF 
Printing giants to merge 
CHICAGO -Commercial printer R.R. Donnelley & Sons Co. on Sunday agreed to acquire Canadian printer Moore Wallace Inc. in a deal the companies valued at $2.8 bil­lion. 
The merged printing giants will have approximately 50,000 employees worldwide, providing customers with products such as magazines, catalogues, telephone directories, books, linancial documents, highly personal­ized direct mail and labels. 
Under terms of the transaction, Moore Wallace shareholders will receive 0.63 share of H.H. Donnelley stock for each Moore Wallace share. The deal values Ontario­based Moore Wallace at $17.66 a share, about a 16 percent premium for the compa­ny, whose shares closed at $15.25 Friday on the New York Stock Exchange. Donnelley shares last traded at $28.03. 
Charity funds used for perks 
BOSTON -An investigation of charities nationwide has found that some used funds earmarked for charity to fund travel and lav­ish perks for foundation trustees, The Boston Sunday Globe reported. 
While such extravagance has infuriated shareholders of public companies in recent years, similar practices among charities have gone largely unchecked, the newspaper said. 
In one example, the Globe said it found that the DeMoss Foundation, a $444 million private charitable foundation that supports Christian organizations, spent millions in the last 20 years on three jet aircraft. 
A Bombardier long-range jet, purchased for $36 million in 2001 and operated and maintained at a cost of $1.5 million per year, logged flights to cities where the charity had no funded projects, and took family member trustee Nancy Leigh DeMoss to a funeral and a speaking engagement, the Globe reported. 
The foundation's chief financial officer, Larry H. Nelson, did not answer most of the Globe's questions about the jet, but said in an e-mail that the foundation supports many causes and projects, "most of which are overseas, many in the Third World." 


Logo launched by ND seniors 
Matt Karras, Dan Tweedall and Pat Corker promote their logo-based apparel 

"Essentially, it was just a "It's three guys at Notre tinuing to grow, though it is 
By ANDREW THAGARD goofy inside joke," he said. Dame who just happen to limited by time and money 
Assisstam News Editor "We just made it up." have complimentary tal­constraints, Corker said. 
The word, however, had ents," Corker said. The trio formed an official 
Seniors Dan 1\veedall, Pat staying power. Friends They created two types of company, Tweeds Inc., to 
Corker and Matt Korros passed it on to others, and t-shirts and women's shorts protect their brand, and 
think they're on to some­its popularity began to grow. that have the logo inscribed they registered the word as 
thing -something that The group started an infor­on the back. Shirts start at a trademark. A few weeks 
can't be stopped. mal club as a joke in which just under $12, and ago, icaynbstop.com 
Students at multiple col­members could name their women's shorts retail at debuted, allowing customers leges are sporting the logo position. Three hundred $14. to purchase merchandise they designed. It appears on people signed up. Soon, the "We charge ultra-competi­online using their credit the Notre Dame spirit signs word spread to students at tive because we want people cards through the Pay Pal fans wave during football other schools. to buy it and build this up," protected system. The com­games and pep rallies. "Overnight, this word 1\veedall said. pany is also sponsoring a 
exploded," 1\veedall said. "I Today, the company will club rugby team at BallThey've created a successful 
website based around it. A was getting emails from debut a baseball-style jersey State University. 
new logo-based item goes people I didn't know at shirt and in a few weeks Deep down, the three said 
on saletoday, and more are other schools wanting to icaynbstop boxers will be the experience is also about 
coming soon. start a charter." available. The clothes are having fun. 
The three business majors It was after he received an produced by the South "Working with these guys have made a company out invitation to an "icaynbstop" Bend-based AP Image and making this business of a phrase that started as fraternity party at another Team. work is fun," Korros said. "I an inside joke -"icaynb­school that '1\veedall decid­Sales have been excellent, don't even call thL<> work." stop." ed the word had marketing the group said, though they After they graduate in 
The word, Tweedall power. He teamed up with declined to provide specific May, the three plan to take explained, is a consolidated Corker, an accounting numbers until they complete jobs in the Midwest but also version of the phrase "I major, and Korros, an MIS registration for the Gigot to continue the icaynbstop can't be stopped." and he major, to design a circular Center's McCloskey Notre concept. started using it among logo with two cutting waves Dame Business Plan friends during his sopho­that bears the word in the Competition. Contact Andrew Thagard at 
center. The business is also con-athagard@nd.edu
more year. 

Cell number transfers approved 
ers probably will have to buy cell the Federal Communications
Associated Press 

phones because wireless companies Commission will lirst cover customers use different technology; some compa· in the 100 most populous metropoli­WASHINGTON -Federal regulators nics are offering free phones to get tan areas, who account for about 60
are letting people keep their cell 

customers to switch. percent of the nation's cell phone
phone numbers when they switch 

Cell phone users who have long­users. By May 24, the rules will applywireless companies after Nov. 24 and term contracts will have to pay early to everyone else. 
probably will do the same for home termination fees if they want to switch Consumer groups like the change. 

phone customers opting for wireless­before their agreement expires. "When we reduce the switchingonly service. 

With the upcoming deadline, com­costs of going from one carrier toThe government is responding to panies are offering special incentives another, you're making the marketpleas by customers reluctant to make to Jock in customers. more competitive," said Chris Murray,a change because doing so has meant "This is potentially very significant legislative counsel for Consumersthe loss of phone numbers known by 
to the wireless industry," Verizon Union, which publishes Consumer
friends, relatives and business associ­Wireless spokesman Howard Reports magazine. 

ates. 

Waterman said. "Wireless carriers "There's both the economic cost of a But people moving from one city to will have to compete even more new phone number-having to printanother -Los Angeles to New York, fiercely in a very competitive environ­new business cards, having to poten­for example -cannot keep the same ment." tially contact everyone who mightlocal number. 
For consumers switching cell phone have your phone number -and mas­Also, industry officials say cus­companies, the new regulations from sive inconvenience." 
tomers who want to switch cell carri­


Monday, November I 0, 2003 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
IRAN 

U.S. lecturer freed in Iran 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN -Iranian authori­ties freed on Sunday an American university lecturer jailed since July on suspicion of espionage, a prosecutor's office spokesman saiq. 
Dariush Zahedi, an Iranian­born American citizen who lec­tures at University of California­Berkeley, was freed after his relatives posted bail of $250,000, Mohammad Shadabi told The Associated Press late Sunday. He gave no further details. 
A close friend of Zahedi, speaking on condition of anonymity, told the AP that the lecturer was free to leave Iran but was required to return to stand possible trial. He said Zahedi appeared healthy and fine after being released. 
Zahedi was taken to Evin prison, north of Tehran, on July 10 on suspicion of espionage activities while visiting relatives in Iran. 
Mohsen Mirdamadi, who heads the Iranian parliament's National Security and Foreign Policy Committee, charged last week that hard-line judiciary officials had refused to release Zahedi despite requests from Iran's Intelligence Ministry. 
Mirdamadi, a senior reformist lawmaker, expressed concern that Zahedi could meet the same fate as an Iranian­Canadian photojournalist, Zahra Kazemi, who was killed in Iranian custody. 
Kazemi, 54, died July 10 from fatal head injuries suffered dur­ing 77 hours of interrogation in the same prison as Zahedi. She was detained June 23 while taking photos outside Evin prison during student-led protests. 

Tehran's hard-line prosecutor Saeed Mortazavi had reportedly accused Kazemi of spying but the charges were never proven and the Iranian-Canadian didn't stand trial. 
Zahedi, a part-time lecturer at Berkeley since 2001, has written a book titled "The Iranian Revolution Then and Now: Indicators of Regime Instability" and was supposed to teach a class on war and peace in the Middle East. He also teaches at Santa Clara University. 
Boy suspected in shooting death 
Associated Press 
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. -A 6-year-old boy suspected of shooting his grandfather to death with a .22-caliber rifle has a history of mental illness and attacking family mem­bers, authorities said. 
James Zbinden, 59, was found dead at his home Friday after his grandson ran into the street and flagged down a neighbor, Cole County Sheriff John Hemeyer said. 
The boy, who has not been identified, is being evaluated at a mental-health facility. 
"We believe, at this time, 
that he killed his grandfather intentionally," Hemeyer said. An autopsy Saturday showed Zbinden bled to death from a single gunshot wound near his armpit. 
Hemeyer said Zbinden and the boy were alone together Friday when the boy appar­ently found a gun that family members thought was no longer in the house. Hemeyer said it was unclear what led up to the attack. 
"This is a kid who has attacked family members before with no provocation," Hemeyer said. 
The boy had been released last Monday from a central Missouri mental-health facili­ty where he was admitted after attacking another family member, Hemeyer said. 

Past assaults have involved the boy's younger siblings and his parents, Hemeyer said. He also said the boy has used knives during previous attacks. 
Before his legal counsel halted the interview, the boy indicated to authorities that he was responsible for Zbinden's death, Hemeyer said. 
A juvenile court will handle the case. 
SOUTH KOREA 


Students, activists 
fight with riot police 
Associated Press 

SEOUL -Fire bombs lit up the evening sky in Seoul on Sunday as labor activists and students battled riot police in one of the most violent protests in years. Dozens of students and workers were injured, witnesses said. 
Police hauled away dozens of workers and students bleeding from their heads, while protesters lobbed hun­dreds of fire bombs, which exploded in flames. 
The Korean Confederation of Trade Unions, which organized Sunday's protest, said at least 43 workers were hospitalized, one of them unconscious. Police reported 16 officers injured, said South Korean news agency Yonhap. 
In one clash, hundreds of police cornered a score of students in an alley and pum­meled them with plastic shields and batons. Television footage showed police stomp­ing on protesters sprawled on the pavement. 
As it grew dark, hundreds of students and workers regrouped in an eight-lane boulevard and its side alleys, chanting: "[President] Rob Moo-hyun, stop oppressing workers!" 
The protesters, wearing caps and masks to avoid being identified by police, beat their pipes on the pave-· ment in cadence, formed ranks and charged. Helmeted police packed the streets fighting back with shields. 
Acrid smoke from the fire bombs filled the streets bustling with Sunday shop­pers. Traffic was backed up for hours. 

Sunday's protest signaled a resurgence of labor unrest the government fears would drive away foreign investors. Fire bombs, once a common tool of protest in South Korea, have been absent from Seoul streets in the past 1 1/2 years. 
A crowd of protesters, esti­mated by police at 35,000 and by the labor confedera­tion at 100,000, rallied in central Seoul earlier Sunday to protest damages lawsuits that managers have filed against union leaders accused of staging illegal strikes. 
Several labor leaders have committed or attempted sui­cide in what the unions say was a protest against such lawsuits. In some cases, courts have seized part of the salaries of labor activists. 
Since many of these law­suits are coming from state utilities, activists see this trend as part of the govern­ment's labor policy. 
The government promised new legislation to make it harder for employers to sue labor unions for production losses and other financial damages caused by illegal strikes. 




Dinner starting at $6.45 222 Dixieway S., S.B. 574w272-7376 

FOR RENT FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR 
Well maintained houses near campus 
* Washers and dryers provided *Security systems *24 hour maintenance staff *2-, 4-, &8-bedroom houses available 

Only 3 left for the 2004-2005 school year Also leasing 2-4-5-6-7-8-9-& 1 0 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
bedroom houses for the 2005-2006 school year Call today, houses are going fast! Contact Kramer at DOMUS PROPERTIES: 

Office 234-2436 or Cell 315-5032 Visit our website at www.domuskramer.com 







T~'~N 

TRUC::It 
"Movers Who Care®" 
• Residential  • Loco! & Long Distance  
•Commercial  • Boxes & PackihgSopplies  
• Packing Service  • Loading &Uhlooding of  
• Insured & Bonded  Rental lfucks Available  



(57ll) 675-9700 
www.twomenondottuck.com 

Visit Our Box Store/ 
11590 McKinleH, Suite D • Osceola, IN 46561 


Monday, November l0, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
JAPAN 
Japanese elections keep Koizumi in power 
Associated Press 
TOKYO -Prime Minister .lunichiro Koizumi's adminis­tration retained control of Japan's more powerful legisla­tive chamber in national elec­tions Sunday but lost ground to the largest opposition party, whose leaders called their gains "historic." 
In his first test at the polls since winning the country's top job more than two years ago, Koizumi's personal popularity brought fewer votes than some analysts had expected. They said the outcome could encour­age opponents of his no-pain­no-gain economic reforms. 
The returns also showed vot­ers are increasingly split between just two parties, sug­gesting Koizumi's Liberal Democrats can no longer count on dominating a fragmented political opposition as they have for decades. 
The Liberal Democrats and their two smaller allies saw their majority in the 480-seat lower house of Parliament shrink to 275 from 287. accord­ing to tallies by national broad­caster NHK. with the prime minister's party slipping to 237 seats from 247. 

The coalition kept a tight grip on the chamber -retaining control of all committees as well as the ability to pass legis­lation. 
"We earned a mandate for our reform path," said Shinzo Abe, secretary-general of the Liberal Democrats. "We ful­filled our responsibility." 
Some analysts. however, said 




Robinson welcomes outcasts 
Associated Press 
PETEHBOHOUGII. N.H. The Hev. V. Gene Hobinson began his ministry as the Episcopal Church's first openly gay bishop on Sunday by say­ing he wants to bring the mes­sage of God's love to "those on the margins." 
lie also said the church should speak out on issues of social justice, including the lack of access to health care for many Americans. 
"llow dare we in this country spend $87 billion on war when 44 million people have no health insurance?" he said in his sermon. "It's up to the church to lead on some of these moral issues." 
After the service at All Saints Church, where he was married to his former wife, Robinson said he hopes that people who disagree with his confirmation will remain within the Episcopal Church, instead of breaking away. 
"A church founded on unhappiness and anger is not going to go very far," he said. 
New Hampshire's Episcopalians elected Hobinson as bishop in June, and his selection was approved at the convention of the Episcopal Church USA in August. But his consecration a week ago has threatened to divide the Episcopal Church, the U.S. branch of Anglicanism. 
On Nov. 3, overseas bishops who said they represented 50 million of the world's 77 mil­lion Anglicans jointly announced they were in a "state of impaired commun­ion" with the Episcopal Church -a step short of declaring a full schism. 
In addition. conservatives 
within the U.S. church have asked the Archbishop of Canterbury, the spiritual head of the Anglican Church, to authorize a separate Anglican province for them in North America. 
In his sermon, Robinson said Jesus spent most of his time with women, taxpayers and foreigners, not with the rabbis and wealthy members of the temple. 
Jesus "looked at the religious establishment of his day and realized they had closed their eyes to those on the margins," he said. 
At a reception for the bishop following the service. church­goer Jack Jones said he was "all for" Robinson. 
"He's a real brave man, and intelligent, and if people don't want to come to church for him, let them go somewhere else," said Jones. 64. 


the party's assessment might be optimistic. The opposition gains could embolden anti-Koizumi factions within the ruling party who oppose his belt-tightening policies. It might also force the prime minister to pause before moving ahead with an unpopu­lar plan to send Japanese peacekeepers to Iraq. 
"Koizumi has great personal popularity, but this election showed that hasn't carried over to the LOP." said Jiro Yamaguchi, a professor of poli­tics at Hokkaido University. 
Yamaguchi said Koizumi could find it more difficult to advance his domestic and foreign-policy agendas. 
Japan's largest opposition party, the Democratie Party. claimed victory with its 40-scat gain, which increased its total to 177. NIIK reported. Official results arc due Monday. 
Leaders of the centrist party said they had taken a big step closer to their seven-year-old goal of building a counter­weight to Koizumi's more con­servative Liberal Democrats. 


States consider 
dropping primaries 
Associated Press 
Several states have moved to 
drop their presidential primar­
ies next year, worried about 
costs in still-tight financial 
times and wondering if the 
political exercise would serve 
any purpose. 
Some say they can't afford the millions of dollars it costs to put on an election. Others say the decisions reflect the lopsided nature of modern primaries: The front-runner gets anointed by the media and campaign donors after the first few state primaries and the rest of the primaries are formalities. 
The decisions add fuel to the argument that the primary sys­tem is in dire need of repairs. In most states forgoing a pri­mary, party-run caucuses will be used instead to choose dele­gates to the national conven­tions. 
"Fewer voters will participate because [caucuses] are more complex," said Curtis Gans. director of the Committee for the Study of the American Electorate. State politicians are freezing out average voters. he said, because caucuses bring "lower turnout, and more advantage to whoever's organ­ized." 
Primaries usually don't get turnout much higher than 20 percent of registered voters, but they're better than caucuses. In Missouri, the 2000 primary brought 745,000 people to the polls, while the 1996 caucus brought 20,000, the state Democratic Party said. 
So far, Kansas, Colorado and Utah -all with Republican­controlled legislatures -have canceled their state-run 2004 primaries. Republican legisla­tures tried unsuccessfully to drop primaries in Arizona and Missouri, but Democratic gover­nors either vetoed the primary bill or restored the funding. 
Some Democrats complain that cutting primaries hurts 
er1on110llS 




FLEECE 

Selecti;r,.

ria.

fi:om DUTPDST 
Campus --1-1·1ii: 
Cold Weather Expert• 

Call :zsg-1ooo for more details 
them especially, with their 
crowded field of candidates. 
President Bush has no chal­
lenger. 
Other Democrats, however, 
are pushing to get rid of pri­
maries. Maine dropped its pres­
idential primary for next year. 
and New Mexico effectively did 
-it passed a law allowing par­
ties to hold caucuses, and then 
Democratic Gov. Bill Richardson 
set an early Feb. 3 caucus !June 
primaries will go on for other 
elections]. 
Washington Gov. Gary Locke, head of the Democratic Governors Association, is call­ing a special session to discuss scrapping his state's primary next year. 
"Why waste $7 million of scarce state money?" Locke said. Democrats in Washington state are using precinct caucus­es in February to allocate national convention delegates, making the March 2 primary pointless. 
Money worries have just exacerbated already existing doubts about the front-loaded nature of the primaries, offi­cials and experts said. 
"It started to snowball," said Leslie Reynolds, executive director of the National Association of Secretaries of State. "We're spending all this money, we don't have an impact on the process, and people aren't coming because they don't feel they have an impact." 
"Clearly. the process is flawed," said Massachusetts Secretary of State William Galvin. "The country is only now beginning to wake up to the fact that there's a primary. Active Democrats are only now focusing on it. Average voters aren't focused at all. And that's not good." 
Gans said the changes aren't all bad. A turn to caucuses strengthens person-to-person politics, rather than the TV­driven, mass advertising cam­paigns that mark big primary days like Super Tuesday, when 11 states vote at once. 
Galvin, a Democrat. worries instead that the anti-primary push in GOP-controlled states is an effort to stop any criticism of Bush from within his party. "They don't want a president on the ballot when people can come out and make a protest," he said. 
In some states where the gov­ernment has chosen not to hold the primary. the state Democratic Party has decided to conduct one anyway. 



THE OBSERVER 









IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, November 10, 2003 


NAFTA, FTAA propel race to the bottoin 
cheaper labor, at any cost. 
And what, exactly, was the cost? The casualties are so numerous that space limits my ability to detail them all here. They run the gambit from last­ing environmental damage to millions of lost jobs to lessened consumer pro­tection across the continent. Awful as this seems, the Free Trade Area of the Americas, or the FTAA, takes this all to an appalling new level. 
Geographically, it dwarfs NAFTA; the FTAA envelopes the entire Western hemisphere, excepting Cuba. That adds up to 34 countries, includ­ing NAFTA's modest original three. And NAFTA was the most far-reaching treaty of its kind ever negotiated. 
There's far more than geography here, of course. Foremost among NAFTA's wounded are working fami­lies. The treaty's vain, unenforceable labor protections were useless to workers seeking to organize. In fact, a Cornell study revealed that, since NAFTA began, most manufacturing and communication companies con­fronted with unionizing workers threatened to move their jobs abroad. 
While NAFTA helped pave the way for workers' "race to the bottom," the FTAA will accelerate it. With the clo­sure of 350 of Mexico's infamous maquiladoras, 280,000 jobs have been lost -corporations found cheaper labor elsewhere. As big business struggles to keep costs down, the world's poorest nations-Haiti and Guatemala, for example -will be pit­ted against each other. In this "race to the bottom," the only winner is the corporation. 
But jobs aren't the only victim. The neoliberal brand of free trade -NAFTA's foundation -has wrought widespread environmental devasta­tion. To pay down IMF/World Bank debt, countries in the Third World have deforested their own lands and overfished their own waters. For instance, in the Mexican state of Guerrero, 40 percent of the forests have been wiped out in the last eight years, while widespread clear-cutting has led both to soil erosion and habi­tat destruction. 
Big business cares as much for the environment as it does for its own consumers. Impossible, you say? NAFTA's obscure (but infamous) Chapter 11 provision allows corpora­tions to sue for compensation if they think a government action threatened their bottom line. Enforcing public health and safety laws, in effect, becomes actionable. In fact, one of these corporate lawsuits seeks to keep MTBE, a gas additive poisoning groundwater in California, in use. This absurd provision is set to resurface in the FTAA. 
Perhaps all of this is new to you, which would hardly be an accident. The FTAA talks have been held behind closed doors, despite clamor for open discussion and development of trade policy. By muffling citizen input ­which, despite being accepted, Jacks a process for integration -big business stifles public dissent. It truly is big business behind the FTAA: While citi­zens are left out of the talks, legions of corporate reps help write our trade policy. 
Such an obvious catastrophe should not be repeated, let alone expanded. Yet that is what is about to happen. The FTAA talks began about a decade ago; member countries plan to con­clude them by early 2005. This November, on the 20th and 21st, the Fifth Ministerial will take place in Miami, as countries will seek agree­ment on an advanced draft of the FTAA. Do your part-writing letters, driving down to protest, anything -to stop this panorama of injustice from becoming our reality. 
BJ Strew is a junior English major. His column appears every other Monday. Contact him at wstrew@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
One of our era's great scandals lies in the fact that an elite fraction of the world consumes the lion's share of its food, while millions starve. Another is that so-called developing countries are, in fact, not developing. Still 
BJ Strew
another is that inequality, both within and between countries, Straight, No has risen since Chaser NAFTA's enact­ment. 
Yet there are still those that persist, unethically and illogically, in touting NAFTA as a triumph of free trade. Their favorite stat: The world has seen rapid economic growth over the past four decades. But this is what sets apart their peculiar, neoliberal brand of free trade. Because while there is indeed this recorded growth, inequality has increased, suggesting that most of this growth was confined to the portfolios of the upper class. 
I'm not sure how many of you are familiar with NAFTA, the North American Free Trade Agreement, but I'm sure most of you have heard of it. Shrewd politicians often bandy the acronym about to curry favor either with corporate interests or with labor organizations-that is, big business versus the average worker. That makes talking about trade policy quite a tightrope act; it also makes it hard to tell which version is true. But as dull as trade policy may sound, it is nevertheless enormously important to everyone-not just blue-collar work­ers, not just career politicians. The broad catastrophe of NAFTA is proof that this is so. 
Not too long ago, a slew of politi­cians promised working families that NAFTA -which included the United States, Mexico and Canada-would bring a host of rewards: better condi­tions, better wages, more jobs and so on. But this was all a lie; big business was the big beneficiary. As always, the big business chased higher profits and 


OBSERVER POLL 

QUt'""E OF THE DAY 
"! do esteem individual liberty above 
Do you support moving the Pass-in-Review, 
everything. What is a nation for, but to
the procession by ROTC students, 
secure the maximum ofliberty to every
to an outside location? 
individual? What do you think a nation is ­a big business concern?" 

Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
D.H. Lawrence British author 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Monday, November I 0, 2003 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students, faculty concerned -with University education 
Students aren't in need ofa change 
Professors and administrators have boon complaining that there is not enough interest among under­graduates in research, going to graduate school and otherwise becoming part of academia. Particularly notice the repetition of the phrase "among Notre Dame's peer schools" in the articles "cover­ing" this issue. 
Since when was being different bad (recall the diversity issue)? What other schools are on this list, and are they committed to a Division I sports program as well? As much as the administration would like to forget about sports, they are there. 
Also, on limiting the business majors, it's obviously more than a monetary problem when a Vice President and Provost, John Affleck­Graves, is talking about whether this program fits the mission state­ment and overall goals. No one would dare to attack the Engineering or Architecture school for not contributing to a liberal arts education. 
The truth of the matter is that in the eyes of the administration, the business school lets students off easily and does not bring adequate prestige and national reputation for research to a University that is too much seen as a football power­house. They would much rather put the money that is somehow not going to the business school towards financing research that will never reach undergraduates and will benefit them, if at all, only indi­rectly. 
I would like to know how many students chose Notre Dame because of the amazing research opportuni­ties or even because of the wonder­ful professors in their intended major. There are two ways to look at this issue. 
In the words of Professor Norton, "It's how you look and what your athletic ability is. The idea that being smart is cool would have to take hold." I think Professor Nichols is much closer when he says, "They [Notre Dame students] are curious about the world, regardless of their major. Notre Dame students are bright, and bright students are curi­ous about life issues." 
It's time for Notre Dame adminis­trators to stop worrying about appearances and statistics, as seems to be their entire job lately, to lure in more academia-minded stu­dents (because "students are unin­terested in becoming professors") and start worrying about how to serve the students that are already here. 
Tom Mahoney freshman Stanford Hall Nov. 6 


Administration and faculty should work with students 
If Dean Roche and the faculty are serious about encouraging undergradu­ate passion about ideas and academics, we need to ask the students them­selves how to make this happen. Last week, after reading the Observer arti­cles on this topic, I asked my students how they saw this problem. 
They told me they would love to delve into the subjects that most interest them. That's what they expected when they arrived here. Yet they soon learned this would be impossible -that the curriculum was structured to preclude passionate intellectual curiosity. Fourteen courses of University requirements forced them to postpone their own interests until their junior year. Five demanding courses per semester required them to study only for the test. Indeed, my students complained that they would love to read for interest in a lot of their coursework, but didn't have the time. 
Above all, they pointed out that it didn't make sense for faculty and deans to complain that students were not intellectually engaged while not giving them a stronger voice in their own education. Notre Dame students are smart, creative, gifted. Had they not cared about ideas in high school, they wouldn't have been admitted to Notre Dame. 
The only way to solve the problem of intellectual engagement is for the administration and faculty to work with the students. They need to be repre­sented on the curriculum committees and similar venues. 
Working together, faculty and students could develop creative solutions to encourage intellectual engagement. For example, faculty teaching upper­division courses could offer extra "research tutorials" which would add one or two credits to normal three-credit courses, allowing interested students to take four, rather than live, courses in a semester. Or students could be encouraged to form groups and work with a professor or grad student to develop a course that would both interest them and fulfill a University requirement. Developing the syllabus could be part of the coursework. 
Notre Dame culture can change. Academic engagement can become the rule. For this to happen, the administration must systematically work with and listen to the undergraduates themselves. 
Gail Bederman Associate Professor of History Nov. 8 

Professors need to look to themselves for answers 
As students enrolled primarily in the Mendoza College of Business, as well as ones privileged enough to have been able to pursue a second major in political science, we were both shocked and appalled to read Monday's Observer articles entitled "Professors question academic engagement" and "Business degrees worry A&L faculty." 
To "estimate" that the majority of students on this campus read only assigned portions of text because all it cares about is grades is ridiculous. Not a day goes by when the two of us are not actively engaged in various conversations outside of class that directly involve principles of finance, accounting and politics. 
Furthermore, the fact that office hours are often poorly attended may stem from two more specific circum­stances than a need only at exam time: One, professors often come across as disdaining office hours as a chore; and two, professors don't make themselves appear approach­able through the course of class lec­tures and discussions. We speak from experience and say that our tendency to visit our professors outside of class is directly related with their ability to make our studies engaging in ways we had not previously real­ized they could be. 
It is our opinion that this engage­ment has taken place far more fre­quently in our studies of business than in our other courses. 
Whether it be because of the size of the class and the nature of the sub­jects studied, or how the professors and students alike go about studying and engaging our­selves in the subjects (i.e., group assign­ments, a focus on practical applica­
tion of theory and 
c
an emphasis on 
extracurricular 
involvement in · 
activities like 
the Student 
International 
Business 
Council), we 
can't neces­
sarily say. What we 
can say, 
though, is 
that our 
business 
education has consis­
tently chal­
lenged us over 
the last few 
years to learn 
and to want to 
learn, much to the 
same effect that any 
of our liberal arts class­
es has. It just adds to the 
process of learning a number 
of ways to fruitfully apply the value 
in what we learned to a discipline 

that often is connected to a specific . job. There is nothing inherently wrong in this. To paraphrase William Nichols' quote from the second referenced article, as busi­
ness majors, we are every bit as curious 
about the world as our coun­terparts 
in the College of Arts 
and 
Letters; we just may more readily 
analyze it through 

a differ­ent set of lenses. What we are trying to say is that no person -facul­ty or student, alumni or friend ­associated with this great University should be worried about any type of degree pursued by the students here. 
Part of what has made Notre Dame a great academic institution is that all students are exposed to a number of liberal arts courses during their four years here. 
It is our opinion that faculty and students alike should constantly look to each other for new ideas on what it means to learn and how to do it. 
If there is one thing the University does not do well, it may actually be exposing students to courses outside of the College of Arts and Letters. Maybe it should be required of Arts and Letters majors to take a basic accounting course or of business majors to take a course in mechanics or architecture. 
By remembering we are all in this together, we believe we can better offer something positive and eye­opening to the entire campus, regardless of academic pursuit. 
In looking to each other for innova­tive ideas, and to themselves for a more engaging pedagogical model. the various faculty members on this campus, who look down upon the studies of business, may actually learn something applicable to the life inside and outside their own class­rooms. 
Joseph Goldrick senior Patrick Donlin junior Morrissey Hall Nov. 5 



CENE
page 12 
Monday, November 10, 2003 

at we wear 
Look around you. Everywhere you turn you see the same thing: Abercrombie, J.Crew, Banana Republic -preps. Notre Dame is known for its homoge­nous mixture of stu­dents, and that isn't in refer­ence to race or religion -lam talking about preppy dressers. 
At our school, students look far too much alike. A feature in W Magazine said that "Notre Dame's student body is for the most part closely knit, homogenous and conservative." The Jack of diversity alluded to is pri­marily diversity within the closets of the student body. 
When I walk down the sidewalks of this campus, I feel like I am looking at the pages of a J.Crew magazine. People are either wearing articles of clothing from the above-listed stores, or are sporting the ever-popular bookstore brand. Although many students feel that the bookstore is the most popu­lar pseudo-brand name that fills their closets, many say that it is also a sure-fire way to know that they will fit in. 
I can remember a game we used to play at the dining hall where we actually counted the amount of peo­ple wearing Notre Dame apparel. We have yet to find a table of students where at least one person wasn't wearing Notre Dame appar­el. To be honest, usually the odd man out is the one who isn't wearing any Notre Dame clothes. So let's face it, the bookstore is popular. It is essentially a mini-trip to the mall that is only 40 steps away, and well, it reminds a Jot of people of Nordstroms due to its size and splendor. 
Female students also fre­quent a new trends store in the local area entitled Inspire Me. The store recently began advertising in The Observer, and employees say that sales have rocketed since the printing of the advertise­ment. 
"I used to always go to the mall -I suppose I still do, but Inspire Me has nice, preppy clothes that are also stylish and fun," said junior Brin Anderson. "It's not a big change from what the girls usually wear here, it's just a step up from the usual Abercrombie and Banana [Republic]." 

The men of Notre Dame have a bit less of a choice selection, but they certainly also appear to be less picky. No offense boys, but we don't expect much of a change from the typical Notre Dame T-shirts and then Abercrombie pants. Throw some Polo into the mix, and you have the Notre Dame equation figured out. 
I have actually talked to students from outside Notre Dame who have made jokes about the way our student body looked. Some referred the pro-NO wardrobes as cult-like, although they were more freaked out by the waffle logo in the dining hall. It is funny how people comment on about our rack of diversity in fashion yet still say that we still display a relatively good fashion sense. 
I say who cares if we are fashion-forward? In my opinion, homogeneity is a sign of unity. We have other things to concern ourselves with outside of fall's newest trends. Although the article in w magazine pointed out that we "channeled their competitive streaks into aca­demics, and athletics and a deep-seated camaraderie that is evident on campus," there is nothing wrong with that. 
Although the campus lacks fashion diversity, the mix appears to work for most students. No one appears extremely out of place, and it appears as though most students understood what they were getting into when arriving on Notre Dame's campus. 
There is so much pride and such an aura of close­ness among the students that this whole issue of dressing the same is not something to be ashamed of, but something to be proud of. So we are preps, big deal. We are still students of the University of Notre Dame. In my eyes, this is a great place to be whether we are fash­ion forward, diverse, or backwards. We actually have it better than those schools considered to be fashion forward. We are part of the Notre Dame family, the very preppy and homog­enous Notre Dame family. 
The views expressed in the this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Emily Howald at ehowald@nd. edu. 

A look into the life of U2's Bono 
By BECCA SAUNDERS 
Scene Writer 

It is hard to imagine a Notre Dame student who doesn't know the name "Bono." It is, in fact, difficult to imagine many people who do not know who Bono is. Nearly everyone in the world knows the name and knows the band U2, but how many really know the man himself? 
In the biography of Bono by Laura Jackson called Bono: His life, music, and passions, Jackson takes the reader on a journey from the slums of Dublin to the glitz of world-wide tours. Through it all, the reader steals a glimpse of the real character of Bono: the constantly changing artist, the energetic performer, the devoted Christian and the untiring human rights activist. Bono is a man who refuses to be defined as any one thing, and the course of his life explains much of where his vigor comes from. 
Born in May 1960 in Dublin, Bono's real name is Paul David Hewson. A very Christian name, Bono was born to a Protestant mother and a Catholic father, a very unique couple for that time in Ireland. Jackson describes his parents as refusing "to allow the intense rivalry in Ireland between these religions to keep them apart. Bravely, they mar­ried -in the teeth of intense opposition." 
Bono was brought up primarily Protestant, going to church with his mother, which was untradi­tional at that time, as children were generally raised in the faith of their father. However, the unconventional nature of this arrangement is precisely why the Hewsons chose this path for their children, Bono and his older brother. As his father would wait for the rest of his family outside of the Church of Ireland after he attended Mass, Bono's view of religion was deeply affected. Jackson explains that, "This seg­regation would inflame Bono and laid foundations for his views on the need to pursue integration and greater tolerance of different faiths." Bono never quite classi­fied himself as Protestant or Catholic. Jackson writes that, later in life, Bono felt "whether to class himself as Protestant or Catholic ... 'I always felt like I was sitting on the fence."' 
Childhood was not necessarily easy for Bono. With a stiff sibling rivalry and the death of his beloved mother during high school, Bono became a rebel of his own accord. · 
Bono attended one of the first and only non-denominational high schools at the time in Dublin with the other future members of the band U2. The band started almost by chance when drummer Larry Mullins Jr. posted a note on the high school bulletin board calling any potential band mem­hers to a meeting at his house. The band that is today U2 is who showed up. 
Adam Clayton, the bassist, and Dave Evans, now known universally as "The Edge," were probably initially the most tal­ented, along with Larry Mullins Jr. Overall, Bono "did not exhibit any particularly out­standing musical tal­ent, despite harboring aspirations to become the band's lead gui­tarist." The very name Bono is a shorted ver­sion of the Latin phrase "Bono Vox," which means good voice. This nickname was more of a joke when first given to Bono, who originially hated the nickname. 
No one could deny, however, that Bono exuded "an irresistible verve and optimism, as well as a confident theatrical flair," and that made him a natu­ral choice as front man and, con­sequently, lead singer. The inter­nationally acclaimed band thus began as four questionable musi­cians with enthusiasm. 
Bono has always been known for his strong lyric-writing abili­ties. Songwriting is a very serious undertaking for Bono, and, in ref­erence to his beginning songs, "his intention lyrically was to promote independence and free­dom of thought, and to reject glossy, stereotyped media imagery. He also wanted to explore serious questions of spiri­tuality -a subject avoided by most rock lyricists but one that Bono believed that teenagers did think about." 
The band's tendency to write songs that are thematically Christian has caused increasing debate about whether or not U2 is a Christian band. The band members themselves are self­proclaimed believers, and one need not look far to find strong Christian ideas on any of their albums. Bono has consistently been very vocal about his beliefs, at one time coming out against the "commercialization of reli­gious faith" saying, "I believe it is tarnishing something really beautiful." 
One should not get the impres­sion, however, that Bono is trying to evangelize his crowds, Jackson explains. 
"Invariably, U2's answer was that they just hoped their songs might make people stop and con­sider exactly what was going on around them," Jackson writes. 
Even more importantly than talking about religion, Bono has spent his life encouraging living a life based on Christian ideals. Jackson takes the reader through the timeline of U2's history of social justice. U2 has been instru­mental in supporting the unifica­tion of Ireland and in raising awareness of the issues in Third World countries, especially those in Central America and Africa. 


U2's "Pop-Mart" tour to Sarajevo is said to have marked the "return to normalcy" in Sarajevo, and Larry Mullins, Jr. calls it the best concert in the his­tory of. Bono has served as the international spokesperson for Jubilee 2000, an organization committed to aiding in Third World debt relief, and has begun his own organization called DATA (Debt, AIDS, Trade and Africa). Bono, himself, believes social jus­tice to be at the core of what Christianity is truly about. 
Bono is a man of many faces but one heart. In his biography, Laura Jackson tries to introduce all sides and aspects of Bono. The title holds true to the content, as the reader is educated on "his life, music and passions." While this novel may not initially appeal to the light-of-heart U2 fans, as the life of Bono unfolds, the read­er meets a man who is intriguing on his own -a world-famous rock star who values family, friends, Christianity and social justice. 
Jackson ends the chronicle best: "He is a genuine pacifist, yet he is capable of a militant atti­tude ... and it is this central dual­ity, right at the core of Bono's personality, that ultimately intrigues. Bono is, and will always remain, unique." 
A fan of U2? Come to the U2 Tribute Concert: Drop the Debt Coffeehouse at I 0 p.m. this Wednesday at Interfaith in the Coleman-Morse Lounge and help raise money to help causes in Africa. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 


NSIDER 
O
THE 

Monday, November 1 0, 2003 BSERVER Notre Dame 27, Navy 24 
Not this year 
Game-winning field goal propels Notre Dame past Navy for win No. 40 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sporrs Editor 
SncoiHls af'lnr D.J. 
Fitzpatrick's game-winning 
field goal knucklnballed 
through thn uprights, Notre 
l>amn players and fans cele­
bratnd as if the Irish had just 
hnaten a top-10 Loam. 
They hadn't. but gntting a win at home against Navy snnnwd just as important in this tough snason for the Irish . 
. Julius Jonos had 221 yards rushing and two touchdowns and backup kicknr Fitzpatrick hit the dneiding field goal with no Limo on the elock to lift Noln~ l>anw to a 27-24 victory ovnr Navy. its 40th straight. Tho win also snappnd a three­game homn losing streak for tho Irish. 
"Wn 1wnded to get back into tho winner's drr,lo and have that winning feeling again after a game," Notre Dame coach Tyrone Willingham said. "It is not a feeling of relief. but it feels very good to get a vie tory." 
Fitzpatrick's heroics were set up by the Irish defense which played well despite fac­ing an option attack for the first time this S!HLSon. The unit contained Navy quarter­back Craig Candeto to only 47 pass yards and 46 rushing yards. Candeto entered the contnst averaging 185 yards of ofl'ensn a game. Navy gainnd only 238 rushing yards, nearly 70 less then its average this season. 
Af'tnr Fitzpatrick hit a 30­yard field goal with 5:10 remaining, Navy got the ball and moved it to its own 47 yard-line, but was forced to punt on fourth-and-5. Defensive back Vontez Duff returned the punt to Notre Dame's 15 with 1:54 and Navy's 30. Four plays later, Willingham said he had total Irish gained 280 on the fullback Kyle Eckels' five-yard three timeouts. Fitzpatrick drilled the winning confidence that Fitzpatrick ground. Quinn finished the touchdown run with 2:40 left 
Jones dominated the drive kick. Navy safety Josh Smith would make the field goal. game 14-27 for 138 yards and in the third quarter. for tho Irish, breaking off said he got three fingers on "We felt confident in his a two-yard touchdown pass. Jones started the Irish scor­runs of nine, 11 the ball, but abilities and that There were ing in the first quarter when and snvnn yards that didn't alter he could make the seven lead he ran to the right of his line­and catching two the kick enough kick," Willingham changes in the man, broke a tackle and passes for 10 to have it miss. said. "I did not game, with nei­reversed direction to scamper
"/just thanked God

more yards. "I hit it great tell him anything "It feels very good ther team lead­48 yards to the end zone and But the key it went over." off my foot, but really before the to get a victory. " ing by more give Notre Dame a 7-0 lead. play of the drive I heard a thud kick. I just told than seven Tony Lane, who led the cam11 with 42 so I thought it him to not be anx­points at any Midshipmen with 92 yards on
D.J. Fitzpatrick Tyrone Willingham 
seconds left. was blocked, I ious and stay point. Notre eight carries, answered Jones Notre Dame Irish kicker just thanked patient." Irish head coach Dame used a rush with a 65-yard burst 12 quarterback God it went The Irish had late first-half seconds later to tie the game Brady Quinn o v e r , 417 total yards touchdown at 7-7. found receiver Fitzpatrick said. and moved the pass from Hh!lllla McKnight on a slant "With everyone running up ball effectively for much of the Quinn to McKnight to lead 14­pattern that picked up 18 and the noise of the crowd, it game. Jones led the running 10 at intermission, only to see Contact Joe Hettler at yards and put tho Irish on was unbelievable." attack with 33 carries as the Navy charge ahead 17-14 on jhettler@nd.edu 

player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Julius Jones  221  D.J. Fitzpatrick's 40-yard field goal  "The celebration is just  
Notre Dame running back  as time expired.  getting started. "  
Jones carried the Irish yet again.  number ofrushing yards  
rushing 33 times for two  accumulated by Jones, the sixth­ The walk-on kicker wasn'tfazed by  Tyrone Willingham  
touchdowns. lie gained 27 yards  highest single-game total in Notre  the pressure as he kicked the game­ Irish head coach  
alone on the game-winning drive.  Dame history  winning field goal  

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 10, 2003 
report card 

B  quarterbacks: While he didn't make any big mistake, Quinn didn't do anything spectacular, either. He missed wide­ 
open receivers and underthrew oth­ 
ers, but didn't give up an interception.  
A  running backs: Behind Jones, who is lit­erally carrying Notre Dame through this season, the Irish pushed Navy around. There is no reason why  
Jones shouldn't be the featured back.  
C- receivers: Sure, McKnight hauled in a touchdown passes and many others had decent plays. But how many  
passes got dropped?  
offensive line: The linemen dominated  
B+  Navy, and they should have pushed around their undersized foes. Still, when your back runs for 221 yards,  
you did something.  
B+  defensive line: Tuck had a whopping 14 tackles and Campbell and Hilliard disrupted the interior option game for most of the day with their physi­ 
cal play.  
B+  linebackers: Watson and Hoyte always seemed to be near the ball, and they did a solid job containing Candeto ifhe tried  
to run.  
defensive backs: Although they didn't face  
C- many passes, the secondary got btirned on play-action a handful of times. Ifthere was a breakdown when the Irish con­ 
trolled the option, it often came with  
missed assignments by the secondary.  
8  special teams: Fitzpatrick may have hit the game-winner, but he struggled early in the game. At least the cover­age was better, but what will it take for  
the return game to get going?  
coaching: Give the coaching staff  
B+  credit for preparing the defense well enough to secure a win. Notre Dame could have entered this game unmo­ 
tivated, but they didn't.  

2.96 
overall: The streak continues as Notre Dame clawed anoth­er victory away from Navy. Now, can the Irish keep a good thing going? 
adding up the numbers 

times Notre Dame has won a game this sea­son by a field goal with no time on the clock 
2 

-Nicholas Setta beat Washington State in overtime with afield goal 
3 
Notre Dame players who had gained over 200 yards a game twice in a season before Julius 
Jones did Saturday 

opponents Notre Dame has played this season who don't have a winning 
0

record 
.750 winning percentage of Tyrone Willingham-coached Irish teams in games decided by eight points or less 
tackles recorded by defensive end Justin 
·14 

Tuck, a career high 
12.25 
average yards per rush by Julius Jones on his eight first-quarter carries 
number of rushing touchdowns in the red zone by 
1 

Notre Dame Saturday, doubling its season total 
40 
years Notre Dame has beaten Navy, the 
longest streak in Division 1-A football 


College students need alcohol about as much as Notre Dame needed a win. 
That's why you'll excuse the Notre Dame sideline for erupting onto the field when D.J. 
Fitzpatrick's kick floated its way through the uprights in the north end zone, giving 3-6 Notre Dame a 27-24 victory against Navy. 


The way the 

Andrew Soukup 
Irish celebrated, you would have thought it was 
1993 and the Sports Writer 

Irish had just beat top-ranked Florida State. But "pandemonium on the field" doesn't have the same ring when Notre Dame got its third win of the season in November against lowly Navy-and it needed a field goal with time run­ning out to do so . 
Still, in a season so devoid of memo­rable moments, please excuse the players and coaches for grabbing hold of one when it finally occurs. 
There stood Tyrone Willingham, his scowl for post-game NBC interviews of the past three home games replaced by a broad grin. There jumped the players, prancing around the field in levels of excitement nor­mally reserved for visiting teams who tear chunks of turf out of Notre Dame Stadium. There roared the fans, who would have missed a thrilling ending had they left this game early. 
Someone listening to the roars out­side the stadium might have thought the Irish were playing for a BCS bowl instead of a BS bowl. 
But if an ecstatic celebration after beating a team for the 40th straight time helps the Irish get back on track, then so be it. 

"We had to issue a statement," Willingham said, "that we are here to stay, that we aren't going away and we aren't going to fade." 
That declaration was provided by senior running back Julius Jones, who, for the second time this season, broke the 200-yard barrier in a game. In fact, without Jones-who carried the Irish through wins against Washington State, Pittsburgh and now Navy-Notre Dame could easily be 0-9. 
The proclam..ation was also made by a defense whose failure to shut down the option in the second half nearly sent the 2003 Notre Dame team into the land of infamous teams. But with the game on the line and Navy driv­ing, the defense discovered its cajones and forced the Midshipmen to punt. 
It still took a walk-on kicker to pro­vide the exclamation point. 
Sure, D.J. Fitzpatrick had jogged onto the field once before with the game on the line and a handful of ticks left on the clock. But he was a freshman kicker at Marian High School in Mishawaka, kicking for the win in a homecoming game against Washington. "I've been there before, just not at this magnitude," he said. 
In high school, Fitzpatrick buried the kick. But how would he do with a 39-year-old streak hanging in the bal­ance? "Get ready, No. 19, they're gonna need you!" an inebriated fan screamed as Notre Dame started driving down the field to set up Fitzpatrick. 
Twice, Navy called timeout to ice a kicker who had already missed two field goals and sent kickoffs out of bounds. But each time, Fitzpatrick jogged over to the Notre Dame side of the field, stayed by himself and tried to maintain his focus. 
When he ran onto the field for the third time, he lined up behind high school teammate Matt Krueger, got a perfect snap, a perfect hold-and watched the ball wobble 40 yards toward the uprights. 
Navy's Josh Smith would say later that he got the tips of three fmgers on the ball and ifhe got four, Notre Dame probably would have slid back into the pot and found itself in hot water. 
"I hit it great, but the rotation off the ball told me it had to be blocked," Fitzpatrick said. "I didn't know ifit was going in or not. Those were prob­ably the longest two to three seconds in my life." 
Fitzpatrick waited. And waited. And waited. And as flashbulbs popped across the Stadium, he vaguely saw two officials extend their arms verti­cally-something Fitzpatrick didn't have time to do because his team­mates mobbed him. 
"It went in," he grinned. "I don't know by how much, but it went in." 
So Fitzpatrick celebrated, his team­mates celebrated, his fans celebrated, his coach celebrated. And when the celebration died down, Saturday's win showed there may be hope for sal­vaging this season -a season that began with Notre Dame running through a buzz saw of ranked teams and a season that ends against teams Notre Dame should be able to beat. 
"Hey guys," NBC sideline reporter Lewis Johnson told Jones and Fitzpatrick as they waited for a post­game interview, "you can smile now." 
Finally. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd. edu 
Monday, November 10, 2003 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Jones helps carry Irish to victory 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
lin wasn't involvnd in any triple options or sideline pitch plays, but Julius Jones onen again took Notre Dame on his back and carried the toam -for the full four q uartnrs -to vietory. 
Could hn have eontinuod to average 6.7 yards a carry if Saturday's game had gone to overtime'! 
"I'd have to borrow logs from somoone olso," Jonns said. 
Most Division 1-A running backs would noed a fresh set of legs aft1~r carrying the ball :n times f(Jr 221 yards and two touch­downs liko Jones did in a 27-24 Irish victo­ry over Navy Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Jones made Navy pay li1r its aggressive run defense twice, breaking 48 and 12­yard touchdown runs, rnspeetively. 
"Our game plan was to try to dominate llw linn of scrimmage and run the ball to kenp their ollhnse oil' the field," Jones said. "In the first half we had an excellent drive but llwn started shooting ourselves in the lilot. But we got back on track. The offen­sive line got comfortable, and I got eom­lhrt.able back there. It is just amazing what can happen when Wfl execute." 
Jonos' elli1rts have not gone unappreeiat­
MEGAN DAVISSONffhe Observer 
od in tho Notre Dame locker room. 
Irish running back Julius Jones runs behind center Bob Morton in Notre Dame's 27­
"When an offensive lineman misses a block, and the running back runs over [his 24 win over Navy. Jones carried the ball 33 times for 221 yards and two touchdowns. 
manl. you fl1el bad because you know a 25 yard run eould have been a touchdown," contor Bob Morton said. one opponent since Autry Denson did it game so that [Julius] could still have that 
Prndominantly dun to Jones' performance, versus Navy from 1995-98. fourth quarter that he did have," Quinn he, Hyan Grant (six carries for 16 yards), "We had a lot of guys in the box, and we said. quarterback Brady Quinn (seven carries tried to stop them," Navy coach Paul Jones got the call often when Notre for 24 yards) and backup quarterback Johnson said. "He broke some tackles, and Dame regained possession with the game Carlyle Holiday (one carry, 16 yards) com­sometimes they caught us in a blitz. But we tied and 1 :54 on the clock. He carried the hinnd li>r 280 total yards on the ground. had to blitz to get pressure." ball for eight yards on frrst down from the 
Do the math and that is 42 yards more Navy often brought an eighth man in Irish 15. He caught a screen pass the next than the number-one rushing ofl'ense in from the secondary to slow Jones down play for three yards and a frrst down. the eountry could gain. and force the pass. Jones' success, in turn, Later, he would catch another screen for 
Notrn Dame is traditionally a program opened an effective scheme of play-calling seven yards and have rushing gains of 12, that runs the ball, but the last time an Irish for oflensive coordinator Bill Diedrick and 1 0 and one yards, respectively. baek 1~arrind more than 30 times was Ryan coach Tyrone Willingham. The one-yard run set up the D.J. Grant's pPrformance in a victory at Air "To have 100 yards in just about both Fitzpatrick game-winning 40-yard field Foren last snason. halves, it's what this football team needed," goal. 
Nonetheless, the increased touches make Willingham said. "Because we got the run "We need him," Quinn said of Jones. "He Jones feel good. And the result makes him down, it made our play-action passes work is a big part of our offense." lf.Jel even better. that much better, and you notice that the The last time an Irish player rushed for 
"It filels great Ito play that welll, but the majority of our passes probably came off 200 yards or more was when Julius Jones bnst part is we got the win," Jones said. play-action today." amassed 262 yards against Pittsburgh this "Wn worknd hard this week, and we knew In turn, the passing game would eventu­season. That was also the last time Notre Navy would give everything they had ally reopen the running lanes that Jones Dame won. becausn they do every single year." and Notre Dame would use to drive down­Coincidence? 
Navy knows Jones all too well. field on its under-two-minute, game-win· I lc is the first Irish player to rush for ning field goal drive. more than 100 yards four times against "We knew we had to set up the passing Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Irish defense stymies Navy's offense 
Tuck said. "The effort was put points on the board, and their coaches during the Observer Staff Report 
great, we made plays and we have to respond," practice week and hold their luckily we came out with a Diedrick said. "Overall, with assignments Saturday. 
Notre Dame had only win today." the balanced attack, I was "Today was all about three practices to figure out The Midshipmen averaged very proud of our guys and being disciplined and being how to shut down Navy's 4.5 yards per carry, but that thought they stepped up and aggressive. This is what the potfmt triple option attack. number is a bit skewed made plays when they had coaches have been preach­After holding the Academy thanks to Tony Lane's 65-to." ing all week. We had our to 70 rushing yards less yard touchdown run in the Notre Dame strung togeth­share of mistakes, too, but than its average this season, first quarter. Besides that er three drives with at least we respect those guys the Irish defense felt good big play, Notre Dame's 10 plays to produce points. because they play hard and about its effort. defense held the dangerous Diedrick said that was pre­don't quit, just like we don't 
"I thought we did some Navy ground game in check. cisely what the offense quit." good things in some critical "If you take away [the long wanted to accomplish. Campbell thinks th'at situations," Irish defensive run]. we pretty much got the "We were trying to take Notre Dame has had the coordinator Kent Bacr said. goal t~at we s~t before the them off the field and help ability to win more games "Wn made somn adjust­game, Baer smd. our defense out and, other this season but haven't put nwnts early in thn game, at than the times we were all the different pieces halftime and a lot in the Offense responds pinned up deep and couldn't together. sncond half. Our kids did a Irish offensive coordinator get the ball out of there, "It's kind of hard when good job." Bill Diedrick thought his that was the only real disap­you're not winning. People 
Notrn Dame only forend unit would need to respond pointment of the game," always want to look at the one turnover but stuck to when Navy scored. They did Diedrick said. minuses of things when, in assignments and held Navy just that Saturday. actuality, the stuff that we to only 238 rushing yards The Midshipmen took the Campbell happy about win do well has been here all for the gamn. Dnl'ensive end lead three times but could­No one had a bigger smile the time. We just have to .Justin Tuck led the unit with n't hold it as Notre Dame's after Notre Dame's win than show it on Saturday." 14 tackles, while Quentin offense found ways to score defensive lineman Darrell Burrnll and Courtney at critical times throughout Campbell. Game captains Watson had 10 tackles each. the game. "We won. That's why I'm Notre Dame's captains 
"I thought wn played well, "The thing we preached smiling," Campbell said. were Julius Jones, Jim but I don't think we played all week long was that they Campbell said the key for Molinaro, Cedric Hilliard as wnll as we could have," are going to go down and the defense was to listen to and Campbell. 
•

scoring summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 

Notre Dame  7  7  7  6  27  
Navy  7  3  7  7  24  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 7, Miehigan 0 
Julius Jones 48·yard run (D.J. Fitzpatrick kick) with 5:06 remaining Drive: 4 plays, 68 yards, 1:57 elapsed 
Navy 7, Notre Dame 7 
Tony Lane 65-yard run (Eric Rolfs kick) with :12 remaining Drive: 1 play, 65 yards, :12 elapsed 
Seeond quarter 
Navy I 0, Notre Dame 7 
Rolfs 35-yard FG with 3:06 remaining Drive: 6 plays, 23 yards, 3:06 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Navy 10 
Rhema MckNight 2-yard pass from Brady Quinn (Fitzpatrick kick) with :14 remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 58 yards, 2:45 elapsed 
. Third quarter 
Navy 17, Notre Dame 14 
Kyle Eckel5·yard run (Rolfs kick) with 5:50 remaining Drive: 6 plays, 40 yards, 2:40 elapsed 
Notre Dame 21, Navy 17 
Jones 12-yard run (Fitzpatrick kick) with 3:15 remaining Drive: 7 plays, 66 yards, 3:33 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Navy 24, Notre Dame 21 
Eckel1·yard run (Rolfs kick) with 9:53 remaining Drive: 7 plays, 39 yards, 3:33 elapsed 
Notre Dame 24, Navy 24 
Fitzpatrick 30-yard FG with 5:10 remaining Drive: 12 plays, 63 yards, 3:33 elapsed 
Notre Dame 27, Navy 24 
Fitzpatrick 40-yard FG with 0:00 remaining Drive: 11 plays, 62 yards, 1:54 elapsed 
statistics 

rushing yards 

passing yards 
46 return yards 


48-280  rushes-yards  53-238  
14-27-0  comp-att-int  4-5-0  
4-37.0  punts-yards  5-41.4  
0-0  fumbles-lost  4-1  
6-50  penalties-yards  6-26  
24  first downs  14  

passing 

Quinn 14-17·1 Candeto 4-5-0 
rushing 

Jones  33-221  Lane  8·92  
Quinn  7·24  Eckel  13·53  
Grant  6·16  Candeto  19·47  
Holiday Powers-Neal  1-16 1-3  Roberts Hines  10-30 1-14  
Brimage  1-3  

recniving page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 10, 2003 

McKnight  4·50  Jenkins  2·31  
Clark  3-32  Roberts  2-15  
Jenkins  3-27  
Jones  2-10  
Schmidt  1-11  
Grant  1-7  

taekling  
Tuck  14  Smith  12  
Burrell  10  Sanders  11  
Watson  10  Jackson  11  
Hoyle  7  Brazier  10  


THE STREAK CoNTINUES 

CHUY BENITEZ, MEGAN DAVISSON and TIM SULLIVANfThe Observer 
Rhema McKnight catches a touchdown pass (top left). Linebacker Derek Curry, left, cornerback Vontez Duff, center, and free safety Quentin Burrell celebrate a defensive stop (top right). Backup quarterback Carlyle Holiday takes advantage of a rare opportunity to carry the ball (left center). Head coach Tyrone Willingham is focused on his team's performance (bottom left). Running back Julius Jones runs for Notre Dame's first touchdown (bottom right). 
' ' ~ .~ I. 4 oJ -• J • ., 

CENE
Monday, November 10, 2003 
Page 13 
Eleemosynary explores generations of women 
make her mother love her. and how to highlight the specif­
By JENNIFER BELLIVEAU and 
Ultimately, tragedy befalls ic traits that made her stand 
JOHN KLEIN 
Dorothea and Artie returns out. As Dorothea, Ellen 
Sc<ne Writers 
home to her mother and daugh­Kennedy captured both the ter for a final reckoning with woman's quirkiness and her Eleemosynary. E-L-E-E-M-0-reality. The play ends with the need to excel intellectually. Her S-Y-N-A-H-Y. Eleemosynary: of women facing the truth about witty asides provide much of or relating to charity, the giving their relationship for the first the play's comic relief. Though of alms. Part vocabulary lesson, time. the audience sympathizes with part dramatic family saga, and Eleemosynary resonated with · Dorothea, trapped in a stifling part comic narrative, playwright the audience on many levels. life she did not choose, we can Lee Blessing's Eleemosynary Everyone can appreciate the also understand why she infuri­played Friday to a full house in pain involved in familial rela­ates Artie. Cheryl Turski Washington Hall's lab theatre. tionships or the desire to be depicts Artie's seeming aloof­The one-act play combines the loved and understood. The ness and emotional vulnerabili­emotional effect of an aban­emotional impact of the play ty with ease. As Artie the ado­doned child and a scorned moth­was apparent at the touching lescent, she is sulking and er with the humor of an eccen­culmination, which had many rebellious. As the Artie the tric old woman and an over­audience members in tears. mourning daughter and reluc­achieving spelling bee champion Director Megan Ryan realized tant mother, she is exposed and to form one compelling narra­the full potential of every scene hesitant around those she cares tive about three distinctive with the remarkable ability to about. The audience is able to women. send the audience from laughter hate her actions while seeing 
The play centers on the story to anger to tears from scene to the reason behind them. Devon of three generations of women. scene. Candura's Echo is endearing Dorothea (Ellen Kennedy) is an Technically, the show is flaw­and irritating as only a little kid unconventional woman who less. Stage manager Theresa could be. She perfectly por­gives her daughter, Artie (Cheryl Rutherford does a fantastic job trays Echo as a child who is Turski), a most unusual upbring­of executing every single light desperately searching for her ing. Dorothea's dissatisfaction cue, which would be a some­place in the world by constantly with her sheltered life led her to what minor achievement were it striving to be the best while seek solace in spiritualism and not for the fact that the lighting inwardly searching for her idiosyncrasy. Eventually, design is superb in its complexi­place in her family. She is at Dorothea's odd habits and drive ty and artistry. Simple shifts in · once innocent and arrogant, to succeed push Artie away. The color and intensity at key helpless and wise beyond her two live apart for many years moments, particularly in the years. without speaking until Artie final scenes (the climactic The set, scenery and cos­calls Dorothea and announces spelling bee is a knock-out). pro­tumes were all very straightfor­she is pregnant. After Echo vide extra emphasis, and at ward. The actresses wore the (Devon Candura) is born and times the changes are so subtle same outfits throughout the interesting, unorthodox setting accentuated the characters' situ­Artie's husband dies, the two that they force the audience to entire play. Artie looked the and story to tell a timeless tale ation and conveyed it to the move in with Dorothea. Artie do a double-take, subconsciously part of an austere professional, of family love. The play was audience. Small touches, such continues to feel overwhelmed shifting their focus even when Dorothea the distinctive matron, limited only in the overabun­as the list of Echo's spelling by her mother, and when she is all three characters are present and Echo a young woman in dance of audience asides by the words included on the program offered a job in Europe, she on stage. While many would school. Again, the simple set characters. The women are or the wings that showed up jumps at the chance. leaving assume there is little to be said highlighted the acting talents of forced to talk to the audience throughout the play, further behind Echo to be raised by about a set composed entirely of the three characters, who trans­frequently, while the play works heightened the show's ability to Dorothea. Dorothea sees Echo black boxes. the lack of any sub­formed the black boxes into best while showcasing the inter­touch the audience. The per­as another chance to raise a stantial set only aids further in beds, hills, wooden towers, and action of three members of a formance can be summed up in daughter, and she emphasizes helping the audience to place stages. Props were limited to family. one word: B-R-1-L-L-I-A-N-T. the importance of education and their attention on what really two wooden wings, brought out Overall, Eleemosynary was an becoming self-sufficient. Echo matters: the incredible perform­repeatedly over the course of the outstanding performance by listens to Dorothea and becomes ances of the three leading ladies. play to accentuate the attach­three very talented actresses. Contact Jennifer Belliveau at the national spelling bee cham­Each of the three actresses ment between the three women. The direction and technical jbellive @nd.edu and John Klein pion, using her talents to try to truly understood her character The script creatively uses an aspects of the show perfectly at jklein@nd.edu 



Cheryl Turski depicts Artie's seeming aloofness and emotional vulnerability with ease. As Artie the adolescent, she Is sulking and rebellious. 
-----------------------------------------J 
page 14 Monday, November l 0, 2003 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NFL 
Cowboys struggle, still manage to knock off Bills 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas Bill Parcells certainly has taught the Dallas Cowboys how to win. Next comes how to look good when doing it. 
The Cowboys won ugly again Sunday, beating the Buffalo Bills 10-6 despite moving only 51 yards on their two scoring drives and going more than 15 minutes between first downs in the second half. 
The result is what matters, though, and Dallas (7 -2) remains tied with Carolina for the best record in the NFC. 
The Cowboys have won seven of eight and are 2-0 in the five-game stretch Parcells has dubbed "Showtime." 
The rub is that Dallas has looked more ready for vaude­ville than Broadway the last two games. 
The Cowboys had to over­come four turnovers, three in the first six plays, to beat Washington. 
Chiefs 41, Browns 20 
Sometimes only great plays stop great players. . 
Chris Crocker avoided a block and made a desperation ankle tackle of Dante Hall on Sunday, keeping the NFL's most electrifying player from uncorking a record-breaking fifth touchdown return. 
Hall's return ended up going 77 yards and set up Morten Andersen's 29-yard field goal, paving the way for a 41-20 vic­tory over Cleveland that kept Kansas City (9-0) the NFL's only unbeaten team. 
''I'm thinking 'Oh, my God.' That's literally what I'm think­ing," said Crocker. "Somehow I managed to get him on the ground." 
Said Hall, "You've got to take your hat off to him. He played it well." 
Panthers 27, Bucs 24 
The Carolina Panthers refused to talk any trash before their game against Tampa Bay. After beating the Super Bowl champions for the second time this season, they wouldn't shut up. 
Jake Delhomme's 5-yard touchdown pass to Steve Smith with 1:06 remaining overcame a late Tampa Bay rally and lift­ed the Panthers to a 27-24 vic­tory in the matchup of two suddenly bitter rivals. 
The victory silenced the Bucs (4-5) and dropped them three games behind the Panthers (7­
2) in the NFC South and Carolina holds the tiebreaker. 
''I'll say it: I can't stand them," said defensive tackle Kris Jenkins. 
"When they pull on their red and we pull on our blue, it's like the Bloods and the Crips. They talk too much, they want to flash 'I'm a superstar.' Well, now that talk don't mean noth­ing. 
Jaguars 28, Colts 23 
Fred Taylor ran the ball Sunday as well as he ran his mouth all week. 
The result for Jacksonville was a surprising 28-23 victory over the Indianapolis Colts, highlighted by Taylor's game­winning, 32-yard touchdown run with 1 :08 left. 
Taylor finished with a sea­son-high 152 yards and deliv­ered on his promise to "pun­ish" Colts safety Mike Doss, whose rough play in the sea­son's first meeting prompted Taylor to send out this mid-week warning: ''I'm going to punish him. If he hits me, fine, but if I catch him, believe me, I'm going to get the better shot." 


As it turned out, Taylor's trash talk was the perfect motivation for the Jaguars (2­7), a struggling team in desper­ate need of a spark. 
Jets 27, Raiders 24 
LaMont Jordan reminded the New York Jets at halftime just how devastating a loss would be. 
"One team's season is going to end today," Jordan told them, "and it's not going to be ours." 
Jordan took his own words to heart, igniting a remarkable rally when he ran 2 yards for a touchdown with 14:20 left. The Jets kept coming, overcame an 11-point deficit and beat the Oakland Raiders 27-24 in over­time Sunday. 
Chad Pennington threw a 3­yard scoring pass to Jerald Sowell with 1:09 left and com­pleted the 2-point conversion pass to Anthony Becht to force OT. Then Doug Brien kicked a 38-yard field goal in the extra period. 
"This is special," Pennington said. "The Raiders had a blue­print to beat us, and everyone counted us out. But we won!" 
10 months ago that propelled Oakland into the AFC champi­onship game. 
Falcons 27, Giants 7 
The Atlanta Falcons got Dan Reeves his 200th win on a day the New York Giants may have put coach Jim Fassel's job in jeopardy. 
Warrick Dunn ran for 178 yards, including a 45-yard touchdown, and the Falcons snapped a seven-game losing streak by defeating the mistake­prone Giants 27-7. 
"It's great," Reeves said after becoming the sixth NFL coach to reach the 200-win plateau (200-171-2). "But when you've lost seven in a row it was all about trying get them win No. 2. 
''I'm toward the end of my career," Reeves said after the Falcons (2-7) won for the first time since the opening weekend of the season. "A lot of these guys are just starting. They need to win." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski &Beach Trips on sale now! www.sunchase.com or call 1-800-SUNCHASE today! · 
...ACT NOWIBook 11 people, get 12th trip free. Group discounts for 6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com or 800-838-8202. 
Vector/Cutco workforstudents.corn/57 4-282-2357 
VECTOR MKT. has many cust. sales/service openings. Flex. sched. Excellent Pay. No. Exp. Nece. workforstudents.com. 
574-282-2357 
Doglegleftnews.com 'Putting the Pathetic in Apathetic" Brought to you by ND Students and Alumni 
LOST & FOUND 
Found: One mens large Eddie Bauer jacket. Call1-7471 
WANTED 
Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO exper. required. All looks and ages. Earn $100-$500 a day. 1-888-820­0167, ext. U187 
FoR SALE 
99 Chevy Lumina LTZ.4dr, leather, power,cruise,CD,3.8-Iitre V6 wl115k. 20/26mpg.$5500. 
283-0708. 
LARGE, ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. email: Williamson.! @nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@ AOL.COM 
272-1525 
3-6 BDRM HOMES & ROOMS. LOW $$.272-6306,329-0308 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 3-5 BED­ROOM HOMES. GOOD CONDI­TION. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. ANLAN PROPERTIES 532-1896 
HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS­ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004­2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 614 S. ST.JOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS-214 S. STPETER 4 BEDROOMS· 718 E. 
WASHINGTON ST. 2 BEDROOMS. CALL KRAMER AT 234-2436 OR 315-5032 HOTEL ROOM-BYU game; SAT Nov. 15; Cost-Red Roof Mishawaka $190 no markup. Steve 518-330­3818. 
4 bedroom house. 1136 E Madison. Close to campus, ample parking, AC, huge yard. 
Contact Mike (216) 408-0780 or Matt (216) 408-0744 if interested 
Condo-footbaiVJPW/Grad-sleeps 8+, 1/2 mile to campus. Domercondo @yahoo.com 
Apartment for rent. Close to bars and campus. 711 E Washington Ave South Bend 46617. $650 per month. Ready to move inl No smok­ing, pets possible. Full private deck in rear. AIC, 2 bd. 1.5 bath, full basement. 289-0262. 2 bdrm home, walk to ND 315-8730 
TICKETS 
ND FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR TOLL FREE 877-773-3911. 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­
ED -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232­2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288­2726WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232­0964. FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. LOWEST PRICES. (574)251­1570. 

Wanted-Mens Football Tickets $$ Will Pay Top Dollar $$ 
1-866-808-0990 
Buy/Sell Notre Dame Football tickets 
574-289-8048 
..LOOKING FOR FOOTBALL TIX.. ND@Cuse Need at least 2. Will pay BIG $$$$to get these. Call212.723.6585 or 917.846.8865 if U have tix to sell. 
Stanford tix 4 together + another pair for sale. FACE VALUE obo. I will pay shipping. 607-336-7218 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, att­7819. 
For more information, see our bi­weekly ad in The Observer. 
Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. 
Please Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or 
www.ststravel.com 

A "Reality" Spring Break 2004s Hottest prices Book now. Free Trips, Meals & Parties sunsplash­tours.com or 1800-426-7710 
ADOPTION: Irish, affectionate, childless, stay-at-home mom and environmentalist dad, dream of sharing love with Caucasian or Hispanic newborn through adop· lion. 
Legal & confidential. 

Call Jacqueline and Allan toll free at 1-800-484-6754, PIN: 8642 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! 

110% Best Pricesl Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida. Book Now & Receive Free Meals & Parties Campus Reps Wanted I 
1-800-234-7007 endlesssummer­tours.com 
•••• IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY •••• Build your dream home next to Notre Dame. Only a limited number of home sites are available. 
For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com 
PRAYER TO THE BLESSED VIR­GIN MARY (NEVER KNOWN TO FAIL-SAY 3 CONSEC DAYS, PUBLISH, WILL BE GRANTED):Oh most beautiful flower of Mt. Carmel, fruitful vine, splendor of heaven, blessed Mother of the Son of God, Immaculate Virgin, assist me in my necessity. Oh Star of the Sea, help me and show me here you are my Mother. Oh Holy Mary, Mother of God, Queen of Heaven and Earth. I humbly beseech you from the bottom of my heart to succor me in my necessity...(MAKE REQUEST)...There are none that can withstand your power. Oh Mary, conceived without sin, pray for us who have recourse to thee.(repeat)(repeat) Holy Mary, I place this prayer for your hands (repeat)(repeat) GRATEFUL THANKS I 
Dumb, crazy saint male seeks angel-headed hipster females who stand tall, but lean to the left, to share meals, nature, kisses, and possible friendship. Email ryamtich@nd.edu. 
Dumb, crazy saint male seeks angel-headed hipster females who stand tall, but lean to the left, to share meals, nature, kisses, and possible friendship. Email ryamtich@nd.edu. 
sorry about the biting .. 
To Ann-Sponge What? 
yeah lisa h ... PS kel we maked out? 
shout out to melissa, van driver 


Monday, November 10, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles spoil Calvin's chances for playoffs 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team linished in a 4-4 double overtime tie to crush Calvin College's hopes for a playofl' birth. 
"We were hoping to spoil Calvin's season," Belles captain Jen Concannon said. 
Calvin was tied with Hope College in the MIAA standings and could not afl'ord a tic or loss against Saint Mary's last Saturday afternoon if they expected to see life in the play­oil's. 
Saint Mary's began the rivalry with an impressive 3-0 lead in the lirst half. 
Freshman Colleen Courtney contributed the first two goals, followed by a goal from class-mate Ashley Hinton. 

"By starting with a 3-0 lead against the top team in the con­ference, we should have been one of the top teams," Belles sophomore Katie Noble said. 
"We usually come out strong, but it is always the last 10 min­utes of the half or the game that we slow down." 
Unfortunately for Saint Mary's, Calvin was able to capitalize and tie the score 3-3 to end the half. 
In the second half, both teams could only respond with a goal to make the linal score in regula­tion 4-4 and send the game into overtime. 
Saint Mary's was unable to score in overtime and had to set­tle for the 4-4 tie against the first place team. 
Despite the tie, the Belles felt it was a hard fought game and were glad to end the season on a better note than they had planned. Although the defense has been the major highlight for the Belles all season, the offense heavily contributed to last Saturday's tie. 
"The forwards are what helped the team," Concannon said. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

.... 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Two selected as Herm.ann finalists 
Special To The Observer 

Two Notre Dame women's soccer players have been select­ed as final candidates for the Missouri Athletic Club's Hermann Trophy, the official National Soccer Coaches Association of America Player of the Year award for Division I players. The 15 candidates were selected by a nominating com­mittee of Division I college coaches. 
Top-ranked North Carolina is the only other team with multi­ple players on the list -senior defender Cat Reddick and soph­omore midfielders Lori Chalupny and Lindsay Tarpley. 
The other candidates include: senior forwards Chrissie Abbott (West Virginia) and Veronica Zepeda (Santa Clara); senior midfielders Joanna Lohman (Penn State) and Aleshia Rose (BYU); UCLA senior defender Nandi Pryce; Texas junior for­ward Kelly Wilson; Tennessee junior defender Keely Dowling; Stanford junior goalkeeper Nicole Barnhardt; and sopho­more forwards Caroline Smith (Kansas) and Tiffany Weimer (Penn State). 
Tancredi -who can apply for a fifth year of eligibility-would be considered one of the favorites for the 2004 award. 
The winners will be deter­mined in voting by Division I coaches and will be announced in December at the men's College Cup. 

The men's and women's win­ners will be honored at an awards banquet at the Missouri Athletic Club in St. Louis on Friday, Jan. 9, and presented with the prestigious crystal soc­cer ball trophy. 
Notre Dame has played against three of the candidates this season, defeating Zepeda's Santa Clara squad and Abbott's West Virginia team while play­ing to a tie against Barnhardt and Stanford. 
Tancredi -the 2003 Big East Conference Defensive Player of the Year-and four-time all-Big East selection Warner have played central roles for the 2003 team that is ranked third in the nation while standing one win shy of the program's eighth 20­win season (19-2-1). 
The Irish rank near the top of the national leaders in scoring. 
Law& • 
An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series 
November 12, 2003 
4:00 p.m., Law School Courtroom 
"Acting as If: Suspicions of Semblance In Early Modern Critiques of Virtue" 
Presenter Jennifer Herdt 
Associate Professor Department of Theology 
Commentator John Coughlin, OFM 
Professor Law School 

------~--~----~-------­
OUND THE NATION 
page 16 CObt\PllED FROM THE 0HSERVER:S WlR£ SERVICES Monday, November 10. 2003 



around the dial 
NFL Philadelphia at Green Bay 9 p.m., ABC 
NBA 
Denver at Chicago 8 p.m., FOXCH New York at Cleveland 7 p.m., FOXCH Utah at San Antonio 8 p.m., FOXCH 
BOXING 


Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -Roy Jones Jr. likes to lay claim to being the greatest boxer of his time. For one fight, at least, he certainly wasn't the smartest. 
A decision to drop down in weight to fight a grudge match against Antonio Tarver very near­ly cost Jones the first real defeat of his brilliant career. 
He escaped to fight another day -possibly against Mike Tyson -but Jones was slow, sluggish and a shell of his former self. 
Entering the ring 

Saturday night as the unquestioned master of his art, Jones left with one big question not answered: Did he look so bad because he had to lose so much weight, or is he suddenly an old fighter at the age of 34? 
Not surprisingly, Jones blames the weight. 
"It was a tough task to come down from 200 pounds to 175, tougher than I thought it would be," Jones said. 
"With everything out of me, though, you still saw the heart of a champion out there." 
That heart came out in the final two rounds, 
when Jones finally started throwing punches in com­binations and got the best of a tiring Tarver. 
But for much of the fight he was beaten to the punch, pummeled on the ropes and treated ­somewhat shockingly ­like just another ordinary fighter. He still won by comfortable margins on two scorecards and was even on a third, but it might have been his repu­tation more than his per­formance that saved the night for Jones. 
The Associated Press scored the fight even, 114-114. 
"They took the decision, but I'll be back," Tarver said. "I didn't feel like a loser." 
He didn't look like one, either. 
At the press conference after the fight, in fact, it was hard to tell who won and who lost. 
Jones, his face puffy and marked, talked softly about weight problems and how he gutted this one out. 
Tarver, meanwhile, was unmarked and almost giddy as he basked in the knowledge he came closer than any of Jones' previ­ous 49 opponents to actu­ally beating him fair and square. 
IN BRIEF 

Panthers fire coach Keenan; 
Dudley takes over 

SUNRISE, Fla.-Mike Keenan was supposed to change the Florida Panthers' fortunes. When he couldn't, they changed coaches. 
Keenan's two-year coaching stint with the Panthers ended Sunday, one day after general manager Rick Dudley told owner Alan Cohen that the move was necessary. Dudley will take over as coach on an interim basis, and said he has already contacted candi­dates for the permanent job. 
"It was done simply because we felt the potential of this team was such that we wanted to play at a maximum or optimal level," Dudley said Sunday. "We did not feel we were doing that at this time." 
Mauresmo spoils all-Belgian 
final 

LOS ANGELES -Kim Clijsters ral­lied from a set down and a 3-2 deficit in the third to beat an injured Jennifer Capriati 4-6, 6-3, 6-0 in Sunday's semifmals of the WTA Championships. 
Clijsters won the final 10 games in advancing to Monday's night final for the second straight year. The winner receives $1,000,030, the biggest pay­check in women's tennis. The extra $30 represents the WTA Tour's 30th anniversary. 
Clijsters will play fourth-seeded Amelie Mauresmo, who upset No. 2 seed Justine Henin-Hardenne 7-6 (2), 3-6, 6-3. Mauresmo spoiled an all­Belgian final between Clijsters, the outgoing No. 1 player, and Henin­Hardenne, who will succeed her coun­trywoman when the year's final rank­ings are released Tuesday. 
Mauresmo needed help reaching the semifinals. Elena Dementieva upset Chanda Rubin in three sets Saturday, which gave Rubin, Dementieva and Mauresmo the same 1-2 records in round-robin play. But Mauresmo advanced because she won a set in each of her two losses. 
Campbell, Singh, Woods all 
come away winners HOUSTON -The PGA Tour player of the year race is still up in the air. Chad Campbell made sure the Tour Championship was no contest. 
Campbell blew away his challengers with a flawless front nine to build a five-shot lead, then cruised to his first victory in the PGA Tour's version of the All-Star game. 
"I think you get a little bit more respect once you get your first win, especially coming at a tournament like this," Campbell said after closing with a 3-under 68 for a three-shot victory over Charles Howell III. 
Campbell, whose 16-under 268 broke the tournament scoring record in relation to par, became the first player to make the Tour Championship his first victory. 
Tiger Woods and Vijay Singh could­n't settle the PGA Tour player of the year race at Champions Golf Club, so now they hit the campaign trail. 
Monday, November 10, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Although Friday's victory But in the end, the Irish VIRGINIA TECH 22 30 29 30 13 21). Ao;sists 76 (Melissa Markowski). Digs 73 (Melissa Markowski 20, Annie Spicer
came as a sigh of relief, were just too much for the
Sweep NOTRE DAME -Kills 83 (Lauren 20), Blocks 11 (Kaite Esbrook 8), Hitting 
Sunday was a new day and a Hurricanes. Game three saw 
Kelbley 22, Lauren Brewster 22), Assists percentage .239 (Kaite Esbrook .355), 
continued from page 24 new story against Miami (21-8, Notre Dame pull ahead for 79 (Kristen Kinder 68). Digs 69 (Emily Aces 7 (Kaite Esbrook 3) 8-3). The Irish swept the good, as they got ahead 3-2 Loomis 18), Blocks 11 (Lauren Brewster Big East) squeaked by the Hurricanes on College Sports and never trailed. 7). Hitting percentage .291 (Lauren 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden
Brewster), Aces 6 (Danielle Herndon) 
llokies on Friday after falling Television, 3-0 (30-26, 30-24, "By the end of the match, we 
Vrrginia Tech -Kills 79 (Annie Spicer at hvanhoeg@nd.edu
behind 2-1. The Irish took the 30-22). had a really good feel for what Jlokies to five games (30-22, The Irish came out strong, they were doing, and we could 25-30, 29-31, 30-24, 15-13), posting a .269 hitting percent­respond a little bit better," before pulling out the victory age in the first game, and Brown said. with a Lauren Brewster kill to holding the Hurricanes to only The team victory could be end game five. .190 hitting. The attributed to the passing of the 
"We knew that game was tied at Irish defense. Libero Meg we needed to play "/think that we've 23 when the Irish Henican led the way with 15 well [this week­went on a 7-3 digs, and Emily Loomis added
had the capability 

end], and on run to finish the 10.
sometimes to pull

Friday, we were game on They were the key to the really pleased away at the end of Kelbley's kill. .326 hitting percentage of the with game four a match." "I think that Irish, who had four players and five," Irish we've had the with nine kills or more. coach Debbie capability some­Kelbley led the way with 15,
Deb Brown

Brown said. times to pull followed by Loomis with 12. 
The Irish were Irish coach away at the end Jessica Kinder and Neff, both able to come of a match," playing their last regular sea­away from the Brown said. "I son games in the Joyce Center, match with some of their most think that we got in a better added nine each. consistent hitting numbers of rhythm, and we just started "We played three really solid the season -a .291 attack getting better timing on the games today," Brown said. "It's percentage for the match. block, and we finished better exactly where we want to be." Setter Kristen Kinder ran the offensively [at the end of the 
NOTRE DAME 3, MIAMI 0offense with her career high first game]." 
at the JOYCE CENTER68 assists, leading the team to The second game saw the a blazing .406 hitting percent­Irish fall behind early, but they 
NOTRE DAME 30 30 30 

age in the first game. fought back after Loomis and 
MIAMI 26 24 22 Kinder found targets in her Kelbley kills brought them middle blockers Brewster and back to 15-15. Katie Neff's solo Notre Dame -Kills 58 (Lauren Kelbley 15), Assists 51 (Kristen Kinder 44), Digs 
Lauren Kelbley, Who both had block put them ahead for good, 
45 (Meg Henican 15), Blocks 10 (Lauren22 kills on a combined .379 18-15. Kristen Kinder once Brewster 5, Katie Neff 5), Hitting percent­hitting percentage. Emily again led the offense with 44 age .326 (Lauren Brester .462). Aces 2 
assists on the match. (Emily Loomis 1, Jessica Kinder 1)

Loomis added 16 kills to go 
Miami-Kills 46 (Santaella Sante 13),
along with a career-high 18 However, the first two games 
Assists 42 (Jill Robinson 38), Digs 44digs -her 11th double-double saw the Irish make nine serv­(Karla Johnson 7), Blocks 2 (Francheskaof her career. Jessica Kinder ice errors, an unusual statistic Savage 3), Hitting percentage .215 (Karla 
added 10 kills and 10 digs for for a consistent-serving team. Johnson .294), Aces 0 her own double-double. "It killed the coaches," 
Defensively, libero Meg Brown said with a smile. "We NOTRE DAME 3, llenican registered 15 digs wanted to serve tough, but we VIRGINIA TECH 2 while Danielle Herndon added were trying to get aces instead at the JOYCE CENTER 13 to go along with a career of just trying to serve tough in high three aces. the court." NOTRE DAME 30 25 29 30 15 

' 
CONDOMINIUMS 
FOR LEASE 
FOR THE 
2004-2005 SCHOOLYEAR 
109 Hill St. Across from Boat Club 
*3 Bedrooms, 2.5 Baths *Living and Family Rooms *Fenced-in Parking 
* Washers, Dryers and Dishwashers 
All Units Are Like Ncw 
Contact Kramer at DOMUS PROPERTIES: OffiCE 2 3 4 -2 4 3 6 or Gill.. 3 1 5 -5 0 3 2 
Visit our Website at www.dornuskramer.com 
This is one assignment you can 

look forward to. 

The abject1ve is for you to explore the possibilities at Anthem. a leader in the health benefits and insurance industry. 
Information & Interview Sessions 
We'll be visiting your campus within the next week or so. Check with the Career Center for more details regarding time, date and place. We hope to see you there. 
Here. you'll have agreat opponuniry to build your skills, expand your knowledge, and put yourself on the path to an ama1ing career. 
At Anthem, we offer you an environment that fuels innovation, camaraderie among your colleagues, and the stability and resources of an industry leader. A place where you'll be one of 
19.000 associates, but never just anumber. Plus. we'll help you find your niche with extensive training, formal and informal mentoring, and the opportunity to change jobs within our organization. As if that isn't enough, we also provide business casual dress. state-of-the-art facility, tuition reimbursement and an on-site fitness canter. 
Start yourself off on a great career path or internship opportunity in a variety of areas including: Accounting I Finance, 
Actuarial, IT, Business Administration, Marketing, and Health Administration 
When vou're planning vour future career and looking at potential 
employers, think of Anthem. To find out mOfe about working at Anthem, visit us at 
anthem.com 


Monday, November I 0, 2003 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Matt Amado slid a pass toward With Irish defenseman Wes take a 2-0 lead. MSU-Radunske, Brock (3). 1st, 19:00 
(Chris Snavely) 
-leers the net which Walsh was able to O'Neill off for high-sticking, The Irish came back to inake 
ND-Walsh. Mike (4). 2nd, 9:04 (Cory

deflect past Spartan goaltender defenseman Tom Galvin took a it 2-1 about nine minutes into 
McLean, Aaron Gill) continued from page 24 Dominic Vicari. The Irish tried long saucer pass to Globke, who the second period as Walsh MSU-Slater, Jim (9). 2nd. 18:22 to get the tying goal late in the then slapped a shot from the scored a rebound goal past (Adam Nightingale, Tommy Goebel) 
ND-Komadoski, Neil (2). 3rd. 1:43 

forward Cory McLean. third, pulling Cey for an extra right-wing circle past Michigan Migliaccio. The Spartans would 
(Torn Galvin. Aaron Gill)
Forward Rob Globke leads the attacker, but an empty-net goal State goaltender Matt Migliaccio regain their two-goal lead on 
ND-Gill. Aaron (3). 3rd. 18:54 (Rob team with five goals. by Mike Lalonde killed any hope for the apparent game-winner. the power play nine minutes Globke, Tom Galvin) 
Walsh's contribution wasn't of an Irish comeback. Referees con-later, with another goal by 
Notre Dame -Saves 25 (David Brown

quite enough, however, as Notre Cey made 35 saves vened and Slater. 
25). Shol~ 33 (Tom Galvin 6). Foul~ 5
Dame lost to Michigan State 3-1 in the loss, while "They owe it to ruled that Notre Dame came back in the Michigan State -Saves 30 (MattFriday. but the team came back Vicari made 23 stops. Globke had third with power play goals by Migliaccio 30), Shots 28 (Jim Slater 5).
each other to play

to salvage a 3-3 tie against the "I thought it was a closed his hand defenseman Neil Komadowski Foul~ 5 Spartans Saturday. well-played, well­that way every around the and forward Aaron Gill before 
The loss Friday snapped a officiated game," night." puck as he Globke's disallowed goal. Gill, MICHIGAN STATE 3, four-game winning streak for Poulin said. "The tried to knock the Irish captain, also assisted NOTRE DAME 1, the Irish. Notre Dame currently goaltending was down Galvin's on the two other Notre Dame at Munn Ice Arena, Friday 
Dave Poulin 1st 2nd 3rd Total
now sits at 5-3-0 overall and 4-great at both ends of pass, and the goals for a three-point night. 
NOTRE DAME 0 0 1 1

3-0 in the CCHA. the ice. We have to Irish coach ·goal was disal-Brown made 25 saves for the MICHIGAN STATE 0 1 2 3 
CHEESECAKE
CHEESECAKE CtlEESECAKE 
~ 
~ 
n 
0 
l' 
0 
(/lc: 
w 
(/l 
n 
e~
:::c
,..,,.., o~ ro~'(('
VI,.., 
n 
1~~s~'
:::c 
;::r::
,.., 
c.r. 
0
c: 
"' 
L.KITE. CAPPUCCINO CHAI TEA. MOCHA 

lowed. Irish, and Migliaccio made 30 "That call for the Spartans. Notre Dame Scoring Summary 
MSU-Thelen. AJ (3). 2nd. 19:19 

was very disappointing,'' Poulin now returns home to face the 
(Tommy Goebel. Mike Lalonde)said. "To come back the way United States National MSU ~Nightingale (2). 3rd, 10:22 they did to give themselves a Developmental Program's (Jared Nightingale) 
chance to win and then have the Under-18 team on Friday. Game ND-Walsh, Mike (3), 3rd. 10:53 (Matt 
Amado, Wes O'Neill)
goal waved off was tough. time for this exhibition is 7:35 
MSU-Lalonde, Mike (6), 3rd. 19:42

"I thought we played well the p.m. (Adam Nightingale. AJ Thelen)entire game, but the third peri­
NOTRE DAME 3,

od really stood out. They owe it Notre Dame -Saves 34 (Morgan Cey).
MICHIGAN STATE 3 

Shots 24 (Tom Galvin 3, Tim Wallace 3).
to each other to play that way 
at Munn Ice Arena, Saturday Fouls 2 every night." 1st 2nd 3rd Total Michigan State -Saves 23 (DominicAfter Slater's early goal that NOTRE DAME 0 1 2 2 Vicari), Shots 37 (Ash Goldie 6). Fouls 3 
MICHIGAN STATE 2 1 0 0

snapped Brown's shutout streak, the Spartans capitalized 
Scoring Summary on a Notre Dame turnover with MSU-Slater, Jim (8), 1st, 7:12 Contact Justin Schuver at 59 seconds left in the first to (Tommy Goebel, Ethan Graham) jschuver@nd.edu 
RtCO~I~lfNDS 

"~~IU~ IS111J£.~1tlTY TO PUT INTO ..... F'rr..r.f"T "t'trr ..· il.·..y.OUR MlliD .,
..••.... ·.1·.·\A.IT.tc...•... a. 

--~!t-~·:t~l:· VV:__:-:11Ttl-·::l--~..---II~:_ . ---• 
-~-: ' 

-f. ScoHFibg-eralJ 
Goaltender David Brown's shutout streak was also snapped Saturday, as Michigan State's Jim Slater beat him just 
7:12 into the game. Brown's streak ended at 193 minutes, 27 seconds, a Notre Dame record. 
Friday, the two teams started with a scoreless first period before Michigan State jumped on the scoreboard first with just 41 seconds left in the second period. 
Defenseman A.J. Thelen, just a 17-year-old freshman, one­timed a shot past Irish goalie Morgan Cey's left shoulder for his third goal of the season. 
Down 1-0, Notre Dame had an excellent shot to get back in the game with a power play about halfway through the final peri­od. A shorthanded goal by Adam Nightingale, however, all but killed the potential Irish momentum. 
"The short-handed goal was a critical point of the game," Irish head coach Dave Poulin said. 
Notre Dame would shake off the mistake 31 seconds later, as 
Fax (574} 282-3234 415 North Hickory Road South Bend, IN 46615 
capitalize offensively when we get the chances. 
"Michigan State doesn't give up many chances, and when they do, you have to take advan­tage." 
Saturday's game looked like it would be a similar win for the Spartans, with Michigan State taking a 3-1 lead before two Irish power play goals in the third came back to tie it. Notre Dame then saw a potential game-winning goal waved off with just seven seconds left in the game. 
Coll259·1ooo for more details 

Monday, November 10, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
stopped. lie could not control the rebound however, and Martin sent a short pass to l'rescod. who drilled it in the back of the net. 
Martin would help the Irish score a big insurance goal14 minutes later. 
The senior midfielder sent in a high arching cross from the right side, and Detter managed to time his run to the left post perfectly, catch­ing the cross with a header that beat Schuerman. 
"We call [Justin] the 'lighthouse' because he has a huge wide head," Martin joked. "We tell him whenever the ball's on the wing to get into the box. I don't typically play out on the wing, but I found myself out there several times. 
"I had my head up and saw him running toward the post, and I knew if I could float it over the first defender he could clearly beat the goalie." 
Schuerman made three saves in the loss, while Sawyer needed to make only two for his 11th shutout of the season. 
The Irish now advance to play Providence in the next round. The No. 7 seed Friars shocked No. 2 Virginia Tech with a 4-2 advantage on penalty kicks after the two teams battled to a 2-2 tie in through overtime. The Irish defeat­ed the Friars on the road 2-0 on Oct. 22. 
NOTRE DAME 2, CONNE(.TICUT 0 at ALUMNI FIELD 1st 2nd Total 
NOTRE DAME 0 2 2 
CONNECTICUT 0 0 0 
Scoring Summary ND -l'mscod, Dnvon (II), 63:13 (Greg Martin, Kevin Goldthwaite) Nil-Dt~Ut~r. Justin (10). 77:48 (Greg Martin) 
Notro flame-Saves 2 (Chris Sawyer 2). Shots 15 (Kevin Goldthwaite 3. Devon l'rescod 3), Comer kicks 11, Foul~ 14 
Connecticut -Savt•s 3 (Adam Schuerman 3), Shots 8 IE!L~Iun Wil~on 3). Curnt•r kicks 1. Fouls 15 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
MEN's SoccER 

Chemistry proves the key for Irish 
Come on, Irish. Just try it. Everybody's doing it. 
It's the trend in the quarterfinals of the men's soccer Big East conference 
tournament­games stay close, regardless of seed and venue, and the outcome is decided by a spectacular individual effort at the end. 
St. John's is doing it. The top-seeded 

Hed Storm nicked  Pat Leonard  
No. 8 Villanova by a score of just 2-1.  Sports Writer  
Hutgers is doing  

it. The No. 4 Scarlet Knights needed 94 minutes before they could put away No.5 Seton Hall, 1-0, with an overtime goal from a freshman defenseman. 
Virginia Tech even took it a step fur­ther. The No. 2 Hokies were upset in penalty kicks by No. 7 Providence. 
So why isn't Notre Dame following the trend? Why did the Irish. depleted in the midfield by injury, find it neces­sary to control play for the majority of the Connecticut game Sunday in a convincing, 2-0 win? 
The answer is team chemistry. While coaches and players on any given team will talk about it, the coop­eration of 11 men on a soccer field often does not click the way it should. On Sunday, that happened for Irish coach Bobby Clark and the Notre Dame squad. The Irish eliminated the Huskies from the tournament that they will be hosting in Storrs, Conn. this weekend. 

"This was as complete a perform­ance as we've had this year," Clark said. "We had a lot of good perform­ances, but 1just thought we really got a hold of the game." 
They sure did. 
Notre Dame outshot Connecticut 15­8 and had 11 corner kicks to the Huskies' one. The offense and defense both pushed up as part of a more aggressive game plan. 
"In a lot of the games when we've lost, we've scored and gone ahead and kind of fallen back into our own half," Clark said. "That was our plan. We wanted to play the game in their half, and I think the players performed well." 
Save a few careless turnovers and one free kick in which freshman mid­fielder Nate Norman could not find his spot in the set play, Notre Dame never appeared unfamiliar, confused or hesi­tant. 
And it has been that way all season. They play with a confidence that comes with constant practice and knowledge of teammates' strengths and tendencies. 
"We play a lot of shadow in prac­tice," Clark said. "We split up the team and play without opposition. They should have an idea of what runs they should be making all the time." 
Saying it and doing it are two differ­ent things, especially when using a 15-man rotation. But the Irish have done it. 
Due to injuries to senior midfielders Filipo Chillemi and Chad Riley, Notre Dame has rotated young players even more frequently into the system. So far, the substitutions have not changed 
the on-field chemistry for the worse. "At one point today we had three freshmen in the midfield," Clark said. 
Ian Etherington, Greg Dalby and Norman manned the middle while senior captain Greg Martin took a break in the first half. 
The freshmen do impress, but maybe upperclassman leadership from forwards Justin Detter, Devon Prescod and Tony Megna or defense­men Jack Stewart, Kevin Hichards and Kevin Goldthwaite cancels out the inexperience of some of the younger players. 
Or maybe a team ranked No. 5 in the nation has such luck sometimes. 
Hegardless, Notre Dame has 11 shutouts on the season. It avenged its previous loss to Connecticut in the regular season (1-0, OT). and the Irish now travel east. 
If Notre Dame plays smart against Providence Friday afternoon, they have a good shot at reaching the final round. But the players must have that same instinctive awareness they dis­played Sunday. 
"The thing with soccer is it's not that you're calling plays," Clark said. "It's just all happening, so you have to be thinking all the time." 
Right now, it seems the rest of the Big East is thinking while the Irish are doing. They are not following the trend of winning by a nose. They are pulling away, winning and looking like the better team. 
The opinions of this column are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly The Observer. Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu. 

WITH A SIMPLE IDEA AND AN 
EXTRAORDINARY VISION~ 
TEACH FOR AMERICA TO TACKlE SOME OF SOCIETY'S DEEPEST SOCIAL PROBLEMS. 
Hear from this social entrepreneur about how she started and grew Teach For America and what she learned 
along the way. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 10, 2003 
SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Wolllan soar, lllen sink again in third d ualllleet 
By MATT PUGLISI Sporrs Writer 
While the season is still young, the Irish men's and women's squads continue to head in oppo­site directions. 
Behind 12 event victories, the women's squad thumped visiting Pittsburgh 184-116 Friday, improving to 2-1 in dual meets. 
"We knew that Pitt was after us since they're one of our main competitors in the Big East," freshman Katie Carroll said. "We just went in there focused and did what we had to do." 
Senior Danielle Hulick led the way for the No. 19 Irish, winning the 100-yard backstroke (57.67) in addition to both the 50-and 100-yard freestyle (24.03 and 52.54, respectively). 
Seniors Marie Labosky (200­ya~d backstroke, 1,000-yard freestyle) and Meghan Perry­Eaton (one-and three-meter div­ing) and Carroll (100-yard but­terfly and 200-yard individual medley) each recorded a pair of victories. 
For Carroll, it was the second consecutive meet in which she won the 100-yard butterfly. Sophomores Christel Bouvron (200-yard butterfly) and Courtney Choura (200-yard breaststroke) and freshman Ellen Johnson (500-yard freestyle) also chipped in with flrst-place finishes. 
The men's team, on the other hand, dropped its third consecu­tive dual meet as the Spartans edged the Irish, 125.5-113.5. 
While Michigan State claimed seven event victories, the depth of Notre Dame's young team was evident as the Irish took three of the top four spots in six of the 11 swimming events, including the 50-yard freestyle, 400-yard freestyle relay, 100-and 1,000­yard freestyle, 200-yard individ­ual medley and 200-yard butter­fly. 
Individual race victories were turned in by freshman Tim Kegelman (50-yard freestyle). sophomore Patrick Davis (1,000­yard freestyle) and junior Frank Krakowski (100-yard freestyle). 
The loss marks only the third time in the 46-year history of the Notre Dame men's swimming and diving program that the Irish have begun the season 0-3 in dual meets. Notre Dame has never started 0-4. 
Nevertheless, the Irish don't appear to be fazed by the slow start and are using the dual meets as an opportunity to define different individual roles. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish win, coach still not pleased 
McGraw said her team needsBy JOE HETTLER to improve its toughness. 

Sports Writer 

"I feel like we aren't as tough as we need to be," McGraw Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "That was a much more wasn't satisfied with her team's physical game then it needed play against Team Concept to be. It was a great test for us Sunday afternoon, despite mentally, because we got hit a Notre Dame's 78-43 victory. lot, and I didn't think we 
"Overall I was not as pleased responded well." as I was last game," McGraw The Irish played solid s a i d defense and held 
"Offensively we Team Concept to didn't execute only 23.3 percent quite as well, shooting in the 
and we didn't "/feel like we aren't 
first half and run the ball as tough as we need 28.3 percent for quite as well. to be., the game. Notre 
Defensively I Dame had 18 thought we steals, led by had more laps­Muffet McGraw Jacqueline es then last coach Batteast's four, 
game." 

Katy Fleck hit 9-of-11 shots for 21 points and grabbed seven rebounds and Courtney LaVere had 14 points and nine rebounds to lead Notre Dame to its second exhibition win of the preseason. 
"I think we see a lot of things we need to work, and that's what you really want to get out of a game like this," McGraw said. 
Team Concept was made up of predominantly Hungarian players and played a physical game against Notre Dame. The Irish play strong inside, but 
and forced 29 
turnovers. 
McGraw said 
she was pleased with her team's rebounding as the Irish won the battle of the boards 52-36. Batteast and freshman Crystal Erwin lead the Irish with 11 and 10 rebounds, respectively. Erwin scored nine points in 21 min­utes. 
The contest was sloppy at times, and several players for both teams took hard falls and got inadvertently hit in the face. Notre Dame's Megan Duffy went down hard with just over seven minutes left in the game and did not return. 


Notre Dame jumped out to a 17-6 lead with about 14 min­utes left in the first half on a Flecky layup. That lead was extended to 30-11 with just over six minutes left in the half, and Notre Dame went into intermission leading 40-21. 
The teams went back and forth for much of the second half before Notre Dame began padding its lead late in the half. 
McGraw said the key in preparing for its opening game against Auburn Nov. 14 is find­ing consistency in their play. 
"[Consistency] was our prob­lem all last year," McGraw said. 
"I think you've already seen that. We've had two games and had different people play well and you want to know [who's going to play well]." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Call259·1ooo for more details 



Monday, November 10, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Upset 
continued from page 24 
ing a free kick with about two minutes to go, the Irish were unable to find the net again. 
"The strategy didn't really work as well as we'd have liked," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said. "We got the 
first goal with "Boston College is 10 team ranked plenty of time left, a good team. but immediately but we really behind the Irish
we felt like we've 

weren't able to that has not push the ball for­played better stumbled at the ward enough after teams over the end of the year that. We have to is Santa Clara,
coarse ofthe

figure out a team that the
season."

whether that was Irish beat head-our tactics or per­to-head earlier sonnel." in the season.
Randy Waldrum 

The loss was Regardless of
Irish coach 

especially tough because the Irish still felt they were the better team. 
"Boston College is a good team, but we felt like we've played better teams over the course of the season," Waldrum said. 
Now the Irish must wait to see where they will play in the NCAA Tournament. While the Irish likely have fallen behind UCLA and Portland into at least fourth place in the upcoming NCAA seedings, they could still get that fourth over­all seed because of a rash of upsets in the conference tour­naments that have seen top 10 teams Penn State, Virginia, West Virginia and Colorado 
lose. 
The only top-
seeding, the 
Irish know they 
must play bet­ter to advance far enough in the NCAA Tournament to make their seeding an issue. 
''I'm not sure whether it's a matter of losing our confi­dence or being overconfident," Waldrum said. "We've got to figure that out this week." 
Notes 

The championship game fea­tured two major surprises in Boston College and Villanova. Both teams finished the regu­lar season at only 3-2-1 in league play. Villanova advanced by beating No. 7 West Virginia on penalty kicks. 
The Eagles fell to Villanova in the Championship game, as the Wildcats needed penalty kicks for the second straight game to get the win. 
BOSTON COLLEGE 2, NOTRE DAME 1, at Big East Tournament 

1st  2nd Total  
BOSTON COLLEGE 1  1  2  
NOTRE DAME  0  1  1  

Scoring Summary BC-Ferron Heather (5), 7:32 BC-Totman, Beth (13), 49:02, (Sarah 
Rahko) ND-Tancredi, Melissa (4), 63:37, (Vanessa Pruzinsky) 

Notre Dame -Saves 1 (Erika Bohn 1), Shots 6 (lizzie Reed 2. Melissa Tancredi 2), Corner kicks 1. Fouls 17 
Boston College -Saves 4 (Kate Taylor 4), Shots 6 (Beth Totman 3), Corner kicks 1, Fouls 14 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 


INFORMATION MEETING ABOUT THE INTERNSIDP 12 NOVEMBER 2003 @5:15P.M. 210 DEBARTOLO HALL 
Meet Katie (Associate Director, Keough-Notre Dame Centre, Dublin) and the interns who went to Dublin last summer. Ask questions and find out how nice it really is. This year we have 5 
internships. 
1
lli)IIIJ~! ~with ademonstrated interest in land are encouraged to apply. 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish left searching for answers after loss 
PISCATAWAY, N.J.-Two weeks ago, the Irish traveled home from New Jersey having completed an impressive run through the Big East where 
t~ey did n~t give up a sm- Andy Troeger  
gle goal. They shut  Sports Writer  
out 10 teams  

in a row and 14 of the 19 
teams they had played to that 
point. 
What a difference two weeks make. 
Coming back from the Big East Tournament, the Irish are trying to figure out what has changed for a team that now has lost two out of three to teams they expected to beat. After giving up only five goals during their first 19 games, the Irish have allowed six in their last three games. 
And with the NCAA Tournament opening next week, there is not much time for the Irish to right the ship. 
The Irish, who seemed a lock for the No. 2 seed in the upcoming NCAA Tournament only two weeks ago, now will likely be placed somewhere between Nos. 4 and No. 7. After top seeds North Carolina, UCLA and Portland, the pool for those next four seeds should come from Notre Dame, Penn State, Virginia, Santa Clara, Colorado and West Virginia. Ironically, only Santa Clara -an early season victim of the Irish -did not lose this week, and none of those other six teams even made the final of their respective conference 
FOR RENT OakhiU Condominium Spring 8c. Surnrner 2004 
Available 1/1/2004 -S/15/2004 
2 BR 2 Baths 
FURNJ:SHED!! 
washer/Dryer-Fireplace Central A/C-Fully Carpeted 
$850/MO Plus Ut:ilit:ies 
(717) 576-8232 
tournament. 
More urgent, however, are the problems that have cropped up in the last few games. The defense that led the nation in goals-against average through 19 games has given up more goals in the last three games (six) than in the first 19 combined (five). The offense that has looked so good all season has sputtered, mus­tering only four shots on goal against Boston College. 
Injuries have played a role, with Mary Boland, Melissa Tancredi and Amy Warner all missing games recently. Those three players were Notre Dame's three representatives on the All-Big East first team and are possibly Notre Dame's three most irreplaceable play­ers. Boland and Tancredi have returned to the lineup, but the timing of Warner's return is still uncertain. 
The Irish now have the next five days to prepare for their next opponent, who will be announced today. Almost assuredly, the Irish will be bet­ter than their first two oppo­nents in the tournament, but they also were better than Michigan and Boston College. 
The Irish have always fared well in the postseason, although that armor has been chinked some in the last few seasons. Still, a team with 19 wins in 22 games and a history as one of the premier women's soccer programs in the country is a program to be feared as the season nears its end. 
Regardless of past history, the Irish now enter the time of the year when one loss ends a season. The Irish have one final chance to regroup and make yet another run toward a National Championship. Yet something suggests that this group will make the most of it. 
The opinions of this column are those of the author and not necessarily The Observer. Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd. edu. 
page 22 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, November 10, 2003 


Monday, November 10, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN 
SCHOOL DAZE 

fiVES 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
ioot-:+:.....:;.fi!!IP.IIII!II 28 Pourer's comment 29 Terrier's cry 
-r+.~~~.;+;o-1 31 Acadia, today ii+::::+::,+.:~+:-1-:-1 32 Group to attack ~:rii:i+.-:+=+:-t-=i 33 Authors Ferber 
and O'Brien 

Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
65 Vibrant S8 Harvest 117 "Good going!" 68 Shoe bottoms 68 Pretentious 70 Thieves' 
accumulation 
DOWN 1 Story that goes 
on and on 2Piow 3 Preadult 4 Ribald 5 Shade of blue 8 Away from the 
wind 7 Hungarians are situated 
between them 8 Out for the night 9Summer 
chirpers 10 Citric and others 11 Silent film vamp 
Negri 
12 The hunted 

WILLSHORTZ 
~4--+~~*-­

351nits. in TV 42le Monde 56 Singer Guthrie comedy since article 
57 Disturb1975 
48 Prime Minister 
58 SummerGandhi

370neof the phenomenon Three Stooges 
50 Kind of room 

58 Catch sight of
52 Italian wine 
39 Gibson of 60 Rooster
53 Cousin of a
"Braveheart" 

mink 81 "Trick" body part
41 Hit parade 55 Not be contents perpendicular 62 Stove option 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available lor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leeming Network, nytimes.comlleaminglxwords. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
[j Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City ___________ State _____ Zip_______ 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon
J1l1100ffi)1JK
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
How would you like

one letter to each square, a knuckle sandwich? to form four ordinary words. 
NICEW 
I I I 

102003 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
RUHTT 
j
I I r tJ 
tENPOTT t
J I I J 
www.Jumble.com 
INLOVI 
j
rJ r rJ 
Answer: A 

'l I I I I )" rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: CANAL LINGO GAMBLE CAUCUS Answer: How the food critic described his job -ALL "CONSUMING" 

WHAT THE: C.OME:OIAN GAVE: THE: HE:C.KL.E:R. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HoRoscoPE 

Sharing this birthday: Roy Scheider, Sin bad. MacKenzie Phillips, Richard Burton, Donna Fargo --~ 
Happy Birthday: Brace yourself; you are up for a fast paced, explosive year. You aren't likely to hesitate this year, and therefore will find yourself following some extraordinary pathways that will lead you into some wonderfu adventures. You are in the driver's seat this year, so don't waste time. Your numbers: 4, I 5, 23, 26, 35, 44 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Get down to business. You will be able to get along well with colleagues. Your discipline will enable you to complete some of those unfinished projects. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Social events will open up doors to new and exciting acquaintances. Don't turn down any opportunities to travel. You need some adventure in your life. Be receptive to unusual entertainment. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Conllicts will arise if you haven't paid proper attention to your lover. Pass the time at the theater or any event that does not lend itself to discussions. Both of you need time to cool down. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): New love connections will he made through friends. The relationship will move quickly, so hold on tight and be prepared to accept the changes this individual will bring into your lite. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll have intuitive instincts when it comes to making investments. You must be careful that you don't abuse yourself through overindulgence while celebrating. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't let your emotions run wild. Get the facts before you take action. You will do well in events that need stamina and drive. Go after your business goals and stay out of trouble. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Limitations will be greater then you thought if you get involved with a client intimately or, even worse, your boss. You need to use discretion concerning whom you see. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't be too quick to lend your cash to a friend You can bet that the money will not he returned or put to good use. You must look out for your own best interests. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone you work with will not be too pleased with your actions. You must not exaggerate. You could easily hurt his or her feelings without meaning to. Put yourself in your colleague's shoes. **" CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.lan. 19): Find out additional information if you wish 
-

to continue in the professional direction that you chose. You can get people in high places to help you out, but you'd better know your stuff. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You must take some time out to rest. You've overloaded your plate, and there just aren't enough hours in a day. Focus on the most important issues. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't say no; you owe it to your partner to hem him or her out. You'll ruin your week if you don't face the situation honestly and openly. You can have some fun if you can sort out your differences. ** 
Hirthday Baby: You have your own way of doing things. You're eager to pitch in and help. but not so quick to follow someone else's lead. You are a thinker and like to do your own thing. If left to your own devices. you will do quite well. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eu11enialast.com 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Knife wound 
5 Mission Control org. 
9 letter after Beta in a society's name 
14 Broadway musical set in ancient Egypt 
15. _ fair in love and war" 16 Oak starter 17 Light from a halo 18 _Marsala 19 Like many bathroom floors 20 Continuously 23 Potato feature 24 Plant starters 25 Ninny 27 Civil War !nits. 30 Tire gauge reading: Abbr. 
31 Society page word 
34 Parts of mins. M Common place 
for a tattoo 38 Actor O'Brien 40 Continuously 43 Be almost out 44 Stamp's place: 
Abbr. 45 Tibetan monk 46 Choose 47 Letter before 
Beta in a society's name 49 Always, poetically 51 The ·s· of CBS: Abbr. 52 Pool member 54 PC key 58 Continuously 62 II often follows a pun 63 Inhabitants: Suffix 64 Loads and loads 

-
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, November 10, 2003 
Page 24 
.. ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Edged out 
Notre Dame upset by Boston College 2-1 in Big East Tournament quarterfinal 

'-. 
Irish mldfielder Kim Carpenter fights a Boston College defender for the ball Friday In Notre Dame's 2-11oss to the Eagles in the Big East Tournament. 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
PISCATAWAY, N.J. -After missing out on the Big East Tournament last season, the Notre Dame women's soccer team want­ed to regain their See Also championship form 
"Irish left

of years past. But it didn't happen as searching for the Irish fell 2-1 to 
answers after

Boston College in the tournament 
loss" 

semifinals. 
page21

The Irish regis­tered a season-low four shots on goal in falling for only the second time this season, but the second time in their last three games. 
The teams played a fairly even game, with both sides attempting six shots, with five shots on goal for Notre Dame to three for Boston College. 
The Irish struggled out of the gate and the Eagles cashed in on a failed Irish clearance. The ball ended up at the feet of Boston College midfielder Heather Farran, who scored from the right side of the box 10 yards out. 
The Irish outshot the Eagles 5-3 in the first half, but were unable to get many serious threats at the Boston College goal, as the Eagle midfield was able to control play. 
Boston College got its key second goal early in the second half, as All­Big East midfielder Sarah Rahko played the ball to Beth Totman near the top of the box. Totman turned and scored past Irish goalkeeper Erika Bohn for the crucial two-goal lead. 
At that point, the Irish made a key shift in formation by bringing senior Melissa Tancredi forward from her normal spot at central defense. The move paid off, as Tancredi scored off a header to pull the Irish within a goal at 2-1 with 26 minutes left in the game as Eagle goalkeeper Kate Taylor came out of the goal. Vanessa Pruzinsky assisted on the goal. Despite having a few chances, includ­
see UPSET/page 21 

HOCKEY leers earn only 1 point in vveekend series 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Although the Irish might have only come away with one point in their weekend road series against Michigan State, they -might have discovered a new offensive threat for their team. 
Sophomore forward Mike Walsh, who missed nearly all of his freshman season last year with an injury and mononucleo­sis, scored a goal in each of the team's games. Walsh now has four goals on the season, tying him for second on the team with 
see ICERS/page 18 

NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish tnake best of tough home weekend 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Wrirer 
Ten thousand people flocked to the Joyce Center this week­end, and it wasn't to see the basketball team -it was to see the volleyball team. 
A record crowd of 8,643 saw the No. 12 Irish defeat Virginia Tech Friday, and a crowd of 2,175 witnessed a 3-0 sweep of Miami Sunday night. 
The Irish (21-2, 10-0 in the 
see SWEEP /page 17 

MEN'S SOCCER 
Huskies tamed in Irish win 
Irish top Connecticut 2-0 quarterfinals of Big East Tournament 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Ediror 
For the few students and fans who braved the cold, they got to see the Irish play perhaps their most complete game of the sea­son as they knocked off See Also No. 6 seed 
"Chemistry
Connecticut in the quarterfi­proves the key nals of the Big for Irish" E a s t 
page 19
Championship by a score of 2-0 at Alumni Field Sunday. 
The fans, who bundled up to stand the near-freezing temper­atures, had a lot to cheer about at the end of the game as the Irish advanced to face Providence in the semifinals Friday in Storrs, Conn. Senior forwards Justin Detter and Devon Prescod scored the goals. 
'.'Yeah, I guess you could prob­ably say it was the best game we played all year," said captain Greg Martin, who assisted on both goals. "I think what we did was just put the whole package together." 
After a slightly sloppy first 10 minutes or so, the Irish domi­nated play for the rest of the game, outshooting the visiting Huskies 15-8 and earning 11 corner kicks to just one for Connecticut. 
Notre Dame also did a good job on defense, holding Connecticut's leading scorer Steve Sealy to just two shots on 
goal. One reason for Notre 
Dame's dominance was an 
aggressive defensive scheme 
where the forwards would 
come up to pressure the 
Connecticut defensemen as 
they were trying to clear the 
ball, often resulting in positive 
turnovers for the Irish offense. 
"We wanted to play the game in their half, not in our half," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "To do that, you have to estab­lish pressure, and to do that we had to bring up the forwards and midfielders. 
"It's not just them, though. The whole team presses togeth­er, and I think we did a good job of that." 
Lackadaisical effort on defense led to a dangerous opportunity for Connecticut 
about 20 minutes into the game. Sealy managed to sneak past the Irish defense and come in one-on-one against goalkeeper Chris Sawyer. 
With an Irish defenseman closing from behind, Sealy tried to lob his shot over the diving Sawyer, but he missed it well over the cross bar. Sealy also sent a header wide right of the goal with less than five minutes remaining in the first half. 
Neither team mounted many offensive chances in the first, as they went into halftime tied 0-0 and with the Irish holding a 6-4 advantage in shots. Notre Dame was unable to capitalize on a 7­0 lead in corner kicks in the mark. 
"We could've probably done better there," Clark said. "I thought we could have done a better job with the corner kicks." 
The Irish came out in the sec­ond half and appeared the more dominant team from the start. In the 63rd minute, Notre Dame finally broke the scoreless tie. 
Defender Kevin Goldthwaite took a hard shot from the left sideline which Connecticut goal­keeper Adam Schuerman 
see IRISH/page 19 

'C' 
Cl) NO SWIMMING 
NO WOMEN'S BBALL 
SMC SOCCER 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
NFL 
FOOTBALl 

1-u LLI 
The Irish women's 

Notre Dame forward • A roundup of
Notre Dame 78 
Saint Mary's 4, 
Notre Dame 27,
z squad earned a dual 

Amy Warner and 
Sunday's action from
Team Concept 43 
Calvin 4 
Navy 24 
meet victory with an 

around the National
defender Melissa
The Irish concluded 

The Belles dash 
The Irish extend their

cc =:5
... 184-116 win over 
Tancredi have been 
Football League. 

Calvin's hopes of mak­
preseason play Sunday 
winning streak over

C) c.D 
Pittsburgh. The men fell 

selected as finalists for
with a convincing victo­

ing the playoffs by hold-
Navy to 40 games with 
cc 
to Michigan State 125.5­

college soccer's
ing on for a tie in over­
ry over Team Concept 
D.J. Fitzpatrick's last­
113.5 

Hermann Award. 
time.
in the Joyce Center. 
second field goal. 

D. !i 
page 15
page 20 

page 14
page 20 

page 15 
Irish Insider 

Cl) 
-




