
VOL XXXVII NO. 124 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
ROTC cadets stage war games 
Training exercises aimed at instilling leadership values 
at the enemy. "Drop your By MATT BRAMANTI weapon or I will you shoot your News Writer head offi" screamed a cadet as 
he captured an OpFor prisoner of war.
AUGUSTA, Mich. 
Portions of the exercises were
Cadets from Notre Dame's 
disturbingly realistic. Following
Army ROTC unit trained with press reports that Iraqi troops
students from several other uni­were employing false surrenders
versities last weekend at the 
and attacking U.S. troops, ROTC
spring Field Training Exercise held at the Fort Custer Training cadets faced similar challenges. 
One vanquished OpFor cadet,
Center near Battle Creek, Mich. 
lying prone on the ground, sud­
As students assembled in 
denly drew a knife, prompting
ranks next to the Pasquerilla 
surprise from his would-be cap­
Center, military discipline was pervasive. Sgt. Maj. Scott Shippy tors. 
In another drill, smoke
towered over a cadet doing 
grenades threw off billowing yel­push-ups. "Why do we push for 
St. Michael?" yelled the low plumes as cadets advanced sergeant. The cadet failed the on an OpFor position. Suddenly, quiz and earned another 10 a pregnant woman ran from a tent, leading to momentary con­
push-ups. St. Michael is the fusion on the battlefield ­
patron of paratroopers. 
another variable designed to test Cadets traveled by van to Fort soldiers' knowledge of the rulesCuster, a Michigan National aimed at instilling leadership University and Notre Dame con­drill might begin as a simple 
of engagement.

Guard post near Battle Creek. values in the cadets, who will be verged on several of these STX frontal attack, hut supervising The facility was established in commissioned officers in the drills. The cadets, clad in cam­officers frequently added vari­Sophomore cadet Tommy 
Bramanti said this type of train­1917 as a training base for U.S. Army upon graduation, Mosinski ouflage fatigues and armed with ables such as civilians on the ing reflected the unpredictabletroops in World War I. said. M-16 assault rifles, marched battlefield, wounded troops or nature of the modern battlefield.
As the temperature dipped "We use infantry tactical drills into the woods to do battle with simulated artillery fire to com­
"These drills emphasize disci­
below the freezing mark, Notre to teach the ideas behind leader­OpFor -the opponents of the plicate matters. Dame's scholar-soldiers learned ship," explained senior Casey weekend. Small squads of Op For As the booming of exploding pline and leadership, but the infantry tactics, dined on gov­Corcoran, who will serve as an troops -short for "opposition munitions reverberated from the real focus is on being able to 
think on the fly," he said. 

ernment-issue rations and con­intelligence officer after gradua­forces" -hunkered down hills, cadets stormed a bunker ducted land navigation exercis­tion. The Squad Tactical behind trees in anticipation of held by OpFor troops. Some sol­Cadets were allowed a brief es. Lt. Col. David Mosinski, com­Exercises, known as "STX lanes" attack. diers aimed suppressive fire -night's sleep in their sleeping 
bags, but arose at 4 a.m. for
mander of the "Fightin' Irish to the cadets, are part war The various exercises differed, blanks fired from their M-16s ­
another day of training.

Battalion," called the weekend game, part critical-thinking drill. though all emphasized quick at the opposition, while another "a gre_at opportunity." Cadets from Central Michigan reaction and critical thinking on group made an end run around The exercises performed were University, Eastern Michigan the part of ROTC students. A the bunker, shouting commands see ROTC/page 4 

Everclear hits Notre Dame 

By JESSICA DALSING News Writer 
Everclear is scheduled to per­form at a Stepan Center concert Friday that begins at 7 :30 p.m 
Band members Art Alexakis, Craig Montoya and Greg Eklund have been entertaining audiences since their formation in 1991. Everclear is promoting its sixth CD on its current U.S. tour. 
The album, entitled "Slow Motion Daydream," shares a sim­ilar tone with their other works. In an interview with VH1 about the album, Alexis said, "All our albums are about the American Dream from different perspec­tives." 
"The recipe of punchy vocals and a strong guitar presence is what creates success for Everclear," said The Observer's Becca Saunders, who reviewed the band's most recent m. 
The Student Union Board, the programming body which is sponsoring the concert, compiles a list of possible bands to bring to campus each year based on stu­dent input and the advice of for­mer programmers. The event coordinator then tries to schedule a concert from this list each year. 
"Our radar screens are always open and when one of those bands on the list becomes avail­able, we jump," said Stephen Christ, outgoing SUB manager and programmer for the event. 
The Student Union Board works to fill student requests when planning events, but avail­ability is always an issue, said Christ. Everclear was already scheduled to be in the area for SUB contacted them for a possi­ble concert. 
The perspective of playing at. Notre Dame met with high approval from the band, said Christ. "Once we put a bid out, they were really excited about coming," he said. 
Two opening bands, Authority Zero and the Exies, will perform before Everclear takes the stage at 9:30 p.m. Tickets for the show are on sale at the LaFortune Ballroom and cost $20 for stu­dents and $25 for the general public. 
Christ expects the concert audi­ence to reach the top capacity of the 1,500-person Stepan Center. 
"There are still tickets avail­able, but we are expecting to sell out," said Christ. 
their current tour to promote Contact Jessica Dalsing at their newest CD when Christ and jdalsing@nd.edu 
Laptops stolen from student apartments 
By KATE NAGENGAST Senior Staff Writer 

An employee of Castle Point Apartments will receive a poly­graph test as part of an active investigation into the theft of two laptop computers from student apartments last month, St. Joseph County police said Wednesday. 
According to police reports, one laptop was taken March 19 from the upstairs bedroom of a Notre Dame student's apartment in Enchanted Forest. The second, a Compact Presario worth roughly $3,500, was taken from the back bedroom of a Saint Mary's stu­dent's apartment on Royal Huntsman Court March 21. There were no witnesses to either bur­glary. 
Cpl. Christian Johanson said there were no signs offorced entry at either apartment and nothing but the laptops was taken or dis­turbed. However, at the Royal Huntsman Court apartment the computer's power cord was also taken, though it was in a different room from the laptop itself. 
Other valuables, like the com­puters' wiring and printer, along with two leather jackets and a portable CD player, were left untouched, the Saint Mary's stu­dent said. 
At the Notre Dame student's 
apartment, a watch worth 
between $2,000 and $3,000 was 
left on the table beside the mis..'iing 
computer, Johanson said. 

Jar,k Goens, general manager of Castle Point, said any of hi.,;; main­tenance employees would be will­ing to submit themselves to finger­printing and polygraph tests. 
"There's nothing to hide." Goens said. "If[the students] want to pur­sue it with police we'd love it, but it's a police matter." 
Castle Point provides security at night, but any other resident pro­tection is in the hands of the police, he said. Goens also said he told both students to contact police as soon as they reported the thefts to his office. 
Detective Jerry Ratkiewicz said police are still unsure whether the male Castle Point employee who will receive the polygraph test could have been involved in either burglary, but that he will be ques­tioned about both incidents. 
According to police reports, the Saint Mary's student said her apartment was locked when she left and still locked when she returned home. Police took finger­print.'i from the living room where the computer's power cord was taken. 
see THEFTS/page 4 

Friday, April 4, 2003 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT,S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
What side is 
God on? 
Recently, a message scrawled in yel­low chalk appeared on the sidewalk near Lafortune. "Who would Jesus bomb?" it demanded in large letters. Later that day, a 
response appeared  Clalre Kelley  
under it in blue.  
"Who would Jesus  
rape, murder, pil- Photographer  
lage and execute?"  
it countered, refer­ 

ring to the atrocious practices of Saddam Hussein. 
While these questions address the heart of the debate concerning the moral implications ofthis war in Iraq, they also address the fact that through­out history, there have been wars in which people of various religions were exhorted to go out and kill each other in the name oftheir faith. 
As many sides of the debate about the justification for this war invoke God's name, I can't help but wonder, "Whose side is God on?" 
I am especially troubled when I hear people who commit atrocious acts invoke religion, like when Osama bin Laden declared a holy war against the United States in his disturbing video or when Hussein talked about Allah in his interview with Dan Rather. But last year, Bush's reference to~ "crusade" against terrorism also worried people around the world because they thought this language meant the United States was moving toward a religious war between Christians and Muslims. 
By frequently referring to religion and God in his speeches, is Bush trying to tell the world that God is on America's side? 
In 1963, Bob Dylan addressed this issue when he wrote "With God on Our Side," a song that traces conflicts from cavalry battles against the American Indians through the Spanish-American War, the Civil War, both World vVars and Vietnam, describing how each war­ring nation believed that God was on its side. 
Dylan concludes: "If God's on our side, he'll stop the next war." 
Perhaps some in the peace movement would believe that God is on the side of those who are suffering as a result of this war in Iraq. Others who support the war for ethical reasons would say that God would want us to remove Saddam Hussein from his position of power. But does recognition of injustice mean that we also have the insight to know how God would want us to respond? 
In Mark Twain's "The War Prayer," which was published after his death, Twain gives his own interpretation of what people are really praying for when they ask God to take a side against their enemies in war. 
He imagines a prayer asking God to "help us to lay waste their humble homes with a hurricane of fire; help us to wring the hearts of their unoffending widows with unavailing grief; help us to turn them out roofless with their little children to wander unfriended the wastes of their desolated land in rags and hunger and thirst." 
To wage war while invoking God's name certainly raises many important questions. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Claire Kelley at ckelley2@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­non and scnves for the highest standards of journal­ism at all umes. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE . 
CAMPUS WORLD& BUSINESS NEWS NATION NEWS 
Lecture 'Health E Day' 
Coalition
GSU plans 

addresses Saturday 
seizes 
WTO
Baghdad 
significance blackout 
airport amid 
Visiting lecturer
Coalition forces
The Graduate 

Andrew Rose ana­
bombed Iraqi Air
Student Union's 

lyzed the impor­annual "Health E 
Force headquar­
tance of the WorldDay" wellness fes­
ters in central 
T r a d e
tival is set for 

Baghdad Friday 
Organization in
Saturday. 

morning. 
international eco­nomics. 
page 7
page6 
page 5 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Alumnae Board Spring 2003 meeting 8 a.m. at LcMans Hall and President's Dining Hoom 

. 
Junior Moms' \Vine and Cheese Hcception 5 p.m. at LcMans Hall-Stapleton Lounge 

. 
"The Un-Usual Suspects" Senior Comprehensives 5 p.m. at Moreau Art Galleries 


VIEWPOINT 
A message for student government 
The new stu­dent body presi­dents must be proactive in their commitment to students during their administra­tions. 
-
page 10 

WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Eggplant parmesan, oil and garlic sauce, cheese French bread pizza, seafood supreme pizza, seafood criolla, plain rice, whipped pota­toes, apple cobbler, baked redfish, bar­ley risotto, cut corn, capri-blend vegeta­bles. grits, blueberry pancakes, potato pancakes, hot chunky applesauce, salmon and crabmeat burgers, seasoned fries, breaded mushrooms, onion rings, vegetable lo mein. 
Today's Dinner: Lobster bisque, Manhattan clam chowder, pasta a la noma, pasta stir-fry. assorted pizza, seafood supreme pizza, vegetarian sushi, sushi demonstration. batter-fried cod, peel and eat shrimp, sourdough rolls. 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Stuffed shells, mush­room marinara, tomato pizza, bianco pizza, vegetable calzone, macaroni and cheese, cajun-baked orange roughy, whipped potatoes, fried clam strips, bat­tered wedge fries, onion rings, small grilled pizza, grilled mahi-mahi, fish­wich, tofu fried rice, cheese enchilada, sliced carrots, broccoli cuts, cut green beans, baked potato, cauliflower. 
Today's Dinner: Black olive marinara, mushroom marinara, tomato pizza, bianco pizza, vegetable calzone, grilled vegetable platter, Seminole red snap­per, fishwich, battered wedge fries, onion rings, seafood stir-fry, broccoli quesadilla, cut corn, tuna casserole. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a:: 
L&J
:c 
~ 
L&J 




.... 
~ 
...I 

·$J·itt•* 
~··
•••, ••&
ct 
&t t $
(.) 
0

..J HIGH 58 HIGH 45 HIGH 45 HIGH 50 LOW 30 LOW 30 LOW 25 LOW 45 
SCENE 

So many women, so little time 
The Farley Hall Players present "Jake's Women," a psychological comedy, this weekend. 
page 12 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
SPORTS 
Hitting on all cylinders 
The softball team beat Loyola University of Chicago 7-1 and 3-0 in a double­header Thursday. 
page 24 
Student transported to hospital 
A student was transported to the St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a laceration sus­tained at the Lafortune Student Center Thursday. 
Student loses wallet 
A student reported losing his unattended wallet at the Rolfs Sports and Recreation Center between 9 p.m. and 10 p.m. Thursday. There are no sus­pects. ­
Solicitors escorted off campus 
Two individuals were reported to Notre Dame Security and Police for selling magazine subscrip­tions Thursday at Fisher Graduate Housing. They were stopped and issued non-contractual interest forms, and escorted off campus. 
Students cited for alcohol possession 
Two minors were issued citations for possession of alcohol in Knott Hall Thursday. The case is being referred for administrative review. 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Grilled vegetables and quinoa wrap, green bean salad, seafood paella with seafood clams and mussels. saffron rice pilaf, bagel bar, smoked salmon, sauteed chicken, caribbean pineapple shrimp, pearl couscous, fresh steamed broccoli, cheese pizza, hummus, roasted veg­etable loafer. grilled vegetable pizza. tomato basil soup, cream of mushroom soup, cilantro rice salad. 
Today's Dinner: Pasta fantastica. veggie cutlet with mushroom sauce, tamale pie casserole, vegetable corn muffins, create your own grilled sand­wich station, gourmet potato and pret­zel bar, vegetarian baked lasagna. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 
*·,;··. *· *•..._-, *~l .:" •'  
HIGH  55  HIGH  38  
LOW  27  LOW  33  
Atlanta 62 I 35 Boston 56 I 42 Chicago 53 / 28 Denver 52 / 26 Houston 82 / 62 Los Angeles 64 / 50 Minneapolis 42 / 22 New York 67 / 48 Philadelphia 74 / 46 Phoenix 74 / 50 Seattle 50 / 38 St. Louis 59 / 39 Tampa 84 / 68 Washington 74 / 52 


Friday, April 4, 2003 page 3 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 



iStore opening this summer 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 
Saint Mary's Edicor 
A new addition to Saint Mary's campus will better accommodate students returning next fall for the 2003-2004 school year. 
The College's Administrative Council has recently approved The Campus iStore, scheduled to open this summer. 
Keith Fowlkes, Saint Mary's director of Information Technology, developed the iStore's business plan and design last November. 
The on-campus computer store will sell Omni Tech, Toshiba, Apple and Dell computers, stan­dard software packages, cellular phones and various accessories at · what Fowlkes said will be eco­nomical prices. 
"The iStore is primarily to serve the needs of our students and to give them the best computer equipment for their college expe­rience," Fowlkes said. 
The iStore, which is set to be located permanently in the Information Technology office, will also .be found on a mobile kiosk, which will move among various campus locations during promotions throughout the year. 
The kiosk will hold six comput-. ers, allowing students to try each and choose the hardware they prefer. 

Beginning next year, the Saint The Omni Tech machines will Mary's campus will progressively come pre-configured and ready to transfer from Dell computers to connect to the Saint Mary's net­Omni Tech. The iStore hopes to work, which will help minimize aid in that transition by selling the the time it takes for students to company's all-in-one and stan­connect to ResNet at the begin­dard mini tower computers, along ning of the year, Fowlkes said. with flat panel In addition monitors. 
to computers 
Other colleges and software, aside from Saint the iStore will Mary's have also sell made the switch Nextel cellu­to Omni Tech lar phones computers. and service. Bethel College in "Our stu­Mishawaka has dents will get recently brought a good dis• Omni Tech onto count and its campus and, personalized Fowlkes said, service from 
neighboring 
Holy Cros.s is looking into it. 
Saint Mary's technicians have spent the past three months test­ing Omni Tech machines and Fowlkes said they have been impressed with their performance and durability. By next year, they will be fully trained to work on and with all Omni Tech comput­ers. 
"We believe that [Omni Tech] serves the educational market better," Fowlkes said. ''They have a real focus on educational insti• tutions and their needs. They're · less expensive than Dell and still keep to the highest reliability standards." 
Hot Dates to Remember at The Hearth... 
Nextel specifi­cally for our campus," Fowlkes said. 
Preliminary costs will be 10 percent less that that of normal Nextel service rates and 27 per­cent off of Nextel cellular phone prices. 
Items sold at the iStore will be available to students, parents, alumnae, faculty and staff for on­or off-campus use. 
"We're hoping people will buy from the iStore so they can get the best equipment for their money,"· Fowlkes said. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at .iwool8338@saintmarvs.edu 
Tues, April8, 7:30 pm 
KALEIDESCOPE ~ An explosion of Irish Music & Dance. TICkets $1 S (proceeds benefiting Saint Mary's sister school in Uganda) 
Sat.April 19, 9:00pm 
ERRJGAL -Featuring uilleann piper Sean Ryan. ·$5 cover. 
Sun April27, 8.·oo pm TEMPEST -Celtic rock band touring from Calif. $10 cover 
Ffc)c)leu~s Heau~b 
127 North Main Street "' South Bend, Indiana 46601 .._ {574) 232-2853 
THE BEST KEPT SECRET... 


Jordan prince gets ND service award 
By CHRISTINA CEPERO 
News Writer 

Prince El Hassan bin Talal 
of Jordan has been 
announced as this year's 
recipient of the Notre Dame 
Award for International 
Humanitarian Service. 

This award was to be pre­
sented to Prince El Hassan at 
a cerem~py on campus April 
23. However, the event has been postponed indefinitely because the Prince is not able to travel due to the war in Iraq. 
Prince El Hassan was born 
in Amman, Jordan in 1947 
and graduated from Oxford 
University with Bachelor's 
and Master's degrees in 
Oriental Studies. In 1965, he 
began his role as the political 
advisor of his older brother 
King Hussein, who passed 
away in 1999. 

In 1987, he initiated the 
New International 
Humanitarian Order resolu­
tion under the United Nations 
and founded the Independent 
Commission on International 
Humanitarian Issues. 

The Prince has organized a systematic interfaith dia­logue, consisting of ongoing consultations with the Orthodox Centre of the Ecumenical Patriarchate at Chambesy, Switzerland; the Pontifical Council for Interreligious Dialogue at the Vatican; and the Independent Commiss,on on Christian­Muslim-Jewish Relations. 
In 1994, he founded the Royal Institute for Inter-Faith Studies rn Jordan. In 1999, he helped found and acted as Vice Chairman of the Foundation for lnterreligious and Intercultural Research and Dialogue in Geneva, and he served as moderator at the World Conference on Religion and Peace in Jordan. He is also a member of the UNESCO International Interreligious Advisory Committee and Hashemite Aid and Relief Agency. 
Prince El Hassan has acted as Chairman of the Policy 
PARK JEFFERSON APARTMENTS · 
I Bedroom starting at $466.00 2 Bedrooms starting at $544.00 
NOW RENTING FOR THE 2003 SCHOOL YEAR 
9MONTH 
SHORT TERM SUMMER AND MONTH TO MONTH LEASES 
LOCATED 2.1 MILES FROM NOTRE DAME 
ON BUS LINE 
U\UNDRY FACILITIES, INDOOR HEATED POOL, 
FITNESS & EXERCISE ROOMS, BILLIARDS 
SPACIOUS 1 & 2 BEDROOMS, SOME WITH DENS 
FREE MEMBERSHIP TO CASTLE POINT HEALTH CLUB . 
VIEW OUR MODEL DAILY 
MON-FRI 9:00AM -6:00PM 
SATURDAY 10:00AM -6:00PM 
SUNDAY 10:00AM: -4:00PM 
JOO I EAST JEFFERSON BLVD SOUTH BEND, IN 4661 S 574-232-3333 www.parkjefferson.com 
Advisory Commission of the 
World Intellectual Property 
Organization, a Member of 
the Informal Advisory Group 
to the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees, 
Co-Chair of the Independent 
Bureau for Humanitarian 
Issues, Executive Committee 
Member of the International 
Crisis Group, International 
Board Member of the Council 
on Foreign Relations. and 
one of the Board of Directors 
of the Nuclear Threat 
Initiative. 

He has also participated in 
various educational and sci­
entific institutions in Jordan 
and internationally and has 
written several books over 
the past 34 years. 

A committee of several fac­
ulty and staff members meets 
periodically throughout the 
year to evaluate the 
strengths of various candi­
dates that it, or anyone in the 
University, nominates for the 
Notre Dame Award. 

The group then selects one 
to three individuals and rec­
ommends these names to 
University President Father 
Edward Malloy and the offi. 
cers of the University, who 
make the final decision. 
Prince El Hassan was the 
group's sole recommendation 
this year. 

"Prince El Hassan bin Talat 
is known worldwide for his 
intellectual and cultural lead­
ership in the Arab world and 
for his religiously grounded 
commitment to the advance­
ment of universal human 
rights. A devout son of Islam, 
he also exemplifies the 
socially engaged Muslim 
intellectual," Malloy said in a 
press release. 

The University established 
the Notre Dame Award for 
International Humanitarian 
Service in 1992 on its 150th 
anniversary as a vehicle to 
honor non-Catholics and/or 
individuals from other 
nations. 

The mission statement of the award attests that it seeks persons "within and without the Catholic Church, citizens of every nation, whose religious faith has quickened learning, whose learning has engendered deeds, and whose deeds give witness to God's kingdom among us." 
"The award has still very much a spiritual element but is not confined to people whose $piritual faith is Catholic," said University ~pokesperson Dennis Moore. 
At a time when Islam has received extensive negative press in this country, Moore Sjlid the University felt it would be apprd"priate to honor someone of the Muslim faith to exhibit the solidarity of various faiths. 
"The first factor in deter­mining candidates is the totality of.the person's career and life work, but the University was specifically looking for an exemplary person from the faith of Islam," said Moore. "Jt demonstrates the fact that there are wonderfu I ad her­ents of Islam in the world ... 
Contact Christina Cepero at cepero. l@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 4, 2003 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 

The sky was still dark Sunday 
morning as the weary mem­
bers of Bravo Company assem­
bled for breakfast outside the 
chow hall. "One! Two! 
Motivated! Hoo-hah, Bravo!" 
the cadets bellowed as they fell 
in line to receive a hot meal of 
scrambled eggs, biscuits and 
gravy. 

During the day. cadets dined 
on MREs -Meals Ready to Eat · -the Army's standard com­bat-ready rations. The food included entrees such as meat­loaf with gravy, chicken and 
salsa and beef stroganoff. 

Another key activity during 
the weekend was the Field 
Leader's Reaction Course. The 
course challenged squads, typi­
cally made up of six cRdets, to 
negotiate difficult obstacles 
using critical thinking skills. 

One such scenario found 
cadets stranded behind enemy 
lines. The students had to move 
themselves and an unwieldy 
crate of ammunition over a 
large wooden platform using 
only a length of rope. The 
cadets took turns leading their squad to conquer the various challenges, then met eagerly afterwards to be evaluated by their superiors. "No more booze! No more sex! We just want F-T-X!" cadets bellowed, in a reference to the Field Training Exercise, as they assembled to discuss the results of the FLRC. 
Sunday night, cadets con­ducted land navigation drills and tests, using a map and compass to find their way through the branches and brambles in the Michigan woods. The navigation course, which lasted late into the night, tried the students' patience and stamina, as light snow fell on the chilly evening. 
The future officers also dis­cussed the nature of military conflict and the international laws governing war. Junior Leon Gil said a key element of ROT~ life at Notre Dame is the ethical aspect of military ser­vice. 
"Our cadre [officers] really do try to make us superior, not only in tactics, but morally cog­nizant as well," Gil said. The motto "God, Country. Notre Dame" was put into practice as members of the Fightin' Irish Battalion assembled for reli­
gious services on Saturday 
returning from spring break 
evening. 

March 16. A member of the Castle 

Thefts.

The weekend, Gil said, "[was] 
Point maintenance staff unlocked 
a chance to put into practice 
her apartment for her three days
continued from page 1 

what we've learned in class." 
before her computer was stolen. 
The Notre Dame student whose 
computer was taken tiad locked Contact Kate Nagengast at 
Contact Matt Bramanti at 
herself out of her apartment upon knagenga@nd.edu
mbramant@nd.edu 

~ --lie fllloling imducll!y affen of... 
,....... 

•••••••• •••••••• r•••·•·• ,......, 
I I l

I : : $69 : : $69
$15 I $26 $69 I I I 
I I I Color, Cut & I I 
1 1 1

Mens Cut P C ,. 5 1 1 Highlights, 1
1 Cut &Style I I S~e I I erm, uru. .. ,1 ; ,e C S.,JI I ut & ~11e I
I I I One Process I I
......... 

• ••• • • ... ·-•••• • .i ......... ·-• •••• .i 
Please use this special sa'vings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and sel\iice we pro~de, and we will do our best to merit y0ur confidence and patronage. We hope to see you soon. 
·VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING SlTIISTS ONLY. -NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must be prtsmted to Receptionist Before Smius Art Performed 
Melissa-Sergi'-Kristin-Jennifer ATRIA SALON ATRIA SALON 2 
1357 N, Ironwood Dr, N«viallixifG fXlTili ~ouir,allura¼!IIO. NoOOJcril1llllW'l!Jffl Open IOllll:~ All11A Martin's Shopping Center Saion=d-t~1D11r..L1C1C1VUll)my~v.lm!wi:mooooisill!am Nen to Sprint
Comer ofEdison 289-,080 271-8804 . OFFER EXPIRES 4-15-03 Less than 1mile from campus 

Author Reading &. Signing Celebrate National Poetry Month • , 04 ce rup/JMeet 6d \ ', rbc,r~ \ o o ~ Joyce Rupp •Saturday r ("" S /' w 0 <IrApril 5th ofCO'll,s \ ~ o,, ,:lCl1:00 pm \ \ T r I l" r w ,-~ in the Hammes Notre Dan1e Bookstore HAMMES NOTRE DAME· BOOKSTORE N THE 'ECK CENTER phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com Open to the public • Convenient parking  
Domus PROPERTIES OFF CAMPUS HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003-2004 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT www.domuskramer.com OR CALL 574-315-5032 OR 574-234-2436 ASK FOR KRAMER  


Friday, April 4, 2003 C0MPltED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
Coalition seizes Baghdad airport amid blackout 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD 

Coalition forces bombed Iraqi Air Force headquarters in cen­tral Baghdad Friday morning, one of many air assaults on the capital as U.S. ground troops pressed closer from the south. 
Blasts before dawn from the south and southwest shook buildings in the heart of the capital, and explosions grew louder and more frequent as day broke. Al-Jazeera television reported presidential palaces had been hit. 
Using satellite-guided bombs, allied troo·ps hit buildings of Air Force headquarters west of the Tigris River at about 9:45 a.m., 
U.S. Central Command said in a statement. The strike hurt Iraqi ability to control its air assets. the statement said, though com­plete damage was not yet clear. 
The attacks came after the first widespread power outage of the war plunged Baghdad into darkness Thursday night. Bombs rocked the city before the blackout, but U.S. military officials said they had not tar­geted Baghdad's power grid. The_ reason for the outage was not known. 
Explosions rang out for nearly 15 minutes before the lights went out in large parts of• Baghdad, and soon it appeared the entire city had lQit electrici­ty. Less than an hour after the outage began, virtually the only sound that could be heard in the city was the noise of power gen­erators. 
A sustained power outage to the city of 5 million people would mean the disruption of water supply and sewage, which could spread disease at a time when temperatures are rising. 
The electricity went out as 
U.S. forces launched their attack on Saddam International Airport, 10 miles southwest of the city center. Anti-aircraft fire could be heard near the airport, tracer rounds raced through the sky and artillery shells exploded in the air. 
By Friday morning, the 3rd Division occupied part of the airport and had sealed the entrance closest to Baghdad. Gunshots were heard from inside, however, and it was unclear how many Iraqi troops remained there. 
On Thursday, a televised statement attributed to Saddam Hussein exhorted the Iraqi peo­ple to "fight them with your hands." 
The statement was read by Information Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf. Saddam hasn't delivered a speech on TV since March 24, and it is unclear when that address was recorded. 

No trace of Saddam or his Mohammed Mehdi Saleh -who "I think you have seen his pie-sons turned up Thursday when accused coalition forces of ture," Saleh said, referring to special operations forces raided breaking into Iraqi warehouses silent footage that aired a presidential palace northwest and stealing children's milk and Wednesday of a smiling Saddam of the capital. supplies -laughed when he chairing a Cabinet meeting. "He 
Iraqi Trade Minister was asked where Saddam was. is very calm, confident." 
RUSSIA 

Moscow promises cash to maintain space station orbit 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
Russia pledged extra money Thursday for building the only spacecraft to ser­vice the International Space Station after U.S. shuttle flights were grounded following the Columbia disaster. 
Hussia previously said it could not fund such construction on its own. The Cabinet's decision to release $38 mil­lion ahead of schedule appeared to renect growing doubts that the United States will provide extra assistdnce. 
Aerospace Agency Director Yuri Koptev said the alternative to building more spacecraft was leaving the station temporarily unoccupied, which was dangerous be.cause the station could drift out of its proscribed orbit. 
"We need to keep th£ station [manned] so that it does not become a piece of wreckage that threatens to become the damnation of mankind," Koptev said. 
The $38 million in space funds origi­nally budgeted for the second half of the year were released early to speed up construction of extra ships. he said. 
"We will undoubtedly have to carry the main workload, having to perform additional launches and flights to the station," Prime Minister Mikhail Kasyanov told the Cabinet. "We can't postpone this decision." 
Hussian Soyuz crew capsules and 
Progress cargo ships remain the only · means of getting to the 16-nation sta­tion while the U.S. shuttle fleet is grounded pending an investigation into the Columbia catastrophe. 
The Cabinet also promised tentatively to bolster the space station's budget from about $130 million this year to about $240 million next year, Koptev said. 
Potential American funding is ham­strung by U.S. legislation barring addi­tional payments to Russia's space agency until Washington confirms Moscow has not transferred banned weapons or military technology to Iran. 
With U.S.-Russian ties cooled over the war in Iraq; a U.S. congressional waiver of the bill appeared unlikely. Some American officials also have complained that Russia failed to meet many of its obligations to service the station. 
Koptev acknowledged that the cash­strapped Russian space program failed to accomplish some of its functions on the station and that U.S. shuttles had taken up the slack. 
"Now it's coming back to us and it's hard to complain about that," he said. 
In the past, U.S. space shuttles rotat­ed the International Space Station's long-term crew. Soyuz capsules served as lifeboats for the crew and were changed every six months, while Progress ships ferried fuel, water and other supplies. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Spanish doctor goes on stabbing spree 
A female doctor described as mentally unbalanced stabbed several people at a Madrid. hospital Thursday, killing a colleague and a patient and wounding six·others, officials said. 
The 31-year-old woman, who was only identified by her first name Noelia, suddenly lashed out with a 6-inch knife at groups of people talking in a hospital corridor. said Manuel de Hoya. the director general of the Fundacion Jimenez Diaz hospital. 
Hijacked boat returns to Cuban waters 
A small ferry boat hijacked in Havana Bay and forced to sail toward Florida returned to Cuba on Thursday in search of fuel after island authorities chased it some 30 miles into international waters. 
The boat left international waters late Wednesday under Cuban government escort, a U.S. Coast Guard official in Miami said on condition of anonymity. He declined further comment. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
CDC: spraying trucks safe to humans 
A mosquito spraying method that health officials say is central to fighting West Nile virus does not increase pesticide levels in humans, federal offi­cials said. 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention examined the potential health dangers of expo­sure to mosquito spray from fogger trucks after a request by Mississippi state health officials in September. 
Lawmakers reject Philip Morris plan 
An Illinois Senate committee rejected a plan Thursday to excuse cigarette-maker Philip Morris from paying a $12 billion bond before it can appeal a court judgment. 
Other states have questioned the high bond, saying it could jeopardize payments in a 1998 set­tlement between the tobacco ind ustry and 46 states. including Illinois. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
IRS assesses West Terre Haute property 
The Internal Revenue Service has put a lien on the property assets of West Terre Haute because it says town officials failed to pay employment taxes on time. 
West Terre Haute Clerk-Treasurer Melody Buchanan said the $68,965 the IRS is demanding is interest and penalties from nearly $70,000 in employment taxes paid late by the town from 1999 through 2002. 
The IRS typically allows ten years to pay off such penalties and interest. · 
Soy innovator may move to Fort Wayne 
A developer of soy-based products with more than $800 million in annual revenue is considering bring­ing its headquarters to northeast Indiana. 
The Solae Co. will develop and market branded. soy-based specialty foods, feeds and industrial ingredients; 
Friday, April 4, 2003
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
'Health E Day' set for Saturda)' 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 

Graduate students in search of free food and advice on healthy living should look no further than Stepan Center and the adjoining fields on Saturday, where the Graduate Student Union will host its second annual "Health E Day." 
Healthcare Committee chairper­son Heather Edwards said the event is designed to promote healthy lifestyles and is open to graduate students and Notre Dame faculty and staff. 
"The main reason we have it is to get information out to graduate 


SIBC to host annual forum Saturday 
By KATE DOOLEY 
News Writer 

The Student International Business Council will host its annual forum at noon Saturday in the Hesburgh 
.Auditorium. 

Steve Lauletta, sports and event marketing director of Miller Brewing Co.; Dennis 
Flannery,  executive  vice  
president  of  the  Inter­ 
American  Development  

Bank; Father John Riley, pastor of Sacred Heart Parish; and Ian Moore, exec­utive vice president of human resources for News Corporation, will be speaking at the forum. 
This ' year's topic is "Perspectives in Peace through Commerce" and panelists will discuss the perspectives in terms of their careers and the greater con­text of international busi­ness. 
Courtney Zeph, a Notre Dame sophomore and coordi­nator of the event, said that the topic was chosen partial­ly because it reflects the SIBC's motto, but also as a reflection of current events. 
"With everything that is going on in the world today, we wanted to see if peace through commerce is some­thing that holds up in diffi. cult times," Zeph said. 
Members of SIBC said the annual forum is a unique exchange between the speak­ers and the students. Daniela Urs, a junior business major at Saint -Mary's and chief operating officer of SIBC, said she appreciates the interaction _with panelists that the forum provides. 
"Its exciting to see success­ful people devote their time to us. We feel we are in the company of prestigious peo­ple, but I think the speakers take something away from us as well," Urs said. 
Last year, Dick Ebersol. chairman of NBC Sports and NBC Olympics. left a lasting impression on those at the event, said Katie Sandford, a 
Saint  Mary's  senior  and  
member  of  the  Global  
Development  division  of  
SIBC.  

"It was mind-blowing to hear a man like Dick Ebersol saying that what the SIBC does is important and that it benefits the business com­munity," she said. 
The SIBC is a student orga­nization that'prepares it members for the professional 
world. It is run much like a business and has over 250 members from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross. Members work on projects in eight different divisions, including marketing, finance. internships and global devel­opment. 
The spring forum is one of their main projects, with the goal of giving members as well as the entire student body a chance to hear from interesting, successful peo­ple. 
The forum begins at noon and lasts until 3:30. It is free and refreshments will be provided. The SIBC also gives away prizes at the event, including an X-box and DVD player. 
Contact Kate Dooley at dool6 I l O@saintmarys.edu 
students," Edwards said. 

This year's "Health E Day" will feature short information sessions and workshops on stress relief, nutrition and relaxation. University Health Services will be on hand to discuss prevention, along with representatives from Hoosier Healthwise, a health insurance program for Indiana children. pregnant women and low-income families. 
Edwards and the Healthcare Committee have also recruited local experts to give introductory classes in yoga, martial arts and eurogym. Games and activities will be offered for children, and lunch and free T-shirts will be available for all participants, she said. 
Last year's event, also organized by the Healthcare Committee and then•chairperson Adrienne Minerick, attracted about 50 fami­lies. 
"We're hoping to get that amount [this year] or more," Edwards said. 
"Health E Day" kicks off at noon and runs until 4 p.m. The event is sponsored by the Alumni Association and the University Counseling Center. _ "We are excited about it," Edwards said. "One of the things we really want to do in the Healthcare Committee is to inform graduate students about what's out there. This is a fun way to do that" 
Contact Andrew Thagard at _athagard@nd.edu 
This Weekend in the Department ofMusic 
Saturday, April 5, 2003 A Senior Recital Kristen Moskow, soprano w/ Brenda Weade, piano 
1:00 pm, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art Performing songs by Rachmaninov, Wolf, John Duke, and more. 
Saturday, April 5, 2003 A Graduate Degree Recital Ryan Berndt, trumpet w/ Paivi Ekroth & Jacqueline Schmidt, piano and Candace Thomas, violin 
3:00 pm, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art Performing works by Tomasi, Ewazen, and Fasch. 
All concerts free unless otherwise noted. 
Ca/1631-6201 or visit www.nd.edu/~congoers for more info! 
Buy or Sell your Home with aGrad from the Dome 
Call Maria Cardle 
360-3334 
CRESSY and EVERETT/GMAC Realty Office 233-6141 




CWINAL CHARTERS 
--I) AIA,J/J I 
,if QUALITY COUNTS... (;~ ~ WNYWf• 


•
Since 1923 •Group Services •Professional Drivers 

•
Luxuiy Buses •Competttive Rates •Wheelchair Accessible . ' orALTOLL FREE 


1-800-348•7487 
www.cardinalbuses.com 


•· .. ··..·.. :·:-._:-·::··:·.· ,:::_:_.:, :::::.·:-·:···-·.··_·. :: _: _:.-.··:·· ·, ._-:· . :·•: ,:·,·.·_,: .... ' ',',' ,' ' : . : . ·••,• .. _.,., .,.. . .·· 
·. From The Ramada Inn South Bend·· ·'()t1deriNew AlumnLOwnership 
. ':.•·"\\: /·/.::::\::::;_· :;::.· .._.: ..\..->{?.__::"<::\" 
•·.•.} /!~taduation Weekend:'RoO~i;:;.; (.I Available! 

* Complimentary Hot Breakfast >< 
* 
Indoor and Outdoor Pools 

* 
Meeting Rooms for up to 500 *-Lounge/Dinner Menu 

* 
One Mile from Campus 


Call 574~272..5220 or s77..7gJ..8496 

·Rooms available for all Home Football Games 
52890SR 933/US 31 North South Bend 
· Just North ofI 80/90 Exit •.. 
Another technological 
innovation brought to you by 
Notre Dame Federal Credit Union ... 

Online ,~-rttneck Imaging 
' 
• 

Save time, save money. Get your check images on line, free! Just log on to our home banking web site. 
~ 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
www.ndfcu.org 
Independent of the University LENDER 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

Friday, April 4, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch April 3 
DowJones  
-8,240.38  •NASDAQ  -44.68  
1,396.58  •S&P500  -0.14  
876.45  •  -4.45  
AMEX  
826.36  •  -2.57  
NYSE  
4,870.29  '  -27.68  

TOP 5 VOLUME. LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) 0 0 13.64 
lli111,e1t:t:!lli!li!!i~l~ffllll:liilil~!llill1!!li!!i!lil!~II 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.29 +0.05 17.57 
l¦!ill:!lll!!1ii!~llllli!li!lll!ill!l!lii!ll!ll!!illi~:111!!IIIIIII 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW)-0.29 -0.01 3.48 
IN BRIEF 
Jobless claims jump in late March 
The number of American workers filing new claims for unemployment benefits climbed last week to the highest point in nearly a year as businesses trimmed jobs in the muddled wartime economic climate. 
The Labor Department reported Thursday that new applications for jobless benefits jumped by a seasonally adjusted 38,000 to 445,000 for the week ending March 29 _ a level last reached in the week ending April 13, 2002. 
IMF warns on U.S. housing bubble 
One more threat for the fragile economy ­the possibility that America's booming hous­ing market could be headed for a bust. 
In a survey of global economic dangers, the International Monetary Fund warned on Thursday that the U.S. housing market, after two years of record sales over and strong increases in home prices, could be headed for a fall. 
The study said that based on past experi­ence. a housing bubble in an industrial coun­try has a 40 percent chance of being followed by a sharp drop in prices. 
HealthSouth cuts 165 HQ workers 
HealthSouth Corp. cut 20 percent of its headquarters staff Thursday as five more executives agreed to plead guilty in a huge accounting fraud that has the health care giant teetering on bankruptcy. 
The layoffs of 165 people was HealthSouth's first mass personnel cut since the government accused it of overstating earnings by at least $1.4 billion since 1999 to make it appear the company was meeting Wall Street forecasts. 
The company said the workers were being laid off from marketing and other departments that do not deal with patients. HealthSouth eliminated about 1,000 of its 50,000 employ­ees last year. 
The refinancing rate helps determine the cost of short-term central bank credits to com­mercial banks and serves as a benchmark for other rates. The decision was widely expected after remarks by bank officials strongly sug­gested there wouldn't be another quick cut. 

UC prof says WTO irrelevant 
. Claims U.S. trade unaffected by globalized exchange bloc 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
The World Trade 
Organization has a negligi­
ble and almost non-existent 
effect on world trade, said 
Andrew Rose, a University 
of California at Berkley 
professor. 
Rose presented a paper entitled "Do we really know that the wro affects trade or trade policy?" in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Thursdey afternoon. 

"[Many] mainstream economists think by encouraging trade, the World Trade Organization does the opposite [and increases poverty]." he said. "[People have an] incredibly strong and poor­Rose simultaneously Agreement on Trade and of countries acceded, they ly-defined view of the examined research data Tariffs, and concluded that did not have to do anything World Trade both across countries and entering countries experi­different [to their trade pol­Organization." across various spans of ence little change in their icy] and they did not do 
Rose said that many time, using an aggregate amount of trade from five anything to their trade poli­economists assume a posi­approach that examined years before their acces­cy. If trade policy doesn't tive relationship between annual data from 1948-sion to five years after their change, you won't see any world trade and the effects 1999 from 178 countries. accession. Rose said he trade change. Membership of the wro without actual­Rose said that his bilateral actually found a decline in in the WTO simply has no ly investigating the evi­gravity model of trade, a trade between 4 and 6 per­effect," he said. dence or conducting widely accepted model. cent for entering countries. Rose also said that a typi­research. suggests that the amount of "What you see is ... any cal country either never 
"No one either in the trade between two partners effect of accession on trade opens up its trade policy wro or the academic com­is not connected with a is just really subtle or after joining the WTO or munity has ever looked at country's membership in small," he said. joins the WfO and experi­the effects of the WTO on the World Trade Rose explained that the ences an 18-year lag before trade or anything else. We Organization. World Trade Organization opening up their trade poli­just don't know if it has any "The effects of WTO has very little effect on cy. affect [on world trade], pos­membership in one or both world trade because most "GATT and WTO were itive or negative," he said. countries are economically of its new members are not about liberalizing 
Rose said that nothing ir. small, often negative and developing countries that trade," he said. his research suggests that statistically insignificant. are exempt from stringent Rose's lecture was co­the World Trade Trade is indistinguishable if trade policy requirements. sponsored by the Kellogg Organization actually zero, one or two countries He said that developing Institute, the Mendoza increases world trade. are in the WTO," he said. countries are given special College of Business and the 
"The WfO has a negligi­In addition, Rose ana­and differential treatment Department of Economics. ble effect on [international lyzed data from 104 coun­that does not res~lt in any trade]; there is no evidence tries that entered the \,Vorld change to their trade policy that the wro has an effect Trade Organization and its after WTO entrance. Contact Joe Trombello at on trade," he said. predecessor, the Global "When the vast majority jtrombel@nd.edu 

Companies' 401(k) funding falls 
spokesman Glenn Mathison, whose variable matches during past eco­
Associated Press 

comments generally were echoed by nomic downturns, he said. NEW YORK other companies suspending match­"I think it remains rare that fixed 
A growing number of companies, es. matches are being eliminated or sus­searching for ways to cut costs, are Many employers adopted 401 (k) pended," Wray said. suspending their matching contribu­accounts during the late 1980s and But the distinction -usually writ­tions to workers' 401(k) retirement 1990s as a replacement for tradi­ten in fine print -means little to accounts. tionaf pension plans. They became workers accustomed to years of con­
Such a move by broker Charles widely popular with workers, who sistent employer contributions, said Schwab & Co. won wide attention in saw the spiraling stock market as a Joe Hessenthaler of Towers Perrin, a March because the company has way to ensure a comfortable retire­human resources consulting firm. been outspoken in its support of the ment. The change is part of broader, and 
investment vehicle. But Schwab is Employers' average matching con­in most cases temporary. efforts to not alone. tributions, which peaked at 3.3 per­cut expenses. When companies do 
El Paso Corp., CMS Energy Corp., cent of workers' pay in 1998 and return to matching, Hessenthaler The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., 1999, fell to 2.5 percent in 2001, said, many will more clearly tie Ford Motor Co. and Tech Data Corp. according to the most recent data 401(k) plans to company profits. are among the companies that have available fr9m the Profit "What's the message you [the suspended matching contributions to Sharing/401 (k) Council of America, employer] are trying to get out? 
· 401(k) accounts over the past year. an industry group. You're trying to get out that this isn't This week, Prudential Securities While many companies have pared guaranteed. If we do well, you're became the latest employer to do so. or suspended their contributions to going to do well. If we don't do well, 
"We needed to look for ways to retirement accounts recently, most you're not going to do well." achieve expense reductions that have been employers with so-called Hessenthaler said. were temporary in _nature and did "variable" matches that are linked to Some of the companies that have not threaten our ability to grow and profits, said David Wray, president suspended matches said worker par­
take our business forward when of the profit sharing council. ticipation in 401 (k) accounts has things turn around," said Schwab Companies have reduced these dipped slightly. 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, April 4, 2003 

*SHOVfllWG, MOWIWG, HAULIWG, PRUWIWG. WATCH OUR STAFF CO't+A.PLf1f 1HfSf TASKS FROM YOUR WIWt)OW AWt) SWICKE.R. *FREE. PARKIWG FOR YOU AWD YOUR GUESTS *2.¥ HOUR E.ME.RGE.WCY SE.RV/Cf *OUR WA1'E.R TASTES GREAT AWD IS LESS FILLIWG. BOWUS 11'5 FREE.!!!!!! *WE. WELCOME. SMALL AWt) LARGE. PE.TS. *PATIOS AWD BALCOWIE.S 
*CE.WTRAL HE.A1 AWt) AIR UWl1S Wl1H RE.MOl>E.LE.t) Kl1CHE.WS STILL AVAILABLE. 
*RE.FER A FRIE.Wt) Af.lt) RECEIVE }150 OFF YOU WEXT MOWTHS RfWT 
*CE.ILIWG FAWS 

*2.J.1.HR OW•Sl1E. LAUWl>RY FACILITY 
*BL/Wt)S AWi> ·CARPE.1 IWCLUt)ft) 
*YOU WE.Et) 1'Q SEE. WHA1 WE. HAVE.1HA1 ''1HEY" t)OW'f HAVE 
*FULLY EQUIPPED Kl1CHEWS Wl1H DISHWASHER, DISPOSAL, FR/l>GE., AWi> STOVE. 
*SPACIOUS ·FLOOR PLAWS ro ACCOMMOC>A1f ALL YOUR GUESTS · 
*A GRE.A1 MAWAGEME.WT AWC> FRIE.Wl>LY MAIWTEWAWCE STAFF 
*CLOSE. ro 1HE. 10LL ROAi> AWi> MAJOR SHOPPIWG ARE.AS 
*OWLY '3 BLOCKS FORM CAMPUS 
*AWE.SOME. MAWAGE.ME.WT 
*POOL Wl1H OVER Jl.o,ooo GALLOWS OF WATER FOR YOU 10 COOL OFF IW 

~

-----------------; --•--------.... ·-------------·-----=---------·••T•---------•-..,=-......... ,.,,,,.,,,,, ... _.. ___ ,_______ ,---.,, ..... -• _______ .,. ---------• ­
page 9

Friday, April 4, 2003 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
, Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 
ministry.1@nd.edu www.nd.edu/~ministry


Campus Ministry C-M 
what's ha 
• I
l (lQQ\L f (' ' __________ u
.. _i,-,/ l .. ,... -'T .. _.!.) 
Traveling Rosary for Peace 
9:00 p.m. 
Dillon Hall 
fr;dQv_j_j)_,1_ 
Freshman Retreat #47 
Friday and Saturday 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Graduate Student Retreat 
Friday and Saturday 
Mary's Solitude 
Mass for Peace and Justice 
5:15 p.m. 
• Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
807 Mass 
8:oo p.m. 
CoMo Student Lounge 
Traveling Rosary for Peace 
9:00 p.m. 
Alumni Hall 
sIJJJciQy_,1. 06 . .,-··---·-­
Rc1A Session 
10:00-11:00 a.m. 
Coleman-Morse Student Lounge 
Rite of Reception 
into Full Communion 
11:45 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Rejoice! Mass 
10:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center Chapel 
check it out 
F R I 
nlGHT 
I n T H E 
a 


mass schedule 
., 

n1onday L,.01 
Traveling Rosary for Peace 
9:00 p.m. 
Welsh Family 

tL1esday 4.oa 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Traveling Rosary for Peace 
9:00 p.m. 
Keough Hall 

Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 
wednesday 4.09 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:oo p.m. 

Wilson Com·mons 
Traveling Rosary for Peace 
9:00 p.m. 
O'Neill Hall 

Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. 

Morrissey Hall Chapel 
D A y fflASS 
C 0 0
"' 
PM 
Fifth Sunday of Lent 

busiU~n of the sucred heart 
Saturday Vigil Mass  Sunday  
5:00 p.m.  10:00 a.m.  
Rev. Charles Gordon, c.s.c.  Rev. Charles Gordon, c.s.c.  
11:45 a.m.  
Rev. Peter Rocca, c.s.c.  

.:.•... ·Pickup info·& applications in CoMo room·114; Mond~y~through'Friday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. · · or the CM Welcome Center (room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight.
\·.,. ...r.--
Jt, 
considerations.... 
Becoming Catholic 


Discovering the Gift of Eucharist 
by Megan Thomas 
Junior, Lewis Hall 
This Sunday at the Basilica, eleven people will be received into the Catholic Church in the Rite of Full Communion. I am one of these eleven, and while this Sunday marks the completion of Rite ofCatholic Initiation for Adults, or RCIA for rhe, it is not the end of my spiritual journey. · 
Throughout the RCIA process, I have conie to understand the blessing of the Eucharist. Growing up in a Protestant church, that celebrated communion only as a sign of representation of Christ, has given me a different respect for the Eucharist. It is such a blessing and I can't wait to be able to share in this relationship with God. Throughout my journey I have witnessed the nourishment that comes from the Eucha­ri~, but more importantly in taking the Eucharist with us and giving it to others in all 
aspects of our lives.  Because while I haven't received the actual Eucharist, I am blessed  
every time I go to  
mass with being  I was limiting the sacrament of Communion to  
in the presence of it and sharing the  only receiving the actual body of Christ, when  
sacrament with  in reality it is so much more than that.  I had  
chose around me. As I wait in line  to discover the fullness of the sacrament  
with others, I feel  before I could come to understand what it  
the love and respect present.  means for Jesus to be completely present in  
Even though they  the bread and wine.  
end with receiv­ 

ing the Eucharist and I just receive a blessing from a priest, I know that I have shared in the sacrament as well. I can feel rhe nourishment. I understand that I too am called to take this blessing of Christ out into the world. 
This RCIA process has been a strengthening journey. I have never once questioned the decision I made, which is an amazing grace, but also a frustration. Ir's difficult for me to feel so called to this, but still have to wait for the Eucharist. But looking back I can see the blessing in this struggle. I was limiting the sacrament of Communion to only receiving the actual body ofChrist, when in reality it is so much more than that. I had to discover the fullness of the sacrament before I could come to understand what it means for Jesus to be completely present in the bread and wine. It seems like such a small acceptan~e on our part-we just have to believe-and we receive this gift. Not only do we receive strength, healing and love in the form of a meal, but also we get to share it with other Catholics in Communion. What a powerful challenge enveloped in an amazing gift. The challenge comes in taking the blessing and sharing it with others: becoming Christ for others. We cannot receive the Eucharist and let it end with us. This is what the nourishment of the Eucharist brings into our lives. It strengthens us to become more Christ-like in our actions and words outside of mass. 
As I prepare for this Sunday, I am excited to develop a greater understanding of the Eucharist and a closer relationship with God. The intense joy I feel as I look forward to celebrating my spirituality with family and friends is hard to put into words. RCIA has been a life-changing journey and I am humbled at the blessings I have received. It's incredible the amount of grace and love we receive in just answering "yes" to God's call in our lives. Because of a simple "yes" I will soon be Catholic. 
around can1pus (every Sunday) 
1:30  p.m.  5:00  p.m.  
Spanish Mass  Law School Mass  
Zahm Hall Chapel  Law School Chapel  

7:00 p.m. 
MBA Mass 
Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 

Sunday's Scripture Readings 1st: Jer 31: 31 -34 2nd: Heb 5: 7 -9 Gospel: John 12: 20 -33 : 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Andrew Soukup 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Scott. Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm 
SPORTS EDITOR: Joe Herder SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins SAINT MAJly's EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 
SYSTEMS MANAGER: Ted Bangert 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO..............631-7 471 FAX............ : ........................................ : ....... 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................63 l-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS................... ·····•·..............................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE .. •· .....................................................631-4540 observer .scene. J@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. I@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB .ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobsmxr.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
-the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observerpolicies should. be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Andrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE l~F0RMAJI0N 
fhc O~cr (USPS 599 240) i, publi,hc-d Mohday ,hrough Friday "°"P' during n.un and Y.a..:,ui-On periods.. A ,u.hKripnon co The OblC'rvCT i~ SI00 for one:: academic )'IC"M; $55 for Or\C' Ktn~~r. 
The Oh~rvi:-t i.s puhli.~kd .u: l'OSTMASTER 024 !>ourh·Dinmg Hall Send -aJJn.,,i corr,xbom, lO! 1 Notnc Dame, IN 46556 Th<Ol»avcr 
1'.0. BoxQ Pc.-r1t~ioJ pmr;igc paid ,lf Notre lhmc Nott< Dam<. IN 4(,556-077') wd .i.Jdnional m.<lling offi.U"S. 
Th(' Observer i, a rru-mbct or'da-~S1Xiarai Prcw. All reproduction rights arc rot-r,·cd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Sports  
Meghan Martin  Matt Lazar  
\Vill Puckett  · Chris Federico  
Matt Bramanti  Pat Leonard  
Viewpoint  Scene  
Teresa Fralish  Maria Smith  
Graphics  Lab Tech  
Chris Naidus  Tim Kacmar  
.J  

Friday, April 4, 2003 

A message for student government 
Pat Hallahan and Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl, the student body presidents for 2003-04 at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, both played key roles in previous administra­tions. But as their administrations establish their own identities, they must do more than continue the policies set in motion by their predecessors. In order for these leaders to show their commitment to students, they must produce tangible results. Students on both campuses tend to think that student government cannot help students. Now is the time to prove the OJhe critics wrong. userver other student organizations and must be undertaken with a spirit of cooperation and compromise, not one of com­petition and bruised egos. The latter only harms stu­dents, as is evidenced by the struggle between Notre Dame's Office of the Student Body President and Student Senate over the content of the Board of Trustees report. 
While seeking to fulfill their grandest campaign promis­
es, student leaders at the same time need to seiz~ oppor­tunities to implement less ambitious goals. Forming relationships of mutual respect with administrators is an essential component of 
Hallahan and Jablonski-Diehl must use this process, as is pursuing strategies appro­the last weeks of the academic year to lay priate to the division of the hierarchy of their

Editorial
the ·foundation and set the level of expecta­tion high for their respective administra­tions. Hallahan often disagreed with former student body president Libby Bishop; he should now translate that crit­icism into action by showing the student body how stu­dent government should be run differently, while still ful­filling his campaign promises. Jablonski-Diehl may have run unopposed, but this does not excuse her from making significant changes and developing new policies. 
Hallahan and Jablonski-Diehl must concentrate on what students really want. While proposing a calendar and additional lectures are adequate, if unexciting, ideas, improving student life is one of the chief challenges fac­ing both adminstrations. Students will not become enthu­siastic or supportive of student government until they can show lofty campaign promises that directly benefit stu­dents can be achieved. This requires coordination with 
NOT.ODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you think Hallahan and Lao will fulfill their campaign promises next year? 
*Pon appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 121 responses . 


school. 
When a problem seems too difficult to tackle, this is not an excuse to avoid working for students -it merely means that the strategy must be modified. Notre Dame's student government could learn a lot by looking at Saint Mary's dedicated effort to see their read­ing day, once a seemingly insurmountable goal, become a reality. Such diligence and creativity in responding to an important student-life i~sue should be the rule rather than the exception for student governments on both cam­pus. , As they take office this spring, the incoming adminis­trations must take the initiative to pursue policies that matter to students and remain faithful to the promises they made before their election. If they succeed, they will also be able to claim a restoration of student faith in stu­dent government as one of their many achievements. 
• 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Awareness promotes understanding 
It's hard being American these days, but then again, it's always been hard. In kindergarten. I needed to give myself an English middle name because what six year-old wanted a Chinese name no one could pronounce? I chose "Victoria" -it sounded elegant enough and when I spelled out "V-I-C-T­0-R-E-A" across my penmanship pad, I didn't notice anything amiss. 
Things became slightly more com­plicated though when I moved from my all-white Catholic grade school to public school. There were black students, there were white students and then there was me. I was ill-prepared for the time a friend asked inno­cently whether 1 was black or white. After some considera­tion, I decided, by default, that I was black. 
My misjudgements now pro­vide my friends with good laughs, but the confusion that forced these situations isn't all that funny. More than 150 years after Asians first came to America to pan gold, harvest sugarcane and build railroads like every other fron­tiersmq.n, Asian Americans are still the "other" of American society. We are the citizens caught on the lower frequencies, Americans pushed to the margins. If an affinity for baseball and apple pie marks one's citizenship, I'm a good deal more American than my friends who can't dif­ferentiate the Yankees from the Red Sox. 
Instead, I am the perpetual foreigner. "Where were you 
born?" "Do you speak English?" "Can you teach me kung­
fu?" Nearly every Asian American has this checklist of 
questions filed in his or her memory. It does not matter that I am from St. Louis, that I am an English major and do not even watch kung-fu movies. Somehow we lack something more. If an Asian American became president tomorrow, he or she would be perceived as less American. Like the Japanese who were interned during World War 11, society 
questions the loyalty of Asians in a way German, Italian and Irish Americans do not worry about. No one assumes 
Americans of French descent natu­rally sympathize with Jacques Chirac. · 
Some grumble and roll their eyes at another week or month that cele­brates some ethnic/multicultural/minority group. 
The purpose is not to provide a forum for complaints nor is it unfair to have Asian Heritage \Veek instead of a British Heritage Week. Simply, this is our reality, both yours and mine. 

Asian Americans find themselves sus­pended between a black and white world without the luxury of carving out individual 
identities. As long as a name like "Long Duk Dong" makes us giggle or we secretly think some Americans should "go back to where they came from," we need an Asian Heritage Week. 
Anne Lim 
class of '02 April 3 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The government solution to a problem js usually as bad as the problem. " 
Milton Friedman economist 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

Friday April 4, 2003 page 11 
Confessing sins of the past 
Thirty years ago this month. my Notre Dame class was concluding its senior year of college in anticipation of gradua­tion. It was a time similar to the present. Our classmates had marched against the Vietnam war while young Americans were brought back in caskets. The economy was flat, and most seniors felt a sense of gloom at the prospect of finding a job after gradua­tion. 
Yet, with the energy and ideal­ism typical of col­lege-aged people, we plodded ahead with our lives and let "senioritis" set into our psyches. We allowed ourselves to turn from the distractions of the real world and remain in the secure cocoon of Catholic Disneyland for one final month. For many in my graduating class. the year 2003 is our emancipation from a little-known campus statute of limitations buried deep in the Notre Dame archives. 
Few among those outside the campus hierarchy are privy to the "Thirty-year Statute" that Notre Dame imposes on its graduates. I learned of it quite by acci­dent when my public speaking professor one day ... well, actually every day ... would threaten us. He would flip us his middle finger and say. "If you give me this. I will hold back your degree for thirty years. It is a law I can impose at Notre Dame." 
To my public speaking professor and the University administration, I declare my freedom now, at the thirtieth anniversary of the sins of my past. With my degree secure, I can admit that I cut down a pine tree outside Carroll Hall and participated in commando raids through the steam tunnels into the South Dining Hall. They are acts of my youth that helped diminish the realities of life. 


As a participant in student gov­ernment, I frequently worked with the vice president for student affairs and the office staff. During my time at Notre Dame, their office was located on the first floor of LaFortune Student Center in the north wing next to where the large television now sits. The primary administrative secretary sat inside the door­way, just beyond a small waiting area. 
One Friday in early December. she mentioned in passing that she would like to place a tree in the office waiting area. I told her I'd look around to see what might be available. That weekend I found the perfect tree just outside Carroll Hall. On Sunday evening, I dressed in black and began sawing the tree when a NDSP car patrolled the area. I left the saw halfway in the trunk and dove under a larger tree while the car stopped next to "my" tree. I spent five minutes holding my breath, which seemed like five years, while the officer smoked a cigarette before he drove back to the main campus. 
On Monday morning I retrieved the cut tree from its hiding place behind a small tool shed and dragged it past Lyons Hall across the quad back to Lafortune. The 
surprised secretary decorated the tree later that day. The fol­lowing day when I stuck my head into the office, she said, "Everyone has admired the tree, 
including a police officer who said it looked very 
familiar. I told him it was a gift, so he said he wasn't 
going to fin­gerprint it and went back to his rounds. Next year. I 

think I'll get my own tree." My other transgression occurred prior to my birthday in February of my senior year. I decided to host a party in our dorm, Lyons Hall. A ROTC marine in my section, while 
exploring the campus under­ground steam tunnels, had discovered a way into the South Dining Hall, which has since been sealed. It was less than two feet square and required a person to twist in several directions around hot pipes and then drop down a three-foot step. Several of us had entered and returned through that route until some­one thought ofjust exiting through a 
window. 
The marine knew where the dining staff kept keys to refrigerated lockers and storage rooms. With precision, we executed a refund on our meal tickets for the breakfasts we never attended throughout our four years on campus by systematically moving about the dining hall and basement areas. We retrieved two large bricks of cheese, industrial sized containers of peanuts and crack­ers, a twenty-pound uncut meat, indus­trial sized cans of tuna and mayonnaise, along with paper products. Our excur­sion ended within an hour, and we only needed to buy a keg of beer for the enor­mously successful birthday bash that filled the entire third floor of Lyons Hall. 

In many ways the simplicity of life on campus in 1973 was just as pressure­filled as the complexities of life on cam­pus today. The college pranks of the 1950s paled in scope compared to those of a more militant student body of the Vietnam war generation. We in turn, are among the ghosts of campus past. While each generation faces personal, campus and global problems in its own way, his­tory will ultimately judge how well the campus, and society overall, reacted. If it were not for a statute of limitations, we alumni may not be as readily eager to share our weaknesses as examples of how young men and women of another day survived. 
Gary Caruso. Notre Dame class of 1973. served in President Clinton's administration as a Congressional and public affairs director. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A call for peace among ourselves 
Over the past few weeks since the war on Iraq has been launched, I have come to notice dissent and division among many Notre Dame students on campus. There are the students who have supported this war all along and who continue to rally behind the government. On the other side, there are the students who have objected to the war and continue to take anti-war stances. Since the day the war became a reality, feelings have intensified and voices have seemed to grow loud­er and louder. 
Unfortunately. just as the voices have become stronger, the division appears to have deepened. Underneath all of the varying messages, though, I feel there exists one common hope for eternal peace. Now you may read the word "peace" and be internally bombarded with images of protes­tors and hippies or anti-war slogans and posters. But what I would like to point out today is that the word "peace" is not solely reserved for those who feel strongly against the war on Iraq. 
Peace is something greater and far more beau­tiful than what the eye can see or the hand can touch. It is a word that can represent truth and hope to every existing man or woman. Can we not all share the same dreams ofa more unified world, a world with less suffering and greater friendship among nations, a world filled with peace? 
I strongly believe that no matter what stance we as individuals take on the war, we all share many of the same goals. We can all share the hope for a quick end to this conflict, for the least possible amount of American and Iraqi casual­ties and for an establishment of peace in the Middle East. We all can come together in a spirit of confusion. hope and despair and support our troops as well as each other. 
What I have witnessed on campus is a com­
plete disregard for the commonality among 
those for and against this war. As Americans 
and Christians, I feel that now, more than ever, 
we should unite under the word "peace" and not 
draw such a distinct and fatal line between those 
with differing opinions. In the coming weeks and 
months, I will continue to be opposed to this 
war, while others will maintain an attitude of 
support. but what we need to overcome is the 
division that has been created. I believe that as 
the Notre Dame student body, we need to begin 
to break down the walls that have been con­
structed. 

Mother Teresa once said, "If we have no 
peace, it is because we have forgotten that we 
belong to each other." Her words seem strikingly 
appropriate at this time in history. for it is only 
once we have peace among ourselves that we 
can implement peace into greater society. We 
need to remember that beneath all of the dis­
cord, in our hearts we all wish for a better. more 
peaceful world. We must always remember that 
we do belong to one another. 

With all of this in mind, I would encourage 
everyone, as a community of caring and passion­
ate people, to pray together for peace. 

Everybody is welcome to come to the grotto and 
join other concerned students who meet every 
weeknight at 11 p.m. to pray in solidarity. I hope . to see you all there. Peace be with you. 
Alice Pennington freshman 
Lewis Hall 
April 3 


Supporting the tradition ofMass 
To "save" Catholicism, the one thing that should especially not be messed with is the Mass. In his Wednesday column, Joe Muto got it all backwards. While his ideas were said jokingly, let's follow this yellow brick road and see where the wizard takes us. 
Cheerleaders, the wave and air horns at Mass are definitely off the wall. While these practices will never gain official approval, they can happen at Mass. Think I'm kidding? I wish I were. There have been Masses where the wave was actually done. Kazoos and noisemakers have been used for music. As to the Eucharist, a Protestant minister once used fruitcake and eggnog for Christmas. 
A big problem with these "advancements," besides the lack ofsancti­ty, is the effect on attendance. Sure it goes up at first-everyone likes excitement. Maybe it even lasts for a few years, but the church dies. I've seen it happen. Being from the Bible Belt, I see Protestant church­es compete to gain members. I know churches with laser light shows of the Gospel. Others let you paint the devil's face on a balloon and pop it. How exciting. 
Yet this does not keep people coming. The Protestants that are seri­ous about services last while those who cater to the masses have come and gone. These Protestants have taught me that entertainment never works. Catholic churches have tried marketing too, but attendance is not nearly what it used to be or could be. My parish recently went from drums and guitars to pipe organs and bells. It also went from one of the smallest parishes in the diocese to the largest, current weekend attendance being 7,000. Churchgoers realize what they really long for is the "meat and potatoes." Once they see entertainment does not have it, they leave. The fact is, to save the Church the best thing we can do is ket>p stained glass, orthodoxy and the Eucharist. Ifyou want to see Heaven, go to Mass. The Mass is Heaven and the book of Revelation makes that clear. Think about that next time you're in the pew. 
Becket Gremmels 
sophomore Alumni Hall April 2 

' 
·I THE 
OBSERVER 

page 12 Friday, April 4, 2003 
So many women, so litt] 
The Farley Hall Players present ''Jakes Women," a psychological con 
By KC KENNEY 
Scene Writer 
If I were to ask you if you ever spoke to yourself, half the people reading this would say, "Sure!" and the other would half say, "I don't know, do I talk to myself?" 
Most people would say that you don't
' 
if really have control over the thoughts that 
I i come into your head, that they just appear. But what if those thoughts not only appeared but started to take on a mind of their own, having as much depth and realism as a flesh-and-blood person? How would you be able to tell the real people from those in your mind? How could you lead a normal life? More impor­tantly, if your thoughts were always with you, how would you get those voices to shut up every once in a while? 
! In Farley Hall's play "Jake's Women," : ' ' the audience takes a step into the mind of a man named Jake, a fifty-something 
writer who has begun to blend his life and his thoughts into one confusing mess. To put it bluntly, the stresses in his life have caused him to start to lose it. 
The audience is quickly drawn into his mind as they try to distinguish the differ­ence between what is real and what is not. His thoughts take the form of seven women, all characters from different parts of his life, that continuously show up to play devil's advocate, bring him comfort or give him someone to talk to when he is alone. "Time flies when you're neurotic" is not too far off from the truth. 
"Jake's Women" is a dramatic show, with the type of comedy interspersed throughout that comes from everyday life rather than one-liners or slapstick. And what can you expect? The audience is welcomed into Jake's mind at a low point in his life. Jake is a widower, and his sec­ond wife is on her way out the door for a six-month separation so that they step back and re-examine things. 
Jake clings to the memory of his deceased first wife. finds himself delving deeper and deeper into his writings and making every aspect of his life a story. Throughout the show, we actu­ally only see two "real" women, but Jake is constantly writing stories and dialogues in his mind about what the major female characters in his life would say if they were with him. 
The show itself. written by Neil Simon of "The Odd Couple" and "Lost In Yonkers" fame, is a very inter­esting look at the quirks of the human mind. Each woman in Jake's life represents a different role or rela­tionship that a man could have with a woman, including wife, daughter (who jumps back and forth between being age 12 and 21), sister, girl­friend and therapist. Each relationship is unique, as a woman is called forth into his thoughts at different times for different pur­poses. 
However, when Jake's wife leaves him, he falls into despair and begins to lose con­trol of his thoughts. The women come and go as they please in his mind. One cleverly done scene has Jake calling his real thera­pist to ask how to get rid of his imaginary therapist who won't stop harping at him about the quality of his life. The story is an interesting idea, a solid attempt at looking at the different levels of the human, not just the male, psyche. There are a few moments where Simon's script is awkward and some­what lackluster, but he balances it out with moments of genius as his grasp of Jake's dilemma really comes out. The show has its 



ups and downs with both emotion and mood; you're able to laugh at Jake's predicament almost as quickly as you can feel strong sympathy for the turmoil in his life. 
In the title role of Jake, 


sophomore Mike Dolson handles him­self well. It is a difficult role, as all the imagi­nary women Farley Hall Players rely on him to come "alive" 

Director: Meghann Tabor
and the real 

Playwright: Neil Simon
women need 

Stage Manager: Lisa Galli
him to interact 

Starring: Mike Dolson, Molly Topper, Devon Candura,
with. His initial 

Lena Caliguri, Beth Colombo, Carrie Campbell, Annie
approach to 

Walrski, Liz Clouse
the show is awkward and 

Friday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m., wine and cheese at 7
moody and the 

p.m. $5 General Admission.
audience is able to feel for the withdrawn and eccentric writer. 

The first act is a little more passive and once or twice Dolson seems to be ques­tioning the depth at which he should allow himself to fall into the character, coming out of it briefly, but then slipping right back in. However, as Jake's madness grows in the second act, so does Dolson's 
difficult aspects of the women's roles is the fact that they are playing thoughts and therefore are subject to changes in words, 

Jake«
character and emotion as Jake's thought 
but al! 
passion for the role. He banters back and forth with several women at once, imagi­nary and real, blend­ing both worlds and almost trick­ing the audi­ence into his neurosis, pulling them 
,-·'\! 
in and mak­
j
ing it that much more believable. 

One of the 

• 
THE 

OBSERVER 

Friday, April 4, 2003 








ttle time 
I comedy by Neil Simon 
process changes. They all handle the script very well. 
. Lena Caliguri does well as the prod­dmg therapist, illustrating an aspect of stream of consciousness well done in this show. As Jake talks to his therapist, his train of thought jumps about to self­pity to sex, to humor and back to self­

pity. Caliguri is well-balanced and not shaken by the jumping between parts. She and Jake's sister, played by Beth Colombo, add a level of humor to the show as both seem to enjoy twisting the screws in Jake's life, making him ques­tion his own motives and actions. 
Two highlights of the show are the perform­ances of Jake's first (now deceased) and second (now separated) wife. Devon Candura as Julie, Jake's first wife, shows well-developed, playful intimacy that displays an idealistic and wonderful idea of first love. Julie never seems to know whether she is real or not, but Devon adds breath to the character that it is easy to see why Jake has difliculty think­ing ofher as imaginary. 
Molly Topper does a fantastic job as the dual role of Maggie, Jake's wife in reality and as a figment of his imagina­tion. She is playful and witty as a solid piece of Jake's mind, but Topper also adds depth and nat­ural flow to her emotion­al charged scenes with Dolson. She offers him support as a strong lead­
ing lady, but she shows off her versatility as her part jumps in and out of reality. 
Though there are times when it may confuse, "Jake's Women" does a good job of drawing the audience into Jake's head. Farley Hall is offering this show in a relaxed setting, serving "wine" and cheese before the show. It creates a good atmosphere to sit back, relax and enjoy the fact that someone out there is cra­zier than you are. 
Contact KC Kenney at kkenney@nd.edu 
us 

page 13 
The best of student art 
The Snite Museum displays art students' thesis projects 
By MARIA SMITH 
Scene Editor 
This Sunday, an exhibition of the sen­
ior projects of the University's graduat­
ing Bachelor of Fine Arts and Master of 
Fine Arts candidates will open at the 
Snite Museum of Art. 
The BFA and MFA thesis candidates 
are one of the Snite Museum's most pop­
ular exhibits, attracting over 800 visitors 
to the awards ceremony last spring. The 
Snite Museum's display is unusual com­
pared to many university museums 
which refuse to display student art. 
"It's really unique," said Austin Collins, chair of the art department. "The Snite and the art department have an excel­lent relationship." 
This year's exhibit features a wide variety of exhibits from a larger than life representation of Jesus constructed from insulation foam and automotive body filler to an edited video of an artist danc­ing with a heartbeat as background accompaniment. Some exhibits have political messages, while others address issues such as body image, preservation of the environment and spiritual experi­ence. 
"We get a wide variety of projects, which is really good," said Gina Costa, marketing and public affairs specialist for the Snite Museum. "Each year is so different in the issues that are dealt with." 
Other featured exhibits include "Consumed by the Daily," a sculpture by MFA student Suzanne Mauro designed as a commentary on the difference between the ceremony and reality of marriage, and a sculpted grove of trees created to represent encounters with the spiritual by MFA student Phillip Shore. 
All the exhibits include written expla­nations of the artists' intended message and techniques. 
"The mindspace I enter when I dance 
is enough to show me that there is some­
thing greater to this world," said artist 
Gerry Sheahan, explaining his piece 
"Murmurs Through Time: The Eternal 
Heartbeat." 
The exhibit includes four pieces by MFA students and nine by BFA students. Students have worked on their projects over the past year, with juries for the BFA candidates in December. The proj­ects are the culmination of a three-year study program for the MFA students and a four-to five-year program for the BFA students. BFA students take an addition­al 30 credit hours in addition to the nor­mal 36 art student earn for a BA degree and some stay an extra year to finish the requirements. Around 38 of the school's 182 art majors attempt to earn a BFA degree. . 
The MFA program often leads to job placement for talented artists, including some artists such as Shore whose work is already known outside the University. 
"The graduate program horn needs to be tooted louder," said "Students do wen being placed in teaching." 
"This is a very strong show," said Collins. "It's a very professional space, and a good experience for our students to display in a museum." 
The BFAIMFA Thesis Exhibition will be open from April 6 to May 18. The open­ing reception will run from 2 to 4 p.m.. with awards presented in the Annenberg Auditorium at 3 p.m. Awards include the Walter R. Beardsley cash prize for the best work in the show. Department of Art. Art History and Design awards for exceptional papers. and College of Arts and Letters faculty teaching awards. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 




Photo courtesy of Scott Kalley In his exhibit at the Snite Museum, Scott Kelley presents a shoe design for orphans in poor countries which can accommodate feet as they grow. 
Friday, April 4, 2003

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
BASEBALL 
Eagles,.Red Storm ad.d up to huge road test for Irish 
first today at 2 p.m .. with took two of three games from 
By BRYAN KRONK 
sophomores Chris Niesel and the Hoyas. The Irish took two of 
Senior Spom Writer 
John Axford facing off against three from Villanova while the Eagles hurlers Chris Lambert Eagles and Wildcats split a two­
On March 24, the Notre Dame and Kevin Shephard. game set Thursday. baseball team returned from its The two pitching duos could From Brockton, the Irish will last of 17 consecutive road not be more similar -while travel to Jamaica, N.Y. for a games with an 11-6 record. Niesel and Axford have com­two-game set starting at 11 
Seven home games and 10 bined for a 7-1 record with 3.12 a.m. Sunday with one of only days later. the Irish hit the road and 2.31 earned run averages, two teams that is still undefeat­as an 18-6 team (5-1 in the Big respectively, Lambert anp ed in the Big East -the Red East) poised to make a move in Shephard are 6-1 and have Storm. the conference with double­3.13 and 2.30 ERAs, respective­Contrary to the Irish and headers against Boston College ly. Eagles, the Irish and Red Storm (14-10 overall, 3-2 in the Big The Eagles and Irish share have played no common oppo­East) and St. John's {13-12, 3-0) many common opponents -nents so far this season. today and Sunday, respectively. Purdue, which the Irish defeat­The Red Storm's season sto­
Due to poor field conditions at ed 8-5 March 26 and the Eagles ryline has run very similarly to the Boston College on-campus lost to 1-0 March 1, as well as that of Notre Dame's -after field. the two games against the Valparaiso, which the Irish beat beginning the season 4-11, St. Eagles were moved to 13-4 and the Eagles swept 13-John's has won nine of its last Campanelli Stadium in 11 and 10-2. ten, including four in a row. Brockton, Mass., about an hour In addition, Notre Dame In order to continue their cur­south of Boston. swept Georgetown in a three­rent nine-game winning streak, 
The two teams will square off game series while the Eagles the Irish will need to step up 
MENS GOLF 
Team heads for better weather 
The Irish should be energized room talk in golf, but his game
• Team captain 
by the weather as well. At last is close to where it needs to be.
Lunke brings home­
weekend's tournament, golfers He's motivating us through his course advantage had to battle biting winds and actions." 
freezing cold. Temperatures Arkansas, Baylor. Brigham
to San Antonio 
could reach the 90s in Laredo, Young, Kansas State. Rice and Texas. Washington State are among 
By ERIK POWERS 
Unlike last weekend, Notre the 20 teams in the tourna­
Sports Writer 
Dame will be at full strength ment. Texas A&M hosts the 
this week. Balderston rejoins Border Olympics, which cele• 
Last weekend was unkind to the team, meaning Notre Dame brates its 52nd year of exis­the Irish mens golf team when will bring four freshmen to the tence. they struggled through freezing second oldest collegiate tourna­Some of the past champions temperatures, precipitation and ment in the country. Balderston of this historical tournament an injury to freshman Tommy finished second among Irish include Tom Kite and Ben Balderston. golfers at the last tournament Crenshaw. 
The result was an 11th place he competed in, and he has the After last weekend's chal­finish out of 15 teams. But the fourth-best 18-hole average lenges, the team looks toward Irish enter this weekend's among Irish golfers this season. improving in its preparation for Border Olympics under much Freshman Scott Gustafson's the Big East Tournament .. better conditions. game is peaking at the right "Last weekend's outing was 
Senior captain Brandon time for the Irish. Gustafson is tough on all of us. There were Lunke should be inspired by a coming off of his best finish of some harsh conditions," Lunke 
homecoming of sorts. Lunke, a the season and has led the said. "The team is looking for­
native of the San Antonio area, team for three straight tourna­ward to nice weather and some good golf." 
has played on the region's ments. Gustafson's sixth-place 
The first 36 holes of the
courses for most of his life and finish dropped his 18-hole aver­Border Olympics will be playedknows what to expect from the age to a team-best 74.87. His 
today. The final 18 holes in
Laredo Country Club. emergence as a leader has not Laredo conclude Saturday. 
"Typically, Southern Texas been overlooked by Lunke. courses are dry," Lunke said. "Scott has a complete game "It will probably be pretty wide and is a hard worker," Lunke 
Contact Erik Powers at open and pretty windy as well." said. "There's not much locker epowers@nd.edu 
their offense and defense, which has steadily improved over the course of the season. Against the last seven oppo­nents, the Irish offense has pro­duced 75 runs and a .371 bat­ting average -while holding its opponents to a .223 average with Irish pitchers holding a 
2.80 ERA -over the last 10 days. 
This weekend will be an excellent gauge for where this youthful Irish squad -which typically starts four freshmen ­
stands within a very competi­tive Big East Conference this Contact Bryan Kronk at season. bkronk@nd.edu 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team will continue to try and reverse last season's misfor­tunate when it host sconfer­ence rival Adrian College Saturday at 1 p.m. 
The Belles played Adrian in their first conference dou­bleheader last year and lost both games, 9-1 and 5-3. Last year's 0-2 start for Saint Mary's was indicative 
of the type of season  the  
Belles would have.  
Saint  Mary's  stole  two  

extra-inning games from Kalamazoo on Wednesday to open 2-0 in the MIAA and increase its overall record to 12-6-1, 
This year, coach Anna Welsh emphasizes coming out ready to play and make a lasting impression. Welsh said she wants her team to come out firing and intimi­dating conference oppo­nents. 
"We won both games on Wednesday, but we didn't make the statement we are capable of making," Welsh said. "If we can make that kind of statement against Adrian, we'll be on our way." 

So far, the Irish have over­whelmed Big East doormats Villanova and Georgetown ­who presently are a combined 3-13 in the Big East and 13-31 overall. 
When they face the Eagles and Red Storm this weekend, which Irish head coach Paul Mainieri says is a challenge his team is ready for, it will be a true test of just how much the Irish have improved since the beginning of the season. 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles to host home conference opener 
The Belles certainly are capable of scoring a lot of runs. The team has only been shutout once this sea­son and has produced over five runs in nine of their games so far. Freshman Kate Sajewich and senior Susan Kutz are two reliable hitters the Belles will look to for leadership with the bats. 
Pitching is also a strong point for the Belles. Most recently, freshman Bridget Grall pitched six hitless innings against Kalamazoo Wednesday. 
Due to the cancellation of a double-header against Olivet College on Saturday, March 29, the Belles had a 10-day break between the Indianapolis tournament and their match-up with Kalamazoo on Wednesday. Now, however, Saint Mary's will see little rest as they play a fast-paced league schedule with two or three games per week. 
"We have a lot of fresh­men, so our upperclassmen will get them accustomed to playing this type of sched­ule," Welsh said. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at che Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Oak Hill Condo. 574-243-2621  2 Rms(1 furn),Lg house.nice area.  2 BDRM House, A/C, close to cam- ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE Are  
NOTICES  New Schwinn w/lock $100.  FOR RENT  Spa.tanning bed 229-3333.  pus. 269-699-5841 Student Rental House 3-4 or 5 per- you pregnant and dont know what to do? Loving, open-hearted, finan­cially stable woman would like to  
Call Mark @ 4-2061  DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3  son 2 story. 8 blocks from campus.  consider adopting a baby. Free  
Study Abroad with CEA.  Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom  HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004  New  counseling, living expenses and  
England, Italy, Spain, France,  homes 1/2 mile from campus.  SCHOOL YEAR· WELL MAIN- everything. Wired for computers  medical expenses. This can be a  
Australia.  1987 Ford Escort, 5-Speed 75.4K  mmmrentals@aol.com 272•  TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAM- etc. Avail. Summer or Fall, 235­ good thing for you and your baby  
Request a Free Catalog  good condition $1,150.  1525 www.mmmrentals.com  PUS-STUDENT NEIGHBOR­ 3655  Discreet and legal  
www.GoWithCEA.com  Call 288-0380 or 284-4651.  HOODS-SECURITY SYSTEMS- Call 904-824-7006.  
MAINTENANCE STAFF  
3-6 BDRM HOMES.  JUDA Y LAKE HOME ON LAKE.  Very nice 3 bdrm home. Avail. June 1st for summer or fall. East Race  ON CALL-WAHSERS/DRYERS CALL TODAY-HOUSES GOING  LOST & FOUND  Leaving town? We'll buy your car. 564-243-0000.  
$195.PP/MO.  WALK TO ND. GILLIS REAL TY  dist.near Corbys Pub & St. Joe  FAST!!!-CONTACT KRAMER {574)  Dealmaker Auto Sales 5201 933  
272-6306  272-6306  Church. Incl. alarm syst,  315-2436-ALSO LEASING FOR  Found: INFUSION basketball Call  No. So. Bend, IN  
washer/dryer.  2004-2005  4-0876  
Oakhill Condo. Bdrm down/loft up.  Can email picts. Call Joe Crimmins  VISIT OUR WEBSITE @  Hey, Evan ... what do Indiana and  
FOR SALE  2 baths. Asking $88,500. Mike@ 330-393-1584.  @ 273-0002 (h) or 514-0643 (cell) or JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com. $650/m negotiable.  WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM  PERSONAL  Philly have in common? It begins with a B.  
Laptop Computer $250, Dell  Nice 4 BR near campus.  Twins... twins... Woh! Twins, yes.  
Computer (with mon, kb, mouse, Win98) $150. 229-3333  WANTED  HOUSE AVAILABLE tum. 4b2ba,  Call Justin 288-9673 or 220-5414.  Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it alone. If you or someone you love  We are going to see the twins, yes.  
walk to campus. jo5225@aol.com  needs confidential support or assis­ 'Five white guys and a smokin'  
Ranch home, 3 bdrm, 1.5 bath, fire - Looking for off-campus roommate  1 bdrm apt. summer sublease at  tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise  Cuban' plan to make some noise  
place. full bsmt, 2 car att garage,  for next school year.  Turtle Creek, fully furnished, price  Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more  this year ...  
fenced yard. 1 mile from ND. 288­ Call Mike (4949) immediately if  1-Bdrm apts 1/2 mile from ND.  negotiable  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  
2001  interested.  $500/mo.283-0325  dboudon@nd.edu  The Observer.  Good luck, Carrie!  
- 

Friday, April 4, 2003 page 15
The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS TENNIS 
Captain guarantees victory after Miami'wake-up call 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
After suffering a 6-1 loss to 
conference rival Miami Sunday, 
the Irish are looking to use that 
disappointing event to make the 
rest of their season successful. 
A_ team that began the season 
0-4 is now striving to go 4-0 in 
its final matches as the postsea­
son looms. That stretch begins 
Sunday when Notre Dame trav­
els to Southern Methodist in 
Dallas. 
"\\'c're going to win," junior tri-captain Matt Scott said. "I don't think we expect (just] to ·fight hard or to give them a good match -we expect to 
win." 
While the Irish struggled early in the season, their early record hides the fact that many of those matches were fairly close. 
Even against the Hurricane squad that beat them 6-1, Notre Dame had some misfor­tunes that turned the tide against their favor. Additionally, the Irish have shown they can beat top teams -. evidenced by their 5-2 defeat of Virginia Tech, another Big East foe, just a week before the Miami loss. The Hokies defeat­ed the Hurricanes 5-2 earlier in the season. 
Nevertheless, last Sunday was disappointing for the Irish. "We were really down after that match," Scott said. who 

took some of the blame for the loss. 
"I can't but feel to personally responsible for that match," he continued. "When we come off a big [win] over Virginia Tech, and then [lose] at Miami, I'm left thinking, 'What could I have done more to maybe have secured that win."' 
Perhaps the important victory over the Hokies made the Irish somewhat complacent when they dueled with the Hurricanes. 
"Maybe we were, believe it or not, a little bit overconfident," Scott said. "I don't really know, but I know that we're not going to make that same mistake twice." 
Just as the Irish were able to maintain their morale even next." after beginning the 2003 sea­After Southern Methodist, son with the worst start in pro­Notre Dame hosts Ball State, gram history. they hope to use travels ta Kentucky, and then the lessons learned from the returns home for the finale loss in Miami so they might be against Indiana State. The Irish a more effective team in the are committed to adding only remaining four matches, as wins from this point on. well as the postseason. "Our goal now is to close out 
"Hopefully [Sunday's loss) , the end of the-season by win­will serve as a little bit of fire­ning all four of these matches, power for the guys in· the and to take that momentum upcoming matches and espe­into the Big East," Scott said. cially in the Big East, to kind of For now though, Notre Dame redeem ourselves," Scott said. • is le·arning from the past and "The end of the season means putting blinders on so as not to we've played a bunch of match­worry about the future while es and we have a fair amount the victory-seeking Mustangs of experience. We've learned a are at hand. lot from all the matches, so I think we'll be able to use that Contact Joe Lindsley at in the matches that we have jlindsle@nd.edu 
Miss your mom's home cooked meals?? Let the women of McGlinn wine and dine you with the ... 
MEAL OF NATIONS! 
Bring your friends, · 
Enjoy a vast and they'll be forever selection offood indebted to you for from around the introducing them to world, cooked to some of the best 

perfection by the cooking on campus! 

shamrocks of (Or maybe they'll just McGlinn Hall! 

be happy because it's free food ...) 
Don't miss this once in a lifetime chance!! We'll serve dinner at 5:30p1n on Sunday, April 6, 2003. Be there or go hungry! 


Your playing, allows her to play ... 
and hundreds of other underprivileged children throughout the inner-cities and rural areas of Jamaica. 
For the past two years, Bookstore Basketball has· supported the efforts of the Notre Dame Jumpball Basketball Programme, a series of free summer 
i-

basketball camps run by the Notre Dame Club of Jamaica. i 
i 

Help out by making a team donation -even a small ; 
} one goes a long way. Speak to a Bookstore 
't'... 

Basketball rep to learn other ways of helping. 
Together, we're making a
JUMP 
difference to these children on and off the basketball court. 
Notre Dame Jumpball Basketball Programme 



• 


re ean, 

author of Dead Man Walking 
Monday, April 7, 2003 • 7:30 p.m. DeBartolo Hall • Room 101 

INSTITUTE FOR CHURCH LIFE 

Friday, April 4, 2003 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 
ROWING 
Irish towing debuts at No. 21 in rankings 
Amoni led the Notre Dame
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG 
boat to a varsity four victory
Spores Writer 
with a time of 7:25.87. The Irish won by 4.58 seconds over After a strong performance . Indiana and finished 16.92 sec­at the Indiana Classic last onds ahead of the weekend, the Irish. who won Boilermakers. Rounding out all four varsity races against the races, Notre Dame took Purdue and Indiana, are first and third in the second ranked No. 21 in the first US varsity four. The B boat of Rowing/ CRCA Poll of the sea­Maureen Gibbons, Tricia son. David, Ann Mulligan, Jennifer Many of Notre Dame's past Connolly and Courtney Quinn competitors are also ranked in won the race in 7:45.08. beat­the poll. including No. 5 ing Purdue by 2.75 seconds. Michigan, No. 23 Tennessee The Notre Dame A boat of and No. 26 Clemson. Rebecca Campbell, Kristen 
At the Indiana Classic, Notre Mizzi, Sarah Keefer, Antionette Dame's varsity eight crew of Duck and Megan Sanders was Cassie Markstahler, Kati right behind Purdue and fin­Sedun, Natalie Ladine, Alice ished the race in 7:48.75. Bartek, Meghan Boyle, Casey The Irish are slated to see Buckstaff, Rachel Polinski, some stiff competition from Erica Drennen and Danielle nine more ranked teams this Protasewich finished in season. including No. 1 
6:37 .66, beating Purdue by Washington at the Windermere 
8.17 seconds. Notre Dame tri­Cup on May 3, No. 9 Michigan umphed for a second time State on April 12. No. 13 when the second varsity eight Syracuse on April 27 at the Big crew of Kathryn Long, East Rowing Challenge and No. Shannon Mohan, Kerri 17 Texas, No. 22 Minnesota, Murphy, Kathleen Welsh, No. 24 Duke, No. 29 Louisville Devon Hegeman, Christy and No. 31 Kansas State, at the Donnelly. Mere di th Central/South Regions in May. Thornburgh, Katie Chenoweth The Irish travel to No. 15 Iowa and Melissa Felker easily won Sunday for a meet with the their race in 18 .25 seconds Hawkeyes. over the Boliermakers. 
Kacy McCaffn~y. Katie McCalden, Jacqu(' ll nc Hazen, Contact Christine Armstrong at Katie O'Hara a rl t\nrlr"~ • trmstro@nd.edu 
Cheese & 1 Topping 


WOMENS TENNIS 

Win at Indiana extends hot streak 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer  
In what was the last match of  
a tightly packed two-week peri­ 
od, the Irish extended their win­ 
ning streak to five as they domi­ 
nated yet another Big Ten team .  
Playing less than 24 hours  
after they scored a 6-1 road vic­ 
tory over No. 24 Illinois, No. 27  
ranked Notre Dame executed  
another 6-1 win Thursday  
when they topped unranked  
Indiana.  
Notre Dame, 13-7 on the sea­ 
son, has now won nine of its  
last ten matches. In the past  
two weeks, the Irish have  
scored five victories over Big  
Ten teams, which should help  
increase the team's confidence  
as they prepare for their last  
regular season match a visit to  
highly ranked Miami next week. CHIP MARKS/The Observer  
Notre Dame got ahead easily Notre Dame freshman Jennifer Smith returns the ball in a  
against the Hoosiers, who have match against Iowa March 21. The 6-1 win Thursday over  
struggled of late. Junior Caylan Indiana extended Notre Dame's winning streak to five. 
Leslie and freshman Jennifer  
Smith, playing at No. 3 doubles.  umphed 6-0, 6-1 over Groth.  with her defeat of Martina  
won 8-3 over Jessica Groth and  Lauren Connelly then claimed  Grimm, 6-1. 5-7. 1-0 (10-4).  
Sophie Rychlik. Then senior  a win at No. 5 over Groth's dou­ Notre Dame's only loss of the  
captain Katie Cunha and fresh­ bles partner, Rychlik. Connelly's  day came from Cunha, who was  
man Lauren Connelly defeated  6-1, 6-1 straight set win put the  topped in straight sets 6-3, 6-3  
Sarah Batty and Martina  Irish within a point of victory.  by Indiana's Sarah Batty. It was  
Grimm, 8-4. to earn the doubles  and Leslie, ranked No. 33  the Irish captain's second sin- 
point to Notre Dame for the sev­ nationally, answered the call as  gles loss in as many days.  •  
enth consecutive match.  she subdued Linda Tran, also in  Fortunately for the Irish, the  
After quickly gaining the dou­ straight sets, 6-1, 6-0.  high concentration of matches  
bles point, the Irish quickly  Once the Irish had claimed  within a small time period has  
grabbed the necessary three  the win, sophomore Sarah Jane  come to an end, for now. The  
singles matches to secure the  Connelly continued a personal  Irish will have some rest before  
victory over the unranked  trend and once again rallied  their final regular season com­ 
Hoosiers.  after losing the first set to come  petition April 12 in Coral  
Smith, after beating Groth in  out on top over the Hoosiers'  Gables. Fla. Two weeks later.  
doubles play, once again domi­ Dominika Walterova, 3-6. 6-3,  the Irish will return to th~  
nated her ­this time in singles.  1-0 (10-6).  Miami area for the Big East  
The Irish freshman, who was moved into the lineup by coach  Freshman Kristina Stastny then made the day a little grim­ Championships.- 
Jay Louderback to give junior  mer for Indiana when she put  Contact Joe Lindsley at  
Alicia Salas a day off, tri­ the Irish up by another point  jHndsle@nd.edu  

Choosing a Major? You too can unlock the secrets of the ages in PLS! 
• 

L-jch;l!a )(,oo,.,." rn.,_ r;:;;~==:===;;::::::;:;;::;:;=::::::, ··w,r~ '$.. M£. t..a~Won, -r lt101JSL'j e;,. • ., .... , I 
'.t>I\CO'l/ttlll.l>T.... Ut.S/ft\lS l't>lll fl, i'AU,-G,E.
Sl1\:1.1:>0N-T1-111..-'s 
HAI> 'Bur• ~EfO'""~Ta A 11£. ~1!/'ll<>V~L ""-'• '5,-..,..,,.,u, u~... A 
f,. lq-'\.. "'SM1tt> ?'.' L,.l1tll.. , :i: \111.ppou:.o To 
l1;AU. '5"' C1.,.,.11J'1 J&;•i-. ,i,,--s Fl""' oo " °PA!.'!.Al\E It< !:.AA :S /Tl'-'S 
IT WAS ~tu: li>.,.,. '.I ' on&... ou,.,. \Iii. f'u,n,u'-"•·."
l,NI\IC.\I N\IU•(;; • 13,,'1 -r·,., 6\Lf•t> ~1!'.ff.itf.Nt.l: lO Wtr. 1\1<1> T",.,. ' ~ p,,. P,.,-c.,....... I\,.,it 
'"'"' Cl"IIIK. u 
G\~01,1,-11 F>"-"""-"··· 
\ ­

Ever wonder why 
PLS students bring Plato, Dante, and Virginia Woolf to lunch instead of leaving them in the class room? 
The answer is 
because PLS is demanding, fulfilling, and because we have fun. 
Interested in reading great authors from Homer to Ellison in small groups with professors who have a special commitment to undergraduate education? 
THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 
recently selected as an 
"Outstanding Example of the Best in American Higher Education" 
We are accepting applications for the entering sophomore class until April 8. Applications are now available in 215 O'Shaughnessy and on the web ay www.nd.edu/ ~pls. 
., I 

page 18 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Friday, April 4, 2003 

iiiii:iiii;:(:liii:t:1~mii;~,~ijnrr1;;;,1ii1i~~::;i::::i~ii:iiiii 


around the dial 
NBA 

Sacramento at Boston 8 p.m., ESPN Portland at Golden State 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
GOLF LPGA Championship 3 p.m., ESPN 

COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 
David West knows how to 
get the most, whetheF it's 
points on the court or votes 
offof it. 
He became the first 
Xavier player to earn AP -. 
All-America honors 
Thursday as the leading 
vote-getter on the 2002-03 
team. 
The three-time Atlantic 
10 player of the year was 
joined on the first team by 
fell ow seniors Nick Collison 
of Kansas and Josh Howard 
of Wake Forest, along with 
junior Dwyane Wade of 
Marquette and sophomore . T.J. Ford of Texas. The 6-foot-9 West, a sec­
ond-team All-American last year, averaged 20.3 points and 12.0 rebounds for the Musketeers, leading them to a No. 3 seed in the NCAA tournament. 
West, the only preseason All-American to earn the postseason honor, received 64 first-team votes and 344 points from the 72-member national media panel that selects the weekly AP Top 
25. Each voter picked three teams and players received points on a 5-3-1 basis. The voting was done before the NCAA tournament. 
Ford averaged 15.0 points and 7.5 assists. The 5-10 Ford had two more first-team votes than 
West but finished with 343 points. 
Howard was the Atlantic Coast Conference's player of the year, averaging 20 points and 8.1 rebounds. The 6-6 forward received 47 first-team votes and 303 points. 
Collison averaged 18.4 points and ·9_3 rebounds. 
The 6-9 Collison, an hon­orable-mention pick last season, was on 42 first­team ballots and had 281 points. 
Wade was the first Marquette player to make the first team since 1978. The 6-4 Wade averaged 
21.5 points, 6.3 rebounds and 4.1 assists. 
Wade, an honorable­mention selection as a sophomore, had 273 points and received 43 first-team votes. 
Hollis Price of Oklahoma was one of four seniors on the second team. He was joined by Kyle Korver of Creighton, Troy Bell of Boston College and Jason Gardner of Arizona. Freshman Carmelo Anthony of Syracuse was seventh in the voting with 203 points. 
Seniors made up the third team: Brian Cook of Illinois, • Reece Gaines of Louisville, Kirk Hinrich of Kansas, Keith Bogans of Kentucky and Ron Slay of Tennessee. 
IN BRIEF  
PhelpsNationals  wins  big  at  
Michael  Phelps  defeated  an  

Olympic medalist for the second straight night and was still looking to improve. 
Phelps, the 17-year-old standout from Baltimore, won the 200-meter freestyle in Thursday's U.S. National Spring Swimming Championships. 
Phelps finished in 1 minute, 47.37 seconds, beating Klete Keller, the bronze medalist in the 400 meters at the 2000 Olympics. 
In Wednesday's 200-meter back­stroke, Phelps defeated Lenny Krayzelburg, who won three gold medals at the Sydney Olympics. 
Tom Wilkens secured his 16th national title by winning the 400­meter individual medley in 4:16.75, then compared Phelps' impact on the sport to Michael Jordan's on the NBA. 
"Michael is raising the bar, mak­ing all of the sport better." \'Vilkens said of Phelps. 
Wilkens, 27, moved into a tie with Chad Carvin for most national titles. 
Lindsay Benko, another Olympian, took first in the women's 200 freestyle. 
Kaitlin Sandeno, an Olympian, won the women's 400 individual medley in 4:45.48. 
Southern Methodist swimmers Li~a Wanberg, Laura Pomeroy, Georgina Lee and Lotta Wanberg won the women's 400 freestyle relay in 3:48.86. 
Doherty claims UNC was 
afraid players would leave 
Matt Doherty said North Carolina athletic department officials never met with him to discuss problems with his coaching style before Doherty was asked to resign as the school's basketball coach. 
"(Athletic director] Dick Baddour is a good person. I like Dick Baddour. I think it's just more the handling, the process that I'm dis­
appointed in quite frankly," Doherty said Thursday. "I didn't feel like all the options were exhausted." 
Doherty said he was told Saturday that he would have to resign or be fired by early this week. 
"The main concerns were that if I stayed players would transfer, that if I stayed they felt that players might turn pro before they would be ready to go. Like that's not an issue throughout the country any­way," Doherty said. 
Doherty said he didn't know of any players who planned to leave if he had remained. 
Kirschner said the possibility of players transferring played a role in Doherty's departure, but wasn't the main reason the coach lost his job. 
Doherty said he will continue to root for North Carolina. 
"They're going to be good next year whether you coach them or I coached them," he said. 
.. 
Friday, April 4, 2003 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 
Showcase 
continued from page 24 
Gunnarsdottir, the chance to play top competition. Notre Dame has already played three spring games, defeating DePaul 2-0 on March 14 and Western Michigan 6-0 and Ball State 6-0 on March 29. 
"Our kids played really well," said Waldrum. "I'm 
very pleased, but these games will be our first real tests." 
The three-day tournament began Wednesday with a 2-2 draw between Mexico and Canada. Notre Dame and Michigan join the internation­als for play tonight and Saturday at Alumni Field. 
Michigan faces Canada at 
5:30 Friday with Notre Dame and Mexico to follow. Michigan battles Mexico Saturday, after which the 
tnd annua1 teamwork ror tomorrow 
Kids These Days 




talent ShOW 
sunday, april 6, 2003 
1-3pm jordan auditorium free admission "mendoza college of business donations welcome 

Irish take on Canada. 
In Wednesday's game, Mexico's Desiree Flint opened the scoring in the 13th minute, but Thorlakson evened the game for the Canadians six minutes later. 
After the 1-1 halftime tie, Canada took the second half lead when Josee Belanger scored on a corner kick-head­er from Brittany Timko. The lead lasted to the final min­utes, when Mexico tied it on a penalty kick after Canada was whistled for a foul in the box. 
Canada held a large lead in shots, 19-8, but Mexican goal­keeper Pamela Alonso made 10 saves. Canada's Taryn Swiatek made two key saves on breakaways for Canada. 
Thorlakson will play for Notre Dame when the Irish face Canada. 
Contact Andy T roeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
Three opponents for Belles this weekend 
By LISA REIJULA Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team has a busy weekend ahead. 
The Belles will play three matches in two days! opening with a contest against Adrian College on the road on Saturday. After that, the team will travel to Chicago for matches with Carthage College and the University ofChicago Sunday. 
The Belles are looking to get back in the win column after a tough 5-4 loss to Kalamazoo College Tuesday. With a strong 9-2 record, the team is motivat­ed to perform well during this 
difficult stretch. 
"There will be good matches [this weekend], maybe not quite· as competitive as Kalamazoo," junior Kaitlin Cutler said. "But it seems like the whole conference has improved this year." 
First up will be a match up against Adrian, a MIAA confer­ence foe. The Bulldogs are 1-0 in conference and 5-2 overall. Adrian and Saint Mary's have faced several common oppo­nents this year. Both teams defeated Olivet and Tri-State University. Adrian lost 7-2 to Aquinas, a team the Belles shut out 9-0. · 
The Belles' first opponent in Chicago will be Carthage College, a team with a 4-1 record this season. Carthage looks to be a strong opponent, as they defeated Kalamazoo 6-3. 
"It's kind of an overwhelming weekend," said junior Kaitlin Cutler. "But we're excited to travel to Chicago." 
The host University of Chicago team has a record of 0-1 for the spring and hasn't played nearly as many matches as the Belles. 
Saint Marv's faces Adrian Saturday at 1 p.m. The Belles play matches against Carthage and University of Chicago Sunday at 12:30 p.m. and 4 p.m. 
Contact Lisa· Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 
-
Friday, April 4, 2003

page 20 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Perspectives On Peace 



1. 

Through

l. 

Commerce 
II o . 

I . Steve Lauletta 
' 

I 
! Director Sports and Event ~Marketing, Miller Brewing Company 
Rev. John Riley, CSC Pastor of Sacred Heart Parish 
• Dennis Flannery Executive Vice-President, Inter-American Development Bank 
Ian Moore Executive Vice President of Human Resources, News Corporation 
Food and ·drinks will be .. served, and t-shirts will be given to everyone attending. There ·will be door prizes throughout the afternoon to give away an xBox, DVD player, and $100 in Gift certificates. 
. 

. 
Saturday, April 5, 2003 12:00pm -3:30 pm Hesburgh Auditorium Hesburgh Center for 

TntPrn;::tt1nn~ 1~t11rl1P~ 

, 



Friday, April 4, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
WOMENS LACROSSE 
Simon's three goals not enough to get past No. 8 Syracuse 

LAUREN FORBES/The Observer 
Midfielder Abby Owen attempts to elude an Ohio State defend­er in the Buckeyes 12-9 win March 25. 
~7

www.1--,.ND,3.edu 
4\_~ 
University Web Administration Summer Positions 
Come join our team and work on the University Web Site! 

There are two Web Page Programmer positions available. Requirement: Fluent in HTML and JavaScript. Familiar with Coldfusion and Dreamweaver/Firework or PhotoShop a plus. 
Hours: M-F 8-5 20-40 hours a week will work around student's class schedule 

Submit application at http://www.nd.edu/~finaicViobboard/on campus/ 
r
• 
thurs 10 pm frl & sat 8 & 10:30 pm debartolo 101, $3 


d;caprio 

By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 
Despite another }ate game rally, the Notre Dame womens lacrosse team dropped a 9-6 decision at No. 8 Syracuse. The Irish competed strongly but could not do quite enough to get the win for the third straight time against a ranked opponent. 
The Irish were plagued again by a tough start as Syracuse jumped out to a 5-0 lead. 
"We just were a little tenta­tive on offense in the first half,,. Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "They are a very high­powered offensive team, so we weren't surprised they were scoring, but we just couldn't match them." 
Despite a 6-1 deficit at half­time, the Irish turned up the intensity in the second half. By the end of the game, the Irish had evened most of the statis­tics, including ground balls 
Track 
continued from page 24 
and Eric Morrison, who qualified in the 1,500 meters for the men. 
"It is a new format this year, and everyone is getting used to it," said Somok who is taking the vv<'ekend off. "It is good to get lqualifyingl taken care of, bec.Jtls<' now some of us can afford l,• ,he time off and get 
t d ,, 
res e . Finally, Tameisha King, and draw controls and outshot Syracuse 28-26, but they could not break through on the scoreboard enough to catch the Orangewomen. 
"We put a ton of pressure on them in the second half," Coyne said. "We had a lot of opportunities and came out real strong. We controlled time of possession and forced turnovers well, but we needed to score more than five goals." 
Danielle Shearer, who scored the lone Irish first half goal, scored on two free-position chances to cut the lead to 6-3 before three more Syracuse goals pushed the lead back to six. The Irish continued bat­tling as Meredith Simon scored three goals to get the Irish back within three. 
The Irish hit the post three times in the final minutes as they fire_d 22 shots in the sec­ond half. 
"We're playing very hard, and that shows a lot about our character," Coyne said. "We went all out, so it's disappoint• 
Kristen Dodd, Tiffany Gunn and Kymia Love ran their best time this year, as they qualified for the NCAA Regional in the 400­meter relay at the Florida Relays. 
However, last weekend was not the only time the Irish saw their athletes qualify, as Selim Nurudeen (110-meter hurdles), Love (400 meters), Dodd (400­meters), Gunn (400-meters and 400-meter hurdles). Stacey Cowan (high jump) and Jaime Volkmer (pole vault) have all qualified for the NCAA Regional meet. 
The Irish have three more chances to qualify for the Big East and NCAA Regional meets. Saturday looks to be a great opportunity. 
"We are all excited, especially 
Greyhound has Indiana covered. 
Greyhound. makes it easy to travel across Indiana, to Chicago, or across the country. Our fares are always affordable and you never 
need to plan ahead to get a good deal. Plus, students can save even more with special travel and shipping discounts with your Student Advantage Card. 


South Bend Bus Terminal located at: 
South Bend Regional Airport 4671 Progress Drive 574-287-6542 
-~ 
GREYHOUND 

ing to lose. \Ve've been right there though, and we've come a long way. 
The Irish fell to 3-4 (2-1 in the Big East) on the season with the loss. Syracuse moved to 7 -2 ( 4-1 ) . 
Next up for the Irish is Big East foe Connecticut Saturday at the Loftus Sports Center. where the Irish will look to even its season record. 
''JJConn is a huge game for us," Coyne said. "They're hav­ing a breakthrough season. Connecticut beat Vanderbilt, a ranked win, and had a lead on Syracuse at the half. 
Despite the losses, Coyne believes her team is respond­ing well and putting them­selves in position to win. 
"We've had a lot of solid per­formances at different times. We haven't given up. We're playing hard and we've had opportunities to win. That's a positive." 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
the guys who didn't get to go to Stanford last weekend," Somok said. "They had just awful weather and are hoping to get some good performances here at home." 
One runner proposed the 10,000-:meter run be run on Friday night so the wind will be minimal. The Irish will do this in hopes of qualifying the most ath­letes possible in this event for the Big East meet. 
Saturday's meet starts at 10 
a.m. with the jumps and throws and the running events start at 
11 :15 a.m. The meet, held on the Monogram Track, concludes with the 1,600-meter mens relay at approximately 2:30 p.m. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoe@nd.edu 
page 22 
WOMENS GOLF 


Six golfers qualify for Indiana tournament 

By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Wricer 
Looking to improve on an 11th place finish last year, the womens golf team will head to Bloomington for the Indiana Invitational this weekend at the Indiana University Golf Course. 
It will be the first action in about ten days for the Irish since finishing eighth at the Baylor Tapito Springs Shootout in Texas. 
With the opportunity to work on their games, the Irish have 
taken to the practice area and the Warren Golf Course to pre­pare for this weekend's event. 
"We've been doing a lot of short game work," Irish coach 

I' 
Debby King said. "We've also been qualifying [for th is event]." 
King will be taking six golfers to Bloomington, led by freshman Katie Brophy, who had .the best score for the Irish at the Baylor tournament and also won the Peggy Kirk Bell Invitational in Florida in a 


Softball, 
continued from page 24 
Loman drove home Ciolli in the fifth to provide the third and final run. 
Throughout both games, Notre Dame pitchers worked both sides of the plate and effec­tively changed speeds to keep Loyola's hitters off balance. All 
four Irish pitchers saw work and held the Ramblers to one run on five hits. 
"I think they are getting it. We learn every day," Gumpf said. "I think there are a couple of times where we could have done something better. For the most part, the pitching staff did a great job." 
Sophomore Steffany Stenglein (5-4) worked five innings in game one and senior Jessica Sharron relieved for the final two innings. Gumpf used the same strategy in game two with freshman Heather Booth (9-5) pitching the first five and sopho­more Carrie Wisen throwing two scoreless innings of relief. 
Loyola pitcher Jenny Rice (5­
6) took both losses for the Ramblers. 
The strong continued offensive output, the good pitching and zero defensive errors are the formula the Irish strive for each and every time they take the field. 
"It's like we talk about, if we do three things well, we are going to win," Gumpf said. "We pitched well, we hit..vell and we played defense. If we do those things, we give ourselves a shot, a real good shot." 
After getting doubleheaders cancelle·d at Pittsburgh and Virginia Tech last weekend, Notre Dame is looking forward to starting their Big East sched­ule Saturday at Providence. 
"We are so excited to start Big East play," Gumpf said. "We are very excited." 
But the forecast is calling for rain and hopefully 1t won't. just like Thursday. 


Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

series of strong spring show­ings. 
Also traveling to Bloomington because of strong showings at Baylor are senior Terri Taibl and junior Shannon Byrne. After qualifying, fresh­men Sarah Bassett, Karen Lotta and Suzie Hayes will round out the Irish contingent. 
This will be one of the strongest fields the Irish have faced this season, and it is also their last preparation for the Big East Championship, which will be held at the Warren Golf Course. 
"This is one of our strongest events," King said. "There are many Big Ten teams partici­pating." 
The Irish will focus on their own goals instead of worrying about the competition. 
"We need tJ) shoot for 312 as our own personal goal," King said. "Whether it puts us in first place or last place, that's what we have to shoot for." 
Contact Andy T roeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
The Observer . SPORTS • Friday, April 4, 2003 
~ 
MENS LACROSSE 



Irish playing without Howell 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
With starting attackman and 
lead point-man Matt Howell sidelined after having his appendix removed last Friday, · the No. 15 Notre Dame mens lacrosse team will travel to Columbus, Ohio, to take on No. 20 Ohio State (4-2, 0-0 in the GWLL) on Sunday at Jesse 
Owens Memorial Stadium. 
Howell, who leads the Irish 
with 12 goals and 19 assists, 
did not feel well last Thursday 
following practice and did not 
play in the match against 
Denver last Saturrlay. Without 
him, Notre Dame needs to step 
up their game in every area. 
"I just think we've got to do the things we need to do to put us in a position to win," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. "They're a very good team in transition and in unsettled sit­uations. We have to keep them from doing what they are good at doing. We have to clear balls and identify roles at the defensive end of field." 
The Buckeyf:)s will be the Irish's second GWLL oppo­nent of the season. Notre 



ECDC Registration 
· The Early Childhood Development Genter (ECOC) is currently registering kindergarten age children for the 2003-0:i School Year. 2003 Summer Day Camp registration for children ages 2.5-lO will occur in early March. 200:,-04 School Ye:ir registration of preschool ;1ge children will take place in early April. fc)r more infohnation and ECDC Parent Meeting & Tour dates, please call one of the numbers below. Early Childhood Development Center, Inc. 
284-4693 (ECDC-SMC) 
631-3344 (ECDC-ND) 

Dame (5-3, 1-0) won its first 
league game on Saturday, 9-8, 
at home. against unranked 
Denver. 
As with its history with Denver, Notre Dame has domi­nated in the all-time series with Ohio State. The Irish have won nine of the last 10 games between the two and Corrigan has• a 12-2 all-time record against the Buckeyes. 
In a 7-3 win-at Moose Krause Stadium last season, Notre Dame broke a 3-3 half­time tie with two goals in both the third and fourth quarters to beat Ohio State and end the Buckeyes'season. 
The last time the Irish trav­eled to Columbus in 2001, Corrigan's squad got the win in a 13-4 rout. 
Still, Ohio State is ranked and will challenge the Irish just as Denver did. With Howell out of the lineup, there will be even more pressure on precocious freshman Pat Walsh (12 goals, 16 assists) and junior attackman Dan Berger (20 goals) to spread the ball around and score on offense. 
Against Denver, Walsh and Berger did just that. The freshman recorded two goals and five assists, and Berger added three goals. Still, Corrigan thinks there are other players who have not played to their full potential. 
"On the other end, we must execute offensively," Corrigan said. "We haven't had that breakout game offensively. We've got a lot of guys who haven't gotten over the hump yet, a lot of guys who haven't scored the way they're capable of scoring. But I would love to see [a breakout game] this weekend, because we've got guys working really hard to do it." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
NEED CASH? 
+ ~ -• 

::"~ A.t Plato's Closet we buv a1ci ~ell the best i1 
I 

.. J:-h 
t\ J. rrr 
GAP"JC

.r,1..,,~ 0 0 
Weve ocl o'."eat stG71 iror.~ , . rew, 
J 
Abercrombie &Fitch, Dr. Martens, Lucky Brand1 Express, American Eagle, a~c more ­
I I I ' ' 

easy to save rnorey a1c ooK cool a: tr·e san:e ... C c·'"'""(,k ,,. r ·1
~Im". ,t-. J) Oul. 



PLAT.'S
--------·--· .• -.Ii,

,-;o•-' I
! l '· :. I 
'.. -I .. ·,••

5916 Grape Road 
Indian Ridge Plaza ~fohawaka, IN 
243-9100 


.•.-.:r ,:=·· ., -~--=·· = = · ·.;· · .. ,,.,. . · .....,,...,...,,.·=,:,,.:11··=:=11r-•·¦¦is.c Hnullem·.:..,-.,.·...==·.'•lfi•· ... 
' . .
·_::. ·1 .w. · .ftfo.· .... . ·•·~......,~~=~~~•~ ·H 


Friday, April 4, 2003 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
Notre Dame Track and Field 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 
AT1Ht NA1"\0NA\...'"'Al-\ t>R\'ltR COt--1V£TIT\ON1NO 0N6 U>UWCC>HfE.1" W\1'-\ 11-\E S~\LL 
OF ~ S6Nt>1S f tN&s ,-•,r--:.--.--~,-.......----~.....----c-,.("-('\_r,,_1'1-i__;,;").::;,,;.,a 

MOS1 f'ASS~Nt:1~RS ~ . 1,i PRlZE 
HAPPY TOWN 

11::::::m:~m111;~r!11 
tt.y Kidl;! ·Cast"t ~@i:y ·.. •••loodteamname< 
for Boobtore Basketball? 
Let Happy Town help! 
A good team name .. reflects what your ·•.· 
btam is all about-so ·•• 
figure out wluch category best ffb. • . JO• Cf'a.£7 bunc;h: <.. 

ot1'o~!0;;~ ;\:iI 
JACK MONAHAN 



the highest percentage of football players on them. 
name type1t: 
Oldtime Revival Shame-lenPlug.com Meaningless Acronym Threat of Violence Play on Words 

costumes-to hide bitter defeat 
IJll:tl,t.lYUt; 
Veiled SexuaJ Reference Fal1ey/Stiller Movie Reference 
Stale Pop Culture Reference 
Stupid In-joke Among Friends Donkey __ 
•1111~u• 
Gimmick Team? 
Gimmick Teams may be somewhat competitive, but not confident enough to be a Serious Team. Like a Dis• gusting Drunk Team, but with some dignity stilt Intact. Hilarious antics and hilarious 
art_lOUi 
Disgusting Drunk Team? 
May look like a Gimmick Team, but are not motivated by either competitive spirit or the chance to entertain people. Disgusting Drunk Teams like to get laughs, because it masks both their lack of ability and very definite drinking problems. 
name !)·pg: 
For Lack of a Better Name Name of Beer Name of Hard Ala.hot Name ofObscunt Hard Afcohol Pathetic Spectacle 

JUMBLE 
JJf!JJN!&JJE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LUCCK 
I rJ 
C2002 Tribune Media Services, Inc: All Righ1a Reserved. 
EKQUA j

I I r 

ICOLOTE j 
www.jurrt>le.com 
SWUINE 



I rJ 
Print ~ rere: 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: LISLE 
Answer: A good thing to exercise when you're putting on weight -RESTRAINT 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 21 • To order, send your name, addren and $5.95 and make check payable lo Tribune Media Servlc1ts, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, ll60680--4330. 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

vVl-ffi H= SH:)WE:RJ:DH::I< WfrH AFFi::C­TION AFra< TH=IR ~r,s.-eSAIO H:'MS-­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
rI I J rI I J 
(Answers Monday) 

BERTH GENTRY APPEAR 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29_Hughes, former British 

1 General poet laureate 
assembly? 30 Performed a
9 What leaky cadenza, e.g.
pens leave 32 Bamboozles 
14 Visited 34 "Our Town"overnight family name 15 Predisposed 
36 Poet 16 "Is that so?" Wheeler Wilcox 
17 Shakespearean 37 Place for a character in a brush "most extracting 
41 Some forensicfrenzy" 

evidence 18 Monarch 
45 Theorycapturer 

46 Kind of collector 19 Hard rock 
48 Stupid

band?. 49 Crankcase
21 Very smooth 
additive 23 Cloth on certain 
50 "Stand andtables 

Deliver" star, 24 Opposite of 1987 peace 
52 Certain pens 

25 It might help 53 Like an air-filled you get up lifeboat 
27 Tom's cries 57 Mind the baby 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
....+.,,..,..,.. 13 Proteus and Nereus 15 Independent sort -+~!!"t 20 Thunderstorm residue 22 Fry a bit 26 Comes together 28 Dependable 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
58 Black-and­orange bird 59 Early motion picture projector 
61 1980's South African president_ Botha 
62 Working together 63 Brewers' kilns 64 Lack of color 
DOWN 
1 Also-ran for the 1992 
Democratic presidential nomination 
2 Play set mostly in Cyprus 3 Incomplete 4 Departure announcement 5 Interpret 6 Improvised 7 Low bow 8 Blocks 9 Put a coat on 10 Hideaway 11 Render unnecessary 12 Bridle attachment 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puu.le by Patrick Berry 
31 Legendary 38 Residential 44 Some analysts' criminal played section of concerns by Treat Queens 
,1 Spring signalers 

Williams in a 1981 movie 39 Suggests 51 Big-toed animal 
40 Windhoek is its 54 Former Senate33 One stuck in the capital majority leader 
kitchen 55 Porters
35 Dances 42 Installment 56 Actor Morales 
37 Early SO's 43 File box MS.N.L" comic contents, maybe 60 "This is _ . 
For answers, call 1 ·900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIFS BORN ON TIIlS DAY: Robert Downey Jr., Craig T. Nelson, Anthony Perkins, Nancy McKeoo 
Happy Birthday: Your only coocem this year will be having too many choices. If you try to do too many t}lings all at once., you will fall short of your goals. You will have an excess ofenergy and it will be vital to remain busy. You will be aggressive, which should help you accomplish what you set out to do. Your numbers are 11, 14, 19, 27, 32, 37 
ARIES (Man.ti 21-April 19): You may have some thoughts about your direction in life. If you aren't happy with your current position, look at your options. Find a position that will give yoo the challenge you are looking frr. H* "" TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may feel a bit esmtional today, so keep a low profile and wait until yoo are in a better position to deal with the issues that are lxxocring you.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't get into deep conversallons with people who want to argue. Your words will be twisted. Take a lighthearted approach to whatever you do 
today.**'* CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't put your rmney into sorrething that may oc may not bring you rerums. Invest in yourself instead and you will get far better retwns. **** LEO (July 2.l-Aug. 22): Your future may be uncertain, so if you aren't happy with what 
you are ooing, oonsidcr what else is available. It's never too late to learn sorn:thing new. ** VIRGO (Aug. 2.1-Sept. 22): Take hold of your life and make the changes you see fit. Make a checklist and stick to it. It's up to you to take the initiative. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 2.l-Oct. 22): Take better care of yourself. Minor health problems will escalate if you don\ get sufficient rest. You may need to get a little help oo the side in order to reduce your tensioo.~ SCORPIO (Oct. 2.l-Nov. 21): Personal issues will roount if you don't take care of lhem. You will have to make sorre hard decisioos. Don't overreact to what's gomg oo around you. tt SAGIT'fARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone you trust may not be as hones! as you think. Keep your pasonaI thou~ to yourself. Mixing oosiness with pleasure is probably apoocidea~ CAPRICORN (D«. 22-Jan.19): If you've been working oo something, lct your friends and peers critique what you are doing. You11 be surprised by what you hear. Sorre new ideas will be frnrulat.ed *•• * • 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may have added fCS!X)l1Sibilities today. Be quick to respond to the requests being made so others can't saddle you with their ta.sks. ** PISCFS (Feb. 19-March 20): Join an cxganizatioo that weds for acause yoo believe in. Your cornimsion and sensitivity toward others will put you in a good position with your pe:c:n.*"*"** 
Birthday Baby: You will be set in your ways. You will know what you want and you'll pursue your goals until you are satisfied with the results. You will be very bright., but will have a tendency to act too quickly without considering the cortsequences. 
Che.ck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com. eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. 
COPYRIGITT 2003 UNIVFRSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
ate you a 
Serious Team? 
Characterized by a strong desire to actually compete, and win. Serious Teams can have funny name&, but ones that ahould also say "we mean business." They tend to have 
-

Free Hot Chocolate Courtesv Of The South Bend Chocolate Companv While Supplies last!! 
f
l 
l 

Friday, April 4, 2003 


ND SOFTBALL 




Hitting on all cylinders 

victory over Loyola (Chicago) Thursday afternoon at Ivy Fleld. 
. Irish continue solid offensive play, sweeping Loyola 7-1 and 3-0 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
It looked like it was going to rain the entire afternoon, but it didn't, and the Irish were happy, very happy. 
Building off the offensive momentum from Tuesday's doubleheader sweep at Purdue, Notre Dame defeated Loyola (Chicago) 7-1 and 3-0 Thursday at Ivy Field to extend their win streak to four games. 
"I am happy no matter what the temperature is, as long as there is no precipitation," Notre Dame coach Deanna Gumpf said. "It was great, we needed today." 
In game one, the Irish pounded out 10 hits, including five doubles and three home runs. Shortstop Andria Bledsoe hit her second home run in as many games and went a com­bined 2-for-6 with three RBIs and two runs scored. Third baseman Andrea Loman and catcher Mallorie Lenn each also knocked one out. 
"They have come alive. I think that Northwestern game hit them hard and they don't like that and don't want it to happen again," Gumpf said about the offense. "Hopefully this momentum wil1 help us on the weekend. You can't really tell what's going to happen, but I like the way we are hitting the ball." 
The Irish (14-11) jumped ·on the Ramblers in the bottom of the first when centerfielder Megan Ciolli and second base­man Alexis Madrid lead off with back-to-back doubles. Ciolli scored on Madrid's two­bagger to give the Irish the early 1-0 lead. 
Lenn put the Irish up 2-0 in the second with her first colle­giate home run. Bledsoe got her home run out in the bottom of the third and gave the Irish a 4-0 lead. 
After the Ramblers got one back in the top of the fifth, the Irish got two insurance runs in the fifth on HBI doubles from Bledsoe and freshman Kellie Middleton. Loman's homer in the sixth provided the final dif­ference. 
In game two, the Irish scored two in the bottom of the second on a triple by senior first base­man Lisa Mattison. Left fielder Liz Hartmann scored on Mattison's second career triple and Mattison came home on the errant throw to third. 
see SOFTBALL/page 22 

, 
TRACK & FIELD 

Irish return home to qualify more athletes 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
With many Irish athletes already qualified for the NCAA Regional meet on May 30 and 31 in Columbus, Ohio, Saturday's meet provides a chance for the Irish to compete in front of a home crowd. 
Notre Dame faces Central Michigan and Western Michigan in their only home meet of the season, the traditional Spring Opener. 
Last weekend saw many Irish athletes qualify for the regional meet, as numerous athletes had success in their respective events at three meets around the country. Juan Alba qualified for 

l ,< 
1--II.I 
Indiana University Invitational 


i ~ a:i
c,; 
April 5-6 


a. C 
Notre Dame travels to Bloomington.

I [ en Ii page 22 
WOMENS GOLF 

the NCAA regional meet in both the hammer throw and discus. Both marks were also good enough to qualify him for the Big East outdoor championship on May 2-4. 
Also at the Western Michigan Open, Chris Staron qualified for the regional with his effort in the high jump. Ryan Mineburg had already qualified from the Baldy Castillo meet. 
The Irish distance runners also have qualified many runners for the NCAA regional meet, includ­ing Lauren King and freshman Molly Huddle in the 1,500 meters. The tandem looks to be a huge threat nationally. 
Joining them at the Stanford Invitational were Kevin Somok 
see TRACK/page 21 
MENS LACROSSE 
Notre Dame at Ohio State 
Sunday, 1 p.m. 
The Irish are without leading scorer Howell. 
page 22 ND WOMENS SOCCER 

Women host international teams 
. Irish to play Mexican and Canadian National U-19 teams 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Spons Writer 
Different styles of soccer will be on display this week­end as the Mexican and Canadian National under-19 teams have come to South Bend to take part in the 2003 Womens Soccer International Showcase. 
This year's Showcase is an expansion of the previous two years, when the Mexican National team had come for games against the Irish. Notre Dame has come away from both of those games with close fought wins of 2-1 in 2001 and 3-2 in 2002. Both events have attracted large crowds of over 2,000 fans. 

"The reason why we started doing this was to get some top level competition during the off-season," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "Monica Gonzalez was with the Mexican National team and played here at Notre Dame, and now we've expanded to include the Canadians. We have a couple Canadians on our team so we have a real good relationship with them." 
Both the Canadians and Mexicans come in with strong accomplishments. The Canadian under-19 team fin­ished second to the United States last summer at the under-19 World Cup in a game well represented by Irish players. Katie Thorlakson and Candace 
WOMENS LACROSSE 

MENS TENNIS
SMC TENNIS 
Syracuse 9 

Saint Mary's at 
Notre Dame at 
Notre Dame 6 

Adrian, Carthage, 
Southern 

and Chicago 
Methodist 

Chapman played for Canada, while freshman Annie Schefeter was on the U.S. squad. The Mexicans are only one more win away from qualifying for the World Cup that will take place later this year. 
Waldrum described how the teams play very different styles of soccer. 
"Canada is athletic and physical, they are very direct. Mexico is smaller but very technical and skillful," he said. "They are creative and play a very high quality of soccer." 
For the Irish, the Showcase gives some players who missed large portions of the season because of injury, including Schefter, senior Vanessa Pruzinsky and sophomore Gudrun 
see SHOWCASE/page 19 
BASEBALL 
Notre Dame at Boston Colle~e and St. John s 
The Irish drop below 

After suffering a 6-1 
.500 in a loss at Syracuse 

Saturday-Sunday 
loss to Miami, the Irish 
The Irish run into Big 
and will host 

look to turn it around 
East rivals on the road 
Connecticut Saturday. 
Sunday. 
this weekend. 
page 21 

page 15
page 19 
page 14 





