
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Bust breaks up Turtle Creek tailgate 

Creek Saturday morning, hand­
By KEVIN ALLEN 
ing out citations to minors, 
NcwsWri[cr 
arresting unruly partiers and shutting down some gatherings. A large assembly of police o!li­The 10 a.m. crackdown, moti­cers descended upon Turtle vated by the Indiana State Excise 

Athletes win NCAA graduation rate award 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
Nows Wri[cr 
Not only can they kick a 
field goal. serve an ace and 
win a race-they can grad­
uate. too. 
After finishing second last year, Notre Dame student­athletes earned top honors in the 2003 USA Today/NCAA Academic Achievement Awards, u distinction announced Sept. 2. 
Ninety-two percent of Notre Dame student-athletes who enrolled in 191)6 gradu­ated from the University, constituting the highest overall graduation rate among NCAA Division 1-A universities. For student­athletes who completed all four years of athletic eligibil­ity, the rate was even higher, at 1)9 percent. 
Tulsa University came in second by three percentage points, followed by Wisconsin and Duke at 88 percent each, Northwestern at 87 and Boston College at 
86. Hice won in 2002 with 91 percent. 
NCAA compilations of graduation rates are deter­mined by the raw percentage of student-athletes who entered a university and graduated within six years. Non-graduates include stu­dent athletes who transfer, join a professional organiza­tion or leave the university for various other reasons. 
Academic Achievement 
Awards are also granted to the universities that show the most improvement from the previous year, as well as to those who have the best student-athlete graduation rates in comparison to the entire undergraduate stu­dent body. This year, the University of Oklahoma won the first category with a 40 percent rate of improve­ment. Boise State University won the second with a 33 percent advantage for stu­dent-athletes as compared to the overall student body average. 
A $2.9 million grant from USA Today first made the prizes possible three years ago. The grant was the largest in NCAA history, and the top institution in each category receives $20,000. The prize money can be used for any purpose; past awards have been used to fund addi­tional scholarships, to sup­port existing programs and to finance new ones. 

A reception will be held at the USA Today headquarters in McL.ean, Va. to recognize the winners, which also include schools from Division 1-AA, Division 1-AAA, Division II and Division Ill. The ceremony will take place Nov. 7 and will feature presentations from NCAA president Myles Brand and USA Today publisher Craig Moon. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 

Police, was an attempt to cut down on large parties at Turtle Creek that might spill over into public areas. Officers from the Indiana State Excise Police, South Bend Police Department and the Notre Dame Security Police col­
laborated in the effort. 
Capt. John Williams, communi­
ty relations o!licer for the South 
Bend Police Department, said he 
did not have final numbers · regarding how many people 
received citations on Saturday, 
but he said there were at least 
five arrests. 
Mike Hussell, a junior in Zahm 
Hall, witnessed the bust, which 
he said included 15 to 20 police 
cars and two to three paddy wag­
ons. Russell said law enforcement 
officials patrolled the complex, 
going from apartment to apart­
ment, breaking up some parties 
and letting others continue. lie 
also said he saw six to seven 
excise police working undercover. 
Eric Tarnowski, also a Zahm 
Hall junior, said he.saw police 
officers tackling students and 
even stunning one student with a 
tazer as they attempted to Oee 
the scene. 
"I was in the back alley and 
everyone was tailgating as 
usual." Tarnowski said. 'Then, all of a sudden, a bunch of cop cars rolled up. It really kind of killed the atmosphere there." 
Tarnowski said several stu­dents -mostly minors -were lined up and handcu!l"ed by police o!licers. 
Police did not bother those over 21 years of age, Tarnowski said. He said he saw tailgaters of legal drinking age taunting the police, who did not react.. 
Tarnsowski, who has been to Turtle Creek on football week­ends in past seasons, added that the apartment complex seemed to have a much more intense party atmosphere this year than in years past. 
lie said he thinks the new University alcollol policy and tail­gating rules have contributed to the bigger off-campus party scene. 
"They drove most of the stu­dents off [campus] and now (with the bust] they're trying to drive us back on," he said. 
see BUST/page 4 


Legends meets expectations 
ByWILLPUCKETT 
NewsWri[er 
With the arrival of football season, one of the newest estab­lishments on campus, Legends of Notre Dame, held its doors wide open to the Irish faithful, providing a concert/dance club on Friday night and a ga:me watch Saturday afternoon. 
When asked how the restau­rant/club did over the weekend, manager Larry Briggs said that expectations were met but declined to provide specific fig­ures. 
"I would say that it met our expectations, although we are certainly looking at evolving over the course of the year, football weekends and [non­football weekends]." Briggs said. 
According to Briggs, Legends will have to make sure that it can change and keep improving itself to meet the market, rather than relying merely on its prime location near the Stadium and advertising targeted at Notre Dame students and fans. 
"It was extremely busy. but we're evolving every day and kind of running it as we go," Briggs said. "We'll see what works in the market and go from there." 
Briggs also said the restau­rant would grow into its own over time. The restaurant was doing a lot of business, but there are still areas that staff and management need to look at for continued improvement. 
"There's ... a big learning curve, but with having the staff better trained, being able to better handle crowds and the like, we will continue to improve," Briggs said. 
Program coordinator Jonathan Jorissen expressed many of the same views, while at the same time noting the large numbers that came to Legends for various reasons. 
"We had a lot of people come through-a lot of alumni want­ing to check out the new place -and were very busy al! day Friday," Jorissen said. "We had a great turnout, as well, to watch the game." 
Jorissen did leave room for improvement, however, noting at least one event that was not as well-attended as organizers might have hoped. 
Changes will happen in the programming, as well as in the restaurant, on the planning level, Jorissen said. 
"We weren't at max capacity for the band Friday night, and we're working on the logistics of programming on football weekends. We're looking at some different options," Jorissen said. "One of those is having a classic Notre Dame 

football game watch on  Friday  
afternoons."  
Despite  having,  to  some  

extent, less-than-perfect results, the staff of Legends is happy with the way things are going and hope to continue to improve. In fact, evolving and improving to become even bet­ter is one of the central ideas of the restaurant/club right now, the staff said. 
"We're excited. Everything went very smoothly, and we were very pleased. Hopefully, over time, more people will become aware that Legends exists, [and we will] improve our programming, and Legends will be even better," Jorissen said. 
Contact Will Puckett at wpuckett@nd.edu 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The bells dishrrb sleep 
Exhausted from the jubilation 
that was Saturday's football_ victory, 
I returned to my bed in Sorin in 
order to reenergize for the night 
that lay ahead. 
But my nap Erik Powers 
intruded upon 
my visions of a 

vibrant nightlife. Sports Writer ·My eyelids mis­
counted my hour 
or two of slumber. Instead of awak­
ing to the sounds of witty inebriated 
banter from the hall, I was stirred 
by the bells of the Bascillica. Bells 
that rang four minutes before nine 
on a Sunday morning. 
Realizing that I had unintention­
ally stumbled into transition 
Sunday, I attempted to roll over and 
take refuge in sleep. But the bells 
would not end. Chimes rung at 
every quarter hour with varying 
ambition. At 9:15 there were but 
four strikes upon the bell. At 9:30 
there was a humble concerto fea­
turing subdued syncopation. At 
9:45, a subdued rendition of the 
alma mater praised thee Notre 
Dame. And at 10:00 a full-fledged 
dual hour opus erupted from the 
bowels of the Basillica, 1,842 bells 
of percussion banging brutal bed­
lam out of the tower and thrusting 
it upon the unwilling audience of 
Sorin Hall. 
Last year, I heard not one of the 
Basillica's bells. I lived on the oppo­
site side of the dorm under the 
Quint. Social lubricants trickled 
down from above, sophomores 
dropped weights from their couch 
at 3 a.m. and drywall fell as a type 
of periodic precipitation, yet none 
of these activities inhibited my 
slumber. Now, I am bombarded by 
music at all hours. The hall choir 
practices in the chapel directly 
above. So do a number of aspiring 
piano players. I was awoken yester­
day by an industrious hallmate 
playing Gershwin at nine in the 
morning. He (or another member of 
his liturgical legion) returned at 
four to perfect Piano Man during 
my nap. He likely lurks in the 
chapel now, plotting for a midnight 
moonlight sonata. 
But how does one resolve this 
conflict? From a utilitarian stand­
point, all would be best served if I 
quieted my qualms and accepted 
the life of an insomnias. However, 
there is still hope. The wise and 
sympathetic leaders of the 
University may realize that our 
campus does not need inaccurate 
and gratuitously melodic time. Or 
perhaps this rambling letter of dis­
content might facilitate a trade of 
clocks between the Basillica and 
O'Shag. 11:25 is my favorite time of 
the day, day or night, and the clock 
always reminds me of the clocktow­
er from Back to the Future, and 
how Marty McFly's girlfriend was so 
much hotter in the first movie than 
the second and third, and how I 
can't believe anyone could make 
such a casting oversight. Otherwise, 
we could always give the bells to 
Saint Mary's. They deserve repara­
tions for something by now. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Erik Powers at powers.44@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THE FORMER FOOTBALL PLAYERS' RAPE TRIALS? 









Cole Barker Keith Harwood 
Junior Junior O'Neill Hall O'Neill Hall 
"It's an "I wish they "It's a disgrace "It's bad." "I shaved my "For one 
embarassment  hadn't put  to the  
to Notre Dame,  themselves in  University. "  
and I wish it  this situation. It  
would go  hurts both the  
away.  University and  
the team."  


ANDREW KENNNThe Observer 

Students populate the newly-remodled basement of the Hesburgh Library. The library basement had been under renovation for over a year, and It now provides attractive study space as opposed to the old design. 
OFFBEAT 

Ecuador President promises to be punctual 
QUITO, Ecuador President Lucio Gutierrez will s.et a national exam­ple and start showing up on time for meetings and appointments in an effort to combat a national lack of punctuality, a govern­
ment  spokesman  said  
Monday.  
"The  president  has  

made the decision that punctuality will be the government's rule," spokesman Marcelo Cevallos said in an inter­view with Teleamazonas television. 
It was unclear when the initiative would begin, however, as Cevallos apol­ogized to the audience for showing up late for the interview. 
Dope-seeking teens call cop by mistake 
AUSTIN. Minn. -Two teens accused of search­ing for a marijuana dealer dialed the ultimate wro~g number -they called the Mower County Sheriff's cell phone. 
Sheriff Terese Amazi's cell phone rang around noon on Friday. The caller said she wanted a bag of marijuana. After Amazi said she was the sheriff, the caller said, ''I'm sorry," and hung up. 
A few minutes later, the phone rang again. This time, Amazi let a deputy answer. 
The caller again asked for a bag of marijuana, and the deputy -who called himself "Dupe" on the phone -arranged for a meeting at a conven­ience store an hour later. 
"Apparently, they didn't know the meaning of 'Dupe' as in 'duped' either," Amazi said. "It's incredible." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
c::: 
IJ.I 
:::1: 
~ 
IJ.I 

3: 
..... 
ct 
(.) 
0 

HIGH HIGH HIGH 79
...I LOW LOW LOW 61 IN BRIEF 






head in  evening  
protest."  shrouded in so  
much  
skepticism, it  
has caused  
Notre Dame a  
lot ofbad  
publicity."  

International Student Services and Activities will sponsor a showing of a Russian movie today at 7:00 in the Montgomery Theater in the LaFortune Student Center. 

The women's volleyball team -takes on Valparaiso today at 7 
p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. 
The Clayton Miller Blues Bank will perform at St. Mary's College today ·at 5:30 p.m. on the Library Green. The concert is sponsored by the Student Activities Board. 
Mothers: Founders of the Environmental Justice Movement will sponsor a lec­ture featuring Hazel Johnson. a lifetime resident of Chicago Public Housing. The lecture takes place Wednesday at 4:30 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
A meeting will be held Wednesday for anyone interest­ed in the Latin Ameri.can Studies minor, as well as any­one enrolled in the program. The meeting will take place in the Hesburgh Center at 5:30 p.m. 
A Tri-Military service will be held in honor of those who lost their lives in the attacks of September 11, 2001. The serv­ice will take place at 7 a.m. Thursday at the Pasquerilla Center. 
Enjoy campus musicians at the Student Union Board's AcoustiCafe Thursday night at 9 p.m. in LaFortune Student Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 80 LOW 61 


Atlanta 84 I 66 Boston 68 I 52 Chicago 83 I 63 Denver 72 /53 Houston 89 I 69 Los Angeles 79 I 62 Minneapolis 87 165 New York 76 I 57 Philadelphia 79 I 56 Phoenix 93 I 76 Seattle 65 I 53 St. Louis 87 I 62 Tampa 89 I 72 Wash.ington 82 1 61 

I 
I 
, Juesday, .S~pt~mbet 9, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 



CLC debates RA orientation policies 
By MIKE CHAMBLISS 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council (CLC), a Board of Trustees­mandated committee that advises the Office of Student Affairs, met Monday for an unofficial, preliminary meet­ing. 
The 18-member council of students, faculty and adminis­trators discussed various issues that it may take up as the foci of the three task forces that will work toward specific goals over the course of the year. 
These issues include privi­leges for on-campus seniors, decreasing the cost of SYR's, the status of leadership on campus, gender relations, campus safety, exploration of dining hall options and decreasing the costs associat­ed with the student-used vehi­cles at the Center for Social Concerns. 
With recent controversial RA dismissals in mind, Student Body President Pat Hallahan introduced the idea of investi­gating current policies and attempting to increase flexibil­ity in the HA training program. A heated debate ensued when a number of council members objected to spending council time on an employee-employer issue that is traditionally beyond the scope of the CLC's concern. 

"As an employer, I have cer­tain expectations of my employees, and no one is going to tell me how to hire people. I just think it's a waste of our time to pursue this issue," said George Moss, assistant vice president of Student Affairs. 
It was also pointed out numerous times that the coun­cil could not discuss the specifics of any individual dis­missal case because federal law prohibits the University from divulging related infor­mation, 
Some of the council mem­bers grew frustrated when a proposal to investigate a seem­ingly important issue failed to generate unanimous support. 
"As soon as we get a hot issue that students care about, we get put down. We get our agenda dictated by a minority of people," said Hallahan. 
The issue of deciding task force goals will be settled dur­ing the Sept. 22 meeting. 
Contact Mike Chambliss at mchambli@nd.edu 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's Board of Governance held its fi...st offi­cial meeting of the new school year on Monday. President Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl reviewed improvements they plan to implement. 
The meeting was opened with a discussion on the revised Saint Mary's mission statement. Vice President for Mission Sr. Rose Anne Schultz distributed copies of the mis­sion statement printed on bookmarks to board mem­bers. 
Schultz emphasized that there is a renewed commit­ment to the college mission statement this year. It was also noted that the mission statement will be an impor­tant tool in the search for a new college President. 
BOG members also dis­cussed efforts to improve communication and involve­ment between the student body and the governing board. One of the keys, Public Relations Commissioner Stephanie Patka said, is to refine the information given to students. 
"We are trying to consoli­date everything into one stall news because it is much more 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Board prepares improvements 
effective," Patka said in refer­a shadowing program in ence to a BOG bulletin posted which current upperclassmen in campus bathrooms. will have the opportunity to 
Board members also intend shadow a Saint Mary's alumna to reward those students who while on the job. The first hang the BOG monthly calen­information meeting will take dar in their rooms with a place at 6 p.m. on Thursday in prize. The board hopes the the Noble Family Dining Hall. incentive will increase aware­+ The "Busy Person's ness and participation in cam­Retreat" will begin this pus activi-Sunday prior ties. to the regular 
In addition "We are trying to 9 p.m. campus 

to the BOG consolidate everything mass. The bulletin and retreat is
into one stall news

Web site, designed for
because it is much more

students will those who are 
now be able effective. " unable to to access attend a times, places weekend-long
Stephanie Patka 

and dates of event. events by public relations commissioner Participants 
calling the Activities line at 284­4809. Board members have been promoting this resource by posting door decorations with the number on students' doors. 
Furthermore, BOG intends to improve its relationship with The Observer to clearly communicate with students. 
" We are working on our relationship with The Observer so we can get infor­mation to them in a timely manner," said Patka. 
In other BOG News 
+ Saint Mary's is launching 

THE FISCHOFF NATIONAL CHAMBER MUSIC ASSOCIATION PRESENTS 
•

• v/iNDS 
VALERIE COLEMAN, FLUTE • TOYIN SPELLMAN, OBOE • MARIAM ADAM, CLARINET JEFF SCOTT, HORN • MONICA ELLIS, BASSOON A FISCHOFF ARTS-IN-EDUCATION RESIDENCY EVENT 
THuRSDoY, Jrrtf"'f>£R 11, zoo3 7:3o PfA, v/aSHiN3TON HaLL 


SUPPORTED IN PART BY THE HENKELS LECTURE SERIES, INSTITUTE FOR SCHOLARSHIP IN THE LIBERAL ARTS, COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS, UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
FISCHOFF ARTS-IN-EDUCATION RESIDENCY UNDERWRITERS FLORENCE V. CARROL FOUNDATION I JUNIOR LEAGUE OF SOUTH BEND I BURKHART ADVERTISING, INC. FREDERICKS. UPTON FOUNDATION I AM GENERAL I DOUG MICK I INDIANA ARTS COMMISSION SUPPORTED IN PART BY A GRANT FROM THE NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS; BY THE HENKELS LECTURE SERIES, INSTITUTE FOR SCHOLARSHIP IN THE LIBERAL ARTS, COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS, UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME; THE KELLOGG INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES; AND BY THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC 
will give up one hour of their day for 
reflection and prayer. 
+ Due to a lack of demand, the Cushwa-Leighton library hours have been experimen­tally cutback. 
Library staff noted that there were few or no students in the library on Friday or Saturday evenings, as well as on Sunday mornings. Students are encouraged to express their opinions on the new hours. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

.-----------------------­
page4 Tuesday, Septemb~r'9, 2003
The Observer + NEWS 

Auto club goes to trial for negligence 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -In the summer of 1999. AAA got a call about a young woman whose car had broken down in a parking lot on Cape Cod. The auto club told the woman's stepfather it would send help. 
Melissa Gosule never made it home that night. 
Her body was found in a shal­low grave eight days later. She had been raped and stabbed to death. 
Gosule's family sued AAA for unspecified damages, claiming that ifthe auto club had done its job that night, she would be alive today. Jury selection began Monday in state court in Plymouth, south of Boston, in the negligence and wrongful­death case. 
The case is being watched closely because it is the first time AAA has been sued in the death of a motorist who was killed after seeking assistance from the auto club. legal experts said. 
Every year, the American Automobile Association, with a dues-paying membership of more than 46 million in the United States and Canada, gets about 30 million calls from motorists who need help with dead batteries, flat tires and other roadside problems. 
In their lawsuit, Gosule's par­ents, Leslie Gosule and Sandra Glaser, and her stepfather, Peter Glaser, claim AAA left Gosule stranded and forced to turn to a stranger for help. That stranger, Michael Gentile, killed her. 
"AAA is not who they say they are," Leslie Gosule said recently in a statement. "Had AAA done what they tell the world they do and what they said they were going to do -provide reliable and reasonable emergency roadside assistance that night ­Melissa would still be with us." 
Gosule's parents note that AAA, in its marketing materials, touts the peace of mind it pro­vides to motorists in trouble. "One call to AAA and your wor­ries are over," reads one brochure. AAA also refers to itself as "family" and warns against depending on strangers: "In today's world, relying on strangers has become a scary [and sometimes dangerous] thing to do." 
The lawsuit names national AAA; its local affiliate, AAA Southern New England; and the tow truck driver. 
AAA disputes the family's claims that it did not offer Gosule help, and says it should not be held responsible for her death. Gentile, a newspaper delivery man with a long crimi­nal record, was convicted of her murder and is now serving a life sentence. 
On July 11, 1999, Gosule, a 
27 -year-old elementary school 
teacher, had returned at 5:30 
p.m. from a bike ride at a park in Bourne to find that her 1986 Pontiac would not start. 
It was about that time that she 
met Gentile, according to testi­
mony during Gentile's trial in 
2000. 
Gosule used Gentile's cell 
phone to call her mother and 
stepfather, who told her he 
would call AAA for help. Gosule 
was not a member of AAA, but 
her stepfather was, and it is 
routine for the auto club to help 
out relatives of AAA members. 
In their lawsuit, Gosule's fami­ly says her stepfather immedi­ately called the AAA's 24-hour emergency roadside assistance number and asked that the car and Gosule be taken to a garage in Boston. John Cubellis, a tow truck driver whose company is an agent for AAA, arrived at the parking lot about 90 minutes later. 

According to both sides, Cubellis told Gosule he was busy and it would be three to four hours before he could take her or her car to Boston, about 60 miles away. The Gosule family says Cubellis did not try to start the young woman's car, make sure she was taken to a safe location or call another AAA driver to help. 
Gosule then accepted a ride from Gentile. 
In court papers, AAA says Cubellis had no reason to believe Gosule was in danger. She was in a busy parking lot at the Sagamore Rotary with restaurants, a gas station and a fire station nearby. When he pulled into the parking lot, he saw Gosule talking and sharing a cell phone with two men ­Gentile and a mechanic friend Gentile had called to look at the woman's car. 
AAA says Gosule could have taken a taxi or had a family member come pick her up. 
In a statement, a spokesman for AAA Southern New England called Gosule's death a "terrible tragedy." 
"Our hearts go out to Melissa Gosule's family and friends," said Robert Murray. "In our his­tory, we have never seen a case like this. We believe the auto club will be properly and com­pletely exonerated." 
Paul Martinek, editor in chief of Lawyers Weekly USA, a national legal newspaper, said the lawsuit was initially consid­ered a long shot, but some of the claims could resonate with a jury. 
"Proving that this was a fore­seeable danger is a huge chal­lenge -that AAA could have foreseen that a motorist would have accepted a ride from a total stranger and then be killed by that total stranger," Martinek said. 
months ago. "In nine years, there has never

Bust 
been a bust like that," he said. continued from page I He also told of recent develop­-------------ments that may have given 
Turtle Creek residents received Turtle Creek new motivation to a notice Sept. 5 that told them to enforce a new party policy. "expect increased police pres­"There were complaints [about ence in and around the proper­Turtle Creek] coming in through ty" during football season. the city attorney's office," said Williams said Turtle Creek man­Williams. "They can get fined if agement was not involved in the they don't comply." bust in any manner. However, he According to Williams, two to said that the property's manage­three officers used to be consid­ment does hire off-duty police ered enough security for Turtle officers as security for busy Creek on a busy weekend. party weekends, like football "There were always a lot of weekends and "Rally in the kids out there on football week­Alley." ends," said Williams, who would 
Williams lived at Turtle Creek hire one or two officers for foot­as a security officer for nine ball weekends and other big years and just moved out a few events, like "Rally," when he lived at Turtle Creek. 
He also added that part of the motivation for the bust came from the University, but he does not think their actions will cut down on partying before football games. 
"There's always been tailgat­ing at football games, whether it's college or professional, and there's always going to be tail­gating," Williams said. "They can only do so much." 
"I understand their position. as far as liability is concerned," he said. "I think the biggest fear of the University's is someone get­ting hurt and that bringing on a lawsuit." 
Contact Kevin Allen at kallen@nd.edu. 


STUDY IN BRAZIL 

INFORMATION SESSION 
Thurs. Sept. 11, 2003 
8:00-9:00 PM 


ROOM 125 HAYES-HEALY 
Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2003 for Spring 2004 Dec. 1, 2003 for Fall 2004 Applications available on-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud/ 
When it's the prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yearjob in the Far East, strategically chosen to match your career goal. Apply by November 7, 2003. 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end of May 2004) an ND degree? No east-Asia experience? 

For more information contact Nancy O'Connor at 631-5432 
I 






ORLD &NATION 
Tuesday, September 9, 2003 (0,\-\PlLED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Arab League grants Council seat 
CAIHO, Egypt-The Arab League unani­mously granted the U.S.-appointed Iraqi Governing Council the Baghdad seat on the pan-Arab body early Tuesgay -delivering a major boost to the Bush administration's post-war occupation. 
The decision ended weeks of debate within the 22-member League over whether to rec­ognize Iraq's interim authority, with oppo­rwnts fearing that acceptance of the interim Iraqi authority could be seen as a sign of support for the American invasion. 
The council was appointed July 13 after 
U.S. forces deposed Saddam Hussein's regime as an authority able to represent Iraq on the regional stage. 
Arab League foreign ministers issued a communique after their debate, saying the Governing Council had been granted Iraq's seat until a legitimate Iraqi government is formed and a new constitution drawn up. 
WW 11-era bombs found in China 
BEIJING-Construction workers digging a drainage ditch have unearthed dozens of World War 11-era Japanese bombs in an east­ern Chinese city, authorities said Monday, the latest development in a saga of old enmities that still resonate today. 
The 80 bombs turned up last Wednesday at the construction site in lleze, a city in the eastern Chinese province of Shandong. They "have been left by Japanese invaders during World War II," the official Xinhua News Agency concluded, citing Japanese writing still visible on the explosives. 
The rusty explosives are apparently con­ventional, not chemical, weapons, authorities said. But they are conducting tests to make sure. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bombing accomplices suspected 
EHIE. Pa.-Investigators said Monday that they were confident a pizza deliveryman did not act alone when he robbed a bank with a bomb locked to his neck and was killed when the device went ofT moments later. 
Brian Wells, 46, was stopped in his car. arrested and handcuffed Aug. 28 following a PNC Bank robbery ncar Erie, but was killed when the bomb attached to a collar locked around his neck exploded while he and police waited for the bomb squad. 
Authorities continued to search for two men seen nearby running through traffic about 45 minutes after Wells died. The FBI released sketches of the two men, saying it was not known if they had anything to do with the case. 


Finance reform law before Court 
WASIIINGTON -In a rare and lengthy special session, the Supreme Court consid­ered Monday whether a vast rewrite of the nation's laws governing money in politics unconstitutionally muzzles politicians, their supporters and opponents. 
Among other things, the law bans unlimit­ed "soft money" donations to political parties and tightens controls on political advertising in the weeks before an election. 
The Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act is in force while the Supreme Court weighs its future. A ruling is expected in time for the first presidential primaries next year. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Flood victims receive federal aid 
INDIANAPOLIS -Federal authorities said Monday they have begun taking disaster aid applications from central Indiana residents who suffered property damage from Labor Day weekend flooding. 
"Our goal is to make sure everyone knows how to apply and receives every dollar they're entitled to," FEMA spokesman Gene Homano said. 
The Federal Emergency Management Agency also said Tuesday will be the final day it will accept aid applications. 

Gov. O'Bannon in coma after stroke 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Indiana Gov. Frank O'Bannon suffered a massive stroke in his Chicago hotel room Monday and was in critical condition following sur­gery. 
The doctor who operated on the governor refused to speculate on O'Bannon's chances for recovery. 
"We're hoping he's going to recover function. How much, we don't know," said neurosurgeon Wesley Yapor. 
O'Bannon, a Democrat in his second term, was found Monday morning after a sta!T member called hotel security to say the governor had missed a morning meeting and was not answering his phone, said Northwestern Memorial Hospital spokes­woman Kelly Sullivan. 
Yapor said surgeons removed blood from both sides of O'Bannon's brain. The doctor said some of the blood probably came from an injury, suggesting that the governor fell after becoming ill. 
Yapor said O'Bannon, 73, was in a drug-induced coma and on a ventilator. 
Strokes are the leading cause of disability in the United States and the No. 3 killer. ernor had a physical three He coasted to re-election islative leaders, Kernan 
Most are ischemic months earlier and was in 2000, but his popularity said he would assume the strokes, caused when given "a clean bill of began to slide in his sec­governor's duties, but for­arteries feeding the brain health." ond term as the economy mal steps to transfer are blocked. but some are O'Bannon had been stay­faltered. power would not be taken caused by bleeding in the ing at the Palmer House He is barred by term immediately. brain. Hilton to attend a confer­limits from running again "I would just ask all 
The outcome depends on ence of the Midwest U.S.­next year. Hoosiers to join hands and how much bleeding lapan Association. The Indiana Constitution say a prayer," Kernan said. occurs, how much of the His wife, Judy, arrived allows for a transfer of The governor's chief of brain is affected, and how from Indiana at the hospi­power from the governor staff Tim Joyce met with long the patient goes with­tal along with their daugh­to lieutenant governor if O'Bannon staff members out treatment. ter Jennifer. Their other the governor is incapaci­Monday. "He implored 
Survivors can suffer adult children were en tated. However, that each of us to do the state's brain damage and often route, Sullivan said. requires a petition to be business as usual, because suffer permanent disabili­Indiana Lt. Gov. Joe filed by the president pro that's what the governor ty, including paralysis, loss Kernan, who was also at tern of the Senate and the would want," Dieter said. of speech and vision, and the Chicago conference, Speaker of the House and Former Illinois Gov. weakness. returned to Indianapolis, a ruling by the Indiana James Thompson said he 
"I think we're all just where officials researched Supreme Court. had seen O'Bannon at two hoping and praying at this succession procedures. House Speaker Patrick events Sunday night, and point for a quick recovery In his seven years as Bauer said he and Sen. saw no indication that any­for the governor, hoping governor, O'Bannon, a President Pro Tern Robert thing was wrong. this situation is not as seri­moderate known for his Garton were prepared to "He was right on. He was ous as is currently indicat­grandfatherly charm, has draft the necessary paper­affable, he was engaged, ed," said state House GOP forged alliances to reform work. The Supreme Court active, alert, talked. We Leader Brian Bosma. education and to try to justices were being assem­talked about mutual prob­
O'Bannon spokeswoman improve the state's econo­bled. lems of Indiana and Mary Dieter said the gov-my. After consulting with leg-Illinois," Thompson said. 

Annan plans m.eeting on future of Iraq 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -Secretary­General Kofi Annan launched a high-level diplomatic offensive Monday to get feuding nations to unite behind a plan to stabilize Iraq, and said the United Nations is pre­pared to play a major political role to quickly restore its sovereignty. 
Annan met late Monday with ambassadors from the Security Council and planned to meet Saturday in Geneva with foreign ministers from the five veto-wield­ing council nations -the United States. Russia, China. Britain and France. 
He said he also has been talking to officials in many countries and plans to engage Mideast leaders and Iraq's neighbors. 
"The discussions are at early stages yet," he said, "But my own sense is that Iraq is of such impor­tance that all of us will have to find a way of working together to stabi­lize Iraq." 
The Security Council is starting to debate a U.S.-proposed draft resolu­tion to get more peacekeeping troops and money into Iraq, but it faces tough opposition led by France and Germany. 
It would authorize a multinational force to replace the current U.S.-led force, but the United States would command the force and continue to run the civilian administration. France and Germany, which opposed the war on Iraq, are lead­ing demands for the quick restora­tion of Iraq's sovereignty and a larg­er U.N. role. 
U.S. Ambassador John Negroponte, who confirmed that Secretary of State Colin Powell would attend Saturday's meeting in Geneva, said the United States is waiting for suggested changes ­particularly from the four other per­manent members. 
The United States incorporated "a lot of ideas that have been given to us by other countries," he stressed, and "we think it's a constructive and important resolution." 


AFGHANISTAN 
Attacks leave five Afghan troops dead 
Associated Press 
KANDAHAR. Afghanistan­Suspected Taliban insurgents killed five Afghan government soldiers and wounded two U.S. soldiers in attacks in the south and east of Afghanistan, Afghan and U.S. military offi­cials said Monday. 
The attacks in three provinces highlighted the security challenge in America's other war. The top 
U.S. 
commander in Afghanistan, Lt. Gen. John Vines. warned Sunday that Taliban fighters, paid and trained by al-Qaida, were pouring into the country from neighboring Pakistan -a key 

U.S. 
ally in the war on terror. 


In Afghanistan's southern Kandahar province, the heart­land of the hardline Taliban regime before its ouster by U.S.-led forces in late 2001, insurgents late Sunday ambushed a pickup truck car­rying Afghan soldiers through a mountain gorge. 
Five soldiers were killed and five wounded, said Haji Granai, a military commander in the provincial capital, which lies about 25 miles south of where the attack hap­pened in Shah Wali Kot dis­trict. 
No group claimed responsi­bility, but Granai blamed the Taliban and said authorities arrested and were questioning 13 men with suspected links to the group. 
Three weeks ago, hundreds of Afghan government troops 
were sent to the same area, looking for Taliban remnants, he said. "This is a mountain­ous area. Taliban are hiding there." 
Shah Wali Kot is 85 miles southwest of the Dai Chupan mountains, the scene of intense fighting this month between U.S.-led coalition forces and Taliban. More than 100 Taliban were reported· killed in about nine days of ground fighting and bombing in the rugged region of Zabul province. One U.S. special operations soldier and an unknown number of Afghan soldiers also died. 
Meanwhile, two American soldiers were wounded Sunday as the coalition pressed the hunt for Taliban and al-Qaida fighters in east­ern Afghanistan. Both soldiers were evacuated to Bagram Air Base, coalition headquarters north of Kabul, for treatment. Neither was identified. 
One of the soldiers suffered a gunshot wound to his right leg during a firelight with five insurgents near a coalition base at Shkin in Paktika province, said Col. Rodney Davis, the U.S. military spokesman in Afghanistan. The insurgents retreated with no reported casualties, he said in a statement. 
The other soldier was shot in the right forearm in a clash near the coalition base at Bari Kowt in Kunar province, Davis said, adding there was no damage to coalition equip­mimt or report of enemy casu­alties. 


Approval likely for Bush's plan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Republicans and Democrats predicted Monday that Congress will approve the $87 billion President Bush wants for Iraq and Afghanistan, but many said they would demand more details on administration policy in both countries. 
With relentless American casualties, a paucity of allied support and a realization that the administration underesti­mated the operation's price tag, lawmakers seem embold­ened to play a stronger role in shaping the measure than they did when they quickly approved an initial $79 billion package in April. 
Democrats juxtaposed the proposal with Bush's opposi­tion to added funds for American schools and other domestic programs. They also voiced doubt that even $87 bil­lion -nearly triple the Homeland Security Department's total budget ­would be enough. 
"Already facing a nearly half-trillion-dollar deficit, American taxpayers deserve to know how this spending will affect our ability to address the unmet needs in our own country," said House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif. 
"This may not be Vietnam, but boy it sure smells like it," Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, said on the Senate floor. "And every time I see these bills coming down for the money, it's costing like Vietnam. too." 
Other Democrats, such as Sen. Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts. were prepar­ing to demand that, as a con­dition for the money, Bush would have to tell Congress his assessment of the size of the U.S. military commitment to administration officials said Iraq and schedules for remov­they expected $50 billion to ing American forces. $60 billion of their plan to be 
An amendment seeking such spent next year -which conditions seemed unlikely to would bring the projected pass the Senate. But a debate 2004 deficit to $525 billion to over it could give Democrats $535 billion. an opportunity to spend time In that same briefing, one criticizing Bush's Iraq policy a official acknowledged that year before the presidential "the level of decay and under­election. investment in the Iraqi infra­
Democrats were not alone in structure was worse than ... seeking answers. almost anyone on the outside 
Republican Rep. Zach Wamp anticipated earlier this year." of Tennessee said, "It's a huge . Republican leaders, hoping number, and Congress needs to lay the groundwork for to step up to its constitutional speedy work by the GOP-run responsibility to vet the Congress, expressed support request and put as many ques­for the president's plan. . tions to the president as we Senate Majority Leader Bill can." Frist, R-Tenn .. who spent 
Wamp said he wanted ways much of the day in his home to measure progress in state with Bush, said the pro­rebuilding Iraq and would posal "warrants the support of push for U.S. investment there Congress." And House to be partly repaid by revenue Appropriations Committee raised by Iraq's oil industry. Chairman Bill Young. R-Fia., 
The entire proposal would whose panel will help write be paid for out of federal Congress' versjon. said he deficits already expected to would "aggressively expedite shatter previous records. In a the president's request" briefing for reporters, senior through the committee. 


you athante to walk 
•The Sacraments of Initiation 
with someone a~ you 
BAPTISM, EucHARIST & CoNFIRMATION:
explore your faith and 
for unbaptized persons wanting to
find your place in the become amember of the Catholic Church.
Church. Join us on thiS adventure offaith. 
For more ir~fo, 
• FULL COMMUNION:
contact: 
Tami Schmitz 
for baptized persons seeking Full Communion in the
@ 
Sunday, Sept. 14th 
1:00pm -2:00pm Candidates 2:00pm -3:00pm Sponsors 330 Coleman-Morse Center 


631-3016 
Catholic tradition. 
308 Coleman­Morse Center 
C-M 
Sunday, Sept. 7th
RCIA 
t'"'tmdidates & Sponsors

INFO 
3:00pm • 4:00pm
SESSIONS · 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
------------------------------------------------------~ 
r-------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, September 9, 2003 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow jones  9 586.29 '  
t.~.  
AMEX  996.7$  

NASDAQ 1,888.62 
NYSE 67Q .. 'Z1 .::::: j::.:.:.. ;fq;jq ::·:::. S&P500 1,031.64 +10.25 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE ORACLE SYSTEMS (ORCL) +3.06 +0.40 13.48 INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.64 +0.47 29.18 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +3.44 +0.14 4.241 JDS UNIPHASE (JDSU) +5.25 +0.20 4.01 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +1.62 +0.46 28.84 
IN BRIEF 
WorldCom close to settlement 
NEW YOHK-MCI was close to settling Monday with two groups of creditors that opposed a deal to repay just a fraction of the company's $41 billion debt, prompting a sur­prise adjournment as hearings began on a plan to emerge from bankruptcy. 
A settlement could remove the last major obstacle that the company formerly known as WorldCom faces in persuading a bankruptcy court to approve the long-distance carrier's financial reorganization after a ruinous accounting scandal. 
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Arthur Gonzalez said the talks between MCI and two groups holding close to $1 billion in combined claims against the company appeared to be showing enough progress to allow the parties another day to negotiate. 
Probe denied in Stewart case 
NEW YORK -A federal judge said Monday she saw no indication of a breach of grand jury secrecy in the Martha Stewart case, rejecting defense demands that the govern­ment investigate the source of pre-indictment leaks. 
U.S. District Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum said she found it difficult to understand how lawyers for the home deco­rating maven believed their client might have been prejudiced if someone had leaked the fact that the indictment would not include a charge of insider trading. 
The lawyers said the leaks violated federal rules that make grand jury proceedings confi­dential, and might have influenced grand jurors before they handed up the indictment against Stewart and her ex-stockbroker, Peter Bacanovic. 




TV Guide revamped to boost sales 
LOS ANGELES -A redesigned TV Guide magazine hit the stands Monday as the pub­lisher of the 50-year-old title struggles to revive the neglected brand. 
The magazine carries a new logo, an expanded movie guide on salmon-colored paper, shorter articles, more viewing recom­mendations and easier to read prime-time channel listing grids. 
The magazine also has a new slogan: "We see everything." 
The circulation of TV Guide has fallen dra­matically. from more than 19 million in the 1970s to about 9 million today. 
The company will spend $10 million to mar­ket TV Guide with the goal of adding 750,000 new subscribers by the end of the year. 

Media merger wins FCC approval 
WASHINGTON -The government will allow Univision Communications Inc., the nation's largest Spanish-language media con­glomerate, to expand its reach in the growing Hispanic community by purchasing Hispanic Broadcasting Corp. for $3.5 billion, Federal Communications Commission officials said Monday. 
An official announcement of the FCC vote had been expected late Monday but was delayed for unknown reasons. 
+82.95 
CompositE Vohone: 1,297,813,000 

+30.38 

THE OBSERVER. 


USINESS 
Page 7 

La-wsuits filed against music sharers 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The music industry's largest trade group filed 261 copyright lawsuits across the country Monday against Internet users who trade songs online, an aggressive campaign to discourage piracy through fears of expen­sive civil penalties or set­tlements. 
The Hecording Industry Association of America warned it ultimately may tile thousands of cases. Its first round was aimed at what it described as "major offenders" illegal­ly distributing on average more than 1 ,000 copy­righted music files each. 
"Some of my grandkids got in there," said Durwood Pickle, 71, of Hichardson, Texas, who said his son had explained the situation in an e-mail to the recording industry association. "I didn't do it, and I don't feel like I'm responsible. It's been stopped now, I guarantee you that." 
Pickle said his teen­aged grandchildren used his computer during visits to his home. 
''I'm not a computer­type person," Pickle said. "They come in and get on the computer. How do I get out of this? Dadgum it, got to get a lawyer on this." 
Another defendant, Lisa Schamis of New York, said her Internet provider warned her two months ago that record industry lawyers had asked for her name and address. but she said she had no idea she might be sued. She acknowledged download­ing "lots" of music over file-sharing networks. 
"This is ridiculous," said Schamis, 26. "People like me who did this, I didn't understand it was illegal." 
"I can understand why the music industry is upset about this, but the fact that we had access to this as the public, I don't think gives them the right to sue us. It's wrong on their part." said Schamis, 

Getty A man listens to new releases at a music store In New York City. Blaming the slump In record sales on file-sharing software, the Recording Industry Association of America began filing lawsuits against Individuals Illegally downloading music. 
who added she is unem­ployed and would be unable to pay any large fine or settlement. 
An estimated 60 million Americans participate in file-sharing networks, using software that makes it simple for computer users to locate and retrieve for free virtually any song by any artist within moments. 
Internet users broadly acknowledge music-trad­ing is illegal, but the practice has flourished in recent years since copy­right statutes are among the most popularly flouted laws online. 
"Nobody likes playing the heavy," said RIAA President Cary Sherman, who compared illegal music downloads to shoplifting. "There comes a time when you have to stand up and take appro­priate action." 
Sen. Norm Coleman, R­Minn., has already prom­ised congressional hear­ings into how the music industry has identified and tracked the Internet users it's suing. 
"They have a legitimate interest that needs to be protected, but are they protecting it in a way that's too broad and over­reaching?" Coleman said. "I don't want to make criminals out of 60 mil­lion kids, even though kids and grandkids are doing things they should­n't be doing." 

The RIAA did not identi­fy for reporters which Internet users it was suing or where they live. Federal courthouses in 
New York, Boston, Chicago, San Francisco, Dallas and elsewhere reported receiving some lawsuits; court officials were assigning them to judges. 
"Get a lawyer," advised Fred von Lohmann, a lawyer for the San Francisco-based Electronic Frontier Foundation. "There's no simpler advice than that, whether you intend to fight this or not. You'll need someone to advise you." 
With estimates that half of file-sharers are teenagers. all sides braced for the inevitable legal debate surrounding the financial damage to parents or grandparents, who the HIAA plans to hold responsible. 

Foreign workers keep U.S. cotnpetitive 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Curtailing immi­gration of skilled foreign profession­als to the United States will hurt U.S. global competitiveness. inhibit inno­vation and job growth and send high technology and research jobs to other countries. according to a study released Monday. 
The study says that while U.S. security must be protected, immigra­tion policies should encourage and ease the legal flow of high-and low­skilled workers to keep the country competitive in recruiting talented workers. 
The study was conducted by the American Immigration Law Foundation's Immigration Policy Center, a nonprofit organization that supports immigration. 
"America's strength lies in its openness," said Stuart Anderson, the study's author who recently left the now defunct Immigration and Naturalization Service policy plan­ner. 
Anderson said despite complaints that foreign workers are taking American jobs, statistics show that 
U.S. employers have not been ram­pantly hiring foreign workers who enter on H1-B visas for temporary workers with specialty occupations. 
Anderson's study found that I-!1-B hiring rises and falls with economic times, numbering 164,000 in 2001 and dropping to 79,100 in fiscal year 2002. 
The national H1-B worker cap of 195,000 a year is scheduled to be reduced to 65,000 a year on Oct. 1. 
Employer abuse of the program to find cheap labor also is not wide­spread, he said. 
In 2002, the Department of Labor found only seven willful violations or required removal from the program, even though the agency has increased investigations, Anderson said. 
The workers also help provide money for training Americans for high tech or engineering jobs. 
A critic of guest worker programs said rather than import foreign workers, job wages, benefits and conditions should be improved so more American workers are interest­ed in filling those jobs or researching in the fields currently filled by 111-B workers. 




Enjoying the non-traditional football traditions 
As I take time out of my busy senior schedule to reflect on this past week­end, and the banquet of Boca burgers and beer to which I was privy, it's easy to feel like I'm the luckiest man 
alive. Not to  
mention the  David Barrett  
manliest.  
Of course, the  
hourly aloe  
treatment  Jigga Geoff  
makes me feel a  
little less  
rugged, but not  

when I remember that it is the only way to ensure an expeditious recovery from multiple burns to the forearms. 
It was a grill accident resulting from a manual match-lighting at our Saturday morning tailgate. The igni­tion -auto-gauge-button-meter-thing wouldn't play nice, so we had to improvise. Or maybe it did in fact work, and we just prefer to do things manually instead. Manually and manly are pretty much one and the same. Either way, there is a penalty to pay for such rash, disorderly behav­ior. It's singed forearm hair, a terrible smelling downstairs to your apart­ment and eternal notoriety for being so dang manly. 
That wasn't all that went wrong on Saturday. The long dreamt-of tug o' war duel in our backyard never mate­rialized. Perhaps it was a result of poor party planning, or more proba­ble, because Lowes doesn't carry ropes that thick. 
Visions of long ago Field Days flashed before our eyes. We relived great tug o' war triumphs and lament­ed the equally great tug o' war defeats. Perhaps no other game, in the history of manly men, captured the masculine identity quite the way tug o' war did. We considered both the shotput and the pommelhorse, yet both lacked the simple appeal and practicality that thoughts of one rope and dozens of grunting men conjured up. 
Unable to locate an adequate rope, however, we settled for a somewhat tamer Saturday tailgate. 
There is something special about masses of people beating down your door at 8 a.m. demanding nourish­ment. There is even something kind of special about losing half of your glass­ware to thirsty freshmen who show little regard for personal property and feel no need to return family heir­looms that they pilfered from your kitchen cabinetry. Even if they are plastic, we want them back. 
Our living room was a certified sea of green by 10 a.m., as was every other apartment at Turtle Creek. It was nice to see police officers sending kids long also magical. The Notre Dame hot dogs are still good, maybe even better than they were last year. The condi­ment udders are still the coolest things any of us have ever seen and might ever hope to see. The half dol­lar pieces are still apparently in circu­lation, contrary to popular opinion. They might provide a shade of facility for the overwhelmed concession cashiers, but we still hate them. 
These are the little things that don't make it into the volumes dedicated to Notre Dame football, but they are the things I will personally miss most when I graduate in May. 
Did you know that thousands of RVs gather in a giant field beyond Stepan Center and the Credit Union to cele­
brate each and every 
Irish win? Not only 

rather than taking them are the people friend­
On football

captive in their cruisers. ly and the food free.
Saturdays, the

Order was restored, so to but unlike the BMW­say, in the alleys of Turtle impossible becomes dominated Legends Creek. parking lot, the RVs
possible.

In addition, the football team relived past glories on the sacred sod, squeaking one out against the overmatched Cougars. The September sun proved plenty hot for most at the game, turning us from the sea of green into the Red Sea. At the end of the game, only three questions remained: 
Would the fans once again bumrush the field? 
Would the field be able to withstand such a bumrush? 
Would the design for "The Shirt" ever change, and if it didn't, would people still continue to buy a new one each year? 
Ye of little faith who might have questioned the tenacity of the Fighting Irish, your concerns have now been answered. We are still tenacious, we are still magical, and we will relive the glory. We are living it, baby. 
The concessions once again were 
are permitted to tail­gate well into the night. 
It took me until senior year to real­ize how many viable alternatives there are to simply going home and passing out on a couch. On football Saturdays, the impossible becomes possible. You can play beanbag toss, Bocce ball or tug o' war without drawing unwanted attention. You can pinball from RV to RV, to that little bus with a full deck on its roof. to cele­brate with people who really know how to celebrate. All it takes is a little initiative, a little bit of aloe Uust in case) and a lot of rope. 
David Barrett is a senior economics and philosophy major. Contact him at dbarret 1 @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Has the University implemented enough 
'1t is man that makes truth great, 

alternative programming for students? 
not truth that makes man great. " 
Confucius Chinese philosopher 

Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 9, 2003 page 9 
Make your education mean something 
"And when we allow freedom to ring. when we let it ring from every village and hamlet, from every state and city, we will be able to speed up that day when 
all of God's  
children ­ Peter Quaranto  
black men  
and white  
men, Jews and  A Call to Action  
Gentiles.  
Catholics  
and  
Protestants ­ will be able to join  

hands and to sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual, 'Free at last. free at last; thank God Almighty, we are free at last."' 
Some 40 years ago, Martin Luther King, Jr. spoke these words of hope to an embittered and poor yet committed audience in front of our country's great Lincoln memorial. Today, though we may be unaware and untouched, these same words resound throughout the whole of our campus, through every dorm and every classroom. Our very nducation is soaked with the legacy of the many great social prophets. activists and leaders of our past. 
Whiln the temptation is surely to retreat into the bubble that can be Notre Dame, we are called to a greater awareness and action in tunc with the legacy of those who came before us. We are called to awareness and action. 
First of all, there is awareness. Notre Dame can easily be a Catholic Disneyland, where the intense football frenzy, blazing sea nuggets at South Dining Hall, bouncin' SYH dances and good times at Core class stifle the desire to interact with the rest of the world. That is not to say that these things are bad in them­selves, but that if they serve as a distraction from engaging the rest of humanity and the harsh realities faced, they can be harm­ful. 
So let's talk about engaging the rest of the world. Did you know that Aung Sang Suu Kyi, the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize laureate, is currently in a prison in Myanmar (formerly BuJ:ma) and reported to be engaging in a hunger strike, similar to the tactics of the great Mahatma Gandhi in the 1930s and 1940s? 
Or did you know that President Bush just asked Congress for $87 billion in emergency spending for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan? 
Or that the current U.S. census shows that the ranks of the poor rose by 1.3 million in the last year? 
If you are a New York Times reader, these realities are obvious to you, but if not, you are out of touch. Heading the newspaper can be a quick road to aware­ness. 
On a level closer to home, did you know that Desmond Tutu, the 1984 Nobel Peace Prize laureate and archbishop emeritus of South Africa, is going to be here on campus speaking this Thursday? A man who very much changed the course of history through his actions is speaking this Thursday at McKenna Hall at 7:30p.m. at 
part of the Kroc Institute for 
International Peace Studies con­ference entitled "Peacebuilding After Peace Accords." 
For that matter, most people probably do not even know that Notre Dame has the Kroc Institute, which is located in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies building, offers a supplementary major or minor for undergraduates and is home to some very amazing pro­fessors who have done work all over the world. Awareness is the key, and we all have to work on it, myself most definitely includ­ed. 
The second step and the result of such awareness must be action. Just as King wrote in his famous "Letter from Birmingham City Jail" some 40 years ago, "We must come to see that human progress never rolls in on wheels of inevitability. It comes through tireless efforts and persistent work of men willing to be co­workers with God." 
So, what does it mean to be a co-worker with God? My experi­ence is that this means a lot more than simply going to classes. For me, this means using my privi­leges. gifts and education to take action for a more just and humane world. For you, it may mean something different, but the key is that it means some­thing; the key is that you take this call seriously. 
Here at Notre Dame. we have so many opportunities to be co­workers with God, whether it be being a Big Brother or Big Sister to an underprivileged kid, work­ing at the Center for the Homeless. going on a trip to Appalachia over fall break, work­ing for a social cause or even just being a good listener to the per­son down the hall who is home­sick. 
And the beauty that goes with such opportunities is that so many people at Notre Dame take advantage of them and do so much good with the world. If you want to get involved, visit the Center for Social Concerns. It is in this way that we are co-workers with God and conscious of those who came before us. 
As we move forward in this semester. I intend to use this col­umn as a way of bringing up dif­ferent social issues and concerns that call us to a greater aware­ness and action. We have a spe­cial duty as both a Catholic uni­versity and a privileged academic institution to use our resources, energies and gifts to act for peace and justice. I pray that we live up to such a great and challenging duty in the days ahead. I pray that we make our education meaningful. 
Peter Quaranta is a sophomore history and international peace studies major. Contact him at pquarant@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Notre Dame is quite properly proud of its Academic Code of Honor. Yet our honor code is not in the best of health. Many, many faculty are ignoring their responsibilities under .the code. Many, many students are cheating and getting away with it. We need to face up to these 
Thomas Flint 
facts and to consider what, if anything, we ought to do about them. 
Guest
These are some of the 
Columnist
conclusions I have reached after one year as Faculty Honor Code Officer. The recent shift in honor code proce­dures has made it possible for us to attain a University-wide picture of how the honor code is being implemented. And that picture is rather disturbing. 
Research on college cheating suggests that a university such as Notre Dame would have hundreds if not thousands of honor code viola­tions each year. Professor Donald McCabe of Hutgers University, the best-known contempo­rary researcher on academic integrity, con­ducted an extensive survey in 1999. Among students at private schools with an honor code (i.e., schools like Notre Dame), 23 percent admitted to cheating at least once on tests. while 45 percent said they had cheated at least once on written work. 
If the numbers at Notre Dame are compara­ble to those found by McCabe, more than 1,800 Notre Dame students cheat on tests, while more than 3,600 cheat on written work. This means that at least 5,400 violations of the honor code have been committed by current undergraduates, with approximately 1,000 being committed in any given year. 
How many honesty committee hearings actu­ally took place last year? Forty. Yes, 40: 29 in Arts and Letters, six in Business, five in Science and none in Engineering. Unless Notre Dame students are far more honest than their col­leagues at comparable institutions, honor code violations are leading to hearings only about 4 percent of the time. 
It would be foolish, of course. to suggest that this figure is anything more than a reasonable estimate. But the general point seems to me undeniable: Only a tiny fraction of honor code violations are resulting in honor code hearings. 
Why are so few infractions leading to hear­ings? 1\vo explanations seem most plausible. First, many students are cheating without get­ting caught. And second, many faculty who do become aware of academic dishonesty are choosing to handle things on their own. 
Ifthese two factors do explain the low num­ber of honesty hearings, should we be con­cerned? Yes. Widespread academic dishonesty, whether or not such dishonesty is caught by faculty, is a blemish upon the character of our University. If "successful" cheating at Notre Dame is as prevalent as I have speculated, it should be a significant source of shame for the student body. 
Similarly disturbing is the behavior of the faculty. It's easy to understand why professors are tempted to act unilaterally when they sus­pect academic dishonesty. Some may be igno­rant of their responsibilities under the honor code; some may believe they can "protect" the student by settling the m!J.tter privately. 
Other less honorable motives may also be present. At a university where terms such as "faculty governance" elicit sardonic smiles, the classroom is one of the few places where the power of the instructor is genuine and unchal­lenged. Hence, many professors resist surren­dering control over the grade of a student sus­pected of cheating. 
Furthermore. honesty hearings take more time and energy than simply confronting the student in question and deciding on the spot what penalty to impose. And faculty are hardly immune to the lure of cutting corners. 
Whatever the motives for faculty non-compli­ance, there are strong reasons for thinking that this failure to abide by the responsibilities of the job is having deleterious consequences. 
First, history and common sense suggest that justice is best served when judgment is ren­dered communally rather than individually. Though faculty will surely strive to be fair, an instructor who (in most cases) feels that his or her trust has been betrayed by an act of appar­ent dishonesty is hardly in the ideal position to judge fairly and dispassionately. 
Furthermore, faculty who fashion private penalties are opening the door to the possibility of serial offenders. If the honor code is fol­lowed, students who commit a second violation will be identified and (usually) suspended or dismissed from the University. 
Where private "deals" are made, this safe­guard against recidivism disappears. Indeed, the door to a further inequity is opened. An "unlucky" student whose teachers abide by the honor code can be dismissed after two ofl'ens­es; a "lucky" one whose teachers ignore the code can commit any number of offenses with­out further disciplinary action. 
Finally, most faculty who engage in such acts of non-compliance ironically exhibit a kind of dishonesty themselves. They know (or should know) that the code requires them to act in a certain way. Yet they are failing to act in that way. And, of course, most of them are making their deals secretly, since they know that they have an obligation to act otherwise. One can only wonder what moral lessons are really being taught by faculty who act in this manner. 
None of us, then, should be complacent about the current situation. Students and faculty alike have reason to look for ways to rectify matters. In the second part of this column, I will discuss one semi-radical change we might want to con­sider. 
Thomas P. Flint is a professor ofphilosophy. This column is first in a two-part series. Contact him at flint. I @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, September 9, 2003 
VIDEO GAME REVIEW 
When ND football once a week isn't enough 
By TROY ANDROLl Scene Writer 
If you can't make it through the week without your lix of blocked punts, safeties and mascots, or if you're frustrated that you can never see the Fighting Irish play the Golden Gophers of Minnesota, EA Sports just may have your solution. 
NCAA Football 2004 was released over the summer and is a must-have for any video game library. 
The game-play is about the same as any other football game produced in recent memory, so if you've ever played a Madden game, you can pretty much handle the con­trols. One of the many novelties of this game is the obvious one that you can play as Notre Dame, which means that you can sack the quarterback with the guy who 
NCAA Football 
2004 
EA Sports 


used to borrow your toothpaste or score a touchdown with that guy who's in front of you in class. Once you get past that, this game has so much more to offer. 
There's dynasty mode that lets you take the role of the head coach and Athletic Director. Players need to be recruited, schedules made and National Championships won. You're put in the dri­ver's seat and you have to build your pro­gram up to challenge year after year for the national championship, while at the same time losing players to graduation and recruiting more to fill the ranks. 
Even regular exhibition games are fun to play. You have a huge selection of 1-A and 1-AA teams and, as an extra bonus, there are a slew of playable classic teams. If you're ever in a sadistic mood, you can pit the 1924 Notre Dame team against Middle Tennessee State and watch the carnage 
that ensues. 
Yet another 


fun feature is the college classic option. This one is per­sonally my favorite. You're given a :-eal historical situa­tion, one of the best games played in the past 25 years or so; and you· either have to match a his­toric comeback 
VIDEO GAME REVIEW 
Newest Madden is·the best yet 
functions. While learning the new con­trols can seem overwhelming at first, it is both fun and extremely effective once mastered. With playmaker mode, you can use the right analog stick to change defensive coverage, the primary receiv­er's route or the direction of a running play before the snap. 
The most important application of the new controls presents itself when you are running downfield with one defender and one lead blocker between you and the goal line. In the past, you may have been dismayed to watch your lead block­er ineptly run the other way as you got flattened, preventing what would have been a sure touchdown. Now, simply point the right analog stick in the direc­tion of the defender, watch your runner point at him and call for help, and watch your lead blocker flatten him with a bone-crushing block as you 
with your cur-· rent players, negotiate trades with other teams and cut. those who just couldn't hack it in the NFL. Owner mode 
·provides us with a multi­tude of fea­tures we never even noticed were missing. 
After spend­ing .the pre­season setting ticket prices, concession prices, park­ing prices and merchandise prices, I couldn't help but wonder how I ever played without owner mode. As the owner, the levels at. which you set prices and the success of your team directly affects the bottom line. Set prices too high or lose too many games and watch attendance plummet as you struggle to find enough cash to pay your players. Lower ticket prices to below the league average and win the Super Bowl, and you're on easy street for the next year or two. 
If that sounds too detailed and mun­dane for you football fanatics out there, 
By VINCENT McKINNEY: Scene Writer 
For more than a decade, the Madden series of football video games has been turning out quality games and has become the clear-cut leader of the genre. While it would be easy for EA Sports to take this into account and offer little to no innovation each year, they have instead outdone themselves once again with their latest edition of Madden, Madden NFL 2004. Playmaker controls and owner's mode, the two major additions to this year's game, are the most revolutionary ideas to be imple­mented in many years. 
Playmaker mode incorporates the rarely-used right analog stick into the game in order to perform a variety of high-step into the end zone. 

Owner mode is Madden's newest improvement upon the ever­popular fran­chise mode. Before, fran­chise mode gave you the power to sign draft picks and free agents, negoti­ate contracts 
Madden 
2004 
EA Sports 


or change history and win the game as the team that lost it. The game puts you in at the end of the game in a critical situation and you have to finish it out. After you do, the teams are unlocked as classic teams for regular game-play. This is a great feature, because not only can you play the great games that you remember watching when you were little, but they're short enough that you can play during your lunch break or between classes and not have to worry about being late. The only frustrating part about this mode is overtime. Many of the classic games were actually played before the NCAA overtime rule, and yet if you tie at the end of regulation, you play overtime as ifthe game were played today. 
Beyond that, the limit of my frustrations has to do more with the NCAA than the game itself. Players' names are not allowed to appear in the game -only their nuJl!­bers. This can prove to be a little annoying but only detracts a little from the game. Overall, this game is definitely worth both your time and money. 
Contact Troy Androli at tandroli@nd.edu 


owner's mode can be turned off to avoid the extra work. If it sounds great to the rest of you, I agree. The number of fea­tures and surprises contained in the game cannot nearly be described in one small review and, without a doubt, EA Sports' latest offering is a must-have. Once you experience everything there is to do in Madden NFL 2004, you will wonder how you ever got along without the new features. 
Contact Vincent McKinney at vmckinne@nd.edu 
.. 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, September 9, 2003 
page ll 
ESPN's 'The Season' features Irish 
Weekly show will follow the Notre Dame football season both on and off the field 



ANDY KENNA/The ObseiVer Irish fans can now watch touchdowns each Saturday and behind the scenes action each Tuesday. 
By SCOTT FONFERKO 
Scmc Writer 
Last yPar, tlw Notre Dame football tearri nntercd the snason with a new coach, a new spirit and a burning desire to return to glory. 
Thi~ yPar. the Fighting Irish take the liPid with the same coach. the same spir­it. till' sanu• goal-and an ESPN camera rrPw recording their every step along llw way. 
!>tiP to the success and renewed repu­tation of tlw Notre Dame football pro­gram. I~SI'N decided to feature the Irish for its show "The Season." Every Tul~sday night, the sports network will air a W-minute episode following Notre Damn and the team. both on and off the lield. 
"The Season," which started a few years ago, has followed such teams as St. John's college basketball program and the Oklahoma Sooners college foot­ball program. The show followed both the succnsses and failures in the lives of coaches and play·ers. 
"Tlw Season" was created when pro­ducers decided to film a different South Eastern Conference (SEC) 
school each week during foot­ball season. following them through preparations for the games. the games themselves and the happenings of a colle­giate sports program. 
On their filming adventures of SEC schools. ESPN featured the Louisiana State University Tigers. the University of South Carolina Gamecocks and the University of Georgia Bulldogs, along with a few other schools also included in the SEC. 
"The Season's" crew lilms the week-long preparations for each upcoming game. "The Season" taped the numerous practices, whether physical or mental, such as when the team sat down to watch film footage from the opposition to prepare themselves for their tactics. The show also revealed numerous other traditions that the specified school participated in to prepare themselves for the game on Saturday. "The Season" gives an in­depth view of each school's athletic pro­gram by going behind the scenes into the locker room and through the rigorous training. 
"The Season" approached former Irish head football coach Bob Davie tw0 years ago but was forced unexpectedly to conclude filming their season before the first episode even aired. Complications arose and upset Davie; the crew for "The Season" overstepped its allotted guidelines, forcing Davie to remove the ESPN crew from the locker room. 
This year. the producers of "The Season" approached Coach Tyrone Willingham to follow the Irish as they progress through the 2003 football sea­son. Willingham agreed, as long as they follow his guidelines. lie set forth strict rules and regulations for the crew; they arc not allowed inside the !:"ish locker room or at Irish staff meetings. Willingham does not want the influence of ESPN to get in the way of their focus on linding success in their football sea­son. lie has informed ESPN that, if "The Season" crew interrupts or affects the team in any negative manner, they are to leave. 
ESPN began its coverage of the Notre Dame program with the start of training in early August. It plans to show how the roaching staff prepares each and every player for the upcoming season. 
.... ·u·.-.··...,E,:··.·.' 
Although Notre Dame has been nation­ally televised every Saturday for the last decade, "The Season" provides a unique view into the heart of the tradition that Irish fans consider to be Notre Dame. From student managers painting the football helmets each week to the famed student section that has turned into a "Sea of Green," there is more tradition in Notre Dame football than in most schools. "The Season" reveals a glimpse of what goes on behind closed doors, showing a Notre Dame that most people, 
even students and fans, never see. 
This season, with "The Shirt" reading "Here Come The Irish," Notre Dame intends to be known as a terror in the eyes of their opponents. The Irish are already revered as one of the teams to beat for the 2003 season. 
Whether the Irish play well or not. Notre Dame has. and always will be, a team that colleges will want to play. 
They represent prestige that has culmi­
nated in years of success. It is only 
expected that such a storied program as 
Notre Dame will finally be rec­ognized for the heritage and tradition it has promoted for decades. 
Part of the heritage includes The Four Horsemen and Knute Rockne, but from there, the list goes on. Eleven national cham­pionships have graced the walls of the house that Hockne built. 
Fitting as it is. the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame will finally have their story told. They will no longer simply appear on NBC Saturday afternoon during the football season. For one hour a week, people can look in on this hallowed Notre Dame football program -"The Season:.Inside Notre Dame." 
This look into Notre Dame football premieres tonight at 7 
• p.m. South Bend time. It will air for the next 10 weeks on the same night and time, giving Irish fans all over the country an opportunity to take a deeper look into a developing program, which many fans hope will bring even more glory and honor to Notre Dame football. 
Contact Scott Fonferko at sfonferko@hcc-nd.edu 

t;Hif' MAHKtill he UbseiVer After an aborted attempt to film the football team under Coach Bob Davie, "The Season" Is back to tape Coach Tyrone Willingham's team. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Braves' Ortiz settles down to win career-high 19th 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Russ Ortiz bounced back from another shaky start for his career-high 19th win and the Atlanta Braves rallied for a 6-4 victory over the Philadelphia Phillies, who dropped into a tie with Florida for the NL wild card Monday. 
Ortiz (19-6) gave up four runs in the top of the first, then pitched five scoreless innings while the Braves mounted a comeback against one of their former pitchers, Kevin Millwood. 
Mark DeRosa hit a two-run homer in the bottom half of the first and scored the go-ahead run in the fifth, scoring from third when Andruw Jones hit into a double play with the bases loaded. 
The Marlins pulled even in the wild-card race with a 5-0 victo­ry over the New York Mets. Florida and Philadelphia are 12 games behind Atlanta in the .NL East. 
The game drew only 17,543, the smallest crowd in Turner Field's seven-year history. 
Ortiz, who has four more wins than anyone in the NL, was 18-9 with San Francisco in 1999. He 'II get three or four more starts this season, needing just one more victory for the first 20­win season of his career. 
Mike Lieberthal hit a three­run homer off Ortiz in the first, which wasn't anything new. The Atlanta ace has given up 26 of his 94 runs in the opening inning. 
Ortiz was constantly behind in the count, throwing just 51 of 110 pitches for strikes. He walked four to take over the NL lead in that category from Chicago's Kerry Wood with 93 for the season. 
But Ortiz allowed only three hits and cruised after the Phillies left the bases loaded in the second. Philadelphia had only two baserunners from the third through sixth innings ­one on a hit batter, the other Qn Ortiz's final walk. 

Ray King pitched 1 1-3 score­less innings, Jaret Wright got the final two outs in the eighth, and Will Cunnane pitched the ninth for the second save of his career-and the last two days. 
The 29-year-old journeyman, who got out of a jam with run­ners on first and third with two outs in the ninth, is filling in as the closer for John Smoltz, expected to be on the disabled list for another week with a sore elbow.. 
Astros 8, Brewers 4 
Roy Oswalt returned from the disabled list and Jeff Bagwell and Lance Berkman each had three RBis as the Houston Astros beat the Milwaukee Brewers Monday night. 
The victory, Houston's fourth in five games, put the Astros in a first-place tie with the idle Chicago Cubs. 
Oswalt (7 -5), sidelined since July 30 with a strained right groin, was activated from the 15-day disabled list Monday. The right-hander allowed four earned runs on five hits in five innings to win for the first time since July 18. 
Berkman gave Houston a 3-0 lead in the top of the first with a three-run double on a 3-2 pitch from Wayne Franklin (10-12). 
Franklin, who leads the majors in home runs allowed, served up a two-run shot to Bagwell in the fourth to make it 5-0 lead. 
Wes Helms cut the deficit to 5­3 with a three-run shot with two outs in the fourth, but Houston pulled away with single runs in the fifth and sixth innings. 
Richard Hidalgo hit a solo homer, his 23rd of the season, to give Houston a 6-3 lead in the fifth. 
After Bill Hall hit a run-scor­ing single in the fifth, Bagwell got the run back with an RBI double in the sixth. 
Milwaukee lost its fourth game in a row and five of seven overall. 
Pirates 9, Reds 1 
Josh Fogg and the Pittsburgh Pirates like facing the Reds ­especially in Cincinnati. 
Fogg threw his first major league complete game, and Craig Wilson homered twice and tied his career high with four RBis as the Pirates beat the Reds on Monday night. 
Fogg (9-8) gave up 10 hits and no walks while striking out nine -one shy of his career high ­to improve to 3-0 in his career -all this season -against the Reds. 
The Pirates improved to 6-0 this season at Great American Ball Park and, dating to last sea­son, have won seven in a row in Cincinnati for the first time since May 31-Sept. 26, 1937. 
The complete game was the second in a row for Pittsburgh. Kip Wells went the distance in a 2-1 loss at Atlanta on Sunday. Fogg threw 113 pitches, 80 of them strikes. 
Wilson had three hits as the Pirates scored nine runs, which . matched their highest scoring output in any of their last 18 games. 
John Bale (1-2) allowed six hits, but three were home runs. He walked one and struck out three. 
Marlins ~. Mets 0 
Josh Beckett knew what it was all about-for the Florida Marlins. 
Beckett held New York to four hits over six innings as the Marlins beat the Mets Monday 

Atlanta Infielder Mark DeRosa hits a 2-run home run In the first Inning In the Braves 6-4 victory Monday night. 
night and moved into a tie for the NL wild card. 
Until the Marlins scored four times in the ninth, it appeared that Alex Gonzalez's third­inning homer was going to be it for the Marlins offense. But Beckett and three relievers com­bined on a six-hit shutout. 
Florida manager Jack McKeon lifted Beckett for a pinch hitter in the seventh inning. Beckett (8-7) struck out six and walked two. 
Relievers Nate Bump, Ugueth Urbina and Braden Looper fol­l.owed with three scoreless innings, handing the Mets their fifth straight loss. 
Florida moved into a tie with the Phillies for the NL Wild Card playoff spot when Philadelphia lost 6-4 at Atlanta. 
Florida scored four runs in the ninth off reliever Orber Moreno when pinch-hitter Todd Hollandsworth had an RBI sin­gle, Juan Pierre tripled in two runs, and Luis Castillo doubled in Pierre. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

NOTICES  FOR SALE  
PART-TIME WORK  Mazda 90 Miata MXS, 48,500 miles,  
EXCELLENT PAY WWW.WORK­ 5-speed,Hard&Soft Top, Tonnoue  
FORSTUDENTS.COM  Cover,Custom Red,$9,900.  
258-0520.  
STUDENT WORK.  
$11.50 base-appt. Flex.pt hrs.  Walk to NO, 3 BR, 2 Bath, 1500 SF,  
Cust.svc/sales.  HUGE Garage, New: Root, NC,  
No D-T-0/No Telemkt.  Furnace, Carpet &Kitchen. 1719  
Fun work schol./interns. cond.  Dorwood Dr $119,900.  
apply.work w/other students  (574)233-9947  
574-282-2357  
www.earnparttime.com  OAKHILL CONDO FORSALE! 2  
BEDROOMS, 2 FLOORS WON T  
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306  LASTLONGI  
574.243.3911 OR 574.532.0956  
WANTED  LEAVE MESSAGE  

LARGE ONE-BEDRQOM CONDO SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO. Gourmet Sandwiches is looking tor NON-RENTAL. NEWLY 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272-1525 
FOR REONT: 3-bedroom home 1 mile from NO. Garage, alarm sys­
tem,NC. 

Available lmmed. $650/mo. Call220-0499 or 614-353-5889. 
2-bdrm house close to NO. 269-699-5841. 
3-6 BDRM HOMES.AVAIL NOW & 04/05.FURN.272-6306 
That Pretty Place, Bed &Breakfast has space available tor tootbaiVpar­ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, full hot breakfast, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418 9487. 
4 Rooms NO football &grad 3 mHes ND Best area (574)287-4545 
TICKETS 
NO FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR TOLL FREE 877-773-3911. 
TOP$$$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX OR INDIVIDUAL GAMES. DISCRETION ASSURED. 654-8018. 
Alumni need Michigan St GAs! Call HUGE YARD SALE -SATURDAY, Wendy, 617-501-6400 SEPT. 13 FROM 9-3 ONE DAY 
ONLY!!1 Housewares, USC tickets-97 grad needs 4 lawn &garden, bicycles, please!!! Can buy separately. exercise/sports equipment, camping Contact Jennifer at gear and much more. jennitermtoland@msn.com or 
(202) 486-4037 50541 Portage Road (north of 
Adams Road) Need MSU tix. Call (574)233-5361. 
I According to DirectTV, we live ott­campus, don't have a landline and my roommate's name is now Kevin 
PERSONALS 
Or Nanner 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED  not go it alone. If you or someone  Texas Hold 'Em stats so tar this·  
-TOP DOLLAR PAID  you love needs confidential support  year...put in $30, came away with  
or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  $60  
AM-232-2378 PM 288-2726  Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819.  
the season finally starts tonight  
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  For more information, see our bi- 
SALE  weekly ad in The Observer.  and the Irish are always in the game  
AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726  Spring Break 2004 with  Nation's challenge ...make a 20 toot  

a few good men and women who REMODELED, FULLY ~QUIPPED. StudentCity.com and Maxim sign that will be seen on GameOay wish to work in a FUN and fast pace $94,500. Clean 2-bdrm house, 1.25 mi. to WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. Magazine! Get hooked up with environment. A new store will be ND. Desirable neighborhood. TOP DOLLAR PAID. Free Trips, Cash and VIP status as you can only lose what you put in opening up in early October. Email: Williamson.l @nd.edu $550/mo + utilities. (574)232-0964. a Campus Rep! Choose from 15 of the middle...but you can't win much We have aggressive pay. Hrs from 574-233-1604. the hottest destinations. easier 11amto3am. 97 Volkswagen Jetta.Low miles.A1 FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. In-shoppers, drivers and mgmt condition. Sunroof.$5,900 0/B/0. Privacy! One-bdrm home, 1026 LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570. Book early tor FREE MEALS, FREE 31 days available. 269-663-B422 Foster St., $590/mo.574-784-3275. DRINKS and 150% Lowest Price Call Andy at 574-277-0850 tor inter-JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, Guarantee! To reserve online or 5 years ...5 home openers ..Siosses view. 2,3,4,5 and 8 BEDROOM HOUSES NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT-view our Photo Gallery, 
FOR RENT FOR 2004/5: BALL GAME. visit www.studentcity.com I'm sick of the same old garbage Babysitter wanted tor 2 kids. FOR RENT CALLANLAN PROPERTIES PLEASE CALL 674-6593. or Caii1-888-SPRINGBREAK! every freakin' year 
Car is preferred. 532-1896 
Please call Susan 271-9634. 2-bdrm apts. $435/mo plus utilities. Will trade 2 MSU, 2 NAVY, or 2 BYU Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America My football picking picked up where 2-story, 4 bdrm, 2 full baths. ·Avail. COLLEGE PARK APT. 2 BED, 2 tor your 2 FSU or s #1 Student Tour Operator. I ended Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO immediately. 273-4555. BATH, LIVINGROOM, 2 USC tickets. exper. required. All looks & ages. DINNINGAOOM, KITCHEN, ALL 574-289-8048 Hiring campus reps. How does that taste Ook, 1 . 75 
Earn $100-$300 a day. Furnished 2 bdrm apt. tor NO home APPLIANCES INCLUDED points games. 1.4 miles to ND. $595 per Will trade 2 MSU tix tor 2 FSU. Call tor discounts: 800-648-4849 or 
1-888-820-0167, ext. U187. weekend. 269-684-6409. $970-(630) 897-0777 Call Jim Newell at 203-748-8926. www.ststravel.com That's what she said 
~ j .If • I ~ i & • • • 
J ,' -~,~ I ,. 
Tuesday, September 9, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 13 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Orioles get four in seventh and eighth to beat Red Sox 
Associated Press 
BALTlMOHE -Deivi Cruz drove in four runs and Jerry llairston scored the tiebreaking run in the eighth inning as the Baltimore Orioles rallied to beat the Boston Hed Sox 13-10 Monday night. 
The Orioles trailed 8-5 before scoring four runs in the sev­enth and four more in the eighth. Baltimore took advan­tage of four Boston errors to improve to 8-5 against the Red Sox this season. 
Johnny Damon hit his 100th career homer and drove in four runs. and Manny Hamirez and Nomar Garciaparra also home­red for Boston. Catcher Jason Varitek and pitcher Derek Lowe, who wasn't playing in the game, were ejected in a wild seventh inning. 
Bill Mueller had four hits, including a ninth-inning homer, and Hamirez, David Ortiz, and Todd Walker had three hits apiece. The Bed Sox fell 3 1/2 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 152 fiURLEY BUILDING T: 631-5882 
F: 631-5771 

SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Carmen Nanni Student Returnees 
Thor. Sept. 11, 2003 125 Hayes-Healy 7:00-8:00 pm 
Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2003 for Spring 2004 Dec. 1, 2003 for Fall '04 and All Year 2004-05 
games behind the New York Yankees in the AL East and had their wild-card lead over idle Seattle shaved to one game. 
Yankees 9, Blue Jays 3 
Mike Mussina and Joe Torre 
enjoyed a quiet day at the ball­
park -especially because 
their team won. 
With only 8,848 fans at 
Yankee Stadium for a makeup 
date, New York made plenty of 
noise with its bats Monday and 
beat the Toronto Blue Jays. 
The manager had an easy day, watching Hideki Matsui drive in three runs and Mike Mussina pitch seven effective innings for the AL East leaders. 
The Yankees lead the majors 
with an average home atten­
dance of nearly 44,000, and the 
stadium was filled with three 
straight sellout crowds over the 
weekend to see Boston. But on 
a work day and school day, few 
fans showed up to see a game 
that was scheduled for July 22 
but rained out. 
This was the smallest crowd at Yankee Stadium since 8,112 saw the Chicago White Sox on Oct. 1, 2001 -a makeup for a game originally set for Sept. 11. 
The Yankees extended their division lead to three games over the Red Sox, who played later at Baltimore. New York ended the Blue Jays' three­game winning streak and stopped their 22-inning score­less streak. 
Mussina (16-7) was given a three-run lead in the first inning and kept the Yankees ahead before leaving after the seventh. He earned his 198th career victory, a day after teammate David Wells also won No. 198. 
Mussina struck out eight and took over the AL lead with 183, passing Boston's Pedro Martinez at 175. He fanned league RBis leader Carlos Delgado three times, and has certainly seen him enough -Mussina went 3-2 in six starts against Toronto this year. 
Matsui hit his 40th double and a pair of singles, and slumping Jason Giambi went 2­
Chances to lNin ticke!s t~ this year's 
8100 Radi•········  ·..  ': ..... hday••••·•  on 9/14!!  
No  all  
9/9  

for-3 with two walks. Derek Jeter and Alfonso Soriano also each had three of the Yankees' 16 hits -the same total they had in the whole series against the Red Sox. 
Kelvim Escobar (1 0-9) was tagged for eight runs and 10 hits in just 3 1-3 innings. Two of the runs were unearned, one because of his own throwing error on Giambi's bases-loaded tapper in the opening inning. 
White Sox 5, Twins 2 
The Chicago White Sox wast­ed little time warming up for their first-place showdown with the Minnesota Twins. 
Jose Valentin and Miguel Olivo had two HBis each in a five-run first inning Monday night as Bartolo Colon and the White Sox beat the Twins 5-2 in the opener of a key four­game series. 
With the victory, Chicago took a one-game lead in the AL Central at the start of what promises to be a frenetic final three weeks of the season. The teams also play three times next week at the Metrodome. 
Minnesota had its five-game winning streak snapped and also lost manager Hon Gardenhire, who was ejected in the fourth inning after an argu­ment with plate umpire Gerry Davis. 
Colon (13-12) allowed 10 hits and made one of the game's best defensive plays, snaring Denny Hocking's line drive up the middle with runners at sec­
ond and third and  no outs in  
the seventh.  
He  then  fanned  Doug  

Mientkiewicz and got Matthew LeCroy to fly out to end the threat. Colon walked one and struck out four in his seventh complete game of the season. 
The White Sox, responding to a loud crowd of 32,807 on a half-price ticket night, got all five of their first-inning runs with two outs against Kyle Lohse (12-11). 
Carlos Lee doubled with one out in the first, Frank Thomas walked and after Magglio Ordonez popped out. Carl Everett hit an HBI single. 
Paul Konerko walked to load the bases before Valentin blooped a two-run single to center to make it 3-0. Joe Crede followed with a single and then Olivo hit a sinking liner to left center that a diving Shannon Stewart couldn't hold, turning it into a two-run dou­ble. 
Lohse, 6-1 in his seven previ­ous starts. settled down there­after and allowed just two hits in his final five innings. 
7 


NCAA 


McCaw hired as new Baylor athletic director 
Associated Press same day and has since been 
replaced by Scott Drew. for­
WACO. Texas -Ian McCaw merly of Valparaiso. was hired Monday as athletic Former Baylor playerdirector at Baylor, a school Carlton Dotson has been shaken by scandal and the indicted on a murder charge slaying of one of its basketball in Dennehy's death. players. Violations ranging from 
McCaw left the same job at scholarship payments to poor­Massachusetts and earlier ran ly handled drug tests have the athletic departments at been revealed in Bliss' pro­
Northeastern and Tulane. gram. An internal investigative 
"Baylor represents a pinna­committee has yet to file a full cle personal and professional report. Then, the NCAA will position for me," he said at a weigh in, possibly with heavy news conference at Floyd sanctions. Casey Stadium. "This is the culmination of a 
He replaces Tom Stanton, very thorough national search who resigned exactly one that yielded outstanding candi­month earlier as the fallout dates," Baylor president began from the death of Robert Sloan said. "Ian is a Patrick Dennehy. Basketball proven leader with experience 
coach Dave Bliss resigned the in athletics administration." 
2 0 0 3-0 4 

THE BEST OF NOTRE DAME THEATRE 
1\etors Froin The London Stage Measure for Measure 
.·• by William Shakespeare 
_,;,}dnesday, September 1 7 .... 7:30 p.m Thursday, September 18 .... 7:30 p.m. 


Friday, September 1 9 .... 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2 
Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631·8128. 
l he Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Senes. 
II II 
IIY81111! 
Women's Tennis Tryouts for the 2003-2004 season will be held on Tuesday, Sept. 16th. Please contact assistant coach Michelle Dasso @ 631-3 730 for more information. 
Checlf out the... Sacrament of Confirmation 
Are you a baptized Catholic who has received their first Communion but has never been Confirmed? 
Are you wondering whether you need to be Confirmed to get married In the Catholic Church? 
Would you lilse to prepare for Confirmation with other Notre Dame students who are dedicated to growing in their faith? 
Room 330 Coleman-Morse on Tuesday, Sept. 9th at 7:00pm 
F'or more inj<J: 
Fr. ~John Conley. CSC at 6~31-7888 La.u ren \Villouf!hbv at 631 <1390 
i..J .... 
or stop by the Office of Campus .Mini.stry in the Colen1an-Morse Center \vith any questions. CM 

Tuesday, September 9, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
TENNIS 
U.S. Open title brings Roddick into spotlight 
Roddick's new life as a Grand (French Open champion Ferrero, "In America, we have such a If anyone is set up to handle
Associated Press 
Slam champion, a day after he Wimbledon champion Roger long line and tradition of Grand what's ahead, it's Roddick. 
NEW YOHK -llis hair spiked beat new No. 1 Juan Carlos Federer, 2001 U.S. Open champi­Slam champions, that it's almost He's a natural entertainer who. and jeans ripped, Andy Hoddick Ferrero 6-3, 7-6 (2), 6-3 in the on Lleyton Hewitt) has shown the expected. It definitely is a mon­a Ia Jimmy Connors, slapped strode through Times Square U.S. Open final. combination of charm and key off my back," Hoddick said. "I high-fives with spectators after with pop star girlfriend Mandy "It's craziness. I would have charisma that helped Bjorn Borg got sick of hearing it. I'm not one spectacular point at last Moore on Monday. never imagined what it was like or Boris Becker draw fans. going to lie. It was there before I year's Open. 
Passers-by slapped Hoddick on to win a Slam. and I never imag­This U.S. Open final produced deserved it. ... I've always had -He's comfortable speaking his the shoulder (he smiled). Or ined the aftermath of it, either," the event's lowest TV rating in fair or not fair -attention paid mind, something Sampras never asked him to stop and pose for a Roddick said. five years. Is that because people to me. A lot of it was unde­quite mastered, but i\gassi, photo (he obliged). Or offered "Heality's coming hack tomor­don't know who Roddick is? served." Connors and John McEnroe all congratulations (MTV's Carson row." There are more likely explana­Roddick is now a career-best did. Daly rode by, lowered his car's That might not quite be the tions: A week of rain made for a No. 2 in the rankings and said And, most importantly, he has a tinted window and shouted: "Way case. After all, there already disjointed event, plus the previ­Monday his objective is to finish strong support system in place, to go. Andy!"). were plenty of expectations and ous four finals involved Sampras the year at No. 1. one that's carried him this far 
Morning interviews with eyes on him. Now that will be or Agassi or both. ''I'm not at the top yet," he said. and will help him in the future. "Today" and "Hegis & Kelly" ratcheted up, which is how it has By winning, Roddick quickly "This is awesome for me. I'm so His parenl'i and brothers keep were bnhind him. Appearances to be if tennis is going to increase began to fulfill what's been pre­happy. But it doesn't make me him grounded. His sister-in-law on ESPN. CNN and David its popularity in the United States. dicted for him. His first major any less hungry. I defmitely want Ginger handles PH. And coach Letterman's "Late Show" await­Pete Sampras is gone, Andre title came in his 12th Grand Slam to get out there and keep working Brad Gilbert, who used to work ed. Agassi is 33, and so far none of tournament; Agassi, for example, hard and keep trying to with Agassi, has guided Hoddick 
It was a whirlwind start to the young non-American stars needed 18. improve." to a 37-2 record since June. 
NFL 
Patriots insist loss of Milloy didn't lead to blowout loss 
Associated Press 
FOXBOHO, Mass. -How much docs it hurt a team to lose its defensive signal caller, locker room leader and one of the hardest hitters on the ros­ter? 
And how much more does it hurt when that player winds up. five days later. lined up against you, with full knowl­edge of your playbook? 
If you ask the New England Patriots: A whole lot less than 31 points. 
"One man'? I don't care if you go get a llall of Farner out of the Hall of Fame, he's not going to be the difference in that football game," Patriots defensive lineman Hichard Seymour said Monday, a day after Bills safety Lawyer Milloy led his new team to a 31-0 vic­tory over his old one. 
"He could have been on our side of the field and we still would have lost that game." 
But he wasn't. 
After months trying to rene­gotiate Milloy's contract, the Patriots released him last Tuesday. and he signed with 
Buffalo a day later. In the end, 
the difference between the two · sides was reportedly $600,000. 
Although the move shocked 
Milloy's New England team­
mates, they insist they had put 
the distraction behind them by 
Sunday. 
"That was Tuesday," coach 
Bill Belichick said. "I don't 
think we were talking about it 
in the succeeding days." 
But their performance in the 
opener against a key AFC East 
rival suggests otherwise. With 
all summer to prepare ­
everyone except for Milloy's 
Study* in Tokyo 
*{Anthropology, Art History, Business, History, Literature, Philosophy, Religion, Sociology, Political Science...and, of course, Japanese!} 
Spring 2004 

No previous study of Japanese language requiredI For more information: 
229 Hayes-Healey September 9at 5 pm 
replacement, Antwan Harris, that is -New England fell behind 21-0 early in the sec­ond quarter and never mount­ed any kind of comeback. 
Harris was the primary replacement for Milloy. and though he wasn't the problem for New England, he wasn't the solution. either. He had three tackles in the game; Milloy had a sack and five tackles, and he broke up a pass that resulted in an inter­ception for Buffalo. 
Law had words with Harris on the field after Law got no help on Eric Moulds' 49-yard reception on the Bills' second possession. 
Asked to assess Harris' per­formance, Belichick said. "I don't think anybody on defense. offense or on special teams played as well as they can play." 
"You can put any name you want in there and I would say that about every player who participated in the game with­out exception." he said. "I would say the same thing for the coaches too, myself includ­
d .. 
e . 


ONE NIGHT SOCGRTOURNAMENT THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER I I 
6:00 .. RJEHLE FIEDS (FORMALLY STEPAN FIELDS) 

TO N..L N01Vt-Di\Mt:. '&TUD€-NT'5 
l'il WYD. e>Y 40 YD. ON ??W'il G.ONJf, P.. Tt.AM lN n\t. \Z£C.:f>?0Jl.T'0 OfAC£ our..... n w"r. f.> Wt:.DNt:.~DM, ~Bfft.MI?f.~ tO 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALl R.ECSPORTS AT 631 ..61 oo 
www.nd.edu/-recsport 

NFL 
Texans look to build on upset of Dolphins 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -The Miami Dolphins, traditionally strong in September, learned an impor­tant lesson: Nobody beats the Texans on opening day. 
Houston became the first expansion team to start 1-0 in its first two seasons. and will now focus on putting together the first winning streak in fran­chise history. 
"The challenge will be to see how much we've matured as a football team," coach Dom Capers said Monday as Houston basked in its 21-20 victory over heavily favored Miami. 
"There were phases of our football team that played extremely well after a win last year, but we didn't play well and put it all together as a team." 
The Texans had four chances to build a winning streak last year, but lost each time, by a combined score of 99-35. 
Houston's fifth chance to string together two victories comes in New Orleans on Sunday. The Saints are coming off a 27-10 loss at Seattle. 
Capers' task will be to get the Texans used to success and pre­pared for a winning encore. 
"It's hard for me to believe that we were ever an overconfi­dent football team last year," Capers said. "We just weren't consistent enough. One of our points of emphasis coming into this season was we wanted to be a smarter, more physical, more consistent football team. I think we made some strides in those areas." 
While no one is ready to pre­dict the Texans will play a home game Feb. 1 when the Super Bowl comes to Houston, there were signs the team has vastly improved from 2002. 
David Carr, sacked an NFL­record 76 times last season, avoided Miami's rush, which was led by 2002 sack leader Jason Taylor. Carr relied on quick drops, coupled with an offensive line retooled with three new starters. 
Houston did not fumble or throw an interception, some­thing it did not accomplish in any game last season. 
The Texans maintained their steady defense from last year, when they ranked 16th in the league. Virtually the same start­ing cast returned from 2002, though there's not much depth, making it important for play­makers like cornerbacks Marcus Coleman and Aaron Glenn to stay healthy. 
Offensive coordinator Chris Palmer balanced the attack with 34 rushes and 32 passes for a team-record 393 yards. New running back Stacey Mack gained 89 tough yards despite an average of 3.3 per carry, opening up passing lanes. 
With protection, a running game and No. 3 overall draft pick Andre Johnson, Carr showed why he was the top pick in 2002, going 17-of-31 for 266 yards and a touchdown. 
BOXING 
Byrd finally gets a fight 
Associated Press 
Chris Byrd is the IBF heavy­weight champion. 
He holds a real belt. It used to belong to Lennox Lewis, and Bryd had to beat Evander Holyfield to get it. 
Byrd also has an Olympic sil­ver medal. a 35-2 record and two of the fastest hands in boxing, but he's spent the last nine months trying to lure everybody -anybody -into the ring. 
''I'm the test in the heavy­weight division," the 33-year­old southpaw said. "Nobody wants to take the test. Nobody wants to study for something so hard." 
The knock on Byrd is his style, which is so herky jerky that some fighters don't want to get into the ring with him. He doesn't throw a nasty power punch or slug his way through his fights, but he is elusive and wily. And, unlike some in the heavyweight divi­sion, he's a nice guy. 
"In this era of craziness, if I were an ex-criminal or if 1 beat my wife, I'd be really easy to promote," he said. 
Byrd is fighting No. 2 IBF contender Fres Oquendo on Sept. 20 at the Mohegan Sun Casino in Uncasville, Conn. 
Oquendo, another nice guy, has a 30-1 record and more speed and agility than name recognition. 
"We need to clean up box­ing's image," said the 30-year­old Oquendo of Puerto Rico. "We have an opportunity to show the boxing world there are some class-act fighters out the sport. who like to interpret there. We're the new genera­a fight plan strategy, this is tion." going to be an interesting 
Boxing's heavyweight divi­fight," said Kevin Barry, who sion doesn't put a premium on trained David Tua in his win such bouts. Toe-to-toe over Oquendo and his loss to slugfests draw big crowds, and Byrd. "But we're talking about pre-fight antics make head­your average Joe Blow, who lines. sits on a bar stool with a can 
"I don't fit in at all," Byrd of beer." said from Las Vegas, where he Oquendo believes this title trains. "You see me at any fight can win over casual fans fight, I've got my wife with me. without news conference cha­That's my best friend." rades, especially coming on 
Byrd and the heels Oquendo see a of the De void atop the La Hoya
"We're both artistic 

heavyweight fight. division, where fighters. This is an "We're Lennox Lewis, art. It's like Monet, b 0 t h 
Holyfield and artistic
Van Gogh."

Mike Tyson fighters," have dominat-he said. ed the head­Fres Oquendo "This is lines for so an art. It's
boxer

long. 
Lewis is on the sidelines, pondering retirement. He sur­rendered the IBF belt rather than face Byrd, who then per­plexed an aging Holyfield to seize the vacant title. 
Tyson, who hasn't fought since stopping Clifford Etienne in February, is mired in legal and financial problems. 
Byrd is in a perfect position to take advantage. His bout is being carried by HBO, imme­diately after the replay of the Sept. 13 fight between Oscar De La Hoya and Shane Mosley. 
Byrd hopes people tuning in to that bout will stick around for a different kind of heavy­weight boxing. 
"For those who understand I i k e 

Monet, 
Van Gogh. They painted beautiful paint­ings. We make beautiful, pre­cise moves." 
Byrd has been installed as the favorite by Las Vegas odd­smakers. and he said he's hop­ing a dominating win will get him the recognition he seeks. 
Whether it will give him a big-money fight remains to be seen. 
"Nobody is putting their hand up to fight Chris Byrd," Barry said. "The guy is extremely quick. He's the mos:. awkward fighter in the heavy­weight division. He takes a punch very, very well. and 11e has the fastest hand speed. 
"Who wants to fight him?" 


Piramides, Palacios y Playas 
Study in Notre Dame's International Study Programs in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
5:00PM 
Wednesday, Sept. 10, 2003 
119 DeBartolo 
Physics taught in Puebl_a in the fall semester for Pre-Professional students Huge vanety of internships available in Puebla 
Engineering courses offered in Monterrey Al.., BA courses offered In both locations 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: OCTOBER 1 FOR SPRING 2004 DECEMBER 1 FOR FALL 2004 AND AY 2004-5 ' APPL:lCATXONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/.....,Jntlst:udl. 
University F.aculty/Staff 
9 ~ole-'Goi·:r·:·.·ou-,irag 
·"'"' ,'& Picnic Dinner 
)~~p:,9unpay~....September ·14 




regtst•r Jtt.,,,,f'ridayi ,,Sept$mb•r,,:12. 
~:r:a~:··is::,,,~!-~~~G~P-rtafi,···;~~rii~:~~~ 
;;jt~it:;;;;;:::::;~~}:~f:::~i;::;:~:):;:~::. :::·::::\~:· 

PrizesfQ.G 
~~~~'''f.~ (M&W) 
Closest to the Ptn Lowe~ $ross Score And Qt~rs 

Open to all Notre Dame f'Jculty/Staff, Spouses and 
Children 1 6 &Older. Will m~e pairings forgroupsofless 
than 4. ;:·;):' 
Club Rentals & Carts AY~ifable at Your Expense. For More information calf"~~:<'~~·':~~''..::~·:·'·~:"''''·' at 1-6100 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, September 9, 2003 Colv\PILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Page 17 
NSCAA/adidas Soccer Poll 
Men'& 

t<larn 1 Maryland 2 Wake Forest 3 UCLA 4 Saint louis 5 North carolina 6 Santa Clara 7 Old Domirllon 8 Rutgers 9 SMU 10 C!lnnectlcut 11 Indiana 12 UAB 13 Hartwick 14 uc Santa Barbara 15 J11hn'a 16 South Carolina 17 C11astal carolina 18 NOTRE OAME 19 Stanford 20 Oakland 21 Tulsa 22 Florida Int. 23 Cal Slate 24 C11mmonwealtb 25 Penn 

USA TodayjAVCA. 

team 
1 USC {6S) 
2 Hawaii 3 Florida 4 Stanford 5 Nebraska 6 Northern Iowa 7 Pepperdlne 
8 Penn State 
9 UClA 
10 Georgia Tech 
11 UC Santa Barbara 
12 Kansas Stale 
13 Santa Cl11ra 
14 Arizona 
15 NOTRE DAME 16 California 
11 Michigan State 
18 Washington 
19 long Beach State 20 Mlnneaota 21 louisville 
22 Loyola Marymounl 23 Missouri 
24 Pacllic 
25 Wisconsin 



around the dial 
CoLLEGE FooTBALL (From 1989) Notre Dame at Michigan 6 p.m., ESPN Classic 
MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL Chicago at Montreal in San Juan 7 p.m .• WGN Philadelphia at Atlanta 8:00p.m., TBS Minnesota at Chicago 8:00 p.m., FSN 
NFL 

ST. LOUIS -One week into the season, the St. Louis Rams have a quar­terback controversy. 
Kurt Warner's comeback got off to a rocky start when he played through a concussion in the season­opening loss to the New York Giants. 
Healthy or not, he won't start Sunday against the San Francisco 49ers. Marc Bulger will. 
The two-time MVP said he felt fine Monday. a day after his fog-induced, error-filled performance in the 23-13 loss. After being released from a New York hospital earlier Monday, Warner ran and worked out in St. Louis. and he wants to play on Sunday. 
Doctors in New York told Warner he probably could practice Wednesday. although team medical personnel will be more cautious. 
"l think l should play." Warner said in a confer­ence call with reporters. "As long as the doctors clear me, I'll be ready to go." 
Not so fast. 
Coach Mike Martz blames himself for allow­ing Warner to slowly clear his head while fumbling six times and getting sacked six times, and said he'll take a safety-first 
IN BRIEF 
Knight's saga continues 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Indiana University fulfilled its obligation to former basketball coach Bob Knight by continuing to pay him after he was fired. an attorney for the univer­sity said Monday. 
Attorney Dave Mattingly asked Monroe Circuit Judge Kenneth Todd for an order that would effectively dismiss Knight's lawsuit without a trial. Todd did not indicate when he would make a ruling in the lawsuit against the university. 
Mattingly said Knight's contract allowed the university to end his employment, for any reason, as long as the school continued paying him through the rest of the contract. If the university had fired Knight for cause, he said, the compensation would have stopped immediately. 
Knight was fired in 2000 for violat­ing a "zero tolerance" behavior poli­cy by grabbing the arm of a student who he said greeted him by his last name. Knight sued two years later. 
approach on Sunday. So Bulger, the backup who was 6-1 as the Rams' starter last year, will get the call. 
"This week I'm going to play Marc," Martz said. "l think we can go one week. and make sure. He's upset about probably going with Marc but l think it's proba­bly the best thing at this point." 
Martz said it's way too soon to talk about whether it's still Warner's job to lose. 
"l don't want to get into all of that right now," Martz said. "Let's just take it one week at a time at this point. 
"I don't know what the medical staff will say at the end of the week and I don't know how he's going to be at the end of the week. so if that ever becomes an issue we'll address it." 
Warner. the MVP in 1999 and 2001. was 0-6 with three touchdown passes and 11 interceptions last year while missing time with a broken pinkie and hand. He doesn't appear worried about the compe­tition. 
"This isn't about me and Marc, this is about the team," Warner said. "This is about doing what's best for our team." 

claiming the university violated his employment contract. He now is the basketball coach at Texas Tech. 
Russell Yates. a Denver lawyer who represents Knight, said Knight effec­tively was fired for cause. 
"The president of the university goes on national TV in front of 40 million people and says, 'Bob Knight's personal conduct is bad, and therefore I'm going to fire him,"' Yates said in arguments to the judge. "Everyone in the world, with the exception of the people at Indiana University, knows this man was ter­minated for cause." 
He said IU had to pay Knight until his contract expired regardless of whether he was fired for cause. 
While Knight's lawsuit claimed the firing cost him more than $2 million in media and clothing contracts as well endorsements and camps, Yates said the case isn't about money but Knight's "honor. reputation and integrity." 
"He had a right to go away with his integrity intact by answering these charges that the president threw out in front of 40 million people," he said. 
Leetch out with ankle injury 
NEW YOHK -New York Hangers defenseman Brian Leetch is out indefinitely with a similar injury to his left ankle that caused him to miss nearly half of last season. 
Leetch, 35, was practicing at the team's facility in Greenburgh, N.Y. last Friday when he was struck by a slap shot, the Hangers said Monday. 
X-rays were negative but Leetch is unlikely to be able to participate in New York's training camp that begins Thursday in Burlington, Vt. 
Last season, Leetch's 16th with thr Hangers. he severely bruised his IPft ankle when he blocked a shot against Columbus on Dec. 3. New York went 10-16-3-2 in his absence. 
Leetch signed iJ. two-year contract in July to stay with the Hangers after becoming an unrestricted free agent. 

..---------------------------------------------~---­
Football 
continued from page 20 
feel the pressure, Holiday lost the ball three times, recover­ing it once. The two lost fum­bles led to 10 Washington State points. 
Seeing the game slip away due to the relentless attack on his quarterback, Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham and the rest of his offensive staff went to work on how to pro­tect their signal-caller. 
"We had to make some [changes] in our protection because they were giving us some strong side pressure that we tried to have [Holiday] rec­ognize and they did a good job, sometimes slipping a guy by," Willingham said. "We tried do some things as coaches 

"All you really need is to
and the are talking coaches did get your nose bloodied a about some 
a good job little bit and then you'll amazing 
of adjusting athletes
be ready to go. " 
and putting who do our team in things with a better Sean Milligan the ball that position to normally
Irish guard 
make our protection a little more solid where we could give [Holiday] time to do some things." 
Given more time in the sec­ond half, Holiday was able to make some things happen. He scrambled for long gains when he couldn't find any of his receivers. Facing a Cougar blitz on second and goal in the fourth quarter, Holiday hit wide receiver Rhema McKnight on a slant over the middle for an 11-yard touch­down that brought the Irish within three. 
But Holiday wasn't the only one who benefited from the improved offensive line play from the first to second half. 
While the running backs saw marginal improvement in the third quarter (13 net rush­ing yards), the real difference was seen in the fourth quar­ter. 

The ground game led by Ryan Grant and Julius Jones rushed more effectively, including five runs over 10 yards by Grant and Jones. Attribute that production to two things -the Cougars' defense wearing down and the overall size and strength of the two Irish running backs. 
"I felt especially in the sec­ond half things started to go our way a little bit better and I could sense they were getting a little frustrated, a little tired," tackle Dan Stevenson said. "That's when we try to just keep pounding." 
"If you give anybody in the backfield the ball, you don't have to worry as an offensive lineman about a one-arm tackle or tripping up these backs," Morton said. "You 
can't be 
done. It's a 
pleasure to block for any of them." 
When the bre~aks weren't going their way in the first half, the inexperienced line could have mailed it in for the rest of the game. What that second half performance showed was the attitude this line wants to illustrate each and every time it steps on the field. 
"We fight hard. A lot of things about today were ugly, but we fight hard," Morton said. "We fought hard for 60 minutes. The fourth quarter was the toughest part of our fight. 
"If that's something that we can say to other people, that will win us some games." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

Tuesday, September 9, 2003

The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
'Underdog' Belles ready for Calvin 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
After their match Tuesday night, the Saint Mary's volleyball team might be able to show an MIAA opponent what the Belles already know -they are a much improved volleyball team from last season. 
The Belles travel to Grand Rapids, Mich., Tuesday night to face traditional power Calvin College in a key MIAA matchup. 
Saint Mary's (4-2, 0-1 MIAA) comes into the contest on a roll, having won four of five games at the Kilt Classic in Ohio last weekend. The four wins already place Saint Mary's well ahead of its pace from last year, when the team went 7-21 during the regu­lar season. 
The Belles are also anxious to avenge a narrow five-set loss to Albion last week to open their conference schedule. 
"We're real excited and [the girls are] hungry for an MIAA win," coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "We're the real underdog, but we've got wonderful team 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
season. Saint Mary's prefers to focus on its play instead. "We're starting off our confer­ence schedule and it's our first home game," Haring said. "With the start that we've had, we want to keep the same mentality 
chemistry and this is going to be a good game." 
The Knights have had the Belles' number lately. Last sea­son, Saint Mary's faced Calvin and lost in straight sets each time. Perhaps the most difficult loss was a 20-30, 15-30, 13-30 match which knocked the Belles out of the first round of the 2002-03 MIAA playoffs. 
"They're always just a real good solid team," Schroeder­Biek said. 
Calvin (5-0, 1-0 MIAA) is a tal­ented team on both offense and defense. The Knights so far have amassed 259 kills this season, while their opponents have only collected 32 kills. The Knights have also hit at a .338 percent­age for the season. 
Defensively, Calvin has 45 total blocks compared to nine for its opponents. 
Junior middle hitter Kara Kuipers leads the team with 86 kills and 27 blocks. Her per­formance has not gone unno­ticed by the conference, as Kuipers has been named MIAA player of the week the past two weeks. 
Middle hitter Christine Hendricks and outside hitter Kristen Kalb follow Kuipers in kills, with 54 and 49. respective­ly. The fact that two middle hit­ters have collected the vast majority of Calvin's kills is no surprise to the Saint Mary's coach. 
"They run really strong out of the middle," Schroeder-Biek said. "We practiced today against net aggression and defending the middle attack, because we know that's what Calvin wants to do." 
The Belles played in over fif­teen games this weekend, a fact that did not get past their coach. She insists that the team is well­rested and ready to take on what could be their most talent­ed MIAA opponent this year. 
"I think [the girls] have recov­ered and are building back up," Schroeder-Biek said. "I think they're rested and ready to go." 
The Belles return home Thursday to face non-conference opponent Rochester College. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

without distractions. " Our girls are playing a very consistent brand of defense and limiting the opportunities of our opponents' offensive side. If there are shots on goal, we want them to be a low percentage." Execution of these goals depends upon defensemen Carrie Orr, Katie Taylor and Shannon Culbertson. And the Belles will need another strong game from freshman goalkeep­er Laura Heline as well. "[Heline] has been able to read the game really well and not give any easy goals away to opponents," Haring said. "The defense has been playing really strong. We want to keep our balance and our mindset." 

Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 

UNIVERSITY OF NO'l'RE DAME INTERNATIONA.L STUOY PROGRAl\-'1 IN 
ATHENS, GR:EECE 
lNFlJRMATION A-fEETJNG 
"lith Cornelia Herzfeld from College Year in Athens, Julliet Mayinja International Study Programs Otlice~ And Returning Students 
**************************************************** 
Tuesday, September 9, 2003 5:30-7:00 Pl\1 129 Hayes-Healy 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••c 
Applicaton Deadline: Oct. l, 20tJ3 for Spring. 2004 Applications available on-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud/ 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  35 Levy collector,  60 Sheltered, at  
1 1930's movie  for short  sea  
dog  36 Koufax stat.  61 Be generous, at  
5 To boot  37 Petite desserts  a bar  
9 Couric of "Today" 14 Bleats 15 Per_ (daily) 16 Icon 17 "Diana" crooner Paul 18 Mrs. Copperfield 19 Stocking stuff 20 American composer work1ng at a bakery? 23 Bowler or boater 24 "To Autumn," e.g. 25 Alias initials 26 English playwright working at a press? 33 Inspiration for lhe Frisbee  38 At all 39 Blue eyes or baldness, e.g. 41 Titled Turk 42 Opposite of post­43 Pan-fries 44 Vaudeville star working at a van company? 48 From S.F. to Las Vegas 49 "The Gold-Bug" wr1ter 50 Scepter accompanier 53 Comedian working at an oil field? 58 Nice jacket material 59 Tide type ~.'-f..,;..+,,.,..j ~E!J[J•• ,.:::  62 Mr. Hulet's creator 63 Actress Campbell 64 Diarist Samuel 65 Nabisco cookie 66 Turned blue, say DOWN 1 Put to shame 2 Nick name? 3 Be a fall guy 4 "Quick!" 5 Like a postscript 6 Big name in small trains 7 Lowly worker 8 Gen. Bradley 9 Filmdom's Nastassja 10 "The Bonesetter's Daughter" writer 11 It may be spun around a campfire 12 Composer Stravinsky 13 Bard's nightfall 21 Bar mitzvah dances 22 Dinghy pair  33 School grps. 34 Othello's betrayer 38 Piece by Matisse 39 Sulu portrayer on "Star Trek" 40 Boulevard crosser 42 Strip  43 Many a November birth 45 Best of times 46 Specks in the sea 47 Latest news 51 Superman player 52 Kennel club classification  53 24-karat 54 Dickens's Uriah 55 Making a hobby of 56 Affix a brand to 57 Touch the tarmac 58 lnits. at a gas station  
27 Well put  
28 Place for hash  


Tuesday, September 9, 2003 .·''The Observer+ TODAY CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 
NO-.ANV 'I'H NOT &a!NEilD. WE WDr?.'il..'( CVE.rl. 1t\£St. PAPE~S AND FOR. WHAT? I'll N£Vf:.f2 
TREASUI<t "TH&fl2 HEI-102.'{! M"/ KIDS WONT CAIZ.EAI30VTTHIS PAI'E:JG.H'{ WIF'==.,~y S>OSS, AND M'/ l-OAN C'=FIC.EQ UJ()NT CAf21::( M.'( P'fZEClOUS 11H~ IS B£-rt'ER. SPE:NT DOIN9 
SCIME.TH IN~ IHPDI<TA...._N_T:..:...---­
FIVES 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
page 19 HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

~[;
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
THACC 
( J I 


02003 Tribune Media Service~, Inc. 
~~·rr1 

tANSTUE I 
WHAT THE FILM DIR.EC.TOR. 010 WHEN THE MOVIE !<AN TOO LONG. 
LAFTES ± 
J (] 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon 

·Ans: ( I I )TO ( I I J"( I I I I )" 
·(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: ACRID NOOSE DISOWN MODEST Answer: He finished third in the race because he couldn't get his-"SECOND" WIND _,. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with abrowns 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 29 Be nosy 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 30 Refreshment crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. server on 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000wheels 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 31 Cleveland's lake Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, 32 Squealers nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Bonus wo1d· MONOPOLY 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ________ State _____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
Sharing this birthday: Michael Keaton, Hugh Grant, Billy Preston. Goran Visnjic, Robert Desiderio, Michelle Williams, Adam Sandier Happy Birthday: Don't hold back. Go after any accomplishments that you 
-

desire. You have far more stamina and know-how than you give yourself credit for. Experimenting will bring your goals closer and open your mind to a whole new approach.· Meet challenges head-on and find success. Your numbers: 10, 13, 22, 26, 34, 38 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take time to help older relatives with their winter preparations. You need to find ways to earn extra money and pay down your debts. Don't let children talk you into unwise purchases.**** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your emotional turmoil will cause friction with family. Try to be fair and c;lon't blame everyone else for your bad mood. Plan to do something to improve your disposition.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): This will not be the day to take chances. Play by the rules and don't push your luck with the officers in blue. You may be a good driver, but that doesn't give you a license to speed.*** CANCER (June 21-July 22): New friendships will develop if you take part in a worthy cause. Volunteering is a selfless act, and you're bound to meet equally generous kindred spirits. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can't upset everyone and then take off as if nothing has happened. Sort out differences before moving on. You owe it to those who were upset by your dramatic tantrums.*** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Travel is in your best interests. You will be able to hook up with individuals who can open your eyes to a multitude of new 
ideas.*** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't become run-down. If you feel exhausted, 
take a break. Follow your instincts and listen to what your body is telling you.****SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Involvement in worthwhile groups will lead 
to favorable relationships. If you're honest and take care of any loose ends regarding past connections, all will tum out well. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take time to smell the coffee and enjoy life's offerings. Such a hectic pace has left little time for yourself, let alone for family. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Pursue activities that will expand your circle of friends and teach you new skills. It's time to update your image and broaden those horizons.*** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll be in your element at social functions. Your ability to entertain and captivate potential mates should lead to an interesting evening. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Difficulties with older females may cause alarm. Be careful not to overreact. Try to deal with the issues as quickly as possible and get on with more enjoyable pastimes.*** Birthday Baby: You are willing to share your sensational ideas and speak your mind. You have the wherewithal to make things happen You are colorful. 
witty and willing to face any challenges head-on. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 

------.---------­
THE 0BSER\'ER 
PORTS
Tuesday, September 9, 2003 
page 20 
FooTBALL 

Baptism by fire 
Four new offensive line starters learn in the first half, find success in second half 
Whether it was the change inBy MATT LOZAR protection, change in the lineup

Associate Sports Editor 
or just becoming used to actual game tempo, the Irish kept 

For two quarters Saturday · Holiday upright in the fourth afternoon, the Notre Dame quarter and amassed 119 yards offensive line looked like a unit rushing. Not coincidentally. the that lost four starters to the Irish scored 20 points. National Football League. "One of the great things about 
The offense had gained 8 net our offensive line this year is rushing yards. Facing blitzes that we are so versatile," from Washington State on near­Morton said. "In the second ly every play, quarterback half. they put Zach Giles in at Carlyle Holiday had trouble center and bumped me to right staying upright, fumbled four guard. That's something we times (losing three) and experi­knew would happen at some 
.,_ 
enced trouble on numerous point during the season." 
snaps with the exchange and "I definitely think it was set­tripping over the line. Each time tling in and getting used to the offense got into the red game speed,'' Milligan said. "All zone, the offensive line commit­you really need is to get your ted a costly penalty, pushing the nose bloodied a little bit and Irish back and relegating them then you'll be ready to go." to a field goal. The Cougars tested the youth­
At halftime, the coaching staff ful Irish o!l'ensive line, bringing made some adjustments in the blitz after blitz. protection schemes but it took In the first half, it worked. some time for those changes to 'Holiday was crushed by blind­become effective. In the fourth side hits where a Washington quarter, the coaches also moved State defender -went untouched starting center Bob Morton to before putting a lick on the Irish right guard, inserted Zach Giles quarterback. Not being able to to center and took right guard Sean Milligan from the game. see FOOTBALL/page 18 

SMC SOCCER. 

Belles home schedule starts against Calvin 
By ERIK POWERS 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's opens its home season and conference schedule today against Calvin College. The schools enter today's game at opposite ends of the rebuilding process. 
Calvin is 0-2 after a pair of losses last week, but the team finished 9-3-2 in conference last year (12-6-2 overall), including a 1-1 tie and 1-0 win over Saint Mary's. Calvin graduated three all-conference seniors from that team, including Tricia Dyk. Dyk was all-MIAA each year at Calvin and was the league MVP in 2002. 
Saint Mary's is off to a school­best 3-0 start. Junior midfielder Jen Concannon was named the first MIAA player of the week over the weekend. Concannon scored two goals versus both SUNY-Brockport and Taylor. 
She leads the Belles with five goals on the season. Coach Peter Haring expects conference oppo­nents to take note of Concannon's torrid play. 

"I think that as the year goes on, especially in the conference season, opponents will know to look for her," Haring said. "That will open up opportunities for the rest of the offense. But if she can keep this pace up, she will have one of those golden seasons." 
SaintMary's is well-rested. The · Belles last played on Sept. 3 and should have fresh legs. 
Haring hopes that Saint Mary's will exploit its home field advan­tage. 
"Our field is one of the nicer ones in the conference," Haring said. "We keep it well main­tained during the season and off­season. We have a regular sized playing surface with the maxi­mum length and width. 
"At Taylor [last Wednesday] it was a much shorter game because they had a smaller sta­dium. We should benefit because with our offense we use the width of the field a lot." 
There won't be any grandiose speeches to commemorate the beginning of the Belles' home 
see BELLES/page 18 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Home schedule kicks off 
No. 15 Irish return home to play Valpo 
By HEATJ:IER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame may be in Indiana, not Kansas, but the Irish agree that there is no place like home. 
They are ecstatic to play on their home court after a five­game road swing to start the season. 
"We are so excited to be on our home court," sophomore middle blocker Lauren Kelbley said. "It's going to be great to be back in the JACC." 
Notre Dame (4-1) will face the undefeated Valparaiso Crusaders (8-0) in their home debut Tuesday evening. 

"We don't take anybody lightly, because in college vol­leyball, anything can happen," Kelbley said. 
No. 15 Notre Dame looks to maintain its ranking, led by Kelbley and junior hitter Emily Loomis. The Irish moved up six spots in this week's polls, jumping from No. 21. 
"It is very exciting to be ranked," Kelbley said. "We know our potential, and it's great to finally see us get in the polls." 
Kelbley is coming off an out­standing weekend at the Longhorn Classic, where she was named tournament MVP. Friday's match against Houston saw her slam 22 kills, and she hit .446 on the week­end. This was good enough to earn her Big East Player of the Week. 
Meanwhile, Loomis has also been playing well lately, earn­ing Big East Player of the Week last week and all-tournament last weekend. 
But this dynamic duo has not been alone in their efforts. Senior setter Kristen Kinder and sophomore setter Kelly Burrell have been instrumen­tal in leading the Irish offense. With the new 6-2 rotation. the Irish have been able to put up a dominant block on the oppo­sition's outside hitters. helping them to become an even better blocking team. 
Senior outside hitter Jessica Kinder, senior hitter Katie Neff and sophomore middle blocker Lauren Brewster have also been strong at the net for the Irish. 
"We are dominating at the nets," Kelbley said. "We have a huge block on the right side for all rotations, and that is big." 
For now, the Irish are just focused on handing the Crusaders their first loss of the season. 
"We are just going to go out there and play our best match on our side of the court, and see what we can do," Kelbley said. 
The Irish and Crusaders square off today at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center, the first of seven straight home games for the Irish. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


SMC VBAU. 

BOXING TENNIS AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE
NCAA 
Saint Mary's at Calvin 

U.S. Open champion 
I B F heavyweght 
In the wake of scandal The Orioles score four 
Braves pitcher Russ champion Chris Byrd 
Andy Roddick experi­and murder of one of its runs in the seventh and Ortiz wins his National 
ences the life of a major
Tonight, 6 p.m. 

has a title defense set for basketball players, eighth innings to com-
League leading 19t.h The Belles try to 
championship winnerSept. 20, nine months Baylor hires a new ath­plete a comeback victo­
game in Atlanta's 6-4 avenge last year's 
after his first Grandafter his last fight. 
letic director. 
ry over the Red Sox. 

win over Philadelphia. defeats. 
Slam title. 
page 18 page 16 page 12page 15 page 14 page 13 



