
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 43 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31,2003 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Ticket exchange can't meet student demand 
By BETH ERICKSON_ 
News Writer 
Standout attendance at this year's student ticket exchanges may indicate an increased feel­ing of disheartenment amongst even the truest fans, as Notre Dame's football team continues to perform unsatisfactorily. 
In the recent student ticket exchanges for the USC and Florida State games, students braved long lines to trade in their football tickets, coveted in more successful seasons. Many stu­dents were unable to trade their tickets, for far more than the 300-person limit showed up to make the exchange. 
Students began camping out before dawn to trade in their USC tickets two weeks ago, Breen­Phillips junior Sarah Cancellare said. 
Students arriving even an hour prior to the ticket exchange could not exchange their tickets. This was due to the process' chaotic organization, which allowed many students to work the system to their advantage, Cancellare said. 
"There is absolutely no rhyme or reason to the ticket exchange process," she said. 
While the number of students vying to exchange their USC tick­ets was unusually large, the number seeking to swap tickets in this year's other exchanges has not been remarkable, assis­tant athletic director Jim Fraleigh said. 
"[The exchanges] have been consistent throughout the past few years," he said. 
Because ofthe team's perform­ance this season, some students feel that an increase in students wishing to exchange is justified. 
''This season was supposed to represent a return to fundamen­tals, yet a majority of the weak­nesses we have seen are funda­mental mistakes," Chris O'Boynick, an ofl'-campus senior, said, "This season is not the one I envisioned for my senior year. If students want to trade in their tickets, that's fine by me." 
Others remain hopeful that the Irish can rekindle last season's spark, holding out for the team's next upset. "Even though this season isn't as exciting or as suc­cessful as last season, I still sup­port the Irish every Saturday because I know Ty's a great coach and that our players can be better," Erin Phillips, a Breen­Phillips Hall junior, said. 
"I think everyone's quick to jump ofT our bandwagon but the students have to stay. I definitely wouldn't have sold my ticket. I'd rather be in the student section than watching it on TV," Phillips said. 
Many other students have resigned themselves to an imper­fect season but will continue to 
see TICKETS/page 4 


Institute reacts to Kroc gift 
Money drives graduate program expansion 
By ANNA GELHAUS 
News Writer 
The record $50 million gift from the late Joan Kroc to the University has left many students and faculty connected thankful and moved. 
Kroc specified in her will that the donation should be used to enhance the graduate program at the Kroc Institute for 
see KROC/ page 9 

Saint Mary's provides on-campus alternative 

;;~·;·~{If ,­~;?-;;~:.·~·•:·:.:~}J!.-', 
L;" 


,-i ,'Y .
FtTtJR£ ; -­
-' l: 
COIJQT\'ARP 

~ -. -~ r~ [::.....:. d".Ji..:. 
t •: '"c_ 'H; 
I I \
f...~~.:...:..~, •..,..,_::../ t';. ~.. ·"' "" "-:"-;"' 
...:' ... 
Graphic courtesy of Opus Architects 

The new apartments at Saint Mary's, shown above in an architect's blueprint, are expected to be in operation for the fall semester of 2004. 

Students may pick new apartments over off-campus 
·By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD Saint Mary's Editor 
Off-campus housing, where available, is something that college students nationwide often consid­er. Numerous reasons exist See Also for why stu­dents may
"Saint Mary's to 
seek alterna­

open apartments" 
tive housing arrange­
page4 
ments, but 

many cases simply involve the attraction of increased independence and free­dom. 
And as construetion continues 
see HOUSING/page 4 



Groups use Halloween for service 
By JOE HETTLER News Writer 
For many campus organiza­tions, Halloween isn't just a time for ghosts and goblins -it's also a time to help others. 
Different groups and dorms have been planning activities for today's holiday in an effort to rqise money and donatr their time to children and the less fortunate. 
Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids sponsored a Halloween costume party in the LaFortune Ballroom Thursday night, said Kim Simko, executive director of the club, which is in its second year of exis­tence. The club's goal is to raise money for St. Jude's Children's 
~ Hospital in Nashville Tenn., which cares for children with life-threat­ening illness, such as cancer or HIV. "What we do is have all club members write designated letters to family members and friends, or to anyone they know," Simko said. "They ftll out the letter [at the party1. address it to the person 
see HALLOWEEN/page 8 

Fans cheer Irish on nationwide 
'Subway alumni' exist across the country 
straight face, the man By CLAIRE HEININGER responded to an innocent News Writer question about his Notre 
Dame T-shirt with the out­
When Paul--Kress attended burst that "This is God's team Catholic elementary school in -if you don't cheer for this Rochester, N.Y., rooting for team then you're rooting for the Irish was not a matter of ·the devil!" choice. While God's team repre­
"Every_fall Friday, the nuns sented the pinnacle of foot­would gather us together ball prowess, Notre Dame outside," Kress, now 72, represented the height of recalls. "We would all kneel educational achievement for down, concentrate hard and a generation of immigrant pray the rosary for Notre European Catholics. For the Dame to win." first half of the 20th century, 
The earnest prayers of very few Irish -or any other Kress and his classmates heritage -could aspire to were a microcosm of the loy­attend college. Thus Notre alties shared by Irish­Dame began to stand out, Americans and Roman earning a reputation that Catholics across the United Catholics could take pride in States, as evidenced by his and establishing itself as an encounter years later with a institution they could revere. California fan of the same generation. With a stoie see SUBWAY/page 6 

Friday, October 31, 2003 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



This is how legends get started 
There's a huge difference between wild Zahm resident Charlie Gales, class of 1982, and the man who has enforced the rules at home for the last 18 years -or so I thought. 
However, as the  
summer of 2003  Kate Gales  
grew to a close,  
and my depar­ 
ture for Notre  Wzre Editor  
Dame grew  
imminent, I  
began to see  

someone I hadn't seen before -my staid, rules-observing father became ''Charlie" before my eyes. 
Charlie is a proud former resident of Zahm Hall's second-floor 10-man suite. He and his former roommates -Sean, Moon, Gerry, Burl, Rudy, "L," Blim, Vasey, Sab and others keep in close contact and recently celebrated their 20-year reunion. Sean will actually be here to tail­gate with my family before the USC game this weekend. According to my mother, his claim to fame is struggling mightily through Notre Dame's civil engineering program and then designing a massive bridge in the South Bend area. 
The stories these adults tell are hard to reconcile with "Dad the dis­ciplinarian." Charlie grew up on a farm, and the muscles he built bal­ing hay made him talented among his dormmates. Since kegs had recently been outlawed in dorm rooms, Charlie's ability to carry four cases of special drinks from the parking lots to Zahm were prized. He also used his impressive physical strength to barricade the assistant rector in his room with a cigarette machine. 
Dad was vastly amused when I was assigned to Cavanaugh-the home of Zahm's old rivals. 
"Charlie," my mom asked, "does­n't it feel funny to you that Kate is living in a men's dorm?" 
"No, Dad replied. ''Cavanaugh guys were pretty girly anyways." This was reinforced with the story of "L" sending bottle rockets down a hallway, past the Cavanaugh chapel. Bottle rockets were also shot out of upper-story windows over groups of students. 
Dad spent a lot of time in his freshman-year room, 313 Zahm, during Frosh-0 weekend. He also enjoyed the "Zahm, best six years of your life" sign and giant Z. It was an odd sense of deja vu that I went to my first college party in Dad's old room. It was odder yet that Dad's main reaction was a sense of relief that these new Zahmbies were car­rying on the tradition. 
Campus has changed a lot in the last quarter-century. However, being a legacy means that a sense of continuity pervades my time here at Notre Dame. I'm thrilled to see my family this weekend for the first time since I've left for college. I'm sure more interesting stories are on their way. 
The vif!WS expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please con tact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR PREDICTION FOR THE FOOTBALL GAME THIS WEEKEND? 




roommate No. 52 Joe 
.,
Brockington. 

IN BRIEF 
Watch the movie "Seabiscuit" showing today at 8 p.m. and Saturday at DeBartolo 101. The event is sponsored by the Student Union Bord. 
Come cheer on the Irish at the Pep Rally at ~ p.m. today in the Joyce Center. Doors open for students at 5:15 p.m. and for the general public at 6 p.m. 
Come cheer on the hockey team as they play the University of Nebraska-Omaha from 7:30 to 9 p.m. today in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
Hear John Kelly from Oxford University speak about "Robert E-mmet and Irish Literature," today from 3 to 4 
p.m. in Flanner Hall, Room 
424. This talk is sponsored by the Keough Institute for Irish Studies. 
The Glee Club will present its Fall Concert today from 8 to 
9:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets can be purchased at the LaFortune Box Office for $3. 
Listen to anthropology pro­fessor Carolyn Nordstrom speak about "Living on the Front Lines: An Anthropologist Looks at the Realities of War" Saturday at 11 a.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. This event is part of the Saturday Scholar Series. 
Suport the Notre Dame women's volleyball team as they take on Syracuse at 7 p.m. Saturday in the Joyce Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 57 HIGH 55 LOW 38 LOW 50 
Anne GlangJullo Ashley St. Pierre Kevin O'Boyle Laura Maclean Pat Watts Steve Cartwright 
Pasquerilla West Pasquerilla West Stanford Farley O'Neill Keough freshman freshman sophomore sophomore junior freshman 
"s-o. just like "Ten is my ..55-nothing. ..Our half-time ..We're going to "'It'll be a win if my height.·· favorite Notre Dame. " show will be get trounced." we play my 
number." wicked 
awesome. I hope the Irish brought their A­
.. 
game. 


SOFIA BALL ON/The Observer 

A student views exhibits at the Snlte Museum relating to Dla de los Muertos, or the "Day of the Dead." The exhibit featured artist Armando Vargas and author Oscar Casares. 
OFFBEAT 
U.S. Capitol said to be haunted building 
WASHINGTON Murder, curses and demon cats. Statues descending from their pedestals for midnight minuets. There are scarier things than lawmaking going on inside the U.S. Capitol. 
Walk through the Rotunda late at night and the only sound might be the 180-foot-high iron dome creaking in the cool air. But those with sharper ears and broader imagina­tions might also hear, behind the 850 doorways, the footsteps of the strick­en John Quincy Adams or 
TODAY 0::: 
the assassinated James Garfield. 
There was plenty of noise Thursday, as authorities closed down the House after guards saw what they thought was a firearm on a security camera at a Capitol office building across the street. It turned out to be a toy, part of a Halloween costume an employee was bringing in. 
Italian premier co-writes love ballads 
ROME -Long before his days as billionaire head of state, Silvio Berlusconi used to croon on a cruise ship. Now, Italy's premier has co-written an album of love songs. 
Despite governmental duties, Berlusconi found time to write half the tunes on the album "Better With a Song" ("Meglio Una Canzone"). 14 ballads in the romantic Neapolitan style. A sunset graces the album cover; inside there is a picture of the Italian leader grinning. 
Berlusconi does not sing on the CD. The songs are performed by Mariano Apicella, who earned his keep singing at restaurant tables before being adopt­ed as Berlusconi's favored musical ally. 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
U.l :I: 
~ 
U.l 
~ 
..... 
<
(.) 

0 
...I HIGH 72 HIGH 53 HIGH 68 HIGH 65 LOW 50 LOW 50 LOW 55 LOW 45 
Atlanta 76 I 55 Boston 64 I 51 Chicago 66 I 42 Denver 44 I 30 Houston 84 I 68 Los Angeles 64 I 52 Minneapolis 42 I 32 New York 65 I 58 Philadelphia 70/ 54 Phoenix 75 I 580 Seattle 49/ 32 St. Louis 73 I 55 Tampa 87 I 67 Washington 72 1 54 
Friday, October 31, 2003 page 3 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Blak Images to showcase talents 
had three, with another [sched­
Talent show will be 
uled for J Saturday.".held Saturday night Residents of Siegfried volun­
teered to help with stage crew 
and lighting, Thomas said.. The 
coordinators Thomas,
By KATE GALES 
Jourdan Sorrell, Nicole Rogers
News Writer 
and Wini Samuels -will work 
behind the scenes, as well. 
The Black Cultural Arts Though the University is Council will host its annual sometimes criticized or stereo­event Blak Images Saturday, a typed for a lack of diversity on 
talent show that includes poetry, campus, a major goal of the singing and various other acts, BCAC is to bring different racial club secretary Leah McGee said. groups together. The show aims 
Eve Thomas, co-to appeal to the coordinator of the entire campus, event, said it will ''We just want the not just minorityinclude dance, student body to students, McGee 
rapping and per­said.
know that we're 
formances by "We just want 
Troupe ND, the trying to create a the student bodyFirst Class more diverse to know that were Steppers and trying to create a
environment.,
Station One, an more diverse envi­off-campus band. ronment," "It's a diverse Eve Thomas 
Thomas said. crowd," Thomas event co-coordinator "The show is opensaid of the per­for everyone; it's· 
formers. "There not segregated are 16 acts. Twelve are African­just for black people. Its pur­American students and four are pose is to create a diverse envi­white students." ronment on campus."
McGee said preparation work Tickets will be sold in advance has been intense for members at the LaFortune Box Office and ofthe BCAC. at the doors of Washington Hall 
"We had auditions open to the for $5. The show begins at 8 entire campus," she said. p.m.
"After auditions, we've been having run-throughs and Contact Kate Gales at rehearsals," Thomas said. "We kgales@nd.edu.edu 

General speaks on military defense 
Dunn was personally this, Dunn said, can leave civil­
ND grad now an 
involved in such attacks when ians vulnerable. 
Army senior expert he was stationed at Walter "I felt very comfortable going 
Reed Medical Center, which into Iran and Iraq," he said. "I 
was one of the locations the had a chemical suit. I had a 
By ANNA GELHAUS 
received mask ... antidotes ... 
News Writer 
anthrax con-guys with detectors." taminated While the military is
"There is a 
Civilian medical authorities letters fol­able to assist civilians 
tendency among 
will· need to learn about med­lowing Sept. in many instances, ical homeland security, accord­11. He spoke health such as Olympic ing to Brig. Gen. Michael on the mili­events or inaugura­
professionals to 
Dunn. tary plans tions, they are some­
panic when faced 
Dunn spoke on the issue at a for such times "off doing the lecture last night titled, attacks, and with something nation's business," "Medical Homeland Defense: their defens­they are unfamiliar said Dunn. Therefore, Yesterday's Demons and es against the civilian medical
with., · 
Tomorrow's Threat." He is the them, but field needs to make commanding general for the expressed changes. Western Regional Medical concern over Michael Dunn But at the same Command and the Army's sen­a lack of time, people must be
brigadier general 
ior medical expert on chemical civilian wary of the actions and biological defense, as well readiness for taken to prevent as a 1968 graduate of Notre such events. attacks. In reference to discus­Dame. "There is a tendency among sion about national smallpox 
"Notre Dame has a great health· professionals to panic vaccinations, Dunn said, "Do reputation among medical cir­when faced with something you want to be that one in a cles," Dunn said. "You couldn't they are unfamiliar with," he million who dies from the be in a better place to prepare said. smallpox vaccine?" He also for a career in medicine." Learning about the issues talked about the vast resources 
Dunn focused on the results will diminish this fear, he needed to do such work that of past attacks on medical believes. could be used for other practi­defense and what needs to be "You can imagine, if you are cal problems such as smoking done to prepare the nation for running an urban hospital, [an cessation. Personal freedoms the future. He stressed the anthrax attack] can really would also be lost if quarantin­importance of learning about affect things." ing was established. the medical issues in order to The military has a worldwide "This country is not the same be prepared for possible database among its hospi~als as it was before Sept. 11," said attacks. that tracks medical trends and Dunn. "I think the public, med­
"We are no longer looking at possible disease outbreaks. But icine and government need to chemical and biological threats this technology is only avail­recognize, in a way never seen as a war time thing; we are able for the small population before. That is something we looking at them as day-to-day that visits military hospitals, have to pay attention to." occurrences," said Dunn. "His and the vast majority of the makes us a little apprehen­world is left without this tool. Contact Anna Gelhaus at sive." Lapses in technology like agelhaus@nd.edu 

<.0 
l{) l[) 
"" 
~ (0 ":::t 
~ ~ z ~ 
~ w 
:?!
~ 
< 
0 


~ • 

"( >­
(j) 

ll,~ 
~ 



'Zit'iug on tbe Front Lines: 
Att At~tbropologist look!>.' at 
the Ret1lities t~/' u:ltr'' 
Ca1~olyn Nord~tt·om 
.Associate Pn:~f'essor of . 
.Anthropologv 
"Living on the Front Lines: An Anthropologist Looks at the Realities of War," with Carolyn Nordstrom, associate professor of anthropology. Based on more than a decade of research on the frontlines ofwars across several continents, Nordstrom will examine topics ranging from the immediacy of war zone survival to the offices of power brokers to the vast extra-legal networks that fuel war and the international profiteering. She also will reveal the human face of war zones ­where the frontlines are populated not only with the perpetrators and victims of war, but with scoundrels, silent heroes, and average families who liv~ their lives in the midst of explosive violence. 
Nordstrom studies the political anthropology of peace and conflict. She .bas undertaken extensive field research on the frontlines of wars in many regions around the world, including southern Africa, Southeast Asia and central Europe. Her current research examines post-war transformation, including its relationship to organized crime and extra-state patterns of development. 
Nordstrom's recent publications include A Different Kind of War Story and Fieldwork Under Fire, co-edited with Antonius Robben. 
~For further information visit the Saturday Scholar website at -~ http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu . 




Friday, October 31, 2003 

page 4 Thf Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
. .. ·.· ·.· 



NOTRE DAME 
MAGAZINE 
j" . 

POSTER COLLECTION 
wv;rw.nd.edu/-ndmag/magmart/posters.hnnl 
NBW 

THE SENTINELS OF NOTRE DAME 
18''X24" · THE DOORS OF NOTRE DAME 4~COLOR PRINT I $30 18" X 24~' {in<:luQes l yea.r subscription) 4-COLOR PRINT I $1 0 

FOR MORE INFORMATION CONi ACT Julie Ettl PHONE: 574.631.5336 E-MAtL: .ETTL.3@ND.EDU 5 38 GR.ACE HALL NOTRE DAME, IN 46556  




Saint Mary's to open apartments 
By ANNE MAHONEY 
News Writer 
New Saint Mary's on-campus apartments will be open for residents next fall, public rela­
tions  director  Melanie  
McDonald said.  
The  apartment  building,  

designed to house 73 students, is the first of its kind to be built at Saint Mary's. On-campus apartments are a growing trend at colleges and universities nationwide, and construction has already begun on the com­plex. 
McDonald said that on-cam­pus housing is an attractive option because it provides secu­rity and helps students stay more involved. 
"Seniors are an important part of college life," McDonald said. "We are hoping to keep these students around because it's hard to get them back on campus after they move off." 
A student survey adminis­tered last year at Midnight Madness found an overwhelm­ing number of students in favor of the new option. 
"I would definitely be inter­ested in living in the new apart­ments," junior Kate Lohmuller said. "On-campus housing with the convenience of location and the same freedoms as off-cam­pus living has a huge appeal." 
The three-floor plan includes both two-and four-bedroom apartments. Each comes fur­nished with a kitchen and dish­washer, and a laundry room is located in the basement. Each floor will have a lounge, and an outdoor deck will be built on the second floor and a chapel on the first floor. Storage will also be located in the basement. 
The cost of the project will be about $5 million, half of which came from an anonymous donor. 
Most students have expressed curiosity about the guidelines for the new housing. McDonald said residence life policies are still being discussed by a com­mittee composed of herself, director of student affairs Linda Timm and student representa­tives. Decisions will be made in January with the help of a pro­fessional advisor, and the guide­lines are expected to be differ­ent from the residence halls. 
The same committee also plans to discuss the selection process for future seniors inter­ested in living in the apart­ments. No final decision has been made about whether stu­dents will submit applications or if a lottery will be used. 
Additional apartment com­plexes may be included in Saint Mary's long-term plans, depending on available funds. 
Contact Anne Mahoney at maho9505@saintmarys.edu 
support the team. "It's been disappointing to not

Tickets 

have a better record senior continued from page I year, but at this point it's game­
by-game situations, and I'm just imperfect season but will con­hoping we can take a few," off­tinue to attend the games and campus senior Karyn Dionisio 

Housing 
continued from page I 

on the new campus apartments at Saint Mary's, many hope that the facility will provide an alter­native to students seeking the benefits of off-campus living. 
According to Saint Mary's Office of Residence Life and Housing, 244 College students currently live off-campus, of which 148 are seniors. The number of students who decide to move ofT-campus remains relatively consistent from year to year, said Michelle Russell, the director of Residence Life. 
"As students reach their senior year, they are looking for different living options such as apartment style living," she said. "They want more independence and freedom in their housing environment." 
According to students, inde­pendence and freedom account for some of the major reasons to move off-campus. 
"I moved off-campus this year because I needed more freedom, more space and more independ­ence before preparing for what will come after graduation," said senior Betsy Mitchell. 
Russell said she often confronts students like Mitchell who simply want to live with friends, have their own kitchen instead of a meal plan and have more inde­
pendence. Some simply feel that 
they have outgrown the experi­
ence of living in residence halls by 
their senior year, she said. 
The Office of Residence Life 
attempts to provide options and 
benefits that entice students, par­
ticularly seniors, to remain on­
campus. One of the most popular 
options is Annunciata, the top 
floor in Holy Cross Hall designat­
ed specifically for seniors. With 
larger rooms and a developed 
sense of community among fellow 
residents, a wait list typically 
exists for housing in Annunciata 
year after year. 
"It's a great option for seniors because they will only be living with other seniors, and it has a different feel to it than a tradition­al residence hall," Russell said. 
"I think the convenience of [being] on-campus keeps some seniors here. They want to be close to classes and their activities -living on campus keeps them in the center of it all." 
Maureen Russell, a senior living ,in LeMans Hall, includes this on her list of reasons for continuing to live in residence halls. 
"My second major is at Notre Dame, so between going to those classes and band every night, I would never be in a place for that long," she said. "I like living at Saint Mary's because at least between classes I can go sit in a place I can consider home." 
For those students who choose said. "Once you accept that we can't win every game [or many] this season you stop caring and just enjoy yourself." 

Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 
to move off-campus, Russell and others in the Office of Residence Life can provide advice on ofT­campus issues. Much of what Russell said she discusses with students involves financial impli­cations, household expenses and the impact moving off-campus may have on fmancial aid pack­ages. 
She said she feels hopeful that the presence of the new campus apartments, scheduled for com­pletion in 2007, will appeal to stu­dents by merging the conven­ience of on-campus living with the independence of off-campus housing. 
Unlike other local housing options, the apartments will be in close proximity to academic buildings, have a card access safety feature and offer amenities such as cable, Internet and local phone that would typically incur additional cost. 
While she anticipates the apart­ments will attract all class years, Russell is especially hopeful of their attraction to seniors. 
"I think in time we have· the potential _to keep more and more seniors on campus once they see what the apartments are like and what it's like to live in them," she said. "They are going to be a wonderful addition to the Saint Mary's community." 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 

THE RESIDENCE HALLS Of NOTRE DAME  THE WINDOWS OF NOTRE DAME  
18" X 24"  18" X 24"  
4-COLOR PRINT I $10  4-COLOR PRINT I $1 0  





INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Sharon ready to negotiate 
JERUSALEM -Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said Thursday he is ready to negotiate with the new Palestinian prime minister at any time, but U.S. officials took a tougher stance, saying the Palestinians first must "confront terror and violence." . 
Israel previously indicated it would not talk with the new Palestinian government led by Ahmed Qureia because that Cabinet was too closely associated with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat. 
Tories rally behind new leader 
LONDON -Conservative lawmaker Michael Howard, whom Prime Minister Tony Blair called an "old adversary" for their bruising debates years ago in Parliament, made a bid for the top job in his ailing party Thursday with a promise to "lead from the center." 
Senior Tories have united behind Howard, hoping his incisive wit and gift for oratory would resuscitate the once mighty party, which has failed to recover in the polls since its crushing defeat in 1997 elections. 
Former Pres. faces more charges 
LIMA -Peru's Congress approved more charges against former President Alberto Fujimori, now alleging he authorized the tor­ture of a journalist in 2000, officials said Thursday. 
Fujimori's government collapsed amid a corruption scandal in November 2000 and he has since lived in Japan, where he is protect­ed from extradition by Japanese citizenship. He has denied any wrongdoing. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

~ 
Weather eases fire conditions 
BIG BEAR LAKE, Calif. -Fog and drizzle Thursday came to the rescue of firefighters laboring to save resort towns in Southern California from the raging wildfires that have killed at least 20 people. 
"It is helping, but it is a long way from put­ting any fires out," said Ray Snodgrass, chief deputy director of the California Forestry Department. "It's the respite we were hoping for." 
The forecast, however, also called for gust­ing winds that could drive the flames into more homes. 
Firefighters dug in to protect hundreds of homes still threatened in San Bernardino and San Diego counties. But only a few hun­dred acres of thick forest were burned overnight by one of the most devastating and erratic of the fires -. a 50,000-acre blaze east of Lake Arrowhead in the San Bernardino Mountains. 
Dean lands key endorsement 
WASHINGTON -Democrat Howard Dean is poised to capture a coveted endorsement from the largest union in the AFL-CIO -if the Service Employees International Union decides to back one of the nine presidential candidates next week. 
"It's Dean or no one," SEIU spokeswoman Sara Howard said Thursday, days before the union's 63-member executive board will decide at its Nov. 6 meeting. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Vote manipulation charges filed 
HAMMOND, Ind. -A Hispanic civil rights group has filed a federal lawsuit seeking to have East Chicago Mayor Robert A. Pastrick's primary victory thrown out, just days before the general election. 
The lawsuit filed Wednesday in U.S. District Court in Hammond by the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund claims that Pastrick's supporters ille­gally tried to manipulate the Latino vote. 
About half of the northwest Indiana city's population of 31,700 is Hispanic, and about three-quarters of that segment is Mexican, according to the 2000 Census. 
Explosions rock Iraqi capital 
Violence continues as U.S. supply train, market, are attacked by resistance fighters 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD, Iraq 
Saboteurs brought a train­
load of U.S. Army supplies 
to a fiery halt west of 
Baghdad on Thursday, as a 
Ramadan campaign of ter­
ror bombs and es-calating 
attacks spurred a new Iraq 
pullout by international aid 
groups. 

An explosion rocked a 
row of shops in Baghdad's 
Old City late Thursday, 
killing two people, accord­
ing to police, and deepen­
ing the unease in the Iraqi 
capital. 

Many Baghdad parents 
apparently were keeping 
their children home from 
school out of fear of fur­
ther bombings like the four 
that killed three dozen 
people and wounded more 
than 200 across the capital 
on Monday, start of the 
Mus lim holy month of 
Ramadan. 

"We heard rumors about 
big bombs that will go off," 
said Duha Khalid, 18, most 
of whose friends stayed 
home Thursday from her 
girls' high school, situated 
near a police station. 
The police, prime targets 
in the bombings Monday, 
were targeted again 
Agence france Press 

Thursday, when officers 
An Iraqi man suspected of planning and carrying out attacks against coalition
intercepted a motorist who 
forces In the area is detained by soldiers in a predawn raid In Tikrlt Thursday.
tried to toss a hand grenade into a police sta­shadowy underground of Fallujah. As the uninjured invasion force last April. tion on the edge of bombers striking Iraqi engineer fled, four ship­Monday's bombings, one Baghdad's heavily guarded cities and ambush teams ping containers on flatcars of which devastated the "green zone," the head­harassing U.S. forces: Are went up in flames, and Baghdad headquarters of quarters enclave for the they die-hard Baathists, more than 200 area resi­the International 
U.S. occupation. other anti-U.S. national­dents descended on the Committee of the Red 
As October's heat finally ists, foreign Islamic fight­other cars to make off with Cross, prompted interna­gave way to cooling winds ers, or some combination? whatever they could carry. tional aid organizations to off the desert, rumors of The identity of those No U.S. forces came to quickly review their pres­looming trouble spread swarming over the sabo­the scene, but at one point ence in Iraq. through this city of 5 mil­taged train Thursday was the looters scattered when On Wednesday, the ICRC lion, focusing on the start clear: they were Iraqis two American helicopters announced it would reduce of the week-Saturday in from the Fallujah area, 35 whirred in for a look. At its 30-member internation­Muslim Iraq. miles west of Baghdad, another point, Iraqis al staff in Iraq but would 
One leaflet on the who fell upon the crippled backed trucks up to the continue operations. streets, purporting to be train to loot it of comput­bombed train to offload Among other things, the from Saddam Hussein's ers, tents, bottled water goods. Red Cross. ·which has 600 Baath Party; called for a and other Army supplies. The 6-month-old U.S. Iraqi employees, tries to general strike Saturday The goods had been occupation is highly ensure the rights of prison­through Monday "to prove bound for the town of unpopular in Fallujah and ers of war and other post­to our enemy that we are Haditha, 100 miles up the in much of the rest of war detainees, has worked united people." Euphrates River from Iraq's Sunni Muslim heart­to improve water quality, 
The plainly typed flyer Fallujah, when a makeshift land, a favored region particularly for hospitals, will further feed the debate bomb exploded along the under the Baathist regime and delivered medical sup­over the identity of the tracks four miles west of toppled by the U.S.-British plies to Iraqi hospitals. 

House closes amid security scare 
gear moved into the Cannon House accused shooter, Russell E. Weston
Associated Press 

Office Building in pursuit of suspects. Jr., is awaiting trial. 
WASHINGTON -The House of Gainer said the two female staff Rep. John Shimkus, R-Ill., contact­Representatives shut down Thursday aides had stopped to chat with secu­ed Capitol police to report that his following a reported security breach rity personnel after placing a bag on aides were the two people authori­at a nearby congressional office a security station X-ray belt at the ties were looking for. Security per­building, but police later determined entrance to the office building, then sonnel raced to the office and that a plastic revolver and Halloween went into their building. Moments learned about the costume and toy costume were to blame and lawmak­later, security officials noticed the gun. Shimkus' office would not iden­ers went back in session. image of a gun on a video screen, tify the two aides and no charges 
U.S. Capitol Police Chief Terrance and triggered an alarm. were filed. Gainer said "two staff members The security personnel performed "I don't think anybody was trying bringing in Halloween costumes" "well within standards" and the two to trick anybody," Gainer said. "I were responsible. "I don't think they staff aides were "very sorry all this think it was just an unusual set of had any ill intent," he said, adding happened," Gainer said. Halloween circumstances that he expected no charges to be filed. The incident triggered memories of unfolded on us." 
Start to finish, the incident lasted a lethal incident on July 24, 1998, Shimkus said the staff members two hours or less-but it triggered a when a man with a history of mental didn't realize they were the suspects massive security response in a time illness rushed into the Capitol and until Capitol police said they were of terrorism worries. Police in battle killed two security guards. The looking for a woman. 

Friday, October 31, 2003 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Subway 
continued from page 1 
could revere. 
Dubbed the "subway alum­ni," the fans of this era earned their lighthearted nickname from the South Shore Line train that wound its way through the immigrant bor­oughs of Chicago and Northwest Indiana on its way to South Bend, the Basilica and Touchdown Jesus -a football fan's paradise and a transplanted Catholic's holy grail. 
The late Herb Juliano, author of the 1993 book "Notre Dame Odyssey" and self-described former organiz­er and leader of the subway alumni, has written that on these trips, arriving at "the football stadium ... I could almost feel the presence of the great ghosts." 
The mighty ghosts of George Gipp, Frank Leahy and the Four Horsemen are not all that keep the subway alumni coming back. The intense foot­ball spirit of today's students and the overwhelming atmos­phere of the campus itself have inspired Kress and his family to·return for at least one Notre Dame home football game in every year since 1977. 
"It was the fourth game of the season against Michigan State, Joe Montana's first start ever," Kress remembers. "The students hung coach Dan 
· Devine in effigy and draped sheets on the sides of the dorms that said 'Play Montana 

or die.'" service in 1945, I felt very 
Montana played. Devine close to the Irish. It was the escaped. Notre Dame went on draw of something Catholic to win the national champi­that sparked my interest ... onship, and Kress was hooked. Even though I went to a com­
"The next year, I took my merce college in Ohio State son to the Pitt game and territory, I was a part of Notre Montana pulled it out in the Dame and I felt a loyalty to it." fourth quarter," he said. "The Wilson's loyalty continued excitement on that campus on across decades of winning and that day was unforgettable. seasons of losing, Heisman My son grabbed my shoulder trophy winners and washed­after the game and said 'Dad, up coaching failures. this is where I want to go to "It's something about the school."' mystique surrounding it -if 
For many subway alumni they lost every game, I'd still and their children, one such be loyal," Wilson said. Like moment of identification with other subway alumni, his peri­the University was enough to odic visits to campus buoyed win their lifelong support. his hopes and kept his Irish Joseph Bringley, 81. also of connection afloat. Rochester, N.Y., had difficulty "I've been coming out to 
putting his  own  Notre  Dame  
defining moment into words.  "I only first visited  every year for the charismatic  
"I only first vis­ about IO or I5  renewal confer­ 
ited about 10 or 15 years ago, but I had been a fan  years ago. but I had been a fan  ence in May, and I always go down to the Grotto,"  
long before that time. I was always just so  long before that time.··  Wilson said. "A few years ago I also walked  
impressed with  across the field  - 
the  school  in  Paul Kress  you  could say I  
itself  and  the  New York fan  like  being  on  
spirit  of  the  sacred ground."  
school ­ the fact  The collective  

that it's a Catholic college, the draw of these holy places, tradition of Notre Dame foot­both godly and gridiron, ball over the years-that type remains unmatched among of inspiration is very hard to American college campuses. describe," he said. Decades after the descendents Arthur Wilson, 80, of of Irish Catholics began to Newark, Ohio, agreed that the attend and graduate from uni­Catholic appeal was at once versities across the nation, captivatingly intimidating and Notre Dame has not lost its undeniably inclusive. "[My initial appeal. Kenneth Scott, family and I] were cradle 64, of Newark, Ohio, recently Catholics," he said. "Ever earned the coveted position of since I came back from Navy a stadium usher, which he 
said felt like the crowning in that." honor for a lifetime of devo­Scott's pride extends to a tion to Fighting Irish football. younger generation of subway 
"They were the first football alumni as well. Matt Minor. team to get syndicated TV cov-47, of Austin. Texas, was com­erage," he pletely shocked said. "The when his friends 
more I watched the Lindsay  "It's something about the mystique  surprised him with trips to two football games in the last  
Nelson replays on Sunday mornings, the more it grew  surrounding it-if they lost every game. Fd still be  two years. "My boss told me that I was supposed to go to the airport  
on me." After several  loyal.··  on a Friday morning and pick some guys  
seasons of watching the games on tele­ Arthur Wilson Ohio fan  up," Minor said. "He told me to go by the office first and when  
vision  every  I  walked  in,  the  
weekend and  Notre  Dame  fight  

"scratching around to get tick­song came on and the lights ets, " Scott's I o y a 1 t y was· started flashing. My friend rewarded three years ago Tom was standing there say­when a fellow parishioner at ing, 'We're going to the Notre his church who worked as an Dame game!'" usher at Notre Dame offered At first, Minor didn't under­him an application. He got the stand the surprise. job and attended the following "I said, 'Don't rub it in.' spring's Blue and Gold game, Then they said, 'No, Matt, filled with exhilaration and we're all going to the game.' anticipation. And everything else is histo­
"They were assigning sec­ry," he said. tions, and they put me in sec­Minor, who has lived in tion 27. which is on the 45 Japan, Alaska, Florida and yard line -right behind the Texas, said that he has been a Notre Dame bench," Scott Notre Dame fan since he was said. "I can't tell you how 12 years old and that his emotional it was -what an friends tell him he is the epito­amazing blessing. I still feel so me of the label "subway alum­fortunate to have the pleasure ni." of being an ambassador of "They say 'subway alumni,' Notre Dame. At the USC game and I say, 'That's me,"' Minor [Oct. 18], I wished a visiting .said. ''I'm a Notre Dame fan couple a safe trip home, and no matter what-win, lose or they couldn't stop praising draw ... I love them, and I what a class act Notre Dame always will." is, couldn't stop compliment­ing the students. I take a Contact Claire Heininger at tremendous amount of pride cheining@nd.edu 


Lafayette Square Townhomes · 
NOW is the ti111e, they won•t last longl 
• 
Only 9 Blocks from Campus 

• 
Laundry Area with Washer and Dryer 

• 
Fully Equipped Kitchen Including Dishwasher and Garbage Disposal 

• 
4 I 5 Private Bedrooms 

• 
Private Patio 


• 
Optional ADT Alarm System (Optional Monitoring) 

• 
Central·Air Conditioning 

• 
Assigned Parking 


• 
EnergyEfficient Gas Heating 


+ Professionally Managed 
• 24 -:--Hour Emergency On-Call Maintenance 
For More Jnfonnation: :Real Estate 1\1Ianagen1ent Corpoxation . P.O. Box 540 
South Ben~ IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile: 574-234-9925 Rllldwig@cbresb.com 

.. ··•·· ·~Q F:it:);e·st in· Stu,aent··•IIC:.usirt1g.i_.:..u:·\::::·< 
> :_, ..··. 

·N-otre Dame Apartm.ents 
starting at Just $120.00 per month, per person! 
"The Best Value for your Dollar!" 
• 
Just 4 Blocks South of the Notre Dame Campus 

• 
Spacious 2-Bedroom Apartments on Notre Dame A venue 

• 
Current l~year & 10-month Leases Available 

• 
On-Site Laundry Facility 

• 
2 Closets and 1Desk in Each Bedroom 

• 
Private Parking Lots 


• 
24 -hour On-Call Emergency Maintenance 

• 
Up to 4 Persons Per Apartment 


For More Information: Real Estate Management Corpot·ation 
P.O. Box 540 South Bend.. Ll\l 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile: 574-234-9925 
Rludwig@;,ct?r~~b.com 
MARKET RECAP 

Stocks Dow 9 786.61 +12.08 
Jones .. ' 

~Pf'f.. Same: ~ Composite Volume: t;647 165 • 1,607,570,048 
,>:::.;.;-. 

NASDAQ ·1,932.69:-.j~JK:-3.$7 ·. NYSE 5 951.37 -1.02 
:.:-:-·-.·.·.·-:-:·:-·-:-:-. 

_M1f)(.,;;.. ·· ··•·-•·•··ii·;:~:-~~j;\!·i·[iji.:J·~~~Q;~~j-.1-~~i,ll!'~B~~.•~.~~-~~;r;ili S&PSOO 1,046.94 -1.17 NtRKEI crOI<YOJ····k·•·•••;~'o:§:~-~~~~;-~;rr:!:'::··Q-:22;~::,;;;::~ 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN IPRICE 
MICROSOFf CP (MSFT) -32.32 -0.62 26.12 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +5.97 +0.21 3.73 INTEL CORP (INTC) +0 27 +0.09 32.89 JDS UNIPHASE QSDU) . +0.17 +0.01 3.51 ORACLE CORP (CSCO) +2.52 +0.30 12.19 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.76 +0.39 5 I. 98 I(}.YEAR NOTE +1.50 +0.64 42.39 5-YEARNOTE +3.21 + 1.02 32.83 3-MONTH BILL -0.53 -0.05 9.32 
Commodities UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.44 28.50 GOLD ($/Trot o:z.) -2.60 384.40 PORK BEWES (ant:sAb.) +0.125 86.85 
"'" · '· · E.xchange Rates 

YEN I 08.7 EURO 0.8605 POUND 0.590 I CANADIAN$ 1.333 
IN BRIEF 

Sweatshop conditions denied 
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras -The head of 
Honduras' assembly plant industry said 
Wednesday that claims of sweatshop conditions 
there were false. 

"The treatment is excellent. better than in 
any factory in the United States," said Jesus 
Canahuati, president of the Association of 
Maquiladoras, _a term used for export assembly 
plants. 

On Tuesday, the director the National Labor Committee, a U.S.-based workers rights group, issued a report alleging poor conditions at a Honduran clothing factory that produces a line of Sean John clothing for rap music star Sean "P. Diddy" Combs. 
The director, Charles Kernaghan, said work­ers at the Southeast Textiles factory in Choloma are subjected to body searches. 11-to 12-hour daily shifts and mandatory pregnancy tests. 
Hillenbrand announces buyout 
BATESVILLE, Ind. -Hillenbrand Industries Inc., the nation's biggest maker of hospital beds and funeral caskets, said Thursday it has agreed to buy a New Jersey-based medical equipment provider for $330 million. 
Publicly traded Hillenbrand is acquiring pri­vately held Mediq Inc.. a nationwide provider of medical equipment services to hospitals including equipment rental and sales and asset management. Mediq provides services to about 80 percent of the nation's acute care hospitals, with more than 80 branch offices in 46 states. 
Drug company wins FDA approval 
INDIANAPOLIS -Eli Lilly and Co. won a long-awaited endorsement from federal regula­tors on Thursday that it had succeeded in fix­ing manufacturing problems, a resolution that is expected to lead to the approval of two new drugs. 
But Lilly's updated forecast that the antide­pressant Cymbalta, a potential blockbuster, will be approved next summer pushes the drug's introduction back later than some industry analysts expected. 
The new timeline represents a delay from the forecast Lilly offered in July of Food and Drug Administration approval in the first quarter of 2004. 

Friday, October 31, 2003 

page 7 

GOP posts impressive growth 
Third quarter results show 7.2 percent growth in GDP, consumer confidence grows 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON Accelerating from a jog to a sprint, the economy surged from July through September at the fastest pace in nearly two decades. Both consumers and businesses helped power the gains, fresh evi­dence the national rebound is on firmer foot­ing. 
The broadest measure of the economy's perform­ance, gross domestic prod­uct, grew at a breakneck 
7.2 percent annual rate during those three months, more than double the 3.3 percent rate in the previ­ous quarter, the Commerce Department reported Thursday. 
"Consumers were buying everything from cars and clothes to homes, and businesses are s~emingly coming out of their cocoon," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com. 
Economists said that ne-ar rock-bottom short­term interest rates, along with President Bush's third round of tax cuts, induced consumers and businesses to spend and invest more and helped the economy move at a faster clip dur­ing the summer. The next challenge is making sure economy needs.to add a like this every quarter. Yet "It feels good for a while the rebound is self-sus­lot more jobs than that by continuing a pro­but you all know that the taining, they said. each month to drive down growth agenda, we will hangover is coming.·· 
On Wall Street, concerns the 6.1 percent unemploy­sustain growth and job The 7.2 percent growth 
-about the rebound's sus­ment rate. creation in this country." rate in GDP, the measure tainability weighed on The Bush administration He added: "We're on the of the value of all goods investors. The Dow Jones contends that as economic right track, but we've got and services produced in industrials closed up 12.08 growth improves, mean­work to do." the United States, was the points at 9,786.61. ingful job creation will fol­Democrats argue that best since the first quarter 
"Job growth is the key to low. Bush will be counting the president's policies of 1984. a sustained economic on that as he faces re-elec­and tax cuts have done lit­Economists believe the expansion," said Bill tion in 2004. tle to spur significant job economy will grow at a Cheney, chief economist at "The tax relief we growth, have contributed slower but still healthy 4 John Hancock. "If people passed is working," Bush to a record budget deficit percent rate in October­are worried about their said, citing the latest GDP in the recently ended fiscal December period as some jobs, or worse, if they are showing. "We left more year and will hurt the of the stimulus provided by getting laid off, then con­money in the hands of the economy over time if the tax cuts fades. sumer spending-is at risk." American people, and the deficits put pressure on "The U.S. slowdown is 
The nation's payrolls American people are mov­long-term borrowing over, dead, gone, defunct, grew by 57,000 in ing this economy forward." rates. finished and unlikely to September -the first The president cautioned "It is a little like a drunk return soon," said Sherry increase in eight months. against expecting "eco­going on a binge." said Cooper, chief economist But analysts have said the nomic growth numbers Sen. Kent Conrad, D-N.D. with BMO Nesbitt Burns. 
CHINA 





E.U. pledges closer economic ties 
Associated Press 

BEIJING -The leaders of China and the European Union vowed Thursday to build closer economic and technology ties so the two regions can become each other's biggest trading partners -and. by implication, counterbalance their relations with the United States. 
To that end, the two sides agreed to give China a stake in developing Galileo, a European-sponsored proj­ect that would rival the U.S.-run satellite navigation system known as the Global Positioning System, or GPS. 
"Europe, with its new reality, and China, with its new reforms, are two areas that can give better contribu­tions to the changing world," European Commission President Romano Prodi said after a meeting between EU leaders and Chinese President Hu Jintao. 
"We need to intensify our rela­tions, both in the trade and invest­ment sectors. We must become the biggest partners," Prodi said. "We must have the biggest relations -. more than anywhere in the world." 
The EU hopes to have the $4.2 bil­lion Galileo project operational in 2008, and Thursday's agreement allows China to take a $236 million stake in the program. 
"The agreement that was signed represents a quantum leap in terms of cooperation between the two areas," said Italian Premier Silvio Berlusconi, who holds the rotatirlg EU presidency. 
The two sides also signed an agreement saying China and the EU will consult on industrial policy so that regulations don't hinder trade, and they initialed a pact to make it easier for Chinese tourists to visit 15 European countries. 
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao hailed all three efforts as a sign of stronger ties and growing friendship. "One can say that the development of the Chinese and European rela­tionship is becoming ever more mature and ever more strategic," Wen said. 


page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 31, 2003 
Halloween 
continued from page 1 
the party], address it to the person they want to send it to and ask for a donation for the hospital." 
Simko said the club provided refreshments at the party and anyone on campus was welcome to attend. The club hoped those who attended the party would contribute a small donation. 
"Whoever comes that isn't a club member can just come and have a good time," Simko said. "If anyone donates a dollar to our cans, it goes straight to the hospi­tal." 
The club will also hold a T-shirt sale today, the proceeds of which will go to the hospital. 
Last year was the first year for 

t 
t 
~ 
( 
t 
I 
the organization, but it still man­aged to raise about $10,000. With more members and better infor­mation this year. Simko and her fellow executive directors have set a much higher goal for events. 
"We're hoping to at least triple that because we have so many people participating this year," Simko said. "Already, with all the donations we've gotten, we're over $6,000." 
Simko said she expected about 60 club members to attend the party, in addition to other partici­pants. 
For Keenan. last night was a chance to help out kids from the Boys and Girls Club of South Bend with their annual Keenan Great Pumpkin event. 
Keenan president Matt Kinsella helped organize the activity, which brought over 80 children from the community center onto campus for a few hours early last evening. 


"We bring in kids and take them trick-or-treating throughout all the other dorms, and we have a haunted house for them in the basement, and then we have pumpkin-carving outside later," Kinsella said. 
The Great Pumpkin has been the longest-running dorm activity for Keenan and incorporates stu­dents from all the other dorms on campus. 

"The kids love it," Kinsella said. "The older kids might even love it more than the little ones." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 



Date: Wednesday November 5th Time: 5:30pm Place: Center for Sociail Concerns 
. Coffee House RSVP: 1-6841 by November 3rd 
Presented by Multicultural Student · Pro rams and Services 

~te'vt~ het~u t·t~ady for ovt~r 35 yeurs.. 
Otw~L'~h:.:~l€: ·ttlb1rucrlrltl is.tht n.dt-nlth.c:r dunthe exaq:oon at llc:iy Cn.lo%i ·Ci:•lkg~. 012r da~~s ;:n.~ sn~.an and l.n.t.lmak~. -~ ~u&er-ot~ rN'd\l"l:" the ldghi~:-<:M ~~~vd ci t~tr...""'m:;tl. lltti~ml~x, hmn rt tkdkat~d,. ,caringf:J.cu.lty; &udt-tl~s can ea:rn i:n. .A~-:.:Iatt-olAt1s or.' P4t<htlor ()fAns-ikg:r~ at llo.lrCt~-Milli~r~idt~ lUe ~ _sli.:.¥W~t1gwlth tl~ iilld~.l~:"~n rlfO\u riflh n:!ilde:t'J~ lulL . 
ff}~~·lre Woking tlw. a,}mn~X· t~"' -~gi.n t1f\Cf.ltrn\l~ ~ a. ~!"Mil ('dk~~, , whne il.littk c~n~ftr>n~eyn~ i5 tln i.n.t~:gnl put o{ (Jllr mistdti!J. 
jjml ph.H•>:oophy. Y\'1! HolyCrossCrilk~ i.t. a•llut{5.N}2.39-8400 {)J \'J!'-lt lJ~·.... a.l W\"'"Wh:<:,.;fXtedll.~., 

----------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------. 
Friday, October 31, 2003 

The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Kroc 
continued from page 1 
International Peace Studies. 
"It is such a wonderful gift," said Willow Wetherall, graduate student at the Institute. "It speaks very highly of Joan Kroc's commitment to peace studies." 
Kroc first become affiliated with the University after hearing a speech in the 1980s by then University President Father Theodore Hesburgh on his con­cern over the arms race situation at the time. 
In response, Kroc made a donation to establish the Institute. 
Overall, she has donated $69 million to the University. 
"[The donation] has given us hope, but also a lot of responsi­bility," said Mireya Garcia­Duran, second-year graduate student at the Institute. She said donations of this magnitude are rare. "It is about funding an institute that will continue to do work," she said. 
Part of the Institute's strategic plan involves expanding the cur~ rent program into a two-year degree, and funds from this donation will help to fund that 

Southern black population up
development. 
"Students will be returning to absorb and integrate their expe­
Associated Press 

riences into the academic pro­gram," said Julie Titone, assis­
WASHINGTON -A strong tant professional specialist at the 
economy and vastly improved Institute. 
race relations are luring record Garcia-Duran also highlighted 
numbers of black Americans to the benefits of the program. 
the South, a region that many"The Institute is bringing peo­
deserted early in the 20th cen­ple from all over the world who 
tury. will go home and continue to 
More than 680,000 blacks work for peace in their coun­
aged 5 and older moved to the tries," she said. 
South from another regionWetherall said she is excited 
between 1995 and 2000, out­about the "possibility of a Ph.D. 
numbering the 333,000 who program, which is wonderful 
moved away by a better than from a student's perspective 
2-to-1 margin, according to a because there are very few 
Census. Bureau report released opportunities for graduate stud­
Thursday.ies in peace studies. It will pro­
The report found no other vide so many wonderful opportu­
region of the country had an nities." 
increase in black migration. a Joan Kroc's death was a sur­
reverse of the trend seen in the prise to those at the Institute, 
first half of the century. when Garcia-Duran said, but it also left 
many blacks left the South for them inspired. 
the industrial Northeast and "She had a wonderful heart," 
Midwest. Wetherall said. "It is a wonder­
"Many blacks left not onlyful, generous gift." 
because of economic opportu­nities but because of the politi­Contact Anna Gelhaus at 
cal and social constraints of agelhaus@nd.edu 
segregation," said Charles Ross, historian and interim director of the African­American Studies program at the University of Mississippi. 

THAI RESTAURANT other industrial plants. That movement north slowed as job opportunities dwindled and racial tensions rose in northern cities in the 1960s 
uw~ i:-vwU:~ yowto-t:vy wo-r-ld,;~ 
"' "' -rl--:' ~ r ~ ~ ;'A..:' ..111 o / th.ctt:W i1J.;
~ I , l.(A..;(./ \,./VVV'd"V'F ~, 
"Those things have changed dramatically in the South." Migration from the South rose through the early decades 

of the 20th century, as tens ·of 
thousands of blacks left to­
escape segregationist Jim Crow 
laws and a poor economy. That 
led to a rise in black popula­
tions in Northeastern and 
Midwestern cities, where 
blacks came for jobs in steel 
mills, automobile factories and 
., 
and 1970s, Ross said. According to separate 
A return of blacks to the research from University of South was first documented by Michigan demographer the Census Bureau between William Frey, Orlando, Fla., 1975 and 1980, when 100,000 and Atlanta had the largest more blacks moved in than jumps in black populations moved out. The trend contin­among large metropolitan ued between 1985 and 1990, areas between 1 990 and 2000, when there was a net increase each growing by about 62 per-
of  200,000;  cent.  
the  net  Roderick Harrison,  
increase was nearly 347,000 between 1995  "Things have changed dramatically in the  a demographer at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies in  
and 2000.  South.,,  Washington, which  
Blacks who  studies  minority  
move to the South tend to be more edu­ Charles Ross historian  issues, said Atlanta . "has developed a reputation as a  

cated than 
those who 
never left the region. Migrants 
to the South also tend to be 
slightly older than those who 
left the region, indicating some 
may have returned after leav­
ing earlier in their lives, the 
Census Bureau said. 
Older blacks who moved to the Northeast or Midwest in the mid-to late 20th century may be returning to the South to open their own businesses and connect with family roots, said William Spriggs, executive director of the National Urban League's Institute for Opportunity and Equality . 
"Most of these African­Americans came from the South," Spriggs said. "The poli­tics of the South have changed · enough so that these new busi­ness operations can get con­tracting opportunities." 
Georgia took in the largest number of bJacks from other states regardless of region, with a net increase of nearly 130,000 between 1995 and 2000. It was followed by North Carolina and Florida. 
place where the 
black middle class is 
growing, thriving and leading 
high-quality lives." 
Reflecting the overall shift in 
U.S. population, the South was the only region .to see a net increase of migrants from other regions among blacks, Asians, Hispanics and non­Hispanic whites, while the Northeast was the only region to that had a net loss in each category. While whites moving to the South outpaced those leaving for other regions, the rate was less than for blacks. 
Overall the South had a net increase of 1.8 million new res­idents from other states between 1995 and 2000, while the Northeast had a net decrease of almost 1.3 million. 
Overall, Hispanics were the most mobile group between 1995 and 2000, with 56 per­cent having changed addresses -whether moving to a new region or within the same region. About 54 percent of Asians moved, followed by blacks (49 percent) and whites (43 percent). 

~e,yo-u,y {We.-~ ~ee:l:; 
~.7 ~y, ~Ley~ ~aL. 1.7 
BLACK CULTURAL ARTS COUNCIL
Lunch: Mon-Fri 11 am -2pm 
Dinner: Mon-Sat 5pm -9pm 
Presents 

211 Main St. Downtown South Bend 232-4455 

Blak Images
N 0 W HIRING 
'' BAK TO THE BASICS'' 
£8. ~ llil fl11e Ceuter for EtMcs a1id Religious Vuluts in Business eGJaL and
till I lliJ The Institute fur Sthkul Bu~1ne.u Worldwide 
Proudly Present 
Cardinal o~uara Lecture Series 
Bill George 
.,

Retired CEO ofMedttonJc and 2003 Hesburgh ;-\ward Recipient 
"Authentic Leadership" 
Nove111ber 1st, 2 003 Washington Hall 
Tuesday, November 4, 2003 

8:00-10:00 P.M.
7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium · 
Tickets $5 @ Door 1\'lendoza College of Business 
Lafortune Box Office 
------------------~--~ 



Friday, Ocrober 31, 2003 
page 10 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
The Folloming Au.e Happening At 

The Hammes Dame Bookstor:ze: 



' } 
Friday, October 31, 2003 page II
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 








Parking garage collapses 
Associated Press 

ATLANTIC CITY, N.J -The top five stories of a parking garage under construction at a casino collapsed Thursday, send­ing concrete slabs and metal beams crashing down as work­ers ran for cover. Three people were killed and one was miss­ing, officials said. 
Officials previously believed four people were dead, but the count was revised Thursday evening, said Michael Schurman, deputy director of emergency management for Atlantic County. Nineteen others were injured. 
Authorities. worried about the structure's stability, didn't send rescue crews in right away. 
"There is the real potential for a secondary collapse," Gov. James E. McGreevey said. 
Robert Levy, the city's director of emergency management, said search cameras and dogs were sent into the rubble of the 10­story garage to locate missing workers, and trucks carrying lumber were being brought in to try to shore up the building. He called it "one of the worst col­lapses Atlantic City has ever seen." 
Construction workers had been pouring a concrete floor deck when a corner of the top floors collapsed, leaving five lay­ers of concrete and steel sloping downward at a steep angle, said state police Capt. Ed O'Neill. 
Harold Simmons, 42, a pipefit­ter was on the second floor of the garage when he heard rum­bling around 10:40 a.m. 
"It sounded like an earth­quake," Simmons said. "The whole building was shaking. 
"You didn't know were injured at the Tropicana site when a one-story panel of concrete they were standing on collapsed. 
Bill Crilley, 42, an insulator, working at a project in another part of the city, said he rushed to the building after hearing Thursday's col­lapse and saw authorities carry­
where to run. I ..It's ugly. Horrific. ing one body tried to run to a away.
The whole stairwell 
staircase, but the "It's ugly.
is crushed ... 
staircase was Horrific. The wiped out. I went whole stairwell is to another stair­crushed," he said. 
Bill Crilley 
case and that one T h e
worker 

was wiped out." 
Simmons eventu­ally made it out by following other workers. He said 300 to 400 workers were at the site when the garage floors col­lapsed. 
The parking garage supports one side of an 18-story hotel tower also under construction as part of an expansion project for the Tropicana Casino and Resort. 
"It's a tragedy. We're devastat­ed," said Maureen Siman, a Tropicana spokeswoman. 
The project's general contrac­tor, Keating Construction, said in a statement: "This is a difficult time. Obviously, our first concern is the well being of the people that are injured or missing." 
Last October, three workers 
Occupational 
Safety and Health 

Administration was leading the investigation into the cause of the collapse. 
At the site, construction work­ers gathered on the street near­by to gaze up at the collapsed floors. Family members began arriving at the scene looking for relatives. 
"He was working up there last night, I know," said one dis­traught woman as she searched for co-workers of her husband. 
The Tropicana expansion proj­ect is intended to diversify the casino's offerings with forms of entertainment other than gam­bling, including an IMAX the­ater, nightclub and restaurants. It had been scheduled for com­pletion next spring. 
Congress to approve financial aid package 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -With the most contentious issue resolved, the House and Senate looked to give final approval to the $87.5 billion package for Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Congress could send the package to President Bush for his signature by Friday or pos­sibly early next week. 
House-Senate negotiators worked out the final details of the package Thursday night, eliminating a Senate provision that would have required that half of the $18.4 billion for Iraqi reconstruction and secu­rity forces be given as loans instead of grants. 
The White House had threat­ened to veto the bill if loans were included. It said Iraq was already too deeply in debt and didn't have a government authorized to take on new loans. It also said that any loans secured by Iraq's oil rev­enues would only support the arguments of war critics who said the United States was after Iraq's oil. 
Supporters of the loans said 
U.S. taxpayers are already paying plenty for Iraq and Iraqis should have a bigger 
stake in their country's recon­struction. The House Democratic leader, Rep. Nancy Pelosi of California, said Thursday that dropping the loans shows a "tin ear to what the American people are say­ing." 
The loans had bipartisan support. The Republican-led Senate had voted 51-47 to con­vert part of the rebuilding funds into loans. The House did not include loans in its package, but it supported the concept in a 277-139 nonbind­ing vote. 
The package worked out by House and Senate conferees cannot be modified. Most of the money in the package is to support U.S. military opera­tions and both chambers passed their versions of the bill overwhelmingly: 303-125 in the House and 87-12 in the Senate. 
The final version of the bill included $64.7 billion for mili­tary operations, just under the $65.1 billion Bush had sought. The $18.4 billion for recon­struction and Iraqi security was less than $20.3 billion requested. The bill would pro­vide $1.2 billion for Afghanistan, compared with $800 million sought by Bush. 



p 
THE OBSERVER 

Friday, October 31, 2003
Page 12 




Remember other fall sports 
. .·:. .. . .. : ·.·.. 
r.o. Boi Q. N~~ ~.tN 46556 . 
.Q24 South Dining tt~, Noc[e oaJh~.lN 465?6 
EDl1UR1N Clmw . For better or for worse, the success of Notre Dame's ath­conference three years ago, contend to be champion of 
,.,.,,,,.,., .Andrew Soukup: , . 

letic department is often judged by the success of the foot­one of the nation's toughest conferences. ::::':··.·:?~r£ toiTOlt · BVSl~ MAz.IAGEil ball team. So when the football team struggles, as it has In Boston last weekend, over 44,000 fans-many of 
· ··Lori Lcwalski through seven games this season, it's easy to say that the whom were Notre Dame supporters-packed into Alumni athletic department itself is just as inef-Stadium to see the Irish lose their fifth game of fective. the season. The night before, only 8,000-mostly 
But a glance at the national rankings Ot.Jhe Eagle fans-watched the Irish hockey team stun 
userver
.•. NE\Vs Eom>R: Meghanne bo\Vlles 
of Notre Dame's "other" fall sports the top-ranked team in the nation. ::· VIEWPoiNT liDrroR.t Teresa Fr.3.lish shows that the athletic department is in There's the No. 14 volleyball team, which ::,,,, -:? SroaTs EDm>R~Jo~.H~ttler.. good position to capture its first NACDA makes winning Big East conference titles look as

Editorial 
·=:::::: ·: ..: SCENt Briltott; SatahV~hulas Cup, the annual award given to the easy as taking out the trash. There's the men's 'sAINT M\Rits EDrroR.t A.nncli~e Woolf~rd Division 1-A school with the highest and women's cross country teams, which are l>HOTO EoJTOR! 11m 1\a.cmar average finish of all its athletic teams. Of the six purely ranked 24th and seventh, respectively, and have qualified 
'I 

fall sports at Notre Dame, only the most featured sport­for the national championship meet as a team for the last
· Gwmcs EouoR: Mike Harkins

~ 
the football team-isn't ranked in the top 25. two years.
ADvMISING MANAGE~. Maur;rCen~ella 
Sadly, the vast majority of the 80,000 fans who stre~m Yet football is king at Notre Dame. And even in the midst
> · AD DESIGN MANA.GER.t T()m Haight 

into Notre Dame Stadium Saturday won't stick around of one of their worst seasons in history, football games still 
., Smv.ts ADM®stJVJOa: T~d Bangen 

until Sunday, when the second-ranked women's soccer completely overshadow the tremendous success fall sports 
. . . WEB ADMlNlSTRATOR.t Jason 9eek ·.• 

team opens Big East Conference Tournament play a Brady teams are enjoying. Little do football-crazy fans know how
CoNTROllER:· Mike Flimal¢1 · 
Quinn pass away from the football practice fields. And dominant the rest of the University's sports are. ·.· ·•· CoNTACT Us ··. they probably won't watch the seventh-ranked men's soc­It's a great time to be a Notre Dame sports fan. It's even cer team, which was the laughingstock of the Big East more so if you follow more teams than the football team. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"'Whenever you find yourselfon the side of the majority. it's time to pause and reflect., 
Mark Twain writer 
POUCIES
It= 



~~e~••~
: not gOvmtcd by j'Olides ofthe administration ofeither .,..·..· :. lnstirution.The ~r~~ dterighuor~ ·. ·.· ' adve«®ffients based £ill ~Qt~I~ }, '> ., .: '·•• •·· 
~'t=.~~~~!f~~•••,..•. 
r•1~~~~~i~~,
··:: '., :Vi~intsp~iS.available.t9 aU rea4e~. Thefr«'' 

..•:E~t~~~~:t~t:'L 
..,,. ~tia~•r([.4Jing~~ieu~& .·,··· >. 
dimtt4JD u~;n ChiefAnik~~•. 
. . 

·PosTOfRCf INFORMATION ' .· :·.·''. 



News Graphics Teresa Fralish Graham Ebetsch · Will Puckett Sports Megan O'Neil Pat Leonard 
Viewpoint Heather Van . · Nicole Clery ·Hoegarden ·.··· .· ..·.·. Illustrator Scene Vanessa Saenz Jon Retartha · 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Expressing thanks 
Dear Student Body, 
Every once in a while, we are given an opportunity to do something very unique. On Oct. 18, during halftime of the USC game, you helped the Band of the Fighting Irish create a very special atmosphere -one that made a lasting impression on our stadium and our fans around the country. 
While your enthusiastic support for the band is always evident in the stadium and around campus, your overpowering participation in "Bohemian Rhapsody" and "Livin' on a Prayer" was particularly outstanding two Saturdays ago. You were so loud that NBC's sideline television interviews were nearly drowned out. The impact was such that even a member of the USC band commented about how he'd never seen such an overwhelming reac­tion from any student section. We would have to agree. The band has performed in many of the biggest venues in college football, and nowhere else is any band received as enthusiastically as we are here at home. For that, we extend our most heartfelt thanks. That type of sup­port for your friends and peers is what Notre Dame is all about. 
We are looking forward to the final three shows of this season with excite­ment. We will continue to do our best to prepare entertaining shows that appeal to the wide variety of fans in the stadium. Thank you for helping to make the USC show the best ever and go Irish. 
David Cieslak president Notre Dame Band Ocr. 31 

OBSERVER POLL 
Do you approve or disapprove of President Bush's handling of . the situation in Iraq? 
Natalie Bennett's description, in her Oct. 30 letter, of affirma­tive action as an "equalizer in a world that is still not equal" is an inaccurate description of affir­mative action. Affirmative action, as it is currently enacted, can be considered an equalizer only for disadvantage~ minorities, not for all disadvantaged people. Therefore, because it aids certain people while discriminating 
· against others, affirmative action is a discriminatory policy. Bennett used as an argument a 
Racial preference promotes unfairness 

claim, that Because it aids certain because minori­
people while 

ties have a 
discriminating against

greater percent­age of certain others, affirmative health problems, 
action is a 

"who is to say 
discriminatory policy. 

they should not be 
allowed to see a doctor that looks like them." Beyond the fact that 
,her conclusion does not follow from her premises, this argument can be further analyzed. Why are there few minorities in medicine? During four years of undergradu­ate study, students of all colors have the opportunity to prepare for medical school. Therefore, the low percentage of minorities in medicine can't be blamed on race, as most educational disad­vantages can be overcome during undergraduate study. A further point can be made that the color of a practitioner's skin makes no difference in the quality of the treatment they pro­vide. I would prefer primary or 
emergency treatment from a pur­ple-skinned medical genius over treatment provided by a mediocre physician of my color. 
In her final point Bennett writes, "I doubt that there are less skilled minority surgeons because they are not qualified, but maybe because they.still.c,io .; . not have access to the same eco­nomic and educational advan­tages." While I share her doubt, for the sake of thoroughness and fairness, her argument must be 
extended to encompass all who are eco­nomically and educationally d isadv antaged. not just minori­ties. 
Not all minorities are disadvantaged, and not all dis­
advantaged people are minori­ties. Considering these facts, it follows that if preferences are to be given, they should be given based on economic status, not racial status. Certainly it would be unfair for Michael Jordan's children to receive preferences over poor white children. Preferences based on economic status would not only benefit the disadvantaged of all colors, but would also promote a color-blind society. 
Michael Lucci freshman Keenan Hall Oct. 29 

THE OBSERVER 


p
Friday, October 31, 2003 


I am haunted by water 
It is a slow and arduous process. Sitting awkwardly on the edge of a rock, trying to keep the thin plastic tube submerged while the water con­tainer remains vertical. You slowly pump the filter, drawing water 
John lnfranca

from the cold, fast flowing river, through the tube and Dissident into your bot­Poetry tle, where it falls, clear and pure. I think the process itself, slow and methodical, producing its effects in drips and sudden splatters, is an ample metaphor for one path toward enlight­enment. I have no doubt that the river itself is a source of enlightenment. I stand beside it as autumnal splendor surrenders to barren winter here in West Virginia. On the edge of this river I seek the solace of re-creation. Rivers seem to know the secret of staying con­stant and becoming ever new. 
The river before me has wound through these hills for centuries. Yet the river before me is gone in an instant. So I might glimpse eternity in a single moment. Or miss it, seemingly forever. Heraclitus,jbe pre-Socratic Greek philosopher, claimed that one . can never step into the same river twice. Because it is in constant flux, no river is the same from moment to moment. Yet taken beyond the banks of the river, there is little not in flux. I will not be the same in a second. 
I 
And so the moment when I and the 

I river before me meet is utterly unique, incomprehensible in the scope of its pot,e,ntial meaning and b~yond grasp in the utterly fleeting nature of its fragile
~ existence. T.S. Eliot remarks in his 
I poem "Ash Wednesday" that "what is actual is actual only for one time, and only for one place." That time and place are now. 
I thought of the ephemeral nature of reality as the sun faded on the horizon one day late this past September. The light flaring against the sheer walls of the Hesburgh Library momentarily turned those walls into the glowing crimson and orange hues of Red Rock crossing, Arizona. For a moment they transported me to where I have once been. They plunged me out of time. And in that moment I lost the moment I was in. 
The cold water on my toes brings me back. There is much we can learn from 
the river, the constancy of its flow, its 
sense of direction, the commitment to 
its journey. Like us, the river can easily 
be distracted as it travels, by a rock 
that alters its path or by the slow ero­
sion that produces a change in its 
course. 

Yet the greatest lesson might be its 
humility. Rivers reflect the mystical 
notion of the individual surrendering 
the self. Though it might pass for cen­
turies through the space before me, 
and for untold years its form might 
mark the contours of this land, holding 
a place within them, the waters of this 
river flow towards their own absorp­
tion. Whether in lake, sea or ocean, 
these waters will one day end their 
journey in a greater whole. Tiny molec­
ular particles that the eye cannot see 
might retain the integrity of their exis­
tence. But the river, as it flows visibly 
before me, will soon be gone, and other 
water will move in its place. 
Is the river then defined by the water 
that forms its substance or by the space 
it fills? Am I defined by the composite 
parts that comprise me, including bio­
logical matter constantly in change, or 
am I defined by the place I hold in some 
larger whole, some community? When I 
die, will I be remembered by what com­
prised my physical form or by the place 
I have left in the lives of others? 
I have traveled 600 miles to the banks 
of this river for solace from work and 
study. For a taste of nature that might 
remain with me so that in the months 
to come I might, like William 
Wordsworth, feel that "These forms of 
beauty have not been to me, As is a 
landscape to a blind man's eye: But oft, 
in lonely rooms, and mid the din, of 
towns and cities, I have owed to them, 
in hours of weariness, sensations 
sweet, felt in the blood, and felt along 
the heart, and passing even into my 
purer mind, with tranquil restoration." 
Yet perhaps such thoughts are foolish, for I store too much for the time to come and live too little in the time at hand. Water, splattering against the sides of my bottle, calls me back to the task at hand. It seems to have fallen out of vertical. 
John Infranca is a theology graduate student. His column appears every other Friday. He can be reached at jinfran 1@n d. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



page 13 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Loss of traditions 
. 


hurts football team 
I don't know about you fellow Irishmen and women, but I've had enough of traditions here at Notre Dame. I couldn't possibly be happier with the death of the traditions that I have witnessed here over the last few years, such as the Alumni Wake and in­dorm dances, and I applaud the new alcohol policy. The present systematic killing of all other traditions, especially the ever-malicious marshmallow wars during Notre Dame home games is even better. After all, those deadly marshmal­lows might actually be felt by the person they are thrown at. 
Now I know what you're thinking: "The police say there are rocks and pen­nies hiding in the marshmallows, but we don't believe that." However, in defense ofNotre Dame's finest, I say that even though you and I have never seen or felt rocks in the marshmallows does not mean they don't exist. After all, have you ever seen the administration let the student government decide something important? I haven't either, but I'm sure it happens. 
This rock/marshmallow controversy does bring up an interesting point, as a few ofmy opponents have noted: "Why don't the cops stop the kids from bring­ing in these 'rocks' instead of stopping them from bringing in the marshmal­lows? I mean, isn't it the rocks they're really worried about, and not the marshmallows? These rocks are going to hurt much more now that they no 
longer have that squishy white blanket 
of fun to insulate them." 
Well, don't worry about that. I got some insider information that NDSP will regulate the rock-throwing at football games as soon as they crack down on the more important issues at hand, such as interhall badminton. This wasn't sup­posed to be made public, but there is about to be a major bust of all bad­minton players who hit the birdie in the general direction of the other team. After all, what ifsomeone puts a grenade in the birdie? It could hurt someone. We just can't take that chance, so sorry to all you badminton fans. 
The best part of all this tradition killing is that one of the bigger traditions here has suffered as well: football. Chuck Lennon, executive director of the Alumni Association, wants a large ban­ner to increase morale. If only he knew that ifNDSP would stop arresting the team's biggest fans, morale would jump back up. That's OK, though. It's not like anyone here is a football fan; it's not like Notre Dame prides itself on tradition. So fellow Darners, why don't we put an end to all this commotion and stop having fun? 
Dan Sushinsky 
semor 
St. Edw.ud's Hall 
Oct. 30 

America's debt to soldiers far overdue 
As American soldiers continue to look death in the face, the citizens ofthis nation 
owe it to them to take action to bring the conflict in Iraq to an end. 
Americans who have so loudly protested the unilateral actions ofthe Bush admin­istration since February seem to be losing their voice when they need it most. No clear Democratic presidential candidate has emerged, and the party seems to be bent on nominating the person who will at least only suffer a respectable loss. Where will the millions of protesters be next November? If they are truly patriotic Americans, they will be Staff Editorial driving their SUVs to the polls to vote against a president who has waged a war to protect the oil they put into their gas-guz­
The New

zling automobiles. This is the way the democratic process and 
Mexico Daily 

the freedoms that are the backbone ofthe United States are 
Lobo

supposed to work. 
Protests aside, it is time American citizens, regardless of whether they support president Bush or his policies, begin taking pride in what the soldiers in Iraq have done and are continuing to do. Despite the fact the Iraq war is supposed to be over, there are still Americans and civilians dying in Iraq. American soldiers made the choice to serve their country and preserve the American way of life, and they have done that without prejudice because that is what they are trained to do. Civilians on the home front need to understand and respect this because, regardless of whose orders armed forces personnel are following, they are fighting and dying for the heart and soul of American consumerism -precious petroleum used in almost every aspect of daily life. 
Homeland support for the troops needs to come sooner rather than later, because the war is not over. With the escalating violence in Iraq and the refusal ofinsurgents to lie down, it is only a matter of time before the Bush administration -or any future administration concerned with preserving our freedoms-sends over more troops to finish what we started, with or without multilateral support from other nations. 
This editorial first appeared in The University ofNew Mexico Daily Lobo Oct. 30 and appears here courtesy ofU-l1-1re. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 
'' 
'\ 

page 14 


Friday, October 31, 2003 


ii ;.; H 
L 
" ·, 
,II. 
~ .• 
·' i 
j 
I 
( i 
By SARAH BATES AND MARIA SMITH Scene Writers 
Many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students, when asked about the best experiences of their· college careers, would reminisce about football Saturdays and campus-wide snowball fights after the first snowfall of the year. It takes something really special to pull students away from an autumn on campus. But for the 39 students spending the semester in India on the Semester Around the World program, the sacrifice ·is more then worthwhile. 
The chance to study in a variety of countries is one of the biggest benefits of studying at ND or SMC. The schools together offer programs in 20 coun­tries, sending hundreds of students overseas every year. Although turning down bigger programs like London or Seville can be difficult when trying to choose where to study: the SAW pro­gram offers some students an opportu­nity they couldn't find anywhere else. Over the past 20 years, SAW students 
• 

have visited Taiwan, Nepal, Malaysia and a variety of other countries rarely included in school study programs. More importantly, the three months spent studying in India give students a chance to understand a country which is the center of one of the world's major religions and home to 16 percent of th'e world's population. 
"The opportunity to go to countries like the ones we visit is so rare," said junior Amy Peckins. 
"It's not going to be like ND moved to another country," said junior Meredith Shepherd. 
Semester Around the World was cre­ated by Cyriac Pullapilly, a professor of History at SMC who was born in south­ern India. Pullapilly first introduced the concept to SMC in 1975. It took eight years to work out the logistics of the trip and convince the College of the importance and value of the program. 
"The program for.ces students to think about the cultures they meet and their own back home, making it neces­sary to create a balance," Pullapilly said. "On SAW, the whole world 


Notre Dame and Saint Mary's st while spending the fall s 
becomes your home, not just a little corner of it." 
The result of Pullapilly's planning is a program which takes students trav­eling around Asia for about two weeks and throughout India for three weeks before settling down for two months of classes in Cochin, a city on the south­west coast of India. Students focus entirely on India in their studies, learning about history, eco­nomics, philosophy, politics and fine arts. Their classes are at Sacred Heart College, a school founded and run by the Carmelites of Mary Immaculate, a reli­gious congregation which runs more colleges and schools than any state gov~ ernment or organization in India. After finishing cours­es in early December, the students fly together to Frankfurt, where they split up to travel around Europe using the extra miles· on their Around the Worldlair 
tickets  before  returning  
home  to  start  the  next  
semester.  
Only  nine  students  

applied for the first group Pullapilly took in the fall of 1983. Since then, interest has grown considerably. Over 80 stu­dents sent in applications last fall for this year's program. Around 60 stu­dents were called for interviews and 39 were selected for the final group. The program is open to all students from SMC and ND, and occasionally to stu­dents from other colleges as well. High school graduate Katie Camillus plans to attend Swarthmore College next year but was invited to participate in the program because three of her sisters and one of her cousins had gone on the 
trip in previous years. 
Due to the rigorous planning involved in carrying out such a compli­cated program, Pullapilly only takes a group every other fall. Since the first program 20 years ago, 11 groups have had the opportunity to participate. 
The SAW experience is different for every group that goes on the trip. This year's group was scheduled to visit China, Tibet and Vietnam, but plans were changed because of the SARS epidemic. Visits to Japan and Thailand were left on the itinerary, and Australia was added as a substi­tute for the other countries. 
After meeting in Los Angeles, the group flew to Tokyo on Aug. 22 and spent two weeks traveling through various cities, including Kyoto, Brisbane, Cairns, Sydney, Bangkok and Phuket. 
The students flew into Delhi on Sept. 
4. They quickly grew accustomed to Indian traffic, a mixture of buses, mopeds, cars, bikes, pedestrians, cows and goats. They learned to use Indian-style toilets and adjusted to the instant notoriety that came with being American in India. In their three weeks of travel, the group visited Hindu temples and shrines across the country, the Ellora and Ajanta caves containing some of the oldest Buddhist art in the world, and saw such architectural wonders as the Gateway to India and the Taj Mahal. They also had the opportunity to meet with the Vatican Ambassador to India, ride elephants and stay in the breath­taking foothills of the Himalayas. 


By the time the group reached Cochin, they had been traveling for 36 days and had been in 6 different coun­tries, 32 cities, 13 airports, 4 train sta­tions, 14 buses, 3 boats, 19 different hotels, and had spent about 50 hours in the air. Settling into a more normal day-to-day class schedule for the next two months was a relief for many stu­dents. 
Traveling at a fast pace, although exciting, doesn't always leave much room for in-depth understanding of the 



Friday, October 31, 2003 Page 15 




around the world 
~udents learn about other cultures ;emester studying abroad 

~-­
own cur­

WHITNEY SMITH/The Observer 
n front of the Taj Mahal in Agra. Thirty nine students were fews, and many of the 
~r studying abroad. 
culture. To gain a greater understand­ing of Indian lifestyles, students spend at least one weekend living with host families. The visits show students some similarities and also some surprising differences between Indian and American lifestyles. 
"I actually saw everything I ate alive before I ate it," junior Andy DeVoto said. 
"Even though I knew the family I was staying with was very rich, it wasn't as luxurious as what I would have at home," sophomore Erin Kriceri said. 
Many students worry about being away from friends and family for an entire semester when they go abroad. Although being away from family is never easy, SAW students found they 

ng their semester abroad. 
bonded quickly bargaining with Delhi street vendors and suffering through spicy foods. However, since Pullapilly accepts students from both ND and SMC, the guys going on SAW tended to find themselves a bit outnumbered. This year's group includes 32 girls and only 7 guys. 
"Sometimes it's more like 
Shopping  Around  the  
World,''  sophomore  Eric  
Rocca joked.  

Although the closeness of the group provides every­one with plenty of friends, people who like to meet the locals in bars and clubs can still find the program socially frustrating. Women are rarely seen buying alcohol in Cochin, and revealing clothing, even shorts, is out of the question. Although stu­dents find their 10:30 p.m. curfew at the hotel restrictive, there is rarely anywhere to. go after: that. Indian students often have parties in the middle of the day in order to get home for their 
girls don't socialize much 
outside of their families 
and classes. 

SAW is not a program for the faint of heart -or those too attached to their hair dryers. Students who choose to participate find themselves halfway around the world, living for four months out of a suitcase which must weigh less than 44 pounds -not leav­ing much room for extra shoes or entire CD collections. Although stu­dents see many beautiful sights, others are far from glamorous. In a country where 26 percent of the people live below the poverty line, the group wit­nesses extreme cases of poverty and homelessness. As hard as this can be to handle, it plays an integral role in the life-changing experience of SAW. 
"When you live in America, you learn 
that there's poverty everywhere and you feel bad, but over here you don't feel bad as much as understand it bet­ter," said junior Erin Cox. "Living the Eastern life, you learn that everything doesn't need to be Westernized. Being here makes you want to live a simpler life." 
Although the semester is filled with learning opportunities, it ·is still an academic sacrifice for some students. SMC refuses to accept SAW classes for religion, philosophy, government or economics requirements. Since all the students take the same classes, regardless of their different majors or backgrounds, the classes are designed as more of an overview of various subjects than an in-depth exploration of any topic. Some professors advise their students not to go for academic reasons. However, most students on the program feel they can learn as much from their travel experiences as they can in a South Bend classroom. 
"Real education isn't just reinforce­ment, but also the exposure to new ideas," Pullapilly said. 
"The unique aspect about SAW is that what we learn in the classroom, we also get to experience firsthand," sophomore Sarah Nowak said. "Learning about these subjects back in South Bend will never compare to actu­ally being here." 
With such a complicated travel itiner­ary which changes from year to year, there are unavoidable complications annually. Students pay an extra fee in addition to normal tuition which changes each year depending on travel plans. As with any country that lacks the fixed prices and sales regulations Americans are used to, students have to be careful about where they make major purchases and how much they pay. Going on SAW also involves e_xtra immunizations and other medical con­cerns -remembering which day of the week to take anti-malaria pills can be harder than it sounds. Pictures from this year and the last two trips and more information about the trip can be found at www.saintmarys.edu/-world. 
The future of SAW is still unclear. Pullapilly currently plans to take anoth­er group in the fall of 2005, but in future years the program may or may not continue. Since the program depends so much on Pullapilly's plan­ning and knowledge, transferring the program to a different director when Pullapilly decides not to take another group might be difficult. 
Whether or not the Semester Around the World continues, it is a unique experience that forces its participants to truly look at the world, seeing not just the good but the bad as well. In one semester, these students see and expe­rience countless things that many peo­ple will never have the chance to see. SAW teaches its students about the importance of stepping out of their comfort zones, opening them up to the chance for true learning and under­standing of the world. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu and Sarah Bates at bates.18@nd.edu 



Photo courtesy 

SMC sophomore Jackie Zurcher, ND junior Meredith Shepherd, sophomore Nicole Mitchell, junior Laura Vargas, sophomores Marcia Lutlo and Ken Dineen at the Grand Palace in Bangkok, Thailand. 

l I 
l 
Friday, October 31, 2003 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 
a 

l 
I ~ Red Sox place slugger Ramirez on waivers
I 
.. 


Manny Ramirez Is caught stealing In game three of the ALCS against the Yankees. Ramirez was placed on waivers Wednesday by the Red Sox. 
2002. ability to get on base. Then Ramirez didn't show up 
Ramirez spent seven seasons He also had 37 homers and for an appointment with the with Cleveland then hit .306, 104 RBis. team doctor. .349 and .325 over the next Ramirez is a diligent student When he joined the club the three years with Boston. He of hitting, often analyzing next day he sat on the bench led the AL in batting in 2002 video studying tapes of himself but said he was "too weak" to and was second to teammate at the plate. But he is an aver­pinch-hit. Bill Mueller's .326 in 2003. He age, often nonchalant fielder And in a game at Yankee has 111 homers and 336 RBis who lacks hustle on the Stadium in September, with the Red Sox. basepaths. Ramirez tossed the ball into 
"This club inherited this con-The Red Sox would have the stands after making a nice tract. Their analysis must con-plenty of hitting without him C(,ltch, thinking there -were sider something other than his since they set a major-league three outs when there were performance on the field." record last season with a .491 only two. Boras said. "When you look at slugging percentage. Ramirez was signed as a free his on-the-field performance, I They also would lose some of agent by former Boston gener­think he's performing at a very his quirks. al manager Dan Duquette and high level. Obviously, the club He was benched by Little is scheduled to make $20 mil­must have other factors in late in the 2003 season after lion in 2005, $19 million in their decision." he missed a crucial series 2006, $18 million in 2007 and 
In 2003, Ramirez led the AL against the Yankees with a $20 million in 2008. with a .427 on-base percent-sore throat and fever, yet got He also is still owed $5 mil­age and 28 intentional walks, together with New York lion of his $16 million signing outstartding numbers for a infielder Enrique Wilson to bonus. The team holds $20 team like Boston that places reminisce about their days in million options for both 2009 special emphasis on a player's Cleveland. and 2010. 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Manny Ramirez makes so much money that even the biggest spenders in baseball don't want him. 
The Boston Red Sox placed him on irrevocable waivers Wednesday, and teams have until 1 p.m. Friday to claim the slugging left fielder. 
If he's claimed, Boston would get nothing in return but would unload the contract, the second-richest in baseball his­tory. If he isn't claimed, he would remain with the Red Sox. 
The New York Yankees' pay­roll of $164 million -not including postseason and award bonuses -is the high­est in the major leagues. but they have no interest in waivers to gauge other teams' interest and to lay the ground­work for trades. 

"We're not permitted to com­ment on waiver issues," team president Larry Lucchino said Thursday through his assis­tant. 
The move, first reported by The New York Times and Boston Herald, was confirmed Thursday to the AP by the baseball executive. 
Calls to Ramirez's agent, Jeff Moorad, and Red Sox general manager Theo Epstein were not returned. 
"When you put a player through waivers, you're letting teams know they don't want anything in return," said Scott Boras, a prominent agent who negotiated Alex Rodriguez's 
claiming "When you look at his 
Ramirez, a top 

on-the-field performance, 
baseball exec­utive familiar I think he's performing at 
with the a very high level. 
team's plans 

Obviously, the club must
said Thursday on the condi­have other factors in tion of 
their decision.'' 
anonymity. Ramirez has 

Scott Boras
five years and $101.5 million agent 
remaining on a 

.. 
$160 million, eight-year contract, and would get an extra $1 million if he switches teams. He is sched­uled to make $20.5 million next season. That price leaves few teams in a financial position to claim him and pay the entire amount. It also could hurt Boston's ability to keep some of its other stars who can become free agents after next season -pitchers Pedro Martinez and Derek Lowe, shortstop Nomar Garciaparra, catcher Jason Varitek and right fielder Trot Nixon. The Red Sox refused to con­firm that Ramirez was placed on waivers. Clubs often place many of their players on 
$252 mil­lion, 10-year contract with Texas. 
Ramirez was placed on waivers two days after the Red Sox announced they would not exercise their option to bring back man­ager Grady 

Little. The Red Sox made it to the seventh game of the AL championship series and led the Yankees 5-2 with one out in the bottom of the eighth. 
Little left Martinez in the game, and New'York tied it with three runs in the eighth then won on Aaron Boone's homer in the 11th. Afterward, Little was criticized severely by fans and newspaper colum­nists for sticking with Martinez. 
In 12 playoff games, five against Oakland and seven against New York, Ramirez hit .265. 
He signed as a free agent with Boston on Dec. 13, 2000, and John Henry's group bought the team in February 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 f.m. at che Nocre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for contenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Movie Extras/Models Needed.  2 Bedrooms, Immediately East of  Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$  less, stay-at-home mom and envi- 
NOTICES  NO exper. required. All looks and ages. Earn  FoR RENT  the Univ. Less than a 1/4 mile. Football weekends only.  Pay Top Dollar $$ 1-866-808-0990  ron mentalist dad, dream of sharing love with  
$100-$500 a day.  $80/nighVperson. 574-272-0928  Caucasian or Hispanic newborn  
~  1-888·820.()167,  2·6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  Buy/Sell Notre Dame Football tick·  through adoption.  
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306  ext. U187  CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM  3·6 BDRM HOMES & ROOMS.  ets  Legal & confidential.  
MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM  LOW $$.272-6306,329-0308  574-289-8048  Call Jacqueline and Allan toll free.at  
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski  272-1525  1·800-484-6754,  
&Beach Trips on sale now! www.sunchase.com or call  FoR SALE  2 Nice Bedrooms: 1 double, i tw.o  HOUSES FOR RENT: 3-5 BED­ROOM HOMES. GOOD CONDI·  USC GA TIXS WANTED. 272-6306,329-0308  PIN: 8642  
1-800-SUNCHASE today!  signle. Immediately East of the  TION. CLOSE·TO CAMPUS.  #1 Spring Break Vacations! 110%  
-·'Campus for Game  ANLAN PROPERTIES 532·1896  Best Prices! Cancun, Jamaica,  
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in Acapulco is now offering 3 destina·  GEORGETOWN-CARRIAGE HILLS . AREA. 2.7 Ml TO NO. 3BR-1/2 BA.  Weekends Only. $80 per person/per night. Call 272-0928  PERSONAL  Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida. Book Now & Receive Free Meals &  
(  tionst Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get  FULL BSMTIFAM RM. NEW AC/SIDING.  ND FOOTBALL HOUSING:  TICKETS  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  Parties Campus Reps Wanted! 1·800-234-7007  
Crazy in Cabo-all with BIANCHI­ MANY UPDATES.  Beautiful home (plus two tickets) in  not go it alone. If you or someone  endlesssummertours.com  
ROSSI TOURS.  2CAR GAR.  nice neighborhood available for  ND FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL.  you love needs confidential support  
Book by Oct 31-get FREE MEALS!  $101,400.  remaining NO football games. Six  CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  •••• IRISH CROSSINGS· A NEW  
Organize a group and travel for  574-272-1112  blocks from stadium. Sleeps 10.  TOLL FREE 877·773·3911.  Louise Gude,CSC, at 1·7819.  LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY ****  
FREE. Call tor  Two baths, kitchen, laundry, parks 6  For more information, see our bi- Build your dream home  
details. 800-875·4525 or  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  cars. $1 ,200 per weekend. No pets.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED  weekly ad in The Observer.  next to Notre Dame.  
www.bianchi-rossi.com.  FOR SALE.  (574) 231-8823 (evenings).  ·TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232·2378  A limited number of home sites are  
ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL.  PM 288-2726  Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America  available. For more info  
**'ACT NOW!Book 11 people, get  NEWLY REMODELED. FULLY  STUDENT HOUSING AVAILABLE!  s #1 Student Tour Operator.  go to: www.lrishCrossings.com  
12th trip free. Group discounts for  EQUIPPED.  2,3,4,5 Bedroom Apartment and  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  Hiring campus reps.  
6+  $84,900. Email:  Townhouses available.  SALE AM -232-2378  Call for discounts:  NY Thanksgiving. Be there.  
www.springbreakdiscounts.com or  Williamson.1 @nd.edu  Excellent location to campus!  PM • 288-2726  800-648-4849 or  
800-838-8202.  Contact Rod Ludwig at 574·234­ www.ststravel.com  Haven't you been bitten?  
JUDAY LAKE HOME. ON  9923 Emaii:Riudwig@cbresb.com  WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  
Vector/Cutco  LAKE. WALK TO CAMPUS.  TOP DOLLAR PAID.  A "Reality" Spring Break 2004s  When was the last time you took a  
workforstudents.com/574·282·2357  272-6306  4 Bedroom House for next semester  (574)232-0964.  Hottest prices Book now..Free Trips,  shower? I don't know ...  
and/or next year. 1136 E. Madison.  Meals & Parties  Quit trying to act like I'm a  
HONDA 93 Accord LX, 5speed,  Great for parties. Contact Mike  FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  sunsplashtours.com or 1800-426­ steamboat operator.  
WANTED  great condition, $2,850,232-2597.  (216) 408.()780 or Matt (216) 408­0744 if interested  LOWEST PRICES. (574)251·1570.  n10  Yo, Jamal. Fresh gear, man.  

ADOPTION: Irish, affectionate, child­


Friday, October 31, 2003 page 17
The Observer + SPORTS 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
~~.. l -­

1161h Ann.ual 
• 


a en 





TONIGHT 8PM SORIN PORCH 
Bonfire and
·.:... 

free food following the show! 
Door Prizes! Victoria Secret Bed Bath & Beyond And Express Gift Certificates! 



Improved Rix expects a win 
Associated Press old junior will try to show he's improved enough to lead the TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -A year fifth-ranked team Seminoles to 
ago, Florida State quarterback a road win that keeps them on Chris Rix lost his starting job the national championshipafter a dismal performance path.against Notre Dame. "If I do my part and do what 
This weekend, the 22-year-I'm pushed to do I think we win 
Christmas Open House 

Friday, November 7, 2003, 9am-6pm 
Saturday, November 8, 2003, 9am-3pm 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students: 
PLEASE JOIN OUR MERR~MENT! 
I 
Book an appointment for acomplimentary 5-minvte massage. I-minute manlcu~. a rnake up touch up or c scalp massage to get you feeling and looking your best f01 the holidays! Gift Cerlificates 'Niil be iO% off on Friday and Saturday orily, greet stocking stuffers! 
·we will hove refreshments. mvsic by Lynn Kline. and complimentary sornplesl Ccme ~ee Ericko Joye from Magic 95.7 and her permanent eyeiir.er on friday! 
I................."•Th•e•S•im.pl.ic•l~•o•IG•I•vl•ng•"................; 
Esthetics by Isabella Salon and Day Spa 340 WCleveland Road Granger, lN 46530 PH: (574) 273-ooOO 


the ball game," Hix said as he 
prepared for Saturday's game 
at Notre Dame (2-5). 

He is now 21-8 as starter at 
Florida State, but just 2-5 
against ranked teams -that 
includes an 0-3 record against 
Miami. 

Florida State (7 -1, 6-0 
Atlantic Coast Conference) has . 
already clinched at least a 
sha~e of another league title, 
but the Seminoles are only 5-7 
against nonconference teams 
the past three seasons. 

Turnovers have plagued Rix in the big games. He suffered three in Florida State's 22-14 defeat against Miami earlier this month, three in the Notre Dame loss a year ago and a nightmarish six as a freshman against Miami. 
"The biggest thing from last year is, of course, the turnovers and the trying to do too much," Rix concedes. "And that's my goal to eliminate this year." 
He's also been ineffective in rainy weather, inept in last year's loss at Louisville and again in a downpour three weeks ago against Miami. 
Rix lost the starting job for a month after last year's Notre Dame loss, regained it when Adrian McPherson was dis­missed from the team for allegedly stealing a check from a local business and then declared ineligible by school officials for the Sugar Bowl after failing to take a final exam in a religion course. 
Attendance drops in West Lafayette 
Associated ¥a"ess 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. ­
Purdue coach Joe Tiller is 
mystified by the lack of local 
fan interest in Saturday's 
game against Northwestern. 
Projected attendance at Ross-Ade Stadium is set at 52,000 -about 10,500 short of a full house. 
"Maybe a month ago they decided they weren't going to go," Tiller said. "I don't know." 
A month ago Northwestern, at 2-4 and coming off a 42-17 home loss to Minnesota, was looking every bit the confer­ence doormat it was the year before. 
Purdue, meanwhile, was building a six-game winning streak and climbing the national rankings. 
So if Tiller's assumption was accurate, fans had every right to expect a blow~l,l t in the Boilermakers' favor this Saturday. 
Times have changed. 
Northwestern (4-4, 2-2 Big Ten) has won two in a row, including an impressive 16-7 win over Wisconsin last week. And No. 18 Purdue (6-2, 3-1) had that six-game winning streak snapped with a 31-3 whipping at the hands of Michigan. 
Both teams have something 
to play for Saturday. The 
Boilermakers need a win to 
stay in the race for the Big Ten 
title and the Wildcats are 
fighting to become bowl eligi­
ble. 
"We're going into this week 
thinking it's a must-win i.f 
we're going to have any shot 
at the Big Ten title," Purdue 
quarterback Kyle Orton said. 
"They're a better team than 
anybody thought." 
Northwestern quarterback Brett Basanez and tailback Jason Wright are finally start­ing to deliver the big plays coach Randy Walker has been waiting for, and the defense looked strong in holding Wisconsin's explosive ground game to 135 yards and yield­ing only 9'even points last week. 
"We've been able to play with greater focus," Walker said. "I've thought all along that we could be a pretty good football team, a quality team. We just couldn't put it together for 60 minutes. Now we're let­ting go of the past, good or bad, and we're really doing a good job of playing complete and focused football." 
The Boilermakers are still in contention for at least a share of the Big Ten title and the trip to the Rose Bowl that goes with it. 

*Donations accepted.:for Uganda missions 
~--­
l 
l ! 
l 
I ~ 
: ( 
~ ~ 
I \ 
. 
page 18 Friday, Ocrober 31, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS 

..., 
Athletes begin testimony before grand jury 

Track and field champions questioned about nutritional supplements lab 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Two U.S. track and field champions, 1,500-meter runner Regina Jacobs and shot putter Kevin Toth, were among the first group of athletes to testify to a grand jury probing a nutritional supplements lab. 
Jacobs and Toth were among four track and field athletes who appeared before the federal 
• panel on Thursday. Both Jacobs and Toth have been customers of the Bay Area Laboratory Co­Operative, or BALCO, which is the target of the probe. Dozens of other athletes, including baseball's Barry Bonds and Jason Giambi and boxer Shane Mosley, have been subpoenaed in the case. An appearance, before the grand jury, or being subpoenaed to testify, does not imply any of the athletes is a target of the probe. Federal officials have refused to discuss the scope of the grand jury or its secret pro­ceedings. 
But a source familiar with Thursday's daylong proceeding said the athletes were asked Jacobs and Toth were among whether they had taken the four U.S. athletes who tested newly discovered designer positive for THG at the U.S. 

steroid THG or  track  and  field  
the endurance­boosting hor­ ../really feel sorry  championships in June at Stanford,  
mone EPO.  for these athletes.  according to another  
The source, who requested anonymity, said  because they've really become the  source close to the investigation who spoke to The  
the  athletes  victims here."  Associated Press on  
were  asked  Thursday on condi­ 
whether they had obtained  Douglas Schwartz  tion of anonymity. Jacobs and her  
THG  or  EPO  attorney  attorney,  Douglas  

from BALCO. 
An attorney for Victor Conte, BALCO's founder, has said his client is the target of the grand jury probe and is innocent of any wrongdo­ing. 
The source also said the ath­letes were asked whether they had knowingly purchased steroids from BALCO, or whether they thought they were buying ~gal nutritional supple­ments. 
"Did you meet Conte?" the source said the athletes were asked. "Did he tell you to be quiet?" 
Schwartz, refused to 

comment Thursday when asked outside the grand jury room whether she had test­ed positive for THG aJ that meet. Jacobs, 40, won her 12th national outdoor title in the 1,500 at Stanford. 
"Regina was here. She did nothing wrong. She left the grand jury to carry on," Schwartz said after Jacobs had completed her afternoon testi­mony. "I really feel sorry for these athletes, because they've really become the victims here." 
Toth, who has the longest throw in the world this year and 
NBA 


Iverson injures shoulder in practice 
A5Sociated Pren 
PHILADELPHIA -Philadel­phia 76ers All-Star Allen Iverson strained his left shoul­der in practice Thursday. 

The guard collided with a teammate during a five-on-five drill and left practice with an ice pack on his shoulder and his left arm bandaged. He was list­ed as day-to-day, pending the won his first national title in June, would not comment after his grand jury appearance. 
BALCO was raided by the Internal Revenue Service and local drug agents in September. Conte also has been accused by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency of supplying athletes with the designer steroid tetrahydro­gestrinone, or THG. 
Conte also was fingered by British sprinter Dwain Chambers, who admits he tested positive for THG during an out­of-competition test Aug. 1 in Germany. Chambers said through an attorney that he was assured by Conte the supple­ments he was given were within international rules. 
Authorities in track and field, and other sports, have begun retesting samples for THG since the discovery of the previously undetectable steroid. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration on Tuesday declared THG an illegal drug. 
EPO, or erythropoietin, boosts endurance by stimulating the production of oxygen-carrying red blood cells in the body. A banned substance, EPO is con­sidere'd among the most abused drugs in sports. 

Notre Dame 
~University Club~ W\v~v.nd.edu/"'univclub Membership available to all ND/SMC Faculty, Staff AlU11111i,2ndyearPhDs~ Friends ofNotre Dame Applications 631.;4685 orstop by the Club. 
-Lunch or Dinner Reservations 631-4683 
.· 
. Meetings and PrivateParties 631-4681 
results of an MRI test. 
Iverson "has always been an individual who can tolerate a lot of pain," 76ers coach Randy Ayers said. "If he's healthy and he feels good, he'll try to play." 




-KILLING THE POOR:
.·.. . ._ . .: '' . ·. -_· . 
C~THOLIC SOCIAL TEACHING, PUBLIC HEALTH,· & ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE 
· A LECTURE BY 

Dinner starting at $6.45 222 Oixieway 8.1 S.B. 574-272-7376 
I 
.· -..:.·. 


O'NEILL PROFESSOR KRISTIN SHRADER·FRECHETTE PHILOSOPHY & .BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES DEPTS., ND 
AUTHOR OF 15 BOOKS & 300 ARTICI!S. $HE HAS SUV!O ON MANY US NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES BOARDS AND 
.I 

COMMillff$; AI)VISED GOVERNM£NTSOF 4 NATIONS ON BlOETHICS/POBLIC HEALTH/ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE: SERVED AS FIRST 
( 

FEMALE rRESIDENT Of 3 PROFESSiONAL ASSOCIATIONS. HER WORK IS TRANSLATED INTO 11 LANGUAGES. 
Please join usfor an evening ofMuslim prayer 
Thursday, November 6, 2003 
GAME DAY NOV.1· 12:30-1:15 
330 Coleman-Morse 
.·HESBURGH .INTERNATIONAL CENTER AUDITORIUM~ ALL WELCOME 
.-. . ' + . . 
6:30-7:30 p.m. 
Experience an evening ofMuslim prayer and meditation as the third in a series exploring the 
" I\ 

FUTURE LECTURES, ALSO SPONSORED BY ND PROGRAMJN CATttOLIC SOCIAL TEACHING 
beliefi and practices ofthe world's great faith 
11·8-03 "CATHOLIC SOCIAL TEACHING AND RACISM," PROF. MARG~RET PFEIL, NO THEOLOGY
traditions: 
11·15-03 "WHO IS MY NEIGHBOR? SUBURBAN SPRAWL, CATHOLIC SOCIAL THOUGHT, AND THE COMMON GOOD, " PROFESSOR VINCENT ROUGEAU, NO LAW SCHOOL
"An Evening ofPrayerfrom Around the World"" 
PR!VIOUS LECTURE: 
SpollSored by:
'1 

9·20..03 "CATHOLIC TEACHING AND LABOR: THE WAR ON WALMART WORKERS," 
Ctz1npu.oo Millistry Musli1n Studellts Association 
PROFESSOR THERESA GHIURDUCCI, ECONOMICS, ND 
Graduate Student l!nion bltt:r1J4tioual Student Services 
a11a Ac:tzvztzes 
Friday, October 31, 2003 page 19 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
NBA 




Rockets debut $202 million arena with victory 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -The Houston Rockets opened their new arena with a series of firsts and the biggest of all was a victory at Toyota Center. 
Cuttino Mobley scored 21 points as the Rockets never trailed and beat the Denver Nuggets 102-85 Thursday night in the first game played at their sparkling $202 million down­town arena. 
A sellout crowd of 18,189 was on hand as the coach Jeff Van Gundy era started with a run­away victory. 
Yao Ming got the basket with 
11:03 to go in the first quarter and the first free throw with 9:58 left. Steve Francis hit the first 3­pointer with 5:11 to go. and Denver's Chris Andersen got with first dunk in the second quarter. 

"It was great," Francis said. "It will be something you never for­get. Twenty to 25 years from now, you can say you were a member of the team that won the first game here. 
"The crowd was great. When they started coming back, the crowd picked up loudly. I thought it really helped us. 
Leading 48-42 at halftime, the Rockets started the third quarter with a 13-5 run that made it 61­4 7 with 7:28 left in the period, their biggest lead of the game to that point. 
Francis capped the run with a long pass to Mobley for a fast­break dunk for the Rockets, who were up 72-60 at the end of the third quarter. 
"There was no particular emo­tion, other than wanting to play well," Van Gundy said. "Coaches work in strange ways. I'm think­ing about Memphis [next oppo­nent] right now. We didn't play as well as I thought we might. We had a lot of blown assignments and mistakes." 
Sonlcs 109, Clippers 100 
Rashard Lewis scored 25 points, and Ronald Murray had 24, leading the SuperSonics past the Clippers 109-100 Thursday in Mike Dunleavy's debut as Los Angeles' coach. 
Lewis made two 3-pointers in a third-quarter run that gave the SuperSonics an 83-69 lead head­ing to the fourth. 
The Clippers closed the gap to four points late in the final quar­
3­
15 
at 

Allen, who has an injured ankle. 
New Orleans 100, Orlando 98 
New Orleans was composed after falling behind by five points with the clock winding down, and the Hornets stayed calm when Orlando's Tracy McGrady took ofT toward the basket trying to force overtime. 
J amaal Magloire blocked McGrady's driving layup with 3.9 seconds to go, sealing New Orleans' 100-98 victory Thursday night. Had the Magic man's shot hit the mark, it would've erased a rally that saw the Hornets score the game's fmal seven points. 
"We're prepared," said George Lynch, whose fast-break layup with 36 seconds remaining was the game-winner. "Coach has done a gteat job of getting us in situations in practice so we're able to adjust to it. We don't panic; we just play through it."· 
David Wesley scored 28 points. 

Quality Diamond_s :~·~..-·-~••-•••u••••••••••••••••l ~ ®I i •, l -··­-·-­-J~o11n J.Vl.. M,1::1rsb:alJPs Ineorpm·ated 1:k)f, J. . . I , . ~ i r·. . ' ,l d , :c;:;~­.. ewe trs 1 ,ren.n n!"JL.$,s Golrlsmiths / l-)latirnunsmit.hs Key Bank Buildhtg} Snite 11101 South Bend, In!ha.n.a -1:6601 287-1427  ter at Saitama Super Arena. With less than a minute to go, Clippers guard Eddie House sank a pointer, and Corey Maggette's score made the margin four. But Calvin Booth's dunk with 20.6 seconds left gave the Sanies a six-point cushion they didn't relinquish. House, a reserve, led the Clippers with 22 points. Maggette and Elton Brand each scored 21, with Brand grabbing · rebounds. It was the first of two games in Japan for the teams, neither of which made the playoffs last sea­son. This is the sixth time the NBA has had regular-season games in Japan; the last time was in 1999, when the Minnesota Timberwolves and the Sacramento Kings played Tokyo Dome. The Sanies are here without three-time All-Star guard Ray  
UNIVERSITI"OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS /52 Hurley Buildi11g Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 T: 631-5882 Fa."<: 631-57/J BERLIN INFORMATION MEETING With Professor Han11elore Weber Tuesday,JVo~ 4,2003 118 DeBartolo 4:30PM Applications Available wwwl nd.edul--illtlstud  

NOTRE DAME TICKETS 
BUY -SELL -TRADE 
ALL GAMES -ALL LOCATIONS 
PREFERRED TICKETS . 234-5650 
SAY... 

'' 
.e~ec~~
e~ J d e'' 
COFFEE 8< 'NINE 
Proudiy Serve 
Domestic &Imported Wine Cheesecake from The Cheesecake Factory Seattle BestIs Coffee &The Republic of Tea Joseph Schmidt's Chocolate from San Francisco 
Mon+ri 7crtHopmjSat 1oam-1oprn (Special Hours to Accommodate Events at Morris Performing Arts Center) 
113 North Main Street, Downtown South Bend (~t1ind Morris Performing Arts Center) 
233-Cafe . NOW Hiring 

w----------~--~--------------------------------.. 
l111I \l\ll page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 31, 2003 
n 
H) 
;~\ NHL 
~ ! ~ ~ 
I, I I, 

Juneau ends Canadiens' three-game drought 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Joe Juneau ended Montreal's drought of over three games without a goal when he scored 1:39 into overtime to give the Canadiens a 1-0 victory over the Boston Bruins on Thursday night. 
The Canadiens had not scored a goal since Monday night's game against Ottawa, a span of 199 minutes, 25 sec­onds. 
Juneau ~cored when he broke in and slid the puck past Felix Potvin. Juneau exempli­fied the Canadiens' frustration when he threw his stick in the air after scoring. 
Jose Theodore earned his third shutout of the season, making 21 saves for Montreal. Despite being rarely tested, Theodore denied Brian Rolston on a breakaway with 9:38 remaining in the game with a glove save. 
Potvin, who shut out the Canadiens on Tuesday, allowed only his second goal in the last three games. 
Boston, who has been so suc­cessful on the road this season with a league-leading six straight wins, is 0-2-1 at home. 
The Bruins were also shut out at home last Thursday by Carolina and were shut out in consecutive games for the first time in 1999. 
Montreal, who snapped a three-game losing streak, had four power-play opportunities and is 1-for-24 with the man advantage over the last seven games. 
The Canadiens were shut out in three straight games twice in their history, most recently in 1949. 
Boston had not allowed a goal in 163:37. 
Lightning 2, Sharks 2 
Dave Andreychuk scored-~Jl game-tying power-play goal'·· early in the third period as the unbeaten Tampa Bay Lightning earned a 2-2 tie Thursday night with the San Jose Sharks. 
The Lightning (6-0-1} were bidding to become just the ninth team to start the season with seven consecutive wins. 
Only the 1993-94 Toronto Maple Leafs (10 games). the 1934-35 Maple Leafs (eight games) and 1975-76 Buffalo Sabres (eight games) have started the season with more than seven straight wins. 


Devils 3, Flyers 2 
The unlikely hero of Game 7 of the Stanley Cup finals helped the New Jersey Devils end an unexpectedly long home winless streak. 
Mike Rupp scored ·his second goal of the game with 8:43 to play and the Devils won for the first time at home this season by rallying for a 3-2 victory over the Philadelphia Flyers on Thursday night. 

"It was my best game, not just because I scored," Rupp 

Reuters 

The Montreal Canadlens shut out the Boston Bruins Thursday, 1-0. Joe Juneau scored the Canadlens' first goal in three games 1:39 Into the overtime period. 
said. "I think I was using my instant hero. body and our line was estab­This season has been any­lishing a forecheck. We had a thing but that for him. He did solid game." not earn a point in his first six 
It.brought back memories of games. last June when Rupp scored twice in the Devils' 3-0 win in Sabres 5, Maple Leafs 3 Game 7. making him an Five seems to be the lucky 
number these days for the Buffalo Sabres. 
Miroslav Satan scored his 200th career goal with the Sabres and added an assist to lead Buffalo past the Toronto Maple Leafs 5-3 Thursday night. 



411
r 







OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Friday, October 31, 2003 COI\1PILED FR.Otvt1'l-IE 0BStRVUtS WillE SERVtCES page 21 



around the dial 
NBA 

Minnesota vs. New Jersey 8 p.m., ESPN Philadelphia vs. Sacramento 1 0:30 p.m., ESPN2 Atlanta vs. Chicago 8:30p.m., FSN 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL SATURDAY NOTRE DAME vs. Florida State 1 :30 p.m., NBC Michigan vs. Michigan State noon, ABC Nebraska vs. Texas 3:30p.m., ABC Miami vs. Virginia Tech 7:45p.m., ESPN 
NBA 


Reuters Orlando's Tracy McGrady drives past Detroit's Clifford Robinson last season In game seven of the NBA Eastern Conference Quarterfinals, which the Magic lost. McGrady Is re_ady to step up as the leader of the Magic. 

McGrady ready to be the team leader 
scoring leader, and last year "Now he can start to do McGrady, 9-for-24 from the 
Associated Press 

he was the youngest player the things that we equate field. "As bad as we played 
to average 30 points since with being a leader," they never ran away with a 
ORLANDO, Fla. -Ask the ABA-NBA merger of Orlando general manager big lead. I told my team­Tracy McGrady what the 1977. McGrady also is one John Gabriel said. "But as mates if we take it to over­future holds for the Orlando of only three active players far as on the floor, he's been time, I will win this game." Magic, and he wearily with at least 8,500 points, there and has done that." McGrady the leader will 
shakes his head. 2,700 rebounds and 1,600 McGrady demonstrated be judged by wins and loss­Everything, he says, assists through their first his leadership Wednesday es, and that's fine with him. depends on the "young six seasons. (The others are night in the Magic's open­If a teammate doesn't go guys" getting on the same injured teammate Grant ing-game overtime win over all-out in practice, tunes out page as the veterans. Hill and Antoine Walker of the New York Knicks. the coaches or breaks a 
Young guys? Tracy, you're Dallas.) Despite an awful shooting play to make himself look only 24! Scorer, rebounder, passer, performance through three good, the captain will 
"But I've got six years defender. Now McGrady quarters, his defense and notice. under my belt. So I feel like can add another role: playmaking kept the Magic "If we don't do those I've been here a long time," leader . close. His 13 points in the things, we're going to be he said. The Magic's front office, fourth quarter and over­one of those teams that 
McGrady is an experi­by stitching a captain's C on time gave Orlando a two­plays 82 games then goes enced superstar who may McGrady's jersey, is making point victory. home," McGrady said. "I just be tapping into all of official what has been com­"I was getting frustrated definitely don't want that, his talents. mon knowledge: This is T­all night and my shots because I enjoy playing in 
He is the defending NBA Mac's team. weren't falling." said the postseason." 
IN BRIEF 

Thomas to return to White 
Sox next year CHICAGO -Frank Thomas is staying with the Chicago White Sox. 
Thomas said Thursday he will exercise a $6 million contract option for next season rather than test the free-agent market for a second straight year. 
"After weighing our options, we felt the best decision for Frank was to return to the White Sox," Arn Tellem, Thomas' agent, said in a statement. "I know Frank would like nothing better than to help the White Sox win a World Series title." 
Thomas tested the free agent market for the first time in his career last year after the White Sox invoked a clause in his contract that allowed them to defer most of his $10 million salary. 
The two-time AL MVP·wound up re-signing with the only team he's ever played for, agreeing to a one­year deal with three mutual options that guaranteed him $22.5 
million. 

In addition to the $6 million option for next season, he has ones for $8 million in 2005 and $10 mil­lion in 2006, a year that has a $3.5 million·club buyout attached to it. 
Even if Thomas had"<it}clined the option, the White Sox could have held onto him by exercising an $8 million option. The White Sox also have options of $11 million in 2005 and $12 million in 2006. 
"Frank is certainly the greatest hitter in the long history of this organization," said Kenny Williams, the White Sox's general manager. "Very much to his credit, Frank rebounded at the plate in 2003, and we are looking forward to another season with having Frank as one of the more potent offensive players in the American League." 
Thomas hit .267, his highest average since 2000, with 42 homers and 105 RBis this season. He also hit his 400th career homer and collected his 2,000th hit. Brand injures foot in 
season-opening loss 
LOS ANGELES -Forward Elton Brand sustained a hairline fracture in his right foot during the Los Angeles Clippers' season-opening loss to Seattle in Japan. 
He is expected to be out four to 

·,.J 
six weeks, the team said Thursday. 
X-rays taken in Toyko after Wednesday night's game showed a hairline fracture of the fourth metatarsal. 
Branti had 21 points, 15 rebounds and a career-high eight blocks in the Clippers' loss. 
Brand missed 18 games last sea­son with a stress fracture in his lower left leg. He averaged 18.5 points and 11.3 rebounds in 62 games last season. 
He signed an offer sheet with the Miami Heat in July. The Clippers retained Brand by matching the offer with a six-year contract reportedly worth $82.2 million. 



Friday, October 31, 2003
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Badin looks for revenge against McGlinn 

By ANN LOUGHERY AND BOB GRIFFIN Spons Writers 
Don't expect a repeat of the last match between the third seeded Bullfrogs and sixth seeded Shamrocks, said McGlinn receiver Carolyn Gibbs. 
· When the two met earlier in the season, Badin shut out McGlinn 13-0. McGlinn quarter­back Bridget Meacham described that loss as the worst of their season. 
Since then, the sophomore­heavy Shamrocks (3-3) have focused on strengthening the effectiveness of their defense in regards to blitzing schemes and formations. This, Gibbs said, will ultimately bolster the Shamrocks to a win and a life in the playoffs. 
"We're going to come out 

\ \ strong and shock Badin," Gibbs said. "They expect that they'll be playing the team that they beat before." 
The Bullfrogs (5-1) have also made adjustments in regards to their defense. Safety Jen Craig will be ineligible for play due to an injury. One of the main chal­lenges Badin has faced has been in finding a replacement for the standout Craig. 
SMC SOCCER 


Belles look to bounce 
' 
'I 
\ 
:I ( 

,, back from tough loss
II 
~ 
•, 
I 
) 
By DAN TAPETILLO 

I 
') ' I 
Sports Writer 

'I ~
~,I 
I
'· 
., 
' I October break proved to be I I ! rocky for Saint Mary's. The Belles came out of the break with a 1-1-1 record only to
1! I 
' 
suffer a heartbreaking 3-2 dou­ble overtime loss to Kalamazoo Wednesday night. The loss to Kalamazoo puts Saint Mary's at 9-3-3 for the season and in a tie with Alma for third place in the MIM standings. 
The consistent Saint Mary's defense couln't preserve the tie. 

"The defense can only hold for ) so long," Belles coach Peter 'I ' I i Haring said. "The offense needs 
" 
to finish the golden opportunities 

·~ 
; : in games." 
This was the second loss Saint Mary's had suffered in just two weeks. Saint Mary's endured a 1-0 loss to Hope College Oct. 18. But the team had to play without defender Shannon Culbertson and striker Wendy Irvin. 
Fortunately, Saint Mary's was able to recover from the loss with its sixth shutout of the year with a 3-0 win over Tri-State 

i University, the second team Saint I ~ ; Mary's played during the break I , on Oct. 21.) . "Our team got refocused and 
~ 
I , we stuck it to them," Haring said. "We were able to control
' I 
~ . the pace of the game." ' I But the team ended the break : I I ~ . ' with a 1-1 double overtime tie to 
Alma. I ' } ' Over the break, the defense 
continued its solid strength

' 1 
I . behind Katie Taylor, Carrie Orr 
and Culbertson. Freshman Carolyn Logan has 

;,_/ 
also been a critical part to the team. "She adds a little more spark in our attack," Haring said. For the remainder of the sea­son, Haring wants to continue 
What will determine the win­ner of Sunday's game will be the teams' ability to overcome their weaknesses. Meacham cited the team's level of intensi­ty early in the game as an area for improvement. 
"It's always taken a while for us to get into the rhythm. Also, because we are a young team, we let mistakes get to us and we don't have a lot of confi­dence at the beginning of the game." 
The two will meet Sunday afternoon at 3 p.m. on West Quad. Breen Phillips vs. Welsh 
Breen-Phillips and Welsh , both expecting to carry strong regular season play into the playoffs, will square ofT Sunday in what looks to be a fierce match-up between two relent­less teams fresh ofT highly suc­cessful seasons. 
Breen Phillips (3-1-2) has been led all year by its produc­tive offense and a defense, which has improved with each week. They look to continue this solid play through the con­tinued success of quarterback Traci Kazmerski and freshman receiver Tara Johnson. 
"We've been preparing all week," Breen-Phillips captain Kelly Deckleman said. "We have a powerful offense, and 
with the team's ability to control the pace of the game and wants to finish the offensive attacks. 
The next test for Saint Mary's will be against Albion Saturday at 12 p.m. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at 
jtapetil@nd.edu 
we are able to successfully move the ball down field." 
Breen Phillips emerged victo­rious in the one meeting between the two teams earlier this season, and will need con­tinued strong play to come out with its second win. 
"We're getting pumped and not taking them lightly," Deckleman said. "We beat them earlier this year, and we know we can do it again, but th.ey are going to be looking for revenge." 
Welsb ,(4-2) relied heavily on its impressive defense and returning players for its success this year. The Whirlwinds are lead by returning players Megan Markey and Jamie McEldowney. Sophomore quar­terback Melissa Sands will need to play well in order for Welsh Family to advance into the sec­ond round, as well. 
"We've had a few weeks off and we're all excited," Sands said. "This is the playoffs; it counts." 
The teams will kick off Sunday afternoon at 2:00pm on West Quad. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu and Bob Griffin at bgriffin@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles hope t.o finish home season strong 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associare Sports Editor 
For the Saint Mary's volleyball 
team, its season has literally 
come full circle. 
The Belles fmish the 2003 reg­
ular season at home today 
against Albion, the same team 
who they played in their confer­
ence opener Sept. 3. 
In that match, Saint Mary's fell 
in five sets. 
Belles coach Julie Schroeder­Biek is anxious for her team to get another chance at Albion, especially considering how close · the Belles were to defeating the 
Britons back in September. 
"I am very excited to play this 
team, because we've improved 
so much since that first game," 
she said. "It's a really big win for 
us, because if we win this game 
we'll be sixth in the conference 
and if we lose we'll end up sev­
enth." 
The Belles have shown great 
improvement over last season, in 
which the team went 7-21 and 
only won a single conference 
game. This year, Saint Mary's 
has a 15-12 record going into the fmal game of the regular season and a 4-9 record in the MIAA. 

Perhaps even more impressive is that the Belles have made such strides on a team with only one senior -libero Alison Shevik ­on the roster. Freshman outside hitter Kristen Playko, who ranks in the top three in the MIAA in both kills and service aces, has led talented underclassmen this season -a year in which the Belles are not to be taken lightly by conference opponents. 
"This year has really been about team improvement, but we've had some great individual performances as well," Schroeder-Biek said. "We've made some big steps toward get­ting this program turned around." 
"We've really come out of the basement and have started to get respect from the other teams in this conference." 
Albion (10-20, 3-10 in the MIM) is coming off a straight set victory over Olivet Wednesday. 
The match's tip off is sched­uled for 7 p.m. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


.• 
QUOTES&FACTS 
who designed the Jllteri.or structure for the Statue of Uberty, was the 
'N....·.·
.... ·.....•...... · 

The Nanovic Institute tallest building in the world until the Chrysler Building (1939). Only one 
~ 

for European Studies worker was killed during its construction; he fell while showing off for www.nd.edu/-nanovfc his girlfriend.. Doer 288 milUon people haue uisited the tower since lt .was built•.. 
....

.......... 




Mockev.···•·•·• •.... ··.·.····•······· ..•. ····· .........................·.·····••••··•·••·•················•····••·· 
.·••••·•••·•····..··•.··· ·....··.·· .......· . · .•..··• .. ·····.· ·.··• ·... ··· ·•·····.·.······ .·· ·.· .· ·..
.•.·.········ Friday 10/31vs. Nebraska.;omaha 7:30pm Gate 3 of.Joyce Center . 
-~

\pi *FREE officialND hqckey goalie masks for first l ,000 fans (sponsored by Hoosier Tires) ~~t:}J~·,t'~ *FREE Papa John/s pizza for ND students (while supplies last) 
#7 Men's s·occer . 
Friday 1 0/~1 vs. Villanova 7:30pm Alumni Field (Last Reg Season Home Game) 
*FREE gf6w-in-the-dark necklaces for first 250 fans ,.,l. *One lucky fan has a chance to win 2 t{ckets to the Toby Keith Co_ncert (Nov. 1st in Fort wavne) .,:~;.-./ *Onelucky fan has a chance to win 2 ND vs. FSU football tickets · . .:>fcHalf.wtime costume contest winner receives C&C Umo ride & tickets to Niles Haunted House 


#2 Women's Soccer · . . . · .. . · ... . . 
Sunday 1112 vs, Miami1:00pm Alumni Field {Quarterfinals of Big East) 
/~~ *S?ccer season tickets are notvalid . ·· \~1 *Ttckets are $5/adults, $3/ND students, $3/youths #14 Volleyball 
Sunday ll/2 vs. Syracuse 2:00pm Gate 1.0 of.Joyce Center 
e.t *.FREE ND volleyball b.ottte jersey with a Coke product for first 500 fans ~J (sponsored by Between the Buns) . Men's Basketball Student Season Ticket Sale {Must have valid Student ID) 
Monday, 11./3 9:00am-5:00pm Gate 1.0 of..Joyce Center (sold on ruesitavaii.J 

*Last year SOLD OUT, so come earlyJ FIRST COME, FIRST SERVED until sold out *$50 each; Comes with Official Leprechaun Legion t-shirt! 
*Only cash or check will be accepted; Each student may bring 6 IDs (including his/her own) 
· La Tour Eiffel (bunt in 1887-1889), designed by Gustaue Eiffel, the man 
• 
Friday, October 31, 2003 page 23
The Observer + SPORTS 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 





Irish travel to the Bronx for Big East Championships 
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Wrirer 
Both the mens and womens cross country teams will spend Halloween in the Bronx, where each Irish squad will contend today for the Big East title. Though the race will not be an easy win, the women, who are the defending conference cham­pions and who are ranked fifth 
. nationally, are likely to scare the competition, particularly given their third-place finish two weeks ago at the Pre-National meet. 
Meanwhile, the men, who took fourth place at last year's race, have reasons not to be afraid this season -they are running at a venue where they have not failed to take the Big East title since 1995, and, unlike last year, they will be with the services of for­mer All-American Todd Mobley. Mobley is a senior who missed last year's event due to injury. 

Every year the Big East ·Championships alternate between Van Cortland Park in the Bronx, N.Y. and Franklin Park in Boston. When the race is held is Boston, the mens cross · country team seem to be subject­ed to some sort of Halloween curse, as they have yet to win a title there. While the Boston 
course seems to be cursed for the Irish, the New York course seems a more hallowed place for Notre Dame, given the team's three Big East victories there. 
The 24th-ranked men, who fin­ished ninth among some of the nation's very best squads at the Pre-National meet in the fields of Waterloo, Iowa, will not have a break in the big city this week­end either. The Big East field includes three teams ranked ahead of the Irish: No. 11 Villanova, No. 13 Georgetown, and No. 20 Providence. The Villanova Wildcats, who took the title last season, are returning their top two runners. 
Fortunately the Irish, in addi­tion to having a healthy Mobley, will have the services of some other very talented, albeit youth­ful, harriers. Sophomore Tim Moore has been leading the team of late, and his 16th place finish two weeks ago in Iowa put him among some of the nation's best runners. Another sophomore, Kaleb van Ort, who took 53rd at the Pre-Nationals, will also con­tribute to the Irish effort. Freshman Kurt Benninger has immediately had a positive impact for the Irish since his first college race four weeks ago. 
At the Pre-National race, the Irish, then ranked 15th, finished 75 points behind Georgetown. 
The women, on the other hand, bested eighth-ranked Georgetown at the Pre-Nationals, though they were surpassed by un-ranked North Carolina. The Irish defeated four other teams in the top 25, but they could not catch No. 1 Brigham Young, the first place finishers with 86 points to Notre Dame's 127. 
Today, the women will not have to compete with the likes of BYU, but they will still have .to contend against some highly­ranked conference foes. The eighth-ranked Providence Friars and 16th-ranked Georgetown will provide challenges. Other ranked Big East teams include No. 25 West Virginia, No. 27 Boston College, and No. 32 Villanova. 
Last year, when the female Irish harriers took their first­ever Big East title, Lauren King took individual honors closely ahead of teammate Molly Huddle. 
Since then, the same two run­ners have generally led the Irish, but the order has been reversed, with the sophomore Huddle usu­ally leading the elder King. At the Pre-Nationals, Huddle fin­ished 10th, amidst a pack of' top runners. In each of the seven col­legiate races she has run, Huddle has arrived at the finish line in the top 10. On her heels that day though was junior Kerry Meagher, who is in his first sea­son running varsity races. King was 10 seconds behind and took 19th place. 

While the Big East title race can affect the teams' rankings, as well as their chance for at-large bids to the National Championships, the NCAA Great Lakes Regional, which will be held Nov. 15 in Terre Haute, Ind., is the opportunity for both teams to qualify for the NCAA title event. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

No. 14 Irish look to extend 11 game win streak 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish are glad to be back at the Joyce Center. 
No. 14 Notre Dame returns home Sunday for just the second time in two weeks, where they face Syracuse {16-11, 3-4 in the Big East). 
The Orangemen come off a 3­2 loss to Boston College, and are hungry for a win. The Irish, on the other hand, will look to extend an 11 game winning streak, their longest in three years. 

Notre Dame (18-2, 7-0) is led by their nation-leading 3. 79 blocks per game average. Highlighting the Irish blockers is middle blocker Lauren Brewster, who leads the nation in blocking, with an average of 
1.82 blocks per game. Brewster also had 11 kills with no errors on 21 attempts. 
Brewster has been nicely com­plimented by Lauren Kelbley, who led the way for the Irish in Wednesday's win over Illinois State with 11 kills on .444 hit­ting. Kelbley also added 15.5 points serving, while Brewster led with 17 points. 
Senior setter Kristen Kinder led the offense with another double-double Wednesday, with 29 assists and 12 digs, the 24th such match of her four-year career. 
Defensively, the Irish have been led, and rightfully so, by libero Meg Henican, who fin­ished with 17 digs on Wednesday. 
The Irish have been able to hold teams to weak hitting per­centages, as Illinois State hit a mere -.008 on the match, with 31 kills and 32 errors. 
However, Sunday's match 
proves to be a challenge for the Irish, as the Orangemen will be looking for revenge after last year's 3-0loss to the Irish. 
Syracuse holds opponents to a .199 hitting percentage, while they hit .219 as a team. However, the Irish have held teams to a .142 attack percent­age this season. In the 20 matches so far this year, the Irish have allowed opponents to hit .190 or better just four times. 
Sunday's match provides the Irish with an opportunity to extend their win streak to 12, which would match the longest 

Bernardo's Fine Mens Clothing October Sale 20-30-40°/o off 
Great Selection ofSuits & Sport Coats for Your Interviews 
Famous Brand 
'~J 
Names 


Kenneth Cole Suit $495 for $325 
Hart Shaffner Marx Joseph Abboud Austin Reed Tommy Bahama 

255-8818 


winning streak of coach Debbie Brown's era. 
Brown's 18-2 record marks the best start for the Irish since 1994, when Notre Dame started 32-2 and finished 33-4 . 
The longest winning streak in Irish history is 1 7, done in 1986. During the current 11-match streak, Notre Dame has won 44­of-48 games, only losing one each to Purdue, Villanova, Connecticut and North Carolina. 
Sunday's match kicks off at 2 
p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish third in Big East 
Special to The Observer Connecticut, the defending NCAA champion, has been cho­sen to win the 2003-04 Big East women's basketball regular sea­son title. The poll is determined 

by a vote of the league's head coaches who were not permitted to place their own teams on -­
their ballots. 
Rutgers earned the remaining first-place vote and 156 points for a second-place finish in the poll. 
Notre Dame (21-11) earned 139 points to finish third in the poll. The Irish played in the NCAA Championship for the eighth straight year and advanced t.o the Sweet 16 for the fifth time under coach Muffet McGraw. Notre Dame finished 21-11 for its 1Oth consecutive 20-win season. Junior forward Jacqueline Batteast, a member of the 2003-04 preseason all-Big East first team, is expected to lead the Irish. 
-

' 

---------·---------___,,..-----------------~----------------------------­
'li~ ljl 1\ \ page 24 Friday, October 31, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS 
·!lH~ 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL
lll\! ~ I 
ll\I ·~ '
1\ . 

Dillon looks to continue domination as playoffs begin 
1\1 :
Ill . 
• 
li\ 
\.\ ' I 
)."i . injuries this game," O'Keefe said. any other quarterback in the become since last season. The undefeated Manorites 
~ .) By STEVE COYER, ANNIE Dillon's undefeated play this league. He's real good," Raschke Knott annihilated Carroll 19-0 head into the game boasting a}{,) ') BRUSKY, DAN TAPETILLO 
,, 1\ 
season makes them the team to said. · in the last game of the regular powerful offensive attack led byH AND KEVIN O'NEILL 
\ \ \ beat going into the playoffs. His opponents see him as a season and does not expect dif­quarterback Marty Mooney, tight
Sports Writers 

The game will be played this dangerous threat as well. ferent results in the first round of end Dave Purcell and the run­
u.~
)·i ·, It's been two very different Sunday at 1 p.m. at Riehle North. "He had some great games last the playoffs. ning back tandem of brothers 
\ ,, \ 
seasons for Sorin and Dillon, but year, especially against us in the "We hit on all cylinders the last Steve and Nick Klein. Offensively, this weekend that all means No. 2 Siegfried vs. No. 7 championship," Harkins said. game and we're going to take the Manorites look to first estab­
{'\F I ,', !' 
nothing as both .teams look to Alumni ''He's very versatile. He can run that into the playoffs," Knott cap­lish the run to set up the passing 
..~ ,, 
advance in the playoffs. Sunday's hotly contested inter­and pass." tain Drew Donovan said. attack.
;( : 
Dillon has rolled through its hall playoff game between the The Ramblers are looking for To achieve this goal, Knott will The Manor will also bring a 
\ 
schedule this year and emerged Siegfried Ramblers and the running back Tim Breitbach to have to rely upon its improved talented defense led by middle 
·: ~ ·. 
~~ 
the only undefeated team in the Alumni Dawgs will be a rematch ·have a big game as they know offense, led by quarterback Ben linebackers Jason Wise andlH league after a 14-8 victory over of last year's championship. how critical a strong running Gilfillan and wide receiver Mike Brian Dinsmore. "Nobody has Keenan. With confidence from Not that either team needs any attack is to win. Peters and, along with the con­put together a drive on our last year's playoff success and added incentive, though, for they They are also depending on sistency of its defense which defense." said Ronsheim, refer­this year's dominant regular sea­both know it's do-or-die time wide receiver Jon Kaup. Donovan adds is both solid and ring to a unit that has allowed son, Dillon looks ready to play up when the playoffs roll around. Hoping to combat the strength the inner strength of the team. just one offensive touchdown on to its No. 1 seeding. "It doesn't matter where we're and size of Alumni's offensive But Knott will also need to stop the season and shut out three of 
l~~ \\ 
"~~ 
Sorin's season started with a seeded. If we don't come out line, Siegfried is counting on a Keenan's offense if it expects to four opponents. "We'll look to
,1· \ 
thrilling 3-0 victory and ended there strong it will be an early strong performance by their see life in the second round. play solid defense and establish a with a huge 6-0 win. In their exif," Siegfried cornerback Nate defensive line as well. The Keenan offense is led by good running game. It's a simple other two games, the Otters took Raschke said. "It's important we shut down team captains quarterback formula. Our personnel is good difficult losses yet made it into Both teams return nearly all of their running game," Raschke Patrick Downey and receiver enough to win and we have a lot the playoffs against tough odds. last season's players and said. Reed Langton .. of depth said Ronsheim. 

Sarin realizes it has a powerful although Siegfried was victorious Seventh-seeded Alumni, for its The Knights want to show The Zahmbies come into the opponent to face but the team's last year, anything can happen in part, is improved and back at full they're a "new and improved" game with confidence, having attitude remains upbeat. Sunday's game. strength. team during the first round. won their final two games of the 
"We're facing the top seed and "We can't look past Alumni or Cottingham and running back "We have a lot of new faces season over Sorin and Fisher. we have our work cut out for us, anyone else. Alumni is a good Alex Roodhouse lead the offense and we are a much more differ­The Sarin game was won behind but we're thrilled to have made team and we can't take it for while TJ Strachota, at safety, is ent team than last year," Keenan a solid ground attack led by run­it into the playoffs," captain granted that we're the defending the defensive commander. team captain Patrick Downey ning back Eric Tarnowski, while Collin O'Keefe said. champs," said Raschke, a junior. "We've had some unfortunate said. Fisher was bested behind the 
Dillon's defense has been very "I know Siegfried is a great breaks along the way but we're a But despite Keenan being passing of quarterback Mitch solid with two shutouts and has team. It will be a tough game," pretty good team, and we have known for their underclassmen, Knapke. · allowed only 11 points all sea­Alumni wide receiver Corey our game plan ready" Harkins the team continues to stand "We're focusing on the offense son. Harkins said. "Being a senior, I said. "We're confident we can go behind their veteran defensive this week," captain Mike 
On offense, Dillon has been really don't want it to end quite out there and give it our best." line. Maimone said. "We're looking to strong and was explosive in its yet." These two teams will meet balance it up." 42-0 defeat of Keenan. Key play­"We're very confident. We're No. 4 Knott vs. No. 5 Keenan Sunday at the Riehle South fields Defensively, the Zahmbies rec­ers on offense for Dillon include excited to get a second chance at Sunday's game will not only be at 1 p.m. ognize the potential of the Robert McBride, Kevin McCarthy Sigfried," said Alumni quarter­a battle for life in playoffs, but Morrissey offense. and Ben Butwin. back Chris Cottingham, recalling also for pride No. 3 Morrissey vs. No. 6 Zahm "The key for us is to contain 
Sarin has had to face injuries his team's 14-7 loss in the After both teams missed the Two confident teams will their offense." said Maimone. all season and the upcoming Stadium last year. playoffs last year, No. 4 seed square ofT in a playoff showdown playoff game will be no excep­Second-seeded Siegfried -3-1 Knott will meet No. 5 seed on Sunday afternoon at the Contact Steve Coyer at tion. after a disappointing loss to Keenan in a first-round game. Riehle North Athletic Fields scoyer@nd.edu, Annie Brusky at 
"We have some key players Fisher -boasts a talented roster The Juggerknotts want to when the third -seeded Morrissey abrusky@nd.edu, Dan Tapetillo returning on defense but we're led by quarterback Bill Bingle. prove how explosive their Manorites take on the sixth­at jtapetil@nd.edu and Kevin still going to have to deal with ''I'd put Bill up there against offense and defense have seeded Zahmbies. O'Neill at koneill4@nd.edu 

<; f} 
' 
" 
'),,I .. : ~ 
) l J i.
!
,/ It 
II: 
/1 ;
I 
. 
! 
II 
I( ;
:' ~'· .I 

$?ftl.it~?·. Chl.tliLIIl-· ClrLL.;4;..lll£# · 508 'VIl. !vfc.Rinley Avenut~ Mishawaka, IN 46545 
574-254-9070 Come Visit Mishawaka's Finest Indian Restaurant! ­

' /I 
Traditional Non-Vegetarian, Vegetarian, (Vegan entrees available upon request) and Seafood Entrees. 
,/"' 

I 
I 
I!I.
I 
I ) ' 

Low Interest Auto Loan:sl (n·ew or used:: same rate) 


~k,The rates are con1 petitive­bu.t iCs the custonter service that \vill brin2 rne. hack to 
~;....· 
Notre l)arne Federal c:redit Union..;' 
. 
.
0 



:NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION: You con bonk on us to be better ;:o-r..«r(:· ·~ 1.,.(i{,/1?. • u;''-V\V.n·dfcu Ot'~
_J .! '+J .L· ~-............. "' ' · · · • o 



Friday, October 31, 2003 page 25
The Observer + SPORTS 
Win 
continued from page 28 
ning two games over the break, including a 1-0 win over then­No. 1 Boston College Saturday. 


"There's that subconscious follow up question about what's going to happen after a big win like that," Poulin said. 
.:-.'-Despite scoring two goals in the first period, the Irish were lucky to keep Nebraska-Omaha off the board. Notre Dame had several' turnovers in their defensive zone, but Cey was equal to the task. "I thought [Morgan] pla.yed very well," Poulin said. "I would have liked to have seen him just give up one goal, but Omaha's a good hockey team and they really battled very hard." McLean got the Irish on the board halfway through the first period when he followed up a rebound of a Brett Lebda shot. Gill would increase the Irish lead to two with just eight sec­onds remaining in the first period. Walsh managed to get away a hard slap shot from the right side, which Haaland got a glove on, but again he dropped 
the rebound and Gill managed 
to poke the puck home. 
"That was a big goal," Poulin said. "Gill did a great job to fol­low the shot. McLean was just terrific in this game, and Mike Walsh might have played his best game of the season." 
Ten minutes into the second period, Nebraska-Omaha got on the board during a flurry of shots in front of Cey. The Irish . goalie made several saves, but could not collect a rebound which went to forward Brent Kisio, whcf swe-pt it into the empty net. 
Less than two minutes after Kisio's goal, Irish forward Michael Bartlett entered the zone on a two-on-one and made a perfect pass to forward Rob Globke, who hesitated for a moment before wristing the puck between Haaland's pads. 
Notre Dame would put the game out of reach just 30 sec­onds later, when McLean made a dominating one-on-one move, just getting enough on a shot while falling down to fling it through Haaland's five-hole. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Bauters leads by example for the Belles 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
Call her captain. Call her coach. Call her Jackie Bauters. Matter of fact, why don't you just call her all three. 
The senior captain of the Saint Mary's cross country has been the team's top finisher in five of its six meets thusfar this season. Not only that, she has become the physical and motivational lifeblood of the program. 
"We have a lot of great unity on our team this year and good chemistry," Bauters said. "It's like our little family." 
Last season as a junior, Bauters was the top Saint Mary's finisher at the NCAA regionals and only once did not finish in the top three runners. 
This season, Bauters is one of five seniors on the Belles squad. Nicole Garcia, Jessica Kosco, Jessica Millanes, Mary Pendergast join her as the sea­soned veterans. Bauters, howev­er, has emerged as the clear-cut leader of this team. 
She has kept her times in the 5,000-meter race relatively steady between a 20:50, good for a 112th place finish at the National Catholic Invitational and a 20:11, 27th place finish at the MIAA Jamboree. 
Most recently, Bauters kicked it into high gear with a 17th overall finish and a time of 19:52 at the Eagle Invitational at Benedictine University. 
Her coach, Dave Barstis, has observed Bauters' development into a top competitor, but he knows her value exceeds what happens on the course. 
"She is a leader, and she leads by example," Barstis said. "She's just an extension of myself. Since I don't get to run with them, I count on her to keep them in line. She's basically my coach ·in the field so to speak, and she's great at it." 
So she is a captain and a coach, as well? 
Bauters can handle that. 
"I kind of feel like it's my team, too," she says. "I really enjoy having this leadership opportuni­ty because the girls are very easy to work with. It's also easy for me because the leader role is one I've always been comfortable with." 
She was comfortable with her captain's role at Cathedral Latin High School in Cleveland. 
Bauters' team won the district championship her junior year and was named first team all­conference her senior year. 
That same drive has followed Bauters to Saint Mary's and become contagious. 
"I think I'm a very highly moti­vated person," Bauters said. "I really push myself, so I know 
that the girls on the team look up 
to me as the leader. If I don't give 
my best effort-which doesn't 
mean I have to win -and if I 
don't try my hardest, that is not 
doing everything I can. I never 
want to let my team down." 
Bauters' team-oriented atti­
tude shows an example to the 
younger runners. 
"She has bought into my 
coaching philosophy," Barstis 
said. "She keeps the team moti­
vated by reiterating what I've 
been saying: be patient. Keep 
your head up. Everyone has a 
bad race, you'll have a good one. 
She's a great leader, no doubt 
about it." 
Freshmen Katie White and Sara Otto, among others, are already showing improvement . physically and mentally from fol­
lowing Bauters' example. 
"Those two girls are great 
team runners," Bauters said. 
"They have a lot of leadership 
that will carry the team next 
year." 
But Bauters is graduating. 
Normally. a senior captain would 
not be so considerate of the 
team's future well-being. 
"I will miss her when she grad­
uates," Barstis said. 
A captain wouldn't be so con­
siderate, but a coach would. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu


_ 
..I.. 
Q 
"""j 
n ~ 
0 
r 
0 
en
c:: 
tc 
rJl 


e~ 
o<v fi:N~ 1'3-~ 5'3-\ ~.. 
en 
0


Fax(574)282-3234 
"The team has progressed as I in the top 50 at the meet. had hoped, and the Eagle "Benedictine is the first time



MIAA 
Invitational is a good indication . we actually raced," Bars tis said. of that," he said. "We used that "We planned it that way. We pre­

continued from page 28 
as a trial run or test to see how pared for it like we would pre­more than another day of train­we were going to do in the pare for the championships." ing. Places meant nothing. I was [MIAA] championships." The MIAA championships looking at progress and viewing Saint Mary's finished fourth begin at 11 a.m Saturday. it as a workout." overall at the Benedictine 
Barstis is plea$ed with what he University Eagle Invitational, Contact Pat Leonard at sees. with six Belles runners finishing pleonard@nd.edu 

STMARY'S

NOTRE DAME HOLY CROSS
~~~~~Ill' LATE. 
271-7272
NIG-HT S.F)JE:C:IAL 


-

Mon-Thu 11am-1am Fr-Sat 11am-3am 
Sun 12pm-1am 

·-------------.. 
: 1 Large : 
I I 
1 

I 1 Topping 1-1 
: $6.99 : 
1

.. I _____________. I 
I• after 9pm I 
Free Delivery Visa, Mastercard 
·-··•••••••-··-·-····· 

II 
_?_________________________________ j 

-~------~----~-----------------------------.. 
page 26 October 31, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Soccer 
continued from page 28 
end with two games remaining, the second of which comes Sunday on the road at Michigan State. That game will have no impact on Big East standings. 
However, with a tie or loss to Villanova (9-6-1, 4-5-0) tonight, Notre Dame will subject itself to the whim of tiebreakers within the conference to determine seedings and home field advan­tage. 
"[We're] very focused," coach Bobby Clark said. "It's also a spe­cial night for our seniors. It's their last official home game. They'll be very determined to fin­ish their final game with a win and leave a lot of good memo­
.
nes. " This will be the 1Oth meeting of the two programs. 
Last season, the Irish won, 5-0, at Villanova. Notre Dame outshot its opponent 15-3 and received goals from Chad Riley, Justin Detter and Devon Prescod. 
"They're a totally different team from last year," Clark said, unconcerned with the past. "This is the first time since 1991 [Villanova] has been nationally ranked. That says it all. You must give them the utmost respect." 
Statistics show the Irish have dominated the Wildcats over the teams' history of playing each other. Notre Dame has the series lead with a 7-1-0 all-time record, going 4-0-0 at Alumni Field. 

But Clark is a veteran coach who has seen teams take others for granted. He is not concerned with what happened last year. 
"I have never been a believer in past records having any weight," he said. "You need to look at the Big East. You can see how any of the bottom teams can beat any of the top teams. If we look past them for a second, then we're not very smart." 
Concluding their fmal weekend of the regular season, the Irish will then travel to East Lansing to take on Michigan State (10-3-2) Sunday at 1 p.m. 
The game has no implications in terms of conference seeding, but it certainly could affect seed­ing in the NCAA tournament. 
"I think both games we're play­ing for an NCAA seed," Clark said. "There's no guarantee we get an automatic bid from the Big East, not yet at least. We have two regular season games remaining that are vitally impor­tant, with regards to getting into the NCAA's and getting home field in the NCAA's." 
Sixteen teams in the country get first round byes in the NCAA tournament. They also receive home field advantage in the sec­ond round. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


Award 
continued from page 28 
last Saturday. 

Detter began the scoring with a goal at the 6 minute, 40 sec­ond mark off an assist from junior defender Kevin Goldthwaite. He then won the game seven minutes into over­time by chipping a ball over Virginia Tech goalkeeper Chase Harrison. 
The game-winning overtime goal was Detter's second of the season. His first came in an early--season, 2-1 victory over Fresno St in the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament. The second goal also tied Detter with senior forward Devon Prescod for the team lead in goals with eight. Detter's 20 points (8 goals, 12 assists) leads all Notre Dame players. 
This honor marks the first time Detter has been named to the Soccer America College Team of the Week in his career. 
Detter's overtime goal ensured Notre Dame home field advantage in the first round of the Big East champi­onship tournament, provided the Irish defeat Villanova tonight at Alumni Field. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

much easier for the Irish, who them 3-0," Waldrum said. I record all-time in Big East + Before the game against have continued to play a lot of think we need to be a little Tournament competition, win­Michigan, the Irish had
Big East 

games. more prepared to play them ning the tournament the seven outscored their opposition 36­"With all the mid-week since it is going to have a play­previous times they have com­1 since giving up a goal in a 2­
continued from page 28 


games in the last three weeks ofT atmosphere to it." peted. 1 game against Santa Clara. we really haven't had many + The Irish outscored their 
good practice days," Waldrum Notes Big East opponents 22-0 on the Contact Andy Troeger at for a second time]." Waldrum said. "We play a game, recover + The Irish have an 18-0-0 season. atroeger@nd.edu said. "We beat them fairly the next day, then play again. comfortably at home which is So we'll get back into the basic 
a good thing from a confidence things we were doing at the standpoint. The bad thing is beginning of the year." having beat them before you Despite failing to complete don't want the kids going in the fourth unbeaten regular like we did Wednesday night, season in team history, the mentally unprepared to play." Irish are excited to play Miami 
The last time the two teams again and to enter the postsea­
I 1 
played, the Irish were coming son. to the end of a grueling stretch "I don't think when we of seven games in fifteen days. played them here that we The schedule has not gotten played very well, and we beat 

ELlA'S Mediterranean Cuisine Open: Tues.-Sat. llam-2pm & 4pnz-9pm (Sun, andMon. closed) . We offer•• ~ ,... Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos~ Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie and many delicious dishes .. , How about some Baklawa dessert to complement your meal.. ***************** Our address: 1 I 5 Dixie Way North South Bend, IN 46637 (574) 277-7139 \Ve are located within few minutes from campus, in Roseland are~ near Pcndle Road on 3 I  


r ' 
J 

Friday, October 31, 2003 

The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 
FoalS OFT}fiS SRCISE IS '"TO ~'fAN \DEA OF W~T DOINq ~ l.o&lToH'i fS UKJ: ... 


FIVES BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYcfiiNSKI 
If Holloween costume parties reflected ND diversity issues ... 
Boo! 




HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
~~~ 
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
EDRIN 
j
rxx 
Cl003 Tribune Media SeNicea, Inc. Nl Rights Reserved. 
UTOOD 
[IJ 
GATHIL ± 
tFRUGEE I 

Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as
IIJ I I 
suggested·by the above cartoon. 
AILs: A 
"( I I I I )" ( I I I I I ) 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: GUMMY DAISY STIGMA BANGLE Answer: What the switchboard operator gave her boss -A "BUSY" SIGNAL 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Potsticker cooker
1 "Ta-ta" 30 Part of "the 
11 Reduce to a many," literally pulp 

31 In _ (stuck) 15 "No thanks 
32 Out-elbowed?
necessary" 36 Green-lights
16 It comes to 37 Has as a
mind customer 17 "Those rumors 
39 Branch 
were correct" 40 Narc's find, 
18 Carpers and maybeharpers 

42 Classic rebuke 19 ·-do!" ("Stop 
43 Humble follower
it!") 44 Go-ahead sign 
20 Wee folk's place 45 Part of DOS:' 22 Party member, 
Abbr. 
briefly 
46 Door sign 23 Bang 
47 Smoke 24 Bony prefix 
50 Law, to Lucretius

25 One concerned with checks and 51 Badge balances: Abbr. distributor: Abbr. 
27 Camus's "L'_ 53 Thoughtful and de siege" logical 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

• 
55 Omega competitors 58 Pattern 59 Not delayed 61 Sib in dialect 62 Kind of basis for revealing 63 In the mail 64 Completely dry 
DOWN 1 Tag declaration 2 Don't believe it 3 Comment on 
raising kids 4 Ticket 5 Bedtime 
request 6 Bouncer 7 Approx. 8 It's just between 
us 
9 Apples, but not IBM's 
10 Sense 
11 It's not much to goon 12 Get used (to) 13 Artful transition 14 Can't avoid 21 Warning from the roof 23 Considerable winnings, informally 25 Hack 26 Creep (along) 28 Beset by baying dogs, maybe 29 Light figure 

WILLSHORTZ 

33 Explorer's job 47 Potatoes and 54 Baseballer Martinez
34 Cracker topper 48 Make used (to) 
35 Rainbow, to 55 Fill 
some 49 Ancient 58 184 7 novel set38 1970's-90's rock physician in part aboard agroup with a whaler
50 Scrim material
name from 
Greek myth 52 Capital of 57 In stitches 

41 Forewarned and Russian ready America 60 Old letter 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS . Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.comlleamingJxwords. 
Visit The Obse·rver on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Jane Pauley, Dan Rather, Deidre Hall, Lynda Goodfriend, Roger Kahn · ..­
Happy Birthday: The sooner you realize that there is nothing wron~ with accepting a little help along the way you will start to excel. You can ptck up some valuable information if you are willing to listen to what others have to say. This is a learning year for you. Open up and you will move ahead. Your numbers: 2, 14, 23, 32, 45, 49 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): Investments made today will be prosperous. You should concentrate on issues that concern your career goals. Your partner may not agree with your decisions. Act on your past experience. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Luck will be yours in financial dealings. ....,."> lnvol vement with hospitals or government agencies will turn out to be favorable. Acceptance will be the deciding factor where success is concerned. 
** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Making new friends may not be that easy. Secondar~ motives on the part of any new friend should be considered. Don't be too eager to let others in on your personal secrets. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Help will be yours for the asking. Friends and relatives will gravitate to your side offering sound advice and any other form of assistance you may require. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Opposition from your family is likely if you haven't been honest or reliable when it comes to doing your share of the work. Make amends by doing something special for your loved ones. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Romantic opportunities will unfold if you attend big events or travel. Discipline will be the key to getting ahead. Don't let others stand in your way. You should take control of your destiny. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will be able to make remarkable financial agreements if you are willing to spend a little time putting everything down on paper. You should take time to help the children in your life. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Romance will be plentiful. You must be sure not to lead someone on if you really aren't interested. You can establish good friendships if you take the time to develop them. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Matters pertaining to work will be favorable if you just plunge ahead. You must be careful not to offend someone you live with. Don't push your opinions on others. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You need to test your endurance and get back into shape. You'll feel good if you have taken time to pamper yourself. Plan to get into activities that involve the youngsters in your life as well. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Expect changes in your home. Moves or the possibility of having someone different living with you may be difficult at first. Sit tight. Things aren't as bad as they appear to be. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your temper will be tested if your principles are threatened. Avoid confrontations at group meetings. It's best to help those unable to help themselves. *** 
Birthday Baby: You have so much potential. You are clever, competitive and cautious. You will make your loved ones proud with the way in which you handle yourself throughout life. You're brave and bold, but a little bit bashful. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 

------------------------------------------------------------~------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and rnail to: P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name Address City ____________ State ____ Zip______ 

THE OBSERVER 
p

Friday, October 31, 2003 

Page 28 


I. 
.' t. 

I•i ~ ) 
~I i 
'I :li i' 
II'
:l
I i I I 
Ih~ I' 
I I : 
~ i : 
~ }
lpI 
: 
I I f
I I 
d~ 
!/'
1 ' 
I ~ I 
I ' 
:,I 
' ~ ( 
: I I'( ~ 
I ( 
' .
' 
.i 
1
" 
:~; r 
,I) 
:LI) t 
'I i 
,'1 
l
.,.
' 
\.
' 
' 
' ~ 
( j 
' 
..
I 
I ~ 
I J 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 

Bouncing back 
No. 2 Notre Dame looks to rebound against Miami after its first loss of the season 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
Coming off of their first loss of the season, the Irish will look to rebound by getting the postseason off to a good start against Miami on Sunday. 
The Irish will again be look­ing for coach Randy Waldrum's 200th Division I soccer win, and will be trying to earn a trip to the Big East semifinals at Rutgers next weekend. 
One of the major keys for the Irish will be seeing how they respond to their first loss of the season. 
"They knew they didn't per­form the way they should have," Waldrum said of the game against Michigan. "I think the key in talking to them after the game was to try to make sure they don't let that ruin Sunday's game. 
-We're starting the second sea­son now, so we've got to be ready to play." As in the game against Michigan, Waldrum is pre­pared to play against Miami without two of his top players that are battling injury in sen­ior defender Melissa Tancredi and junior Mary Boland. It is possible that either player could play, but unlikely. Waldrum believes that Tancredi would be available next week if the Irish advance past the Hurricanes. 
MEN's SoccER 
Quick work made 

Irish fight for home field advantage 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Forget the pumpkins and trick­
or-treaters, ghosts and goblins 
when 7:30 p.m. strikes on 
Halloween night -the Notre 
Dame and Villanova men's soccer 
teams will be focused on only one 
thing: a Big East win. 
If the Irish do not beat No. 25 
Villanova at Alumni Field tonight, 
the Irish risk losing home-field 
advantage in the first round of 
the Big East conference tourna­
ment. 
Villanova needs to win this 
game more than the Irish. If the 
Wildcats do not defeat No. 7 
Notre Dame, they risk being oust­
ed from the postseason tourna­
ment altogether. 
The Irish (1 0-3-3, 5-3-1 Big · East) are in third place in the conference entering the weekend 
see SOCCER/ page 26 


SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Senior captain Jackie 
Bauters has led her team 
for four years. 

page 25 
-.. 


TIM KACMAR!The Observer Senior forward Amy Warner looks to go around Michigan defenders. The Irish look to earn a trip to the Big East semifinals this weekend, as they face off with Miami In the first round. 
"There's no question it hurts not having them, they are two quality players that have been a big part in what we've done this year," Waldrum said. "But we certainly are a good enough team to have gotten 


of Nebraska-Omaha 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Blink and you might have missed it. 
Notre Dame took care of busi­ness at home Thursday night against Nebraska-Omaha in a game that took only a little over two hours and included only one penalty call. 

TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer 
The Irish took advantage of the 

Justin Detter goes after the ball in a recent game. 
free-flowing game by scoring two goals in the first period en route

_Detter named to College Team of the Week to a 4-2 win over the Mavericks. 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Senior forward Justin Detter was named to the Soccer America College Team of the 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Dillon vs. Sorin Siegfried vs. Alumni Knott vs. Keenan Morrissey vs. Zahm 
page 24 

past Michigan without those win on the strength of goals by players. We're deep enough to Boland, Amanda Guertin and get by with it." Katie Thorlakson. 
The game will be a rematch "It's a mix [playing Miami for of a game played just three a second time]," Waldrum weeks ago at Alumni Field, when the Irish earned a 3-0 see BIG EAST/page 26 
HOCKEY 

"I thought the referee did a Week Wednesday after his two 
good job both ways of letting the goals lifted the Notre Dame 
play go pretty much," Poulin said. men's soccer team to victory in 
"It's something I like, really. I a 2-1 overtime decision 
don't like special teams. This against No. 9 Virginia Tech 
game was designed to be played five-on-five." Goalie Morgan Cey was impres­

see AWARD/page 26 
NO CROSS COUNTRY  NO VOLLEYBALL  WOMEN'S BASKETBALL  
The Irish travel to the Big East Championships in New York. page 23  Syracuse at Notre Dame Sunday, 2 p.m. The Irish look to remain undefeated in Big East play. page 23  The Irish are predicted to take third in the Big East and junior Jacqueline Batteast is named to the preseason all-Big East team. page 23  

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
I Belles ready 
1 

for final test 
of season 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 

Each meet has been a test. Every practice, a method of training. 
For the Saint Mary's cross country team, the entire season functions as a road of prepara­tion to one fmal race -the MIAA Championships. 
The Belles travel to Alma College this Saturday to compete in the annual conference cham­pionship race, one in which they placed seventh out of eight teams last year. But Saint Mary's has 
.shown great improvement since. 
The Belles opened this season finishing filth out of 12 teams in the Heidelberg Invitational, sixth in the _ Aquinas College Invitational and sixth in the MIAA Jamboree this season. 
The coach believes runners should push work but not con­cern themselves with statistics or times. Instead, he emphasizes a gradual mental and physical pro­gression that should culminate at the conference championships. 
"The focus from day one has been Nov. 1," coach Dave Barstis said. "Throughout the season I've used the meets as training runs. I viewed them as nothing more than another day of train­ing. Places meant nothing. I was 
see MIAA/page 25 
sive in his season debut, stopping 29-of-31 shots before leaving with less than a minute left in the game after Maverick forward Andrew Wong crashed into him during a late Nebraska-Omaha goal. Irish coach Dave Poulin said that Cey was fine and was removed as a precaution. 
Freshman David Brown replaced Cey and made one save in the third period while Nebraska-Omaha emptied il'i net to get an extra attacker. 
The line of Cory McLean, Mike Walsh and Aaron Gill paced the Irish offensively. Gill collected three points on one goal and two assists, McLean had two goals and Walsh had two assists. 
Notre Dame was looking to get its momentum going after win-
see WINIpage 2 5 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Badin vs. McGlinn Breen-Phillips vs. Welsh 

The playoffs begin this 
weekend  for  interhall  
footbalL  
page 22  


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 31, 2003 
All that's left is playing for pride 
Two years ago on a dark November night, a first­year starting linebacker · sounded off his football team to anyone 
would lis­ten. 
At that time, the Irish were 3-5, hot seat and head coach 

were syn- Andrew Soukup  
onyms, a  
bowl  
game was a  :Sports Writer  
distant  
possibili­ 

ty and student support for the team had disappeared faster than girls after pari­etals. 
· So Courtney Watson teed off. 
"From the beginning, you're playing for pride," the then-junior shouted. "People try to come in and tell you you're playing for pride, but that's all you had to begin with, anyway." 
As Notre Dame fans know, the Irish went on to finish 2001 5-7, their second los­ing record in three years, and Bob Davie was sent packing to an ESPN broad­cast booth. Notre Dame hired Tyrone Willingham, started his inaugural sea­son 8-0 and temporarily contented Irish fans. 

Two years later, Watson, 
now an established leader 
of a once-vaunted defensive 
unit, stood outside a locker 
room 'in Boston trying to 
explain why his team lost. 
Conversation inevitably 
turned to what the Irish~ 
now teetering on the brink 
of yet anoth­
er losing this year, for the third time in five. years. While Irish players spout off about playing for pride in Year 2 of the Tyrone Willingham Era, Irish fans are already thinking ahead to Year 3. 
Players may talk about how they always play for pride, but nobody was talk­ing about pride when the season started. Nobody said 
in the pre­
season that 

season, winning a
Ask any football 
would find game­
player what they are
as motiva­one game tion. currently playing for, -would The scene pride or a national constitute a was differ­significant
championship. Those 
ent, but the achieve­words were that chose a title are ment, like 
the same. probably in contention the Irish 
"You have were say­
for one. Those that
to have some ing last
don •t aren 't.
pride when weekend. 
you play the rest of the season," he said. 
There was that word again. Pride. 
It's a word that never seems to pop up when a team finds itself among the upper echelon of college football teams. It's a word that always seems to pop up when fans do their best Chicago Cubs imitation and mutter, "Wait 'till next year." 
And that's what's happen­ing to Notre Dame again Ask any 
football play what they are current­ly playing for, pride or a national championsip. Those that chose a title are probably in contention for one.Thosethatdon~ 
aren't. 
It's funny how the two often go hand-in-hand, where success on the grid­iron leads to so-called pride off of it. But when success disappears, so does pride. 
That leaves seniors like Watson trying to find some meaning, any meaning, in this train wreck of a season. 
Notre Dame used to have so much pride it would turn down Jan. 1 bowl games. Now, a program that hasn't won a bowl game in a decade would leap at the chance this year to play in the Super Pub and Cheese Bowl presented by CJs. 
"A lot of times, all you can talk about is the negatives if you're having a season like this. But there are a lot of positives," Watson said two years ago. 
Except that nobody wants to talk about positives. Not fans, who are streaming out of Notre Dame Stadium before the band plays the 1812 Overture. Not media, who has shown more inter­est in covering grass grow­ing than covering Notre Dame's "Return to Mediocrity." Not coaches, who are too busy trying to explain how the L's keep piling up. 
And not players, who know that the only time you say you're playing for pride is when you have nothing else to play for. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author· and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd. edu. 
game hype 

..We can knock off Florida State. We have got to play 
Tyrone Willingham consistent.·· Irish head coach 
'We really have to concentrate on our individual responsibilities. " 


Matt Root 
Former Irish, current Seminole tight end 
'"In my lifetime, I have no 

reason to Dominic Robinson respect Notre Aorida State Dame.·· wide receiver 

INTRODUCING 
England 
Singapore

BRODY'S
Ireland 

A TOUCH OF IRELAND 
Australia
Wales 
USA

India TASTE WHY THE WORLD IS MAKING Us 
Denmark 

THEIR NUMBER ONE SANDWICH CAFE 

REGULAR LATTE & CAP $0.99 DUBLINER $3.49 
$1.50 OFF ROAST BEEF, TURKEY, HAM & BACON $2 OFF REG. 
PRICE 
N 
t 
! 
! 
\1it·hi:~an Sit. 
WE CATER: TRAINING COURSES PARTIES 

MEETINGS SEMINARS OFFICE LUNCHES 

3 4 2 3 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET, SOUTH BEND 299-0952 
REG. PRICE! 
...... ~~:'E........ 
IRJSH SA.........o< BAR 3423 S<Jillll MtchigWl SL 

BRODY's MELT $3.49 
574-~1:!.'52 

$2 OFF REG. PRICE
TURKEY, HAM, BACON & SWISS ON OUR THICK IRISH BAKED BRAED 
CAPPUCCINO, IRISH MOCHACHILLO, BRODY's BREAD, CHEESECAKES! 
'. 
, , . , . , . 
... 
Friday, October 31, 2003 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
A decade later 
Notre Dame has struggled since its victory in the "Game ofthe Century" 

By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 
It was the Game of the 
Century. 
No. 1 Florida State, led by 
eventual-Heisman Trophy win­
ning quarterback Charlie Ward 
took on No. 2 Notre Dame at 
Notre Dame Stadium in mid­
November 1993. ESPN had its 
first GameDay show at the 
matchup and 11,000 fans came 
to the game but couldn't get a 
ticket. 
The Seminoles entered the 
game two-touchdown favorites 
and scored on the opening drive 
to take an early 7-0 lead .. 
But over the next two and a 
half quarters, Notre Dame dom­
inated in a fashion that no one 
had against Florida State that 
season. 
The Irish tied the game when 
flanker Adrian Jarrell broke a 32-yard run on the ensuing Irish possession following the Florida State score. Running backs Lee Becton and Jerome Bettis scored the next two touchdowns for Notre Dame and ·thP-Irish went into halftime with 
a 21-7 edge. It position than in 1993. From 1988 to 1993, Notre Dame teams had a combined record of 64-9-1, won 10 games or more five times, went to 6 bowl games, winning five of them, and won a national title. 

But in the 10 years since that game, Notre Dame has com­bined to go just 70-44-1 since, had only one 1 0-win season in 2002, two losing seasons, no bowl vietories and zero national titles. 
Now 2003, the Irish are a mere 2-5 and will face No. 5 'Florida State at home for the first time since that 1993 game. It's a far cry from the "Game of the Century" that took place a decade ago. Remembering the game 
Former Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz and current Florida State coach Bobby Bowden remember very different aspects of the '93 game. 
For Holtz it was being an underdog and an errant Ward pass. For Bowden it was a crowded end zone and the 
atmosphere  in  Notre  Dame  
Stadium.  
"We were No.  

was the time in games  first 23 the  "[After the final play], we celebrated like crazy.  2 in the coun­try at that time but we were a  
Seminoles trailed at half. After the Irish  It was great because very few kids get to  two-touchdown u n d e r do g., " Holtz said. "I  
extended their  be ranked No. 1  in  thought  that  
leadto31-17  the nation."  was  sort of a  
late  in  the  lack of respect  
fourth quarter, Ward led his  Kevin McDougal  for our gram."  pro­ 
team back with  1993 Irish quarterback  But the most  
an  80-yard  vivid memory  
drive to cut the  for Holtz was a  

Notre Dame lead to 31-24. 4th-and-1 0 for Florida State at 
Florida State got the ball back their own 20-yard line with two and moved deep into Irish terri­minutes left in the game and the tory. After having a pass batted Irish holding a 31-17 lead. down, Ward and the Seminoles "They throw a pass and it hits had three seconds to run one our strong safety in the head­last play. Ward took the snap, gear and bounces up and their rolled to his left, couldn't find a guy catches it and all of a sud­receiver and fired a pass toward den we're fighting for our lives the end zone. Irish defensive at the end of the game." back Shawn Wooden's eyes lit \Vith the score 31-24 Notre up as he batted the ball down to Dame, the Seminoles had one seal the Notre Dame victory as last shot with the ball inside the thousands of fans rushed the Irish 20. Bowden remembers field-in pandemonium. thinking there were too many 
It's been 10 years since that people in the back of end zone, memorable game in Notre which made it diflicult for Ward Dame history. But in the pres­to find an open receiver. ent, the Irish football program "I've never played a team that finds itself in a very different crowds the end zone like [Notre 
Dame does]." Bowden said. "I 
mean it's nearly unfair. If the 
end zone would have been 
open, it's not unlike Ward to 
have spotted [an open Tamarick 
Vanover] -there's a body over 
there, instead of 1,000 bodies. 
That's the thing I'll always 
remember about that doggone 
game." 
Bowden also said the feeling 

during that game was unbeliev­
able. 
"Greatest atmosphere I've 

ever been in," he said. "That 
was the most electrifying one 
I've ever been in. I mean, man, 
was it thick. You could feel it." 
1993 Notre Dame quarterback 
Kevin McDougal remembers 
what it felt like during those 
final few seconds of the game. 
"On the last play, it was a feel­
ing of, 'I hope they don't get 
lucky."' McDougal said 10 years 
later. "[After the final play], we 
celebrated like crazy. It was 
great because very few kids get 
to be ranked No. 1 in the 
nation." 
Holtz had downplayed Notre Dame's chances of winning the game all week while Bowden admitted he did everything wrong in the days leading up to the game and his players showed little knowledge or respect for the Notre dame mys­tique. Seminole wide receiver Kez McCorvey even mistakenly called Irish coaching great Knute Rockne "Hock Knutne" before the game. 
"I did nothing right that week. I tried to dO\vnplay their spirit," Bowden said. "I knew [Notre Dame] thrives ofl' that. But they made us eat everything that _was said." 
Bowden also said he made the mistake of having his players wear green hats with the Florida State name on them before the game. 
"I thought that would be a nice gesture for them. 'We'll wear Notre Dame's colors with Florida State on them. That'd be nice,"' Bowden said. "Well, LNotre Dame] jumped all over that thing. You have to hand a lot of that to Lou Holtz. He was a master at getting his team up for you." 
Holtz said the biggest difficul­ty was keeping his players' excitement under control in the week leading up to and before the game. 
"We were loose and had great preparation so all you had to do was keeping the players from getting too excited too early and that's when .you really know you're home with your pro­gram," Holtz said. A fall from grace 
After that game, few if any Notre Dame players or fans could have imagined the Notre Dame-Florida State game would be the last great victory for an Irish team for at least the next ten years. Three coaching changes and 44 losses since that November day, the Irish have fallen far from their players haven't put a lot of thought into the happenings of '93. 
Freshman offensive lineman Ryan Harris was just eight years old in 1993. He said the team respects the history of that game, but is concentrating more on beating the No. 5 team in the nation this week. 
"Obviously, tradition means something to all these players," Harris said. "But our main focus is beating Florida State this year, in 2003. We know the tra­dition of the game, we know the closeness of the games in the past. We just want to come out 
with a win for 
Notre Dame." 
prominence in eollege  ..We were No. 2  in the  Quarterback Brady Quinn  
football. W h i I e each year Irish fans  country at that time but we were a two touchdown underdo~Ithoughtthat  grew up a Notre Dame fan, but doesn't remem­her too much  
eagerly  was sort ofa lack of  about the 1993  
awaited another  respect for our program."  game and does­n't think it  
football  bears  much  
season and  Lou Holtz  impact on this  
a  another  1993 Irish head coach  year's game.  
chance  to  "I can't really  
change the  recalJ that game  

losing trend. each year a differ­real well," Quinn said. "But it is ent Notre Dame team found not really a factor this week." basically the same result -no Notre Dame senior wide bowl wins, no championships receiver Omar Jenkins wasn't and one double digit win sea­even a teenager when the two son. teams met in 1993. But he said 
Irish coach Tyrone that game's significance could Willingham believes Notre be in the back of the players Dame can get back to that this week as they prepare for prominence of 1993. But to Florida State. reach that peak, as well as beat "I haven't watched the game. Florida State this season, the But I'm quite sure it's in the team must use the same formu­back of some players' heads this la the great Notre Dame teams week," Jenkins said. used to win so many games and Ten years after one of the dominant their opponents. It is highest points in the history of a formula that could help the the storied Notre Dame pro­Irish regain the consistent gram, the Irish must find a way excellence it once had in foot­to regain the championship ball. form of the late-80s and early­
"It always takes great leader­90 teams. In 1993 Notre Dame ship, great coaching, great play­was a double-digit underdog but ing to get [Notre Dame] back to managed to upset Florida State. its height," Willingham said. "As For Notre Dame to get back to you relate it to the ballgame, that 1993 form, the Irish must you have to execute -and I start defeating highly-ranked keep harping on that, but that's teams. something that you can't say They get another chance enough because it's true -Saturday, hosting the No. 5 everything you do, if you exe­Seminoles. cute it, you got your best chance of being successful." 
As the current team prepares Contact Joe Hettler at for Florida State, many of the jhettler@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 31, 2003 

Notre Dame Fighting Irish Record: 2-5 AP: NR Coaches: NR 


Tyrone Willingham second season at Notre Dame career record: 
56-44-1 

at Notre Dame: 
12-8 

Tyrone Willingham against head coach Florida State: 1-0 
Roster 
No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 1 Jared Clark TE 6-4 230 SR 2 Freddie Parrish DB 6-1 195 FR 4 Ryan Grant RB 6-1 211 JR 5 Rhema McKnight WR 6-2 207 so 6 Carlos Campbell CB 5-11 194 JR 7 Carlyle Holiday QB 6-3 214 SR 8 Matt Krueger QB 5-10 180 SR 8 Quentin Burrell FS 6-0 180 JR 9 Jason Beckstrom CB 5-10 186 SR 9 Pat Dillingham QB 6-1 209 JR 10 Brady Quinn QB 6-4 210 FR 11 Marcus Wilson RB 5-11 199 JR 12 Josh Schmidt FB 6-1 220 JR 13 Nicholas Setta KIP 5-11 184 SR 14 Gary Godsey TE 6-6 259 SR 15 Preston Jackson CB 5-9 177 SR 16 Rashon Powers-Neal FB 6-2 227 JR 16 Stan Revelle QB 5-11 183 JR 17 Geoffrey !'rice p 6-3 180 FR 18 Ronnie Rodamer WR 6-4 211 SR 19 Glenn Earl FS 6-1 205 SR 19 D.J. Fitzpatrick KIP 6-1 192 JR 20 Travis Thomas RB 6-1 200 ER 21 Maurice Stovall WR 6-5 221 so 22 Julius Jones RB 5-10 210 SR 23 Chase Anastasio WR 6-2 190 FR 24 Dwight Ellick CB 5-10 177 JR 25 Nate Schiccatano RB 6-3 224 so 26 Garron Bible FS 5-10 197 SR 27 Lionel Bolen ss 6-0 206 JR 27 Mike Profeta TB 5-11 208 SR 28 Cole Laux FB 5-10 229 SR 28 Tom Zbikowski DB 6-0 185 FR 29 LaBrose Hedgemon DB 5-10 180 FR 30 Mike Richardson DB 6-1 188 so 31 Jake Carney DB 6-0 180 so 32 Jeff Jenkins RB 6-0 211 so 33 Courtney Watson ILB 6-1 234 SR 34 Vontez Duff CB 5-11 194 SR 35 Ashley McConnell FB 6-0 240 FR 36 Isaiah Gardner DBIRB 5-10 190 FR 37 Matt Mitchell DB 5-9 184 so 39 Brandon Hoyte ILB 6-0 226 JR 39 David Bemenderfer 55 5-11 195 SR 40 Nate Schomas WR 5-10 165 SR 41 Mike Goolsby LB 6-3 243 SR 42 Ambrose Wooden WR 6-1 190 FR 43 Anthony Salvador LB 6-2 226 so 44 justin Tuck DE 6-5 246 JR 45 Carl Gioia p 5-11 165 FR 46 Corey Mays ILB 6-1 238 JR 47 Mitchell Thomas LB 6-2 210 FR 48 Jerome Collins OLB 6-4 250 SR 49 Derek Curry ILB 6-3 228 SR 50 Cedric Hilliard NG 6-2 295 SR 51 Jamie Ryan OT 6-5 290 so 52 Joe Brockington LB 6-1 215 FR 54 David Fitzgerald OL 6-4 271 so 55 Zachary Giles c 6-3 281 JR 56 · Nick Borseti LB 6-1 205 FR 57 Dwight Stephenson LB 6-3 237 FR 58 Paul Jancha LS 6-1 245 so 59 james Bent OL 6-2 253 so 60 Darrell Campbell DT 6-4 288 SR 62 Scott Raridon OT 6-7 300 so 64 Casey Dunn OT/OG 6-4 255 JR 65 Sean Milligan OG 6-4 291 SR 66 Derek Landri NG 6-2 265 so 68 Ryan Harris OL 6-5 270 FR 69 Darin Mitchell OL 6-4 280 JR 70 Jim Molinaro OT 6-6 301 SR 71 David Kowalski OG 6-2 249 SR 71 James Bonelli OG/OT 6-6 282 so 72 Jeff Thompson ClOG 6-4 287 JR 73 Mark LeVoir TE 6-7 309 JR 74 Dan Stevenson OG 6-5 297 JR 75 Chris Frome DE 6-5 264 so 76 Bob Morton c 6-4 299 so 77 Greg Pauly DT 6-6 291 SR 78 john Sullivan OL 6-4 280 FR 79 Brian Mattes OT 6-6 250 so 80 Omar Jenkins WR 6-2 204 SR 81 Chinedum Ndukwe WR 6-3 190 FR 82 Matt Shelton WR 6-1 172 JR 83 Jeff Samardzija WR 6-4 190 FR 84 Mike O'Hara WR 5-10 174 so 84 Rob Woods WR 6-2 205 so 85 Billy Palmer TE 6-3 251 SR 87 Marcus Freeman TE 6-4 242 so 88 Patrick Nally TE 6-3 243 SR ~~ Anthony Fasano TE 6-4 253 so 89 John Carlson TE 6-6 230 FR 
X) Brian Beidatsch DL 6-4 283 JR 91 Craig Cardillo K 6-0 165 so 92 Kyle Budinscak DE 6-4 270 SR 93 Dan Santucci DE 6-5 270 so 95 Victor Abiamiri DL 6-5 245 FR 97 Travis Leitko DE 6-6 264 so 98 Trevor Laws DL 6-2 290 FR 99 Jason Sapp DE 6-3 256 SR 
LLI 
:E 
<C 
c 
LLI
a:: 
1­0 
z 

(/)
-
(/) 
~ 
<C 
z 
cc 

NOTRE DAME 2003 Schedule 
Sept. 6 WASHINGTON ST.-W 
Sept. 13  at Michigan -L  
Sept. 20  MICHIGAN ST.  -L  
Sept. 27  at Purdue-L  
Oct. 11  at Pittsburgh -W  
Oct. 18  USC-L  

Oct. 25 at Boston College -L Nov. 1 FLORIDA STATE Nov. 8 NAVY Nov. 15 BYU Nov. 29 at Stanford Dec. 6 at Syracuse 
COACHING 
The Irish had a week off from classes to prepare for Boston College, and they still came out look­ing unprepared. That has to fall on coaching. How does a defensive coordi­nator and a head coach not know that their star defensive lineman is out of the game? 
With his win over Wake Fore·st last weekend, Bowden moved ahead of Joe Paterno for the all­time coaching victories lead. Bowden is not only a great coach, but he also surrounds himself with some of the greatest minds in the game as assistants. 

QUARTERBACKS 
Quinn had a pretty good week against the Eagles in leading the failed Irish comeback. The freshman was 23-for-39 for 350 yards with a pair of touchdowns and a pair of interceptions. Quinn needs more help from the running game and his receivers. 
Rix has overcome a rocky sophomore season last year. which included him losing the starting job after a rough outing against the Irish, to lead the Seminoles this year. The junior is ranked 28th in passing efficien­cy with a rating of 140.5. 

interceptions. 

IRISH RUSHING 
After a breakout game against Pittsburgh in which the Irish rushed for 352 yards, the Notre Dame rushing attack has 
. been nearly non-existent. The Irish ran for only 4 7 yards last week against the Eagles and 111 the week before against the Trojans. 
The Seminole defense should be licking its chops with the porous Irish offensive line. Dockett averages nearly two tackles for loss per game. Boulware and Pope are star lineback­ers, but Pope will be nursing a knee injury. 
NOTRE DAME 
OFFENSE 


TAILBACK 
22-Jones 

4-<3rant FULLBACK 16·POW8n!·Neal 

12-Schmidt 
~ 
RIGHT TACKLE . 
68·Harris 

74-Stevenson 
LEFT GUARD 73-LeVolr QUARTERBACK 69·Mitchali 
OQ I 
-u nn 
LEFT END d 
90-Emanuel 94-Qavls 
2.J 
_; l DEFENSIVE 
~TACKLE 
45-Dockett 99-Johnson 
OUTSIDE r" Ii ', UNEBAGKEw:'...J 
58-Boulware 56-Piquion 
CORNERBACK 
8-McFadden ?-Brown 
CORNERBACK 
tO-Samuels 32-Smith 
ROVER 
23-Carter 41-Hall 
~~~ 
FREE SAFETY 
24-Ward 22-Walkins 
FLORIDA ST. 
DEFENSE 

IRISH PASSING 
It's hard for a freshman quarterback to make great strides when receivers consistently drop passes and there is very little semblance of a running game to keep defensive pressure off. Quinn still needs protec­tion and a running game to be successful. 
The Seminoles have a tal­ented secondary and a defensive front that can pressure quarterbacks. Florida State ranks 16th in the country in pass defense, allowing only 180 yards a game. The Seminoles have nine interceptions and 28 sack<; on the season. 

Andrew Soukup Editor in Chief 





This isn't any "Game of the Century." It's not Florida State is a team as talented if not more so than Michigan and USC -two teams that
even a "Game of the Week." But that's what happens when Notre Dame gets blown out by pummeled Notre Dame. Notre Dame has
Irish 
struggled all season, while the Seminoles have 

good teams like they have so far this year. steadily improved and are competing for a
Notre Dame's struggling secondary won't be able to contain Florida State's passing game, national title. Notre_ Dame may need more
experts 
than "the luck of tho Irish" to pull off the upset. 

and defensive ineptitude will put the oflense in a hole from which it cannot escape. 
FINAL SCORE: Florida State 31 FINAL SCORE: Florida State 30 Notre Dame 14 Notre Dame 13
Joe Hettler Sports Editor 
Friday, October 31, 2003 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

• 
Florida State Seminoles Record: 7-1 AP: No.5 Coaches: No. 5 
Bobby Bowden
FLORIDA ST. 

FLORIDA STATE 
28th season at
OFFENSE 
Florida St.

2003 Schedule 
career record:

CORNERBACKLEFT TACKLE 
24-EIIictc
70-Barron 

Aug. 30 at North Carolina -W 339-97-4
15-Jackson75-Henderson 
at Florida St. 
TAILBACK LEFT GUARD 

Sept. 6 MARYLAND -W 
266-66-5
6-Jonas 64-Meinrod 3-Washington FULLBACK 
QUARTERBACK 62·Niblock
35-Dean 
against Notre
16-Rix
36-Coleman 

Sept. 13 GEORGIA TECH -W
12-Walker 
Dame: 3-2 
. . 

Sept. 20, ·/~DO-W 
..·.,·= . "" ..., \ 
Roster

Sept.i~1: ",., ..~ ··· ..Iat D~.ke -W 
No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 1 Craphonso Thorpe WR 6-2 175 JR 3 Leon Washington RB 5-9 199 so 4 P.K. Sam WR 6-3 195 JR 5 Chris Davis WR 6-0 173 FR 

Oct. )f~,,, ( MIAMI-L 
Oct.~'-Vimlnia -W 
6 Greg Jones TB 6-1 255 SR ·. '--. -4!:"-.r,...-~ 
7 Rufus Brown CB 5-9 188 SR 8 Bryant McFadden . CB 6-0 180 JR

Oct. 25 WA"RE FOREST -W 
9 Kendyll Pope LB 6-2 220 SR 10 Stanford Samuels CB 5-10 186 SR 11 Gerard Ross FS 6-2 187 so

Nov. 1 at Notre Dame 
12 Gordy Reid S 5-11 182 SR 


/i 
12 Fabian Walker QB 6-2 219 JR 13 Antonio Cremartie CB 6-3 200 FR

Nov. 8 at Clemson 
14 Matt Henshaw TE 6-4 212 so 14 Anthony Bredwood CB 5-10 192 JR 15 Chauncey Stovall WR 6-2 216 JR

Nov. 15 N.C. STATE 
16 Chris Rix QB 6-4 217 JR 18 Lome Sam QB/WR 6-2 202 FR 

NOTRE DAME 
DEFENSE 
19 Wyatt Sexton QB 6-3 186 FR

Nov. 29 at Florida 
20 Torrance Washington FB 6-1 242 so 21 Dominic Robinson WR 6-1 199 JR 22 Ryan Reynolds FS 5-11 187 so 22 Pat Watkins FS 6-4 201 so 23 Jerome Carter S 6-0 214 JR 24 B. J. Ward FS 6-3 208 JR 26 Willie Reid RB 5-10 189 so 27 Claudius Osei S 6-0 198 JR 28 Lorenzo Booker RB 5-11. 185 FR 29 Willie Jones DE 6-1 242 so

SEMINOLE RUSHING SEMINOLE PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
31 Roger Williams s 6-1 191 FR 31 James Coleman FB 6-0 240 so 32 Leroy Smith CB 5-10 179 JR 33 Jhermaine McAroy DB 6-1 170 FR 34 Ernie Sims LB 6-0 220 FR 35-BJ. Dean FB 5-11 253 so

The Seminoles have the 
Fitzpatrick struggled 
Any hope for salvaging 
37 Chase Goggans PK 5-9 160 FR
Florida State has a good 

18th-ranked passing 
with punting duties 
the 2003 season falls on 
38 Paullrons TE 6-2 235 JR
balance of power and 
z 
39 Marcello Church LB 6-1 228 so

offense in the nation, against the Eagles and 
this game for the Irish.
speed in the backfield. 
0 
40 Allen Augustin LB 6-1 217 SR

throwing the ball for the coverage on kicks They proved they can 
-1 
41 Kyler Hall S 6-0 190 JR
The senior Jones carries 
::a

285.6 yards a game. Rix is suffered, consequently. 
beat Florida State last 
42 Anthony Kelly LB 6-3 230 FR
255 pounds out of the 
m 
44 Sam McGrew LB 6-3 239 so

having a much improved 
The Eagles had three year on the road, andtailback position, and 
45 Darnell Docket! DT 6-4 280 SR

2003 season, and of 
having home field advan­big returns on kickoffs. 
c 
46 Nate Hardage LB 6-1 237 JR
the youngster Booker 

course, the Seminoles 
The Irish did bloc!\: a 
tage will be nice this 
l> 
47 Xavier Beitia PK 5-10 210 JR
brings a speed element. 
48 Chris Hall P 5-10 215 so
s:

have some talented punt and return it for 
.year. The Irish also haveBoth average over four 
51 Buster Davis LB 5-11 246 FR
m

the chance to spoilreceivers in Sam and the go-ahead touch­
52 Brodrick Bunkley DL 6-3 286 so
yards a carry. 

Thorpe. 
Florida State's title bid. 
down. 
54 A.J. Nicholson l.B 6-2 234 so 55 Eric Moore DE 6-4 247 JR 56 Ray Piquion LB 6-0 212 JR 57 Matt Heinz OG 6-4 268 so 
The Irish have been 

The Irish secondary has 
Beitia is a solid and 
58 Michael Boulware • LB 6-3 222 SR

The Seminoles are hun­
., 
59 Charles Howard DL 6-3 248 JR
strong against the run all 

been depleted by dependable kicker for gry for revenge after 
60 Artdrew Henry-Ketmon C 6-4 309 so
r-
season. They rank 36th injuries of late and has the Seminoles. He is 11­

62 Cory Niblock OT 6-4 296 FR

the drubbing they suf­
0
in the nation in rushing struggled through some 

for-14 on field goal 
63 David Castillo C 6-2 301 JR
::a

fered at the hands of 
64 Matt Meinrod OG 6-4 295 so
defense, allowing 124 position changes. Earl 

attempts this year. The 
-

the Irish last season on 
c 
65 Eric Broe OG 6-6 315 so
yards a game and three will be out and Burrell 

Seminoles also rank 
l> 
67 John Frady OL 6-4 275 FR

their own home turf.
yards per carry. 

hobbled off the field last 15th in the nation in net 
70 Alex Barron OT 6-6 316 JR

Florida State also has a 
fn 
71 Brian Ross NG 6-2 290 JR
Campbell may be slowed 

week against the punting average. 
more talented team and 
72 Ron Lunford OL 6-5 348 so
by an injury he suffered Eagles. The Irish have Florida State has a pair 

~ 
73 Bobby Meeks OG 6-3 299 JR

momentum of a 7-l 
~
in the second half against 

allowed 213 yards per 
of punt returns for 
75 Mario Henderson OL 6-7 330 FR
m

season on its side. 
the Eagles. 
76 Myles Hodish SNP 6-0 221 JR 77 Ray Willis OT 6-6 295 so 78 Aubrey McPhadden OL 6-5 316 FR 79 David Overmeyer OL 6-3 270 FR 80 DeCody Fa!)g WR 6-3 185 FR 

game passing. 
touchdown. 
The Irish defense shut 


82 D.J. Norris TE 6-3 240 FR
down the Florida State 


83 JoslinShaw DB 5-10 175 FR 
rushing game last sea­


85 Jesse Stein P 6-2 200 SR l> 86 Joey Kaleikini WR · 6-0 196 SR
son, allowing the 
88 Donnie Carter TE 6-4 254 so
z
Seminoles only 93 yards 
89 Brian Sawyer SNP 6-2 246 SR
l>
on 32 carries. If the 
90 Kevin Emanuel DE 6-4 257 so 
-~ 
91 Jeff Womble NG 6-3 306 SR (/)
Seminoles burn the Irish. 
92 Darrell Burston DE 6-2 226 FR
it will not likely be on the 
93 Chris Bradwell DL 6-5 265 FR
(/)
ground. They may just 
94 Chauncey Davis DE 6-2 247 JR 95 Kamerion Wimbley DE 6-4 232 so 96 Andre Fluellen DL 6-4 270 FR 
run the ball enough to set 
up the pass. 

decade ago. 
97 Clifton Dickson DL 6-4 285 FR 98 Alex Boston DE 6-3 225 FR 99 Travis Johnson NG 6-5 286 JR 





Every week since the embarrassing loss at 
Notre Dame's last hopes for salvaging the 2003 season Michigan, the Irish have had a chance to turn hang on this game with a chance to knock off the fifth­around their season. Saturday is absolutely ranked Seminoles in a game coming 10 years after its their final chance. Tyrone Willingham pulls historic "Game of the Century" win over the Seminoles out all the stops to get his team a big win in in 1993. With that being said, it won't be close. The their last chance, but the Seminoles have two Seminoles have a much more talented team and the years ontheir mind-1993 and 2002. Irish have shown little heart in thnir past two games. 
Matt Lozar FINAL SCORE: Florida State 31 Chris Federico FINAL SCORE: Florida State 38 Associate Sports Editor Notre Dame 16 Sports Writer Notre Dame 13 
... 

-----------'. 
-----~·--­
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.. 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 31, 2003 
Sizing up the Irish and the Seminoles 
AVERAGE PER GAME 
total yards gained 
total yards allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 
passing yards gained 
passing yards allowed 
kick return yards gained kick return yards allowed 

punt return yards gained punt return yards allowed 
yards per punt punts blocked 
turnovers lost turnovers recovered 
yards penalized yards penalized 

NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE 
VS 

FLORIDA STATE'S DEFENSE 

38.7 I 

FLORIDA STATE'S OFFENSE 
vs 

NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 
KEY MATCHUP CHRIS RIX IRISH DEFENSE 

In order for the Irish to have a chance Saturday, the entire defense needs to play well against the Florida State quarterback. The front seven needs to get pressure on Rix to limit his time to throw. 
The secondary won't be able to cover the Seminole receivers for long, but defensive backs can't get burned off the line. Giving Rix plenty of time in the pocket will allow him to scan the defense and find the open receiver. 
by the numbers 
losses by Notre Dame on a Saturday All Saints Day. The Irish are 13-0-1 on the Nov. 
0
1 Catholic holiday 
difference in all-time winning percentage between Notre Dame and Michigan. If
.0003 
the Notre Dame loses and Michigan wins Saturday, the Irish will be second overall 


Friday, October 31, 2003 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Fasano gives Irish all-around tight end threat 
Sophomore tight end leads team with 10 catches in last three weeks 

By MATT LOZAR Associare Sporrs Editor 
Anthony Fa..o;ano is fulfilling one 

of Notre Dame head coach Tyrone 
Willingham's initial promises. 
Upon bringing his pro-style offense to South Bend, Willingham assured Irish fans he would utilize the talented group of Irish tight ends. The season before Willingham took over, Notre Dame's tight ends had two catches for the entire year. 
Fasano leads the Notre Dame tight ends with 12 catches in 2003, including 10 in the last three games. In those three games, Fasano was either the team leader or tied for the team lead in receptions each week. Those 12 receptions through seven games are more than any Notre Dame tight end has caught in a season since Dan O'Leary's 13 catches in 1999. 
Major contributions in the red­shirt freshman's first season of playing time come as no surprise to his position coach, Mike Denbrock. 
"I thought there was a lot of ability there," Denbrock said. "[He is] someone who really pre­sented us with some of the tools that we were looking for at the position in a guy that could catch the ball and also lineup and be a physical player as far as a block­er." 
Fasano put himself onto the radar screen with a full-layout touchdown catch in the back of 
the end zone against USC two 
weeks ago. 
But that's not the only major contribution Fasano has made recently. He caught four passes against Pittsburgh and Boston College and gives the Irish anoth­er receiving tight end threat besides Jared Clark. Denbrock attributes that success to a good chemistry between Fasano and quarterback Brady Quinn. 
"I think in practice the more time we get together on the field," Fasano said. "I think we feel more comfortable and that's why he feels more comfortable throwing the ball to me in the games." 
Of the four tight ends Denbrock feels can regularly contribute to this team, Fasano appears to be the best all-around. Clark works best at a receiver, as seen by his six catches in Notre Dame's first two games. Billy Palmer thrives at blocking and Marcus Freeman hasn't developed as quickly as his classmate Fasano. 
Having a multi-dimensional tight end prevents the defense from having a better chance at knowing if the play is a run or pass based strictly on personnel. The flexibility Fasano provides is something the coaching staff has searched for the past two sea­sons. 
"[Fasano] gives us a chance not to be predictable offensively, to run and pass equally well when he's in the game. That's a good . asset to have," Denbrock said. "It has to continue to be part of our development. We are not nearly as far as long as I'd like to see us. 
But everyone can see we are 
starting to get some consistency 
with throwing to the tight end. 
"That's another receiver avail­
able to us and we have some 
players at that position that could 
make some plays for us." 
Fasano came to the Irish as a highly-touted recruit from New Jersey. He sat out last season and climbed his way to the top of the tight end depth chart while last year's starter Gary Godsey was knocked out by a season-ending injury and incoming freshman Greg Olsen transferred. 
But the coaching staff didn't just insert Fasano into the starting lineup -he had to earn the play­ing time off the field. 
"I think hard work every day in practice, learning the play book and working in the. weight room really gave me the opportunity to get on the field," Fasano said. 
Both Denbrock and Fasano know he has a long way to go. 
"I think to continue [working on] the things he's done. The more experience he gets, the more playing time he gets, he's going to understand that the things he has improved on can even get better and even he can grow into the position more than he has," Denbrock said. ''I'm sure he'd be the first one to tell you he has a lot of progress to make. "There are some positive signs there that he's beginning to understand what we need for him." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

Seminoles playing for more than just a win 
Bowden remembers 1993 upset and 2002 demolition 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sporrs Wrirer 
As if the Irish didn't already have their hands full in host­ing the fifth-ranked team in the nation Saturday in Florida State, they will also have to deal with a team bent on revenge. 
After Notre Dame went into Doak Campbell Stadium last year and dominated Florida State on its home turf, the Seminoles are hungry to repay the favor this year. 
Last season, the Irish scored on their first offensive play ­a 65-yard touchdown pass to wide receiver Arnaz Battle ­en route to a convincing 34­24 victory. 
The sound defeat makes Florida State coach Bobby Bowden's task of firing up his team that much easier. 
"The advantage that we have in that regard, mentally, is what happened to us last year," Bowden said, in refer­ence to Notre Dame's win over the Seminoles in 2002. "They came in and just thor­oughly beat us on our own home field. I think if I didn't say nothing. they'd remember that." 
The loss still stings for many in the Florida State program. After all, the game wasn't really as close as the score indicated as the Irish held a 34-1 0 lead well into the game before yielding two late touch­downs with fewer than two minutes to play. Bowden even compared Notre Dame's play to the work of a serial killer, a cominent which he later took back. 

"We used to never lose a game like that in Tallahassee," Bowden said last Sunday, recalling the game in 2002. "They came in here and just wore us out." 
The game could also serve as a battle of traditions and generations. The Irish have the long pedigree and history of college football greatness. The Seminoles, meanwhile, have a commanding recent history of their own -a sort of "Notre Dame of the 90s." 
While older generations grew up with Knute Rockne, Frank Leahy or Ara Parseghian, younger ones are more familiar with Bobby Bowden, Deion Sanders and Charlie Ward. 
Florida State cornerback Stanford Samuels -who may miss the Notre Dame game due to a neck injury -is intent on not forgetting the Irish tradition, or what the Irish did to the Seminoles last year. 
"I mean, we have tradition here, but they have tradition on top of tradition," he told the Miami llerald. "Those are the things movies arc made of. For that reason, I think it's a big game. And you know it's already a big game because of what they came down here and did to us last year." 
There are those on the 
Florida State squad that want redemption for individual per­formances against the Irish last year. Seminole quarter­back Chris Hix struggled against the Irish defense last season in going 13-of-32 with 207 yards and two intercep­tions and a fumble before being benched. 
Bowden was pleased with the way Hix handled the demotion and is confident his quarterback can redeem him­­self this week. 
"Well, the main thing is, after it happened, he didn't go hide in the corner some­where, or leave," Bowden said. "It's all a learning expe­rience, and it's a learning experience that was good for him." 
And there's sophomore tail­back Lorenzo Booker, who was heavily recruited by both the Irish and Seminoles. Booker, who had given indica­tions that he would choose Notre Dame as late as mid­night before signing day, gave his commitment to the 
-
Seminoles in front of a live national audience on ESPN's SportsCenter. Bowden noted that this will likely be a big game for the near-Domer. 
'Tm sure it will Lmean a lot), because he was recruited so heavily by them, and he went to a Catholic high school, so naturally, everybody assumed he would go there, or either stay in Southern Cal," Bowden said. "We were lucky to get him." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

' .' 
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENTS Friday, October 31, 2003 


Better In redients. Better izza. 
STMARY'S

NOTRE DAME HOURS 

Mon-Thu 11 :OOAM-1 :00AM 
HOLY CROSS

Fri, Sat 11 :00AM-3:00AM
I 

Sun 12:00PM-1 :OOAM 
3·71..7372
7 y .t
I 

Papa Predicts: NOTRE DAME 14 FSU 10 
IRISH SPECIAL 

r-------------------~ •-------------------• •-------------------•
I I I I
:One Large One Topping: 
: LATE NIGHT SPECIAL: I I :coMPLETE MEAL DEAL: 
$

1 2 Breadsticks & 1 I : 8.99 \ :· I One Large One Topping, I I 2 Liter of Coca-Cola product :Breadsticks & a 2 Liter of Coca-: 
I OR I 
1 Cola product 1

: $7.99 : : Two Large One Topping: 
: $12.99 : 

1 After 10:00 PM 1 ~ I I I I 
I I : $14.99
I I I I I 
~-------------------~ ~-------------------~ ·-------------------~ 
FAST + HOT + QUALITY + GO ND! 

.u · 
I . 


~ 
ROSSin· 
A new upscale villa development within walking distance (one block east) of the Notre Dame campus. 
single-detached and duplex luxury villas with attached garages priced from $189,900 • customizable floorplans • owner-occupied walk to campus, grocery store, retail stores, restaurants & bars very close to ND stadium, Joyce Center, & the new performing arts building located one block east directly across from tennis courts and sports fields quiet residential area with quick access to major roads, mall, & toll road enjoy a low-maintenance lifestyle including lawn care & snow removal city water and sewer • low county property taxes • semi-gated community a very limited number of home sites are available on this 8.25 acre parcel the only development of its kind next to the University of Notre Dame 

Final development planning almost complete. evelopment construction to begin Novernber 2003 First homes completed by Spring/Summer 2004. 
For more information go to: www.lrishCrossings.com 

' t ·;;. 
. ' 
I \ ' ~'

''·.' . 
' ,_• .: .:._ . " ' ~ -'' . ; .... 







