
VOL. XXXVII N0.. ,!11 
Police buSt College Park party 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
News Writer 
Over 15 police officers busted 
a St. Patrick's Day party at the 
College Park apartment com­
plex Monday afternoon, citing 
approximately 10 students and 
confiscating 25 kegs of beer. 
State Excise Police had two 
undercover officers at the party 
who purchased a cup for beer 
from a female student. The stu­
dent was later arrested, said 
Captain William Thompson, 
Commander of the afternoon 
shift for the St. Joseph County 
Police. 
Following this purchase, Thompson said Excise Police requested the assistance of the St. Joseph County Police and the Indiana State Police at 2:30 
p.m. to control the party. 
Lieutenant Greg Deitchley, commander of the Michigan City district of the Excise Police and the coordinator of the bust, was unavailable for comment. 
"At least one of the undercov­er officers was able to make a purchase of alcohol from a per­son who did not have a permit. When our officers arrived at the scene, this person was identi­fied and taken into custody for making [an alcohol] sale with­out a permit," said Anderson. 
Following Excise's request for assistance, but before officers arrived on the scene, Thompson said that a person at the party fell from a balcony and was transported to the hospital by a private vehicle. That person was not seriously injured. 
Thompson said that when officers arrived on the scene, there were several hundred students at the apartment com­plex, most of whom he said were of age but "maybe had had too much to drink." 
Officers then went to five or six of the loudest and most crowded apartments. After receiving permission from a tenant of the apartment, Thompson said officers checked identifications to ensure that all those consuming alcohol were of age and issued between 10 and 15 citations for minor in consumption of alcohol. Twenty-five kegs and seven or eight taps were confiscated and are being held by the county poiice for the excise police. 
Thompson said that residents did have the option of refusing police officers entry to their apartment, in which case the officers would have obtained a search warrant or performed an exigent circumstance entry if they had witnessed possible criminal activity. 
In total. Thompson said eight county police officers and five or six excise officers participat­ed in the bust. Lieutenant Robert Rich, commander of the 
see BUST/page 6 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Professors address U.S. authority in war 

By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Editor 
While the country and the world prepare for war, several Notre Dame professors ques­tioned the United States' actions and whether it has the authority to take action in Iraq while trying to figure out what could happens once the United States enters Iraq. 
In a prime-time television speech Monday, President Bush said diplomacy and weapons inspections had failed to disarm Iraq. If Saddam Hussein and his sons did not relinquish power within 48 hours of Bush's speech, the American president said the only remaining option was to enter Iraq and forcibly disarm Hussein and remove him from power. 
The New York Times report­ed that Kofi Annan, the secre­tary-general of the United Nations, said that using force in Iraq and bypassing the Security Council would damage the United Nations. 
"If this action is to take place without the support of the Council, its legitimacy will be questioned, and the support for it will be diminished," Annan said. 
Luc Reydams, international 

law professor, said the United can defend itself against an States has no authority to aggressor state should the attack or invade Iraq based on aggressor launch an armed self-defense and that doing so attack against the state. would violate Article 51 of the Reydams said Iraq has not charter of the United Nations. attacked the United States and Article 51 states that a state that the United States cannot 
Students speak on alcohol policy 
Editor's Note: A year after Notre Dame announced the most significant alcohol policy changes in over a decade, The Observer examines what effect the changes have had. This is the second in a four-part series. 
By TERESA FRALISH Associate News Editor 
After University officials instituted sweeping changes to the school's alcohol policy, stu­dents felt that the policy changes harmed campus life and the social atmosphere See Also to some 
"ND's alcohol
extent, but differed as to policy affected 
how much 
SMC" 
impact the 

page 4
changes had. 
"One of the main reasons I came to Notre was for the sense of communi­ty," said senior Ricky Sadowski, a member of Student Senate and Campus Life Council. "This year I've spent considerably more time at off-campus parties. I go out to bars a lot more." 
Sadowski, who also serves as the vice president for peer advocacy on the Judicial Board, transferred to Notre Dame his junior year. 
Recent crimes off-campus and the death of Chad Sharon, combined with increased num­bers of students going off-cam-pus, also worried Sadowski. 


"It concerns me. I'm looking for a healthy social drinking atmosphere [and] I think the new policy has hindered that," he said. 
Freshman Alex Borowiecki was also concerned about off­campus safety. 
"Students are exposed to more dangers off campus than on campus," he said. "If we were on campus a lot of that would be cut down." 
Other students agreed with Sadowski on the issue of stu­dents increasingly leaving the Notre Dame campus during weekends. 
Sophomore John Abdo said he also believed the new alco­hol policy resulted in more stu­dents traveling off campus on the weekends. 
"I think there's definitely a lot less partying on campus and there's a lot more under­grads going off campus," he said. 
Abdo said that the University had definitely succeeded in decreasing the number of par-
see ALCOHOL/page 4 

claim that attacking pre-emp­tively is a justification for the use of Article 51. 
Bush said the United States needed to defend itself against 
see WAR /page 8 
Officials to cut ND budget 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Editor 
University departments will be forced to make bud­get cuts for the 2003-04 academic year per the Board of Trustees' request due to the loss in the endowment and the slow economy, said a University official. 
In past years, the Board expanded the budget. However, at their February meeting, the Board antici­pated the presumed impact the down economy would have on contributions to the University and cut the student life and academic budgets and other depart­ment budgets by 5 percent and 7 percent, respectively, University spokesman Matt Storin said. The University has not made budgetcuts in the past decade and Storin said he did not believe any cuts were made in the past two decades. 
Storin added that the budget cuts are a nation­wide trend and other uni­versities are cutting faculty positions. 
see TUITION/page 6 


Wednesday, March 19, 2003 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 

INSIDE COLUMN 
What is 
the war 

good for? 
In the final hours before America becomes a nation at war. our thoughts undoubtedly turn to support and con­cern for our troops and the innocent civilians who will inevitably be killed. Some say that 
opposition to war is  Claire Kelley  
now futile and even  
unpatriotic, but I disagree.  Photographer  
This war will  
have a drastic  

impact on our future world and as members of a democratic society, it is our responsibility to critically analyze the rhetoric and actions of our govern­ment. 
Granted, it has been difficult to understand what has caused our failed diplomacy. In the past months, President Bush has expressed that he is committed to the war no matter the costs, the support or the prospects for a decent aftermath. With frequent refer­ences to the September 11 tragedies in an attempt to direct our anger toward Iraq, he has used language that breaks the complicated issues down to a sim­ple conflict between good and evil. 
This rhetoric is effective because it resonates with our ingrained tendency toward violent reactions to fear. We seem to have a fatal attraction to war, thinking it will be a quick and pre­dictable solution, but we must maintain clarity and objectivity to avoid serious mistakes. Does war make sense when our priorities are the freedom and safe­ty of both Americans and Iraqis? 
The inspectors and international pressure were slowly working to dis­arm Saddam Hussein -regardless of what the Bush administration, most of whom have never seen the horrors of war, would like us to believe. Now our plan is to shock the Iraqis with 3,000 bombs in the first 48 hours, senselessly killing the very people we are supposed to be liberating. 
The arrogant attitude with which President Bush has marched toward war and his willingness to discard for­eign coalitions and trust has led to our isolated status, which only increases the difficulty of rebuilding Iraq. We are destroying any lingering notion of America as a moral and respected superpower. How can the United States become safer when the world hates us? 
I participated in the Feb. 15 protest in New York City where people of all ages, races and backgrounds united in solidarity with millions around the world in the largest protest in the histo­ry of humanity. The inspiring witness for peace showed that hope exists beyond the desperation and resignation to violence that we find ourselves over­whelmed with today. I believe this amazing international union reflected the same spirit that inspired the United Nations. 
This issue is really not about choos­ing sides, for we are all on the side that sees war as despicable. peace as ideal and the killing of the innocent as wrong. I believe that we shall over­come the obsession with violence, weapons and worldwide dominance working with a patient yet persistent vision of peace and justice. 
Join us at the South Quad flagpole on the first day of bombing. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS NEWS  WORLD& NATION  BUSINESS NEWS  VIEWPOINT  SCENE  SPORTS  
Indiana doctor lectures on stem cell research  Saddam rejects Bush ultimatum  Oil prices fall with war near  Protestors are uninformed  Appalachia and beyond  Making their mark  
I n d i a n a University profes­sor Dr. Frank Yoder shares the benefits of stem cell  Iraqi president Saddam Hussein appeared on televi­sion in military garb for the first  The price of oil fell 9 percent as traders predicted a successful and like­ly U.S. invasion of  Student Padraic McDermott criti­cizes the anti-war protesters he observes in London.  Students return from the popular Appalachia Seminar offered by the Center for  The Notre Dame women's and men's track and field teams brought home three All- 

research while time since 1991 to Iraq. pointing out some warn Iraqis to pre­ethical issues. pare for battle. 
page6 page 5 page 7 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
··11as Justice Been \\'on? Tlrn_casP of llrn Salvadoran Torture Survivors and the Gc1wrals". panel discussion for Homcro \\'eek, 7 p.m., I lesburgh Center Auditorium 

. 
''The Hoad to Peate and Justice: Heconciliation bctwcPn lsnwlis and Palestinians", 12::~o p.m .. Ilesburgh CentPr C-Hn 

. 
Student Senate ag<mda: Nomination of Tai Hom<'ro, 


extension of weekday pari<~tals, Presidential Pass in Hevicw, Fn~shman Orientation; <> p.m., Notre Dame 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. Student Academic Council meeting, 7 p.m., 303 Haggar College Center 
. 
Ladies of ND/Saint Mary's meeting, noon, Haggar College Center Parlor 

. 
Sophomore Major Night Spaghetti Dinner, 5:30 p.m., 


Hegina I lull North Lounge 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Amatriciana, mush­room marinara, sausage pineapple pizza. meatloaf, scalloped corn casse­role, chicken gravy. cherry cobbler, grilled tilapia. oatmeal, sausage patties, scrambled eggs, fried potato triangles. steakhouse fries, Szechuan vegetable stir-fry, chicken fajita, Lone Star rice 
Today Dinner: Amatriciana, sausage pineapple pizza, roast top sirloin, zum zum potato salad, peas & pearl onions, cherry cobbler. lemon-baked perch, rice valencienne, curried veg­etables, curly-q seasoned fries, chick­en teriyaki, chicken enchilada, flame­roasted fiesta corn & black beans 
a: 
LLI 
:I: 
ti 

3: w 
...I 
cc 
CJ 

TODAY TONIGHT 

• $. 
• • t • 


South Dining Hall 

Social Concerns. Americans from Fayatteville, Ark. 
page 11 page 12 page 24 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Minors cited for alcohol consumption 
Three minors were cited Tuesday for violating the liquor law. NDSP issued citations for minor con­suming to the three at Riley Hall of Art and Design. 

Bikes found and turned in to security 
NDSP received abandoned bikes near the Law School, Old College and Snite Museum of Art Monday. · 

Employee turns in cash to NDSP 
A University employee found cash Monday behind the Security Building and turned it in to NDSP. 

Police tow vehicle by the Stadium 
NDSP towed the vehicle of a University employee parked by the Stadium Monday. 

Employee reports vandalism to vehicle 
A University employee reported to NDSP Monday vandalism to her vehicle while parked in the facul­ty lot by Hesburgh Library. The vehicle was parked there Thursday between 7:30 a.m. and 
5:30 p.m. There are no suspects. 
Today Lunch: Spaghettini put­tanesca, Hawaiian pizza. toasted pret­zel sticks, cheese & vegetable pie, win­ter-blend vegetables, beef chop suey, cajun-baked Pollock, roast top round of beef, grilled ham & cheese on white, steakhouse fries, soft pretzel, chicken tempura, California Eldorado casserole 
Today Lunch: Spaghettini put­tanesca, Hawaiian pizza, toasted pret­zel sticks. potato pancakes, hot chunky applesauce, beef stuffed peppers, tuna casserole, roast turkey breast. sauteed chicken breast, steakhouse fries, soft pretzel. BBQ Caribbean chicken, flame-roasted corn & peppers 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 


•:•'":'.'.t.!• 
·•-•: 

-compiled from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
No menu available. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

CORRECTIONS ...I 0 HIGH 53 HIGH 58 HIGH 66 HIGH 53 HIGH 40 HIGH 50 
In Tuesday's Observer, the article headlined "ND LOW 41 LOW 41 LOW 43 LOW 30 LOW 29 LOW 32 announces tuition increase" was incorrectly attributed as written by Meghanne Downes. Natasha Grant wrote the story. Atlanta 73 / 58 Boston 40 / 32 Chicago 54 I 42 Denver 30 / 25 Houston 74 / 52 Los Angeles 70 / 50 Minneapolis 42 / 36 New York 45 / 37 Philadelphia 48 / 38 Phoenix 67 / 51 Seattle 58 / 44 St.. Louis 67 / 52 Tampa 86 / 74 Washington 50 I 40 


Wednesday, M; .r . l9, 2003 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

3for
s5 
Bishop Ruiz honors Oscar Romero's life 
By CAITLIN EARLY News Writer 
Bishop Samuel Ruiz Garcia from Chiapas, Mexico dis­cussed the preferential option of the poor to a standing room only crowd in the Hesburgh Center auditorium as a part of the University's 16th annual celebration of Romero Week. 
Ruiz. speaking entirely in Spanish, relayed the great sig­nificance and meaning behind the life and work of Archbishop Oscar Romero, the Salvadoran bishop who was assassinated while celebrating Mass March 24, 1980 by a Salvadoran death squad dur­ing El Salvador's civil war. 
Those in attendance were provided with copies of Ruiz's lecture in English and were aided by the translations of Julissa Robles, a second-year law student. 
Ruiz cited a letter written by a group of Latin American bishops in the days following Romero's death. which stated, " ... Archbishop Oscar Romero was a friend, a brother, defender of the poor and oppressed, of the campesinos, of the working class and of those who lived in the margin­alized barrios." 
Ruiz stressed Romero's ceaseless commitment to dire needs of the poor in El Salvador and throughout Latin America. 
Throughout Romero's life, he continually emphasized that the plight of the poor is the responsibility of the entire Church and all followers of Christ, Ruiz said. 
In a homily delivered Sept. 9, 1979, Romero stated, "The 
OFFICE DEPOT MULTIPURPOSE PAPER 
• 
20 lb, 90 bright, 500 sheets per ream 8-½" x 11·, Ream 112-860 

Offer valid in store only. Limit one offer per customer. Available while supplies last. 

Christian who doesn't want to 
live this commitment of soli­
darity with the poor, is not 
worthy of being called a 
Christian." 
Ruiz attended Romero's 
funeral in San Salvador. 
Ruiz. well acquainted with the poverty and desperate con­ditions which engulf the lives of people throughout Latin America, believes that poverty continues to exist because the "rich get richer at the expense of the poor getting poorer." 
Ruiz cited that poverty is the byproduct of a series of eco­nomic, social, and political fac­tors. 
Currently in Latin America, the poor consists of 80 percent of the population while the rich consist of 5 percent. 
Ruiz served as the bishop of San Cristobal de las Casas in Chiapas from 1960 to 2000. From 1962 to 1965, Ruiz served in all sessions of the Second Vatican Council in Rome. 
During Ruiz's tenure as bish­op, he did extensive work to advance the rights of the indigenous peoples throughout Mexico and Latin America. In 1989, Ruiz founded the Centro de Derechos Humanos Fray Bartolome, a non-governmen­tal organization, which attempts to promote and pro­tect human rights. 
Ruiz was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize in both 1994 and 1995 in recognition of his continued efforts to advocate the rights of indige­nous groups throughout Latin America. 
Contact Caitlin Early at cearly@nd.edu 

After Rebates • ..
ELDON• SPACEMAKER"' FILE BOX 
• 
For letter-or legal-size files 

• 
Built-in hanging file folder rails 



IOMEGA .. • ' 
Granite 104·710 Clear w/Blue Lid 204·761 
48x EXTERNAL 

Black 155-382 Clear w/Green Lid 105-078 
CD-AW DRIVE 
Clear w/Purple Lid 204-671 

• 48x read, 24x rewrite, 48x write max speeds 623-287 , 159.84 -30.00 Iomega Mail-In Rebate -30.00 Office Depot Mail-In Rebate= 99.84
2foJ9~!$894Each 
8-c;:
ct~. 
(U'":

fl' f~.1!:~!.r!i~~-~~1.~r~2,rl:! I :. 
8 
Smgle·S•ded Copies oo 24-lb Paper (224-021 ). Present 1h•s coupo" at 11me ot purchase. lnnrt one coupon per customer/Item Ouam,ties hmrted I Valid for In-stock nems only We reserve the rrght to l1m1t quantities
OFFICE DEPOT REPLACEMENT 

Otter exp11es 3/29/03 CoUf)On redeemable ,n store only I 
Cashier, !)lease use SKII 790·96l
CD JEWEL CASES 25-PK 

ff. 1
0 1Ce DEPOT Coupon Code 73948462
L-~~---~~~------~~~---J 
Theology class spends break in Cuba 
By MIKE CHAMBLISS 
News Writer 
While many members of the 
Notre Dame community spent 
their spring breaks in tropical 
climates, one group chose a 
location that is quite unique 
from the average Caribbean 
island. 
Members of Father Robert 
Pelton's "From Power to 
Communion" theology class 
traveled to Havana, Cuba last 
week in order to study the 
Catholic Church in the context of 
socialism. 
The group was composed of four law students, two graduate students, seven undergraduates, two professors and one adminis­trator. Each member researched a different topic regarding the Church, which underwent 40 years of persecu­tion in Cuba and has only recently been able to make progress. 
The group talked with a num­ber of people affiliated with the Cuban Catholic Church, includ­ing lawyers, priests and journal­ists. 
"There was a wide array of perspectives, but all saw the Catholic Church as planting seeds now that will develop later on after Castro," said senior Ken Seifert. 
Participants were struck by the natural beauty of the island as well as the sometimes surreal differences from the United States, such as the widespread presence of 1950s era automo­biles. 
"It's like a time warp. It makes your eyes hurt. it's so different and so beautiful," said Seifert. 
The travelers were also quick to note the high poverty level in Cuba. 
"You see how much the U.S. embargo affects Cuba. Doctors 
7~1-ournamento • 
n
sgg84 
.·. ·.. •:•··.::_)·>·-:/ 
/ -:.:r ··:_. ~-..-­.,.-o-. . 
i:_fi•··:
~ .,, • I 
,~~<-. . ··:· . ,• ... 

and lawyers are driving cabs at night in order to support their families," said senior Ysmael Fonseca. 
Law student Rebecca McCurdy is eager to share her newfound insights about the effects of U.S. foreign policy in Cuba. 
"I hope that at least the small group that was able to go will be able to share our experiences and show the reality of the human consequences of our policies," said Mccurdy. 
Seifert pointed out that, despite the material poverty of the country itself. Cubans enjoy a very strong social welfare sys­tem and a richness in culture that enables them to appreciate what they do have in their lives. While there are elements of repression, such as limited free­dom to speak about government and politics, life in Cuba is not always as ugly as it may seem to outsiders. Seifert said. 
"It's amazing that they have managed to keep this system alive for 50 years. There is an idealism in the people, which is beautiful despite the repression. The revolutionary spirit still exists to this day. Many people don't appreciate that," said Seifert. 
Contact Michael Chambliss at mchambli@nd.edu 
s 
Mishawaka 
5901 North Grape Rd. 
(574) 277-2009 Open Daily: 8:00 a.m. • 9:00 p.m. Saturday: 9:00 a.m. -9:00 p.m. Sunday: 10:00 a.m. • (l:00 p.m. 




Wednesday, March 19, 2003 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
tions associated with the Crush, such as the section 

ND's alcohol policy affected SMC
Alcohol 
decoration contest, might have 
continued from page I 
ties on campus, but that such a change brought serious harm to student life. "I think it actually made it more danger­ous. I don't think it's prevent­ed anybody from drinking," he said. 
"Everybody's afraid to drink so they're just going off cam­pus," added junior Shannon Goebel. "Dorm life is pretty disappointing." 
Freshman Mary Ellen Botta said there was little for stu­dents to do on campus, but felt that the alcohol policies changes did not completely change the social atmosphere. 
"There's a not really a lot going on on campus. but you can find stuff to do," she said. "I think [the changes] are liv­able but I don't think they're really that necessary. No one really likes them but you can deal with them." When she did go off campus, Botta said she felt relatively safe. 
Borowiecki said the changes' had caused students to seek entertainment off campus and had damaged the campus atmosphere. 
"It seems like there's been more of an exodus off cam­pus," he said. "Dorm life has kind of been in a downward spiral." 
Sadowski also noted prob­lems that the new alcohol poli­cies had created for dorm dances, which are now required to be held outside of the residence halls. 
"We had to cancel our first dance of the year because we just didn't have enough involvement," said Sadowski, who lives in O'Neill. "The lack of enthusiasm has trickled down to the underclassmen." 
While he felt that the dances O'Neill held this year were well organized, he was con­cerned about the additional planning and funding that dances now require. 
"They were relatively suc­cessful and I enjoyed them," he said. "It seems like they've added complications that are unnecessary." 
Goebf'l, who lives in Lewis Hall, felt that the alcohol changes would negatively her dorm's signature event, the Lewis Crush, because tradi-

THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE IS NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR ALL POSITIONS: 
24 Hour Lounge Monitors Ballroom Monitors Building Set Up Crew Information Desk Attendants LaFortune Building Managers ND Cake Service ND Express Attendants Program Assistants Sound Technicians Stepan Center Managers Student Activities Office Assistants
I 
!Applications available outside the Student Activities Office 31S Lafortune or on-line ot www.nd.edu/~sa,,/office/iobs. ' 
APPLICAT!O~S DUE MARCH 2.8. 
to be changed. 
"It's just going to be weird. If we can't have it in the dorm, that takes all that away," she said. 
Other students worried about the new rules on what students could do in the dorms before dances. "They've only had an hour where the guys could come over to pre-party,'' said Abdo. "I think it's height­ened binge drinking." 
While some said they would move off campus because of the new changes, Sadowski chose to stay in his dorm but felt that the administration was contradictory in its attempts to convince seniors not to move off. 
"That didn't even cross my mind," said Sadowski. "It frus­trates me that the administra­tion constantly asserts that they are trying to find ways to entice upperclassmen to stay on campus but their policies don't really gel with what they're trying to do." 
Last year, when the changes were announced, Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman offered to refund the housing changes for any students who initially wanted to live on-campus but wanted to move off-campus as a result of the changes. Only four students accepted the offer, he said. 
This year, he said applica­tions for students wanting to live on campus increased 1.7 percent. 
Goebel said she intended to move off campus next year and that while the alcohol changes played a role in her decision, they were not the only issue involved. 
"I am moving off campus," she said. "[The new policy] was a defining factor but it was just one more rule." 
Abdo gave a similar reason­ing for his decision to move off campus but said that the alco­hol policy changes were the last factor that convinced him to live off campus. 
'Tm definitely moving off,'' he said. "I was planning on doing it before but that just really sealed the deal." 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 

. Impact of last year's change also felt by Saint Mary's students 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 
News Wrirer 
As brother and sister schools, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are closely related. When something affects one campus, its impact can usually be felt on the other and Notre Dame's alcohol policy is no exception. 
This week marks the one­year anniversary of the announcement of Notre Dame's revised policy, and most Saint Mary's student's reactions to the changes are similar to those across the street. 
"Notre Dame's new alcohol policy doesn't really affect me, because my friends and I usu­ally go off campus to parties anyway," said junior Kate Dooley. "It has affected me in terms of the football games because we don't get to tailgate like we used to, and that was a fun part of the whole experi­ence." 
In contrast to upperclassmen that lived through both policies and can compare the two, stu­dents say freshmen are missing out. 
"I think who it has the biggest affect on is freshmen, because a lot of them would attend dorm parties and do more on campus activities," Dooley said. Freshman Katy Karr agrees. 
"As a freshman, you have two choices on Friday and Saturday nights," she said. "You can walk around looking for an off­campus party, or you can sit in your room with ayour girl­friends and pop the same chick flick you've been watching for the past five weekends into the VCR." 
This scenario is one that many students, freshman or not, can relate to. 
"The friends that I've made here at Saint Mary's are won­derful, but I regret to say there aren't too many opportunities to make new guy friends, or even meet anyone from Notre Dame," Karr said. 
Although Notre Dame's alco­hol policy has become more severe, some students feel it is incomparable to that at Saint Mary's. 
Saint Mary's current alcohol policy states that persons under 21 may not possess, con­sume, provide, manufacture or sell any alcohol on the College campus. Students under 21 may not be present at any gathering where alcohol is pre­sent, whether they are drinking or not. 
Those students who are 21 may use alcohol in their rooms provided that they follow a list of policies, similar to what might be expected on a college campus. 
"We don't really have parties over here, so it doesn't affect us [students] that much," Dooley said. "I think a looser policy on drinking would possi­bly create more socialization on Saint Mary's campus instead of always going off-campus." 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 
. 
't"­
;
\ \ •\ \ 

-~ 
_..._________________________________________________________________ 

Wednesday, March 19, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 

Saddam rejects Bush ultimatum, Iraq prepares for war 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD 
Iraqis prepared Tuesday to defend their nation against an American-led attack, stacking oil barrels and dry wood in parts of Baghdad -ready to be set afire in hopes of concealing targets during an aerial bom­bardment. 
Baghdad residents mobbed bakeries and gas stations in a desperate rush for supplies. Shelves in many shops were empty after store owners moved merchandise to ware• houses, fearing bombing or looting. 
Defying a U.S. ultimatum to leave Iraq with his sons or face war. Saddam Hussein appeared on television in military uniform -for the first time since the 1991 Gulf War -and warned his commanders to prepare for battle. 
Thousands of demonstrators swept into the streets of the Iraqi capital. mobilized by a televised appeal to show their support for the Iraqi leader. Waving pictures of Saddam, the protesters promised to give Saddam their "blood and souls." 
The United Nations pulled its weapons inspectors out of the country Tuesday, ending the second effort in about dozen years to verify that Iraq had ended its programs to build weapons of mass destruction. 
In a televised speech Monday night, President Bush gave Saddam 48 hours to step down or face war, and promised "the tyrant will soon be gone." Nearly 300,000 U.S. and British troops are in the region poised to strike. 
But Saddam indicated he wasn't going anywhere. After chairing a meeting of Iraq's highest executive body -the Revolution Command Council ­the leader condemned Bush and his dictates. 
Iraq's foreign minister Naji Sabri told reporters it was "Bush who should go into exile, because it is Mr. Bush who is endangering the whole world." 
Saddam, Iraq's president of 23 years, also chaired a military meeting on Tuesday attended by his son Qusai, who heads the elite Republican Guard, and senior commanders. The meet­ing reviewed war plans and military readiness, Iraq's al­Shabab television reported. 
The station, owned by Saddam's eldest son Odai, also called on Iraqis to demonstrate across the country to show sup­port for Saddam. Soon 5,000 people gathered in Baghdad's Al-Mansour neighborhood, many armed and wearing the olive-green uniform of the rul­


Members of Iraq's ruling Baath party wave their weapons during a Baghdad rally In support of President Saddam Hussein Tuesday. Iraq rejected a 48-hour deadline set by U.S. President George Bush for Saddam Hussein and his sons to go Into exlle or face war. 
ing Baath party. Iraq and Iraq is Saddam." Meanwhile, at Saddam 
Waving portraits of Saddam, Smaller demonstrations took International Airport. hundreds they chanted. "We sacrifice our-place elsewhere in Baghdad, of passengers snatched up the selves for you Saddam, with our but there were no immediate last available plane seats to blood and souls!" and carried reports of demonstrations else-Jordan and Syria -the only banners that read, "Saddam is where in Iraq. destinations available Tuesday. 
Government begins plan to protect U.S. from terror 
Associated Press 
WASI IINGTON 
From airports to cattle feedlots to nuclear plants, the government began tightening security Tuesday to fortify America against terror. 
The plan, called "Operation Liberty Shield," goes far beyond the government's previous responses to threats of terror because officials believe war with Iraq increases the possibility of attacks on U.S. soil or against U.S. interests abroad. 
It envisions close cooperation among fed­eral, state and local governments. as well as private businesses such as chemical planl'l and banks. 
Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge said individual Americans could play a part as well by staying vigilant and prepared while avoiding panic. 

"There is bound to be misinformation. Don't react to rumors. We will strive to get the facts out there as fast as we can," Ridge said Tuesday. 
The nation's terror alert status was raised from "elevated" to "high" Monday night aft.er President Bush said the U.S. mil­itary was ready to attack Iraq unless Saddam Hussein and his sons left the coun­try by Wednesday night U.S. time. 
Intelligence and law enforcement officials believe the al-Qaida terror network. while weakened, and its sympathizers remain the primary threat to mount terror attacks against America. There also is uneasiness about Iraqi agents or surrogate groups, as well as individual extremists or others. 
Part of the homeland security plan 
requires that anyone seeking political asy­lum in the United States from 33 countries with known terrorism presences, including Iraq, be detained while the government considers claims they face political persecu­tion at home. 
Last year, 577 people from those coun­tries -including 348 from Iraq -claimed asylum out of more than 58,000 who sought entry in the United States, according to immigration officials. The goal of deten­tion is to prevent terrorists or spies from using America's willingness to accept refugees as a pretext for entering the coun­try. 
"We want to make absolutely certain, during this period of time, that you are who you say you are," Ridge said. 
Much of the plan is geared toward pro­tecting the nation's transportation system, including random searches of cars at air­ports, restricted airspace over certain cities. police or National Guardsmen protecting railroad bridges, enhanced identification checks for truckers who haul hazardous materials and more Coast Guard escorts of ferries and cruise ships. 
The Coast Guard also is providing greater protection for petroleum and chemical plants near large cities. The General Accounting Office, which is the investigative arm of Congress, said in a report Tuesday that some of these 15,000 plants "may be attractive targets for terrorists intent on causing massive damage." 
The report noted that nine months ago, Bush administration officials agreed on the need for mandatory security plans for such facilities. but no such plans have been pro­posed. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Palestinians approve prime minister post: 
The Palestinian parliament created the post of prime minister Tuesday, taking a major step toward U.S.-sought reforms and rebuffing Vasser Arafat's attempts to retain a say in forming the next Cabinet. In the West Bank, Israeli forces killed two top Barnas fugitives accused in a string of shootings and bombings that killed dozens of Israelis. In a separate incident, an 11-year-old boy attend­ing a Gaza funeral was shot and critically injured. 
Turkey to urge parliament on war i~ues: 
Turkey's government said Wednesday it would ask parliament to grant the U.S. Air Force the right to use Turkish airspace in an Iraq war but would not immediately ask the legislature to vote to allow in 
U.S. troops. Cabinet spokesman Cemil Cicek said a resolution allowing airspace rights would be put before parliament by Thursday at the latest and that a separate motion allowing in U.S. troops could be considered at a later date. 

NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Two charged in FJbabeth Smart abduction: Prosecutors charged a self-proclaimed prophet and his wife Tuesday with aggravated kidnapping and sexual assault in the abduction of Elizabeth Smart, disclosing for the first time details of the girl's nine­month ordeal. Brian Mitchell and Wanda Barzee also were charged with burglary and attempted aggravated kidnapping -a charge stemming from what prosecutors said was an attempt to later abduct Elizabeth's 18-year-old cousin. 
Pentagon will investigate academy crisis: 
The Defense Department is launching its own investigation of 56 alleged sexual assaults at the Air Force Academy. A separate investiga­tion by the Air Force and its inspector gener­al's office is already under way to look into allegations that female cadets were repri­manded or ostracized for reporting sexual assaults. 
Gulf War vet executed for killing soldier: 
A Gulf War veteran who raped and killed a female soldier was put to death by injection Tuesday after failing to win clemency with his claim that exposure to Iraqi nerve gas led to his crime. In a statement read by his lawyer, Louis Jones Jr. said he accepted full responsibility for the "pain, anguish and the suf• fering" he caused the private's family. 
Tobacco farmer holds D.C. police at bay: 
A tobacco farmer who said declining subsidies were forcing him out of business held police at bay Tuesday from his tractor in a pond near Washington's monuments. Streets were closed for blocks, and traffic was snarled for miles. 'Tm going to get my message out or die trying," Dwight Watson, 50, of Whitakers, N.C., said in an interview posted on the \Vashington Post Web site. "I've got the rest of my life to stay right here. I'm not going anywhere." 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 19, 2003 
not stumble out into traffic. Our primary concern is safety

Bust Doctor lectures on stem cell research 
rather than what is perceived 
continued from page I as going to make a big bust," -------------said Thompson. Bremen district of the Indiana Thompson said that his State Police, said six of his office received no advance officers participated in the warning of the party, but said bust at the request of the it was possible that the Excise Excise Police. Police may have. 
Thompson said the bust like-"It is not unusual for Excise ly occurred because the party to keep their ear to the ground started so early in the day. around a big holiday that is 
"Our concern always is that generally associated with if the party is that big early, drinking, like St. Patrick's Day what will it be like later? or Dingus Day," said There were an awful lot of Thompson. people at the party, some of which we had to give rides Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at back to campus so they would sbrodfue@nd.edu 
tive on July 1, Storin said. Despite the budget cuts,
Tuition 
the Board of Trustees also continued from page 1 increased tuition for both -------------undergraduates and the 
Storin said some budget cuts would be made through attrition or not by filling open positions. 
"There are no layoffs that are specifically mandated by this budget, but it's up to the various department heads both on the academic and administrative sides to implement those percentage reductions," Stori n said. "You really can't entirely rule out the possibility of some reductions in person­nel." 
Starin added if layoffs were needed, there would be few and he knew of no plans for any department layoffs. 
Father Mark Poorman, vice president of Student Affairs, said cuts in his department will include modest pro­gramming funds and unfilled positions will be eliminated. 
"We are trying to do that strategically so that we don't have to lay anyone off and we are trying to keep as much programming money as possible," Poorman said. 
The academic and admin• istrative department chairs must make their budget changes prior to when the new budget becomes effec• 
Graduate School by 6.5 per­cent to $27,170 and $27,070, respectively. said a state­ment released by the University. Both the Law School and the Masters of Business Administration pro­gram tuitions will also increase by 6.5 percent to $27,800. The undergraduate room and board will also increase bringing the total cost for 2003-04, including tuition and room and board, to $34,100. 
In previous years the University worked to keep tuition increases below 5 percent and next year's tuition will be a significant increase from the 2002-03 academic year increase of 
4.9 percent. 
The increase in tuition and decrease in budget funds is directly linked to the signifl­cant decrease in the endow­ment in the past year. As a result, campus construction stalled indefinitely for the security and post office building, the new campus hotel and various athletic complex renovations. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 


By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
Mass-produced blood cells and platelets to ease the drain on America's blood clinics, insulin•secreting cells to treat diabetes and cardiac cells that can be infused into heart­attack victims are just a few of the potential benefits that stem cell research may yield in the coming years, said Dr. Frank Yoder in a lecture titled "The Promise and Perils of Stem Cell Research." 
The Indiana University School of Medicine professor and mouse stem cell researcher, however, warned of the ethical dilemmas facing such research. 
The key to understanding this research and the ethics associ­ated with it, according to Yoder, is distinguishing between the different types of stem cells and the potential that each possess. 
"There are many different ways to define stem cells," he said. "They are unique because of their ability to self-renew. At the same time, they can differ­entiate to make tissues and organs. As we sit here, your bone marrow will synthesize several hundred million blood cells and remove old ones, and it will happen so smoothly that your blood count will not change. It's a mind boggling thing to comprehend." 
There are two classes of stem cells -embryonic and adult cells -and both have the abili­ty to differentiate into other cell types. Within embryonic stem cells, there are two subtypes, including cells derived from the blastocyst during the first few days of life and embryonic germ cells dissected from aborted fetuses 5 to 10 weeks old. 
Of the three stem cells, those obtained from the blastocyst are the most versatile. In other words, they possess the great­est degree of pluripotency, or the ability to differentiate into the three types of tissue, according to Yoder. 
Adult stem cells tend to dis­play less diversity in their abili­ty to differentiate into other tis• sue types, Yoder said, although special cells that behave simi­lar to embryonic stem cells have been discovered in human bone marrow and brain and muscular tissues. 
Lately. stem cell research has been directed toward cloning. both of an entire organism and individual tissues and organs for medical purposes, Yoder said. Both of these processes utilize a method called nuclear transfer tech nology, which involves extracting the nucleus from a cell and inserting it into an egg. The egg can then be implanted into a hormonally­primed female animal to gener­ate a cloned organism or, cells from the clone can be removed early in development and cul­tured to form tissues and organs in therapeutic cloning. 
Cloning, including for thera­peutic purposes, poses several ethical problems, according to Yoder. Currently, the cloning process requires an excessive amount of eggs to generate results. For example, researchers used over 10,000 
eggs to produce six cloned pigs, Yoder said. "It's not a very efficient process," he said. 
Problems also arise in using stem cells to grow replacement organs, according to Yoder. 
Organs are complex three­dimensional structures and bio­e ngi nee ring technology is required to provide the scaf­folding needed to orient the cells correctly. While organs, including kidneys, have been successfully engineered in ani­mals like cows, the productivity of such organs has been mini­mal. 
The direction of differentia­tion of stem cells is also diffi­cult to control, Yoder said. For example, researchers who want to generate cardiac mus­cle cells may find they end up with a different cell type. 
"The embryonic cells sort of randomly turn into whatever they want to," he said. "It's very difficult to control this process." 
It's also difficult, according to Yoder, to control what types of research scientists are working on, despite recent federal laws. 
"Experiments are being done and they're not being reported as of yet," Yoder said. "We hear about certain things in meetings and wonder." 
Tuesday's lecture was the first in a six•part series hosted by the South Bend Center for Medical Education, Indiana University School of Medicine and sponsored by The Medical Education Foundation. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 


Located In The Upper Level Of The Brewer4  
At The Hisforic 100 Cenfer Mishawaka  
Hours: Thursdmi, f riday and Sotur,day  
l  5:30-11 pm Phone: 574-257-1792 -20% Student Discount Specials on Tl1ursda4s­ :  
f i·  The pradice of fondue, firs! used by the Swiss, is derived from the word "fondre" which means "lo melt".  :,:, ./j  
::::  •'•'  
f.~l.(  Fondue was inlroduced as a  nafional dish in Switzerland.  II sym­ ·11  
,  bolized the cominq foqelher of families and friends.  At these qalh­ •'::'  
II :::.jl  erinqs beaulifull4 decorated ceramic, polterti, or earl~ienware caquelons of cheese and od accompanied b4 crusted breads, fruits,  ll.i. !!  
ii ll  vegetables, meals, and bamboo skewers were placed on !he fable so thol quesfs could indulqe al their leisure.  { ;,!,·  
f Thus foda4 .....man4 cenluries lafer -lhe some lrodilion of hospi-Ilohl4 and qood la•~:;,:•i~;;;::ia:JJ,::'~;o~~j 4ou don't hove lo I  :I I  
r,~  The fondue! is happy lo book your private porh1.  "A place lo go wilh familtJ  iij!  

lt,,,,':(:;::,:,,:,::::::,::,:,:,,.~:::i,:::,:t:,;,~~:;:~::,'.~::::~:::,:,~:~:~:::,;,,:~:::::,~:,:,,~::::~:::~:::,/::,::,:~:,~::,,:~::::,:,,'.,1 ,:,~,::::=:::::,:::,:,:;::::,,';;:,:~ 

Maj!ors; and. Program Fair 
Wednesday, March 19 4:30 -6:00 p.m. Library Concourse 


Advisors from every Major, Minor and Area Studies Program will be available to provide information and answer questions for all students. 
,-.-----.----------~-----------------------------------------------------------, 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, March 19. 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch March 18 
DowJones 
8,194.23 ~ +52.31 
NASDAQ 
1,400.55 ~ +8.28 
S&P500 
866.45 ~ +3.66 
AMEX 
819.32 • -1.33 
NYSE 
4,800.16 ~ +16.21 TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX(QQQ) +1.24 +0.33 26.93 
MIGRosorm:qiRe< tiiFiil1•1;4.Jri1~•it1•;~1~~: 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.50 +0.07 14.20 
•••t•~Et·••it1r•••:••<•1ttl«1:•1•••••••• ••••••••••••+1:1rijs•••••+Q's••11:1a•:i111s•• ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -0.79 -0.10 12.25 
\ \ 
IN BRIEF 
New housing projects drop 11 percent 
The number -of new housing projects builders broke \ground on in February plunged by 11 percent, the sharpest decline in nearly a decade, as bad weather and an uncertain economic climate took its toll on the residential construction market. Housing con­struction dropped to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.62 million units in February, representing a 11 percent decline from the month before, the Commerce Department reported Tuesday. The level of housing activi­ty in February was weaker than the 1.75 mil­lion pace economists were forecasting. 
United asks to scrap labor contract 
United Airlines warned in a court filing that it could be forced out of business this year if unable to secure the deep labor cuts it's proposing in bankruptcy -its bleakest assessment yet of its prospects. The statement was contained in a court filing late Monday in which it requested that its labor contracts be scrapped unless new agreements can be worked out by the first week of May. "Liquidation is a distinct possibility if United does not achieve its proposed labor cost reductions," said the company, which is seek­ing $2.56 billion in annual labor reductions. 
Bayer ruled not liable in drug suit 
A jury cleared Bayer Corp. of liability Tuesday in a $560 million lawsuit that accused the pharmaceutical giant of ignoring research linking the cholesterol-lowering drug Baycol to dozens of deaths. The jury deliberat­ed for 2 1/2 days before returning the verdict. It was the first of about 8,000 cases against Bayer to go to trial. "The verdict validates Bayer's assertion that the company acted responsibly in the development, marketing and voluntary withdrawal of Baycol," Bayer said in a statement. The lawsuit was brought by Hollis Haltom, an 82-year-old engineer who said a muscle-wasting disease caused by Baycol severely weakened his legs. 

Oil prices fall with war near 
• Despite 2 month low, oil prices still volatile 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
The price of oil plunged 9 percent Tuesday, falling to its lowest level in more than two months as traders bet that the impending United States invasion of Iraq will go smoothly and that global stockpiles of crude are suffi­cient to offset any supply dis­ruptions. 
The April futures contract fell $3.26 to $31.67 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest close since Jan. 8. 
However, with U.S. sup­plies low and uncertainty in the Middle East high, traders said petroleum prices likely will remain volatile in the short term. 
"This thing could go right back up," said Tom Bentz, an analyst at BNP Paribas in New York. "We're still vul­nerable because inventories are tight." 
The most recent Energy Department data showed commercial stockpiles of crude at 269.8 million bar­rels, 18 percent below year ago levels. Supplies have dwindled as a result of high demand for heating oil in the Northeast and fewer imports from Venezuela, whose oil industry was crippled for months by a nationwide strike. 
Yet Bentz and other traders mostly expressed confidence Tuesday that the loss of Iraqi crude could be made up elsewhere and that the U.S. government will tap its own 600 million barrel stockpile, the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, in the event of a supply emergency. European nations have their own stockpiles that could help make up for any supply shortages resulting from war. which could begin as early as Wednesday night. 
Furthermore, industry watchers said OPEC produc­ers -with the exception of Iraq and Venezuela -all are pumping over their quo­tas, eager to take advantage of the high prices. That extra supply could hit the market just as demand for gasoline, heating oil and other fuels drops to seasonal lows. 

"There's quite a bit of oil in vessels and it's now begin­ning to hit the consuming areas," said Leo Drollas, chief economist of the London-based Center for Global Energy Studies. He said Saudi Arabia may have as much as 50 million bar­rels in storage or en route to markets. 
"They've chartered 25 ves­sels over the last month and a half," said Drollas in a tele~ phone interview, with each tanker capable of carrying 2 million barrels of crude. 
The United States con­sumes roughly 19.5 million barrels of crude a day and more than half of that is imported. 
\ 
Fadel Gheit, senior oil ana­market is that oil facilities in lyst at Fahnestock & Co. in other Middle Eastern coun­New York, said traders are tries, such as Kuwait or coming to the conclusion Saudi Arabia, could be that the world has enough attacked -a scenario that oil to meet demand, even would cause oil prices to assuming that Iraq's esti­shoot higher very quickly, mated daily production of 2 Gheit said. million barrels is taken out Short of that, he said of the equation. prices could easily drop 
Venezuela, whose oil another $5 a barrel in the industry was all but shut coming weeks. down earlier in the year The price of crude, which because of a nationwide reached a 12-year high of strike, is now producing $37.83 last Wednesday, has enough oil to make up for an fallen 16 percent over the Iraqi shortfall, Gheit said. past four trading sessions. And Saudi Arabia has Tuesday's decline in oil increased its production by 1 prices also drove down million barrels a day to more wholesale prices for gasoline than 9 million barrels a day, and heating oil. Heating oil Gheit said. for April delivery fell 5.79 
''We have plenty of oil," he cents to close at 85.78 cents said. "This war premium a barrel, while gasoline has to come out of the futures dropped 6.52 cents price." to close at 96.19 cents a gal­
The biggest fear in the lon. 
Fed opts to stick with current rates 
· Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

With looming war making eco­nomic forecasting unusually diffi­cult, the Federal Reserve decided Tuesday to leave interest rates unchanged at a 41-year low. 
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues held out the prospect, however, that they would move quickly to cut rates if fallout from military conflict should threaten to push the country back into recession. 
The Fed's decision to leave its tar­get for the federal funds rate unchanged at 1.25 percent disap­pointed investors who had been hoping the Fed would cut rates again, driving the funds rate to 1 percent or lower, a level last seen when Dwight Eisenhower was presi­dent. 
Stocks, surging in recent days over hopes of a quick and successful war against Iraq and a possible Fed rate cut, momentarily lost altitude after the Fed's afternoon announce­ment. However, the Dow Jones industrial average managed to fin­ish the day up 52.31 at 8,194.23, extending a rally that has added a stunning 670 points to the blue chip average over the past five trading days. 
Many investors had been hoping that if the Fed did not cut rates, it would at least change the portion of its statement designed to foreshad­ow future moves. They had expect­ed a move from a statement that risks were equally balanced between inflation and economic weakness to a statement that cited economic weakness as the greater threat. 
Instead, for the first time since it began releasing a "balance of risks" assessment in early 2000, the Fed said the "unusually large uncertain­ties clouding the geopolitical situa­tion" made it impossible to deter­mine where the risks stood. 


Wednesday, March 19, 2003 

page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 


Leiber believes that fighting 
in urban Baghdad will not be
War 
difficult and that many Iraqi continued from page 1 troops will surrender, bringing -------------about a quick end to the war. needed to defend itself against Dan Philpott, political sci­Iraq because the Middle ence professor. said military Eastern country is linked to actions in Iraq created a rift in terrorists and weapons of the international community. mass destruction. vVhile the Great Britain's Prime Bush administration had Minister Tony Blair, a staunch sought a Security Council res-supporter of military action in olution authorizing force, Iraq despite intense domestic administration officials said criticism, said Tuesday, "What the United States did not need would any tyrannical regime a resolution to launch an possessing [weapons of mass attack. destruction] think viewing the 
Reydams said Article 2 of history of the world's diplo­the UN Charter prohibits the matic dance with Saddam? use of threat or force against a That our capacity to pass firm nation in all but two excep-resolutions is only matched by tions -the Security Council's our feebleness in implement­decision for collective security ing them. That is why this and cases involving Article 51. indulgence has to stop. Only twice has the Security Because it is dangerous. It is Council authorized war -in dangerous if such regimes dis­the Korean War and the believe us." Persian Gulf War. Two traditional U.S. allies, 
Monday, diplomatic mea-Germany and France, said sures appeared to come to a they would not support the halt as the United States, U.N. resolution for use of force Great Britain and Spain with-before the United States and drew their resolution autho-its allies pulled the resolution rizing the use of force in Iraq. before it went to a vote. There is no collective security "War erodes the just war measure to use force in Iraq, conception of self-defense as a which requires nine members justification for war," Philpott of the United Nations Security said. Council to vote in favor of and Philpott doubted Hussein none of the permanent mem-would abdicate due to his high hers to veto a resolution sense of honor. He added it authorizing force. was highly likely Hussein will 
"The proclaimed right to use weapons of mass destruc­self-defense and anticipatory tion against the United States strike is against the UN and Israel and that he may Charter," Reydams said. "It's have cells operating in these ironic that the U.S. always countries. says that Iraq must comply Philpott said the war would with resolutions, but so must be quick, but installing democ­the U.S. comply with the UN racy in Iraq would be difficult Charter." and could fuel terrorism. 
Kier Leiber, political science professor, offered a different Matt Bramanti also con­view by saying Bush offered tributed to this report. an effective and persuasive presentation for the need for Contact Meghanne Downes at war. mdownesl@nd.edu 
Like News? Call 
Meghanne at 631-5323. 

PRAYERS FOR PEACE 
~THER YOU WANT TO GET AHEAD, CATCH UP, OR JUST TAKE A CLASS FOR ENJOYMENT, WE'VE GOT OPPORTUNITIES FOR YOU! 
• Courses, \'1'./orkshops. Seminars, Study Abroad 
• Accclcrared Sessions 
¦ Seven Different Stan Daces, M.1y through July 

Register byJax, pho1le, mail or 111 person. 
Please call 1.800.283.3853 for our complete Summer Information PackJ.gc 
Duquesne University Pittsburgh, PA w ww .1 ea de rs hip.du q. e du 

Wednesday, March 19, 2003 page 9 
The Observer . NEWS 
Oscar red-carpet arrivals cancelled 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
The Academy Awards cere­mony will go on but organiz­ers Tuesday canceled the splashy red carpet arrivals for celebrities because of the looming threat of war with Iraq. 
Gil Cates, producer of Sunday's Oscar telecast, said many celebrities had asked to use a back entrance away from the barrage of photogra­phers and interviewers. 
He said the red carpet will remain, but the reporters and photographers and bleachers for fans in front of the Kodak Theatre will be gone. 
"I think you'd all agree it would be very inappropriate 

'IN-DIANA ONLINE DRIVER IMPROVEMENT 
TAKE IT ON THE 
INTERNET 
• 
No classroom attendance required 

• 
All materials available on the Internet 

• 
BMV Approved 


(877) 972-4665 
www.lndianaDriver.com 
to have 500 fans yelling and screaming 'Julia' or 'Tom,"' Cates told reporters. 
Nicole Kidman, lead actress nominee for 'The Hours,· and Daniel Day-Lewis, who is up for lead actor for 'Gangs of New York,' have told The Associated Press that they would feel uncomfortable appearing cheerful and stylish in the midst of war. 
The show is unlikely to be canceled or postponed. However, "all of us in this room are at the mercy of the winds of war and we just sim­ply don't know," Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences President Frank Pierson said. 
Television's Emmy Awards were delayed twice in 2001, the first time after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks that year and then again after the United States and Britain attacked Afghanistan's Taliban government in response. 
When the show finally did take place in November, it was a scaled-back affair at which celebrities put aside their tuxedos and fashionable evening gowns in favor of business attire. 
The Oscar ceremony, from host Steve Martin's monologue to the celebrity presentations and film clip montages, are also being changed to reflect the nation's mood. 

Professor addresses· suffering, Bible 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 

Pauline Viviano, theology professor at Loyola University Chicago, shed light on the explanations of suffering and the Bible's instructions on how to cope with it during the sec­ond Lenten lecture for the Center for Spirituality, titled "Suffering in the Bible." 
The attachment of retribu­tion to suffering dominated the Pre-Exilic period, which exist­ed before 587 B.C., she said. 
"The Book of Deuteronomy is based on the idea that the good are rewarded and that the bad are punished," Viviano said. "This is based on the notion that God is just.,. 
God was not viewed as arbi­trary in the use of his power, which greatly contrasts the view people had of the Greek and Roman gods, she said. 
"God was thought to be extremely patient with his people," Viviano said. 
"Time after time, throughout many books of the Bible, God should have wiped out the people entirely but He gave them chance after chance," she said. 
The loss of the Holy Land and the Temple in the Exilic Period, which stretched from 587-539 B.C., devastated the faithful. 
"Too much suffering calls into question God's love for his people and his justice," Viviano said. 
The people then began to 
' 

think that undeserved suffer­ing resulted from unleashed forces of chaos in the heavens. 
The people appealed to God to regain control of these forces and cease their suffer­ing through laments as seen in the Book of Psalms. 
Viviano analyzed the Book of Job to interpret the people's feelings of suffering and God at this period of time. 
Job was a good man who suffered because God made a bet with the devil. 
Job ceased to silently suffer in chapter three when he began to curse God and the day he was born. The book ends with Job putting God on trial and saying, "I despise myself and repent in dust's ashes." 
Traditionally, this is taken to said. 

Viviano 's answer for the existence of suffering is the existence of sin. She used the New Testament to bring com­fort to the situation. 
"Jesus is the Messiah through suffering," she said. "At the moment of His death He is declared the son of God in the Gospel of Mark." 
She also pointed out that Jesus' actions of healing the sick and forgiving sinners pre­pared the way for God. 
"The kingdom of God is where God rules and where God rules there is no place for suffering," Viviano said. "We think sin should be punished; God thinks sin should be for­given," she said. "People don't want to hear this -it was the 
..When we are suffering.
mean God is all-powerful we are not abandoned by and all-know­
God. He can bring victory 
ing, making it 

wrong for man out ofsuffering. to question the motives of God. 
Pauline Viviano 
Using her 

Loyala University professor 
knowledge of Hebrew, Viviano lent a different translation to Job's final conclusion. 
"I despise [God] and repent [feel sorry for] in dust's ashes [frail humanity]." This transla­tion turns Job into a satire of the idea of God as unfair, dis­tant and unconcerned. 
"In either interpretation, what is left a mystery is the reason for suffering," Viviano religious authorities who put Jesus, a trouble­maker, to death." 
Viviano interprets an uncon­ditionally loving God in the New 
Testament. 

"When we are suffering, we are not abandoned by God. He can bring victory out of suffer­ing," she said. "God is with us through suffering and He will bring life and benefit out of suffering." 
Contact Natalie Bailey at baill407@saintmarys.edu 

Faculty Performance Night Featuring: fiuitarfrench &Songs Vocalswith ·.·.· ' . ··.. ,,i ~ ,, , , ~, J ~arch 20th at 9:00P~ in the Lafortune Ballroom Tree coffee hotchocolate andpastries Brought to you by the Student Activities Office  

O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Wednesday, March 19, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Scott Brodfuehrer  Lori Lewalski  
NEWS EDITOR:  Meghanne Downes  
VIEWPOINT EDITOR:  Kristin Yemm  

SPORTS EDITOR: Joe Hettler 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek 
CONTROll.ER: Michael Flanagan 
SYSTEMS MANAGER: Ted Bangert 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 AoVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR ....................................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l @nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE...................................................... ...631-4540 observer .scene. I@nd.edu 
SAINT MAR\"s............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obseron-.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obsm,n-policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Andrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th< Ob..,.,,,,, (Usrs 5'.19 240) i, publi.i...t Monday rhrough Friday ocq,t during exam and vacation periods. A :mbKrlprion lfl' The Observer is: S100 fur one ac.adcmi(" year: 155 fo, un(' sancstcr. 
Tl,., Qh.,,.., is publi>hcd '" POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send addf'CS.l corn:ction, to: 
Notre l),mc, IN 46556 Th<Ol>Krvcr 
r.O.Bo.Q rcriodi<.J postag, paid at Notre D,mc Nottt Dame, IN 46556-0779 and additional mailing offica. 
The: Ob,cricr ;, 1 member of the Alsoo•rtd Prm. All n:prod1M:1ion right> '" m<rved. 



As near as I can tell, the best thing about being 21-years-old is that I can finally write about all of the bars I've been going to since I was a freshman. That and I have the added benefit of being able to be 
calm when cops 
Joe Muto
show up at a party. My pre­legality strategy 
for dealing with 

Muto Time
law enforcement officers was sim­ply to run as fast as I could in the opposite direction. And while I feel that there was a certain quiet dignity and nobility in my classic slow, chub­by, white kid's retreat over the back fence of some house on St. Pete's, I prefer the new way. 
I especially relish the leeway that my new age gives me to be publicly intoxicated. I can tailgate without fear. I can rally with total immunity in any alley I desire. All I have to do is make sure that I don't do anything stupid. If I can somehow avoid steal­ing a Papa John's delivery car or falling off of a balcony at College Park, I should be hunky dory. That being said, a license to be publicly drunk is just about the only benefit I can see right now to being legal. Other than that this is a very scary time to be reaching manhood. Or, in my case, thinly-veiled womanhood. 
As you're reading this, either American troops are preparing to turn Baghdad into a sheet of glass or Saddam Hussein and his sons are in the middle of a ferocious conga line on a one-way Carnival cruise to Rio. Personally, I hope it's the latter. Don't get me wrong -I'm no 
There's been some talk that the draft may be reinstated. This would not be surprising, as George W. Bush seems to have made it his personal goal to end civilization as we know it. Normally, I would have no problem following the President into battle, but this president in particular doesn't inspire confidence, due most­ly to the fact that he looks, acts and talks like a ventriloquist's dummy. Watch closely during the next press conference. I swear to God you can see Dick Cheney's lips move a little while Bush is talking. I keep waiting for the podium to fall over only to reveal Donald Rumsfeld with his hand up Bush's nether region, expertly working the controls. 
I have no problem with war, as long as I'm not the one actually fighting it. I'm a lover, not a fighter. Plus, I bruise like a peach, and l have a feel­ing that a direct impact from a Scud missile would bruise the hell out of me. So, as much as I love my country, if I do happen to get drafted one of these days, I'll be in Windsor faster than you can say "draft dodger," whistling "O Canada" while a stripper pulls dollar bills out of my unzipped fly with her teeth. 
I feel especially bad for my ROTC friends. I suspect that the free educa­tion is looking less attractive by the minute. Ironically, Notre Dame is perfect training for life on the front lines, what with segregation of the sexes, harsh weather conditions and rectors. We could ship Pasquerilla 
West to Baghdad tomorrow -the 
girls would feel right at home. 
If the war does start, as most peo­ple think it will, tonight at 8 p.m., it's scary to think that seniors in ROTC could be shipping out after gradua­tion. One day you're at Finnigan's trying to coax a girl you're not even that attracted to back to your apart­ment; two weeks later you're ducking bullets in some godforsaken desert. This is what we call surreality. 
Of course, even those opposed to the war have to acknowledge that they support our brave men and women of the armed forces. Although, let's not mince words here. As brave as our troops are, the real brave ones are the Iraqi troops. America has the greatest, most domi­nating arsenal the world has ever seen. Iraq has some guy named Khalim with a rusty AK-47 and a hand-me-down helmet. That guy is brave. He has a snowball's chance in hell of surviving a fight with us. 
Twelve years ago, Saddam promised the "mother of all wars." Today, what he's gonna get is the "mother of all heinie-whoopings." God bless the USA. 
Joe Muto is a junior majoring in F1T and English. Contact him at jmuto@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Helena Payne Joe Trombello Mike Chambliss 
Viewpoint 
Claire Kelley 
Graphics 
Katie McKenna 
Sports 
Chris Federico Pat Leonard 
Scene 
Maria Smith 
Lab Tech 
Chip Marks 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
What effect do you think the change in the alcohol policy has had on campus life? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It is only those who have neither fired a shot nor heard the shrieks and groans ofthe wounded who cry aloud for blood, more vengeance, more desolation. War is hell." 
William Tecumseh Sherman Civil War general 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, March 19, 2003 
Let the games begin 
You sit there, head down, looking at your hands as if to 
learn once again that they can move on your command. 
They are cold and clammy but still sweating profusely even 
amidst your constant rubbing of the two together. 
Nervously looking around the room, you realize that you're 
not the only one among your group who 
is nervous. Anxious glances and wor­
ried eyes can be seen from everyone. Adam Cahill 
Silence envelopes the room to the 
point of pure insanity. Leaving you 
alone to your thoughts, the time passes A Domer's 
slower than you ever thought possible. 
Outlook
Silently you plead to those around you 
to say something. Anything. Please!? 
Anyone. Talk. 
No one answers your call though, and the tension in the 
room grows exponentially. A quick glance to the front of 
the room ends your madness. Coach has come into the 
room silently, pensively a few moments before and all eyes 
focus on him, calling for help. He starts talking and the 
sudden break in silence makes his words mix together 
incomprehensively in your head. You look around to see if 
anyone else is as confused as you. Relief comes when you 
seemingly aren't the only confused person in the room. 
The longer he talks the more you begin to understand his 
words and the chicken scratch he's scribbling on the.board. 
Hours of practice rush back to you like a wave on some far 
away beach. Man, it'd be nice to be there, you think. 
Silently you scream to yourself to stop it. It's time to con­
centrate now. You need to be ready for yourself, your 
school and, most especially, for your coach and teammates. 
You try and pull focus back to the board only to observe 
Coach putting the cap back on the marker while looking 
down at the floor, seemingly gathering his thoughts. Fellas, 
he says, you all know who we are, what we're doing here, 
but if you want to win this game, there are a few things you 
should know. One, as he pauses for dramatic effect, nothing 
except the team you've become during the season matters 
now. The wins, the losses, the celebrations and heartbreaks 
don't matter at all. But the people you've become because 
of those same situations is going to make the difference. 
Believe in each other and there's nothing you can't accom­
plish. 
Continuing to talk, Coach is starting to get fired up and 
you can tell the rest of the team is getting antsy. His face is 
getting red and sweat forms on his brow. After a while, his 
normal voice rises into a yell. You can feel the energy from 
his passionate speech and hope that your teammates do as 
well. Jittery twitches and active body languages make it 
evident that everyone just wants to get out of the room and 
onto the floor. 
A few final remarks from him and the team collapses together into a team prayer. Silence swallows the room again, but this time you can hear something different. It starts out as a low, far-away murmur and grows into a pul­sating roar, rattling the overhead lights in the locker room. 
Heart racing and stomach in your throat, you mouth the prayer like you've done so many times before. This one is different, though. You can feel the desperate nervousness in the room. Wandering eyes and sweaty palms are all over the place. And suddenly you feel an overwhelming emotion come over you. Something you've rarely felt and never before at this level of intensity. 
You finally succumb to your teammates. You've been through so much together. All the sweat, all the blood, all the joys, all the tears come rushing over you like a storm. Prohibitions and barriers are now gone. You know you would walk through hell for them and they would do the same for you. Heading out the locker room door, you know this is what sport is all about. Love. Passion. Commitment. Sacrifice. Camaraderie. 
Moving your way down the tunnel to the court, the crowd's roar becomes deafening. Bands. Fans. Television cameras. Announcers. You can feel it in the air. You've been waiting for this moment all your life. I was born for this. 
Scenes from Hoosiers flow through your head as you jog onto the floor. You ask yourself. are we Hickory or the white team no one remembers as South Bend Central? It doesn't matter, you decide. Whether you end up as a Cinderella story at the end of the day or as the team nobody remembers, it doesn't matter. Right now, all that matters is that you have the opportunity to do something about your dreams. Anything is possible. 
Yes, this is a special time of year. It's time for March Madness. The impossible is now possible. Let the games begin. 
Adam Cahill is a junior majoring in history and American studies. His column appears every other Wednesday. Contact him at acahill@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
United States is abandoning principles in war with Iraq 
There's a gag line you hear occasionally on on this earth." The Simpsons. Homer catches himself doing an The same could be said of the notion that honest day's work or in some way acting nobly countries ought to wage best-guess wars and wails, ''I've become everything I ever against any neighbor they are convinced hated!" intends them harm. Only God can know 
Listening to President Bush the future, yet implicit in the doc-explain his decision to order trine of preemptive war is a 
U.S. troops into Iraq, one belief that someone on the wonders if he isn't trans-White House payroll forming the United abandoning the principles ..,. knows with certainty States into something ................ our country wa.s founded on......,..•,.:.:::flfiit. what bad acts will be 
~l~~~~~:~e~~v:nd Ai;:t:~;1::[~::i;~1l;~~t1~l!'.l;~;:r~;.:;\,. -·~~:;~I:~~;j;;;:;i:f~~~~~-··;::·:;:::r.::::::~~~ ~~:w
C~~dm~~t~dh~C:,0 that is, an arro-·. · else to justify met­gant bully without ing out advance respect for the punishment law or concern today? for the opinions The president of others. warns us that 
In issuing his waiting to 48 hour ultima-. , respond to ter­tum Monday ·, ·· g. rorists or ''terror night, not unlike ··~ states" until after an Old \Vest E:).~""--~. they've acted sheriff ordering •-· . (a.k.a waiting for a the bad guys to ;,:·.· ,:K-,,··'$;·-,x:~ .--. ---~-crime to be com­
~;,;;,d;fi;2~•of ;;/i{)·•;il p~I;~:=~£1f~~l~f~~­
Texas alluded to only then administering nations in the 20th cen-punishment) is not self­tury appeasing murder-defense, it is suicide. The ous dictators "whose alternative path he has cho­threats were allowed to grow sen is called homicide. into genocide and global war." A philosopher familiar to most on 
It's hard to see how the United this campus was once quoted as asking, Nations has been "appeasing" Saddam Hussein "What will it profit a man if he gains the whole the last decade-plus with its no-fly zones, star-world but loses his soul?" l can't help but won­vation-grade trade sanctions, inspectors comb-der about the net cost of our ridding the world ing the cities and countryside and demands to of a brutal dictator but abandoning our princi­dismantle missiles. pies to get the job done. 
As for the present century, Mr. Bush specu­lates that any hint of appeasement toward a Ed Cohen regime suspected to possess nuclear, chemical staff or biological weapons (other than us) "could Granger, Indiana bring destruction of a kind never before seen March 18 
Protestors are uninformed 
I just walked through Parliament Square in the heart of London, from where I now send these observations. It is a heady time here, and today especially the air is pregnant with tension and anxiety. Beside the massive statue of Churchill, along one side of Parliament Square park, numerous protesters have joined the long­standing demonstration there. 
Soft, hazy light filters through the thin clouds, across the face of Westminster Abbey, whose bells ring the bedlam of protest to a weird, sub­dued fever. Across the street, beneath Big Ben and deep within the massive Palace of Westminster, Tony Blair addresses a packed House of Commons. Blair and the protesters are physically separated by no more than Parliament Street -but stare at each other across a gaping moral void. 
As I stare at the protesters holding signs which read "Don't Invade Iraq" and "Defend Civil Liberties -Stop Racism." I do not pay any heed to the innumerable idiotic signs and state­ments, so quixotic as to be unintelligible, and I can only shake my head. The scene would be laughable, if the stakes and the scope of these protesters' ignorance were not so damnably tragic. 
Here we have people calling the Prime Minister's policies "racist" and against "civil lib­erties" -where were they when Hussein raped. murdered and gassed his own people and his neighbors over long decades? If there were any credence to these protests, why did not anyone protest Hussein's treatment of his people? Why do they reserve their deepest distrust for the United Kingdom and the United States? 
These protesters decry the "massacres" and "genocide" they accuse us of planning. They evi­dently paid no heed to the Afghanistan War; they know little to nothing of recent history. And again -why do they not protest the mas­sacres which we all know have taken place? 
All the arguments for war, as a sad necessity in the national interest, are now all but moot; but the morality of our undertaking must finally be proclaimed loudly. in the streets of Britain and America. These chic "Greens" activists, who have not informed themselves of the history of the matter, must not be allowed to slander our nations, without opposition. 
Across the street, Blair offers moral and politi• cal arguments for war. And every single argu­ment being offered in the Commons debate regards the morality of war. Let the protesters watch an intelligent and informed debate, which keeps in perspective the character of our nations, and let them take heed. And may God bless the American and British men in the Persian Gulf. 
Padraic McDermott 
junior London March 18 

I. OTHE 
BSERVER 



The Center for Social Concerns ·sends students across the c~ East Harlem to Toronto to the Coachella Valley, for spring b 
lems facing the United States. 
By MARIA SMITH 

The seminars were largely organized 
Scene Editor 

by students, although the CSC endeav­ored not to let the project become too 
What could be better than spending great a drain on students' time. your spring break in sunny Florida or "We had lots of help from the CSC Mexico? staff," said Michael Poffenberger, one of 
For some students, spending it in two student coordinators for the sunny West Virginia covered with paint Washington Seminar. would be. So said sophomore Brendan While the Appalachia Seminar exam­O'Neill, who spent his break in ining religious, social, political and 
Appalachia working on houses, playing environmental issues across five basketball with local kids and trying out Appalachian states is the largest and his grandma's chili recipe for the first most well-known of the seminars. the time on one of the Center for Social CSC also sends students to a variety of 
Concern's seven Social Concerns other locations. Seminars. The Washington Seminar, "Christian "It's always nice to go to Florida, but Response to a Violent World," examined 
we had great weather in Charleston Christian ways to deal with conflict in a too," said O'Neill. "It was a great time violent world. Students met with presti­for new friendships, a lot of fun and a gious minds such as George Wiegel,lot of laughs." author of "A Witness to Hope: The 
Social Concerns Seminars are becom­Biography of Pope John Paul II." ing increasingly popular way for Notre "We gelled really well together early Dame students to spend their spring on," said coordinator Andrew DeBerry.breaks, both to do service and make "Because we had that kind of relation­new friends. This year, the CSC had a ship, it made respectful but intense dia­record number of students apply for logues possible." seminars with over four times as many Living the Gospel of Life Seminar, also students applying than were accepted located in Washington, focused on pro­for some seminars. Around 200 stu­life issues such as abortion, euthanasia, dents were accepted to participate in the death penalty, cloning and stern cell these one-credit service seminars. research. Students met with groups 
The Social Concerns Seminars are such as the National Right to Life and 
built around a variety of national and the U.S. Bishops' Conference working international issues. Students are on the issues. The seminar was in its Seminar in New York City visited experiences in a region that is not onlyimmersed in the environment of a first year after being postponed last fall schools in East Harlem and other neigh­99 percent Hispanic but also one of the migrant worker, a New York City child due to the sniper attacks. borhoods, which are home to children poorest in the country. or other situations with a small group of "It went really well," said student below the national poverty line. The ..The point of the seminar is to give

other students to learn about the caus­organizer Bryan Haffey. "Things ran groups spoke with representatives from students an experience of the increas­es, realities and potential solutions of very smoothly." the UN and UNICEF about what to do ing Hispanic presence in the Catholic some of the most serious social prob-Students in the Children and Poverty for children in poverty. The group also church," said coordinator Kevin 
spoke with the founder, co-founder and executive director of World Hunger Year about how initiatives in the area work. 
"One highlight of the trip was defi­nitely the Cornelia Connelly Center for Education, a Catholic girls' middle school." said senior Megan Anderson. "It was great to see a supportive faculty 
,· :I for the girls, and to see how the teach­
'/ ers respected the kids." The students in the Migrant Seminar traveled to lmmokalee, Fla. to work with migrant workers in the farming community that produces almost 80 percent of the nation's tomatoes. The group toured a farm, went to a packing plant, picked tomatoes and looked at services for child and health care in the area. 

"It's so easy to look at simpie things like tomatoes or clothes, things we rely on, and forget the people who make that possible," said freshman Alicia Lachiondo. "It's an eye-opening experi­ence to see how amazing and coura­geous people have to be to get up and do that every day." 
The CSC's two smallest seminars sent 
students to the Coachella Valley in 
California and to Toronto. 
Photo courtesy of Kevin Sandberg 
The Holy Cross Mission in Hispanic
Notre Dame student Matt Mitchell picks strawberries In Coachella Valley In 
Ministry Seminar helped students learn 
southern California on the Holy Cross Mission In Hispanic Ministry Seminar. 
about the culture, religious and work 



O
THE 
BSERVER 
us 

Wednesday, March 19, 2003 page 13 

d 
ontinent, from ,reak service 

Sandberg, a Notre Dame stuaent working on a Masters of Divinity. 
Students in the L'Arche Seminar lived and worked in a community for adults with mental disabilities and developmental challenges. The stu­dents helped with painting and clean­ing projects and observed what life was like for many of the older resi­dents of the community. 
"It's all about living in a community," said director Marisa Runkel. "Everybody is codependent and needs the other person." 
The L'Arche center is the oldest of many similar communities worldwide, several of which offer opportunities for students to work and travel in other countries. Notre Dame graduates John Guido and Liska Steskl currently work at the community in Toronto, and many students go on to work in other communities in Rome, England and Ireland after graduation. 
"It's a great opportunity for students who want to travel abroad and have a job," said Hunke!. "It's a great way to learn a language as well." 
As the popularity of the Social 
Concerns Seminars increases, stu­
dents hope the program will continue 
to expand. 
"It's a great thing to see people real­
ly knowledgeable and willing to 
learn." said Stephen Keppel, student 
coordinator for the Children and Poverty Seminar. "I hope it's something that just continues and gets bigger in the future." 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of Brenden O'Neill 

tk from work for a paint fight. Many stu­
lce. 
Irish 
elodies 
Two ofNotre Dame S most famous musicians invite students to audition for their newest CD 
By MARIA SMITH 
Scene Editor 

Tim and Ryan O'Neill have come a long way since performing an ode to Patty O'Hara set to the music of Billy Joel at the 1994 Keenan Revue. 
In the years since their humble premier, the brothers have per­formed for prestigious audiences. including former President George Bush in March 2002. They were also featured on the season finale of "Sex and the City" in February of 2002, playing a rendition of "Sweet Charlotte" and an original lullaby for Miranda. They have released 16 CDs and sold over 700,000 copies nation­wide. 
The O'Neills share a love of piano, singing, Irish music and. above all. their alma mater. "A Notre Dame Experience," their 2000 release. fea­tures many of the piano duets of Notre Dame favorites that play in the bookstore and around campus. 
In addition to their duets and solo work. the brothers enjoy the chance to work with other members of the Notre Dame musical com­munity. Before recording "A Notre Dame Experience," the O'Neills held a contest to choose a student to perform on their CD. 
Contest winner Emmeline Schoen, now a senior Liberal Studies major, was selected to record her origi­nal piece "At the Grotto" for the album. 
"The entry was supposed to be anything about the Notre -Dame experience," said Schoen. "My music is very mellow and meditative, so I wrote a piece about one of my favorite places on campus." 
Schoen flew to Minneapolis to record her piece in the O'Neill brothers' studio for their private record label, Shamrock-n­Roll records. 
"It was really neat, I got a full afternoon in the record­ing studio and my own time to work with the sound engi­neer," said Schoen. "The O'Neills were very enthusi­astic and supportive." 
This fall the brothers will release another tribute to Notre Dame. "Here Come the 1rish," their latest proj­ect, will be a collection of classic Irish tunes performed by the O'Neills and other Notre Dame musicians. 

"This is going to be hugely promot­ed in the fall," said Tim O'Neill. "Everyone on campus is going to know about this CD." 
The brothers are once again hold­ing a contest for any student who plays a traditional Irish instrument or who has composed an original song or set of lyrics about Notre Dame to contribute to the CD. Interested students are invited to send a miniature biography and some musical ideas to Tim O'Neill at tim@pianobrothers.com by April 1. The brothers will either select a musician to perform on the album or select a song not performed by the composer to record themselves. 
"It's a wonderful opportunity to get a glimpse into the professional music and recording world," said Schoen. "It's been cool, I've definitely heard my song playing as I've shopped at the bookstore." 
Among the other featured musi­cians will be Notre Dame alumnus Steve Wehmeyer and his band "Gaelic Storm," who performed in the 1997 hit "Titanic." The band can be both seen and heard in the steer­age scene. 
joHn Kennedy of Kennedy's Kitchen, who performs frequently at Fiddler's Hearth in downtown South Bend and weekly at Lula's Cafe, will also perform on the CD, as well as Notre Dame alumni David James and Sean Ryan. 
"The O'Neill brothers are great ambassadors for Notre Dame," said Jim O'Connor, head of publicity for the new CD at the Notre Dame Bookstore. "And their interest is in more than just selling albums. Giving a student a chance to record profes­sionally is a great thing." 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 

Wednesday, March 19, 2003 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 

Nets hang on to first place with win over Celtics 
ready for Wednesday night's
. Jefferson leads 
game at Indiana.New Jersey with Jefferson also scored 27 27 points points against San Antonio on 
Nov. 13. He had 12 in the sec­ond quarter Tuesday and put Associated Press the Nets ahead to stay with an 18-footer that made it 34-32 
BOSTON with 7:03 left in the period. 
Richard Jefferson and the "At the beginning, they were New Jersey Nets are rolling playing five feet off Kenyon again at the right time. and me," he said. 
With the Atlantic Division "Immediately, we got the 
lead in jeopardy, Jefferson mindset [that) we have to be matched his career-high with aggressive." 27 points and the Nets held on Jason Kidd matched his sea­to first place with an 87-74 son high with 13 rebounds to win over the Boston Celtics on go with seven assists and nine Tuesday night. points. 
The Nets are 3-1 in their last The Nets began to take con­four games after struggling trol late in the second quarter. through a 1-7 slump. In his They scored 15 consecutive 
previous 10 games, Jefferson  "This is huge. People had  points -the last nine of the second  
averaged only 11.5 points and hit 33 percent of his shots.  really started to talk bad about us and write us ,ff .. OJJ·  and the first six of the third -to increase their lead from 46­ 
"This is huge. People had really started to talk  Richard Jefferson Nets forward  43 to 61-43. Martin started the surge with  
bad about us  two  free  

and write us off," Jefferson throws and Lucious Harris hit said. a jumper. Kidd then made a 3­
He was 11-of-20 from the pointer and Harris ended the field as the Nets remained a half with another jumper. half-game ahead of Jefferson started the second Philadelphia in the division half with a 15-footer, Kerry and moved three games in Kittles added a 21-footer and front of third-place Boston. Martin sank two free throws. 
"He was aggressive. It's The 15-point streak was bro­about time," said Kenyon ken when Tony Battie hit a Martin, whose 22 points gave foul-line jumper with 10:00 New Jersey's starting forwards left in the third quarter. a total of 49. "That's the way I expect him to play. I'm not 
Detroit 94, Washington 90 
surprised." 
Ben Wallace blocked Michael 
Jefferson and Martin also Jordan's first and last shots.
played tight defense on Paul 
He made a flying out-of­
Pierce, who scored 23 points, bounds save on the first pos­and Antoine Walker, who had 
session of overtime, and he 
14. 
ended the game by stealing an
"We're not executing our 
inbounds pass. 
game plan when we play a 
And, by the way. he became team like New Jersey," Pierce the first player in five years to 
said. "For some reason, they 
have our number." 
straight games.
The Nets beat the Celtics last 
Wallace finished with 20 
Thursday in New Jersey, 90­
rebounds and seven blocks,
75, but Boston came back to and Richard Hamilton hurt his 
beat Eastern Conference former team's playoffleader Detroit on Saturday. 
prospects by scoring six of his But the Celtics shot only 3-of­
16 points in overtime as the
20 from 3-point range against 
Detroit Pistons beat the 
the Pistons and were 1-for-21 Washington Wizards. 
against the Nets. 
''I've run out of adjectives to 
"Every game is important. 
describe what he's doing right 
This is a big loss for us," 
now," Detroit coach Rick Walker said. "We had an 
Carlisle said. "When you play
opportunity to help ourselves 50 minutes and get 20 out in the standings." rebounds and seven blocked Pierce didn't return after shots, that's a man's man." 
spraining his left ankle with Chauncey Billups scored 26 seven seconds left in the third points for the Pistons, who quarter. broke a six-game road losing 
"It's feeling all right," said streak. Reserve Corliss Pierce. who expects to be Williamson scored 12 of his 16 
points in the fourth quarter, and Detroit's bench outscored Washington's 38-5. 
Jerry Stackhouse scored 28 points and Jordan had 23 for the Wizards, but both were silent in overtime until Stackhouse's runner in the dying seconds. 
The Wizards, who fell back into a tie with Milwaukee for eighth place in the Eastern Conference, now leave for a six-game West Coast trip that will likely decide their season. Washington is 9-21 on the road. 
"I'm glad it's here," guard Larry Hughes said. "If this is it, then everybody understands that. We've talked about it long enough." 
Wallace appeared out of nowhere to stuff Jordan's layup from behind to start the game, and swatted the ball away when Jordan tried a spin move in traffic in the final minute of overtime with the Wizards trailing by three. Jordan complained that no foul was called. 
"I didn't think it was a foul, but that it's Mike, he usually gets that call," Wallace said. "That just compliments us playing hard. Never concede anything -making them make tough plays and making them make tough shots. 
"I got all of it. The ball ain't went nowhere toward the bas­ket, so something got all of that." 
Jordan also had two turnovers on bad passes in overtime, but he felt he should have been shooting free throws after Wallace's block. 
"I was just trying to make contact and get to the free­throw line," Jordan said. "They saw it as a block. But I'm not the referee. They didn't call it, and that's the way it goes." 

grab 20 rebounds in four 

In  his  last  four  games,  
Wallace  has  21  rebounds  
against  the  Los  Angeles  
Lakers,  24  against  the  

Wizards, 21 against Boston and 20 against the Wizards again. The last player with four straight 20-rebound games was Dennis Rodman in the 1997-98 season. 
"It's kind of hard to expect 20 rebounds out of someone every night," Detroit center Clifford Robinson said. "But he does a really good job of mak­ing you expect it." 
76ers 103, Heat 83 
Allen Iverson and the Philadelphia 76ers just keep rolling along. 
Iverson scored 32 points and the 76ers kept pace with the Nets in the Atlantic Division by coasting to a victory over the Miami Heat. 


The Sixers, 15-2 since the All-Star break, stayed a half­game behind New Jersey for first place in the Atlantic Division, improving to 40-26. Philadelphia shot 56 percent and never led by fewer than eight points in the second half. 
"We've just been playing good team basketball, and our chemistry is a lot better when we understand what we want to do and how we want to score night in and night out," Iverson said. "It doesn't really matter if we play a good team or a bad team. We just want to rack up as many wins as we can." 
Iverson, averaging 32.1 points in his last eight games. went 13-of-25 from the field to go along with six assists. It was his 29th game this season with 30 or more points. 
Keith Van Horn scored 17 points and Kenny Thomas added 16 for the Sixers, who completed a four-game season sweep of the Heat. 
"It was a good win for us," Sixers coach Larry Brown said. "Any time you win on the road, you have to be happy." 
Miami continued its descent toward the draft lottery. The Heat have lost six of seven overall and five straight at home. 

Rookie Caron Butler scored a season-high 26 points and was the Heat's only starter to reach double figures in scor­ing. 
Minnesota 96, Memphis 80 

Kevin Garnett's case for MVP continues to get stronger. 
Garnett made eight consecu­tive field goals in the second half and finished with 29 points and 19 rebounds as the Minnesota Timberwolves ended the Memphis Grizzlies' six-game winning streak, 
Garnett, who shot just 5-for­15 in the first half, made nine of 11 shots after the break as the Wolves beat the Grizzlies for the eighth consecutive time. It was Garnett's 18th consecutive double-double and his NBA-best 59th of the sea­son. 
Even the Grizzlies were defending Garnett's MVP cre­dentials. 
"That's an MVP right there," said Shane Battier, who led Memphis with 18 points. "He came back in the game and hit some big buckets for them. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
DOMUS PROPERTIES· HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR· WELL MAIN­TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS-STU• DENT NEIGHBORHOODS-SECU­RITY SYSTEMS-MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL-WASHERS/DRYERS CALL TODAY-HOUSES GOING FAST!!! -CONTACT KRAMER (547) 
315-5032 OR (574) 234-2436 • ALSO LEASING FOR 2004-2005 
VISIT OUR WEBSITES @ 
DOMUSKRAMER.COM 
STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE 3-4 ORS PERSON 2 STORY. 8 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW EVERYTHING. WIRED FOR COMPUTERS ECT. AVAIL SUMMER OR FALL. 
235-3655 

FOR RENT 
Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus. mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 www.mmmrentals.com 
B&B for ND grad close ND 4 Rooms Best area 287-4545. 
HOUSE AVAILABLE tum. 4b2ba, walk to campus. jo5225@aol.com 
Summer Sub-lease 1 bedroom apartment-fully furnished-cable t.v.• 5 minutes from campus/good neighborhood. $350 a month. Call 229-1691 
3-4 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR RENT: CALL Anlan Properties, LLC 532-1896 
LEASE TO OWN 3 Bedroom, $1,500 down, minor fixer, owner will carry, easy qualifying. 574-876--0690 
PERSONAL 
Unplanned pregnancy? 
Don t go it alone. 

If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. 
For more information, see our bi­weekly ad in The Observer. 
ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE Are you pregnant and dont know what to do? Loving, open-hearted, tinan­cially stable woman would like to consider adopting a baby. Free counseling, living expenses and medical expenses. This can be a good thing for you and your baby. Discreet and legal. Call 904-824-7006. 
Are you serious Clark? 
Shut up Burgle!!! 
I shoulda just said, "Yeah.· 
Wednesday, March 19, 2003 

The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NBA 

Hill undergoes fourth ankle surgery 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. 
Grant Hill had surgery on his left ankle for the fourth time Tuesday. Doctors are confi­dent he will play again but there is no timetable for his return. 
The Orlando Magic star's heel was reshaped to realign his left leg during the opera­tion at Duke Medical Center in Durham. N.C. 


Got a lot to say1 
Unlimited PCS to PCS Calling511 
500Anytime Minutes/$45amonth 
Plan includes: 
•
Unlimited PCS to PCS Calling"' 

•
Unlimited Night & Weekend Minutes 



¦ Nationwide Long Distance Every minute, every day. 
Available on calls from anywhere on our nationwide PCS network. With atwo•year PCS Advantage Agreement. 
~Sprint 
.Sprint Store· 
1111f/lCSC.,,., 
;;;'\ The Sprint Store At 
~ RadioShack. 
Surgeons also removed three 
screws from previous surgery 
as well as some bone. A steel 
plate was inserted to reinforce 
the stress fracture. 
The heel will take three weeks to heal and Hill expects to be on crutches until late June at the earliest. 
Magic general manager John Gabriel was pleased with the outcome. 
"We're hopeful for Grant's recovery and return to basket­ball," he said. "The prognosis on his return will be based on 

a re-evaluation of the repaired 
areas in the future." 
The 30-year-old forward has missed nearly 200 games since signing a $93 million contract with the Magic three years ago. He sustained a stress fracture in 2000 while playing for Detroit. 
Dr. James Nunley, Hill's sur­geon Tuesday, thinks one rea­son the stress fracture has not healed is because of a mis­aligned leg. 
"We found no reason why Grant Hill will not be able to 
! 

play basketball again for the Orlando Magic," Nunley said. "His bone had good strength and good blood supply and we felt good about how the surgery proceeded. 
..Although I feel like he will play basketball again, there is no time frame at the present to when he will be able to return to play." 
Hill was placed on the injured list in January after playing just 29 games. He averaged 14.5 points, 7 .1 rebounds and 4.2 assists. 
Indiana  Indiana  Indiana  
Elkhart  Kokomo  Warsaw  
422 East Bristol St.  Kokomo Plaza  Next to Wal-Mart  
574-264-4100  621 South Reed Rd.  2580 Walton Blvd.  
765-452-6500  574·268-9899  
Fort Wayne  
Coldwater Crossing  Marion  Ohio  
5525 Coldwater Rd.  3022 South Western Ave.  Findlay  
260-482·7271  765-668-0000  2018 Tiffin Ave.  
419·423-9500  
Fort Wayne  South Band  
Covington Plaza  State Road 23 & Ironwood Dr.  Lime  
6336 West. Jefferson Blvd.  2035 South Bend Ave.  3215 Elida Rd.  
260-436-1445  574-277-7727  419-331-9596  
Fort Wayne  Wanaw  
Jefferson Pointe  Woodland Plaza  
4120 West. Jefferson Blvd.  3638 East Commerce Or.  
260-434-9100  574-269-5001  

PCS Business Sales: 1-866-5-SPRINT (866-577-7468) 
orL:lce
fi!i\Hd·M 

.DIIP02"
llflllViililQl,M,.,'"1illOC4•~ 

Elkhart, IN 

will help. 
reg."ffiiS. 
Novv FREE 
after $100 mail-in rebate with activation of anew line of service. 
PCS Phone by l(vocera• tmodel 2345) 
Mishawaka, IN 

Accent Communications ABC Warehouse 
574-295-2220 574-273-0808 
Fort Wayne, IN New Haven, IN 
Digital Wireless Corp. Cabinet Concepts 
260-744-6811 260-748-1010 
Fort Wayne, IN New Haven, IN 
LS. Ayres Overman Telephone Services 260-484-1561 260-493-7575 
Fort Wayne, IN South Bend, IN 
Wireless Allstars University Park Mall Kiosk 260-436-9595 . -574-272-7727 
Fort Wayne, IN South Bend, IN 
Wireless Allstars Sara, INCJUS 31 Tobacco 260-485-1400 Outlet 574·272·7727 
Fort Wayne, IN Wireless Toyz Niles.Ml 260·458-8100 Wireless Land 
269-687-9280 

t!lRfTZ CAMERA 
HMH¼i 

Nationwide network reaches more then 230 million people. Service Plaa: Offer ends 3/29/03 Subject to credit. $150 early termination fee and a nonrefundable phone activation fee apply. Depending on credit: {a) select Affiliate markets may require an initial prepayment for services. and lb) a $125 to $250 deposit may apply. ½ice usage rounded to next YAiole minute. Taxes. surcharges (lflClud1ng a USF charge of 1.33%, E911 cost recovery fee of 1%_and a numbe~ 
oling cost recoveiy fee of $047) or other fees that vary by marlult not included. Night & Weekend Minutes: Monday-Thursday 9pm-7am and Friday 9pm-Morday 7am_ l~tuded minutes are not good for .calls made wlnle roaming_ 0 :rnetwork. whether local or long-distance. Domestic roaming calls are charged SO.SO per minute and. if applicable. an additional $0.25 ~ m111ute for long distance. Mad-in Rebate: Ofrer may not be available in all ~rke~ Requir: purchase of a new PCS Phone by 3/29/03 and activation by 4/13/03 on a PCS Cor&imer Service Plan with a new PCS Phone Number. Savings may not ellCeed purchase price of ~ne Offers sub~ to change Without notice. ~ not combina~e with other offers. Restrictions apply Copyright ©2003 Sprint Spectrum LP. All rights reserved. Sprint, the diamord logo and all other Spnnt marks are trademarks of Spnnt Commumcatoos Company L.P 
NHL 
San Jose says bye to GM 
. Lombardi fired after leading team out of doldrums 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, Calif. 

The San Jose Sharks fired general manager Dean Lombardi on Tuesday, cap­ping their disappointing cam­paign with a complete over­haul of an organization that won the Pacific Division last season. 
Lombardi, who transformed the Sharks from NHL laugh­ingstocks to Stanley Cup con­tenders during seven seasons in charge, was abruptly fired by owner Greg Jamison. Assistant general manager Wayne Thomas will run the club's day-to-day operations until a successor is named. 
The shocking move was made three weeks before the close of the Sharks' first regu­lar season in six years in which they won't improve their points total from the previous season. San Jose is 26-33-6-7 this season, last in the division and 13th in the Western Conference. 
"This season has been a struggle and clearly has not progressed as any of us expected." Jamison said in a statement. "We feel this move is a necessary step in return­ing the San Jose Sharks to the postseason next year." 
Lombardi, generally consid­ered one of hockey's brightest young executives, took over the Sharks late in the 1995­96 season. He hired coach Darryl Sutter and acquired almost every player on the Sharks' current roster. 
As the Sharks struggled this season, Lombardi fired Sutter and traded Marcus Ragnarsson, Jeff Jillson, Niklas Sundstrom, Owen Nolan, Bryan Marchment and Matt Bradley, but the team never turned things around. 
Jamison, who leads a group of investors that purchased the team last season, appar­ently believed the Sharks' above-average payroll was too much to spend for a non­contending team. No other changes were made to the Sharks' hockey operations. 
While Lombardi's player evaluation skills and deal­making abilities were com­mended, the Sharks seemed to engage in more annual holdouts with their top play­ers than any other team. Lombardi claimed the hold­outs resulted from his attempts to stick close to a tight budget. 
Last fall, goalie Evgeni Nabokov and defenseman Brad Stuart held out through the start of the regular sea­son, which played a large role in the Sharks' slow start. 
When San Jose won just one of its first five games, Lombardi abruptly capitulat­ed to Nabokov's salary demands -but without par­ticipating in training camp, Nabokov started slowly and never got into top form this 
season. _________ _ 

page 16 

The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 19, 2003 
NIT 

Sweetney, Hoyas advance in NIT with victory 
. Center scores 1 7 points, grabs 14 boards in win 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. 
Georgetown coach Craig Esherick was glad he accepted a bid to the National Invitation Tournament this year. 
A year after declining an invitation, Mike Sweetney had 17 points and 14 rebounds and Ashanti Cook scored a career-high 16 points as the Hoyas beat Tennessee 70-60 in the first round of the NIT on Tuesday night. 
Georgetown rejected the bid last year because school offi­cials said they didn't want to travel very far or have the players miss more classes. Esherick had campaigned hard for an NCAA berth but didn't get one, and the deci­sion to shun the NIT caused a stir. 
"I accepted the invitation last year originally when we first were told who we were going to play, and actually put a tape of the team in my brief­case and was getting ready to leave the office," he said. "I should have left the office and maybe I wouldn't have gotten into the public relations diffi­culties I got into. But I don't want to revisit that. 
"But I'm very glad were playing the J\TIT and I wish we 

had been able to play in the record and a 7-9 SEC mark. NIT last year." Tennessee's Elgrace Wilborn 
The Hoyas (16-14) used a added six blocks and 11 12-1 run to begin the second rebounds. half to take the lead and kept 'Tve been in that positionthe Volunteers (17-12) from where you don't make the rallying. NCAA tournament and you 
Gerald Riley added 15 points think that you should have and Victor Samrick had 11 for been in the tournament or Georgetown, which advances thought you had a real good 
to a second-round game next chance of making the tourna­week. The date and opponent ment. Then as they say, yourhas yet to be determined. bubble has burst," Esherick 
Ron Slay. the Southeastern said. "That was a tough gameConference's player of the I'm sure for them." year, finished his career at Tennessee with 17 points. Siena 74, VIiianova 59 "I told Ron, 'I appreciate Siena wore down under­everything you've done for the manned Villanova with 3-point University of Tennessee and shooting by Austin Andrews 
the mens bas- and  Tommy 
ketball  pro­ Mitchell and  
gram,"'  •· ... I'm very glad we 're  pressure 
Tennessee coach Buzz Peterson said.  playing the NIT and I wish we had been able to  defenses defeat Wildcats  to the in  
"I said, 'Son,  play in the NIT last  the  first  
you've had a tremendous  year.··  round of the NIT.  
career and a  Siena  (20­ 
tremendous  Craig Esherick  10) advances  
year  coming  Hoyascoach  to  play  the  
off the  knee  winner  of  a  
injury. Don't  first-round  

let this one game disappoint game Wednesday between you."' 
Illinois-Chicago and Western Thaydeus Holden added 12, Michigan. Brandon Crump had 11 and Again having only seven 
C.J. Watson 10 for the Vols, players available because of 
who felt snubbed by the NCAA suspensions, Villanova led byselection committee because as many as 10 points in the they had a 9-7 SEC record. first half and was still even at 
Alabama made the tourna­42-42 with 12:15 to play. ment with the same overall But Andrews hit a 3-pointer, Mitchell two free throws and 
Andrews another 3-pointer to 
put Siena up 50-42. After a 
free throw by Curtis Sumpter, 
Siena's Prosper Karangwa hit 
another 3-pointer to put the 
Saints ahead by 10 with 8:59 
to play. 
Villanova never seriously 
threatened the rest of the way. 
Siena, only 2-13 in the first 
half on 3-pointers, was 8-10 in 
the second half on long-range 
shots. Mitchell, who had five 
3-point goals for the game, led 
Siena with 23 points while 
Michael Haddix scored 14 
points. 
Sumpter had 23 for Villanova. 
Villanova (15-16) ended a disappointing season that started with NCAA tournament hopes thanks to a strong incoming freshman class. The season turned especially sour on March 8, when 12 Wildcat players were suspended on a staggered basis from three to eight games for unauthorized use of a telephone access code. 
Boston College 90, Fairfield 78 
Troy Bell scored 28 points to lead Boston College past Fairfield in an NIT opening round game. 
The Eagles (19-11). who advanced to play Temple, also got 19 points from Craig Smith and 18 points from Jermaine Watson. 
Nick Delfico scored 14 points 

and Terrence Todd added 13 
points for Fairfield (19-12). 

Fairfield trailed 67-64 with 
eight minutes remaining and 
had a chance to Lie, but 
Michael Bell's 3-pointer 
missed the mark with the shot 
clock set to expire. The Stags 
never got closer than five 
points the rest of the way. 

Bell scored 10 points in less 
than four minutes in the sec­
ond half, including a 3-pointer 
with 4:11 remaining that ran 
the Eagles' lead to 77-68. 

North Carolina 83, DePaul 72 
David Noel scored a season­high 21 points and Rashad Mccants added 19 as North Carolina shot 64 percent from the floor in the second half to beat DePaul in the first round of the NIT. 
The Tar Heels (18-15), play­ing in the NIT for the first time in 29 years, overcame a dis­mal final eight minutes of the first half to advance to play the winner of the Wyoming­Eastern Michigan game, which was postponed until Thursday because of a snow storm. 
Noel, .a 6-foot-6 freshman, was 10-for-13 from the field and added a season-high 11 rebounds. His previous best scoring output was 19 against Duke on Feb. 5. 
It was the most points the Blue Demons (16-13) have given up since a 102-71 loss at Notre Dame on Dec. 14. 

~1fo/ftrESl>AY: 2s% offofall imprinted apparel and gifts at [?ffi;If;i\ji;•f the Bookstore 
,., ______________

f~WE:DNESDAY: FREE Powerbars and Powerade at Rolf's ~t.:et:{;:rI·v·\__ and the Rock 
~~-.:;:, ·-~; ~,-,~~· ' ..·-. . :.~·-:· -'. -..•.~ 1:::i...w:_,;~..:~.:-;. "'. . ;,. ­

\:-i/;;fl~lf:rHURSDAY: FREE SUB Movie:·''Die Another Day''
.~:J., _,-i-h::·,,t1.. ··~:•i·.~,; 

(?;·;·~"..J?RioAY: Ice Cream. Social during lunch and dinner at ·. }l{·J,J!.:: .· ..· · . · · · . · Dining Halls 
:/;".i~~(, · ALL WEEK~ 25·.%· offon all long sleeve
:,·'•/f';'.fY/\_c•.•. . . . .·· .•.,· .-., . . . •· .. ' , -~ 
Wednesday, March 19> 2003 page 17
The Observer. SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Gonzalez agrees to 3-year, $30M extension 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 

Luis Gonzalez and the Arizona Diamondbacks agreed Tuesday to a $30 million, three-year con­tract extension. 
It's a substantial raise for Gonzalez, a three-time All-Star and .316 hitter in his four years with the team. He will get $4 million for this year under his current contract. 
"The trade that was made to bring Luis here was an all-time deal for us," Diamondbacks owner Jerry Colangelo said. "Gonzo has become an icon." 
Gonzalez told agent Jeff Moorad that he didn't want to become a free-agent and that he wanted to stay with the Diamondbacks. Gonzalez gets a $250,000 signing bonus, $8.25 million in 2004, $10 million in 2005 and $11.5 million in 2006. The contract ii1cludes a mutual option for 2007 at $10 million 
"This gives me a lot of peace of mind," said Gonzalez, whose ninth-inning single against the Yankees' Mariano Rivera won the 2001 World Series. "Contracts are kind of always lying in the back of your mind, but now I can just let it go. I'm very excited today for myself and my family and I'm excited to put the uniform back on." 
Gonzalez and his wife, Christine, said they will give $1 million to as-yet unspecified charities. 
"Everyone in the whole state has treated me like part of their family. This is where I want to be," he said. 
Gonzalez separated his shoul­der chasing a ball in a September game against St. Louis when he collided with shortstop Tony Womack. He had surgery and wasn't available as the Diamondbacks lost in the first round of the playoffs. 

'Tm glad he's back because he's the anchor in the middle of our offense," manager Bob Brenly said. "He is the face of the Diamondbacks." 
Gonzalez said Arizona is where his career turned around and that he has no desire to play anywhere else. 
"This team gave me an oppor­tunity and my confidence peaked ever since," Gonzalez said. "I felt from the first day I walked into the clubhouse that I was wanted here." 
A journeyman outfielder when he came to Arizona in a trade from Detroit in 1998, Gonzalez hit .336 with 26 homers and 111 RBI in 1999 and .311 with 31 homers and 114 RBI in 2000. 
He batted .325 with 57 homers and 142 RBI in 2001, and last year his average dipped to .288 but he still led the team with 28 homers and 103 RBI. 

Selig cancels season-opening series in Japan 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 

Major league baseball can­celed the season-opening series in Japan between Seattle and Oakland because of the threat of war in Iraq. 
"Given the uncertainty that now exists throughout the world, we believe the safest course of action for the players involved and the many staff personnel who must work the games is to reschedule the opening series," commissioner Bud Selig said Tuesday. "It would be unfair and terribly unsettling for them to be half a world away -away from their families at this critical juncture." 
The teams were scheduled to leave Wednesday for games March 25-26 at the Tokyo Dome. 
Baseball opened its 2000 sea­son in Tokyo, with the New York Mets and Chicago Cubs playing two games. 
"I'm disappointed," said Athletics manager Ken Macha, who played four years in Japan and had looked forward to see­ing many friends. "The safety of 

the players going over there and 
the spectators is utmost. A lot of 
things do happen. 'Whoever fore­saw 9-11? Those people were just going to work. That was a huge wake-up call to this coun­try -anything can happen." 
Seattle's visit was highly antic­ipated because of two Japanese stars on the Mariners: Ichiro Suzuki and Kazuhiro Sasaki. Reliever Shigetoshi Hasegawa also is Japanese. It would have been the first time Seattle owner Hiroshi Yamauchi, who lives in 
CHEERLEADING ® ~~6.L¢ptt¢cbaun 
Tryouts 

/1~for1·nal INFORA,J-'4TION Meeti11g 
Wednesday, March 19,,2003 --5:30 pm Joyce Center Gym 2 -Above Gate 10 
:J 
Ask Questions 
:i 

1\Ieet this year's cheer team members· 
:J 
Evervone ,velcome 
"' 
::i 
Guys -No prior cbeerleading experience required -Clinics start 3/20/03 Gym 2 Joyce Center ::iTryouts 4/12/03 

Japan, saw his team play. Some players were reluctant to make the trip. 
"I don't like the idea of being out of the country when the country is going to war," Seattle first baseman John Olerud said. 
The games were rescheduled for April 3 and June 30 in Oakland. 
"With world tensions so high, this is the prudent course of action," union head Donald Fehr said. 
Baseball had already been planning to have the New York Yankees open the 2004 season in Japan, probably against Tampa Bay, Toronto or Baltimore. 
"I find it extremely unfortu­nate, but it's because of war and there is little we can do," Japanese baseball commissioner Hiromori Kawashima said. "Japanese baseball fans who were looking forward to the event must find it extremely dis­appointing." 
"It can't be helped," Moriyoshi Kaneko, a fishmonger in Tokyo. "I guess the threat of terrorism is frightening." 
Other sports also discussed contingency plans, but the NCAA said Tuesday that it would not change its schedule for the mens and womens basketball tourna­ments, which start this week. 
There also has been talk that NCAA games and other sports events might be moved from net­work television to cable if war breaks out in Iraq. 
Mariners reliever Jeff Nelson understood baseball's decision. 
"I think when you heard the president's speech yesterday, you were kind of wondering where we were going to be in that 48-hour deadline," he said. "We probably would have been halfway over to Japan and maybe they would have called us and told us to turn back. I'm dis­appointed. I wish that we would have gone. But obviously with the security and the safety rea­sons, there was no way we could go." 

I 

• 

I 
I JACC GateJ 2 Fr[day, ~ar01/21 !• 
• 

I I 
•
. I 
I

i$5pertLCket GamerB~at9.00 pm; i 
•

i{Limited;amowtt) I
• 
•
I 
•

i G~ I 
• I 
• 

I I I GirW aMIG~! I • 
• 

I I • 
• TLCke4 lOldtat Lev FortufteJ 8&µoff@ ~OtUiay-Thurw.aJ • 
I I
• (ShamrOCKI W RoiL-karMkh ~ • 
! 7n«nday 6pmi ~) ! 
L-~•-·-•-•-•-•-·-·-·-·~·-•~ 




page 18 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, March 19, 2003 

Reuters 

NCAA president Myles Brand announced the NCAA Tournament wlll go on as scheduled this week as the United States prepares for war In Iraq. 
Despite war, tournaments play on 
........•i,tt•••Cotd~~fic~.··••Att•tttlc··••o1vitlQt:1•···•······ 
teim···· ·· r~¢9r:q P9:ffi. tast}i> <GB /•• ·.·. 
·:::~:;t{a l[~f !!~I :t~> ;;.•. 
<<<:m:~ .•. . t:~I ii :l~~r ·.· j ~:: !~ i> 
:::=;:,.iiEIl;i!l:E ;:rnlll! rnrn IJliii:: 
. ..... .. . . .. 

Ji~:nm•·•·•·•·•·•···•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•· 
It •t~!!t}M:fiirn ••Jt:
lililll!iiJli!!t!lll~IW•:;:\il\lli •: :I ..,. \:,.. <· t 11,rn:~:·r
1/I~flilitfillffl!m: I@ •cal•~ fijJlifflijij\/i?h 
IttJtillltM~mlfl!!itlt•n,:: 
llll!!l!I'. 
Jfj}J~i:fffl~~~llfl:ffl(t••· 
. r n•••·••••mt:~y,::~r:::::
iiijlt!lii••l•••••::f:it•····•·••••••·:•.•·•• •·••·····•·•· •••1,irmw~,:~•••n
[tf
!, t!~r~~.AOa·~•·•••· •• •r2t ,~1•••14•::r
,r,,m»1e:•••••••·•·•···• :ffota.E•O.MWE Lt$=<> 
around the dial 
OPENING ROUND NIT TOURNAMENT 
Ohio St. at Georgia Tech 7 p.m., ESPN2 Nevada at Texas Tech 9:30 p.m., ESPN 

" NBA 
,I 
1" 
Celtics at. Pacers 7 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 
Sharks at Avalanche 9 p.m., ESPN 

NCAA BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS 
The NCAA will not post­pone the mens and wom­ens basketball tourna­ments if the United States goes to war with Iraq this week, the organization's president said Tuesday. 
NCAA president Myles Brand said the games would go ahead as sched­uled after tournament off­icals consulted with Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge. 
"Our thoughts and 
IN BRIEF 

Tomjanovich will not treat 
cancer with sur2ery 
Rockets coach Ruay Tomjanovich has a cancerous tumor on his blad­der lining that the team said will be treated without surgery. 
Tomjanovich, 54, was released from the hospital and was resting at home, the Rockets said Tuesday. 
Team physician Dr. James Muntz said Tomjanovich has "transitional cell cancer of the bladder." The coach will begin weekly treatments in two weeks, but Muntz did not specify the nature of the treatments. 
"Rudy's treatment options are optimistic," Muntz said following a biopsy of the bladder lining Monday by Dr. Richard Goldfarb. 
Tomjanovich will not coach Tuesday night's game at Seattle. Assistant Larry Smith will coach the team in his absence. 
Tomjanovich entered Methodist Hospital on Monday for tests as his team headed to Seattle, planning to 
prayers are with the normal. We see no rea­young son, after men and consult­women ing with who are Secretary
"Our prayers are with
in the Ridge, to
the men and women who
desert make any and else­are defending our alter­where ations to
freedom. We see no
defend­0 U r 
reason to make alter­
ing our plan.'' fr e e -ations to our plan. " T h e dom," 
Myles Brand N CA A 
Brand m e n s
NCAA president
s a i d tourna-Tuesday. m e n t "We are would be also con-the first cerned that life go on as big sports event affected 
join the team during its five-game West Coast road trip. Before Tuesday night. Tomjanovich had never missed a game in his 11-plus seasons as coach. 
After recovering from a bladder infection about a month ago, Tomjanovich said he went in for routine follow-up tests, the second of which turned up abnormal cells. He informed his team after a victory over Phoenix on Sunday. 
Tomjanovich's next game will be his 884th with the Rorkets since taking over as coach in 1992, tying Don Nelson for sixth all-time for number of games coaching the same team. 
NFL may expand playoffs 
NFL owners might vote on a plan to expand the playoffs next season at their meetings in Phoenix, the Daily News reported Tuesday. 
The playoffs would increase from six teams to seven for each confer­ence if the plan is approved next week, the newspaper reported, cit­ing anonymous sources. The cur­rent playoff format has been in place since 1990. 
The newspaper reported that the league's competition committee discussed the issue at its meeting in Florida last week, and members were split on the idea. The News said sources indicated the playoff structure will change eventually but weren't sure when that would happen. 
With seven teams, the newspaper said, only the No. 1 seeds in each conference would get first-round byes -instead of two under the current format. The other teams would play in the wild-card round. 
The newspaper also reported that owners probably will turn down a plan to change overtime rules. The proposal would guarantee each team at least one possession. 
by any military conflict in Iraq. 

The first game of the tournament. between North Carolina-Asheville and Texas Southern, was scheduled for Tuesday night in Dayton, Ohio. 
The rest of the first round begins Thursday, which would be after the 48-hour dead line President Bush set Monday night for Saddam Hussein to leave Iraq or face war. 
The womens tourna­ment is scheduled to begin Saturday. 

Wednesday, March 19, 2003 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 
BASEBALL 
Sollmann, Niesel get conference honors 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame junior second baseman Steve Sollman n earned his second Big East Player of the Week honor of the young 2003 season while Irish sophomore righthander Chris Niesel was named Big East Pitcher of the Week, after both played key roles in the team's successful Spring Break trip to Jacksonville, Fla.. for the Kennel Club Classic. 
Sollmann joined teammate and senior rightfielder Kris Billmaier with team-leading totals during the six-game week in batting average (.478), hits (l 1-for-23), total bases 
(17) and slugging percentage (.739}. plus six RBI. seven runs. three walks, a home run, triple and double, two sacrifice bunts, four stolen bases, just one strikeout and no errors in 28 fielding chances. 
His three-run, inside-the­park home run accounted for all of Notre Dame's scoring in the 3-2 win over Eastern Illinois. He totaled four multi­ple-hit games, boosting his season total to nine games with two-plus hits, including his third and fourth three-hit games of the season during the Jacksonville trip. 
Niese! logged his second consecutive dominant outing on the spring trip to help the Irish overcome missed offen­sive chances and four errors. in the 3-2 win over Eastern Illinois. Ile posted nine strike­outs and eight groundball outs against Eastern Illinois while allowing two hits, two walks and a pair of unearned runs. 
The Panthers managed to hit just six balls out of the infield versus Niesel, with four flyouts to right field and a pair of sin­gles through the infield. He allowed just two baserunners in the first six innings, facing the minimum in five of those innings. Niese! displayed his usual control. with 75 of his 105 total pitches going for strikes. 
As Notre Dame (ranked 19th in the Baseball America poll and 25th in the USA Today/ESPN coaches poll} readies for its first Big East Conference series this week­end at Villanova, Sollmann ranks among the league lead­ers in several overall cate­gories: first in triples (two), second in hits (24). runs (15) and stolen bases (nine). fourth in total bases (33), fifth in on­base pct. {.492) and slugging pct. (.589), and sixth in batting avg. (.429). 
Niesel -who has won 23 of his last 25 overall decisions, dating back to his senior year of high school -ranks second among Big East pitchers in lowest opponent batting avg. (.198), third in innings {26.0} and fifth in strikeouts (21). His classmate John Axford ranks seventh among Big East pitch­ers in ERA {2.62) and wins (3­0), seventh in strikeouts (20) and eighth in innings (24.0), while senior closer J.P. Gagne ranks second in saves (three) and fifth in appearances (seven). 


By LISA REIJUIA Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team started the season off in style, winning four matches during their spring break trip to Florida. 
In Orlando. the Belles defeated Haverford. Ohio Dominican, Wesleyan and Wheaton College, falling only to Saint Cloud State. 
"It was great getting actual match practice, since we had only been playing against each other before," freshman Kristen Palombo said. "It got us going for 
Friends and Brothers in Holy Cross 



www.nd.edu/r-.Jvocation 
ANSWER ~ fflECALL ~ 



nent at No. 3. While Knish and Palombo lost at No. 1 doubles, Cutler and Ryan won their match in the No. 2 slot. 
The Belles ended their trip with a victory over Wheaton College. While Knish fell at the top singles position, Palombo and Cutler won their matches. In doubles, Cutler and Ryan defeat­ed their opponents. 
Palombo said the importance of the win over Wheaton and spending time with teammates as highlights of the trip. 
"\Ve're getting to know each other and the girls have been so welcoming," Palombo said. "We feel really comfortable and feel like part of the team." 
Several individuals were unde­feated on the road trip. Cutler. Spriggle and Ryan did not drop a match, finishing 4-0 in singles play. 
The team has set high goals for the season, looking to be invited to the Midwest tournament in Madison. Wis. The Belles also want to defend the MIAA cham­pionship they won la.st year. 
The Belles (4-1) are back in action Wednesday at Valparaiso at 2:30 p.m. Sunday they will face Tri-State University at 1 p.m., also on the road. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 19, 2003 
MENS GOLF 
Irish kick off spring season in sunny South 
ByERIKPOWERS 
Sports Writer 
The Irish opened their spring training for the NCAA Tournament last week, compet­ing in two meets over spring break. The team snapped out of the winter doldrums with a strong display at the Big Red Invitational in Ocala, Fla. 
The Irish started slowly, firing a 300 in the opening round. In their first meet in four months, the Irish needed a little bit of time to warm up. Because the field was inundated with Midwestern schools in similar sit­uations, the Irish did not fall too

'' 
far off of the lead. After one day, they were in eighth of 18 places. 
On the second day of the tour­nament, the Irish made great strides. The team improved its score by 16 strokes to 284, although they were unable to move up in the standings. Freshmen Eric Deutsch (76, 69) and Tommy Balderston (77, 70) led the Irish run by shooting seven shots lower than the previ­ous day. But the team could not build on this run as the third round was rained out. 
Deutsch and Scott Gustafson (73, 72) finished in 18th place, tying for the Irish lead. The pair's scores of 145 were only 11 strokes behind tournament champion Korey Mahoney of Eastern Michigan. 
The team finished 23 strokes behind Kent State. Austin Peay, Miami of Ohio, Xavier and North Carolina-Greensboro rounded out the top five. 
In their second meet of the break, the Irish traveled to the Conrad Rehling Alabama Spring Invitational. The Capstone course was not kind to the team on the first day, as the squad finished in 11th place with a score of 301. The Irish slid the next day to 12th place with 309 strokes, where they finished despite shooting 302 in the final round. 
Gustafson was again the top golfer for the Irish, tying for 36th place. The emerging leader shot an 11 over par 224 (72-77-75). On the last day of the invitation­al, four of the team's golfers improved from their second­round. Balderston (74-77-75) tied for 49th place, Mark Baldwin (74-78-77} finished in a tie for 54th place, Brandon Lunke (81-77-77) took 64th place, and Deutsch (84-81-75) shaved six stokes off of his sec­ond round to move to 67th place. 
Warm-weather schools domi­nated the 13-team event. Auburn (857), Alabama (865) and Southeastern Louisiana (867) filled out the top three. 
Notre Dame's next meet is the Johnny Owens Invitational in Lexington, Ky. Notre Dame will I travel to the University of Kentucky Golf Club March 29th. , 

,____________, 
Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 


Announcing the Year 2003 Annual A wards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family. the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2003 annual competition for travel in support of summer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University ofNotre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome. Boston University in Padua. UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
l) 
an explanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their degree program at Notre Dame 

2) 
a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals 

3) 
a description ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow 


· 4)  a budget indicating the costs involved  
5)  the names of two references.  
Application Deadline:  Wednesday, March 26th•  2003  

Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaugbnessy Hall University of Notre Dame 
_______________________J 
Notre Dame Dining Halls Welcome Natural Ovens Breads! Natural Ovens Bread and Blueberry Muffins In North and South Dining Halls Starting Today, March 19, 2003! Why Eat Natural Ovens Bread? Unlike regular breads, Natural Ovens provides a product with no preservatives, high in fiber, includes flax seeds, and is I 00% Kosher. Oh, and it tastes great! What makes flax seeds good for you? Flax is high in Omega-3, which removes cholesterol from your arteries, boosts production of brain cells, lowers blood pressure, and helps make hair and skin soft and smooth. There are lots of other great benefits from eating foods high in flax, including the sustained source of energy it provides! Stop by South Dining Hall on March 24 or North Dining Hall March 26 at 11 a.m. to win fruit smoothies from Reckers, gift certificates for other Natural Ovens Bakery products, and gift certificates to Harmony Markets to purchase your favorite foods! For more information about Natural Ovens Bakery, stop by the Dining Halls next week or visit their website at www.naturalovens.com. Any further questions can be emailed to ubwell2@nd.edu. UBWELL2@ND.EDU  


Wednesday, March 19, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

PROXY PHACTS: 

A Bt-other-Sister Trivic1 Contest 
March 20 at 9:00 P.M. in 155 DBRT. 
Donations will benefit the American Cancer Society 
PHOXY PHACTS questions: 
1) Jessie joins a singing trio with Kelly and Lisa. Zack confronts Jessie in the famous "I'm so excited" scene about her addiction to what? 
2) In 1993, what NBA star left the hardwood to pursue a career on the baseball diamond? 
3) George Bush doesn't want Bart to touch his photo album because he probably has what on his hands. 
4) Which dorm is the home of the PHOXY LADIES? 

-~---------------------~-------------------------------------------------~­
"T<tlk to yout c\otm ptesidents TODAY <1bout joining yout c\otm's btothet-sistet team. & don't fot9et to PRACTICE!! 
------~-----~-------------------------------------------------------------­
answers: 
1) caffeine pills 
2) Michael Jordan 
3) Mud and cookies 
4) Pangborn Hall 

COME WATCH: Food , Fun & Competition!! (Prize for Winners & Teclm with highest clttendance) 





~----------------------------, Another technological innovation brought to you by Notre Dame Federal Credit Union ... 
! 
. ;), .'". '. 
Online 
. . 
,-/..•* ---·• J.f 

·Check Imaging 
Save time, save money. Get your check images online, free! Just log on to our home banking web site. 
rg,. 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION www.ndfcu.org 


s
Independent of the University 
LENDER 

Kings 
continued from page 24 
King finished as an indoor All-American for the first time, 
but  it  was  the  third  All­ 
American  honor  she  has  
received.  

"I am not totally happy now; I want something more," King said. "But, I am very grateful to receive this honor." 
Senior Tamiesha King also made an extremely strong showing and finished sixth in the long jump, garnering her first indoor All-American honor. and third of her career. 
King soared 20 feet, 6 inches on her first attempt, just two inches below her school record and season-best jump. 
Meanwhile, the younger ath­letes on the Irish squad stepped up. Freshman Molly Huddle narrowly missed All­American consideration in the 3,000 meters by finishing ninth. However, Huddle was only . 79 seconds out of eighth place -and All-American 
Watson 
continued from page 24 
a school record and qualifying 
for the NCAAs. 
"It was a really big accom­plishment to qualify and just to go and get experience," said sophomore Eric Morrison, a member of the distance medley relay team. 
At the Championships at the University of Arkansas, Watson was replaced by teammate Kevin Somok, who finished 11th in the Meyo Mile several weeks ago. Somok was joined by Morrison and freshmen Ryan Postel and Thomas Chamney. The Irish finished 10th with a time of 9:44.05. 
"We were disappointed to not get top eight and All-America," Morrison said. "But we're a young team and definitely capa­ble of breaking through and improving on that for next year." 
The Notre Dame men scored six points in the meet, which is the third-highest point 
total for the Irish at the NCAA Championships. The school record is nine points, which the 
.... 
honors -with a time of 
9:20.30. 
In the last of the qualifiers, the 4x400 Irish relay team repeated last year's perfor­mance, taking ninth with a time of 3:38.28. They too just missed All-American consider­ation, finishing just one second away from an eighth-place fin­ish. 
The quartet of sophomore Tiffany Gunn, junior Kristen Dodd, sophomore Ayesha Boyd and Kymia Love qualified at the Alex Wilson Invitational en route to breaking a school record, when they ran to a 
3:55.26 effort. Gunn replaced All-American Liz Grow from last year's team. 
As far as the team score, the Irish collected five points, matching last year's total. 
"I didn't have any expecta­tions for the team," King said. "Our program obviously has been building, and I think that we can do better than five points in the future." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
team tallied last year. 
The accolades for Watson 
have continued to pile up, as the 
senior was recently 
named the Mondo Great Lakes Regional Track Athlete of the Year. 
This season, Watson beat an elite field in the Meyo Mile and also won the Big East champi­onship in the event. In the 3,000 meters, he posted the eighth­fastest time (7:55.78) in the nation at the Boston Indoor Games Jan. 31. 
He now holds six All-America awards, four Big East champi­onships, and six school records. Last year, Watson placed third in the 3,000 meters, which was the highest finish for an Irish athlete at the Indoor Championships since 1972. 
"Luke is definitely a central part of our team," said Morrison, who also qualified in the mile but decided not to com­pete. "For me it was important to train with him and travel with him to see the experience and drive it takes to become a great athlete." 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 

.... 



Wednesday, March 19, 2003 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS LACROSSE 

Irish fight tough schedule 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Though Notre Dame has lost two consecutive games to No. 1 Virginia (14-8) and No. 11 Loyola (9-8). respectively, the Irish 
emerged from a t o u g h early-sea­son sched­ule with a 3-2 overall record. having 

defeated Howell No. 13 North Carolina March 8. 
Notre Dame junior attacker Matt Howell had four goals and one assist as the Irish staved off a Tar Heels second half comeback and won the game, 10-8, at Fetzer Field in Chapel Hill, N.C. North Carolina fell to 1-2. 
The Irish led by five when freshman midfielder Matt Ryan made it 7-2 late in the third quarter. 
North Carolina pecked away at the lead, but Howell was too quick and too power­ful for the Tar Heel defense. He scored his first goal with 
12:44 in the third quarter and his second about three 
minutes later. Howell extend­ed the 
Irish lead to 8-4 by com­pleting a hat trick at the 
10:26 mark of the fourth quarter. 
North Carolina narrowed the lead to 8-6, but the junior scored again with 6 :41 remaining to put the Irish back up by three. 
Seven players scored for Notre Dame including Travis Wells, Dan Berger, Pat Walsh, Matt Karweck and Chris Richez. 
However the Irish had no such luck in Virginia or at home against Loyola. Virginia beat the Irish only 7­5 last season. but Notre Dame was not ready for the 14-goal offensive barrage it received from the Cavaliers on Tuesday. 
Virginia (4-0) scored five unanswered goals in the sec­ond half to pull away with the victory. 
Notre Dame's Bei:ger, Howell and Walsh each scored two goals. Karweck and Wells added two late goals in the fourth quarter, but the lead proved too large for the Irish to overcome. 
The Cavaliers' John Christmas tallied four goals and two assists as the Irish fell 14-8. 

On March 15, the Irish hosted No. 11 Loyola. Notre Dame got down early and went into halftime down 6-3 after a goal by Walsh. 
Notre Dame's persistence in the second half mirrored that of North Carolina the previous Saturday, as the Irish chipped away at a fairly large lead. 
Still, Loyola got the last goal and sneaked by the Irish 9-8 in a thriller. 
Loyola beat Notre Dame by one goal last year. 7-6, as well. 
Owen Mulford scored two goals and Howell (one goal, two assists) added an unas­sisted score with 2:35 remaining in the game to tie it at 8-8. 
Irish goalie Stewart Crosland made eight saves and let up only three goals in the second half. Loyola's Craig Georgales spoiled the Irish's comeback, however, when he scored with 41 sec­onds remaining in the game­to give his team the victory and send Notre Dame to 3-2 on the season. 
Howell leads Notre Dame with 11 goals and 10 assists in five games. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
WOMENS LACROSSE 
Shearer's last-second shot stopped in loss 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 
Despite a valiant rally in the final minutes, the womens lacrosse team dropped a 7-6 game against No. 13 Yale Tuesday in Orlando, Fla. 
No. 12 Notre Dame almost overcame a three goal deficit in the final five minutes, but Danielle Shearer's free-position shot with one second remaining was saved by Yale goalkeeper Amanda Laws to preserve the victory 
The Irish were led by junior Abby Owen's career-high three goals. while Lauren Fischer added two goals and Shearer had a goal and an assist. Owen scored five goals with two assists in her last two games against Yale and Boston College. 
After trailing 5-3 at halftime, the Irish fell behind 7-4 with about eight minutes remaining on a goal by the Bulldogs' Sarah Queener. The Irish rallied with­in two when Shearer scored with 3:49 remaining and pulled within one goal on Owen's third goal of the game with 2:24 left. 
The Irish had two chances to score in the final minute as Laws stopped Shearer's shot from close range. After the Irish picked up the ground ball, Shearer was fouled with one second remaining, but Laws came up with another big stop for Yale. 
Fischer got the Irish off to a good start by scoring the first goal of the game to give the Irish the lead. After two goals by 'ale, another Fischer goal tiec the game at two. After anot1·er Yale goal .. Owen scored her t. rst goal to tie it at three before Yale scored the last two goals of the half for the 5-3 half­time lead. 
Yale was led by Queener and Miles Whitman, who both had two goals and an assist. The pair scored Yale's only two goals in the second half, which proved to be just enough. 
Irish goalkeeper Jen White made 11 saves, while Laws had 10 for the Bulldogs. 
Yale moved to 3-1 with the victory. The loss sent the Irish to 2-2, with all four games coming on the road. They play their home opener March 25th against Ohio State at Moose Krause field. 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 


Accepting student noIDinations for the Michael J. PaluIDho Award 
Student Governmment welcomes all undergraduate students for nominations for the Michael J. Palumbo Award. This student must have the following criteria: 

-Be an undergraduate student at the Univeristy of Notre Dame in good standing with the University 
-Have been a member of the Notre Dame Student Union, in any capacity, for at least one academic year 
-Have been nominated for the award by at least one undergraduate student of the University of Notre Dame 
-Have performed services so as to greatly further the causes of student government at the University of Notre Danie 
-Have gone beyond the call of duty to show honor and respect for the Constitution of the Undergraduate Student Body of the University of Notre Dame and its associated bylaws 
-Have demonstrated an outstanding character in the best tradition of the University of Notre Dame and its ideals. 


If you know a student that fits the above criteria, in 250 works or less describe why this person deserves the Michael J. Palumbo Award. You can turn in a typed nomination to the Student Government Office in the second floor of LaFortrme or email the nomination to cornwell.3@nd.edu. The deadline for nominations is this Friday, March 21. 


Wednesday, March 19, 2003 page 23 
The Observer . TODAY 
CLARE O'BRIEN 

SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon
JJfl1~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 

It builds up my stamina one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
EJYTT 
I [I j 
C2002 T ri>une Media Service¦, Inc. AU Aighhl. Reserved. 
DAAHE 
j
I I r (J
tCLOPIE 
WHY THE
IJ I j 

MUSIC.IAN WOl<KE:D 
www.jumble.com 

OUT DAll-Y. TELKIN 

Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as
I [I (J 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
An~r: TO rI I I]"[ I I I I]" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's j Jumbles: SCOUR BAKED DIVIDE INSIST Answer: What she felt like when her hair was cut too short -"DIS-TRESSED" 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 26 • To order, •end your name, addren and $5.95 and make check payable to Tribune Media Services, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 60680-4330. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
collector 
28 Antique auto .,;;;.~~ 29 Like a mirror 
30 Get prone 
31 W.W. II U.S. admiral nicknamed "Bull" 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
63 Excellent viewing spot 64 Comics bark 65 Transmission 
DOWN 
1 Part of a freight train 
2_nut (caffeine source) 
3 Boardwalk treats 4 False top 5 Chow down 6 Zoo animals 7 Naval attire BCommotion 
9 One-named singer from Nigeria 
1 O Pinafore letters 11 Organ 
transplants, e.g. 12 "Seinfeld" pal 13 Tree of the 
maple family 
19 Blunder 21 Meal-to-go 24 Self-interested 
one 26 Mural site 
WILLSHORTZ 


-+"'!!"+~~ 27 Correspondence 

PUUle by Ron O'Halr  
34 Miniature auto  43 Classic item in  52 Staff leader  
brand 36 It may be blown 37 Life story, in brief  size comparisons 44 Any of several Egyptian kings  54 Actress Kudrow 55 Mullah_, former Afghan leader  
38 Chinese "path" 39 Filmdom's  45 Spanish inn 46 Meager  56 Place for playthings 58 River inlet  
Rocky, e.g.  48 Florida N.F.L.er  59 Hard throw, in  
41 Range part  51 Become soft  baseball  

--------------------•
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit caret 1-800-814-5554 . Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions {$19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
...
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address ____________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Bruce Willis, Glenn Close, Ursula Andress, Phyllis Newman 
Happy Birthday: Set your game plan and stick to it. You will find yourself in a good position with plenty of opportunities. You have built a solid base, so don't be afraid to take on whatever comes your way. Your numbers are 5, 12, 19,28,35,41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't shy away just because someone is trying to take the upper hand with you. This is precisely when you must show your strength as well as your ability to take control. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Opportunities are available, but you will have to watch out for people who may be jealous of you and your achievements. Don't jump to conclusions or be too quick to retaliate.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Let yourself go and have some fun. Whether yo1 decide to party a little, enjoy doing something creative or even take your romantic life to new levels, this is the time. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Expect things to be hectic at home. Don't be surprised if there is a little tension going on with a loved one. Cheer up and everyone will want to spend time with you. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Opportunities to find out some interesting information will develop through the conversations you have. Keep an open mind and heart. Others will support you. **** VJRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): It's time to lay your cards on the table and let someone who could be instrumental in your life know exactly what you game plan is. Work hard and nothing will be too difficult to accomplish. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Your desire to socialize or work on something creative should be on your agenda, but it shouldn't stand in the way of persona obligations you have promised to fulfill. Emotional ups and downs can be expected. ** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Putting money into your home or investing in yourself or something else you believe in should pay off. Help an older relativt with personal finances and you will also profit. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 2.2-Dec. 21): lbis is a great day to dazzle the people you meet with your dashing personality and daredevil approach to life. Get involved in a club that has a purpose or a belief and you will flourish. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will have to watch your back today. Not everyone will be on your side. Don't divulge information that could be used against you. Work by yourself. ** AQUARruS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can gain valuable knowledge just by hanging out with people you look up to or those who have more experience. You have a lot to offer as well. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): This is a great day to put your professional plans in motion. If you aren't interested in a career, consider making some changes to your home.**** Birthday Baby: You will be charming and engaging with the ability to get others to do things for you. You will have a unique way of expressing yourself that others will find irresistible. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
CROSSWORD ACROSS 
1 Airborne toy 6 "Tne Simpsons" storekeeper 

9 Loafers holder 14 Apres-ski drink 15 Zip 16 Spacious 17 Native on the 
Bering Sea 18 Sea lion, e.g. 20 Horseshoer's 
tool 21 Sports page 
summary 22 Purge 23 Sinuous 
swimmer 25 Galley tool 26 Fall off 27 Like the verb "to 
be" 31 Bigot 32 Society page 
word 33 "Step_!" 34 Bamako's land 35 Theater receipts 37 It shouldn't be 
stuffed 40 Boozehound 41 Smidgens 42 Dundee denial 43 French seaport 45 Food device 47 10K, for one 48 "You stink!" 49 Triangle part: 
Abbr. 50 CPR giver 51 Tune player 53 Scads 57 ·come to think 
of it ... " 59 A-1 60 Pitchfork 
wielder 61 Actor Billy _ Williams 62 Emerson piece 

-


..--­
I 
I 
i 1 
I 
l 
i 1 
I ' ,' 
I 
I 
I \ I I 
Wednesday, March 19, 2003
I 
~~ 
CI ,.l' TRACK AND FIELD 
J1. 
I ~,,l' 
' 
{\
I t.,
I 
I 
I 
I ji 
I Making their mark 
( J 
f 
)( • Pair of Kings 
. Watson grabs 
-;; i 
lead Irish women All-America honors
I 
,, 
'.~' 
,, in NCAA Indoor in mile with third 
\ Championships place finish at 
nationals 

r 
By HEATHER VANt HOEGARDEN By LISA REI JULA 
f._1 Sporrs Wricer 
{ :, Sports \X'riter 
,·' 
'· I The Irish women's track 
Senior Luke Watson continued 
~
r.~ team has let the country know his stellar year for the Irish at 
that they are a threat. 

the 2003 NCAA Indoor
'1 
On March 8-9, in the Alex Championships last weekend byWilson Invitational which was

'1 placing third in the mile to earn 
·11 perhaps the most crucial meet
" All-America honors for the third 
of the season to date, the Irish time in his indoor career. 

1\ 
1''. 
qualified seven athletes for the 

,\ The top-ranked mile runner in 
2003 NCAA Championships.

I·' \I the nation during the indoor 
\ The Irish then traveled to
!~ season, Watson's time of 
the University of Arkansas to

'i '1 4:06.48 placed him only .02 sec­
., 
compete in the NCAA Indoor onds out .of second place and 

Track and Field 

just .78 seconds away from a Championships. 
national championship. 
It was there that sophomore Watson also competed in the distance runner Lauren King 3,000 meters for Notre Dame,left her mark. Clocking a time 

placing 11th in 8:10.79. The 
of 4:43.89, the miler took sev­double duty meant three races enth-place, finishing only two 

in two days, as the mile 
seconds out of third-place and required a preliminary the night

becoming an All-American 
before. 
with her finish. 

The senior was also instru­
"I am very happy to get All­mental in getting the distance 

American," King said. "It is medley relay team to the always a priority for anyone Championships. At the Alex 

competing at the NCAA level; 

Wilson Invitational the week 
however, I would like to step it 


before at Loftus, the Irish team up in the future." 
ANDREW KENNA/The Observer finished third in 9:38.40, setting 
Notre Dame sophomore Lauren King, right, leads a pack of runners in a meet earlier this year. see KINGS/page 21 King earned All-America honors in the mile at the NCAA Indoor Championships. see WATSON/page 21 

SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles have fun in the sun with strong week 
"We have only one senior, five 3-0, Defiance College 7-3 and heading into league play. against Bethel, Wilhelmy lost a 
By PAT LEONARD 

juniors and nine freshmen, so Simmons College 8-0 to Welsh's girls also got revenge 5-1 decision, giving up four hits, 
Sports Writer 

there is a lot of excitement increase to 5-1-1. on a Transylvania team that striking out four and walking between the upperclassmen The Belles won just four out shut them out on the same trip three batters. Katrina Tebbe The Saint Mary's softball teaching the freshmen what col­of eight games on the entire trip last season, 4-0. batted 2-for-3 with two RBIs. team took its first step to lege softball is all about," Welsh last season under then-coach Team captains senior catcher The Belles came back strong in becoming a contender in the said. ''The team has gone John Ganeff. · Susan Kutz, junior Erin Sullivan the second game, however, win­MIAA this past week, jumping through many coaching "We have a talented group and Wilhelmy have led their ning 9-4 behind the dominating out to an 8-2-1 record during a changes in the past few years, that has unified very quickly," team in the right direction so pitching of Kate Sajewich..... four-day road trip to Fort so with a young team this year, Welsh said. "They are very far. Welsh likes what she has Sajewich struck 10 ten batters Myers, Fla. the freshmen know no different understanding of their roles. I seen and anticipates an exciting Tuesday, walking only two, giv­
The Belles then split a double­and the upperclassmen consist think we will surprise a lot of turnaround year for the Belles. ing up five hits and allowing no header with Bethel College on of six of the greatest leaders on the teams in our conference this "I expect a very aggressive earned runs. Tuesday to move to 9-3-1. Saint Mary's campus." year." team, defensively and offensive­The team's offensive capabili­
The Belles received solid The Belles opened the trip Saint Mary's would lose only ly," said Welsh. "We are going ties emerged in the second pitching from junior captain with consecutive shutouts over one game after the Winona to manufacture a lot of runs on game as well, as Greta Linde Libby Wilhelmy and others, but Elms College 5-0 and the State match-up, dropping a 2-1 the bases which is a very fun went 3-for-3, and Jackie it was the Saint Mary's offense College of Mount St. Joseph 3-0. contest to Cazenovia College. style of softball. I think they will Zurcher, Bridget Grall and that impressed as the team A strong Winona State program Closing with an 8-2 win over bring a lot of excitement [in] Sajewich all had two hits and outscored opponents 65-24 in a trounced Saint Mary's 14-5 in Hiram College, a 6-5 victory every inning [and on] every an RBI in the contest. week in which first-year coach the third game, but the Belles over Transylvania University pitch. We will be a fun team to Anna Welsh saw her young responded by tying Salve and a 2-1 win against Slippery watch." Contact Pat Leonard at team mature quickly. Regina 7-7 and beating Ursinus Rock, the Belles finished 8-2-1 In Tuesday's first game pleonard@nd.edu 

r
. 
MENS LACROSSE 

WOMENS LACROSSE 
MENS GOLF 
SMC TENNIS 
BASEBALL
en 
LI.I 
The Irish go 1-2 over 

The Irish grabbed an 
The Belles got off to a good 
Notre Dame second baseman 
Yale 7
I-c.:, 
spring break by dropping 

eighth place finish at the Big 
start in their spring season by 
Steve Sollmann received his
Notre Dame 6 
matches to No. 1 Virginia 14­

Red Invitational in Ocala,
The Irish were unable to 
finishing 4-1 in their spring 
second Big East Player of the
a: =5 
8 and No. 11 Loyola 9-8 and 

Fla., and a 12th-place finish 
break trip to Florida. Saint 
Week award of the 2003 season
knock off the 13th-ranked 
{ by knocking off No. 13 
in the Conrad Rehling 
Mary's beat Haverford, Ohio 
and Irish pitcher Chris Niesel
Bulldogs in Orlando, Fla., 
;,I North Carolina 10-8. Notre 
Alabama Spring Invite in 
Dominican, Wesleyan and 
earned his first Big East Pitcher 
when Danielle Shearer's 
== 
Dame is now 3-2 on the year. 
action over spring break. 
Wheaton College. 

of the Week award of the year. 
last second shot was saved. 
D.~ 
en 
page 22 

page 20 
page 19 
page 19
page 22 






