
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Faculty, students consider academic initiatives 
Faculty, students say ND must promote academics outside class 
Editor's note: This article is the last in a series of articles focusing on academic engagement at Notre Dame. 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
Although faculty and students may express diverging opinions on the extent to which students are academically engaged outside of the classroom, both sides agree that the University needs to provide more resources to bring faculty and stu­dents together. 
To that end, numerous initiatives -both student and faculty driven -either exist.currently or arc 

Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program support for student projects: 
1999-2000: $9,000 awarded to average of 34 students 2002-2003: $90,000 award to 86 students 
Writing Center visits by students: 
1998-2001: average of 411 students per academic year 2001-2003: average of 2,288 students per academic year 
Undergraduate Intellectual Initiative Program grant dollars awarded: 
2001-2002:$20,000 to support 30 initiatives 2002-2003: $40,665 for 59 projects 
*Source: Arts and Letters Dean's Report 


Student reaction to possible changes mixed 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
Student reaction to the programs described by College of Arts and Letters Dean Mark Roche and other faculty members that aim to increase academi~ opportunities outside the classroom was mixed. Most students said that they believed students could benefit greatly from increased funding and interaction with faculty members while others said they thought the money could be better used elsewhere. 
Robert Gibbs, a sophomore finance/psychology major, said that he thought business students would benefit from increased lectures on campus but not necessarily from increased funding for research. 
see INITIATIVES/page 6 MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graphic see FUNDING/page 6 
Kelly promotes SMC on 'Live!' 
By ALISON NICKERSON 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's was recently fea­tured on the popular morning tel­evision show "Uve with Regis and Kelly," when co-host Kelly Ripa received a brochure and video that highlighted various aspects of the school from the College's Marketing Communications Department. 
During the segment, which aired Oct. 22, Ripa showed co­host and Notre Dame graduate' Regis Philbin the brochure that featured her in several of the pic­tures, thanks to computer repro­ductions of the images. She is fea­tured "playing basketball" and "making friends with the student body". 
see RIPA/page 4 

SMC debates current events in CatholicisiTI 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
News Writer 
In light of recent issues affecting the Catholic Church such as priest scandals and the Sept. 29 papal appoint­ment of 31 new cardinals, the question is raised to what degree such issues should spark discussion within the Saint Mary's community. 
Special interest is given to the amount of discussion these events receive within the curriculum given that the College is a Catholic institu­tion. 
Joe Incandela, a professor in the religious studies department, said that he believes that religious studies courses offered at Saint Mary's address current events in the Catholic Church but added that the courses do not focus solely on such events. Instead, he feels that because a large percentage of the Saint Mary's population is Catholic, conversations are placed in the context of a 2,000 year-old tradition. 

"A large part of what a tra­dition is, is an argument across the years about what to value, retain or jettison as time passes," Incandela said. 
In terms of the sexual 
see CHURCH/page 4 


SAT changes affect admissions 
Studies suggest new changes could favor girls over boys 
The first revised SAT will be before included on the exam.
By TERESA FRALISH 
administered in March 2005. Mundy said he the felt the 
Assistant News Editor 
"We are going to start to do current SAT did not have any some studies and then track the major problems, and the 
The recently-announced first class [of students that takes 'University would not make any sweeping changes to the the test]." said Bob Mundy, changes to it admissions poli­Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) director of admissions opera­cies or process until it evaluated will affect undergraduate tions. the new SAT for four or five admissions at Notre Dame, The writing section will ask years. University officials said. test takers to revise grammati­"I think the current SAT has 
The College Board, which cal errors in paragraphs and to been helpful," Munday said. administers the test., write a short essay from a topic "The new one may be better. It announced in June 2002 that a prompt. has the potential to be better." new writing section will be Analogies will be deleted from The SAT has typically been added to the the traditional the verbal section and abstract used by college admissions math and verbal sections of the math reasoning questions will boards to predict freshman test, raising the maximum pos­be replaced by questions cover­sible score from 1600 to 2400. ing Algebra II material never see SAT/page 6 Photo Illustration by Alison Nichols 

Wednesday, November 5, 2003
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

U.S. should hit the books 
America .seems to have begun to model one of the characters in e. e. cummings's war story The Enormous Room -le Directeur. 
As head of the prison, le Directeur knows well how to use fear to 
Dolores Dlaz 
maintain power. He instills this 
Viewpoint
fear through 
three means: his Copy Editor 
subordinates, 
punishment and 
direct contact with prisoners. 
The United States aims to instill fear in terrorists through its subor­dinates by using the North Atlantic 

I. 
Treaty Organization (NATO). Following the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the U.S., Secretary General Robertson invoked Article V of the alliance's constitution, which states that an attack on one is seen as an attack on all. America intends to strike fear into the hearts of ter­rorists but ends up intimidating its allies by pressuring them into upholding its views. The fear America wishes to instill in terror­ists may only get there by making our allies nervous and escalating the atmosphere of fear worldwide. 
The prison's most dreaded form of punishment was known as cabinot, or solitary confinement. By desig­nating Iran, Iraq and North Korea as the "axis of evil," the U.S. casts out these countries from the civi­lized world. However, this fear is felt by the other countries of the world, as well. The fear of isolation is present to countries that must be cautious of being associated with countries designated by a super­power as an "axis of evil." It becomes a playground conflict on a dangerous scale: Be friends with the enemy of a superpower and risk your own prosperity. 
Finally, the greatest fear le Directeur instills comes from direct contact with his prisoners. The ulti­mate fear invoked by the U.S. is the threat of war. Not only has the U.S. war on terrorism and the fear asso­ciated with it touched the U.S., its allies, enemies and the rest of the world, but has real links to the war in Iraq which continue to affect the world arena. 
What is it that le Directeur can teach the U.S. about the war on ter­rorism and the fear it creates? Although the U.S. still has what we hope are a number of allies, the fact 
that they have been forced to view 
our actions with caution could 
weigh on future relationships. CNN 
commented in February of 2003 
that foreign nations are beginning 
to consider the U.S. a bigger threat 
to world peace than Iraq. 
Let us learn from le Directeur. The 
U.S. needs the support of foreign countries and to be seen as logical and dependable. Clear objectives and real enemies in the war on ter­rorism would help to make foreign support a reality, work to heal for­eign relations and ease fears. It is only once we identify the disastrous potential of America that we may find a way to avoid this end. 
Contact Dolores Diaz at ddiaz@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

L_ 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH TEAM WILL HAVE MORE LOSSES -FOOTBALL OR BASKETBALL? 


Amelia Schmidt Brad Springman Claire Colclough Johanna Boslle Krlsty Luehm Margaret Martin 
Freshman Sophomore Freshman Sophomore Senior Junior Walsh Dillon Walsh Pangborn Welsh Family Pasquerilla East 
"/fit's not the "/think the "The football "Unfortunately, "Football, "Basketball, football team, football team team -except I will have to go because they play more rm will have more Brady Quinnr with the football women's games, duh. ,, transferring.,, losses overall. ,, team ... prove basketball is me wrong, awesome.,, 






IN BRIEF 
Learn more about the Caribbean in a conference that focuses on the region's culture and current issues. The confer­ence takes place today from 2 to 7:30p.m. in McKenna Hall. 
The Career Center, Center for Social Concerns and MSA Program are sponsoring a work­shop titled "Unlock Your Not­for-profit Career." The event takes place today at the Career Center from 5 to 6 p.m. 
Enjoy dinner and discussion in an interracial forum titled "Images and Relations." The forum takes place tonight at the CSC Coffee House from 5:30 to 7 
p.m. Please RSVP to 1-6841. 
The Saint Mary's Student Activities Board will sponsor a showing of "Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle" tonight at 8 p.m. in the Caroll Auditorium. Admission is free and snacks will be provided. 
Find out more about the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) during an information ses­sion tonight from 7 to 9 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Interested students can talk to recent graduates of the program and pick up an application. 
A lecture titled "The Gospel According to Bono: The Words and the Word" will take place at 10 p.m. in the Coleman Morse Center lounge. 
Stop by Legends tonight to enjoy a concert by Gavin DeGraw. Doors open at 9:30 
p.m. and the show starts at 10. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 40 HIGH 
50 

LOW 27 LOW 
35 
guys!" 


ALLISON NICHOLS/The ObseNer 

Notre Dame students watch the elections at Recker's on Wednesday afternoon. Around the nation, Americans headed to the polls to vote In state and local elec­tions on Election Day. 
OFFBEAT 
Amorous ram blamed for mysterious signals 
LONDON -A mysterious transmission that baffled British intelligence analysts for days was caused by a ram rubbing up against an aerial mast, a government agency said Thesday. 
Scientists at Government Communications Head­quarters in Cheltenham, western England, an intelli­gence-gathering station, were baffled by strange high-frequency noises com­ing from Scarborough sig­nal station in Yorkshire. 
GCHQ's in-house paper, the Daily Observer, said the noises were unlike any­thing staff had encountered before and an investigating team initially thought they were coming from spies or aliens. 

Their investigation found the signal only happened in the day time, went across all the high-frequency bands and only Scarborough aerials could pick it up. 
Eventually, investigators discovered that a ram was rubbing its horns against the aerial masts "in between servicing some local ewes," the paper said. Ad showing helium Inhaling Is criticized 
WASHINGTON -A Toys 
"R" Us television commer­cial that featured the com­pany's mascot, Geoffrey the Giraffe, inhaling heli­um from a balloon has drawn the ire of anti-drug advocates. 
"Any portrayal of inhalant use is bad, espe­cially when we're reaching out to younger children who are at most risk of abusing inhalants," Charles Curie, administra­tor for the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY a: 
LLI 
:::c 
!;;: 
LLI 
3: 
...J c:( 
(.) 


.... 0 HIGH 51 HIGH 51 HIGH 45 HIGH 38 LOW 49 LOW 40 LOW 25 LOW 22 
Atlanta 75 I 60 Boston 60 I 45 Chicago 49 I 29 Denver 30 I 20 Houston 84 I 68 Los Angeles 68 I 52 Minneapolis 32 1 17 New York 68 I 56 Philadelphia 74 I 56 Phoenix 75 I 52 Seattle 46 I 32 St. Louis 54 I 38 Tampa 85 I 74 Washington 76 1 57 
Wednesday, November 5, 2003 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



SMC students register for spring classes 
are able to graduate in four

Members ofthe 
years, Kitchner said. The system faculty advise is particularly important in 
highly structured majors such

students on classes, as the sciences. 
Organic chemistry professorrequirements and advisor Dorothy Feigl is in close contact with her students By MEGAN O'NEIL from the moment they walk onto campus their freshman year,
New' Writer she said. The large number of prerequisites for chemistry and Saint Mary's students arc physics majors, along with long nweting with their faculty advi­lab hours, make scheduling for sors to plan course schedules her students especially complex. and learn more about the "The most basic thing in advanced registration system advising is to make sure that the that students will program we set out 
use to rngister for rlassns next semester.  "It's an excellent system because,  for [the student) will get her to her senior year in a  
t\dvancnd regis­tration, a system thn College has usnd for many  come their senior year, students can't say that they  timely manner with every class that she needs," she said.  
years,  enables  didn't have the  The  advanced  
students who have declared a major to reserve  opportunity to get the classes they  registration sys­tem, she added, makes it possible  
positions in the  need."  for  the  science  
classes they need to l'ulf'ill their requiremenL'i. "It's an excel­ Lorraine Kltchner College registrar  department to accommodate all of their students' lec­ture and lab time  
lent  system  needs.  She  and  
because.  come  other advisors can  

their senior year, students can't then help students integrate 
say that they didn't have the general education courses into opportunity to get the classes their schedules, she said. they need," said Lorraine Students with multiple majors Kitchner, college registrar. or minors have an even more 
t\dvan1:ed registration begins difficult challenge in fitting during the first week back after everything into their tight the fall and spring break and is schedules. key in assuring that students Senior political science and economics major Anne Decesaro attributes her ability to keep on track for graduation in May to careful plaiming and the assis­tance of her advisors. She said some of her course require­ments overlap, and the advisors for each major communicated with each other to formulate the most efficient four-year plan. 

She is also depending on the advantage of advanced registra­tion this year to guarantee that she completes her required courses in time for graduation. 
"Without the three poly-sci classes I am taking next semes­ter, I wouldn't have my major [completed]. even though my comp is all done and turned in," she said. 
All departments conclude advance registration scheduling Nov. 14. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmacys.edu 

Wednesday, November 5, 2003 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 

Ripa 
continued from page 1 
The pair went on to discuss pos­sible majors for Ripa. Spanish, humanistic studies and sociology were some of the possibilities mentioned, but Ripa agreed that any easy subject would be her first choice. 
"If they had Latin American music [as a major], I'm there!" she said. 
Students said they were excited about the segment, which aired during Saint Mary's fall break. 

"I couldn't believe it when I saw it. I actually saw it for the first time when I came back to school, and I was so honored to hear them talk about Saint Mary's," junior Amy Nicholson said. "It's awesome to think that we are being talked about on a nationally televised show that so many peo­ple watch." 
Junior Kathleen Murphy said the show has increased aware­ness about the College. 
"I heard about it when I was in a salon over break, and a lady sit­ting next to me asked where I went to school," she said. "When I told her I went to Saint Mary's, she got really excited and told me how Kelly was talking about our school on the show the day before, and commented on what a nice school it seemed like:" 
Philbin, an avid Notre Dame supporter, has mentioned to his co-host several times that she should get her degree from Saint Mary's. Philbin and Ripa wore Saint Mary's College T-shirts on a prior episode. 
Contact Alison Nickerson at nickll08@saintmarys.edu 


Conference examines ministry 
By MATTHEW SMEDBERG News Writer 
In what was at times a highly emotional atmosphere in McKenna Hall, pastors and reli­gious ministers_from around the country met to discuss the issues which face them in their ministry. About 40 participants listened to addresses by both active pastors and university researchers, often punctuating their thoughts with the occasional "Amen!" or "God bless you, brother." 
The conference was organized in conjunction with research being done by professors David Sikkink of Notre Dame and Michael Emerson of Rice University under the sponsorship of the Lilly Foundation. 
The purpose of the conference was to bring those involved in ordained ministry together to dis­cover what issues they found most pressing in their ministqo. Four speakers addressed the con­ference, and three additional con­ference sessions were devoted· to group discussion and open forum. 
Speaking Tuesday afternoon, Jackson Carroll, professor emeri­tus of Divinity at Duke University, addressed many of .the changes which are going on in the world outside the church building which affect how ministry functions. 

"The Church has always been called to be transformative, not conformative," he said. Carroll spoke of the "commodification of religion", which he related to the "culture of options" which mod­ern America presents. He spoke with sadness of a "market-shaped Church, [in which] everything is optional." 
Speaking after Carroll, Hycel Taylor spoke of his experiences with ministry in African­American Baptist churches. Taylor is an associate of activist Jesse Jackson, and he spoke about his efforts to empower the African-Americans to whom he ministers. So much of the margin­alization r.nd racism which sur­roundsu5.·he said, is due to divi­sive mistrust and prejudice within the black community. 
"Some say that it is us versus them," he said. "It isn't us versus them -it is all too often us against us." 
In the conference's concluding address, Father Virgil Elizondo left many conference participants amazed with his description of the work he did to revitalize the ministry of the San Fernando Cathedral in San Antonio. The cathedral became a spiritual ral­lying place for the Hispanic and Chicano population of San Antonio. Its parishioners would brave the Texas heat to attend Mass in the centuries-old church and built a vibrant community around its focus. After his retire­ment from diocesan work, Elizondo came to Notre Dame, where he holds a visiting profes­sorship in theology. 
Contact Matthew Smedberg at smedberg.l@nd.edu 

Authentic Sz:echuan, Mandarin 
& Hunan Cuisine! Voted Michiana's Best Chinese Restaurant Open 7 Days 
Lunch Special -$4.75 Mon· Frl 11 :3Q..3pm Dinner starting at $6.45 222 Dixi S., S.B. 574·272·7376 
Church 
continued from page 1 
assault charges within the Church, Incandela feels it con­tinue to be discussed in con­text within the department. 
"I imagine that the priest scandals are spoken about in some classes, and I remember a lecture by Margaret O'Brien Steinfels for the Center for Spirituality noontime series last year," Incandela said. 
O'Brien Steinfels visited the campus last March to discuss the scandal that rocked the Church. Her lecture was the first in the Center's annual Lenten Lecture Series. 
Currently the College's Center for Spirituality, under the direction of Sister Kathleen Dolphin, continues to present issues to the cam­pus in appropriate settings. 
"Most frequently, what we have been doing is using the Catholic Common Ground conversations," said Sister Rose-Anne Schultz, the College's vice president for mission. "That's one of the main ways we have been get­ting the campus into discus­sion together." Saint Mary's and the Catholic Common Ground Initiative began a partnership in 2001, focusing on the promotion of small group dialogue. Since then, about 10 major issues have been discussed in these con­versations. 
However, the College real­izes that not everyone in the Saint Mary's community is Catholic, officials said. As such, it strives to inform on issues rather than push them into mainstream academia. 

lncandela believes that Saint Mary's does not overstep these boundaries. In his opin­ion, pushing Catholicism occurs only if Catholic-only views are presented in cours­es and lectures with no avenue for dissenting views or if students are rewarded in grades for expressing Catholic views in class but penalized for other views. 
"I am confident that neither of these conditions [exists] at Saint Mary's," Incandela said. 
Freshman Angie Ellison agrees. "I don't really think that major Catholic issues are discussed a lot," she said. "In a situation where Catholicism is brought up, though, I think pushing Catholicism rather than just informing people about the issues occurs when the Catholic won't hear any other view and/or says that it's wrong. I'm not seeing any boundaries overstepped here at all." 
The Center for Spirituality and other campus groups continue to bring speakers to campus that will focus on important issues. They said they hope to encourage dis­cussion among and between the students and faculty of Saint Mary's. 
Incandela also continues to urge his students to study the issues themselves and to actively engage in such con­versations. 
"My view is that important issues cannot be discussed enough." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 


"I can even make Student Account Payments at the LaFortune Branch. It doesn't 
get  more  convenient  than  
that."  
0  

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
Student Account Paymentsl (In the LaFortune Student Center for your convenience) 







ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, November 5, 2003 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.N. says ai-Qaida was in Somalia 
NAIHOBI, Kenya -Al-Qaida operatives who attacked a hotel and plane in Kenya trained, plotted and obtained weapons in neighboring Somalia, a U.N. report says, lending support to U.S. concerns the lawless Horn of Africa nation could be a haven for terrorists. 
The draft report. obtained Tuesday by The Associated Press, details how an al-Qaida cell trained in Mogadishu in November 2001, smuggled surface-to-air missiles from Somalia to Kenya in August 2002, then fled back to Somalia after attacking a Kenya,n resort hotel and an Israeli charter aircraft on Nov. 28. 
'1\vclve Kenyans and three Israeli tourists were killed when at least two suicide bombers rammed an explosives-laden car into the Paradise Hotel along the Indian Ocean coast. Almost simultaneously, two sur­face-to-air missiles were fired at an Israeli charter jet taking oil' from nearby Mombasa, but they missed. 
Illegal logging causes Indian floods 
BUKIT LAWANG, Indonesia -A devastat­ing llood in Indonesia that left more than 200 people dead or missing has driven home a stark warning: rampant logging in Sumatra's forests is harming not only endangered ani­mals but humans too. 
Felled trees may have blocked a waterway high in the mountains, causing a huge llash flood when they collapsed Sunday night, a government spokesman said. 
The wall of logs, boulders and mud crashed through the village of Bukit Lawang, leveling dozens of cheap inns and restau­rants that served visitors to a nearby reserve for endangered· orangutans. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Largest CA wildfire contained 
EL CAJON. Calif. -Firefighters contained the biggest and deadliest of Southern California's wildfires Tuesday and turned their attention to mopping up other blazes and heading off mudslides when the rains come. 
San Diego County's 280,000-acre Cedar Fire was fully surrounded after cool weather and on-and-ofT rain helped firelighters. 
"It's a load off." said Lora Lowes, a spokes­woman for the firefighting effort. Ollicials said four other fires were expect­ed to be contained by day's end. 
Firefighters got a morale boost from a visit by President Bush, who surveyed some of the damage done by the blazes that have killed at least 22 people, destroyed about 3,600 homes and burned more than 740,000 acres of brush and timber. 
Fletcher elected KY governor 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Throughout his cam­paign for governor, GOP Rep. Ernie Fletcher vowed to "clean up the mess in Frankfort." Now he gets the chance to follow through on that promise. 
Fletcher easily defeated state Attorney General Ben Chandler on Tuesday, ending the Democrats' 32-year hold on the Kentucky governor's o11ice. 
With 100 percent of precincts reporting, Fletcher had 593,508 votes, or 55 percent, and Chandler had 484,938 or 45 percent. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana mayoral races close 
INDIANAPOLIS -Tight mayoral races drew to a close across Indiana Tuesday, with campaigns in Fort Wayne and Evansville among the state's most competitive. 
As polls closed, Democrats held 63 of Indiana's mayoral ol1ices, while Hepublicans had 54. 
The state parties said they each spent more than $750,000 on local races, in part because city hall victories could help build support for next year's state elections, including the race for governor. 
Arafat refuses to form cabinet 
Palestinian president blocks new cabinet posts, slowing peace talks with Israel 
Associated Press 

RAMALLAH, West Bank -Vasser Arafat delayed the formation of a new Cabinet on Tuesday by blocking his premier's choice for security chief, a move that will slow efforts to restart peace talks with Israel after a three-month freeze, Palestinian offi­cials said. 
Prime Minister Ahmed 
Qureia has assigned all 
Cabinet portfolios except 
interior minister, the offi­
cials said. Qureia met 
with Arafat on Tuesday, 
but could not resolve the 
dispute over the post. 
Underlying the argu­ment is Arafat's refusal to relinquish control over some of the security serv­ices. Qureia's candidate for interior minister, Gen. Nasser Yousef, seeks broad powers. 
Qureia's emergency gov­ernment expires Tuesday, but he said he would present his new Cabinet to parliament by next week. 
Waiting in the wings are the Israelis, who estab­lished tentative contacts with Palestinian officials in recent days, hoping to arrange a meeting Palestinian President Vassar Arafat and Prime Minister Ahmed Ourle mee 
between Qureia and Tuesday to discuss Arafat's opposition to a newly formed Palestinian cabinet. 
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon once a Israel was serious about Shobaki said. Asked if he group,s like llamas into Palestinian government negotiating with Qureia's thought they could work it agreement, and then has been formed. new government when it out, he said, "I don't think bringing in the Israelis. 
The leaders would talk is finally formed. so." Israel and the United about a possible truce and Israeli forces have Arafat wants Hakam States refuse to deal with how to break the dead­encircled main Balawi, a senior official Arafat, who they charge is lock over the U.S.-backed Palestinian population from his ruling Fatah tainted by terrorism. They "road map" peace plan centers for two months, a party, in the post. Qureia insist on dealing with an for creating a Palestinian reaction to suicide bomb­insists on appointing empowered Palestinian state. ing attacks, banning most Yousef, a general with Cabinet that controls 
In what they described travel and further stifling vast security experience, Palestinian security forces as a gesture to Qureia, the battered Palestinian once an Arafat crony but through its interior minis­Israeli defense officials economy. more recently critical of ter. said soldiers. on Jamal Shobaki, a minis­the veteran leader, Before leaving Moscow Wednesday would lift ter in the emergency Palestinian officials said. Tuesday night, Sharon internal closures around Cabinet, said the interior The same dispute con­further clarified his posi­all West Bank Palestinian ministry appointment was tributed to the downfall of tion about Arafat. "If the towns except for Jenin the only issue holding up the first Palestinian pre­Palestinians want to keep and Nablus in the north. formation of the govern­mier, Mahmoud Abbas. He Arafat as a symbol ­
Tht:l officials, who spoke ment. Arafat and Qureia resigned Sept. 6 after just though I don't know what on condition of anonymity, met Tuesday, after a four months in office. specifically he embodies said the Defense Ministry Cabinet session, to discuss Qureia has said a top -it's the business of the would discuss removing it, he said. priority is working out a Palestinians. As for his illegal settlement outposts "At the end of the meet­cease-fire. He said he political influence, Arafat in the West Bank. They ing, we left both of them would start by bringing must not have such inllu­said it would be a sign ... to solve the problem," Palestinian militant ence," Sharon said. 
Democrats debate Confederate flag 
consistently support Republicans. John Kerry said they have. Hep.
Associated Press 

The exchange was the sharpest of Dennis Kucinich, Clark and AI 
the night in a debate that generally Sharpton said they had not. Sen. Joe 
BOSTON -Howard Dean, under veered away from campaign issues Lieberman answered the same, fire from his Democratic rivals, stub­such as Iraq and the economy, and although he apologized as he did so. bornly refused to apologize Tuesday into areas of interest to younger vot­Former Sen. Carol Moseley Braun night for saying the party must court ers. declined to answer. Southerners with Confederate flags Retired Gen. Wesley Clark, asked Rep. Dick Gephardt was the only in their pickup trucks. about gay and lesbian rights, said he absentee as the Democrats vying to 
"Were you wrong, Howard? Were would give homosexuals "the oppor­challenge President Bush gathered you wrong to say that?" Sen. John tunity to serve in the U.S. armed for their sixth debate in two months. Edwards challenged the former forces." Under a policy in effect since The Missouri lawmaker chose to Vermont governor in a hot, hip cam­the Clinton administration, gays are campaign in Iowa, site of the lead-off paign debate. permitted to serve in the military if caucuses on Jan. 19. 
"No, I wasn't, John Edwards," they do not disclose their sexual ori­The eight other Democrats met in Dean shot back, adding that to win, entation. Faneuil Hall, a building steeped in Democrats must appeal to working­Asked whether they had ever used history _ and an unlikely venue for a class white voters in the South who marijuana, Edwards. Dean and Sen. debate unlike any other. 
Wednesday, November 5, 2003 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Initiatives 
continued from page 1 
visit. 
"Students really do the pro­gramming and the organization. I just give them whatever support and assistance they might need," she said. 
In addition to the two academic events each year, all dorms hold a discernment dinner with a dorm of the opposite sex. Ten students -five from each dorm -participate in a dinner with between four and five faculty members to foster greater inter­action. These dinners are usually catered affairs, and students are provided with the necessary funding. 
Lauren Williams, Pangborn academic commissioner, said she is also working on a Hall Fellows program with Ryan. The pro­gram compiles a list of faculty members who have expressed an interest in holding academic affairs in residence halls and dis­tributes this list to the academic commissioners, who have a net­work from which to recruit. Williams said at least 40 faculty members from several colleges have expressed an interest. 
"Part of the problem with fac­ulty/student interaction is that students never know how far fac­ulty are willing to go, [if they are willing to work outside of the classroom)," she said. "This [pro­gram] is encouraging [because] they [academic commissioners] can call the faculty member and not be denied." 
In response to the push to have in-hall discussions with faculty, several academic commissioners said they have already planned activities. 
Greg Downey, assistant profes­sor of anthropology, spoke Oct. 8 in Lewis Hall to begin the "Last Lecture Series." 
Downey said although he enjoyed giving his lecture in the hall, he was a bit disappointed with the lack of student engage­ment in the material. He said very few students asked ques­tions during the lecture or spoke with him afterwards. 
"Students didn't really engage the ideas I was talking about, which is fine," he said. ''I've gone to talks and thought about them a lot, but said nothing at the time I heard them. I don't think stu­dents need to be prepared in some sort of 'cram-before-the­test' kind of way to engage in dis­cussion, but they have to be interested in discussion for its own sake or because they care about the subject." 
In addition to the Last Lecture series, other dorms have spon­sored events that bring faculty into the dorms. Zach Goodrich, Alumni Hall academic commis­sioner, said that his dorm has sponsored a weekly event called Night of Faith, in which different faculty member discusses the experiences that faith has: 
brought. Pangborn Hall spon~sored a "Politics, Pop and Pizza" night. in which Christina Wolbrecht, associate professor o political science, watched two episodes of The West Wing with students and engaged in a dis­cussion on the issues raised after the viewing. Wolbrecht said she enjoyed the 
event. which she described as "a nice and unusual opportunity to talk with students [outside of the. 
classroom)." 
Wolbrecht also said the activity showed that academic engage­ment can be packaged in ways that students will also fmd enjoy­able. 
Though a revised SAT has been under development for a
SAT 

number of years, such changes continued from page 1 as those proposed by Atkinson 
would have a huge financial grades, and subsequently impact on the College Board. whether an applicant has the Because girls generally per­potential to succeed at a given form higher on writing exams college. Because the vast and boys do better on abstract majority of Notre Dame appli­reasoning questions, the new cants could be successful at test could favor girls over boys. .the University, Mundy said Traditionally, the SAT tested 
proposed changes would not how well students could think 
affect Notre Dame  and  reason,  
as much as other universities, where the quality of the applicants is more varied. The SAT test  "! think [the changes] put certain students at a disadvantage. ,,  rather than how many facts they had learned in school, which marks a shift for the exam from  
has long been a  an  aptitude­ 
subject of criti­ Destlnee Delemos  based test to an  
cism for college administrators. In  freshman  achievement­based test.  
February 2001,  Officials at the  

Richard Atkinson, president of College Board say they are the University of California attempting to influence what system, recommended that the skills and subjects high schools University no longer accept the teach their students and how SAT for admission purposes they teach them. until it became more of an Because of this change, how­achievement-based test. ever, the new SAT could exac­
In general, Mundy said the erbate the gap between scores SAT did not have any major for whites and minority stu­problems, and the University dents, who often attend poorer would not consider accepting quality schools. only the ACT, as Atkinson pro­Mundy said the admissions posed. office was concerned about 
"I think we've got a pretty such trends but did not antici­reliable predictor [of appli­pate that they would have a cants' performance] right significant effect on minority now," Mundy said. admission at Notre Dame. 


Mundy also noted that Notre Dame admissions counselors had been involved in College Board discussions on the SAT revisions. He attended the College Board's meeting last fall and said that admissions director Dan Saracino was currently attending the College Board's national conference. 
Students who took the SAT last year said they thought the revisions could have mixed results, raising questions that have been a part of the nation­al debate over SAT revisions. 
Freshman Destinee Delemos said she wasn't sorry to see the end of analogies but had concerns about how the new test might affect certain groups of applicants. 
"I think [the changes] put certain students at a disadvan­tage, but for me personally that would have made it a Jot easier," she said. . 
Freshman Dan Nickele said his strengths were math and science, and disagreed with the addition of the writing sec­tion -something that he finds difficult. 
"That definitely would have been something I wouldn't have liked. From my perspec­tive, they're bad changes," he said. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 

being considered for the future to increase funding and provide more opportunities for student contact with faculty members outside of class. 
Faculty Initiatives 
Mark Roche, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, said a greater number of programs need to exist for students who wish to become more academi­cally involved. 
"For students that have the capacity and the intellect ... [we] need to provide more opportuni­ties for them to engage in intel­lectual [life]." he said. 
To combat these problems, Roche said numerous programs exist to provide students with funding for academic projects outside of the classroom. For example, the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program provided $90,000 in student funding for the 2002-03 academ­ic year, while the Undergraduate Intellectual Initiative Program, a pool of money that allows stu­dents to travel off-campus for "special learning experiences," allocated $40,665 to Arts and Letters undergraduates. 
Roche said that other initiatives -such as the first-year convoca­tion, and a new program called Residing in the World of Ideas, which brings faculty and students together in the residence halls to engage in academic discourses ­will increase faculty/student con­tact. 
In addition to these programs. a new initiative this year created by Ed Cohen. associate editor of Notre Dame Magazine, provides a more entertaining forum. Entitled Irish Inquisition. the pro­gram brings faculty together in an inquisition format typical of the Middle Ages to discuss cur­rent topics. The next date is ten­tatively set for Nov. 18. 
"If students go to anything, it has to be fun and as little like a lecture as possible," Cohen said. 
Roche said he is considering future programs that will also increase student academic engagement. For example, he is envisioning a summer reading program where seniors will even­tually lead juniors in discussions on a book they select. The books will vary based on major and will provide a small group format in which students can engage in conversation. 
Some faculty also said that they would like to see undergraduate research become more common. Sunny Boyd, associate professor of biological sciences, said that this requirement, which she had as a Princeton undergraduate, led to her decision to enter the world of academia. 
"We could at least give it [undergraduate research] the same push as study abroad pro­grams have had [here)." she said. Student programs 
In response to the need to cre­ate more opportunities for stu­dent/faculty interaction, student Academic Commissioners from each dorm have been working to invite faculty into the residence halls. With increased funding and support from Maura Ryan, asso­ciate provost, dorms are expect­ed to have at least two academic­related events per year. 
The Advisory Committee on Academic and Student Ufe, real­izing the need for a link between the University and student aca­demic commissioners, appointed Ryan last year to serve as this liaison. Ryan stressed that her role is only advisory and students are responsible for participation in the planning of each faculty 
tive in any way and proved 
-invaluable to her research expe­rience. "I think that the money is there for those who have the interest in doing undergraduate research; it's just a matter of putting the time in to apply for it," she said. In contrast with other under­graduates, junior theology major Eric Wooldridge said that although he could find some uses for the funds with respect to his work with Circle K, he believes that the money could be better used for other initiatives. "Overall, I would rather see that type of money go more toward financial aid and other university programs," he said. "I don't think they are as useful to students as maybe some other things would be." 
Contact Joe Trombello at 
jtrombel@nd.edu 

"College should be a time to have fun," she said, "but learning -that can be fun too and should be the central focus and goal [o college]." 
Contact Joe Trombello ft jtrombel@nd.edu
. 
continued from page 1 

Gibbs said that some business students he has spoken to seemed uninterested in pursuing research. 
"For business students. it doesn't seem like there is a lot of interest to go out and do research," he said. "It's hard to see the connection between the things you might be researching and immediate business applica­tions." 
In contrast, Mary Mullen, a senior honors program partici­pant and English/political sci­ence major, said that she thought increasing funding for student research and conference travel would prove especially useful because it would allow students writing senior thesis projects to have better access to primary sources. She also said that these resources may encourage more students to pur­sue research. 


"I think that they [University initiatives] are a great opportu­nity and a lot of my friends have felt the same way. To have the opportunity to do independent research is something that's incredible," she said. "By giving funding, it [the University] allows everyone to do it [research] and encourages you to think about [academic subjects] outside of the classroom." 
Mariah Quinn, also an honors program student, said that she used grant resources from the honors program and the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts to visit the Yosemite and Grand Canyon National Parks to conduct research this summer for her thesis. Quinn said the grants were not restric­
~ 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
You are invited to a 
presen~ation 
on teaching by Professor Valerie Sayers 
Department of EngIish Director oT the Creative Writing Program 

Recipient of the 2003 Charles E. Sheedy Award for Excellence in Teaching 
Friday. November 14. 2003 
4:00 P.M. McKenna Hall Auditorium Reception to follow 
Wednesday, November 5, 2003 
MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 9 764.38 +89.70 
Jones~  '  
'Up: 2,305  Same: 1s5  ~T  Composite Volume: ,,032,32~992  
NASDAQ  1)933.53  +18.22  
NYSE  5,940.75  +43.75  
AMEX  1,023.69  +6.63  
S&PSOO  1,045.35  +7.29  

NIKK£1 (Tokyo) 10,786.04 0.00 FTSE 100 (london)4,362.30 +51.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN IPRICE 
SIRIUS  SAT  RADIO  (SIRI)  +10.14 +0.21  2.28  
SUN  MICROSYS  (SUNW)  -3.54-0.13  3.54  
ORACLE·CORP  (ORCL)  -0.41-0.05  12.28  
INTEL CORP  (INTC)  +1.22+0.37  30.80  
MICROSOFT CP  (MSFT)  -0.45-0.13  28.78  
Treasuries  
30 ·YEAR OCJND  +0.15 +0.·08  51.82  
10-YEAR l'UI'E  +0.16 +0.07  42.55  
5 · YEAR l'D1'E  -0.03 -0.01  31.34  
3 ~BILL  0.00  0.00  8.87  
Commodities  
LICHI' CRUDE  ($/bbl.)  +0.07  32.06  

GOLD ($/Troy oz . ) +1. 60 375.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1'. 575 92.175 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 109 EURO 0.8546 POUND 0,.6006 CANADIAN$ 1.323 
IN BRIEF 
Banker Quattrone will be retried 
NEW YOHK-The government said Tuesday it will retry Frank Quattrone, the wealthy Internet-boom investment banker whose first trial ended last month in a hung jury. 
Prosecutors announced their plans in an evening letter to the federal judge overseeing the case. It said the government and defense attorneys were still discussing a date for the retrial. 
Quattrone's attorney expressed disappoint­ment and insisted his client is innocent. 
Quattrone, among the highest-profile defen­dants in the government's two-year crack­down on white-collar corruption, is charged with obstruction of justice and witness tam­pering. 
The heart of the case is a single-sentence e­mail he sent Dec. 5, 2000, to employees at Credit Suisse First Boston, endorsing a previ­ous note that had urged them to "catch up on file cleanup" by destroying some files. 
The government contends the note was an attempt to obstruct federal investigations into how the bank decided who would get shares of hot new stocks it was taking public during the Internet stock boom. 
Cuba, U.S. examine business deals 
IIAVANA-Cuba signed contracts with nine American companies at an island trade fair Monday, saying it reflected a move to more normal ties with the United States. 
Cattle and soybeans, newsprint and fruit juice were among the goods listed in $30 mil­lion worth of contracts, according to Pedro Alvarez, head of the Cuban state export com­pany, Alimport. 
After signing a grain deal with Cargill Inc. Vice President Jim Bohlander, Alvarez said that $4 million contract "is one more step in the normalization of relations" between the two countries. 
All of the companies that signed contracts on Monday had already done business with Cuba. 
Interest in the new market just offshore has contributed to a growing call by U.S. farm state lawmakers to abolish the 42-year-old 
U.S. trade embargo against Cuba. 


-----. 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 

SEC checks mutual fund fraud 
Massachussetts security regulators investigate potential wrongdoing by Fidelity 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The government is conducting a broad sweep of the mutual fund industry and more charges are likely in the growing scandal in the $7 trillion business, a top enforcement official said Tuesday. 
Stephen Cutler. head of the Securities and Exchange Commission's enforcement division, told Congress that the SEC plans to send notifications to some firms this week that investigators intend to file civil charges. Ile did not name any of the com­panies nor did he say how many would receive the legal warnings. 
Cutler spoke as the scan­dal spread to Prudential Securities Inc., with the SEC and Massachusetts securities regulators filing civil charges alleging improper trading against former brokers and branch managers at the company's Boston of!ice. 
The regulators alleged that the brokers used sev­eral means. including false identities, to disguise rapid in-and-out trading in mutual funds to enrich themselves and the hedge funds whose money they 
were investing. grips with allegations that public," he said. money from ordinary 
The move followed the many large investors or Rep. Richard Baker, R­investors. announcement Monday insiders received favorable La., the subcommittee The SEC began a mutual that Lawrence J. Lasser. treatment in the timing of chairman, said he was fund investigation in early the chief executive of trades and other fund concerned that inaction by September, and dozens of Boston-based Putnam management practices. Congress could hurt the firms have been subpoe­Investments, was stepping The subcommittee is economy. naed, including Fidelity down following the filing of considering legislation to Spitzer contended that Investments, Janus Capital civil fraud charges against stiffen penalties for fraud the problems in the mutual Group, Morgan Stanley the nation's fifth-largest in mutual fund manage­fund industry are so perva­and Vanguard Group. mutual fund company. ment. sive that it is more than a Several investment compa­
Cutler told a House Outside the hearing, matter of excising a few nies, including Janus and Financial Services subcom­Cutler described the SEC's "bad apples" from the Bank of America, have mittee that the SEC already work as "a fairly wide­industry. pledged to make restitution had notified one firm spread sweep to under­"It's beginning to appear to mutual fund investors regarding possible abuses. stand these issues." that the entire crate is rot­who lost money through 
The SEC is seeking infor­New York Attorney ten," he said. "The prob­alleged improper trading. mation from more than General Eliot Spitzer told lems are structural. they The scandal has tar­100 others as it tries to lawmakers they should are systemic." nished the reputation of determine how many did consider doing something At a Senate hearing mutual funds, traditionally not give the proper volume to revamp firms' internal Monday, federal regulators viewed as a safe, conserva­discounts to customers. compliance departments. were questioned about tive investment. Some 90 
Regulators and lawmak­"They have utterly their response to alleged million people have money ers are trying to come to betrayed the American trading abuses that siphon in U.S. stock mutual funds. 

Wal-Mart receives "target letter" 
al officials made after Oct. 23 raids. That day, the company instructed
Associated Press 

"We expect the grand jury will store managers to preserve relevant 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -Wal-Mart begin its hearing in mid-December records. It has also said it would said Tuesday that it has received a and this notification gives us time to review all of its domestic employees _ "target letter" from the U.S. provide the U.S. Attorney's Office more than 1 million _ to ensure they Attorney's Office alleging the world's information we feel supports our all have legal status. largest retailer violated federal position," she said. Wal-Mart had sales last year of immigration laws. Assistant U.S. Attorney Wayne $244.5 billion. 
"The company is the target" of the Samuelson in Williamsport, Pa., After the sweep, the workers were 
investigation, Wai-Mart Stores Inc. where the case is being handled, taken to local immigration offices. spokeswoman Mona Williams said. would not discuss specifics or Some were released, but those with "No company employee has received respond to comments by Wal-Mart. criminal records were detained, an individual target letter at this The raids keyed on floor cleaners authorities said. . time." employed by companies Wai-Mart The arrests were made in 
On Oct. 23, federal agents arrested hired for the work. Ten of the people Alabama, Arkansas, Arizona, about 250 alleged illegal workers in arrested were Wal-Mart employees Connecticut, Delaware, Kentucky, a 21-state sweep ofWal-Mart stores. hired as the company continued a Massachusetts, Maryland, Michigan, 
Target letters give people or com­move to phase out the use of cleaning North Carolina. New Hampshire, panies formal notification that they contractors. New Jersey, New York, Ohio, are the focus of an investigation. The workers came from 18 nations. Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South 
Williams said the company was not Wal-Mart says it pledged its coop­Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia surprised. given the comments feder-eration once it learned of the raids. and West Virginia. 
page 8 Wednesday, October 5, 2003 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Wednesday, November 5, 2003 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 9 

CBS cancels Reagan miniseries 
Network claims film crossed line into partisan advocacy and distortion 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Capping an extraordinary conservative furor over a movie virtually no one has seen. CBS said Tuesday it will not air "The Reagans" and shunt it off to the Sh.gwtime cable network instead. 
Based on snippets of the script that had leaked out in recent weeks, conservatives, including the son of the former president, accused CBS of dis­torting the legacy of Honald Beagan. 
While CBS said it was not bowing to political pressure, critics said that was exactly the case, and worried about the effects of such pre-emptive strikes on future work. 
CBS believed it had ordered a love story about Ronald and Nancy Reagan with politics as a backdrop. but instead got a film that crossed the line into advo­cacy, said a network executive who spoke on the condition of anonymity. 
The film had been scheduled to air Nov. 16 and 18, in the heart of the November ratings sweeps. CBS attempted to edit the film to remove offending passages, but gave up. 
"We believe it does not pres­ent a balanced portrayal of the Reagans for CBS and its audi­ence," the network said in a statement Tuesday. 
Neal Gabler, author of "Life the Movie: !low Entertainment Conquered Reality." said CBS' decision was unhealthy for democracy. 
"CBS, in pulling this film, did incredible harm. much more harm than they could ever have done in making the film," Gabler said. "What they've told us now is that a very small group of people have censorship power over the broadcast net­works." 
Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, 0-S.D.. said CBS' deci­sion "smells of intimidation to 
me." But conservatives said it was a question of accuracy. 
The miniseries became a hot topic on talk radio and the TV news networks. The chairman of the Republican National Committee wrote to CBS President Leslie Moonves, ask­ing for historians to review the movie, and the conservative Media Research Center asked advertisers to consider boy­cotting the film. 
"This was a left-wing smear of one of the nation's most beloved presidents and CBS got caught," said Brent Bozell, founder of the Media Research Center. 
Republican National Committee Chairman Ed Gillespie said putting the movie before a smaller audience on Showtime doesn't address accu­racy concerns. Without changes, Showtime should remind viewers every 10 min­utes that the movie is fictional, he said. 

Lafayette Square Townhon1es 
NOW Is the time, they won't laSt longl 

Only 9 Blocks from Cainpus Laundi:y A~liil with Washer and Diyet:• Fully Equipped Kitchen Including Disb~er l!:Qd Garbage Disposal 4 I 5 Private Bedrooms•• Private Patio · Optional AOT AlarmSystem (Optional1\{{)nitoring)

MDV 5lh 3:30 10 5:30 • 
Cenb:al Air C\mditi()rilng
424 Norlh Francis #fl 

• 
Assigned Parking 8Mrgy Bfficilmt Gas Heating Profes~ionally Managed• 24 :...HOtfrEmergencyO~<oCall M&inttlliance 
For More Information: Real EState Manag~em Cotp(inrtjon . . P.O.B9x $40 ·. South Benti, IN 4662.4 Teleph<me:·S74-234-9923 FaC$imile: $74-i34-9925 Rludwig@cbresb.com 
l1te·.·•:Pmest····iit····sita..t;•·.u<JIIilll-1.·,~·:1i!:,·:::..·;i::;,::,!:,:,i;::.:•:::.:•-· 

Notre Datne Apartments 
starting at just $120.00 per month, per personr 
"The Best Value for your Dollar!" 
+ Just 4Blocks South ofthe Nolrl:! Dame Campus 
• Spl!Cious ~•Bedroom Apartments oo Notre Dame Avenue t Current lcyear & 10-mtmth Lell!les Availnble t On·Site La11ndty faCility 
+ 
4CIQsetsand IDesldn Each Bedroom t Private Parking Lots t 24 • hour. On"Call Emergency Maintenance 

+ 
Up to 4 Persons Per Apllitment 


For More lnfonnation: Real ~e Management Corporation P.O. Box540 
South Bend,!Jii 46624 Telephone: 574-23.4-9923 F~imile: :$74-234-9925 R!udwigl(4£bre.~b.com 


FCC to limit Internet 
piracy of TV shows 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The gov­ernment Tuesday approved an anti-piracy mechanism that will make it harder for com­puter users to illegally distrib­ute digital TV programs on the Internet. The goal is to speed the transition to higher quality digital broadcasts and ensure such programming remains free. 
Broadcasters and the movie industry had urged the Federal Communications Commission to take such action, while consumer groups 
said it will force some people to purchase new electronics. 
Some people already share TV shows and movies online, though the practice is limited by the speed of Internet connections -it can take many hours to transfer high-quality copies. 
But as Internet connections get faster and broad­casters switch to 
''The FCC has now given these same {big media] companies more control over what users can do with that content, leaving consumers as two-time losers. " 
Glgl Sohn president Public Knowledge 
much clearer digital television, the movie and television indus­tries fear consumers will put high-quality copies of shows and films on the Web that oth­ers can download for free. This would reduce the broad­casters' ability to sell the shows for syndication or over­seas. 
The music industry saw CD sales fall as free music sharing proliferated on the Internet. It has started to sue listeners who illegally distribute songs online. 
The five-member FCC voted unanimously to allow a "broadcast flag" to be added to digital programming to block broader distribution on the Internet, though the two Democrats on the panel expressed some reservations. Republican FCC Chairman Michael Powell called it "an important step toward pre­serving the viability of free over-the-air television." 
In its order, the FCC told makers of digital television receivers that by July 1, 2005, their models must recognize the flag, an electronic signal that broadcasters can embed in their programs. 
The commission said the order applies only to electron­ics equipment that can receive digital broadcast signals, not digital VCRs, DVD players and personal computers without digital tuners. 
"The FCC scored a big victo­ry for consumers and the preservation of high-value, over-the-air free broadcasting with its decision," said Jack Valenti, president of the 

Call259·1ooo for more details 
Motion Picture Association of America. 
Viacom, parent company of the CBS television network, called the decision a "historic step forward for consumers." 
Consumer and advocacy groups reacted just as strongly against the decision. 
"Having just given big media companies more control over what consumers can see on their TV sets by lifting media ownership limits, the FCC has now given these same compa­nies more control over what users can do with that content, leaving consumers as two-time 
losers," said Gigi Sohn, pres­ident of Public Knowledge, a Washington­based advocacy group on tech­nology and copyright issues. 
Congress already has told the TV industry to switch their broadcasts by 2007 to a digital format, which uses computer language, from the current ana­

log format, which uses radio signals sent as waves. After the switch over, consumers who don't subscribe to a cable or satellite service would need digital tuners, either inside a TV or in a set-top box. 
FCC officials said the flag would not prevent consumers from using existing or new DVD or VCR machines to make copies ofTV programs. But the signal is designed to make it more difficult for consumers to then transfer those copies to the Internet and make them available to potentially mil­lions of others free of charge. 
Chris Murray, legislative counsel for Consumers Union, the publisher of Consumer Reports magazine, said con­sumers won't be able to use their old VCRs and DVD play­ers to play back programs recorded on newer machines that recognize the broadcast flag. 
"Technology always marches on, but that's normally because new devices offer con­sumers better features and more flexibility to woo buyers in the marketplace, not because government fiat has rendered a particular technol­ogy obsolete," Murray said. 
Under the FCC order, broad­casters will decide whether to add the flag to their programs, including, if they want, news and public alTairs shows. Cable and satellite operators must also make sure that their sys­tems transmit the flag or use some other electronic signal to prevent mass copying. The FCC plans to consider whether to allow cable and satellite 
companies to encrypt all digi­
tal programs. 
FCC Commissioner Michael 
Copps said the decision did 
not go far enough to safe­
guard viewers' privacy. 
"Improper use of the tech­
nologies could arguably allow 
such things as tracking per­
sonal information," Copps 
said. "The broadcast flag 
should be about protecting 
digital content, not about 
tracking Americans' viewing 
habits." 


THE OBSER\'ER 







IEWPOINT
Page 10 Wednesday, November 5, 2003 

Increase focus on academic issues 
Notre Dame attracts students that are among the best topic directly pertaining to the class. Learning for the and brightest-they achieve high grades, become sake of learning has all but disappeared. : m involved in multiple campus activities and possess a Students claim that they simply do not have time to strong commitment to community service. keep up with homework, participate in campus activities But a closer look at Notre Dame student life reveals that and be knowledgeable enough tt't discuss current events 

At Notre Dame, off-campus parties and undergraduates. College presents students intramural sports teams proliferate as atten­OJhe with a unique opportunity to learn and grow dance at lectures or knowledge of current userver as individuals and not focus solely on their events declines. Dorm conversations often future career paths. As students at a presti­revolve around the football team or weekend gious academic institution, undergraduates 

•••••• athletics, drinking and the pursuit of a career tend to and issues. They complain that faculty can be difficult to dominate students' focuses while discussion of academic approach and find meeting with professors outside of or current events and issues fails to occur outside of class intimidating. But such reasons simply do not ade­classes. quately explain the current situation among University 

Editorial

parties, but discussion of human rights of all majors have a responsibility to view issues or campus diversity is uncommon. academic engagement as a high priority. Faculty-student interaction rarely takes place outside of Current initiatives intended to improve intellectual class. The percentage of Notre Dame undergraduates curiosity among students, such as the lrish Inquisition or pursuing doctorates across most fields of study is signifi­increased faculty-student interaction in the dorms, cantly lower than at other top-20 universities. A major demonstrate an encouraging trend, but do not adequately
c
> 

concern for some administrators in the College of Arts address the lack of purely academic learning and
?) }\ 
li!i!ll·i!lill )'! 
,.,,,, ·::,:'{· 

and Letters is that business majors comprise about 30 research at Notre Dame. percent of Notre Dame undergraduates, even though the While faculty and administrators must find creative 
,,,.•.••.•~•::· / ' ~1111~111!1!1! University prides itself on the quality of its liberal arts ways to enhance intellectual discussion among under­
education. While students at Notre Dame perform well in graduates, students bear the primary responsibility for
) > 
.::: 
,. ,,,, ''''''·''' : 

,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, the classroom, some faculty members believe they do not increasing their awareness and knowledge about current have the same level of intellectual curiosity found among issues. A degree from Notre Dame may look good on a
> 
> .:····'. 
::.,:,:, 

undergraduates at other top-20 universities. Students resume, but if students continue to focus only on their 
.. 
generally do not show up for office hours and if they do, future careers, then the academic quality of the 
''/''
f 

many come only to discuss the results of a test or other University will suffer as a result. 
. :< 
,,,,,,,,, 

' ,. . 
' 
;: l'\jj)i\1!!!:~~~~ .. 

A book worth reading 
•'• 

File this under the absurd and the rural Alabama, puts both his personal might still be living in a segregated coun­ridiculous: Over break, I came across an and career reputation on the line when try today if not for this book. In a testa­article from the Oct. 21 edition of my he agrees to defend an African-American ment to their longevity and relevance, hometown paper, The Louisville Courier man named Tom Robinson falsely these novels are equally as important
:' 

Journal, that struck a nerve with me. A accused of raping Ewell's daughter today as the time periods from which few weeks ago, the Mayella. From the beginning, Finch, a they were written. But if we were to fol­National Association hero in every sense of the word, knows low the NAACP's logic or better termed 
Joe Licandro

for the Advancement full well the cannot possibly win the case illogic, then we would never have the of Colored People in front of an all-white jury, yet he still opportunity to read such books or wit­pressured a high attempts to regardless. ness them acted out on stage. Sadly, school drama group The Licandro I can think of reading only one other hearts and minds would remain the from Columbus, Ind., Non-factor work of American fiction that rivals the same. Progress towards a more harmo­to halt production of importance of "To Kill a Mockingbird"­nious, accepting society would not be a theatrical adapta-Harriet Beecher Stowe's 1852 novel possible. tion from Harper Lee's 1960 novel "To "Uncle Tom's Cabin," which vividly The NAACP is guilty of censorship not Kill a Mockingbird" on the grounds that revealed the evils of slavery to a nation constitutionally permitted in this country, the play used pejorative language to unwilling to confront yet the students from describe African-Americans. reality. If you have Columbus, Ohio, suc­
'f}{: .,,::;;::::;, 

I am willing to bet that a majority of not read either of The power ofthese cumbed to the organi­
t: ,,; .:iki{ 

Notre Dame students have read this these novels, than zation's unwarranted 
novels are unequaled
/ :<::c }f!~. 

novel. If I remember correctly from both you need to do so. threats and unfounded 
>lh, 

because they forced an
reading the book and watching the While fictitious in allegations.
: 

Academy Award winning movie in my plot, these books, in entire nation to examine Unfortunately, the stu­
eighth-grade literature class, "To Kill a content, spoke the dents paid a heavy
its conscience. 
Mockingbird" is arguably the most influ­truth. The power of price (literally) for their ential American novel of the 20th century these novels are with-acquiescence because precisely because it exposed the horrors out equal because they forced an entire now they will be unable to use the of racism rampant in the 1960s that the nation to examine its conscience. So expected proceeds from the play to NAACP once fought so hard to stop. For impressed by "Uncle Tom's Cabin," fmance a spring theater trip to Scotland. this reason, it makes no sense for the Abraham Lincoln credited the novel with To bring my remarks to a close, the NAACP to be intolerant of a play about inspiring the North to fight for an end to NAACP and its tag-team partner the tolerance. slavery in the Civil War. The president American Civil Liberties Union need to 
Admittedly, the novel's lying villain Bob once fondly referred to Stowe as "the lit­read "To Kill a Mockingbird" because Ewell frequently spews disgusting pejora­tle woman who wrote the book that start­they-more than anyone else-need a 
tive language from his mouth to describe ed this big war." lesson in tolera·nce these days. 
2: ;:};'"'""'' 
::..':':::::::: 

African-Americans. This crude language I shudder to think what this country 
..,~;.;;,_;; 

~%? however, serves only to expose Ewell for would be like today if Stowe had not writ­Joe Licandro is a senior political sci­
1 

what he truly is -worthless white trash. ten such a poignant novel attacking the ence major. His column appears every On the contrary, the novel's protagonist revolting practice of slavery in this coun­other Wednesday. He can be reached at 
,,,,.,.: 

Atticus Finch, a common man of uncom­try. I am just as afraid to imagine what licandro.J @nd. edu
> 
;rn.;, 

mon integrity, teaches all of us lessons race relations in this country would be The views expressed in this column are
)'J' 
::}:'•:: 

,. about humility, character and integrity. like today ifLee had never written "To those ofthe author and not necessarily 
.:::,;,::-:.,, 

Finch, a white lawyer practicing in Kill a Mockingbird." Who knows? We those ofThe Observer. 


OBSERVER POLL 
How often do you meet with a professor outside of class? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
,,,,, 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"What we become depends on what we read after all ofthe professors have finished with us. The greatest university ofall is a collection ofbooks. " 
Thomas Carlyle British writer 



THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Wednesday, November 5, 2003 page 11 
Re-examine use of 
death penalty 
If you favor the death penalty, you have to defend some 
pretty bizarre results. 
Before most readers of this column wore born, Charles 
Singleton was sentenced to death in Arkansas in 1979 for 
murdering Mary Lou York by stabbing her twice in the neck 
during his robbery of her family's grocery 
store. In 1997, Singleton's claim that he 
Charles Rice 

was incompetent. and therefore ineligible 
for execution was denied because he was 
voluntarily taking anti-psychotic drugs 
that made him competent. The State of Right or 
Arkansas then put him on a mandatory Wrong? 
anti-psychotic drug regime on the ground 
that he was a danger to himself and to 
others. When the state scheduled his execution in 2000, 
Singleton claimed that the state could not compel him to take 
drugs to make him competent enough to be executed. 
The Supreme Court has forbidden the execution of those 
who are so incompetent that they "are unaware of the pun­
ishment they arc about to suffer and why they are to suffer 
it." The Court also held that a State may forcibly give anti­
psychotic drugs to an inmate "who has a serious mental ill­
ness ... if the inmate is dangerous to himself or others and 
the treatment is in the inmate's medical interest." Singleton 
argues that while medication relieves his psychosis it is not 
in his "ultimate best medical interest" because it would qual­
ify him to be executed. 
The United States Court of Appeals said that "Singleton 
presents ... a choice between involuntary medication fol­
lowed by execution and no medication followed by psychosis 
and imprisonment." The court upheld the involuntary med­
ication which alleviates his psychosis and has no significant 
side effects. The State's compelling interest in punishing 
criminals, especially in capital cases, outweighed Singleton's 
interest and preference. The Supreme Court of the United 
States denied review; that denial is not a ruling by that Court 
on the merits of the case. 
If we have a death penalty this result makes sense. If Singleton were not a capital offender, no one could reason­ably deny the State's right to medicate him involuntarily if necessary to prevent danger to himself and others. Apart from the fact that it would lead to his execution, Singleton himself preferred to be medicated and non-psychotic. He vol­untarily took the drugs until his execution date was set. It would reduce the death penalty system to futility if he were able to avoid that penalty by not taking his medicine. Singleton argues that his execution should be stayed until he no longer needs medication to make him competent for exe­cution. In the meantime, he would voluntarily take the drugs. 
This case illustrates how the death penalty, with its delay, complications and expense, has distorted the justice system. That penalty should be reconsidered. As the Church has always taught, the State, which derives its authority from God, has authority to impose that penalty. But, as John Paul II teaches, the death penalty has outlived its usefulness apart from special cases. It should no longer be used for retribu­tion or deterrence of other potential criminals. As the Catechism states, it may not used unless it is "the only possi­ble way of effectively defending human lives against the unjust aggressor-i.e., defending them from that criminal. This restriction arises from the importance of the conversion of the criminal. His opportunity for conversion may not be cut off unless absolutely necessary to prevent him from com­mitting more murders. Such cases, at least in advanced penal systems, are "very rare, if not practically non-exis­tent." An inmate under a life sentence who kills another inmate or guard might qualify. Or a system lacking means of secure confinement might use that penalty. And perhaps this teaching, which is offered in the context of-"preventing crime," might not apply to trials in military tribunals for vio­lations of the "laws of war" rather than of domestic criminal laws. 
In his teachings on the dignity of the person and the sacredness of human life, John Paul II reminds a post­Christian world of basic truths. No one, including the State, over has a right intentionally to kill the innocent. Even where the State has the right to kill intentionally in the just war and capital punishment, the use of that right in both cases is severely restricted. 
The forced medication of Singleton to make him lucid enough to kill should give us pause. Why do we have to exe­cute a person like that? The Singleton result fits a culture which in many ways endorses the intentional infliction of death as an optional problem solving technique. Singleton was sentenced to death only a year after Karol Wojtyla became Pope. Singleton's game is almost over. But the bizarre result in his case should prompt us to question the use of the death penalty and to reflect on the alternative offered by John Paul II. 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the Law School facul­ty. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted at plawecki.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
An education by leadership 
As a Program of Liberal Studies major, I found Joe Trombello's Nov. 2 article about the issues of utility and academic engagement here at Notre Dame to be very thought-pro­voking. I think that that the overwhelming majority of students here do not see the rele­vance of their studies -in order to "get some­thing" out of these four years they secure a career. This disconnection between school and life manifests itself in the ridiculous amount of business majors we have here (32 percent of undergraduates compared with 7 percent of undergrads in business at the top-20 universi­ties), and the rampant political apathy on campus, because politics is all about under­standing relevant issues. I know my major has not prepared me for any particular career. and I am fine with that. Did you waste four years and a lot of money? That is the question. What do you value -understanding or utility, books or Benjamins, arts and letters or business? 
Somehow associate dean of the Mendoza College, William Nichols hit it right on the head in Monday's Observer when he said, "Notre Dame students are bright, and bright students are curious about life issues." True, most of the students I know here are interest­ed in the world and in life issues: Limits, chemical reactions, social patterns and most especially gender studies. Unfortunately, I would say that most of the investigation there­of is done with alcohol in hand. 
Ultimately, I do not think the fact that our student body is not "academically engaged" can be pinned entirely on the students. The faculty and administration need to do a better job of enticing us to learn, encouraging us to understand, of leading us to a point where, at least we realize how much we do not know. a Ia Socrates. Then our foot will be in the aca­demic door, so to speak. 
Maybe leadership by example would help­if the administration would treat us as intelli­gent young adults and not as subjects, we would come to understand our own intelli­gence and constituency differently. If the pre­vailing attitude among the administrators of this University were less functional and more academic, the priorities of the student body might change as well. It seems to me that the administration needs to focus their attention on the development of other things than land. 
Nevertheless, we as students are not excused by the shortcomings of the administration. Our separate journeys of awakening as individuals have led us all to this Catholic university to question our lives, our cultures, our gods, and ultimately ourselves, and that is a task from which we will never be relieved. This is the essence of the liberal arts education we are here to receive, even in Mendoza, and just like duLac on spring break, all the rules apply all the time. 
Patrick Crotty senior Dillon Hall Nov. 4 


Support ND team unconditionally 
I never thought I would see the day that a Notre Dame student would criticize his peers for having too much school spirit. However, Quinn Eide's Nov. 3 letter has proven me wrong. In his letter, Eide criticized the student body for cheer• ing extra loudly when the football team raised their helmets after an ugly loss to Florida State. He seems to think that our sup­port of the team in some way defiled Notre Dame's tradition of winning, which he pro­claims to be "one of Notre Dame's greatest football traditions." What I don't think he understands, though, is that while winning is a Notre Dame tradition, it is certainly nowhe.re near to being the most important. 
Whatever hap­pened to sportsman­ship, pride and cheering for the Irish even when the "the team is down and the breaks are beating the boys?" What makes our University so amazing is that we are not one­dimensional. Our school is right. They play through injury and foul weather, they sweat and bleed and struggle and light and try their hardest day after day, week after week, and even when all of that work doesn't bring them a victory, they still find it within themselves to thank their fellow students for supporting 
them. These are our classmates, our peers and our friends -the very idea that we withhold our support to "let them know that we are not sat­
isfied" is ridiculous. Their job is not to "satisfy" us. They represent our school by playing football every Saturday afternoon 
against the best teams 
in the country, and their only job as an ·athlete is to do their 
best with the light and determination of the Irish. 
Sure, Florida State fans would have left the game midway 
through the third quarter, but this is not Florida State. I for one 
came to Notre Dame to embrace the school spirit and undying support that is 
the greatest Notre Dame tra­

not only about football and 
dition, not to demand a top-1 0 winning national champi­football team and be a fair­onships. At Notre Dame, we are weather fan. 
taught to strive for excellence in the classroom and on the athletic field, despite the obstacles that may be in our path. I do not recall reading in du Lac that coming to Notre Dame entitles one to instant success and guaran­teed victory. Rather, Notre Dame is a place where we are taught how to work toward goals with the determination of the "Fighting Irish." The achievement is in the journey -whether or not we ever reach the pinnacle of success is irrelevant. 
That being said, I find Eide's suggestion that the student body tone down the cheers for our players as ludicrous and in complete contradic­tion to everything that Notre Dame stands for. Those players work hard every day to achieve the victories that Eide seems to think are his In conclusion, I would like to address 
the question which Eide posed to the student body at the beginning of his article: "Do we enjoy going to the games simply to cheer, do the jig, eat a hot dog and have fun?" The answer is sim­ple: Yes. We go to cheer, to see the band and to see the gold helmets shine in the autumn sun. We go to watch a good game of football played by the most storied team in the history of the college game. But in the end, if a good game is not to be seen, we have fun anyway, because in the end, that is what it is all about. 
Kathleen Tallmadge junior Brccn-Phillips Hall Nov. 3 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, November 5, 2003 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Sevendust seasons music scene with new album
•
'· 
By MATTHEW SHORTS Scene Music Critic 
Fresh off their first acoustic-based tour, Sevendust has released its fourth and most powerful album, Seasons. Lajon Witherspoon's powerful vocals and Clint Lowry's insatiable taste for hard and 
· heavy guitar riffs add to a powerful and profound album. After the last two albums, Home and Animosity, were recorded in Massachusetts and Florida, Sevendust returned home to where it all started: Atlanta, Georgia. Here, they hooked up with producer/singer Butch Walker. Originally out of his father's garage, Walker helped them cut their demos for their first record deal. Now they meet again at Ruby Red Studios in Atlanta. 
By RYAN RAFFERTY Scene Music Critic 
What is it with sophomore albums? Musicians that create a stunning and groundbreaking debut album are seemingly never able to recreate the magic again on their sophomore release. They give the impression that they have just exhausted their cre­ative juices. Every once in a while, however, a band comes along with a spectacular debut album and has just enough juice to create an adequate sophomore album. 
The Shins are not one of these bands. They are the even rarer breed of musicians that has creative juice coming out of their ears. James '\1ercer, The Shins' lead singer, and company use this juice to craft an album of astonishing stature that blows their debut album out of the water. 
Seasons, while not a breakthrough con­cept for Sevendust, delves back into the new sound created in Animosity, released two years earlier. Lajon Witherspoon, Sevendust's front man, proves that, in addition to being a great lyrical artist, he has vocals to lend to the heavy music behind him. A great deal of maturity in musical writing and lyrical content com­bine for one of their best albums since the band's creation. Sevendust's reputation for a high energy and powerful live perform­ance come screaming out in this album. 
Opening up with "Disease," Sevendust seems to have taken a step back from its normally hard and heavy opener. This song has the weakest lyrics in the album, which form a rather weak opening for a lyrically powerful CD. Sevendust's first sin­gle, "Enemy" follows and opens up the 
flood-gates for an arsenal of powerful songs. "Enemy" is a way for drum­mer Morgan Rose to vent his frustrations and differences with Dez Fafara, Ex­Coal Chamber and current DevilDriver front man. 
The title track is "a song about desperation and desperate year?" 
"Broken Down" and "Separate" reveal the more melodic and lyrically powerful band that has developed over the past few years, but leaves one with the feeling that Rose was not considerably challenged while sitting behind the drums. "Honesty" is also musically weaker, like the two pre­viously mentioned, but with more mean­ingful and heartfelt lyrics. 
Sevendust completes the full spectrum of the album with their addition of "Skeleton Song," a slow but deep song that allows you to "lose yourself in a song again." 
Following the .potent "Skeleton Song," Sevendust seems to slip a little with both "Disgrace" and "Burned Out." Both songs, although lyrically similar to the rest of the album, seem to lack the musical energy found throughout the rest of the album. 
"Suffocate" steps up the speed and ener­

ALBUM REVIEW 


The Shins release stellar sophomore album 
The Shins' debut album, Oh! Inverted World, was an instantaneous success. The album was stunning in its bare essential musicianship and Beach Boys-esque lyrics. Oh! Inverted World was certainly a catchy, sunny, bright pop album, but there was something missing. Although it was a fantastic album, it lacked variety. and it seemed Mercer was holding back some of his musical abilities. The Shins' sophomore release, Chutes Too Narrow, is the answer to that album. 
While Oh! Inverted World may have lacked variety, Chutes Too Narrow radiates variety. The instruments pre­viously weren't allowed to exist on their own; now the reverb has been turned off and every guitar riff and keyboard melody exists in its own cor­ner of your speaker. Mercer's voice soars over every song, layering equal­ly emotional verses with fun, catchy choruses. Every song on Chutes Too Narrow exists by itself, with a distinct melody and feeling that 
times," gui­tarist Clint Lowery said. The powerful lyrics sung by Witherspoon leave one with a deep consid­eration on how this song can be applied to anyone's life: "The seasons are way too cold, will we last another gy lost in the previous two songs and brings the album back to life. creating a perfect opening for the lyrically dominant song "Gone," where chills are sent with the line: "When I'm gone, don't fill the space that still belongs to me." 

A perfect closure to the album is the classic sounding "Face to Face." Here, Sevendust returns to their hard and heavy style that leaves listeners desiring more in albums to come. 
With impeccable vocals, spine-tingling guitar riffs, bone-shaking bass lines and drumming that leaves you dizzy, Sevendust proves that they can overcome the changes in Seasons to bring about one of the most powerful rock albums this year. 
Contact Matthew Shorts at Matthew.B.Shorts.l @nd.edu 

and it shows in every aspect of the music. 
Chutes Too Narrow carries a similar lyrical theme throughout, but the songs all have a distinct musical style. The album's first single, "So Says I," sounds very similar to the songs on the Shins' debut album but with a fuller, richer sound. "Turn a Square" sounds like Revolver-era Beatles with a dash of Lemonheads and a hint of Radiohead. "Fighting in a Sack" is a fast-paced power pop tune with a har­monica thrown in at the end for good measure, which gives the song a Bob Dylan feel. "Gone For Good" features a lap slide guitar played in the style of early Uncle Tupelo. The best track on Chutes Too Narrow is the transcendent "Saint Simon," featuring a dreamy, haunting chorus played on violins and keyboards with Mercer's towering vocals filling in the gaps. 
Overall, Chutes Too Narrow is an amazing album. The songs sound eeri­ly familiar yet eccentrically original. The Shins' sophomore album builds upon the musical groundwork laid on Oh! Inverted World, creating a tower of music built with the most intricate and detail-oriented musical bricks. Mercer's vocals place the airtight roof on this soaring album. He showcases his vocal range wonderfully and sings with an entertaining, luminous pas­sion. Chutes Too Narrow is the perfect album to brighten up any cold, dreary South Bend winter day. The Shins have successfully avoided the sopho­more slump and set the bar for every sophomore album to come. 
Contact Ryan Rafferty at rraffert@nd.edu 

was not pres­ent on Oh! Inverted World. On that album, the songs seemed to blur together. The Shins have learned how to pay attention to detail on their sopho­more release 

,-------------------------------------~--------------------­
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Wednesday, November 5, 2003 
Page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Everything Holland touches turns to gold 
By CHRIS KEPNER Scene Music Crilic 
Dave Holland is back with his first release since his Big Band's Grammy­winning effort, What Goes Around (2002). With Extended Play, he and his Quintet complement an already signifi­cant catalog of studio work with a dou­ble disc of live material recorded during 
I 

Jazz bassist latest release explores new territory. 

a stretch at the legendary Birdland in November 2001. 
Holland is part of that elite group of musicians fortunate enough to have the opportunity to play with and learn from the master himself. Miles Davis. He toured with Davis for two years in the late 1960s and appeared on several of Davis's records, including In a Silent Way and Bitches Brew. Alongside other Milesian disciples like John Scofield, Wayne Shorter and Herbie Hancock, Dave Holland today stands at the fore­front of the jazz world, helping to shape its future and train the next generation of musicians. 
The Dave Holland Quintet, as it appears on this record, formed in 1997. It consists of Chris Potter on soprano, alto and tenor saxophones, Robin Eubanks on trombone, Steve Nelson on vibraphone and marimba, drummer Billy Kilson, and Holland playing the double bass. Extended Play is, as the name implies, a live "extension" of the group's three studio albums: Points of View (2000), Prime Directive (2000) and Not For Nothin' (2001). All three albums have been highly praised for their musi­cianship and originality. 
This is an interesting ensemble with a very distinct sound. Merely the presence of vibes in the rhythm section, as opposed to the more traditional piano, organ or guitar, is enough to set this Quintet apart from most other groups. Being a fantastic composer in addition to a world-class bassist, Holland uses the con­trasting sounds of the saxo­phone and trombone in front of the magnif­icently haunting vibraphone to create beautiful harmonies and shock­ing disso­nances, sometimes 
Extended Plav: live at Birdland 
Dave Holland Quintet 
ECM Records 


so intermittently that you can't help but wonder at his sanity while marveling at his genius. ~even of the nine songs on this record were written by Holland, with Potter and Eubanks each contribut­ing one. As a result, Extended Play is a glorification of one of the finest com­posers in modern jazz. 
The most impressive thing about the Dave Holland Quintet is the chemistry that exists between its members. All are superior musicians and improvisers, but it is their uncanny ability to improvise collectively that propels them into that special class of truly memorable collabo­rations. "The rare opportunity to have a group with a stable personnel over a rel­atively long period has given us a chance to explore these compositions beyond their beginnings and use them as a vehi-
By BRIAN FOY Scene Music Cri[ic 
When looking back at music, few bands can be seen that changed the face of music as we know it. The Beatles, Led Zeppelin and Nirvana immediately come to mind for their unique sound within their own time. However, they are revered not only because of their sound, but because they were able to influence genera­tions of musicians after their incep­tion. 
The Darkness might be the new roy­alty in rock music that changes the face of music. They clearly have a unique, almost retro, sound, but only time will tell the scope of their influ­ence. They are currently under the radar in the States but rule the United Kingdom with an iron fist. The sound of The Darkness has been called a hybrid of "a gay AC/DC and a straight Queen," but that is an oversimplifica­tion and an injustice to The Darkness. Their debut release Permission to Land is one of the most well crafted and diverse records in recent memory. 
Permission to Land, like any great album, explodes from the launching pad with a track that sets the tone for the entire album. "Black Shuck" is full of excellent riffs and a pounding beat from the bass and drums, but it is the voice of Justin Hawkins that catches the listener off guard. Hawkins' falset­to voice can only be compared to that of the late Freddie Mercury in terms of sheer power and range. "Growing on Me" ups the ante even more and showcases The Darkness's entirety as a band. The song builds itself around 

Permission to 

The Darkness 
Atlantic Records 

catchy riffs, but it is the echoes in the chorus and the solo of the bridge that sets this song apart. The song seems to borrow from the classic work of Van Halen stylistically, but the layered 
sound is all their own. 
The true gem on the album is the first single "I Believe in a Thing Called Love." The track encompasses everything that The Darkness does well and puts it into one song. The song has elements of Justin's piercing falsetto voice as well as multiple gui­tar solos and bridges. The drum and bass beat help round out this track that will surely be a karaoke classic some day. The final song on Permission to Land is The Darkness's homage to power ballads. The track is simple in structure, but once again the layered precision of the guitars and uniqueness of Justin's voice make it a jewel. · 
Only time will tell if the States 
warm up to the phenomenon that is cle for our intuition and imagination," Holland said. 

As the two discs contain just nine tracks, two of which are over 20 minutes long and only one of which is under 10 minutes, Extended Play is certainly an exploration. 
The distinction of five shamrocks is reserved for albums that are expected to become timeless. Extended Play has th.e potential to do so, and thus it receives four and a half. Any student of jazz should get this record and pore over it for a long while. Enthusiasts can enjoy it but may want to use discretion because, as stated earlier, the songs are long and exploratory. See www.daveholland.com for more information and online tracks. 
Contact Chris Kepner at ckepner@nd.edu 
·­
ALBUM REVIEW 

Darkness debut could change the face of music 

The Darkness. Permission to Land is one of the strongest debut albums of the last 20 years which may be why The Darkness was able to make their debut via a major label. Permission to Land contains every aspect of a great album with its precision and attention to detail. 
It appears as though The· Darkness has been able to take the strongest aspeGts of rock music's glory days and mold them into their own unique sound. Permission to Land is unlike any album currently out in music today and it may take a listen or two to truly appreciate the scope of The Darkness's sound. However, once you truly hear the album, there is no doubt it will remain in your library for years to come. So instead of pumping 50 Cent or Outkast at your next party, ­why not pop in Permission to Land and shake things up. 
Contact Brian Foy at bfoy@nd.edu 
-
·.~ 
Wednesday, November 5, 2003
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NHL 

Messier hils empty net to pass Mr. Hockey 
was Messier's first NHL coach when the star was just 18. 
NEW YORK -Even at 42, Back then he didn't have any Mark Messier still has a flair thoughts about passing Howe, a for dramatics. man Messier said was very 
Messier enjoyed being tied well-respected in his with Gordie Howe on the NHL Edmonton, Alberta, home. points list for two periods "I was having a tough enough before he passed Mr. Hockey in time staying out of Glen's office the closing seconds of the New when I was 17, 18 years old," York Rangers' 3-0 victory Messier said. "I think every­Tuesday night ·over the Dallas body who comes into the Stars. league, you feel like you want 
The Rangers captain scored to come in and establish them­the first and last goals to give selves and contribute to a team him 1,851 points and set off an and obviously win a Stanley on-ice hug with his teammates. Cup. That's what we grow up 
"I always find it hard to cele­with. brate something like that, but "You don't think about scor­what I have to realize is it's a ing goals, making assists or tremendous honor for all the entering the Hall of Fame or people I played with and the doing those things." game of hockey itself," Messier Messier gave the Rangers a said. 1-0 lead 1:3 7 into the second 
Messier found an empty net period, earning his 1,850th for a short-handed goal with point in his 1,691st game. 
Associated Press 
4.7 seconds left. Howe played 1,767 games over 
"Well, I wasn't really thinking 26 NHL seasons. Wayne about that point right there," Gretzky is first with 2,857 Messier said. "Obviously if the points. opportunity presented itself, I wasn't going to pass it up." Capitals 5, Lightning 1 
It was just like the night in The Washington Capitals' 1994 when he guaranteed New offense got on track at the York would beat New Jersey in wrong time for the Tampa Bay Game 6 of the Eastern Lightning. Conference finals and stay alive Dainius Zubrus scored twice, in route to the Rangers' first Robert Lang had a goal and Stanley Cup in 54 years. two assists and the Capitals 
Messier sealed that win by ended tlie Lightning's season­landing the puck flat in the opening eight-game undefeated empty New Jersey goal. streak with a 5-1 win Tuesday 
"Besides being a clutch play­night. Halpern also scored for the a 1-6 record and 3.02 goals­retaliated against Lance Ward, er, he has a thing to come up "It was bound to come one Capitals, who stopped a six­against average. who cuffed him in front of the with the big moment and make day," Tampa Bay right wing game road losing skid. Sandis Ozolinsh scored his· net after the whistle blew in the 
...... 
it fun for the people around," Martin St. Louis said. "Are we first goal of the season early in first period for a roughing call . said Rangers defenseman Brian upset? Of course. Noboby likes Blues 2, Mighty Ducks 1, OT the second period for Anaheim. Leetch, Messier's teammate for to lose." Keith Tkachuk scored on a 3-Giguere and the Mighty Ducks' Maple Leafs 4, Penguins 2 10 seasons. Washington's Olaf Kolzig on-1 break with 31 seconds left defense almost made it stand Bryan McCabe had a goal and 
The second goal came when made 41 saves in the first in overtime to give the St. Louis up. an assist in the Toronto Maple Alex Kovalev fed Messier as he meeting between the teams Blues a 2-1 victory over the Tkachuk scored his team­Leafs' 4-2 victory over the streaked down the right wing. since Tampa Bay beat the Anaheim Mighty Ducks. leading sixth goal, beating Pittsburgh Penguins. When Messier hit the back of Capitals in the Eastern The Blues, frustrated most of Giguere with a slap shot that Aki Berg, Darcy Tucker and the vacated net, he threw his Conference quarterfinals last the game by Jean-Sebastian deflected off the goalie's skate. Robert Reichel also scored as hands up in exultation, and the season. Giguere, were shut out before The Blues peppered Giguere the Maple Leafs took advantage referees allowed the New York "It adds to the satisfaction Doug Weight scored on his own early, taking 25 shots in the of the Penguins playing without bench to empty and greet him because they're the first-place rebound with 5:44 to go in reg­first 1 1/2 periods. Mario Lemieux, who's sidelined in the Dallas zone. team in our division and we ulation. Weight's sixth goal of They got off only one in the with a strained left hip muscle. 
"I can't lie, I definitely want­don't like them -plain and the season came 5 seconds last 10 minutes of the second Owen Nolan had two assists ed to do it in this rink," Messier simple," Washington coach after the end of a Blues' power period and got. their first . for the Maple Leafs. who have said. "You only have one oppor­Bruce Cassidy said of the victo­play that didn't produce a shot. chance of the third period with rebounded from Saturday's 7-1 tunity to do things like this." ry over the unbeaten Lightning. Giguere, who led the Mighty 7:24 remaining. loss to Philadelphia with wins 
Rangers coach and general "They don't like us," Cassidy Ducks to last season's Stanley The Blues kept it close in the over Carolina and Pittsburgh. manager Glen Sather clapped said. "So, when you beat your Cup finals, had his best outing third, killing a double minor for Toronto outshot Pittsburgh 17­on the bench as Messier's fami­rival, it always feels good." of a shaky start to the season spearing on Tkachuk by allow­4 in the first period, and 38-24 ly hugged in the stands. Sather J aromir J agr and Jeff with 30 saves. He entered with ing just one shot. Tkachuk overall. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds . 
CLASSIFIEDS 
...... 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  NO FOOTBALL HOUSING:  HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS  FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  A 'Reality' Spring Break 2004s  
FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO.  Beautiful home (plus two tickets) in  PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS­ LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570.  Hottest prices Book now.. Free Trips,  
NOTICES  NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD- nice neighborhood available for  ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004­ Meals & Parties  
ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED.  remaining NO football games. Six  2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 614 S.  Wanted Mens Footballlickets $$  sunsplashtours.com or  
$84,900. Email:  blocks from stadium. Sleeps 10.  ST.JOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS· 214 S.  Pay Top Dollar$$ 1-866·808-0990  1800-426-7710  
'''ACT NOWIBook 11 people, get  Williamson.1@ nd.edu  Two baths, kitchen, laundry, parks 6  STPETER 4 BEDRROMS· 718 E.  
12th trip free. Group discounts for  cars. $1,200 per weekend. No pets.  WASHINGTON ST. 2 BEDROOMS.  Buy/Sell Notre Dame Football tick- ADOPTION: Irish, affectionate, child·  
6+  JUDAY LAKE HOME.ON  (574) 231-8823 (evenings).  CALL KRAMER AT 234·2436 OR  ets 574-289-8048  less, stay-at-home mom and envi­ 
www.springbreakdiscounts.com or  LAKE.WALK TO CAMPUS.272­ 315·5032  ronmentalist dad, dream of sharing  
800-838-8202.  6306  HOUSES FOR RENT: 3·5 BED·  "LOOKING FOR FOOTBALL TIX"  love with Caucasian or Hispanic  
ROOM HOMES. GOOD CONDI·  ND@Cuse Need at least 2. Will pay  newborn through adoption.  
Vector/Cutco workforstudents.corn/57 4-282-2357  HONDA 93 Accord LX, 5speed, great condition, $2,850,232·2597.  TION. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. ANLAN PROPERTIES 532·1896  TICKETS  BIG$$$$ to get these. Call 212.723.6585 or 917.846.8865 if U  Legal & confidential. Call Jacqueline and Allan toll free at 1·800-484·  
have tix to sell.  6754, PIN: 864t  
Doglegleftnews.com 'Putting the  99 Chevy Lumina LTZ.  Game/Weekend Getaway.  NO FOOTBALL· BUY & SELL.  
Pathetic in Apathetic' Brought to  4dr,leather,power,cruise,CD,3.8·1itre  ·Waterfront home on Stone Lake- CHECK MY PRICES.  •••• IRISH CROSSINGS ·A NEW  
you by NO Students and Alumni  V6 w/115k. 20/26mpg. . $5500. 283-0708.  148 acre full rec lake. 20 min from NO. Furnished, 3BD, 2BA,  273-3911 OR TOLL FREE 877-773­3911.  PERSONALS  LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY "" Build your dream home next to  
sleeps 11. fireplace, full kitchen,  Notre Dame. A limited number of  
WANTED  FoR RENT  microwave & d/w, w/d/TVNCR. gas grill. 312-399-5741 rjhalloran @yahoo.com  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378 PM  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support  home sites are available. For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com  
288-2726  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  Let's go see Mitch.  
Movie ExtraS/Models Needed. NO  2·6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  HOTEL ROOM-BYU game; SAT  Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For  
- exper. required. All looks and ages. Earn $1 00·$500 a day. 1-888-820·  CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272·  Nov. 15; Red Roof Mishawaka $190 no markup. Steve  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE AM • 232·2378 PM • 288·  more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer.  Listen to The "PL, JCap and Clown" Sports Talk Show on WVFI Radio  
0167, ext. U187  1525  518-330-3818.  2726  this Monday at 7 p.m.  
Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America's  
3-6 BDRM HOMES & ROOMS.  4 Rooms • 3 mi. NO. Best location.  WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring  Whatcha doin.  
FoR SALE  LOW $$.272-6306 329-0308  Football & graduation. 547-287· 4545.  TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232-0964.  campus reps. Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  It's all good.  

Wednesday, November 5, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
-
Boos don't stop Lakers from earning 4th win 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -Kobe Bryant wasn't the only one booed Tuesday night, when fans jeered him and former Buck Gary Payton every time they touched the ball in the Los Angeles Lakers' 113-107 victory, 
Bryant scored 31 points, Shaquille O'Neal had 23 and Payton 19 as the Lakers (4-0) stayed unbeaten by overcoming a 10-point second-half deficit. 
The Bucks, outscored 24-10 over the linal 7:07. got a career­high 36 points from Michael Hedd. 
Bryant expects jabs in every NBA arena outside the Staples Center after being charged with sexual assault in Colorado last summer. 
Payton only played 34 games in Milwaukee last season after the blockbuster trade with Seattle before bolting to Los Angeles for the chance to win a ring. 
That was enough for the Bradley Center crowd to feel spurned, and they razzed Payton and Bryant with equal vigor, especially when Payton took a pass from Bryant underneath and drained a 3-pointer at the buzzer to give the Lakers a 57-54 halftime lead. 
It was the 16th lead change of the second quarter, when the Bucks regrouped after trailing early by 12 points. 
The crowd soon had plenty to cheer about when the Redd scored 18 points in the third quarter and the Bu,ck.s built an 85-75 lead. But Kareem Rush's 3-pointer at the end of the third quarter pulled the Lakers to 86­83. 
The Bucks led 97-89 when Tim Thomas pulled up for a 3-pointer without running down the clock. 
Big mistake! 
He missed, and the Lakers scored two quick baskets to force a time-out. Two free throws by O'Neal with five minutes left made it 97-95. 
The Bucks pulled ahead 101­95 on Desmond Mason's two free throws, but Bryant sank a 3­pointer with 3:31 left to make it 101-98. 
After Payton's basket at the two-minute mark, Bryant hit another 3 with 90 seconds left to give the Lakers a 103-101 lead, their lirst since 64-63. 
They wouldn't trail again. 
Before the game, both Bryant and O'Neal said their well-docu­mented public spat was behind them. 
"I think it was basically a war of words and not really a war of feelings," O'Neal said. "He's got tough skin. I've got tough skin." 
Rockets 86, Nets 75 
Steve Francis found a way to make up for missing every shot in the lirst half. He simply didn't miss with the game on the line. 
Francis ignited a game-ending 14-1 run with eight straight points and an assist to lead the Houston Hockets to an 86-75 vic­tory over the New Jersey Nets. 
"I was frustrated," said Francis, who finished with 17 points, 10 rebounds and six assists after going 0-for-8 in the frrst half. 
"When you're not making shots, you're going to be upset about it," Francis added. "Coach calmed down. He told me he wouldn't play me the rest of the game if I kept acting like a fool. He told me winners forget the first half and come back in the second half." 
The coach Francis was talking about was Jeff Van Gundy. The Rockets' new head man is 3-1 since taking over a talented team and teaching it how to play defense. 
The Hockets came into the game leading the NBA in scoring defense, and they were tenacious in the fourth quarter, limiting New Jersey to 4-for-18 shooting from the field. 
"The Nets are a tough team but I figured if we could at least try to stop their fast break, you've got a better chance," said Cuttino Mobley, who led Houston with 20 points. "We played solid. We made them take jump shots. Luckily they missed a few of them and we got to fast break." 
New Jersey, which played with­out forwards Kenyon Martin and Hodney Rogers and shooting guard Lucious Harris, shot 33.8 percent for the game. 
Pacers 71, Nuggets 60 

Jermaine O'Neal had his best game of the young season, while Carmelo Anthony struggled through his worst game as a pro. 
It should come as no surprise, then, that the Indiana Pacers beat the Denver Nuggets 71-60. 
O'Neal scored 25 points and grabbed 20 rebounds, and Anthony had just 2 points on 1­for-13 shooting. 
The scary thing is, O'Neal says he can play better. 
"''m still really not shooting the ball the way I want," O'Neal said. "Rebound wise, I'm getting bet­ter. It's early. I hope I can get it going on offense." 

O'Neal dominated on both ends of the floor and almost single­handedly staved off a furious fourth-quarter rally by the Nuggets in a game that was, from a scoring standpoint, offen­sive. 
The Nuggets shot just 29 per­cent and committed 23 turnovers. The Pacers weren't much better, shooting 35 percent and committing 18 turnovers. But they withstood a 17-2 surge by Denver in the final period. 
"This game wasn't much on the beauty scale," Pacers coach Rick Carlisle said. "But in terms ....... of the effort, intensity and pas­sion that went into our win, I give our team high marks." 
The 131 points are the ninth­lowest total since the NBA insti­tuted the shot clock in 1954-55. 
Earl Boykins led the Nuggets with 18 points on 7 -of-11 shoot­ing. His teammates finished 16-· " for-6 7 (24 percent) from the floor. 

Wednesday, November 5, 2003
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS 
-MLB 
Martinez returns to Seattle with 1-year deal 

Associated Press out and I'm coming back for another the venerable slugger. 
year," he said. "I think if we didn't "Number one was performance," SEATTLE -Edgar Martinez still reach an agreement, the chances Pelekoudas said. "He still contributes won't talk retirement. that I'd stay home were a lot greater on the field and in the clubhouse. He 
Martinez, who turns 41 in January, than I'd play for another team." has the respect of not only the Latin agreed Tuesday to a $3 million, one­Martinez has several franchise players but all the players on our year contract with the Seattle records, including career batting club and throughout baseball." Mariners, a deal that allows him to average (.315), games (1,914). hits Martinez played the closing months earn an additional $4 million based (2,119),' extra-base hits (803), dou­last season with a broken big toe on on plate appearances. bles (491). RBis (1,198), walks his left foot. Though he hobbled 
It's unclear if Martinez's 18th (1,225) and runs (1,174). down the base paths, his on-base major league season will be the last He was selected to his seventh AL percentage of .406 ranked fourth in . for the designated hitter. All-Star team last season and won the AL. 
''I'm not going to talk about that," his fourth Silver Slugger award after With Gary Payton traded out of he said, laughing. "This last year, hitting .294 with 24 homers, 98 RBis town by the NBA's Seattle we've had a lot to say about that. It's and 25 doubles in 145 games. SuperSonics last spring, there's no something I'm going to try to avoid Martinez feels healthy enough to other athlete with a popularity or this year. I'm going to play, play to keep going. He started working out presence in Seattle as large as help the team win and have some one week after the Mariners finished Martinez, one more reason th.e fun." with 93 wins, missing the playoffs for Mariners wanted him back. 
The two-time AL batting champion the second straight year. "He's up there with the Kirby 
had a $4 million base salary this year "I feel I'm in good shape and ready Pucketts, Tony Gwynns and the like," 
and earned $3.5 million in perform­to go again. I'm very excited," he Pelekoudas said. 
ance bonuses. He faced a Sunday said. Martinez said another factor in his 
deadline to file for free agency. Assistant general manager Lee decision was watching the playoffs 
But Martinez wants to finish his Pelekoudas, who negotiated the deal, on television instead of suiting up. He 
Icon Sports career with the Mariners, the only said the interest in having Martinez believes the organization is commit­Seattle designated hitter Edgar Martinez takes a organization he's played for. back was mutual. Age was a con­ted to making another run at the swing against the Yankees on Aug. 9. "''m very glad everything worked cern, but the Mariners still believe in postseason. 

Jeter has injured thumb tendon, Wells not signed 
cated on opening day at one inning of Game 5 of the the Yankees are interested in, Billy Connors. Cashman called it
.---· Shortstop played 
Toronto. World Series against Florida. but has spoken with agents who "rehabbing." Cashman said first baseman The injury will require addition­called him.· New York also has "What he showed this year is
majority of playoffs 
Jason Giambi had chosen al medical examination, monitored Cuban pitcher Maels not what he is," Cashman said. with ruptured Anaheim Angels Cashman said. Rodriguez, who defected last "''ve already had trade offers team physician Dr. Cashman also month. on him, to be honest, but I can't tendon in his thumb Lewis Yocum to "... I've got to said the team As of now, New York's project­get value on him given the sea­repair a ligament had not decided ed rotation includes Mike son he had. Hopefully, Billy can
concede that it's 
Associated Press in his left knee. whether to nego­Mussina, Jose Contreras and get into his head a little bit." 
possible that he 
Giambi, who may tiate another Jeff Weaver, who is viewed as a Given the holes in the rotation 
NEW YORK -Derek Jeter have arthroscopic may not be here. " deal with Wells, fifth starter. Jon Lieber also following the retirement of played the AL championship surgery next week, who angered the could return, though he hasn't Roger Clemens and the possible series and the World Series played with an Yankees during pitched in the major leagues departures of Pettitte and Wells, 
Brian Cashman 
with a ruptured tendon in his inflamed tendon spring training since reconstructive elbow sur­free agents such as Bartolo
Yankees
left thumb. and patella tendini­with his inflam­gery in August 2002. Colon and Sidney Ponson could 
Yankees general manager tis, Cashman said general manager matory autobiog­Weaver, 7-9 with a 5.99 ERA, become targets for the Yankees. Brian Cashman made the dis­during the World raphy and was was sent to Tampa, Fla., to "Pitching is the biggest issue closure Tuesday after the Series. fined $100,000. work with pitching instructor for us," Cashman said. team's news conference to In other news, the Yankees New York has not yet started announce Don Mattingly's declined David Wells' $6 million negotiations with Andy Pettitte, return as hitting coach. option but said they have not who is eligible to join Wells as a 
Cashman said the team will decided whether they want the free agent. wait about two more weeks to 40-year-old left-hander back "He's come this far. He's going determine next season. to find out what his market whether the ten-Cashman also said value is," Cashman said. "I don, injured in the left-bander Felix don't want to say worried, but
"We've just got to 
opener of the Heredia declined I've got to concede it's possible 
series against the do some more his $1.7 million that he may not be here." 
Boston Red Sox, option. Heredia, claimed off waivers 
tests, we'll see." 
can heal with Wells gets a $1 from Cincinnati on Aug. 25, gets about three weeks million buyout as a $325,000 buyout as part of 
Derek Jeter 
of rest. If it does­part of the deal he his deal. He went 0-1 with a 
n't, it would Yankees shortstop agreed ' to in 1.20 ERA in 12 appearances. 
require surgery. January 2002. New York hopes to re-sign 
"We've just got Including per­Heredia and left-hander Gabe 
to do some more formance bonus­White. On Friday, the Yankees 
tests, we'll see," Jeter said. es, he earned $14.5 million over declined White's $3.5 million 
The shortstop, who became two years. option, electing to pay a 
-
the Yankees' captain in June, He went 15-7 with a 4.14 $250,000 buyout. 
said he will not need surgery on ERA, but was bothered by back Cashman has not yet started 
his left shoulder, which he dislo-trouble and came out after just calling agents for free agents 

---

Wednesday, November 5, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Miatni tnoves ahead in MAC with upset win 
Associated Press 
OXFOHD, Ohio -Cal Murray ran for a palr of touchdowns, and Miami of Ohio's swarming defense forced three fumbles Tuesday night, setting up a 33­10 victory over No. 15 Bowling Green. 
Miami (8-1, 5-0 Mid­American Conference) has won eight straight since an opening drubbing at Iowa. The Hedllawks arc on the threshold of their first national ranking since the end of the 197 4 sea­SOIL 
Playing with its highest rank-· ing in school history, Bowling Green (7-2, 4-1) never got rolling on offense and couldn't overcome a three-fumble game by quarterback Josh I larris. 
The teams were facing their mirror image -Bowling Green tops the MAC in offense and defense, and Miami is a close second in both categories. Miami's Ben Hocthlisberger made the two plays that made the dill'erence. 
!lis 49-yard completion early in the third quarter set up one touchdown, and his 1-yard sneak put Miami ahead 24-7 midway through the quarter. Hocthlisberger was 19-of-28 for 230 yards. 
The defenses controlled a wacky first half -five turnovers, a missed field by Bowling Green and an unusual problem with the clock. During a timeout with only 26 seconds showing before halftime, the officials realized it was off by a minute -an electrical surge was blamed -and restored the time. 
Harris threw a 24-yard touch­down pass to a diving Charles Sharon on the next play, cutting Miami's lead to 10-7. The clock problem caused confusion, but didn't figure in the outcome. 
Instead, it came down to which of the two prolific quar­terbacks made the most mis­takes. 
Hoethlisberger fumbled and threw an interception at the 1­yard line in the first half, then settled down. Harris fumbled three times and was limited to throwing mostly short, harm­less passes as he went 20-of-35 for 160 yards. 
Murray's 3-yard run put Miami ahead in the second quarter, and Janssen Patton fumbled the kickoff, setting up Jared Parseghian 's 27 -yard field goal for a 10-0 lead. 
Hoethlisberger's best play came on the opening drive of the second half. when his nifty handoff fake allowed Martin Nance to outrun the duped safety and catch a 49-yard pass. Mike Smith's 5-yard touchdown run on the next play made it 17-7. 
Nance had 169 yards on 10 catches, tying the school record with his fifth 1 00-yard game of the season. 
Harris' second fumble of the game led to Roethlisberger's 1­yard sneak for a 24-7 lead mid­way through the third quarter. Harris' final fumble .set up Miami's clinching score, a 2­yard run by Murray with 3:45 left. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 


TCU starting to worry BCS 
Associated Press 
FORT WORTH, Texas-TCU knows there's only one way to continue the debate about whether it deserves to be part of the Bowl Championship Series: keep winning. 

For the No. 13 Horned Frogs, who along with No. 1 Oklahoma are the only unde­feated teams in major college football, there is no game big­ger than Wednesday's against Louisville. It is the toughest on TCU's schedule and is being televised nationally when no other game is being played. 
"It's a great game to be spotlighted in as long as you win," TCU coach Gary Patterson said. "All of that other stuff doesn't make a dif­ference. I know if we don't beat Louisville all of these conversations don't mean much." 
TCU is No. 9 in the BCS standings, the same spot it reached in 2000 after a 7-0 start. The Horned Frogs (8-0, 5-0 Conference USA) have to climb three more spots and finish there to become the first team from a non-BCS confer­ence guaranteed a berth in one of the four BCS bowls. 
Officials from the Fiesta Bowl, one of the lucrative BCS games, will be there Wednesday. So will represen­tatives from three other bowls, all of them with C-USA ties. 
While Oklahoma has stayed undefeated by steamrolling high-quality opponents by an average of 31 points, the Frogs have done just enough to get by in several games. 


And they are playing the 98th­toughest schedule out of 117 teams. 

There are three wins by just three points, including in overtime at 1-8 Arizona, which fired coach John Mackovic the next day. They also won against one-win Vanderbilt and beat still-win­less Army, which also fired its coach. Their season finale is at SMU, which could be 0-11 by then. 
When the Frogs finally broke out offensively, scoring 62 points with a school-record 782 yards in their last game at Houston, they won by just a touchdown. TCU's defense has dropped from fourth to 31st nationally in total defense after giving up 1,077 yards and 82 points in two games. 
Now comes Louisville (7-1, 3-1), the C-USA's top offense at 35 points and 470 yards a l!ame. The Cardinals have won three straight since a double-overtime loss at South Florida, where TCU had one of its three-point games. 

"The pressure is on TCU," Cardinals coach Bobby Petrino said. "They're undefeated, and they're trying to be in the BCS picture. They've got a lot of pressure on them to win, and we don't have to worry about all of that. Our goals are still in front of us." 
Before TCU and Cincinnati shared the C-USA champi­onship last season, the Cardinals had won the previ­ous two titles. The only other team ahead of them this sea­son is Southern Mississippi (5­3, 4-0), which doesn't play Louisville but does host TCU on Nov. 20. 
TCU has won 10 straight games, one fewer than Oklahoma, and 18 of its last 19 despite injuries to quarter­back Tye Gunn and two of its top three running backs. The Frogs also have an 11-game winning streak at home. 
Gunn won't play because of a groin injury, but Brandon Hassell threw for 375 yards and four touchdowns at Houston. The Frogs also had 407 yards rushing in that game, their first 400-yard game since LaDainian Tomlinson set a Division 1-A record with 406 yards against UTEP four years ago. 
Thank you
I 

Michelle McCarthy Jackie Clark and Steve Miller and the Sophomore Class 
for our ~Parents' Night Out. You made Halloween a blast! 
Your favorite kids on campus and their parents at University Village 
-
-
. ....,. 
-
--
-


OUND THE NATION 
page 18 CoMPrLED FROM THE 0Bsnwuts WIRE sERVtc:ts Wednesday, November 5, 2003 
-
-
--
-

MLB 


Associated Press er Bengie Molina also were Rodriguez said he isn't only for players in their 
chosen. holding out much hope of own league. 
NEW YORK -Seattle A-Rod won for the second being picked as the AL Mussina won for the sixth outfielders Ichiro Suzuki straight season. Last year, MVP later this month. The time overall. Last year, and Mike Cameron and he broke Omar Vizquel's Rangers finished last at 71-Texas pitcher Kenny Mariners infielders Bret string of nine consecutive 91. Rogers was picked. Boone and John Olerud Gold Gloves. "That award, I've pretty Cameron won for the sec­won AL Gold Gloves on "I worked very, very much given up on," he said. ond time, replacing Tuesday. hard," Rodriguez said, "to "If I finish second or third Anaheim's Darin Erstad in 
All nine winners had pre­back it up this year with my for 10 or 15 years, that's the outfield. Suzuki and viously earned the honor second one." equivalent to one." Hunter each won for the for fielding excellence. "For a long time, you get The NL Gold Glove win­third straight season. There were seven repeat overlooked when you're an ners will be announced Olerud won at first base winners from last season -offensive player and put up Wednesday. for the third time. Boone New York Yankees pitcher offensive numbers," he Gold Gloves, presented won his third AL Gold Mike Mussina and Cameron said. since 1957 by St. Louis­Glove at second base -he rejoined the list this year. Rodriguez hit 4 7 home based Rawlings, are voted also got one with Cincinnati 
Texas shortstop Alex runs, tied with on by managers and coach­in 1998. Rodriguez, Oakland third Philadelphia's Jim Thome es before the end of the Chavez was picked for his baseman Eric Chavez, for most in the majors, with regular season. They may third Gold Glove and Minnesota outfielde-r Torii 118 RBis while batting not select players on their Molina won his second in a Hunter and Anaheim catch-.298. own teams, and they vote row. 
IN BRIEF 

Gretzky returns to run the general manager of the tained during the preseason, and Team Canada Edmonton Oilers, and Steve reserve forward Robert Horry was TORONTO -Wayne Gretzky will Tambellini, the vice president of play­questionable with a strained groin. 
return as executive director for Team er personnel for the Vancouver Duncan and Parker were the Canada at the World Cup of Hockey Canucks. team's top scorers last season, com­next September. bining for nearly 40 points per game. 
Hockey Canada announced the Duncan out for at least a Duncan has averaged 16.5 points and move Tuesday at Gretzky's restau­week with ankle sprain 12.7 rebounds this season. Parker rant, add said the NHL great is bring­SAN ANTONIO -San Antonio has yet to play. ing back the same management team Spurs forward Tim Duncan will be Duncan rolled over on his ankle that helped produce a gold medal at sidelined for one to three weeks with while making a fall-away jumper the 2002 Olympics. a sprained left ankle. midway through the first quarter Canada won its first Olympic gold Duncan was injured in Monday against the Grizzlies. in 50 years at Salt Lake City. Gretzky, night's loss to Memphis. the managing partner of the Phoenix The 7-foot forward missed Tuesday Spurs coach Popovich Coyotes, was in charge of assembling night's game against winless Miami, suspended for 6umping ref the roster, lining up coaches and as well as home contests against two SAN ANTONIO -San Antonio directing the management. of the Spurs' top rivals in the coach Gregg Popovich was suspended "We've never won the World Cup of Western Conference -the Los for one game by the NBA on Tuesday, Hockey," Gretzky said. "We look for­Angeles Lakers on Thursday and one day after bumping a referee in ward to the challenge." Dallas on Saturday. the Spurs' loss to Memphis. The World Cup, a two-week event The Spurs said Tuesday that Popovich was ejected in the second run· by the NHL and its union, is Duncan's ankle will be re-evaluated quarter of Monday's 88-80 loss to the returning after an eight-year after the Mavericks game. Grizzlies after he made contact with absence. The United States won the Spurs point guard Tony Parker also official Tony Brown on the court inaugural event in 1996. was not expected to play against the while shouting that Spurs guard Rejoining Gretzky are Kevin Lowe, Heat due to an ankle sprain sus-Shane Heal had been fouled. 
Wednesday, November 5, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NBA ­
Super rookie summitt: LeBron versus Carmela 
A•sociatcd Press media than have ever covered a any rivalry -old or new. 7.3 rebounds and 3.3 assists) but he goes to the hoop. He's game in Gund Arena, will wit­"A lot of people are going to aren't quite as impressive, going to be a scorer for years to CLEVELAND -Russell vs. ness the Cavaliers' home opener portray it as a LeBron-Carmelo either. come." 
-
Chamberlain. Bird vs. Magic. against the Nuggets. game, but it's a Nuggets vs. However, Anthony led the Like Magic Johnson and Larry Jordan vs. Everyone. It also will be James' regular­Cavaliers game, and we're try­Nuggets to a 2-1 record after Bird before them, James and 
Hivalries have always given season home debut, and the for­ing to go out there three games, Anthony have entered the the NBA some, extra bounce. On mer Akron high school super­and win," Anthony with wins over league with huge expectations. Wednesday night, another will star-and No. 1 NBA draft pick said. "It's going to "A lot ofpeople are Western What sets them apart is that be born. -wants to put on a good show. be on everybody's going to try to Conference pow­unlike Johnson and Bird, who 
This one pits a pair of the "A lot of people are going to front page. I know ers San Antonio became good friends later on in
portray it as a
league's most talented rookies be here," said James, who has that already. As and Sacramento. their careers, Anthony and -good friends who have averaged 18 points, 7.3 long as I go in there LeBeon-Carmelo Against the James are already tight. received rave reviews after rebounds and 7. 7 assists in with the mind-set game, but it's a Kings, Anthony They first bonded at a USA playing just a few pro games. three games. ''I'm just here to of just trying to had 23 points, Basketball Festival three years
Nets vs. Cavaliers
And Cleveland's LeBron show the city of Cleveland that win, nothing can six rebounds and ago in Colorado, where they James and Denver's Carmelo we're a way, way, way better hold me back." game ... " five assists in his were clearly the best players. Anthony can't wait for the open­team than we were last year." Nothing has best all-around But James says it was their otT­ing tip. James grew up just 30 miles stopped Anthony so effort this sea-court similarities that naturally
Carmeio Anthony 
''I'm looking forward to it," away, and he's expecting a large far. son. drew them together. 
Denver forward 
said James, the Cavaliers' 18-contingent of family and friends A 6-foot-8, 220-"Smooth," "He's cool," James said. "He year-old guard. to be on hand: "Half of Akron," pounder with a Cavaliers coach came up the same as me -sin­"You know there's going to be he says. feathery outside touch, Anthony, Paul Silas said of Anthony. "He gle parent, talk of the town. We a lot of hype," Anthony said. James and Anthony last faced the No. 3 overall selection, has­kind of reminds me of [Sixers just came up playing the game More than 20,000 fans, a each other in high school and n't gotten half as much hype as forward] Glenn Robinson a lot we love. We love the same 
national TV audience and more have been trying to downplay James. His stats (17. 7 points, in that he has that nice jumper, things." 
NFL 
Former trainer sues Manning 
Associated Press 
BAHTOW, Fla. -A female athletic trainer's defamation lawsuit can proceed against Indianapolis Colts quarterback Peyton Manning and his father, a judge ruled. 
Judge I Iarvey Kornstein said Monday there is enough evi­dence for a jury to hear the case, which stems from a 1996 encounter during which Manning dropped his pants in front of former University of Tennessee trainer Jamie Ann Naughright. 
The quarterback, without using Naughright's name, talks about the encounter in the book he wrote with his father, "Manning: A Father, His Sons and a Football Legacy." 
Manning says in the book that he pulled down his pants while the trainer was examin­ing his feet in the Volunteers' locker room. He said the train­er had a "vulgar mouth," but concedes his behavior was "inappropriate." 
"Crude, maybe, but harm­less," he wrote. 
Naughright alleges Manning placed his "naked butt" on her face. She filed the lawsuit in Polk County, Fla., in 2002, two years after the book was pub­lished, saying it disparaged her and seeking at least $15,000. 
Besides Manning and his 
father, former New Orleans Saints quarterback Archie Manning, the lawsuit also names writer John Underwood and publisher HarperCollins Inc. A trial is set for March in the lawsuit. 
The judge ruled there is enough evidence to suggest the Mannings, the writer and the publisher knew the passages in question were false and acted in reckless disregard for the truth. 
Naughright's attorney, Robert Puterbaugh, declined to comment Tuesday. The attorney representing the Manniugs and the other defen­dants did not return a call for comment. 

GRFAT FOOD -14 SCREENS 
*I miss myMommy Buffet Home cooked food every Sunday 5-Spm, starts Nov. 9 
*Carryout/T ailgate Trays Available-Call ahead and 
make us your Gameday Headquarters *LIVE MUSIC -Daryl Buchanan and Easy Ed, Nov.7, 9pm-? 
272-1766 
MLB Mattingly signs on as hitting coach 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK Don 
Mattingly hopped into the fire 
with no hesitation. 

After eight seasons in George Steinbrenner's collec­tion of beloved former Yankees, the former New York captain agreed to become the team's hitting coach. 
Now, he's just a few losses away from the wrath of the Boss. 
''I'm not naive to the fact that if this ballclub is not swinging the bat after a month, I'm going to be on the hot seat. That's just the way it is here," Mattingly said Tuesday after he was given a hero's introduction at Yankee Stadium. 
Mattingly follows Chris Chambliss, Gary Dembo and Rick Down, all deposed as hit­ting czars since the Yankees last won the World Series in 2000. 
Mattingly said he was "not a savior or magician or any­thing else." However, manag­er Joe Torre made clear he didn't fight the decision to jet­tison Down after New York hit .140 with runners in scoring position during the World Series loss to Florida. 
Mattingly then was per­suaded by Steinbrenner to return full time for the first time since he retired as a player after the 1995 season. 
"He's a guy you trust," Torre said. "He's very low key. Yet he gets pretty heated 

Pataf!onia 
excltiSively 
at---~ 
{minute~ 
!!.om OUTPOST 
Campus :1•1•1if: 
Cold Weather Experts 


Cal1259·1ooo for more details 
or emphatic when he has an 
opinion." 

His successor as captain, 
Derek Jeter, attended the 
news conference along with 
former Yankees Whitey Ford, 
Graig Nettles and Mike 
Pagliarulo. 

"I really learned the Yankee 
way from watching Don 
Mattingly," said Jeter, who 
arrived in New York during 
Mattingly's final season. "I 
learned a lot from how he 
handles himself in the good 
times and more importantly, 
in the bad times." 

Mattingly had stayed close to his Indiana home since his retirement in 1995 to spend time with his family as his three children grew up. The oldest is now in New York's farm system and the other two urged h·im to return to the Yankees, as did his wife. 
"I believe it's time to go," Kim Mattingly recalled telling her husband. "Your opportu­nity may run out at some point. They may quit asking." 
Yankees president Randy Levine said Mattingly made the' "ultimate sacrifice" by accepting the job. Torre knows that Mattingly's rela­tionship with Steinbrenner could be tested. 
"lie's in there with the rest of us now. He's no longer exempt," Torre said. 
Torre talked of how the owner used to be close to Don Zimmer, who quit as bench coach after the World Series, saying he never would work 
-
for Steinbrenner again. Zimmer felt the coaches were treated as scapegoats by the owner, who put pressure on them after the 2002 playoff loss to Anaheim. 
"He and Zim were very close, so that's the sad part about this whole thing," Torre said. "So whatever the reason -whether it is a way of tweaking me, I can't tell you for sure -it's a shame that it 
-
messed up a relationship that was there for a long time." 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, November 5, 2003 
HOCKEY 
-
David Brown earns second conference rookie award 
Special to The Observer
-
Notre Dame goaltender David Brown continued his red-hot play in goal for the Irish last week and has been selected the Central Collegiate Hocke'y Association's (CCHA) rookie of the week for the week ending Nov. 2. 
Brown, who has made just four starts in his collegiate career, recorded his third consecutive shutout in the 2-0 win over the Mavericks on Friday, Oct. 31. The 5-11, 188-pound goaltender made 22 saves in the victory and ran his consecutive shutout minute streak to 186:15, a new Notre Dame school record. 
The three consecutive shutouts are also a school record as are three shutouts in one season. He is one off the all-time career shutout mark of four held by Morgan Cey and Mark Kronholm. 
The win over Nebraska-Omaha gave the Irish a four-game win­ning streak and improved them to 5-2-0 on the year and 4-2-0 in CCHA play. 
Brown has not given up a goal since the 15:38 mark of the third period on Oct. 17 versus Bowling Green. In that span, he has shutout Bowling Green, No.1 ranked Boston College and Nebraska-Omaha. 
On the season, Brown is now 3-2-0 with a 1.15 goals-against average and a .964 save percent­age. He leads the CCHA in goals­against average, save percentage and shutouts. 
Nationally, the former Hamilton Kilty Bee of the Ontario Provincial Junior Hockey League, ranks fifth in goals­against average, third in save percentage and first in shutouts. He has helped Notre Dame to a CCHA-leading 1.71 team goals­against average. 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Impressive Sooners wary of Aggies and upset 
Associated Press 
For Oklahoma, now it's just a matter of avoiding a letdown. 
The top-ranked Sooners, how­ever, have extra incentive to make sure that doesn't happen in Saturday's Big 12 matchup with TexasA&M. 
Oklahoma (9-0, 5-0 Big 12), the unanimous No. 1 and the only undefeated team from a major conference, made a huge state­ment last week with its 52-9 trouncing of then-No. 14 Oklahoma State. The Cowboys had won the previous two meet­ings between the rivals. 
That game was supposed to be the last real test for the Sooners leading to the Big 12 title game on Dec. 6. Their remaining games come against Texas A&M, Baylor and Texas Tech -teams that comprise the bottom half of the Big 12 South and have a com­bined 13-14 record. 
"Around here, beating Oklahoma State isn't going to be the end-all to our season," Oklahoma coach Bob Stoops said. "This game means nothing with­out these next three." 
Stoops' squad has reason to be wary of Texas A&M (2-3, 4-5) despite its poor record. The Sooners also entered last sea­son's meeting unbeaten and at No. 1, but the Aggies pulled off a stunning 30-26 victory at College Station. 
Last year, though, Texas A&M did not have to deal with Jason White. The Heisman Trophy can­didate is second nationally with a 
168.3 passer rating for a Sooner offense that leads the country with 45.1 points per game. 
With White having thrown 27 touchdown passes and only six interceptions, Oklahoma has scored 50 or more points in five 
Clarett drops federal complaint seeking fine 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio Suspended running back Maurice Clarett has dropped a federal complaint seeking a $2.5 million fine against Ohio State for releasing information from an NCAA investigation to
-prosecutors. In his court motion, Clarett reserved the right to renew the complaint if he could get back­ing from the U.S. Department of Education, which oversees the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act he accuses the school of violating. "We intend to bring it again," his attorney, Percy Squire, said Tuesday. "We want to bring it as a joint action." The complaint sought to add
-
Clarett to an Education Department lawsuit against several Ohio universities over the release of educational records. The complaint asked the court to fine Ohio State at least $2.5 million, payable to Clarett. 
Ohio State had argued that previous court rulings prevent individuals from suing schools under the privacy law. Squire said he wanted to avoid that question by having the Education Department join him in seeking the contempt ruling. 

DUTPDST 
~ 
Cold Weather Experts 

5minutes from Campus 
Cal1259·1ooo for more details 
games this season to equal the school record set in 1987. 
The Aggies have surrendered an average of 37.6 points and 
428.2 yards in five Big 12 games, and their minus-9 turnover ratio is second-worst in the confer­ence. 
Oklahoma's defense is allowing a nation-low 245.3 yards per contest and has surrendered just 62 points in five conference games. 
That unit is led by ·defensive end Dan Cody Jr., the reigning Big 12 player of the week after collecting three sacks and forcing a fumble against Oklahoma State. In that win, the Sooners held the Cowboys offense, which entered the game ranked fifth nationally in scoring, to a season-low 161 yards and no touchdowns. 
"We showed a lot of pride and toughness on defense," Stoops said. "Our defense not giving up a touchdown all day, that's the finest defense I've seen them play." 
With Cody leading a ferocious pass rush. Texas A&M can't afford to fall into a big deficit. 
Though sophomore quarter­back Reggie McNeal passed for a career-high 259 yards in last week's 45-33 win over Kansas, the Aggies offense is based on Courtney Lewis and the ground game. 



Wednesday, November 5, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
FOOTBALL 
-
Injuries plague Irish starters Earl, Budinsack 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
A glance at Notre Dame's injury list shows just how many players are banged up. 
Safety Glenn Earl. who hob­bled off the field against USC and hasn't played since, isn't likely to return to the Irish this season. Secondary coach Trent Walters said Earl is back home in Lisle, Ill., recovering from knee surgery. 
"He's home now, because he had his knee operated on Friday," Walters said. "I expect him back next week helping, but he should not be here for the game on Saturday." 
Then there's defensive end Kyle Budinscak, who went down agatnst Florida State and is out this week and maybe longer, Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said. 
Meanwhile, offensive tackle Dan Stevenson is questionable and Jim Molinaro is probable. Center Bob Morton's status will be determined as the week progresses, Willingham said. All three offensive linemen were helped off the field Saturday. 
The injuries, coupled with a wealth of inexperienced play­ers and a well-disciplined opponent in Navy, means the Irish are seeing much more individual attention in prac­tice. 
"We had more individual time than we ever had," Irish defensive coordinator Kent Baer said. "It's just a lot of reps. You have to go over it again and again." 
And the fact that the Irish are having to plug in inexperi­enced players is no excuse for their current struggles, Willingham said. 
"You have to make sure you simplify to a degree, to make sure that you give them every opportunity to see those looks and practice against those looks as many times as possi­ble so they are comfortable with what they hope they will see," the Irish head coach said. 
Setta stU! out 
On Notre Dame's second kickoff of the game against Pittsburgh, Nicholas Setta did something that prevented him from kicking or punting since. 
While he wouldn't say exact­ly what the nature of his injury is, Setta did say that it pre­vents him from going through the full range of his kicking motion. 
"It's one of those things you don't understand and try to get through," he said. "I'd just hurt the team right now if I tried to [play] right now." 
Setta estimated that he would be ready to return by the Stanford game Nov. 29 at the latest, which means he would miss the Navy and BYU games but have a bye week to help him continue to rest. The injury, he said, isn't healing as fast as it was expected to. 
"I thought last week that this week was going to be the week," Setta said. "You just have to shut your mouth and not try to cry wolf too many times." 
Quarterback switch 
In the late minutes of Notre Dame's 37-0 blowout loss to Florida State Saturday, and after considering the fact that starting quarterback Brady Quinn had struggled all game long, Willingham said he con­templated putting Carlyle Holiday back under center briefly. 
But Willingham's thought stayed as thoughts and never turned into action. 
"It was the timing of the game," Willingham said. "I didn't think Vwas right." 
Holiday hasn't taken a snap 

in a game since he was replaced by Quinn before the 
-
Purdue game. The Irish are ranked last in the nation in passing efficiency. 
No success after close calls 
As if their 39-game losing streak against the Irish wasn't enough to tip the history books against the Midshipmen, Navy hasn't had much success against Notre Dame the year after a close loss. 
Since 1976, Navy has lost to Notre Dame by a touchdown or less four times -five includ­ing last year's narrow 30-23 loss. In those years of close­but-no-cigar (1976, '84, '97 and '99). the Midshipmen lost by an average of 3.75 points. The year after a close victory, Notre Dame won by an aver­age of 29.5 points. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

Midshipmen in 39 years -the with a rash of injuries. Glenn game. year ago, has already called longest Earl and "The discipline that it takes to turning around this season's
Football 
streak in col­K y I e play the option scheme is very team one of the toughest chal­continued from page 24 legiate foot­"/ think you have to learn if Budinscak difficult," Willingham said. "I lenges he's faced. ball-and, are both out think you have to be unbeliev­But Willingham refused to get
you're going to be a coach in 
ciency is ranked last in the at least indefinitely, ably disciplined to play against frustrated or make excuses. He'll nation and the team has only before the this business for any period according to that system." just keep trying to point Notre scored touchdowns on four of its game, this oftime, you have to be able Willingham. Willingham firmly believes that Dame toward the future. 23 trips into the red zone. season rep­The absence the Irish are well disciplined, "I think you have to learn if
to handle the good and the
"We need to get after teams resents of defensive even though they have been you're going to be a coach in this 
bad."
and start making teams catch Navy's best leaders hurt plagued by ill-timed penalties in business for any period of time, us," running back Ryan Grant chance to the Irish so recent weeks. He also said Notre you have to be able to handle the said, "instead of trying to play knock off the Tyrone Willingham much last Dame has been negatively affect­good and the bad," he said. "And catch up." Irish in year against ed by players doing things that never does anyone like handling
coach
And if there's ever an oppo­recent years. Navy that are "uncharacteristic," and those the bad, but you have to do it. So nent that the Irish need to be To compli-t h e breakdowns put an already I figure out ways to do it and consistent against, it's Navy. cate matters further, Notre Midshipmen led by eight points struggling Irish team back on its move forward so we can reach Notre Dame hasn't lost to the Dame's defense has been hit with five minutes left in the heels even further. our goal." 
The Irish head coach, who was 

T H E LED RD ED F +HE RINGS ~ A VIDEED EVEN+ ~ 
the toast of South Bend after Contact Andrew Soukup at leading his team to an 8-0 start a asoukup@nd.edu 
AN EXCLUSIVE PREVIEW of features from the extended edition DVD of 
The Lord ofthe Rings: The T-w-o To-w-ers 
SMC SocCER 
Belles' defense shines on wet Olivet field 
Original footage...never before available for public viewing. 
VV'"EDNt=SDA.Y NEDVt$1DBER 5 
7:00 P.m. 
In the Bookstore 

join us for fun! Trivia...share your "Lord of the Rings" wisdom! 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE EC:K CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndbook•tora.com 
Open to the public • Convenient parking 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
Despite the terrible field con­ditions, Saint Mary's was able to come away with not only another victory but also its first shutout of the season. 
The Belles had to overcome patches of water and mud to defeat Olivet College 3-0 Tuesday night. 
The win puts the Belles at 6­4-3 in the conference and 10-5­3 overall. 
"It was a swamp, but we just had to adjust," Saint Mary's sweeper Carrie Orr said. 
Saint Mary's appeared to adjust well as the Belles led early in the first half after Orr scored the first goal of the game off a penalty kick. 
Saint Mary's continued to look strong and dictate the game as the Belles came back to find their second goal of the half. The leading scorer for Saint Mary's, freshman Carolyn Logan, found her sixth goal of the· season off an assist by Sarah Budd. 
In the second half of play, the offense showed no sign of fatigue as Saint Mary's scored thP1'" final goal of the game off a ion& range kick from freshman Ashley Hinton. 
"We came to play, and we played tough," Logan said. 
But Saint Mary's could not have come away with the win without the stellar defense that has turned out to be a major highlight for the team this sea­son. 
"Our defense did not allow any goals, and Katie Taylor continues to be the most consis­tent player." Orr said. 
Saint Mary's hopes it can 
-
depend upon another strong performance from the defense when playing against its next opponent, Calvin College. 
Calvin is currently tied for first with Hope College in the MIAA standings and the game against Saint Mary's is critical. But Saint Mary's does to intend to see different results from Tuesday night's win. 
"We have had a good season and we just want to finish strong," Orr said. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

Wednesday, November 5, 2003
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S BASKETBALL
-
Irish ready for traditional game in exhibition 
By ANDREW SOUKUP
-
Sports Writer 
No more practice jerseys. No more trapezoid lanes. No more 24-second shot clocks. No more 120-degree Barbados gyms. No more openly hostile crowds. 
It's regular old-fashioned bas­ketball in the Joyce Center for Notre Dame tonight, which, after playing three exhibition games in Barbados under international rules, opens its regular slate of exhibition games tonight against Hoop Group. 
"We're playing good ol' American rules, baby. Springfield, Massachusetts," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "We've been playing with those lines for so long, I think it's been confus­ing our big guys." 
The Irish, playing three games in four days during a fall break tour in Barbados, finished 2-1. The trip marked the emergence of the Chris Thomas-Chris Quinn backcourt, a combination Brey plans to use on an extensive basis as the year progresses. That duo will debut tonight for Irish fans, who still have to wait until Nov. 24 to see Notre Dame play its first real game of the sea­son. 
The Quinn-Thomas backcourt has been one Brey has empha­sized throughout the team's pre­season. Brey estimated that the pair has played against each other just a handful of times in practice. Instead, he's trying to help the two deveJop on-court chemistry needed to see who handles the traditional point­guard duties and who turns into the shooting guard. It also gives the Irish the ability to switch who pressures the opposition's pri­mary ball handler. 
But so far, the two have been able to work out sharing the duties well. Although Brey says Thomas is still the team's point guard, the coach doesn't spend much time dictating who runs the point when both are on the floor -it's a natural process that develops depending on each pos­session. 
"Whoever gets the ball can go," Quinn said. "Maybe I'll get it and go, and Chris will get the ball to look off some screens, or vice versa. For the most part, it's strictly natural." 
The Irish are in a particularly 


Coaches 
continued from page 24 
And that's just the new teams. 
Syracuse won the national title last year, and Connecticut is ranked No. 1 this preseason. Notre Dame and Pittsburgh are both preseason top-25 teams. Oh, and all four teams made the Sweet Sixteen last March. 
"I'll tell you what, we'll ratch­et down our non-league sched­ule when the re-alignment takes effect in two years," Brey said. "We're covering non-league and league toughness all at once." 
Muffet McGraw's attitude is similar. While a loaded 14-team conference got even better, especially with the addition of DePaul. the women's basketball team coach doesn't significantly plan to adjust her scheduling. 
"Our approach has always been to play a tough schedule to prepare us for the NCAA Tournament," she said. 
The nuts and bolts of the league's re-alignment are still getting worked out, and Brey and McGraw both have very strong opinions on what they want the future Big East to look like. 
On the men's side, Big East commissioner Mike Tranghese said the league would be split into two eight-team divisions, but the Big East Tournament would still remain at 12 teams. Tranghese favored a conference schedule that was either 16 or 18 games, and the exact num­ber would depend on what worked best for the league's tel­evision contract negotiation. 
But Brey said he would-prefer a 16-game slate because it would give teams more flexibili­ty. He envisions a scenario simi­lar to how the league scheduled teams this year -one where 

Guard Chris Thomas, coach Mike Brey and the Irish represent one of seven preseason top-25 teams In the reshaped Big 
unique situation this fall. Normally, teams only have two exhibition games to prepare for a season. but Notre Dame's fall tour has already given them three games. 
With the added preparation time, Brey plans to continue tweaking lineups to find solid matchups as well as helping the players develop confidence in Notre Dame's interior players. In particular, the Irish will continue to groom sophomore Torin Francis to be the team's primary interior threat -something the Irish will need with the depar­ture of perimeter sharpshooters Matt Carroll and Dan Miller. 
"I think that if they're not con­fident in passing to me, they're not going to pass it down," Francis said. "That's why I have 
Big East 
continued from page 24 

schools in jumping ship, and the future of the Big East appeared to be in jeopardy. 
But in just a few months, the league regrouped, plotted its course and lured five other schools from another conference to make a monstrous 16-team league. 
The additions make the Big East arguably one of the best basketball conferences in the nation. Seven teams in the new conference are ranked in the top 25 of most preseason basketball polls. 
The potential for the eight­team football league, however, is not so bright. And it wasn't immediately clear if the addition of Louisville, Cincinnati and South Florida ­who haven't had 
expires after 2005. 

South Florida was a particu­larly surprising addition, because the school is not geo­graphically located near any of the other schools. But while the defection of Miami and VIrginia Tech stunned the collegiate world, Boston College's decision sent an already expansion­minded Big East looking to add another football school. In South Florida, Big East commissioner Mike Tranghese said he believes the conference has an up-and­coming program that can help the conference remain domi­nant. 
"[The cpnference presidents] know who we are, and they know where we've been," Tranghese said. "I still think we're one of the six best foot­ball-playing conferences in the country." 
The conference dominoes aren't likely to stop falling with the Big East's Tuesday announcement. After the Big East announced it had added the five C-USA teams, the C-USA responded by adding five more teams of its own-WAC mem­bers Rice, Southern Methodist and Tulsa and Mid-American each team would play every team in the conference at least once, and then play other teams twice to set up glamorous televi­sion matchups. Brey said he also hopes the league's divisions aren't split into Midwest and East Coast leagues. 
"I don't think anything is etched in stone right now," he added. 
McGraw, on the other hand, favors a conference schedule where all teams are in one mas­sive league and play each other once -thus turning what is now a 16-game schedule into a 15-game one. She expects the conference tournament to stay the same. 
But both coaches are excited by the addition of Midwest schools, which they say will make travel and recruiting easi­er. 
"It's great for us to get fans to travel," she st1id. 
Tranghese said ~he five teams wouldn't join tae conference until 2fl''5-06, at the latest. Only current freshmen and sopho­mores will play in the realigned Big East. But Chicago native Colin Falls is looking forward to playing regional powers Marquette and DePaul. 
"It's nice to have a local team where I live in the conference," he said. "It'll be a rivalry game." 
The departure of Miami and Virginia Tech to the ACC will only strengthen the Big East men's basketball division. While Boston College -which is also joining the ACC -was among the Big East's top teams, Miami and VIrginia Tech were perenni­al cellar-dwellers. Their absence will turn the Big East back into the basketball power­house that originally drove its creation. 
"They kind of played around with that football stuff," Brey said. "Now we're back to where we belong and back to our iden­tity." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
to establish my presence before the game." 
"We still have three weeks until our first game, and it feels like we've been practicing for six weeks," Brey said. "You have to pick your spots and pace them too." 
Notes 

Brey praised the play of fresh­man guard Russell Carter, whom he said has been playing well in practice since the team returned from Barbados. It wasn't clear if classmate Russell Carter is close to cracking into the regular rota­tion. 
Junior Jordan Cornette will sit out tomorrow's exhibition with a bruised knee, Brey said. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

"I never said we're 
historically Notre Dame 
strong football the best conference in emphatically 
programs repeated it had
the country. What our 
would be good no interest in
goal is is to be
enough to joining the . ensure the con­viewed as one of the league as a foot­ference keeps its ball member, the
best. And clearly,
automatic bid to Big East decided
we're there. " 
the Bowl to keep the foot­Championship ball-playing Series when the Mike Tranghese members at eight BCS contract schools rather
Big East commissioner 
Conference members Marshall and Central Florida. 
Although league presidents took the final vote on expansion Tuesday, the Big East's expan­sion effort had been underway for several months, Tranghese said. The process involved meetings with schools targeted for expansion, evaluating the potential for a football-only member, and visits at every school to ensure acceptance of invitations, the league commis­sioner added. 
Notre Dame benefited from adding the Midwest schools because it could potentially reduce travel costs while at the same time maintaining the school's recruiting presence by playing conference games in the Midwest. 
Tranghese said the league briefly flirted with, but ultimate­ly rejected, adding a football-only playing school. And when 
than continue to 
expand. 

But Heisler said that Notre Dame's independence is not nec­essarily set in stone. 
"At some juncture, it doesn't make any sense to say [we 'II stay independent forever]," he said. "We don't know where the world is going to go. We're not going to sit here and guarantee that we're not going to be an independent." 
Pittsburgh, Syracuse and West Virginia are the top remaining football programs in the Big East after Miami, Virginia Tech and Boston College leave the conference within two years. Connecticut will replace Temple as a member after this season. Rutgers is the final team in the football conferences. 
The six existing non-football playing teams are Villanova, St. John's, Providence, Georgetown, Seton Hall and Notre Dame. 
"I never said we're the best conference in the country," Tranghese said. "What our goal is is to be viewed as one of the best. And clearly, we're there." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

Wednesday, November 5, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
-
-
-
CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 


FIVES 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Backseat 5 Place to put in 
11 Acid 14 Push lor 15 Brooks 
Robinson, notably 18 Have a mortgage 17 Sen. Olympia's rages? 19 Get the gold 20 Angry speeches 21 Abalone eaters 23 Feel wistful 24 So-so 28 Not as sensible 29 ·-I Kissed You" 30 How coffee filters are used 33 Blue blood, informally 35 Eggs 
38 Formula One 66 _ River (what automaker the Brooklyn Bridge spans) 
40 Authorize 67 Blood units: 
42 Rock music's 

Abbr.
_Fighters 

68 Upgrades, as 
43 Thickheaded 

factory 45 Swift fliers, for equipment short 
69 Looks after little 48 Overseas 
ones facilities 
48 Actress Verdugo DOWN and others 1 Out of practice 50 Open-ended 2 Cubs legend cigars Banks 
53 European 3 Greek market fashion capital 
4 One offering 57 Challenges lor encouragement Hercules 5 Stockings 58 Blasphemous 6 Conservatory's locus
60_Today 7 • Lobo"
81 Boxer Riddick's 

(John Wayne 
glove securers? 

film) 84 Render 
8 Staten Is., e.g.
imperfect 

9 "Stand and 65 Go by Deliver" star 
10 Turnpike oasis ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

11 Actor Rob's punches? 12 Certain ice cream feature ~w.~;.-. .;+:,:.jll!l~..,_._*.::+i~ 13 Thickheaded ~;;+;;.,ti!I""'~(.T.I..;+;.! 18 Author Ferber 22_chi 24 Louvre Pyramid architect ~;;+;~+=-! 25 Literary thief Lupin 27 Gambling game M:+-:+.~+.:1 28 Stand on the dinner table ~;;..;.&.;.;.&..;;..L;;.j 30 Not running 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
WILLSHORTZ 

31 Prefix with natal 39Shock_ 54 Hawaiian Island 
32 Actor Russell's 41 Hardens, as 55 Hopeless feeling nighttime bones 
56 Ants' homes hangouts? 

44 French pronoun 
58 "Hey, buddy" 34 Counterfeiter 

47_·Magnon
hunters 59 Itinerary abbrs. 49 Livy's love 
36 November 11 62 Old U.S. military
50 Stick together 
honoree aux. 51 Assails
37 Horace's •_ 63 Prefix with poetica" 52"_ Mio" center or cycle 
For answers, call 1·900-285·5656, $1.20 a minute: or, with a 
credit card, 1·800·814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888· 7 ·ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.cornlcrosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leaminglxwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tqur ordinary words. 
VIRTE 

riJ I I 
02:003 Tnbune Media SeiVk:ea, Inc. All Righll R ..erved. 
RAFIE 

I rJ t J 
GRAHAN 

[IJ () 

www.jurTtlle.com

tGOTTOR j Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon.J rI I I 
Ms: 

IT rI I J"[ I I xI I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 
I Jumbles: ABHOR ENEMY AGENCY DEVOURYesterday's 
Answer: Why the shipwrecked sailor turned purple with rage -HE WAS "MAROONED" 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Tatum O'Neal, Ike Turner, Elke Sommer, Bryan Adams, Sam Shepard 
Happy Birthday: Get on with it. If you think you can sit through the exciting and fruitful year ahead, think again. Get your act together and start anew. The only satisfaction you'll get is from the success that goes after. Do your own thing and refrain from putting demands on others. It's time for you to take all the glory yourself. Your numbers: 8, 13, 22, 29, 35, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Uncertainties on the home front should not be a cause for alarm. A move or changes are evident. Once you make your alterations, the existing problems will be eliminated. *** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Family outings to the museum or other cultural events will be stimulating and rewarding. You will find that if you're active with the one you love, a closer bond will definitely develop. *** GEMINI (May·21-June·20): If you have to put in some overtime, do so. You will be much happier ifyou get the work out of the way as quickly as possible. Do something with colleagues that will help develop a friendship. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will find the day confusing if you let the turmoil you are experiencing take over and ruin your plans. Love interests are present, and you must pull yourself away from the stress and enjoy yourself. 
** 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Expect to have problems with authority figures. Stick to your original plans, but be secretive about them. Don't let anyone curtail your freedom. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't take on too much. You will be taken for granted if you are generous with your time or cash. Children will play an important role in your life if you let them help with your projects. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): This is not the time to ask for favors or complain or criticize others. It is best to do your own thing and refrain from worrying about what others are doing. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may be enjoying yourself, but overindulgence will lead to upset and financial loss later on. Travel will be in your best interests. You will learn from the people you encounter. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take care of any health problems. It's 
. too close to the festive season to take chances. Don't make promises to the ones you love. Do what you can, but don't push yourself past your limit. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may not be the easiest to get along with. Try not to be too curt with your loved ones, and be prepared to work on some of the difficulties that have arisen in your relationship. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let worry ruin your weekend. You need to take care of your health. If your job is causing that much stress, you may be wise to consider making changes. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will have great ideas for fund-raising events. Don't hesitate to voice your opinions and suggestions. You will be well-regarded, due to your compassionate and giving nature. *** 
Birthday Baby: Once you've got your value system down pat, you'll be off to the races. Your "play to win" attitude and good mental awareness will keep any competitors you meet throughout life on their toes. You are resourceful, articulate and passionate about everything you do. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-. -,-·­

Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City _____________ State _______ Zip___________ 
• • -·-··· ~~-··~--· 4.' "' .... ~ .......... ' 
THE 0BSERVtR 
-
PORTS
Wednesday, November 5, 2003 
Page 24 
Big East adds five schools to conference 

By ANDREW SOUKUP Sporrs Wrirer 
Ending a seven-month process that saw three of its members leave for a rival con­ference, the Big East Conference announced Tuesday that five Conference USA schools had accepted the conference's offer to join the league in 2005-06. 
Louisville, Cincinnati and South Florida accepted invita­tions to join the Big East in all sports. DePaul and Marquette -traditional Notre Dame basketball rivals who don't have football teams -will be the fourth and fifth additions. 
Notre Dame, which some newspapers previously report­ed had entertained offers from other conferences, will remain in the new 16-team league in all sports except football, which will still remain inde­pendent, school spokesman John Heisler said. 
"It's been a complicated summer for everyone in col­lege athletics and particularly for the Big East," Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White said in a statement, "and today's announcement repre­sents a resolution and a plan to move forward for all those associated with the confer­ence." 
The conference turmoil began in June when Miami and Virginia Tech accepted the ACC's offer to leave the Big East. A few months later, Boston College joined the two 
see BIG EAST/page 22 




just made the league a whole lot 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
tougher.
Sporrs Writer 

"Now that it's official, it's the best basket-Mike Brey always thought the See Also ball league in Big East men's basketball confer­"Irish ready for the country," ence was among the best in the the Irish country. traditional game men's basket-But with the addition of in exhibition" ball coach Louisville, Marquette, Cincinnati, said. "The DePaul and South Florida to a page 22 first part of league that sent four teams to me says it's the NCAA Tournament last year exciting. Then I say, 'I hope we 



get nine bids [to the NCAA Tournament].'" 
Just what is the Big East get­ting? Louisville and Cincinnati are coached by Rick Pitino and Bob Huggins, respectively -two of the most highly regarded head coaches in college basketball. Marquette made it to the Final Four in April. DePaul is a tradi­tional rival of Notre Dame. 
see COACHES/page 22 
FOOTBALL 
Irish not making excuses as team struggles 
By ANDREW SOUKUP  pointed toward the future by emphasizing the importance of  improvement in Notre Dame's offense in the second half  
Sporrs Wrirer  ending the season on a positive  Saturday against Florida State,  
note.  when the Irish recorded 14 first  
He could point to the fact that  "I don't think you'll see me  downs compared to just one in  
Notre Dame has the toughest  bring  up  any  the first half. And  
- schedule in the nation. He  See Also  excuses, and maybe I have inad­ he says he is impressed with the  
could say he's playing too many fresh­men and  "Injuries plague Irish starters  vertently and I apologize for those if I have," the Irish head coach said at  "/ don't think you'll see me bring up any excuses.  team's resiliency, despite the fact that the team is off to its wo_rst start  
sophomores.  Earl, Budinsack"  his weekly press  since 1963.  
He could say too many players are  page21  conference Tuesday. "But I don't believe  Tyrone Willingham coach  .But Willingham also knows the Irish have had  
injured. He could say that he's  excuses are solu­ more  than their  
-­ not playing with players he  tions. So you won't  ·  share of struggles.  
ANDY KENNA/The Observer Vontez Duff runs back an Interception In a 37-0 Notre Dame loss against Florida State Saturday.  recruited. But Tyrone Willingham won't. Instead, the coach of the 2-6 Irish tries to keep his team  hear me provide any excuses." Willingham firmly believes the Irish are pointed in the right direction. He points to the  Notre Dame hasn't 'scored iri seven quarters, its passing effi­see FOOTBALL/page 21  

en 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
FOOTBALL 
SMC SOCCER 
NBA 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
NHL 
w 

t-
c.,) Hoop Group at 
Injuries pile up 
Saint Mary's 3 

Miami (OH) 33 
Rangers 3

Nu~ets at
z Notre Dame 
Numerous Irish 
Olivet 0 

Cava iers 
Bowling Green 10 
Stars 0 
starters have been 
The Belles earned 

42-year-old Mark
rx: ~ 
e Tonight, 7:30 p.m. 
sidelined by injuries. 
their first shutout on a 

Cal Murray ran for 
Messier became the
Tonight, 8 p.m.
..., The Irish host their 
Coaches have to give 
wet field Tuesday. 

two touchdowns as the 
second all-time leader in
Rookies LeBron James
c Cl: 
more attention to indi­

first exhibition game at 
Red Hawks upset 
points with two goals. 
and Carmelo Anthony 
the Joyce Center. 
vidual players in prac-

Bowling Green. 
a. =c 
meet for the first time. 
tice.

en page 22 
page 21 
page 21 

page 17 
page 14
page 19 










