
Iv1opday, February 24, 2003
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXVII NO. 101 

Check out the Bengal Bouts 
page 14 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Protests not endangering students abroad 
. Students react to tensions in Europe 
By SHEl1A FLYNN 
News Writer 
TOLEDO, Spain 
As Notre Dame students in study abroad programs trav­eled across Europe Feb. 15, they encountered massive demonstrations protesting the possibility of U.S. mili­tary action in Iraq through­out major cities on the conti­nent. 
Students said the protests they encountered were not violent, but were massively attended and vehemently anti-Bush. 
"It was packed," said junior Kathryn O'Brien, who witnessed the protests in Toledo, Spain, where she is studying for the year. "I couldn't even walk. I had to push my way through every­body." 
Many other Toledo stu­dents were in Seville, Spain for protests, where police placed the number of demonstrators at 60,000 and organizers claimed at least twice that amount were in attendance. Sporting "No a la Guerra" stickers and wav­ing a variety of banners 
either ridiculing or denounc­
ing Bush. the protesters 
flooded the streets and 
chanted wildly as the Notre 
Dame students and many 
other Americans looked on. 
"There were a lot of 
Americans watching," said 
sophomore Joe Guintu, who 
is also spending the year in 
Toledo. "I didn't feel in dan­
ger or anything." 

Junior Ali Grobe witnessed the march of over one mil­lion people in Rome, where· she is studying for the year, and she echoed the same sentiments. 
"We've already had a few protests in the months that we have been here," Grobe said. "The marches.aren't necessarily anti-American, they are just pro-peace or, at the very most, anti-Bush administration. I mean, we don't run around screaming in English, but I don't feel like I am in a dangerous position when I walk around the city." 
Most Notre Dame students studying on the continent agreed that the European feeling was, indeed, anti-war and anti-Bush rather than anti-American. Many stu­dents said that while the majority of European resi­dents are strongly against 

see MARCH/page 6 
• No plans exist to evacuate abroad participants 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Associate News Editor 
Increased protests of U.S. foreign policy across the globe have caused adminis­trators of study abroad pro­grams at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to carefully monitor international trans­portation and local security at program sites, but there are no plans to have stu­dents return to the United States. 
On Feb. 15, millions of pro­testors gathered at cities across the globe to protest the possibility of war with Iraq, including cities where students are studying abroad such as Athens. Dublin, London and Rome. An esti­mated one million people took part in marches in London and Rome, and police in Athens used tear gas to control crowds who broke windows and threw a 
bomb  at  a  newspaper's  
offices.  
Thomas  Bogenschild,  

director of International Study Programs at Notre Dame, said that he was not 
WOMEN IN THE RING 


Sara Sweeney, left and Kim Dunn fought It out In the ring Sunday. This Is the first year that the women have boxed publicly during the quarterfinals of the Bengal Bouts. 
aware of any student being 
endangered while abroad. 
"I have no reports of any­
one being endangered, 
although people have report­
ed being tense," said 
Bogenschild. 
Anastasia Gutting, director of Notre Dame's London Program, said she had heard second-hand only one report of a student who was asked if she was American. 
"A woman student had been approached by a man who asked if she was American and when she responded [that she was] 'Canadian,' which we sug­gest students use as an answer to that kind of ques­tion, and appeared uncom­fortable, he immediately backed away," said Gutting. 
Peter Checca, counselor of the Saint Mary's Rome Program, said the College has been sending students to Rome since 1970 and stu­dents have been in Rome during other tense times, such as the Gulf War and the war in Yugoslavia. 

"In times like these, we tell the students to stay away from protests and places where Americans are known to congregate, keep a low profile and go about their business," said Checca. 
Although demonstrators were protesting U.S. policy, 
Bogenschild said many stu­dents have noticed a differ­ence between protestors ral­lying against American poli­cy and rallying against Americans in general. 
"Most students are seeing 
that the protestors are· not 
anti-American, but are anti­
U.S. policy. Whether some­one's views are anti­American are in the eye of the beholder," Bogenschild said. 
Bogenschild added that his office has no plans to suggest students do not take part in the protests. 
"If some protests got out of hand and violence was directed at random students, I might recommend that stu­dents not take part in them, but J don't see that now, and I would hate to give such an order [for students not to participate]." he said. 

At this point, there has been no increase in security at study abroad sites because of the protests. A large number of security measures are already in place at programs in large metropolitan areas, such as London, where there is keyed access to the class­room building and residence hall and staffed reception desks. 
see PROTESTS/page 6 




SMC raises tuition for third straight year 
By SARAH NESTOR Saint Mary's Editor 

The Saint Mary's Board of Trustees approved a 6 per­cent tuition increase for the t h i r d 
to increase costs. 
"Everything needs to make adjustments, whether you are a business or a college," Engler said. 
However, the cost increas­es are not in r,esponse to construction 

straight projects,
"Everything needs to 
year at its Engler said.
make adjustments, 
February While the meeting last whether you are a busi­trustees dis­week. cussed the
ness or a college ...
Tuition proposed w i l l campus increase to Melanie Engler apartments, $21,783 for Saint Mary's spokeswoman the topic was 
2003-04, a $1,233 increase from the 2002-03 amount of $20,550. In addi­tion, room and board costs increased by 5 percent to $7, 289, $347 more than they are this year. 
Including tuition, fees and room and board, the average total cost for 2003-2004 will be $29,072. The average 2002-2003 total was $27, 492. 
Saint Mary's spokeswoman Melanie Engler attributed the cost increase to height­ened insurance and pension costs in addition to a lower projected enrollment. The slow economy was also a fac­tor in the trustees' decision 
tabled until the next board meeting in April. 
The trustees also approved a 1.5 percent increase in fac­u I ty and staff salaries. Although the increase is lower than in the past, Engler said the increase is tentative and could be higher depending on final enroll­ment numbers. 
However, Engler said that Saint Mary's employees are secure in their jobs and that there will be zero layoffs. 
"The College is committed to its faculty and staff," Engler said. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at N est9877l@saintmarys.edu 


Monday, February 24, 2003
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Keepit)-g 

pac~ ~1fh 

tu1t1on 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame Board of Tnist.effi have once again approved tuition increases, thereby passing the College and University's casts onto students. However, this is not an uncommon phenomenon in the Sarah Nestor 
State of Indiana, or even across the Saint Mary's · nation. Indiana Editor University, Purdue University and Ball State have all approved tuition increase; for nextyear. 
A main oomponent leading to the approval oftuition increase5 is the unprecedented high­er education cuts that state;, such as Indiana have approved. Because of state budget deficits there have been major cuts to in the ammmt of aid colleges receive, which are then passed on to students. According to The Indianapolis Star in the pasttwo years Indiana Gov. Frank O'Bannon has cut $228 million in state aid to collegffi, in an attempt to reduce Indiana's $850 million deficit Currently 49 states are now facing budget deficits, which has lead to tuition increases at colleges throughout of the oountcy and to an estimated 2 million college qualified students not being able to afford a higher eduranon thl, year. 
Now the State of Indiana's pro~budget cuts will begin to directly affect Indiana stu­dents as leg5)ators look to approve a budget this week The $22.9 billion two-year budget was approved by the Indiana House of Repreienta.tive, 51-49, and will now be sentto the Indiana Senate for approval. The House Bill 1001will rffit.ore cuts made by O'Bannon thataffectedstate colleges anduniversities. 
A.s students at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame \Ve are very much aware of the high C<lit ofhigher education and the importance of financial aid. The Independent Colleges of Indiana organization, of which both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are members, is ask­ing that students expfffiS the importance of state-funded financial aid to Indiana State House Representatives and State Senators. 1hl; is important as it is expected that for the first time Indiana State grant aid will not be able to rovertuitionincreases. 
Funding for higher education institutions has notbeen a priority, especially in light of the State's budget deficit5, but st.ate funded aid for private in.5titutioll5 has lxn>me an even lover priority. It is important that State representa­tives realiw how imµ>r1ant st.ate funded aid is to students. Without this aid more and more students will have to turn to private loans. Already The College Board reports that pri­vate loans incxeased from $1.3 billion in 1996 to $5.5 billion in 2002. 
The continuingly rising cost of Indiana Colleges has not gone unnotired by Indiana st.ate legislators. There has been nx:ent talk of capping oollege tuition casts in the State. 
"If these universities continue the way they are and increase tuition to an excessive amount-and we think they have -the~­ture probably will take a look at taking over the duty of eitablishing a percentage increase intuition," Sen Lawrenre Borst, R 
Greenwood, chairman of the Senate Fmance Committee told The Indianapolis Star. 
Although more worrisome is Stan Jones, Indiana's higher education commissioner, assertion that Indiana's tuition increases exceeded whatwas needed to compensate for st.ate ftmding }(B;es. 
However, Jones' comment that tuition increase5 have not been solely ratBXI by the State's ~on.does not change the fact that tuition increases soom inevitable, forcing stu­dents to become ever more dependent on much nooded financial aid. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes, Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 

CAMPUS WORLD& BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTS
NEWS NATION NEWS 
Winning

Bring in the 
Reconsidering

Gas prices at
Iraqis delay 
Notre Dame 
streak

spring
slavery
near record
final decision
recognizes 
extended to 4

fashions
levels
on banned
disability 
as Irish sweep
missiles
awareness 
Lakers
week 
Columnist Maite 

Find out what is
Gas prices rose 7 
Notre Dame
Iraq has yet to 
Uranga encounters
The Center for 

hot and what is not
cents per gallon 
hockey extended
make a decision on 
slav~ry in the
Social Concerns , 

for ,both women in
over the past two 
its winning streak
a UN. order that it 
African nation of
along with other 

men for the upcom­
weeks pushing 
and moved into a
destroy its Al 
Mauritania,
campus organiza­

ing 2003 spring sea­
pump prices to 
tie for fifth place in 
Samoud 2 missile 
through her host
tions, is sponsoring 
son.

near record highs. 
the CCHA with its
program. 
family and village
a week of disability 

Prices are the high­
wins over Lake
friends.

awareness events. est they have been in almost two years. 
page 5 page 7page 6 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 

. 
Sign up for the Freshman retreat at 114 colcman-Morse Center. 

. 
Sign up for graduate student retreat, contact Fr. John Pearson at 1-7953. 

. 
Lilly Endowment Community Scholars open house 5pm-7pm at Mckenna Hall, Center for Continuing Education. 



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. Black Ilistory Month Speaker 

Victor Lee Lewis will be speaking at 7 p.m·, Carrol Auditorium. 
. 
Political Scienc<~ Club Meeting will be held in the North \Vedge room at 5 p.m. 

. 
Post Graduation Service Fair will be held at 4 p.m. in 


Staph~ton Lounge. 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Al prosciutto pizza, betsy flannigan grilled chicken breast, boulangere potatoes, brown sauce, chicken gravy, whipped potatoes, mixed vegetables, cherry crisp, orzo with portobello and cream, broccoli quiche, cut corn, sliced carrots, baked potato, BBQ beef sandwich, fried potato skins, onion rings 
Today's Dinner: Honey-glazed ham, baked beans, brown sauce, pork gravy, whipped potatoes, mixed vegetables, cherry crisp, vegetables rabat. cous­cous, baked potato, broccoli, cauli­flower, scrambled eggs with cheese, french toast sticks, Lyonnaise potatoes 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a: 
I.LI 
::c 
~ 
I.LI 
== 
..J 

*: * 



c::c 
*··**···* 
' 'y 

*,1 ***
(.) 
. * * 

South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Beef ravioli, spinach fettuccine, pesto sauce, tomato pizza, apple turnover, BBQ beef sandwich, shrimp spaghetti, rotisserie chicken, oriental vegetables, roasted rosemary potatoes, red beans and rice, corn dogs, fishwich, crinkle fries, soft pret­zels, stir-fry beef and southwestern pasta sauce, basil-garlic linguine 
Today's Dinner: Buffalo chicken lasagna, spinach fettuccine, pesto sauce, tomato pizza, apple turnover, vegetables marinara, capri-blend veg­etables, baked turbot jardiniere. beef bourguignon, kluski noodles, bourbon­baked ham, baked sweet potatoes 
TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

*

** 1 
0
_. 

HIGH 19 HIGH 15 HIGH 21 HIGH 25 LOW 14 LOW 8 LOW 13 LOW 18 
Superior State 
Friday and 
Saturday. 
page 22
page 12
page 11 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 


Student pick-pocketed 
A student reported the theft of money from her coat pocket in Lafortune. There are no suspects. 

Student drinking violation 
NDSP transported a student to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of injuries sustained during a fall off campus. The case is being referred for administrative review. 

Ambulance needed at Lafortune 
A visitor was transported by ambulance for treat­ment of an illness. 

Suspicious activity at Graduate housing 
A student reported the window screen in his bed­
room was removed and laying on the ground out­
side. 


Car towed for parking violations 
Two student vehicles were towed for parking vio­lations on Wednesday at the Hesburgh Center for International studies. 
~complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Biriyani rice with cashews, baked potatoes, broccoli cuts, fettucine pasta toss, sweet potato bis­cuits, tortellini, texas style briskett, lyonnaise potatoes, corn & tomatoes.chicken fajita pizza, cheese pizza.Bread sticks, vegetable and cheese chimichanga,refried beans, nachos, cheese sauce 
Today•s Dinner: Pasta fantastica, veggie cutlet with mushroom daice, harvard beets, vegetable corn muffins, tempura vegtable bar, broccoli, zucchi­ni, cauliflower, sauteed chicken breast, cheese stuffed shells, rice pilaf, sea­soned corn, garlic tomato surprise 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

* . ' * <• . 
"* 



HIGH 26 HIGH 33 LOW 18 LOW 22 
Atlanta 74 / 62 Boston 70 / 49 Chicago 64 / 48 Denver 65 / 42 Houston 83 / 67 Los Angeles 78 / 72 Minneapolis 80 / 62 New York 70 / 49 Philadelphia 75 / 48 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 61 / 48 St. Louis 71 / 58 Tampa 88 / 68 Washington 75 / 49 


Monday, February 24, 2003 
The Observer . NEWS page 3 






Current junior class to pick council representatives 
. Council candidates to look at social services 
By HIMANSHU KOTHARI 
News Writer 

Juniors will decide between Jazmin Garcia of Welsh Family and Megan Horner of Pasquerilla East for president of the senior 
class council today. The senior class president is usu­ally elected for a period of four years, making it a much larger commitment than other class presidents. Besides organizing activities for the senior class, the president also works with Alumni clubs across the nation to bring together alumni after graduation. 
Garcia's ticket includes Chip Marks of Siegfried as 
vice-president, off-campus resident Katie Conklin as treasurer and Carol McCarthy of Pasquerilla East as secretary. 

Their campaign is based around many social and ser­vice activities that include building upon many of the things done this year by the senior class councils, Garcia said. Her main social event for the year would be a party at Legends, when it 
opens, to celebrate the birthdays of all the seniors who turn 21 throughout the year. Garcia also plans to work with clubs like FASO. La Alianza and NAACP to have [more] minority club activities. 

Garcia's ticket faces Pasquerilla West residents Megan Horner as president, Cana Scott as vice-president, Laura Sech as treasurer and Allyson Spacht as secretary. 
Horner's ticket believes 
their efforts and ideas can 
make senior year memorable 
by unifying the senior class. 
Horner did not provide fur­
ther campaign details. 
Both campaigns emphasize the importance of continuing this year's activities such as Maragaritaville. 

Contact Himanshu Kothari at hkotharil@nd.edu 

Colleges targeted for terror threat 
"You just have to realize that 
By Aid.fan Holder 

anything can happen at any
Informational Meeting: 
The Maneater 

time," Weimer said. "Its some­thing we've been aware of for­Don't wrap Jesse Hall at the ever; 9/11 just pushed that to 
~ University of the forefront."

Wednesday, February 26 
i:j Missouri in plastic and duct He said MUPD has been tak­
-1 tape just yet, but FBI Director ing special precautions against ~.·.~...~ Robert Mueller warned last terrorism since the terror :l week that schools and univer-attacks of Sept. 11. 2001, but

4:45 p.m. i 
I 
sities may be on al Qaeda's list there's no easy way to tell of U.S. targets. howeffective they are. · Mueller told Congress "A lot of time you don't know t,:: attacks against targets such as if they work," Weimer said. 
209 DeBartolo 
'1 colleges or apartment build-MU professor of political sci­~ ings are likely because they ence and terrorism expert Paul ,..:: "would be easier to execute Wallace said he's skeptical of 
. ~ and would minimize the need the terror warnings.Course Offerings: ·:.r to communicate with the cen-"Unless there's somethingij 'u tral leadership, lowering specific that the pu~lic -~~~Aq\
Irisl1 Fiction & Poetry 
·.'.'.!:; the risks of detection." a warning without meanmg is 1 Mueller's statements came in counterproductive," Wallace
Irish Drama 
~.... conjunction with an elevation said. Post Famine History I of the homeland security Wallace said he doubted the .~, threat level from yellow effectiveness of plastic sheeting 
).
Gaelic Cult11re •.~., "guarded" to orange "high" for to protect against chemical or r only thesecond time since biological attack. 
IrishVist1al Ctdture ~ being created. "Either you 'II seal up the ;; Aithough the increased alert room so tight you can't get any Critical Issues i11 Contemporary Ireland ii'I"'' 'I. level sent some rushing to air in, or you won't and it 
.• hardware stores after won't do any good," he said. Homeland Security Secretary Although some critics have Tom Ridge said plastic sheet­mocked the Bush administra­
All undergraduates are encouraged to apply 
ing and duct tape would be tion's terror warnings as inef~ 
useful in the event of chemical fective, others have attributed
Please stop by 158 Hurley or 338 O'Shaughnessy for more information 

or biological attack, political motivations to them. 
University of Missouri police The latest alert upgrade came Capt. Brian Weimer said he on the same day as the Center wasn't overly concerned. for Public. 
Freshman have choice for council 
ancing, changing North Dining the creation of an expanded By JOE TROMBELLO Hall hours to close at 7:30 p.m. class register with more News Writer and expanding the SafeWalk detailed information about 
program. classmates, a Hooligan Club 
Freshmen will elect either Letio, on a ticket with Kate similar to the Leprechaun Matt Goulet from Stanford. Distler. Mark Seiler and Anna Legion but inclusive of other James Leito from Siegfried. Skoien, promised social events sporting events and late-night Michael Rooney from Alumni or like sophomore tailgates, din­weekend food sales. Matt Somma from Knott for ners, dances, dorm rivalries Somma's ticket features fel­sophomore class council presi­and class trips to foster a low Knott residents Clayton dent today. greater sense of community Allison, Matt Stefanski and Ben 
"When the sophomore class and class spirit. The Leito plat­Nickol. Although they do not officers are elected. they decide form includes changing North have a formal platform or Web how they would like to have Dining Hall hours from 5 to site, Somma said his ticket their council look." said Amy 7:30 p.m., improving student plans to create more feasible 
Geist, freshman class council basketball seating in the Joyce changes than other tickets have sponsor. Center, expanding the current suggested. 
Goulet's ticket includes vice­roommate survey sent by the Somma said open forum dis­president Ralph Pantony. trea­First Year of Studies and cussions and a more in-depth surer Justin O'Neill and secre­changing the DART system. register will allow for greater tary Matt Beck. If elected, This is the only freshman class communication and interaction Goulet hopes to appoint one council ticket with previous between class members and an member from the Class of 2006 student government experi­understanding of what the to the South Bend municipal ence. Class of 2006 would like their council meetings to foster Rooney's ticket includes government to accomplish greater communication Brittany Radcliffe, Evan Dewalt In the event that no ticket between Notre Dame and the and Kathyrn Finn. They want gains a majority vote, a run-off South Bend community. to create new traditions such election will be held Thursday. 
Other platform ideas include as a kick-off party and dance to holding .a, Yacht Club-themed start the sophomore year, a dance for the soon-to-be sopho­sophomore rally and a Class of mores and monthly class Mass, 2006 concert with big-name implementing a life-skills pro­bands chosen by class mem­
Contact Joe Trombello at 
gram to teach basic concepts bers. 
jtrombel@nd.edu.

like cooking and checking bal-Their platform also includes 
Lack of candidates for sophomore class 
sions, so they can't commit" to 

By MATI BRAMANTI student government, he said. 
News Writer Kinsella called on international 
study programs to issue earlier 

Election day is upon us, and decisions. so that more inter­would-be class officers are ested students could pursue jockeying for position, but class oflices. sophomores have one ticket to Kinsella said he was satisfied choose from when electing with his council's work so far. their junior class leaders. "I was happy with what we Cavanaugh resident Katie accomplished, and I hope Barrett leads the sole ticket [Barrett] will continue the ser­seeking election. vice events we started," he 
Despite the low turnout of said. voting students in recent elec­Barrett noted the work of the tions, Barrett dismisses talk of current class leaders, and apathy among the class of pledged to continue their 2005. She attributes the nar­efforts. Her ticket aims at con­row field of candidates to the tinuing some successful themes large number of juniors pursu­from her predecessors, includ­ing study-abroad programs. ing service projects, social 
"I had a hard time filling the events, and improved commu­ticket because so many people nication with faculty members. are going abroad," Barrett "We really want to unite this said. junior class," she said. 
Matt Kinsella, the current sophomore class treasurer, echoed that sentiment. 
"So many people are waiting Contact Matt Bramanti at for [international study] deci-bramanti.l@nd.edu 


page 4 Monday, February 24, 2003 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
© 2003 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. PricewaterhouseCoopers refers to the U.S. firm of PncewaterhouseCoopers LLP and the other member firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers lnternatior:al Limited, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. • 
. : . 
,f'R1cEWATfRHousE[roPERS I 
VOTED •1 IDEAL EMPLOYER BY BUSINESS STUDENTS, UNIVERSUM UNDERGRADUATE STUDY, 2002 

Help us help companies determine how import taxes, manufacturing costs and labor will affect their profits, and we'll help you build a career. 
For opportunities and information go to: 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere 
Look beyond the numbers. 

Monday, February 24, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 


Iraqis delay final decision on banned missiles 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD 

Iraq has made no decision on . a U.N. order that it destroy its Al Samoud 2 missile program and hopes to resolve the missile issue with the United Nations, Iraq's chief liaison to U .N. inspectors said Sunday. 
Gen. Hossam Mohamed Amin 
told journalists that Iraqi 
authorities were studying a let­
ter sent Friday by chief inspec­
tor Hans Blix ordering the mis­
siles' destruction. 
"We are serious about solving 
this,"· he said. 
Blix ordered that a U.N.­
supervised destruction of all Al 
Samoud 2 missiles, warheads, 
fuel, engines and other compo­
nents must begin by March 1. 
The missiles exceed the 93-mile 
range limit set by U.N. resolu­
tions adopted at the end of the 
1991 Gulf War. 
Iraq says some of the missiles tested flew beyond 93 miles because they were not weighed down by guidance and other systems. 
"We didn't expect UNMOVIC [the inspection team] to demand the destruction of Al Samoud 2 missiles," Amin said. 
He said that destroying the missile would be a blow to Iraq's defensive capabilities ­but not a serious blow. 
It "would affect our fighting capabilities, but it would not finish them or affect them greatly," he said. "This missile represents only one aspect of our defensive capabilities. We have comprehensive capabili­ties." 
Amin expressed optimism that the United Nations and Iraq would be able to work out their differences over the Al Samoud 2 -"without interference from the Americans or the British." 
Amin repeated Iraq's claims that it is "clean" of weapons of mass destruction, and said Iraq is cooperating with the inspec­tors in an attempt to prove it. 
"Iraq is facilitating aJl the needs of the inspectors," he said. 
He cited as an example that Iraq has begun to dig trenches at sites where it unilaterally destroyed chemical and biologi­cal weapons so that U.N. inspectors can examine the soil for proof of its action. He said a 
U.N. team was due in Baghdad on March 2 to examine the sites. 
Amin also highlighted Iraq's agreement to let American U-2 spy planes fly over its territory to support the work of the inspectors. 
He said he expected French Mirage planes to begin flying as well over the next two days, and that Iraq was discussing with 

Iraq's top disarmament liaison officer General Hossam Mohammed Amin talks to the press in Baghdad on February 23. Amin said that the destruction of Iraq's AI-Samoud missiles as demanded by the United Nations will adversely affect the country's defense capabilities. 
the United Nations the use of U.N. bans on both. Iraq denies are trying to focus the world's German drones as well. holding such weapons and says attention on illegal Iraqi 
The United States and Britain its enemies have their eyes on weapons activities while they accuse Iraq of developing Iraq's oil and on world domina­prepare a new U.N. resolution weapons of mass destruction tion. that could pave the way for mil­and long-range missiles, despite The United States and Britain itary action. 
Nightclub tragedies motivate increased inspections 

Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Fire inspectors descended on night­clubs across the nation Saturday and Sunday after two nightclub tragedies in the span of a week killed 117 people, some caught in a stampede and others burned to death in a fire. 
In Chicago, where 21 people were trampled at the E2 nightclub Feb. 17, inspectors evacuated the second floor of a club early Sunday after finding over­crowding, blocked exits and other prob­lems. 
A rock band competition planned for Salem, Ore., was canceled after an inspection there revealed the venue didn't meet fire and building codes. 
And other cities, including Dallas and Kansas City, Mo., put more inspectors on duty and kept them out until the early hours Saturday and Sunday, when clubs are most crowded. 
The flurry of inspections closely fol­lowed the deaths late Thursday of 96 people in a West Warwick, R.I., nightclub, where a rock band's pyrotechnics ignited the ceiling tiles and quickly engulfed the nightclub and its trapped patrons in flames. 
Fire officials across the country said Sunday that they were finding clubgoers almost everywhere were more aware of their surroundings than usual -and more willing to report problems. 
"We've seen a sharp increase in the number of reported overcrowdings," even though most didn't prove to be problems, said Brian Humphrey, a spokesman for the Los Angeles Fire Department. 

More people than usual also called Chicago authorities to complain about clubs there, said Chief Kevin MacGregor, a department spokesman. 
It was a complaint that led police to the Rive Gauche nightclub early Sunday. 
"We found a number of life safety issues that required closing down the sec­ond floor of this club," he said. "We will be writing up violations on the building, and they've got to comply before we let them reopen." 
Kansas City's fire department, which typically conducts inspections during the week, sent four teams of investigators to 54 establishments on Friday night and Saturday morning. In Dallas, the city fire department, which now has two full-time nightclub inspectors, pledged to tem­porarily add a second two-member team to search for safety violations. 
Philadelphia Mayor John F. Street announced Sunday that the city's approx­imately 200 nightclubs would face emer­gency inspections in the next 60 days. Massachusetts' governor on Friday ordered similar inspections statewide. 
In Miami Beach, which has more than 60 clubs, Fire Marshal Ed Del Favro said the city continued an already busy inspection schedule. Fire marshals are in the clubs during peak hours every Friday and Saturday night and make about 3,000 inspections a year, he said. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Chavez opponent charged with treason 
A leading opponent of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez who helped lead a two-month national strike was put under house arrest Sunday after a judge struck down a treason charge but left stand­ing two other serious counts. Carlos Fernandez, president of the Fedecamaras business chamber, was seized Wednesday by federal agents. An arrest order was issued for another strike leader who remains in hiding. 
UAE deploys troops to protect Kuwait 
Hundreds of infantrymen from the United Arab Emirates, along with tanks and armored personnel carriers, arrived in Kuwait on Sunday, part of a security force deployed ahead of a possible U.S. attack on Iraq. The troops were on a mission to pro­tect Kuwait if it is attacked by Iraq and are not part of the U.S.-led military force arrayed for a possible offensive. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Possible shuttle debris found in Nev. 
·Teams searching for parts shed by the space shut­tl~ Columbia as it broke apart found more small metal fragments Sunday in a rural part of south­east Nevada. Digital photographs of the material 
· were sent to NASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston for analysis. Several small scraps of alu­minum were also found Saturday. NASA has not confirmed whether any debris west of Texas came from the shuttle. 
NIH creates grant for biodefense lab 
At least six institutions have applied to the National Institutes of Health for a grant to build a $200 million high-security biodefense laboratory to research the world's deadliest diseases. The NIH will announce its choice in the fall. Among the applicants are the University of Illinois at Chicago, Boston University Medical Center and the Center for Disease Control in Atlanta. 
Governors complain about health care 
Governors say the national program that guarantees health care for the poor bears much of the blame for their state's financial woes. Governors at their annual winter meeting are hoping to present a unit­ed front on transportation needs, homeland security funding, Medicaid and more. Hepublicans com­plained that the National Governors Association ­the group holding the meeting -. more reflected Democratic views than a bipartisan approach. 
Autopsy to investigate 17-year old's death 
Medical examiners will determine what ultimately killed a teenager who survived a botched heart-lung transplant but died two days after receiving a sec­ond set of organs. An autopsy was planned Monday on the body of Jesica Santillan. the state medical examiner's office said. Santillan, whose own heart had a deformity that kept her lungs from getting oxygen into her blood, died on Saturday. 

Monday, February 24, 2003 

page 6 The Observer . NEWS 

Thomas Aquanias examined at SMC symposium 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's hosted the sixth annual Thomas Aquinas Symposium in LeMans Stapleton Lounge Saturday. The symposium featured lec­tures by Keith Egan, a Saint Mary's religious studies pro­fessor, and Sister Mary Catherine Hilkert, a Notre Dame theology professor. 
Egan began the symposium with his introductory lecture titled "Taking a Long Loving Look at the Real with Thomas Aquinas." He related the teachings of Thomas Aquinas to real life experiences, specif­ically the experiences of col­lege students. 
The teachings of Thomas Aquinas, Egan said, can be used to reflect on our own lives and find the truth of con­templation, which leads to happiness. 
"Contemplation and action do and must shape each other," he said. 
Egan contended that there are many things in our culture that keep us from contemplat­ing the truth, such as televi­sion, which can distract us. According to Egan, students have many ways to entertain themselves, but little time for leisure. 
"The absence of leisure does not allow for contemplation," he said. 
Egan said the following four steps can lead to true learn­ing: pay attention to yours and others experiences, try to understand that experience, be willing to judge the correct­ness of experience and make a decision whether to act on judgment. 
"We are doomed to medioc­rity when there is no joy in learning," Egan said. "Play with your learning." 
Hilkert's lecture, titled "Does God Will Suffering? 
Thomas Aquinas and Contemporary Theology," focused on whether suffering is a part of God's will. 
Hilkert spoke about tragedies such as the Sept.11 terrorist attacks, the violence in the Middle East and friends dying of cancer. Hilkert said many believe such tragedies are part of God's plan. but added that belief is not neces­sarily true. 
"They question why God would let this happen, not having come to terms with what has happened," Hilkert said. "Avoid blaming God for what humans are responsible for.'·' 
Hilkert said there could never be an explanation for senseless and radical suffering and that these acts could never be considered God's will. 
"Our difficulty is that we cannot see the greater good," Hilkert said. 
The Thomas Aquinas Symposium was sponsored by the Joyce McMahon Aquinas Chair in Catholic Theology at Saint Mary's and is the gift of Board of Trustee member and alumna Joyce McMahon Hank. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 

Notre Dame recognizes disability awareness week 
On Tuesday. junior Laura Students without disabilities closely with autistic children. obstacles such as being wrong­
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
Hoffman will lead a discussion are also encouraged to attend, Two other guests are members ly diagnosed with mental retar­News Writer titled "Life After College," in said Marissa Runkle, communi­of ND/SMC Super Sibs, and dation in elementary school which she will address the diffi­ty-based learning coordinator have brothers with Down and feeling isolated and misun­
Notre Dame students will culties disabled students face for the Logan Center. "We all Syndrome and mental retarda­derstood by his teachers and have the opportunity to show upon graduation. Notre Dame can benefit from hearing the tion. peers, as well as his eventual their support for and learn and Saint Mary's graduates perspectives of students with The week's keynote event will triumph as a computer pro­more about people with disabil­with learning disabilities, visual disabilities," she said. be held on Thursday in grammer. ities this week as the Center for impairments, cerebral palsy The talk will be held in the DeBartolo 101 with Girard The week culminates Friday Social Concerns, Best Buddies, and various types of physical Notre Dame Room on the sec­Sagmiller, author of the book as students who have attended the Logan Center. Special disabilities must understand ond floor of LaFortune Student "Dyslexia, My Life." events are encouraged to dis­Friends and Howard Hall unite their capabilities and deter­Center. The U.S. Department of play awareness by wearing to present Disability Awareness mine their new level of inde­Another discussion, "How to Education estimates that 17.5 their ribbons-and sharing their Week on campus. pendence, such as handling Work with a Child with Special percent of Americans have lan­knowledge with others. 
The recognition begins daily living tasks and trans­Needs," will be held at the CSC guage-based learning disabili­Ribbons are available from any Monday, when silver awareness portation. It is also crucial that on Wednesday, featuring panel ties, including notables Tom residence hall president or the ribbons will be available for they become familiar with the guests who have experience Cruise, Cher and Thomas Center for Social Concerns. students and faculty to display protective terms of the working with disabled children Edison. Sagmiller will relate his their support for the disabled Americans with Disabilities Act and adults. Several have been own experiences as a member members of the University com­(ADA) in obtaining specific participants in the Notre Dame of this considerable part of the Contact ClaireHeininger at munity. employment accommodations. Special Friends club, working population. His talk will share heininger.l@nd.edu 
March 
continued from page I 
military action, they are still interested in the opinions of the average American. 
"People in Germany and Austria always ask me what I think about it," said junior Greg Ruehlmann, who is studying in Innsbruck, Austria. "It has always been a polite and a good exchange." 
Other Notre Dame students, however. attributed this good-natured exchange to the non-committal or concurrent­ly anti-war op1n1ons expressed by Americans dur­ing conversation. 
"Every waiter that we had asked us if we're for the war and if we liked Bush," Toledo student David Yeager said. "I felt like as long as I said I'm against the war. no one would 
Protests 
continued from page I 
"With these procedures routinely in place, imple­menting additional ones is fairly simple. We've not yet seen a need to go to a higher level [such as] limiting access to our buildings to any but previously-announced visi­tors or hiring security guards," Gutting said. 
Checca said he is in contact with local administrators almost daily and they are carefully monitoring security issues. 
"After consultation with the American embassy in Rome, if the College were to deem that students were in danger, we would not send them to Rome," Checca said. 
At Notre Dame, there is a committee charged with the mess with me, but if I would've said anything such as 'Well, there are two sides to be considered,' or anything that wasn't extremely anti­war, I would've felt very threatened.'' 
Students in France said anti-war sentiment has extended to anti-American sentiment at times. 
"I had a scary experience in a cab the other day with a taxi driver who hates Americans and America," said junior Lisa Bonkowski. who is studying in Paris for the year. "He gave me a 20­minute political lecture and said I should go home tomor­row because otherwise people 
will  harass  me,  as  they  
should,  according  to  this  
guy."  

Contact Sheila Flynn at Flynn.59@nd.edu 
responsibility of examining security issues and deciding whether to send students to specific abroad programs. That committee would make any decision to evacuate stu­dents. 
Gutting said that in the event that the University decided to shut down the London Program and stu­dents were brought back to the United States, there are contingency plans in place for courses and housing. 
The increased protests have not caused a decrease in the total number of students applying to study abroad next year. Some programs, such as London, received a record number of applications while others did not see a change from previous years. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfuc@nd.edu 
South Florida professor indicted 
By ROB BRANNON 
The Oracle 

Florida professor Sarni Al~ Arian looked tired and sullen. He slumped low in his seat and stared forward at the table in front of him, remaining mostly motion­less. The only perceptible sound coming from him was the soft jingle of the chains on his legs. 
All around him, the busi­ness of Judge Mark Pizo's federal courtroom hurried past. AI-Arian continued to sit quietly next to his crimi­nal attorney.Nicholas Matassini, as Pizo discussed the 120-page indictment that had led to the early Thursday morning arrest of Al-Arian and three others. Across the aisle, a fleet of government investigators and lawyers watched the result of their work unfold. 
Al-Arian's court appear­ance Thursday lasted less than half an hour and was the culmination of a shock­ing day. According to his wife, Nahla, and daughter Leena, it all began well before dawn at their Temple Terrace home. 
Nahla Al-Arian said that at about 5:30 a.m., there was a knock on the door. She said once she opened the door, several officers came into the house. She described them as "polite." 
Moments later, Leena said the entire family awoke to see Al-Arian pressed against a wall and being taken into custody. 
Al-Arian was moved to the federal courthouse in Tampa and held until his 
2:30 p.m. hearing. In the 
interim, officials searched which operates in and both his home and his office around Israel. Ashcroft at the Islamic Academy of labeled Al-Arian as "the Florida near 56th Street, North American leader of near the university. Around the Palestinian Islamic 11 a.m., the indictment was Jihad." released. "Palestinian Islamic Jihad 
About an hour later, U.S. is one of the most violent Attorney General John terrorist organizations in the Ashcroft made a statement world,'' Ashcroft said. about Al-Arian's case. He Ashcroft said Al-Arian has said the Justice Department been actively funding terror­had indicted Al-Arian on ist attacks in Israel. lie said racketeering and terrorist those attacks resulted in the charges because of his asso­deaths of more than 100 ciation with people, including two 
Palestinian Islamic Jihad, Americans. 
9---BALL 

DOUBLES 
TOUJ<-NAI\J\E 
(2-P£f<S0N T£Al\1'S) 
FJ~·lDAY~ FEB, 2B 
8:30P/\)\ AT 
ND tXPJ?t~~ 
Lovver Level. LaFortune (Open practice begins at 8:00pm) 
Prizes: 
1st Place: 2-$100 gift certificates from BEST BUY 2nd Place: 2-$S0 gift certificates from BEST BUY 3rd Place: 2-$25 gift certificates from BEST BUY 
Space limited to first 16 teams to sign up-­Sign up at ND Express. (Open to NO STUDENTS ONLY-­Must present 1.0. when registering.) 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. 
O
THE 


BSERVER 
USI 
ESS 
Monday, February 24, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch February 21 
DowJones 

8,018.11 +103.15
t-­
NASDAQ 

1,349.02 +17.79
1t 
S&P500 


+11.07 
AMEX 

825.59 +8.60
1t 
NYSE 

4,787.17 +56.33
t-­


LUCENT TECH INC(LU) -7.88-0.13 1.52 
:~•l1~~ililfil:J1JiillJ!ll!~11:il1ill:i:!ill~!llll! 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.41-0.2416. 78 
(il~g:~:iil!li1i~•::~~-~iii:~~iiilliiiiiiii:!i~~::.~:i~::;ii:~::i1i 
MICROSOFT CCRP (MSFT) +1.90 +0.46 24.61 
IN BRIEF 
Spring retail sales off to slow start 
Spring is looking like another tough sell for the nation's ailing retailers. Merchants' hopes for brighter days as spring sales get under way were dimmed by heavy snow that blanketed the Northeast during President's Day weekend, wiping out the much-antici­pated sales bonanza needed to jump-start the season. Add the looming uncertainty about war with Iraq and a sluggish job mar­ket, and retailers are likely to stay in the doldrums. The latest blow came as depart­ment and mall-based apparel stores were grappling with the government's heightened terrorist alert, which made consumers even edgier and sent many on buying sprees for batteries and duct tape at such places as Home Depot Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores. 
Crest airs advertisement in Spanish 
A Crest toothpaste ad during the Grammy Awards on Feb. 23 was in Spanish, the first by Procter & Gamble Co. in a prime time, general-interest national broadcast. The ad for Crest ·whitening Plus Scope features a young Hispanic couple but will have an English tag line. Hispanics are the largest and fastest-growing minority group in the nation. and the ad is a continuation of P&G's efforts to reach a Spanish-speaking audi­ence. The ad has aired on Spanish-language television. For general-market viewing, an ending line in English has been added ­"white teeth and fresh breath ... in any lan­guage." Advertising analysts said the com­mercial is a daring move for the Cincinnati­based consumer products giant. 
Greece and Turkey sign gas deal 
Greece and Turkey set aside territorial rivalries on Sunday and agreed to construct a pipeline linking natural gas producers from the Caspian Sea region with the European market. The $265 million deal was signed at the end of a two-day meeting of European Union energy ministers. 
. 
Gas prices at near record levels 
. Consumers assured relief is in sight 
Associated Press 
CAMARILLO, Calif. 
Gas prices rose 7 cents per gallon over the past two weeks pushing pump prices to near record levels, but the upward pressure on prices may be easing, an industry analyst said Sunday. 
The average weighted price for gas nationwide, including all grades and taxes, was approximately $1.70 per gallon Friday, according to the Lundberg Survey of 8,000 stations nationwide. That price is within 7 cents of $1.77, the all-time high recorded by the survey on May 18, 2001. 
Gasoline cost about $1.63 a gallon on Feb. 7, the date of the last Lundberg Survey, an increase of 11 cents over the previous two-week sur­vey. 
"The pace of gas prices has already slowed." Trilby Lundberg said. "The other indicators show a possible decrease in prices." 

Increased production in Venezuela, the approach of warmer weather, and the reopening of various U.S. refineries that had been up due to fears of a war idled for annual mainte­with Iraq, but if the U.S. nance should help slow or goes to war, or if the crisis end the price spiral, is resolved, that oil bubble Lundberg said. could burst. Prices rose 30 
Crude oil prices are also cents a gallon in 1990 after Iraq invaded Kuwait, and then dropped 30 cents in 1991 following the Persian Gulf War. Lundberg said. 

The national weighted average price of gasoline, including taxes, at self­serve pumps Friday was about $1.67 per gallon for regular, $1.76 for mid­grade and $1.85 for premi­um. 
Shareholders push for reforms 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
If there is a silver lining to be found in all the recent business scan­dals, it's that shareholders realized they better start flexing their corpo­rate muscle. 
And come this spring's corporate proxy season, many will be trying to do just that. 
Most annual shareholder meetings are held between April and June, and from the looks of things, compa­nies including General Electric, El Paso and others will come up against a slew of investor-driven proposals for reform. 
Of. course, not every shareholder idea will result in radical ~orporate change. But that doesn't mean they will go unnoticed. 
"At this time, with all the trust and integrity issues out there, sharehold­ers can actually win the changes they are asking for," said Patrick McGurn, director of corporate pro­grams at Institutional Shareholder Services in Rockville, Md. 
It's not that investors didn't go up against big business before. It's just that now they are more aggressively pursuing their own agendas. 
They have good reason. With so many cases of accounting fraud, excessive executive compensation and corporate theft exposed over the last year. they want to take steps to protect their investments. 

So far for this year's round of annual meetings, shareholder groups have filed 862 proposals with compa­nies for reform, compared with 802 for all of last year, according to a recent report by the Investor Responsibility Research Center and the Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility. 
The bulk of the resolutions pertain to changes in corporate governance policies, like executive salaries and perks. But some include demands for a house-cleaning in the corporate ranks. 
There are two ways proxy contests generally work. 
In some cases, shareholders try to convince companies to include their proposals in the proxy statements sent to investors before a company's annual meeting. Companies get to decide if the proposals appear or not, though the Securities and Exchange Commission can overrule. 
Even if the resolutions receive a majority vote, companies don't have to follow them. But the publicity of the proposal -whether it gets into the proxy statement or not -can often sway companies to make changes. 
Shareholders can also wage their own proxy fights by connecting with other investors through their own mailings. This can be expensive and is often done with proposals deemed 
more controversial, such as hostile 
takeovers or board-seat nominations. 
Some tense battles between 
investors and companies are already 
cropping up. and more are expected 
in the coming months. 
Among the most heated is at El 
Paso Corp., where shareholder Selim 
K. Zilkha, who owns about 1.5 per­cent of the struggling energy giant's outstanding stock, launched a fight Tuesday {o oust the entire board of directors.. 
Another hot-button issue that shareholders at many companies are pushing is a split of the chairman and CEO jobs. They think that would give the chairman a more indepen­dent role as the overseer of the board of directors. 
Among the companies where this vote will come up is General Electric. The proposal, put forth by a group called GE Retirees Justice Fund, urges appointment of a chairman who has never been the company's CEO. 
Shareholders at many companies including Bank of New York, Citigroup and AOL Time Warner have also submitted proposals that would allow them to include their own nominations of board directors on their companies' proxy state­ments. As it stands now, companies do not have to include shareholder­proposed nominations on the state­ment mailed to investors. 

Office of Child and Youth Protection, former Governor of Oklahoma 
Monday, February 24, 2003 • 4:00 p.m. Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium Reception to.follow 

INS TI TUT E FOR, N O T R E D A M E 
~ -..~ CHURCH LIFE 


VOCATION INITIATIVE 


, 
Monday, February 24, 2003 page 9 
The Observer . NEWS 
Murdered U. Penn student's suit comes to halt in city 
By GARRETT YOUNG Daily Pennsylvanian 
The case against two Philadelphia police officers filed by the family of murder victim and former University of Pennsylvania student Shannon Schieber was dis­missed Thursday by an appeals court before going in front of a jury. 
Schieber, then a first-year Wharton doctoral student. was found dead in her Center City apartment in 1998. Last summer, authorities arrested Center City rapist Troy Graves in connection with the crime. 
The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit reversed a Philadelphia District Court ruling by a vote of 2-1 Thursday and granted the defendants', Philadelphia police officers Steven Woods and Raymond Scherff, rrroffon for summary judgment. 
Schieber family attorney David Rudovsky, a Penn Law School professor,expressed frustration with the ruling. 
..They basically say that the police may have been negli­gent. but [evidence] has to 'shock the conscience,' which is a very high burden of proof for three people to decide," Rudovsky said...They deter­mined that it's not even for a jury to decide." 
A motion for summary judgment is a document filed by the defendants that argues that, even if everything the plaintiff says is true, the case is notstrong enough to war­rant arguing in front of a jury. If the motion is granted and sustained upon appeal, a lawsuit will never go to jury trial. 
The suit against both the city of Philadelphia and the police officers stems from a claim that the officers were negligent in their handling of a call early one morning in May 1998. 
Schieber was strangled to death in the early hours in her Center City home. 
Earlier that night, Schieber's neighbor Parmatma Greeley reportedly heard Schieber yell for help and utter a "choking-like sound." according to court­documents. He then report­edly knocked on her door and shouted her name, to which he received no response. Following this, he called 911, and the police arrived approximately five minutes later. 
The officers and Schieber's neighbors then approached her apartment and knocked on the door, again receiving no response. The officers then interviewed the neigh­bors. apparently looking for a reason to break down the door. Finding none, and with Greeley not quite positive that what he heard had come from inside the apartment. the officers 
Working with Greeley to open a sliding door on her second-floor balcony, he entered and found his sister undressed and lifeless on her bed. 
·An autopsy later concluded that she had been "manually strangled" to death. 
For four years, the case remained unsolved until last June when Troy Graves, 
known as the 
searched the area around the  ..We have to, as lawyers, sit down. and then sit  Center rapist, fessed  City con-to  
perimeter  down with the family and  Schieber's  
of the building and her  make a decision within the next few days . .,  murder and signed a guilty plea in the  
apartment  Philadelphia  
and found no sign of forc·ed  David Rudovsky Penn Law School professor  Court of Common Pleas. In 1998, the  
entry,  Schieber family  
according  sued  the  city  

to court documents. and the police department, 
The officers left, advising alleging that the police offi­the neighbors to call 911 cers failed to do enough to again if they heard anything. protect Schieber's They remained on duty until life. saying that she could 7 a.m. and heard nothing fur­have been alive while the ther. police were there. 
The following day when In 2001, a Philadelphia Schieber did not show up for District Court judge agreed work or lunch with her that the plaintiffs had enough brother from out of town. he evidence to proceed to a jury went to her apartment to try trial and denied the defen­to locate her. dants' motion for summary 
judgment. 
The city appealed the 

District Court ruling and the 
Third Circuit Court agreed 
yesterday. 
Now that the motion has 

been granted by the Third 
Circuit, the plaintiffs have 
two main options. The 
Schieber family can petition 
either the full U.S. 
Court of Appeals or the U.S. Supreme Court to re-examine the case. Either court then has the option to accept or deny the petition. At these courts, cases are more fre­quently denied than accept­ed, Rudovsky said. 
The second option, he added, is to return to District Court with a case against the city, not the individual offi­cers. 
The family, Rudovsky said, expressed "strong disap­pointment" with the ruling and is now waiting to decide the next step." 
"Nobody's had a chance to study the opinion yet," Rudovsky added. "\Ve have to, as the lawyers, sit down, and then sit down with the family and make a decision within the next few days." 
The city attorney's office was unavailable for comment Thursday night. 
Norah Jones' music takes home 8 Grammys 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The music of pop-jazz chanteuse Norah Jones gar­nered eight Grammy awards Sunday night, including album and record of the year, capping a year where the sultry singer catapulted to international acclaim. 
"I feel really blessed and really lucky," Jones said after winning the album of the year at the end of the 45th annual awards show. 
Jones. who won in every category where she was nominated, tied Lauryn Hill and Alicia Keys for most wins by a female artist in a single night. 
As unknown as triple-win­ner Bruce Springsteen was acclaimed before the last year, Jones won five individ­ual Grammys. 
"I never ever thought that the music I made would become popular music, so this is amazing," Jones said as she picked up an award for best pop vocal album. 
She also won for best female pop vocal, best new artist and for record of the year for "Don't Know Why," written by Jesse Harris, who won the song of the year Grammy. 
Her album, "Come Away With Me," earned best engi­neered album and producer of the year honors for Arif Mardin. 
The 23-year-old New Yorker, who emerged last year after signing with the tiny Blue Note label, sold more than 6 million copies of her debut worldwide. Jones. the daughter of Indian sitar guru Ravi Shankar and New York concert producer Sue Jones, appeared almost over­whelmed in accepting one award from the "Queen of Soul," Aretha Franklin. 
"I can't believe this," she said breathlessly. 
Harris, who thanked Jones for "being a pal." said back­stage that he "thought for certain Bruce was going to win." 
Springsteen was clearly a favorite of the crowd inside Madison Square Garden as the Grammys returned to New York for the first time in five years. His Sept. 11­inspired "The Rising" was honored for male rock vocal. rock album and rock song, although the Boss lost out for album and song of the year. 

Performing only a few miles north of ground zero, Springsteen delivered a rous­ing performance of the title track midway through the show as the crowd screamed, "Bruuuuce!!!!" 
Later, Springsteen joined Elvis Costello, Little Steven Van Zandt, Dave Grohl and Tony Kanai for a rousing tribute to the late Joe Strummer -a version of the Clash's "London Calling." 
The Dixie Chicks, after a bitter legal battle with their label Sony. took best country album among their three Grammys. The trio's multi­platinum "Home." a return to their country roots, was 
co-produced  by  member  
Natalie  Maines'  father.  
Lloyd.  

"I want to check the record books and see how many fathers and daughters have won Gram mys together," she said, grabbing her father. 
Among the double winners were Eminem. Cold play, India.Arie and Nelly. Eminem's second Grammy came for best rap album. the third time he's won in the category. 
Instead of offering an acceptance speech, Eminem 
rattled off a list of rappers who had inspired him, including Run-DMC, LL Cool J, Tupac Shakur and the Notorious B.I.G. 
"Thank you, because I learned from all of you." he said. 
Eight artists were nominat­ed for five Grammys apiece, with all but teen rocker Avril Lavigne going home winners. Perennial Grammy favorite Sheryl Crow. neosoul singer­songwriter Raphael Saadiq and R&B newcomer Ashanti were single winners. 
Country singer Alan Jackson, who wrote "Where Were You (When the \Vorld Stopped Turning)" in the weeks after the terrorist attacks. won best country song for the mournful tune. 
India.Arie, who was nomi­nated for seven Grammys last year but lost them all, finally got her first two, win­ning for best urban-alterna­tive performance for "Little Things" and best R&B album for "Voyage to India." 
Among the other winners: the previously unheralded Funk Brothers. The ground­breaking house band for Motown Records, the focus of the recent documentary 
LOSER NO LONGER 

"Standing in the Shadows of Motown," won two trophies. 
Some other veteran artists added to bulging trophy cases: bluesman B.B. King won two, for 13 in his career. while Johnny Cash won his 11th and Tony Bennett his 10th while soul legend Solomon Burke won his first. 
"We got a Grammy, baby!" Burke said as he hoisted his Grammy. 
The disc "Vaughn Williams: A Sea Symphony" garnered three awards, including best 
classical album.  
The  show  opened  with  
Dustin  Hoffman  one  in  a  
revolving  series  of  New  

York-based hosts introducing a reunion performance by lifetime achievement award winners Simon and Garfu nke I. The pair, who sang "The Sound of Silence," have shared a tumultuous relationship; this was their first performance together in a decade. 
Hoffman, before exiting, provided two gaffes. He mis­pronounced the Boss' name as "Springstreet," and intro­duced No Doubt by singing "Say Baby" their hit is "Hey Baby." 
Write 
for 
News. 
1-5323. 

O
THE BSERVER 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nocre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Lori Lewalski  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hettler, Matt Lozar 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................63 l-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/ASST. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VJEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obmver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obsnverpolicirs should be direct­ed 10 Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob.<rver (USPS 599 240) i, publiwd Monday ,hrough Friday """I'' during o:un md vacation period,. A subsaiption r.o The Oblc:-rvcr l1 SIOO for one-ac.a,donic ynr. S55for one ...,..,.,,., 
The ObKrva is puhli,hcd ac POSTMASTER 
024 Sourh Dining Holl Sc:nd addrm rorr«rion, to: 
Norr. Dam,, IN 46556 The Ob.av« 
P.O. 8oxQ rmodi<.J po,r,g, paid•• Notre Domc None Dame, IN '46556-0779 ;mJ ~itional mailing offices. 
The Obst-rvc1 is a mcrnbtt u( th< Au.ocia1c.J PtcMI. All rcproducrion righcs ari: raervN. 
Rumors of war in Iraq are now calcify­ing into war. Will it be just? Prominent ecclesiasts have now weighed in, their perspectives predictably following what they have long preached. The U.S. Catholic bish­ops and lead­ers of main­line Protestant denomina­tions have brandished their moral veto. 
Comparatively hawkish national poll numbers raise old suspicions about whether their congregations are lis­tening. 
Proponents ofthe Christian just war tra­dition will want to interrogate both sides. Emanating from the Christian Gospel, developed by St. Ambrose, St. Augustine, St. Thomas and later luminaries, the tra­dition allows for lethal force, unlike paci­fism. but limits it through a strict set of criteria, unlike the holy crusade. When applied in the spirit oftheir Gospel roots, just war standards will focus particularly on the plight ofthe weak, the helpless, and the innocent. On balance, the tradi­tion comes down against President Bush's war. But it is not an obvious judgment. Partisans will discover ruefully that the boundaries of ire ani:l ideology into which they seek to squeeze moral standards are ones that suffering somehow does not respect. 
Critics who call the Bush administration an imperialist one have troublingly little to say about the evil of the enemy, a dictator whose gulags have swallowed an estimat­ed 200,000 political opponents and who sent somewhere around a million of his ov.,n people to their deaths in a war against Iran. They are also loath to acknowledge the justice of the U.S. protec­tion ofIraqi Kurds from almost certain destruction at Saddam Hussein's hands through the "no-fly zone" of the past decade. 
Yet defenders ofthe U.S. as a crusader for justice -surely the text of a personal ad for the idealistic neo-conservatives of the Bush administration -are reticent about the 100,000 to one million (esti­mates vary wildly) Iraqi civilians who have died at the hands of U.S. sanctions. A form ofsiege warfare, seeking to pressure an enemy leader by depriving his civilians of nourishment and medical care, sanctions run wildly afoul ofjust war morality's injunction against harming innocents as a means to an end. Defenders ofsanctions . lay the blame for suffering upon Hussein, who has prevented alleviatory food ship­ments from leaving unloading docks. But while Hussein's perfidy is real and his responsibility for suffering significant, nei­ther exonerates the sanctions. 
Absent Hussein's hindrance, does the 
U.S. then hope that sanctions will be finely tuned enough to deprive Iraqis of Persian jewelry and silk veils but leave them fed, cared for and just angry enough somehow to force their brutal dictator from power? In fact, U.S. policymakers have not even 


Just doubts? 
tried to avoid direct harm to civilians. They have rejected "smart sanctions," like those proposed by the Kroc Institute's George Lopez and David Cortright, that would block weapon building materials but allow humanitarian relief to pass; they have embargoed shipments of food and medicine to Iraqis; there is no record of them considering enforcing the delivery of supplies. 
Sanctions also fail the just war tradi­tion's proportionality test. Ten years of hardship and hundreds of thousands of deaths have failed to move Hussein an inch from his plans to build weapons of mass destruction or diminish his willing­ness to allow his people to suffer. One of the major lapses ofjust war voices in recent years has been their absent or muted outrage towards sanctions. 
Similar balance, similar attention to the many ways, hidden and unhidden, that the "least ofthese" will be affected by war, must suffuse judgments of our prospective clash. Again, critics of the administration are selective. Their con­spiratorial "daddy theory" and "oil theo­ry" of Bush's motives merit a summary red ink evaluation: "lack ofevidence." Worse, such critics fail to recognize that Hussein's massive violation of Iraqi human rights establishes a prim a f acie case for a type ofjust cause that has re­emerged into the just war tradition since the end of the Cold War: humanitarian intervention. 
Though not without their debacles and ambiguities, interventions in Iraqi Kurdistan, Somalia, Haiti, Bosnia and Kosovo -disasters whose magnitude Hussein's Iraq roughly matches -have shown the reasonable effectiveness of mil­itary force in stopping, relieving or pre­venting massive suffering. To be sure, 
U.N. or NATO multilateral support enhanced the legitimacy ofthese interven­tions, support that is as ofnow lacking in the case of Iraq, but a just cause does not strictly depend on it. Imagine ifa Western power had stepped forth to quell the 1994 genocide in Rwanda, but was prevented by the contingent politics ofthe day from garnering a U.N. sanction-would the intervention have been unjust? In interna­tional relations, vigilantism is sometimes permissible 
Ultimately, however, the just war crite­ria defeat the case for war against Iraq. They most directly reject President Bush's argument for "pre-emptive" war against Hussein's weapons of mass destruction. In fact, Bush misspeaks. Pre-emptive war is a corollary of the classic just war criterion ofself-defense that allows for a first strike against an imminent and sufficient threat of attack. But neither condition obtains here. Though Hussein in all probability possesses chemical and biological weapons and seeks to develop nuclear weapons, he has not threatened their use. 
What President Bush argues for instead is "preventive war" -a war fought against an enemy's potential and capacity, a war that egregiously defies what the tra­dition has understood as "self-defense." Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, head ofthe Vatican Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, has reminded us that preventive war "does not appear in the Catechism of the Catholic Church." Indeed, incorporat­ing the concept into the tradition would render it virtually indistinguishable from realpolitik, for which the balance of power alone sufficiently justifies war. 
Other criteria diminish further the jus­tice of the war, though these are more dif­ficultly assessed as they depend on contin­gent judgments. One is reasonable chance ofsuccess. Alleviating suffering means not only replacing Hussein but also building a stable democracy in his place. The American record ofstate building is not auspicious. Attempts over the past century to construct democracy in economically underdeveloped countries have widely failed; success has come only in Germany and Japan, both economically advanced countries whom the U.S. defeated, occu­pied and governed in the wake of a total war. In Iraq, ethnic division, economic backwardness and the danger of a long­term military occupation augur ill for reconstructive efforts. 
The other major ·relevant criterion is proportionality -will the good of the war outweigh the bad? Thousands of Iraqi civilians are likely to die from damage to Iraq's infrastructure; urban warfare is predicted to kill far more combatants than were killed in the Persian GulfWar. A CIA report and top foreign policy analysts cite a strong risk that upon being attacked, Hussein will use his weapons of mass destruction against Israel or even the United States. The war is likely to alienate large swaths ofMuslim opinion and fuel exactly the sort of resentment that leads young Muslim men into terrorism. And from the looks of things now, the war may lead to a deep fissure in the NATO alliance, a blow to future cooperative efforts even ifsuch unity is not strictly required for justice. 
Added up, these liabilities point to the comparative wisdom of a containment policy that successfully defeated a far more formidable power, one that once lived under Stalin, a dictator at least as evil as Hussein. A clearly expressed Western deterrent would prevent Hussein from using his nefarious weapons -not a guaranteed outcome, but one with far fewer risks and costs than a war. 
Were he to change his justification to a humanitarian one and fight a war that succeeds quickly, elicits no horrific back­lash and leaves Jeffersonian democracy in its place, President Bush's war could turn out to be just. It is the unlikelihood ofsuch happy circumstances that hobbles his case. The case against war, though, is not an obvious one. It lies in doubts, not dogma. It is wrong not tout court, but on balance, all things considered, given the circumstances. 
Daniel Philpott is an Assistant Professor in the Department ofPolitical Science and Faculty Fellow at the Joan B. Kroc Institutefor International Peace Studies at Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
News Sports 

..{Slavery] exists wherever men are bought
Sarah Nestor Bryan Kronk 
Shannon Kurt Bogaard 

and sold, wherever a man allows himselfto
Would you support a war in Iraq? 
Nelligan Christine 

be made a mere thing or a tool, and 
Kevin Allen Armstrong 

surrenders his inalienable rights ofreason
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Viewpoint Scene 

and conscience." 
Kristin Yemm Emily Howald 
Graphics Lab Tech 

Henry David Thoreau
Katie McKenna Michelle Otto 
U.S. philosopher 
--, 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

Monday, February 24, 2003 page 11 
Reconsidering slavery 
Before I arrived in Africa I carried with me moral beliefs that were rock solid -one that being slavery is wrong regardless of the context. I would guess there are few Americans that would argue Malte Uranga against this. A counter argument would go against 
the ingrained Life in Africa 
American assump­
tion that all peo­
ple are created 
equal. 
It is from this assumption that our system ofjustice, government and cul­ture are based on in their present forms.. Every day in kindergarten we would all stand up with our hands over our hearts and say the Pledge of Allegiance to a flag and a country. And for those who have forgotten, this pledge ends with, "justice for all... Our Civil War history created heroes such as Harriet Tubman pitted against the unnamed evil slave owners. 
After I found out about my Peace Corps assignment, there were very few things I could find about the Islamic Republic of Mauritania. One of the Web sites that I kept finding in my searches was for a non-government organization that's entire purpose was to free the slaves in Mauritania. Alarms and bells went off in my moral consciousness. I could not believe that such behavior still existed in 2001. 
During training we had one session about slavery. The speakers talked about how it was not the way American slavery had been and that it did exist, but not like we thought. The Peace Corps trainees with all of our American ideals disqualified every­thing the speakers said as unenlight­ened. 
With this arrogance I moved to my village. People were poor -some more than others -but all were 
generally happy people. Their laughter infected me. I started to eat at different families' houses. I saw everyone in the village get together for weddings and 
baptisms and ~ eat piles of food. Slavery Ir~ was some-..,­thing that I did not think about. I assumed after my 
first four months in my village 
that it proba­bly happened in the other ethnic groups within Mauritania but not with my people. 
This crashed down within two days. I was in my friend's village, and 
there was a problem with the taxi driver. He wanted to leave, but we had not eaten yet. He started to make a scene in some language I did not understand. Everything was solved after we gave him a little more money. As we walked back to my friend's house, her host mom said, "Don't worry about it. He used to be our slave. He shouldn't have acted like that." 

Although again the denial set in as I 
told myself that even though both 
of our villages were the same ethnic group, mine was much more socially advanced. The next day this assumption also crashed. I sat with my sister as we talked about nothing in par­ticular. I asked about the fam­ily that lived across the compound from us. They were one of the poorest families in my village. They lived in a stereotypical African mud house with a stick roof. My 
sister was a little more diplomatic than the woman the previous day as she said, "They used to work for us, but now they only cook at our weddings 
and baptisms." 
Despite the subtlety, I understood the true meaning. I lived across the com­pound from former, or depending on definitions, current slaves. I belonged to a family that had slaves. I never talked about it with anyone. I did not know what to say. I did not know how 
to feel. 
It is now a year later and I just read two documents about slavery in Mauritania. One was in a popular American magazine and the second was a SO-page report from an interna­tional human rights group. They out­lined a culture embedded with slavery. They had lists of human rights viola­tions within the society, government and legal system. One wrote about the daily life of three different "slaves." 
A year ago, this would have been an easy moral case for me. Simply. slav­ery is wrong in any form, but now there are a lot of statements to qualify this. Many of the hardships both of these texts outlined are not only hard­ships for "slaves" but for everyone who lives in Mauritania. One talked about a "slave" living in one room with a small light. That is how I live here. I consider it luxury in the context of Africa that I have electricity and do not live in a tent like many of the nomads. Another "slave" had to cook at their family's weddings and baptisms like the family across the compound from me; that is all they do. They may even call it a social obligation. 
In my moral bedrock slavery is still wrong. But different definitions and cultural situations create many cracks and fissures. 
Matte Uranga graduated from Notre Dame in 2000 as an anthropology and government major. She is currently a Peace Corps volunteer in the Islamic Republic ofMauritania. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
War protests support Saddam 
On Feb. 15, between one and two million people around the world marched in support of the regime of Saddam Hussein. 
Of course, they didn't say that's why they marched, but a clear consequence of preventing military action against Iraq is that the "Butcher of Baghdad" remains in power, likely keeping the ability to pos­sess weapons of mass destruction that the world community has unanimously demanded he destroy. 
Certainly, many people disagree with a U.S.-led coalition strike against Iraq for perfectly justi­fiable and defensible reasons. Unfortunately, they chose to throw in their lot with the usual anti-American suspects for the sake of numbers alone. In so doing, they're allowing the motley crew that is the anti-globalization left-wing crowd to de-marginalize itself and attain relevance. Everybody's seen the loonies who wear sandwich boards that compare George W. Bush to Adolf Hitler; on Feb. 15, they got to ride along in parades that numbered in the hundreds of thousands in several American cities. 
At best, the majority of anti-war protesters are simply disingenuous -claiming to care about the people of Iraq while steadfastly opposing a regime change which would liberate them. They called for the United States to stand down its "aggression" but didn't bear signs saying that Saddam should stand down his aggression and comply with the 17 U.N. resolutions leveled against him. And a secondary theme of the peace marches was "Free Palestine." None of them show the least concern for freeing Iraq. 
Even the most benign of the demonstrators, the 

ones who said "Let The Inspections Work" base their beliefs on a faulty premise. First off, the inspections are clearly not working in the way they are intended. They're supposed to be there to confirm Iraq's disar­mament, not hunting like bloodhounds over the 168,753 square miles of Iraqi territory to sniff out smoking guns. Second, the only reason why inspec­tions are working at all, such as they are, is because the United States has been rattling sabers for several months. Remove the threat of war and Iraq will cease its tone of limited concessions. 
This is the real flashpoint of this conflict. When Bush announced his intent to force regime change in Iraq, opponents of all kinds insisted that he should gain U.N. approval. Despite the fact that America should be under no obligation to have its national defense get rubber-stamped by a body under which Libya is the elected chair of the Human Rights Commission, Bush agreed. And Security Council Resolution 1441, which demanded Iraqi disarma­ment and suggested "dire consequences" for non­compliance, passed unanimously in November. 
~adly, the rally of peace-at-all-costs has strength­ened so much since then that should the United States and Great Britain submit a duplicate of 1441 to the Security Council -which will likely happen this week -it will be vetoed, which means the "coalition of the willing" would face acting against 
U.N. mandates. Thank you very much. 
The chief pain-in-the-neck is France's Jacques Chirac, who, despite acting unilaterally in the Ivory Coast and inviting Zimbabwe's brutal dictator Robert Mugabe for pate, has still found time to cut oil deals with Iraq, tie America's hands and tell Eastern Europe and Turkey to cheese off. The U.S. has become the world's only superpower through mili­tary strength; Chirac is trying to build the European Union into a rival by flexing diplomatic muscles, which is the only strength they have. And it seems the entire nation of France enjoys Jacques-ing off over the idea of standing in America's way. 
This opposition, be it in the chambers of the U.N. or on the streets of the world, all plays right into Saddam's hands. The protesters denounce America's supposed "aggression" but are oddly silent to the untold thousands of people Hussein has murdered, people in his own country and his neighbors' (and to the unilateral strikes Bill Clinton made in Iraq and Yugoslavia during his term). To them, the brutal criminal isn't Saddam Hussein, it's George W. Bush. It's America who is out for Iraqi oil, not France, whose TotalFinaElf company recently signed con­tracts with Iraq. It's not the "axis of evil" of Iran, Iraq and North Korea who represent the gravest threat to world peace, it's the "axis of evil'' of Bush, Cheney and Rumsfeld. 
Meanwhile, the appeasers of the U.N. Security Council insist on Iraq's disarmament but refuse to do it with necessary force. As long as America doesn't get its way, Iraq can have its. In an interview with an Egyptian magazine in November, Saddam said this: "Time is working for us. We have to buy some more time, and the American-British coalition will disinte• grate because of internal reasons and because of the pressure of public opinion in the American and British street." 
For whatever reasons, good or bad, that people oppose a war with Iraq, in the end, the only person it benefits is Saddam Hussein. Should he stare down America and get them to blink -again -he'll only be stronger. The United States will emerge weaker, which is really what many, if not a majority, of the opposition wants most of all. 
Mike Marchand 'O 1 doesn't think he can knock out Mike Tyson but thinks he can at least last 50 sec­onds, especially ifhe's being paid $1 million. At the very least, he could beat Tonya Harding in a split decision. His e-mail address is Marchand.3@alum­ni. nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE 

OBSERVER 

Monday, February 24, 2003 

page 12 
... 
closer, find out what is hot and what is r.

With sprirzg break inching 
when distinguishing between what is By EMILY HOWALD and considered an appropriate mini and BRIN ANDERSON one that is a bit too small to be con­Assistant Scene Editor and Scene Writer sidered tasteful and presentable. The new styles on sale at Abercrombie & Fitch as well as Hollister are shorts
With the negative degree weather 
and skirts that are incredibly too

plaguing the Bend, it is somewhat dif­
short to be considered appropriate.

ficult to even contemplate the up­
The mini skirts can be worn with

and-coming fashions for this spring. 
the typical boots and high sock, but

Nonetheless. one shopping spree at 
for this spring, strappy sandals along

the mall will certainly start you think­
with the mini is a big hit. Also, flat

ing about spring attire. Winter is 
sandals, preferably flip flops are con­

finally coming to an end and it is time 
sidered to be an cute addition to com­

to get rid of the heavy wool sweaters 
plete a fun and simplistic outfit. To

and cords in order to make room for 
dress the mini up a bit, hare legs with 

the shorts, tanks, and dresses. 
high heels is a fun, yet classy way to

For girls, simple elegance with a lit­
hit the town. Since the mini leaves so

tle bit of brightness will be very popu­
much to the imgination, with a little

lar this spring. Designers such as 
bit of creativity, any type of shoe can

Banana Republic, GAP, and 
make it fun and still look cute at the

Abercrombie & Fitch have launched 
same time.

spring lines highlighted by floral pat­
If the mini style isn't your thing,

terns and bright colors, with pinks 
longer, printed dresses are not only

and sky blues at the top of the charts. 
popular again, but they look great

Girls, get ready to show some leg 
during the day or for nightly activi­

this spring too. Minis are coming back 
ties.

into style, but some designers may 
To add a little excitement to the

have become a little too scissor-happy 
nightwear, lace skirts, sequined, satin

when cutting the length of the skirts. 
camisoles and smaJl clutch purses

This spring, one must be careful 




make the outfit all the more alluring. Although the typical Notre Dame stu­dent avoids the dressier attire for the night life on campus, this spring should bring in a lot of simple dress­es that will be suitable even for the Notre Dame girls. And don't be afraidd to get alittle more dressed up on your spring break. Spring break should be a time to let your hair down and have a good time, so those nw dresses that you are too afraid to wear at ND will be perfect for your spring break endeavors. 
Of course, if you hate wearing dresses, the sporty trend is in f_ull effect once again this spring. bring­ing chic athletic outfits by Nike, Puma and Juicy to the Notre Dame campus in some of spring's hottest colors. Colorful. sporty, backless ten­nis shoes designed by companies like Puma will dominate the sidewalks by day, along with flip flops in every color of the rainbow. Not only is the sporty look a big hit this season, but it adds so much comfort that it is not look chic while doing so. 
As for other footwear fashion, step­ping out this spring in stone-studded sandals is a must if you want to be in style. When in the office, pointed shoes with high ankle straps will click along the office floors, similar to those worn by Jennifer Aniston, Debra Messing and Katie Courie. 
Another great accessory trend this season is the introduction of natural stones into the spring jewelry. Rose quartz necklaces, earrings and rings dominated the fashion runways, and this accessory complements perfectly with the trend of pink clothes this sea­son. Mother of pearl shell necklaces are also extremely popular, especially when they are formed into flowers or other geometric shapes. The beauty of these necklaces is that they comple­ment any outfit because they are a neutral accessory that can reflect the color of your shirt. 
If you don't like the natural stones for jewelry, simple silver necklaces are also popular for the spring, with 
These mlcromlnls are examples of the length that Is coming back. Girls, get to be forgotten. Many stars have unique silver pieces dangling from the ready to show some leg because most stores are selling skirts that are pretty decided to resort to the comfort of necklace. The classics are always pop­tiny. their sporty suits, yet still managed to ular, so if you don't want to splurge on 
THE OBSERVER 

Monday, February 24, 2003 page 13 

• fashions 
ot for both men and women in the upcoming 2003 spring season 
new accessories, just remember that jewelry is timeless. 
To complete your new spring attire, make up this season will again return to a more natural and less dramatic look. 
Eyeliner will stray from the basic browns and blacks to eggplants, blues and fudge tones. 
In order to give cheeks a fresh look, highlight the cheek bones by applying blush that is a shade or two lighter, and then use pale, natural pink lip­sticks and shimmery glosses to give the ultimate spring chic look. 
So enough about girl's fashion. Guys are going to see some new relaxed looks for spring too. For all of you guys out there in need of a fashion makeover though, your best bet is to take a girl with you to help out. Nonetheless, if you can't find a girl to head to the mall with you, just abide by the following style hints for the spring season. 
The trendy look for guys this sea­son, which can be found at stores like Abercrombie & Fitch, Hollister and American Eagle, is vintage cargo shorts or pants. Most of the cargos in 

the stores this spring sport the wrin­
kled, worn and baggy pockets, which 
express the relaxed feeling of men's 
spring 2003 fashion. 
As far as shorts are concerned, one big style change seen this season will be the elimination of the extreme lengths. The majority of the shorts will hit right at the knee, with only a few styles hitting below the knee. If you like the longer short, your best bet is to look in stores like Abercrombie and American Eagle. 
Continuing along the relaxed theme are vintage button down shirts with ringer tees worn underneath to give the layered look. 
Some stores will even be selling some Hawaiian and other large floral prints for the spring break season. However, there is no doubt that these shirts won't be as popular for the upcoming summer months as they were last year,. 
Baseball tees are also a huge trend this season, with both long sleeved and three quarter length sleeved ver­sions appearing in many of the stores. Perhaps the biggest trend in 'long sleeved shirts this season is the 



rugby shirt, which can be matched 
with jeans or with cargo pants for the 
perfect relaxed, collegiate look. 
The rugby is a great shirt for the . transition from spring into summer, 
and its popularity will dominate all 
the way into the fall season. Pair the 
rugby with a baseball hat and this get 
up should definitely turn a few girls 
heads. 
On the other hand, the biggest fash­
ion faux pas this season has to be the 
ribbed tanks that were popular last 
year. In other words, guys, don't 
wear tanks unless you 're playing 
sports! 
If your style leans more towards 
preppy clothes than the worn and 
relaxed look, Banana Republic and 
GAP are introducing flat front cotton 
pants with a bit of stretch to avoid 
the wrinkled, vintage look of 
Abercrombie and Fith and Hollister. 
With these casual pants. stretch 
button downs combined with stretch 
Nonetheless, the biggest trends this season undoubtedly will be seen in men's shoes. Just like last season, flip flops will dominate the warm spring months, with Reef showing both two­toned solid and striped prints as the popular styles for spring. 
For a more classic look, square toed shoes are still trendy, while for the relaxed look, bowling shoes and retro tennis shoes made by companies like Adidas and Puma will flood the side­walks. 
Ultimately, no matter what fashion style you like, nothing wears as well as confidence. So pick out the clothes that you like and that represent who you are. If you folio\-\' this one simple rule and the style hints above, you will no doubt look great this spring season. 
Contact Emily Howald at 
These outfits portray the laid back, yet sleek look that wlll be popular this crew T-shirts underneath complete Howald.2@nd.edu and spring. Both men are casually dressed, yet look very put together. this classic look. Brin Anderson at Anderson.159@nd.edu 

Monday, February 24, 2003 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
BENGAL BOUTS -150-160 POUNDS 
Vargas tops Arevalo in closely fought split decision 
Gorynski fought well in round • announced.

By LUKE BUSAM three when he moved forward,
Sports Writer Keppel def. Peters
but Gasser refused to move 
Steve Keppel won a unani­
from the center of the ring, 
mous decision victory over
Juan Diego Vargas won a split using his jab to keep Gorynski 
Michael Peters in a fight that
decision over Steven Arevalo in back. The unanimous decision 
found both fighters often on the
an excellent fight that couldn't came shortly after a good 
ropes and at times tangled in
have been closer. The mutual exchange that closed the third 
them. Keppel began the match
respect each fighter had for the round. 
aggressively, sending Peters to
other was obvious as both were Lohmeyer def. Heaton the corner three separate times. 
hesitant to initiate contact. 
Lohmeyer enjoyed the short­Peters backpedaled oftenVargas charged often through­est fight of the day as his fight throughout round one and
out the first round, and the 
against Chase Heaton was found his back against the
exchanges caused significant called 15 seconds into the first ropes more than once. In roundcontact for each boxer. 
round due to an injury to two Peters looked good and he
Midway through the first 

Heaton 's right shoulder. constantly replied to Keppel'sround, both boxers found them­Lohmeyer had a number of advances. Both fighters threwselves tied up in the ropes after good one-twos in the first 15 and took a lot of leather in thea charge by Vargas. Round two seconds and will be fresh for his second round. Keppel foundbegan with an impressive flurry fight against Gasser himself in the corner twice late
of 10 seconds of continuous 
Wednesday. in the round, once after a push
punching. Arevalo was the 
from Peters with ten seconds
aggressor in round two, but 
155-pound class left. Both fighters were tangledevery time he attacked he was Kerrigan def. Melby in the gold corner to start round met with a lot of leather from Colin Kerrigan slipped under three after a solid exchange. 
Vargas. Forty seconds into the the long arms of Mike Melby Keppel's punches werethird round, Arevalo scored a and earned a split decision vic­straighter and more successfulstanding eight-count on Vargas tory over the 155-pound No. 1 throughout the final round,with a strong left that caught 
seed. securing him the unanimous
Vargas off balance. 
Kerrigan was aggressive and decision victory. 
In spite of the eight-count 

closed hard in the first round as
Vargas still secured a victory. Schaefer def. Arnold one-twos were solid and nearly two began as a brawl and bothhe got under Melby's jabs. He 
Greg Schaefer overcame a
Rogers def. Cardillo always found their target. fighters' forms suffered a bit. A
landed a number of body shots 
fair amount of bleeding and a 
Tschanz did not lose quietly as number of clinches and wildRyan Rogers' control of the and used his lead hook to the 
late aggressive push by Cliff
ring secured him a unanimous he landed a strong right hand to exchanges marked the round.
body well to neutralize the 
Arnold to win a split decision
decision over Craig Cardillo. taller fighter's jab. Melby's jab Desplinter's head that dropped Enterline did find success with 
victory. Schaefer looked strong
The match began with few him to the mat to end the his jab late in the second. 
found its target more often in 
in the first. round as he sent 
match. Desplinter's early The third round began and
exchanges as Rogers success­round two, but he continued to 
Arnold to the mat with a hard,
fully used his jab to keep the rounds were strong enough to ended with Enterline's jab find­
take the hooks of the slipping 
straight right 40 seconds in.
advancing Cardillo at bay. Kerrigan. earn him a unanimous decision ing its mark. Enterline was 
Arnold was backed to the ropes
Early in round two Rogers in spite of the late knockdown. more aggressive in the final
Round three produced more 

early in round two and Schaefer
forced Cardillo to the ropes. punches from each fighter and Phllip def. McCarthy round and near the end of the 
snuck in a number of upstairs 
Rogers held the ring well match, dislodged White's mouth 
Melby's jab was a bigger factor. Bill Philip won a close split
jabs to dominate the round. 
throughout the round and his guard with a number of strong 
A series of hard shots upstairs decision over Kevin McCarthy in 
Each fighter came out strong
single jabs were successful. one-twos to White's head that
prompted a standing eight­this battle of evenly-matched
in round three and Arnold
Cardillo began the third round forced White to the ropes. 
count on Kerrigan to end the boxers. A number of high solid
forced a bleeding Schaefer to
aggressively, forcing Rogers to match. Melby improved Pierce def. Shallcross
exchanges by both fighters
the corner with a series of high
the ropes. The final round was Senior captain Tom Pierce's
throughout the fight, but dominated the first round.
one-twos. Schaefer's blood flew
Cardillo's strongest, but the Kerrigan's consistent low hooks McCarthy was forced to the cor­first fight after spending last
from the ring before a stop to
dominating jabs of Rogers were spring in London was a quick
were the deciding factor. ner by a number of strong one­
clean him up with 29 seconds
too much to overcome. as
twos by Philip to end the round. one his match with JesseLoughrey def. Basola left in the third. Arnold's come­
Shallcross ended 1 :28 into

McCarthy began round two withGasser def. Gorynskl Galen Loughrey looked strong back ended as Schaefer landed round one. Pierce began with aa tough flurry of punches andBrendan Gasser held off the in his split decision win over an impressive shot to his oppo­hard one-one-two combo thatmoved Phillip to the ropes 40aggressive advances of Bobby Mark Basola. Loughrey moved nent's head and earned a sent Shallcross to the ropes 15seconds into the round. It was aGorynski to earn a unanimous well, closed hard and got out standing eight-count to end the 
seconds into the round.

close round, but Phillip was adecision victory. Goyrnski was quickly throughout the first final round and secure his vic­Shallcross was forced to thebit more aggressive.
forced to circle Gasser through­round, scoring a number of tory. 
ropes again at 40 seconds inMcCarthy clinched a numberout round one as Gasser's jabs times to Basola's body. 

and a final time 1 :15 into theof times in the final round, butfound their way through several Basola's jabs found only the 160-pound class fight. Pierce forced Shallcross towas unable to hold off the finaltimes. protective left glove of Loughrey Despllnter def. Tschanz the gold corner with upstairs

aggressive burst of Phillip
In clinches, Gasser was excel­throughout the second round as Mark Desplinter's straight left 
punches and held him therewhich ended the round and

lent as he attacked Goynski's Loughrey slipped with textbook jabs earned his a unanimous with a series of hooks to thepersuaded the judges to declarebody with a number of hooks. A form and delivered a number of decision victory over Steve body. A strong right hook dou­him the winner. 
number of strong one-twos by straight rights to Basola's mid­Tschanz. Desplinter earned two 
bled up Shallcross and the

Gasser began the second round. section. In round three Basola standing eight-counts on Enterline def. White match was called with two sec­Gorynski forced Gasser to the continued to deliver jabs Tschanz in the second round. A strong third round by onds left in the first round. 
ropes in the middle of the sec• upstairs, but was unable to con­Both eight-counts came after Enterline won him a split deci­Pierce will fight Enterline onond and was effective with his sistently break through impressive rights by Desplinter, sion over Todd White. Both Wednesday.
advances. Both boxers fell to Loughrey's excellent defense. the first following a jab and the fighters traded blows early in the mat with 15 seconds left in However a small cut was visible second as a lead to end the sec­round one and Enterline was round two after an off balance over the left eye of Loughrey as ond round. forced to the blue corner then Contact Luke Bwam at clinch initiated by Gasser. his split decision victory was In round three Desplinter's yellow midway through. Round lbusam@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
.CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom FOCUS (the Fellowship of Catholic homes 1 /2 mile from campus. NOTICES University Students) is seeking LOST & FOUND mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 WANTED PERSONAL 
recent college graduates for cam-www.mmmrentals.com #1 Spring Break Vacations! pus ministry positions nationwide. FOUND NEAR CLUB 23 • CAN-Unplanned pregnancy? Don't go it Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Six-week summer training in NONOALE BIKE. IDENTIFY TO alone. If you or someone you love Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Montana with over 75 other recent CLAIM. CALL 574-607-0706. Very nice 3 bdrm home Avail. June NETWORK MARKETING MEETS needs confidential support or assis-Best Prices! Space is Limited!!! 1 • college graduates; serve on cam-1st for summer or tall. East Race BIOTECH Local Domer (BSBiology tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise 800-234-7007 www.endlesssum-pus in a team of 4; work one-on-dist.near Corbys Pub & St. Joe 77/MBA 84)seeks hard working Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more mertours.com one with students; help create and Church. Incl. alarm ND/SMC students who want finan-information, see our bi-weekly ad in
FOR SALE

sustain Catholic communities on syst,washer/dryer. Can email picts. cial security by graduation. Take The Observer. DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 college campuses. Contact FOCUS Call Joe Crimmins @ 273-your business home on breaks ­HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 (970) 336-9881 0002(h)or 514-0643(cell)or work from anywhere. Call Charlie Federico = Kirk Hinrich ... think SCHOOL YEAR-WELL MAIN-www.locusonline.org 4-bdrm, 2-bath home, close to cam-JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com. 574-289-2803 for info. about it. TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAM-pus. Clay Twp. 271-5144. $650/m negotiable. PUS-STUDENT NEIGHBOR-Yeah omelet bar! HOODS-SECURITY SYSTEMS-NETWORK MARKETING MEETS 
MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL· STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE 3-4 LIVE IN A GREAT NOT CUES-BIOTECH Local Domer (BSBiology Good luck this week Katie ... WASHERS/DRYERS CALL OR 5 PERSON 2 STORY. 8 FOR RENT TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH 77/MBA 84)seeks hard working See you in Hell ... literally. TODAY-HOUSES GOING FAST!!! BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW OF NO FOR 3-5 PEOPLE 2773097 ND/SMC students who want finan­-CONTACT KRAMER (547) 315· EVERYTHING. WIRED FOR COM-cial security by graduation. Take 12 more days till the Keys 5032 OR (574) 234-2436 ·ALSO PUTERS ECT. AVAIL. SUMMER Rooms for rent. $250 month your business home on breaks ­LEASING FOR 2004-2005 VISIT OR FALL 235-3655 includes utilities. 272•1525 mmm-Summer Roommate Wanted Castle work from anywhere. Call Charlie NOH menu: OUR WEBSITES @ rentals@aol.com Pt 243-7553 574•289-2803 for info. chicken nuggets for the first 50 stu-DOMUSKRAMER.COM dents, roadkill for everyone else. 

Monday, February 24, 2003 page 15
The Observer . SPQRTS 
BENGAL BOUTS -125-145 POUNDS 
Faist advances to semifinals by defeating Feduska 
Attention First-Year MBA's 
Would you like to earn a FULL TUITION fellowship for your second-year? 
The William G. McGowan Charitable Fund has just awarded the MBA ro r · · for the second year for one :tvfBA student! Applicants must comply wittth;f:~:J:.~n;::~;overs full ttut10n 
-Must currently be enrolled full-time in the first year of the :tvfBA ro am. -Must curre~tly have a 3.0 GPA or higher. p gr 
-Must subnut a 500-1000 word essay on the contributions of\X'illiam G McG c d d Ch •
MCI to toda ' b · Id · · owan, ioun er an airman of 
M ' .Y5 USlness wor U1 general or to the telecommunications field in particular -ust subnut one letter of recommendation from a faculty m b · -Must exhibit attributes such as scholarship talent Ieadershipeqm ~~ h d . . 
, , ua es, c aracter an commuruty mvolvement. 
All First-Year J\IBA's are eligible, excluding those that are already receiving a full tuition fellowship. 
Deadline: Applications are due in the MB.A Office by Monday, .March 17, 2003. 
\X'inners will be announced in the spring. Contact: Jennifer.Bleile.1@nd.edu 
ment on a bloodied nose. Dillon followed with a pair of two com­binations in order to finish the round. Sylling was far from done, though, and opened the third round in inspired fashion. Sylling and Dillon wailed at each other in frantic fashion with no clear victor emerging from the scrum. The crowd, appreciating the brave onslaught by Sylling, ended its alternating chant of "meatballs" for long enough to encourage him while he was treated for his nose once more. Sylling captured the support of the majority of the crowd when he followed with a seven-hit combination highlighted by two huge right hooks. The fight had to be paused a final time for Sylling's nose, but soon after­wards he rode a crest of momentum into the finish with a series of jabs and an uppercut into the midsection of Dillon. But one round of domination was not enough in order to counteract Dillon's two rounds. 
Harris def. Robinson (walk­
distance. In order to a adjust, DeBoer began rushing his oppo­nent, landing some point-blank jabs and body shots from close range. Duffey was able to string more punches together, landing a three-hit combination and later a six-hit combination after DeBoer missed a punch. In the second round, DeBoer was much more aggressive and opened on the offensive. Throughout the round DeBoer swung hook after hook at Duffey, trying to knock the senior off-balance or over altogether. Reacting to DeBoer, Duffey capitalized on DeBoer's unprotected head during offen­sives in order to land four jabs. In the third round DeBoer's furi­ous comeback attempt stalled as the freshman appeared to run out of energy. DeBoer began to miss punches and the experi­enced Duffey adroitly connected on calculated blows. 
ContactErik Powers at cpowers@nd.edu 

By ERIK POWERS Sports Writer 
Early in the match it seemed as if Michael Feduska and Brian Faist were participating in a lit­tle bit of geometry, with Faist circumnavigating Feduska. Feduska was the aggressor in the first round, causing the elu­sive Faist to circle him around the ring. But Faist fought off Feduska's flurries well, three times using his left hand to block series of jabs before retaliating with a wicked right hook. Both fighters came out with flurries in the second round, but the stac­cato succession of blows failed to give either fighter an advantage. 
The second round ended with a burst of momentum, however, when Faist mixed two thunder­ous right hooks with a series of jabs in order to knock Feduska into one side of the ring and then another. Feduska and Faist traded hooks in the final round but Feduska's fate in the eve~ match could not be rewritten: Faist won in a split decision. 
Valenzuela def. Muslala 
In the second fight of the 125­pound weight division, Robert Musiala from off campus was pitted against Jon Valenzuela from Dillon. The first round proved to be an exercise in exposition, for Musiala and Valenzuela fought to establish their character in the ring. Musiala depended upon speed and quickness, with his highlight being a left/right jab and hook combination that he landed at the end of the round. Valenzuela displayed a more powerful approach, unleashing a huge hook on multiple occasions. In the second round, Musliala sough to frustrate Valenzuela by dancing around him and landing intermittent jabs. Valenzuela then caught Musiala with a series of sweeping right hooks, battering his opponent into the ropes. The third round's climax was a seven-hit combination of hooks and jabs by Valenzuela, who looked to put an end to the match. Musiala valiantly staged his own offensive, knocking Valenzuela backwards at one point, but Valenzuela still tri­umphed in a unanimous deci­sion. 
Kim def. Rojas 
Sung Hoon Kim wasted little time in the final bout of the 125­pound division. Facing Gerrardo Rojas, Kim opened with vehe­
ment violence and landed two hooks and a jab within the first ten seconds. Rojas regrouped and attempted to feel out Kim, but Kim responded with an 11­hit combination that drew a crescendo of cheers from the crowd and a dazed defense from Rojas. While the referee paused the fight to check that Rojas was all right. a buzz continued through the crowd. Smelling blood and feeding off the arena's energy, Kim exploded when the match resumed. Piston-like punches welcomed Rojas back from the break, driving him into the ropes and down to the match. With 1:10 left in the first round, the referee stopped the fight. Kim won in dominating fashion. 
140 pounds Marks def. Hollowell 
Chip Marks had anything but a size advantage, giving up several inches in height and reach to Tony Hollowell. In the first round, Marks prevented Hollowell from exploiting this disadvantage, however. Marks repeatedly rushed Hollowell, landing a right hook and several jabs to his head before closing out the round with a furious seven-hit flurry. Hollowell recovered quickly and began the second round like a different man. Much more aggressive and assertive, Hollowell seemed to turn the tide of the match until Marks eschewed defense for a reckless hook-laden offense. Swinging mercilessly, Marks knocked the momentum out of Hollowell, causing the referee to pause the fight once and limiting Hollowell to a single landed jab in the final 30 seconds of the round. Marks continued his impassioned display in the open­ing of the final round and knocked Hollowell out of the fight only 40 seconds into the round. 
Davidson def. Schmldlln 
On Thursday, Stephen Davidson won a hard-fought war of attrition that featured a bevy of punches. an absence of block­ing, and a split decision. On Sunday, a refreshed Joe Schmidlin (coming off a first­round bye) beat him at his own game. Early in the first round, Schmidlin landed a six-hit com­bination. The two then traded blows, and even as Schmidlin had Davidson up against the ropes, Davidson still feverishly returned his punches. In the second round Schmidlin was unable to absorb and return punches any longer. as Davidson seized control of the match. The trading of blows became a monopoly when Davidson unleashed a brutal seven-hit combination on Schmidlin, knocking Schmidlin into his own corner. When the fight resumed. the fighters switched directions and Davidson promptly knocked Schmidlin onto the bottom ropes of the Davidson's corner, ending the fight at 46 seconds into the second round. 
Wuest def. Liva 

Bill Wuest knew that he had a height advantage over Eddie Liva, and he used it. Wuest posi­tioned himself at a lengthy radius from Liva, using his long reach in order to land long-dis­tance jabs. Liva was aggressive in the first round. attempting several combinations. But Liva was unable to land enough of his punches on Wuest's body. suc­ceeding in mainly a few ineffec­tual abdominal hooks. Neither fighter looked tired by the sec­ond round, and neither fighter experienced much of a threat either. Wuest and Liva continued to exchange parries and punch­es. By the third round Wuest and Liva confirmed that they were a stark contrast to the two con­tests of brute strength that pre­ceded them. Liva and Wuest dis­played lightness on their feet, a combination of footwork, chess­like strategy and cat-like quick­ness in order to anticipate and deflect each other's moves. There were no bloody noses, pauses for count-outs or knock­outs. Wuest won in the end, a unanimous decision that was a testament to his longer, more successful reach. 
Hoffman def. Pfizenmayer 
Chris Hoffman won versus Mark Pfizenmayer, but the mar­gin of victory was small. The tightly conte·sted match opened with Hoffman showcasing his shiftiness and power by driving Pfizenmayer into the ropes with a series of six alternating hooks. In response to this opening salvo, Pfizenmayer fired his own flurry of fists, driving Hoffman into the opposite ropes. Pfizenmayer then stymied Hoffman's attempts to move him across the ring as the round ended. The second round opened in even more spectacu­lar fashion, for Pfizenmayer reeled off 10 punches before Hoffman responded with a furi­
{ ._,;: 
LISA VEL TE/The Observer 

Valenzuela throws a strong punch In his victory against Muslala. The 125 Pound fighters met In quarterfinals Sunday. 
ous seven-punch combination over) that pushed Pfizenmayer back The battle of the Pauls just into his own corner. wasn't meant to be, for Harris Pfizenmayer attempted to go advanced past a flu-stricken back on the offensive, but was Robinson in a walk-over. thwarted. What ensued was 
Ham def. Streit 

pure and swift vengeance by Experience triumphed overHoffman. Two jabs and four 
youth as senior Jeff Ham defeat­hooks sent Pfizenmayer reeling ed sophomore Jon Streit in the 

across the ring. Two hooks 
fight for O'Neill Hall. Ham heldknocked Pfizenmayer up against the upper hand at the onset of

the ropes. Another series of 
the fight, landing the first punch

punches held him there. The 
when he launched a hook. Streit

round ended with the match landed a few jabs of his ownsuddenly looking one-sided. 
before Ham had a five-hit com­

Pfizenmayer dispelled this 
bination to end the round. Thenotion within 20 seconds of the second round began with a hotlythird round when he disarmed contested row, and no clear win­Hoffman with a six-hit combina­ner emerged. Soon afterwards,tion and then used another six­Streit landed a powerful righthit combination in order to send hook on Ham, sending spit and

him into the ropes. Hoffman 
sweat flying. The round endedreturned the favor with a swoop­with another closely waged flur­

ing right hook that knocked 
ry, but Ham emerged relativelyPfizenmayer's headgear askew, unscathed, while Streit neededand the two battled ineffectually to be treated for a bloodied noseuntil the end of the round. 

in between rounds. This did not 145 pounds restrict Streit from dominating the opening of the third round.
DIiion def. Sylllng 
Streit had a pair of three-hit

Luke Dillon, this year's top combinations, sending Ham intoseed in the 145-pound weight 
a corner. Ham responded bydivision, withstood a serious 

knocking Streit off-balance with

challenge over fellow junior his own series of blows. Ham
Andrew Sylling in winning a split won in a unanimous decision. 
decision. The fight began with Dillon landing the majority of the Duffey def. DeBoer blows in the first round. Dillon In the second intrahall scored a five-hit combination, a matchup of the afternoon, Ryan left hook and a right jab to mini­"The Quiet Man" Duffey fought mal success by Syllling. The sec­Dave "The Flying Dutchman" ond round featured Dillon on the DeBoer. The Sorin residents offensive once more, attempting formed a contrast in size, and a series of lef1/right jabs, which the taller Duffey forced DeBoer Sylling feverishly fought off. to circle him at first. Duffey dic­Sylling missed at least one jab, tated the pace of the match however, for the fight had to be early, landing short bursts of paused for him to receive treat­jabs while keeping DeBoer at a 

page 16 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Monday, February 24, 2003 

I,' 
1' 
! 
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Connecticut at NOTRE DAME 7 p.m., ESPN 
Texas Tech at Oklahoma State 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA BASKETBALL 

I 
Suns at Bulls 8:30 p.m., FOX
i 
BOXING 


Associated Press 
MEMPHIS 
On Mike Tyson's list of lessons learned from his 49-second destruction of Clifford Etienne, a few stand out: 
First, rhinos don't dance, but they sure hit the can­vas with a thud. 
Second, one devastating right hand doesn't mean Tyson has any chance in a rematch with Lennox Lewis. 
Tyson rambled on as only Tyson can after Saturday night's fight, touching on everything from his bad back {broken, he says) to his desire to party (it's big) and, finally, to his future in the ring (more Clifford Etiennes). 

Etienne -aka the Black Rhino -had gone down seven times in one fight with soft-hitting Fres Oquendo two years ago. Tyson proved that the last thing to go in an aging heavyweight is his punch when his right hand flat­tened Etienne. 
Etienne made the mis­take of trying to punch with a puncher, and as soon as Tyson landed his right, he walked away knowing it was over. 
"That's what rhinos do," Tyson said. "Rhinos don't dance." 
The crowd of15,171 at the Pyramid went wild over the sixth-fastest knockout of Tyson's career. But the former heavyweight champion was more realistic about what it all meant. 
"People are excited to see me· knock guys out because that's how I made my reputation," Tyson said. "But I need more rounds. After a fight like this, 49 seconds, I can't go in there against Lewis, a confident fighter who's accurate. I need to go back to the gym." 
If he skipped training for a week just before the fight to get a tattoo and relax, who's to believe he has enough dedication left to get in top condition? 
"I like doing other things. I like getting high, hanging out with my kids. I like drinking," Tyson said. 
But 49 seconds proved little, except that Tyson can still hit like a mule and Etienne can still fall down. And even though Tyson desperately wants -and needs -the money a Lewis rematch would bring, he said he needs another fight or two before risking it all against a fighter who simply may be too big and too good for him. 
IN BRIEF 

McGrady rips Nets triple-double of his career. rally that saw No. 6 Kansas get with­
Two days after watching 40-year­The Magic need a big finish from in five in the final 30 seconds. old Michael Jordan become the old­the 23-year-old to make the Hollis Price and Quannas White est NBA player to score 40 points in a playoffs. each scored 19 points for the Sooners 
game, the New Jersey Nets got Coupled with Dallas' overtime win (19-4, 10-2), but there were contribu­burned by one of the league's young over Washington, Orlando has a one­tions throughout the lineup as they 
stars -Tracy McGrady. game lead over the Wizards in the extended the nation's longest home­McGrady had 46 points, 13 assists race for Eastern Conference's final court winning streak to 36 games. and 10 rebounds in his second mon­playoff berth. The Sooners took control early by 
ster game since Orlando traded Mike hitting their shots and controlling the Miller and the Magic won their third Sooners hang on for win backboards at both ends of the floor. straight with a 113-105 victory over Oklahoma may have sent a mes­White had three 3-pointers and Price 
the Nets on Sunday. sage while peating Kansas to move had two as Oklahoma went 6-of-10 
"Michael scoring 43 at 40 years into a first-place tie with the from behind the arc in the first half. old, that's more impressive," Jayhawks in the Big 12. The Sooncrs had a 10-3 lead in the McGrady said quickly in rating his "Our program, from a consistency first five minutes, stretched it to 17-6 performance against the Nets versus standpoint, we 're getting pretty with 11 :30 remaining and went on to Jordan's. good," coach Kelvin Sampson said lead by as many as 21. 
What McGrady did against the after his team's 77-70 victory Kansas got several good looks early defending Eastern Conference cham­Sunday. "Kansas has set a standard that didn't fall. The Jayhawks missed pions just two days he tallied a for this conference and will continue 17 of their first 20 shots and shot 
career-best 52 points against Chicago to do so. But at the same time, 26.7 percent in the first half (8-of­was impressive. too. Oklahoma basketball is getting pretty 30). 
McGrady, who leads the NBA in good." "In the first half not only were we scoring with a 31.4 point average, hit The fifth-ranked Sooners were bet­not in the same building with them. 16 of 27 shots and got all his team­ter than that for 25 minutes in build­we were not even in the same 
mates involved in posting the second ing a 32-point lead, then withstood a league," Williams said. 
Monday, February 24, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
BENGAL BOUTS -170 POUNDS-HEAVYWEIGHTS 
Cosse's victory earns standing ovation in quarterfinals 
his mark, and it was too much However, Rocca would not give
ByHFATHER 
for Padilla to overcome. up despite the unanimous deci­
VAN HOEGARDEN 
sion, as the freshman put up a
Sports Writer 
fight despite being over­
Joyce def. Ward 
matched.

In what sbme may deem the Rob Joyce's unanimous deci­best fight thus far in this year's sion victory was the third of the Bouts, Clay Cosse defeated four 170•pound fights. The Pearsall def. Sullivan Patrick McGarry in a split deci­senior set the tone with a huge Christopher Pearsall used his sion. The fight ended with both opening jab on James vVard outstanding jab to the face to boxers tired after a battle of and he never looked back. defeat Denis Sullivan. At the two competitors that warranted Ward was unable to land any end of the first round, Pearsall the first standing ovation this huge punches, as Joyce, a backed Sullivan into the corner, year. senior, ducked and feinted the where he landed multiple com­Cosse and McGarry went entire fight. binations to end the round. punch for punch the whole way Joyce used a multitude of Sullivan, meanwhile, could 
combinations to land his shots not land a punch. He wasthrough, but it was Cosse who 
came out firing in the third on Ward, a junior. On defense, forced to play defense the round to pull out the split deci­he was too elusive for the slow• whole fight, leading Pearsall to er Ward, as he moved on to the unanimous decision.
sion of a bout that could have been won by either fighter. face Voss. Pearsall will face Demko in the semi finals. 
180 pounds
Knust def. Michalek Rooney def. Callahan
After the McGarry-Cosse Groebner def. Christoforettl 
If this were basketball, one
fight, Matt Knust and Brian It was all Andrew Groebner in Michalek had some big shoes to Sunday's fight. James would believe that Eric fill. However•.neither junior Christoforetti could not land a Callahan would've had the advantage in the fight, as he
could land a punch in the punch on the way to his defeat had the obvious advantage over
beginning of the fight. by the off-campus senior. Finally, Knust connected on a Groebner was too tough for the shorter Larry Rooney. 
However, Rooney stayed lowhuge jab that ended the second Christoforetti, as he continually and landed punches to the body
round. Building on this momen­cornered him using an offensive tum, he went on to use a series strategy to score points with the all fight, keeping Callahan off­of combinations on his way to judges. His punches were domi­balance. victory by unanimous decision. nating, as Christoforetti had no Callahan was unable to land 
He will face Cosse on solid blows to the head, while
answer for the aggressive style 
\Vednesday. Rooney scored points with the
Groebner displayed en route to 
judges by consistently landingan unanimous decision. 
firm shots. The fight went back
Voss def. Padilla 
and forth until the end when
In a battle of two seniors, Demko def. Rocca 
the split decision was
Jason Voss prevailed over Matt It was a battle of the Dawgs announced in favor of Rooney,
Padilla in a unanimous deci­and the Big Red, as the Alumni­who goes on to fight Groebner. sion. "Criss Cross" Voss was too Dillon rivalry extended into the much to handle from the start, ring. Junior captain Tommy 
190 pounds

as his first left hook connected Demko of Alumni came out fir­to leave Padilla stumbling. ing against Erik Rocca of Dillon. Lynk def. Escobales 
By the end of the bout, both Rocca was continually backed Senior captain John Lynkfighters were stumbling, and in the corner and knocked off­proved to be too much for unable to land a punch. balance. as Demko landed just sophomore David Escobales, as 
However. Voss had already left about every punch he threw. the referee was forced to stop 
WANT THE BRAGGING RIGHTS OF A BIG EAST CHAMPION? 
• sponsored by 
THE NAUTICA COMPETITION

NAUTICA COMPETITION­
THE NEWEST PLAYER IN MEN'S FRAGRANCE SHOOTOUT IS YOUR CHANCE available at L.S. AYRES TD PLAY FDR A BIG EAST CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP. 
2 person teams will have : 60 to score as many points as possible from spots on the floor. Become Conference Champs and WIN. 
WIN THE CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP ANO GET: 
• 
$1000 ,n cash {$~00 per· player) 

• 
$1000 1r, NAUTICA COMPETITION Clothing ($500 per player) 

• 
The license to talk trash Anywhere, Anyt,me1 


BECOME CAMPUS CHAMPIONS AND GET: 
, An all e,penses-pa1d tr,p to the BIG EAST Conference Chamo1onsh,p where you'll get 
• 
The chance to destroy your conference rivals for the b,g prize 

• 
Fr'l!e tickets to watch the tournament hve m person. and 

• 
Free bottles of NAUTICA COMPETITION • The Newes't Player in Men·s Fragrance 


All PLAYERS GET: 
• 
NAUTICA COMPETITION Shootout Jerseys -for the first 75 teams tn reg1\it.er -s,gn up quickly' 

• 
Free samples of NAUTICA COMPETITION -The Newest Player 





,n Men·s Fragrance 

Get fro INSTANT CONFERENCE GET IN THE GAME CHAMPIONSHIP TICKETS. 
WHflll: Rockne Memorial 

Stop by l.S. Ayre~. UmversiLV Park on Marc~ 8, 2003. With WNIN, Wednesday. February 26th any NAUTICA COMPETITION from 7:00-9 O .pm fr9grRnc<> purchase of $35 or 
HIIW TD RIGIST!R Go to Rockne Memorial during the 
mor~. Y"'t a FREE NAUTICA 
hours listed for more 1nformat.1on 
COMPETITION 8a5kelball by 
or to register 

Spalding~ Free Co:"!fPr eoce HOW ID PlA'r • 2 p1eyers pp,r tP.aM so p,r:lr: your wmnin9
Champ,orish1p T1tlP.tS .vdl he 
pdr1.ner !Varsity Players e•cludedl 
• Sc·ore a~ r,any point" as you can in 60 
ba,•e:.ha·u. So t-urr'I'· Vi/t-o11p 
&uppftes last.. 
• Cur.~hoot yOlir nnpor<fo'nts d11r,.,q. prPliM1n.arv end finat ruuntJ:--for your cllanc-P tc pl...:i·. u1 
sr1A\,Ol'~G tl"ll-df'rll!ri 0"""' r~ t, '5:,-,lrt1•'9 
tt,f-' C':rn;tf'rprii:P Ct,~r-1t11011shtp
$(,ui :.1, V'ICt"'dR,C(' ! I(. Ul'" l,,,..u, Soort• l'll t;1 :,•..,_.1c,,rg Ali ••~t!' 

the fight 1:29 into the first 
round to the dismay of the 
crowd. 
Escobales came out swinging 
wildly, but he could not con­
nect. Meanwhile, Lynk repeat­
edly landed body punches to 
lower the hands of Escobales, 
leaving the head exposed. 
Taking advantage of this, Lynk 
dominated and forced 
Escobales to cover up before 
the TKO was called. 
Gathinji def. Ronchetta 
Mwangi Gathinji dominated the next fight, defeating Jose Ronchetta in an unanimous decision. Gathinji started off a little slow, but once he landed a titanic uppercut, the fight was his. 
He proceeded to continually 
get Ronchetta against the 
ropes, dominating the over­
matched fighter. Gathinji will 
be in for a fight against Lynk. 
Otlewskl def. Carver 
In their last Bengal Bouts, 
John Caver and Patrick 
Otlewski gave each other a 
fight. Otlewski stood his ground 
the entire fight, taking hits and 
dishing out his share as well. 
However, just when it looked 
like Otlewski had things under 
control, Caver came out 
aggressive in the third round 
and looked to pin Otlewski 
against the ropes. Despite 
these efforts, the judges were 
not convinced enough to 
change the unanimous deci­
sion. 
Zlzlc def. Schroeder 
In a battle of youth versus experience, Nathan Schroeder -was overpowered by William Zizic. Although Schroeder hung in for the entire fight, he was clearly overmatched by the aggressive Zizic. 
Zizic landed a massive left hook that send both fighters back to their corners, as Schroeder regrouped. Zizic's unanimous decision advances him to the semifinals where he will face vtlewski. 
Heavyweight 
Abeyeta def. Morrison 
Carlos "The Master" Abeyeta lived up to his nickname as he dominated the competition Sunday after a slo,...-start against Nick Morrison. Morrison held his own for most of the fight until 51 seconds into the third round, when the referee stopped the fight for the 

TKO. 
Abeyeta's mix of jabs and hooks was too much for Morrison, as he came out strong in the second round of a fight that looked to be up for grabs after the first round. Abeyeta continually pounded Morrison as he relentlessly kept up a barrage of blows to the head and the body. 
Burton def. Pezanko 
Darryl Burton decided from 
the beginning of the fight he 
was going to win. From there, 
Timothy Pezanko was helpless, 
as the senior lost to the sopho­
more, in an unanimous deci­
sion. 
Burton came out swinging under control. He forced Pezanko on the defensive end, as Pezanko could never even throw a punch. When he did, it either missed or it did not phase Burton. Burton, however, will have his hands full next when he faces Abeyeta in the semifinals. 
O'Connor def. Farkas 
Ben "No Name" O'Connor sure made a name for himself after Sunday's unanimous deci­sion victory over Brian Farkas. In the bnttle between two Alumni residents, no one seemed to have the upper hand in the early part of the match. 
However. by the end, O'Connor finally had landed more punches than Farkas, despite the fact that neither fighter dominated. Also, both were tiring quickly by the time the third round came, so Farkas was never able to make up the lost ground. 
Borovina def. McFeron 
Stefan Borovina made quick work of Donovan McFeron as the referee called the fight for a TKO. 
McFeron could not ~and any punches against the dominating Borovina, who started and fin­ished aggressively. lie forced McFeron against the ropes and fired jab after jab at the senior. Borovina looks to cause more trouble in the semifinals when he faces O'Connor. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoe@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 24, 2003 
Seven 
continued from page 24 
title with a team total 730 points. 
"This has been our strongest day traditionally in terms of hav­ing all the stroke events," head coach Bailey Weathers said. "We feel like if we can get to this point and we're in the meet, then we can win the meet." 
Weathers is confident in his girls, and his confidence has validity in their performance down the stretch. 
In a microcosm of the champi­onship weekend, Notre Dame junior Danielle Hulick overtook Rutgers in the final leg of the 400 freestyle relay, the night's last event. The team of Katie Eckholt, Courtney Choura, Heidi Hendrick and Hulick finished with a time of 
3:21.18. Rutgers finished second in 3:23.05. 
"\Ve were ahead the whole time, but they were winning a lot of events and they were holding on," Hulick said. "We were a little worried about Rutgers at times, and they were really out to get us, you could tell." 
The Irish established they would not back down on Friday. At least two swimmers scored in the top eight of every event, with as many as four swimmers com­peting in the final heat of a single swim. 
Freshman Christel Bouvron 
(54.57) and Lisa Garcia (54.90) completed the 100 butterfly back­to-back at second and third. 
In the 100 backstroke, Hulick (55.56), Kristen Peterson (56.13), Kara Santelli (56.34), and Sarah Alwen (56.73) finished third, fourth, fifth and sixth, respective­ly, a huge number of points in only one event for the Irish. 
Marie Labosky won the 400 IM with a time of 4:16.24, and Meghan Perry-Eaton scored a 
309.20 for first in the 1-meter div­
ing. Even with the points amounting 

for the Irish by Friday's close, 
· Notre Dame had a formidable task ahead of them Saturday. Tri­captain Heidi Hendrick knows how hard the team fought for this championship all the way through the weekend. "We had a challenge up against us this year," said tri-captain Heidi Hendrick. "We did a lot bet­ter than any of us expected. We stepped up, and everyone swam extremely well across the board." 'Across the board' is an accu­rate description. Even in events in which Rutgers scored well, the Irish hung around. In the 100 freestyle, the Scarlet Knights' Casmera Wick took sec­ond with a time of (50.50), but Hendrick (51.05) and Eckholt 
(51.55) picked up points at sixth and ninth .. 
Rutgers' Kelly Harrigan won the 200 backstroke in 1:56.02 and in the process broke a record set by the lrish's own Erin Brooks in 1997 of 1:57.56. Again, there were 
Hulick (2:00.27), Labosky (2:00. 75), Alwen (2:01.43). Santelli (2:01.68), and Peterson 
(2:01.70) at fourth, fifth, seventh, ninth and 10th, respectively. Weathers has nothing but praise for his swimmers. 
"We had some great swims today and that was a big part of it," Weathers said. "I thought Llsa Garcia's butterfly swims were great. Our 100 freestylers were really good, and our backstrokers I thought were excellent." 
Garcia, who holds the Notre Dame record in the 200 butterfly of 1:59.28), won the 200 butterfly with a time of 2:01.02. She also won the 200 IM on Thursday. Sophomore Brooke Taylor {2:01.37) finished third in the 200 fly and Christel Bouvron (2:05.08) took eighth. The 400 freestyle team captured the night's final event as the Irish closed strong. 
"I was really pleased with [the championship]." Weathers said. "I thought it was going to be a really hard meet for us to win. We came in pretty much as an underdog to Rutgers and probably to Virginia Tech." 
The Irish could have been an underdog, even at 9-1-1, because of the loss of defending Big East champions Carrie Nixon and Kelly Becking. The two girls were wholly or partially responsible for all but one of Notre Dame's victo­ries last year at Big East. 
"I think this was bet~r than any of the other years because we had to work harder," said Hulick. "This year, everyone was out to get us, but we had a talk last night and just said we had to cream them today, because the past few years [we've] won by hundreds of points. And we pulled it out." 
So even as underdogs, Notre Dame was the team to beat-or, for the seventh year in a row, the team to lose to. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 

Huskies hustle Pil:St Irish for 65th straight 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 
After trailing most of the first half against the No. 1 team in the country, Notre Dame tied Connecticut at 28-28 on a field goal by Teresa Borton with 1:30 left before halftime. 
But there would be no upset Sunday in Storrs, Conn. 
The Huskies {26-0, 13-0 in the Big East) responded by ending the half on a 5-0 run and never looked back, en route to a 77-59 victory over the Irish (15-9, 7­6). 
"We didn't finish the [first] half strong. We took quick, 'bad shots and they went down and got easy ones," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "And the beginning of the second half was the same thing, and all of a sudden we're down 15." 
The five-point halftime lead was extended to 16 after Connecticut broke off a 16-5 run early in the second half. Their lead reached as many as 22 before the game ended. 
That six-minute stretch was the difference in the game, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said in the post-game press conference. 
"We let down our guard for the last minute of the first half and the first five minutes of the second half, and UConn capital­ized, and that was the differ• ence in the game," McGraw said. "Once we got our bearings about us again. we played them even." 
The win was Connecticut's 65th straight, extending their own NCAA record. 
Surprisingly, Notre Dame out­rebounded the defending national champs 43-40, led by Jacqueline Batteast's career­high 18 boards. It was only the third time Connecticut had been outrebounded this season. 
"I was pleased with our post game and rebounding," McGraw said. "I thought the rebounding was especially strong on the offensive end. [Batteast] had a tremendous day on the boards, and she helped us in other ways besides scoring." 
However, poor shooting and too many turnovers prevented the Irish from snapping the Huskies streak. Notre Dame shot only 33.9 percent from the field and turned the ball over 18 times. The Huskies were able to shoot 44.3 percent and only had 10 turnovers all day, including just one in the last 10:21 of the game. 
"We just had one of those days when the shots weren't going down and that's going to happen," McGraw said. "Against a team like Connecticut you can't afford to have a down day when it comes to shooting from the field." 
Notre Dame had a few offen­sive bright spots in Borton and Courtney LaVere. Borton had a game-high and career-high 21 points on 7-for-11 shooting. She also knocked in all seven of her free throw attempts and grabbed six rebounds. But she was shut down during the Huskies run in the second half and didn't score again until their were six minutes left and the game was out of reach for the Irish. 
Lavere made 5-for-8 shots and scored 13 points for the Irish. 
Notre Dame's two leading scorers coming into the game, Batteast and Alicia Ratay. both struggled to find their touch. Batteast was held to only 2-for­12 shooting and five points, ten under her season average while Ratay hit only 2-for-10 shots and ended the day with ten points. 
The Huskies did not have one shooting star Sunday, but used a balanced offensive attack. All­American Diana Taurasi led Connecticut with 13 points, while reserve Wilnett Crockett added 12 more points as the Huskies had five players score • in double figures. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

WOMENS SWIMMING 
Perry-Eaton: Simply outstanding 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 

UNIONDALE. N.Y. The Big East conference sched­uled the weekend events precisely. 
The Nassau Aquatic Center staff worked out times slots for each event and each awards ceremony. So when the judges called the plat­form divers to the winners' blocks at 8:49 p.m. Saturday, it was going as planned. 
A Rutgers diver received third place. She waved her hand and smiled.The Miami diver on the vic­tor's block beamed with pride, although platform diving awards no points. 
But the second-place block was empty. Out of the crowd came Notre Dame diver Meghan Perry­Eaton, who jogged down poolside a bit late. Maybe Perry-Eaton was not as enthused because she knew she would he receiving another award that evening as the 2003 Big East Outstanding Diver of the Year. 
Perry-Eaton may not have stepped up to receive her platform award right away, but the junior diver did step up when it counted at the Big East championships this weekend to help her team to a sev­enth consecutive title. 
"I was pretty excited about win­ning the award," Perry-Eaton said. "I didn't know because Miami is really strong and Katie Beth [Bryant] got the same places as I did. She has a little more experi­ence and I thought she might have a little more pull, but I was excited to get it." 
Miami finished third ahead of Vrrginia Tech at the championships, in part due to its diving program which is regarded as among the finest in the country. Beating Miami made the victory that much sweeter for Perry-Eaton and Notre Dame. 
"She's been working for a long time," said head diving coach Calming Xie...We always knew she was capable of what she has done. capable of "'inning this title. She's a fighter and she is prepared mentally for that [kind of pressure]." 
Injured and inactive her entire freshman season, the Rrandon, Fla., native rehabilitated and entered the Irish lineup her sophomore season with a bang. That year, Perry-Eaton nearly qualified for the NCAA championships, corning in sixth in the one-meter diving and 13th in the 3-meter at the NCAA Zone Diving competition. 
As a sophomore at the Notre Dame invitational, Perry-Eaton even shattered All-American Heather Mattingly's record in the 3­meter dive in six dives with 333.82 points. beating the previous All­American's 332.40. 
More pertinent to the past week­end's meet, however, Perry-Eaton placed second in the 1-meter dive with 293.50 and fourth in the 3­meter dive with 507.50 last season at Big East. 
So this year she was out to prove something to herself and, more importantly, to help her team's cause. 
"Coach told me it would be a dog­fight points-wise, so I knew what I had to do for our team and that really got me going," Perry-Eaton said. 
During the season Perry-Eaton was one of the most reliable Notre Dame swimmers or divers. She practically guaranteed the Irish first place points from the dive. 
So at Big Ear;;t this year, Xie and head swimming coach Bailey Weathers expected a solid contribu­tion out of Perry-Eaton, but a first­and second-place finish? 
Perry-Eaton won the 1-meter dive (309.20 points) and finished second in the 3-mcter (501.05) to boost the team's confidence. 
"Meghan really gave us a huge lift," Weathers said. "She's been working hard for this title and we're working hard too," coach Xie said. Xie has coached mens and womens diving at Notre Dame since 1995. He was acknowledged as Big East diving coach of the year in 1999. 
''To prepare for the meet, we talked about confidence on the dive. We told her she should just think of herself diving well as she did all year. She must concentrate and focus and stay calm, and she did that. She did an excellent job." 
She stayed calm during the events. Don't know about the award ceremonies. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

-

Monday, February 24, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
356.50. Miguel Velazquez completed his 
sweep of the diving events \'\1th a victory of 
Fourth 
657.20 points, followed by Pitt's Dennis 
continued from page 24 Nemtsanov (564.20). The 800 freestyle relay team of 
coach Tim Welsh. 
Obringer, J.R. Teddy. Patrick O'Berry, and 
In the 200 medley relay, Virginia Tech Brian Guarnier finished sixth in 6:46.46. 
set a new meet record (1:28.49). Rutgers' St. John's placed first in 6:36.32, and sec­
team was second in 1:29.93, and Notre ond-place Pitt touched in 6:37 .28. Dame placed third. The Irish team consist­In the 1,650 freestyle final, Eric ing of Doug Bauman, Jason Fitzpatrick. Limkemann of Pitt finished first in 
Frank Krakowski and Tim Randolph set a 15:21.48, followed by Michal Szapiel of St. 
new Notre Dame record (1 :30.58). 
John's (15:32.43). Notre Dame's Matt Notre Dame's Jamie Lutkus placed sec­Bertke placed seventh in 16:04.20. ond in the 400 IM with a time of 3:54.38. Shomberger was eighth (1:52.76) in the -Sean Smith of Rutgers won in 3:52.25. 200 backstroke final, while teammate ND's David Moisan (4:00.29} and Patrick Bauman finished 12th. Winner Anders Heffernan (4:03.29) finished seventh and Frahm of Virginia Tech touched in 12th overall, respectively. 1:46.98, followed by Rutgers' Jon Stinson 
With his second-place finish, Lutkus, a {1:47.90).freshman from Granger, broke the school Freshman Shomberger, despite missing record he set in the prelims. Lutkus also the majority of the season due to an elbow 
posted the highest individual finish for the injury, set a new school mark in the 200 Irish. backstroke prelims (1:49.54). In 100 butterfly. Krakowski set yet "Our freshman stepped up tremendous­
another record for the Irish. In one of the ly," said Welsh. "If you look across the field most exciting and close races of Friday in Saturday's championship finals, which evening, Krakowski finished seventh with was by far not our best night, nevertheless a fast time of 48.92. Dustin Rogers of it was mostly freshman and sophomores in 
UConn placed first (48.35) and Pedro Pinto the finals." of West Virginia (48.41). Senior Michael Grube of Pittsburgh won Junior Matt Obringer placed fifth in the his third 100 freestyle championship in a 200 free for the Irish in a record time of row, with a time of 44.18. For the Irish, 
1:38.49. Winner Kleyton Franca touched sophomore Krakowski finished seventh in 1:37.31 and second-place finisher {45.47) and Obringer was 12th (45.60). Marshal Livingstone followed in 1:37.52. 200 breaststroke winner RandyIn the 100 breaststroke, senior Jason Gertenbach of Pittsburgh set a new meet Fitzpatrick was third with a time of 55.35. record with his time of 1 :59.42, breakingWinner Kevin Furlong of Virginia Tech set the old mark of 1 :59.45. For the Irish, a new Big East record (53.54). Also for the David Moisan finished eighth (2:04.86),
Irish, Randolph came in ninth with a time Fitzpatrick was 11th (2:04.36), Tylerof 56.68. Teammates Josh Dermott (56.71) Grenda 13th, Josh Dermott 14th and and Tyler Grenda (57.16) finished 10th Lutkus finished 16th. the meet included new marks in the 200 weekend. The sophomore was a part of and 13th overall. Freshman Patrick Heffernan placed backstroke, 400 medley relay, 50 free, 200 both relay teams and as an individual 
Fitzpatrick's time was a new school eighth overall in the 200 butterfly freestyle relay, 400 IM, 100 butterfly and broke the previous marks in the 50 free record as well as a "B'' qualifying time for (1:51.66). Pittsburgh's Jason Miller won in 100 breaststroke. and 100 butterfly. the 2003 NCAA meet. 1:47.75. Also for the Irish, Lucas Wymore Coach Welsh praised the team's record­Despite the numerous new records and 
It was all about freshmen for the Irish in {11th), J.R. Teddy (12th) and Brian breaking efforts. the consistent performance of the Irish at the 100 backstroke. Bauman placed sixth Guarnier (13th) contributed to a strong "The team this year was very focused the meet, there was a feeling of unfinished with a time of 50.29, and fellow rookie effort. and did a good job in terms of perfor­business. Steve Shomberger was 15th {51.43). In the last event of the meet, the 400 mance and team building," he said. "The "It's a young team and we'll be back," Winner Steve Tozer of Virginia Tech freestyle relay, the Irish team of Randolph, ones [records] that we missed we missed said Welsh. "We know how hard it is to touched in 49.13, followed by teammate Krakowski, Fitzpatrick, and Obringer close. We only missed the 500 [free] by a move up and we will continue to work Chris Lindberg {49.25). placed fifth (3:01.91) in a close race. Pitt tenth [of a second]. 200 [free] by hun­hard towards that. We hope that it hap­
In diving action, Andy Maggio and Joe finished first with a time of 2:57.74, fol­dredths, and 200 back by hundredths." pens next year. We left something to be 
Miller qualified for the 3-meter finals. lowed by Virginia Tech (3:01.95), UConn Sophomore Frank Krakowski was a done." Maggio finished in third place with 494.80 (3:01.68), and St. John's (3:01.82). standout for Notre Dame, having a hand in points. Miller was eighth with a score of The Irish records that were set during four of the seven records set during the Contact Lisa Reiju1a at lreijula@nd.edu 



An invitation to study law at the _national university of the Catholic Church in America 
Located on a lovely, rrec-lincd campus in Washingron, D.C, minutes by metro from Capitol_ Hill and the Supreme Courr, The Catholic University of America school of law is capable ot raking full advantage of its ideal location in classroom insrrucrion, for faculty appointment and in!lucncc as well as student exrcrnship and placement. As a university law school wirh over a century of scholarly achievement, we understand law to be an exrension of man's search for knowledge of life's ultimate purpose, whether it he from philosophy, theology, policies o_r. the liheral arts and sciences. Uniquely clurtered and founded upon rhe Catholic inccllecrual tradmon, our faculrv and students arc not all of one faith, but are cnrirdy accepting of faith's importance co a well-~onceived professional and personal life. Here faith truly meets professional calling ~long wich an appreciation of jusricc, rruth, goodness and heaury. The law affects each, as does the simple bur inescapable fact tliar God is, as C. S. Lewis wrote. "the indwelling principle" of them all. Receiving more than eleven applications for eveiy spot, admission is competitive. \v'rite today for inlormarion: The Catholic University of America, School of Law, Office of Admissions, Washington, D.C. 20064 or aJmissions@law.edu. On the Internet: www.law.edu, 
¦ 
O,ttranks virtually all ocher leading law programs in the percentage of graduates pursuing government anJ public service; 

¦ 
Highly regarded specialry or insrirut.: programs in communicuions law, public policy, l.wv and religion, and compararivc and intcrnarional la,v; 

¦ 
Dedicated, enoaoing and scholarlv teachers; 


t, b .._ ' 

¦ A community where ideas matter :rnd the ethical prevails over the technical and persons over ching.';; 
, Median LSAT si.:ore near cop quarter of all Ltw srudcms nationally. Financial aid increased by 75 percent. 
THE CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY OF AMERICA 
Columbus School ofLaw 
the Huskies. The 60-year-old Connecticut coach was expected
Huskies 
to take three to four weeks to 
continued from page 24 recover from surgery to remove 
a cancerous prostate in early of JUice heading into February. Connecticut," Matt Carroll said But against St. John's Saturday. "With Big Monday, Saturday, to the deafening roar we'll be ready to go." of 10,000 fans, Calhoun led his 
Thomas called his fellow team to a 77 -69 victory just 16 sophomore Okafor "the bread days after undergoing surgery. and butter" of Connecticut's "We saw coach was there ­team, and for good reason. The the general's back -and it got two last year were widely con­us fired up and ready to go," sidered the best freshmen in the Gordon said after the game. Big East, and when Thomas Neither team had a significant won the award, Okafor made a amount of time to prepare sole-point of talking ly for to Thomas tonight's about it before match up.
"Ben Gordon is one ofthe
the two teams B o t h squared off in best guards in the Big squads fin­
the semifinals East, Okafor is one ofthe ished their of the g a m e s
best centers in the Big
Tournament. Saturday 
"He said to East. It's going to be a afternoon, me last year very difficult game... leaving a 
that I stole his little more rookie of the than 50 
Matt Carroll
year award," h o u r s Thomas joked. guard between "I think he had the conclu­a little chip on sion of his shoulder." Saturday's games and tonight's 
Although Okafor only scored 7 p.m. tip-off. seven points and grabbed 10 But Brey isn't concerned rebounds against the Irish last about the short turnaround, nor year, he averages 15.4 points, docs he think the relative ease 11 rebounds and 4. 7 blocks a with 'which the Irish beat the game. Hokies will take any sharpness 
Yet playing in Okafor's shad­away from the Irish. ow is his classmate Ben Gordon, "Our frame of mind is really who averages a team-high 20.4 good," he said. "We're loose, points a game. we're playing to win. 
··Ben Gordon is one of the best Sometimes we're a little too guards in the Big East, Okafor is fearless, jacking up shots to one of the best centers in the quick. But my gosh. that's a fine Big East," Carroll said. "It's line." going to be a very difficult game." 
Chances are it will also be an Contact Andrew Soukup at emotional one for Calhoun and asoukup@nd.edu 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 24, 2003 
, 
BENGAL BOUTS -165 POUNDS 
Dillon's aggressiveness pushes him paSt Rector in quarterfinals 
.' \ 


: l '' 
l 
I , l • f 
By LUKE BUSAM Sports Writer 
Junior captain Pat Dillon's aggressive right hand won a unanimous decision over Reid Rector. Dillon connected on a sd'tid right to earn his first standing eight-count of the match 15 seconds into 
· round one. Dillon was aggressive throughout the round and moved Rector around easily with his one­twos. Dillon ended the round with a nice one-two-one upstairs combo. 
In round two, Dillon con­nected well in several exchanges, but Rector was more aggressive and snuck several jabs in over Dillon's dropping right. In round three, Dillon promptly sent Rector to the corner with a one-two upstairs. Rector con­tinued to score, but Dillon used his strong right to lead throughout the third and earned a second standing eight-count 1:10 into the final round with two impres­sive right leads. 
Gough def. MIiiiron 
Charlie Gough will move on to face Dillon on Wednesday after referee Terry Johnson stopped the contest against Chris Milliron late in round three when Milliron fell to the mat after a charge by Gough that tangled him in the ropes. Shortly after the fall, time was stopped for the first time to clean the blood on Milliron. 
Milliron was cleaned three more times in the· second, but his hands remained fast, high, and accurate through­out the round. Milliron exchanged well, but Gough did break through and land­ed several shots to Milliron's head. 
With 22 seconds left in the third, Milliron was sent to the corner for the third time in the round and the seventh time in the match to clean the blood on his face. Gough was good in his aggressive one-two combos and moved Milliron to the corner early in the final round. Milliron fought well throughout the fight and the blood did not seem to greatly affect his boxing. 
Yost def. Bartels 
Mark Yost earned a split decision victory over Ross Bartels. Yost controlled the ring early in round one and sent Bartels to the corner with a good one-one-two. Yost was pushed to the cur­
.ner by Bartels and held there shortly after. Bartels was aggressive in round two and sent Yost to the ropes twice with his long jab. In round three, the fighters traded places in the corners and on the ropes and the close fight ended with both boxers lean­ing over the ropes and strug­gling to gain their balance. 
Fergus def. Foy 
Alex Fergus dominated Brian Foy in a match that was stopped 48 seconds into the second round. Fergus scored two standing eight­counts on Foy in round one, the first one after a hard right that sent Foy ·to the mat. Foy bent his head for­held the ring well in the sec­ward and made himself an ond round and forced the hes­easy target· for Fergus itant Foy to the edges of the throughout the match. Fergus ring. A RSC was called 48 seconds into that round as Fergus scored his third stand­ing eight-count of the match with a strong right hand to 

We designed our 
corporate ladder to make it easier to succeecJ. 
Foy's head. 
Contact Luke Busam at lbusam@nd.edu 

At Ernst & Young, you will be given the best tools to work with, such as the latest technology, information and resources. And our challenging, high-paced environment will stretch and grow your capabilities, increasing your opportunities for leadership all along the way. Step on. 
F()RTUNE·
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ 
TO WORK FOR~ 

Quality In Everything We Do 


•
--J., 


Monday, February 24, 2003 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Second-half offense helps the Irish overwhelm Hokies 

TIM KACMAMhe Observer Matt Carroll shoots against Pittsburgh earlier this year. He led the Irish to score 64 points In the second half against Virginia Tech on Saturday. 
Chad S. Sharon Member ofthe Notre Dame Community Faithful Friend Devoted Son Class of2006 Eternal rest grant unto him, 0 Lord, And may perpetual light shine upon him. May he rest in peace. Amen. Visitation with the Sharon F ami(v: Memorial Mass: Tuesday, February 25, 2003 Tuesday, February 25, 2003 4:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m. 5:15 p.m. Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart Basilica Sacred Heart Basilica lfyou wish to contribute to the Chad S. Sharon Memorial Fund please contact the Development Department at (574) 631-7164.  

ByANDREW SOUKUP Spons Writer 
The grin on Matt Carroll's 
face showed how happy he was 
to get a win. 
The red scratches stretching from his neck to his collarbone showed what he had to go through to get it. 
Carroll scored a team-high 25 points Saturday afternoon to lead the Irish past Virginia Tech 98-76 after Notre Dame led by just one point at the half. 
The turning point in the game, in Carroll's opinion, came early in a physical sec­ond-half. When he chased after a lose ball in front of the Notre Dame student section, Hokies guard Bryant Matthews violent­ly shoved the Irish senior into the cheerleaders, leaving him with a pair of marks on a his neck and a burning desire to get even. 
"I got a little angry. and it started coming out," he said. "I wanted to make them pay for 
it... He did, keying a second-half explosion that yielded 64 points -eight more than the Irish scored in the entire game against West Virginia Tuesday. Simply put, Notre Dame's sec­ond-half offense was unstop­pable. The Irish shot 71.9 per­cent from the field, including 
63.6 percent from behind the 3­point lin~. At times, the game resembled less a Big East con­
test and more like a Harlem 
Globetrotters exhibition. 
Irish guard Chris Thomas tied 
a season high with 13 assists to 
complement his 21 points and 
six rebounds. While he commit­
ted seven turnovers, Thomas 
often threw nifty passes 
between Hokie defenders to 
wide-open Notre Dame players 
under the basket. 
"That's how it's supposed to be," he said. "Everybody shared the ball really well and when we do that, we're going to be a heck of a team to beat." 
Notre Dame's second-half output paralleled the first five minutes of the game, when the Irish exploded to a 16-4 lead. But after a lethargic rest of the half, the Hokies had climbed back into the game and trailed 34-33. 
..We forced transition a little too much," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "We had it easy in the first four minutes, but once they adjusted and took some things away, we kept forcing it and probably shot some quick threes." 
But after a halftime talk where the Irish challenged themselves to play aggressively for the entire second half, the Irish started lighting up the Hokies. 
After Matthews -who also shoved Thomas to the ground twice and hit Miller hard enough to send him to the lock­er room for stitches -started getting physical, the Irish start­ed getting hot. \Vith Notre Dame leading 40-37, the Irish reeled off 20 of the game's next 27 points to blow the game wide open. 
Part of Notre Dame's spurt came from Torrian Jones, who scored 12 points in 31 minutes and. Jones, whom Carroll com­pared to the Energizer bunny. keyed the Irish on the defensive end but also scored a variety of points thanks to slashing drives. 
The final 10 minutes of the game quickly turned into a Notre Dame highlight reel. First Tom Timmermans, whose family was in town from the Netherlands, sliced through the line for an athletic tip-dunk. 
Then Carroll and Thomas started scoring at will from behind the arc. Miller, who fin­ished with 22 points, threw down a reverse dunk on a fast break. 
Even walk-on Dan Lustig got into the act with a 3-pointer in the game's final seconds. 
The blowout was a welcome change for the Irish, who have had seven of their last eight games decided by 10 points or fewer. 
"All the security guards and older people keep saying we need to stop taking it down to the wire," Thomas said. "They're getting scared." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 24, 2003 
HOCKEY 
t Winning streak extended to 4 as Irish sweep Lakers 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Sports Writer 

As has happened so often dur­ing the regular season. the Irish ran into stellar goaltending by their opponent. 
Only this time, it didn't matter. 
Notre Dame extended its win­ning streak to four and moved into a tie for fifth place in the CCHA with 3-2 and 6-3 wins over Lake Superior State Friday and Saturday, respectively. 

"It feels good to have turned things around over the last two weeks," said head coach Dave Poulin. "This was a big four­game stretch for us." 
The only. thing that prevented both games from being blowouts was stellar goaltending by the two Laker netminders. The Irish outshot their opponent 106-52 on the weekend. 
Coming into Friday's game, the Irish were on a tear, having beaten Bowling Green on the road the weekend before, with both games ending in 3-2 scores. 
At home on Friday, the Irish once again managed a 3-2 result. 
Defenseman Brett Lebda put the Irish ahead about midway through the first period after a nice give-and-go play with senior forward Michael Chin. 
The Irish outshot the Lakers 19-4 in the first period, but were unable to get any more goals past sophomore goalie Matt Violin. 
The second period was a dif­ferent story, as forward Cory McLean beat Violin just less than four minutes into the peri• od with a nifty move. 
McLean faked left to draw a Laker defenseman and goad Violin out of the net. He then quickly shifted to the right and just managed to slide the puck behind Violin. 
The game remained 2-0 until the third period, when freshman forward Mike Walsh gave the Irish some extra insurance two
,-. :·, } I 
minutes into the period. 
) 
Kyle Dolder and Tim Wallace each attempted shots that Violin was able to stop. but the puck 
I ' 
squirted away from the Laker goalie to Walsh, who buried the puck for his first goal of the sea-in the second period. when Connor Dunlop put home a rebound of a Rob Globke shot. 
Seven minutes later, freshman Matt Amado gave Notre Dame its first lead of the game. Again it was off a rebound as Denike stopped Neil Komadoski's bid but gave the puck to Amado, who flipped it home. 
A minute later, the Lakers tied the game at two on the power play as Fauci got his second goal from the blue line that managed to elude a screened Cey. 
The Irish answered with a power-play tally with about five minutes remaining in the period with a freshman-to-senior com­bination. 
Amado took the puck to the right circle and made a gor­geous pass across the crease to senior forward John Wroblewski, who beat Denike as the goalie tried to move over to the left. 
Once more the lead was short­lived as the Lakers came back to tie it two minutes later after a costly Irish turnover led to a goal by defenseman Kory Scoran. 
Connor Dunlop managed to regain the lead for the Irish before the end of the high-scor­ing second, as he once more scored a rebound goal on Denike with about two minutes left in the period. 
The Irish blew the game open in the third with a goal by defenseman Brett Lebda with six minutes left in the game. 
After the Lakers pulled Denike with two minutes or so remain­ing, Chin iced the win for the Irish with an empty net goal. 
Dunlop, who assisted on Chin's tally, was the game's first star with a four-point night. 
"It was personally nice, but more than that it was good to get that fourth win in a row," Dunlop said. "I don't think I did anything different tonight, it's just that sometimes you get the bounces." 
Dunlop was the leading scorer for the Irish last season, but came into the game as only the third-leading scorer on this year's team. 
"[Scoring] is something I expect out of myself," he said. 
Just 54 seconds later, the
~­
Lakers got on the board with a I goal from forward Adrian Kremblewski. 
"After the goal that put us up 1 3-0. I thought there might have been a bit of a lapse," Poulin I said. "They got a little momen~ tum as well." 
The Lakers were able to ride I that momentum for one more goal. with Kyle Anderson scor­ing about the six-minute mark, I but the Irish were able to hold on for the win. 
I 


The Irish outshot the Lakers 50-21 for the game, but Violin 
,-onday, Feb. 24th 
kept the visitors in the game I M until the very end. Saturday, the Irish didn't have to deal with Violin. Laker head I W 
ear your silver ribbon all
coach Frank Anzalone decided instead to start sophomore I we
ek. Ribbons available at

Terry Denike in net. Denike was stellar in the first 
the Center for Social 

period, stopping all 19 Irish I shots he faced. 
Concerns front desk. 

The Lakers got on the board first, with a goal from defense-I man Ren Fauci from the blue 
\Vww.nd.edu/----bbuddies
line past Irish goaltender Morgan Cey for a 1-0 lead about I six minutes into the game. 
The Irish finally got their II 
answer and solved Denike early .L ------­"As long as I chip in and do what I can that's .the best way for me to help the team." 
The win puts the Irish in a tie for fifth place in the conference with Northern Michigan, one point ahead of seventh-place Miami. The Irish face Northern Michigan in a home-and-home series to end the season. 
"It feels good [to be in fifth place]." said Poulin. "The team realizes that the goal is still ahead of us." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

SARAH LA THROPfThe Observer Right Wing Rob Globke moves down the Ice as his team looks on. The Irish won both games against Lake Superior State on Friday and Saturday. 


t 
.. 

Notre Dame 
DISABILITY AWARENESS WEEK 


Tuesday, Feb. 25th 
February 24-27, 2003 
Life After College 
Students with Special Needs Discussion 
8p.m. LaFortune Notre Dame Room All invited. 
Wednesday,Feb. 26th 
Panel Discussion 

Experiences with Special Needs: Students, Parents, Children, Siblings, Adults. 
7p.n1. Center for Social Concerns Classroom 

-_ --_ -_ ­
Hold on tight..you're in for a wild night!H 
Happy 21 st Katie Rileyl 
Love, The Girls 
Thursday, Feb. 27th 

Keynote Speaker, 
Girard Sagmiller, Author of Dyslexia, My Life 
Discover how you can help someone with a Learning Disability. 7p.rn. DeBartolo Hall Room l O l Free Admission. 
I I I I I I I I I I I I 
J 
, 


Monday, February 24, 2003 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN AH -HA. : ·.,":
H£)'!I OCN 'T NEED 
WOW~LCOk::.IA 

Ol·H•-t'/ qosH ­
e,1 PDLAR wt:A " '-'•
AROe,t N!fi'5
PAffDV\L Sf'ROOT!

A COA"f OUT lODA'/ ! 
s of .sc:~.nt\ BE:N
-:C11LL0!.-00H IN 

SPRI~~ YA'I! 
~ \
f-.)0 '11 t--1 ~! 

HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 
I 
boom tss tss tss w-w-wikky wah wah boom tss tss tss 
Time to beatbox, 
Hey guys. 

wikky wah wikky wah
Lay it down. 

tsk~mboom \

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

JJ 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LEEPO 

I 
[J 

can do it
02003 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Thev're .:'.f,........ winning
PUPER 
-14


( J I 
~ -z 
WHAT THE: SPEC­TATOR DID WHE:N THE: RACING 
SC.UL-LS
tBUHLEM 
APPROACHED. 
www.iurrble.oom

t
GETRUD j Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.

J I r [J 


A: '"[ I I I X I ]'' FOR [ I X X J > 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: OWING VYING FLUNKY RADIAL Saturday's Answer·. 
How he took the count of ten -LYING DOWN 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 39 Restaurant 62 Well-worn chain acronym
1 Health resorts 65 German ·a· 40 Immediately,
5 TV series with 66 Art stand 
after ·at" Hawkeye and 67 Fiction teller Hot Lips 41 Job title (giving 68 R&B/jazza hint to this9 Aspirin maker singer James puzzle's theme) 14 N.Y.S.E. listing 69 Beach souvenir42 Gooey ground 15 Nabisco cookie 70 Stately trees43 Hearty drink 16 Miss Doolittle of made with 71 Work station"My Fair Lady" 

honey 17 Large section in 
44 Center of a 

an atlas DOWN
Christmas 18 Thumbtack, display 1 Rip-otts British-style 
45 Hearty steak 2 Put 20 Error 
46 Flowering shrub 3 Get up 22 Office message 
4 Seattle 23 Drunkard landmark 
48 Water at the 

mouth 24 Church bell spot 5 Catwalk walkers 
50 One-named 26 Fall in scattered Irish singer 6 The "A" m drops, as rain E.T.A.: Abbr.
52 Avenues 28 Boot camp reply 56 "What's the 7 Line made by a 41-Across
30 Not on the road ?" 8 Inventor Elias
34 Sheets and 59 Reps.' foes Puult by Gregory E. Paul
and otherspillowcases 
61 Bluesman 32 Time starting at 38 Lecherous 54 Salon jobs
9 Marathon
37 Sandwich shop Wolf dawn looks 
runner Joan 55 _preview 33 Fencing rapier 41 Stuck around 
10 High school 56 Tableland tribe
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
math: Abbr. 45 Bull in a bullnng 

34 _ Linda, 
57 Iranian "king" 11 Puppy sounds Calif. 47 Ultimate 
58 Scots Gaelic purpose12 Operatic singer 35 "II Trovatore" 
Pmza soprano 49 Additional ones 60 Flying jib, e.g. 
13 Long, angry 51 Walk 63 Electric fish
36 Interscholastic

complaint 
sports org. 53 Best of the best 64 Hit head-on 19 Damage 
21 Atop For answers. call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 25 Duck down? 
credit card. 1 ·800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
27 Wh1te-f!owered 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
plant Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
29 Marry again 
past puzzles. nyt1mes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learn,ng Network, home nyt1mes.com1learnrng/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Helen Shaver, Paula Zahn, Barry Bostwick, Edward James Olmos Happy Birthday: Stay alert and intent on following through with your plans this year. Don't second-guess your abilities or your choices. The more prepared you are, the more confident you will feel. Your numbers are 3, 18, 22, 28, 31,35 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You'll be in a good mood and ready to take on whatever comes your way. This can be a day of reawakening if you are open to what others have to share with you. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't give in to unreasonable demands. Instead suggest what can be done to resolve such circumstances. Be sure to get enough 
rest.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20); You can thoroughly enjoy yourself today if you 
pursue knowledge. You are likely to meet someone special through those you befriend while on your quest for infonnation. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get to know the people around you a little bit 
better. Offer your services or help and you will open the doors to long-lasting 
friendships. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Offer your knowledge and experience and you will be praised for what you know. You will enjoy games that are challenging and competitive, so don't hesitate to take part. ***** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Being proactive will help you get through the turmoil that you face today. Don't let anyone push you around or take you for granted. _Make the decisions that are best for you. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Talk to someone who can give you information about your family background. This information may help you discover vital facts regarding your physical or mental health. It's not as bad as you think. 
**** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may not be all that happy about your current work situation, but all sorts of opportunities are waiting for you. Don'I worry about money. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be a little on edge tcxlay. Make sufficient plans to keep busy, or prepare to deal with the problems once and for 
d.** • 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Be careful not to say things out of context. Be as precise and up-front as possible about your intentions without revealing your secrets. **** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Interaction will be the key to knowledge, friendship and all sorts of interesting entertainment. You will enjoy intellectual banter with like-minded people. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Form a solid base with people who think the way you do. It won't be easy to fight issues that you disagrl!e with by yourself. Today can be an extremely difficult day emotionally if you try to discuss the problems that have been bothering you. ** Birthday Baby: You will be inqt1isitive, intuitive and intelligent. You will have the qualities needed to become a leader and will be admired by most. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address ____________________ 
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 
> 


Monday, February 24, 2003 

---------------------------------,, 
ND SWIMMING & DIVING 
I I 
Lucky 7 
. Women claim . Men finish in 7th straight Big 4th, break many East title school records 
By PAT LEONARD By LISA REIJUlA 
Sports Writer · Sports Writer 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. 
UNIONDALE, N.Y.
"How many times have you 
At the 2003 Big East won Big East?" 
Championships, the Notre DameEach swimmer and diver wears mens swimming and diving teamthe green shlrt with navy blue let­turned in a solid fourth-place fin­ters that asks this question. And ish. The Irish scored 462.50 total each member of the Irish squad 
points, and shattered seven
would be glad to answer that school records over the course ofquestion. 
the three-day event. 
Seven. Seven in a row. 
Pittsburgh's victory (708 points) Friday saw Notre Dame score gave them their seventh title in ahigh in numerous events, includ­row. Virginia Tech (555) finally ing victories in the 400 IM and pulled ahead of Rutgers (538.50) 
the 1-meter diving. Heading into to earn second place. St. John'sSaturday, Notre Dame led sec­(348} placed fifth, followed byond-place Rutgers at the Nassau West Virginia (281). UConn (265),Aquatic Center, 501-428. 
Syracuse (199). and Seton HallThe Scarlet Knights accepted (168). Rounding out the field oftheir challenge, taking second in 12 was Villanova (94). Bostonthe 1650 freestyle, first in the 200 College (66) and Miami (40). 
backstroke and second in the 100 "From an objective point offreestyle. Still, the Irish were too view, we swam faster this year,much on the final day of competi­scored more points than in thetion, with 16 swimmers scoring past few years, and were closer to Rutgers' 11. Notre Dame won to first place," said Irish head

its seventh consecutive Big East see SEVEN/page 18 see FOURTH/page 19 

ND TRACK & FIELD 

Men win first Big East crown 
. Women finish second, men rule 3,000-meter race to claim title 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
I 
Led by three high finishers in the 3,000 meters, the Irish mens track and field team won its first Big East indoor championship on Sunday. while the womens team fin­ished second to Miami. 
After trailing Connecticut by five points following the first day, the men found themselves behind Georgetown by five with four events to go. However in the 3,000 meters, the Irish had three runners finish in the top four. with Luke Watson, Tim Moore and John Keane placing second, third and fourth, respectively. Those finishes were worth 19 points for the Irish. The Irish were able to hold off Connecticut and Washington in the last three events. 

In addition to his second­place finish in the 3,000, Watson also won the mile in 
4:12.85. Moore and Keane placed first and third, respectively, in the 5,000 meters 
Selim Nurudeen finished second in the 60-meter hur­dles, falling only .03 seconds short of the title. 
The womens team had three individual Big East champions as Jaime Volkmer, Lauren King and Tameisha King posted indi­vidual wins, leading the Irish to a second-place finish. 
Volkmer won the pole vault with a new career best and Big East meet record of 4.00 meters. Lauren King won the mile by over five seconds in an NCAA-qualifying time of 
4:46.90. Tameisha King won her first individual Big East title in the 60-meter hurdles, beating Miami's Sharianne Lawson by .01 seconds. Tameisha King had previous­ly been on two Big East Championship 4xl 00 meter relay teams. 
The womens distance med­ley team of Lauren King, Tricia Floyd, Megan Johnson and Molly Huddle set a Big East meet record in winning in 11:24.45 
Other impressive perfor­mances for the women included Huddle's second­place finish in the 3,000 meters and Kymia Love's NCAA-qualifying time in the 400-meter dash. Her time of 
54.79 seconds was only .02 seconds out of first. Love also finished fourth in the 60­meter dash. Emily Loomis placed second and qualified for the NCAA Championships in the high jump with a sea­son best of 1.79 meters. 
Other top scorers for the mens Big East Championship Team were Kevin Somok in the 1,000 meters, Chris Staron and Ryan Mineburg in the high jump and Ryan Hurd in the 200-meter dash. 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
MENS BASKETBALL 
National spotlight on Joyce tonight 
. Irish put home winning streak on the line against Okafor and Huskies 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Sitting in the locker room minutes after wrapping up a blowout victory against Virginia Tech, the Irish couldn't help but talk about tonight's marquee matchup against Connecticut. 
And for good reason, too. The storylines surrounding tonight's nationally televised game at the Joyce Center are limitless. 
There's the story of Husky coach Jim Calhoun. who will be coaching just his second game tonight since he took a little more than two weeks off to recover from prostate cancer surgery. 
There's the tale of how the 
Huskies, winners of four of the last seven Big East Tournaments. beat the Irish in the semifinals last year. 
There's the matchup of prolif­ic sophomores -Notre Dame's Chris Thomas and Connecticut's Emeka Okafor -who finished 1-2 in last year's Big East Rookie of the Year voting. 
There's Notre Dame's unde­feated home record this season and the fact that the Irish haven't lost in the Joyce Center in 372 days. 
But most importantly for both teams, there's the pivotal role tonight's game will play in the race for regular season Big East titles. 
Fresh off the heels of a 98-76 blowout of Virginia Tech Saturday. the No. 12 Irish (21-5 overall, 9-3 in the Big East) are ready to take on Connecticut (17-6, 8-4) tonight. 
"This game gives us a little bit 
see HUSKIES/page 19 


WOMENS BwBALL 
MENS BASKETBALL 
BENGAL BOUTS 
HOCKEY 

Check out results from Sunday's
Connecticut 75 
Friday:
Notre Dame 98 

·Notre Dame 58 
quarterfinals.
Virginia Tech 76 
Notre Dame 3 

After being tied with the Huskies 
Lake Superior St. 2

After once again giving up a huge 
late in the first half, the Irish fizzled 
· lead, the Irish explode in the second 
150-160 pounds: page 14
in the second half. The Huskies now 
half, scoring 64 points and shooting 
Saturday: 

i: 
have won their 65th consecutive 
Notre Dame 6

over 70 percent from the floor, to put 
heavyweights: page 15
'', 
game. 
Lake Superior St. 3
away the Hokies. 

125•145 pounds: page 17 
page 18 

page 21 
165 pounds: page 20 
page 22 





