y 
··~ 
,,.,.; .... ,. ' 
/ '~'/ f# ./I'_I 1 '.r .-t' • • _f ; / i _ J _,. ' ,
··-.'-"'-,'.'-11.---',·.­

;, . 

OLUME 38: ISSUE 14 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2003 -NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
A model for the world " ' 
Nobel laureate says South Africa peace process can be a 'beacon of hope' 
Tutu was the keynote speaker for boundaries ofhis native land. 
By MEGHAN MARTIN the Kroc Institute for International He said that the experience of 

Associate News Editor 

Peace Studies' "Peacebuilding After South Africa can be a model for the Peace Accords" conference, the cul­rest of the world. 
On a day when Americans . 
mination of a three-year initiative "God takes this unlikely, totally ! . 
remember only fear, he spoke of :.,,
by the Institute's Research Initiative unexpected lot -God says, 'Yes,hope. 
on the Resolution of Ethnic Conflict they can be -they will be a beacon At a time when revenge is often that examined the issue of building of hope,"' he said. "Ifit can happen seen as the only solution, he spoke lasting peace in the aftermath of in South Africa, it can happen any­of peace. 
political and civil unrest. where." 
Archbishop Emeritus Desmond The audience, which numbered South Africa's break from Mpilo Tutu addressed a crowd yes­in the hundreds, assembled to hear apartheid and the Afrikaner regime terday that spilled out the doors of the 1984 Nobel Peace Prize winner that sustained it was officially final­McKenna Hall and across the quad present a lecture entitled "The ized in 1994 when, in a free elec­into DeBartolo, where students, 

Struggle for Social Justice in Post­tion, the nation elected its first faculty and community members CARRIE PETERS/The Observer 
Apartheid South Africa," but Tutu's watched on a closed-circuit televi­message reached far beyond the Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu speaks Thursday as part of 
see TUTU/page 8 

sion system. a conference sponsored by the Kroc Institute. 

Campus gears up for Michigan game 
Students hit the road 

for game 
By ANDREW THAGARD Assistant News Editor 

Excited about this football season's most hyped away game and lured by talk of tail­I I gates, students are packing I their bags and hitting the road
L 
for Saturday's match-up between Notre Dame and the 
Michigan Wolverines. 
The official fun starts Friday 
CHIP MARKSfThe Observer 

afternoon at the Courthouse The Irish Guard takes the field along with the band before last weekend's game. The entire Square Apartment complex. band will play at this weekend's game, but not everyone has a seat inside. 
The Alumni Association has rented out the second floor ballroom of the former hotel to hold a pep rally and evening 



Michigan limits Irish band space
gathering where popular Irish foods will be available, accord­band members and associat­according to an e-mail sent
By ANDREW THAGARD
ing to Chuck Lennon, the presi­ed support staff. Thursday to band members. 
Assistant News Editor 
dent of the Alumni Association. The decision, made by the "In order to have only the The organization is also spon­University of Michigan allotted number of people in
It's nicknamed "The Big
soring a tailgate Saturday Athletic Department, means the stadium [350], we are
House" and boasts a seating
before the game at the that 50 members of the asking for two volunteers
capacity of over 107,500.
University of Michigan Golf. band will be forced to watch from each section to sit out
But Thursday morning,
Course. Students, Lennon said, the game outside and enter both halves, or four volun­
the Notre Dame Marching
are always welcome. the stadium for pre-game. teers from each section to
Band learned that Michigan 
and post-game activities sit out one half," the e-mail
Stadium wasn't big enough 
and the half-time show, 
see GAME/page 6_ to accommodate all the see BAND/page 6 

Storage units hit by thieves 
Wilcomb returned to South not be opened with her key.
By ANNIE BASINSKI 
Bend Aug. 26 and was After several attempts, she 
News Writer 
shocked to find everything contacted a worker at the she had left in storage miss­storage company who Several Notre Dame and 
ing. Now, two weeks into the informed her of recent break­
Saint Mary's students 
school year, Wilcomb is still ins and that "someone might
returned to campus this year 
working to settle into her have cut off the lock and put
to find their storage units at dorm room -a task that is a new one on." 
Mini Storage Depot and 
behind most students. The worker proceeded to 
Airport Mini Storage were 
Wilcomb, who rented a unit saw off the lock and open the 
robbed -and many incurred

STEPHANIE GRAMMENSIThe Observer from Mini Storage Depot on unit, which was found empty
damages in the thousands of
Saint Mary's junior Lora Grape Road, noticed that the aside from a $10 bookshelf 
dollars.
Wilcomb had to replace many lock on her storage unit 
Saint Mary's junior Lora
of her things after the break-in. looked unfamiliar and eould see STORAGE/page 4 
By ANN LOUGHERY News Writer 
Members of Navy, Army and 
Air Force ROTC gathered 
Thursday morning outside 
Pasquerilla Center to reflect on 
the Sept. 11 attacks and to 
honor those who died with a 
military memorial service. 
This year's service was spear­
headed by the Navy ROTC and 
included a few words from a 
Marine colonel, a benediction 
given by chaplain Fr. Peter 
Rocca, a moment of silence and 
the traditional playing of 
"Taps." 
As the second anniversary of the terrorist. attacks approached, the ROTC brass addressed concerns that the historical importance of Sept. 11 might fade over time. "One of the reasons [for the ceremo­ny] is to try. to keep the memory alive," said Marine Maj. Mark Lyon. 
Capt. James Shelton, com­mander of the Navy ROTC bat­

' ' 
talion, agreed and said "We're remembering the event that touched off a war." 
Shelton recalled explaining to his son the magnitude of the sit­uation and telling him he thought it would be unlike any war the country has seen before. 
While Shelton emphasized the importance of remembering the attacks, he offered hope that the world will eventually close that dark chapter of history. 
"Fifty years from now, if we forget, maybe it's a good thing if it means we won," he said. 
Several thought Col. Regan's speech was inspriring because of the way he linked the past with the future to explain what the ROTC cadets may once be called to do. 
"He urged us to respect their sacrifice and reminded us why 
see ROTC/page 6 


page 2 Friday, September 12, 2003
The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Hail to the ... Irish 
At the age of nine, I fell passion­ately in love with Tyrone. Not Willingham -Wheatley. The hero­worshipping crushes of my preteen and teen years also included Brian Griese, Charles 
Woodson and a distinguished older man named Lloyd Carr. 
That's right, faithful worship­pers of the sacred religion that is Notre 


Dame football, I Claire Heiningerhave a sin to con­fess -I grew up a Michigan fan. 
Production
Before you start throwing things in the direction of Howard Hall, hear me out. 
My baptism as a Wolverine was too unconscious to be considered a choice. We moved to Ann Arbor when I was in kindergarten, and by seventh grade my neighborhood practically had the Big House in its backyard. 
Like any college town worthy of the label, Ann Arbor's identity is intrinsically tied up with that of its football team. This obsession extends to all residents, from the maize-and-blue-sweater-knitting senior alumnae to the influx of laUe­drinking East Coast students that inhabit the university's downtown campus for eight months out of the year. 
I was an Ann Arbor resident. I was a football fan. I was hooked. 
So I cringed with the town when that eyesore of a yellow plastic "halo" replaced the classic brick surrounding the rim of the stadium, and rejoiced a year later when the garish letters were taken down, one by one. I held my breath in the stands at Miami's Pro Player Stadium as I stood next to my face­painted, shouting superfan little brother and watched the Alabama kicker wide-right us the 2000 Orange Bowl. 
And I smiled when I was accepted into the University of Michigan class of 2006 -my backup school was in place. 
Tomorrow, almost two years later, 90 of my high school classmates and their peers will pack the Big House and cheer on the team that they, and I, grew up loving. ESPN's Lee Corso will predict a Michigan victory, like he always does. The winged helmets will take the field to spurts of applause from a largely subdued and seated audience, like they always do. 
Meanwhile, I will stand and scream my obnoxious little Domer heart out in a mini-sea of green, savoring the combination of my two worlds. After experiencing the Return to Glory, the tailgates, the pep rallies, and the Irish jig for all of last season, my childhood memories, while still special, have nothing on my new favorite Tyrone. They say you can't go home again. Let's see them try to stop me. 
Contact Claire Heininger at chein­ing@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to inaccurate information provided to The Observer, Thursday's article K9/ll memorial con­struction appears unlikely" incorrectly states that the Clarke Memorial is for those who died in the Vietnam War. The memorial also is in honor of those who died in the Korean War and World War II. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR PREDICTION FOR THE FOOTBALL GAME THIS WEEKEND? 



Beth Vlscegtia Brian Chamberlain Margaret Kulwicki Kefta Miyamura Erin Daly Dan Sushlnsky 
Howard  Morrissey  Welsh  
Freshman  Freshman  Senior  
..Stronger  "Oh. we're  "45-IO  
beginning.  gonna kill·em...  Michigan...  
Same finish.··  

Alumni  Welsh  St. Ed's  
Freshman  Senior  Senior  
"It's gonna be  "48-ro. Notre  ..It's gonna be a  

5-3, Notre Dame.·· 


TIM KACMAR!The Observer 

Members of the Notre Dame community pray the rosary at the Grotto Thursday In honor of the Sept. 11 attacks. This was just one of several memorial events at Notre Dame Thursday. Others Included Mass at the Basilica and a ROTC memorial service. 
OFFBEAT 
and a $1,000 fine if convict­ed. 
McKinley, a 25-year-old shipping clerk at a New York warehouse, journeyed overnight about 1,500 miles by truck, plane and delivery van before startling his par­ents by popping out of the box at their home Saturday. 
McKinley's escapade occurred as Americans pre­pared to mark the second anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, and it renewed debate over the air cargo system's vulnerability to terrorists. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Robbers foil themselves 
MISHAWAKA, Ind. -Two would-be robbers left an Indiana convenience store empty-handed after getting into an argument about the contents of a note they handed to the clerk. 
The two men entered the 7-Eleven store in Mishawaka, just east of South Bend, early Tuesday morning. 
They left the store and came back a few minutes later. One of them handed the clerk a note saying, in part, "put it in the bag." 
When the clerk said she didn't understand what that meant, the man who hand­ed her the note said he did­n't know either because his buddy wrote it. 
The two men began to argue and left the store. They are still at large. 
Man charged for shipping himself as cargo 
DALLAS -Federal pros­ecutors filed criminal charges Wednesday against a man who climbed into a crate and had himself shipped by air from New York to Dallas to visit his parents. 
Charles McKinley was charged with stowing away on a cargo jet. He could face up to a year in prison 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 0::: 
LLI 
:::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
...I 
c( 


•
(.) 


..... 0 HIGH 85 HIGH 68 LOW 72 LOW 43 

HIGH LOW 


78 60 

Dame." lot to not-so­
h ••
muc . 
IN BRIEF 
The Laughing Irish will per­form at Washington Hall Friday at 7:30 p.m. The group is composed of stand-up come­dians and Notre Dame gradu­ates Jimmy Brogan, Owen Smith and John Garrett. Tickets for the performance are $5. 
Slaine Mhath, an Irish band, will perform Friday at Legends between 9 and 11 
p.m. Admission is free. 
Lewis Hall is sponsoring an outdoor movie Saturday at 9 
p.m. on North Quad. The movie that will be shown is Ferris Dueller's Day Off. 
The men's soccer team will play Fresno State Friday at 5 
p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Dirk Moses, will discuss The Holocaust and genocide Friday at C1 02 Hesburgh Center from 12:30 to 2 p.m. The discussion is sponsored by the department of political sci­ence. 
The Snite Museum of Art will present essays from 19 members of the Notre Dame faculty wrote on portraits from the Snite's permanent collec­tion. The essays will be on dis­play all day at the Snite Sunday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


68 38 

HIGH LOW 


Friday, September 12, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS page 3 

Sheridan continues research program with grant 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
Susan Sheridan, associate professor of anthropology at the University, continued her summer research on bones found at the Ecole Biblique et Archeologique, a Dominican monastery in Jerusalem. 
Made possible by a grant from the National Science Foundation, the NSF Summer Fellowship in Biocultural Anthropology allows Sheridan to choose 10 students from uni­versities around the country to participate in a six-week active field research project and receive college credits, full Fellowship scholarships and hands-on experience. 
In existence since 2000, the summer research project has studied over 15,000 bones dat­ing between the· 5th and 7th centuries A.D., collected from the former St.· Stephens monastery (now the Ecole Biblique et Archeologique) in Jerusalem. Former projects have included the study of chil­dren found buried in the tombs, and research last summer was concerned with ancient disease reconstruction. 
Because the funding prohibit­ed study in the volatile city of Jerusalem, Sheridan and her colleagues bring portions of the collection back to Notre Dame each summer. Graduates of the program frequently present posters or make presentations at conferences, and some have 
published work in scholarly journals. 
Anne Holden, a 2003 gradu­ate of the University of Missouri-Columbia, participat­ed in the research project two summers ago. She presented study findings at meetings of the American Association of Physical Anthropologists last year and has received a Gates Cambridge Scholarship to work on her Ph.D. in biocultural anthropology at Cambridge University. Holden said the summer fellowship project was invaluable. 
"Enrolling in the Byzantine St. Stephens summer program helped me immensely when applying to Cambridge and to the scholarship that is provid­ing my Ph.D. funding," she said. "Dr. Sheridan was an amazing teacher and mentor ... [who] along with Dr. Robert Haak and teaching assistant Jaime Ullinger, pushed the entire group to create the best possible work we could. I am deeply indeed to Dr. Sheridan fo.r allowing me to participate in this program." 
Sheridan's work, along with that of Notre Dame colleagues Mark Schurr, associate profes­sor of anthropology, and Eugene Ulrich, John A. O'Brien professor of Hebrew Scriptures, was featured in a Discovery Channel documentary that aired in January of 2002. 
The Byzantine St. Stephen's project was a product of her work abroad. While lecturing in Jerusalem in 1994, Sheridan, at the suggestion of Ulrich and colleague James VanderKam, visited the former Saint Stephen's monastery and learned of the underground tombs once used by monks. 
Members of the monastery asked if she would be interest­ed in exhuming the remains for research purposes, and she agreed. She estimates that 129 students have since worked on the Byzantium Bones project. 
"Students have been involved with the project since we began excavating the tombs in Jerusalem in 1995," she said. 
In addition to her work with the Byzantium bones, Sheridan, along with students, has also conducted research on bones from the ancient near east Qumran community. 
''It turns out the Ecole Biblique was the host institu­tion for the original excavations at Qumran in the 1950s. I'd been working on the Byzantine collection at the Ecole for about seven years when the Qumran bones were rediscovered as the Archaeology laboratories were being relocated," Sheridan said. 
Biblical scholars have linked the Dead Sea Scrolls with the Qumran community, and Sheridan's research in this area has connected her with VanderKam and Ulrich, leading experts on the scrolls. Both professors speak highly of Sheridan and her work. 
"I have great respect for Sheridan's professional work," VanderKam said. "She has now subjected a set of the bones from Qumran to the appropriate scientific tests and has for the first time been able to draw disciplined conclusions about them. She is a wonder­ful. energetic scholar who has involved students in her work: she is also a delightful person -who throws a mean party ­a real boon to Notre Dame and also to Dead Sea Scrolls research," he said. 

Angela Kim Harkins, who completed her doctorate in the­ology at Notre Dame this sum­mer, worked with Sheridan on researching the Dead Sea Scrolls. Kim Harkins studied at Hebrew University in Jerusalem from 1997 to 1998, where she "stumbled across [Sheridan's] work on the St. Stephen's Crypt." She said that the project sounding intriguing to her, so she volunteered her help. 
"I volunteered for the Byzantine Bone Project while I was in Jerusalem that year mostly because it was a fasci­nating project that brought so many different fields that were new to me. Dr. Sheridan was a great teacher, and I learned so much about what is involved in creating a biocultural recon­struction of monastic life," she said. 
Contact Joe TrombeUo at jtrombel@nd.edu 

LONDON SUMM.ER .P.R.OGRA.MME 
INFORMATION SESS~IO:N· FOR 2004 & 2005 
FO.R THOSE WANTING INFORMATION AND FOR THOSE ALREADY ACCEPTED FOR 2004 
TU.ES.DA.Y, SEPTEMBER~ 16,2003 DRo·p IN BETWEEN 7:00-8:00P.M. 
1.36 .D.E.BARTOLO ILt\LL 
LONDON SUMMER PROGRAMME RUNS .FROM MI.D-MAY TO MID-.JUNE 
Friday, September 12, 2003 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Conway to visit Saint Mary's 
By ASHLEY DYER 
News Writer 

Author and historian Jill Ker Conway will visit the Saint Mary's campus later this month as a part of the Michiana Museum Consortium's "Examining Identity" series of cultural events. 
The lecture that Conway is slated to present, entitled "Seeking Identity in the Western Culture," is based on her work of exploring identity through history and reflective writing. 
The event, a collaborative effort of the Consortium and Saint Mary's Center for 

Storage 
continued from page 1 
and fan. 

The worker immediately went to her office and called police. 
"The most upsetting part was that I had made a bul­letin board of pictures I had taken while studying in Rome," Wilcomb said. "I had put all this time into making it and it's so sad I don't have that anymore." 
Photos of Wilcomb's high school friends were also miss­ing, along with an estimated $3,800 worth of belongings. Items missing included a computer, TV, bedding, all of her winter clothes and vari­ous dorm room commodities. 
After police arrived at the scene; Wilcomb filed a report and noticed the storage work­er did not appear to be con­cerned. 
"When I talked with the woman who works at Mini Depot, she told me there have been employees in the past who have broken into storage units and stolen things, but they have since been fired," Wilcomb said. 
The woman who Wilcomb spoke with that day was unavailable for comment. 
Melissa, an employee at the storage facility who declined to provide her last name, said, "When a [storage] lease is signed, renters sign a waiv­er stating that they are responsible for providing their own insurance. and are liable for the items stored in their unit." 
A fence surrounds the units at the Mini Storage Depot and it requires an access code to open. Several security cam­eras also monitor the. premis­es. 
Women's InterCultural Leadership, its Center for Academic innovation and the College's Humanistic Studies Program, will be preceded by a number of preparatory exer­cises led by members of the Saint Mary's faculty. 
Humanistic Studies profes­sor John Shinners will give a presentation Friday on Conway's study of the connec­tion between education and identity. He said his discussion will address the manner in which education shapes assumptions of the world and how the oppression of women can be countered. 
"[Conway] is a remarkable example on one concerned with identity through the course of her life." he said. 
Conway was born in New South Wales, Australia. She graduated from the University of Sydney in 1958 and received her Ph.D. from Harvard a year later. She spe­cializes in contextualizing women's experiences in America in relation to Canada and Australia, and has written several books emphasizing identity such as "The Road from Coorain." 
Conway's presentation will be held Sept. 25 at 7:30 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The event is free and open to the public. 
Contact Ashley Dyer at dyer 1865@saintmarys.edu 

Liesl Yost, another Saint school to find that their stor­Mary's junior who stored her age unit at the Airport Mini belongings at Mini Storage Storage on Mayflower Road Depot this summer, said these had been broken into. Kilway security measures were not estimated that $5,000 worth sufficient. of possessions was missing, 
"Someone could have easily including two computers, 
come  in  from  three monitors, a  
behind  the  VCR,  a  Sega  
facility hopped fence,"  and the Yost  "They basically told me 'Tough  Dreamcast. video games and CDs. Kilway and the  
said. Yost's storage unit was also broken into and  luck. you should have gotten insurance on it. ·,  other renters filed a police report with St. Joseph County,  
several of her  but  were  told  
possessions taken. An air mattress and  Llesl Yost robbed student  unless the serial numbers of the electronic items  
pump,  com- were  known,  it  
forter,  stereo  will  be  almost  

and a pair of Calvin Klein impossible to retrieve the shoes were among the miss­missing items. No insurance ing items. was purchased on the storage 
After she contacted Mini unit at the time of rental. Storage Depot, Yost said, "We didn't think it was "They basically told me, going to be broken in to," 'Tough luck, you should have Kilway said. gotten insurance on it.'" Wilcomb, Yost and Kilway 
Yost, who didn't purchase have all had to repurchase or insurance on the unit when do without the items stolen she signed the renter's lease, from their storage units. did buy a lock from the stor­Aside from Wilcomb, who is . age company to secure her protected under her family unit. homeowner's insurance poli­
Yost has yet to file a police cy, none of the other theft vic­report, but plans to in the tims will receive compensa­future. tion for their lost belongings. 
Notre Dame junior Ray Kilway and five other Fisher Contact Annie Basinski at Hall residents returned to basi0223@saintmarys.edu 

Viruses affect Saint Mary's network 
Computers that have not been updated will be blocked from the network 
By ANGELA SAOUD 
News Writer 

Computer viruses that have affected Saint Mary's for the past two weeks are causing continued problems on cam­pus, with many students unable to con­
nect to the cam­

"All the students viruses, similar to
pus-wide com­
the ones already

are currently
puting network. 
infecting comput­

The three main unable to connect ers.viruses the 
to their network Information
College is trying 
Technology and

drives from 
to combat are 
ResNet are ask­

t h e ResNet., 
ing all studentsNachi/We lchia 
who are runningWorm, the 

Keith Fowlkes Windows XP.
Blaster/Lovesan 
Windows 2000 or

Saint Mary's director 
Virus and the Windows NT to 

· SoBig Virus. of Information 
update their virus

These work by technology 
protection with

exploiting vul­nerabilities in Windows computers and spread by mass e-mailing themselves to every e-mail address they can find in users' files. Macintosh computers are not affected by these viruses. 
Although these viruses affected campus in a limited capacity for much of the sum­mer, they spread quickly with the return of students this fall. 
"When the students returned with a host of unpatched Windows comput­ers, ResNet was flooded with virus broadcasts," said Keith Fowlkes, Saint Mary's director of Information Technology. 
Saint Mary's is not the only college affected by these viruses. 
Colleges and universities across the country have been swamped with network prob­lems from the computer virus­es. 
Since they provide merely a vehicle for computers to con­nect to the Internet on cam­pus. they exert little or no control over what is on the machines themselves. 
"Our brief outage is one of the shortest I've seen across the nation," said Fowlkes. "Literally thousands of col­leges and universities experi­enced long outages and net­work problems." 
Yesterday, Microsoft announced that there are seri­ous security flaws in their Windows XP and Windows 2000 software. 
The new flaws, they said, 
have the potential 
to lead to other 
the patch that Microsoft released yesterday. Virus protection software is being provided free of charge to all Saint Mary's students. 
"All the students are cur­rently unable to connect to their network drives from ResNet," said Fowlkes. "Students must install and run virus protection software before they can connect to their network drives." 
Beginning next week, Information Technology will start blocking individual Windows computers that have not been cleaned. 
Access will be restricted to all network access including Internet. e-mail and network drives. 
''If we can get students to cooperate in updating Windows and disinfecting their computers from viruses, we should be able to get things back to normal soon," said Fowlkes. 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
When it's the 


prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yearjob in the Far East, 
strategically chosen to match your career goal. Apply by November 7, 2003. 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end of May 2004) an ND degree? No east-Asia experience? 
WANT TO lEARN TO DRIVE ? CALL 
"A-FRIEND" 

DRIVER TUTORING 
(574) 250-2761 INOtVlDUAL TRAINING 
INTERNATIONAL PEOPLE 
Free Pick-upatYeur LacaUun 

Lea~~~ to Drive witll "A-FIUIND" 
···---·-····-·····--· 
TRANSPORTATION SERVICE 
Will Tranapori YOU, FAMILY & f'RI!NOS To ami from 1\irporl$ I C>Vler Destination& Will Deliver Items from Stores & Storage 
Depend on 1111·'RIIND" www.afrnd.com 
For more information contact Nancy O'Connor at 631-5432 

Friday, September 12, 2003 Co!v\PlLED FROA1.rHE OBSERVER vvtRE SERVICES Page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Rockets fired at coalition base 
KABUL, Afghanistan-Two bases housing international peacekeepers in the Afghan capital came under rocket attack Thursday, but there were no reports of injuries, a spokeswoman for the peacekeepers said. 
The attacks came with tensions high and security tightened on the second anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Afghanistan on Thursday also welcomed a proposal from Germany and the United States that international peacekeepers for the first time be deployed in areas outside the capital. 
Baghdad firelight injures soldier 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Attackers fired rocket­propelled grenades at a U.S. military convoy west of Baghdad Thursday, touching off an intense firefight that left at least one American soldier wounded, the military said. 
Tanks and oth.er vehicles from the 3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment came under attack in Fallujah, part of the dangerous "Sunni Triangle" region about 60 miles west of the capital. U.S. Army Capt. Jeff Fitzgibbons, coalition spokesman in Baghdad, told AP Radio. 
Other "U.S. forces responding to the scene came under fire and returned fire at houses nearby," Fitzgibbons said. 
One U.S. soldier was wounded, said Fitzgibbons and a Pentagon official who spoke on condition of anonymity. There was no information regarding casualties among attackers. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Clark to enter presidential race 
WASHINGTON -Retired Army Gen. Wesley Clark has told friends he is likely to become the lOth Democratic presidential candidate, a move that could shake up the crowded field just four months before the first ballots are cast. Clark, 58, has not made a decision, but the Arkansas resident is aggressively recruiting campaign staff and plans to announce his intentions next week, friends and party officials said on condition of anonymity. His earliest allies would be from former President Clinton's Arkansas-based political network. 
Seattle diocese reaches settlement 
SEATTLE -The Seattle Archdiocese said Thursday it has agreed to pay $7.87 million to settle lawsuits brought by 15 men who say they were molested as boys by the same priest. 
Sixteen men in all sued the Rev. James McGreal and the archdiocese. One of the men did not take part in the settlement. 
The lawsuits said McGreal sexually abused the altar boys from the 1960s through the early '80s. Court documents said the archdiocese knew of the allegations against McGreal as early as the late 1960s. 
"I deeply regret the pain caused by these events," Archbishop Alexander Brunett said in a statement. 
LOCAL NEWS 
O'Bannon continues recovery 
CHICAGO -The swelling in Gov. Frank O'Bannon's brain began to diminish Thursday, three days after he suffered a massive stroke, hospital officials said. 
In addition to conducting hourly neurological tests on the governor, doctors at Northwestern \iemorial Hospital observed some evidence of reduced swelling in his brain. 
O'Bannon remained sedated in critical con­dition. He still had a breathing tube in his throat. and a ventilator continued to assist his respiration. 
Children lead Sept. 11 memorial 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Two by 
two they stepped forward 
at ground zero Thursday, 
the sons and daughters, 
nieces and nephews, 
grandsons and grand­
daughters of the Sept. 11 
victims, mournfully reciting 
the 2,792 names of the 
World Trade Center dead. 
"My mother and my 
hero," 13-year-old Brian 
Terzian :;aid after reading 
the name of his mother, 
Stephanie McKenna. "We 
love you." 
For a second straight 
·year, the nation paused on a bright September morn­ing to recall the day when hijacked jetliners slammed into the World Trade Center, the Pentagcn and a field in Pennsylvania, killing more than 3,000 people in the worst terror­ist attack in U.S. history. 
In New York, 200 chil­dren led the mourning, showing extraordinary poise as they read the enormous list of victims for 2 112 hours. Church bells tolled at the moment hijacked Flight 93 crashed near Shanksville, Pa. A moment of silence was observed at the Pentagon for the 184 victims there. And President Bush stood in silence on the White House lawn. 
"We remember the hero­ic deeds," Bush said. "We remember the compassion, the decency of our fellow citizens on that terrible day. We pray for the hus­bands and wives, the moms and dads, and the sons and daughters and loved ones." 
The ceremonies came as the feder·al government warned of possible al­Qaida attacks against Americans overseas in con­nection with the anniver­sary. An Osama bin Laden. videotape emerged a day earlier, but U.S. officials sought to downplay its rel­evance. 
The relatives at· ground zero appeared in various sad permutations: Police Sgt. Michael Curtin was represented by his three 

daughters, Jennifer, 17, Erica, 15, and Heather, 13. Kristen Canillas, 12, stood alongside 8-year-old Christopher Cardinali; both had lost a grandparent. 
"I love you and I miss you," Kristen said after reciting the name of her grandfather, Anthony Luparello. 
The children -the youngest was 7 -offered poignant messages to their lost loves ones, their emo­tions laid bare befo.re a crowd that held aloft pic­tures of the victims, dabbed tears from their eyes, and laid flowers in temporary reflecting pools represent­ing the towers. 
The two years since the attack se~med to disappear as speakers surrendered to their emotions. 
"My daddy, Gerard Rod Coppola," said Angela 
Coppola, 20, her voice cracking. "Your light still shines." 
Brannon Burke, 13, and her 10-year-old sister Kyleen wore matching blue Engine Co. 21 sweatshirts with buttons bearing the face of fire Capt. William Burke Jr. -their beloved Uncle Billy, a second-gen­eration firefighter. 
"It's heartbreaking and it's heartwarming when you hear them say, 'My father, my mother, my aunt,"' said Betsy Parks of Bayonne, N.J., whose brother Robert was killed. "What's amazing is the strength and resilience." 
Some family members used their hands to scoop up dirt from the site as a keepsake, slipping it into bags and empty water bot-ties. For many, it may pro­vide the only link to their 
lost relatives; authorities estimate the remains of as many as 1,000 victims may never be identified. 
The crowd of thousands observed a moment of silence at 8:46 a.m., the time the first plane slammed into the north tower. 
At sunset, two light beams pointing skyward were switched on, evoking the image of the twin tow­ers. They will go dark Friday at daybreak. 
The remembrance extended far beyond lower Manhattan. Firefighters in Chicago joined in the moment of silence, while bells tolled in Milwaukee. 
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld presided over a ceremony at the Pentagon and attended a wreath-lay­ing at nearby Arlington National Cemetery. 

ISRAEL 

Arafat expelled by security cabinet 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -Israel said Vasser Arafat will be removed because he is a "complete obstacle" to peace, but put ofT immediate action Thursday on expelling the 7 4-year-old Palestinian leader. 
Later, Arafat emerged from his sandbagged office building and flashed a victory sign to hundreds of supporters who rushed to his head­quarters. 
"The leader is Abu Ammar," the crowd chanted. referring to Arafat by his nom de guerre. 
In Gaza City, hundreds of gunmen· -some firing 'into the air -rushed to the parliament building. Marchers carried Arafat posters and flags, chanting: "Sharon, listen well, we will send you to hell!" 
An Israeli government statement issued after a meeting of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon with his securi­ty Cabinet said "recent days' events have proven again that Vasser Arafat is a complete obstacle to any process of reconciliation." 
"Israel will act to remove this obsta­cle in the manner, at the time, and in the ways that will be decided on sepa­rately," the statel!lent said. 
Israeli officials said on condition of anonymity it was a decision in princi­
ple and that how and when Israel acts · will depend on many factors, includ­ing the international response. 
The decision was an apparent effort to balance growing public and politi­cal pressure for a dramatic move with a desire to avoid a confrontation with the United States, which opposes expulsion. 
"The Israeli government knows our position on Arafat; our position has not changed," U.S. Embassy spokesman Paul Patin said. 
The open-ended decision gives the incoming Palestinian prime minister, Ahmed Qureia, some time to take steps to cool the violence that has swept the region in recent weeks. 
Friday, September 12, 2003 

page 6 The Obs~rver + NEWS 
Game 
continued from page 1 

"After last week's game, it's great to have the students come up," he said, attributing Saturday's victory over Washington State in part to support from students. 
Cavanaugh senior Valerie Baur and her friends plan to take Lennon up on his offer. The group of four is driving to Ann Arbor Saturday morning, after winning the right to pur­chase tickets through the Student Union Board sponsored lottery. 
Baur, who decided to wait in the lottery line on a whim, said she was surprised all four in the group were able to get tick­ets. 
"We waited in line for three hours ... and we got there right at three," she said. "There were people there with their entire dorm's IDs in a stack." 
For Baur, Saturday's game takes on special meaning as it is her first time seeing the team play outside of Notre Dame Stadium. 
''I'm really, really excited because I've never been to an away game and I'm a senior," she said. ''I'm excited to see the Irish play in a different stadi­um." 
While Baur and her friends were able to get tickets, other students aren't letting a piece of paper or a 178-mile stretch of pavement stop them from heading to Ann Arbor. 
Off-campus senior Christine Armstrong and her friends are driving to the University of Michigan Saturday without tickets. The group plans to finagle tickets Saturday morn­ing but even if they don't suc­ceed the trip should still be fun, Armstrong said. 
"We're hoping perhaps that 
through the [Association] tail­gate and mingling with alumni we can score some tickets," she said. "If worse comes to worse we'll watch the game in a bar." 
Armstrong and her friends may have a chance of getting into Michigan Stadium. 
"Any ticket exchange we get Friday night we will have at the tailgate," Lennon said. "We give students first priority." 
The University is determined to get interested students over to Ann Arbor for Saturday's game. Student Activities is sponsoring a bus trip to Michigan for $10 and encour­aging people to attend the tail­gate. 
"We're getting people up there on the bus and hopefully folks will go to the events," said Brian Coughlin, director of Student Activities. 
Students, however, who would rather forgo the 2 1/2­hour bus ride, have another option. Notre Dame alum and MSA professor David Melkey is offering to fly two interested students on his four-seater, sin­gle-engine Grumman Tiger air­plane. 
"My wife and I will fly to the games and we have room for a couple more people," he said. "If anyone else wants to ride along they can." 
Melkey, who asks passengers to share the cost of traveling expenses, plans to fly to all the away games, except Stanford. 
Regardless of whether or not they have tickets or how they're traveling, Notre Dame fans said the weekend is about cheering on the team and hav­ing a good time. 
"I think anyone who can go to Michigan should," Armstrong said. "It's such a big game com­ing off with a win last year. We should go support the team." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
McCarthy, who was at John setting Carroll

ROTC 

University at the continued from page 1 time, said that ..Lots ofpeople
emotion and we joined the military in the confusion were cried that day ... first place," said midshipman everywhere. other people didn't 
Anne Shreiner, a freshman in "Lots of people 
know what to do.··
Breen-Phillips Hall. cried that 
Several ROTC students day...other peo­reflected on their initial reac­ple didn't know Bryan McCarthy tions to the attacks. what do," he ROTC student 
commitment to traveling as a group and issues with redesigning formations to account for the smaller number. 
"There would be. 50 holes in the marching formation," said band director Ken Dye. "This is really the only way we can handle it." 
Dave Cieslak, the student president of the marching band, said members were surprised· by the decision ­especially in light of Notre Dame's tradition of welcom­ing marching bands from other schools to the University. 
off the Spanish­American War. A number of his peers commis­sioned the monu­ment, which includes steel recovered from the destroyed ves­sel. The monu­ment was previ­ously installed near the Joyce Center. It now sits 
prominently near· the main entrance to Pasquerilla Center. 
Matt Bramanti contributed to this report. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
ful in negotiating more spaces but said that it is 
attempting to make  accom­ 
modations,  using  either  
radio  or television,  so  that  

band members stationed outside the stadium can still enjoy the game. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 

NOTRE DAME TICKETS 
Buy -SELL -TRADE \\..: : 
$t;:~:E~~~~:;:;~~E $$ ,-~· 2:~2> 
CASH PAID TODAY FOR TICKETS CALL PREFERRED TICKETS NOW 
234-5650 
£1 • il 

:~---······-·-··-····································--· 
~~ [ill~~ il The Center for Ethics and0~~igiou..-.. Values in Business 
@j • I] The Institute for Ethical Business ~:.~~~~~~~----············ Proudly Present 
Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series 
Roger Huang and Ed Trubac vs. Georges Enderle and Lee Tavis 
·university of Notre Dame
.. 
h Gl~halizntion Jrrespr!_nsible'? ADebate 
Tuesday, September 16, 2003 7:00 p.n1. .Jordan Auditorium l\lendoza College of Business 
"On campus, we were all ini­tially shocked, but like most people around the world, we banded together," said Justin Gallagher, a Stanford Hall jun­ior and Navy midshipman. "Our dorm went to the hospital to donate blood that went straight to New York." 
Midshipman Capt. Bryan 
said. 

A monument in memory of former Notre Dame student John Henry Shillington was also dedicated during the memorial service. Shillington served as a sailor on the battleship USS Maine and died in 1898 when the ship exploded in Havana harbor, 


Band 
continued from page 1 
said. 

The band had the option of limiting the number of members that it sends to Ann Arbor, but this possibil­ity was quickly ruled out due to the organization's 
"I think a lot of people are really miffed at the situa­tion," he said. "We've been really accommodating in providing for other bands. We were under the impres­sion that that would be reciprocated." 
According to the e-mail. Notre Dame's athletic department was unsuccess­



SHOWYOUR SPIRITWITH ACUSTOM SIGN OR BANNER FROM KINKO'S! 
lfs a perfect way to prove that you have more spirit than those other guys~ Bring in this ad and receive 20% off your sign or banner order! Signs and Banners are great for Fraternity and Sorority Houses, Dorm Rooms and Sporting Events! 
't B&W Copies per side • '9t Color copies per side • 20% Off Finishing Services 2202-C South Bend Ave. (Next to Hollywood Video} • 271--0398 
Di~<"Ovlll~ 11<>1 dP/!tl(<>bit> wiri: ;my otiJ~I <>ffn. M:s~t rr~~~~~ ¥1 wl~tm ;slauoq orrler Offer Jv-:.s llril illdl;<]~ [Jtlill:>S.> P~/" fX!{'iP.s ,,. (.<>mf!!StP.I" rim~lp•·im.~. Tt:f! aiJoYt> '>!<ih'd t>ff<:t good cr:iy wllt>n <in'!Jmp>~nil!cl with lhi:; ;uJve>rri.'iP.n~:>t. Off~tr upires 9/31J/03. 





SIGN&n BANNERS 

Friday, September 12, 2003 Page 7 



Harrah's buys Horseshoe casinos 
MARKET RECAP 


~· ········::···:· ::····:·.····························Q.~7Jfl9······:··················i.f:1·~.18::··· ... 
.~~~-··:-.::jli·~~·~··· .............,.. ~-·[i~~1.&•.,:•····:~~~~~~-·····:ii·m~-·=-•-•
S&P 1 16.42 +5.50 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC)  +1.34  +0.37  28.0:!  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  +1.22  +0.25  20.71  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  +1.01  +0.13  12.9€  
SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW)  +3.42  +0.13  30 9:!  
JDS UNIPHASE (JDSU)  +3.04  +0.12  4.07  

IN BRIEF 

Ruling would transfer control of mall 
MINNEAPOLIS -A federal judge has given the developers of the Mall of America the chance to.purchase control of the prized retail property from its partner, Indianapolis-based Simon Property Group, and ordered Simon to turn over a share of its profits from the mall over the past four years. 
The Ghermezian family of West Edmonton, Alberta, had claimed in a lawsuit that it was improperly squeezed out of a 1999 deal between Simon and the third partner that gave Simon control of the property. 
Simon said in a statement Thursday it "intends to vigorously contest" the ruling, which it said it believes "is legally and factually wrong." 
The ruling was issued Wednesday by U.S. District Court Judge Paul Magnuson after a summer-long trial without a jury. 
The Ghermezian family said it was cut out of a complicated deal in which Simon bought half of the 55 percent stake in the mall held by Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association for $84.5 million. The deal allowed Simon to increase its ownership from 22.5 percent to 50 percent, gaining control of the property and 80 percent of the management fees that go with it. 
Under the judge's ruling, the Ghermezian family will get the chance to boost its 22.5 per­cent stake in the mall to a controlling 50 per­cent. 

Brlghtpoint, AIG agree to settlement 
WASHINGTON Insurer American International Group and Plainfield, lnd.-based cellular phone distributor Brightpoint Inc. on Thursday agreed to pay civil fines to settle fed­eral regulators' fraud allegations. 
AIG agreed to pay $10 million, with Brightpoint consenting to pay $450,000. Regulators concluded AIG, one of the biggest 
U.S. insurance companies, fraudulently helped Brightpoint falsify earnings and hide losses. 
AIG also failed to provide documents that were subpoenaed during the government's investigation of the alleged fraud involving Brightpoint's financial reports, the Securities and Exchange Commission said. 
New York-based AIG neither admitted nor denied the SEC'S allegations in its settlement, in which it also is forfeiting a $100,000 fee paid by Brightpoint. 
The SEC also charged Brightpoint, a distribu­tor of wireless phones for companies including Nokia, Sony-Ericsson and Virgin, as well as three former Brightpoint executives and an assistant vice president of AIG. Three of the individuals settled the cases and agreed to pay civil fmes of as much as $100,000. Brightpoint and the three individuals neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing. 
The SEC alleged that AIG issued a so-called "non-traditional" insurance policy to Brightpoint to help the company hide $11.9 million in losses in 1998. The insurance policy was said to be for the company to smooth out volatility in earn­ings. 
AIG agreed to make it appear that Brightpoint was paying premiums in return for AIG assum­ing risk, but Brightpoint actually was just depositing cash with AIG that it later refunded to Brightpoint, the SEC said. 

Associated Press LAS VEGAS -Harrah's Entertainment Inc. is buy­ing Horseshoe Gaming Holding Co., owner of casinos in Louisiana, Mississippi and Indiana, for $917 million . The Las Vegas-based gambling giant said Thursday it will also assume $533 million in debt in the deal for the privately held Horseshoe, which is based in Tinley Park, Ill. Harrah's chief executive Gary Loveman said the deal provides "immediate growth and opportunity for our company and our customers." Loveman said Harrah's intends to keep the Horseshoe names at Horseshoe Gaming casi­nos in Bossier City, La., Hammond, Ind., and Tunica, Miss. The sale is subject to approval by gambling commissions in Louisiana, Mississippi and Indiana and federal regulatory clearance. Citing what he called "overexposure" in the Louisiana market, Loveman said Harrah's will sell its Shreveport casino, but said no deal had been reached. Selling that casino would leave Harrah's with a Horseshoe casino and its Louisiana Downs race­track in Bossier City and it could allay antitrust con­cerns. Horseshoe Gaming was founded by Jack Binion, who is chairman. He is the son of Benny Binion, founder of Binion's Horseshoe hotel-casino in downtown Las Vegas, which is now owned by Becky Binion Behnen. That hotel-casino is not part ofThursday's deal. Lovernan said Harrah's 
was negotiating with Behnen to obtain the rights to the Horseshoe name in Nevada. A tele­phone message left for Behnen was not immedi­ately returned. 
Roger Wagner, Horseshoe Gaming presi­dent and chief executive, said in a telephone inter­view from Hammond that while Harrah's relies on slot machine customers, Horseshoe Gaming aims to attract serious gam­blers who "can come and 
enjoy themselves without apology." 
The Harrah's-Horseshoe Gaming transaction should be completed in the first quarter of 2004, Loveman said. 
Under the agreement, Jack Binion would remain involved with Horseshoe marketing and operations for an unspecified time. Loveman said Binion will not have a contract or title with Harrah's. Telephone messages left for Binion were not imme­

' l I 
diately returned. 
Wagner said Horseshoe has 1,800 employees. Loveman said he expected most would remain for the corporate changeover. 
Harrah's operates 26 casinos in 12 states, including Nevada, New Jersey, Louisiana and the riverboat markets of the Midwest. 
In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Harrah's shares rose $1.08, or 2. 7 percent, to close at $40.95. 



Conseco wins OK to resume NYSE trading 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -Conseco Inc. said it has won approval to resume trading of its shares on the New York Stock Exchange and formally emerged from nearly nine months of Chapter 11 bankruptcy protec­tion. 
Wednesday night's announce­ments came a day after a bankrupt­cy judge in Chicago confirmed the insurer's reorganization plan. 
Conseco shares were removed from the NYSE in August 2002 after the company suffered a series of setbacks in its plan to reduce debt accumulated from acquisitions that soured and heavy losses in the mobile home mortgage portfolio of its finance unit. 
Conseco. based in the Indianapolis suburb of Carmel, became the third-largest U.S. com­pany to file for Chapter 11 protec­tion when it made its filing Dec. 17. 
The company's shares, which traded as high as $58 apiece in 1998, have recently traded for less than a nickel each in over-the­
counter trading. control of Conseco as it tries to 
Conseco said its new common restore healthy credit ratings to the stock had been approved for listing insurance business that made the under the symbol "CNO," with stock company a Wall Street darling warrants that will be distributed to through most of the 1990s. 
some of its cred­itors listed under "CNO WS." 
Conseco said it expects to issue 98 million shares of new common stock to creditors "short­ly." It did not specify a date. The shares will be distributed under a formula developed in 
"Our near-term goal is to build the capital in the insurance companies in order to put Conseco on a track toward steady growth. " 
R. Glenn Hilliard board member 
As part of its bankrupt­cy, the par­ent company has sold off its former finance unit, St. Paul, Minn.-based Conseco Finance Corp., to an investment consortium. 
Conseco's 

bankruptcy negotiations to satisfy debtholders owed nearly $7 billion. The plan cuts Conseco's debt load to $1.4 billion. 
The recovery of losses that investors receive is based on an estimated value of Conseco's com­mon stock of $16.40 per share, the company said. 
Bondholders will assume majority new seven-member board will be headed by R. Glenn Hilliard, a for­mer lNG Americas chief executive who will not hold an executive-level position with Conseco. 
"Our near-term goal is to build the capital in the insurance compa­nies in order to put Conseco on a track toward steady growth," Hilliard said. 
page 8 Friday, September 12, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS 

Proposed bills proceed to Davis 
eastern California while freeing
Three bills would 

up water for growing cities. 
attempt to end The agreement also sets up a restoration plan for the environ­California water mentally threatened Salton Sea, a major stopping point for usage problems migratory birds that relies on runoff from Imperial Valley 
Associated Press 

farms for much of its water. 
SACRAMENTO -Three bills The three bills hammered out meant to end one of the West's late last week passed easily, two most intractable water wars are days after clearing the on their way to Gov. Gray Davis. Assembly. 
The bills, approved by the The state's allotment is 4.4 Senate Thursday and expected million acre-feet a year. The to receive Davis' heart of the deal signature soon, is the transfer of would implement 65 million gal­
"Though this is a 
a 75-year agree­lons of water a
fix now, I am sure
ment among four year from S o u t h e r n they willfind Imperial Valley California water farmers to San
reasons in the 
agencies that split Diego County's
future to sue each
the state's annual urban users.
other.,,
allotment from the The agreement Colorado River. specifies that the California has four water agen­
Jim Battin
used more than its cies must ratify it 
California state
fair share for by Oct. 12. 
senator
years, and is Western states under pressure that share the from the government and other Colorado River with California states that draw from the have watched the emerging Colorado to develop a plan to deal closely, hoping it will end gradually wean itself from the California's overdependence on excess water. the river and free up more for 
The failure of the four water their users. agencies to sign a deal last year Republican Sen. Jim Battin prompted Interior Secretary expressed relief at the agree­Gale Norton to punish California ment, but summarized the long by cutting its water usage by 15 history of acrimony between the percent. four California water agencies. 
Davis administration officials "God himself could not create say the plan is "a new way of harmony on the river between doing business in the West." It the four agencies," he said. subsidizes new conservation "Though this is a fix now, I am technology for farmers in the sure they will find reasons in arid Imperial Valley in south-the future to sue each other." 

Just finished Frosh-0 and ready to turn 19! La Breithe Sana. Happy Birthday Callie! 
Amy, Chris, Kevin, Laura,­Pat, and Renee. 
BOO 

SOUTH BEND'S NEWEST RESTAURANT AND SPORTS BAR 
GREAT FUN-GREAT FOOD -YOU BET 
LARGEST BIG SCREENS IN THE AREA 
Monday night football on 15 screens MON: 99 specials TUES: 
WED: Give away night 

THURS: 32 oz specials 

FRI: 

Live music featuring __ Darryl Buchanan, "What's the Name" 
SAT: 

Game day on 15 screens with live 
waor remotes 
SUN: NFL Sunday ticket 

2046 SOUfH BEND AVE 
Must be 21 
w/ valid I.D.



272-1766 
Tutu 
continued from page 1 
black president, Nelson Mandela. Tutu said that the country's transi­tion from shackles to freedom is an indication to other countries that peace and justice are both very possible. 
"Nowhere in the world can any­one in the world say, 'We have a problem that is intractable,"' he said. "God says to them: their [South Africa's] nightmare ended; your nightmare will end, too. Peace is possible. Because it happened in South Africa, it can happen here." 
Above all others, Tutu should know. 
Introduced by Kroc Institute for Peace Studies director Scott Appleby as "the world's most visible icon of truth-telling and reconcilia­tion," Thtu has spent the 71 years of his life embroiled in Black South Africa's struggle for freedom and recognition. An Anglican priest, he was elevated to the position of Archbishop in 1986, the highest station within his church, and used his station to act as a representative of his people to speak out against the social injustice and violence perpetrated under the system of apartheid. 
His work, which gained interna­tional recognition for the fight against apartheid, prompted University PresideQ.t Edward Malloy to refer to him as "one of the world's most prominent peace­builders." 
'The successes of post-apartheid South Africa are in no small part due to his work," Malloy said. 
Despite such confident endorse­ments from Malloy and others across the globe, Tutu, who was greeted with a standing ovation as he walked to the stage of McKenna Hall's auditorium, thanked the crowd for their part in South Africa's liberation from apartheid. 
"We are the beneficiaries of much love and communication and fervent prayer on the part of the international community," he said. "We can never thank you enough ... To all of you, especially to young people, students -thank you, thank you, thank you -we are able to say we will be celebrating ten years of freedom and democra­cy because of you and because of those like you out there ... we are celebrating freedom because of you, we are striving today to be non-racist and non-sexist because of you. It is a debt we will never be able to pay." 
Under the rule of apartheid, the white-skinned Afrikaner minority, mostly descendents of originally Dutch and later English settlers to the Cape of Good Hope, held sway over governmental, social and eco­nomic aspects of South African society. Encouraged religiously by the teachings of the Dutch Reformed Church, they asserted what they believed to be their inherent rights of supremacy over the "black" and "colored" majori­ties within their society. 
"It was a policy of exclusion," Tutu said. "The vast majority of people were excluded." 
Gross violations of human rights and social justice ensued, and non­white South Africans became increasingly marginalized, losing nearly all of their freedom. 
Tutu said the implications of such oppression were far-reaching, wedging into the souls ofhis subju­gated people. 
"One of the songs of our struggle is a haunting melody that asks in Xhosa, 'What have we done? Our sin is our blackness,"' he said, chanting the lyrics. 
After Nelson Mandela was elect­ed president of South Africa nine years ago, he appointed Tutu as chair of the rebuilding nation's Truth and Reconciliation Commission, a body dedicated to collecting instances of human rights violations perpetrated during 34 years of apartheid, beginning in 1960 and leading up to South Africa's free elections. The idea fueling the Commission, Tutu said, was that without forgiveness. there can be no future. 
"We resolved to look the beast in the eye -to let the victims tell their story ... to put on the balm of put­ting their voice to work," he said. "We knew the deeds of the past had an uncanny capacity to come back and haunt people." 
The focus of the Commission's dedication to restorative justice, he said, was based on healing, not punishment. 
"Even the worst perpetrator remained a child of God with the capacity to change," he said. 
As the work of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission enmeshed itself deeper and deeper into the sordid stories of non-white South Africans, Tutu said his amazement at the spirit of his peo­ple grew exponentially. 
"When you look back on it, you have to say the magnanimity of those who were made to suffer so was magnificent," he said. 
Tutu said that with the eradica­tion of the system of apartheid, vic­tims of the regime's doctrine might use the opportunity to vindicate themselves and their cause. 
"We thought people might be moved to seek revenge -we lis­tened to some heartrending experi­ences -then when you think they are about to explode, you are amazed at the generosity, the nobil­ity of human beings," he said. 
It is this display of human spirit, Tutu said, that serves as a constant reminder of the inherent goodnP.ss ofpeople. 
"We human beings are funda­mentally good -the aberration is the bad -God has a dream that one day you and I will realize we are all in God's family -we are sis­ters and brothers . . . there are no outsiders in God's family," he said. "We are all meant to be held in this incredible embrace of the One who will never let us go." 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu 


Friday, September 12, 2003 "page 9 
The Observer + NEWS 

Media ownership rules under fire 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Senators 
opposed to new media owner­
ship rules pressed their attack 
Thursday, hoping to build on 
victories in the House and the 
courts and roll back changes 
they say will give large media 
companies too much controL 
The critics, led by Sens. 
Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., and 
Trent Lott, R-Miss., are push­
ing a measure that would halt 
changes of rules governing 
ownership of newspapers and 
television and radio stations. 
The Senate is expected to vote 
next week on the resolution, a 
seldom-used maneuver also 
called a "congressional veto." 

"What the Federal Communications Commission has done is horribly wrong for the interests of this country," Dorgan said, opening three hours of debate on the meas­ure. He said the resolution tells ·the FCC to· "go back and do it again, do it over and do it 
right." 
In June, the Republican-dom­
inated FCC voted 3-2 along 
party lines to ease decades-old 
ownership restrictions. The 
changes included allowing a 
single company to own TV sta­
tions reaching nearly half the 
nation's viewers and combina­
tions of newspapers and broad­
cast outlets in the same area. 
Major media companies said 
the changes were needed 
because the old regulations 
hindered their ability to grow 
and compete in a market 
altered by cable television, 

satellite broadcasting and the 
Internet. 
But lawmakers from both 
parties and a broad range of 
groups criticized the changes, 

saying they could lead to a 
wave of mergers, ultimately sti­and thorough review ... pre­fling diversity and local view­venting the implementation of points in news and entertain­important new rules which will ment. improve the quality of local 
Last week, a federal appeals news and support free over­court in Philadelphia tem­the-air broadcast television," porarily blocked the rules from the White House said. taking effect as scheduled Sept. Opponents initially appeared 
4. Several other legal chal­to have little chance of stop­lenges to the rules from broad­ping the rules, but their efforts casters and consumer groups have steadily gained momen­are pending. tum. 
Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., The House dealt the FCC a said he shares concerns about surprising setback in July 
concentration of  when it passed a  
media  owner­ broad spending bill  
ship but that the  "Mat the Federal  that  included  a  
proposed resolu­ Communications  provision to block  
tion is too sweeping, wip­ing out changes  Commission has done is horribly  the commission from allowing indi­vidual companies  
that  tighten  wrong for the  to own TV stations  
restrictions on radio station ownership. He  interests ofthis country."  reaching up to 45 percent of the nation's viewers,  
said he supports  instead of the cur­ 
other proposed legislation that restores limits on national TV  Byron Dorgan senator from North Dakota  rent 35 percent. The Senate Appropriations Committee  

station owner­ship. 
"If Congress is unsatisfied with the result of the FCC's review, it should step in to pro­vide new direction," McCain said. 
To succeed, the resolution needs majority approval in the Senate and House as well as President Bush's signature, or enough votes -· two-thirds of both chambers -to override a threatened veto. 
In a statement, the White House Office of .Management and Budget defended the new rules, saying they "more accu­rately reflect the changing media landscape." 
The Senate resolution would throw out "almost two years of careful study, detailed analysis 
.IIJ'JI~I!1!.NJ!UJ.Lo 
DEliCIOUS INDIAN AND PAKISTANI FOOD 
lunchBuHet  Dinner Bonet  
11am ­ 2:30pm  4-9pm  
$5.49  $6.99  

OPEN TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY 
213-9992 
Quality 
.Diamonds 

.Jewelers I Gemologis1:~ Goldsmiths I Platinunisnti.ths 
Key Bank Building, Snit~.. ':101 
South Bend, Indiana 4oh01 
2°"' 1· 42';7·
··o 1-·' 
approved a similar 
measure last week. 

Before the House vote, the White House also threatened to veto any final bill containing language rolling back the national cap. Republicans who support the new rules hope that threat will help them strip the provision from a final House-Senate compromise bilL 
Before the Senate debate, Dorgan said at a news confer­ence that he is confident there are enough votes to pass the resolution. 
"We feel we're going to pre­vail," he said. 
Standing beside Dorgan, Lott said that even if the president vetoes the resolution, "This is not the last shot out of the can­non." 
Complaint filed against AK Steel 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -A federal 
agency is preparing a com­
plaint against AK Steel Corp., 
alleging that the steel com­
pany has been too slow to 
recall workers after a 39­
month lockout ended about 
nine months ago, a 
spokesman for the National 
Labor Relations Board said 
Thursday. 
NLRB Regional Director Fred Calatrello has author­ized a complaint by the end of September if the United Steelworkers of America and AK Steel are still without a settlement regarding recall of the employees, said Paul Lund, NLRB Region 8 spokesman. 
"Basically, the complaint will say it took too long to bring people back once the lockout ended," Lund said from· NLRB offices in Cleveland. The matter could then go before an adminis­trative law judge, Lund said. 
The judge could try to determine how much money the company would owe workers who were not recalled in a timely manner, Lund said. The union said it believes the company's lia­bility could top $3 million. 
Only about 300 of the origi­nally locked out workforce of 620 have been recalled to work at AK Steel's Mansfield Works in central Ohio since last Dec. 10, the union alleges.
If the complaint is issued, AK Steel is prepared for a 
hearing, said Alan McCoy, 
spokesman for the 
Middletown, Ohio-based AK 
Steel. 
"AK Steel would present 
evidence and testimony 
which will demonstrate that 
the company's recall of 
USWA members has not vio­
lated labor law," McCoy said. 
He declined to say how 
many union-represented 
workers have been recalled. 
The NLRB refused to issue 
complaint on a Steelworkers' 
charge that AK Steel bar­
gained in bad faith during a 
September 2002 round of 
negotiations. McCoy said AK 
Steel is pleased with that 
decision. 
The workers were locked out Sept. 1, 1999, by the plant's former owner, Armco Inc., when their contract expired. AK Steel acquired Armco and continued to operate the plant with about 250 temporary replacement workers. 
Initially, the lockout was marred by violence, includ­ing a fight between picketing workers and security guards outside the plant. 
The NLRB is also prepared to issue a complaint against AK Steel for refusing to recall nine workers due to alleged misconduct during the lockout. McCoy said the conduct of 29 workers made them ineligible for recall. He said the company takes the likely complaint involving nine to mean AK Steel was 
justified to not give jobs back to 20 workers. 


THE COMPLEX ROCK TOUR* ONE NIGHT ONLY! 
'· ~ Friday, September 12, 2003 
page 10 The Observer + NEWS 





Court case continues over California recall 
Associated Press 

PASADENA -In a case remi­niscent of the legal battle that clouded the 2000 presidential election, a federal appeals court panel questioned Thursday whether California's recall vote should go forward because six counties still use the flawed punch-card voting system. 
Lawyers for civil rights groups that want to stop the election argued that a statistical study showed 40,000 poor and minor­ity voters might have their bal­lots excluded if punch-card bal­lots are used in the Oct. 7 elec­tion. 
Ninth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Harry Pregerson noted during the hearing that the California secretary of state had found the punch-card sys­tem unacceptable because of errors. 
"So we have to accept the unacceptable, is that what you're saying?" Pregerson asked lawyers representing the state. 
In what appears to be the last major legal challenge to the recall, the panel heard nearly two hours of arguments. The panel did not say when a ruling would be issued, but lawyers said outside court that they expect a decision early next week. 
If the justices delay the elec­tion, the state would appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, Deputy Attorney General Doug Woods said. 
If the delay is upheld, the recall would be placed on the March presidential primary bal­lot, which is likely to benefit Gov. Gray Davis because that election is expected to draw large numbers of Democratic voters. 
Such a delay would change the race's dynamics by giving Davis more time to address the state's problems and force Arnold Schwarzenegger, the leading Republican candidate, into a longer campaign, said Raphael Sonenshein, a political scientist at California State University, Fullerton. 
··I think support is not going to grow for the recall," he said. "I don't know if it's going to decline. But there's a much bet­ter chance it will decline by March than decline by October." 
Thursday's hearing was held to consider an appeal of an Aug. 20 ruling by U.S. District Judge Stephen V. Wilson in Los Angeles, who said he would not delay the recall election because it would be acting against the will of the people. 
The legal challenge echoes the 
Tan like the Hollywood Stars! 
As Seen on Good Morning America, Regis and in People Magazine 
• 
Safe and Healthy 

• 
Won't Age Skin 

• 
Great for Men and Women 

• 
Looks NatunJ 


• $5.00 discount with 
Student ID ! ! 
Now available in Mishawaka at 


KC'S AIRBRUSH TANNING 
World Gym Fitness Center ToY.'Tl & Country Shopping Center 
255-4508 
for appointment 

problems with "hanging chads" and miscounted votes in Florida during the 2000 presidential election. 
Recall proponents want to go forward using punch cards in Los Angeles, Mendocino, Sacramento, San Diego, Santa Clara and Solano counties. Those counties were previously ordered to replace the method with updated equipment by March. 
Woods, representing the sec­retary of state, acknowledged during the hearing that the punch-card system has been found "obsolete, antiquated and unacceptable." 
Still, there will have to be a transition period for using any new system, he said. 
With the election less than a month away, Woods told the judges: "It's too late in the game to switcheroo." 
The judges' questions were so tough that Woods also asked that he be given time to seek further review from the U.S. Supreme Court if the appeals court halts the election. 
Another member of the panel, Judge Sydney Thomas, said, "The question is whether the difference in technologies is so stark it results in the dilution of votes." 
Attorney Mark Rosenbaum, appearing for the American Civil Liberties Union, the NAACP, the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and the Southwest Voter Registration Education Project, told judges there are "grave federal interests" involv­ing the Voting Rights Act and potential discrimination against poor and minority voters who may have difficulty with the punch-card ballots. 
"Their votes will not be count­ed," Rosenbaum said. "Not only do we have vote dilution in these 40,000 cases, but we will have disenfranchisement." 
The 40,000 figure cited by plaintiffs represents a possible number of excluded votes due to punch-card ballots as calculated by a statistical expert in election procedures. 
Arnold prepares for vote 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Arnold Schwarzenegger may have to turn in another one of his blockbuster performances when he goes before delegates to the state Republican Party convention this weekend. 
The Terminator will be trying to win over the party's conser­vative wing and get the GOP to unite behind him for governor in the Oct. 7 election to recall Democrat Gray Davis. But the convention delegates could be the toughest audience of Schwarzenegger's career. 
The actor's politics -he sup­ports abortion rights, gay domestic partnerships and some gun control -are more liberal than those of the many activists who will dominate the convention. And many of them are backing state Sen. Tom McClintock, an energetic con­servative who refuses to drop out of the race. 
The Schwarzenegger camp will try to make the case that the Republicans need a winner, not a purist, and that the action hero represents their best hope of reclaiming at least some power in the nation's most populous state. 
California Republicans "have been in a long dry spell. and he wants to restore Republican viability within the state," Schwarzenegger campaign spokesman Rob Stutzman said. 
In recent years, Republicans have lost statewide elections after they nominated candi­dates too conservative for left­leaning California, where Democrats outnumber Republicans 44 percent to 35 percent. Last year, they picked conservative businessman Bill Simon over former Los Angeles Mayor Richard Riordan in the GOP primary for governor, only to see Simon lose to Davis. 
Bruce Herschensohn, the conservative GOP nominee for Senate who lost to Democrat Barbara Boxer in 1992, is backing McClintock and said he knows there is a risk to that position. 
''I'll vote for the person I agree with most," 
Herschensohn said. Otherwise, "my conscience would bother me tremendously. I can't do it." 
Dick Mountjoy, past presi­dent of the California Republican Assembly, a con­servative organization that has endorsed McClintock, said McClintock has taken clear-cut conservative stands on the issues. 
"You take a look at Tom, Tom has a very strong "no" on taxes. Schwarzenegger says "no, but maybe." Tom is a very strong supporter of 54, which is for a colorblind society. Schwarzenegger is "no, I don't like it," Mountjoy said, refer­ring to Proposition 54, which would prohibit the state from collecting most racial data. 
"Tom knows where he's going, he's got a philosophy, he's running with it. I'd like a little more definitive answers than what we're getting out of Schwarzenegger." 
Most polls show McClintock in third place, behind Democratic Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante and Schwarzenegger. Schwarzenegger supporters want McClintock to drop out for fear he will be the spoiler. 
McClintock said the polls show he is the one with real momentum. 
"The election's not for anoth­er month," McClintock said . Wednesday in an interview with Fox News. "If the momen­tum we've had in the first half of this race continues into the next half, we'll be in very good shape on election day, and after all, that's why they call it 
a race." 

So far, Schwarzenegger has not joined his supporters in calling for McClintock to quit. Instead, he has praised him, saying, "We stand in many ways for the same things." 
That is what observers say Schwarzenegger will have to prove when he speaks to the conservatives Saturday. 
"He might not convince the true believers, but it's smart for him to show that he's will­
ing  to  fight  for  it,"  said  
Republican strategist  Dan  
Schnur.  

Schwarzenegger's camp has sought to gather support from conservative party leaders in advance of the convention Last Friday Schwarzenegger had dinner with Simon, who dropped his own recall bid last month. And former Gov. George Deukmejian said Thursday the campaign has reached out to him too. 
But both Simon and Deukmejian are staying neu­tral for now. 
"I just don't want to get in the middle of this," Deukmejian said. 
Former California Secretary of State Bill Jones. a Republican who has endorsed Schwarzenegger, said the party risks blowing a huge opportu­nity if it fails to consolidate behind Schwarzenegger. 
"I think the people of California will hold the Republican Party accountable if we fail to correct the terrible administration of Gray Davis­Bustamante, and we squander 
a. second opportunity within a year," Jones said. 
With less than fo_ur weeks before· the election, Schwarzenegger also has to recover from some blows he has taken from both the left and the right, as well as some self-inflicted wounds. 
Because he has offered few specifics on certain key issues, his advisers, such as former Gov. Pete Wilson and billion­aire investor Warren Buffett, have filled in the gaps. Wilson said Schwarzenegger backed Proposition 187 in 1994, which would have denied some social services to illegal immigrants. And Buffett questioned whether the state's tax-cutting Proposition 13 left some Californians paying too little in taxes. 
Schwarzenegger and his campaign team scrambled to contain the damage, while also trying to deal with some old interviews, such as one Schwarzenegger gave the mag­azine Oui in 1977. The former bodybuilder's comments about group sex, homosexuals and drug use riled both conserva­tives and women's groups. 

--~V'C:-C:&NTEFC ..... ~AT... D~l\ll& ( ...~C:KEV Rl..... l< SID&), ENTER G..A.VE 30 
BRI..... Cli V~UR STILJIDII!.....T ID C:A.RD (IT'S RII!!!~UIRII!!!D) 
.A.'T'""''""IR& IS BIIJSII'Itii&SS Fc::IIRI\IIAL 

SC:HEI>ULE C>F E'VENTS 
IVIc::»~n~clay.. September "I .S Industry Day Banqu~t IV\cK~nna Haii/CC:E R~c~pt:ie>n, 6:30 p.m_ C>inn~r, 7:, 5 p.m. 
TLI-sclay,. Septemb-.r "I 6 Career Fair Ne>rth C>e>me e>f the Je>yc~ Center 
, 2:00 -5:00 p_m_ 
W-.cl~n~-.sclay,. Septe....-.ber "I 7 lnter'V'i~vv Day Flann~r Hall 
8:00 a_m.-5:00p.m. 
PARTICIPATING C:CJIIWIPANI•s­
A~c•nt~r­Am-rl~•r. l!.lec;'trlc;; Pg.w•r Cc;amp•ny Ana~r. t-dl~at.rl••· Inc. Bank o~ A~•r-lc• IS•cht::el N•v•d•
.,_,......_t.. '"<· 
&c::.•lng l!lc:~o•t.on Cc:::oon•ult:l~g Gro.....p
•r-• .,-~. c:..............y
......_._~,............... 
c•r••ratN•I~• 
c::c: T•chn-•-•••• 
C:.•n-.:r•l t.-,t•Uig•nca Ag•~cy
c-""""'""•Y GuCIIrn&.""'CII•on Led•r• L'l:d. 
D•l""'l•rChry•l•r Corpor•t:lono D•lolt:'t'• C.on•ul...:lng C>•lphl AU'I:OrT'\Otlv• Sy•'I:-P'T'lOa D•no•o lnt:erna1:1Cio""'•' An-.•rlc•. Inc. o•Nse> """"rg. """"lc:hlo•n. lnoc:. 
e»...r--"'t l!x•la.., C:c:arpa.ratlc:~ono F•d•ral Bo'-'r••._. of' ,.,...,.atlg•t.lg.n
.......... .._.__..., C•r..-r•••-.,. 
G•n•ral Dyna.....--lc:a ACIIvanc:•d lnf'gormat:la.n :Sya'l:•n-.•
O•-•••• •••ctrlc 
H•wl•~t-Pack•rd
••..,. c ............... 
lnod•l•x 

tnc:llane Depa~~-n'l: of'Tran•p-r'l:a1:1c:~on .lohn•of"'' and .lohnaon Lc:~oc::kh••d """"'•rtln C:orporat:h::.n IWI•-th--A•hl•n... ~-tr•l•.,..,_ LLC 
""""cK•• ,.o...,da l'lroA•rck & C:o.• I'"'C­IVUT Ll~cc:.ln Labora~ory IIV\c:.tor.gla 
NAVAift Nor'thrCiop Grumman 
a-r-a •---•'llrl•• 
Protlvltl.. Inc. 
~ 

............_ _.._.,. ,.,c:. 
"'·""'· S~U:h ... Aaac.clat••• lnoc::. 
Aayth•e»r' Schl..,.......,b•rv•r T•c:hnology C::c:~orpora1:1on. St:rvk•r lnatrurn•nta 
T•ac:h 'for Arn•rlca T•chnolc:.ov S•rvlcaa Ci,-oup Tra...,•l•r• Prop•rty C::aa"'al11:y 
T-rn•r c::-n•tr-ctlon 
Unlaya C::orp-ratto.-. 
~~~~~~ ~~t~.s:.~;·~=r-=• 
Unolt_.. ••••-• Ar'""'y c:-r.-• -• • .,_,___.,. Unl1:•d S•••-• IVI.arln• Corpa UnoIt_.. •*••-• ..........,.,
UrtiC:•d 5~-9;-a N•vy CIVIII•n .lob•
1..1-•-c:-••-•-r 
V"•..d•r, ~ ...ca.,. ••...#n-~~an .-. K•""'""'"'•'• 
\Aial•h Cc::..-,a-.:r~c:1:1C»n Gr-IUp \Af••t:lnghc::.~•• ~~-~~ric; Comp•ny 
....«»N•..:»R•D .,. TH• ~OeNT .N<GIN.....INQ COUNC:::IL.. NOT.... DA..,.. *TUD.NT a•CTeON 0 .. TH••OC:I.TV OP VV~I'Io4·N ............fta. TH. CAIIII••R c•NT•IIL AND TH. COLL•ca• c::»...NGIN....., ..... 
page 11

Friday, September 12, 2003 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
IRAN 
Iran resists explaining uranium 
Country plans to ignore October deadline to show its aims are peaceful 
Associated Press 
VIENNA, Austria -Iran warned Thursday that it will not accept an October deadline to prove its nuclear aims are peaceful. 
But support grew at a key 

U.N. atomic agency meeting for that timeframe, which could set the stage for Security Council action against Tehran. 
Diplomats said that by late Thursday substantially more than 20 members of the 35­nation International Atomic Energy Agency board of gov­was likely to abstain, they said. 
The second day of informal talks on how to plumb Iran's nuclear activities continued out­side the board meeting after supporters of the deadline asked for more time to get addi­tional backing for their stance. 
The meeting, suspended on Wednesday, was expected to reconvene Friday to vote on the timeframe-specifically, a U.S.­backed resolution urging Iran essentially to disprove by October that it has a covert nuclear weapons program. 
Implicitly warning that it might severe all ties with the agency, Iran said it would fight any deadline attempt. 
"We will oppose that," chief Iranian delegate Ali Akbar 
ernors indicated they "[Any resolution would vote in favor of coming down hard the timeframe, with 
on Iran] could 
an unknown number 
make the situation 
of likely abstentions. 
Russia, whose vote more complicated. ·• carries significant political weight, ini­
Kamal Kharrazl
tially opposed the concept of a deadline foreign minister of Iran but now was leaning toward abstaining Salehi told T h e Associated P r e s· s . "Nobody is in a position to impose a deadline on a sovereign country." 
In Sarajevo, the Bosnian capital, Iranian Foreign 
instead of opposing, the diplo­Minister Kamal Kharrazi said mats said on condition of any resolution coming down anonymity. China, another hard on his country "could important board nation, also make the situation more com­plicated." 
While not outlining conse­quences, the resolution sets up the possibility of U.N. Security 
Council involve­ment. That would happen if the board rules at its November meeting that Iran ignored IAEA demands and was in non­compliance of part of the Nonproliferation Treaty banning the spread of nuclear arms. 
"Nobody is in a position to impose a deadline on a sovereign country.·· 
All Akbar Salehi Iranian delegate 
mats present. 
Before the meet­ing adjourned, chief U.S. delegate Kenneth Brill called Iran to task based on a report before the board outlining discrep­ancies between its past statements on its nuclear pro­gram and IAEA findings. The 

The United States had been pushing for a resolution finding Iran in noncompliance at this meeting. But lack of support from most other board mem­bers scuttled that plan. 
The U.S.-backed push for a deadline got a boost after the head of the IAEA supported it Wednesday, saying he favored "an immediate disclosure of all nuclear activities" on the part of Iran. 
Reflecting the concerns driv­ing Americe, and its allies, IAEA director general Mohammed ElBaradei, in separate com­ments, warned that he and his agency might soon be unable to verify whether Tehran was diverting nuclear material into a weapons program unless Iran quickly agreed to fully cooper­ate. Those fears, expressed at a closed session of the board meeting, were relayed by diplo­
report, by ElBaradei, lists the discovery of traces of weapons­grade enriched uranium and other evidence that critics say point to a weapons program. 
Tehran insists its programs are for generating electricity and says its equipment was "contaminated" with enriched uranium by a previousowner. 
The U.S.-backed draft up for vote Friday expresses "grave concern" that Iran still cannot provide assurances it is not con­ducting secret nuclear pro­grams more than a year after being called to do so by the lAEA. 
It also calls on Iran to "pro­vide accelerated cooperation and full transparency" to allow the agency to clear up Tehran's nuclear question marks. 
KENYA 
Party head steps 
down_ 
Associated Press NAIROBI Former President Daniel arap Moi stepped down Thursday as head of the party that ruled Kenya for 39 years, 10 months after it was swept from power. The departure of Moi, who had served as president for 24 years and was ineligible to seek another term, could touch off a power struggle in Kenya African National Union, which holds 65 of the 210 elected seats in Parliament. Facing an opposition coali­tion that campaigned on an anti-corruption platform, Moi's party lost heavily in December elections, while the National Rainbow Coalition won 125 seats. Moi, 79, told a meeting of the party's parliamentary group and national executive committee that he wanted to spend more time setting up his Moi Africa Institute, an organization which is intend­ed to help resolve conflicts in Africa, senior party official Justin Muturi told The Associated Press. 



THE OBSERVER 
p

Page 12 


Friday, September 12, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
rful~ ~~Smti¥-H-,.. p..,.,..~M<I'ji-~ 
Student research demands respect 
Recently, there has been much attention paid to the seemingly comical recall election in the state of California. 
The media has focused on many aspects of the race and many of the more colorful candidates seeking to become governor. It seems to me, however, that the media has lost focus of the most important point: Why is there a recall election in the first place? 
If you listen to the Democratic Party, that question seems easily answered. There is a recall election, they say, because the vicious and nasty Republicans are launching a person­al attack against California's immac­ulate governor, Gray Davis. However, the real reason the governor faces the possibility of being recalled is because he has been a complete and total fail­ure as head of California. 
As Ann Coulter said, "California is, in fact, a per­fect petri dish of Democratic policies. This is what happens when you let Democrats govern: You get a state-or as it's now known, a 'job-free zone'-with a $38 billion deficit, which is larger than the budgets of 48 states. There are reports that Argentina and the Congo are sending their fiscal policy experts to Sacramento to help stabilize the situation. California's credit rating has been slashed to junk-bond status, and citizens are advised to stock up for the not-too-far-off day when cigarettes and Botox become the hard currency of choice. At this stage, we couldn't give California back to Mexico."_ 
During his disgraceful tenure as governor of California, 
Davis has signed off on exorbitant pensions for govern­
ment workers. On average, government employees in 
California earn more than the workers who pay their salaries. Davis was rewarded by the unions for his wasteful spending and virtually man­aged to buy himself re-election. Amazingly, Democrats are out­raged at the high cost of financ­ing a recall election. They did­n't·mind giving Enron-style pensions to school crossing guards, nor were they out­raged that Davis mandat­ed that the state of California pay for intol­erance and hatred con­trol training for all California public school teachers. And this is the guy who wants another chance to fix a state that is $38 billion in debt. Although there are many genuine concerns raised about the possi­bility of Arnold Schwarzenegger becom­ing governor, it is impor­tant to note that Schwarzenegger's so-called. public welfare programs will not be paid for with CalifQrnia tax dol­lars. Maybe additional spending is not what California needs. Maybe they even need a tax cut-something Schwarzenegger 
opposes. No matter what concerns are raised, one bene­
fit of having Schwarzenegger in office is that he is not 
Gray Davis. 
Joseph Brutto freshman Keenan Hall Sept. I 0 

OBSERVER POLL 
Has the University implemented enough alternative programming for students? 
*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 39 responses. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We may be surprised at the people we find in heaven. God has a soft spot for sinners. His standards are quite low .. " 
Bishop Desmond Tutu Nobel Peace Prize winner 
P.O. ~~ Q, Nom Dame. IN 465% oi4 South Dinintlhll, Notte Dame,lN 46$56 EorroR tN OCUF Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING .EorroR 8USJNJ!SS MANAGER Scott Btodfuc:hret Lori LeWalski 

OFACE MANAGER & GEN~L f.NFO 

News 
Scott Brodfuehrer 
Meghanne Downes Will Puckett Viewpoint Sheila Flynn mustrator Pat Quill 

Graphics Mike Harkins Sports Joe Hettler Pat Leonard Scene 
C. Spencer Beggs 
Every time the student body really care's about an issue, issue from many angles. His arguments for revealing TCEs the administration shoots it down. are convincing and well-supported by facts and statistics. 
Or that's what student body president Pat Hallahan said And students are overwhelmingly in favor of TCE publica­Monday at an unofficial meeting of the Campus Life Council, tion at Notre Dame. But University officials have ignored a Board ofTrustees-mandated committee that advises the student opinions for years, and they have given no indica­Office of Student Affairs. Hallahan was referring to the sub­tion that their attitudes will change now. ject of proposed changes to RA training, but his comment Such steadfast stubbornness and closed-lip policies do not hit at the core of adminstration-student rela-exactly leave students and observers with a tions. OJhe favorable impression of the administration. 
"As soon as we get a hot issue that students Both the student body and student govern­care about, we get put down. We get our agen­ment have a right to feel shortchanged by the da dictated by a minority of people," said current administrative attitudes. What is the
F.ditorial

Hallahan. purpose of having elected student representa-
And after looking at numerous campus issues tives if the University refuses to listen to -the alcohol policy, parietals and football ticket distribu­them? Why should students vote, discuss and express their tion-Hallahan has a point. Students present definite, well­opinions when there is no hope of response? thought-out opinions to the administration, which then Notre Dame is a community. The people on campus live. ·summarily dismisses their arguments. work and pray together. There should be communication, 
The topic of teacher-course evaluation publication is the which rileans give-and-take on both sides. The administra­latest to suffer through this frustrating and futile process. tion should pay attention to the clear and intelligent argu­The issue figured prominently in Hallahan's election cam­ments made by student government on this issue. The paign as he promised to make TCE information available to University should not have to give in to every student students. His office should be commended for following demand, but by working with students on the TCE issue, through with its promises this year. Junior Jeremy Staley both parties will benefit from the more cooperative atmos­
.. heads the Hallahan TCE committee and has researched the phere. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Examine real reasons behind recall 

Beware wedding industrial complex 
It is four in the afternoon as I unzip my tent. grab my towel and festive attire, and start walking toward the bathroom. I spent the morning playing Ultimate Frisbee and volleyball and enjoying quality time with friends. Now I have an hour to shower, get dressed and walk three quarters of a mile up a hill for the five o'clock wedding ceremony. These are not apt to be your typical John lnfranca nuptials. 
The non-conventional nature of this three-day wedding celebra­Dissident tion at a small lodge near Mt. St Poetry Helens, Washington is part of what has made it so memorable. It is a joyful thing that one among the 
2.4 million couples married each year has chosen not to be sub­sumed within the seemingly obligatory formulaic wed­dings that stamp banality upon our social land­scape. Such a decision requires the willpower to resist social and familial pressures that have turned marriage into a $120 billion industry and driven the average cost of a wedding to around $20,000. Some might claim you can't buy love, but it certainly appears there are more than enough people try­ing to sell it. 
For most. the initial foray into the wedding­industrial complex is the purchase of a diamond engagement ring. For those ignorant of its history. this tradi­tion is largely the result of an aggres­sive mid-20th century marketing scheme by the De Beers Company, which still controls about two-thirds of the diamond trade. They also encouraged the idea that grooms should spend two to three months' salary on a ring (rather convenient of them). Soon the company brandished the famous slogan. "A diamond is forever." 
Also forev~r are the brutal deaths of over two mil­lion people (according to Oxfam America) in wars fueled by the diamond trade in Angola, the Congo and Sierra Leone. Only in the last few year!'! have real efforts been made to stem this trade and to ensure that the diamonds reaching major points of distribu­tion and sale in Europe and the United States are "clean diamonds," diamonds whose sale has not been used to finance these wars. The Kimberly Process and other methods are slowly being implemented but remain imperfect tools. And so ignorant (and often not so ignorant) prospective brides are saying "I do" to a deadly trade linked with financing such admirable organizations as al Qaida and Hezbollah. All for the glory of love. 
The real business, however. begins after the engage­ment ring is purchased. Any local magazine rack offers the standard set of glossy wedding publications closely resembling phone books. The same publishers whose magazines have spent decades defining impos­sible norms of female beauty also offer similarly superficial descriptions of products without which your wedding day could not possibly be successful. Lavish excess has become the norm: thousand-dollar wedding dresses that will never be worn again, hun­dreds spent on clothing for the wedding party. flowers. limousines and teams of photographers. 
Despite all this money spent on purchasing and pro­ducing "ideal" weddings, over half will end in divorce (which might not be an entirely bad thing, as it at least affords the possibility of reusing an expensive wedding dress). I might not venture to claim a relation between how much Americans spend on weddings and how unsuccessful we are at maintaining them. I do offer that we might consider whether, in buying into 
societal myths of what a "beautiful" wed­ding demands, couples are losing an opportunity to truly reflect upon and express their uniqueness. 
This implies there are ele­ments of a wedding that might offer greater self­expression than the color of the brides­maids' dresses or the type of stretch SUV the wedding party will travel in. A wedding offers a young 
couple the first opportunity to give witness 
to the values in accord 
with which they hope to live the 
rest of their lives. Too many 
are pres­
sured into surren­dering this opportuni­ty to the 
demands of parents, society and 
tradition. Weddings also affirm 

the love two people pro­claim for one another. To grow and mature, romantic love (like any form of love) must relate in some way to other forms of love: love of the Divine, love of friends and family, love of the global commu­nity. Otherwise our love of a single person risks becoming selfish and self-serving. This might be what causes so many mar­riages to fail. 
Wendell Berry writes of this, "Marriage is not just a bond between two people, but a bond between two people and their neighpors, their chil­dren ... lovers must not live for themselves alone. They must turn from their gaze at one another back 
. toward the community." 
One might question whether modern weddings wit­ness to a love of the world outside the doors of the chapel. A world in which wars are being fought over the jewelry on our fingers. A world where hungry chil­dren do not have access to lavish meals and fanciful decorations. A world where love might be better cele­brated through simplicity and awareness. 
The wedding-industrial complex has turned love into a commodity and conventions into commandments. Perhaps it is this generation's duty to leave behind the excess of tradition. 
John Infranca is a graduate student in theology. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contact­ed at infranca.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Nationwide 
vigilance 

necessary 
I read with interest Luke Busam's Sept. 11 article, "Security Doubts Remain," discussing our community's feelings on safety since the attacks two years ago. Particularly. the many com­ments made by interviewed students caught my attention. 
Matt Klein stated, "I don't feel at risk for an attack on campus. It's not exact­ly a huge target," and later mentioned, "Terrorists aren't going to attack some­thing inconsequential like [his home town] Floral Park." 
Other students echoed this view, believing cities such as Des Moines and Fort Myers would not be worth a ter­rorist attack. Terrorists operate by inflicting and instilling terror in their victims. Sept. 11 was not a complete success by terrorists, standards, as the American people were only temporarily frightened -a frustrating idea for ter­rorists and all the more reason to try again. 
Over and over, I've heard claims. "I don't live in L.A. or New York City or Chicago. I don't neP-d to be worried." So what would happen if a terrorist decided to set off a bomb in, say, a Division AA high school football game in Anytown, USA? Not an exorbitant number of potential victims like that of the World Trade Center and Pentagon tragedies, but a good number nonethe­less. Suddenly, the large cities wouldn't be the only targets anymore. It has been happening in the Middle East in the form of buses and nightclubs, and it seems to be working. No one is safe. I'm not saying we should be paralyzed in fear that we may be attacked at any moment: this would be absurd and prove terrorism is working. However, we should not become so complacent as to convince ourselves that it could only happen in a major city. Don't let them catch us sleeping again. 
Kathleen Fitzpatrick 
semor Howard Hall Sept. II 


page 14 Friday, September 12, 2003 

By KATIE WAGNER Scene Writer 

It is no surprise that Notre Dame Stadium is packed with almost every member of the student body at home games. Last weekend, not a single seat was empty in the student section. As linebacker Courtney Watson revealed at the pep rally Friday night, the support of fans during games truly makes a difference to our players. But how much influence do fans actually have on the Irish's game? 
Despite the absence of proof supporting that a stadium full of green, 

attend home games. Notre Dame students are so excited about Irish football, that many now consider going to away games to be the perfect reason to take a road trip. 
At least a handful of Notre Dame students felt the call to travel to every away game last year. Travel-weary students returning to school from summer break repacked their bags just two days after their arrival to truck it to the Maryland game. 
The Irish's next on the road victory took place at Michigan State. One sen­ior said last year she and four friends sacrificed comfort as they crammed into one car to get to the game. How this group of women all obtained tick­ets is unknown; however, rumor has it that they are friends with some of our football players. 
As seen on television, this game was full of loyal Notre Dame students. Some even risked their lives by sitting in sections of all Michigan State fans. Last October, students were torn between two conflicting loyalties. Both the Air Force and Florida State game dates fell during Notre Dame's mid­semester break. Some picked their family while others chose the Notre Dame football team. The quantities of students present at these two away games were impressive. 
During the Air Force game, many women from Farley Hall, were seen cheering with the leprechaun and briefly made a television appearance. Many other Notre Dame students in 
resounding with chants of "Florida State was the crowd caught the "We are ND" contributes fun because it was cameraman's eye as well. to wins, Notre Dame stu­The second away game of
over fall break and
dents refuse to test this fall break attracted a
we got to do the
proposition. huge crowd of student 
Even stadiums of our whole road trip fans as well. rival schools are usually thing.,, Students drove to packed with a very large Tallahassee, Fla. from 
"cheering squad" of the places as far as Illinois, Notre Dame student body. Matt Mooney Indiana, Michigan, It is not enough to just junior Canada, New York, NeW 1' 
Jersey and Pennsylvania. 
But if a formal survey 
were taken, it would most likely reveal travels from even further away. A group of junior men from Siegfried claimed that they were actu­ally in Tallahassee for only about twelve hours. The rest of their fall break was evidently spent on a trek across the country, stopping in places such as Grand Rapids, Mich. and the University of North Carolina. 
"We woke up in our car at 8 a.m. and the whole parking lot was covered with green," Siegfried junior Matt Mooney said. 
Despite the brevity their visit to Tallahassee, Mooney said their trip was well worth the effort. 
"Florida State was fun because it was over fall break and we got to do the whole road trip thing," said Mooney. 

The Irish raise their helmets in salute to their cheering fans after their defeat at the 2003 Gator Bowl. 
The Irish travel in good comt 

Following the Irish isn't just a pastime; it's a way of life for many students. Fans will follow 
Keenan junior Steve Lynch enjoyed the road trip aspect of the Florida State game as well. In the spirit of 2000's hit movie "Road Trip," starring Tom Green, Lynch rented an R.V. with four other guys from his dorm (OK, they actually travel by bus in that movie, but close enough}. The men of Kennan Hall drove through Canada, then down the entire east coast of the United States, taking extra care to have a great time during each of their stops. 
In addition to Lynch's appreciation of his traveling experiences, he also really enjoyed the game. This junior described Tallahassee's appearance on game day as having ''ND people.., everywhere." He also heard that stu­dents over the age of 21 "took over the town's bars." 
At the game, Lynch and his friends yelled out their best renditions of the fight song and participated in many other expressions of Notre Dame spir­it. Unfortunately, Florida State securi­ty guards detested traditional prac­tices such as doing group push-ups after every Notre Dame touchdown and escorted Lynch out of the stadium. Lynch's willingness to get in trouble is a prime example of how dedicated Notre Dame students are to support­ing Irish football. 
Both the Navy and USC games also inspired members of the Notre Dame student body to leave campus for a weekend. Since the USC game occurred over Thanksgiving break, 

Notre Dame fans show Florida State what Irish trc 1,000 miles to show their support for their team. 
some students new to California and enjoyed the warm weather for the long, holiday weekend. 
Despite University of Southern California's upset of the Irish, students still managed to enjoy the game ­well, the earlier parts of the game when victory for the Irish still seemed possible. 
Keough junior Kevin Locke snagged a ticket to this game from his friend 

Friday, September 12, 2003 Page 15 



NELLIE WILLIAMS!The Observer 
adition means. Notre Dame fans trekked over 
that attends USC. Although Locke would have preferred a different out­come, he was still happy to have been there because of the excitement of being at such an important game. 
"Tons of Notre Dame students" were present at the game, he said. 
Lots of Notre Dame students also attended the final game of the season. The 2003 Gator Bowl took place in Jacksonville, Fla., a 1,000 mile hike 
CHIP MARKSffhe Observer 
, Notre Dame football to California and back, by train plane or automobile. 
from South Bend. 
Unfortunately, the Irish lost to North 
Carolina State, but the thrill of having 
at least made it to a bowl game helped 
students deal with the loss. Of course, 
the opportunity to take a long road 
trip to "J-ville" also prompted stu­
dents to purchase tickets to the game. 
One group of friends stopped their .cars at a Holiday Inn near downtown 
Jacksonville. Admittedly their hotel 
rooms were rather modest in terms of 
size, especially for accommodating the 
large group that stayed in them. The 
unexpected guests that slept over 
some nights only made living arrange­
ments tighter. 
But living in such close proximity to 
fellow Notre Dame students is all part 
of the fun and the experience of 
attending away football games.. 
Although the road trip was long, mem­
bers were happy that they traveled to 
Jacksonville so they could help "cheer 
for old Notre Dame." They even 
enjoyed some parts of the 16-hour 
drive each way. 
All these sightings of students in 
green and chants of "Go, Irish, Go" on 
national television last fall, proves 
that Notre Dame students are the 
most supportive, enthusiastic and 
energetic fans around, undoubtedly 
contenders for the title of "loudest col­
legiate football fans in the country." 
Students plan to maintain their sta­
tus as the best college football fans in 
the country. Farley juniors Margaret 
Closius, Jill Klima, Mary Howard, 
Diana Leonardo and Farley senior Aileen Ranieri have been preparing for their trip to Ann Arbor, Michigan since the first days of classes. 
All around campus, one can find stu­dents who are more than ready to attend this game to cheer on the Irish as they play the Wolverines. They are counting down the hours until game time. Closius even went so far as to approach Michigan season-ticket hold­ers for seats to this game. Other stu­dents obtained tickets to this game via a ticket lottery by Notre Dame. 
Earning tickets to the Purdue game, on the other hand, was slightly more challeng­ing. Very early in the morning on Aug. 29, the 
above group mentioned ..It ·s college. You do Finally, at 7:45 a.m., accompanied by Farley students were allowed to
stupid things in 
junior Emily Ramora stand in line for tickets.
college.··

plotted their capture of The Farley girls were tickets for the highly the first in line. anticipated rivalry Diana Leonardo "It's college. You do between Notre Dame stupid things in college,"
junior
and Purdue. 

These students had to 'plot, scheme ami take all kinds of risks in order to snatch tickets for this huge event. This group of Farley Hall resi­dents approached the Eck Center at midnight to secure their place as the first people in line for tickets. Tickets to the game were awarded to students on a first-come, first-serve basis. Arriving at midnight to wait in line for tickets would not seem so strange if the ticket sales began earlier than 8 a.m. 
These girls pulled an all-nighter to ensure that they would be able to sup­port the Irish in a foreign stadium. In the process, they also survived a thun­derstorm and a narrow escape from campus security. 
Their initial plan was to nap outside of the Eck Center for a few hours, but police officers thwarted their camping plans. Despite the girls' claims to be 
"are just doing homework," NDSP 
· refused to back down. Perhaps it was the blankets scattered about, the pro­visions of potato chips and the lack of studying which exposed their true intentions for sitting by the Eck Center so early in the morning. Undaunted, the girls hid in an alcove located just outside of the Bookstore. When they tired of that hiding space, they took refuge in Recker's. Around 2 a.m., another group of Notre Dame students arrived at the Eck Center. By 5 a.m., approximately 30 students wanting tickets had arrived. Since these fans still could not even form a line, they made a list of the order in which people arrived. 
Leonardo said, regard­
ing her late night 
escapade. 

"Road trips are fun," said Closius. 
With fans as dedicated as these, Notre Dame should easily be at least the runner-up for the most spirited group of collegiate football student fans in the country. 
Hopefully, this year, Notre Dame away games will have higher atten­dance from students than in years past. If so, Notre Dame students will finally learn how much an impact fans have on the players, giving them an edge and making it easier for them to win. These loyal and energetic fans could help the Irish finish the season as national champions. 
Contact Katie Wagner at wagner.54@nd.edu 

Friday, September 12, 2003 

page 16 The Observer+ CLASSIFIEDS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

•. 
Reds down Pirates with Jimenez home run 
Associated Press 

' CINCINNATI -D'Angelo Jimenez just missed a home run in his previous at-bat. On his second chance, he didn't miss. Jimenez hit a three-run homer in the sixth inning to give the Cincinnati Reds a 3-2 win over the Pittsburgh Pirates on Thursday. Ray Olmedo and Tim Hummel reached on bunt singles before Jimenez hit his sixth homer since coming to Cincinnati from the Chicago White Sox in July. Two innings earlier, he hit the same inside fastball from Pittsburgh starter Jeff D'Amico to the right field warning track for an out. "I waited a little longer on it · this time," Jimenez said. "I did­n't try to do too much with it. The ball was flying. It felt pretty good." Pittsburgh manager Lloyd McClendon considered the inning and said, "It wasn't pret­ty." Rookie Scott Randall (2-1) earned the victory with 1 2-3 innings of scoreless relief. Chris Reitsma pitched the ninth for his seventh save in his last eight opportunities, retiring Craig Wilson on a grounder for the last out with two men on base. The day before Reitsma allowed a two-run homer to Rob Mackowiak in Pittsburgh's 3-2 win over the Reds. "I just appreciate their faith in letting me go back out there," said Reitsma, who had convert­ed six consecutive opportunities before Wednesday. "You want to try to get back out there and get back on a positive track again." " 
Montreal 3, Chicago 2 

The Montreal Expos left Puerto Rico on a winning note, thanks to pitcher Torno Ohka and Orlando Cabrera's aggres­sive play. 
The Chicago Cubs departed the island knowing they just fell short. 
Ohka took a two-hit shutout 
CLASSIFIEDS 
into the ninth inning and Cabrera hit ·two doubles and a triple as the Expos held off the Cubs 3-2 Thursday. 
The Cubs rallied for two runs in the ninth but couldn't push across the tying run. They stayed one game behind NL Central leader Houston, which lost to Milwaukee 5-3. 
"The guy that killed us was Cabrera. Yesterday and today, he had a hot bat," Chicago manager Dusty Baker said. 
Cabrera did not speak to reporters after the game. 
Montreal won the series against the Cubs 2-1, and fin­ished their 22 "home" games in Puerto Rico with a 13-9 record. 
"He (Ohka) had an outstand­ing game," manager Frank Robinson said. "He was very in command, the way he's capable of doing it." 
Ohka (9-12) said he relied mainly on his fastball in striking out four while allowing two runs on six hits. 
Colorado 9, St. Louis 4 
There was only one consola­tion for the St. Louis Cardinals after Sterling Hitchcock got roughed up Thursday -they didn't lose any more ground in the NL Central. 
Hitchcock struggled for the first time since joining the team, surrendering four solo home runs in 3 1-3 innings in a 9-4 loss to the Colorado Rockies. 
"It doesn't have to be much," Hitchcock said. "I just never got the ball down." 
Miguel Cairo hit a two-run homer for the Cardinals, who remained 2 1/2 games out of first place in the NL Central when the first-place Astros and second-place Cubs both lost. 
··That's not a plus," manager Tony La Russa said. "We got beat." 
The Cardinals had won five of their last six series after losing the first game, but also got blown out 8-1 in the series opener. They head to Houston for a three-game series against 

the Astros starting Friday.  Milwaukee 5, Houston 3  Houston had won three in a  
"We'll talk about Houston  The Houston Astros wanted to  row and six of seven. The  
tomorrow," La Russ a snapped.  leave Miller Park this week in  Astros finished 7-3 on the their  
"Right now we got beat in a  first place. The Milwaukee  11-day road trip.  
series we couldn't afford to lose.  Brewers wanted to stop losing.  ··we just have to keep winning  
We'll turn our attention to  Both teams did it.  series," Houston star Jeff  
Houston when we get there."  Ren Sheets once again beat  Bagwell said. "If that's not good  
The Rockies are an NL-worst  Houston as the Brewers stopped  enough, it wasn't meant to be.  
17-33 since the All-Star break  a six-game losing streak, down­ But this was a very good road  
and have won only two of their  ing the NL Central-leading  trip."  
last 11 games. But they took two of three from St. Louis for  Astros 5-3. "We didn't want to make it.  Sheets (11-12) matched his career high for wins and defeat­ 
only their fourth road series  seven," Milwaukee manager  ed the Astros for the sixth  
victory in 24 tries all year, and  Ned Yost said. ··Benny came up  straight time.  
their first against a winning  huge."  Sh!lets had lost five in a row  
team since May 31-June 2,  The Astros stayed one game  overall, but stopped that skid by  
2002 at San Francisco.  ahead of Chicago, which lost 3­ allowing three runs and eight  
Darren Oliver (11-11) allowed  2 to Montreal. St. Louis lost to  hits in eight innings.  
three runs in 6 2-3 innings to  Colorado 9-4 and remained 2  ..1 wasn't down on myself,"  
end a personal five-game losing  1/2 games behind Houston.  Sheets said. ··Every time I get  
streak, winning for the first  "We try to take care of our  the ball I think I'm going to  
time since he beat the Reds on  own," Houston manager Jimy  win."  
July 29.  Williams said. "We've got our  Dan Kolb pitched the ninth for  
Oliver entered with a 6.07  own schedule. Now we have to  his 17th save in 17 chances.  
ERA over his previous six out­ go home and get ready to play  Ron Villone (6-4) pitched six  
ings.  the Cardinals."  innings for Houston.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
ROCK!! Drummer.and Bassist  2,3,4,5 and 8 BEDROOM HOUSES  JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER,  Going to Law School? Kaplan Test  
NOTICES  needed for new rock band. Contact Michael Barrett for more info. 4·  fOR RENT  FOR RENT FOR 2004/5: CALL ANLAN PROPERTIES 532·1896  NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT­BALL GAME. PLEASE CALL 674·  Prep is offering a FREE on-campus LSAT practice test on Sat 9/27 . Call  
4100  
 6593.  272-4135 to reserve a spot.  
PART-TIME WORK EXCELLENT  2·bdrm apts. $435/mo plus utilities.  COLLEGE PARK APT. 2 BED, 2  
PAY WWW.WORKFORSTU­ ROCK!! Drummer and Bassist  2-story, 4 bdrm, 2 full baths. Avail.  BATH, LIVINGROOM, DIN- Will trade 2 MSU, 2 NAVY, or 2 BYU  Apricots.  
DENTS.COM  needed for new rock band. Contact  immediately. 273-4555.  NINGROOM, KITCHEN, ALL  for your 2 FSU or 2 USC tickets.  
I  I NEED GA TIXS.2726306  Michael Barrett for more info. 4· 4100  2·6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  APPLIANCES INCLUDED $970­(630) 897-Q777  574·289·8048  Well it's the simplest things we tend to ignore when it's the simplest  
CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM  Will trade 2 MSU tix for 2 FSU. Call  things that mean so much more...  
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski &Beach Trips on sale now!  FoR SALE  MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272· 1525  4 Rooms NO football & grad 3 miles NO Best area (574)287-4545  Jim Newell at 203-748·8926.  Well, ya know sometimes ya gotta  
www.sunchase.com or  
 NO Alumni need Michigan St GAs!  race man.  
.  call 1·800-SUNCHASE today!  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  2-bdrm house close to NO. 269·  Call Wendy, 617-501-6400  
FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY  699-5841.  TICKETS  The Deuce Dub ... goin' strong and sober since early Sept ...  
WANTED  REMODELED, FULLY EQUIPPED. $94,500. Email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu  3-6 BDRM HOMES.AVAIL. NOW & 04/05.FURN.272-6306  NO FOOTBALL· BUY & SELL.  PERSONAL  KELLLLYYYYI!! LAUARRAAAA!!!  
CHECK MY PRICES. 273·3911 OR  I LOVE YOU. WE SHOULD GET  
SUMMER RENTAL WANTED  97 Volkswagon Jetta.Low miles.A1  That Pretty Place, Bed &Breakfast  TOLL FREE 877-773-3911.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  MARRIED. SERIOUSLY. BEN AND  
Retired Arizona couple looking to  condition. Sunroof.$5,900 0/B/0.  has space available for football/par·  not go it alone. If you or someone  I HAVE RINGS PICKED OUT I  
rent/sub·lease apt.!home for sum­ 269-663-8422  ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths,  TOP$$$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX  you love needs confidential support  MISS YOU. I'M LOOKING AT YOU  
mer of 2004. Call574·289-8800.  full hot breakfast, $80-$115,  OR INDIVIDUAL GAMES. DISCRE·  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  RIGHT NOW AND I MISS YOU ...  
LOFT, single, wooden. Will deliver  Middlebury, 30 miles from  TION ASSURED. 654-8018.  Louise Gude,CSC, at 1·7819. For  
SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns  and help set up. $165. Call 574­ campus. Toll Road, Exit #1 07. 1.  more information, see our bi-weekly  John Navarre is the most mediocre  
Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for  243.0853.  800-418·9487.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED  ad in The Observer.  quarterback to come through  
a few good men and women who  -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232·2378  Michigan since Tom Brady (ray,  
wish to work in a FUN and fast pace  IRISH CROSSINGS A NEW LUXU- Clean 2-bdrm house, 1.25 mi. to  PM 288·2726  Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America  that's for you)  
environment. A new store will be  RY VILLA COMMUNITY Build your  NO. Desirable neighborhood.  s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring  
opening up in early October. We  dream home next to Notre Dame. A  $550/mo +utilities.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  campus reps. Call for discounts:  Benjamin Cadenas respecta Ia  
have aggressive pay. Hrs from  limited number of home sites are  574-233-1604.  SALE AM -232·2378 PM -288­ 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  mujeres. Solamente le importa el  
11 am to 3am. In-shoppers, drivers  available. For more info go to:  2726  respecto.  
and mgmt available. Call Andy at  www.lrishCrossings.com  Furnished 2 bdrm apt. tor NO home  HUGE YARD SALE-SATURDAY,  
574-277.0850 for interview.  games. 1.4 miles to ND. $595 per  WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  SEPT. 13 FROM 9-3 ONE DAY  You sure you don't care?  
Couch $150. 80"Lx38W. Excellent  weekend. 269­ TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232­ ONLYII1 Housewares, lawn &gar·  
Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO  condition. Ught tan w/green&coral  684-6409.  0964.  den, bicycles, exercise/sports  A.J, to Leonard, to HummeL  
exper. required All looks & ages.  plaid lines. Call 272-0004 or email  equipment, camping gear and much  money  
Earn $100-$300 a day. H388-820­ mvandergriend@sbcse.k12.in.us for  Privacy! One-bdrm home, 1 026  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  more. 50541 Portage Road (north of  
0167, ext. U187.  photo. Will deliver to NO campus.  Foster St., $590/mo.574-784-3275.  LOWEST PRICES. (574)251·1570.  Adams Road)  And on that note, we cue the music.  

, 
Friday, September 12, 2003 page 17
The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Trojan's Williams pecoming top wideout 
Powerful, explosive sophomore could have outstanding career for Trojans 
... 


API Photo 

USC wide receiver Mike Williams grabs a touchdown In the Trojans' opening game against Auburn. The sophomore Is consider one of the best offensive players In the country. 


·University of N·ot"re ·Dame International Study Proga~am in 
Angers, France 
"Should l stay, or should I go'?'' 
:lN.FO.RMATION MEE1"ING 
With :Prof. :Paul McDolvell and returnees of th.e progra111 
r--······················--·-------------·----··-----·--··--------···············································-······---------····-····························, 
1 ..ruesday, September 16, 2003 
I ----·-·---··--·-11:~:;;~~!~----------------------------------------------· 
Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2003 Acadetnic Year 2004-2005 FalJ 2004-Spring 2005 i\pplications available: w\vvv.nd.e~lq/_:~_ii)tlstud 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Mike Williams stretched his 6-foot-5, 230-pound frame to grab a throw on his fingertips, all the while twisting to stay inbounds. 
Moments later, he leaped over a Brigham Young defensive back for another key catch. 
Powerful, agile and sure­handed, the Southern California sophomore is "everything you want in a receiver," Trojans quarterback Matt Leinart said. 
The Cincinnati Bengals' Carson Palmer, last year's Heisman Trophy winner for USC, said Williams is the type of player who makes quarterbacks look good. 
USC coach Pete Carroll said the big wide receiver puts a "different factor on the field" the same way the Minnesota Vikings' Randy Moss does. 
Williams made two big catch­es during a late drive, then caught an 18-yard touchdown pass last weekend to help fourth-ranked USC put BYU away 35-18. He finished with 10 receptions for 124 yards and two scores -then downplayed his contributions. 
"When they call your number, you have to make the plays," Williams said. 
Others praise his ability and attitude. 
"He's a great, great player; big, fast, all the things," Leinart said. "He makes big-time, big­time plays. This is only his sec­ond year, and he's such a natu­ral, he's phenomenal. 
"He's confident. You know he's good, he knows he's good. He's got a real presence about him." 
·Williams and the Trojans (2-0) play Hawaii (1-0) Saturday at the Los Angeles Coliseum. 
Carroll, a former NFL head coach, remembered the first time one of his teams went against Moss and the Vikings. 
"You could just tell there was something different going on. It was a preseason game and he only had a catch or two in the first half," Carroll said. "We told the team at halftime that he was a special player and to look out for him. 
"Sure enough, the first play in the second half was a 60-yard touchdown pass to him." 
The 6-foot-4, 205-pound Moss is a handful for cornerbacks, who usually are a lighter and a few inches shorter. 
Williams also is tough to cover. 
"Mike is just so physical. He's bigger than the other guys and there is speed and talent to go along with that size," Carroll said. 
Williams, who had 81 catches for 1,265 yards and 14 touch­downs as a freshman. made eight catches for 104 yards and a score as USC opened this sea­son with a 23-0 win at Auburn. 
A football and basketball star at Plant High in Tampa, Fla.. Williams said the Florida uni­versities didn't think he could play wide receiver because he was too big or not fast enough. 
"At USC, they had a clear-cut picture of what I could do," he said. 
Williams, speaking softly in an interview before practice this week, said it isn't difficult for him to remain humble. All he has to do is remember his third college game, when he caught only one pass for 11 yards while dropping four others in a 27-20 defeat at Kansas State. 
"If people say, 'Hey, you're the greatest, you're so-and-so,' I say, 'You must not have seen that game I played last year,"' he said. " worst part of it was that we lost. It's not the first time I've had a bad game, and I was eager to get back out there. 
"From that game on, I mostly have played well. So it was something to build on." 
Williams, who came back with four catches for 62 yards and two scores in a 22-0 win over Oregon State the week after the loss at Kansas State, said he's still able to put games -both good and bad-behind him. 



•.•.•.•.•.•,•.•,•,•,•,•.•,•,•,•.•,•.•,•,•,•,•,•,•:•.•;•,•,•,•.•,•.•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•.·.•.·.•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,-;o,•,•,•,•,•.~,•,-,-';'o~.•.-nJ'.•.•,•.•.•.-.•.•.•...,•.-,•.•.•.•.•~.•.•.•.•.•,•,•.•.•'!?;•l.'.'•'·'·'•'?•~~.v,v;;o,'?l',•.•.•~.·.•,"?;-.~"?.?.•A•.•,•;,o;-,•.•:-.-.•. 
2eo a-rr 4 TH'E 8EST Of NOTRE DAME THIATRE 
1\(~tt ll~ l~'rnl I 1 '[' llt.~-J..lntrlfH 1Stt:lg·ti 1\'leasure fc)r ~Ieasure 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, September 12, 2003 
NFL 

' 
Eagles move on with depleted secondary 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA The Philadelphia Eagles rallied ­and thrived -last year when Donovan MeNabb missed six weeks with a broken ankle. They're expecting similar results with a secondary weak­ened by injury. 
"We'd like to believe we're just not built on one individ­ual," said cornerback Troy Vincent. 
If only it was as easy as replacing 

one player. "We're going to else rallied Injuries have along the guy
play our regular
devastated that was step­
defense and play
Philadelphia's ping in," defense, leaving ball ... Vincent said. the Eagles no "That's what we choice but to use have done. It's
Lito Sheppard 
inexperienced, not that we
defensive back 
have to do it.
untested backups for Sunday's game against New England. 
Vincent and safety Michael Lewis have started games, but Clinton Hart and Uto Sheppard -with no career starts -will round out the secondary. 
The inexperience cost them in the opener when Sheppard was beaten for two touch­downs by Tampa Bay's Joe Jurevicius. 
Sheppard was ready Thursday to put the disap­pointment behind him. 
''I'm not a weak link on the defense," Sheppard said. "We're going to play our regu­lar defense and play ball." 
It's a defense that will under­go some adjustments with the growing list of injuries. 
All-Pro safety Brian Dawkins will miss two to six weeks with a sprained right foot. Pro Bowl cornerback Bobby Taylor also has a sprained foot. 
Defensive end Brandon Whiting strained a hamstring. Earlier, defensive ends Derrick Burgess (Achilles' tendon) and Jamaal Green (leg) went out for the season. And defensive end Jerome McDougle will miss at least one more game with ankle. knee and hip injuries. 

Dawkins hobbled along on crutches in the locker room after Thursday's practice, and said there was no timetable for his return. 
"You can't come back early or you'll mess it up again," he said. 
Vincent said the Eagles learned from McNabb's injury that reserves have to be pre­pared to play any time. A.J. Feeley stepped in for McNabb and injured Koy Detmer, lead­ing them to a 4-1 record at the 
end of 2002. 
"Everyone 
We've done it 
already." 
Defensive tackle Darwin Walker will shift to left end and start for Whiting. Hollis Thomas will take Walker's spot. 
Dawkins, Taylor and Whiting were all hurt Monday against the Buccaneers. 
Defensive coordinator Jim Johnson said he'll scale back and simplify the scheme. 
"I don't think it's going to be a major amount, but it's going to be some," Johnson said. "On certain things we've got to make sure the guys are com­fortable and can handle the scheme." 
All of a sudden Lewis, in his second year and making his sixth career start, is a veteran expected to lead the defense. 
"They will test us. We're young," Lewis said. 'Tve got to take more control out there in the secondary." 
To make the adjustment easi­er for Sheppard, he won't return punts against the Patriots. He returned four punts against Tampa Bay, but Brian Westbrook will run back punts Sunday. 
"We're going to let Lito con­centrate on being a corner," special teams coach John Harbaugh said. 
Parcells ready for "New York return 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas Dan Campbell wasn't trying to escape New York, even though 

" it wasn't his favorite place to live. The tight end knew that the Giants were going to be good. And the emergence of Jeremy Shockey, with his outstanding play and ·sometimes outra­, geous conduct, didn't bother Campbell -they are. good friends. As a free agent, Campbell just couldn't resist coming home to Texas to play for the Dallas Cowboys and their new coach Bill Parcells, who led the Giants to two Super Bowl titles. 
"Beside the fact of leaving some coaches and friends that I really liked being around and playing with, that was the hardest decision because I knew they were going to be a good team. You just knew it and could feel it," Campbell said Thursday. "At the same time, it shows I have faith in coming down here." 
The Cowboys have won five Super Bowls, their last eight seasons ago. Parcells, who had been out of coaching since 1999, was hired after three straight 5-11 records. 
Parcells considered tight end a must-improve position when he joined the Cowboys, and the 6-foot-5, 263-pound Campbell was a good fit. 
MLB 
Twins c~ach has brain hemorrhage 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO Minnesota Twins third base coach AI Newman suffered a hemor­rhage in his brain and was having tests Thursday to determine the cause and treat­ment. 
Newman's prognosis is good, though, Twins manager Ron Gardenhire said after return­
ing  from  the  Rush  
Presbyterian-St.  Luke's  
Medical  Center,  where  

Newman was in serious condi­tion. 
"They're on top of it, they're running a lot of tests, they're doing a lot of stuff, so he should be fine," Gardenhire said before the Twins beat Chicago 5-2. "We're hoping everything's going to be OK." 
Twins head trainer Jim Kahmann said Newman had an aneurysm. But Gardenhire said after he got back from the hospital that doctors were still doing tests to determine exact­ly what prompted the hemor­rhage. 
Gardenhire spoke with gen­eral manager Terry Ryan after the game, and Newman was still undergoing tests. There was no additional news, Gardenhire said. 
Ryan was at the hospital with Newman's wife, who arrived in Chicago on Thursday. Gardenhire said Ryan plans to stay in Chicago to monitor Newman's condition 
while  the  team  goes  to  
Cleveland  for  a  weekend  
series.  

The Twins' win Thursday tied them with the White Sox for the AL Central lead. 
"You worry about base hits and winning games, and that's all good and fine and fun. But this is life," Gardenhire said. "This is one of our friends, one of our teammates. This is life. You have to put the game in perspective when you see things like this. This brings us back to reality. 
"Baseball is just a game. that's what it is." 
The Twins hung Newman's jersey in the dugout during Thursday's game, and players said the friendly coach was on their minds. 
"He hasn't gotten a hit for us this year and he hasn't made an out for us this year, but he's very instrumental in what this team does," second baseman Denny Hocking said. "Not hav­ing him here is difficult, but one thing you have to do is you have to focus on the task at hand, and that's playing." 
Gardenhire said the Twins had just finished batting prac­tice Wednesday when Newman turned his neck and felt severe pain in his head. Kahmann consulted a White Sox team doctor, and Newman was taken to the hospital. 
Gardenhire said he got to the hospital early Thursday in hopes of seeing Newman. but the coach had already been taken for testing. 

Tk Notte Dame Department of Music Presents 
'...tot•ms Mozart, Sdlumaan & Bartok... 
Call611·6201 for more info 
There's a reason we're called Travelers. 
Join the company that has plenty of room for advancement. Travelers Property Casualty is one of the leading insurance companies in the United States. Our superior financial strength and consistent record of strong operating returns means security for our customers -and advantages for our employees. We give you the opportunity to get in on the ground floor with exciting Internships and Leadership Development Rotational Programs. So make the right move with us and enjoy world class benefits from day one. 
**Finance Majors** Visit Travelers at the Career Fair: Date & Times: 9/17/03, 4pm-9pm (Business Career Fair) Location: North Dome of the Joyce Center 
If you can't join us, please submit resume to: College Relations, Travelers, One Tower Square, SCZ, Hartford, CT 06183-7150. Fax: 860-277-1970. E-mail: college@travelers.com 
----""'""' 
~s·· 
Visit our Web site: www.travelers.com 

Travelers is an equal opportunity employer and Invites culturally diverse applicants to join our team. We actively promote a drug.free workplace. 
Friday, September 12, 2003 

The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
-

Holtz downplays team's ability, keeps winning 



QUOTES & FACTS 
The Nanovic Institute tor European Studfas lhWW.nd.edu/-nanovk: 
"He who laughs last has not yet heard the bad news." 
-&rtolt Bruht. ( 1898-1956.1, Get"tn<ln playwright and poet 

Join the company that has plenty of room for advancement. Travelers Property Casualty is one of the leading insurance companies in the United States. Our superior financial strength and consistent record of strong operating returns means security for our customers -and advantages for our employees. We give you the opportunity to get in on the ground ftoor with exciting Internships and Leadership Development Rotational Programs. So make the right move with us and enjoy world class benefits from day one. 
**IT Majors** 
VIsit Travelers at the Career Fair: Date & Times: 9/16/03, 12pm-5pm (Engineering Career Fair) Location: North Dome of the Joyce Center 
If you can't join us. please subm1t resume to: College Relations, Travelers, One Tower Square, SCZ, Hartford, CT 06183-7150. Fax: 860.277·1970. E-mail: coflege@travelers.com 
Visit our Web site: www.travelel'3.com 
Trav<'!lers •s an equal opportunity employer ilnd lmr•tes cultl.lrally diverse applicants to join our team. We actively promote a drug-fret~ workplaCtl. 
Associated Press 

COLUMBIA. S.C. -Lou Holtz is poor-mouthing his team again, and that can only mean one thing. 
South Carolina is winning again. 
A week after comparing the Gamecocks' chances of beating then-No. 15 Virginia "to the stripper that's running for gov­ernor in California," he's come up with this one for Saturday's game at 
No.8 Georgia: ..! think there·s a about his meth­"I think there's a 
better chance ofus ods. 
better chance of us 
There was

rescheduling it
rescheduling it grumbling about than there is us than there is us his ball-control winn1ng it." winning it.,, style in hi_s later After a losing years at Notre 
season and talk he 
Dame. where he

Lou Holtz
was on his way led the Irish to 
out, Holtz seems to Gamecocks coach the 1988 nation-
saying he felt a "huge weight had been lifted." 
Beth Holtz was at Williams­Brice Stadium last Saturday, a large smile on her face watch­ing her husband surprise peo­ple yet again. 
While there was talk of Holtz leaving, offensive lineman Travelle Wharton said "until he tells us he's not going to be back, that's when we'll pay it any attention." 
Holtz, of course, is quite 
familiar with 
being questioned 
be having fun 
again. And why 

not? His team is 2-0 and 
ranked No. 25 after a 31-7 
upset of Virginia. 

"I think Coach Holtz is having the time of his coaching life," Gamecocks athletic director Mike McGee says. 
That coaching life was in doubt during the offseason. Holtz, 66, dealt with questions about a 5-7 season, a lingering NCAA inquiry, and the health of his wife Beth, a throat c~ncer survivor. 
There's no doubt, says Phil Kornblut, who specializes in recruiting coverage, that Holtz's age and the team's struggles were "used in the liv­ing rooms during recruiting season." 
Most troubling was the uncertain condition of Beth, his wife of 42 years. Fluid was found in her lungs and doctors at first could not treat it effec­tively. A trip to the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, Fla., last month brought encouraging reports, and there are no signs that the cancer has returned. 
The Holtzes chatted like school kids last month, he said, when they learned her condi­tion had improved. He turned his full attention to the team, al championship. 
Holtz left South 
Bend in 1996 after 11 seasons. 
At the time, he said he fig­ured he never coach again. But after turning down the Gamecocks three times, he finally relented. And somehow he managed to turn a loser into a winner, leading South Carolina to consecutive bowl wins in 2000 and 2001 -the first time that's happened in 106 years of football at the school. 
But it sometimes looked as if Holtz had lost his touch last season. 
The Gamecocks had 11 turnovers in early losses to Virginia and Georgia. Senior quarterback Corey Jenkins was moved to linebacker. Frustrated, Holtz took over the offense last November, and his team responded with its worst game of the season -a 23-0 loss to Arkansas. 
After the season ended with a 27-20 loss to state rival Clemson, Holtz sounded like he'd had enough. 
"All my thinking is forward," he said before Thanksgiving. "Yet at the same time, I'm worn 
out." Not anymore. 


54533 Terrace Lane South Bend, IN 46635 (US 23 next to Subway) 
Tel: (574)271-8899 
We deliver Fax: 271-3399 for menus 
-
. 
Friday, September 12, 2003 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
) 
~ 
'
~ 
\ \ I 
"<'­\ 
~ 
) 
\ 
)
' 
) 
\ 
\ 
~ 
\ .,.__ 
~ ~ 
\ 
'I 
<
'I 
~ 
~ 
~ 
\ 
\ 
< 
' 
\ 
s 
') 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
'· 
) ) 
\ \ 
'\ 
) ) '> 
~ 

I 
J,.,
t 
j 
:~ 
I ) 
'( 
{ 
( I ( I 
i 
.} 
~ ~--, 
·; 
i 
< 
~ 
I 
'?
'I 
'i 
'( 
:~ 
'I 
·~ 
I;'< 
'I 
~ 
I~
,, 
,, 
,·, 
i 
NFL 
NASCAR 

Bailey disappointed· 
Jarrett's crew chief loses wife 
that Vick won't start 
Woman dies after limousine gets hit 
Associated Press ing flanker broke his left hand last week. Quentin McCord will 
by pickup truck 

ATLANTA -When the NFL start in Finneran's place. schedule came out five months Most of Bailey's attention, 
Associated Press 

ago, Champ however, will be spent on Bailey cfrcl e d Peerless Price. Week 2 on his ''I'm going to do 
GREENSBORO, N.C. -The calendar. my thing," Bailey 
wife of Dale Jarrett's crew
"'I'm kind of
T h e said. "I'm going 
chief was one of three people Washington disappointed he's to get out there, if 
killed when her limousine Redskins' star not playing I've got to cover 
burst into flames after being cornerback final­guys for 5-10 sec­
hit from behind by a pickup
because I want 
ly would face the onds, I'm going to truck. 
Atlanta Falcons their best players do it." 
Tara Howell Parker, 29, and their star on the field. , Falcons coach 
died late Wednesday in the quarterback, Dan Reeves 
interstate accident. police Michael Vick, in stopped short of 
said. Parker was the wife of
Champ Bailey 
a regular-season saying Bailey can Shawn Parker, crew chief for 
Falcons cornerback 
game. 

"I'm kind of disappointed he's not playing because I want their best players on the field," said Bailey, a three-time Pro Bowl selection. 
Instead Bailey will face Doug Johnson, who he faced in col­lege when he was at Georgia and Johnson at Florida. 
In 1997, former Steve Spurrier, now in his second year with the Redskins, benched Johnson midway· through a 37-17 loss to the Bulldogs. The following year. the Gators won 38-7 as Johnson accounted for three first-quarter touchdowns against Bailey's Bulldogs. 
An opportunity to avenge a loss in college, though, doesn't compensate for missing a chance to face Vick, who broke a bone in his lower right leg last month and is expected to miss all of September and a game or two in October. In 2001, the Falcons and Redskins met in the preseason but Vick was a rookie and Bailey left the game before Vick entered. 
Bailey wants the Redskins to adopt the kind of attitude Atlanta used to win several close games last year. 
"I hate losing. I hate it with a 
passion," he said. "You'd bet­
ter believe it's frustrating 
around here not to be in the 
playoffs, especially after going 
your first year. I hate getting 
used to not going. We've got to 
win some games around here. 
It's real frustrating." 

The Redskins (1-0), coming 
off a 16-13 victory last week 
against the New York Jets. 
need to pressure Johnson, who 
recovered from a first-half 
slump to complete 11 of his 
and two touchdowns in a 27­
13 victory at Dallas. 

Atlanta (1-0) won't have 
Brian Finneran after the start-

Megan Elizabeth Howell, 16, McFayden was charged with and Mysti Howell Poplin, 24, driving while impaired and both of Mocksville, also died, three counts of second-degree police said. All three were murder. He was in Guilford passengers in the limousine. County Jail under $300,000 
Police said the limousine bond. stopped in a travel lane Parker of Cornelius received because of a heart trans­construction plant two years on Interstate ago, and she 
40. It was "/ can't put into and her hus­struck by a band adopted a
words the grief we 
pickup truck baby boy in July, 
driven by feel. We are all in the Yates team 
Jeffrey Niles shock right. said. McFayden of "Tara has Greensboro. gone through a
Robert Yates 
The truck lot in the last 
pushed the head of racing team two years and limousine into was really an the car in inspiration to 
front of it and everyone that a gasoline tank ruptured, knew her," Yates said. causing the limo to burst into Plans are being made to flames, police said. replace Parker as crew chief 
The limousine driver and for Sunday's New Hampshire 
the driver and a passenger in 300 in Loudon, N.H., Jarrett the front car were not spokeswoman Penny Copen injured. said. 
shut down an entire side of the field, but he· did 
acknowledge the need for Johnson and the Atlanta receivers to work away from the star cornerback to be suc­cessful. 
Jarrett's No. 88 Robert Yates Racing team. 
"I can't put into words the grief we feel," Yates said. "We are all in shock right now. All we can do is support Shawn and what he needs to do as well as Tara's family." 

CAREER DAY 
Learn More About GE and GE's Financial Management Program. 
ALL MAJORS WELCOME Refreshments Will Be Served 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 18,2003 1:00PM-5:00PM MBA Lounge, ·149 Mendoza Hall Stop in anytime, Continuous Presentations 

imagination at work 
www.gecareers.com/notredame or email us GENO@ge.com 
Friday, September, 12, 2003 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Halladay becomes first to 20 wins, beats Rays 
"Our thoughts are still with AI
Associated Press 

Newman, so it's a little tough for 
us in here," Twins manager Ron 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla.-Hoy Gardenhire said after the 1\vins Halladay was at a complete loss beat Esteban Loaiza and the to explain how it felt to be a 20-Chicago White Sox 5-2 on game winner. Thursday.
"I can't tell you "That was a bigyet," he said. "It's performance byhard to tell after "He·s as good a us. We take a lit­
just happening. pitcher as there is tle bit off of it 
Maybe it's some­because of what's
is in the league. ,,
thing that really going on with our sinks in in the off­coach," season. But I 
Lou Plnella Gardenhire 
enjoyed it." added. "That
Tampa Bay coach 
Halladay b~came 
the first 20-game winner in the majors this season, pitching a five-hitter that led the Toronto Blue Jays over the Tampa Bay Devil Rays 3-1 Thursday. 
Halladay (20-6) has seven complete games this year, including his past three starts. He beat the New York Yankees 8-1 on Sept. 1 and then had a 1 0-inning, 1-0 shutout five days later over Detroit. 
"He's amazing," Blue Jays manager Carlos Tosca said. "If there's a better pitcher out there right now, we haven't seen him. He's the whole package." 
Roger Clemens was the last Blue Jays' pitcher with three consecutive complete games, doing it in August 1998. 
"He's as good a pitcher as there is in the league. There's no question about it," Devil Rays manager Lou Piniella said. 
The 26-year-old righty's career-high streak of 2 3 score­less innings ended when Tampa Bay scored an unearned run in the sixth. 
Minnesota 5, Chicago 2 
Any other time, the Minnesota 1\vins would be celebrating Brad Radke's stellar pitching outing and the gutty way they climbed back into a tie for the AL Central lead. 
But one look at third-base coach AI Newman's jersey hang­ing in the dugout was enough to remind the Twins there are other things more important than baseball. Even when they're in the hunt for the play­offs. 

makes it a little 
harder. But it 
doesn't take away from the performance our base­ball team put out on the field today." 
Cleveland 6, Kansas City 5 
Alex Escobar had his second straight three-hit game, driving in the go-ahead run with an eighth-inning single as the Cleveland Indians beat the Kansas City Royals 6-5 on Thursday. 
The Royals stayed 3 1/2 games back in the AL Central, after Minnesota beat Chicago 5-2 to take a share of the lead with the White Sox. 
Danys Baez (2-8), the fourth of five pitchers used by the Indians, earned the win with a scoreless inning of work. Jason Grimsley (2-6) gave up an unearned run in two innings and took the loss in a game delayed twice by rain. 
David Riske relieved Baez with two on and two outs in the eighth. Riske struck out Brent Mayne to end the inning and stayed on through the ninth for his sixth save. 
Riske is 5-for-5 in save oppor­tunities since manager Eric Wedge named him the closer Aug. 15. 
Chris Magruder had hits in his first four plate appearances of the year and drove in two runs for Cleveland. 
Magruder, who spent the first half of the season on the dis­abled list with a torn ligament in his left thumb and only joined the Indians on Tuesday, tripled and scored on Brandon Phillips' grounder for a 1-0 lead in the first. 
He added RBI singles in the fourth inning and Cleveland's three-run fifth and also singled in the seventh. He popped out to left to end the eighth with the bases loaded. 
Oakland 14, Anaheim 4 
A sunny day at the Coliseum can cure many of the Oakland Athletics' offensive woes. A lousy start by the opposing pitcher doesn't hurt, either. 
Eric Chavez hit two of the A's six homers in their third straight victory, 14-4 over the Anaheim Angels on Thursday. 
Eric Byrnes and pinch-hitter Billy McMillon hit three-run homers, and Ramon Hernandez and Mark Ellis also homered as the A's wrapped up their next­to-last homestand of the regular season with an impressive power display in their 11th vic­tory in 12 games at the Coliseum. 
Every power hitter in Oakland history -frdin Reggie Jackson to Jose Canseco to Jason Giambi -has adored the Coliseum in hot weather. It's one of the majors' most pitching-favorable parks except on warm days, when the ball seems to rocket out of the stadium. 
New York 5, Detroit 2 
Roger Clemens kept thinking about a list of names, and it wasn't all those greats he keeps passing in the record book. 
On the second anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Clemens couldn't get his mind off the children who recited the names of their dead relatives earlier in the day at ground zero. He kept his composure Thursday night and led the Yankees over the Detroit Tigers 5-2, completing a sweep that boosted New York's AL East lead. 
"That's difficult, when you have to hear a young kid who's not an adult do that," Clemens said. 
Before getting his 307th victo­ry, Clemens watched on televi­sion as the names of 2,792 vic-tims of the attacks on the World Trade Center were read. Two years earlier, on the day he was to try for his 20th win of the sea­son, he stood on the roof of his Manhattan apartment building and watched the smoke rise from the towers. 

There was a brief ceremony before the game that included a moment of silence, and the crowd of 31,915 chanted "U-S­A! U-S-A!" after "God Bless America" was played during the seventh-inning stretch, which happened to occur at 9:11 p.m. 
"It's a date that we'll always remember every time it comes around," Clemens said. "It's a day we'll always be part of." 
Clemens took notice of the American flags on the sides of the Yankees' caps in commemo­ration of the attacks, and planned to autograph several to give them to the fire company in his neighborhood -which hap­pens to have the same No. 22 as his uniform. 
Clemens, who went to Afghanistan during the offsea­son to visit U.S. troops, is proud of the way New Yorkers came together following the attacks and is angry at criticism of President Bush. He gets mes­sages from Bush--the former 

•FREE Famous Dave's pre-ga111e party (while supplies la!-;t) 
Fri. 9/12 7:00PM: vs.Indiana 
• Hand clappers will be given out to the first 250 fans 
• First 350 people will receive a free t-shirt 
Sunday 9/14 • 1:30PM: ND vs. Akron 
• See the world's largest soccer ball hot air balloon 
Sat. 9/13 7:00PM: vs. Utah
• Hot Air Balloon ride will be given away to one lucky fan 
• First 350 people will receive a free t-shirt
• Marcos Pizza to the first 250 fans (while supplies last) 
fi(J I ill na:0!vJiJt,t[J) iitJilfin{1SI 
Sun. 9/14 1 :30PIVI: vs. S. Carolina 
• First 350 people ""';11 receive a free t-shirt
Saturday 9/13 • 7:00PM 
• Post gan1e pizza party in Gyn1 1 & 2 
ND vs. Western Kentucky **KID'S NIGHT** 
•Visit game promotions link at un(l.com!
•Get your picture taken with the Rugrats 
-
Texas Rangers owner -from 
Air Force Gen. Richard B. 
Myers, chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff and a high school 
classmate of Alan Hendricks, 
one of Clemens' agents. 
Clemens (14-9) allowed two 
runs and seven hits in 6 · 2-3 
innings with six strikeouts. He 
tied Mickey Welch for 18th place 
on the career list, two behind 
Hoss Radbourn, and improved to 
25-10 against Detroit. 
"I'm sorry to see him go for baseball," Tigers manager Alan Trammell said. ''I'm not sorry to see him go when he pitches against us." 
Jorge Posada hit a two-run single off Nate Cornejo (6-15) for a 3-2 lead in the fourth and made a nifty tag at home plate. 
Nick Johnson and Bernie Williams added solo homers for the Yankees, and Mariano Rivera pitched the ninth for his 35th save in 41 chances. 
New York's AL East lead over Boston dwindled from 7 112 games on Aug. 20 to 1 1/2 games last Saturday. The follow­ing day's win over the Red Sox started a five-game winning streak that has boosted the mar­gin to four games. 
"It's important that after you play a very emotional weekend against Boston that we kept our edge," manager Joe Torre said. "To me, that was another test." 
Detroit (37-108), which has lost six straight, was swept in a series for the 19th time this sea­son and has lost the most games in the major leagues since the 1998 Florida Marlins went 54­108. 
On its ninth losing streak of six or more games, Detroit needs six wins in its final 17 games to avoid matching the post-1900 record of 120 losses in a season set by the 1962 New York Mets. The Tigers have 214 losses since the start of 2002, the most in back-to-hack years since the 1964-65 Mets dropped 221 games, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. 
"We've got win something somewhere along the line," Trammell said. 
Cornejo, who pitched nine shutout innings last weekend against Toronto in a game the Blue Jays won in extra innings, allowed 11 hits in his second complete game this season. 
Posada saved a run in the sixth when Dmitri Young tried to score on Craig Monroe's single to left. Hideki Matsui's bouncing throw was to the third-base side, but Posada grabbed it and tagged Young with a swipe. 
Friday, September 12, 2003

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 

NBA 

Prosecutor outlines Bryant assault case 
Photographs part of submitted evidence 
Associated Press 

EAGLE, Colo. -A prosecu­tor outlined the sexual assault case against Kobe Bryant for the first time Wednesday, say­ing there are photographs of injuries to the woman and a videotaped statement from her. 
In a court brief, Eagle County District Attorney Mark Hurlbert said he planned to pres­
ent the evidence "The whole issue is 
offense at the Oct. 9 pre­consent, and the charged," liminary hearing Hurlbert said.
only person who
that will deter­Hurlbert said 
can meaningfully
mine whether he will present the NBA All-Star talk about this is information ' ~ from a nurse
.) will stand trial. 
) the accuser. 
(~I... 
Hurlbert also about injuries\· said the main shown in the 
·~ <, investigator in Craig Silverman photographs the case will tes­defense attorney taken during a 
tify. While detailing

:l 
his evidence, Hurlbert also asked the judge to throw out a
: ~ 
' ') defense subpoena calling for 
:~ l the accuser to testify. Hurlbert said testifying at the hearing would subject the 19-year-old woman to needless "anxiety
:! 
and intimidation." 

')) 
'>> The defense can instead 
~u 
'\) question investigators about ·, ~ the accuser, the prosecutor said. 
Bryant's attorneys, Pamela Mackey and Hal Haddon, did not return a telephone mes­sage seeking comment. 

Bryant is charged with sexu­ally assaulting the woman June 30 in his suite at a near­by mountain resort. She worked there, and Bryant was staying there while in 
Colorado for knee surgery. Bryant has said they had consensual sex. 
The Los Angeles Lakers' star is free on $25,000 bond pend­ing the October hearing. 
The brief marked the first time Hurlbert offered a glimpse of the evidence in the case, including the photos, the video and what he called an "electronically enhanced" ver­sion of Bryant's interview with investigators. 
Bryant's statement will cor­roborate the accuser's state­ment and "direct evidence to many of the ele­ments of the 
medical exami­
nation of the accuser. Eagle County sheriff's Detective Doug Winters, the key investigator, also will tes­tify. 
Denver defense attorney Craig Silverman, a former prosecutor, said the evidence mentioned in the brief appears to be enough to con­vince a judge to order a trial. 
However, Silverman also said Eagle County Judge Frederick Gannett may want to hear from the accuser in court. 
"He can't decide the case in a vacuum," Silverman said. "The defense will argue that sex occurred. The whole issue is consent, and the only per­son who can meaningfully talk about this is the accuser." 

Ala You 

~~·=· .. .. ..~ .. . -...;; ..<~:.
.•.. ·.·~····~-:-.·:-~······~!.•·.~-=-..~-:-. ·.·:-:-·:-..•
.......... ~·.··· ••••• ~·.•,•fl,••••.... ···l :;a
For A ·:.~!:' ~:·:· ....~ •.t.il.... -:!.................'•'! .••• rA 
6 ~~ ~ 
At M~al Managemen~ we've earned our reputation as one of the most reliable companies in the scrap meul 1ndustry. CIM'rtntly we haw opportu01t1es at our Ch1cago, IL locat1on for. 
IIIIIGEIIEJI,. tUIIEES 
The ideal candidate will be provided a 2year training program that will encompass all asPKts of 
the operation. Must be a degreed 1nd1Vidual With the asp~ratJons of becoming management 
material. Willingness to worlc: 1n the scrap metal industry is requ1red 
We offer exc. compensation,~ica I,denul,111sion and 401 (k). Please email your resiJrTle to: 
METAL MANAGEMENT 


Attn: HR Manager 
2500 S. Paulina • Chicago, IL 60608 E-mail: mwresumes@mtlm.com 
EOE ,. 

It J 
J' 
t. 
NHL 

Bure's knee fails team physical 
ies so many times and I always revealed damage "The most the effort he put
that may require

want to come back and play, important thing is in." 
more surgery.

and I still want to come back Sather was
that rm going to
It is not known if

and play right now," the 32-not. surprised
another operation try and get better. ..
year-old Bure said Thursday. with the latest
will fix Bore's knee

"Sometimes you just have to prognosis and
enough to support

deal with what you have to Pavel Bure prepared for 
a game based on

deal with. right wing this seaspn with
speed and the abil­
hard this summer to do every­thing in his power to get his knee to a point where he would be able to play," said Glen Sather, the Rangers coach and general manager. "We are all very disappointed for him, knowing 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Right wing Pavel Bure's damaged right knee failed a team physical Thursday, and the New York Rangers declared him med­ically unable to play. 
"I have been through surger­doctors, none of us can control and I don't know that there is any other special program to try, but it is getting worse." 
Bure underwent knee recon­structions· in 1995 and 1999, and a July 30 examination by the Rangers' orthopedic surgeon 
"I will still continue doing 
ity to change direc­what I can do, my exercises. 

tions in a flash.

The most important thing is 
"I have had five surgeries
that I'm going to try to get bet­and two reconstructions and ifter." 
I have another one, nobody
Bure will not accompany the can guarantee it is going to get
team to Burlington, Vt., for 
better," Bure said.

training camp, which begins Bure
Friday. The team came 
to the Rangers
said there is no 

timetable for when ../ don't know if in a trade with the
he can play again. there's any special 
Florida
The Russian 

program to try, but it
Rocket played 39 Panthers on 
games for the is getting worse. ·• March 18, Rangers last sea­2002. He has son, totaling 19 played 51
Pavel Bure 

goals and 11 games for
right wing

assists. But he was New York, troubled almost recording 31 from the start by goals and 19 his knee, which he injured in assists. an exhibition game against He has a $10 million guaran­New Jersey on Sept. 24. He teed contract for the 2003-04 twice had arthroscopic surgery season that is fully insured. on the knee last season, but The team would be reim­still feels pain. bursed for 80 percent of the 
"It's going the other way, it's contract if Bure is unable to getting worse," Bure said. "I play. can't control that -trainers, "Pavel worked extremely 

the thought Bure probably wouldn't play. 
"I had a good idea last year right at the trading deadline that this wasn't going to come out the way we would like," Sather said. "Obviously when I got Alex [Kovalev] and [Anson] Carter, that sort of settled my own mind at that time that it didn't look like it was going to happen." 
Bure joins defenseman Brian Leetch on the sidelines for the Rangers. Leetch reinjured his ankle last weekend and will miss training camp. Two weeks ago, Rangers goalie Mike Richter retired following post-concussion syndrome. 
Young backup goalie Dan Blackburn will also be missing from camp. Blackburn dam­aged a nerve in his left shoul­der during the team's prospects camp in Calgary, Alberta last month and is also battling mononucleosis. 


OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Friday, September 12, 2003 Cotv\.PILED FRO!vt THE 0BSERV"ER \VIRE SERVICES Page 23 

around the dial 
CoLLEGE FooTBALL NOTRE DAME at MICHIGAN 3:30 p.m., ABC Purdue at Wake Forest noon, ESPN UNLV at Wisconsin noon, ESPN2 Iowa at Iowa State 12:30 p.m., FOXCH South Carolina at Georgia 3:30p.m., WSBT East Carolina at Miami 7 p.m., ESPN2 Kentucky at Alabama 7:45 p.m., ESPN Hawaii at Southern Calfornia 1 a.m., FOXCH 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

wait for him to contact to be released from his that sort of requirement.
Associated Press 

us," Popp said Thursday. scholarship and transfer The Alouettes (9-2) have Indeed, Popp thinks to another school. Clarett the league's best recordCOLUMBUS, Ohio -If Clarett should stay in would still have to sit out and lead their division byMaurice Clarett wants to school and weather the at least the mandated sus­4 1/2 games. Then again,
play in the Canadian 
season-long penalty hand­pension season. they also have two estab­
Football League, he'll 
ed down Wednesday. If he moved to another lished tailbacks. 
have to make the first 
''I'm a true believer that Division 1-A school, he Popp selected Clarett for call. 
all players should try to would also have to sit out the Alouettes' negotiationThe Montreal Alouettes get their college ed uca­a transfer year. If he list this summer, shortlyown the CFL rights to the tion," Popp said. "They transferred to a school in after word of the player'ssuspended Ohio State run­
ning back, but general can only play pro football Divisions 1-AA, II or III, off-field problems arose. manager Jim Popp won't so long. He needs to get though, he would not have But while acclaimed NFL pick up the phone to start his degree. That's the best to sit out the transfer rookies can get millions of negotiations. thing that can happen to year. dollars in signing bonus­
"If he has any intent of him." The NFL isn't a possibil­es, the CFL is not nearly giving up college -hires It's among Clarett's ity -unless Clarett chal­as lucrative. an agent and automatical­options. He could stay at lenges the league's rule The average salan in ly becomes a professional Ohio State and go to class that requires players to be the CFL is about $34,000. -or it is deemed he can't while on scholarship, out of high school at least And the 18-gamc regular play in college anymore ... waiting for his suspension three years. season is more than half then this organization will to end. He also could ask The CFL doesn't have finished. 
IN BRIEF  
Baker is recovering alco­holic BOSTON -Celtics forward Vin Baker says he is a recovering alco­holic who used to binge in hotel rooms and at home after playing poorly. In an interview in Thursday's Boston Globe, Baker said Celtics coach Jim O'Brien smelled alcohol on  successful," team spokesman Bill Bonsiewicz said Thursday. Baker said he began binge drinking during the 1998-99 NBA lockout. He said he would go days without a drink, then binge three or four days in a row. Before training camp, Baker and the Celtics will set up a support net­work in all NBA cities. Baker plans to  The right-hander, ori the disabled list for two weeks with tendinitis, returned to Turner Field after three days of rehab in Birmingham, Ala., under the direction of orthopedic sur­geon James Andrews. Smoltz said he won't travel with the NL East-leading Braves on their six­game road trip beginning Friday night in Florida, but he still plans to return  
him in practice and confronted him about it December and January. The team suspended him Feb. 27 and he didn't play again. Baker said he has not had a drink for six months. He sought treatment at a program at the team's insistence. He said he is down to 241 pounds, his playing weight his first two seasons. "The Celtics, the organization,  attend Alcoholics Anonymous meet­ings and undergo testing this season. Baker said he will have to apologize to teammates at training camp and regain their trust by working as hard as he can. The Celtics obtained the 6-foot-11 Baker in a trade with Seattle. He played in 52 games, averaging 5.2 points and 3.8 rebounds.  for the postseason. "My routine is simply going to be, for the next six days, I'm going to be rehabbing it two, three times a day, doing what I need to do to get back on the field," Smoltz said. "I want it to be gone. I'm being selfiSh. It's definitely getting better." Smoltz had reconstructive surgery on his right elbow in 2000. performed  
cared for me as a person," Baker told the Globe. "The suspension gave me ... a new lease on life, a new chance  No further arm damage for Atlanta's Smoltz  by Andrews. "My latest trip reaffirmed, hearing it from the guy that performed my  
at my career."  ATlANTA ­ The MRI exam earlier  surgery, that the elbow's great,"  
The club said it stood behind Baker.  'this week on Atlanta closer John  Smoltz said. "We just want to move  
"We're going to do the best we can  Smoltz's tender elbow did not show  the tendinitis out of there as soon as  
to provide the structure for Vin to be  any further damage.  possible."  

-

~-­
,,, . 
,,. 
~~ 
,,' 
1\' 1\ 
•\' 
'\. 
,y 
\\ )\ )• 
~\ 
" '.\\ 
\\ 
\\ 
\'. 
)\ 
\" 
c" 
\\ 
\\ 
\'I 
;~
,.... 
\)' 
\'I 
" 
~~ ---~ 
\~ 
)\ 
\)
\\ 
)\ 
\') 
\~ 
~'
)\'
)I,\ 
w 
\)'I 
\~\
)""
'~~ 
~. 
) 
s 
~· 
~· 
\ 
~· 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 12, 2003 
Men 
continued from page 28 

and they are well coached," Clark said. "They are very good technically, and they will be a challenge." 
Sunday, Fresno State plays its second consecutive match with an early morning 11 a.m. start versus Indiana. Notre Dame and Akron will then conclude the tournament. 
Akron is a familiar face to Notre Dame. The Irish met the Zips twice last year, winning both games including a 3-1 vic­tory in the first round of the NCAA tournament. 
The No. 16 Notre Dame and No. 14 Indiana squads are the only two ranked teams in the tournament. They are also the only teams who will not meet head-to-head this weekend. The Hoosiers will return Thursday, September 18, to renew a rival­ry heated by a 1-0 defeat of the Irish in the second round of the NCAA tournament last season. 
Notre Dame is looking to rebound from a 3-0 loss in its Big East opener to No. 13 St. John's. The Red Storm capital­ized on costly Irish turnovers and shutout the Irish in front of a crowd of 1,700 at Alumni field. 
The Berticelli Tournament will provide Notre Dame with an opportunity to go back above .500. Right now, the Irish hold a victory over California, a tie with Alabama-Birmingham and a loss to in-conference Saint John's. 
It is also an opportunity to pay respect to a man and coach who, according to the steady stream of compliments from 
Clark, was nothing but class and joy. 
"Anytime you were in his company you seemed to smile a little bit more and laugh a little bit more," Clark said. "I remember coming up here coaching a clinic for him. You always felt a little bit better. On top of that, he was a very good soccer coach." 
MIKE BERTICELLI MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT at ALUMNI FIELD 
Friday No. 14 Indiana vs. Akron, 5 p.m. No. 16 ND vs. Fresno. St., 7:30p.m. 
Sunday Fresno St. vs. No. 141ndiana. 11 a.m. No. 16 ND vs. Akron, 1:30 p.m. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


~ 
\ 
\ 
\~ 
~~ 
\) 
ll 
s~· ~~; 
',0 

'(
~J2 
I., 
.. 
'1· 
' I 
) ) 
'f/, ' '• 't('/
·!' 
' ( ·~ I 
·>' 
l ·~ ) ) ' I ,'
r 
:~ ' 
ill 
' ' 
~ I 
I ,I I
t .. , 
;~
·r 
:~
I~ 
'A 
~ (~~) 
1tf
'iS1( '15 

(, 
I ' 
~~ ~­
I I I 
·l 
I;~
'I 
:f 
1)/
r;'/
'<') 
'I 
~,.'
,,,/ 
i;( 
:f; 
'(I 
'I'
., 
'( 
It
,, 
I, 
_.,./
)/' 
1; 
'I, 
I; ' 
'< 
' 
I, 
I; 
rI 
Jj 
)j 
•) 
IJ 
), 
It' 
,. 
I; 
I 
/, 

Observer File Photo 
Senior outside hitter Kim Fletcher tracks down the ball In an earlier match against Valparaiso. 

V-ball 
continued from page 28 

Tuesday night, one less than the entire Crusader team. Twin sis­ter Jessica Kinder, meanwhile. set a school record with 
"They're going to put a
28 digs in the 1996 when they three games. lot more pressure on u~. were No. 12. 
Meg Henican We are going to have to They earned 
has also been this ranking
come prepared to play at
consistent for after winning 
the Irish, another level.,, the Longhorn coming up Classic last with 14 digs weekend, mak­
Debbie Brown 
against the ing this year
coach 
the fourth con-Crusaders. 

However, the Irish are not happy with the level that they played at on Tuesday, as they allowed the third game to go to 32-30. 
"They're going to put a lot more pressure on us," Brown said, referring to this weekend. "We are going to have to come prepared to play at another level." 
The Irish, after jumping six spots in this week's USA Today/AVCA Division I Coaches Top 25, find themselves sitting at No. 15. the highest since 
secutive season 
in which the Irish have come away with at least one in-season tournament title. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

No Annual Fee Credit Cards! (online convenience for your busy schedule) 

HI make online payn1ents and view n1y credit card balance all the tin1e! There) s no an­nual fee and the inter~st rates are cotnpetitive.H 
528 !E. Co[fax ~ve., Suite #1 South ;.Bend, 1rN46617 574/132-1822 
312 w. cfevefand1\d. 
(]ranger, 11f46530 
~ 
574/177-6693 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us 
to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.ofg 

Friday, September 12, 2003 

The Observer + SPORTS page 25 

Special to the Observer 
With this week's release of the Division I preseason cross coun­try polls, the University of Notre Dame is the only school in the country to have all six of its fall sports teams (football, volley­ball, men's soccer, women's soc­cer, men's cross country, women's cross country) cur­rently ranked in the Top 20 in their respective national polls. In addition, four of those teams (football, volley ball, women's soccer, women's cross country) are ranked in the Top 15 in the nation, making Notre Dame the only school to hold that distinc­tion as well. 
Only five schools (Notre Dame, Kansas State, USC, Florida and Nebraska) can claim to have both their footbaU and volleyball teams ranked in the Top 20. When women's soc­cer is added to the mix, the list drops to just two schools (Notre Dame and Florida). However, the Gators do not sponsor men's soccer, which leaves Notre Dame as the only athletics pro­gram to pull off this feat. 

Irish teams have posted a combined record of 11-2-1 (.821) during the early part of the 2003 season, led by the sec­ond-ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team, which improved to 5-0 Thursday after­noon with a 2-0 win at St. John~. Head coach Randy Waldrum's charges have outscored their opponents by a 22-3 count this year, averaging better than four goals per match, and they will return to action Saturday at 7 p.m. against Western Kentucky at Alumni Field. 
The Notre Dame football team, ranked 15th in the Associated Press balloting and 14th in the ESPN/USA Today coaches' poll, won its season opener, 29-26 in overtime against Washington State last Saturday and gets set to visit No. 5 Michigan on Saturday. Meanwhile, the 15th-ranked Notre Dame volleyball team moved to 5-1 this season with a 3-0 win over Valparaiso Tuesday night -the Irish will play host to the Shamrock Invitational Friday-Sunday at the Joyce Center. The No. 18 Notre Dame men's soccer team (1-1-1) also is home this week­end, holding the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament Friday and Sunday at Alumni Field. 
The Irish cross country teams kicked off their seasons on Sept. 5 at the Valparaiso Invitational, with the third-ranked Notre Dame women winning the meet and the No. 18 Irish men plac­ing second. Both teams next will compete Fri., Sept. 19 when they play host to the National Catholic Championship at Burke Golf Course at 4:15p.m. 
SNITE MUSEUM ofART 
Sunday, September 141h 2-4 pm 
OPENING RECEPTION 

Not-re Dame Anagama Kiln: Recent Ceramic Works by Peter Voulkos~ Paul Soldner~ Don Reitz, Bill Kremer, and Graduate Students 
"r.:::::.*-~......
':~~x:.-... ~~~) 
Recent Acquisitions: Art from Thirty-fo·ur Centuries (1500 BC to AD 1900) 
rc::~)-~ 
'·....-A'./' ..... • ... ; . / 
Face to Face: E.xamining Identi.ty 
Reception is free and open to the public. C..al/631-5466 for further in;formation. 
~­
S.NITE 

Mu:;€'um ofART 

Phelps speaks on · TV broadcasting 
Digger emphasizes current events and credibility in talk on sports broadcasting 
By MATT LOZAR Associate Sports Editor 

Former Notre Dame men's basketball coach and current college basketball analyst Digger Phelps talked at the Eck Center Auditorium Thursday about breaking into the sports broadcasting busi­ness. Phelps was the first speaker of the "FIT Talks." 
Phelps cur­rently works 
that opportunity which is bound to present itself. ~ 
"There is no such thing as luck," Phelps said. "You have to make it happen and pay your dues for the one opportu­nity. 
"When the door opens, you better go in." 
Phelps also said how little things will help develop young broadcasters. 
Tape recording games while doing the play-by-play, select­ing the perfect ties to wear on the· air, finding ways to hook viewers to the segments, get­ting involved as soon as possi­ble and watching broadcasters in other industries beside 
sports. 
From his 

"The one word you want experiences
in-studio on 
of bringing

ESPN's is credibility. Ifyou lo.se 
Notre Dame
Monday and 

that character, no one 
from 6-20 in
Tuesday night 

will want you. ·• his first year
broadcasts 
to 14 NCAA
and through­
Tournament

out the month Digger Phelps 
appearances,
of March 

sports broadcaster 
Phelps

almost daily. He also does analyst work with ABC on the weekend and occasionally is a color analyst at basketball games. 
In his talk, Phelps outlined several major points he thought would aid students to become successful in the sports broadcasting job field. 
Phelps spoke about building credibility through -becom­ing a total person by being aware of current events, being very knowledgeable about the sport one is covering and learning how to complement on-air co-workers. 
"The one word you want is credibility," Phelps said. "If you lose that character, no one will want you." 
Despite his deep affection for Notre Dame and the Irish, Phelps shot down· the idea of luck playing any part in get­ting life-changing breaks. He says people new to the indus­try need to get involved in any way, work up the corporate ladder and take advantage of 
shared some 
insights about happenings behind the scenes. He talked about pep rallies before basketball games, scouting West Coast teams before the invention of videotape and his passion for beating John Wooden and UCLA. 
Phelps became Notre Dame's men's basketball coach at the age of 29 and held the position for 20 seasons. He won more 
games (393) than any other basketball coach in school his­tory. 
Some of Phelps' most notable accomplishments while at Notre Dame include ending UCLA's NCAA record 88-game winning streak in 197 4 at the Joyce Center, leading the only Irish men's hoops team to the Final Four (1978) and having 
all  56  of his  players  who  
played for four years  earn  
degrees.  

Contact Matt Lozar at m.lozar@nd.edu 


pj:l~l~,/ <tqn~{l~UI-6~~~",ne 
-.,..

508 \V. Jlvi<.:Kinley Avenue Mi.shawaka, tN 46545 
574-254-9070 
~ 'l!t.Ut ~~ '?Uee4t 1~1::~1 
Traditional Non-Vegetarian,Vegetarian, (Vegan entrees available upon request) and Seafood Entrees. 
DAILY LUNCH BUFFET! Monday-Sunday 11:30 -2:30pm 
Dinner Hours Sunday-Monday 5:00pm -9:30pm Friday & Saturday 5:00pm-10:00pm 
.............-~-·••••••••-••••·-••••••••"A 
•-"'•••• 


'--=--...--······-············,···:····· , ..... 


page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 12, 2003 

SMC SoccER

-,'.' 
Undefeated Belles eager to meet Adrian 
By ERIK POWERS 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's and Adrian meet Saturday in a conference clash of polar opposites. 
The Belles are undefeated (3­0-1) and off to their best start in school history. Adrian is winless (0-3-0) and reeling after losses of 1-0 to Goshen, 2-1 to Clarkson and 11-0 to St. Lawrence. Saint Mary's coach Peter Haring believes that establishing early momentum is the key to the game. 
"They [Adrian] are one of the teams that's in the lower tier of the conference," Haring said. "But with the first couple games of the season, really every team is becoming accustomed to it. So if we do our job and start out like we have in the games that we've won we can put a game away really early. 
"But if we get a situation like here where we let eight to ten minutes go by without getting into our rhythm [like the Belles did versus Calvin], a team can catch us off-guard with a simple mistake." 

Against Calvin on Wednesday, Saint Mary's controlled the ball from the 25:00 mark on of each half. But the Belles struggled inside the box. Both Saint Mary's goals came from rebounds off of long shots. The Belles wasted multiple opportu­nities at close range, a problem that they hope to correct. 
"We're developing, passing around real nice, then when we're going to get it to our offensive third, we're playing too strong of an offensive ball," Haring said. "Or we're not giv­ing a good ball to the foot to get that good strike on goal once we possess it and work it around the field a little bit. So that's something that we're going to have to make some adjustments in for the next game on Saturday." 
Saint Mary's also needs anoth­er striker to emerge from their young, talented team. Forward Carolyn Logan and midfielder Jen Concannon are developing good chemistry and the team needs a third offensive option. 
Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Saint Mary's defeats Rochester at home 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Even with a victory that looks like a blowout, there are always some things a team can improve on, as the Belles found out Thursday. 
Saint Mary's defeated Rochester at home Thursday in straight sets by a score of 31-29, 30-18, 30-17. The Belles are now 5-3 on the year. 
Despite her team's win, the Belles' coach was somewhat disappointed by the overall per­formance of her players. 
"This Rochester team was not very good," coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "These are the difficult teams to play some­times because it's hard to stay motivated. We played down to their level." 

--She added that the team played especially poor in the frrst set, helping Rochester stay in the game with a number of unforced errors. Overall, Schroeder-Biek said her team allowed the visitors 30 unearned points. 
··otr and on we did some good things," she said. "But when we were off, we were off." 
Freshman Kristen Playko had 15 kills to lead the team while also pitching in two service aces, three blocks, and seven digs. 
Middle hitter Elise Rupright led the team with seven blocks and added five kills. 
Outside attacker Alison Shevik had a solid game with five serv­ice aces and 14 digs. 
The Belles remain at home this weekend to participate in the second SMC Triangular. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Ken 

On your 21st, "Do it because you love it; do it because it feels good." 
Love, Your Dillon and Howard friends 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Gaining despite the loss 
Belles try to persevere despite loss of three top runners 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's cross country program was count­ing on experience to lead the team this season. It wasn't counting on its best runners leaving the team. 
The Belles, without three of its top seven runners from a year ago, will compete in their second meet of the season Friday at the Aquinas College Invitational in Michigan. 
Senior co-captain Erin Thayer and senior Jennifer Bartalino have left the team and sophomore Laura Ficker, the fastest Belles runner in four of the season's eight meets, is in Rome. 
That leaves Saint Mary's 
with five sen­iors, four jun­iors, four sophomores and a star­tling nine freshmen on its roster. Add this list to a 2002 team that already had struggled ­its best finish coming in the Eagles 

Invitational at Benedictine have a 
Belles came in 1Oth out of 28 teams. 
The normal bystander would wager against any sort of challenge by Saint Mary's this season. 
Coach Dave Barstis would have to disagree.· 
"Last year was an off year for us," Barstis said. "No one from Saint Mary's made all­
conference last "Last year was an Findley and season. This offyear for us. This Defiance College year we have the by narrow mar­
year we have the 
potential to have gins of two and three or four potential to have four points. first-team as three or four respectively. well as second­This weekend
first-team 
team all confer­at Aquinas,
[players] . .,
ence winners." Barstis 's alma The Belles mater, the Belles opened the sea­will compete in
Dave Barstls 
son Sept. 5, with a smaller meet
coach 
a fifth-place fin­ish in the 12­team Tiffin University/Heidelberg College Invitational 5,000-meter race. This start was an immediate 
"This [meet] gives us the opportunity to compete against some good competition that we 
won •t see in our conference. n 
Dave Barstls coach 
improvement. Barstis could not be happier with the performance of his team, and in particular, the performance of those without any 
experience  - the  
freshmen.  
"At  the  

Tiffin/Heidelberg meet, there were three [freshmen] in the top five," he said. "I feel we 
great mix of experi­
University -in which the ence and youth." 
Senior Jackie Bauters, who finished first for Saint Mary's last season placed 13th with a time of 19:50.8. 
Freshmen Sara Otto 
(20:01.3) and Katie White 
(20:19.9) finished 16th and 26th, respectively. Ohio Northern University 
captured the invitational, defeating the University of 
of five or six 
teams. The meet, however, has its own significance. 
"Aquinas has a very strong team every year and this gives us the opportunity to compete against some good competi­tion that we won't see in our conference," Bars tis said. 
Barstis says practices have been energetic because the runners know they have a great team. 
The Belles have six meets remaining after this weekend until the MIAA championships on Nov. 1 at Albion College. 
The Aquinas College Invitational begins at 6 p.m. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 





Friday, September 12, 2003 page 27 
The Observer+ TODAY 
-~-------------------------------------------------­
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 

FIVES BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 

JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HEMTY 
[I] 
02003 Tribune Media Servicea, Inc. AI Aighta Reaerved. 
UNFYN 
j

rJ r I I 
GLINTE ~ 

() ( I I 
www.jumble.com
tFARINU 

] [) ( J 
CROSSWORD 

M~r: A "[ I I I )" rI I I I ]
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: NOTCH ANISE IMPACT MISERYYesterday's Answer: The losing stock car driver was fined for this ­
"RACYft COMMENTS 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

VVHAT THe FAM­IL-Y E:XPERIE:NCEl/
WHEN THE E?ARK­lNG DOG KEPT THE:M AWAKE. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
-
... 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~~~ ....::+~:..:+-~~ 
~~=+=+~:+::-t 
~-4:.;.+.;+~+.-::+-:+=-h::-1 ~~_._~...J 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
56 Cut out 57 Overwhelming audience 
response 58 Some are social 59 Thrifty 
competitor 60 Becomes less active 
61 It was associated with Humble Oil 
DOWN 1 Heart 
problems? 2 Scratch 3 Get to 4 One seen on 
"60 Minutes" 5 Opposite of scrubs 6 Comic Philips 
7 Massage. in a way 8 One with lots of 2-Down 9 Fortune 1oSepulcher 11 Station rotation location 12 "The Little Mermaid" hero 13 Defaulter's comeuppance 18 Investment option 22 Adolescent development 
24 Tailoring aid 
27 Heft alump 's creator 
29 Fall setting 
WILLSHORTZ 

30 Where stilts  37 One who makes  46 Lockup lineup  
may be found ,  it home  47 Racing paths  
31 Tricot, for one 32 The U.S. is in it  39 Words said with a sigh 40 Choir  48 Final decision 49 Physicist with an eponymous  
33 Regularly, but  42 He  number  
not too · frequently  accompanied Velazquez to  50 Helm heading 51 Toffee-nosed  
34 Recipe on a  Cuba  type  
Sun-Maid box  44 Drive out  55 Flounder's kin  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
-
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ­Address ______________________________________ City ______________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ali MacGraw, Debbie Reynolds, Annette OToole, Phillip Schofield 
Happy Birthday: You are likely to hit a stumbling block if you don't take the time to iron out any tedious little problems along the way. Take aggressive action and be honest and diplomatic in your approach. Your ability to pick yourself up and continue along the path you've chosen will be your saving grace. Your numbers are 13, 22, 26, 31, 38, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Someone may try to derail your sense of confidence. Refuse to give in to comments made by this person. Use other people's venom to spark your enthusiasm and sheer will to succeed. *** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your involvement in something secretive may come back to haunt you. Don't expect someone who has made you a promise to live up to his or her part ofthe bargain. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Times are changing and choices must be made. 
Listen to what experienced individuals have to offer before you make your roove. Be thorough in your research. **** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Put your effort into getting ahead in business. Be careful not to come across as a know-it-all or the very people you expect to buy into your idea will back away. *** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your attentive audience will be able to offer you what you need to boost your morale as well as help you to progress with your plans. A business project will tum into a worthwhile venture. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): Focus on your health, wealth and future direction. If you aren't happy, start to make the necessary adjustments. There is nothing you can't accomplish ifyou put your mind to it *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): There will be lots of action in the romance department if you interact with others. Relationships and partnerships can flourish. The connections you make today will be worthwhile in the future. **** SCORPIO (OcL 23-Nov. 21}: The way you treat colleagues will determine how well you will do today. Lend a band, refrain from criticizing and you can build a very strong alliance with your colleagues. *** 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Look into some form of entertainment. Consider setting up a competitive game of racquetball with one of your friends. The challenge will satisfy your needs. ***** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't expect everything to run smoothly. You may be interested in making some changes at home, but if you proceed, things aren't likely to pan out. This is no time to add more stress to your life ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your unique ideas and genuine concerns will spark enthusiasm in those you encounter today. Your help will be valued and lasting friendships can be made. **** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your work ethics will be strong and your ability to accomplish will put you ahead of any competition you face. Make changes regarding your professional direction today. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will always prefer to be where the action is. You will be steadfast and determined to make your own choices and follow your own dreams. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com. eugenialastcom, woetwork.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
ACROSS 1 Latin trio part 5 Do or die 9 One standing in 
the wind, 
maybe 
14 Abbr. at the bottom of a page 
15 Parisian possessive 16 Harden 17 A student's place 19 Get out of the habit, maybe 20 Runs to 
become one 21 Source of some foot-stomping 
23 "Now. hold on a minute here ... " 25 N.H.L players, informally 26 California's 
Raceway Park 
28 Full complement of 41-Acrosses 
31 Rustic wood finish 34 It may be a thriller 35 1980's White House name 36 She, in Sao Paulo 37 Corporate division 38 Dermatological concern 39 Like God 41 See 28-Across 42 Total alternative 43 Cooking evidence 
45 Italian Communist Berlinguer and others 
49 Chicago's Jane Byrne, once 52 Swiss canton 53 It's spoken on · Bering Island 54 Opposite of emote 



THE OBSERVER 
p
Friday, September 12, 2003 

Page 28 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish down Red Storm, stay undefeated 

JOHN SULLIVAN/The Observer Defender Kim Carpenter looks as midflelder Katie Thorlakson drills a shot in a 5-1 win against Oklahoma last Sunday at Alumni Stadium. The Irish beat St. John's Thursday and are now 5-0 over-
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's soc­cer team remained unbeaten Thursday, knocking off St. John's 2-0 at Belson Field. Senior for­ward Amy Warner scored the eventual game-winner for the Irish off an assist for Katie Thorlakson. 
The game marked the lowest scoring output of the season thus far for the Irish, who now have outscored their opponents 22-3 on their way to their No. 2 rank­ing. The Irish came into the night ranked fifth in the nation in goal scoring with a 5.0 aver­age. 
The win moves the Irish to 5-0, wQ.ile St. John's dropped to 1-4. 
The Irish outshot the Red Storm 18-6 and had a 7-2 advantage in corner kicks, but St. John's goalie Tracy Rollins kept the game close with eight saves. 
The Irish dominated the first half but were unable to come up with a score. That changed early in the second half, however, as the 10th game-winning goal of Warner's career came at the 
50:58 mark. Thorlakson set up the goal with a back pass to the top of the box. Warner ripped a shot off the fingertips of Rollins to give the Irish the lead. 
St. John's gave themselves a couple of opportunities to tie the game, including a near-miss from Holly Ryder off the right post. After the ball deflected back into play Erion Flaherty missed the rebound wide right. 
Senior Amanda Guertin added the final margin in the final minute off an Irish counter­attack. Guertin received a pass from sophomore -Maggie Manning before chipping a shot over Rollins for the 2-0 win. 
Erika Bohn picked up her sec­ond shutout of the season. 
The Irish continued their dom­inance in the series against St. John's, having never allowed a goal to the Red Storm in eight meetings between the two teams. The Irish have scored 40 goals in those eight games. 
With the lOth game-winner of her career, Warner joined Guertin as one of nine Notre Dame players to score at least ten game-winners. 
NOTRE DAME 2, ST. JOHN'S 0 at ALUMNI FIELD 
1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  0  2  2  
St. John's  0  0  0  

Scoring Summary 'JD-Warner. Amy (41. 56:57 fThorlakson, Katie) 'JD-Guertin, Amanda (4), 89:28 
'JOTRE DAME-Saves 2 (Bohn, Erika), Shots 18, Corner kicks 7, Fouls 12 
St. John's -Saves 8 (Hollins, Tracy), Shot<> 6. Corner kicks 2, Fouls 14 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish to play twice in 
I. 
weekend tournament 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will host the second annual Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament this weekend at Alumni Field. 
The Irish welcome three vis­iting teams and play two games over the course of the weekend. Akron and Indiana, two Midwestern powerhouses, are making the trip, while west coast representative Fresno St. will travel the far­thest distance. 
The tournament is played in honor of former Irish head coach Mike Berticelli, who coached the team from 1990­1999 and had a 104-80-19 record at Notre Dame. He advanced to the NCAA champi­onship three times and won three conference champi­onships. He died of a heart attack in January of 2001. 
"I Ie was a really special per­sun," coach Bobby Clark said of the former coach, and his friend. "He was a guy who affected a lot of people over the country. He was one of the leading figures for the NSCAA, one of leading soccer bodies. He touched a lot of people." 
The Irish will play in Berticelli's honor. 
No. 14 Indiana {1-1-2) and Akron (2-1-0) open the tourna­ment Friday night before No. 16 Notre Dame meets Fresno State. The Bulldogs (0-2) and Irish (1-1-1) will play for the first time in their program's respective histories. Fresno State plays in the competitive Pac-1 0 conference and lost just 1-0 to No. 6 Santa Clara last week, playing 50 minutes with 10 men on the field. 
"When I coached at Stanford, I saw [Fresno State l. 
see MEN'S/page 24 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
-

Blocking out the competition 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 

After cracking the top 20 with a No. 15 ranking, the Irish look to build on what has been a successful season thus far. This weekend's Shamrock Invitational proves to be another test for the Irish. 
"We are going to have to really step it up this weekend," coach Debbie Brown said. "It is going to be another level from where we were [Tuesday]." 
. The Irish (5-1) face three solid teams this weekend, in Indiana (4-2), Utah (4-2) and South Carolina (2-4), as they host their annual tournament in the Joyce Center. 
In order to succeed, the Irish will look once again to their net play. . 
Led by hitter Emily Loomis and middle blocker Lauren Kelbley. the Irish have been able to dominate up front. Both 

Observer File Photo Outside hitter Emily Loomis and middle blocker Lauren Keibley try to block a spike in a match against Valparaiso. 
have already been named Big East Player of the Week, and Kelbley was named the Most Valuable Player at the Longhorn Classic last weekend. Kelbley and Loomis earned all-tournament honors as well. 
Tuesday against Valparaiso, Loomis had a team high 24 kills with no errors, good for a 
.571 hitting percentage. Kelbley had 11 kills on .524 hitting with no errors in the first two games. She did not play the third game. 
Senior setter Kristen Kinder has been solid for the Irish as well, registering 35 assists on 
see V-BALL/page 24 

en 
SMCXC 
SMC SOCCER 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL

NFL
NBA 
1.&.1 

Prosecution submits 
Washington Redskins 
The outstanding

1-u Aquinas College 
Saint Mary's vs. 
Saint Mary's 

new evidence in Kobe 
cornerback Champ 
career of USC wide

z Invitational 
Adrian 
defeats Rochester 
receiver Mike WilHams

Bryant case. 
Bailey is disappointed
The Belles increase
a: ::5 

he will not face Michael 
continues into his soph-

Saturday
Friday, 6 p.m. 
their overall record to 5­

Vick this Sunday. 
ornore season.
3 by beating~ Rochester

The 3-0-1 Belles meet
The Belles travel to 
its first winless MIAA 
in straight sets

Mich. for their second 
== 
Thursday.

meet of the season. 
opponent.
a.. c ti 

en 
page 22 
page 20
page 26 
page 26

f page 26 
l! 

. ' ' ' 
. 
' 

.. 
.' 
Friday, September 12, 2003 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
game hype
Famous moments define series 
It started in 1887, when a bunch of athletic Notre Dame guys asked some Michigan football players to teach them the new game played on a 100­
yard field. 
The Wolver­ines were more than happy to instruct the Irish on foot­

ball, and  Joe Hettler  
even  
more  
eager to beat  Sports Editor  
them 8­ 
0 later  

that day. They played the Irish two times the next sea­son, in April, and won both. 
It took Notre Dame until 1909, eight losses later to finally beat those Wolverines, and once they did Michigan refused to play them again until1942. 
Michigan won in 1942, but lost to the Irish 35-12 in 1943. The teams didn't meet again until 1978. 
The rivalry has gone back and forth since, with Michigan leading the all-time series 17-12-1. Fans from both sides have grown to love the matchup and many can remember their favorite moment from the series. 
For Wolverines followers it's 1991, when eventual Heisman Trophy winner Desmond Howard stretched himself out completely and made a spectacular diving catch in the end zone to secure a win for his team that day, and the Heisman a few monthsfater. 

For Irish fans, it's likely Harry 0 in 1980. 
In one of the most famous plays in Notre Dame history, a soccer-style kicker from Cincinnati, Oliver, had to make a 51-yard field goal for the Irish to win. There were only a few seconds on the clock and a stiff 15-mph wind blowing into his face. 
But when the ball was snapped, the flags on the goal posts dropped, the wind mysteriously died and Oliver pointed a No.1 index finger into the air as his leg con­nected with the ball, sending it through the goal posts and sending Irish fans into hyste­ria. 
Moments like those make this series one of the greatest in collegiate athletics. They make this weekend a special one for both Notre Dame and Michigan fans. And they make the game that much more exciting, no matter the favorite. 
This weekend Notre Dame will enter Ann Arbor as roughly 1 0-point underdogs. And there are several more factors going against the Irish. 
First, they won last year 25-23 at Notre Dame Stadium, which in itself is bad news for this season. The last time Notre Dame won back-to-back times against their rival from the north was 1990. The last time Michigan accomplished the feat was when they defeated the Irish in 1994 and then in 1997. 
Second, Michigan has an outstanding offense that is ranked second in the nation and. led by senior quarter­back John Navarre. Navarre has been touted, by some, to have a breakout year-the same way USC signal-caller Carson Palmer did last sea­son for the Trojans. Add revenge on the Irish after Jast season. Michigan still has the taste of defeat in their mouths from seeing the entire Notre Dame student section rush the field follow­ing the Irish 25-23 victory over the No. 6 Wolverines. 
All those factors will make beating Michigan a very difli­cult task for Notre Dame this weekend. But the Irish must remember what kind of series this has been for the past 116 years. 
It's a series that saw 5­
in some very Moments like those talented 
make this series one
wide 

receivers ofthe greatest in 
and the collegiate athletics. NCAA's best 
They make this 
rushing 

offense weekend a special 
through two one for both Notre games, and 
Dame and Michigan
it could be a 
fans.

long day for the Irish defense if they don't play well. 
Third, Michigan's defense is in the top 20 in the nation and allows only 253 yards per contest. Last week, Notre Dame's offense struggled to gain 125 yards through three quarters before fmally com­ing together and producing points. They finished the day with 312 offensive yards for the game. 
Fourth, the Big House, with all110,000 Wolverine fans will be ready to exact foot-5, 140­pound Reggie Ho make four field goals in 1988. A series where The Rocket returned two kicks on the same day in 1989 to put his name in Irish lore. And it's a series that even witnessed Bob Davie coaching a great game in 

a 1998, 36-20 victory over the heavily-favored Wolverines. 
Remember that anything can happen when Notre Dame and Michigan face off, no matter what the odds. 
Just ask Harry 0. 
The opinions ofthis column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
t"'·j ....... ·.; ..··.... . 
.•·.~· 
tJ· .. 

J. • ~': . . • 
....... 'i!f-·····_....
..•. 

.' .. . 
'
.~....... 
........ 

Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach 
"There·s nothing like Michigan.·· 

Kent Baer Irish defensive coordinator 
../ really don't think there is anything too different about this game to me.,, 
'"/ don •t know how much they might have saved just for Notre Dame. ,, 

Darrell Campbell Irish defensive tackle 
..You watch them on tape and they scare you to death. •• 

Chris Perry Wolverines running back 

The Job Market is Back!! 
Immediate Application Deadlines for Top Notch Companies! 
**Apply via Golrish by logging onto http:/;careercenter.nd.edu Questions? Call the Career Center at 631-5200. 
Ford 9/14 : BUS, SCI, A & L 8 applicants/12 slots available. Only 3 are undergrads. 
Echostar 9/15: A & L, BUS, SCI, ENG Has 5 positions posted, which all share 26 inter­view slots. Only 7 total applicants. 
Dupont 9/15: BUS 2 jobs, 13 slots available. 11 total applicants. 
Ingersoll-Rand 9/15: ENG 1 job, 26 slots to fill. 5 total applicants 
American Cast Iron Pipe 9/15: ENG 4 jobs posted, all sharing 13 total slots. Only 2 total applicants. 
Credit Suisse First Boston 9/15: A & L, BUS, SCI, ENG -One job, 13 slots. 8 total applicants. 
U.S. Navy 9/19: A&L, SCI, BUS, ENG Has 8 positions posted, 13 slots available. Only 2 students have applied to 1 position. 
Primerica 9/19: A&L, SCI, BUS, ENG Has 2 positions posted, which share 39 interview slots. Only 2 applicants total. 
Northrop Grumman Space Technologies 9/22: ENG-4 jobs, 9 slots each schedue, so 36 total slots. 16 total applicants. 
Ortho-McNeil Pharm 9/22: 1 job, 26 slots. 0 applicants. 
BP 9/17 & 9/24: SCI, ENG, A&L, BUS 6 jobs total, all share 32 slots. 22 total applicants. 
Tucker Alan 9/22: BUS 1 job, 26 slots. Only 3 applicants. • 
Rohm & Haas 9/22: ENG 1 job, 11 slots available. 0 applicants. 
Wachovia 9/22: A&L, SCI, BUS 1 job, 26 slots. Only 3 applicants. 
Abercrombie and Fitch 9/22: A&L: BUS 1 job, 39 slots. 0 applicants. 
KPMG 9/22: BUS 25 jobs, 152 total slots. 29 total applicants. 
Deloitte and Touche 9/22: BUS 13 jobs, 126 slots total. 21 total applicants. 
General Mills 9/22: A&L, BUS 2 jobs, 65 slots total. 7 total applicants. 
McGladrey and Pullen 9/22: BUS 2 jobs, 24 slots. 3 total applicants. 
General Electric 9/22: ENG, SCI, BUS 8 jobs, 88 slots available. 48 total applicants. 
Houlihan. LokeyHowand Zukin 9/22: BUS, A&L 1 job, 26 slots available. 3 total applicants . 
Key Bank 9/23: BUS 1 job, 26 slots. 3 total applicants. 
Walgreens 9/26: A&L, SCI, BUS, ENG 2 jobs posted, share 13 slots. Only 2 applicants. 

Friday, September 12, 2003 page 3 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Searching for the go-to 
Wide receivers Maurice Stovall, Omar Jenkins and Rhema McKnight (from left to right) need to step up for the Irish and fill the shoes of former Irish receiver Arnaz Battle. In a perfect situation for the Irish, each one could be counted on when the game is on the line. 
The graduation of wide receiver Arnaz Battle leaves the Irish searching for someone in crunch time 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Wriret · 
One year and one week ago Sunday, Arnaz Battle stood motionless on the line of scrim­mage. Twenty-six seconds earli­er, Michigan State wide receiver Charles Rogers had plucked a pass from the clouds to give the Spartans a 17-14 lead over the Irish with two minutes to play. 
Now Battle exploded off the line, just to the left of backup quarterback Pat Dillingham. The senior receiver noticed a blitz coming at the quarterback and adjusted his route to cut across the middle of the field. Dillingham fired a bullet to Battle, who cradled the ba1l, made one move, and found him­self sprinting 60 yards down the Notre Dame sideline unmolested as his teammates erupte~. 
As Battle trotted back to an exuberant Irish sideline, his touchdown having given the Iris,-. a 21-17 victory, head coach Tyrone Willingham sought out the budding receiver. 
"I never gave up on you," the coach told his receiver. "I knew you'd step up when it was time." 
The Irish had found a play­maker. 
As the season wore on, Battle evolved from a receiver who had only caught five passes the year before to the team's reception leader in an otherwise stagnant Irish offense. Battle was the only Irish player to catch a pass at No. 18 Air Force. Battle was the guy who hauled in a 65-yard touchdown on Notre Dame's first play from scrimmage against No. 11 Florida State. Battle was the guy who caught 10 passes on New Year's Day. 
And when Battle graduated last spring, the Irish lost their go-to guy. 
They're still searching for his replacement. 

What is a playmaker? 
Webster's doesn't have an 
entry for "playmaker", and for 
good reason. Everybody knows 
one when they see one, but 
nobody can describe one. 
But players and coaches agree on this much -when the game is on the line, a playmaker wants to be in control, to have the opportunity to literally carry the team in his hands. 
"It can be anyone oil your football team," Willingham said. "It can even be a lineman, someone who says, 'Coach, when it's time, run over me, I'll get it done."' 
More often then not, however, a team's go-to guy lines up far to the outside of the team's tackles. That's because when a team needs to move the ball quickly, it often turns to the air game. 
"You have to want the ball in those situations," Willingham said. "You hear that a lot about basketball players, how they want to take the shot at the end of the ball game. You have to want the ball in those type of sit­uations, you want guys who want to get open as receivers." 
Last season, Battle was Notre Dame's most reliable offensive weapon. He seldom dropped a pass, ran routes relatively crisply and drew defenses away from Notre Dame's other receivers. 
Battle's natural playmaking ability alleviated some of the pressure from an Irish offense still struggling to learn offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick's pro­style attack. As the season grew on, coaches routinely called Battle's number. 
"[Arnaz] was very athletic and had great speed," Diedrick said. "You could always put him in a role where he was gonna end up making a big play. I won't say we had nobody else to choose from, but he just kinda evolved into the playmaker from the very beginning." 
That brings up another aspect 
of a playmaker: a coach can give. 
a player the title of captain, but 
he can't label a player a go-to 
guy. That intangible quality sur­
faces only in games, not in prac­
tices. 
After all, it took Battle almost 
four games to emerge as Notre 
Dame's deadliest weapon. That's 
part of the reason why the Irish 
are still looking for a new bona­
fide playmaker this year. 
''Practice is not quite the same, it doesn't give you the same kind of reality as a game," Willingham said. "As we play the games, we can identify the guys who are the go-to guys. 
"And hopefully, we'll have more than one." 
Finding a playmaker 
Battle's number was called so frequently last season because the rest of the Irish offense was busy trying to catch up. This year, Diedrick thinks the Irish have a multitude of options in clutch time. 
There's senior Omar Jenkins, who Irish coaches laud for his consistent play game after game and who gets upset if he doesn't make a big play in a game. There's sophomore Maurice Stovall, who, at 6-foot-5, is one of Notre Dame's tallest receivers and appeared on the cover of Sports Illustrated. There's soph­omore Rhema McKnight, whose athleticism and playmaking ability has his coaches excited. And that's just the tip of Notre Dame's iceberg. 
Jared Clark has emerged as a pass-catching threat at tight end. Ryan Grant and Julius Jones literally carried the Irish to their comeback victory against Washington State with 134 fourth-quarter rushing yards. And freshmen Chinedum Ndukwe and Jeff Samardzija saw limited playing time a week ago. 
"That's what's so great right now, you have seven to eight guys competing to be that guy that Arnaz was last year," quar­terback Carlyle Holiday said. "They all'have the same atti­tudes and the same mentality ­score touchdowns and do what­ever it takes to help the team win." 
At times last season, Diedrick said Battle seemed to be one of the few players to shoulder the offensive burden for the Irish and demand to be given the football in clutch situations. This time around, the offensive coor­dinator said he's seen more players demonstrate the intangi­ble qualities required of a play­maker, thus giving the Irish offense more weapons. 
And Holiday said this year's receiver corps is closer than last year's -with Battle the only receiver to graduate -and knows they share the responsi­bility to make big plays. 
"Your system within itself should be able to spread the ball around. A year ago, we weren't able to do that. This year, we have the ability to spread the ball around more," Diedrick said. "But it's nice to have that stand-up go-to guy when in that situation." 
A slow emergence 

The very nature of the play­maker role almost demands that a receiver emerge as the team's go-to guy. While the Irish run­ning game may emerge as the backbone of the offense, when the Irish need a big play, more often than not they will throw to Jenkins, Stovall and McKnight. 
Like Battle last year, Diedrick said Notre Dame's playmakers will emerge after they gain con­fidence from making big plays. And some have already made contributions. 
Look at Jenkins. The man who Irish coaches label "Mr. Consistency" caught four passes for 166 yards to lead a come­back against Navy last year, including a 6 7 -yard game-win­ning touchdown catch with just over two minutes to play. 
Look at Stovall. His grab against the Spartans last season transformed him from a little­known freshman to Sports Illustrated's poster boy for Irish success. 
Look at McKnight. With the Irish facing second-and-goal on the Cougar 11 Saturday, Holiday fired a strike to McKnight, who was running a slant route. The Irish receiver grabbed the ball, fighting through a tackle before lunging toward the end zone for his first touchdown. 
"Just seeing Rhema, he caught that touchdown pass and he was hyped up for the rest of the game," Holiday said. "When you see a guy like that catch a touchdown pass, it makes you want to give him the ball." 
In order to ensure the Irish receivers gain confidence, Holiday and Diedrick both said they plan to stretch the field against Michigan. Although the Irish attempted a handful of long passes against the Cougars, the longest pass Saturday only went for 29 yards -and that came when Jenkins caught the ball on a screen and scampered his way upfield. 
But if the Irish stretch the field, Holiday remains confident ·the Irish will find their playmak­
er. 
"With the guys we have, you can just throw the ball up and they'll go up and get it," the Irish quarterback said. "It just shows the kind of competitors out there and you know they'll do what it takes to win. 
"They're playmakers, all of' them." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at 
asoukup@nd.edu 


TIM KACMAR and CHIP MARKS!The Observer 

Running back Ryan Grant, tight end Jared Clark, quarterback Carlyle Holiday and running back Julius Jones (from left to right) could emerge as Notre Dame's go-to guy, but it takes games, not practices, to identify a team's playmakers. 
---·-·
• 0 



page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 12, 2003 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 1-0 AP: No. 15 Coaches: No. 14 


Tyrone Willingham second season at Notre Dame career record: 55-39-1 at Notre Dame: 11-3 
Tyrone Willingham against head coach Michigan: 1-0 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
1  Jared Clark  TE  &--4  230  SR  
2  Freddie Parrish  DB  6-1  195  FR  
4  Ryan Grant  RB  6-1  211  JR  
5  Rhema McKnight  WR  6-2  207  so  
6  Carlos Campbell  CB  5-11  194  JR  
7  Carlyle Holiday  QB  6-3  214  SR  
8  Matt Krueger  QB  5-10  180  SR  
8  Quentin Burrell  FS  6-{)  180  JR  
9  Jason Beckstrom  CB  5-10  186  SR  
9  Pat Dillingham  QB  6-1  209  JR  
10  Brady Quinn  QB  &--4  210  FR  
11  Marcus Wilson  RB  5-11  199  JR  
13  Nicholas Setta  KIP  5-11  184  SR  
14  Gary Godsey  TE  6-6  259  SR  
15  Preston Jackson  CB  5-9  177  SR  
16  Rashon Powers-Neal  FB  6-2  227  JR  
16  Stan Revelle  QB  5-11  183  JR  
17  Geoffrey Price  p  6-3  180  FR  
18  Ronnie Rodarner  WR  &--4  211  SR  
19  Glenn Earl  FS  6-1  205  SR  
19  D.J. Fitzpatrick  K/P  6-1  192  JR  
20  Travis Thomas  RB  6-1  200  FR  
21  Maurice Stovall  WR  6-5  221  so  
22  Julius Jones  RB  5-10  210  SR  
23  Chase Anastasio  WR  6-2  190  FR  
24  Dwight Ellick  CB  5-10  177  JR  
25  Nate Schiccatano  RB  6-3  224  so  
26  Garron Bible  FS  5-10  197  SR  
26  Josh Schmidt  FB  6-1  220  JR  
27  Lionel Bolen  ss  6-{)  206  JR  
27  Mike Profeta  TB  5-11  208  SR  
28  ColeLaux  FB  5-10  229  SR  
28  Torn Zbikowski  DB  6-{)  185  FR  
29  LaBrose Hedgernon  DB  5-10  180  FR  
30  Mike Richardson  DB  6-1  188  so  
31  Jake Carney  DB  6-{)  180  so  
32  Jeff Jenkins  RB  6-{)  211  so  
33  Courtney Watson  ILB  6-1  234  SR  
34  Vontez Duff  CB  5-11  194  SR  
35  Ashley McConnell  FB  6-{)  240  FR  
36  Isaiah Gardner  DB/RB  5-10  190  FR  
37  Matt MitcheII  DB  5-9  184  so  
39  Brandon Hoyte  ILB  6-{)  226  JR  
39  David Bernenderfer  ss  5-11  195  SR  
40  Nate Schomas  WR  5-10  165  SR  
41  Mike Gtx>lsby  LB  6-3  243  SR  
42  Ambrose WtXlden  WR  6-1  190  FR  
43  Anthony Salvador  LB  6-2  226  so  
44  Justin Tuck  DE  6-5  246  JR  
45  Carl Gioia  p  5-11  165  FR  
46  Corey Mays  ILB  6-1  238  JR  
47  Mitchell Thomas  LB  6-2  210  FR  
48  Jerome Collins  OLB  &--4  250  SR  
49  Derek Curry  lLB  6-3  228  SR  
50  Cedric Hilliard  NG  6-2  295  SR  
51  Jamie Ryan  OT  6-5  290  so  
52  Joe Brockington  LB  6-1  215  FR  
54  David Fitzgerald  OL  &--4  271  so  
55  Zachary Giles  c  6-3  281  JR  
56  Nick Borseti  LB  6-1  205  FR  
57  Dwight Stephenson  LB  6-3  237  FR  
58  PaulJancha  LS  6-1  245  so  
59  James Bent  OL  6-2  253  so  
60  Darrell Campbell  DT  6-4  288  SR  
62  Scott Raridon  OT  6-7  300  so  
64  Casey Dunn  OT/OG &--4  255  JR  
65  Sean Milligan  OG  &--4  291  SR  
66  Derek Landri  NG  6-2  265  so  
68  Ryan Harris  OL  6-5  270  FR  
69  Darin Mitchell  OL  &--4  280  JR  
70  Jim Molinaro  OT  6-6  301  SR  
71  David Kowalski  OG  6-2  249  SR  
71  James Bonelli  OG/OT 6-6  282  so  
72  Jeff Thompson  ClOG  &--4  287  JR  
73  Mark LeVoir  TE  6-7  309  JR  
74  Dan Stevenson  OG  6-5  297  JR  
75  Chris Frome  DE  6-5  264  so  
76  Bob Morton  c  &--4  299  so  
77  Greg Pauly  DT  6-6  291  SR  
78  John Sullivan  OL  &--4  280  FR  
79  Brian Mattes  or  6-6  250  so  
80  Omar Jenkins  WR  6-2  204  SR  
81  Chinetium Ndukwe  WR  6-3  190  FR  
82  Matt Shelton  WR  6-1  172  JR  
83  Jeff Samardzija  WR  &--4  190  FR  
84  Mike O'Hara  WR  5-10  174  so  
84  Rob Woods  WR  6-2  205  so  
85  Billy Palmer  TE  6-3  251  SR  
87  Marcus Freeman  TE  &--4  242  so  
R8  Patrick Nally  TE  6-3  243  SR  
88  Anthony Fasano  TE  &--4  253  so  
89  John Carlson  TE  6-6  230  FR  
90  Brian Beidatsch  DL  &--4  283  JR  
91  Craig Cardillo  K  6-{)  165  so  
92  Kyle Budinscak  DE  &--4  270  SR  
93  Dan Santucci  DE  6-5  270  so  
95  Victor Abiarniri  DL  6-5  24~  FR  
97  Travis Leitko  DE  6-6  264  so  
98  Trevor Laws  DL  6-2  290  FR  
99  Jason Sapp  DE  6-3  256  SR  


NOTRE DAME WIDE RECIEVER
NOTRE DAME 
-2003 Schedule 
Sept. 6 WASHINGTON ST. -W 
Sept. 13  at Michigan  
Sept. 20  MICHIGAN STATE  
Sept. 27  at Purdue  
Oct. 11  at Pittsburgh  
Oct. 18  usc  
Oct. 25  at Boston College  
Nov. 1  FLORIDA STATE  
Nov. 8  NAVY  
Nov. 15  BYU  
Nov. 29  at Stanford  
Dec.6  at Syracuse  

OFFENSE  80-Janktns 5-McKnight  
LEFT TACKLE  
~~~~:;!.Neal26-Schmidt  70-Molinaro 79·Mattes  
TAILBACK  
4-Grant  
22-Jones  
~ 
,  
RIGHT TACKLE  
74-Stevenson  
51-Ryan  ~  
~~~~~~~~~  

DEFENSIVE • 
'"""' TACKL£ 
:If') 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 
10-WGOIII ~­LEFT END 58-Manning c. 13-Stenaa 
SO .Van Als y <.::J 

CoACHING QUARTERBACKS 
After an abysmal start 
Holiday looked a little last week, Willingham 
flustered last week,
w 

and his assistants led the 
although a porous Irish
:E 

Irish to victory in over-
offensive line afforded
ct 

time. The win is a testa­
him little time to throw ment to the faet that the 
Q 

the ball. He did improve 
1.1.1 

Irish eoaches have their near the end of the game, 
0: 
.... 

team in a position to win however, and has to con­
0 

every week. That same 
tinue to improve this
z 

will to win was evident in 
week if the Irish are to last year's 8-0 start, too. 
win in the Big House. 
Carr is considered one 
Navarre may not be theof the best in the busi­
best pure passer in the 

ness, but could be on the nation, but he is an expe­hot seat this year after a rienced fifth-year senior10-3 finish in 2002. He and is a solid leader ofalready has one national the Wolverines. In two
championship with the 
games this year, he is 32­
Wolverines, and some 
for-63 passing with threepeople see Carr bringing 
touchdowns and oneMiehigan back to the 
interception.

title game this year. 
Navarre hasn't been lege traditions collide this 
Two of the greatest col­
unstoppable this year, but wee~. and two of the best 

E~Et~ 
made many believers with the Irish, and Carr has one national title under his belt in seven 

neer a game-winning years at Michigan. 
drive. 

IRISH RUSHING 
Grant and Jones had big games last week. But most importantly, they came up big at the end of the game when the Irish needed it the most. With the two exchanging reps, the could prove a difficult duo for the Michigan defense to stop. 
As usual, the Wolverines will have a stiff defense up front. Michigan gets a lot of pressure from the line, as 1 0 of its 16 taekles for loss this season have come from defensive line­men. Massey and Stevens have five tackles for loss and three saeks through the first two games. 
Michigan's defensive front will provide a big chal­
!m~~-!oro~~fl~o~6~~
:ti;;Meatz::;t~ 
holes and establish the running game to help Holiday out in the passing game. This should be a great battle all day. 

CORNERBACK 30-Curry
4-Hood 
FREE SAFETY 
3-Jactcson 
19-Barringer 
MICHIGAN 
DEFENSE 


IRISH PASSING 
• holiday will need more time in the pocket against Michigan than he had against Washington State if the Irish are to be effective passing. The receivers will also need to help Holiday in break­ing off routes when the senior quarterback gets in trouble. 
The Wolverines have six sacks and only one inter­ception after their first two games. But after 
. watching Washington State tee off on Holiday, Michigan may employ a similar, blitzing game plan. Jackson is one of the best defensive backs in the nation. 


It seems like Michigan has plenty of advan­
If Notre Dame doesn't execute from the first tages -a dominant rushing game and quarter, win the turnover battle and move the question marks on Notre Dame's offense. ball on offense, the game could get ugly in a
Irish 

But the Irish play best when faced with hurry. The Irish defense needs to contain the adversity. This chapter of a great rivalry potent Michigan offense while Notre Dame's won't be decided until the final five minutes, offense must score a minimum of two touch­
experts 

but when it's over, the Irish will have downs. If the Irish ean stay close through the stunned the Big House. first half, they'll have a shot for the upset. 
Andrew Soukup Joe Hettler
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 23 ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 20
Editor in Chief Michigan 20 Sports Editor 
Michigan 17 

Friday, September 12, 2003 page 5 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 

MichiganWolvennes Record: 2-0 AP: No.5 Coaches: No.7 
WIDE RECIEVER 


lloyd Carr1-Buller 
MICHIGAN_
MICHIGAN 
tJ*.:41 
8-Avant 


eighth season at
OFFENSE 
Michigan
FULLBACK 32-Dudley 

career record:
Thompson CORNERBACK 
15-Jactson 
9-Beckstrom 

78-23 at Michigan:
INSIDE 23-Perry 
TAILBACK LINEBACKER 

78-23 

5-Underwood C\ 39-Hoyle 

Lloyd Carr 
e;.lb46-Mays 

against Notre 
\ 
head coachDame: 2-2 

Roster 
RIGHT GUARD 

No. Name Pos. HL Wt. YR
67-leatz 
INSIDE 

1 Braylon Edwards WR 6-3 205 JR
65-HentQe LINEBACKER 

2 Shawn Crable LB 6-5 223 FR
33-Watson 
p

2 Mark Spencer 5-11 211 so 
46-Mays ~' 

3 Marlin Jackson CB 6-1 199 JR 3 Ross Ryan p 6-0 203 so 

)) 

4 Darnell Hood CB 5-11 190 so 5 David Underwood RB 6-0 228 JR 6 Alijah Bradley RB % 165 so 6 Prescott Burgess s 6-2 215 FR 
STRONG 
7 Spencer Brinton CB 6-5 226 SR 
SAFETY 
8 Jason Avant WR 6-1 206 so
26-BIIIIe 
8 Matt Wilde QB 6-2 186 so
27-Boten 
9 Tyrece Butler WR 6-3 211 SR 9 Anton Campbell RB 5-11 188 FR lO Troy Nienberg PK 6-2 172 SR
OUTSIDE 

10 Clayton Richard QB 6-4 220 FR &Cuny 
LINEBACKER 

12 Matt Guitierrez QB 6-4 219 so 
48-Collins 

13 Jeff Kastl QB 6-3 214 so 
CORNERBACK , 
13 Larry Stevens DL 6-3 260 SR 
34-Dvff 
14 P/TE 6-3 250 SR
IOTREDAME 
Andy Mi't"d:
6-CampbeH 
15 Jonathan r en LB 6-1 226 SR 15 Steve Breaston WR 6-1 176 so 16 John Navarre QB 6-6 228 SR 17 Carl Tabb WR 6-2 189 so 18 Jerrnaine Gonzales WR 6-2 210 SR 19 Willis Barringer DB ·s-n 193 so 20 Mike Kaselitz QB 6-4 214 SR 20 Pierre Rembert RB 6-0 214 so 21 Jeremy LeSueur CB 6-1 202 SR 22 Ross Kesler WR 6-2 201 SR 22 Jon Shaw FS 6-0 195 SR 23 Chris Perry RB 6-1 228 SR 24 Jerome Jackson RB 5-11 197 FR 25 Ernest Shazor DB 6-4 219 JR 26 Mike Carl DB 6-0 195 so 
DEFENSE 
26 Ryan Mundy s 6-1 193 FR 27 Calvin Bell WR 6-1 200 SR 27 Quinton McCoy CB 5-9 160 FR 28 Jacob Stewart DB 6-0 212 so 29 Leon Hall CB 6-1 170 FR 30 Markus Curry CB 5-ll 180 JR 31 Brandent Englemon CB 6-1 170 FR 
WOLVERINE RUSHING WOLVERINE PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
The front seven are the 

e Th·e'·sacdndary was a 
Notre Dame hasn't won
Setta single-handedly 
31 Craig Moore PK 5-10 177 so
.

32 Kevin Dudley FB 6-1 235 SR
strength of the Irish back-to-hack gamesquestion mark for the 

kept the Irish in the game 
33 Charles Young DB 5-ll 201 SR
z
defense. Last week, Notre against Michigan since 

34 Philip Brabbs PK 6-2 200 SR
Irish last week. With the 
last weekend, making 
0 

34 Joe Leoni LB 5-11 210 so
Dame held a Washington 1990. The Irish are 5-5

exception of the first 
five of his six field goal 
-t 

35 Brian Thompson FB 6-2 225 so 36 Brian Lafer WR 5-11 190 SR 36 Scott McCiintoe k LB 6-2 236 JR 
State rushing attack that 

all-time in Michigan 
::a

and last Cougar scoring 
attempts. He also did 
m
gained 339 yards in its 

Stadium, but have notdrives, they performed performed his' punting 
37 Zach Kaufman ILB 6-1 234 SR 
c 
38 B.J. Opong-Owusu DB 5-10 191 so
first week to just 55 

won there since 1993.
weII. Injuries in this duties well. Duff and 
38 Garrett Rivas PK 5-10 189 FR
yards on the ground. 

The Big House can be anarea, however, to play­
Jones didn't take one 
:J:.> 

39 Adam Finley P/PK 6-4 209 SR 40 Obianna Oluigbo LB 6-0 233 so
Watson returning to the 

intimidating place to
ers like Bible and back last weekend, but 
3: 

41 lim Bracken RB 5-10 208 SR 
m 

42 Lawrence Reid LB 6-1 222 JR 43 Carl Diggs ILB 6-1 246 SR
starting lineup can only 

play with its 100,000­Beckstrom leave more 
the threat is always 
help the Irish. 

plus fans. 
questions this week. 
there. 

45 David Harris LB 6-2 246 so 46 James Presley LB 6-2 220 FR 49 Brent Cummings CB 5-ll 190 SR 50 Jeremy Van Alstyne DE 6-4 247 so 52 Ross Mann LS 6-1 235 SR
Perry is the leading rush­

Like last season, the
Navarre hasn't had to 
54 Mark Bihl OL 6-4 292 so
The Wolverines are still 
55 Andy Christopfel OL 6-3 296 SR
er in the nation, averag­

Wolverines have had
throw too much this sea­
55 Jeremy Read LB 6-1 229 SR
stinging from their upset
ing 208.7 yards in his 

their problems with theson, as the Wolverines 
56 LaMarr Woodley LB 6-2 261 FR
loss at the hands of the 
57 Dave Pearson OL 6-3 297 SR
first two games of the kicking game. Place

have just run over oppo­
58 Roy Manning OLB 6-2 240 SR
Irish last season. Seniors 
59 Joey Sarantos LB 6-3 222 JR
season, albeit against 

kickers Finley and Hivas 
-

nents. But he is a solid 
n 

60 Grant Bowman DL 6-1 289 SR
like Navarre and PerryHouston and Central are a combined 3-for-6passer and experienced 
:I: 

61 Turner Booth OL/LS 6-2 278 5el
know this will be their 
62 Courtney Morgan OL 6-3 303 SR 
-
Michigan. The this year. The returnquarterback. Edwards is 

G') 

63 Derek Bell DL 6-5 261 JR
last chance to beat 
)>
Wolverines also boast a 

game has been solid,
one of the nation's best 
64 Jeff Gaston OL 6-5 280 SR
Notre Dame, and they'd 
65 Leo Henige OL 6-4 328 JR
2
powerful offensive line averaging 13.5 yards onreceivers and could cre­

66 Paul Sarantos LB 6-3 252 so
love to do it in front of
and the nation's top 

67 Matt Lentz OL 6-6 310 JR
punts and over 33 yards
ate problems for the 
their home fans. 
68 Patrick Sharrow OL 6-3 270 FR
rushing attack. 

on kickoffs.
Irish defensive backs. 
69 David Schoonover OL 6-3 286 JR 7l Tom Berishaj OL 6-4 314 so 72 Rucben Riley OL 6-3 307 so 74 Demetrius Solomon OL 6-6 299 SR 75 David Baas OL 6-5 314 SR
Fans of smashmouth foot­

Neither team is great in 
76 Mike Kolodziej OL 6-7 304 so
Setta is off to a good start 
There are a lot of things 
77 Jake Long OL 6-6 290 FR
ball should love this 

this area, but the 
again this season. and is 
77 Tony Paw Ol 6-6 304 SR
gQtJ1&' ·.in Mi<*i&~il'S
matehup. The nation's top 

78 Gabriel atson DL 6-4 339 so
Wotvftl·:}.Il e s · ,,
}.,~~~~ m; .: :v e 
doing a good job manag­


79 Adam Stenavich OL 6-5 302 JR
favo · J this game.
thetc;,~dge~~&as t .ve 
ing all three kicking 
80 Chris Matsos WR 6-0 206 JR
H ·''"' ' "'{lft'AQ. .ser1.e.s.. 
82 Mike Mandich TE 6-3 242 JR
;an (!~ertencmt·-quarter-"'·1
=~~!~1~t=:ll~f 

responsibilities. I The 
83 Adam Kraus TE 6-5 269 FR
th&me fle~t a:d v~ rt'Wg ~
ibae"~ah~ g<iotl ~~i~~rs.j 
84 Kevin Murphy TE 6-5 248 so
Wolverines kicking ga.Jlle,
!'ft!~~u~daP~(t,~~SJ~T\rr 

85 DaveS~ytek TE 6-7 258 JR
PTu..-.-;:··.·.:..~.·· .. i ~r---. '3.. na... S····.e.·.·a-­
meanwhile, is question­
·~·-~> ..w. ~y 
86 Jim Fis er TE 6-5 250 SR
Michigan's stats are inflat­

Ntittf).. D~me d~fens .~ e 
88 lim Massaquoi TE 6-4 239 JR 89 Tyler Ecker TE 6-6 240 so 
able. Jones and Duff are 
ed after playing Houston 

btt tk'tfr!Td couht''W~ e 
one of the most e;q>losive 
90 Norman Heuer DL 6-5 282 SR
and Central Michigan to 

things easier for the 
91 Rondell Bi~s DL 6-2 262 so
duos in ·the nation in 
92 Williain Pau DE 6-2 255 FR
open the season. 

Wolverines. 
returning kicks. 
93 AlexOfili DL 6-3 275 JR 
94 Pat Massey DL 6-8 262 JR 
94 Matt Studenski TE 6-4 216 JR 
95 Alain Kashama DL 6-5 256 SR 
96 Larry Harrison DL 6-3 305 so 
97 Luke Perl PK 6-0 205 SR 
99 Andy Stejskal WR 6-4 192 SR 
99 Pierre Woods DL 6-5 244 JR 


Chris Federico Sports Writer 
Washington State may have given the Irish a This game will come down to which Irish team shows up wake-up call but, this Michigan team is one in Ann Arbor. If it's the same team that scored 20 points of the best in the country. The Irish will con­in the fourth quarter against Washington State, the Irish tain Chris Perry, but the Notre Dame offense may have a chance of leaving The Big House with an won't be able to keep up with John Navarre upset. If the first-half Irish arrive to play Michigan, they and the Michigan passing game. The only may have an embarrassment on their hands. The Irish chance for the Irish is to get direct scoring will be much improved, but the home crowd Wolverine from the defense and special teams. fans will be too much to overcome. 
Matt Lozar FINAL SCORE: Michigan 21 FINAL SCORE: Michigan 24 Associate Sports Editor Notre Dame 13 Notre Dame 20 
,.. 



-----~------------------------------­
page 6 Friday, September 12, 2003
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Sizing up the Irish and Wolverines 
NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE MICHIGAN'S OFFENSE 
vs

AVERAGE PER GAME MICHIGAN"~ DEFENSE NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 
total yards gained total yards allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 


passing yards gained passing yards allowed 

I ­
kick return yards gained kick return yards allowed 
punt return yards gained ..... punt return yards allowed 

yards per punt 
39.71 

punts blocked lo 

turnovers lost turnovers recovered 


3 
yards penalized .•, yards penalized 

52 
points scored 

• 
291 
points allowed ] 


KEY MATCHUP 

NOTRE DAME MICHIGAN PASSING GAME SECONDARY 

In order to move the ball consistently against Michigan, the Irish will need to throw the ball better than they did against Washington State. The running game will get its yards, but Carlyle Holiday needs to make smart decisions. 
Preseason Big Ten Defensive Player of the Year Marlin Jackson returned an interception for a touchdown last year against the Irish and is back in the Michigan lineup after serving a one-game suspension. 
by the numbers 
all-time win percentage difference between 
003 

Notre Dame (.750) and Michigan (-.747) • 
last year the Irish won at Michigan Stadium, No. 11 Notre Dame beat No.

1993 
3Michigan 27-23 
. 

capacity of Michigan 
1o 7 5o 1 

Stadium, the highest of any ' stadium owned by a college 
. lfl i 

Notre Dame 271-1177 
Better Ingredients. Better Pizza. 
HOURS M-Th 11 :OOAM-1 :OOAM F-Sat 11 :00AM-3:00AM Sun 12:00PM-1:OOAM 
Papa Predicts: NOTRE DAME 27 Michigan 17 
IRISH SPECIAL ' 
. ------------------­
St. Mary's & Holy Cross 271-PAPA 
r----------------u----------------~r-----~----------~
I II 0 L 0 T . II I 
1 LATE NIGHT SPECIAL II ne arge r.e oppmg II COMPLETE MEAL DEAL 1 
: 2 Breadsticks & :: $8.99 :: One Large One Topping, : I 2 Liter of Coca-Cola product 11 OR 11 Breadsticks &a 2 Liter of 1 
I• II II I I 
1 $7 97 Two La,..ge One Topping Coca-Co a product 
I ·. • :: $ :: $12.99 : 
: up to close :: 14.99 :: : 
~----------------··------------~---~~----------------~ 
FAST+ HOT+ QUALITY+ GO ND! 

Friday, Seprember 12, 2003 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 


Resurgent Perry to test Notre Dame front four ~ 


~ 
. ~~­
~--o.-.;!1' 

Icon Sports Michigan running back Chris Perry makes a move against Houston safety Jermain Woodard last weekend. 
Division I' s leading runner running with more emotion 
CHIP MARKS/The Observer 

The Notre Dame defensive front lines up against Washington State last Saturday. The Irish front four will face a major attack against Michigan and Chris Perry this weekend. 
Defensive line readyfor Michigan's attack 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 
Chris Perry is running with a sense of urgency these days. 
But it's not defensive linemen chasing him or linebackers star­ing him down that has Michigan's senior running back moving like he never has before. 
He just wants to win -and win it all. 
After all, any player that com­mits to a school like Michigan has dreams of playing for the title. But after three years in Ann Arbor -and without a top 10 finish or Big Ten title to show for his work -Perry realizes he has one last shot at winning it all in New Orleans this year. 
"I see a Chris Perry filled with emotion and fire for every single game," Michigan guard David Baas said of the man he clears paths for on Saturdays. "I think that is one of his best qualities. He is a great back. He wants to win. He wants to go out there and get rushing yards and help this team get to where we want to go at the 

end of the sea­workouts
../ see a Chris Perry filled 
son." Coach [Mike]
with emotion and fir(} for
It's not that Gittleson and Perry hasn't every single game.., Coach [Kevin] played well in Tolbert put us the past. Last through, so I
Lloyd Carr 
season, he owe them rushed for Michigan coach credit. It's as 
1,110 yards and 14 touch­downs, but he has not lived up to the hype of a game-breaking back that many in and around the Michigan program envi­sioned. 
"I had some issues with [Perry] where I'd want something done a certain way, but he was not on the same page," Michigan coach Uoyd Carr said. "I had wonder­ful support from his mother, so we were able to get his attention and get him to do the things that we wanted him to do. I think right now he has an opportunity to become a great back." 
Through two ga111es this year, Perry has been everything the Wolverines could want -and more. Right now, he is th~ lead­ing rusher in the nation averag­ing 416 yards per game on the ground and four touchdowns. 
"Anytime you're the tailback at this school, you're going to have critics," Carr said. "Chris has taken some of that criticism and used it as motivation.... Right now, he is running with the foot­ball the way I would like him to.,. 

Even those outside of the Michigan program have noticed the change in Perry from last season to now. That change has people like Notre Dame defen­sive coordinator Kent Baer a lit­tle uneasy about what it will take to stop the improved Perry. 
"He looks quicker to me. Somebody said he lost some weight, and it looks like he has," Baer said. "He has great quick­ness and great cutback ability. He has tremendous vision and is very strong, and he's really car­ried the load for them these first two games. We're going to have our hands full with him, because he's one of the better backs we'll see this year." 
Along with a new attitude and new sense of urgency, Perry added a new workout routine in the off-seasdn to improve his speed, quickness and endurance.. 
"In some ways I do feel like I'm running a little faster," Perry said. ''I think it has something to 
do with the 
much of an 
endurance thing as it is a speed thing. When you have better endurance, you'll be quicker for longer periods of time." 
The senior back has reaped the benefits of his work, averag­ing 208 yards a game on 49 car­ries in Michigan's first two games against Central Michigan and Houston. 
Perry acknowledges that Notre Dame's run defense -which held Washington State to 55 yards on the ground last week ­will present a different challenge than his two previous opponents. 
"[Notre Dame] has a great defense. Their front seven is very fast and very athletic, and they are always running to the ball," Perry said. "It's going to be a challenge. and hopefully we can step up to it and handle it well." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic @nd.edu 
By MATT LOZAR Associate Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame front four prides itself on its ability to stop the run. Saturday, the Irish defensive line gets a major test. 
Through its first two games this season, Michigan is aver­aging 36 7 yards per game as a team and running back Chris Perry averages 208 yards. Both figures lead Division I. 
The Irish know it's going to be a monumental challenge. 
"They rush for a lot of yards. We know up front defensively we have to play hard. It's going to be some smash-mouth football and we are looking forward to the challenge," defensive -end Kyle Budinscak said. "We are confident in our ability to stop the run. It's going to be a big challenge and hopefully we'll come out on 
,

top. 
Last year, the Irish held the Wolverine rushing attack in check, allowing only 91 net rushing yards. Perry had some success gaining 78 yards on 16 carries, but Michigan coach Lloyd Carr abandoned the run­ning game, rushing only 26 times despite the team's 3.6 yards per carry average. 
So far this season, Carr and the Wolverines have stuck with the running game, with 46 attempts against Central 
LEFT END 



:E 
<C 
1&.1 

1­c 
z 
0 
(,) 1&.1 Victor Abiamlri 


U) 
Truefreshman pushing for time on field 

...
. 
Michigan and 51 times last week against Houston. Knowing the Wolverines play a typical Big Ten style of foot­ball, Budinscak appreciates the depth the Irish have devel­oped on the defensive line this year and being able to play dif­ferent combinations of players will help come crunch time. 
"We're fortunate to have a rotation this year," Budinscak said. "We have a bunch of guys who can play a number of positions, which helps a lot. 
"We have to stay fresh because it is going to be a tough game." 
Defensive coordinator Kent Baer agrees. 
"I see all eight guys playing again. I was pleased with the rotation. We're healthier now than one week ago. I like how that went," Baer said. "We're going to have to keep them fresh, because you never know what it's going to be like up there. It could be hop and humid, or it could be a little it cool. I think we're going to have to play a lot of guys, and that will be 0 K." 
Budinscak, Darre II Campbell, Cedric Hilliard, Justin Tuck and Greg Pauly are the main returning players from last season. Joining them in the eight-man rotation are Travis Leitko, Derek Landri and Victor Abiamiri. The latter three made their collegiate debuts last week and may 
DEFENSIVE NosE RIGHT TACKLE GUARD END 
-








have seen more action than 
expected due to injuries to 
Pauly and Hilliard. This week­
end, the whole line should be 
healthier than a week ago. 
[Cedric's ankle injury] had a lot of effect and Greg [Pauly] wasn't healthy either," Baer said. "We had to go with that rotation, but they all got some reps, they got some playing time, and we all came out healthy. I feel good about it. 
"I can see 8 guys playing and playing a lot." 
This Notre Dame defensive line corps, after losing only one starter from 2002, is the deepest it has been in many years. Saturday's game against Michigan will revolve on run­ning the ball. Being able to control the line of scrimmage, especially against the top rushing team in country, will put the Irish in a position to win every time they step onto the field. 
"Coach [Tyrone] Willingham always says as the season goes on, we get stronger. That's what we're doing," Campbell said. "We came out in practice and gave it all that we had, and tomorrow we'll do the same thing and get better. 
"We keep setting the bar higher and higher until we get to a point where nothing can stop us." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 12, 2003 

I ( 
l I l 
I 
!
) i 
. \ 








