.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Sales ofThe Shirt exceed expectations 
By ANNA GELHAUS 
News Writer 
The magic in the sound of Notre Dame's name may soon he rivaled by the sales of The Shirt 2003. which has already sold an impressive 50,000 eopies as the "Sea of Green" craze continues to spread. 
This year's shirt, which fea­tures tlw quote, "There's a magic in the sound of their nanw ... !!ere come the Irish of Notre Dame," sold out faster than any of tlw previous Shirts. Stemming from the success of The Shirt 2002, which sold more than 130,000, Dave Br·enrwr. president of The Shirt 200:{, opted to keep tlw same kelly grc•~n color as last year. 
"In choosing the sanw green color. I thought we would sell out, but not this quickly," Bn•nrwr said. 
And because this year's The Shirl sold out faster than PXpcctt~d, studcnls just arriving on campus have had little chance to purchase The Shirl bdorn Saturday's season open-
sec SHIRT/page 6 

Hallahan discusses semester plan 

By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
Associatr Nrws Ediror 
Meetings for all divisions of Student Government begin this week, and members are starting work on some of the most important issues and events fac­ing the student body this year. 
The most significant Student Government event in the near future is the Church in Africa Conference, laking place at the end of September. The confer­ence. organized by the theology department, brings together members of the Catholic Church from the United States as well as Nigeria and other African countries. 
The conference will focus on the social, economic and politi­cal problems facing Africa and some steps that could be taken to remedy them. 
"We want to show how to work together to make things better [in Africa] and [the United States]. and how people in this country can work better with the people in Africa," said Student Body President Pat Hallahan. 
Student Government volun­teered to advertise the confer­ence to students, said Student Body Vice President Jeremy Lao. 
"The people organizing this event jumped at our offer to make students aware of it," Lao said. 
The conference is a two-part event; the first half will take place on campus and the second· half will be held in Nigeria. 
In addition to the conference itself, a student exchange pro­gram is being organized which will bring six students from Nigeria to campus in September for the fall semester, and six Notre Dame students will study in Nigeria beginning in January. 
Another project will be a com­bined effort between the Student Senate and the Executive Cabinet. These groups will assess the Student Union's constitution, their budget process and the general cooper­ation within the organization. Depending on their findings, 
see PREVIEW/page 6 


SMC reinstitutes State of the School 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Student Government Association revived the State of the School Address yesterday afternoon as one of the many changes they plan for the 2003-04 academic year. 
The address, delivered at the beginning of both the fall and spring semesters, is an attempt to improve lines of communication between the different branches of leaders in the College and to encour­age accountability for prom­ises made. 
"We are trying to unify Student Government Association and the student body," said public relations commissioner Stephanie Patka. "The purpose of the address is to put everyone on the same page by communi­cating where we are and where we are going at the beginning of each semester. We hope to make this a tradi­tion once again."Unaware of why the tradition ceased, stu­dent body president Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl felt this year to be a key time to implement it once again. 
"We are addressing some past problems resulting from lack of communication," Jablonski-Diehl said. "Communication is difficult when working with adminis­

trators, faculty and students. This year, so much is happen­ing with the presidential search, new construction and everything else; it is good for students to have this perspec­tive of what is occurring." 
Sarah Brown, student body vice president, first outlined the branches of SG/\ and introduced the many leaders of each division. Brown described their purpose as a double-sided challenge. 
"We strive to build special relationships in each group and to bring togethnr the many roles into one goal of making Saint Mary's as strong and vibrant as possi­ble," Brown said. 
Jablonski-Diehl then addressed the students and faculty with the many changes Saint Mary's is work­ing to implement this aca­demic year, including the construction of the student center, on-campus apart­ments, a new master aca­demic plan to follow President Marilou Eldred's master plan, renovation of studen t/al urn n ae relations programs and expansion of the Friends with Sisters pro­gram. 
SGA plans to research stu­dent reactions to these changes. Fielding comments concerning the new dining hall, Mary Holland is filling 
sec SPEECH/page 6 page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

I 
Proud to be 

f 
~ 
i 

aSMCChick 

r Last week, a group of Notre Dame
I I (female) freshmen strolled into a party I was at and
~ 
began talking to

! 
I several guys I 
i 
knew. Since it

I 
wasn't anything out of the ordi­nary, I paid no attention and went back to nursing my Corona. until one freshman said something to the effect of "Saint Mary's girls just come over here to take what they can't get." 
Whether or not they were trying to impress the older guys, the fact that they could make a comment after not even a week on campus shocked me. Is it possible to categorize an entire · group of people you don't know in less than seven days? I don't think so. 
A lot has changed at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's during my three years here, but unfortunately, one of the things that needs to be changed most hasn't. 
The stereotype of Saint Mary's women (commonly referred to as "SMC Chicks") has been a constant issue on both campuses since my first year and dates back even fur­ther, from what I'm told. Just as an FYI, we (as Saint Mary's students) are not ignorant to remarks made about us in attempt to bring down the reputation of our school. Ironically enough, many of us have redefined, and are proud to be, SMC Chicks. 
Anyone who knows me can attest to the fact that I will joke and laugh about most things, even comments aimed at Saint-Mary's, keeping in mind that they are jokes. When a derogatory comment is made in all seriousness about Saint Mary's, or Saint Mary's women, like that above, it's a whole different ball game. 
I'll admit there have been times when I've been at parties, tailgates, sporting events, etc. and seen a girl demoralize herself in public (take that how you want to). Not surpris­ingly, if the girl is from Saint Mary's, Notre Dame students will often quickly correlate her actions with the fact that she is a "SMC Chick," only adding fuel to the fire. But there have been equal instances when the girl drawing attention is from Notre Dame. 
Who's to say that one group of stu­dents is better looking, more intelli­gent, or possesses more class and morals than another? 
I can't speak for the entire student body, but I can and will say that a large majority of Saint Mary's women do not venture across the street to "take what we can't get." We're only trying to create relationships, experi­ences and show support like the sis­ter school that, don't forget, we are. Notre Dame students are more than welcome to come to our campus and do the same. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at woo/8338@saintmarys.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

Anne Iiese Woolford 
Saint Mary's Editor· 
Tuesday, September 2, 2003 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK ABOUT LEGENDS? 




ofour 86 types take Domer ofbeer." Dollars." 





out." out with freshman guys. " 
IN BRIEF 
Tryouts for student speakers for this Friday's Pep Rally for the Washington State game will be held Wednesday in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune at 7 p.m. Questions? Contact Bill at wbonner@nd.edu or Erinn at erigney@nd.edu. 
Learn about all the clubs and organizations on and off-cam­pus at Activities' Night today from 7 to 9 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. 
Have your chance at tickets for the Michigan away game through a lottery in the Gold Room of North Dining Hall Wednesday from 3 to 5:30p.m. 
Enjoy inflatables, popcorn, sno-cones and tie-dye at the Welcome Week Festival held Wednesday from 3 to 7 p.m. on North Quad. Rain location: Stepan Center 
"El Jardin de Eden" will be presented by the Kellogg/ILS film series, Looking Out, Looking In: Latino and Latin American Perspectives on Wednesday from 7 to 9 p.m. in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center. 
Enjoy free food from all LaFortune eateries at the Taste of LaFortune Wednesday from 9:30 to 10:30 in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Join the ND Right to Life Club for great music and free food at the ND Right to Life Concert Thursday from 4 to 6 
p.m. on the Fieldhouse Mall. 
Dillon's annual pep rally will get you ready for the first home game on Thursday from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in front of Dillon Hall on South Quad. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 
~ 
~ 

HIGH 75 HIGH 77 LOW 55 LOW 57 
Kate Antonacci  Brian Coughlin  Julie Hynes  John McKiernan  Laura Navarre  Sean Silva  
Freshman  Director of  Freshman  Law Student  Freshman  Senior  
Walsh Hall  Student  Howard Hall  Howard Hall  Off-Campus  
Activities  
"/ think it will  "You have to be  "Excellent cake,  "So much better  ''A cool place  "It will be a  
be a really fun  21 years ofage  very nice  than Senior Bar,  for everyone on  great place to  
place."  to consume any  environment."  but they should  campus to hang  drink and hang  

Couple ties the knot In Maine dump 
BETHEL, Maine -Dave Hart and Rockie Graham exchanged vows on Monday. pledging their hearts and souls to each other underneath a card­board recycling contain­er. 
The couple tied the knot at the Bethel Transfer Station, where they met and love bloomed next to the piles of recycled cans and garbage. 
"What a contrast. The tux and the trash," Hart told the Lewiston Sun­Journal. 
It  was  nearly  three  
TODAY  
a::  



"He apparently didn't know what he had because he would be awfully stupid to steal a tracking device," said correctional officer Thomas Roth, who runs the home detention pro­gram at the Rock County Jail. 
The $2,500 device was temporarily placed out­side a home by a woman serving home detention. The device, which is a lit­tle bigger than a brick in size, has a built-in GPS satellite receiver. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
ANDREW KENNNThe Observer 

A backhoe cut a 10-lnch water main Friday morning at Saint Mary's and caused water and air conditioning to be shut down In three buildings on campus. 
OFFBEAT 

years ago at the transfer station that Hart met Graham, a committed recycler who now works part-time there. Hart is the station's manager. 
Man charged with stealing tracking device 
JANESVILLE, Wis. -To track down this alleged thief, all police had to do was flick on a computer. 
A 40-year-old man was arrested Wednesday and charged with stealing a computerized tracking device that uses a global positioning system to keep track of jail prison­ers on home detention. 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
w 

:::1: 
!;t 
3: w 
_, 


~ 
c( (,) 

.9 HIGH 78 HIGH 66 HIGH 83 HIGH 68 LOW 60 LOW 54 LOW 58 LOW 51 
Atlanta 89 I 70 Boston 65 I 59 Chicago 79 I 63 Denver 83 I 59 Houston 85 I 72 Los Angeles 85 I 69 Minneapolis 84 I 57 New York 71 I 63 Philadelphia 75 I 64 Phoenix 107 I 84 Seattle 85 I 59 St. Louis 80 I 66 Tampa 86 I 74 Washington 85 I 70 
~----------------------------------------------------------------~--~------------------­
Tuesday, September 2, 2003 page 3 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Saint Mary's kicks off year with career advice for seniors 
By MICHELLE EGGERS 
News Wri[cr 
Saint Mary's will present a "Senior Career Kick-Off' tonight to prepare members of this year's graduating senior class for their entrance into the sluggish econo­my and its layoffs, budget cut­backs and hiring freezes. 
Tlw program. organized by Saint Mary's College Counseling and Carner lkvnlopment Center, will bring together the entire sen­ior class lor a one-hour informa­tive session on the resources the CCDC offers seniors in prepara­tion for life after college. 
"The program will provide a good foundation of the services the center provides," said associ­ate director of career opportuni­ties Jellrey Roberts. 
Dr. Mary DePauw, CCDC Director, will introduce the Center's team and their philoso­phy. Career counselor Angela Bryant will inform seniors about the Career Resource Center Ubrary, including hours, available materials and loan policies. 
"So many students don't realize the library is there and available to help in whatever capacity it can," said Bryant. 
Bryant will also discuss the "Graduate and Professional School Information" program, aimed at alerting students to the timetable involved in postgradu­ate tests and graduate school applications. 
Alumnae board representative Karen McDonald will follow Bryant with an explanation of "Grace Under Pressure." Scheduled for Sept. 18 at 5:30 
p.m. in Stapleton Lounge, the pro­gram will feature a panel discus­sion of alumnae board members' careers and experiences after Saint Mary's. The panel will also review appropriate attire for interviews and business social events. 
The program's main focus is an overview of Go BELLS, the online job and resume referral database. Students will learn how to upload their resumes and place them in a resume book, search for jobs, internships and employers. and sign up for interviews. Each stu­dent must complete a disclosure statement to activate her account. 
The evening will conclude with a question and answer session. and informational material, including the September issue of the CCDC newsletter "Pathfinder," will be distributed. 
Contact Michelle Eggers at egge2272@saintmarys.edu 
SMC professor honored for aiding study abroad in Italy 
Italy, and yet is totally devoted represents and maintains over comments on Prebys' extremeBy ANNE BASINSKI to the Saint Mary's Rome 90 American and Canadian generosity and hospitality. 
News Wri[er 
Program." university and college-level Upon reception of the 
The Saint Mary's Rome abroad programs in Italy. award, Prebys said, "I was 
Saint Mary's College Home Program, one of the oldest MCUPI programs account for very honored to receive the Program Founder and permanent study abroad pro­approximately 15,000 of the degree, and, of course, very Director Portia Anne Prebys grams in Italy, began in 1970 North American students who pleased to be honored in such rnceived a Doctorate in Letters after Prebys was contacted by study in Italy each year. a way. I have dedicated my life from .John Cabot University in the College and asked to Prebys' dedication to foster­to international education and Horne, Italy on May 16, 2003. establish it. Prebys, a South ing international study in Italy exchange and was thrilled to The award was presented to Bend native, has lived in Italy has made the Saint Mary's have this fact recognized." Prebys at John Cabot's gradu­since she graduated from Rome Program one of the Prebys has received several ation c1~remony held at the Saint Mary's in 1966 after most academically respected honors and awards for her t\nwrican Academy of Home falling in love with the country study abroad programs in work in international study, in recognition of her lifelong while studying there the sum­Italy. including a 1994 President's commitment to the growth mer after her junior year of Saint Mary's Counselor of medal from Saint Mary's pre­and developnwn t of interna­college. the Home Program Peter sented at the College's tional nducation in Italy. Prebys served as a founding Checca, who has worked with Sesquicentennial Convocation. 
Saint Mary's Chair of member and is currently Prebys for 27 years said. She is also an active member Modern Languages and Italian President of and the Rome "What makes the Rome of several volunteer organiza­Professor Dr. Nancy L. Program's representative for Program special is [Prebys') tions in Italy dedicated to the D'Antuono said that the the Association of American dedication, loyalty and organi­betterment of American study dngree was a " ... well-deserved College and University zational skills." abroad programs. Pho[o courtesy of Port1a Prebys
recognition. [Prebys] has Programs in Italy (AACUPI). Additionally, D'Antuono said Portia Prebys receives a doctorate for worknd indefatigably for many The Italy-based MCUPI is an that any Saint Mary's faculty Contact Anne Basinski at her commitment to study abroad pro­international programs in organization that facilitates, who visits or teaches in Rome basi0223@saintmarys.edu grams In Italy. 

,.......· ·. . . ' . . . .



7(\.L·..L ST·a·E·ET
fhe ~-·· . . t.... . .. . . . '.·.........'. and 
"



FlNANCl.A:L S:E.R\liCES FORUM 
Thursr;taM, Septemtzgr 4, 2,0_{!1 r~,~1endoza College of Business ..Jordan Auditorium 
5:00M6:00 Financial Services Panel 
6: 15~ 7:45 lnvestrnent Banking Panel 
7:45-8:45 Roundtable Discussions & Hors D'oeuvres will be 
:t:<::ii>"<Af!!d

~~I "F..,.,:_, _,,.,,_w.·.·.--···'-•·-----,M--······''="'="'"""'""'"'~---~­

Finanda! Services
~··

.... ..... . ln·vesJ!n~nt Banking
Bank One Bayview Capital Management Lincoln Financial Group Credit St.J:is.se First Boston Strong Financial :Mellon Financial CorporationVVells Fargo Shamrock Capital Advisors 
US Bancorp Piper Jaffray WiUiam Blair &Company 

NUMEROUS AODtTIONAl EMPLOYERS ·wltl JOIN U.S FOR THE ROUNDTABLES Please bring Student ID 
Sponsored by Tfre Care-or Center and MBA Ct~reer Devt4oprnvnt Center 
Tuesday, September 2, 2003
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
ROlUNSON COMMUN'lTY LEARNING CENTER

AIu111ni Association vvill hold cancer drive 
Special to The Observer the waiting area. No appoint­ments are necessary. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Local screening dates and Association will sponsor the locations are: Drive Against Prostate Cancer, + Sept. 9: 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at a two-day event that offers free the College Football Hall of and confidential prostate can­Fame and at 3 to 7 p.m. at cer screenings to the public. Memorial Neighborhood Center 
Memorial Hospital and Health in South Bend. Systems, Saint Joseph Hegional + Sept. 10: 9 a.m. to 1 p.m., at 3:JD-5:30 Medical Center and a host of the Hobinson Community OR local businesses and health Learning Center and 3 to 7 p.m. 
Tt!>ii~'dl<ly & Thut<;d.;ty

organizations plan to co-spon­at the Saint Joseph Cancer 
J:?~0-5:·};1)

sor the event which will occur Institute in Plymouth. Sept. 9-10. Through the Drive Against 
South Bend Mayor Stephen Prostate Cancer, the NPCC aims + Whr.k Study :and Luecke and other community to screen more than 10,000 \\:ilunti~er pn~~hium; leaders will kick off the event at men and educate countless oth­
ava.ihbk 

a news conference Sept. 9 at ers across the country this year. 
9:30 a.m. at the College Prostate cancer is the most 
• 'lhtirring :>!:m:lli

Football Hall of Fame. At that commonly diagnosed non-skin time, Luecke and his counter­cancer in America. One in six S.q)~t~mht.'r 8th ­parts from neighboring commu­men will get prostate cancer Sgn.upnow! nities will sign proclamations and some 29,000 will die from declaring the month . of it this year alone. Hesearch sug­September "Prostate Cancer gests that men could reduce Awareness Month" in their their risk of prostate cancer respective cities. mortality by following recom­* Tt:;l:i:t,:>pod>Hi.on ·c~:n be 
Conducted by the National mended screening guidelines, provide-d hr 1hn~~po· Prostate Cancer Coalition, the including examination by a B.ui< or by -cli!rpoot Drive Against Prostate Cancer health care provider beginning is a mobile screening unit in at age 40, and increased which local licensed physicians awareness and use of early R(.HH:N~ON 
COM'?>H.I'l'><TTY 

conduct a two-part screening detection practices. LEklil.N~Nt.< Cl';t4TE~ procedure composed of a Founded in 1996, the NPCC is Prostate Specific Antigen blood the largest non-profit organiza­!Ul Nmth E-i:hlr Mr-~l\lt test and a physical examina­tion in the nation dedicated to 
&:>t.~tl! E!Wld, !N ~H)6 H 

tion. The screenings are con­ending the devastating impacts ducted in a 39-foot Airstream of prostate cancer on men and 
C!llil~t:ft~: Ktl*MH~r.

Land Yacht designed specifical­families. Its efforts are based on 
'.!oltm\'elli Coorniroi!ior a~.

ly for prostate cancer screening three founding principles ­-~ll>:if.l~: \331-9-421
and equipped with a big-screen awareness, advocacy and out­television and Internet access in reach. Em~;ll: ~otni~t1Mn!t,I.$U 
r·-··--------.. ···-----------::-..:.::::...,::·-'""="'-'"'"~-·~·=~:.:=-=-=-=-=:.:::_=======================::::::::I Have You Made Your Mark? 
Fall Break Seminars 
October 19-25,2003 


Deadline: Sept. 4 

Appalachia Seminar •. Cultural Diversity Seminar The Gullah Seminar 
Explore the religious, social, political Experience the divesity of our Examines the rich history and culture and emrironmenml issues facing the nation through food~ an and dialog of South Carolina's Gullah people, 
~~c

Appalachia region. (I'heo 361) v-dth communiry leaders at sites many of whom are descendants of 
R'::2T{Jh

throughout Chicago. slaves brought over from West F 0 Gospel of life Seminar . (I'heo 362/Soc 362/IIPS 362) Africa. (AFAM 368/CSC 355) SOCIAL Investigate a variety of pro-life CONCERNS issues (death penalt}~ euthanasia, Washington Seminar Rosebud Reservation Global stem cell research, abortion) in .l\le<t with catholic public policy Health Initiative Seminar Washington, D.C. \Vith Church, organizations, activists and Immerse yourself in hea.lthcare and Applications available legislative, and non-governmental govemment leaders as \Ve study how healthcare delivery on the Rosebud at the Center or online organizations. (Theo 368) Christians are called to live and work Native American reservation in centerforsodalconcerns.nd.edu 
in the world.(Theo 363/POLS 333W) South Dakota. (Theo 368) 








ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 2, 2003 Co.Jv~PlLED FROM THE ()BSERVFR WIRE SERVICES Page 5 
INDONESIA 
Trial of terror group leader may test security 
Associalcd Press 
.1/\K/\HT/\ -Facing heavy police security. hundreds of Muslim militants rallied Tuesday outside a courthouse in .Jakarta. where judges were set to announce a verdict in the trial of' the alleged spiritual IPader of' the Jemaah Islamiyah terror rwtwork. 
Prosecutors say a guilty deci­sion against /\bu Bakar Bashir on tn~ason and bombing chargtls would be the strongest blow ytlt to al-Qaida-linked mil­itants. blamed for a string or atrocities in Indonesia and the Philippines and which planned attacks against Western targets nlsnwlwrn in the region. 
"I came here to support Hashir and to demand that he bt~ fnled bncaustl this trial was forced on us by the enemy or {;od. the terrorist government of the United States," said Abdullah 1\bdurahim. one or about 400 supporters or the jailed cleric who had arrived in the capital overnight. 
StWtlral hundred policemen. sonw armed with automatic rifles. stood guard outside the building. Four water-cannon trucks were parked nearby. 
The court was set to get undm· way later in the morning. but it wasn't clear when the verdict would be handed down. 
Bashir, who ran a religious boarding school in Central Java. was arrested in the immediate aftermath of the Oct. 12 Bali bombings that killed 202 people. mostly foreigners. He has -rrot been charged with involvement in that attack or the 1\ug. 5 bombing of Jakarta's Marriott llotel in which 12 peo­ple were killed. 
llowever. Indonesian prose­cutors say that under his lead­ership, Jemaah Islamiyah plot­ted to kill President Megawati Sukarnoputri with the wider aim of establishing an Islamic state in Indonesia. 
lie also has been charged in a series of church blasts through­out Indonesia on Christmas Eve 2000, killing 19. 
Prosecutors say those attacks were designed to destabilize the country of 210 million peo­ple. mostly Muslims. with the aim of overthrowing its secular republican government and set­ting up a fundamentalist state. 
The trial was politically sensi­tive for Megawati, whose coali­tion government depends on the support of moderate Muslim parties. 
Hepresentatives of these par­ties, including her own vice president. llamzah Haz. have in the past expressed support for Bashir -who maintained his innocence and said he was framed by the intelligence ser-vices of the United States and bunal has already delivered its Israel. first death sentence -Bashir 


Analysts say that in contrast remains influential in religious to the dozens of obscure radi­circles in the world's largest cals who carried out the attack Muslim country. in Bali -where a special tri-Perhaps as a reflection of the 
sensitivities involved. state prosecutors asked the court to sentence Bashir to only 15 years in jail, instead of demanding the maximum life sentence. 

Democrats look for union support to defeat Bush 
Associ a ted I'ress 
DES MOINES -Democratic presiden­tial candidates, campaigning in Iowa and New llampshire. criticized President Bush's handling of the economy and urged union members Monday to orga­nize labor's support to defeat the presi­dent in 2004. 
Florida Sen. Bob Graham told a Labor Day rally at the Iowa State Fairgrounds in Des Moines that "time after time (Bush has) said one thing and acted in another way." I le criticized Bush for the rising budget ddicit and for not adequately funding the homeland security depart­nwnt. 
Morn than 2,000 pr,ople turned out for tlw lh~s Moines rally sponsored by the South Central Iowa Federation of Labor. 
Sen. John Edwards of North Carolina told the Iowa crowd that President Bush has little in common with working men and women. 
lie "doesn't come from the same place that most of us come from," said Edwards, who reminded the union mem­bers of his family's ties to the labor move­ment. Edwards father was a mill worker and his mother worked as mail carrier. 
In Iowa City, former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean called Bush a poor custodi­an of the nation's economy and con­demned tho Bush tax cuts as handouts for big corporations. 
"Guess who got the tax cut? It certainly wasn't anyone here," Dean told more than 200 union members at a Labor Day picnic. "I believe the way to improve the economy is to give working people a rea­sonable and fair wage and a decent set of working conditions so maybe they could put a little bit of money into the econo­my." 
Campaigning in New Hampshire. Sen. John Kerry of Massachusetts and Rep. Dick Gephardt of Missouri denounced Bush's handling of the economy as the two rivals for the Democratic nomination made joint campaign appearances in Manchester and Milford. 
Gephardt characterized Bush's econom­ics as a "survival of the fittest" policy that he said casts aside the middle class in favor of big business and special interests. 
Gephardt. who has received the endorsement of a dozen labor unions. said he would pursue fair trade polices over free trade. He said. the Bush policies have allowed companies to use cheap labor abroad at the expense of American work­ers. 
Kerry said the country needed a labor secretary from a labor background who respects the right of workers to organize. As president. Kerry said he would seek to end tax breaks for companies that move overseas and promised a Justice Department that enforces antitrust laws and fights for civil rights. 
"We need a trade policy that lifts up standards for workers around tho world." Gephardt told about 300 union members at a breakfast in Manchester. 
In Iowa, former Illinois Sen. Carol Moseley Braun also said the Bush admin­istration's tax cuts for tho wealthy and trickle down ideas about the economy aren't working. 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Mexico's Fox promises to buckle down 
!'resident Vicnnte Fox. humbled by midterm election losses and a sluggish economy. acknowledged in his third state-of-the-nation address Monday night that the "lags and challenges we face remain huge." Speaking to new lawmakers who will shape the last three years of his tnrm. Fox promised to strengthen his often rocky rdationship with Congress. I le also recognized "com­plainl'i of a lack of experience and calls for better man­agement in government as a whole." 

Paraplegic begins ascent of Mount Fugi 
!\ paraplegic mountaineer headed up the lava­strewn slopes of Mount Fuji on Monday. pulling himself toward the summit in a bid to make the first such ascent of tho 12,385-foot peak. Keegan Heilly. 
22. from Soldotna. /\Iaska. hopes to make the nor­mally five-hour trip to the chilly summit in six days using a custom-made arm-powered. three-wheeled bicycle. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Shooting, stabbing distrupt parade 
Violence marred the festive atmosphere of Now York's West Indian American Day parade on Monday as a man was shot to death and a second was stabbed. Police said a man wearing a mask shot another man in tJ1e head along the parade route in Brooklyn. The victim was pronounced dead at a hos­pital. police said. Later, across the street from the shooting. a man was stabbed in the neck and hospi­talized in critical condition. 


Candidates take aim at Schwarzenegger 
Gov. Gray Davis and the candidates seeking to replace him in California's recall election used the Labor Day holiday to cross-cross the state and take their shots at front-running Hepublican Arnold Schwarzenegger. Davis accused Schwarzenegger on Monday of being a stand-in for former Republican Gov. Pete Wilson, who had been an opponent of labor during his eight years in office. 

Jerry Lewis Telethon nets $60.5 million 
The Jerry Lewis Labor Day Telethon received a record $60.5 million in nationwide pledges during its annual fund-raising drive for the Muscular Dystrophy Association. The 77-year-old Lewis. his body bloated due to steroid medication he takes for pulmonary fibrosis. was assisted during the 21 1/2­hour fund-raiser by Ed McMahon and performances from a number of entertainers. including Cher, Celine Dion and Don Hickles. 

Pacific Hurrican Jimena downgraded 
Hurricane Jimona weakened and was downgraded to a tropical storm Monday, missing the Hawaiian Islands but still causing high surf and heavy rain.The Central Pacific Hurricane Center lifted the hurricane watch for Hawaii, the state's biggest and southernmost island. Still. high surf and a threat of heavy rain put a damper on Labor Day beach plans for residents and tourists along eastern and southern shores of Hawaii. 
page 6 Tuesday, September 2, 2003
The Observer + NEWS 

record-breaking financial amounts for student organiza­

Shirt 

tions and charities this year, 
and he said he believes
continued from page I 

Willingham's push for a "Sea of er against Washington State. Green" will help The Shirt 
"That's the part that disap­meet projected sales goals. But points me," Brenner said. "I much of The Shirt 2003's suc­would like to see every student cess depends on the success of wearing this year's Shirt." the football team; the relation­
A second order of The Shirt ship became evident last year, is expected to when The 
arrive at the Bookstore this  "Alumni are anxious to  Shirt 2002 sold out as  
week. Brenner attributed part of The Shirt  be a part of the 'Sea of Green' when they see students wearing The  the team's winning r e c o r d expanded.  
2003's success  Shirt."  T  h  e  
thus  far  to  fundraising  
alumni fans  and who  Dave Brenner  aspect of The Shirt  
caught on  to  The Shirt President  began  in  
Coach Tyrone  1990, when  
Willingham's  Sister Jean  

request for a "Sea of Green" at Lenz encouraged students to football games and learned buy The Shirt to help pay for that The Shirt's profits benefit the medical expenses of Notre charities and student organiza­Dame graduate student Zheng tion. de Wang, a victim of a hit­
"Alumni are anxious to be a and-run on Notre Dame part of the 'Sea of Green' when Avenue. they see students wearing The Since then, over $2 million Shirt," Brenner said. has been raised in support of 
The goal of The Shirt 2003 is student organizations and to continue to intimidate the charities. opponent in Notre Dame Stadium with the "Sea of Contact Anna Gelhaus at Green." Brenner hopes to raise agelhaus@nd.edu 

Speech 
continued from page 1 

the new office of Campus Food Service Commissioner. SGA has already planned surveys and research to ascertain whether or not the new read­ing days are achieving their desired results. 
In light of the constant 
development of the college, Jablonski-Diehl compared the outlook for Saint Mary's in 2003-04 to the vision the Sisters of the Holy Cross had for Saint Mary's in 1844. 
"What we see with our eyes is very different, but what we see with our hearts is very similar," she said. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at baill407@sain tmarys. edu 

·---------------------------------------------------------------------­
1 I I I 
I 

1 I Universitv Hair Stvlist 
I 

Open M-Th 9-9 Fri 9-7 Sat 9-4 
University Hair Stylist welcomes you to our full service unisex salon celebrating our 25th year on campus! Located in the lower level of LaFortune, our 11 stylists offer great hair care at reasonable prices. We also stock your favorite hair care products such as American Crew, Paul Mitchell, Head Games, Ice, and Biolage. 
Freshmen--$2 off your first haircut! (through Oct. 1) 
Appointments Recommended but Walk-ins Welcome 
"We're following the lead of the students to be filling them our peer schools, such as out," Hallahan commented. 


Preview 

Northwestern The first 
[University]. Student
continued from page I 

which do "... TCEs are an opportuni­Senate meet­they may suggest improvements publish their ty where the students can ing takes that could make the Student TCEs," said place tomor­
really benefit. If we don't

Union run more efficiently. Lao. r o w 
"I really think that ... we can Hallahan get them published, it's Ex e·c uti v e set a real foundation of what believes pub­not effective for the stu­Cabinet met Student Government is going to lishing the Monday
dents to be filling them

look like for the long term," TCEs will night. and Hallahan said. cause them to the first
out." 

Finally, Student Government be used more meeting for will also focus on getting the effectively. the Campus
Pat Hallahan 

Teacher Course Evaluations "The school Life Council
student body president

published. is here for the will be 
Student Government, Lao students, and Monday. said, will discuss the issue with the TCEs are an opportunity September 8. the University Academic Council where the students can really at a meeting scheduled for benefit. If we don't get them Contact Maureen Reynolds at sometime this fall. published, it's not effective for mreynold@nd.edu 
Lecturer to examine Sept. 11 monuments 
titled "Memorial Mania: Public Voss' lecture, which is free and
Special to The Observer 

Monuments and Cultural open to the public, will explore 
Erika Doss, director of Nationalism in Contemporary how memorials and monuments American studies and professor America" at 7:30p.m. Thursday erected since the Sept. 11, 2001. of fine arts at the University of in the Annenburg Auditorium of terrorist attacks on the United Colorado, will present a lecture the Snite Museum of Art. States impact national identity. 


RECOMMENDS 
"Exciting...Very Acute...lt is so gripping that one finishes it wishing it were even longer... 
-Moil on Sundoy 
.....immers[es] us in an age whose greatest monument is not apainting or abuilding, but abook." 
-..-..-..h-is_i_s-a-st-ag-g-er-in-g-tr-ib-ut-e-to-u-be-r--c-rit-ic....;(,T.S::?;;) Barzun·s legendary intelligence and '~ ..~(ll1f!!t~J:;:.: cantankerousness." !Sf3m_~~ -Publisher's Weekly :: (:R_cad~r'""': 
{ '-........J . 

THE ()BSERVER 





USINESS
Tuesday, September 2, 2003 
Page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
9,415~82 14·. '1. ..61.
]ones 
4~ 
Cm..~ 

l-'<l>l'w•~>~·
1.m UNi.JIU.«J 

Al\l£l: ··srrj1;1.~•••• I•:i•::::::•'::••·&~:;;~·'·'•·:':·:: 
A>tWl4Q ] .810.45 +10 27 

1Vl"SE , (1()5/{~:~.. i•i :•• ::,;~;-:· 
S&.fJ50fJ 



%CF.H\NGE $GJ\.:m r 
tl 0.2 •0.29 2~ 59 t>;} 0>1 t0.01 2:5-52 HH:t -t(} 015 t;U:l:'i ~>UN W:::Rf.~> 'l'l> !~>-Ut·N.r) +d 11 1 !i!d
··~ !<*;) CCfiV>S CGRP \(;.C§{y) ·~·i:J·.Z2 •O 16 1.37 

IN BRIEF 
Grain, soybean futures prices surge 
Wlwat and soybean rutures prices surged in quiPt trading Friday on the Chicago Board o!' TntdP. 
Wlwat l'utures were lower for much o!' the 

trading session as the market react1~d to esti­
mat!~S that Australia's wheat production will 
total 22 million to 24 million metric tons. It will 
l'ar surpass last year's drought-affected crop. 
llowPver. last minutn buying by commodity 
funds puslwd wheat prices higher. 
The late strength of the wheat market spilled owr onto corn futures. lifting prices moderate­ly higher. Corn traded lower for much of the session as traders stayed on the sidelines, reluctant to commit themselves ahead of the Labor Day weekend. 
Soybean prices also were lifted by a late surgn of buying. with the market boosted by the strPngth in the soyoil pits. Tight supplies and a strong cash market. also boosted soy­beans. according to analysts. In early trading, prices were lower. with traders unwilling to make commitnwnts ahead of the extended wenknnd. 
Wlwat for September delivery was R 3/4 rPnl'i higlwr at $:~.67 1/2 a bushel. 
Cattlo futun~s prices were higher and pork futures prices were mixed in trading on the Chicago Mnrcantile Exchange. 
SPptcmbPr live cattle were 1.20 cents higher at 84.50 cPnts a pound. 
Girls retailer to open discount stores 
The head of Limited Too didn't have to look far from home to come up with a name for his company's new discount stores geared to young girls. Chairman and chief executive Mike Hayden named them after his daughter .Justice. 
The company is dropping its line of stores for older girls. called mishmash, in favor of dis­count stores geared toward the younger age group it already targets, girls 7 to 14. 
"We are going to better focus on our core customers." spokesman Hobert Atkinson said Thursday. 
The Justice stores will offer similar styles of apparel, swimwcar, footwear and other prod­ucts as Limited Too, but at prices 25 percent to :w pnrcnnt lower. 
Too plans to convert seven of its 18 mish­mash locations to .Justice stores in spring and build as many a 40 by 2004, Atkinson said. 
The company announced in May that it was dropping the mishmash line of stores, aimed at 14-to 2Q-ynar-olds, bt~cause of tough competi­tion from teen retailers such as American Eagle Outfitters and Ilollister and mass mer­chandisers including Target and Kohl's. 
While Limited Too and mishmash stores are based in malls, ..Justice stores will be in strip cnnters. 
"We believe there is a certain segment of the teen girl population who is constantly shopping outside of the mall these days," Atkinson said. 
Tech stocks continue to advance 
Pre-Labor Daysession trading was light 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Tech 
stocks achieved their sev­
enth straight monthly 
advance and blue chips 
their sixth Friday in an oth­
erwise unremarkable pre­
Labor Day session. Trading 
was extremely light. 
After fluctuating in the early going, the market by the afternoon achieved moderate gains. The atmosphere was dull despite encouraging roports on consumer spending and the manufac­turing sector. 
The Dow Jones industrial 
average closed up 41.61, or 
0.4 percent, at 9,415.82. For the week, the Dow gained 0.7 percent. 
The Nasdaq composite index rose 10.27, or 0.6 percent, to 1,81 0.45. The Standard & Poor's 500 index advanced 5.17, or 0.5 percent, to 1,008.01. For the week, the Nasdaq climbed 2.6 percent and the S&P gained 1.5 per­cent. 
While trading was slow throughout August as traders were away on sum­mer vacations, the major indexes easily ended the month higher. The Dow and S&P posted their sixth Johnson, manager of quan­emergence of especially sonally adjusted basis from straight winning month, titative analysis at adverse outcomes." 55.9 in July. It was the while the Nasdaq had its Schaeffer's Investment Before the market fourth straight month that seventh consecutive month­Research in Cincinnati. opened, the Commerce the business barometer sig­ly gain. There was a lot of eco­Department reported con­naled expansion. It is con­
It was the fourth straight nomic news Friday, most of sumers boosted their sidered a harbinger of the winning week for the Dow it positive. spending 0.8 percent in Institute for Supply and the third for the Federal Reserve July as the latest tax cut Management's index. to be Nasdaq. S&P and Russell Chairman /\!an Greenspan left people with extra cash. released on Tuesday. 200 index. sought to reassure the The increase in spending But the University of 
Market observers were market that the Fed aimed last month was the largest Michigan's report on con­encouraged that Wall to guard against even since March and followed a sumer confidence indicatnd Street was able to advance remote risk of deflation. sizable 0.6 percent advance a slight drop in August again, this time in the dol­In a speech in Jackson, in June. ..July's spending fig­from ..July. according to drums ofAugust. Wyo., Greenspan defended ure matched economists' Dow Jones Newswires. 
"This is potentially good the Fed's recent worries expectations. Consumer Lynn Heaser, chief econo­news ... because if we now about deflation, which spending accounts for two­mist and senior market see the top of the range caused some volatility on thirds of the U.S. economy. strategist, Bank of America begin to act as support, we Wall Street. He said it was Later, the Purchasing Capital Management, notod increase the chance of sometimes necessary for Management Association of that "overall, this has been breaking out to the top side the Fed in its interest rate Chicago said its index of a quiet week -but a posi­as traders return to the policy to take out an insur­area business activity rose tive week for economic market," said Chris ance policy "against the to 58.9 in August on a sea-news." 


~rude oil futures rises slightly 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Crude oil futures rose slightly higher on Friday, sup­ported by strong demand and inventories seemingly stuck at hand-to-mouth levels, exacerbated by continuing political volatility in oil producing regions of the world. 
"It's still based on unrest around the world" and the affect of the unrest on crude supplies, said Tony Rosado, floor specialist at Zone Energy. 
Uncertainty about the political future of Venezuela's president Hugo Chavez, the prospects .for greater security of operations in Nigeria and Iraq, and the contin.­
ued threat of terrorism all have managed to keep crude prices ele­vated this year, analysts said. 
When parts of London experi­enced a 40-minute power outa.ge late Thursday, Rosado said, some had to be wondering if terrorism might in fact be the root cause of such outages -just as it was nat­ural to suspect in the biggest blackout ever in North America two weeks ago. 
Brent blend futures for October delivery strengthened initially on the outage, and its potential threat to refining and supplies, just as 
U.S. oil prices strengthened as a result of the North American blackout that affected the Midwest, North East, and parts of 
Canada for two days, he said. 
Strength from refined product futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange lent support as well. While much of the focus among traders was on the soaring 
U.S. 
gasoline contract for September delivery which expired Friday, gains in the October con­tracts for both gasoline and heat­ing oil bespoke continued high prices in the petroleum complex as a whole, traders said. 

U.S. 
gasoline futures for September delivery soared by more than 4 cents a gallon to more than $1.09 a gallon on their last day of trade at Nymex. The October contract rose 1.01 cents to 


92.82 cents a gallon. 
Tuesday, September 2, 2003 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
VENEZUELA 

High court claims Chavez ruling was forged 
if he were to lose a possible immediately after losing a idency. six-year term. 
Associated Press 

recall referendum later this recall referendum. Foes accuse Chavez of trying Chavez's opponents want the 
year. Some opposition leaders ini­to amass power, fueling class vote held by the end of the year, 
CARACAS -Venezuela's high In a statement posted on its tially applauded the decision hatred, and alienating invest­arguing it would help stabilize court late Monday denied ever Web site late Monday, the court that later the court said was a ment with 'revolutionary' rhet­a country where polarization ruling that President Hugo said that the ruling released to fake. Venezuela's splintered oric. The president says an 'oli­over Chavez's leftist policies Chavez couldn't run if there are reporters was fraudulent, dif­opposition cannot agree on a garchy' bent on ousting a dem­provoked a botched 2002 mili­new elections, saying a state­ferent from the one it actually candidate to challenge Chavez. ocratically elected leader has tary coup and a crippling gen­ment purportedly from the approved. Recent polls suggest Venezuela sabotaged his efforts to fight for eral strike earlier this year. court making that claim was a The Supreme Court said it would vote 2 to 1 to oust the poor. Several hurdles stand in the forgery. was investigating the incident Chavez in a referendum -but Fresh elections must be held way of the vote, including veri­
The court said that someone and did not disclose the real indicate he could win an elec­if Chavez loses a referendum fying signatures, updating voter rewrote a sentence of a ruling, ruling or explain how it had tion against several opposition within the first four years of his rolls and designating hundreds which had been given to been altered. candidates. presidency. If the vote occurs in of regional election authorities. reporters earlier Monday. It The ruling described as a for­Opponents of Chavez turned the last two years, Venezuela's Chavez has vowed to chal­said that the forgery read that gery said Venezuela's in almost 3 million signatures vice president would serve out lenge the legality of the peti­the justices had decided that Constitution made clear a pres­earlier this month to demand a the remainder of Chavez's tion, insisting many of the sig­Chavez wouldn't be able to run ident cannot seek re-election referendum on ending his pres-term. He is halfway through his natures are forged. 
ISREAL 

Commission criticizes treatment of Arab citizens 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -A ground­breaking Israeli commission of inquiry found police used excessive force in quelling Arab riots three years ago and said in a stinging report released Monday that the Jewish state has systematically neglected its Arab minority. 
The document-the product of three years of investigation -was based on the testimony of 377 witnesses and only the fifth probe of such scope in Israel's history. 
The panel's findings came as Israeli-Palestinian violence flared anew Monday. 
An Israeli helicopter fired missiles at a car carrying three Hamas militants in Gaza City, killing one and wounding another. Twenty-five bystanders also were hurt in the sixth Israeli missile strike in two weeks. In the West Bank city of Nablus, soldiers shot and critically wounded a 15-year-old boy after a fire­bomb set their tank on fire. 
Israel has been waging war on Hamas in retaliation for the suicide bombing that killed 21 people on a Jerusalem bus Aug. 19. With Monday's attack. 14 Palestinians, including at least 10 Ham as members, have been killed in missile strikes. 
The panel of two judges and an academic urged the govern­ment to come up with a detailed plan for narrowing the gaps between Jews and Arab citizens. who make up about one-fifth of the popula­tion of 6.6 million people. 
Israeli Arabs say they have long been discriminated against in economic opportuni­ties, land distribution and civil rights. 
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's office said the panel's recommendations would be discussed by the Cabinet. Successive Israeli governments have promised to do more for Arab communities, but little has been achieved. 

Arab leaders said the report did not go far enough, and that they had hoped senior police officers would face prosecu­tion. 
The commission recommend­ed that several police com­manders not be promoted and that two lower-level officers be removed. While the recom­mendations aren't binding, they carry great weight, and the attorney general could still seek criminal charges against some of the officers. 
The commission was appointed after police shot and killed 13 Arab citizens in weeklong riots in October 2000. A Jewish motorist was killed by a rock in the protests. 
Thousands of Israeli Arabs had taken to the streets to show support for Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, who a month earlier had embarked on an uprising against Israeli occupation. 
Then-Prime Minister Ehud Barak decided to launch a for­mal inquiry, in part to deflect growing Arab anger against his government. Barak had been elected in May 1999 on a peace platform, with strong Arab support. 
The report put the blame for the riots squarely on the shoulders of the Israeli estab­lishment, saying a major cause was systematic government neglect of the Arab minority. 
"The state and all its govern­ments failed consistently in dealing with the problems raised by the existence of a large Arab minority within a Jewish state," it said. 
"The government's approach to the Arab sector was in large part characterized by neglect and discrimination. The estab­lishment did not demonstrate" sufficient sensitivity to the Arab sector, nor did it budget its resources in an equal way to the Arab population." 
The commission said Barak misread the charged atmos­phere in the Arab community before the riots broke out and then did not do enough to pre­vent the use of live fire against demonstrators. · 
The panel also said several Israeli Arab politicians encour­aged violence, but it did not recommend any disciplinary measures against them. 
The riots broke out against the backdrop of a growing rad­icalization among Israeli Arabs, particularly followers of the Islamic Movement in Israel, the report said. 
"The process of radicaliza­tion was related to the 
strengthening of Islamic poli­tics in Israel in the period immediately preceding the [October 2000] events," it said. 
Concerning the use of force, the commission said live fire and rubber-coated steel bullets should not be permitted to control crowds unless the lives of officers are in danger. 
"It must be pointed out in the strongest terms that live fire by police ... is not a means for dispersing crowds," the report said. "The use of rubber bullets is inappropriate because of the considerable dangers involved." 
The Israeli army also often uses rubber bullets against Palestinian stone-throwers in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. A security source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the army plans to continue using them to disperse riots "in cases where there is a dan­ger to life." 
Noam Hoffstater of the Israeli human rights organiza­tion B'Tselem said rubber bul­lets should be immediately banned for use in crowd con­trol. The bullets can be lethal at close range or if they hit soft body tissue. 
The report did not block Barak's possible return to poli­tics -he said he might announce comeback plans in coming weeks -but recom­mended that his police minis­ter at the time, Shlomo Ben­Ami, be barred from ever returning to the post. 
Israeli Arab leaders said they were dissatisfied with thr findings. 



Seniors 
Applying for the Fulbright Scholarship 
This infonnation session will attempt to answer all of your application questions and discuss the procedures necessary for securing the university's nomination regarding this great award. 
Wednesday, Sept. 3rd in 118 O'Shaughnessy Hall at 7:00 
If you are unable to attend, please contact the Fellowship Office (fellows@nd.edu) if you have any questions. 
Scholarship Questions? Visit our website at www.nd.edu/scholarship for inforrnation on a variety of different awards. 
L_________________________________________~ 
Cheerleadi:ng Try·out  
ND FrestJ·man Women o ThrtJt.t ~J$itil.1~w ,arvail$ble -~ Fat! Scmestet oo!y. 0 Cheer t)(perienca Required l 'T,i.ill'Rbllng Hetpf~J!i o .Joyoo Genter, Gym 2:, SCf.i :3 a~ 6:00 P:m_ .. . .· 0 Tryout fzyrrr~ nt*!fi to •be c:~~ b"y ~:., 2, P"M;% thcoo ,up 81: r~ption dtmk at!Qv~ Gats :3 of the J<Jyoo center Complete a H~ave 'W!iU't reoo~lcnrnt,  

-------------~-~--~-------~ 
Tuesday, September 2, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Senator spends 11th hour working on speech 
Associated Press 
CIIAHLESTON, S.C. -Facing a pivotal moment in his bid for the Democratic presidential nomina­tion, John Kerry worked until the last minute on the speech that will formally launch his candida­cy. The 11th-hour move exposed the divisions within his own team over the campaign's direction. 
Once considered the front-run­ncr, Kerry now trails Howard Dean in New Hampshire and is bunched at the top of the field with Dick Gcphardt and Dean in Iowa. 
Dean has gained traction with his anti-Washington establish­ment campaign, which has proven costly for lawmakers such as Kerry and Gephardt. 
Dean's surge has revealed a split among Kerry's advisers, with some aides calling for aggressive tactics while others urge caution, fearing that harsh attacks would alienate the new voters Dean has attracted to the Democratic Party. 

Kerry dismissed the poll results, saying "they don't mean anything today" because voters are only beginning to pay atten­tion, and that's why he chose to officially announce his campaign after Labor Day. 
"America is just beginning to listen," said Kerry. 
Critics, including some promi­nent Democrats, have argued that Kerry needs to change his approach to counter Dean's growth in the polls. 
Kerry's aides, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the candidate was more involved in the crafting of the speech, which would reflect his personal view on the campaign's direction. Some of Kerry's critics have said the campaign is bloated with too many aides and advisers. 
The Massachusetts senator launches a high-profile swing formally announcing his cam­paign for the Democratic nomi­nation on Tuesday, and that closely watched speech likely will signal who has won the internal campaign debate. 
The choice Kerry faces is simi­lar to what former Vice President AI Gore had to deal with before the 2000 election. Gore relocated his campaign to Nashville, Tenn., and pared back his staff when his campaign faltered early. 
After losing the New Hampshire primary to Republican John McCain, George W. Bush switched his message 180 degrees. 
At the center of Kerry's claim for the nomination is that his decorated Vietnam War-hero past gives him credibility beyond any other Democratic candidate in challenging Bush's national security record. Some aides argued for him to broaden that theme; it was certain to be the centerpiece of his announce­ment. 
Kerry was scheduled to deliver his speech against the backdrop of the mammoth aircraft carrier USS Yorktown in the harbor at Charleston, S.C. At his side would be members of the gun­boat crew he commanded in Vietnam's Mekong Delta. 
While Kerry voted last October to authorize the use of military force in Iraq, he has been critical of Bush's handling of the conflict, particularly for failing to enlist the help of other nations. 
In recent weeks, Kerry has moved to spell out his positions on issues ranging from health care to the economy to protect­ing veterans, but he was reserv­ing his high-profile announce­ment swing for an "overarching vision" of where he would take the country, aides said. 
After South Carolina, where Democrats vote on the third week of the nominating season, Kerry was headed to Iowa where precinct caucuses occur Jan. 19. On the second day of his announcement swing, Kerry heads to New Hampshire, which has tentatively has set its pri­mary for Jan. 27, before heading home to Boston and a hometown rally. 



Anglican Church might restructure 
Associated Press 
LONDON -The archbishop of Canterbury says the world's Anglicans face a "messy" few years sorting out divisions over women priests, gay bishops and other issues, and new structures of church government are likely. 
"Thn question is not whether we can avoid mess, but whether we can hang on to common convic­tions about divine grace and initia­tive," Archbishop Rowan Williams 
said  in  an  article  published  
Monday.  
Williams'  article  for  New  

Directions, a journal of the tradi­tionalist Forward in Faith group which opposes women priests, was written before U.S. Episcopalians confirmed the elec­tion of their first openly gay bishop last month. 
The Episcopal church's move opened sharp divisions within the church and in the worldwide Anglican Communion. a group of independent national churches that trace their roots to the Church of England. Some traditionalist Episcopalians have threatened to break away from the main denomination because of the con­lirmation of V. Gene Robinson as bishop of New Hampshire. 
Following the U.S. move, Williams summoned primates of the 32 national churches to an extraordinary meeting in London on Oct. 15-16 to discuss how to "preserve our respect for one another and for the bonds that unite us." 
In his article, Williams said it was "worth working at structures in Anglicanism that don't either commit us to a meaningless struc­tural uniformity or leave us in mutual isolation." 
The archbishop of Canterbury is the spiritual leader of the Anglican Communion but has no authority to impose discipline. 
"If you're not going to be a Roman Catholic, with clear univer­sal visible tests for unity, you're going to be involved in some degree of structural complexity ­and I'm assuming that as Anglicans we have enough theo­logical reservations about the [Roman Catholic] model of visible unity to make it worth our while exploring how 'structural com­plexity' can witness to the super­natural character of the church," he wrote. 
RUSSIA Sunken sub w-ill retnain on sea floor 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW -The decommis­sioned nuclear submarine that sank in the Barents Sea while en route to a scrapyard can't be raised until at least next year, the Russian navy's deputy chief said Monday. The submarine K-159 went down Saturday during a fierce storm while being towed to a port on the Kola Peninsula where its reactor was to be removed and dismantled and the rest of the ship scrapped. Nine of the 10 men aboard were killed. 

Navy and Atomic Energy Ministry officials were quoted by Russian news agencies Monday as saying that radiation levels remained normal in the sinking area, some 200 miles north of the Arctic Circle where Finland and Norway abut Russia. But environmentalists warned after the sinking that the contamina­tion danger was substantial and the Navy's chief of general staff Adm. Viktor Kravchenko said "the ship must be raised in order to carry out a complete unload­ing of the reactor." 
(Jnt~()·etlit C'ourses 

Fall 20()3 

i.~{ftrrd l~J!' Ott Depw-tmt.~nt of Tlwt.d1<JA'Y ~:J1 n1\1,V.f'mt.1'-t.n1 !1dth Jh~~ (}/·t}k·t' k"{o.(,. C#mtnH iHi.~-thf••:J' 
, '· ) . 



Mary 



The<:•. 340N/C<~. 1 credit SkU 
Dr. Hmothy M.ato-vina 
Af.on-d.ays 

0-CU)tJ~~{ :a J\ft"><>•~mtter 3, W,. ?7 OeccmtJ{~t :r. 8 Tt'rntr· 6:00p.m. ~ 8':05 p.m. Lm::atiGl~ · 0 Shaughnessy 108 

Faith & Transformation 
Th(;m. 340K 1 c:rOO~t S/U Rev, Oavtd Burrell; C.S~C. f.<fonday~: 
Sapt-e.rn-oor :&, ·rs:, .n, :UJ, 
snd Ocrot~·· $, "f S Time.· /:()(ip.tlt ., &:0.5rutt t...:)C>:tfkM!.: OIJ".&rl:!.l.h:; 204 

fJrr'l4f!".: f.JlXJ ;;..rn,. • tt30 p.xn i,(~~:.-.:#Ji:}rt Cotemi:l:n-A1orsc 3..1() 
Fo·t {tit4k.tr.-btfl'?rm<itt.im.r, .;;:mdiui n-~..;.'"d'~! ,4.!1Jt~,.•~, h1 t~f. n~~d~~tF 
w •• ., ••,,,. ··: !-'' .!..'"
1}ql;urtm:r.nt, 6.ll •.. 8 J J, ,~r~Mw.! li::~.r thf r:om"i1~:1; rm~ bt t~t'r-k#w.rd fU' r..ht I Jl~Wf9:(P l)tpr..•. } J() .;\lif.i'J-~lf l MH. 
Happy 21st Mikey .... DON'T SPILL THE BOX! 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Page 10 Tuesday, September 2, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.O. Box Q, Nouc Dame, lN 465S6 024 Sourh Dining Hatl, NotreD~.fi'/.4i>)5G. 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Andrew Soukup 
MANA.GJNG EDITOR 8uSINJ!.SS MANAGER Scott Brodfuehrer ··wri.Le\Valskl 
Ass~ MA:oiAGING EDITOR Sheila Flynn 

NEWS EOITO~ Megh94Ul¢ I).,W[)¢5. ••.... 
VIEWPOINT EDIT()~, Ter~sa Ftitish · 
SPORTS EDITOR: Joe Hetilet ScENE EDITOR: SarahVahulas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Anndiese:Woolfurd PHOTO EDITOR: Tim K®l'ilai GRAPHICS EmToR: Mike Harkins ADvERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER.: Tom Haight 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Baugerr 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Cre&•· CoNTROIU:R.: Mike Flanagan 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGfR & GENERAL INFO (574) 631~7471
FAX. . 
(574) 63l~69k7 AlmRSTISIHG 

(574) 631-6900 observatl@nd.edu ·· 
EDITO~ IN CHIEF 
{514) 631-4)42 MANAGING EDITOR & AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (5 74) 631"4541 obsme@n1hidu BUSINESS 0FRCE . {574) 631-5313 
NEWs DeSK··· 
(574) 631-5323. .ob5i"¢'.v$J@nd;edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK ( / > 
(574)§31c5~Y vi~'III.P9mr.{~t\&e~l1·
SPORTS DESK ••. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(574} 6Jl,4~;ENE lk~~is.J((Pnd.~d);t .. 
(574) 631-4540 scen¢·l~na:cdi( SAllfT MARY'S OE~ . (574) 631-4~24 srru;,l~mU:d~
PHOTO DESK ......... . 
(574) 631-8767 phom@rid.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISHiATORS 
{5(4)631'-88}? 
www.ndsmcobserver.et~m 
POLICIES 
The Observeris the independerit, daily newspaper· published in prior and online by the studt:ntli.ofthe University ofNone Dame du Lac and Saint Marys College. Editorial content, including a,dv~rti~ts, is . nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves me rightt<l refuse advenisemerns based on ~on rent;. 
The ne\'(S is reported as ru:curncly i~i>d objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials representthe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chiefr MaJiaging Editor, Assistant Managing Ediror and depittrnerit edir<Jrs. Commentaries, letters and coluri"iris pr¢senr the views ofthe authors and not necessarily th(lse ofTile. Observer. 
Viewpoint space is availab~ til allreaders: The &.ee expression ofall opinions through letters "I$ ensoutaged. Letrers to rhe Ediror must be signed and musdnclude contact information. · 
Questions rfgarding Obserlierpolicie~ihot<.f4b~ . dir(ctdw Edit<ir in. ChitfA:ndriw S<mkU;~ · • 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th< Oh.w<t (t.ISf'S ,,, HOUOl't tiub!oh<d M<><>dir ,~,o~gh fi;Q,y <;"CP' duriiig • • ~am and \l~t~n ~tibds:: ./\ tu~t~oll::ttl Tllc::,O~~t~t:~~-·$:1~~ ro,t~!l~:~d~~k 
ycu; $55 fot.OM ac:rw:tlt:t . . . . . . . 
Th<: Ob~~('.( 1$ ·publMu::d ~'i · 024 !>outo Dlnio$ H~l Sc:n&·~·~coc'i~liitu: N~ttt Darrtti IN 46~~~-0179 
The "Obit~et-·:.: ..::-::. Perio-dical pam:gc.p_ail;l u Nb~rc i);$c· P.<ni~Q ·· ... and addhioniil mailing offices. lll4 £9\lt~tJl~~i·~D .... N.;u.Piuoi:;.INMSi>~m 
'(k Obl(n'C:t i1 ~ mtn~bcr. ofthc ~;t® I"tcn. All ~p!1Xil.l(:'io:f} tights arc rcsc:rvc:d. · · ··· · 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Meghanne Downes Justin Schuver Maureen Reynolds Joe Hettler Michael Chambliss Erik Powers 
Viewpoint Scene Lauren Beck Christie Boisen Graphics lllustrator Graham Ebetsch Katie Knorr 
Reform the disciplinary process 
The University's internal disciplinary process came under long run when the exact discussion cannot be recalled and the intense scrutiny last week in the trial of Abram Elam. the first of accuracy of the supposed discussion is called into question. four former football players to be tried in connecticn with an Instituting a mandatory practice of taking notes whenever an olli­alleged gang rape incident. The public testimony about graphic cial speaks to a potential crime victim would establish important details of the incident, combined with the manner in which the records that would later be used in any investigation. University handled the situation, was not welcome The University also needs to re-assess its policy publicity, and it exposed several policies the OJhe for releasing statements made by a victim. During University should change to improve the handling oserver the trial, the lead investigator stated a copy of the of all disciplinary procedures. victim's report of the incident was found when 
A large area of contention was the advice resi­police searched the house where the attack 

Editorial

dence life officials gave to the victim. The victim occurred. The University provided this report to the claims associate vice president for residence life accused as part of the disciplinary process. But this Bill Kirk told her not to report the rape to the police. Kirk later routine procedure could have compromised the simultaneous denied this in his testimony. although he said he could have told police investigation. The victim's statement contained information her it would be easier to let the matter be handled internally. on physical evidence that might have been destroyed before 
To ensure there is no ambivalence in any future cases. police could execute the search warrant. University officials should carefully consider what verbal guid­The University currently only halts its own internal disciplinary ance they give to victims (written guidance is already clearly out­process if the accused is indicted. Instead. the University should lined in du Lac). University officials should be explicitly clear in suspend its own disciplinary process if the victim is considering providing a list of options available to a victim. including the pos­pressing criminal charges until the proper authorities can gather sibility of seeking criminal prosecution. evidence and statements. 
The prosecutor pointed out that Kirk, a lawyer. did not take Clearly. the public forum of a rape trial where the accused are notes as the woman described the incident and he outlined her former football players is far from a preferred source of attention options for dealing with it. The fact that there is no official record for the University. But it should usc the results of the Elam trial to of Kirk's discussion with the victim allowed the defense attorney improve its own disciplinary process to better handle any future to contrast Kirk's testimony to the victim's as a way of attacking allegations. The University has every right to discipline its stu­her credibility. dents in the matter it sees fit. But it shouldn't assume future vic­
Kirk and other Student Affairs officials' currently do not take tims will prefer its disciplinary system to the judicial process. It notes when interviewing a victim and trying to ensure that the should ensure that its policies do not interfere with the judicial victim receives the support services she needs. This practice puts process or serve to damage the victim's reputation in the future. if the victim more at ease, but does a disservice to the victim in the she chooses to pursue legal action. 
An unhappy day for labor 
In light of yesterday's observance. I would like to take this opportunity to introduce a vital part of our Notre Dame community that is not highlighted in 
Kamaria Porter
Frosh 0 or any other University-sponsored event 
They are the peo­Breaking the ple who make those Habit 5 a.m. pizzas to fuel your all-nighter at Reekers. 
They wash the dish ware on the other side of the dining hall. 
They clean our dorm rooms while we relax during semester breaks and holi­days. 
They are Notre Dame's campus work­ers. Without these women and men. we would actually have to put forth effort toward our own survivaL Besides schoiar­ly pursuits and, for some, campus jobs. students here live a glamorous life. 
You would think students would be extremely grateful to the campus wdrkerE who free our time for intense study or leisure. For me, this is the first time since 

. early childhood that I have ever had someone else to wash my dishes and pick up after me. 
But appreciating and upholding labor is no longer a value central to mainstream American thought Consumers today think that as long as we get what we want. the conditions under which the producers and providers of our goods and services work do not matter. 
This indifference has permeated our culture. Labor Day. a holiday intended to commemorate collective worker agitation and champion the everyday people who continue to build this country. has turned into a reason to vacation or shop at week­end sales. 
The United States does not acknowledge May Day, the international worker cele­bration day. even though it has American historical roots. 
Citizens are more interested in pop cul­ture exploits than whether the people who keep our nation afloat produce under safe working conditions or receive a living wage. With an unemployment rate near 
6.2 percent. it is difficult for many to even fmd work. 
Those employed may not fare any bet­ter. Last September. workers at Azteca Foods factory in Chicago went on strike for about nine months to demand a safer working environment, the acknowledge­ment of their chosen union. and improved benefits. Farm workers in Immokalee. Fla.. whose toil supplies Taco Bell's toma­toes. make a median personal income of $7,500 or less because their unit wage rate remains the same as' it was in the 1970s. 
Workers in this country deserve a better break. Management personnel receive enormous amounts of income in salary and financial capital while employees are struggling. Some people hold down multi­ple jobs and still fail to make ends meet. Our government grants fmancial benefits to the rich, expecting the dollars to trickle down, while more people plummet below the poverty line. 
Why have we let this happen? Why, at Notre Dame, a Catholic school. has this issue not been uplifted and discussed? 
Our religious ancestors made up the bulk of the working class during the early 20th century. As poor immigrants and marginalized peoples. Catholics and other workers had to fight for basic human rights while on the job. Their efforts paid off. judging from our student body. yet people today are unwilling to give others a leg up. The ideas of rugged individualism and the self-made American have forged an expansive chasm between the privi­leged and the poor. 
How can we be united when. on so many levels, people in this country difl'er? 
Americans will gladly celebrate abstrac­tions and ideals yet turn away from the real people without the freedom of life. liberty and contentment in their work­places. 
To turn this tide of selfish ideology, we all can perform a number of actions. 
Research the products you consume regularly and participate in boycotts of goods and services whose workers are struggling for better treatment. Ask for fair trade coffee whenever you can and demand its availability in every vendor on this campus. 
If you really want to afl'cct change, get involved with campus organizations. such as the Progressive Student Alliance. who dedicate themselves to labor and social justice issues. 
Or you could do something as simple as strike up a conversation with your section housekeeper or a food service worker. You'll meet new people and gain insight on the long hours they work. how infre­quently some see their children. or what their job responsibilities include. If human contact is not your style. only take what you can cat in the dining hall and refrain from trashing your dorm. 
Any of these actions can move us into a better position of labor appreciation and overall justice for every American. 
Kamaria Porter is a sophomore history major. Her column appears every other Tuesday. Contact her at kporter@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 

''They mutilate the laborer into a fragment of
The Aug. 27 column entitled "The Notre Dame 
man, degrade him to the level ofan
experience" was incorrectly attributed to 
appendage ofa machine, destroy every
David Barrett. The column was actually 
remnant of charm in his work and turn it 
written by Adam Cahill. The Observer 
into a hated toil." 

regrets this error. 
Karl Marx socialist writer 


THE ()BSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 2, 2003 page II 

Oxford History 101 
Welcome back to Notre Dame and 
welcome to my introductory column 
about life at the University of Oxford. 
I'm a junior math and philosophy major who will be studying abroad this y<~ar at Oxford, 
along with 11ve other Geoff Johnston 
lucky Domers. Over 
the next year, I will 
dPscr·ibe the 
A Domer at 

U nivPrsity of Oxford as seen through the Oxford <~yes of a Notre Dame student. You will sew what I see, attend the events and parties that I attend, eat what I eat and study what I study (although you might want to skip those last two parts). And. as soon as The Observer installs those scratch-and-sniff patches I ordered. you will smell what I smell. 
However. I'm not actually at Oxford yet. Oxford operates on trimesters and their first term, Michaelmas, doesn't start until Oct. 12. Which means, of course. that I am still here in the States, sleeping in and otherwise enjoying myself. 
Since this is an introductory column, I wanted to describe the history and cul­ture of Oxford. Thus, you can expect today's column to read like a set of lec­ture notes. So, keep reading only if you are the type of student who a.) relaxes in the dining hall for two hours between periods and reads The Observer from cover-to-cover; b.) is writing a history paper about the University of Oxford; c.) is desperately considering going abroad; or d.) is closely related to myself and if you don't read this col­umn, I'll 11nd out about it. 
Now that there are only three of us left, I can begin. To a Domer, the most interesting academic aspect of Oxford has to be its tutorial system. Instead of narrating to a class of 30, each profes­sor acts as the tutor of one or two stu­dents. The students are allowed to design their own programs of study and decide how much (or how little) work they want. 
Want to read until your eyes drop out of their sockets? Fine. Want to read at most 11ve pages a night? Fine, but don't expect to pass the massive battery of tests at the end of the year. (At Oxford, students are tested only once per year.) 
But how does one relax after a hard day's study? At the bars, of course! Pub atmosphere in Oxford is considerably livelier (I've heard) than in South Bend (unliss you consider someone throwing up on your shoes lively). Many of the pubs in Oxford are converted medieval inns and. none is more famous than the Eagle and Child Inn. This is where 
J.H.H. Tolkien and C.S. Lewis would meet after a long day of tutorials, to share a pint ("They come in pints?!") and talk about Middle Earth or Christianity or maybe the dismal weath­er. 
My history of Oxford could not be complete without some mention of reli­gion. Oxford was originally founded as a Catholic institution (at the time, howev­er, there would have been little or no distinction between Catholicism and Christianity). But Henry VIII's Heformation converted Oxford to Anglicanism. After Queen Elizabeth I, Oxford would remain Anglican for the next 300 years. During that time, Catholics, Puritans and other non-con.. formists were not allowed to study there. 
In the 1800s, Oxford was the center of a revival in Anglo-Ca,tholic sentiment, a movement which was led by Cardinal John Henry Newman. Today, Oxford is a secular institution. Personally, I hope that one day Oxford might return to its religious heritage and embrace Christianity again. 
Although my simplified history lesson makes Oxford seem like it's one unified body, it is not. There are many individ­ual colleges that make up the University of Oxford. just as Notre Dame is built up of residence halls. Of the 30 individual colleges in Oxford, the other Domers and I will be attending New College. 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's both share one feature in common with New College: they were all named in honor of the Virgin Mary. New College was founded in 1379 as St. Mary's College of Winchester in Oxford. (Question: If it's so old, why do they call it New College'? Answer: Because it was actually the second Oxford college christened as St. Mary's.) 
We will be living and studying in the medieval quad, complete with 14th cen­tury chapel, dining hall and cloisters for monks. In fact, New College was found­ed in order to help repc.pdate the cler­gy after the Black Plague. 
Well, that about wraps up my lecture on the University of Oxford and New College. I hope that you weren't driving while you read this; otherwise you probably fell asleep, drifted off of the road and are now calling a tow truck to cart the remai11s of your vehicle out of the shoulder. I promise that when I actually get to Oxford, this column will be more interesting. Until then, God bless. 
Geoff Johnston would appreciate any and all emails he receives at his address: gjohnsto@nd.edu. He does not guarantee that he will respond, but remember what Tommy Boy taught us about "guarantees." He would also like to give a "shout out" to his "homies" in Zahm Hall. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
GUEST COLUMN 


Nigeria: Another Afghanistan? 
MANIIATTAN, Kan. President Bush is not doing enough to stabilize a strategically impor­tant country in West Africa. I'm not talking about Liberia.. Let's be honest-Liberia has the strategic importance ol Liechtenstein. 
The only reason anyone cared about Liberia for even 10 minutes is because there weren't any more interesting humanitarian crises going on at the time. Andrew Lawson 
Who really wants to intervene in a country where rebel soldiers tramp into battle wearing women's clothing? 
Kansas State 
Nah, to hell with Liberia. 
Collegian

I'm talking about the Federal Republic of Nigeria, a country twice the size of California that is the fifth-largest source of U.S. oil. 
Iraq, to put that in perspective, is sixth on tl~e l!st. . 
According to Chris Suellentrop, Slate Magazme s deputy Washmgton bureau chief. "After Sept. 11 the Bush administration began trying to increase the amount of oil the United States imports from West Africa, and some think Nigeria has the potential to produce more oil than any country except Saudi Arabia." 
Well, if that's the plan, Bush needs to take a look at his other oil-pro­curement project and learn some lessons. . . 
With guerrillas blowing up pipelines and generally causmg mayhem, It doesn't look like Iraq will be upping its crude output anytime soon, and we at least have that country under martial law. 
How does Bush expect Nigeria to be a steadier supplier when its tradi­tionally unstable government isn't an American-empowered administra­tion? 
There are several major problems facing Nigeria's population, the first being that it is a very large population, indeed. About one out of every six Africans is Nigerian. The country's popula­tion of 130 million is by far Africa's largest under a single nag. 
The second problem is that a 11ag and a name is about all that unites them. Nigeria has more than 250 ethnic groups, with the largest com­prising only 29 percent of the populace. Worse, they speak more than 500 languages. 
Thus, Nigeria is a sort of uber-Yugoslavia, subject to what one of my geography professors called "centrifugal forces," which tend to tear countries apart rather than unify them. 
Luckily, ethnic differences alone will not end Nigeria's s~vereignty. They will hasten the process if it is set in motion by the th1rd problem, however. 
Though 40 percent of Nigerians are Christian, including the current president, half practice Islam. Furthermore, 12 states in northern Nigeria practice a strict form of Islamic la'Y, shari'a. 
One big controversy revolves around Amma .Lawa~. a woman wh? has been sentenced to death by stoning, after she 1s buned neck-deep m sand, under this religious legal system. 
Her crime? Sex after divorce. 

I'm not going to pass any judgment on shari'a as an effective system of law but consider this: It also is the foundation ofjurisprudence in Iran and Saudi Arabia -some of the countries that scare the piddle out of 
Bush at night. . . . . Toss onto this pile of problems a history of notmg over thmgs hke the Miss World pageant and the fact that Nigeria, according to the Slate article, is one of the three most corrupt countries in the world, from top to bottom, and you have a real mess shaping up. If there's any bright side to all this, it's that we can prevent a repeat of the Iranian revolution or some similar event that would diminish America's ability to influence the region, but only if we act now.. Nigeria is starting to look like the prototypical al Qaeda breedmg 
ground, with the characteristics laid out by Suellentrop: "an abundance of oil, a young population, economic stagnation, a cor.rupt elit~, a legacy of colonialism, a vision of itself as a superpower that rs m dechne and a 
rise in Islamic radicalism." Let's not allow another Afghanistan to develop, only to haunt us decades later. President Bush, provide the necessary aid and experience to strength­en Nigeria and root out corruption and radicalism for good. 
This column originally appeared Aug. 29 in the Collegian, the campus newspaper ofKansas State University. It is reprinted here courtesy of U-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
HELP WANTED Applications are currently being accepted for copy editors, illustrators and columnists. Please contact Teresa Fralish at viewpoint.l @nd.edu to apply. 

--------~~~-------------------------------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, September 2, 2003 
A return to when Fridays were funny 
A look back into the changes over the years to ABC's classic Friday lineup 
ByKC KENNEY Assistant Scene Editor 

There was a time when Friday nights were spent at home with the family. Before the parties of college, before the football games of high school and before the dances of junior high, there was TGIF. 
Starting in the late 1980's, ABC ruled the Friday night market for television. Whether a kid. parent or just someone looking for classic comedy program­ming on Primetime, anyone could count on the slapstick and track laugh­ter of four great shows on Friday night. TGIF changed a lot over the years, altering time slots and featured shows, adding characters and plot crossovers, and offering fun contests to viewers. It wasn't that long ago that one could send in a tape of their best Urkel impression in hopes of earning a brief stint as an extra on Family Matters. 
In 1988, the first TGIF lineup went on the air. It featured classics such as Full House, Perfect Strangers, Mr. Belvedere and Just the Ten of Us. Mr. Belvedere didn't make it through to the following year's lineup, and soon Just the Ten of Us was left behind also. It made way, however. for a slew of some of the greatest and most memorable TV shows of our generation, including Family Matters, Step By Step and Boy Meets World. Perfect Strangers stuck around, with cousins Larry and Balky appealing to the older audiences later in the lineup. More and more, though, the programming became aimed at young teens and pre-teens who would have TGIF sleepovers and regale each other on the playground with their best Urkel impressions or mimicked one-lin­ers from Full House. 
What wasn't there to love? Step By Step was a retro Brady Bunch family that tried to show that, despite differ­ences between people, one way or another one learns to love and maybe even accept his or her family. Complement that with Full House's great comedic timing of Uncle Joey, the party antics of Uncle Jesse and the happy family morals of Bob Saget as he shared his wisdom with his three girls, all the while accompanied by sappy background saxophone music. Steve Urkel offered hope to the classic geek, redefining the standard height of the belt buckle and becoming a pop culture icon. He spread his nerdiness by cut­ting a CD and plastering "Did I Do That?" on T-shirts all over the country. 
As the audience began to grow up, ABC tried to adjust its programming accordingly. Shows like Boy Meets World and Hangin' With Mr. Cooper started to develop. Fortunately for Ben Savage, he had the popularity of his older brother, Fred, to get him the attention of the network's executives. After a few show revamps, Cory and his girlfriend Topanga headed into high school, where they spent several years trying to balance their love with the ever-cool presence of Shawn Hunter, Cory's dimwitted older brother Eric and the watchful eye of Mr. Feeney. As the audience grew up. so did the casts, and one could almost say that they grew up together. 
Almost. 
All good things must come to an end. Though Sabrina the Teenage Witch, with Clarissa Explains It All's Melissa Joan Hart, offered a brief revival of the Friday night staple, duds like Teen Angel and Two of a Kind with the grown-up Olsen twins damaged the TGIF reputation. As time went on, the programming continued to lose its appeal until finally, in 2000, ABC took TGIF off the air and ended an era of great television. 
This season, however, sees the return of Thank Goodness It's Friday televi­sion with a new lineup, new stars and jokes that have been around since TV was invented. 
Two of the shows that will be moving to Friday night have been part of the ABC primetime lineup for a few years. George Lopez is the 26-minute long insight into the life of an assembly line worker named George who has been promoted to manager of a Los Angeles airplane parts factory. The sitcom fol­lows George and his family on their week-to-week escapades. This show is actually award-winning and considered a television rarity today; it not only serves as a medium for wholesome family values but also features a minority-headed cast appreciated and enjoyed by all families. 
Life with Bonnie is a behind-the­scenes glimpse of one of the women from the View, following Bonnie Hunt from the television studio, where she hosts a morning talk show, to her home, where she has to balance family and career. The comedy is a little unorthodox but usually entertaining. The gem of an idea that comes out in this show is the app-earance of celebri­ties on the show in non-scripted, impromptu scenes with Bonnie, trying to recreate the fun and excitement of life morning television. If anything, it is worth watching to see great old resi­dents of Hollywood really strut their stuff on a smaller stage. 

Rounding out TGIF's new lineup are two shows with "fish out of water" premises for different actors that have already been part of the ABC Family. Kelly Ripa, who usually sits next to famous Domer Hegis Philbin on Live with Regis and Kelly each morning, will be trying her hand at sitcom humor. She plays a fired soap opera actress who runs away from the glamour of Tinseltown to take refuge with her sub­urban, soccer-mom sister. Ililarity is expected to naturally ensue. It will be interesting to see if Kelly can handle herself without the wit and charm that only Notre Dame can teach -in the form of Regis Philbin -supporting her jokes. 
Breckin Meyer, more commonly known as the skate-boarding bonehead from Clueless, finds himself leaving his comfortable New York home so that his wife can be closer to her Kansas-bred family in Married to the Kellys. This will obviously cause a great deal of problematic situations; he grew up as an only child and is therefore incapable of functioning in a large-family envi­ronment. With any hope, he will take up farming and television program­ming will return to the glory days of Green Acres. 
The return of TGIF is an attempt to revive the classic family sitcom and give it a place alongside the reality tel­evision and intense drama of today. There are few things more chock-full of nostalgia than reflecting on the memo­ries shared with Steve Urkel, the Tanner Family and Cory Matthews. The sitcom family of today may hold its own and, hopefully, future generations will be able to enjoy TGIF For now, I'll be content to tune in to TNT and TBS and watch the reruns that defined my childhood and reminded me that it's OK if your jokes aren't funny. That's what a laugh track is for. 
Contact KC Kenney at kkenney@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of www.kellie.de Photo courtesy of www.nowtv.ca 
As the perpetually nerdy Steve Urkel, Jaleel White brought classic family-friendly 'Full House' also provided comedy for the whole family, and gave ABC a huge hit entertainment to Friday nights on ABC. in the Tanner family. 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Tuesday, September 2, 2003 
Page 13 
'Six Feet Under' one of HBO' s best 
Award-winning drama is in its fifth season as a daring hit show, with complex characters and problems 
By SCOTT FONFERKO Scene Wrircr 
ThP hit network of IIBO has many great tPlevision shows on the air. The Sopranos. Sex and the City and !Jand of/fro/hers are a few of them. 
.'·!i.r Feel Under, entering its firth sea­son. is one of the most critically acclainwd shows that appears on IIBO. Tlw show has won numerous awards. including six Ernmy Awards in 2002. This season. Six Feet Under topped the Emmy nominations list with 16. Its nominations range from outstanding IPad actor and actress in a drama sl'rins to outstanding director and out­standing writer for a drama series. 
Six Ft•et Under was co-written and 
•~xPcutivP producPd by Alan Ball, who wrote tht• scretHlplay for American /Jeauty. The cast of Six Feet Under con­sists of Sportsnight star Peter Krause as Nate Fisher. llis brother David, played by Michael llall, takes over the family business after their father's funeral. Lauren Ambrose, who is up for outstanding supporting actress in a drama series, plays Nathaniel's daugh­ter Claire. Actress Frances Conroy plays Nathaniel Fisher's widow, Huth, and Br·enda Chenowith. Nate's girl­friend. is portrayed by Emmy nominat­Pd actrPss Hache! Griffiths. Freddy Bodriguez plays the restorative artist Frederico Diaz. 
The show is about a family-owned funeral home, run by Nathaniel and David Fisher. It explores a wide range of social issues, from drug problems to homosexuality to unwed parents. Ambrose's character, for example, stands as an archetypical example of a troubled teenager who turns to sub­stance abuse and sex as an escape. High on crack cocaine when she receives the phone call notifying her of her father's death, Claire Fisher is an undeniable outcast, going so far as to drive a hearse to school. The show tries to give solutions to such social problems. however; the character evolves into a more well-rounded indi­vidual as the show proceeds. The teenager realizes that drugs and hard­core partying are not adequate solu­tions, and she turns to a friend for comfort and companionship. 
And Claire Fisher is only one of the many characters that function as a vehicle for exploration of social issues. I Iomosexuality appears in the charac­ters of David Fisher and his partner Keith Charles, and their relationship highlights the difficulties of living as gay individuals in modern society. The men display embarrassment and out­rage, especially when faced with telling the truth to family members. At a time when gay culture is often exploited on television. Six Feet Under tries to 

Photo cour1esy of www.hbo.com 'Band of Brothers' is a miniseries that also brought HBO acclaim; directed by Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks, it is based on a true story from WWII. 

examine the topic from different angles. 
This show is written and directed extremely well. It goes through most of the trials and tribulations that most people deal with in their Jives and pro­vides a visible aspect of the things peo­ple go through but don't talk about. It is an emotional masterpiece. These are tht~ reasons why regular viewers, as "veil as critics, are drawn to the show on a regular basis. The complete first season of Six Feet Under can be pur­chased on VHS or DVD at local stores. 
Band of Brothers, a 10-episode mini­series, is also a critically acclaimed show that appeared on J-180. Inspired by a true story, it is based on the 101st Airborne division during World War II. Directed by Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks, Band ofBrothers is an in-depth, true-to-life view of Easy Company and their missions and t<:sks throughout the war. 
The show begins with scenes from the soldiers' training in Georgia in 1942 and follows their exploits through D-Day, the Battle of the Bulge, and up until the show's ending -the capture of Hitler's last resort at Berchtesgaden. The show deals with emotions of the soldiers. particularly when their friends are killed and then replaced. It also provides a sensitive glimpse into the emotional. physical and mental dif­ficulties soldiers must face when they fight and have to come to terms with warfare. Band of Brothers, based on the novel of the same name by Stephen Ambrose, is highly recommended. This mini-series can be picked up at most stores on either VHS or DVD. 
Contact Scott Fonferko at sfonferko@hcc-nd.edu 

Tuesday, September 2, 2003 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE/INTERLEAGUE 
Trot Nixon helps to slam Red Sox past Phillies 
Associated Press 
Boston 13, Philadelphia 9 
Trot Nixon got back at the Philadelphia Phillies in a big way. 

Nixon capped a six-run· ninth inning with a grand slam as the Boston Red Sox rallied to beat the Philadelphia Phillies 13-9 on Monday in the final inter­league game of the season. 
Nixon went 3-for-4 with a career-high six RBis for the Red Sax, who began a crucial nine­game road trip with the win and moved within one game of idle Seattle for the AL wild card. 
"This is a really big win for us," Nixon said. "It gives us momentum and that's some­thing we hope to carry through the rest of the road trip." 
Nixon wanted revenge for a 6­5 loss to the Phillies in the teams' first meeting on June 21 in a similar game that had both teams seesawing into the lead. He also wanted to get payback for being hit in the right wrist by a pitch in the eighth inning. 
"We wanted to get them back for earlier in the year," Nixon said. "But these kind of games might take a few years off my life. As long as we win them, it's OK. though." 


Cincinnati 5, Milwaukee 4 
The Cincinnati Reds got their power from some unusual sources. 
Tim Hummel, Ryan Freel and Wily Mo Pena hit solo homers to back Seth Etherton's strong pitching as Cincinnati held off a ninth-inning rally to beat the Milwaukee Brewers 5-4 Monday. 

The trio had combined for just two home runs before breaking through against Milwaukee. 
"That's right," Cincinnati manager Dave Miley said. "Usually the sources you don't get the power from are the guys who did it." 
The Reds. who were swept in a four-game series at home last week during Milwaukee's 10­game winning streak, won for the fifth straight time this sea­son at Miller Park. 

The Brewers lost for only the second time in 14 games. They had their streak snapped by the Chicago Cubs on Friday before winning the final two games of the weekend series at Wrigley Field. 
The Reds induced three dou­ble play grounders -two by Brady Clark and one by Royce Clayton -in preserving their lead. 
"Those were huge. They hit some balls hard, but they went right at somebody," Etherton said. 
Etherton (2-2) didn't allow a hit until John Vander Wal sin­gled leading off the fifth. The Brewers loaded the bases with one out and scored their lone run on a sacrifice fly by pinch­hitter Mark Smith. 
Etherton allowed one run and three hits in six innings. He struck out two and walked three. 
"It was a battle all day," Etherton said. "It was good to get those early runs. You get five runs behind me and it makes it easier." 

Florida 5, Montreal 2 
The Florida Marlins scored one run on a bunt, another on a wild pitch and another on a popout to the second baseman. They've won that way all year, which is why they're alone atop the NL wild-card race. 
Brad Penny combined with two relievers on a three-hitter Monday, and the Marlins com­pleted their first four-game series sweep since May 1996 by beating the Montreal Expos 5-2. 
Florida moved a game ahead of Philadelphia, which lost to Boston 13-9. The Marlins have won 11 of their last 12 against NL East teams, including seven in a row dating to July 25. 
"We're excited," Penny said. "But we've got a lot of games to play. We've got to play every game like it's the last day." 
The Expos fell four games back in the wild-card standings and are 4-18 away from home since the All-Star break. 
"We've got the noose around our neck," hitting coach Tom McCraw said. "You either take the thing off. or you hang your­self." 
McCraw was ejected for argu­ing from the dugout in the eighth, giving the Expos three ejections in two games. 
Jeff Conine, playing for Florida for the first time since the 1997 World Series, started a double play in left field and sent Juan Pierre home on an RBI popout that second baseman Henry Mateo caught in short right field. 
"You can see why this team is where it is right now," said Conine, acquired from Baltimore in a trade late Sunday. "They can create absolute havoc on the basepa­ths." 
Ivan Rodriguez capped a sev­enth-inning comeback with a go-ahead single. Penny (12-10) improved to 1-6 in day games this season, allowing three hits and two runs -both on homers -in seven innings. 
Braden Looper pitched a per­fect ninth for his 26th save in 30 chances. Florida improved to 60-1 when it leads after seven innings. 

New York 3, Atlanta 2 
Greg Maddux has some work to do in September to keep up his streak of 15-win seasons. 
Maddux allowed two runs in six innings but didn't get a deci­sion as the Atlanta Braves lost to the New York Mets 3-2 on Monday. 
Timo Perez hit a tiebreaking sacrifice fly in the seventh off Trey Hodges (3-3) as the last­place Mets beat the division­leading Braves for just the sixth time in 1 7 meetings this year. 
Atlanta pinch hit in the sev­enth for Maddux, 13-12 this year and 3-0 against the Mets. The Braves loaded the bases with one out, but Gary Sheffield popped out and Jones flied out against reliever Dan Wheeler (1-2). who got his first major league win since beating Texas for Tampa Bay on May 23, 2001. 
Atlanta's Johnny Estrada hit into an inning-ending 1-2-3 double play in the eighth off David Weathers. Jones had ended the fifth with a double­play grounder against starter Jeremy Griffiths. 
Weathers got five outs for his sixth save in seven chances. Gary Sheffield doubled with two outs in the ninth and Chipper Jones was intentionally walked but Weathers got Andruw Jones to fly out to right, ending New York's three-game losing streak. 
Atlanta got a brief scare in the fourth when Sheffield fell, clutching his right leg, as he tried to catch a sinking liner in right field. But Sheffield remained in the game. 
Maddux, who likely has five starts left, allowed seven hits against the Mets. He has won 15 or more games in 15 consec­utive seasons, tying a standard set by Cy Young. 


Houston 10, Los Angeles 1 
Jeff Kent might just be the player that finally propels the Houston Astros beyond the first round of the playoffs: 
Kent hit a grand slam and had six RBis as the Astros moved into a tie for the NL Central lead with a 10-1 victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers on Monday night. 
The three-time All-Star, who signed with the Astros last December after helping the Giants win the NL pennant, could be the missing piece for a franchise that has won four division titles in six years but lost in the first round each time. 
"I couldn't believe it until three or four days after we got him," winning pitcher Wade Miller recalled. "It was some­thing I didn't think we were going to pursue, especially a guy like that. But it's been great. He's been hitting the ball well all season and doing his job. He plays hard and he hates to lose. So when you got a guy like that who's a great talent, you're going to enjoy being around him." 

Kent went 3-for-5, including his 1Oth career slam and first since Aug. 9, 2000, for the Giants against Milwaukee. He is hitting .293 with 20 homers and 82 RBis. 
"I like playing here. It was just one of those days," said Kent, who played his second game after missing the previous three for the birth of his son. "Hitting is contagious. "Guys were getting on base and it gets you a little excited. Hopefully, you can string a few together. and we were able to do that." 
Chicago 7, St. Louis 0 
Mark Prior refused to let a long rain delay mess up his day. After a four-hour wait, Prior was ready to pitch, even as a Wrigley Field matinee turned into a night game. 
And once again, he was domi­nant. 
"I just relaxed, I took a nap and had dinner and watched the Red Sox," Prior said Monday night after winning his sixth game in a row by pitching the Chicago Cubs to 7-0 victory over the St. Louis Cardinals. 
Prior, 6-0 with an 0.57 ERA since coming off the disabled list Aug. 5, scattered five hits in eight innings and also had an RBI single in the Cubs' six-run fifth-inning outburst against Woody Williams. 
He walked three and struck out eight in a 131-pitch outing in a game delayed 4 hours, 17 minutes by rain at the start. 
"I wanted to stay in, but I had 130 pitches. No reason to go more," Prior (14-5) said. 
The loss moved St. Louis into a first-place tie in the NL Central with Houston, which beat Los Angeles on Monday night. The third-place Cubs are 1 1/2 games behind the Cardinals and Astros. 
The Cardinals and Cubs are meeting for the final time this season and play a rare day­night doubleheader Tuesday as part of the five-game series. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right _to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

Wanted:D.J. For Saturday Nights 9-OAKHILL CONDO FORSALE! 2 FOR RENT: 3-bedroom home 1 FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED ­3 For Local Nile Club. Call 287-BEDROOMS, 2 FLOORS WON T mile from ND. Garage, alarm sys-TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378 NOTICES 7379. LAST LONGI574.243.3911 OR tem, A/C Available lmmed. PM 288-2726 PERSONAL 
574.532.0956 LEAVE MESSAGE1 $650/mo. PART-TIME WORK EXCELLENT Babysitter/playmate wanted for tod-ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do PAY WWW.WORKFORSTU-dler,(8.30-1.30), flexible days if LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO Call 220-0499 or 614-353-5889. SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288-not go it alone. If you or someone DENTS. COM needed, in ND profs home, very FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. 2726 you love needs confidential support 
close to campus. $7 an hour; own NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD-2-bdrm house close to ND. or assistance, please call Sr. Mary STUDENT WORK. $11.50 base-car needed. ELED, FULLY EQUIPPED. 269-699-5841 . Help! I need 2 tix to every ND home Louise Gude,CSC, at1-7819 appt. Flex.pi hrs. Cust.svc/sales. $94,500. Email: football game. Please call288­No D-T-D/No Telemkt. Fun work Phone 287 8843, or 631 0456. Williamson.1 @ nd.edu 3-6 BDRM HOMES.AVAIL. NOW & 2877. For more information, see our b1­schol.linterns. cond. apply. work 04/05. FURN.272-6306 weekly ad in The Observer. w/other students SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns NEED FS TIX FOR FAMILY. WILL 
Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for Private furnished condo lor ND TRADE 50YD LN 2NAVY, 2BYU, Spring Break 2004 with 
FoR RENT

574-282-2357 a few good men and women who home games 1 mile from stadium. OR 3 TOGETHER MS StudentCity.com and Maxim 
www.earnparttime.com wish to work in a FUN and fast sleeps 4. TIX. 289-1993 Magazine! Get hooked up with Free pace environment. A new store will Furnished apt. close to ND. 1 bdrm, Trips, Cash and VIP status as a be opening up in early October. We no &making or pets. $425/mo. utili-$595 per weekend call 273-6262 WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. Campus Rep! Choose from 15 of have aggressive pay. Hrs from ties included. TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232-the hottest destinations. Book early 
WANTED 11am to 3am. In-shoppers, drivers 255-1738. That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast 0964. lor FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS and mgmt available. has space available for football/par-and 150% Lowest Price Guarantee! 2-bdrm apts. $435/mo plus utilities. ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. To reserve online or view our Photo Call Andy at 574-277-0850 lor inter-2-story, 4 bdrm, 2 full baths. full hot breakfast, $80-$115, LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570. Gallery, visit www.studentcity.com Wanted: Exceptionally dependable view. Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. or Call 1-888-SPRINGBREAK! babysitter with own car lor 2 girls Avail. immediately. 273-4555. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, 
ages 7 and 5 on Tues. and Wed. Experienced babysitter for one boy 9487. NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT-Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America from 2pin til 7:30pm. Sitter will pick (age 2 years) Part time. Walking Bed&Breakfast within walking dis-BALL GAME. s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring 
girls up from school and transport to distance from ND (prof. home) lance of ND Former Moose Krause campus reps. Call for discounts: our home, both located by U.P. $8/hour. Phone: 233-9975 House. TICKETS PLEASE CALL674-6593. 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com Mall. $6.00/hour. (evenings) 631-3770 
Rooms available for Washington ND FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL. Please sell me your extra ND foot-I was raised from a cup of coffee. Call Laurie at 574-271-0389. State, FSU, BYU.$130/night. 232-CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR ball tix. 574-289-8048. Thank you. 9750 TOLL FREE 877-773-Ladies and gentlemen, your 2003 
Need babysitter M,W,Th for 2nd FoR SALE 3911. Selling ND vs Wash St. and other World Series champion Atlanta grade boy after school & evenings. 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO home game football tix. 574-289-Braves! Reliable car needed (will need to 90 Miata MX5, 48,500 miles, 5-CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM TOP$$$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX 8048. take child to activities). Call574-speed,Hard&Soft Top, Tonnoue MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 
OR INDIVIDUAL GAMES. DISCRE-To that Indiana student in yester­210-31421ve name & no. Interviews Cover, Custom Red,$9,900. 258-TION ASSURED. Pair of season football tix wanted. day's Question of the Day -How done ASAP. 
0520. 272-1525 654-8018. 233-3618 about them Huskies?! 

-----------------------------------------· 
• 

Tuesday, September 2, 2003 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 



NOTREBIIME 

Tuesdav, September 2 
7:00 PM -9:00 PM Jovce Center Fieldhouse 
(ENTER THROUGH GATE 3) 

Academic Competition Club Accounting Association, NO Adworks Alpha Epsilon Delta Amer. Cancer Society Club of NO Amer. Chemical Society, NO Ch. Amer. Ins!. of Aero. & Astronautics Amer. Institute of Arch. Students Amer. Institute of Chem. Eng. Amer. Society of Civil Engineers Amer. Society of Mech. Eng. Amnesty International Notre Dame Anime Club of Notre Dame Arts & Letters Student Adv. Council Asian American Association of NO Asian International Society Bagpipe Band, U. of Notre Dame Ballet Folklorico Azul Y Oro Ballroom Dance Club, ND/SMC Baptist Collegiate Ministry Best Buddies Beta Alpha Psi Biology Club, Notre Dame Black Cultural Arts Council Bowling Club, Notre Dame Boxing Club, Notre Dame Women's Brazil Club Campus Fellowship of the Holy Spirit Campus Girl Scouts, ND/SMC Caribbean Student Organization Celebration Choir, U. of Notre Dame Center for the Homeless 
Children's Group, ND/SMC Chess Club, Notre Dame Children of Mary Chorale, Notre Dame Circle K, Notre Dame Class of 2005 Climbing Club, Notre Dame Club Coordination Council College Republicans, Notre Dame Comm. Alliance to Serve Hispanics Computer Apps Honor Society Computer Club, Notre Dame Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora Cricket Club, Notre Dame Cycling Club, Notre Dame Dome Designs Dome Yearbook Equestrian Team, ND/SMC Experiential Learning Council Farley Hall Players Field Hockey Club, Notre Dame Figure Skating Club, Notre Dame Filipino Amer. Stud. Org.of NO First Aid Services Team, NO Flip Side Fly-Fishing Club Foodshare Forum on Biomedical Ethics, NO German Club, Notre Dame Guam Club Gymnastics Club, ND/SMC Habitat for Humanity, Notre Dame Handbell Choir, The Notre Dame Harmonia Hawaii Club-Na Pua Kai 'Ewalu Health Occ. Students of America Helpful Undergraduate Students Hugh O'Brian Youth Foundation 

Alumni Association Humor Artists of NO Ice Hockey Team, Women's NO India Association of Notre Dame Investment Club of NO du Lac Irish Dance Club, The Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids Irish Gardens Joint Engineering Council, NO Juggler, The Juggling Club, The Notre Dame Junior Mental Health Assoc. of NO Knights of Columbus, NO Council Knights of the Immaculata, NO Korean Student Association La Alianza League of Black Business Students Life Uncommon Linux Users Group, Notre Dame Logan Recreation Club Management Club Management Info. Syst. Club, NO Marketing Club, NO Undergrad. Martial Arts Institute, Notre Dame Mexican American Engineers and 
Scientist Society Minority Pre-Medical Society Mock Trial Association Model United Nations Club, NO Ms. Wizard Day Program Team Myst. Science Theater 3000 Club NAACP, NO National Soc. of Black Engineers Native American Student 
Association of Notre Dame NO for Animals NDesign Neighborhood Study Help Program Notre Dame Bands Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Co. Operation Smile Student Org. Pakistan Association of Notre Dame Pasquerilla East Musical Company Philosophy Club, Notre Dame Polish Club, Notre Dame PomPon Squad, U. of Notre Dame Pre-Dental Society Pre-Professional Society Pre-Vet Club of the U. of NO Progressive Student Alliance Psychology Club, Notre Dame Ranger Challenge Team (AROTC) Right to Life, Notre Dame Rowing Club, Notre Dame Running Club, Women's Russian Club Sailing Club, NO/SMC Saint Edward's Hall Players Scholastic Magazine Science Business Club, NO Shirt Project, The Silver Wings (Benjamin D. Foulols 
Chapter) Ski Club/Team, Notre Dame Society of Auto. Engineers, NO Society of Physics Students, NO Society of Women Engineers, NO Sociology Club, Notre Dame Sarin Rifle Team-Army ROTC Spanish Club, U. of Notre Dame Special Friends Club of Notre Dame Squash Club Student Alumni Relations Group Student Broadcasting of NO (NDTV) Student Government Student lnt'l Business Council Student Players, The Notre Dame Student Union Board Students for Environmental Action Super Sibs Swing Club Teamwork for Tomorrow of NO Toastmasters International, NO Trident Naval Society Troop Notre Dame Ultimate Club, Notre Dame University Young Life Viet. Student Assoc. of NO Voices of Faith Gospel Choir, NO Volleyball Club, Men's Wabruda, The Water Polo Club, Men's 
Water Polo Club, Women's Women's Resource Center World Hunger Coalition World Taekwondo Fed. Club WSND-FM WVFI 
AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist American Cancer Society American Red Cross Big Brothers/Big Sisters Boys & Girls' Club of St. Joe Co. Broadway Christian Parish Catholic Charities Center for Social Concerns Center for the Homeless College Football Hall of Fame Dismas House of Michiana El Campito Day Care Center Girl Scouts of Singing Sands Humane Society of St. Joe Co. Indiana Legal Services, Inc.-SB La Casa de Amistad La Salle Council Boy Scouts Life Treatment Centers, Inc. Logan Center Next Stop College Northern Indiana Center for History REAL Services, Inc. Reins of Life, Inc. Robinson Community Learning Ctr. S-0-S of Madison Center SB Juvinile Correctional Facility Southern Care, Inc. Twenty-First Century Scholars Urban League of SB St Joe Co. Urban Youth Services of YMCA Women's Care Center YWCA/St. Joe Cty. 
ACE 

Admissions Office 
Athletics Campus Ministry 
Career Center 

Cong. of the Sisters of the H. Cross 
Educational Talent Search 
Institute for Educational Initiatives 
Legends 
RecSports 

Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student needs 
Student Activities 
Check out the Activities Night website at http://www.nd.edu/-saolanlindex.htm for updated information, table assignments and more. 
NOTRE DAME ACTIVITIES NIGHT IS COORDINATED BY THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE AND COSPONSORED WITH RECSPORTS IN COLLABORATION 
WITH THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS AND CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL. 
), 

• 
Tuesday, September 2, 2003

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Nebraska moves into Top 25 poll 
Associated Press 
Nebraska moved back into the Top 25 for the first time in nearly a year Monday, earning the No. 23 ranking following a 17-7 sea­son-opening win against No. 24 Oklahoma State. 
"I think it is important," Cornhuskers coach Frank Solich said. "It's something that this program has been all about, being in the Top 25 and being a top football team in the country." 
In the first regular season Associated Press college football poll, the biggest movement was caused by Southern California's 23-0 win at Auburn. The Trojans earned six first-place votes from the sports writers and broadcast­ers on the AP panel and moved up four spots to No. 4. Auburn plummeted 11 places to No. 17. 
The top three teams remained the same, with Oklahoma at No. 1 followed by defending national champion Ohio State and Miami. Michigan dropped one spot to No. 5 after beating Central Michigan 45-7. 
The USA Today!ESPN coaches poll had the same top three as the AP poll. Texas was fourth and USC fifth in the coaches poll. 
Nebraska's run of being in 348 consecutive polls ended Sept. 29. 2002, following a 36-14 loss to Iowa State. The Cornhuskers went on to lose seven games last year, their worst season since 1961. 

Nebraska began this season outside the Top 25 for the first time since 1969. 
"It's great to get back in," Solich said. "I think it was obvi­ous to everyone, including our­selves. that we had to prove our­selves to get back in. Now we have to show that we deserve to be in there by playing well." 
Oklahoma has 30 of the 65 first-place votes and 1,566 points. The Sooners are 28 points ahead of Ohio State, which won its 15th straight game Saturday, 28-9 over then-No. 17 Washington and has 25 firsts. 
Miami has two first-place votes, USC has six and No. 5 Michigan has the remaining two. 
The rest of the Top 10 is Texas, Kansas State, Georgia, Virginia Tech and Pittsburgh. 
Florida State is 11th, followed by Tennessee, LSU, North Carolina State, VIrginia, Purdue, Auburn, Wisconsin, Notre Dame and Arizona State. 
Florida, Washington, Nebraska, Colorado and TCU round out the poll. 
The Gators and Buffaloes also moved into the AP poll for the first time this year as Maryland, Oklahoma State and L>lorado State dropped out. 


SET YOUR ALARM FOR FRIDAY. 
WAKE UP SLEEPYHEAD. SOMETHING IS DIFFERENT TODAY. MAYBE IT'S THE 
PAVLOVIAN  EXPECTATION  OF  FEELING  A  GLOSSY  SPORTS  ILLUSTRATED  ON  
CAMPUS  NESTLED SAFELY IN YOUR  CAMPUS PAPER,  WAITING FOR  YOU  TO  
INHALE  PAGE  UPON PAGE  OF PHOTOGRAPHY AND ARTICLES DEVOTED  TO  
THE MYSTICAL  REALM THAT IS COLLEGE SPORTS.  FULL  COLOR.  AS  

FREE AS THE WEATHER IS FUSSY. BEASON ENOUGH TO EXIT BED, WIPE FACE, AND THINK TO YOURSELF: IN HEAVEN, EVERY DAY IS FRIDAY. 

I 
ON FRIDAY. 
SI.COM 

Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center South Bend Campus Presents: 
11th Annual Emil T. Hofman Lecture 
From Face Mask to Facial Plastic Surgery: A Tight End; A Bengal Bout Boxer; a Surgeon: A Hands On Career 

Kenneth Adams MacAfee, D.M.D. '78 
Clinical Associate Professor Harvard University School of Dental Medicine 
Dr. Kenneth MacAfee graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1978 and obtained his 
D.M.D. from the University of Pennsylvania in 1983. He has gained honors both on the Gridiron and as a maxillofacial surgeon. He was an All-American in football in 197 5, 1976, and 1977. A member of the National Championship team in 1977 as well as the most valuable player that same year. He was voted the Walter Camp player of the year in 1977 and finished third in the Reisman Trophy Ballot that same year. In 1978, he was the first round draft pick of the San Fransico 49ers. He was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame in 1997. He was awarded the NCAA Silver Anniversary Award given to distinguished alumni who have excelled professionally after gradua­tion. As a surgeon he has won teaching awards and has published in the area of reconstructive oral and maxillofacial surgery. Since 1995, he has been Clinical Associate Professor in the Harvard School of Dental Medicine. 
September 6 10:00-11:00 a.m. Debartolo Hall, Room 101 
Tuesday, September 2, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 


Steelers shocked by shooting of teammate 
Porter out indefinitely with gunshot injury 
gling with the news that he 
Associated Press 
was shot over the weekend. 
"It was a tragic incident," I'ITTSBUB(;II The Pro Bowl receiver Hines Ward Pittsburgh Stppft·rs triPd to put said. "We're handling it as it 
o n !Ill' a p p !' a r an c c t h at comes and hopefully get a bet­Monday was likP any other day ter chance of understanding it of praclie!'. Obviously, it was­when Joey g<'ts back." n't. Porter was standing outside a 
Players huddled in groups of Denver sports bar following two and thi'(W in the locker Saturday night's game between room, talking quit~tly, the ver­his alma mater. Colorado State, bal by-play and rival that normall-y Colorado
"It was a tragic incident. 
pn•cPClPs every when he was prar.ticc We're handling it as it struck by a noticeably bullet that
comes and hopefully get 
ahs1~llt. There entered his 
a better chance of
was no laugh­left buttocks tPr, no cross­understanding it when and lodged in t h (' -I' 0 (J Ill his right
Joey gets back." 
yPlling about thigh. Police the past W!'!'k­say he was 
Hines Ward 

PrHI's collPgc an innocent 
SCOI'!'S. Cfparfy, Steelers wide receiver bystander somt~Olll' was during what missing may have SOIJli'OnC been a gang-important. related shooting. 
No !llle went ncar Joey The injury is not career­l'ortPr's locker, often the gath­threatening, but will sideline Pring spot for tlw dcf!'nse and him for an indefinite period. thP noisiest area in an almost Porter was released Monday rwvPr qui1•t room. The Stcelcrs from a Denver hospital and said Sonny Lubick, Porter's would expect to be handling Porter will be replaced at know thP /\11-l'ro linebacker flew back to Pittsburgh to be coach at Colorado State. "It right now, but the season is right outside linebacker in the and tlwir vocal leader will play examined by the Steelers' doc­could have been a lot \-/orse. going to go on," linebacker base defense by Clark again but they don't know tors. According to the doctors he Jason Gildon said. "We're llaggans, his former roommate whPn, and they are still strug-"lie was very frightened," was very, very fortunate." expecting big things out of our and teammate at Colorado 
The Steelers aren't ready to defense and our team, and we State. estimate how long Porter will can't let this "Losing a guy be out. However, routine thigh be a step like Joey. that's injuries uften take up to a back for us." "Losing a guy like Joey. a huge blow to month to heal. so it seems like­After going that's a huge blow to our our defense, ly Porter could miss half the through but I think the
defense, but I think the 
season. training defense is 1\s a result, coach Bill camp with­defense is going to rally going to rally 
Cowher gathered his players out a serious around this,"
around this." 

briefly before practice and, as injury to a Ward said. he does before every season, top player, "You can't 
Hines Ward 

stressed the importance of theSteelers replace a Joey staying out of situations that are scram­Steelers wide receiver Porter, of could jeopardize their safety. bling to course, but The bar where Porter was shot reconfigure Clark can go is located in a high-crime area their defense less than a week out there and be a productive of Denver. before Sunday's opener against linebacker. I thought he had a 

"This is the last thing you Baltimore. 
We have an exciting opportunity for YOU to help preve.rrt youth violence in South Bend! Learn ways to help reduce violence while having fun in-teracting with children
Talk It Out ... 
in area schools. 
'Walk H Ouc.,. 
• Become a n1cn1ber ofa Take Ten tcan; and \Vait lt Out .•. 
spend an hour a week in an area schm..ll HELP MAK.E OUR SCHOOLS
Please c:onta.ct: 
• Various schools, age groups. and tneeting
Kim Ovcrdyek at VIOL.iENCE FREE 
times to tft )''our schedtlle
T;tk~;'f<:n.lr.'Zind ..cdu ZONE.S 
Or at 

• 1\lu.ltiple training opportunities t:o .learn 
6J t-94:24 

1nore about: violence and ho\'V to \·vork with children
1'( 

Take advantage of this opportunity 
ROBINSOi'··J 
to leave an everlasting impact on
COMMUf'·JrTY 
LEAANlf'-.!G the· youth of South Bend! 

CENTER 

great training camp." 
llaggans also attended the Colorado State-Colorado game, but would not say Monday it' he was with Porter at the time of the shooting. Before llaggans left Denver. Porter told him to make certain the defense was not disrupted. 
"lie told me to go out and play hard, that we've got to move forward." Ilaggans said. "But he's upset about every­thing. lie's really into the upcoming game and he wants everybody to play hard." 
This isn't the first time the Steelers have lost their top defensive player to injury just when a season was starting. Star cornerback Hod Woodson blew out a knee trying to tackle Detroit's Barry Sanders in the 1995 season opener and missed the rest of the season. but the Steelers went on to make the Super Bowl. 
Earlier that year, cornerback Deon Pigures was shot in the knee during a random shooting while driving his car in Los Angeles, an injury that likely shortened his career. 
"Hight now, we're short a man and we're going to have to step up across the board," Gildon said. "We're down a 
I 

man. a key man, and it's like I I we have no room for error." I Porter made the Pro Bowl I 
l I

and was an All-Pro for the first time last season, when he and Ward were chosen as the team's co-MVPs. 
i 


--------------------~--------~J 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 2, 2003 
US OPEN 
Rain halts tournament, only two matches played 

Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Roger Federer stood on the court at Arthur Ashe Stadium, hitting tennis balls to scattered fans in the stands equipped with umbrel­las. hats and parkas. 
The Wimbledon champion would point to a section and smack a ball to the appointed spot, displaying the same accu­racy as when he plays for real. 
Unfortunately for ticket-hold­ers. though, that was about the extent of the action during 

way before being suspend­ed. 
Jennifer Capriati took a 6-2, 3-2 lead in her fourth-round encounter against No. 11 Elena Dementieva in 49 minutes of play spread over a little more than five hours. No. 29 Francesca Schiavone won the first game against No. 15 Ai Sugiyama before they were taken off the court after only six minutes. 
"It's tough to focus in these conditions," Capriati said. "I just hope we don't have to wait all day." 
She pretty much did. The start of play Monday was delayed more than 2 1/2 hours, then Capriati and Dementieva got 13 minutes in -enough time for Capriati to go up 4-0 -before taking a 4 1/2 -hour break. 
Then they played another 36 minutes until sprinkles prompt­ed the chair umpire to stop action, drawing boos from the few thousand fans in the stadi­um. 
By 7 p.m., only two singles matches officially were put off until Tuesday: top-ranked Andre Agassi against unseeded American Taylor Dent, and No. 5 Guillermo Coria against Jonas Bjorkman. 
The winners of those two matches will meet in the quar­terfinals. 
Agassi complained after his third-round meeting with Yevgeny Kafelnikov was the only singles match postponed Saturday hecause of rain. Agassi was angered that the players weren't consulted, and that Dent's match against Fernando Gonzalez went on as scheduled. Now Agassi doesn't have to worry about getting less-than-sufficient rest. 
A total of 59 matches, mostly in the junior and senior tourna­ments, were postponed without a shot being hit because of the weather. Organizers were hold­ing out hope of being able to get some men's and women's sin­gles and doubles competition in at night. 
The last time an entire day at 
the Open was rained out was 

Sept. 4, 1988. 
Fans ·with tickets for Monday's day session can exchange them for a day session Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday. Tickets also can be traded for a day ses­sion during the 2004 U.S. Open. 
Players killed time in different 
ways. Until his match was post­
poned, Agassi could be seen 
wandering in the halls of the 
main stadium with his young 
son in his arms. 

L-~------------------------------------------~--------------------------­
"It's tough to focus in
the day session Led by No. at the U.S. Open these conditions." 1 Agassi and on a rainy No. 2 Monday. Only Federer, all
Jennifer Capriati 
two matches of the top

tennis player
even got under eight seeded 
In the players' lounge, some played video games or cards or read, all the while serenaded by two musicians on a harp and drum. A half-dozen chessboards kept players occupied, including Federer, who played Max Mirnyi. 
"It's still really hard to think if you're going to play, so maybe you should go warm up and not play cards. It's hard," said No. 7 Anastasia Myskina, slated to face two-time Grand Slam tour­nament champion Mary Pierc'! 
in the fourth 
round. 
men reached 

the round of 16 at the U.S. Open for the first time since 1981. 
Agassi's match Tuesday against Dent will offer some true contrasts. 
Agassi, 33, is a baseliner, rarely venturing forward other than to close a point. He~s also his generation's greatest return­er of serve. 
Dent, 22, is serve-and-volley­er, pounding aces and rushing to the net whenever there's an opening. He won points on 111 of his 170 trips to the net while upsetting the 15th-seeded Gonzalez to earn his debut trip to the fourth round of a major. Dent's father, Phil, was a top 20 player. 
"From a very young age, my dad made sure I didn't get into comparing my game to his. It's too much pressure," the younger Dent said Monday between putts on a golf game in the players' lounge. "''m work­ing on my consistency. To con­tinually play at this level, it's still not 100 percent there." 
He's lost both times he played Agassi, and there are some other lopsided head-to-head records in the men's fourth round. 
We air learn from one another. The RCIA give~ you achance to walk with wmeone a~ you explore your fuith and find your place in the Church. Join us on thil adventure offaith. 
For more info, contact: 
Tami Schmitz 
@ 
631-3016 308 Coleman­Morse Center 
C-M 
ATTENTION: 



FIRST YEAR STUDENTS! 
PleaAe conAider Aervins aA AtHdent ltoAtA for tlte Office of UndersradHateAdmiAAionA! 
Sltare yoHr Notre Dame experienceA bywelcomins proApective AtMdentA into yoMr reAidence ItaliA! 
If interested, please email: hosting@nd.edu 
Tuesday, September 2, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

API Fhoto Tract McGrady and Kenyon Martin celebrate the U.S. team's victory over Argentina for the gold medal in the pre-Olympic tournament. The Americans won 106-73. 

Fall Liturg)T Workshops 
at the Basilica ifthe Sacred Heart 
LECTORS' WORKSHOPS: 
Sunday, September 7th, 8:15pm 
(following Vepers) 
Tuesday, September 9th, 8:30 pm 
Attendance at one ifthese workshops is recommended 


EUCHARISTIC MINISTERS' 
WORKSHOPS: 
Sunday, September 7th, 3:15pm 
Tuesday, September 9th, 10:00 pm 
Attendance at one ifthese workshops is 
n;andatoryfor extraordinary ministers 
ifthe euchanst. 
CM 
Cam us Ministry 



-t%1-SlvfCW~E~ 



SAINT 
<9p~fo-v
MARY'S 
U.S. BASKETBALL 



U.S. pounds Argentina 106-73 for gold n1edal 
Associated Press 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Hi co ­The Americans finished with a flourish, giving Argentina ­and the rest of the world ­something to think about for the next year. 
"We're the best in the world," Jermaine O'Neal said after the U.S. team defeated Argentina 106-73 Sunday night in the gold medal game at the Tournament of the Americas. 
A year from 

night. Argentina also compet­ed well against the U.S. team in the second round, losing by just eight. 
But with nothing at stah aside from national pride, the Americans showed themselves ready to restore a snnse of normalcy to a basketball uni­verse that changed so drasti­cally last summer when the 
U.S. team lost three times at the World Championships. Led by Tim Duncan. 
McGrady. Vince Carter and Jason Kidd, t h e 
now, they'll 

"We're the best n the Americans 
get a chance brought a
world."

to try and much prove it. stronger The U.S. Jermaine O'Neal 
team to this team proved U.S. player tournament 
one thing definitively in its final game: They are once again better than Argentina in basketball. Much, much bet­ter. 
In a brilliant first half that featured a devastating 21-0 run, unbelievable alley-oop dunks were followed by even better ones that sent the "ooh" and "ah" meter off the charts in the strongest all­

around per­"The US. played their 
steal and formance by a best game. They layup by 
U.S. team Bibby, an
surprised us during the 
since the alley-oop S y d n e y whole game. " dunk by 
Olympics. O'Neal off a "I think that 
Fabricio Oberto pass from game right Kidd.
Argentina player 
there is really going to leave a taste in somebody's mouth," Tracy McGrady said. 
Also Sunday, Puerto Hio qualified for Athens by defeat­ing Canada 79-66 in the third­place game. 
A much more competitive gold medal game was expect­ed from Argentina, which defeated the United States last summer at the World Championships and performed brilliantly in its semifinal win over Canada on Saturday 


COLLEGE 
W~ 13v~ Per~
NOTRE DAME, IN 

Who-: Open to students and faculty at Saint Mary's & Notre Dame Where.-: Campus of Saint Mary's College, Moreau Hall, Room 114 W~: Tuesdays & Thursdays, 7-8:30 p.m. tlo-w: Auditions begin Thursday September 4th ... 6-9:00 p.m. Fo-r Mo-re.-Irv{o-& 't& ~~£.0111."Call Dept of Music at SMC at 284-4634 
Look for the S SMC Wi/n.dt £~at... ND Activities Night-Tues, Sept 2 GACC, Notre Dame, 6-9:00 p.m.) SMC Activities Night-Wed, Sept 3 (Regina Hall, Saint Mary's, 6-9:00 p.m.) 

- a  squad  
that  peaked  
in its f'inale.  

One sequence over the f'irst 5 1/2 minutes of the second quarter went like this: a dunk by Elton Brand, a high-arcing alley-oop pass from Mike Bibby to McGrady for a dunk, an alley-oop dunk by Carter off a pass from Bibby, a basket for Argentina. a fast-break dunk by Carter, a 
When  it  
ended,  the  
score  was  
53-19.  

Game over -except for the formality of the final 24 1/2 minutes. 
"The U.S. played their best game. They surprised us dur­ing the whole game." Argentina center Fabricio Oberto said. "The intensity was so much that we couldn't go up to that level. But we're very happy because our first objective was to classify for Athens." 
The Americans opened the second half by scoring thnir first three baskets on dunks­two of them by Duncan in his most dominant performance of the tournament with 23 points and 14 rebounds. 
"It's expected to win, but it's a relief to come out here and do it the right way," Duncan said. "Was it surprising? A lit­tle bit. We didn't expect to take it to them like that, but at the same time we knew we were capable of doing it." 
This performance should result in the United States entering the Athens Olympics as the strong favorite. although not a prohibitive one given the strength of several of the best European teams. 
As for Argentina, the consis­tent crispness that they showed at the World Championships was replaced by a striking degree of incon­sistency that will need to be corrected if the teain expects to be in medal contention next summer. 
"We wanted to come out and be cxtrnmcly sharp. givn the world something to think about for a year," O'Neal said. 
·'' 

page 20 Tuesday, September 2, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Angels trip up Twins behind Spiezio' s grand slam 
Associated Press 
The Anaheim Angels know that getting back to the postsea­son and defending their World Series title this season is a long­shot. But they're sure they'll have an impact on the playoff race. 
Scott Spiezio hit a grand slam and John Lackey (9-13) pitched seven solid innings as the Angels beat the Twins 10-2 on Monday. Bengie Molina and Garret Anderson also homered for the Angels, who won their third in a row. 
"We're just trying to get back to .500 and finish on a positive note," Lackey said. 
Michael Ryan hit his first major league homer for the Twins, who fell two games behind idle Chicago in the AL Central and lost an opener for the first time in 10 series. 
And it was Spiezio and Lackey, two stars in Anaheim's AL championship series win over Minnesota last year. keying the victory in the Angels first appearance at the Metrodome since Game 2 of the ALCS. 
Cleveland 7, Detroit 4 
Ben Broussard broke out of a slump at just the right time for the Cleveland Indians. 
He hit a tiebreaking home run -his second of the game -in the eighth inning to lead the Indians to a 7-4 victory over the Detroit Tigers on Monday. 
The rookie first baseman was in a 1-for-21 skid coming in. 
"I think it was about a month since I hit one before today," he said. "At least it seems like a month." 
Broussard. who also hit a two­run homer in the fifth, had three RBis, and Travis Hafner hit a solo shot and tripled for the Indians. Jody Gerut was 3-for-5 with three RB!s, giving him 25 RBis in 15 games against Detroit. 
Texas 7, Kansas City 3 
The Texas Rangers thought it was about time they beat the Kansas City Royals. 
They had lost their last six meetings with Kansas City this season by a combined score of 53-14, and dropped the last nine matchups overall. 
But Mark Teixeira homered twice and Colby Lewis pitched seven solid innings as the Rangers finally beat the Royals 7-3 on a rainy Monday. 
"It was long overdue," said Teixeira, who went 3-f'or-4 with three RBls. "It was very impor­tant to us. Nobody wants to get swept or lose nine in a row to the same team." 
Teixeira and Hank Blalock 
homered on consecutive pitches 
in the second inning against 
Darrell May (8-7), and Teixeira 
added another solo shot in the 
fourth. 
Teixeira nearly had another homer in the sixth. but his drive hit high off the wall in left-cen­ter for an RBI double that stretched the Rangers' lead to 4­
2. He leads major league rook­ies with 22 homers. 
Ken Harvey homered twice for the Royals, who fell two games behind the first-place Chicago White Sox in the AL Central. 
Less than a week ago, Teixeira's batting average dipped to .244. But in the last five games, he's 12-for-21 to raise his average to .260. 
batters before Joe Randa's sin­gle in the fourth. He allowed three runs and four hits, struck out three and didn't issue a walk. Lewis rebounded from a rough start at Kansas City last week, when he gave up seven runs in just 1 1-3 innings. 
Toronto 8, New York 1 
Roy Halladay thought it was important to beat the New York Yankees in his final start against them. 
"We want to leave them with something to think about," Halladay said after he pitched a four-hitter and tied for the AL lead with his 18th victory of the season as the Toronto Blue Jays beat New York 8-1 on Monday. 
"It's always nice to beat them," Halladay said. "They are one of the best teams in base­ball. To go out and play them well is important for us. This is the last time we see them this year." 
The rebuilding Blue Jays appear headed for a sixth straight third-place finish. 
Halladay (18-6) allowed one run and tied a season high with 10 strikeouts for his fifth com­plete game of the year. He tied Chicago's Esteban Loaiza for the league lead in victories, and also tied New York's Roger Clemens for the AL lead in strikeouts with 172. 
"That's as probably as good as I've seen him." New York's Bernie Williams said. "He was tough. He threw a lot of strikes. He had good movement." 
Josh Phelps homered and drove in four runs for the Blue Jays. 
David Wells (12-6), possibly 
"You always have more ener­pitching to l:eep his spot in the ''He'll start Sunday," New York didn't help at all. Wells agreed gy when you go 3-for-4 and win Yankees' rotation, a!lowed five manager Joe Tarre said. "! to do it after Stottlemyre criti­like we did today," Teixeira said. runs on nine hits in seven thought he did a Jot better job of cized him for not doing it. "I've felt physically OK. Mentally innings. Pitching coach Mel getting the ball down today. Mel The Yankees took a 1-0 lead in is where you get worn down. A Stottlemyre questioned Wells' felt the same way." the first when Alfonso Soriano few games like this can really work ethic and conditioning fol­Wells said he felt good mental­led off with a bunt single and raise your confidence." lowing his worst performance of ly and physically. He said pitch­scored on Nick Johnson's HBI 
Lewis (7-9) retired his first 10 the year last week. ing on the side between starts single. 
_,_,,__ , 

__..__________________________________, 



STUDENTS 

.. -'\>_ · ·· ... · ·-~ · -· · t.. ·t· .. · · s· · · ·-,.·· )! ... ,. ·1·1 b--k.,.,. -« .. · -· 
..1·rttllsptJr a /toll . .en1ces n~t ...._e oJ.Jeltttg
"' T ,.. .. • • 
hfltJ .Drtt."er .s.· rarttli·J"f? .ses._,.}lfJIJS 1n 
S~]Jtt211rber. 

Ifyou d:id net attend a nriver-Training session conducted by "l·r:nns:J)OrtaUon Services last ye:u·,. nud you plan on driving a lJniversity owned~ lensN.J, or rented vetdde, you ntust nUcnd a J)rivet~ Training session lJ!~~.PORli.. y~lU operate a vehicle. 
Ses:sions will be beld on Sunday; Scpternbcr 7tn, and on Sundn:y, Septetnber 2l~t at 6:30pnl in Roon1 l02 ofIJeHa:rtnlo flail. 

TranSJlnriai:ton Servh::es rents vehieles U) students~ facultJ~ and ¥bdT '~rho ~rt~ bt nt,~d ofb"';lo~:portatl()n 'Wbii;e on oflldal Uttiltf.YrsUv,.. bnsltlCS$. Sec our web$itt att traU$]l<u·tation.nd...r~du 
Jfyv# h.d1•-e aJ•)~ tflli1$liotts tn.r tlte .fJYi"t'tH' Ttuittittg StlSSiciJ:M~ tW the ilto#n· J)tw(;v•ml may Ci1tttut~t Tr:anSflf.irl(Uiou Sert'1"c.;es ttt 
A''l! l .#[ .~·.,;;;­
y).;1.:··. =""·t.~~,:V /~ 

We have an exciting opportuni1y for YOU to help preverrt youth violence in Sou'th Bend] Learn ways to help reduce violence while having fun irrteracting with children
'l'a.lk U fJut. •• ~ 
in area schools. 
'\Van{ ltOut ••• 
• Becnn1e a rnember of a Take ]'en tea:rn and 
spend an hour a \veek in an area school HELP MAKE OUR Please (.\-:-mt.act: SCHOOLS
• \la:dous schoc)ls!-age gn::m:ps~ and nteeting
Kina Overdyck at VIOLENCE FREE Tak1.d\;;:n, 1((::?mLcdu times to fit you.r schedule ZONES 
Or at 
• .!'v1ultiple training opportunities to learn
631-9424 
m.ore about vi<Jience and how to work \vith children 

Take advantage of this opportunity to leave an everlasting impact on the youth of South Bend! 











OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, September 2,2003 
Major League Baseball 

American League East tolilll record perc; last 10 GR,,. New York 83-53 .610 5-5 
Boston 79·58 .577 7-3 4.5 
Toronto 68-69 .496 5-5 15~5 Ballimore 61-75 .449 2·8 22 Tampa Bay 53-82 .393 2~8 29;5 
American League Central 

Ltlalll record perc . l~tlQ Chicago 73·64 .533 7·3 Kansa$ City 70·65 .519 5·5 2 Minnesota 71-66 .518 S·S 2 Cleveland 62·76 .449 N. 11.~ . Detroit 34-102 .250 3-1 38<5 

American League West ttJam record perc,/ ,lastlO• '·.. CJf' Oakland 82·55 .599 94 
Seattle 80·57 .584 4-6 2 Anaheim 6HO .489 7·3 11) Texas 63-75 .457 H 19.5 
National League East 

tnam rerord perc • last 10 GB Atlanta 87-60 .635 6~4 :~·· Florida 74-63 .540 5·5 13 Philadelphia 73-65 .533 3-7 14 Montreal 71-68 .511 5·5 17 New York 60·76 .441 !)-!) 26.5 
National League Central team rccotd perc. last 10 GB St. louis 72-65 .526 6·4 
Houston 72·65 .526 5"5 Chicago 70·66 .515 5·5 Pittsburgh 62-72 .463 4·6 Cincinnati 60·77 .438 H Milwaukee 60·77 .438 8-2 . 
National League West team record pete. lastJO GB San Frantfisco 83·53 .610 7·3 : : ..::~:<:·.:. Los Angeles 71·65 .522 5-5 12 Arizona 70·67 .511 l-7 1l.5 Colorado 65-74 .468 2·8 19.5 San Diego 65·82 ..•401 6~4 zu 
ESPN/USA Today poll 

team  record  points  
1  Oklahoma (32)  1-D  1,530  
2  Ohio State (26}  1-D  1,498  
3  Miami (5)  1-(}  1,467  
4  Texas  HI  1,297  
5  usc  1-U  1,291  
6  Kansas State  2-{}  1,251  
7  Michigan  1-0  .  1,200  
8  Georgia  1-D  1.141  
9  VIrginia Tech  1·0  1,033  
10  Florida State  1-(}  947  
11  NC State  1-0  823  
12  Pillsburgh  o-o  783  
13  LSU  1·0  111  
14  Tenne~see  1-(1  714  
15  Virginia  1·0  638  
16  NOTRE DAME  0·0  568  
17  Wisconsin  1-0  502  
18  Florida  HI  500  
19  Auburn  0·1  485  
20  Purdue  1.0  356  
21  Arizona State  (HI  342  
22  Colorado  1-D  178  
23  Iowa  1·0  161  
24  Nebraska  HI  152  
25  Penn State  FO  144  

around the dial 
MLB Atlanta at New York 7 p.m., TBS St. Louis at Chicago 8 p.m., FSN 
U.S. OPEN 

Women's Quarterfinals 1 p.m., USA 
COLLEGE VOLLEYBALL State Farm Women's Classic in Honolulu 
2:30 p.m., ESPN 2 

Colv\PlUD FROM THE OI)SERVER WIRE StRVICES Page 21 
MLB 


the lineup minutes before of his father, Bobby mound and into the out­
Associated Press 

the first pitch Sunday Bonds. on Aug. 23. He field, scoring two of the because of exhaustion, left Saturd ay night's three runners Myers PHOENIX was released from the game in the eighth inning inherited from Oscar Considering what he's hospital after staying after homering off Randy Villarreal (7-6), who been through lately, overnight to have his Johnson earlier in the walked Eric Young and Barry Bonds decided it vital signs monitored. contest because his allowed singles to J.T. was time for the game to He argued at the time heartbeat rose to more Snow and Marquis end. about the hospitalization, than twice normal and he Grissom without getting 
Hours after being but said it was the right had trouble breathing. an out. 
released from the hospi­thing to do. He said he felt fine Bonds is .320 (8-for-25) tal, Bonds hit a two-run, "I just had problems throughout the game lifetime against Myers, bases-loaded single in the with my heart and chest," Monday, and didn't have with two doubles and a ninth inning to lead the Bonds said. "I couldn't his vital signs monitored. walkoff homer against San Francisco Giants to a get around it. It was just Bonds was hitless in him the last time they 2-0 victory over the safer for me to go there three at-bats against Curt faced off-July 24 in Pac Arizona Diamondbacks tha.n to try to play." Schilling, but that wasn't Bell Park. on Monday. Sunday's game was the the case against Mike "The last time was a 
"Don't leave it up to second Bonds missed in Myers, Arizona's left­homer," manager Felipe me," he said. "I don't like the series with the handed specialist. Alou said. "This time he to play overtime." Diamondbacks for rea­The slugger lined a 1-0 was looking to hit a line Bonds, scratched from sons related to the death pitch just to the left of the drive, which he did." 
IN BRIEF 

George outjumps all 
women in Indian history 
NEW DELHI, Sept 2 -Anju Bobby George's 6.70-meter jump at the world athletics championships was a giant leap for Indian sport. 
The 25-year-old long jumper, who became the first Indian to win a world championship medal with a .. bronze in Paris on Saturday. is already being hailed as one of India's greatest athletes ever. 
George has not ruled her sport in the way the 'Flying Sikh' Milkha Singh dominated the 400 metres in the late 1950s. 
Nor is she the cult figure that P.T. Usha, George's idol and a woman who won 11 Asian Games medals. was in the 1980s. 
But George has succeeded on the global stage where everyone else has failed in a long Indian talc of near-misses. 
Singh went into the 1960 Rome Olympics as favorite for the title but finished fourth, missing a medal by one-tenth of a second despite a time faster than the then world record. 
Usha made the 400m hurdles final at Los Angeles in 1984 but she also came fourth, in a photo finish, even though sha set a personal best of 55.42 seconds. · 
Gurbachan Singh Randhawa was fifth in the 11Om hurdles in Tokyo in 1964 and Sriram Singh seventh. 
Lo Duca leaves game after 
taking one on the chin 
LOS ANGELES -Los Angeles Dodgers catcher Paul Lo Duca left in the third inning of Monday night's game against Houston with a sprained jaw after he was hit in the face by a foul tip. 
The ball came off Jeff Kent's bat and struck the base of Lo Duca's mask, knocking it off his head and causing a brief delay while assis­tant trainer Matt Wilson and man­ager Jim Tracy checked on him. The same thing happened Saturday night, after a foul tip by Colorado's Preston Wilson struck Lo Duca in the same spot. 

Australian Scott wins on 
PGA Tour 

NOHTON, Mass. -lie swings like Tiger Woods. lie worships Greg Norman. 
It might not be long before Adam Scott of Australia sets his own standard of greatness. 
Scott took an important step in that direction Monday at the Deutsche Bank Championship with a flawless performance under pres­sure only he knew was there, clos­ing with a 5-undcr 66 for his first PGA Tour victory. 
"It's difficult to win in America, not just being a foreigner but a young player," Scott, 23, said after a four-shot victory over Hocco Mediate. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------~ 
page 22 
SMC SoccER 
Belles off to solid start w-ith tw-o w-ins 
By ERIK POWERS Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team is off to its best start in recent memory. The Belles are 2-0 after a pair of impressive week­end victories at Marietta, Ohio. 
On Saturday, Saint Mary's kicked off their season with a 3­1 win over the State University of New York-Brockport (SUNY). Traditionally, SUNY has been an east-coast powerhouse. In the past three years SUNY had records of 11-6-3, 12-5-1 and 14-8-0. 
But the Belles were unde­terred. Junior Jen Concannon scored two goals and senior Stephanie Artnak two assists for Saint Mary's. Freshman Caroyln Logan added a goal and an assist. 
"That was a quality win," Coach Peter Haring said. "That team was very aggressive from an attack standpoint." 
SUNY bombarded Belles goal­keepers with an array of attacks and corner kicks. Saint's Mary's defense only allowed one goal, but SUNY threatened to score multiple times. 
"Their lone goal came off of a corner kick," Haring said. "They had 13 or 14 corner kicks. That's way too many." 
Freshman Nicole Leach start­ed in goal for Saint Mary's and played the first half. After SUNY scored on a high header, Haring switched to a taller goalie at halftime. Freshman Laura Heline played the second half and made twelve saves. 
Heline started and made five saves in Sunday's 2-1 double­overtime victory over Marietta on Sunday. Freshman Ashley Hinton scored the first Belles goal on Carolyn Logan's second assist of the season. Concannon then scored her third goal of the season in the second sudden-death overtime to propel Saint Mary's to victo­ry. 
Concannon's goal ensured that Haring would be the first Saint Mary's coach to start his career with consecutive victo­ries. On Saturday, the team took him out to eat in order to mark the team's victorious debut. 
"''m not a big fan of Dairy Queen," Haring said. "But the team is, so that's how we cele­brated." 
The Belles play Wednesday at 
4:00 p.m. at Taylor. 
Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 
The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, September 2, 2003 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
assist and played two solid games. 
"[Boland) had a great week­end," said coach Randy Waldrum. "She and [Warner] never give the defense a chance to relax by creating a lot of pres­sure. Maggie Manning has really come on, too. It allows us to rotate and keep them fresh." 
The first two games were especially encouraging because they marked a difference from the past two years, when the Irish struggled to build and hold leads. 
"We would get leads but did not have that killer instinct," Waldrum said. "Next thing we knew, we were in a tie game. Against Hartford, we put the game away in the first half. and we could have done the same thing against Wake. Our intensi­ty level was incredible; everyone played well." 
The superb playing of goal­keeper Erika Bohn and the Irish defense were somewhat forgot­ten in the flurry of goals. though.. 
"Erika made a huge save in the Wake Forest game when we were up 1-0," said Waldrum. "Had they scored, who knows? Melissa Tancredi was incredible in the back, and freshmen Kim Lorenzen, Christie Shaner and Lizzie Reed all did very well defensively. Annie Schefter had to play back there some. too." 
But it was not all good news this weekend for the Irish. 

After last season. the last word anyone associated with the women's soccer team want­ed to hear was "injury." Unfortunately, the bug has already struck again this year. although the team seems better equipped to handle the losses. 
Two starters from last season are out for this season. with defender Candace Chapman lost to a torn ACL and midfielder Randi Scheller out after having surgery to correct a nagging hip problem. In addition to that, defender Gudrun Gunnarsdottir was lost to a broken arm against Wake Forest; it is not known how long she will be out of action. Fifth-year senior Vanessa Pruzinsky is still trying to return from her chronic injury, logging only 20 minutes against Wake Forest over the weekend. 
"The injuries are starting to mount up again," Waldrum said. "It does cause you to start wor­rying some. This year we're deep enough to overcome it." 

Despite his concerns, Waldrum said he believes the attitude of this year's team is dif­ferent from that of last year. 
"The smiles are back on faces," he said. "There was a lot of pressure last year; we were waiting for something bad to happen. We're having fun again. This weekend was a great way to open. It was exciting to see the freshmen get in an actual game and to get a good feel for where they are. They passed the test with flying colors." 
The Irish will head back into familiar territory with the Notre Dame Classic, as they climbed to No. 5 in both the NSCAA and Soccer America polls. The Irish play Arizona State Friday at Alumni Field. 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 


Natural selection. 
How smart is this: All the textbooks you need for up to 60% off retail prices. And all you have to do is go to half.com and type in the book titles, or ISBN numbers. Then let nature take its course. 
h[Jlfco~:
bydjl. 
Same textbooks. Smarter prices. 
•Avl:lffliJO r~rta 1 1 prcc8 of 11 11ow ooltoga tt1xlbook.: $73 boged on2002 data trom Folltrtt Corp .. Assoc:at~d Press, 1!..!7!03. AvtlrDUB Half.cum collogo taxtbook prico: S26 botoed on slto statilrtir.:s, January 2003. Copyright 2003 H~:~lt.curn. Inc All rights reserved. tlalf.oom and the Half.c:om logo are trademarks of Half.cnm, Inc. ~Bay and the 6Bay logo are reglS1erod trad&marks of e8ay, Inc 


Tuesday, September 2, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
-----------------------------~-------------------------------------------­
CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI
FIVES 
Fives Guide to greeting people whose names you forgot over the summer. 
CROSSWORD 
Svr -ro ...l"TTy, ~ey kevir>!
Um I e""d 
~ ' c c ...

ho""" 'f(J. lol'€1'lf Svp ~t>b.
I
Y!icl!f'l'llki~ 
\

f"teft>rwork N•~'s BilL\ Wh<l't~e• Rob.
~~o~ye. 

{ \
I 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TIARE 
rJ rJ
1 
C2003 Tribune Macha Servlcea, Inc All R1gh1s Reserved. 
LUNGE 
J 
1 
rx I I 
THE: I<E:VIE:W OF ROYAL FINANC.E:S
tGESTAK ± 

TUI<NE:D OUT TO BE: A--­
J I [ J 


www.jumble com
tCHUROC I 

Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

MUSIC FLOOD DISMAY TROPHY
Yesterda 's I Jumbles:
Y Answer: What the shower turned into when she took too much time -A STORM 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
g.;.&.;;.~ 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 re11ders who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
67 Nonstudio film 
68 Plowing unit 
69 Swirl 

70 Achieves 
perfectly 71 They're split for soup 
DOWN 1 Bay Area patrollers: Abbr. 2 Carson 
predecessor 
3 Miscalculates 
4 Soda fountain 
choices 5 Hid 6 Catches some 
rays 1 Toupee, slangily 8 Copy 9 Keep going 
10 1930's heavyweight champ Max 
11 Acid-neutralizing compound 12 Complained 13 Selling points 18 German in~ustrial valley 22 "Don't on me• 24 Daewoo model 25 Operatic passage 27 Toward the rear 28 Tint 29 Egyptian viper 
31 Blood pressure, body temperature, etc. 
32 Campy 1958 sci-fi film, with "The" 
WILLSHORTZ 

34 Split-off group  45 Main courses  58 Malevolence  
37 Jetsons' lad  47 Zero  59 Marathon  
40 Came down with  48 Reworked, as text  60 Pound of literature  
41 Unaccounted-for G.l. 42 Saini-Moritz sight 44 Entered  49 Log-on name 50 Rocker Clapton 55 Fall into_ (get caught) 57 Carson_ of  61 Yeoman's yeses 64 Genetic info carrier  
gradually  MTV  65 Uganda's Amin  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available lor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ____________________________________ 
City _________ State ______ Zip__________ 
EUGENIA LASTHOROSCOPE  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: AII>acino, Ella Fitzgcr.lld, Paul MazW>ky,  
Renee ZeUweger  
- 
Happy Birthday: Separate your personal and professional lives this year if you want to  
get ahead. Deal quickly with any issue that arises. As long as you can envision what it is  
you are trying to accomplish, you should be able to achieve your goals. Your number.;  
are 7, 18, 29, 33, 38,46  
ARIES (March 21-April19): You are in a winning rnood today. Your actions will  
make a strong statement, so make sure that your motives are virtuous. This can be a  
morrentous day. ****  
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Difficulties with someone you care about may lead to  
loneliness. You may have personal problems, but professional duties must be dealt wi01  
regardless ofhow you feel.**  
GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): The connections you make today will lead to a better  
professional position or to infonnation Omt will help you in the future. Financial losses  
are likely ifyou insist on taking arisk. *****  
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take the safe route today especially where work or  
parmer.;hips are concerned. If you have been spending money unnecessarily, you will  
feel the crunch. Focus on being caring and kind. ***  
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A business or emotional partner may be getting fed up if  
you've been refusing to make acommitm:nt. Ifyou are parmercd with the wrong person,  
end it**  
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Put your per.;onal aspirations on the back bumLT today  
and focus on work, money, career and advancement. A one-sided mmantic attraction is  
likely to develop. ***  
LmRA (Sept-2..1-0ct. 22): Take care of yourself and your needs. Relax and rejuvenate.  
You need the attention. 5stars  
SCORPIO (Oct. 2..l-Nov. 21): You have probably been holding in your anger, which  
could lead to ablow-up. Put your efforts into making changes and improvements around  
your home. KL>ep busy and you may minimi?.e your stress. **  
SAGfiTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Listen to what people with experience have to say  
and you'll discover a whole lot about yourself. Mix business with pleasure and you will  
prosper. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may not be totally happy with your position  ·­ 
today, but don't be too eager to quit your job. Unless you have adeal on the table and in  
writing, stay put. ***  
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll be tom in too many dire<.'tions ifyou take care of  
everyone's demands all at once. Organize yourself and don't get taken for grdllted. **  
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Look out for your own interests today. This isn't the day  
to trust anyone to do what's best for you. Be precise and do the best job possible.***  
Birthday Baby: You will SUI]lrise everyone with your imagination and vision. You will  
be creative, determined and you'll know what you must do to lind peace of mind.  
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com.  
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE  

ACROSS 1 An article may be written on it 5 Purse part, often 
10 Cake with a kick 
14 Baccarat 
alternative 15 Brownish gray 16 Bass products 17 Yellowstone 
figure 19 _out (barely gets) 20 "Yertle the 
Turtle" author 21 Rake with lire 23 "Quiet!" 24 Where cubs are raised 
26 Permit 
27 "I know the 
answer!" 30 Contract bridge 
tactics 33 Bother 35 Like modern 
clocks and 
recordings 
36 Home on the range 38 Divine path, in Asian religions 39 Firm belief 43 Wash 
46 Heat to more than 212°, as water 
47 Where weapons are forbidden 51 Need lor a keg 52 Takes too many tranqs, say 53 Peak SE of Olympus 54 "La-la" lead-in 56 Color, as a hippie's shirt 
58 Breakaway country from Ethiopia 
62 Other, in Oaxaca 63 Send around the bend 66 Astronaut Armstrong 


r---------------------------~~--~~-------­
THE OBSER\'ER 
PORTS
Tuesday, September 2, 2003 
Page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Passing the big test 
Quarterback Carlyle Holiday hopes to improve on last year's inconsistent play 
SMC GOLF 

Team off to good start 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's golf team started their season differently this year than in seasons past. 
After finishing fourth at the D­III national championships, the Belles started this season with higher expectations. They didn't disappoint in their first match of the season at Ferris State. 
The Belles finished fifth out of 19 teams. paced by Julie Adams' 156, good enough for sixth place out of over 100 golfers. 
"We're starting to see the fruits of our labor," coach Mark Hamilton said. "We're real close to putting ourselves over the top." 
Defending national champion Stefanic Simmerman struggled in the first round, firing an 87, but recovered Sunday to add an 
81. Chrissy Dunham and Megan Mattia shot 170 and 171, respec­tively, for Saint Mary's. 

Before the tournament; the Belles set a team goal of finish­ing in the top 5. Adams helped make that possible with her low rounds of 79 and 77. 
The Belles take on Knox College Friday and Monmouth Saturday. Both matches are on the road. 
Ferris State Invitational 5th place -Saint Mary's (663) 
Team standings: 1. Grand Valley State (309­
312), 2. Nebraska-Omaha (322=302). 3. De 
Pauw (325-3151. 4. Northern Kentucky (326­
315). 5. SAINT MAllY'S 13:18-325). 6. Southern 
Indiana (335-330). 7.Dayton (333-335). 8. 
Indianapolis (340-344). 9. Ferris State (341­
344), 10. Northwood. Mich. (338-348) 
Belles golfers: Adams (79-77). Simmerman 
(87-81). Dunham (82-88), Mattia (92-79), 
Hanlon (90-1 00), Bellino (98-95) 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish win big, lose key players 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
After struggling early in last year's season, it was important for the women's soccer team to get off to a good start this season. 
After the first weekend, it was obvious that the mission was accomplished. 
The Irish showed tremendous depth in blowing away Hartford 9-1 before coming back to corral Wake Forest 3-0. 
The Irish depth was obvious over the weekend, especially among the forwards. Junior Mary Boland scored four goals while adding an assist, and sen­iors Amy Warner and Amanda Guertin turned in usually strong performances. Sophomore Maggie Manning added a pair of goals against Hartford, and soph­omore Katie Thorlakson had an 
see SOCCER/page 22 

-
Quarterback Carlyle Holiday looks to complete a pass In spring practice. Holiday will need to elevate his play to help the Irish Improve on its anemic offense from last year. 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Ediror 
The experience Irish quarterback Carlyle Holiday gained from his first year in a new offense, combined with spring and summer practice this year, has made the quarterback more com­fortable and confident than any time during his three years in South Bend. 
"My level Iof understanding the offense] is way different. This year I know what my roles are more in this offense," Holiday said. ''I've realized that when my play trickles down. then the offense's trickles down." 
Holiday's play will be one of the keys for Notre Dame success this sea­son. Last year, in the first season under offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick, the Irish offense ranked 108th in the nation, averaging 313.54 yards per game. That was an improvement from 2001, when the Irish were ranked 110th nationally in the total offense. 
Diedrick's offenses have historically improved in the second year. For the Irish offense to improve significantly this season, Holiday will need to ele­vate his play. He threw for 1,788 yards and 10 touchdowns in 2002 after throwing for 784 yards ancl three touchdowns during his first sea­son as Irish quarterback. 
One major criticism of Holiday's play has been his inconsistency. Last season, he threw for 226 yards in the opener against Maryland, then threw for a mere 50 the next week against Purdue. He fired for 270 yards and four touchdowns versus Rutgers. but only three interceptions and 70 yards against USC. 

Diedrick said, however, that his starter has showed a vast improve­ment in his consistency, among other areas, throughout the spring and summer. 
"He's throwing the ball a lot more consistently, a lot more accurately," Diedrick said. "As a quarterback, he's a lot more comfortable and confident within the system. He has a great: understanding of the things we're try­ing to get done." 
Diedrick also said Holiday's improvements allow the Irish to expand the offense by adding more packages and sets to beat opposing defenses. 
Coach Tyrone Willingham said Holiday's improvement has been a steady process. 
"It's been a progress that he's made all year," Willingham said. "It started after having a season under his belt. It started in the spring and started by him getting a· better grasp of the information in this system. It started when he's had a hands-on opportuni­ty to repeat things." 
With the Washington State game less than a week away. Holiday is anxious to get into the season. The Cougar defense shut out Idaho 25-0 in their opener Saturday. 
"Practice has been great. We've been able to execute and move the ball against our defense, which has given us a lot of confidence," Holiday said. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
MAR Defender Candace Chapman makes a move on the ball In a game last season against Seton Hall. Chapman Is out for the season after she sustained an Injury while training with the Canadian national team. 

INTERNATIONAl BASKETBALL 
NFL 

SMC SOCCER 
United States 106, Argentina 73 
Steelers linebacker Jerry Porter out 
Saint Mary's 3, SUNY-BrockJ)ort 1 
indefinitely after gunshot injury 
Saint Mary's 2, Marietta 1 ( 2 OT)
The United States dominated Argentina in the 
Teammates react to shooting of Porter outside a 
The Belles are off to a positive start with a pair of 
gold-medal game of the Tournament of the 
Colorado sports bar. 
wins to open the 2003-04 season. 
Americas. 
page 19 
page 22
page 17 





