
VOL.XXXVII NO. 123 
Cuts worry deparbnents 
13y JULIA MILLER-LEMON 
N<Ws Writer 
Tht~ rncent downturn in the economy has !cd the Univcrsilv to cut sections of its operatirig budget for the 2003-04 academic yoar. 
"Faced with the financial challenges ol' the moment, w(•·ve fashioned a plan tha-t makes the necessary hard choices while still allowing us 
to mainlain our commit­menl to excel­lc n ce in the academic and student life of I h e University," University President Father I•: d w a r d Malloy said. 
University spokesperson Matl Storin said the bud­get cuts pri­marily result-
arc going to implement these changes," Storin said. "I don't expect drastic overhauls." 
Yet, with any decrease in funding, there are some ques­tions as to how departments are going to deal with the changes in their budgets. 
The Academic Council recently approved a reorgani­zation of' the Economics Department that will split the current department into two separate ones, Economics and 
"What we will have next year in the support budget will be less in real dollars than what the department had in the early-1980s, a time when it wasn't nearly as recognized or accomplished." 
Paul Weithman philosophy department chair 

ed from the decrease in the endowment. 
"The economic trend has affected individual contribu­tions from alumni and other outside sources," Storin said. 
A portion of the University's operating costs comes directly /'rom the funds generated by the endowment. When next year's budget takes effect on July 1. funds for academic and student life pursuits will be decreased by 5 percent and all other departments will see a 7 percent decrease. 
"Individual departments are going to have to make their own decisions about how they 
Econometrics 
a n d
Economics and Policy Study. Current Economics Departme·nt Chair Richard Jensen will head the new Department of Economics a n d Econometrics and a chair will be chosen over the sum­mer for the 
Department of Economics and Policy Studies. 
"The restructuring went for­ward with the understanding that the budget cuts were hap­pening," Jensen said. "We're going to work around them." 
Mark Pilkinton, chair of the film, television and theatre department. expressed con­cern about the budget cuts that his department will face and how FTT will pay for all of its current planned pro­jects. 
"Everyone is really con­cerned. [We're] having to watch things very carefully," Pilkinton said. "The depart-
ND professor invents new-'sn1art' vVheelchair 
By NICOLA BRUNICK 
News Writer 
"Smart" wheelchairs, the brainchild of a Notre Dame pro­fessor, may soon btl roving path­ways. 
Steve Skaar. professor of aero­space and mechanical engineer­ing, invented a "smart" wheel­chair. which has the ability to remember pre-programmed routes and travel to specific locations at the request of the 
user. 
The chair uses video cameras. wheel rota.Lion sensors and com­puter technology to navigate its way along various paths lhroughout a user's home. 
Skaar developed the new wheelchair along with graduate research assistant Guillermo Del Castillo and sophomore research assistant Tim Sheehan. 
Skaar began work on the pro­ject in 1990 when he was approached by a company work­ing to create automatic noor maintenance equipment. 
"I wrote a proposal and they didn't fund it," he said. "So I worked on the project without any research support in little bits and pieces over the years." 
Last year, Skaar received a two-year. $200,000 grant from the Department of Veterans' Affairs and Hehabilitation Hesearch and Development Service in Washington. D.C. to use his navigation technologies to create an automated wheel­chair. 
Skaar says his creation repre­sents a more moderate approach to such navigational technology. 
"More ambitious projects arc trying to bo fully automated," he said. "Ours relics on a prior teaching event." 
Refore the chair is used. sen­sors must be placed along the walls and obstacles in the user's home. 
see CHAIR/page 4 
ment is in more of a holding pattern than anything." 
Paul Weithman. chair of the philosophy department, believes that Notre Dame's sit­uation is more positive as compared other schools. 
"Unlike other universities, Notre Uame has not had to impose a hiring freeze," Weithman said. "We are very grateful that the University has continued to make resources available." 
According to Weithman, the Philosophy Department will not experience any salary cuts. Instead, funding will be cut from the support budget ­funds that are allotted for entertainment. postage and other miscellaneous depart­mental costs. 
"What we will have next year in the support budget will be less in real dollars than what the department had in the early-1980s, a time when it wasn't nearly as rec­ognized or accomplished," Weithman said. 
However, Weithman said he was optimistic that planned budget cuts would not drasti­cally affect the University or its academic reputation. 
"Talent [faculty.academic, and athletic] becomes avail­able when other universities are in a pinch," Weithman said. 
As part of an attempt to compensate for the decrease in the endowment, both tuition and room and board will be raised by 6.5 percent for next year. bringing the total undergraduate cost to $34,100. 
Contact Julia Miller-Lemon at jmillerl@nd.edu 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Senators discuss Cabinet authority 

Observer file photo 

Then sophomore class president Jeremy Lao speaks at a Senate meeting. Senators discussed Executive Cabinet's pro­posal to llmlt Senate's power on Wednesday. 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
In response to concerns over each gruup's authority, student senators discussed Executive Cabinet officials· suggestion that the Cabinet should serve as a check on the Senate's power. 
Some members had per­ceived animosity between the two organizations, stemming from different views over the new dance policy. In February, senators directed outgoing student body presi­dent Libby Bishop to recom­mend reinstating dances in her report to the Board of Trustees. Bishop's report did not make that recommenda­tion, leading senators to char­acterize the report as watered-down. 
Seth O'Donnell, incoming president of the Club Coordination Council. had questioned the effectiveness of the Senate during what he characterized as a "brain­storming session" at the March 25 Executive Cabinet meeting. 'Tm not sure the Senate accurately represents a majority of students' views," O'Donnell said at the time. 
However, O'Donnell clari­fied his remarks, which he said were spoken while "look­ing for some possible ways that Exec Cab could ... hold a more productive role." 
see EXECUTIVE/page 4 

PREPARING FOR BOOKSTORE 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A lesson 
from the 


Dartmaster 
With all the stress and hair-pulling that accompanies this wonderful darting time of the year, there still exists a beacon of hope for all of us. 
"The Dartmaster," as she has affec­
tionately come to  
be known by her  Dolores Diaz  
inner circle, epito­ 
mizes our dart­ 
time hero.  Viewpoint  
This pillar of  Copy Editor  
darting strength  
courageously ded­ 

icates days before her dart time to contemplation of the complexity that is the major requirement, convenient scheduling and interesting classes, in order to be most effective during the 15-minute window. 
However. it is not these qualities that make this individual worthy_of such an honorable title -if they were, we'd already be Dartmasters. 
The true glory of the Dartmaster lies in her ability to persevere in the face of darting adversity. She is con­sistently faced with a last chance dart time. 
Naturally, when her dart time final­ly rolls around, the slate must be wiped completely clean -all strate­gic analysis has been in vain. First choices have inevitably failed, as have second, third and so on. She could never have foreseen this. 
It is at this point, when all seems lost, that the Dartmaster shows her true colors. Despite darting adversity, the Dartmaster refuses to let herself become a victim. 
She is persistent, enduring and effective. With dart time draining, she is transformed into an entity known as "The Dartmaster" and becomes enthralled in constructing an entirely new schedule with the lightning speed and effectiveness of a well-shot arrow. This is her true medium -the moment must be embraced. 
Once her dart time has come and gone, friends stand by with mouths agape and silent applause. Once again, the Dartmaster has proved herself. Not one class before 9:30 a.m and not one day to be suffered with­out a lunch break. 
The dragon lies at her feet. It is thus that the Dartmaster becomes a heroine to aspire to, and an individual to be admired. 
The next time you find yourself dreading the arising 15-minute glimpse of hell, take a deep breath and relax. Know that out there exists a vision of darting perfection -a light in the dark. 
Embrace the moment that is truly yours; do not fear it. After all, these are the times in which heroes are made. Be one of them. Ifthe Dartmaster can do it, so can you; there is hope for the Notre Dame stu­dent yet. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Dolores Diaz at ddiaz@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
In Wednesday's Observer, the "What's Cooking" section incorrectly stated the North Dimng Hall Was serving chee•e and pepperorn freedom bread pizza and almond freedom toast. 1t should have stared the dining hall w"-' ,erving cheese and pepperoni French bread pizza and almond f-rench coas1. The Observer rtgrecs rhe error. 

Thursday, April 3, 2003 
The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTS
NEWS NATION NEWS 
Mystery Critiquing Scene looks Womens
Lecturer Troops come 
illness Michael at previous tennis defeats 
speaks on war within 20 
threatens Moore's Best Picture Illini on the
experiences in miles of 
filmmaking 

winners road
Baghdad 
Hong Kong
Sri Lanka 
Viewpoint 

Scene columnist The Notre Dame
Severe acute res­
Visaka 
American forces 
columnist Peter 

Jack Watkins rates womens tennis
Dharmadasa spoke 
fought to within 20 
piratory syndrome 
Wicks talks about 

the Academy's pre­team defeated the
Wednesday at 
miles of the Iraqi 
threatens economic 
Michael Moore's 

vious Best Picture University of
activity in Asia. 
Saint Mary's about 
capital Wednesday. 
her experiences of war in Sri Lanka. 
page4 
page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
page 7 
. 
International Festival Wock: French Coffee House All day at the Center for Social Concerns Coffeehouse 

. 
Softball vs. Loyola University 4-6:30 p.m. at Ivy Field 

. 
Breen-Phillips Luau Picnic 6-8 p.m. at North Quad 

. 
Acoustic Cafe 9-11 p.m. at LaFortunc Notre Dame Hoom 


WHAT'S HAPPENING@ SMC 
. 
Mass 7 a.m. at Church of tho Loretto 

. 
Alumni Board Meeting 8 a.m. at Noble Family Dining Hall 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Roast top round, 
champagne rice pilaf, brown sauce, turkey gravy, whipped potatoes, corn, cherry crisp, baked Cajun pollack, cheese and vegetable pie, broccoli cuts, sliced carrots, winter-blend veg­etables, oatmeal, bacon, scrambled eggs, hash browns, crinkle fries, applesauce 
Today's Dinner: Roasted turkey breast. bread stuffing, brown sauce, turkey gravy, whipped potatoes, peas, cherry crisp, baked sweet potatoes, tuna casserole, corn, sugar-snap peas, stewed tomatoes, wilted spinach, steamed vegetable plate 
award winners. Illinois
sometimes contro­
versial filmmaking. 
Wednesday. 

South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Macaroni and cheese, cauliflower, BBQ chicken, grilled tuna with lemon, roast turkey breast, whipped potatoes, cut corn, long grain and wild rice, bread stuff­ing, baked potatoes, broccoli cuts, baby carrots, cut green beans, chicken breast, seasoned fries, onion rings, California eldorado 
Today's Dinner: Spinach pie, green bean casserole, fried perch, roast top round, herb-sauteed mushrooms, whipped potatoes, cut corn, baked potatoes, broccoli cuts, baby carrots, cut green beans, Cajun chicken breast sandwich 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
0:: 
LU 

::t: 
~ 
LU 
3: 


(f
_, 
<
(.) 

..J 0 
65 HIGH 53 HIGH 58 HIGH 45 50 LOW 50 LOW 30 LOW 25 



page 10 

page 12 page 24 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 

Car for towed illegal parking 
A visitor's vehicle was towed for illegal park­ing from the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Tuesday evening. 
Parking decal stolen 
A University employee reported the theft of his parking decal from his unlocked vehicle while parked in the ROTC South lot Monday. There are no suspects. 

NDSP investigates harassment 
NDSP is investigating a report of harassing phone call received in O'Neill Hall Wednesday. 

Abandoned bike returned 
An abandoned bike was found near Carroll hall Wednesday and tuned into NDSP for safe­keeping. 

Bike stolen from Dillon Courtyard 
A student reported that his unlocked was stolen from the courtyard between Dillon and Alumni Halls Tuesday. 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Vegan burritos, Mexican rice, herbed pasta, marinara sauce, honey baked onions, zesty oven fries, peas and mushrooms, rolled broccoli pizza, cheese pizza, bread sticks, bacon, egg, and cheddar muffin, grilled beef and pineapple salad, sliced ham, turkey breast, hummus, brown sugar cookies 
Today's Dinner: Grilled chicken breast. Cantonese tofu, vegetable lasagna, marinated. bean salad, fennel pita toast, omelets cooked to order with hash browns, meatloaf. roasted yukon potatoes, green beans. sausage pizza, cheese pizza, carrot cake 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 50 HIGH 55 LOW 45 LOW 27 
Atlanta 80 I 55 Boston 50 r 37 Chicago 68 / 48 Denver 62 / 29 Houston 80 / 64 Los Angeles 66 / 50 Minneapolis 48 I 34 New York 56 / 47 Philadelphia 70 / 52 Phoenix 75 / 49 Seattle 48 / 38 St. Louis 73 / 53 Tampa 83 / 65 Washington 74 / 59 

Thu1:..lay, April 3, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Glee Club may face disciplinary action 
By TERESA fRALISH 
A1t'>ot.:1:.1te Nt'ws Fdito1 
Membors of tho Notrn Dame Glee Club may face disciplinary aclion af'tnr a Glee Club membl•r allegedly mornrnd other Glee Club members and high school students at Suffield lligh School in Suffield, Conn., where the Club performed during their spring break tour. 
According to Tom Jones, princi­pal of Su/licld I ligh School, a mem­ber of the Glee Club mooned other studenL<; in a rehearsal room before the Glee Club's performance. 
"It was before they went on in one of the rehearsal rooms,' said Jones. "It was an incident of poor judgment" 
Members of the Glee Club did not return phone calls seeking com­
mrmt. 
After rncciving complaints from studnnl<;, Jones said he consulted with local Notre Dame alumni to decide on a course of action and 
1lwn wrote a letter to David Moss, Contact Teresa Fralish at associate vice president for student tfralish@nd.edu 
11\d annua1 teamwork rortomorrow 
Kids These Days 




talent ShOW 
sunday,apri16, 2003 
1-3pm 
jordan auditorium free admission mendoza college of business donations welcome 
affairs at the Universitv. 
"I also had two telephone conver­sations with Dr. Moss in which he apologized for the incident and assured me that he would take appropriate action," said Jones. 
Lm; Maurer, assistant director of Residence Life, said that her office was looking into the incident but could not comment on any specific action that might be taken. Maurer noted, however, that Residence Llfe can only reprimand individual stu­dents and cannot take action against an entire group. However, Maw-er said that Students Affairs or the director of an individual organi­zation could reprimand an entire group. 
Moss said that Student Affairs is not currently involved with the inci­dent and that Residence Llfe would handle the investigation. 
Suffield is the hometown of Notre Dame Glee Club member Garrett Westhoven, said Glee Club director Dan Stowe. 
STUDENT SENATE 
Group outlines new approach 
pus issues.
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
In their new positions, sen­
News Writer 
ators said they feel a sense of obligation to their peers to 
In their first meeting of the represent student opinion 2003-04 term Wednesday, and deal with issues that are the new senators discussed most important to students. their plans for the coming "I wanted to give back to year and the issues that they my dorm and represent what wish to consider. the dorm feels that we need 
Pat Hallahan, student body to do and help in improving president, outlined what he student life," said John believed should mark a suc­Laskowitz, Dillon senator. cessful Senate and stressed Senators also said they are the importance of the sena­now in a position to affect tors' involvement with the campus life and they want to 
University  use that posi­ 
administra­tion. saying that it was  "We can make a difference both here and  tion in a posi­tive way. Jordan  
the only way they could bring change  outside Notre Dame, don't be afraid to do it."  Bongiovanni, Cavanaugh senator said,  
to  campus  "l wanted to  
policies.  Pat Hallahan  be  in  the  
Hallahan  student body president  Senate  

said that next year the University would begin fundraising initiatives for campus building projects and said senators must represent student opinion to the admin­istration on important issues such as fundraising. 
"This University is for the students," said Hallahan. "Look at the people you're representing and see what they need to make this University better." 
Hallahan also asked the senators to look beyond cam­pus issues. 
"Think big and look for ways to make a difference in the world," he said. "We can make a difference both here and outside Notre Dame. Don't be afraid to do it." 
The new Senate will begin working next week on cam­
NDe~c 





TI Your 
D\N 
*In the case of rain, we will be painting the T­shirts in the Dooley Room 
Sp~N52YE:~ 6y S-tu~E:N\ Mt>.((Ac-t,Vi'tiE:5 QffiCE: 
because I 

know they accomplish a lot on campus and I wanted to be involved in student government at Notre Dame. The outgoing Senate had a lot of really interesting things that they were working on and we're really excited to pick those up and start working on things of our own." 
In addition to the 26 new senators, two senators .will be serving in their positions for a second term. Kaitlyn Redfield, Pangborn senator, and Brin Anderson, Howard senator, said they wanted to stay involved with the Senate for another year in order to see that a focus remains on important campus issues. 
"I thought that there were a lot if issues started last year and I really wanted to be a 
r-s 
(Cyj{j'l).y April 4, 
200.3 

-


2N 

,<;E:(~l-f2us~ 
part or making sure those things got accomplished. I want to make sure the in-hall dance policy is favorably rep­resented," Anderson said. 
Hedfield also expressed the need for the Senate to consid­er more important student issues. 
"I think that there are a lot if issues that still need to be addressed on this campus," Redfield said. "I think that Student Senate has a lot of resources to effect change." 
In other Senate news: 
. 
The Senate unanimously approved four new members of the Office of the President. Emily Chin, who served as Student Union Secretary this past year. will serve as Chief of Staff. Kate Schlosser, will serve as Academic Delegate. Mario Braz, currently work­ing in the Office of Business Operations at Notre Dame, will become Controller and Tiara Nelson, Walsh Hall's 2002-03 representative to the Freshman Council, will serve as Secretary. 

. 
Senators also unanimous­ly approved a new member to the Judicial Council. James Terilli will serve in the posi­tion of Student Union Parliamentarian for the 2003-04 term. 

. 
In the first three re·solu­tions passed in the new term, Senators bestowed the title of "Emeritus" on outgoing Student Body President Libby Bishop, Student Body Vice President Trip Foley and Chief of Staff Henry Scott. 


Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 

Thursday, April 3, 2003 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Chair 
continued from page 1 

"These are used as signposts to mark the paths and allow the chair to and infer where it is relative to the center of the path," said Skaar. 
Then the chair must be manually walked through trajectories of all the possible destinations in the ll5er's home. The computer compo­nent of the chair can recall these trajectories when the user requests a travel location. When users wants to engage a certain path, they listen to a voice synthesizer read off the various possible destinations and then select one by either blowing· through a straw. using a bite switch or by speaking aloud, depending on their level of ability. 
Sheehan and Del Castillo are actively involved in the project. Sheehan primarily runs laboratory tests on the chair here on campus while Del Castillo did much of the coding for the software that runs it. Del Castillo chose to focus his thesis on his work with the chair project. Sheehan became involved because he was looking for a way Lo supple­ment his engineering classes with experience. 
"I was looking for some experi­ence beyond what I was learning in the classroom," Sheehan said. "J wanted to feel like r was actually accomplishing something other then just in class." 
Currently the Department of Veterans' Affairs has applied for a patent for the chair, but Skaar said more work must be done on the prototype model before the chair would be ready for commercial use. 
"Right now we are working to deal with narrow confines and avoiding obstacles if they are intro­duced after the path has been taught," he said. 
Currently the chair can only be used on pre-programmed paths and cannot be used outside. 
Contact Nicola Brunick nbunick@nd.edu 

-1.J 
Speaker discusses war experiences 
By MEGHAN CASSIDY 
News Writer 

Women must work together to help promote peace and conflict resolution in the world's war-torn areas. said Visaka Dharmadasa, a woman from Sri Lanka who has dedicated herself to edu­cating others about personal ethics and the realities of war. 
Dharmadasa's talk Wednesday was the first in the College's Women as Peacemakers Series. 
Dharmadasa explained how her role as a peacemaker was impacted by her role as a mother. Her two eldest sons are soldiers in Sri Lanka, which has been involved in a 
civil  war  for  the  past 20  
years.  
"The  war  was  at  my  




Executive 
continued from page l 

"I wasn't trying to attack the Senate. I think the Senate stands for very good things," O'Donnell said. 
He denied the notion of a power struggle. between the two organizations and cau­tioned against making false judgments. 
"Jumping to conclusions is rarely good for anyone," said O'Donnell. 
Outgoing student body vice president Trip Foley likewise dismissed suggestions that the Cabinet and Senate were not working together. 
"There's really been no clash," Foley said. 

RecSports has openings for this summerand the 2003-2004academic year in the following positions: 
~tudenl ~upervi~or~ 
front De6k ~uperviMlr6 
fitne&& Room ~upervi~or~ 
IMue Room ~upervi6or~ 
Lifeguard~ 
Any one who isinterestedInapplyingtor these positions should stop by the RecSports office and fill out an application. Office hours are 8:00-12:00 & 1 :00-5:00. First consideration will be given to those who apply before April 10, 2003. 
doorstep," she said. "People asked how I can be so pas­sionate about my work. It is my life." · 
ln an attempt to raise awareness of the reality of civil war and the importance of peace, Dharmadasa has become involved in many organizations that promote conflict resolution. 
Dharmadasa is the founder of Parents of Servicemen Missing-in-Action, chair of the Association of War-Affected Women, secretary of the Kandy Association for War­Affected Families and a par­ticipant in the Women Waging Peace program at Harvard University. 
Dharmadasa said her work was based on building hon­esty and trust within any rela­tionships and fostering respect for all individuals involved. She is particularly 
His successor, incoming stu­dent body vice president Jeremy Lao, said that coopera­tion between the two bodies is important for a well-function­ing Student Union. 
"I don't want to see Exec Cab try to take more power away from the Senate," Lao said. "Leaders [of both bodies] should keep in mind the bet­terment of student life in gen­eral." 

At least one senator voiced strong distrust of the cabinet, however. Outgoing St. Edward's senator Sean Williams said he is concerned about the authority of Cabinet members. 
"[ don't see why an unelect­ed body should get more power than the Senate, which really represents the stu­
concerned wjth helping the mothers of soldiers. 
"Nobody took me seriously initially but I knew they would respect me as a mother and this gave me courage to cross the barriers," Dharmadasa said. 
Dharmadasa helped to pub­lish a booklet that emphasizes the importance of respect for the identification tags soldiers wear. 
Additionally. Dharmadasa is involved with peace dialogues. support groups and marches that focus on women. She wants them to come together not only share stories and find comfort together hut also to make a difference in the peace process. 
"Developing an active par­ticipation of war-affected women is important because we need a space to be togeth­er and support each other. 
dents," Williams said. 
Other senators viewed the Executive Cabinet differently. Outgoing Pasquerilla West sen­ator Sarah Bates expressed hope that the two bodies could cooperate. 
"As we 're all members of student government, we should all work together toward a common goal," Bates said. 
She also cautioned Cabinet members who might seek to limit the Senate's power. 
"A check is totally unneces­sary," Bates said. "Executive Cabinet should let us do the job we were elected to do." 
Breen-Phillips senator Joanna Cornwell agreed that the Cabinet should not become involved with Senate's authori­ty. 
We are shouting for peace from the bottoms of our throats and we want to be involved as women in the offi­cial peace process," said Dharmadasa. ''We are shout­ing for peace from the bot­toms of our throats." 
Dharmadasa's talk was sponsored by the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership and the Department of Justice Education. The series will continue next year and focus on women like Dharmadasa who work to promote peace and intercultural dialogue in their daily work. 
Dharmadasa will be at Saint Mary's throughout this week, lecturing in classes and fur­ther sharing her experiences with students. 
Contact Meghan Cassidy at cass0593@saintmarys.edu 
"l think the idea of a check is ridiculous," Cornwell said. 
Both Bates and Cornwell agreed that senators and Cabinet members should work together for the benefit of the student body. 
"Both bodies could work together io further student interests," said Cornwell. 
O'Donnell echoed the senti­ment, calling for cooperation among all areas of the Student Union. 
"The goal -at least as I see it -of student government leaders should be to know what students want and then work together to best bring positive change to this cam-

Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
(Located between Frances & Eddy S'treets) 



He'd fit comfortably I 
With 1,860 square feet ofliving space, Wayette Square Townhomes can accommodate you and your roommates. There sre FIVE 5­bedroom townhomes available, all fully applianced kitchens with dishwasher, disposal, stove and fridge. Washer/ dryer too ! 
Ifyou think all ofthese advantage carry a lot ofweight,just call ore­mail us and see just how comfortably you'd fit ! 
574..234-9923 Tclark@cbresb.com 

(1,000 square feet apartments available at Notre Dame Apartments) 



WORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April 3, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
American forces drive within sight of Baghdad 
Assodatcc:f Press 
SOUTI I OF BAGI !DAD 
U.S. forces fought to within sight of Urn Baghdad skylirw 20 miles away WPdnnsday, seizing key bridges and shaltering two divi­sions ot' the vaunted Hepublican Guard us they thrust north from two dirnctions -the Army from thn southwnst, Marines from the southeast. 
Along the way, somo Iraqi sol­dinrs shed their uniforms for plain roh,•s, and smiling civilians prof­limid the troops Iraqi-brand ciga­r!!ltos. 
"ll li'ds bNter going north," said Marine Cpl. John Edwards of Clovis, N.M. "The sooner we do it. the sooner we go home.'' 
Thousands of Marines who had protected th<i U.S. Army's eastern f1ank along the Euphrates River turned sharply cast, joining other Marine forces moving quickly along the Tigris Hiver southeast of Baghdad. Al the same time. Army troops southwest of Baghdad moved to within 20 miles of the city. said a senior military oflicial in Washington. 
"Our guys arc able to see the skyline. That's how close we've gotlt!n," the oJJicial said. speaking on condition of anonymity. 
But confldence over the steady northward advance was tempered by fear of the unknown: What does Saddam Hussein's regime have in store for coalition forces as they approach the capital? 
Lead U.S. infantrv units donned t~eir chemical suits after captur­ing a bridge 40 miles southwest of Baghdad. Some Marines began adding their protective boots to the suits they already wear, and Marine helicopter pilots were advised for the first time to be ready to don chemical suits at a moment's notice -now that the so-called red zone, the range of guns and missiles defending Baghdad, has been breached. 
U.S. officials warned that a cor­nered Saddam might resort to unleashing his worst weapons. "There may be a trigger line where the regime deems [al suffi­cient threat to use weapons of mass destruction," said U.S. Brig. Gen. Vincent Brooks. 
An officer with U.S. Central Command explained that the "red zone" begins on an imaginary line running east from Karbala, about 50 miles south of Baghdad on the Euphrates River, to Kut on the Tigris River southeast ofBaghdad. 
The United States believes lraq has mortar shells, artillery and short-range missiles capable of carrying chemical weapons, including the FROG-7 -used to carry mustard gas during the Iran-Iraq war -which has a 40­mile range. 
Iraq denies it still has weapons of mass destruction, and U.S. One thing was certain to be troops have yet to locate such waiting for coalition forces in weapons. although they've found Baghdad: whatever remains of the hundreds of chemical protective -Republican Guard, Saddam's suits. best-trained and best-equipped forces. U.S. officials said Wednesday that two of the six pri­mary units had been largely elimi­nated as an effective fighting force. 

Divided Supreme Court debates affirmative action case 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Supreme Court justices vigorously debat­ed the role of race in higher education Tuesday in a pair of cases that could rewrite the rules for affirmative action on campus and beyond. 
The justices aggressively questioned lawyers, focusing on likely consequences of discrimination and educational opportunity. 
ll was the first time in 25 years that the court had taken up the polarizing question of racial preforences in admissions. People eager to get courtroom seats lined up hours bc>fore the cases were heard and a crowd (\Stimatnd by police at between 5,000 and 7,000 people gathered outside and on the nearby Mall. 
Three white applicants rejected by the University of Michigan and its law school are challenging the school's admissions policies as unconstitutional racial discrimi­nation. They contend that black, Hispanic and American Indian candidates with the same qualifications are given preferential treatment. 
"I have to say that in looking at your pro­gram it looks to me like this is just a dis­guised quota," Justice Anthony M. Kennedy told a university lawyer. 
Justice Sandra Day O'Connor. who with Kennedy is considered a crucial swing vote on the issue, asked skeptical questions of the white applicants' attorney. 
"You say [race] can't be a factor at all. Is that it -is that your position, that it cannot be one of many factors?" O'Connor asked lawyer Kirk Kolbo. 
Told yes, O'Connor replied that the con­stitutional argument isn't so simple. 
"You're spealdng in absolutes and it isn't quite that," she said. "I thlnk we have given recognition to the use of race in a variety of settings." 
The court amassed more than 100 friend of the court filings on the affirmative action cases, an apparent record. Most of the fil­ings backed the idea that affirmative action has a place in American life, from the class­room to the boardroom. 
In another measure of the issue's reso­nance, the court agreed to release an audio tape of the arguments the same day. The 
court had done that only one other time, 
after the last presidential election. 
The race issue is awkward for the Bush 
administration, whose most conservative 
supporters hope the cases will spell the encl 
of all preferences or set-asides for minori­
ties. Bush has not gone that far, pointing 
instead to what he calls racially neutral . ways to achieve campus diversity. 
The Michigan undergraduate school uses 
a point system to screen the thousands of 
applicants it receives each year. A minority 
member can get a 20 point bonus out of a 
the system's possible 150, while various 
measures of academic performance, 
extracurricular activity and other attributes 
are generally worth less. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
American POW leaves Iraq after rescue: 
Pfc. Jessica Lynch left Iraq on a stretcher Wednesday alter U.S. commandos, acting on a CIA tip, rescued the prisoner of war. But the operation also brought sad news -tho troops found 11 corpses, some believed to be t\mericans. Lynch, a 19-year-old Army supply clerk, arrived at a U.S. air base in southwestern Germany 011 a C-17 transport piano late Wednesday for treatment at a 
U.S. military nwclical center. Her condition was not dis­closed, but U.S. official<; in Kuwait said she was believed lo hav11 broken legs. a broken arm and at least one gun­shot wound. 
WHO to probe mystery illness in China: 
Under escalating global pressure, China agreed Wednesday to let international health investigators visit the place where the mystery illness apparently began -the southern province of Guangdong. Oilicials also updated the nation's death toll by a dozen to 46 as they revealed tho illness had spread to other regions. 
NATIONAL News BRIEFS 
Grand Jury wraps up Church probe: 
As a state grand jury wraps up its investigation of the clergy sex abuse scandal that touched off a nationwide crisis, alleged victims say it appears unlikely any indictments wiJl be issued against the Boston archdiocese. A spokeswoman for State Attorney General Thomas Reilly confirmed Wednesday tho investigation is nearing an end, nearly a year after the grand jury began question­ing witnesses including Cardinal Bernard Law. 
Cuban exiles denounce crackdown: 
A leading Cuban exile group denounced a crackdown by the Cuban government on dissi­dents. The Cuban government has jailed dozens of activists, members of political oppo­sition groups and independent journalists since last month on grounds they were con­spiring with the United States to undermine the government. 
Race riot murder defendant enters plea: 
A white man charged in the 1969 murder of a young black woman during the city's convulsive race riots pleaded no contest Wednesday to attempted murder and conspiracy. Ezra T. Slick, 53, entered the plea over his role in the slaying of Lillie Belle Allen, of Aiken, S.C., at the hands of a white mob girded for war with blacks. His case was the only one pending in Allen's slaying. 
Mystery illness raises concerns in U.S.: 
A scare over a mystery illness on an airliner in California turned out to be a false alann, but the cau• tious reaction by oOicials suggested that serious con­cerns about the disease have made their way to America's shores. An American Airlines 11ight from Tokyo that landed in San Jose, Calif., was briefly halted after the captain reported five people on board appeared to have symptoms of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. None of the five turned out to have the disease. 
Thursday, April 3, 2003
page 6 The Observer . NEWS 
IRAQ 
Film focuses on 
Missile hits Navy fighter jet 
global poverty 
Associated Press 
Iraq shot down a U.S. Navy F/A-18C Hornet with a sur­face-to-air missile Wednesday, military officials said. 
There was no imrnediaie word on the fate of the pilot. Statements released from 
U.S. Central Command said 
·the twin-engine jet, flying from the aircraft carrier USS Kitty Hawk. went down at about 3:45 p.m. EST. 
The plane went down near Karbala, a city about 50 miles south of Baghdad where fighting raged between U.S. Army forces 
and the Iraqi Republican Guard. Iraqi forces shot down an Army Black Hawk heli­copter in the same area Wednesday. 
Lt. Brook DeWalt, a spokesman for the Kitty Hawk, said the Hornet had Ilown a bombing mission over northern Iraq Wednesday. Other planes flying over Iraq at the same time reported seeing surface-to-air missiles and anti-aircraft artillery fire in the same area in which the plane disappeared. 
Central Command said the downing is being investigat­ed. Officials would not com­ment on search and rescue operations, but both Central monks while on a trip in Europe.
TV Guide affected by time 
"For most of my life, I was a 
Associated Press 
At age 50, TV Guide is show­ing signs of maturity. Circulation is down amid com­petition from newspapers that offer their own listings and TV shows that provide a steady stream of celebrity news. 
But TV Guide has also adapt­
ed to the changes in the media 
business in recent years, with 
online listings, an interactive 
program guide and a television 
channel that make the most of 
its instantly recognizable name 
and logo. 
Founded by Philadelphia publisher Walter Annenberg, the television viewer's bible debuted April 3, 1953 in 10 Midwest and East Coast cities with Lucille Ball's young son Desi Arnaz Jr. on the cover. Now owned by Gemstar-TV Guide International 1nc., it has 209 regional editions nation­wide and just over 9 million subscribers, according to the latest figures from the Audit Bureau of Circulations. 
The magazine is now just one part of TV Guide's domain. The company estimates that it reaches about 100 million users each week, when all ofits various formats are considered 
the Web site, www.tvguide.com: the TV Guide Channel on cable and the TV Guide Interactive digital program listings. 
As more home technology develops around the television screen, TV Guide's mission is to help readers make the most of their leisure time, not just tell them what to watch, said John Loughlin, president of the TV Guide Publishing Group. 
To that end, the company plans a redesign of the maga­zine to make the listings easier to read. It will also have short­er stories and expanded cover-· age of home-entertainment products, such as DVDs and high-definition TV sets. Loughlin said. 
It will also direct readers to the Web site and on-screen guides for the latest news. 
"The magazine, because of its history and its size. it's at the heart of the brand. and we've got to be sure that these differ­ent platforms, these different media reinforce the same set of messages," Loughlin said. 
TV Guide has a place in the heart of baby boomers who grew up in the early days of TV. and that nostalgia has helped make issues of TV Guide collectors' items. Vintage 

Command statements said the military is committed to 
By MEGAN O'NEIL
accounting for all coalition News \~ricer 
personnel. It was the first American fighter jet shot down during 
In an effort to increase aware­
the war on Iraq. The Iraqis 
ness about global poverty,have downed several pilotless 
writer and producer Gerard surveillance drones. 
Thomas Straub presented a film Navy and Marine pilots fly 
documentary that gave viewers 'the F/A-18 Hornet from air­
an in depth look at poor com­craft carriers. The supersonic 
munities. jets are armed with a 20mm 
The presentation, entitled cannon and. can carry a wide 
"When Did I See Hunger" was range of bombs and missiles. 
the highlight of several events 
The easily maneuverable 
planned at Saint Mary's for Hornet can operate as a 
Hunger and Poverty Awareness 
fighter jet. shooting down 
Week. 
enemy planes. or as an attack A former Hollywood producer 
plane, bombing enemy tar­
of shows such as General 
gets. 
Hospital. Straub became inter­ested in documenting world poverty after meeting and talk­ing to a group of Franciscan 
television producer. But I just
editions can command up to 
couldn't do what I was doing
$100 on the Internet auction 
anymore," said Straub. 
site eBay. 
Narrated by Martin Sheen. the 
"You would come to know 
film shows a collection of black 
the·cover of that thing because 
and white still photos taken by
it would stay with you for a 
Straub. His travels took him to 
week," said Robert Thompson, 
slums and shanty towns in such 
director of Syracuse 
places as India, the Philippines.
University's Center for the 
Jamaica, Kenya, Brazil, Mexico 
Study of Popular Television. 
and the United States. 
But by expanding to other 
"The first time I went to 
media, TV Guide is appealing 
Calcutta I stepped off the plane
to younger readers who are 
with this big bag of stuff and it 
more drawn to online and 
was like l had stepped onto 
interactive formats than many 
another planet. I had more in 
boomers are. 
my bag then these people had at 
Most consumers are already 
all, I felt like such an idiot," said 
looking to multiple sources for 
Straub. 
news and entertainment, said 
Straub said he could not even 
Rebecca McPheters. head of 
pick up his camera on the first
the New York magazine con­
day and ended up giving most of 
sulting firm McPheters & Co. 
his things away. 
Inc. One section of the film showed 
images of Payatas, the moun­tainous garbage dump on the outskirts of Manila in the Philippines. The trash heap is home for 75,000 people, the film explained. These people support themselves by scaveng­ing through the waste of their fellow Filipinos in search of any­thing that could be sold to junk shops. After heavy rains in 2000, the heap collapsed and garbage landslides crushed hundreds of people to death. 
The film also explained that children make up a significant part of the worlct·s poor. The documentary included many photos of toddlers with bloated stomachs and noted the high child mortality rate in these places. 
''Every minute of every day, 20 children die of hunger or dis­eased related to hunger," the film said. 
The film also showed images of peopled afflicted by leprosy and the effects of the disease in Jamaica and Brazil. 
"I did not expect to see lep­rosy at all," said Straub. "I thought it was a disease from the middle ages." 
And it is ·awareness and com­passion, the film says, that are the most important components of combating desperate hunger and poverty. Straub chooses to look at it from a spiritual point of view. 
"Our faith requires that we care for the poor," he said. "There has to be a fundamental awareness about the conditions of other people." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
Apply for the 
'Roaney J• (janey, Pli.V. 
Collaborative Community-Based Research Mini-Grant 
The Center for Social Concerns is offering a l\ifjni-Grant in the amount of $5000, awarded in two phases, to support a joint faculty-student-community research partnership addressing a social challenge articulated by a community organization. It may support the planning and development of a new project, the expansion of an existing one, the assessment of a project, or the dissemination of findings from a project that is ongc.:ng or in its final stages. 
The purposes of the award arc to fosier faculry-student-commtmity parttterships that 
* result in measurable, positive impact in the South Bend area; *. reflect the investment of faculty expertise in the local community; and 
* offer students community-based learning opportunities that promote civic responsibility. 
The proposal should be st1bmitted by Monday, April 7, 2008. Please go to our
S,~~
SOCIAL website at centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu CONCERNS 
for more information about applying. 
O
THE 
Bu-siENEss 
Thursday, April 3, 2003 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch April 2 
Dow Jones  
8,285.06  ~  +215.20  
J\l4SDAQ  
I ,396. 72  ~  +48.42  
S&P500  
880.90  ~  +22.42  
AMFX  
828.93  •  +4.72  
NYSE  
4,897.97  ~  +104.41  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +5.63 +1.37 25.72 
=·:8=•=-:---•-•.·-·?:::·::::::;::r:r:1~=:::::=e::::::::~=:::-=:::=:::::=:::::::::::::::::=:;:::::=:::.::::~::?;:;?:::~: 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCOY :zt!t~:'l!!:~SR!!®Jt:E:~ 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +6. 70 +1.10 17. 52 
suN ·MrcRosvsnM ~~Ql\,,(li:~;l:l:I111:~li!!l(~!ll~ii 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +6.51 +0.7011.46 
IN BRIEF 
Raytheon may up missile production 
Ddense contractor Baytheon Corp. said it is in talks with the Navy to accelerate production of the next gcnerntion _of Tomahawk cruise missiles after two weeks or war in Iraq have depleted stocks nrthc cxL'iting model. 
In response lo queries from the Navy, Lexington-based Haythcon has said it could accel­erate production of the new Tactical Tomahawks, to be manufactun1d in Tucson, Ariz., from 38 to 50 per month if" funding becomes available, Haytheon spokeswoman Jennifer Allen said Wednesday. 
The Navy has said it plans to spend as much as $2 billion for 1,353 of the next-generation weapons. which are scheduled to become opera­tional in tlm summer of 2004. That date could be brought forward. 
Haytheon is under two contracts totaling $260.5 million to build 192 of the new missiles. 
Allen said it is unknown whether the Navy would order further mL'isiles or just ask for accel­ernt1id delivery of those currently under contract. 
Tyco sues former CFO for $400M 
Tyco International Ltd. has filed a $400 million lawsuit against former chief financial officer Mark Swartz, claiming he looted the conglomer­ate for his personal gain. 
Swartz already laces criminal charges of theft and fraud liled by government prosecutors, who say he and former CEO L. Dennis Kozlowski stole $600 million from Tyco. Both men have pleaded innocent. 
The suit accuses Swartz of using Tyco funds to buy a $16.5 million Manhattan apartment, tickets to Miami I !cat basketball and Florida ranthers hockey games. cable television service, country club memberships and concert tickets for Billy Joel and Elton John. 
It also ac1,;uses Swartz of accepting more than $134 million in pay from 1997 to 2002 for "ser­vices that wern never rendered" and awarding himself tens of millions of dollars in unautho­rized bonuses. 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
SARS hurts Asian economies 
. Mystery illness strains economic activity across Asia 
Associated Press 
HONG KONG 
A mysterious life­threatening illness is straining economic activ­ity across Asia, forcing manufacturers to tem­porarily shut down, bankers to cancel face­to-face meetings and vis­itors to stay away. 
Near-term productivity will undoubtedly suffer, delivering the harshest blow to the struggling travel industry. Economists say the out­break of SAHS, or severe acute respiratory syn­drome, will hurt much of the retail and service sectors as consumers avoid malls, restaurants and other forms of enter­tainment. 
The greatest financial the illness. families of employees are increasingly feeling impact, so far, has been Motorola and Hewlett working in Hong Kong to the crunch, too, as the felt in Hong Kong and Packard briefly closed return to South Korea. country's financial cen­Singapore, where the factories in Singapore Standard Chartered, ter, Toronto, grapples incidence of infection is and Hong Kong, respec­Hong Kong's fourth with a growing number highest. But financial tively, to disinfect them largest bank, told of cases of the illness. analysts are also keeping after workers showed employees to avoid face­Hospitals there are an eye out for signs of symptoms. Intel canceled to-face meetings. But packed treating those the disease's spread in a trade show in Taiwan teleconferencing and who may have contract­mainland China, South and General Motors other technologies has ed SAHS and elective Korea and Vietnam. scrapped plans to have helped ease the crisis. surgeries have been halt­
"The outbreak of SARS journalists tour its oper­"We're using virtual or ed. Air Canada filed for is significant enough to ations in South Korea. online reporting for most bankruptcy earlier in the affect growth across the Several major banks offices," said Mary V. week and mentioned the region," said Merrill shut down branches near "Lam, a spokeswoman for SARS epidemic as a Lynch economist T .J. Hong Kong's Amoy Motorola Asia Pacific. drain on its business. Bond. Gardens, an apartment Still, the alarm caused With the exception of 
Bond and other finan­complex where the gov­by the deadly flu-like ill­airlines such as cial experts on ernment imposed a 10-ness has had a devastat­Northwest and United, Wednesday lowered their day quarantine Monday ing effect on Asian U.S.-based corporations 2003 economic growth after reporting about 200 tourism, causing airline with operations in Asia forecasts for East Asia, cases of the disease. and hotel bookings to are at relatively little which excludes Japan, Such outbreaks have drop sharply. Many car­financial risk, for the by 0.6 percent. Those led many companies, riers have reduced ser­time being. But even the predictions assume the including U.S.-based vice to the region and slightest negative news spread of SARS will be Eastman Kodak and future bookings remain becomes magnified at a under control by early Finland-based Nokia, to weak as business fliers time when the global summer, a hopeful sce­restrict travel to Asia. postpone trips and economy is already deal­nario given the current Others, such as Samsung leisure travelers explore ing with the effects of environment of fear and Electronics and LG other options. war, terrorism fears and ignorance surrounding Electronics, have asked Canadian businesses high oil prices. 

Court: HMOs can be more open 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Supreme Court ruled Wednesday that states can pass laws forcing IIMOs to open their networks to more health care providers, giving patients broader choices of doctors and hospitals but potentially boosting costs. 
The unanimous ruling was a setback for the managed care industry, which argued that closed networks lower health care costs because providers agree to accept lower fees in return for a guaranteed stream of patients. 
The decision also gives states more freedom to regulate insurance compa­nies, another in a line of decisions from the court expanding states' rights. 
About half the states have passed 
"any willing provide[" laws in the past decade in response to complainL5 that I-IMOs and insurance companies some­times block people from seeing the doctors of their choice. 
The laws require managed care net­works or insurance companies to accept out-of-network health care providers -physicians, pharmacists, nurse practitioners or specialists. In return, the providers must agree to the insurer's reimbursement rates and contract terms. 
The court ruled on a challenge to Kentucky's laws, considered the broadest in the country. The Bush administration had sided with Kentucky. 
"It's a message to states that you can have consumer protection Jaws," Kentucky Insurance Commissioner Janie Miller said. 
Donald Young, president of' the Health Insurance Association of America, said the laws "arc one more instance of government unnecessarily interfering in private relationships between doctors and health plans." 
Industry lawyers had told the court that the laws increase administrative costs, make it harder for HMOs to monitor quality and jeopardize deals that health plans have made with providers. 
Karen Ignagni, president of the American Association of Health Plans, which represents more than a thou­sand health maintenance organiza­tions and other p.Jans, said the Kentucky laws drove up patients' health care expenses. In court filings, justices were told that in states with willing provider laws, studies found 15 percent increases. 
Thursday, April 3, 2003
page 8 The Observer . NEWS 
Crude prices to dip further 
A.sodated Pres• 
NEW YORK 
May crude futures tumbled for a second day Wednesday, amid unexpectedly large builds in oil imports and inventories and rapid progress in the American trek toward Baghdad. 
Those factors, along with increased oil output in March from members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and Russia. created a "bearish tri­fecta," said Tim Evans, an ana­lyst at lFR Pegasus. 
In heavy fighting, U.S. troops neared the outskirts of Baghdad and now are threat­ening the core 
barrel mark. as imports soared by 706,000 barrels a day to 10.361 million barrels a day, the highest weekly import vol­
ume  on  record  from  the  
agency.  
The  American  Petroleum  

Institute. which also released stocks data Wednesday. report­ed an even larger build of 9.011 million barrels in crude stocks. The AP! put imports at 9 .812 million barrels a day. 
Analysts surveyed earlier in the week by Dow Jones Newswires projected a build of 
2.55 million barrels in crude stocks. 
On the Nymcx. light. sweet crude for May delivery closed $1.22 lower, or 4 percent, at $28.56 -the lowest settlement 
price since 
of the Iraqi March 25,
"Ultimately. the trend is 
regime there. when crude
still down. so. in the next 
Pentagon offi­closed at cials said. week or so, we may see $27 .97 a bar-
T h e prices go even lower." rel. 
Pentagon also At London's warned that, International 
Tom Bentz 
as coalition Petroleum troops get analyst BNP Paribas Exchange, 
closer to wag­ing a major offensive in Baghdad, the likeli­hood grows that Iraq's govern­ment may unleash weapons of mass destruction. 
Oil-supply worries were eased Wednesday morning when the Department of Energy reported U.S. crude inventories increased by 6.8 million barrels to 280. 7 million barrels for the week ended March 28. 
The latest figure was well above the critical 270-million-
North Sea 
Brent blend futures for May delivery fell $1.15 to $25.21 a barrel. 
Members of OPEC continued pumping extra oil in March, making good on their pledge to make up for any shortfall in the market as a result of the con­flict in Iraq, a survey by Dow Jones Newswires found Wednesday. 
In a separate report, Prime­Tass news said Russian crude oil output rose by 10.9 percent 
· rF 
:::r~
,(~ 
,. 
,. -::::-. ~r__ ~ 

...., ~'\ 
,,, :-.-::.,... 
.,.. c.=~~=...,,:m-____::__ ~--=== ~ .,, 
a:--~----~~ f 
.,, --~-_::.,_ -----:. ~.,,,.
-~-­
to 8.11 million barrels a day in March from 7.32 million bar­rels a day a year earlier. The news agency cited a source close to Russia's energy min­istry. 
Even if Nymex crude man­ages to gain a bit in overnight trading, traders arc likely to seize opportunities to sell, said Tom Bentz, an analyst at BNP Paribas in New York. 
"Ultimately, the trend is still down, so, in the next week or so. we may see prices go even lower," he said. 
The Energy Department reported gasoline stocks increased by 1. 7 million barrels to 200.7 million barrels last week, as gasoline output rose to 8 million barrels a day and demand dropped by 382,000 barrels a day to 8.284 million barrels a day. That and higher imports helpecl push gasoline futures lower Wednesday. 
"The gasoline build was rather surprising," said Steve Bellino, an analyst at Fimat Futures Inc. "'Things don't look as dire as we once thought they were." 
It was the first weekly build in gasoline stocks in seven weeks. Gasoline for May deliv­ery fell 5.03 cents to 86.39 cents a gallon. 
While heating oil futures also dipped, tight distillate invento­ries were seen as keeping them· well-buoyed, Bentz said. May heating oil fell 2.23 cents to 
71.86 cents a gallon. 
Natural gas for May delivery lost 6 cents to settle at $5.065 per 1,000 cubic feet. 
IRAQ 
Journalists returned safely from prison 
A.sociated Press 
BAGHDAD 
Four journalists expelled by Baghdad said Wednesday they feared for their lives "every second" they were held in Iraq's most notorious prison. 
Newsday correspondent Matt McAllestcr, 33, and photogra­pher Moises Saman, 29, were set free Tuesday after being held for a week in Abu Ghraib prison, along with Molly Bingham, a freelance photog­rapher from Louisville, Ky., and Danish freelance photog­rapher Johan Rydeng Spanner. 
Their expulsion came amid a growing crackdown on foreign journalists in Baghdad. The Iraqi government also expelled an Australian and a South African reporter Tuesday and detained two journalists work­ing for the Sydney newspaper The Australian. 
"From the time we realized we were being taken to prison until the time we crossed the border into Jordan, we felt our lives were in danger," said McAllester, who is British. 
"We had no idea what they were going to do to us," Bingham said. "They kept blindfolding us and taking us away. Everyday it was a ques­tion of, 'Are they going to kill 
mP. or ::irP thP.v iu~t (Toini:r to 
ask me more questions?'" 
The group had been held since March 25. according to Newsday's managing editor, Charlotte Hall. An American peace activist, Philip Latasha, was expelled with the journal­ists. 
All five were in good health when they reached Amman on Tuesday. 
The journalists said Iraqi authorities searched their hotel rooms and drove them to Abu Ghraib prison, where they were separated and given prison clothes and two blan­kets each. 
Iraqi opposition groups say hundreds of political dissidents have been executed in recent years at Abu Ghraib, the largest prison in the Arab world. 
"Over the next few days, they interrogated us over and over." Bingham said. "We had to sign papers." 
She said she did not know why she was arrested. "I did not work for my government or another government. I just wanted fo do stories about nor­mal people," she said. 
Saman, of Barcelona, Spain, said: "They asked me ... what kind of pictures I was taking, if I was involved with any kind of intelligence service ... just what was the purpose of me being in Baghdad at such a time." 
The N"otre .Dame La-u,.., School N"atural La-u,.., Institute presents 
The C>lir1 I >istiri.g1..iished Lect1..1re Series 
''Expressive Liberty, Freede>m e>f Ce>nscience, and C c:>ns titutie>naI Deme>c racy'' 
Upcoming Lectures 
Joseph Raz Apr-il10 
John Finnis A pr-ii 1 1 
William A. G.salste>n 
Professor, School of Public Affairs University of Maryland Director. Institute for Philosophy and Public Policy 
Thursday, April 3, 2003 
4 p.m_ 
Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
Thursday, April 3, 2003 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
UN to discuss N. Korean crisis 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The U.N. Security Council has agreed to discuss North Korea's nuclear crisis next Wednesday, a day before its withdrawal from a key non­proliforaLion treaty becomes final. diplomats said Wednesday. 
The United States has been prcssmg the 15-nation council to adopt a statement cun­demning North Korea for fail­ing to meet its international obligations to ptcvcnt the spread of nuclear arms. But (hina, which has close ties to North Korea, has refused to discuss it. 
North Korea announced Jan. 12 it intended to withdraw from the nuclear Non­l'rolifcration Treaty, and the Vienna-based U.N. nuclear watchdog agency referred the matter to the council. 
Mexico's U.N. Ambassador Adolfo Aguilar Zinser, the cur­rent council president, said the council would meet April 9 and noted that North Korea's withdrawal from the treaty will be final on April 10. 
For weeks, the United States has been trying to get the four other veto-wielding council members -China, Britain, France and Russia -to discuss 
a. statement of condemnation from the council. But China has refused to attend the meetings. 
China's U.N. Ambassador Wang Yingfan said Wednesday that Beijing agreed to consul­tations among all 15 council members on North Korea on April 9. 
Asked whether the closed­door meeting might lead to progress on a statement from the council, Wang said: "It depends on what kind of con­sultations we would have, but I hope that consultations will be constructive to the political solution of the issue we face." 
North Korea insists on direct talks with the United States on nuclear issues and says that if the Security Council imposes sanctions. it will be tanta­mount to war. 
The Hush administration wants to settle the dispute through multilateral channels, saying North Korea's nuclear programs threaten not just American interests but also those of Russia, China, Japan and South Korea. 
China has been trying to bring Washington and Pyongyang together and in mid-March Wang said he didn't want the Security Council to be involved. 
The ambassador said Wednesday China was still working "with others" to arrange talks between North Korea and the United States. 
Next week's council meeting will be the first on North Korea since Feb. 19. Some council diplomats expressed hope that China would have some new ideas to end the diplomatic impasse. 
"This is a very delicate sub­ject," said U.S. Ambassador John Negroponte. 
China's Wang said, "We hope that we could have good coordination so finally we could accomplish something." 
IRAQ 
US allow-ed to send aid but not weopans 
Associated Press 
ANKAHA 
Turkey agreed Wednesday to let the United States send food, fuel and medicine -but not weapons -through its territo­ry to U.S. soldiers fighting in Iraq, another sign of limited cooperation from NATO's only Muslim member. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell and Turkish leaders also agreed on an "early warn­ing" system to avert friction between Turkey and Iraqi Kurds -an accord designed to block Turkey from sending its forces into northern Iraq. Washington fears that could lead to Turkish clashes with Iraqi Kurds and undermine the U.S.-led war etl'ort in Iraq .. 
Powell's visit came amid ten­sions between Washington and Turkey, where polls show more than 90 percent of the people are against the Iraq war. 
Some 500 protesters gath­ered outside Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan ·s office while Powell was inside, chant­ing "Yankee, go home." 
Turkey's parliament last month rejected a motion that would have allowed in 62,000 
U.S. ground troops to open a northern front against Iraq, a move that analysts said likely would have led to a shorter, quicker war. 
The rebuff helped strain Turkish-U.S. ties. U.S. ofTicials were angry the northern front was lost, and Turkish officials said Washington wanted democracy in Iraq but could not accept a "no" vote from one of the only democratic parlia­ments in the region. 
However, Powell and his Turkish counterpart, Abdullah Gui, emphasized U.S.-Turkish cooperation. 
Restricted aid after house passes social security bill 
Auociatcd Press 
WASIIINGTON 
The House passed legislation Wednesday Lo end a Social Security practice that allowed some government workers to receive increased retirement benefits. Texas Democrats claimed the bill was a hardship for their state's teacher. 
The bill, approved 396-28, also would deny Social Security benefits to fugitive felons and to 
Cun 
people who violated probation or parole. Voting against the measure were 25 Democrats and three Republicans. 
Last month, Democrats, after intense lobbying by teachers unions, joined their Texas col­leagues in opposition to the bill, and it failed under a special procedure requiring two-thirds approval. But many lawmakers changed their position since then. 
Spouses of retired, disabled or deceased workers usually 
versity 0 f not re 
JUNE 1 6 
0 --.......;~\(/~,­
~
__ .......,,. 
~ ~ anthropology
(f) 
·-;.,,\ ,, arch!t~ctu:~ 
( biology business
(f) 
chemistry
Q) 
classlcal languages 
computer applications economics 
engineering
(f) 
english 
film 
french germanL history 
Irish studies 
Q) 
itallan 
E 
mathematics music philosophy physics political science psychology 
E 
sociology spanish theatre theology 
receive Social Security benefits. A 1977 law reduces those ben­efits for employees of some state and local governments who do not pay into the Social Security system and do not col­lect benefits, and are covered by their own retirement sys­tems. 
But a provision allows those workers to avoid the reduction in benefits if they are covered by both Social Security and their government pension dur­ing their last day on the job. 
dame 
-AUGUST 1 , 2003 
The 2003 summer session will begin on Monday, June 16 (enrollment), and end on Friday, August 1 (final exams). Some courses­primarily in science and languages-will begin and end before or after these dates. The Summer Session Bulletin contains complete schedule information. The Bulletin is available 
at the Summer Session Office (510 Main Bldg.) beginning on Thursday, February 20. Infor­mation on summer courses, as 1t appears in the Bulletin, is also available at the Summer Session Web site (www.nd.edu/~sumsess). 
Notre Dame continuing students-undergraduate and graduate students in residence during the spring semester of 2003 who are eligible to return in the fall-must use Web Registration 
(1) to register tor summer courses and (2) to add or drop courses according to the add and drop dates printed with each course. The Web Registration PIN (personal identification number) for summer is available on Irishlink for all continuing students. Instructions for course registration (selection) are available at http;/ /reglstrar.nd.edu. Course call numbers are published in the Bulletin and at the Summer Session Web site, 
:J 
Web Registration will be available for summer registration from Wednesday, March 19, through the course add and drop dates published in the Summer Session Bulletin. 
Students may register or make schedule changes whenever they choose during this period; no appointment times are necessary.
(f) 
Air-conditioned and non-air-conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plans 
will be available. Forms for these services may be obtained at the Summer Session 
Office at any time during the spring semester. 
Tuition for the summer session of 2003 will be $486 per credit hour for undergraduate students and $270 per credit hour for graduate students, plus a $45 general fee. 
Congressional investigators found that 4,795 teachers in Texas and 24 in Georgia had taken advantage as of June 2002, transferring briefly to other jobs before retiring. For as little as about $3 paid to Social Security, those teachers will receive on average an extra $4,800 a year. 
Some school districts also started charging processing fees ranging from $100 to $500 to make the switch. One district collected an additional 
$283,000 in revenue from the 
fees. 
The provision is costing the 
federal government about 
$450 million. Social Security 
officials say the practice could 
grow as more people become 
aware of it. 
"No single group of workers 
should have an unfair advan­
tage over workers in other 
•school districts, in other pen­sion systems, or across the nation," said Rep. Clay Shaw, R-Fla., the bill's sponsor. 
The bill would require state and local government workers to pay into Social Security for a minimum of five years to be exempt from the offset. 
"This is no way to treat hard­working people who have dedi­cated their entire lives to serv­ing their communities and this nation," said Rep. Martin Frost, D-Texas. "It hurts real people -especially women and lower­income individuals." 
Most Democrats voted to sup­port a measure that would repeal the offset altogether, but those attempts failed. 
Rep. Nick Lampson, D-Texas, warned of a "mass exodus of good teachers from our schools." 
The bill also tightens controls on people who serve as legal financial representatives for about 7 .6 million Social Security recipients who are• minors or have physical and mental impairments. 
-~··············································· 
: U nivetslty Resources : for Gay, Lesbian, &
• 

Bisexual Students 
The Standing Committee on Gay and .. Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential infonnation, education, and resources)
•••• Contact· Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student • .. members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
•
• (Annual retreat for gay/l~bian/questioning students .and their friends; pertinent library resources in 
•• ••• •• 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3l@nd.edu 
• Unive.rsity Counseling Center • 
(Individual counseling) 
Contact Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen 
Lafferty at Latfetty.3@nd.edu 
.. •
For more infonnarion, checlc out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/~scglsn' • 
• 
._._.__• .l •• ' •• ' ' ' •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ~ -· !t ••• 
O
TH£ BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, April 3, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Scott Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes 
VIEWPOINT EDimR: Kristin Yemm 
SrORTS EDITOR: Joe Hettler 
SCENE EDIIDR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR, Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins SAINT MARV'S EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight 
WEB AnMINl~TKATOR: Jason Creek 
CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 
SYSTEMS MANAGER: Ted Bangert 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GF.NERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................ 631-6927 
ADVF.RTISJNG....................................631-6900/8840 
obs.,rvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CH!EF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EmroRIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VlF.WPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAftv's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO........................................................ 631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:l/observer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is che independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither insrirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not nec­essarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor musr be signed and must include contact information. 
Q~stiom regarding Ob,erverpolicies should b, direct­ed to E.ditor in Chief Andrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ObscJ"ICf (USrs 5?9 Z40) p, published Monday [hrough rriday except duriRg otam -nd v-.:::arion pcri~. A mb.JCriprion w The O~rvc-r i1 S100 fur one-~adcmic year. SSS fo, one ~encr 
The mncr,er i1 ruhlijlicd ar. PO!ff~STER 
014 \ou1h Oi11inr, Hall Srnd ad~i ,;n1rn:rions to: 
Nnuc-O.m.c, IN 4U5% ThcOr»en'ct 
P.O. Ro, Q l'l.'tk,Jic,I p<•!i!~~i: p:ud :i,I Nutr(" D:tm'-' NMtt O:i.mc. IN 465'i6-07?' 
•rid 1dditioniil m.iiling nff",cn. 
n~ Observer i, .. ~obcr of <ht Ai.sociacni Prc"$11, AH ,q,rodu~dnn right1 a,r: f~l'l\'t'd. 

It is over a decade since Michael Moore rose to prominence with "Roger & Me." The film documents Moore's attempt to get an interview with Roger Smith, the chairman of General Motors, who is responsi­
Peter Wicks 
ble for the closure of a manufactur­ing plant in 
Englishman
Moore's home­
Abroad
town of Flint, Michigan. 
"Roger & Me" shows the devastating effect the clo­sure had on the Flint community, pro­viding a vivid and salutary reminder of the human cost of an economic sys­tem which treats labor as a commodi­ty. 
Moore's film became the highest grossing non-musical documentary of all time and received mostly adulatory reviews. However. a small number of critics, including the revered Pauline Kael, accused Moore of rearranging the chronology of the events he por­trayed to better serve his political message. Moore alternated between saying that this was a lie and saying that, yes, he had altered the chronolo­gy, but he was within his rights to do so. This was one too many answers, and a premonition of problems which would come to dominate his later work. 
Moore followed up with the satirical Fox series "TV Nation," a show built around political pranks. The show was uneven and unpolished, but at its best it combined politics with a mis­chievous sense of fun. This was the last time Moore was actually funny. In his latest book, "Stupid White Men," Moore's leaden witticisms are to humor what socialist realism was to literature. 
Mary McCarthy famously said of Lillian Hellman, "Every word she writes is a lie, including 'and' and 'the."' Moore has not yet attained Hellman's rarefied level of dishonesty, but there are enough false and mis­leading claims in "Stupid White Men" to make everything in the book sus­pect. The purpose of the bad jokes is to license these false facts. Interviewing Moore on CNN, Lou Dobbs asked him why he did not respond to charges of glaring inaccu­racies in his book. Moore replied, "Why should I? How can there be inaccuracy in comedy?" 
Moore's documentary "Bowling for Columbine," which won this year's Academy Award for Best Documentary, is about the massacre at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colo., and by extension America's gun culture. The film mocks the stupid white men who placed the blame for Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold's killings on Marilyn Manson. Manson is interviewed sympathetically by Moore, who chats amiably with him about the corruption of politicians and the media. 
The problem is that Moore's own explanations are no better. At several points in the film Moore points out that the Columbine massacre occurred on the same day (April 20, 1999) that the United States dropped more bombs on Kosovo than at any other time during the war and sug­gests that it may be the example of American violence overseas that is responsible for domestic violence such as school shootings. The implied par­allel between the NATO campaign in Kosovo and the Columbine massacre is pure moral idiocy. I doubt Moore really believes it himself; it seems like a device to allow him to preach about American foreign policy in a film claiming to be about guns in American culture. 
Once again Moore has too many explanations. At some points he sug­gests that the media is the real culprit for instilling a climate of fear amongst white people. Then he goes further and tells the whole history of the United States as the history of scared white people shooting native Americans, blacks and each other. ms history is so cartoonishly distorted that it is wholly appropriate that it is told with a cartoon. 
In the cartoon Moore suggests that the National Rifle Association is con­nected to the Ku. Klux Klan. His nar­rator says, "ln 1871, the same year the Klan became an illegal terrorist organization, another group was founded, the National Rifle Association." 
Lest we miss the point, a Klansman and an NRA member are shown set­ting fire to a cross together. In fact the NRA was founded by two Union officers, and Ulysses S. Grant, who signed into law the act making the Klan illegal and enforced it vigorous­ly, would later become the NRA's eighth president. Moore's innuendo is not merely polemic, it is propaganda of the worst sort. 
While it is worrying that so many people did not seem to notice Moore's errors and deceits, it is more disturb­ing that many who did notice were willing to excuse them because they sympathized with Moore's politics. Aside from its sheer hypocrisy. the problem with such a position is that it assumes that the Left has nothing at stake in the quality of this country's public debate, only its outcome. Propaganda corrupts, always. Serious progressives should reject Moore's tactics, and they should reject Moore. 
Let us hope that in exchange con­servatives do something about Ann Coulter. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in the Philosophy Department. like Michael Moore, Peter received an award for marksmanship while in his teens. He will be happy to further sub­stantiate his claim that Moore's work is rife with errors and deceptions for anyone who writes and asks him nice­ly. He can be contacted at pwicks@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Teresa Fralish Himanshu Kothari Andrew Thagard 
Viewpoint 
Kurt Bogaard 
Graphics 
Andy Devoto 
Sports 
Justin Schuver Bryan Kronk Joe Lindsley Scene 
Christie Boisen 
Lab Tech 
Stephanie 
Grammens 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you think that the incoming student body presidents will be able to fulfill their campaign promises? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You know what's interesting about Washington? It's the kind ofplace where second-guessing has become second nature.·· 
George W. Bush president 
O
THE 
VIEWPROINT 
Thursday, April 3, 2003 page .1 I 
The travel bug 
One of my roommates gave me a card for my birthday 
that said "I think we should go bowling in Canada. Then we 
wuld look back for lhe rest of our lives and say, remember 
that one time wti went bowling in Canada?" 
Normal people would laugh at this and forget it, but, 
bning me and a bit prone to doing odd 
things, I decid1•d that I really, really Marlayna 
wanted to go bowling rn Canada. Soenneker 
IL took me until spring break to plan 
it, but that first weekend my room• 
I/ere we go
matBs, one of my roommates' fiancee, 
again ...
and a friend of' mine all piled into one 
car with our "Canada or Busl" sign, 
and h1\11dcd !or ttrn border. Spring 
break bngan and we headed north. 
Canada was great. All we did the entire time was drink. 
gamble, eat, sleep and bowl, the pnrfect start to spring 
break. Our actual bowling took place at Bowlero, the largest 
howling alley I have ever seen. with some 76 lanes of bowl­
ing fun. 
W1! learnnd on our way back that there is one concrete 
way in which the terror alert<; and !'cderal warnings about 
terrorism do a(focl our lives: you now need a passport or 
birth ct>rtificate to get back to the United States. from 
Canada, something that is not actually mentioned until you 
arc ouL-;idc tlrn country. 
Apparently you were always supposed to have one of the 
two, but now they actually enforce the law. 
So we ended up having an unpleasant discussion with the 
Customs and INS ollicials at the border, as they let us know 
in no uncertain terms that we were morons for not bringing 
our passporL-; to Canada. (Who needs a passport in Canada? 
It's Canada. for the love of God! I basically told one of the 
of1icials this, which he didn't take tremendously well.) 
Eventually, after losing our paperwork and forgetting us completely for 45 minutes, they let us go by after checking our driver's licenses. I suspect they were supposed to do something more than that, but one official finally told the other to let us go because they had a lot of other people to (kal with. So apparently you either need a passport to get into the United States or a 45 minute span of patience. 
Anyway, it got us talking about our prior bad traveling experiences, which were pretty numerous, as one of my roommates did an international summer service project in Ghana, I went to Ireland last spring, my other roommate spent a year in Austria, and the fiancee spent a summer working in Scotland. 
The fianccc talked about a trip he'd taken from France to Spain, when he and his traveling companion had reserva· lions in a sleeper car. The train broke down a few hours outside Paris, and everyone was herded ofT, with no apolo· gics made (about par for the course, in my experience of the French}. 
They were finally loaded up on another train a few hours later, after spending a few hours sleeping on benches in the cold. This train. however, did not have sleeper seats, and in fact. did not have enough seats for everyone on the train. So the fiancee and his friend end up smooshed into the corri­dor, trying to sleep and thinking longingly of the sleeper car they should have had. 
The fiancce's girlfriend (otherwise known as my room­mate) then told us about her experiences being stuck in a small town in Ghana after dark. Only one person in the whole town owned a car, and when he was awakened, he smelled as if he'd a bit of the drink taken. However, my roommate had no other choice, so she and her fellow travel· er took the slightly inebriated ride back to their city. 
Our third roommate has a great story about getting very, very drunk. tripping on a rock and breaking her nose. As it gushed blood. she and her friends continued to drink and have a jolly old time. She didn't bother to see a doctor until the next day. 
We must have spent more than an hour exchanging hor• ror stories about our travels abroad. The bizarre thing was that after hearing all of these stories, l wanted more than anything to go back. The French abuse and ignore you, and you love their capital city. You break your nose in Germany, and you adore the country. You ride with a drunk driver in Ghana, and you are committed to the Ghanese for the rest of your life. 
Travel gets into your blood like a disease. It's illogical, really -you run into all sorts of problems, you're treated rudely, you live on very little money in places you would never think to stay if you were in the States, you get frus­trated and confused and you just love the whole experience. I can't wait to get enough money together to do it all again. 
Marlayna Soenneker graduated from Notre Dame. in January but is continuing to live in the South Bend area until May graduation. She can be contacted at msoennek@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily the views ofThe Obseroer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Abandoning Asian stereotypes during Asian Heritage Week 
Sharp eyes, goofy-acting, emasculated, bad English -qualities that American media have ingrained onto American mindsets regarding Asians. The beginnings of these stereotypes can be traced back to Charlie Chan, that Confucius.quoting gumshoe with the "for­tune-cookie wisdom" who appeared in numerous mys­tery movies during the '30s and '40s and whose white actors who portrayed him would tape their eyelids to look "Oriental." Chan, along with his cousins Fu Manchu, Suzie Wong and the infamous Long Duck Dong in Sixteen Candles, helped generate the most offensive and disgraceful stereotypes of Asian Americans in the media that exist today. Even Bruce Lee's effortc; to show the world the beauty of the eastern art of martial arts proved to spearhead yet another stereo• type of Asians: martial arts­practitioners. Sorry to dis­appoint, but not every Asian practices martial arts. 
When Asian men are seen in American media nowadays, they are always the roundhouse­kicking, fist-throwing Jackie Chan's and Jet Li's. If not that, Asian men are petite school nerds (Glen in "The New Guy"), foreigners with bad English, or some old man with an ancient art to pass on (Mr. Miyagi in 'The Karate Kid"). Even movies and books with predominantly Asian characters such as "The Joy Luck Club" fail to portray strong and inde· pendent male characters. The only blemishes of inter· racial dating in movies and TV between Asians and non·Asians seem to be between Asian females and Caucasian males (Ross and Julie on TV's "Friends"), whereas interracial dating between an Asian male and a non-Asian female is almost non•existent in the media. Do American media not think Asian men should be shown in an attractive, strong•willed man­ner? 
Only recently have the media begun to represent Asian men in a slightly different light through roles such as Johnny Tran (Ricky Yune) in ''The Fast and the Furious" and John (John Cho) in "American Pie" I and nand through Asian athletes such as Yao Ming (Houston Hockelc;} and lchiro Suzuki (Seattle Mariners), which are only beginning to chase away media.programmed stereotypes of "small, unattractive little Asian men." 
Asian women as well have gotten the shaft in media through being depicted as "exotic objecLc;" to plca.c;P men ("Rush Hour 2," Lia in "Pay It to the Bone"). drag­on ladies (Ling Wu on TV's "Ally McBeal"), martial arts superheroes (Michelle Yeoh in "Tomorrow Never Dies"), foreign dry-cleaning ladies/waitresses/massage 
therapisL'i/beauty stylist,;, dumb foreign bimbos 
(Pearl in "Payback") or reporters. A,; men, Asian women in American media have only begun to stretch out 
of the confines of their stereotypes with emerging actresses such as Lucy Liu, whose spunk and self­
confidence have landed her roles that were originally Caucasian•specific ("Charlie's 
Angels," "Ballistic: Eeks vs. Sever"). In the music business, we can only hope that the hard efforts of Coco Lee, one 
ofthe most famous singers in Asia and the first Asian singer to perform at the Oscars in 2001 
(singing the theme song for "Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon"), will pay ofT in the end with tho release of her second international English album later this year. Likewise, we can only hope that movies 
such as "Better Lucky Tomorrow," due out in select theatres April 11, can help broaden the limita· tions of Asian portrayal in our society. "Better Lucky Tomorrow," a Sundance Film Festival selection bought by MTV Films, portrays the lives of several Asian­American students in Southern California and the obstacles they face. What will come of all these efforts? Only time and public open-mindedness can tell. 
Ryan Leung freshman Asian American Association Knorr Hall April 2 
War is only for economic interests 
I am disturbed by the April 1 guest column in "You can't be pro•troop and anti•war." In Kiley Winston's critique of the anti-war movement, she advances the argument that the troops are fighting the very right to protest and that we in the anti-war movement should shut up and enjoy the freedoms they fight for. 
In using this argument to attempt to put protesters "in the wrong" and de-legitimize opposition to the war, she demonstrated a common fallacy in the American consciousness. That fallacy is the unques­tioned belief in the purity of motives on the part of the government. There is a deep-seeded and extremely powerful belief that this nation has a divine mission and guidance that virtually precludes the ability of any United States policy to be in any way morally wrong or even misguided. The govern­ment is well aware of this and has deliberately cast this war as "Good verses Evil." Unfortunately, since this belief is rooted so deeply in the American mind, the people will believe such a portrayal, even when the government's policy is both morally bankrupt and terribly misguided. 
Winston justifies war in American history as the defense of American freedom and democracy. Unfortunately, an unbiased look at recent history does not support the notion that when America fights, it is always because our freedom and democ­racy is at stake. 
Take, for instance, the invasion of Panama. Were we really fighting to preserve our freedoms? Did we expect that there would be a Panamanian flag over the White House today if we didn't invade? 
Concentration camps in the Nevada desert with Panamanian guards torturing Americans? Or was 
there perhaps a different motive? Dare I say it? An 
economic motive? Like the fact that the canal was 
about the revert to Panamanian control and we didn't want Noriega in charge. 
The disastrous intervention in Somalia was also not a conflict in which American freedom was at risk of being lost. Nor was Kosovo. For that matter, the original Gulf war was not prompted by an attack on American soil. We fought that war when Iraq invad· ed Kuwait, which, last time I checked, was not part of America. The twelve years of starvation and bombings that we inflicted on Iraq since then were not even a response to an on-going occupation of Kuwait (since the Iraqis were long gone at that point). Nor is Saddam Hussein a threat to American liberties today. 
It is clear that there is another motive entirely to United States policy. It can't help but be tied to oil. and the economic influence that oil gives. 
So, Ms. Winston, don't try to convince me that it is my patriotic duty to support this war as necessary to preserve our freedoms. That is not why Bush started this war. This war is about American imperialism and control of resources. And that is why today I am ashamed to be an American. 
John Wiens staff Robinson Communiiy Learning Ccmer April 2 
THE OBSERVER 

page 12 Thursday, April 3, 2003 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Warning: 'Agent Cody Banks' causes brain damage 
O'Neill. People of sound mind and By BJ STREW body are actually expected to buy Scene Movie Critic Malcolm as a secret agent for the 
CJA. Then some dumb stuff happens. 
Admittedly, ev_en despite the Repeat, and rinse -with holy water, inspired casting decision to place A­because the creation of this movie list heartthrob Frankie Muniz in the was almost prohibited, until God cut lead role, ''Agent Cody Banks" fails in the Undecalogue down to the almost every respect. Almost, because Decalogue for space reasons. "Agent there are two things it succeeds at: 1) Cody Banks" is an iniquitous disaster inflicting permanent dain bramage on nonetheless. anyone who so much as passes by a As a whole, if it's possible to think TV when its trail-of the movie as a er is playing; and "whole" -never 
2) eternally con­mind, you can't.
"Agent Cody Banks"
demning every It's nonsense soul involved in 
layered on top of the production of nonsense. And this tirelessly trite the movie cow flop of a kid·s matches its
Director: Harald Zwart
movie. unwarranted,
Writers: Jeffrey Jurgensen, Ashley Miller
The Emmy-win­relentless length
Starring: Frankie Muniz, Hilary Duff, Angie
ning "Malcolm in with cartoonish,
Harmon, Keith David, Cynthia Stevenson
the Middle" star cliched, weari­essentially plays some material; the same exact its vileness bor­role in his show as he does here. ders on the surreal. But valiantly, it (Muniz will hereinafter be referred to tries to make up for its sheer lack of as "Malcolm" for the remainder of cohesion, humor, originality, its sec­this review.) This has "Disney Channel ond-rate acting, direction, cine­Movie" written all over it. And matography, editing and its bizarre scrawled on top of that: "Swallow special effects with one thing: This, Ian Fleming." Because enough Malcolm's agency mentor, Angie already with the Harmon, prancing around in a half­
James Bond parodies. And mixing unzipped cat suit. Oh, and Michael the James-Bond-parody genre with Douglas-Zeta-Jones -in a pointless the kid's movie genre? Bad move. cameo -playing the crucial role of this movie?" "Agent Cody Banks" again in 2004 with a sequel. promis­Bad, bad, bad. "man with the wicked-heinous hair­delivers. Bleeding-edge comedy, yes; ing an affecting facsimile of its pre­Using the term "plotw loosely, it is all cut." 
bigoted caricatures do indeed entail quel in all its hackneyed splendor,
but futile to sum up the action in this And just when its hoodwinked audi­knee-slapping hilarity. Without a likely by a militia of starving would-bederivative mess that reeks worse than ences are thinking, "Hold the phone doubt, the fourteen or· so screenwrit­screenwriters.
the unholy void between Reckers and -how come there isn't any racism in 
ers were patting themselves on the If Observer graphic artists allowed 
back for that doozie. A final warning: it, this movie would get a negative 
turn away when the tender Malcolm­number of shamrocks. And if the 
Hilary Duff liaisons commence; ball Geneva Conventions allowed it, this 
gags and Disney just cannot be recon­movie would supply a more effective, 
ciled. though less humane, alternative to the 
The Danish or Dutch director Harald "stress and duress" techniques the 
Zwart, of "Gull og grnnne skoger" real CIA's using down at Guantanamo. 
fame, is the archfiend authorities and No adolescent deserves to surrender 
history books will hold accountable 110 minutes of his life to "Agent Cody 
for profaning the cherished kid ·s­Banks." 
movie genre. With "Agent Cody 
Banks" once thought his magnum Contact BJ Strew at 
opus, he is set to dumbfound critics wstrew@nd.edu 




I ought to start this column with an apology, so here ii is -I apologize to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and SriPncns. I didn't think you'd give. "Spiritod /\way" an Oscar. and you did. I'm imprl'ssed. While the victory for "Spirited Away" was 
onn or tlw night's mon· surprising momcnl'i, one or its most prndicnble was what got nw think­
iug. As "Chicago" wus ltllllOJll1CCd for Bnst Picture, several of thii p!!oplc I was 

watching it with ­mysPII' included ­ Jack Watkins  
exprnssnd some­ 
thing along the lines ol' "Oh good. they  Not.es from the  
got it right," or "I  Underground  
was afraid 'The  
Pianist' would win."  

This intcrnst1~d me for two reasons ­first. hecaus<• WP wcrn acting like "Chicago" was somehow de!initively the bl!sl movie of the year, a.nd second. because we wlire implying that the Acndcmy is no good at picking the best piCLurn of the year, and that getting it "right" was the exception. 
Hcvicwing films. and even the more basic task of deciding what's a "good" movie, is a highly subjective process. There's obviously such a thing as good acling, but that's insufficient for a good movie, and I've seen intelligent people with opposite opinions as to whether a given actor was good in a given film. Other "objectivr." criteria for deciding what makes a movie "good," like the scripl or the dircclion, fall victim to simi­lar criticisms. Take at the box ol1ice is no nvaltmtor of quality, nor is critical recep­lion -many movies panned by critics when thf1y'rn released are later seen as works of genius. 
llere. however, we've hit on something. What makns a movie "good" or "great" is how it will last, how it will be viewed in Sl!Vnral years. I don't just mean how pop­ular it'll be in several years, but some combination of how popular it will be and how it will be viewed critically ­othcrwist1 I'd be backed into admitting "Star Wars" as orw of the best films ever. Wlwn my friends and I agreed that "Chicago" deserved Iksl Picture, we rnally nrnant that we see ourselves -as adults who consider themselves to be reasonably intelligent film buffs -rent­ing "Chicago" in ten or twenty years, while we couldn't be paid to sit through "The llours" or "The Pianist" again. And when we look back to years past and say, "That movie didn't deserve to win Best Picture", we mean that said lilm is seen. in retrospect. as inferior to one of its rivals. 
This standard has interesting applica­tions. If we go back ten years, we see that the 1993 Oscars also got it "right", giving the Best Picture to "Unforgiven", which is probably the most-watched of the nominees from that year. Twenty years ago, "Gandhi" won, and, while another 1983 nominee, "E.T.: The Extra-Terrestrial" will probably be watched forever, few would argue with the significance of the Richard Attenborough masterpiece. Does this mean the initial assumption made by my friends was wrong? Could it be that, against all probability, Academy voters arc pretty good at guessing what will become a classic? 
Well, not really. They're better than some critics would have you think, but 1983 and 1993 are not exactly represen­tative. Let's say we take a look at 20 years or so of Best Pictures, and to make it fair, we exclude the last five years, because those movies are too recent to have felt the verdict of posterity. So, from 1978 to 1998, can we say that the Academy is accurate in predicting what movies will be remembered as good, important, or significant? The verdict has to be no. Deserving movies that were snubbed for Best Picture in that period include "Apocalypse Now," "Raging Bull," "Goodfellas," "Pulp Fiction," and "Fargo." They lost to "Krame!:' vs. Kramer," "Ordinary People," "Dances With Wolves," "Forrest Gump," and "The English Patient," respectively -while they're all good movies, these races should have been no contest. The movies I just mentioned are not only popular, but critically acclaimed -meaning that I have not had to rely on "Star Wars" (lost to "Annie Hall") or "Raiders of the Lost Ark" (lost to "Chariots of Fire"). which don't really fit that criterion, despite their immense popularity. 
Occasionally, there are years when it's tough to pick a deserving winner by looking at the nominees -years when the Academy just completely blew it in 



Photo counasy of www.imdb.com 
the nomination process. In 1990, the nominees consisted of mainly preachy or sappy movies like "Dead Poets Society" and "Driving Miss Daisy". while Woody Allen's brilliant "Crimes and Misdemeanors" wasn't even nominated. But these years are the exception, not the rule. and the Academy usually nomi­nates the right movies. 
But if the best criterion for what a "good" movie is whether we'll still be watching it down the road. isn't it a little unfair to criticize the Academy or other award shows? Asking them to be 100 percent accurate seems like asking for the impossible, and criticism in the here­and-now is usually done by small groups of self-righteous, self-appointed film buffs, like, well, myself. And these film buffs seldom really agree among them­selves, meaning that the Academy faces the nearly impossible task of trying to please all of the people all of the time. So, despite our frequent whining that the Academy "always" gets big awards wrong, it does a pretty good job -better than any other award show, except of course the Razzies. Ironically, the worst Oscar mistake of the last 25 years ­
making "Titanic" the most honored movie of all time -was paralleled by the usually reliable Razzies. when "Titanic" failed to garner a single one of the shameful awards, not even a "Worst Actor in a Supporting Role" for Billy 
Zane. But that's a column for another day. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly those of The Observer. Contact Jack Watkins at watkins.25@nd.edu. 
Uma Thurman smolders In Quentin Tarantlno's "Pulp Fiction." The film was "Forrest Gump" ran away with a Best Picture Academy Award In 1995, as well passed over fur a Best Picture Award In 1995 In favor of "Forrest Gump." as Best Actor (Tom Hanks) and a slew of other awards and nominations. 
-
Thursday, April 3, 2003
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
MLB 
A-Rod hits his 300th ho1ner but Rangers fall to Angels 
Associated Pre•s 
ANAHEIM,· Calif. 
Alex Rodriguez became the youngest player to hit 300 homers. but the Anaheim Angels beat the Rangers 11-5 Wednesday behind home runs from Troy Glaus, Bra-d Fullmer and Darin Erstad. 
Rodriguez, 27 years. 249 days old, hit a three-run homer in the fifth inning oIT Ramon Ortiz ( l -0). his second of the season. The fastest to 300 had been Hall of Farner Jimmie Foxx at 27 years. 328 days. Foxx fin­ished his career with 534 homers. 
Bengie Molina had four RBIs and Ortiz improved to 10-1 against Texas despite giving up four runs and seven hits over five innings. John Thomson (0­
1) allowed six runs and 10 hits in 4 1-3 innings in his AL debut. 
Yankees 9, Blue Jays 7 
Erick Almonte homered and had three HBls in his first game as Derek Jeter's replacement, and New York finished a three­gams sweep. 
Almonte, recalled after Jeter dislocated his left shoulder in Monday's opener, .went 2-for-5 in his first major league start. 
Mike Mussina (1-0), given leads of 7-0 and 9-1, struck out eight and walked none in six innings but allowed four runs and seven hits. Juan Acevedo pitched the ninth for his first save as the Yankees opened with three straight road wins for the first time since 1942. 
Former NBA player Mark 
Hendrickson allowed runs and 10 hits in innings.  seven 1 2-3  
Twins 8, Tigers 1  

Jacque Jones hit a two-run homer and had four RBIs, and Joe Mays (l-0) gave up just two hits in five innings, improving to 8-0 in his last 10 starts against the Tigers. Detroit dropped to 0-2 under new man­ager Alan Trammell. 
Jeremy Bonderman, a 20­ycar-old right-hander making his first start above Class A, gave up six runs and nine hits over four innings with five strikeouts and one walk. 
Royals 5, White Sox 4 
Joe Randa broke a 3-3 tie with a two-run homer in the seventh off Rick White (0-1). and Kansas City improved to 2­0 for the first time in 24 years. 
Albie Lopez (1-0) gave up an RBI single in the eighth to Armando Rios, and rookie Mike MacDougal pitched the ninth for his second save. 
Raul Ibanez was 3-for-3 with two doubles and two RBIs for the Royals. Bartolo Colon, in his first start for the White Sox, allowed three runs, four hits and three walks in six innings. 

Indians 4, Orioles 2 
Cleveland won its first game under new manager Eric Wedge as Ellis Burks drove in two runs. 
Rookie Ricardo Rodriguez (1­
0) gave up one run and four hits in seven innings in his eighth career start. Omar Daal (0-1) allowed four runs and eight hits in 6 1-3 innings in his Orioles' debut. 

Red Sox 7, Devil Rays 5 
Jason Varitek hit a three-run horner and Derek Lowe (1-0). who no-hit the Devil Rays last April, shrugged off a shaky start and allowed five runs and six hits in six innings. Tampa Bay wasted a 3-0 lead. 
Chad Fox worked the ninth to earn his first save. Jim Parque (0-1) allowed seven runs, seven hits and five walks in five innings. 
Dodgers 5, Dlamonbacks 0 
Kevin Brown, in a perfor­mance that bodes well for the Los Angeles Dodgers, shut down the Arizona Diamondbacks on three hits in six-plus innings of a 5-0 victory Wednesday night. 
Shawn Green was 4-for-4 with a home run, two doubles and three RBIs as the Dodgers took two of three in the season­opening series between NL West squads. 
Both Los Angeles wins were shutouts. Brian Jordan homered for the 
second time in three games. 
Elmer Dessens (0-1), in his Arizona debut, allowed four runs on eight hits in five innings. 
The 38-year-old Brown (1-0) has been plagued by injuries the past two seasons, but had a strong spring and was in com­mand of the Diamondbacks from the start. 
Mets 4, Cubs 1 
Sammy Sosa just missed his 500th homer, and Al Leiter threw six sharp innings for New York. 
Leiter (1-0) gave the Mets the type of pitching performance they lacked in Tom Glavine's debut, a 15-2 drubbing in Monday's opener. Cliff Floyd and Roger Cedeno homered, giving manager Art Howe his first victory in a New York uni­form. 
The Mets won minus All-Star catcher Mike Piazza, who began serving his four-game suspension for charging Los Angeles reliever Guillermo Mota and going into the Dodgers' clubhouse looking for him in spring training. 
Sosa's long drive to left in the sixth could have tied it for the Cubs, but the wind helped keep the ball in play for a harmless out. 
Armando Benitez pitched the ninth for his first save. 
Matt Clement (0-1) tied a Cubs record by throwing three wild pitches in one inning. 
He was pulled after three innings because of tightness in his left lower back. 
Expos 3, Braves 0 
Zach Day and three relievers combined on a three-hitter, and Jose Vidro hit a two-run homer to lead Montreal. 
The vagabond Expos, who won't play in Montreal until April 22, have outscored the Braves 13-2 in the first two games at Turner Field. Atlanta is 0-2 for the first time in six years. 
Vidro hit a two-run shot in the first inning, sending rookie Braves starter Horacio Ramirez (0-1) to a hard-luck loss in his major league debut. 
Day (1-0), making just his third big league start, allowed three hits in seven innings. Atlanta got only one runner past second base. 
Rocky Biddle worked the ninth for his second career save. 
Phlllles 8, Marlins 2 
Randy Wolf (1-0) took a one­hitter into the seventh inning, Jim Thome had two more hits and Mike Lieberthal added a bases-loaded triple for Philadelphia. 
It was pretty similar to Monday's opener, when Kevin Millwood took a shutout into the sixth, Thome had three hits and David Bell added two sin­gles and scored three times in Philadelphia's 8-5 victory. 

Al 
Chicago White Sox RHP BIiiy Koch entered the game In the eighth Inning Wednesday In Kansas City. The Royals won, S-4. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar the Norre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edit all classifieds for concenr wirhout issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE 
1 bdrm apt. Leaving Town? We'll buy your car summer sublease 574-243-0000 at Turtle Creek,
FOR RENT WANTED PERSONALS 
Fully furnished, Dealmaker Auto Sales 
Price negotiable Oak Hill Condo. 52081 933 No. Nice4 BR 574-243-2621 Looking for off-campus Study Abroad with CEA So. Beno, IN near campus dboudon@nd.edu roommate tor next school year. 
England, Italy, Spain, France, not quite pertect todayCall Justin 2 BDRM House. FOUND Call Mike (4949) Australia. 288-9673 or AC, close to campus. immediately so i have to fill the blank space
220-5414 
INFUSION basketball if interested. Request a Free Catalog 269-699-5841 Calf 4-0876 www.GoWithCEA.com wifh insightful comments 
-
Thursday, April 3, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NHL 

Lemieux leaves Pittsburgh with game-winning assist 
since coming out of retirement tance himself enough from 15,718 clearly wanted to see The Canucks, 3-0-1 in four
Ai.sociatcd !'res• 
in December 2000. def'enseman Bret Hedican to Lemieux get a goal in the third games against the Coyotes, arc 
PITTSBURGH 'Tll sit down with the right get off' an uncontested shot period, cheering whenever he 4-2-1 in their last even games 
Mario Lemieux may have said people and .see where we want against Arturs lrbe. touched the puck and chanting, and also raised their franchise­goodbye the same way he said to go with the franchise," he It initially appeared as if "Let's Go, Penguins" and "One best road record to 23-10-7-1. hdlo. said. Lemieux may have scored the More Year." Danny Markov scored his first 
Lemieux set up Eric /\sked if he went into the game's first goal as he nearly But it was defenseman goal since Dec. 11 and Paul Meloche's game-winning goal game thinking it may be the got his stick on Meloche's shot Richard Lintner who tied it Mara had a goal for the with 10 1 seconds left in possi­last of a Hall of Fame career seven minutes in, but Meloche with 3:01 remaining, sweeping Coyotes, who are 0-5-1-1 in bly his final NI II. game, and the that began in 1984, Lemieux was credited with the first of in a rebound of Martin Struka's their last seven. Pittsburgh Penguins rallied for said, "Oh, yeah, I've been his two goals. backhander. Zigomanis had put Mara pulled Phoenix within two goals in the closing minutes thinking about it for a while." In a matchup of the NHL's Carolina ahead 2-1 with his 3-2 with 11 :28 to go when he to beat thll Carolina 11 urricanes That's why he said, "The tim­two worst teams, the second career goal and his first one-timed a rebound olT the left ]-2 on Wedn,\sday night. ing was perfect," in reference Hurricanes -0-7-2 in their career assist, on Craig post into the low slot past 
Lemieux has said for weeks to Meloche's goal, which may last nine games ~ assured MacDonald's first goal of the Cloutier. he may not play again next sea­have come on Lemieux's final themselves of finishing with the season, in a span of 1 :52 mid­Naslund's goal. Vancouver's s on, especially with the NIIL shift. Ile scored in Boston NHL's worst record. They have way through the second. third straight after trailing 1-0 J>1n1guins locked into a multi­on his very first shot in 1984, 61 points with two games MacDonald hadn't scored a early, came seconds after the ymir rebuilding mode. lie said and he had an assist on the remaining, while the Penguins goal since April 12, 2002, and Jt Coyotes had killed a two­Wednesday he won't play in first shift of his comeback game have 65 with one to play, and was only his second goal in 56 minute, two-man advantage. Pittsburgh's season finale .in against Toronto in 2000, when Pittsburgh owns the tiebreaker. games. Jan Hrdina, playing his sec­Washington on Saturday night. he ended a 44-month retire­"It's not like we were in 17th Meloche's second goal came ond game for Phoenix, fired 
"If this was my last game, I ment. place and then wound up here with Ryan Bayda otT for a four­wide on a short-handed break­wanted to finish here, in front However, he may have ended in 30th," Carolina coach Paul minute high-sticking penalty away. The puck bounced to of the fans here who have sup­his career with the longest Maurice said. "We've been bat­that came shortly after Todd Bertuzzi, who skated the ported me," Lemieux said. streak without a goal in his t!ing ..at the bottom for a long Lintner's tying goal. length of the ice as the dual "This !season! hasn't been career: nine games -or since time. "He put the puck right on my penalties expired and fed a much fun ... for the franchise or a March 8 goal against Ottawa. The Penguins, 2-16-2 in their stick," Meloche said. cross-ice pass to Naslund for myself It's been difficult." His previous longest streak was last 20 games, won for the first the goal. 
Lemieux owns the Penguins eight in 1996-97, his final sea­time in 11 home games to avoid Coyotes 3, Canucks 3 Naslund leads the NHL with and, even though another son before his retirement. tying a franchise record for Teppo Numminen scored 104 points, while Bertuzzi's retirement would hurt them at Lemieux had plenty of scor­longest home winless streak set with 2:01 remaining as the 51st assist raised his points thH turnstiles, he said he won't ing chances Wednesday, in 1983. Phoenix Coyotes rallied from a total to 97, fourth-best in the decide until this summer if he including one on a short break­Michael Zigomanis, with only two-goal deficit in the third league. will return for a fourth season away when he couldn't dis-one point in 16 previous NHL period and tied the Vancouver Markov gave Phoenix a 1-0 
games, scored once and assist­Canucks 3-3 on Wednesday lead at 10:45 of the first period, 
ed on another goal in a two­night. bouncing a hard, knuckling 
minute span of the second peri­Numminen tied it after he shot from the right point off the 
od, but the Hurricanes couldn't gained control of the puck at crossbar. 
hold the 2-1 lead. the top left side of the crease Linden tied it at the 15­
Lemieux briefly left the ice and slipped a soft wrist shot minute mark of the period
Y©UR 
late in the second after Brad past Dan Cloutier. when he beat Brian Boucher DeFauw's stick caught him Markus Naslund scored his from the right faceoff circle for
NEXT SICK 
flush in the face along the league-leading 48th goal, and his 19th goal. 
boards. But Lemieux was back Trevor Linden and Sarni Salo Salo fired a sharp wrister 
on the ice for the power play also scored for the Canucks, from the right faccoff circle 
resulting from the high-sticking who moved three points in over Boucher's right shoulder 
penalty. front of Colorado for the at 3:51 of the second to put tlw 
D~~ IS
.ILJL~ 3 
The near-sellout crowd of Northwest Division lead. Canucks ahead 2-1.
VVVVW. L=LLAPAL==ZA.C=/V\ 
THE 
STRING CHEESE INCIDENT
Friends and Brothers in 
-~ 

HolyCross · 

www.nd.edu/""vocation 
ANSWER ~ rnECALL W 


.... 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 3, 2003 
NBA 
As peanut flies at official, Hornets clinch playoff berth 
New Orleans, which led by as son-low six games under .500.
Associated Press 
much as 22, saw the Nets cut the Washington fell two games 
NEW ORLEANS lead to nine on a jumper by behind Milwaukee, which beat 
The Hornets did something in Kittles with 2:45 remaining. Houston 106-99. in the race for their first year in New Orleans Jefferson's layup with 1:57 left the eighth Eastern Conference that the Jazz didn't do for the pulled New Jersey within 98-91. playoff spot. The Wizards play at city in five years: make the play­The Nets did not score again Atlanta on Thursday. offs. until Collins hit a free throw with "We've got to go to Atlanta and 
The Hornets, who moved to 38 seconds left. win," coach Doug Collins said. New Orleans from Charlotte "We were just trying to fight to "Nothing else matters." after last season, locked up their geL back in it," Jefferson said. The Kings, playing their third fourth straight playoff berth "We were without Kenyon game in four days, were up by Wednesday night with an assist Martin, who is our best rebound­22 in the third quarter before from the Sacramento Kings. er. The guys were a little letting up in the fourth. The 
Jamal Mashburn scored 24 fatigued.·· Wizards cut the lead to five on points, Baron DavL-; and George In the third quarter, tempers Jordan's tough baseline jumper Lynch each added 19 as the flared. An elderly couple was with 2:20 to play, and they twice Hornets beat the New Jersey tossed out of the game after the pulled within four. Nets 106-97. The victory. along woman threw a peanut at an But Webber quieted the crowd with Sacramento's 105-99 win official who called a foul on with a 20-foot jumper, and the against the Washington Wizards, Lynch. A few minutes later, a Wizards didn't have enough time advanced the Hornets to the shoving match under the Nets' left to catch up -especially playoffs. basket between Magloire and after Kwame Brown missed 
"This was a key win tonight," Brian Scalabrine drew both three of four free throws in the Hornets coach Paul Silas said. teams and both coaches onto the final 70 seconds. The Kings went "Not just because we clinched a floor before officials restored 4-for-4 from the free-throw line playoff berth, but because we order. in the final minute. might meet this team in the play­"They're tough to beat," offs." Kings 105, Wizards 99 Stackhouse said. "But we did 
The Jazz. which played in New For three quarters, the have a valiant effort." Orleans from 1974-79, never Sacramento Kings looked play­made the playoffs while in the off-ready. Spurs 105, Grizzlies 87 city. That's all they needed to beat As if the Memphis Grizzlies 
The victory might have been the Washington Wizards, who weren't already aware of it, Tim 
costly, however. Davis, who took another step toward the Duncan showed them why he is returned to the lineup March 11 NBA lottery. one of the NBA's best players. after missing 20 games following Chris Webber torched his old Duncan scored 33 points and won their seventh straight game. stretch. surgery on his left knee, twisted team again for 28 points. nine grabbed 19 rebounds Memphis, meanwhile. is in a tail­Reserve Malik Rose added 18 the knee and left the game late rebounds and six assists as the Wednesday night, leading an spin, losing seven of its last eight. points for San Antonio. in the third quarter. Silas said Kings took control in the second inside dominance by San Antonio The Grizzlies seemed to have Lorenzen Wright led Memphis after the game it was too early to quarter and held on for a 105-99 as the Spurs defeated the little answer for Duncan inside, with 24 points, but the rest of the know how bad Davis' injury was. victory Wednesday night. Grizzlies 105-87. and when point guard Tony frontline had little punch. 
Mashburn, who had just two Sacramento, four games into a "They just whipped us and Parker added 10 of his 16 points Leading scorer Pau Gasol scored points in the first quarter. and six-game road trip, nearly blew dominated the boards," said in the third period, San Antonio five points and had five rebounds Lynch, who had only seven a 19-point fourth-quarter lead. Memphis coach Hubie Brown. continued to build the lead. before fouling out, and Mike points in the first half, picked up The victory reduced its magic "Then their key guy gave you an Six minutes into the final peri­Miller, still suffering from back the slack. number to one to win the Pacific MVP game." od, the Spurs led by 20 and spasms, had seven. The Grizzlies 
"We've still got a long way to Division. Duncan connected on 13 of 16 eventually would hold a 21-point were outscored 50-38 in the go as far as seeding is con­"We got a bit tired," coach shots from the field as the Spurs advantage twice down the paint and out rebounded 49-35. cerned," Mashburn said. Rick Adelman said. "Four games 
Jamaal Magloire scored 17 for in five nights. It's another good the Hornets and grabbed 16 lesson. They got really aggres­rebounds, and reserve Robert sive and physical. and we have 
r 
Pack added 10. to respond to that." 
"It takes some pressure off us," Jerry Stackhouse scored 27 Lynch said. "But we can't look at points for Washington. Michael it like that. We've got to try to Jordan, playing almost nonstop improve each game now." in his bid to get to the playoffs 
Richard Jefferson led the Nets one last time, scored 17 points with 24 points, Kerry Kittles and played 33 of the game's first added 19, Jason Kidd had 17 34 minutes and 42 minutes in points and 13 assists, Rodney all. The Wizards, back from Rogers 16 points and Jason going 2-4 on a two-week West Collins 10. Coast road trip, sank to a sea-

Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 ,'> Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, ~-7819 • Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 , John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 ; · Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 }, Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 South Bend Community Resources: . Women's Care Center: 234-0363 . Catholic Charities: 234-3111  


-
AROUND THE NATION 
Thursday, April 3, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 17 
:.)?i:f~:::\/•;:;:::;::t/
NHL>: .•,:&A/;;::;;t,;::~:!:} Eastern Conferen~~;f.\jl~~t:l~ 
,;,;rt6h•: 
team 
New Jersey Philadelphia 
NY lahunlers 
NY Ra1111ers Pittsburgh 
Eastern Conference,;.;No·.·.·.. '.:_:..• ·•·•:•••••·;:glj1,::;i
rth.: ....
•.·.•·.·•. •:·.···••.•P:.•.·.·••.~··.:.•~.i_;;.:·:·•·.•.~.;.·~
tuam re,co~q;g ~. 
Ottawa · 50-Z1~1J-lt 1at· • 
Toro11tu . •a~2144D< ~6 )· 
:uf:al !:1£l:;r~(ii!.:i!li;!:~;~:1lt::1t1i!!J~i• 
~=:~m Confe:::,i~,it::;f~l!i~ 
ift~· ~If!!~II 
Western Conferenc.Q,;t;~11,it~!• 
P!;;f~g!Iii 
t~am 
Detroit 
St Louis 
Chicago Hashvllle Columbus 
~iii¦¦ 
~:~r~:~ ··i;:!~~r~,••·•••••••·•••••·•••••1:i11ii::::1:1::;:;1:::1111~1i:::1:i 
Western Conference,.·.Pa~1~i••o1~ilt~~'.:••· 
team retc,td > P'@}i l~~J:q· Dallas 444'M!Hf ••101< • !~t~fui t 
~~!::r?181 iEHJ> > i: i1i~1i:i< 
Saa Jose 2a.-3Ni·8 •·•· 70 ····· ···•· 34.Jf.J 
Big 
team Connecticut 
SI. John's 
NOTRE DAME Virginia Teen Boslon Collegi, West Virginia 
Rutgers Pittsburgh 
Seton Hall Villanova 
Georgetown 
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
NIT CHAMPIONSHIP GAME Georgetown vs. St. John's 8 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 
Wizards at Hawks 7 p.m., TNT Lakers at Mavericks 9:30 p.m., TNT 
MLB 
Cubs at Mets 1 p.m., ESPN White Sox at Royals 2 p.m., Fox Sports 
NBA 

the same team are games in a season. The Division championship in
Associated Press 
Chicago's Jerry Krause, Hawks are 29-45 this sea· 1994. 
ATLANTA Indiana's Donnie Walsh son, virtually eliminated But Babcock's teams 
Pete Babcock knew his and Elgin Baylor of the Los from the Eastern never got past the second days were numbered as Angeles Clippers. Conference playoff race round of the playoffs, and the Atlanta Hawks stag­'.'I really feel fortunate to with eight games remain­he was criticized for fail­gered toward their fourth be here that long," ing. ing to improve the tfrnm straight losing season. Babcock said. "Usually., "It's been four years now through the draft. The 
Babcock was fired by the you get about four or five that we've been out of the first-round flops included Hawks on Wednesday, years in this job." playoffs and it's just not Doug Edwards, Ed Gray ending the fourth-longest Babcock outlasted four acceptable for us," team and Priest Lauderdale. tenure of any general coaches (Mike Fratello, president Stan Kasten Babcock said his biggest manager in the NBA. Bob Weiss, Lenny Wilkens said. "It's time now to turn mistake was the 1999 
"It's not like this is a and Lon Kruger) but the reins over to someone trade that sent Steve shock," Babcock said. couldn't survive an ill­else to begin a new plan, Smith to Portland for "There's no gray area in fated attempt to build a to try something else." Isaiah Rider and Jim this business. It's all about younger, faster team after The Hawks made the Jackson. Rider didn't even wins and losses." the Hawks were swept by playoffs in eight of make it through one sea­
Babcock had been with the New York Knicks in Babcock's first nine full son with the Hawks, who the Hawks since February the 1999 playoffs. seasons, reaching 50 vic­released him for repeated­1990. The only GMs who Since then, Atlanta tories three times and ly showing up late for have longer tenures with hasn't won more than 33 winning the Central games and practices. 
IN BRIEF 
Trial begins for Kirby But prosecutor Alan Harris told third inning of the game in Puckett jurors that the woman's story is Clearwater, Fla., on March 26. 
A jury began deliberations supported by testimony from Bowa yelled at the pitcher an Wednesday in the trial of Kirby others and physical evidence, inning later and was ejected .. Puckett, accused of dragging a which should lead them to con­Both benches emptied. but no woman into a restaurant bath­clude that Puckett is guilty. punches were thrown. Bowa had room and assaulting her. Puckett, 43, is charged with to be restrained by several peo• 
Jurors deliberated for about 5 felony false imprisonment and pie. 1/2 hours without reaching a criminal sexual conduct and • 
• 
verdict. Hennepin County District assault. both misdemeanors. Pacers center misses game Judge Stephen Swanson with ankle injury sequestered them at a hotel for Phillies' manager Bowa sus­Indiana Pacers center the night, and they were sched­pended one game Jermaine O'Neal missed 
uled to reconvene Thursday Philadelphia manager Larry Wednesday night's game against morning. Bowa was suspended for one the Cleveland Cavaliers with a 
Puckett's attorney told the jury game and fined Wednesday for sprained right ankle. Wednesday that the state failed inciting the benches to clear dur­O'Neal. the Pacers' leading to prove the charges against the ing a spring training game scorer, rebounder and shot Hall of Farner and former against Toronto. blocker. has been playing on a Minnesota Twins slugger. Bob Watson, baseball's vice sore ankle since spraining it 
"What happened was real sim­president of discipline, early last month on a West Coast ple -she wanted to go into the announced the penalty before trip. restroom. He took her into the the Phillies played Florida on "It's kind of been dragging on restroom. It might not have been Wednesday night. Bowa is to for a while." coach Isiah Thomas 
the wisest choice, but it was real miss Thursday's series finale. said. "If he could play, he would simple," attorney Todd Jones Angry that Toronto's Roy play. It's not him saying that he said. Halladay hit Jim Thome in the needs a break." 
-
page 18 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 3, 2003


This Sunday at the 11 :45am Mass in the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart, we will celebrate the Rite ofReception into Full Communion. At this liturgy, Candidates for Full Communion will complete their initiation into the Catholic Church by receiving the Sacraments ofConfinnation and Eucharist. Please keep them in your prayers and help tts to welcome them into our Catholic community. 

j,:""~,-.'··1,J.1'
, -, "' 
, _, 
Campus Ministry 

Juliie DaYlis OJ Farley, senior 
Katilyn Dudley, sponsor 

Leslie Lockett in..J South Bend, Grad student 
Carrie Mieske, sponsor 

Susan Schaab HJ South Bend, senior 
Jason Sullivan, sponsor 
Matthew Barr O'Neill, senior -Elizabeth Sauer, sponsor 

~Hiiam K.urtz 
Knott, freshman 
Mary Blazewicz, sponsor 

Diiane Meyers h,J Lewis, Law student 
Megan Dalsaso, sponsor 

1\'lLegan Thomas (n) Lewis, senior 
Kelly Rich, sponsor 
Steve Bushlko South Bend 
Katie Garza, sponsor 

Lamrellll Fowler (L) PE, junior 
Liz Stedman, sponsor 

Dawiid Mosley Goshen 
Angela Kim, sponsor 

Kelley ,~ll1l. Buskirk 
South Bend, Grad Student 
Nei/Dhingra, sponsor 
-

Thursday, April 3, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Hornets fail to sting Belles 
catcher Susan Kutz knocked two dou­
By PAT LEONARD 
bles. 
Sports Wmer 
Four runs in the top of the ninth sealed the win for the Belles. Sajewich received The Saint Mary's softball team did not a win in relief. blow out Kalamazoo -both games went 
In the second game. the Belles strug­extra innings in a pair of pitching duels. 
gled at the plate. Still, that was more Nevertheless, the Belles got it done on 
than Kalamazoo could do. GraII pitchedthe road to open their MIM schedule, a 
no-hitter through six innings, before 
winning two close games in nine innings giving up one run in the seventh, which by srorrs of' 5-1 and 2-1, rospoctively. 
ended a tremendous performance by the Saint Mary's (12-6-1, 2-0 MlM) did not freshman. 
make the statement head coach Anna 
"They're hitters simply came around,"Welsh had anticipat11d. but the Belles still 
Welsh said. "Bridget pitched a great
got out of Wednesday with two wins that 
game."
nasily could have berm two losses. 
The score remained at 1-1 until the
"It was good to get our first games in Belles batted .in the bottom of the ninthconference under our belt, to see what inning, because doubleheader rules statethe confernnce will be like," Welsh said. 
that the home team hats in the top of the"And we haven't played for a week and a 
innings in the second game. Junior
hall'. So it was good to come off with two Marnie Walsh singled to lead off the bot­victories." 
tom of the ninth. After stealing secondWelsh definitely was not disappointed 
base, Walsh reached third base on awith thP pitching. In the first game, 
fielder's choice. That brought up fresh­junior Libby Wilhelmy started and threw 
man Meghan Marcnkowic. The third
six scoreless innings for the Belles. Alter 
baseman grounded hard to third, but
Saint Mary's scored a run in the sixth, 
Walsh scored her second run of the
Welsh inserted freshman Kate Sajewich game on a fielder's choice, ending theto close it out. but the llorncts scored a game in favor of the Belles. Marenkowicrun in the seventh -and what would 
had both RBl's.
havl' been the final -inning to send it to Libby Wilhemy pitched the rest of the
the eighth. way after Grall went out and got the win.
Welsh said the Belles held H together in extra innings due to clutch defense. "The way these games happened, we 
"We did not play as well as we would learned so much today," Welsh said. "We have liked to," she said. "We got some made a few mistakes. You learn a lot clutch defense out there. But, then again, from losses, but you learn from wins as­if you score more runs, then you don't well. In conference play you step it up to need clutch defense in the seventh a different level. I'm not sure how well Iinning]." we did that today, but we're definitely 
Saint Mary's also got key hits when happy with two wins." they needed them, even if they came late. Freshmen Bridget Grall and Jackie Contact Pat Leonard at Zurcher each recorded two hits. Senior pleonard@nd.edu 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
UCLA hires Pitt's Howland 
televised replays of the games was spe­
Associated Press 
cial for me," Howland said in a state­ment. "To now be the head coach of this LOS ANGELES program is something I dreamed about Ben Howland, a Southern California but never thought possible. 1 have an native who led Pittsburgh to the round appreciation for what these four lettors of 16 in the NCAA tournament for the mean in the world of college basketball." second straight year, was hired as The day Lavin was fired. 1lowland said UCLA's coach late Wednesday night. he had no plans to leave Pitt, but every­
Ilowland will be formally introduced thing changed once the Panthers were on campus Thursday, athletic director eliminated by Marquette 77-74 in the Dan Guerrero said. third round of the NCAA tournament. 
"Ben Howland is an outstanding bas­"I want to make it clear how hard it ketball coach, one of the best in the was for me to leave the University of entire country, and he is the man we Pittsburgh," Howland said. "I can't want to run our program," Guerrero imagine myself leaving Pittsburgh for said in a statement. "He has built win­anywhere except UCIA." ning programs throughout his career Howland met with Guerrero and asso­
and we expect that he will return UCLA ciate athletic director Betsy Stephenson basketball to the nation's elite." on Sunday in Santa Barbara. !lowland's 
Howland, 45. becomes the eighth parents Iivo there. 100 miles from Los coach at UCLA since John Wooden Angeles. retired in 1975 after leading the Bruins Howland was an assistant at UC Santa to 10 national championships in a 12-Barbara for 11 seasons before taking year span. the Northern Arizona job in 1994. 
Howland replaces Steve Lavin, who Howland just completed the first year was fired March 17 after the Bruins of a seven-year, $5.9 million contract at went 10-19 for their first losing season Pittsburgh that included incentives and in 55 years. a buyout of about $750,000. 
Howland led Pitt from Big East door­Lavin, who had five years remaining mat to national championship contender on his contract, will receive a buyout of after his hiring in 1999. He has a 168-99 one year at his full salary of $578,000, record in nine years as a head coach -and four years at the base salary of' five at Northern Arizona and the last $153,000. four at Pitt. Lavin's firing had been anticipated for 
The Panthers went 28-5 this season, months by everyone, including the 38­and they finished No. 4 in the final year-old coach. Associated Press poll that came out He went 145-78 in seven years and before the NCAA tournament. took the Bruins to the round of 16 of the 
Howland said the UCIA job is the only NCAA tournament five times in six one that could have convinced him to years, a feat matched only by Duke leave his current one. coach Mike Krzyzewski. 
"Having grown up in Southern Lavin's teams won at least 20 games California as a Bruin fan, watching the every season except this one. 

Thursday, April 3, 2003 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
BASEBALL 
Irish getting offensive as Big East looms 
The Irish offense has scored a lot of runs latelv. How many different ways can iL be said? 
After a slow start. Notre Dame's offense is back. And not only are they back, they're dominating. 
It's not that hard to notice, either. With its home-opening seven­game set completed, one look at the statis­tics can tell you that. 
In the seven games, the Irish batted .371, 
Bryan Kronk
hit 26 extra-base hits, scored 7 5 runs. stole 11 bases and totaled 
Senior Staff
89 hits overall. 
Writer
On the flipside of this, the Notre Dame pitching staff finished with a 7-0 record and a 2 .80 earned run average, holding its opponents io a .223 batting average, striking out 70 while walking only 24. 
They are a more complete team than the one that took the field against Dayton on Feb. 21, and the results prove it: after starting the season 3-4, the Irish current­ly stand at 18-6, and more importantly, 5-1 in the Big East. 
They are a fluke game-winning single by Villanova on March 23 away from being 19-5 and 6-0. 
Fluke losses notwithstanding, the Irish are a team to be reckoned with. 
"I really think we've gotten better in every phase of the game," Notre Dame coach Paul Mainieri said after Wednesday's victory. "Baseball I think is the kind of sport that you just need to play a lot in order to get the timing down and get the confidence, because the con­fidence comes f.rom being comfortable and your experiences. You're seeing the ball better; your reactions are better on the bases. Every aspect of the game, the more you play. the better you get." 
This resurgence is personified in sopho­more shortstop Matt Macri. Heading into the homestand, Macri was batting a dis­mal .207 (13-for-61). But because he is getting experience in a real setting against regional (i.e. not as good) oppo­nents, he has improved his average to .271 heading into this weekend. 
"I get the sense that Matt Macri is real­ly starting to come around these last few days," Mainieri said Wednesday night. "He's looking more and more confident at the plate. The more he plays, I feel like the better he's hitting. Tonight I thought 
ft-----------­
' WANNA PUT 
MONEY 
IN YOUR POCKET 
SOFIA BALLON/The Observer Freshman Steve Andres launches a three-run home run In the bottom of the second Inning of Notre Dame's 13-4 victory over Valparaiso Wednesday. The much-Improved lrlsh offense will be tested this weekend at Boston College and St. John's. 
he hit the ball really hard, and if he could really get it going, it would be a real shot in the arm to make us that much better." 
According to Mainieri's theory, Macri mdfuere~~fue~~h"em~e~~ strides since that 10-9 win over the Flyers in Arizona 41 days ago. 
We will see exactly how huge those strides were when the Irish take on Big East powerhouses Boston College and St. John's on the road this weekend. 
Mainieri feels they're up for the chal­lenge, and with the results produced over the past 8 days, who can argue with him? 
"Only time will tell [how the Irish bat­ters will fare against Big East pitching on the road]," Mainieri said. "We'll have to see when they're in there against the Big East pitchers. I feel really confident that they're going to be able to handle it. These kids are getting better; I don't care who we're facing. They've got 24 games under their belts. After you've been out there for a while, their confidence grows. We have the talent, so time will tell." 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessar­ily those of The Observer. Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu. 
Valpo 
continued from page 24 
out, launched a three-run home run -Noire Dame's first in 13 games -in the bottom of the second to put the Irish ahead for good at 3-1. 
"I felt pretty confident we weren't going to go the whole year at home and not hit a home run," Mainieri said. "I knew sooner or later we'd hit one." 
Run-scoring singles by Greg Lopez and Matt Edwards increased that lead to 5-1 to close out the scoring in the sec­ond. · 
The Irish notched two more runs on the board in the fourth, when Steve Sollmann knocked in Craig Cooper. who reached third after a leadoff triple. After Sollmann was caught stealing second, Edwards fired a shot to left. which cleared the fences and gave the Irish a 7-1 lead. 
Notre Dame put up another five runs in the fifth inning. Matt Macri's double knocked in Javi Sanchez, knocking Valparaiso's starting pitcher out of the game. 
The onslaught continued, however, as Andres knocked in another run with a single and SoHmann drove in two runs with a towering triple to right­center. A groundout by Lopez knocked Sollmann in to put the Irish ahead 12-1. 
A sacrifice ny by Cody Rizzo drove in Notre Dame's 13th run, and the relief pitchers held the Crusaders to three runs (two in the seventh off Wilkins and one in the ninth off Gagne) to close out a perfect home stand. 
Now the Irish travel to the east coast for a four-game weekend series against Boston College and St. John's, marking a key Big East road trip against some tough competition. 
"This coming weekend, the level of competition is upgrad­ed," Mainieri said. " ... Not only are the teams good, but we're playing them on the road. With Big East conference games, our history of our program is that our Irish teams have always accepted those kinds of chal­lenges on the road and come through in the clutch. So that's the challenge we have ahead of us." 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu. 
PLATe's 
15918 Orape Road 
(::LOSE r 
bulil,11 Ridge Plaaa M'.lalh&W&lra, tJf 114.3-9100 

Thursday, April 3, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles' -winning streak snapped in 5-4 loss to Hornets 
By LISA REIJULA Spom W ritcr  Jeannie Knish faced a tough opponent in Kalamazoo's Meaghan Clark, the 21st-ranked  senior Elisa Ryan also won for the Belles, beating Jessamyn Margoni 6-1, 6-3. .  the Cutler/Ryan duo dispatched Hoorn and Davis 6-1. 6-3. However, the Hornets pre­ believe we can beat them." With the loss, the Belles now hold a record of 9-2 on the sea­ 
player in the nation in Division  The No.6 singles match was a  vailed in the No.  3 doubles  son. They fell to .500 in the  
Tim Saint Mary's tennis team's  III women's tennis. Clark won  tight,  evenly­ match.  MIAA conference with  a  1-l  
imprnssive winning streak came to an end Wednesday against Kalamazoo College in a hard­ the match by a 6-3, 6-1 score. The Hornets also won at the No.2 t1ighl. as Kara Hoorn beat  matched contest. Kalamazoo's Kristin Hirth  "When you 're winning a lot, sometimes you for_qet  Margoni and Catharine Smith won  record. The match against Kalamazoo was the first loss for the Helles in the conference in  
fought 5-4 loss.  Belles  freshman  Kristen  edged out Saint  what it feels like to lose. "  over  Saint  two years.  
Before Wednesday's defeat,  Palombo 6-2, 6-3. Cutler notched  Mary's Angela  Mary's  "It's only our second confer•  
thu Belles had won nine straight matches. The lone blemish on their rl'cord was a 6-3 loss in the  the first win for Saint Mary's with a 6-2, 6-3 defeat of Caitlin Kelly at No. 3 singles.  Sandner, win­ning 7-5, 7-5. In doubles  Kaitlin Cutler Tennis co-captain  Spriggle and freshman Lindsay  ence match," said Cutler. "We'll get back on track after the loss. It could be a good thing for us."  
spring season  opener to  St.  The Belles won two more sin­ play, the Hornets  Cook  in  a  The Saint Mary's team will  
Cloud State on March 10.  gles matches for the afternoon.  took two out of  close 7-6 (4),  look to rebound against Adrian  
''When you're winning a lot,  Kris  Spriggle  downed  three  matches  7-5 match.  College on the road in another  
sometimes you forget what it  Kalamazoo's Elizabeth Davis 6­ from the Belles. At the No.1 slot,  "All the matches were really  MIAA  conference  match  
feels like to lose," said junior co­ 2, 6-1  at the No.4 match up.  Kalamazoo's team of Kelly and  close," said Cutler. "The girls  Saturday.  
captain Kaitlin Cutler. "I think  With  lhe  victory,  Spriggle  Clark  defeated  Knish  and  who lost feel like it could have  
this will hr. motivation for us."  brought her singles record to a  Palombo 6-1, 3-6, 6-2. The  gone either way. We play them  Contact Lisa Rcijula at  
At No. 1 singles, Saint Mary's  perfect 10-0. At the No. 5 spot,  Belles won at No. 2 doubles. as  again in conference and  we  lrcijula@nd.edu  

Indiana University to contend with the unranked Hoosiers.
Tennis
Here in McGlinn, the food is free, and so are the smiles ... 
After today's contest, the Irish continued from page 24 will have some time to prepare
(We can't guarantee anything else) 
for their last regular-season 
. ,:~. .~L: 
~ ~ ',, ., .. 
MEAL OF NATIONS 
~-,1 ?i: 
is Sunday, April 6 at 5 :30pm. Trust us, this is something you DON'T want to miss! 
and Eva Choe 8-4. 
Then Sarah Jane Connelly and freshman Kristina Stastny, play­ing for only the third time together, won their third straight dou­bles match as they topped Eklov and Knue 8-4. 
competition -a road bout with No. 19 Miami. "Everyone's "/ think everyone is a little bit 
tired, but we
really looking forward to 
only have one
ending this road trip on a more match good note." before time 
off," Cunha said. "I think 
Katie Cunha 
everyone is 
senior really looking forward to ending this 
road trip on a good note." 
Th<' Irish wrap up what has been a busy two-week period of Contact Joe Lindsley at Join us in the McGlinn "24" for a variety of foods from different 
play today when they head to jlindslc@nd.edu nations, cooked especially for YOU by the shamrocks!! 
Sign up for Leadership Institute 
LI-Saturday, April 5 -Notre Dame Room LaFortune Student Center "You Ought To Be In Pictures" 
Emerging Leaders: Star Search ... Leaders On the Rise .... (based in part on 'Leading From Within' by Nancy Huber) 
8:30 am -2:00 pm 
* Teambuilding * Understanding of Self 
* 
Building Trust & Community 

* 
Personal Philosophy on Leadership 


Advanced Leaders: And the Envelope Please ..... 
e 
(built around the 'Leadership Challenge' by Kouzes & Posner) 
Lunch Special
3:00 pm -7:00 pm Mondav 
~epper Steak 
* Setting a Vision * Motivating Others 
Sweet & Sour Chicken 
* Conflict Resolution * Transitions & Change 
1i d GeneralTso's Chicken 
ues 8lhicken Mixed Vegetable Sweet &Sour Chicken Leadership Institute will give you a head start 
* Multiculturalism 
d General Tso's Chicken
WedneS ay
on preparing to lead your student group. 
Cashew Shrimp Sweet &. Sour Chicken
Sign up on the Student Activities Office Website. 
d General Tso's Chicken
Th
UrS 8V
Beef with Broccoh Registration closes April 4th at 5:00 pm. 
Sweet & Sour Chicken 
• General Tso·s Chicken
Food will be provided. 
Fndav 
Shrimp with Vegetable Sweet &. Sour Chicken 
General Tso's Chicken 
1Mylanta! Celestial Cait cumpleanos 
L------.J 
$ 4.50 including tax 
We Deliver Lunch Free For Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's 
Students/Faculty/Staff 
Lunch Special Still Includes r-riend Rice, 2 Eggrolls 
you have to order 1 hour ahead 
Min. Delivery $15 
Tel. 574-271-0125 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 3, 2003 
ND SOFTBALL 
Loyola comes to Ivy as Irish look for home victories 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Associace Sports Editor 
After dropping a doubleheader to Northwestern in the home opener March 26, Notre Dame looks to win its first home game this year in hosting Loyola Chicago in a doubleheader this afternoon. 
"We just had our games against Purdue {Tuesday]. Those were great," second baseman A I e x i s Madrid said. 
son last weekend, being able to establish a flow to the season has been challenging so far for the Irish. 
"It has been difficult, even with games in warmer climates," Madrid said. "We know coming to Notre Dame, that is something that goes along with the sport. for us knowing that, we are mentally prepared for that. We have to take advantage of when we can play." 
Entering Wednesday's game 
against 
Wisconsin 
"It has been "For us to go in there and Green-Bay, tough with Loyola stood at
have all three aspects of
the weather 15-9 on the sea­
the game work well 
[and then to son and winners play] Purdue, together was great. " of five of its past 
those two six. The only games were common oppo­
Alexis Madrid
a good push nent on Notre for us." second baseman Dame's and 
The Irish (12-11) got back on the plus side of .500 in sweeping a doubleheader at Purdue Tuesday. A combination of 18 hits and three home runs in the two games ignited the Irish offense for seven runs in each game. That offensive pro­duction. along with just being able to play, gives the team con­fidence heading into today's games against the Ramblers. 
"It helped us a lot, especially a lot with the Big East games can­celled," Madrid said. "Purdue is a great team, and for us to go in there and have all three aspects of the game work well together was great." 
With inclement weather can­celing or postponing nine games thus far this season, including the opening of the Big East sea­Loyola's sched­
ules is Purdue. While the Irish swept the Boilermakers in a doubleheader Tuesday, the Ramblers were run-ruled 8-0 in a six-inning game March 22. 
Just like they have done in every game, the Irish are con­centrating on playing a complete game against the Ramblers. 
''Loyola is a great team and we need to take the same approach we have in other games, Madrid said, "[Our approach has been] putting hits together ­which we have been doing in the last couple games -our pitch­ers knowing the batters, and then the defense. which has been solid." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

Buy or Sell your Home with aGrad from the Dome 
Call ~faria Cardle 
360-3334 
CRESSY and EVERETT/GMAC Realty Office 2J3-6141 
International Festival Schedule of Events 
Thursday, April 3 
11 :00-4:00pm, Sorin Room 1st Floor, LaFortune Student Center 
Cultural Displays and Demonstrations 
3:30-5:00pm, University Village Community Center. Children's Day: Children's crafts, songs games and refreshments from around the world 
6:00-8:00pm, Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium. African Dance 
Troupe and Cultural Displays. The African Student Association presents an evening 
of entertainment and insights 
8:00pm, Center for Social Concerns Cafe. French Coffee House, Acoustic French with Fabien Feron, Cyril LeSage and friends 
Friday, Aprtl 4 
11 :00-4:00pm, Sorin Room 1st Floor, LaFortune Student Center 
Cultural Displays and Demonstrations 
2:00-4:00pm, University Village Community Center. Children's Day: Children's crafts, 
songs games and refreshments from around the world 
4:00-5:00pm, Montgomery Theatre, 1st Floor, LaFortune Student Center 
World Literature Readings II, International students and scholars reading poetry, 
lyrics and other literary selections in their native language 
5:00pm, Rolf's Sport Center. International Sports Tournament, Sign-up throughout the week to participate with a team or individual play for soccer, badminton and table 
tennis. Stop by the ISSA or write Rodrigo Medrano, Medrano.1 @nd.edu 
Saturday, Aprtl 5 6:00-9:00pm, South Dining Hall. Festival Finale: Tranquility Fest, Cultural displays and hands-on demonstrations that promote peace, calm and understanding! Sponsored by ISSA and SUB! 
International Student Services & Activities. 631-3825. 204 LaFortune Center. For more info, please refer to: www.nd.edu/-lSSA/international_Festival_calendar.html 
ECDC Registration 
Th~ E:11:ly Childhood Development Center (ECDC) is rn1TL'11tly registenng kmdergarten age children frir the 2003-0-i School Year. 2003 Summer Day Camp registration for children ages 2.-i-lO will occur in early March. 2003-04 School Ye:1r n::gi.~tr:tti;m of preschool age children will take pbce in t'arly April. For more information :ind ECDC Parent Meeting & Tour dates. please call one of till' numbers below. 

Thursday, April 4, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN 

JACK MONAHAN 
Try a Smooth Operator~ Yo1)'re right, the&e are fan. cigarett&-lt'a tM only tatlc! rrn going to tak• a pack ooe with a rich flavor home to my pregnant wife! 
that 9000 down aasy, /
steadying your nerve£. AltabOy-get junior Tboy're so good, atamid as SO()n I smolle two at a time! as fl0$Sible! 
\ . . _.\ 
. _•... ·, 
SCHOOL DAZE 
HAPPY TOWN 
Boy, I've got a splitting headache! 
I 
I got •omethln' for what ails you, my friend. 
\ 
r:t.. 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these lour Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ROFAL 
I 
I I 
4:e002 Tiiburi• Meche Service-a, !nc:. 
Afl Rights Reserved 
INVEX 
I (J b 

Sorry~ 
'NI--EN J.JNIOR DIDNT DO 11-E 0151-e;, IT" U:Fr 
....
1vOM L-!Kf: n-us. 
www.jurnble.oom
t
HURSTH Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by !he above cartoonIJ I I I I 
Answer here: 

rIIIIXJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 
BEFOG PRIZE VELVET FALLOW 
Answer: What the customers considered her wrapping skills -A REAL "GIFT" Yesterday's I Jumbles: 
WILLSHORTZ 

Punle by Pala< SaMU 
31 Northumberland 39 Certain jazz 49 Fool river combo 50 Having the most points
34 Palindromic 40 Al Capp's Daisy guy's name 51 Copper 
35 Gloom -43 Salon job 54 Galley workers 36 Accusatory 
45 Abhor 55 Arctic sightquestion 56 Lunar effect 
48 Like some pools
37 Play solitaire, 57 Unheedful
perhaps 47 Complained slightly 58 Food container
38 Helhsh 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more tnan 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimas.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIIS DAY: Alec Baldwin, Jenmc Garth, Marlon Brando, Eddie Murphy 
Happy Birthday: Make sure that you are seeing things clearly before you take action. Get involved in organizations that can offer you experience, excitement and mental stimulation. Idle time will be your worst enemy. Your nwnbers are I0, 13. 21.33, 35. 42 
ARIF..S (March 21-April 19): Don~ overspend because you have lx.>en too pushy with loved ones or fiiends and want to make it up to them Use your ingenuity and you can come up with better ways to make amends. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't let your stress level skyrocket just because other people put demands on you. It is time to stop doing so much for others and focus on your own needs. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone may withhold information today. Refuse to be railroaded into making a quick decision based on few facts. Take your time and spare yourselfa lot ofgrief. *** CANCER (June 21..July 22): Involve yourself in a worthy cause. You will probably meet someone who can be of assistance in the future. This is a good day to fonn new partnerships **** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Uncertainti~'S regarding your position may 1-mp up. Be prepared to defend yourself Taking on too much will lead to problems and disappointments. Concentrate on getting as much done as possible and saying little. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Travel and knowledge will be high on your list today. Open your mmd to the unique ideas being presented to you and you'll find yoursell moving in anew direction. ***** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Look into an investment that is affordable and start saving. Do what you can to ensure that you will stay healthy. Prop<,-r diet and exercise should be enforced. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): This is a perfect day to meet someone new or to nunurc the relationship you already have. You will be able to get the help you nt-ed if you pull in favors owed you. *** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): If you show interest in what others arc doing, you will gain respect as well as support. Form your business plan and stick 
toil*** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): This is a great day to do something nice for yourself Physical changes will tum out better than expected. Today should be all about you and what you want ***** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Things won't run too smoothly, especially in your personal life. Stand up for your rights and take some time to figure out what you really want ** 
PISCF..S (Feb. 19-March 20): Get together with friends. Expect something interesting to come via mail or e-mail. New opportunities are available to you, but you must act ra,t **" 
Birthday Baby: You will have a very dramatic way of doing things. You will be sensitive, sweet and loving. You will be a little bit stubborn, but very reliable. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, wnetwork.com. 
COPYRIGI-IT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Pampering places 5 Pronunciation indicator 10 See 40-Across 14 Minor stroke 15 Loads of fun 18 Word with Bay or gray 17 Gray 18 Something not to talk about 19 Naval position: Abbr 
20 Leaves a center for cereal abuse? 
23 Bard's nightlall 24 AWOL chasers 25 Go online 27 An hour of 
prime-time TV, of1en 29 Back muscles, for short 
32 Grp. vigorously backing the Second Amendment 
33 It's not the norm 
36@ 
37 Makes cereal more tlavorful? 
40 With 10-Across, place to get milk and bread 
41 Divide, as Gaul 
42 TV puppet voiced by Paul Fusco 
43 Asian cookers 
44 Kind of bulb 48 Mrs. Ceausescu 
of Romania so Galoot 52 Whole 53 Master cereal­
maker's knowledge? 58 Spirit, in Islamic myth 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~.;,;+,:,+;;( 10 Swaggering 11 French brandy 12 Good wood for 
cabinetry 
-.,;..,.;:.:..-.;..:.r 21 Muscat dweller 22 Chicago 
transports 26 "Nope" 28 Skirt for the 
modest 
~.:.;+~r-1 29 Blue stone 30 Regrettably 

59 42•Across, for one 60 Crowning 
61 ·1 Want • (Rodgers and Hart song) 
62 Kitschy film monster 63 Loafer, e.g. 64 Depend 65 Low-rent, maybe 66 Rancher's concern 
DOWN 
1 Went blank in the head 2 Narc's target 3 Armored Greek goddess 4 River to the underworld 5 Stayed awake 6 Heart-to-hearts 7 Wanderer 8 Rough bark 
9 Ending with comment or liquid 
SOFTBALL 
TODAY -4PM (DH) 
~ vs. Loyola ~ Loftus Fieldhouse

'"'-:t~ Field '"'­

1'1D1811'1llcnt-, 
vs. Connecticut 
._.. Saturday. 4/5 
.. Noon 


PORTS 
Thursday, April 3, 2003 
WOMENS TENNIS 
Winning streak continues in Urbana 
By JOE LINDSLEY Sports Writer 
... The Irish womens tennis team scored a sizeable upset and con­tinued their Big Ten domination as they surmounted 24th­ranked Illinois 6-1 Wednesday in Urbana. Notre Dame, 12-7, has now defeated three top-35 teams in the past eight days. "It was a great match," senior Katie Cunha said. Part of what made the match great was Notre Dame's ability to play well even in the midst of a challenging two-week period laden with matches. The Irish have had seven matches in the past thirteen days, but during that same period the team has had some of its greatest success­es. The Irish defeated an Illini squad that also has a similar ·reputation for fighting -Illinois enjoyed a program-high ranking of 17 last week. The Irish were ranked 48th last week -the lowest ranking since the Intercollegiate Tennis Association first began ranking teams in 1993. With the numer­ous matches -and numerous successes -the Irish enjoyed last week, they have now moved up to 27th in the nation. The Irish began Wednesday's match with what has become a critical element to the team's success this season -winning 
the doubles point. 
Notre Dame has now claimed this initial point in each of its past six matches. 
After the Irish doubles squads put the team ahead 1-0, junior Caylan Leslie and freshman Lauren Connelly each won-their singles matches to put the Irish within a point of victory. Meanwhile Tiffany Eklov, ranked 106th, gave the Illini their only point of the day and kept her team in contention for the win as she topped Cunha. 
With three remaining matches on the court, the Illini still had an opportunity for a rally. 
All three of those matches went into three sets, and, in the end, Notre Dame claimed each of them, though they only need­ed one for the upset victory. 
Sophomore Sarah Jane Connelly clinched the Irish win when she defeated Brianna Knue 1-6, 7-6 (8-6), 6-3. 
Of late, Sarah Jane Connelly has had much experience with coming from behind to win a match. She has lost the first set in six of her last ten matches, but came back to secure a win in each of the matches in which she was behind. 
In doubles play, the Irish claimed wins at the No. 2 and No. 3 positions. The successful pair of junior Alicia Salas and Lauren Connelly won for the ninth time in the past 10 con­tests, defeating Eldina Falzic 
see TENNIS/page 21 

BASEBALL 
Homestand ends perfectly with 13-4 blowout 
the team reaJ!y that I'm dis­win of the season.
By BRYAN KRONK 
pleased with." "I thought Martin did a good
Senior Staff Writer 
Right from the opening pitch, job," Mainieri said. "'He walked Different opponent, same the game the first guy result. seemed to and gave up
"I'm about as happy with 
Once again, the Irish baseball mirror that double,
the team as I possibly 
team knocked its opponent Tuesday's but 1 thought 
around offensively and held match against could be at this time . ... after that he 
them at bay Detroit, as pitched well.
There ·s not a phase ofthe 
defensively. See Also Valparaiso He threw
team really that I'm 
and Notre opened with a strikes, and
"Irish getting
Dame rolled run in the top displeased with. " our defense to its ninth offensive as Big of the first worked for straight victo­East looms" from an RBI him. I thought
Paul Malnlerl 
ry -its sev­double off he did a very enth straight page20 Irish starter head coach solid job for us home triumph Martin tonight." -with a 13-4 win over Vergara. For the sec­Valparaiso Wednesday at Eck However, the Irish scored the ond straight night, the weather 
,...... Stadium. next 13 runs over the following also worked in favor of both 'Tm about as happy with the five innings, while Vergara and offenses, and the Irish took team as I possibly could be at a host of relievers -Tyler advantage early, when fresh­this time," Notre Dame head Jones, Cody Wilkins, Matt Laird man designated hitter Steve coach Paul Mainieri said. "I feel and J.P. Gagne -held the Andres, with the wind blowing like we got better over the home Crusaders to only three more stand. There's not a phase of runs, giving Vergara his first see VALPO/page 20 

.,. 
SMC SOFTBALL 
ND SOFTBALL
SMC TENNIS 
Saint Mary's 5, 2 
Kalamazoo 5 
Lo)'ola at Notre Dame 
Kalamazoo 1, 1 
Saint Mary's 4 
Today, 4 p.m. 
In a doubleheader that did not feature much 
Kalamazoo ended the Belles' nine-game win­
The Irish are looking to build on Tuesday's 
offense, the Belles swept the Hornets in two extra­
ning streak in a nailbiter. Saint Mary's is now 10-2 · 
sweep of Purdue with a doubleheader against the 
inning affairs. 
on the season. 
Ramblers at Ivy Field today. 
page 19 
page 21 
page 22 







