
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 42 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30,2003 

Prominent journalists speak on campus 
"60 Minutes" anchor Mike Wallace visits ND 
By SH ElLA FLYNN 
News Writer 
Known for his abrasive interview­ing style. "60 Minutes" anchor Mike Wallace found himself on the other side of tough questioning Wednesday at Notre Dame. 
While participltt­

ing in an intervillW and question-and­answer session iri McKenna llall. Wallace was asked about controversial comments he made at a 1987 ethical panel discussion. 

When faced with a Wallace hypothetical situa­tion in which an American war reporter could choose to follow a story or warn U.S. troops of danger, Wallace disagreed with another pan­elist and said journalists had no higher duty ·other than to report. 
"You're a reporter. Granted you're an American." he told Jennings. ''I'm a little bit at a loss to understand why, because you're an American, you would not have covered that story" 
"You don't have a higher duty. No. No. You're a reporter!" 
But Wallace expressed a very dif­ferent view Wednesday when asked if his views on the hypothetical situ­ation had since changed. 
"Yes," Wallace said. "I made the wrong quick reaction." 
Wallace participated in an inter­view with American Studies profes­sor Hobert Schmuhl and answered questions from the audience. And the theme of journalistic responsibil­ity ~ not just in wartime situations, but in politics and society, in general -figured prominently in the ses­sion. 
see WALLACE/page 4 

SENATE 

Group discusses ROTC petition 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
Associate News Editor 
Student Senators were given petitions regarding the HOTC Presidential Pass In Heview at their meeting Wednesday. The petitions, which came from the Senate's committee on Hesidence Life, ask for student body support in moving the annual cere­mony to an outdoor location. 
Three years ago, the Pass In Heview was moved indoors to Loftus because of weather concerns. llowever, Pasquerilla West senator Jana Lamplota said during the meeting that protestors may have been another rea­son the administration decid­
sec PETITION/page 6 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Ex-student can sue SMC,ND 
Judge denies motion to dismiss suit that alleges misconduct zn rape case 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Editor 

A former Saint Mary's stu­dent who accused former Notre Dame football player Clifford Jefferson of rape will be able to pursue her federal lawsuit against both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, the South Bend Tribune reported. 
The woman, who was a freshman at the time of the March 2001 incident, seeks damages due to the two schools' alleged misconduct. She maintains Jefferson raped her in his car outside her dorm as she slipped in and out of consciousness after returning intoxicated with Jefferson from a South Bend bar. 
The South Bend Tribune reported she claims the school is liable for the circumstances contributing to her being raped and the failure to discipline Jefferson, who graduated in 2001. 
Both Notre Dame spokesman Matt Storin and Saint Mary's spokeswoman Melanie McDonald declined to comment on the lawsuit. 
The South Bend Tribune said 
U.S. District Court Judge Robert Miller denied the defen­dants' motions to dismiss the suit because the woman, who 

see SUIT/page 6 

By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Writer 

Prominent New York Times foreign corre­spondent Anthony DePalma shared his career experiences, encouraged journalistic honesty and emphasized the advantages of a broad liberal arts education as compo­nents of a lecture he delivered at Notre Dame Wednesday night. 
Addressing a room filled with political sci­ence, history and American studies majors, DePalma stressed that undergraduate preparation for a career in journalism does not necessarily need to center around a major in journalism or communications. Rather, he said that prominent editors are far more interested in a reporter's inquisi­tive abilities and writing instinct than a course load stacked with journalism classes. 
"You can put it in the bank that those doing the hiring are looking for a deep, inherent curiosity -an interest in what people do, why they do it and how the world works," DePalma said. "On top of that, jour­nalists need endurance. They need to be curious not only about today, but about tomorrow, next year and the year after that." 
DePalma urged prospective journalists to develop such qualities with a wide curricu­lum that includes a language specialty, par­alleling his own entrance into the field. While he graduated from Seton Hall University with a "dreaded degree in com­munications," he said he chose the program over English because its more flexible requirements allowed him to take more electives. 
"I used this opportunity to study every­thing .from philosophy to computer science 
sec DEPALMA/page 8 
Conununity Relations office 111oves downtown 
By MATT SMEDBERG 
News Writer 

Notre Dame's Office of Community Relations is moving to a new location today, with a ribbon-cutting ceremony to be presided over by South Bend mayor Stephen Luecke and University President Father Edward Malloy. The office's new home will be at 217 S. Michigan St., in a building downtown leased from Memorial Hospital. 
Sharing the space will be two other Notre Dame ventures: the South Bend Downtown Design Center, run by the School of Architecture, and the Crossroads Gallery, an art gallery run by the Snite Museum, the Department of Art and the Institute for Latino Studies. 
The Office of Community 
Relations is headed by Jackie Rucker, who was hired last April. The purpose of the office is to be a bridge between the University and the greater South Bend Community. 

Hucker, who grew up in South Bend, admits that relations between the University and the community have been "less than stellar" in the past. Things began to change with the foundation of the Center for Social Concerns in 1983, she said, as well as the ini­tiative by Father Jim Hoemer to create a University-sponsored Christmas in April program. The same program still exists under the name Rebuilding Together. Hoemer was director of the Office of Community Relations until he retired last year. 
Rucker works with many com-
sec 0 FFICE/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 




Hype up Halloween 
What a great time of year! The leaves are changing colors as fast as the "die-hard" alumni make fire Ty websites to show their support for our team. The temperature is dropping more 
quickly than the Adam Mlglore 
seniors' work 
ethic, and we all 

know what that Photographer 
means ... 
Halloween! 

This festive fall holiday is generally known for dressing up in ridiculous costumes and wreaking havoc on the neigh­borhood with your friends while raking in bags of free candy. . Evenings are filled with young chil­.dren flocking to random doorbells in eager anticipation of their yearly payoff. Then the nights bring out the teens with their shaving cream and eggs ready to ambush the next group of friends they see. However it is obvious that these activities seem to have been lost in the shuf­fle here at Notre Dame. 
Entranced by midterms, group projects and other forms of time­consuming studies, the majority of the student body finds it impossible to squeeze in a full day of mischief and shenanigans. This year is dif­ferent from my other years at Notre Dame since Halloween does­n't conveniently fall the day before a huge test or important presenta­tion. Rather, it falls on a Friday for the first time since 1997. 
We all need to take this rare opportunity to dress up like com­plete idiots and have some fun. Go to a haunted house, carve a pump­kin, do something to take a break. This is the perfect chance to escape the ever-present pressures of your classes for a day or two and stop being so uptight and boring. 
Everyone needs to do themselves a favor and squeeze into a wild costume your friends always said you would never wear. And by wild costume I don't mean being a cow­boy. I'm talking a 6-foot-5 225­pound guy wearing a mini tennis skirt and an exact replica top of a Florida State cheerleader. 
For the ladies I'm suggesting, against my better judgment I might add, that you steer away from the overdone Catholic schoolgirl or devil in favor of a more original costume like a Russian girl scout who just got done skiing the Swiss Alps and desperately wants to dance with a stuffed monkey. 
Smile. Laugh. Be crazy. Go against your anal-retentive instincts and let go of all your cares for just a bit and let loose, dance, party. Basically, be the little kid buried deep inside you know you want to be for just this one night. 
Contact Adam Miglore at amiglo­re@nd. edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of tlie author and not necessarily. those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DRESSING UP AS FOR HALLOWEEN? 

Mike Schmied Junior Dillon  Monica Nanda Freshman Walsh  Nick Moller Junior O'Neill  Ricky Austin Junior Alumni  Ryan Brallier Fifth Year Zahm  Pat Crotty Senior Dillon  
"Jesus."  ':4. succubous.  ':4. little  "Bob Davie. "  "Greek love  ':4. Greek."  


Look it up." Austrian boy in 



lederhosen. " 

Man Charged for Having Snake In Freezer 
RUTLAND, Vt. -A man picked up a dead rat­tlesnake he found on the side of a road and stuck it in his freezer to keep as a souvenir. Now, he finds himself in court. 
Timothy Duprey pleaded innocent Monday in Vermont District Court to possession of a species pro­tected under the state's Endangered Species Act. 
"Most people aren't even aware we have them in Vermont," said Game Warden Robert Sterling. "They're not on the federal Endangered Species Act, but they are protected under the Vermont Endangered Species Act." 

.Sterling said an anony­mous caller reported that Duprey had the snake. The rattler was found in the freezer of Duprey's home in August, according to court records. 
He was issued a criminal citation and appeared in court Monday. 
Bus Driver Wants Cash to Continue Trip 
GROVE CITY, Pa. -A charter bus driver who allegedly stopped a Chicago-to-New York trip and demanded money from each of his passengers to continue it was charged with disorderly conduct and related offenses, police said. 
Kai Chen, 44, of Brooklyn, N.Y., was driving 25 people, including several small chil­dren, for a company called New Oriental Tours Inc., also out of Brooklyn, police said. 
The passengers had already paid $2,800 for the trip and refused to pay more, so Chen took his keys and got off the bus, police said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


slave. " 
IN BRIEF 

A Day of the Dead Celebration will be held today at the Snite Museum of Art featur­ing guest artists and food at 6:30 pm. The event is free and open to the public. 
Robert Vacca, assistant pro-. fessor in the Department of Classics, will present a colloqui­um entitled, "What was Athenian Liberalism?" The Colloquium will take place today at 4 p.m. in 116 DeBartolo. 
Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids will host a Halloween costume party tonight at 8 p.m. in the. LaFortune Ballroom. The event is free but participants are encouraged to donate to the club. 
The Glee Club will present their Fall Concert Thursday and Friday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tonight's concert is free. Tickets are available for Friday's concert at the LaFortune Box Office for $3. 
Come support the hockey team tonight as they take on the University of Nebraska-Omaha at 7:30p.m. in the Joyce Center fieldhouse. 
SUB will be showing the movie "Seabiscuit" tonight at 10 p.m. in 101 DeBartolo. 
Come to the Halloween Bash Friday at Legends and win prizes for karaoke, costumes, and who knows what else.. Prizes include cash, Best Buy certificates, Legends gear, DVD's and candy. Activities will begin at 9 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 



HIGH 

54 
LOW 

44 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
LLI ::::t 

!ci: 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
c:( (,) 





0 

HIGH 67 HIGH HIGH HIGH
.... 

LOW 60 LOW LOW LOW 
58 
53 
69 
53 
68 51 

Atlanta 73 I 51 Boston 60 I 47 Chicago 66 I 52 Denver 45 I 26 Houston 84 I 68 Los Angeles 68 I 55 Minneapolis 49 I 36 New York 62 I 52 Philadelphia 68 I 48 Phoenix 83 I 60 Seattle 48 I 34 St. Louis 81 I 60 Tampa 85 I 65 Washington 68 I 50 
Thursday, October 30, 2003 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Filipino Princess discusses Muslim. culture 

By LAURA VILIM 
News Writer 

In an attempt to help educate students and faculty about the lives and cultures of Muslims, the University hosted a lecture Wednesday by Filipino Princess Emraida Kiram entitled "Being a Muslim in Christian Philippines." 
Kiram, who was born in the predominately Muslim region of Mindanao to Sultan Kiram and Sultana Bai Labi Laila Kiram, focused her talk on the hostile relations between Muslims and Christians. She also highlighted the way these relations have dic­tated political and economic change within her country for centuries. 
The estimated 3.5 million peo­ple -less than five percent of the Filipino population -who are Muslims in the Philippines are concentrated largely in the southern regions of Mindanao and Sulu. Although there are far 

4:30 p,m• A catered meal for moviegoers prepared by New Saigon Restaurant will be served ln.Dec.o Commons. For 
reservatJo.,s,:contact East Asian 
Langu!ilge$ arid Literatures Department 63:1·8873. 
more Christians than Muslims in the Philippines, several powerful Muslim separatist groups have been founded to protest the treatment of their people by the overwhelmingly Christian-led military and government. 
Kiram began her lecture with a n account of her childhood, a time she remembers as one that was relatively peaceful between Christian and Muslims. She com­mented on the case with which she lived in both the Christian and Muslim world by taking on a Christian name in school while practicing her Muslim beliefs at home. 
As time progressed and Kiram continued to seek higher educa­tion, she increasingly became aware of the stereotypes and insults thrown at her religion by the Christian majority. Although she had obtained a law degree and was enrolled in a journalism program in Manila, she was out­cast by Muslims and Christians alike. 
"People thought that to be educated meant to be Christianized," Kiram said. "It was in Manila that I realized the stereotypes against Muslims." 
In addition, Muslim women were encouraged to focus on marriage, not education, for it was dishonorable for Muslim men to marry someone smarter than they were. Thus, Kiram recalled that by her early 20s, she knew that she was being oppressed but failed to under­stand the reasons why her reli­gion was being attacked. 
Because Kiram could not start a career or continue her educa­tion due to the strife in the Philippines, she moved to Madrid just as the Muslim Separatist Movement was gain­ing momentum in her home country. During the middle of the 1970s, Muslim rebels waged violence against the Philippine military and the Marcos govern­ment. resulting in the deaths of hundreds of thousands of Muslims and the displacement of more than a million others. Under intense pressure from the Moros National liberation Front (MNLF) and other rebel groups, Marcos made some concessions to the Muslim Filipinos, which put a brief end the widespread fighting. 
Currently, Kiram and her fel­low Filipino Muslims arc still fighting for political and eco­nomic autonomy from the Philippine nation. They arc ask­ing to be given back their com­munally owned ancestral land that was taken from them and redistributed by Christians. 
"It is very dillicult to imagine a time when the government will sit down and talk with us," Kiram said. 
Until this time comes and Muslims begin to feel a sense of independence from what they view as the harsh rule of the entirely Christian Filipino cabi­net, discord between these two groups will continue to escalate. 
As a way of promoting knowl­edge of the Muslim-Christian conflict in the Philippines, Kiram has worked for the past 27 years at the University of Wisconsin­Milwaukee, is the chair of the Wisconsin Chapter of the National Federation of Filipino­American Associations, and serves as president of the Wisconsin Chapter of the Filipino-American National Historical Society. 
Contact Laura Vilim at lvilim@nd.edu 

Thursday, October 30, 2003 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Office 
continued from page I 
munity leaders to make the University's influence in the community a positive one. She is on the board planning the development of the Northeast Neighborhood adjacent to cam­pus. 
"Residents have come to me," Rucker said, "to tell me how much they appreciated the way the University built the houses on Notre Dame Avenue. One woman told me that it looks just the way she remembers it from when she was a little 
girl." 
Much of Community Relations' work is in conjunc­tion with Downtown South Bend, a local nonprofit organi­zation which is dedicated, according to their mission statement, to restoring local economy and fostering a "vibrant Downtown ... for a better quality of life in South Bend." 
DTSB also works with the South Bend Downtown Design Center. or Urban Studio, whose new home is the second floor of the building that houses the Community Relations offices. The Studio consists of 15 advanced architecture students under the direction of John Stamper, associate chair of the School of Architecture. The stu­dents -fifth-year students in the fall semester, fourth-years in the spring -work on designs for buildings or renova­tions that would affect and ben­efit the local community. 
The students' task this semester is to design a new building for the Studebaker National Museum, whose previ­ous home was declared struc­turally unsound and unsafe several years ago. The new site is attached to the Northern Indiana Center for History on Chapin Street in South Bend. 

Though the ceremonial open­ing of the center takes place on Thursday morning. the stu­dents are already moved in and hard at work finishing their designs. 
Student designs will be sub­mitted to Rebecca Bonham, director of the museum, and local. architects. Stamper said that, for this reason, it's very likely that when the fmal word is spoken, elements from these students' designs will probably figure in it. 
But having their work actual­ly built is not the real purpose of the Urban Studio. It is "so that students can get real­world experiences," said Kara Kelly, the Architecture School's director of communications. "The nice thing is that we have no agenda. The students work with community leaders and developers, and can emphasize the good of the community in their design process." 
The third University entity that calls the former storefront home is the Crossroads Gallery, which is a joint venture of the Art Department, the Snite Gallery and the Institute for Latino Studies. The gallery will showcase the work of local artists and occasional Latino exhibitions. The gallery opens with a showing of the work of Latina painter Carmen Lomas Garza. an Arizona artist whose work speaks of the Chicano experience in America. 
South Bend residents have responded positively to the new office. "Having the Office in an accessible, downtown location is more than symbolic," Rucker said. "It gives us an opportunity to be on their turf, and for that they know that we are serious about being a real part of the community." 
Contact Matt Smedberg at msmedber@nd.edu 

Wallace 
continued from page I 

Wallace said he has wit­nessed various changes in news reporting during his 36 seasons with "60 Minutes." 
"So much of news. or what passes as news, is now opin­ion," Wallace said, and there­fore reporting is "not as pure news as it used to be." He attributed part of the decline to a rise in the number of news chan­nels. saying ments in Afghanistan, for example, disappeared, Wallace said. 
"When you're covering a story like Afghanistan, you've got to stay, and you've got to find out what's going on," he said. 
Wallace was also less enthu­siastic about recent relations between the Bush· administra­tion and journalists. 
"Never, in my memory, has there been a tighter, less cooperative." less interested in dealing with the media admin­istration," he said. 
"I don't think 
that they have 
that the com­told us the truth.
"Reputations of
petitive drive and they haven't 
reporters are made
to report the given us the best news when they find things opportunity to had been question them
that go wrong. You 
stronger about it."
don't make your
when only Wallace three news reputation as a defended, when networks questioned, the
reporter because 
existed. tendency of
you're reporting happy
W h e n media powers to Schmuhl news. focus more on asked if negative devel­Wallace opments than on
Mike Wallace
thought news positive ones. 
news anchor 
"It's not news
reporting was better in past decades, such as in the 1960s, Wallace said it "probably was." 
He did, however, applaud various recent journalistic developments, such as the embedding of reporters with American military units in Iraq and the relentless cover­age of corporate crime ­watchdog reporting which, Wallace said, is having benefi­cial effects. 
"Little by little, because we have been focusing on it, it's beginning to change," Wallace said. 
Wallace also praised report­ing immediately after Sept. 11, 2001, but he noted the decline in quality that fol­lowed. Coverage of develop-
when things go 
right," he said. "Reputations of reporters are made when they find things that go wrong. You don't make your reputation as a reporter because you're reporting happy news." 
Despite drawbacks to the American media, however, Wallace said he would not change anything about news reporting today. 
"I sure wouldn't want to change the news in any way," Wallace said. 
"I can deplore the fact that I don't like some of what goes on, but it's a free country." 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 


-----·------------------------------­





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 30, 2003 CoMPILED FROM TliE OBSERVER'S WIRE sERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israeli troops kill Palestinian 
JEHUSALEM -Israeli soldiers shot and killed a Palestinian man and wounded <moth­er Wednesday after the pair crossed into a restricted area around the fence that sepa­rates Gaza from Israel, military sources said. 
In the northern West Bank, Palestinian mil­itants shot at Jewish settlers traveling in a car Wednesday, wounding two of them. mili­tary officials said. One of the wounded was in serious condition, Israel Radio reported. 
Teams rescue II trapped miners 
NOVOSHAKIITINSK, Hussia -Search crews blasted through solid rock to rescue 11 of 13 coal miners who emerged covered in soot Wednesday after six days trapped in a deep shaft in southern Russia. One miner died underground and another remained missing, emergency officials said. 
Hescuers working around the clock reached the men Wednesday morning after drillers punched through to the pit face where the miners had sought refuge follow­ing a nood. 

Iraqis kill 2 U.S. troops in attack 
13AGIIDAD. Iraq -'1\vo American soldiers were killed when their Abrams battle tank was damaged by resistance fighters, U.S. officials said Wednesday, as the number of 
U.S. soldiers killed in combat since major lighting ended topped the wartime total. 
In a separate attack, seven Ukrainian troops were wounded in the first ambush of a multinational unit in the Polish sector south of Baghdad, coalition officials said. 
The latest deaths bring to 115 the number of American soldiers killed in combat in Iraq since President Bush declared an end to major lighting May 1. 
NATIONAL NEWS 


Bush pushes GOP for drug bill 
WASHINGTON -Prodded by President Bush. Republican lawmakers are making progress on a prescription drug benefit for Medicare recipients amid growing concern that the bill they are writing could exceed the $400 billion limit set by the president. 
Bush scheduled a White House appearance Wednesday to underscore his support for a drug benefit under Medicare, the govern­ment-run program that provides health care for 40 million disabled and older Americans. The bill also would overhaul the 38-year-old program. 

School to appeal voucher move 
DENVER -A private Baptist school will appeal a decision by Denver-area officials to reject its voucher program application because the school would expel homosexu­als. 
Rodolfo Gomez. principal of Silver State Baptist School in Lakewood, said the sepa­rate rulings this month by Denver Public Schools and Jefferson County officials were unfair and contradicted the purpose of the state voucher plan. 
Under the state program, a school board can reject a private school's application if it advocates or fosters unlawful behavior or teaches hatred of a person or group. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Hot pot fire kills prison inmate 
MICIIIGAN CITY -A faulty hot pot, com­bined with a paper-littered and padlocked cell led to severe burns that killed an Indiana State Prison inmate, prison officials say. 
Thomas Harris, 60, died Oct. 13 at Loyola University Hospital in Chicago from burns he had suffered over 85 percent of his body, Indiana State Police said. 
Prison Superintendent Cecil K. Davis said Thomas apparently violated prison rules and bought an older hot pot from another inmate. 
The investigation showed that the pot had been altered and a safety device had been 

Calif. blazes claim firefighter 
Death toll rises to 18 as 620,000-acre inferno threatens evacuated resort towns 
Associated Press 
LAKE ARROWHEAD, Calif. -Firefighters strug­gled desperately Wednesday to save emp­tied-out resort towns in Southern California's See Also 
S a n 
"Congress
Bernardino Mountains boosts fire· as 200-foot 

fighting
walls of f I a m e funds" engulfed 
page 11
dead and 
dried-out 
trees. 

In San Diego County, the state's largest fire claimed another victim when a fire­fighting crew was over­come by names. killing one and injuring three. It marked the first firefighter death since the series of blazes began last week and brought the total number of dead to 18. 
The hot, dry Santa Ana winds from the desert that had been whipping the fires into raging infernos eased, only to give way to stiff breezes off the ocean that pushed the names up the canyon walls around evacuated resort towns like Lake Arrowhead and Big Bear, east of Los Angeles. 
By early afternoon, homes were burning in the mountain community of CedarPines Park. 
"There's fire on so many fronts, it's not even man­ageable at this point," said Chris Cade, a fire preven­tion technician with the 
U.S. Forest Service. as he watched a pillar of smoke he estimated at 9,000 feet rise into a hazy sky thick with ash. "I am at a loss what you can do about it." 
The fires have burned more than 620,000 acres and destroyed 1,800 homes. More than 12,000 firefighters and support crew were fighting what Gov. Gray Davis said may be the worst and costliest disaster California has ever faced. He estimated the cost at $2 billion so far. 

The fires, which began last week, burned in a bro­ken arc across Southern California, from Ventura County east to Los Angeles County and the San Bernardino Mountains and south to eastern San Diego County. 
On Southern California's other major front, about 100 fire engines encircled the historic mining town of Julian in the mountains of eastern San Diego County, hoping to save the popular weekend getaway commu­nity renowned for its vine­yards and apple orchards. 
However, some two dozen engines and water tenders that were headed to Julian were forced to turn back when flames swept over a highway. And as the winds picked up, floating embers sparked spot fires near the town of 3,500, forcing some crews to retreat. 
South of Julian, about 90 percent of the homes had been destroyed in Cuyamaca, a lakeside town of about 160 residents. Charred cows lay by the side of the road and hous­es were reduced to little more than stone entry­ways. 
"Everything's kind of happening all at once. These fires are trying real­ly hard to tie in with each other," said Bill Bourbeau, a forest safety officer. "It's tremendous." 
San Diego County fire officials feared a 233,000­acre fire and the 50,000­acre blaze would merge into a huge. single blaze that would make it nearly impossible to keep it from reaching Julian. 
Officials in San Diego County -where most of the deaths took place ­predicted the death toll would rise after investiga­tors began scouring devas· tated neighborhoods. 
A crew of U.S. Forest Service Hot Shots outside Julian was given an omi­nous warning by their team leader: If they came across any human remains, they were to cor­don off the area until a medical examiner could get in. 
"If we find somebody in the brush who took off running or whatever," Capt. Fred Brewster told' his 19-member team. "Who knows what you're going to find up there? It's a giant mess." 
In the San Bernardinos, the cool. moist ocean breezes confounded fire­lighters. just as the desert winds did over the week­end. Heavy winds kept air­craft grounded in the area, and winds gusting to 60 mph pushed flames up from the mountain slopes into the dense forest. The breezes were moving at a rate of quarter mile per minute. 
"They turned around with the wind and the fuel and basically overran us," San Bernardino County Fire Division Chief Mike Conrad said. 

COLOMBIA 


Air force chief warns drug pilots 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA -Colombia's new air force commander said Wednesday he would not hesitate to order suspect­ed drug flights shot down if they are tracked by U.S. and Colombian authorities and ignore warnings to land. 
President Bush in August author­ized the resumption of drug surveil­lance flights over Colombia. suspend­ed 2 1/2 years ago after a U.S. mis­sionary plane was mistakenly shot down over Peru. 
Under new guidelines, the com­mander of the Colombian air force must give the order to shoot down a suspicious plane if it has ignored radio warnings and warning shots from Colombian warplanes. 
"I will give the order for them to shoot it down," Gen. Edgar Lesmez said in an exclusive interview with The Associated Press. 
"These procedures are estab­lished," Lesmez said, adding that the pilots of drug flights "are violating the sovereignty of the country, com­mitting a crime and violating norms that are laid out in Colombian air manuals." 
Lesmez said he has not been called on to order the shoot-down of a drug flight in mid-air since the U.S. flights resumed, but has ordered several aircraft destroyed after they landed at clandestine airstrips in Colombia. 
In a m·emo released in August, Bush said he had determined that the surveillance flights are necessary and can be done without undue risk to civilian air traffic in Colombia. 
The United States immediately halted its participation in the inter­diction program flights after a Peruvian fighter jet acting on U.S. intelligence shot down the mission· ary plane in April 2001, killing American Veronica Bowers and her daughter, Charity. Investigators said procedural errors. language prob· lems and inadequate Peruvian air control caused the mistake. 
Thursday, October 30, 2003 

Suit 
continued from page I 
is representing herself. failed to serve summonses within the proper time frame. The woman has now amended her complaint and the suit will proceed. 
Though no formal criminal charges were filed against Jefferson, a jury awarded the woman $1 million in damages in her civil suit against Jefferson. The woman, who transferred to a college closer to her Pittsburgh home due to the incident, sued Jefferson on the basis that the alleged rape caused severe emotional and psychological trauma. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
ago, [the Pass In "I feel very strongly Conley, the Review] was about this. " ROTC Tri­
moved inside, pos­Military sibly to avoid pro­Commander. 
testors who would Jana Lamplota also spoke to even lay down in Pasquerilla West senator senators regard­
Alum_ni Association to honor late '89 grad 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association will present the Distinguished Alumnus Award to the family of Dr. N. Donald Diebel Jr. during a halftime ceremony Saturday (Nov. 1) at the Notre Dame-Florida State football game. 
The Distinguished Alumnus Award is presented on rare occa­sions in recognition of exemplary seJV.ice to Notre Dame or commu­nity. 
A physician at the Arnold Palmer Hospital for Oilldren and Women in Orlando, Fla., Diebel, 35, was struck and killed by a tractor-trailer along the Florida Turnpike, where he had stopped to assist injured motorists at a rainy accident scene June 8, 2002. 

Son-in-law seeks to 


clear Nazi allegations 
Associated Press CLEVELAND -It was 1980 when Ed Nishnic met Irene, a receptionist at the company where he worked. "One day I was walking by her desk and I saw her name on a piece of paper. I said, 'Are you related to that guy?' She said, 'That's my dad,"' Nishnic recalled. "That guy" was John Demjanjuk, the Ohio mechanic accused of being a Nazi death camp guard so sadistic that he was nicknamed Ivan the Terrible. The encounter led to marriage and launched Nishnic on a 20 year odyssey to clear his father­in-law's name. Through that time, he has learned to write legal briefs, donned a bullet proof vest on an airplane because of death threats and comforted Demjanjuk in an Israeli prison 
cell as gallows were being built outside. 
Nishnic's mission is far from over. Israel's Supreme Court cleared Demjanjuk of the Ivan the Terrible accusation in 1993, but the U.S. government has accused him of serving as a guard at other Nazi camps and stripped him of his U.S. citizen­ship last year. 
Nishnic, 48, sees the two decades he has devoted to defending his 83-year-old father­in-law as something he had to do. 
"I don't believe God will ever give you more than you can handle," he said. 
Nishnic has traveled to Russia, Ukraine, Australia, western Europe and elsewhere in his quest to clear Demjanjuk's name. He has helped raise money for legal fees, investigat­ed leads and been Demjanjuk's public voice. 


Petition 
continued from page I 
ed to move the ceremony. 
Traditionally, student peace groups hold protests every year during the Pass In Review against the presence of military on cam­pus. 
"Three years 
she said. "I am willing to go door to door and explain [the petition] to residents. We want a lot of sig­natures to present to Bill Kirk to show him there is a lot of student body support for this issue." 
Student body vice president Jeremy Lao asked Senators to put in a "good-faith effort" to accu­mulate signatures from students 
_in their dorms. 
Ca·det Kevin was unsure of the exact date. 

In other Senate news: 
+ 
Four Senators were elected to serve as representatives from the Student Senate to the new Council of R-epresentatives. Keenan sena­tor Dan Zenker, Lewis senator Claire Berezowitz, Zahm senator Drew Sandstrum, and Off­Campus senator Amy Chambers will take their seats on the Council at a meeting Monday. Each Senator pledged to fully represent the Senate and its opinions on the CounciL 

+ 
Dave Brenner. president of "The Shirt" committee, spoke briefly to Senators regarding the search for a new "The Shirt" president. Brenner asked Senators to "actively seek out peo­ple ... who you think would be good for this position." Brenner commented that he would like to see a broad applicant pool with a lot of talented people for the posi­tion. Applications for president of "The Shirt" are available in the Student Activities Office on the third floor of LaFortune and are due Nov. 7. 


Contact Maureen Reynolds at mceynold@nd.edu 
front of [ROTC members] during the ceremony to stop them from marching," Lamplota said. 
This year. the committee plan­ning the ceremony has submitted a request for an outdoor location. Bill Kirk, associate vice president for student affairs, will make his decision regarding the ceremony's location within the next few weeks. 
Lamplota explained that the purpose of the petition is to show the administration and Kirk that there is much support for the cer­emony from the student body 
"I feel very strongly about this," ing the issue. 
"[ROTC mem­bers] work very hard all year." commented Conley. "It would be nice to have [the Pass In Review] in a more central location so more people can enjoy it." 
Senators will be collecting sig­natures for a week in their dorms, and the signed petitions will be brought back to the Senate at their meeting next Wednesday to be collected and presented to Kirk. 
This year's Pass In Review is scheduled for sometime in the late spring semester, and it is open to the student body. Conley Thursday, October 30, 2003 

MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 9 77 4.31 +26.22 
Jones ' 

"·· Some: • Composite Volume:
2.065 180 1,512,829,056 
NASDAQ 1,936.56 +4.30 NYSE. 5,952.39 +6.46 1,062.94 ·~4:()1~~iL
AMEX S&P 500 1,048.11 +1.32 NIKKEI(f"okyo) 10,691.98 47.24 FTSE. IOO(l.ondon)4,265.70 -7.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN IPRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) +3.52 +0.08 2.35 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.69 -0.46 26.74 )DS UNIPHASE QSDU) +0.98 +0.03 3.50 INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.40 +0.13 32.80 LOOKSMART LTD (LOOK) +30.71 +0.43 1.83 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND + 1.38 +0.70 5 I. 59 IO.YEARNarE +2.05 +0.86 42.75 S-YEARNarE +3.08 +0.95 3 I .81 3-i"'If'ffi-i BILL -0.85 -0.08 9. 3 7 
Commodities 
UGKT CRUDE ($'bbl.) -0.65 28.91 GOlD ($/Trq-Ol.) +3.60 387.00 PORK BEWES (c:en.:s'h) +2.68 85.90 
Exchange Rates 
YEN I 08.3 EURO 0.8573 FQUND 0.589 <:ANA[)W.j $ I. 3 I 3 
IN BRIEF 


U.S. extends Halliburton contract 
WASHINGTON -Vice President Dick Cheney's former company will retain a no-bid contraet in Iraq longer than expected, the Bush administration said Wednesday. blaming sabotage of oil facilities for delays in replace­ment contracts. 
Halliburton's contract, worth $1.59 billion so far. will be extended until December or January while the government receives and evaluates revised bids for replacement work that could total $2 billion. 
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, which administers the oil industry rehabilitation, already has received competitive bids for replacement contracts, and hoped to announce the winners this month. 

Judge tosses suits against Merrill 
NEW YOHK -A federal judge tossed out eight lawsuits Wednesday that sought to hold Merrill Lynch & Co. responsible for investor losses during the Internet stock bubble. 
'The burst of the bubble and the attendant market chaos are not chargeable" to the banking giant, U.S. District Judge Milton Pollack wrote. He found no evidence Merrill Lynch had intended to defraud its investors, and he said the stock market was well aware of conflicts by analysts and potential rating problems while the Internet stocks were declining. 
"We are pleased with the judge's ruling today." Merrill spokesman Mark Herr said. 

Dollar hits 3-year low against yen 
NEW YOHK -The dollar ended New York trading slightly weaker across the board Wednesday, managing to avoid an even sharp­er slide that threatened to take hold after the currency slipped to a multiyear lows against the yen earlier in the day. 
Under selling pressure following the Federal Heserve's decision Tuesday to leave interest rates on hold -which ensures the dollar's low-yielding status for a while -the green­back fell to a five-year low against the pound, and a three-year low against the yen. 


THE OBSERVER 









USINESS 
page 7 

Stocks rise on earnings news 
AT&T-BellSouth merger uncertain; Boeing shares soar as profits beat estimates 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Wall 
Street closed a quiet ses­
sion modestly higher 
Wednesday as companies 
reported generally positive 
earnings news, but some 
investors were disappoint­
ed by faltering merger 
talks between BellSouth 
and AT&T. 

The market seemed to be taking a rest after the Federal Reserve's decision to leave interest rates unchanged and ahead of the government's gross domestic product report Thursday, said Peter Cardillo, president and chief strategist of Global Partner Securities Inc. The break gives traders and investors "time to position themselves," he said. 
"I think the market has gone up in a rather viva­cious way the last couple of days and what we're $19.07. said. "It's very funny, one Halliburton Co. also got a seeing here is a bit of hesi­"It's the third time we've of the things we wonder is revenue boost from gov­tancy on the part of danced this dance, so whether we'll see 10,000 ernment contracts, includ­investors and traders to we're in an 'I'll-believe-it­on the Dow, and that's ing work in Iraq, but its commit money ahead of when-1-see-it' situation," nothing, it's 2 percent. We earnings missed analyst key numbers," Cardillo said Tim Smalls, a manag­could make 10,000 in two forecasts, partly because said. "The upside today ing director and trader at strong days. It's a psycho­of a proposed asbestos set­was limited." SG Cowen Securities. "I logical barrier." tlement. The oil services 
The Dow Jones industrial don't think the market was Investors were betting on company dropped 56 cents average closed up 26.22, taken by surprise that it old-fashioned industrial to close at $23.52. or 0.3 percent, at didn't happen this time." stocks Wednesday, includ­High fuel prices helped 9,774.53. Merger news can have a ing several defense con­ConocoPhillips beat analyst 
The broader stock powerful effect on the tractors that reported solid expectations by a wide gauges also saw slight market. The major indexes earnings. margin in results issued gains. The Nasdaq com­surged earlier this week Boeing Co. announced a Wednesday. The largest posite index rose 4.30, or when Bank of America 31 percent drop in quar­U.S. oil refiner fell in early 
0.2 percent, to close at Corp. announced a $47 bil­terly earnings Wednesday trading but ended the day 1,936.56. The Standard & lion deal to acquire due to the heavy costs of unchanged at $56.97. Poor's 500 index gained FleetBoston Financial. shutting down production Decliners included 1.32, or 0.1 percent, to Those gains were extended of the 757 jet, but solid Johnson & Johnson, which close at 1,048.11. Tuesday after the Fed said results from its growing lost $1.06 to close at 
BellSouth Corp. closed it would leave rates defense business helped it $49.48, after the Food and up 67 cents, at $26, after unchanged. beat Wall Street's expecta­Drug Administration The Wall Street Journal A pickup in merger tions. The aerospace com­warned doctors it had reported it had called off activity, combined with pany closed up $2.46, or received reports of clotting its latest round of merger good economic data, 6.8 percent, at $38.50. in patients implanted with discussions with AT&T strong earnings and prom­Northrop Grumman a stent made by the com­Corp. Quoting anonymous ising fourth-quarter fore­Corp. swung to a profit in pany. sources, the newspaper casts, could easily start a the third quarter and Advancers outnumbered said BellSouth had balked longer rally, said Peter raised its full-year esti­decliners about 8 to 5 on at the prospect of buying Dunay, chief market and mates on strong sales of the New York Stock the nation's largest long­options strategist at Wall ships and unmanned sur­Exchange. Consolidated distance carrier for about Street Access, a New York­veillance vehicles. The volume was heavy, with $19 billion in cash and based brokerage firm. results easily beat ana­2.03 billion shares traded, stock. "If we can break through lysts' estimates, and the although the amount was 
AT&T lost 87 cents, or the old highs, that will help defense contractor closed lower than the 2.21 billion 
4.4 percent, to close at get a leg up, too," Dunay up $2.86 at $90.36. shares the previous day. 

Crude futures tumble on NYMEX 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Crude oil futures fell 2 percent Wednesday, to a level not seen since September, following release of mostly bearish weekly gov­ernment and industry petroleum inventory reports. 
Analysts and traders cited a spate of refinery problems Tuesday and strong demand for November-deliv­ery gasoline futures in New York as factors preventing crude and heating oil prices from falling more sharply. 
However, that support might be shallow. 
Market participants pointed out that the November products contracts on the New York Mercantile Exchange expire at the end of trading Friday and added that December gasoline futures did not hold their value as well as November did. 
November gasoline futures settled 

0.12 cent higher at 83.13 cents a gal­lon after touching a high of 85.50 cents. The December contract settled 
0.91 cent at 80.29 cents a gallon after hitting an intraday high of 83.25 cents. 
Peter Beutel, an analyst with Cameron Hanover, said he expected to see more across-the-board selling because of the inventory data. The reports showed crude stocks, distil­late stocks -which include heating oil -imports and refinery runs all growing for the past week. 
"When they all rise in the same week, it's hard to get bullish," Beutel said. "That to me is a pretty bearish combination here at the end of October." 
The reports showed gasoline stocks sharply lower. 
Light, sweet December crude oil futures settled 65 cents lower at $28.91 a barrel after touching a low of $28.80. Prices have not been below $29 since near the end of September. 
On London's International Petroleum Exchange, December Brent blend crude oil futures settled 60 cents lower at $27.44 a barrel after touching a low of $27.41. 
"This is something of a nervous market here," Beutel said. "It drifts around under its own steam, and then all of a sudden it decides to move violently one way or another." 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, October 30, 2003 
Congress agrees on $87.5 billion Iraq aid w-ithout loans 
·before it goes to Bush for his given the smidgen of informa­The bill includes $64.7 billion the bill. A Senate amendment.
Associated Press signature. tion we're getting in return." for military expenses, $18.4 passed with bipartisan support, WASHINGTON But both Republicans and But Republicans, including billion for Iraqi reconstruction ·would have required Iraq to Congressional negotiators Democrats expressed frustra­Wolf, rejected a Democratic and security forces and $1.2 pay back about half of the agreed Wednesday on an $87.5 tion over what they described proposal that would have billion for Afghan reconstruc­$18.4 billion for reconstruc­billion aid package for Iraq and as the White House's disdainful required Senate confirmation tion, according to figures tion. Afghanistan that meets a White treatment of Congress on Iraq. for Bush's civilian administra­released by the House Loan supporters said U.S. House demand that none of the "You bump up to a degree of tor in Iraq, the position held by Appropriations Committee. taxpayers are already spending money be provided as loans. arrogance over and over," said L. Paul Bremer. Sen. Pete Bush had requested $65.1 bil­plenty on Iraq and that the Despite rising criticism in Rep. Frank Wolf. R-Va. Domenici, R-N.M., rejected lion for military expenses, country's vast oil reserves Congress over the handling of Rep. David Obey of Democratic claims that this $20.3 billion for Iraq recon­should enable it to pay back the war, the package worked Wisconsin, the top Democrat would make the administration struction and security forces, some of the money eventually. out by House-Senate negotia­on the House Appropriations more accountable. and $800 million for Afghan Under the Senate bill, Iraq tors largely resembles the pro­Committee, said "it is an act of ''I'm not at all sure that the reconstruction. would not have had to repay posal submitted by President considerable statesmanship for American people equate The loan issue was the most the loan if other countries for­Bush. The House and Senate a lot of people in this place to accountability with confirma­divisive item as the House and gave 90 percent of the debt are expected to act quickly to continue to support what the tion by the United States Senate tried to resolve differ­Iraq ran up under toppled give the bill final approval president is trying to do in Iraq Senate," he said. ences between their versions of leader Saddam Hussein. 
BREAK OUT·OF THE BU~BLE TAKE THE URBAN PLUNGE 
. .. 

Inunerse your-f~lfi1i ih~ ;;~ali}4.tis o.F.urban poverty. Witness the .~conornic injustice~ education.al inequ(:llity.ht~pg~r; r~<;i:{rrtandhon·zelcssnesspresent in.urbq.n areeis today. Develop your capa_c~ty for critical reflection and rigorous analysis as you re[l~J?C:t u.pon t-he ¢hall*!_nges faczng ur?a': Cl-ttes acrossthe e:o"Uorr.tl'Y{ As apartilpipant~ yqu are fi;trt:her invited to relare and zntegrare the prznczples of 
Catholic Social fF:.e4¢1#rtg to yoU,r own imfflersi.qn e.:xperie.nce.
+· ,. . .. . ·.:.:::··: .-.·::.:-::>-··.· .·.·... · ..... ·:.··:.· .. · ...... ·::": .... :.:·.:,._..... .· . 
Opportu»iii.es Aya1lable in over 35 Cities Across the US ! t ! 
The Urban Plunge is a one:-"qredit experiential learning course. The seminar is scheduled for a 48-hour period during winter break.. 
Apply Today! 
Application Deadline-This Friday~ October 31 at soo PM 
Applications Ayailable at the esc and at 'WWVit.nd.edu/-socconcn/sub academic seminars.html 
Find Out More at any ofthe Following Information Session 
Wednesday 8-9 PM-. PE Hall 
Wednesday 9-10 PM-Cavanaugh Hall 
Thursday 8 -9 PM Welsh Family Hall 

DePaliDa 
continued from page 1 
to Spanish," DePalma said. "Already, without recognizing it, I was expressing the curiosity that these editors were talking about." 
After attending Seton Hall, DePalma's curiosity earned him a position writing for the Jersey Journal in Jersey City, N.J., a newspaper he said "thought of themselves as a minor league New York Times." His intimidat­ing first assignment was to inter­view the families of three chil­dren who tried to imitate Huckleberry Finn by rafting down a river on the afternoon of July 4 and were still missing the next morning. 
"It was a baptism by fire. My knees were knocking at the thought ... and as if that wasn't enough, I had to interview them it. There was only one job I in Spanish. And on top of that, my would've taken-The New York editor made me go back and do it Times." all over again to see if they still After over 300 freelance bylines had their Uttle League uniforms published in the Times, DePalma on," DePalma said. was officially hired by the elite 
After the Jersey Journal, newspaper, where he began in DePalma became a freelance the Metro section. He was soon writer, a situa-promoted to 
tion that he described as lib­ "Journalism requires  national corre­spondent and  
erating but somewhat intim­idating. "Freelancing is a  sustaining effort over a period oftime and sustaining it in a  then became the foreign corre­spondent to Mexico City in  
pretty scary thing because you're only get­ different way from other professions."  1993 and to Toronto in 1996. DePalma is also  
ting  paid  for  the  author  of  
what your write.  Anthony DePalma  Here:  A  
The pressure is  New York Times reporter  Biography of the  
on  to  earn  New  American  
money and get  Continent, a non­ 

paid," he said. "But this was writ­fiction book published in 2001. ing the way I wanted to do it: to However, his book tour was cir­write what I want the way I want cumvented by the events of September 11, 2001. "I was in San Diego to promote my book beginning on September 10," DePalma said. After the tragedy, he "was stuck on the other end of the continent I'd been writing about -now it was the same continent standing between me and that story." 
DePalma made it back to New York and was able to participate in the Times' subsequent cover­age of the attacks, an experience which he said was an example of the cyclical nature of journalism. 
'The project-oriented schedule is a big advantage of journalism," he said. "You're going to have a disaster. You're going to have an election. It becomes a terrific opportunity to get your foot in the door, to show them what you can do -so you'll be called in next time." 
However, DePalma cautioned new reporters eager to break into the field against the impulse to sacrifice some of their integrity in the process. Citing the example of ex-New York Times reporter Jayson Blair, DePafma said that "as a journalist, you have to be very careful about your reputa­tion -one serious misstep can bring it all down." 
He closed with advice about persistence and payoff. 
"Journalism requires sustain­ing effort over a period of time and sustaining it in a different way from other professions. In journalism it's tough slogging all the way through," he said. 
"You won't be rewarded with a big salary or a big office. But you will be rewarded with the oppor­tunities to ask questions and to jump in and out of people's lives in an infinite variety of settings." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 


Networks prepare for sweeps 
AS>oci•tcd Press 
NEW YOH K -If Honald Beagan, Jessica Lynch, Elizabeth Smart, Britney Spnars and Andy GrilTith can't save the television networks this season, maybe nothing can. 
The November "sweeps" get under way Thursday, offering the major broadcast networks ·a chance to start again. The season opening felt like a false start. 
ABC, CBS, NBC, the WB and UPN -live of the six biggest networks -have lost audience this season compared to 2002 and, what is more important, lost the younger viewers that advertisers crave. The one gainer is Pox, due entirely to a stellar baseball postseason. 
"The November sweeps can't get here a minute too soon, given the lackluster perform­ance of much of the networks' programming this season," said Ed Martin, programmin,g editor for The Myers Heport, a media economy newsletter. "Nothing has caught on and the only hope now is some ter­rilic sweeps programming to turn the lights back on and get people interested in televi­sion." 
Sweeps are the industry name for the three separate months during the season when ratings are monitored closely to set local advertising rates. Networks concentrate much of their best program­ming in these months. 
Because nobody has started strongly, it's one of the most important sweeps in years, said Steve Sternberg, an ana­lyst for the media buying lirm Magna Global USA. 
"It's hard to ligure out what's going on when you have the World Series and baseball postseason going so well com­bined with the fact that there's been nothing major coming out of the networks to get your attention," he said. 
CBS, like NBC probably hurt the most by baseball's strength, is cutting the highest profile over the next month. 
The network's four-hour miniseries, "The Reagans," set for Nov. 16 a.nd 18, already has fans of the former president nervous about how he will be portrayed. A conservative group has called for an adver­tiser boycott. 
It doesn't help that actor James Brolin [outspoken liber­al Barbra Streisand's husband] is cast as Honald Heagan. 
In further nostalgic appeals, CBS airs a three-hour 75th anniversary special on Sunday and welcome Andy Griffith, Ron Howard, Don Knotts and Jim Nabors back to Mayberry for a reunion special Nov. 11. A similar reunion for Carol Burnett stunned the industry with its high ratings in November 2001. 
CBS and NBC engage in one of the most unusual, and per­haps destructive, ratings bat­tles on Nov. 9 when they pres­ent television movies about kidnap victim Smart (CBS) and former POW Lynch (NBC) at exactly the same time. 

It's one of Sternberg's pet peeves: networks program­ming as much to hurt rivals as to build audiences for them­selves. 
Besides the Lynch movie and music specials with Justin Timberlake and Shania Twain on Thanksgiving week, NBC is relatively stunt-free. Instead, 
·the network hopes to draw viewers with its original pro­gramming, with twists like Bob Newhart on "ER." 
NBC has suffered this season 
· because some old reliables, like "Priends," have lost popu­larity. Although "Frasier" has rebounded in quality, if not in ratings, Martin said many of the critics he's talked to across the country are surprised at how the quality of writing has slipped for many returning shows on all networks. "People are scratching their heads," he said. "What's with all this dead air?" _After methodically boosting its appeal among younger viewers, traditionally older­skewing CBS has been hurt more than any other network by a puzzling viewership decline among young people, particularly men. Networks have grumbled that it's the fault of the messenger, Nielsen Media Research. Sternberg suggests they look in the mirror instead. Few of the new programs appeal to young men, he said. 
Ben, Jen visit NYC mayor Bloomberg 
Associated Press  "The  Blue  Hoom  isn't  
exactly  ...  some  romantic  
NEW YOHK  - Ben and Jen  restaurant, but you  know,  

finally made it to but it had noth­ing to do with a marriage license. 
Ben Affleck and Jennifer Lopez were there to visit Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who expressed his admiration for Lopez a few months ago. 

City Hall, heck, Ben's here, and you 
"For those ofyou who were wondering, I finally got my date with Jennifer Lopez." 
Michael Bloomberg New York mayor 
take what you can get," Bloomberg joked. 
Lopez showed up at City llall. with Affleck in tow, for the for­mation or a new commission to attract Latino entertainment and media to the city. Lopez will be its honorary 

"For those or you who were wondering, I finally got my date with Jennifer Lopez," Bloomberg said Tuesday as Hollywood's most overex­posed couple arrived late for 
chairwoman. 

"I never thought I'd be here next to such greats as [salsa starl Willie Colon and with the mayor of New York City here at City Hall," Lopez 
a scheduled event. 

"I never thought I'd be 
"This is worse than here ... with the mayor of the Oscars," 
New York City here at 
Lopez said 

City Hall. It's a real honor 
amid a crowd of television for me." cameras and photogra-
Jennifer Lopez 
phers. 

actress
Bloomberg earlier said he would be 
said. "It's a real honor for me." 
Lopez was wearing the now-famous $1.2 million pink emer­ald-cut dia­m o n d engagement ring pre­sented to her by 

charmed  to  meet  the  pop  Affleck,  who  shied  away  
star  who  hails  from  the  from the attention and stood  
Bronx.  off in a corner.  

INE•En A JOB FOR THE 03..04 ACADEMIC YEAR 
A Timely Lecture -A 





~G ~ ~f~~
~C Medical Homeland Defense: ~t'l~ Past Demons and Future Threats 
By 

General Michael A. Dunn, M.D. 

N.D. Graduate of 1968 
Commanding General, Western Regional Medical Command and Army's senior medical expert on chemical and biological defense. 

Thursday, October 30, 2003 
~ ~~ 

~a 7:00PM, 155 DeBartolo Hall ~~ b~~ 
~I! 4r~ ~~ 
!lA Sponsored by the Department of Preprofessional Studies ~~ ~ and Alpha Epsilon Delta ~ 


Transportation to 
ENGLAND 
British Conservatives oust party leader 
Associated Press 
LONDON -Lawmakers in Britain's opposition Conservative Party ousted leader lain Duncan Smith in a no-confidence vote Wednesday, and party officials began to unite around a possible succes­sor in hopes of averting a frac­tious leadership battle. 
Former Cabinet minister Michael Howard emerged as a favorite to replace Smith when another possible contender, for­mer party chairman David Davis, said he would not seek the leadership and would sup­port Howard. 
The party's trade spokesman, Tim Yeo, also considered a likely candidate, also urged Howard to run as did other party officials. 
Whoever becomes the Tory leader would likely be the main opponent to Prime Minister Tony Blair of the Labor Party in the next national election. 
Howard, 62, is a respected veteran lawmaker who served as home secretary, Britain's top law enforcement official, under former Prime Minister John Major. When he held the post, from 1993 to 1997. crime dropped 15 percent. 
Howard, a Welsh-born son of a Romanian Jewish immigrant, believes strongly in the free market and private enterprise and is wary of closer British involvement in the European Union. 
He has not announced that he will stand as a possible succes­sor to Smith, but several party officials have urged him to run and expect him to announce his candidacy on Thursday. 
Party officials are eager to avoid a protracted, bloody lead­ership battle like those that have paralyzed the Tories in the past. The party has been riven by factionalism since the end of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's 11-year rule. 
"I have ... decided to stand aside from this contest in favor of Michael Howard, whom I believe will be well placed to unify the party and win the next election," Davis said. ''I'm doing this in the hope that we can unite around one candidate." 
Lawmakers voted 90-75 against Duncan Smith, who failed to unite the once-mighty party in his two years at its helm. 
"The parliamentary party has spoken ... and I will stand down as leader when a successor has finally been chosen," Duncan Smith said in a brief statement. "I will give that leader my absolute loyalty and support whoever it is." 
Besides Howard, others cited as possible leadership con­tenders include the party's deputy leader Michael Ancram and chairman Theresa May. 
Sir Michael Spicer, the Conservative official who announced the outcome, said nominations for leadership can­didates would be accepted until Nov. 6, with the first round of voting Nov. 11. 

Conservative lawmakers will hold a series of ballots, each time knocking out the candidate with the fewest votes. The final two contenders will then face off in a nationwide ballot of party members, after campaigning across the country. 
Duncan Smith was elected party leader in 2001, after the Tories suffered a second crush­ing election defeat at the hands of Blair's Labor Party. 
Duncan Smith surprised many by leading the traditionalist Tories in a moderate direction. 
He appointed the party's first female chairman, supported a Tory lawmaker who disclosed he was gay, and sought to make the party more inclusive by attracting more women, ethnic minorities and young people. 
He also managed to gloss over the party's divisions on Britain's involvement in the European Union, and forged ahead with new policies on improving pub­lic services. 
But Duncan Smith failed to inspire discipline and loyalty, and many lawmakers sniped about his lack of charisma. Regarded as a stilted and wood­en speaker, he rarely fared well against Blair in their weekly showdowns in the House of Commons. Howard is reputedly the only man on the Conservative front bench that the prime minister respects as an orator. 

Solar flare causes potent particle storm 
Associated Press 

DENVER -The most pow­erful geomagnetic storm possi­ble walloped the Earth early Wednesday. knocking out some airline communications but apparently causing no large power outages or other major problems. 
The storm, the most disrup­tive to hit Earth since 1989, was unleashed by the fourth­most powerful solar flare ever seen, NASA said. 
The gigantic cloud of highly charged particles hurled from the sun posed a threat to elec­tric utilities, high frequency radio communications, satel­lite navigation systems and television broadcasts. Continued turbulence on the sun remains a concern for the next week, space forecasters say. 
The biggest immediate effect was the blackout of high-fre­quency voice-radio communi­cations for planes flying far northern routes. 
But airliners in an emer­gency could still communicate through VHF contact with another aircraft or military monitoring station, said Louis Garneau, a spokesman for the company that handles Canada's civil aviation naviga­tion service. 
British controllers were keeping trans-Atlantic jets on more southerly routes than usual to avoid the problem. 
The particle storm, measur­ing 13 times larger than Earth, was rated a G5, the highest intensity on scientists' scale of space weather. Space observers have measured G5 storms five times· in the past 15 years, but few of them have hit Earth so directly. 
It whipped through the solar system at about 5 million mph, taking just 19 hours to travel the 93 million miles from the sun to envelop the planet. Federal scientists said it col­lided with Earth's magnetic field at 1:13 a.m. EST on Wednesday, about 12 hours earlier than predicted. 
Last week, a weaker solar flare erupted on the sun's sur­face, but scientists said the particle cloud from that event largely spared the planet. 
Such storms pose no direct threat to people on the ground because the Earth's thick atmosphere deflects and absorbs incoming charged particles. But the storm may produce colorful auroras in the northern night sky visible as far south as El Paso, Texas, beginning late Wednesday. 
The last time a G5 storm hit Earth was in 1989, which damaged the power grid and caused electrical blackouts in the Canadian province of Quebec. 



cS ;~ 

The way to go to the ~• .-rc _..~. airports!
COBC11 ua[t 


Indiana hotneless tnan receives allllost $2,000 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ind. -A home­less man who turned in an envelope stuffed with nearly $2,000 in cash will receive the money because no one came forward to claim it. 
Dana Hughes, who described himself as a drifter from Virginia, was walking through Columbus on Oct. 17 when he found the $1,956 in a bank envelope on the sidewalk out­side the Bartholomew County treasurer's office. 
Bather than walking away with the money, he went inside and gave it to Treasurer Vernon Jewell. 
The treasurer had set a Tuesday deadline for someone to come forward prepared to provide an accurate description of the money and the envelope in which it was found. 
Jewell said two people had tried to claim it, but both were rejected because of inaccurate information. 
Hughes was at his sister's home in Dell, Okla., on Thesday when he was told that the money belonged to him. 
"I never dreamed no one would claim that money," he told The Republic newspaper for a story Wednesday. 
Hughes said he started Oct. 17 with only 25 cents in his pockets, but never thought about keeping the envelope of cash. 
"I was scared," he said. "I was afraid of what people might do if they saw somebody like me carrying around all that money. I also figured it might belong to some little old lady who needed it a lot more than I did." 
He ended the day boarding a bus to Oklahoma thanks to an Edinburgh coupie and Jewell, who saw him as an honest man. 
"He was dressed pretty shab­bily, but he didn't want anything for turning in the money," Jewell said. 
Hughes said he would use some of the cash to pay back the money for bus fare he was given by Charles Goff. owner of the Grandma Metz II restaurant in Edinburgh, and Goff's fiancee Paula Hancock. 
Hughes said Hancock opened the door of the diner and invited him to come in to warm up. He cleaned windows in exchange for breakfast and a bag of sand­wiches for his trip. 
"I can't wait to see those peo­ple because of all they did for me," Hughes said. 
He was walking around downtown Columbus while waiting for a bus when he found the money. 
"I was in tears after talking to him," Hancock said. "I just knew in my heart that he was real and there was no way he could be a fake." 
Hughes has gained plenty of attention in the city some 40 miles south of Indianapolis even though he was only there for a few hours. 
"Everywhere I go, people are talking about him," Jewell said. "It's like his honesty has restored faith in humanity. I was contacted by one fellow who wanted his address in Oklahoma so he could send him money, regardless of whether he was given the cash he had found." 


Congress boosts firefighting funds 
Legislators allot $2.9 billion to fight, prevent forest fires 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -With California's forests in flames, Congress gave fresh attention Wednesday to a plan that would allow more tree cutting on federal land 
nod to a compromise bill aimed at red.ucing future fire risks by allowing for expanded thinning of timber in 20 million acres of feder­al forests. Supporters of the bill said it would reduce the amount of underbrush and small trees that can turn a forest into a tinderbox. 
During the day, California Gov.-elect Arnold Schwarzenegger visited Capitol Hill and appealed 
and neared a vote on a 
"We could see 

record $2.9 billion to fight widespread heavy and prevent logging ofmature 
forest fires. 
trees even in pris-
The spend­
ing bill before tine roadless areas. " the House included $800 
Tom Harkins 

million for 
0-lowa

battling wild­fires, about for help. "The huge disastrous fires have 
changed  my  
mission,"  he  
said. ''I'm  now  

looking for fed­eral money for ... the victims of the fire." 
The forest-thinning legis­lation, which 
$289 million more than the current budget, and $937 million for activities aimed at reducing the fire threat in all federal forests. 
For some lawmakers, the issue was a personal one. 
has been controversial, attracted newly broad sup­port as it moved toward what was expected to be final approval, probably on Thursday. Lawmakers con­sidered a series of amend-
Among those sup­porting the "The huge disastrous increased 
fires have changed my
firefighting 
mission. I'm 

money was R e p looking for federal money Duncan 
for the victims ofthe fire." 
Hunter, R­Calif., 
Arnold Schwarzenegger 
w h o s e house east ~allfornla governor-elect of San Diego was 
ments late Wednesday. 
Supporters of the bill said it was needed to thin out dead and small trees and underbrush that can con­tribute to the rapid spread of fires and 
Oregon's forests," said Sen. 
Gordon Smith, R-Ore. 
Environmentalists have 

argued that the bill would 
open areas of the federal 
forests to unnecessary log­
ging under the guise of fire 
protection. While more 
restrictive than a House­
passed forest bill. it would 
allow some timber sales 
without environmental 
review and limit the ability 
to challenge timber con­
tracts in court. 
"We could see widespread heavy logging of mature trees even in pristine road-less areas," Sen. Tom Harkin. D-Iowa, com­plained. 
But other Democratic sen­ators argued that the legis­lation would continue to safeguard forests, especially old-growth timber. 
"This legislation is not a logging bill. This legislation would allow the brush to be cleared out and provide the first statutory protection of old growth forests and large trees," said Sen. Dianne Feinstein. D-Calif. 
The legislation calls for $760 million a year for for­est thinning activities with half of the money ear­marked for forests near developed areas. Some sen­ators said more money -as much as 70 percent ­should be funneled to forests near where people live because wildfires in such areas pose the greatest threat. 
The White House, mean­while, said it supported the Senate legislation as it stood and opposed any changes that might jeopardize an agreement with the House. 
one of many destroyed by fires that cover land the size of Rhode Island. 
Meanwhile, the Senate by a 97-1 vote gave a tentative 
International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 




INNSBRUCK 
2004-2005 Academic Year 

Come and meet Professor Gemot Gurtler~ Director ofthe Innsbru.ck Program 
Thursday, October 30~ 2003 214 DEBARTOLO 4:30 Pl\'l 
also make forests more sus­ceptible to disease and insect infestation. 
"Catastrophic wildfires, not logging ... is killing ­

:J ~ 'up··.···_.·.. 
.
.. 

.. ... ' ·~: . : . .: . ... : : 
·• 

.·· . ~ . : , . • . ...
aintma···

'fI.~~ .-.J_ia,j

:: :..·.. ·: . .· ·. . :·.. . ·•-: .. 
u..all-~t-:
~

., ,•, ·. ·.·. ··. ·.·. ·..·.·. ·. ··..... ·,. ·'· .. ·. . .· .. ·. ·..•..· ·.·· 
.. (]1··..5·. 

~·".eli. ~. 3 ·:J: ~:.'
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 
Application Ueadlinec: Dllcembe'r 1, 2003
Questions? -Weber.15@nd.cdu 


THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, October 30, 2003 
A different side of Father Poorman 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Debating the 'Catholic vote' 
Let me address Peter Quaranta's charge, in his Oct. 29 col­umn, that pro-life Catholics who vote Republican do so on utili­tarian grounds. Although the fact that millions of innocent American children have been killed in the womb provides a compelling incentive to oppose abortion, there are many non­utilitarian reasons to vote Republican. 
Respecting the life of all human beings, especially the unborn. is the cornerstone of what it means to be pro-life. If you accept the Catholic premise that human personhood begins at concep­tion, then abortion must rank amongst the most heinous of crimes against humanity. It is the murder of the most defense­less and innocent people in our society. The Church's teaching on this issue is very clear. Human life must be respected and protected absolutely from the moment of conception. 
An intellectually honest Catholic should also carefully consid­er his or her position on the death penalty. However, the Church concedes, that "the traditional teaching of the Church does not exclude recourse to the death penalty, if this is the only possible way of effectively defending human life" (Cathechism, 2267). Reasonable people can disagree about whether capital punishment can be justified in modern society. However, one must acknowledge that the potential evil of killing a criminal convicted of the most brutal crimes pales in comparison to the egregiousness of murdering innocent per­sons through abortion. A good Catholic prays for an end to both of these practices. But, given the choice between two evils, cap­ital punishment is by far the lesser. 
Quaranta is right in encouraging Catholics to support candi­dates who consistently uphold Christian teaching. In the mean­time, we should not throw our vote away on obscure third­party candidates who have no chance of winning. Instead, we should vote for candidates who will promote, however imper­fectly, the culture of life. our vote may not mean the difference between heaven and hell, but it is certainly a matter of life and death. 
T.G. Aranda 
class of'95 Oct.30 

Many on campus think ofhim as the author of du Lac, a conspirator behind the alcohol policy and the reason why the sexes must part at night in the dorms. 
While parts of this may be true, those who know Father 
Andrew
Mark Poorman in Keough Hall praise DeBerry him as a great, social, positive guy. I 
ND Changing 
dropped in his office 

Times
to bridge the dispari­ty between personal and public percep­tions of our vice president of student affairs. 
Poorman was studying English at the University of Illinois when he felt the call to the priesthood. He enrolled in Notre Dame's Masters of Divinity Program and appreciated the tremendous people of the Congregation of the Holy Cross and its integration of the intellectual and spiritual life. He has been a resident assistant and assistant rector but has many great mem­ories, in particular from his time as the rector of Dillon Hall. He later earned a Ph.D in Christian Ethics from the Graduate Theological Union at Berkeley and returned to Notre Dame to hold vari­ous teaching and advisory positions. He gladly accepted University President Father Edward Malloy's invitation in 1999 to be vice president of student affairs. 
Poorman works with 27 rectors and 10 directors overseeing departments such as Campus Ministry. Health Services, Campus Security and Career Services. He calls administration "the art of the possi­ble." One must wade through numerous constraints to discern the best decisions. His work involves less controversy than many may think. In reality, he is thankful that he can work with the students, which he considers "an incredible privilege." 
He thoroughly enjoys teaching and praises his students as bright, motivated, value-oriented individuals. Students recip­rocate his praise through high, online pro­fessor ratings. Poorman also treasures performing alumni marriages and bap­tisms, which he said he does more than all the campus priests. 
He also cherishes the residential life. Alumni usually ask each other two ques­
tions -when they graduated and what dorm they lived in: "I love that," Poorman says. He esteems Notre Dame's unabashed and pervasive Catholic charac­ter. In particular, he values working with the "outstanding, extremely dedicated, professional, student-oriented and serv­ice-driven" rectors and department direc­tors. 
He also has high aspirations for stu­dents. "I want people here to catch fire intellectually," he said. He doesn't want students to be too content just hanging out and letting opportunities pass by during their short time here. He wants alumni 
to be Catholic leaders in their student life and was a popular various fields who have a guy. He has kept in contact keen sense of responsibil­with a few of the girl­ity for people who are friends he had as a stu­less privileged. In par­dent, even baptizing ticular, he would like some of their chil­more students to dren. enlist in the fields of Janice noted scholarship. While Poorman's personal many do pursue kindness in family professional train­life. She is a single ing, he wants more mother who has two students to pursue daughters adopted advanced education from China. Uncle Mark with Ph.D. aspirations. visits her daughters every 
Poorman's many respon­week to play with them. He sibilities have not precluded organized a trip to the Notre 
numerous personal encounters. While living in Grace Hall, he had to tell a fresh­man that his father had died after an acci­dent on the way home from Freshmen Orientation. He invited the RA and fresh­men in his section to get away from the move-in mayhem and come together at the Morris Inn. The guys dropped what they were doing and stayed up until 6 
a.m. to mourn with the student. 
Notre Dame life has also had its gags, mostly from Poorman's 4A section in Keough Hall. I ventured up to 4A to see what they really thought of their neigh­borly administrator and was led to two guys working in the Keough kitchen who live near him. When Poorman would come home after a long day, they'd run out, greet him like an old friend, then pro­ceed to rampage in his room. 
They'd jump around, eat his cookies and pretend to make important phone calls to Father Theodore Hesburgh: "Yeah, Ted, how you doing?" Poorman would kindly entertain them before bidding them good night. Sometimes guys in 4A could con­vince him to get "Reeked" with them at Reekers. They would want to live in no other section without Poorman. 
4A had good reports of this administra­tor. I wondered if it could all be true. I called his sister, Janice Poorman. who works in the Masters of Divinity Program. I asked about Poorman before his min­istry. "He was considered a heartthrob," she says. They called him Father What-A­Waste. Some girls were very sorry that he 
joined the priesthood. He was active in 
Dame Fire Department for their day care and put each kid in the flre engine. Janice wants students to see Poorman as a very kind family man who genuinely keeps others interests at heart. 
While some students may disagree for valid reasons, Poorman and many of the administrators act with special regard for the students. They model a lifestyle that integrates intellectual, spiritual and pro­fessional living. But most importantly, they maintain personal relationships that show the heart and soul that is leading the University under Mary's watchful eye. 
Andrew DeBerry is a fifth-year senior studying aerospace engineering and minoring in Middle Eastern Studies. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at adeberry@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Do you approve or disapprove of President 
"We are sinful not merely because we have eaten 
Bush's handling of the situation in Iraq? 
ofthe Tree ofKnowledge, but also because we gave not eaten ofthe Tree ofLife. " Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Franz Kafka Austrian writer 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, October 30, 2003 page 13 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Questioning assumptions about Catholics 
GUEST COLUMN 
Focus on commibnent in gay marriage issue 
The debate.about homosexual marriage is one that has been going on for years and one which will probably continue to be debated for many more. Even once the Supreme Court makes its inevitable ruling sometime in the future, the debate Richard is not likely to end. 
Friedman 

Right now, what needs to be done is to be sure that peo­Guest ple know the cur­Columnist 
rent research 
results and about research that is not from biased sources. 
One interesting thing about many argu­ments against homosexual marriage are their heavy usage of statements released from the Vatican. While recognizing the importance of these statements to Catholics, a large part of what this country was founded on was a separation of church and state. Obviously there is going to be a large overlap between morals expressed by the Church and the laws pre­sented by our government, but at the same time we as a country cannot resort to mak­ing laws based on what one religion might say in regards to a certain issue. This is exactly the issue that the Supreme Court faced when it struck down sodomy laws earlier this year. 
Looking at other points, it can be seen that they are similarly flawed. To begin, the possibility of adoption all but destroys any argument that marriage is about rais­ing children and helping build our future and therefore homosexuals are naturally excluded. Large numbers of children in the United States and overseas are waiting to be adopted by loving parents and to deny them this possibility based on old, faulty research is simply wrong. 
To say that good parenting requires two parents of opposite sexes would mean that we would also have to question and then deny single parent households the right to raise children. It would also be going against much of the current research that has repeatedly shown that if a child is able to establish secure attachments with his parents and is reared in a loving and sup­portive environment, he will develop in a normal and healthy manner, regardless of the sex of the people providing that warmth to him. 
I would also like to try to provide some insight into the research often pre­sented from the National Association for Research and Therapy of Homosexuals. While on the surface NARTH may seem like a legiti­mate organization, further investigation shows that they describe themselves as "a non-profit, educa­tional organization dedi­cated to affirming a com­plementary, male-female model of gender and sexual­ity." Not exactly an t,mbiased source. 

More research reveals that in NARTH is a tiny organization that in 1997 had a board of six officers and few other advanced degree members. The American Psychological Association, however, has over 121,000 members and is considered to be the world's leading organization on psychiatric issues. NARTH and other simi­lar organizations have been leading the fight against homosexual marriages and adoption for the past few years while organizations such as the APA have been in favor of both. 
A final question is why the focus of much of the debate on homosexual marriage centers on sexual activity; not the love, legal benefits, medical decision powers or public and private expression of a long­term commitment to each other that mar­riage also provides. When I hear that a male and a female have gotten married those are the things about which I think ­never is it immediately about how or if they are having sex and what the possible outcomes of that may be. 
Along these same lines comes the point raised about promiscuity amongst homo­sexuals. To fully understand the statistics 
they presented, we need to look at both sides and recognize that in the '90s there was one divorce for every two mar­
riages. That's not exactly a great success rate for heterosexuals either, 
especially considering that that was with all the benefits of mar­riage and the losses attributed with legal divorce. "Gay unions" generally have none of these 
things, so it is not sur­prising they end much easier. It is also ques­tionable what those stud­ies considered a steady homosexual relationship as that is much harder to define 

without having the standard socie­ty-understood terms that heterosexuals enjoy. 
Overall, the case against legal gay mar­riage is built on rather shaky grounds. t goes against the idea of separation of church and state as well as itself trying to specifically target a group of citizens and deny them several rights allowed to others. The often repeated defenses for such a stance fall apart when recent, unbiased research is considered and when people realize that allowing two males to marry does not affect a male and a female mar­riage in any way. As long as there is love and commitment in both cases, both are following the same ideals and neither in any way harms the other. 
Richard Friedman is a fifth-year senior. He can be contacted at rfriedma@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Diversity 
matters 
In regards to Matt Bramanti's Oct. 28 column, "Diversity doesn't matter," he states the following: "''m a white guy. Knowing that, what can you figure out about me?" What I can figure out about you is this: you have never been discrimi­nated against. Neither have I. However, the idea behind the affir­mative action law was that it pro­tects people from the closed-mind­ed racism that existed in the United States at the time the law was writ­ten. Here's a shocker, bigotry still exists, and it will continue to exist. 
This is a sad fact to be sure. One would think that in this enlightened period in human history we could move beyond such intolerance. But we have not. The common com­plaint is that affirmative action puts less qualified people into a job sim­ply because of the fact that they possess minority status. The truth of the matter is that affirmative action protects all workers, white and black. 
What happens when a factory manager hires a white man who is less qualified than a black man competing for the same job simply because he is white? In such a case, affirmative action protects everyone working at the factory. In conclusion, instead of speaking of how neutral diversity is, try looking at the matter from someone else's 
perspective ­ a little empathy goes  
a long way.  
David Escobales  
junior  
Fremande, Australia  
Oct. 29  

In his Oct. 28 column, Peter Quaranto argues that teaching and doctrine," may mean nothing more the "approaches of many Catholics ... to the political than a particular strand of doctrine with which arena are misguided and immoral." This may or may Quaranto agrees. not be true, but unfortunately Quaranto shows in his Beyond this ideological problem, his idea of a article that his understanding of politics is beyond Catholic candidate is as politically wrongheaded as misguided or misinformed; it is nonexistent. his blank ballot scheme. Catholics are (and always 
I agree with the Catholic bishops'  have been) a minority in this coun­ 
missive, which Quaranto claims to support, that Catholics have a  I doubt Republicans  try. If we present a presidential can­didate whose only appeal is his or  
moral obligation to be politically  would call themselves  her Catholicism, we are destined to  
involved. His proposed answers, though, would do the opposite. First, he suggests that Catholics  anti-life. Probably Democrats wouldn't use  lose every time. Rather than con­vincing the two major parties to take us seriously, such a move would  
without a "solid grasp on the  that label either.  alienate us. People in the past feared  

issues" should not vote. Such a measure would work very well, I am sure, because the two major parties pay such close attention to the interests of people who don't vote. Oh wait, no. The parties, being intelligent 
political organisms that want to win, do not waste their time with to these people. If we followed Quaranto's suggestion, Catholics would, in terms of their political power, commit mass suicide. 
Following this, Quaranto suggests that we should present a uniquely Catholic candidate that follows Church teaching and doctrine. There are a couple of problems here. The Church does not have an author­itative teaching or doctorine on many political issues other than abortion. We are a very large body that encompasses numerous religious traditions and a wide range of political thought. For Quaranto, though, this may not matter, as the phrase, "Church 
that Catholics would try to destroy the boundaries between church and state. Quaranto would play into their hands. 
Quaranto fails to acknowledge the reality that other groups exist in society besides Catholics. In politics, it is necessary to build coalitions between these diverse groups and to compromise. Thus, Catholics are destined to disagree with some element or another of a candidate's platform. In a society of hundreds of millions of people, no candidate will be perfectly acceptable to each person. Our group is no different. 
Quaranto mistakes this necessary compromise for utilitarianism. But when we do not completely agree with either party, don't we have to assess the rela­tive benefits and drawbacks of each candidate? Using language associated with concerns of "utility" does not automatically make us utilitarians. 
Quaranto confuses a type of political philosophy with a natural cost-benefit analysis that is necessary to almost every choice we make. 
I do not even know how to respond to Quaranto's claim that "Republicans remain committed generally to an anti-life agenda on other issues." This seems completely devoid of any attempt to even understand why Republicans hold the positions that they do, let alone any reasoned analysis of political issues. I doubt Republicans would call themselves anti-life. Probably most Democrats wouldn't use that label either. It seems perfectly appropriate, though, for a far-left Catholic demagogue to say something like this. 
Finally, for all his talk of faithfulness to Catholicism, Quaranto manages to betray his faith by arrogating for himself the power of God. And though my mind is incapable of fathoming the Lord's divine wisdom, I surely hope that He will not condemn us for one day at the polls. "Judge not, lest you be judged," seems a lesson that was lost on Quaranto. 
I suggest that before Quaranto write another of his columns condemning the rest of campus for not join­ing campus activities like Peace Calition, Pax Christi or the Progressive Social Alliance, he spend some time trying to dislodge the wooden beam from his eye. 
Michael Romano 
senior 
Dillon Hall Oc1. 28 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Thursday, October 30, 2003 
Glee Club returns hom_e 
The internationally-enjoyed singing group has its fall concert 
this weekend at Washington Hall 
By JON RETARTHA Assisranr Scene Ediror 
The weather may be getting colder. but the Notre Dame Glee Club is just getting warmed up for its Fall Concert weekend. This group of about sixty male perform­ers has already taken the South by storm, spending fall break touring Georgia, Tennessee, South Carolina, Illinois and Pennsylvania, and now they are gearing up for their return to South Bend on Thursday and Friday. 
The Glee Club has a rich tradition in music at the University, spanning eighty­eight years and 2,000 participants. The group is particularly known for its close­knit membership, with many members choosing to live together both on and off campus. The Glee Club also has a very strong Alumni club, as was seen earlier in the football season as dozens returned to sing on the field during the annual Glee Club Alumni Weekend. 
Known as "the musical ambassadors of Notre Dame," these young men tour the country and the world while also dedicating their time to developing and strengthening their talents while not performing. This dedication stems from a shared love for music, as is seen in the variety of different performances they put on each year, with audiences from four to 4,000. They have four premier performances each year -one in the fall, one for Christmas, one in the spring and one for Commencement. Some of their smaller performances include events on home football weekends and at freshman orientation activities. Their attire also mirrors their performances, ranging from polo shirts and khakis to bow ties and tails. 
The men of the Notre Dame Glee Club tour many parts of the country, includ­ing many Southern states, New England and the Midwest. They tour twice a year and hit anywhere from seven to ten engagements in a tour. In addition to the American tours, they travel abroad every two years. Their most recent tour, in the summer of 2003, included book­ings in Italy, Austria, the Czech Republic, Germany, Switzerland, France, Spain and Ireland. The 2001 tour traveled through Bangkok, Singapore, Shanghai, Beijing, Hong Kong and Taipei. They have also toured the Middle East as well. 

Before all this jet setting and fame can materialize, however, a prospective member must go through the audition process. Many of the members are quick to point out, though, that the audition is not the spotlight on a dark, empty stage that many would imagine. Nor are the judging members Simon Cowell impersonators. Most auditions are held in the fall, at the beginning of the year, but some may be held at mid­year if the numbers warrant it. The audition process is very informal, and all male members of the Notre Dame community are welcome to try out, regardless of experience. As their club Web site points out, "singing in the shower is documentable singing experi­ence!" The audition itself does not even require prepared music, but is rather a chance for the director, Dan Stowe, to simply get a feeling for the ability of the applicant in regards to matching a pitch or holding a tune. The ability to read music is not required. The second aspect of the audition process is an interview with several glee club members. 
The Glee Club has a repertoire rich in Notre Dame Tradition. Some of the songs that make their way frequently into per-formances include the "Victory March," the "Alma Mater," "Hike Notre Dame," "Irish Backs," "On Down the Line" and "Notre Dame We Hail Thee." They also specialize in many Irish classics, such as "My Wild Irish Rose," "Loch Lomond," "Danny Boy" and "Clancy Lowered the Boom." Several spiritual tunes are favorites of the Glee Club as well, includ­ing "Got a Mind to Do Right" and "Swing Down Chariot." 

All of these years of performing these classic songs have given birth to an extensive recording career for the Notre Dame Glee Club. Their latest release, In Dulci Jubilo, exhibits many of the Christmas tunes performed in during the holiday season by the club. Their album Under the Dome mirrors their fall and spring performances, with mixtures of classical songs and Notre Dame Traditions. Shake Down the Thunder is the collection of Notre Dame Fight songs performed by the Glee Club. Finally, Music from the Basilica highlights many Renaissance pieces performed in Glee Club concerts. 
Much of the broadening of the club's collection of music is attributed to Stowe, who is entering his tenth year at Notre Dame. After doing graduate work at the University of Southern California and Cornell University, he went on to conduct the U.C. Davis Chorus, Chamber Singers and Early Music Ensemble, as well as the Cornell University Chorale. He also serves as the Notre Dame Orchestra conductor. 
The Glee Club is ready to embark on another exciting year of concerts at Notre Dame. With music that everyone will enjoy, this Halloween weekend is the perfect time to experience one of Notre Dame's unique treasures. Performances are Thursday and Friday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets may be pur­chased at the door or at the LaFortune box office. The Thursday performance is free of charge, and the Friday perform­ance is $3.00. 
Contact Jon Retartha at 
jrethactha@nd.edu 
SARAH VABU LAS/ The Observer 
SARAH VABULAS/ The Observer

The Glee Club has four major concerts throughout the year and will be heard 
Notre Dame's "musical ambassadors" travel all over the world, sharing their
this weekend performing their eclectic style al Washingon Hall this weekend. vocal talent and love of NO with people of all nations, background and age. 

THE OBSERVER_ 
CENE
Friday, October 30, 2003 
Page 15 
ND Presents dances to start 
U.S. Cellular and Notre Dame team up to help bring culture and the arts to the South Bend community 
By SARAH VABULAS 
Scene Editor 
To connect with its new neighbors, 
U.S. Cellular has entered into a major sponsorship agreement that unites the company with both Notre Dame and the city of South Bend. Under this agree­ment, U.S. Cellular will sponsor "NDPresents: LIVE at the Morris." The series will celebrate music and the arts through three performances -The Suzanne Farrell Ballet, La Boheme and Cirque Eloize, taking place· at the Morris Performing Arts Center throughout the coming months. 
"This series at the Morris is a fine example of how public/private sponsor­ships with South Bend and Notre Dame ean benefit the entire community," said South Bend Mayor Stephen Luecke. "It is my great pleasure to welcome U.S. Cellular to South Bend and thank them for their significant commitment to our community." 
"We greatly appreciate U.S. Cellular's support of this program that benefits students and residents alike," said John Haynes, Judd and Mary Lou Leighton director of performing arts for Notre Dame and executive director of the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. "We look forward to enhancing our relationship with U.S. Cellular in the future as the university expands its involvement in the perform­ing arts." 
On Monday, U.S. Cellular, which will offer wireless service to northern Indiana starting Nov. 1, presented Notre Dame with a check for $15,000 to co­sponsor the new series. 
"On behalf of Notre Dame, we know that this is the beginning of a long rela­tionship with U.S. Cellular that benefits both the residents of the South Bend area as well as Notre Dame students," Haynes said. 
Tuesday night, the first of the three events took place at the Morris Performing Arts Center -The Suzanne Farrell Ballet. It was a beautiful event with amazing and talented dancers. They lit up the stage with elaborate cos­tumes and graceful, poetic movements throughout the four-part ballet. The men and women of the company include principal dancers Jennifer Fournier, Chan lion Gob, Natalia Magnicaballi, Peter Boal and Runqiao Du. 
They danced "Divertimento No. 15" by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, the "Pas de Deux" from Swan Lake by Peter Ilyich Tchaikovsky, "Tempo di Valse" from The Nutcracker by Tchaikovsky and "Serenade" by Tchaikovsky. 
In 1993 and 1994, in order to fulfill a mission to enhance the arts education of America's young people, the Education Department of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts offered two series of ballet master classes for students from metropolitan Washington and Baltimore with the leg­endary Suzanne Farrell. 
This series provided intermediate to advanced-level ballet students the opportunity to study with one of the greatest ballerinas of the 20th century. Due to the uniqueness of Farrell's place in the ballet world and the quality of her teaching, the Kennedy Center enlarged the program to a national level in 1995. This intensive three-week pro­gram, Exploring Ballet with Suzanne Farrell, takes place each summer and has just finished its 11th session. 
In the fall of 1999, Farrell took cues from the masters of ballet with whom she danced, admired and inspired to present The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts special production for the Millennium Season, Suzanne Farrell Stages the Masters of 20th Century Ballet. The works of George Balanchine, Jerome Robbins and Maurice Bejart took on a new life with Farrell and the grace of the company she selected for a five-week east-coast tour. 
In the fall of 2000, The Suzanne Farrell Ballet, now a full-fledged compa­ny and an ongoing project of the Kennedy Center, made its debut during the Kennedy Center's Balanchine Celebration performing "Divertimento No. 15." 
"[The Suzanne Farrell Ballet] rendi­

., ' . .;· ' .·~ . 
'·.~~~·~?·,..2../ 
.... 

From left to right, Jay Ellison, U.S. Cellular Executive VIce President presents cheque to John Haynes, executive director of Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, with John Rooney, U.S. Cellular President. 
tion of 'Divertimento No. 15' was rapt, lyric, gloriously unified in tone and filled with moments in which dancers were at thrilling risk, reaching beyond their capabilities they're certain of to become more than they or we dreamed they might be," Tobi Tobias of New York Magazine said. 
The company again performed in early 2001 at Seven Days of Opening Nights at Florida State University where, at the beginning of the 2000 academic year, Farrell accepted a tenured professorship in the Dance Department. 
That exclusive engagement included the company premiere of Balanchine's Variations for Orchestra. Prior to a northeast tour, The Suzanne Farrell Ballet opened the Kennedy Center's bal­let season in the fall of 2001 with nearly two weeks of performances in the Eisenhower Theatre -featuring no less than six company premieres. The com­pany was again seen at the Kennedy Center in the fall of 2002, performing, among other works, company premieres of Balanchine's "Chaconne," "Raymonda Variations" and "Who Cares?" as well as A Farewell to Music with Canadian cho­reographer Anthony Morgan. 
Following this extensive fall 2003 US tour that will, for the first time, take them to the West Coast, the company will open the Kennedy Center's 2003­2004 ballet season with a full week of performances in the Eisenhower Theater. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 
WHifNEY From left to right, Mark Eagan, St. Joseph Chamber of Commerce president, Photo courtesy ol Kennedy Center Ballet stands with Stephen Luecke, South Bend major; George Georgaklls, U.S. The Kennedy Center helped promote the development of the Guzanne Farrell Cellular director of sales; and John Rooney, U.S. Cellular president Ballet Co. In Chaconne so that It might grow to the touring state It Is today. 
Thursday, October 30, 2003 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 
Anthony has 12 points in Nuggets victory 
Associated Press "Despite the fact that it was contributions. I can't think of basket with 1:41 to go and Jeff up to a torrid final 12 minutes ugly offensively," Nuggets coach anybody that dido 't really con­Foster made a free throw with when the Jazz hit 13 of 16 shots. 
-
DENVER -Even after picking up two fouls less than two min­utes into the game and being hounded by one of the NBA's best defenders, Carmelo Anthony showed he belonged. 
Anthony had 12 points and seven rebounds in his NBA debut, helping lead the Denver Nuggets to an 80-72 win over the San Antonio Spurs on Wednesday night. 
"When people look at us, they are going to notice that we won our first game," said Anthony, who was limited to 4-for-15 shooting by Bruce Bowen. "They aren't going to look at how many points I had . .I don't care if I only average four points. I will be happy if we win. 
"I was a little anxious in the first half. I picked up the early fouls. In the second half I kept my composure and we won the game." 
Anthony, the third overall pick in the draft after leading Syracuse to the NCAA champi­onship as a. freshman, sustained a small cut near his right eye, courtesy of Bowen. 
"I think he wanted to make a statement, like, 'Hey, this isn't easy.' I don't know what he got me with. He's a top defender in the league, and I think I did a decent job." 
Bowen said Anthony "is a very talented player. I think as he gets older in this game he will settle down more and will be able to do things that other guys do that become Hall of Famers. 
"I thought he was a good play­er in college. I never thought him coming into the NBA would require a drastic step." 
Andre Miller added 16 points, Earl Boykins 13 and Nene 12 for the Nuggets, who overcame poor shooting to knock off the defend­ing NBA champions. 
Denver shot 29 percent from the field, compared to 27 percent for the Spurs. 
Tim Duncan had 17 points on 7-of-22 shooting and 21 rebounds for San Antonio, which opened its season Tuesday night with an 83-82 win over Phoenix. 
Jeff Bzdelik said, "it was a great win in front of a great crowd against a great opponent." 
Spurs coach Gregg Popovich was most concerned about his point-guard situation. Tony Parker and Shane Heal are injured, and Anthony Carter was able to play only 10 minutes because of patella tendinitis in his left knee. 
"It stiffened up on him," Popovich said. "It was bad enough in the first half where he was dragging his leg and couldn't move it. 
"We didn't have any point guards after that. We'll have to bring somebody in to make sure we have somebody there when our next game comes. We can't depend on Carter's knee right now." 
Celtlcs 98, Heat 75 
The Boston Celtics were better without Antoine Walker than Miami was without Lamar Odom. 
Paul Pierce scored 23 points and Boston made up for the absence of its longtime leader by placing six scorers in double fig­ure, opening the season with a victory over the Heat. 
Playing without Walker, who was traded nine days before the opener, the Celtics got 15 points apiece from Vin Baker and Eric Williams, 12 each from Mike James and Raef LaFrentz and 10 from Tony Battie. 
"You saw the emergence of a lot of guys," said Pierce, who played 35 minutes and was the only Celtic to play more than 28. "There are a number of guys who are going to be able to showcase their talents." 
Eddie Jones had 22 points and eight rebounds for-Miami, which was missing Odom. The center­piece of the Heat's offseason overhaul, Odom sprained his right ankle in the season opener on Tuesday, which Miami also lost.. 
"We knew they were banged up. We knew they were on a back-to-hack game, so we tried to do everything we could to take their legs out of it," Celtics coach Jim O'Brien said. "A lot of nice tribute." 

In recent years, Pierce and Walker have accounted for a big­ger share of their team's points than any other NBA duo except Shaquille O'Neal and Kobe Bryant. But Walker was dealt to Dallas along with Tony Delk for LaFrentz, Jiri Welsch and a first­round draft pick. 
The theory behind the trade was that subtracting Walker's sometimes dominating presence will get the others more involved in the game. 
"The ball is moving a lot better. They don't have one guy control­ling the ball," said Bimbo Coles, who finished last season with Boston and started this one with the Heat. 
"I see the trade benefiting the Celtics. Not taking anything away from Antoine, but there will now be more scoring for the other guys on the team." 
LaFrentz didn't start, but he played 28 minutes and added five rebounds and three blocked shots. 
But the most pleasant surprise for the Celtics was Baker, who left the team in the middle of last season to check into an alcohol rehab center. He started and scored the first Celtics basket of the season, getting the ball beneath the hoop and muscling past Brian Grant for a layup. 
Pacers 89, Pistons 87 
Rick Carlisle refused to gloat after be,ating the team that fired him. 
Jermaine O'Neal had 22 points and 15 rebounds as the Indiana Pacers held on for an victory over the Detroit Pistons, who got rid of Carlisle after two success­ful seasons. 
"It's not about me and it never will be," Carlisle said. "It's about this group of players, who played at a high level and with a lot of passion to earn this win against a good team." 
In the season opener for both clubs, Indiana led by 10 midway through the fourth quarter before a 13-2 run put Detroit ahead 87-86 with two minutes left. O'Neal scored a go-ahead 14.8 seconds remaining. 
Detroit's Chauncey Billups missed an 18-footer with 4.8 sec­onds left, and Mehmet Okur failed on a hurried 3-pointer just before the buzzer. 
Carlisle helped the Pistons win 100 regular-season games, two division titles and three playoff series the past two years, but it wasn't enough to save his job. 
"He didn't really talk much about it, but we knew in the back of his mind he really wanted to win this one," O'Neal said. 
Hall of Fame coach Larry Brown, who spent the past six seasons in Philadelphia, replaced Carlisle, who advanced past Brown and the 76ers in the sec­ond round of the playoffs. Carlisle succeeded fired coach lsiah Thomas in July after almost deciding to be a television ana­lyst this season. 
Carlisle was given a rousing ovation when he was introduced, and he responded with a wave to the fans at The Palace. He was expressionless as his eyes fol­lowed last season's Central Division banner raised to the rafters. 
Jazz 99, Trail Blazers 92 

The rebuilding Utah Jazz appear to have a good founda­tion so far. 
Playing a season opener with neither John Stockton or Karl Malone in the starting lineup for the first time in 17 years, the Jazz rallied from a 13-point third quarter deficit and beat the Portland Trail Blazers 99-92 Wednesday night. 
"We haven't done nothing yet. We've got 81 more to go. But we're going to surprise some people -like we did with those guys tonight," said Carlos Arroyo, who had 18 points and 13 assists in his second career start. 
Arroyo has the unenviable task of replacing Stockton, the NBA career leader for assists and steals who retired last summer. If Arroyo was uncomfortable tak­ing over for an icon, it didn't show. 
He calmly got the offense in sync in the third quarter, leading 
-"To tell you the truth, I wasn't nervous," said Arroyo, who was 7 -for-13 from the field. "I think this game let us know where we are at right now and let people know we're capable of winning some games." 
First-round draft pick Sasha Pavlovic made his first four shots and scored 16 in his NBA debut. Raja Bell, who signed with Utah as a free agent this summer. also had 16 points, including a 3­pointer that tied it and the go­ahead basket for a lead the Jazz never gave up. 
Tlmberwolves 95, Bucks 89 
Though many will be focused this season on Minnesota's new players, Kevin Garnett can never be ignored. 
Garnett had 25 points, 21 rebounds and six assists as the Timberwolves hung on to beat the Milwaukee Bucks 95-89 Wednesday night in the opener for two teams sporting a much different look. 
"I was definitely hyped," Garnett said. "The talent is there." 
Newcomers Sam Cassell (18 points). Latrell Sprewell (15 points) and Michael Olowokandi (11 points, nine rebounds) helped Garnett, as did holdover reserve Gary Trent (14 points). 
"That's what Spree and I are supposed to do, take the pres­sure off Kevin on both ends of the floor," Cassell said. 
Michael Redd and Desmond Mason each had 16 points for Milwaukee, playing its first game under rookie coach Terry Porter -hired to replace George Karl. 
The young Bucks trailed by 17 points late in the first half. but they climbed back in the third quarter to trim the lead to five. Toni Kukoc found Redd for a wide-open dunk at the buzzer to pull Milwaukee to 71-66. 
"You don't get nothing for fighting back," Mason said. 
The Bucks, who trailed the whole game, cut it to 87-85 on former Timberwolves forward Joe Smith's tip-in with 1:13 remaining after Garnett missed a jumper. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. · 
CLASSIFIEDS 

NOTICES 
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306 
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski &Beach Trips on sale now! www.sunchase.com or call 1-800-SUNCHASE today! 
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in Acapulco is now offering 3 destina­lions! Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get Crazy in Cabo-all with BIANCHI­ROSSI TOURS. Book by Oct 31-get FREE MEALS! Organize a group and travel for FREE. Call for details. 800-875-4525 or www.bianchi-rossi.com. 
***ACT NOW!Book 11 people, get 12th trip free. Group discounts for6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com or 800-838-8202. 
Vector/Cutco workforstudents.com/ 574-282-2357 
WANTED 
Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO exper. required. All looks and ages. Earn $100-$500 a day. 1-888-820-0167' ext. U187 
FoR SALE 
GEORGETOWN-CARRIAGE HILLS AREA. 2.7 Ml TO ND. 3BR-1/2 BA. FULL BSMT/FAM AM. NEW AC/SIDING. MANY UPDATES. 2 CAR GAR. $101,400. 574-272-1112 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. 
Email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu 
JUDAY LAKE HOME.ON LAKE.WALK TO CAMPUS. 272-6306 

FoR RENT 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272­1525 
2 Nice Bedrooms: 1 double, i two signle. Immediately East of the Campus for Game Weekends Only. $80 per person/per night. Call 272-0928 
ND FOOTBALL HOUSING: Beautiful home (plu,s two tickets) in nice neighborhood available for remaining ND football games. Six blocks from stadium. Sleeps 10. Two baths, kitchen, laundry, parks 6 cars. $1,200 per weekend. No pets. {574) 231-8823 (evenings). 
STUDENT HOUSING AVAILABLE! 2,3,4,5 Bedroom Apartment and Townhouses available. Excellent location to campus! Contact Rod Ludwig at 574-234-9923 or Emaii:Riudwig@cbresb.com 
4 Bedroom House for next semester and/or next year. 1136 E. Madison. Great for parties. Contact Mike (216) 408-0780 or Matt (216) 408-0744 if interested 
3-6 BDRM HOMES & ROOMS. LOW$$. 272-6306,329-0308 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 3-5 BED­ROOM HOMES. GOOD CONDI­TION. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 
. ANL PROPERTIES 532-1896 
TICKETS 
ND FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR TOLL FREE 877-773-3911. 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE AM­232-2378 PM ­288-2726 
WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232-0964. 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570. 
JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT­BALL GAME. PLEASE CALL674­6593. 
Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ Pay Top Dollar$$ 1-866-808-0990 
Buy/Sell Notre Dame Football tick-
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at1-7819. For more iniormation, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Spring Break 2004 with StudentCity.com and Maxim Magazine! Get hooked up with Free Trips, Cash and VIP status as a Campus Rep! Choose from 15 of the hottest destinations. Book early for FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS and 150%-Lowest Price Guarantee! To reserve online or view our Photo Gallery, visit www.studentcity.com or Caii1-888-SPRINGBREAK! 
Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
A "Reality" Spring Break 2004s Hottest prices Book now..Free Trips, Meals & Parties sunsplashtours.com or 1800-426-7710 
ADOPTION:Irish, affectionate, child­less, stay-at-home mom and envi­ronmentalist dad, dream of sharing love with Caucasian or Hispanic newborn through adoption. Legal & confidential. Call Jacqueline and Allan toll free at 1-800-484-6754, PIN: 8642 
.... IRISH CROSSINGS-A NEW LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY •••• Build your dream home next to Notre Dame. A limited num­ber of home sites are available. For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com 
I hate Florida Slate, bull love Charley's 
Jim Croce loves the Legion 

OLYMPICS 
IOC revievvs legality of rectroactive drug tests 
Associated Press 
LONDON -The IOC is look­ing into whether drug tests at the 2002 Salt Lake City Olympics can be rechecked for the recently discovered steroid TIIG, lOC medical director Patrick Schamasch said Wednesday. 
Lawyers for the International Olympic Committee arc study­ing the legality of retroactive tnsting of frozen urine samples taken to Los Angeles from the temporary Olympic drug-testing laboratory at the University of Utah's Hesearch Park. 
"Thn samples exist. Now we have to look into all the juridi­cal issues," Schamasch said in a tlllephone intervinw from IOC hnadquarters in Lausanne, Switzerland. 
"We are reviewing all these different issues, of course. Once we have all the information on the potential legal issues, my proposal will be to ask our president !Jacques Hogge!. and hn will decide." 
The IOC also is asking scien­tists if the frozen 19-month-old samples are viable. 
"We want to be sure that the quality of the sample is still good in order not to face any legal issue with a potential degradation," he said. "It's a very sensitive issue. 
Dr. Don Catlin, who heads the Olympic drug-testing laboratory at UCLA, where 200 to 300 samples from the 2002 Winter Games are stored, said in a telephone interview Wednesday that retesting is still possible for TIIG, a previously undetectable drug. 
The World Anti-Doping Agency has urged retesting of all stored samples worldwide. International track and field officials plan to retest 400 sam­ples from the world champi­onships in Paris in August. 
"Everybody around that has old samples is interested to know whether they could or should retest them for THG," Catlin said Wednesday. "There are a number of legal issues. They want to know if' the sam­ples arc stored under chain of custody. There arc a myriad of issues that arise." 
The JOC's doping rules only require drug testers to keep backup samples of positive tests for 90 days, while backups of negative tests must be kept for 30 days. 
Catlin's lab has samples from as far back as the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics, and retested them last year for testosterone levels. Such testing is done more to determine the stability of such samples over time. 

NFL 
Tuiasosopo to start for Raiders 
Associated Press 
ALAMEDA, Calif. Marques Tuiasosopo will start at quarterback for the Oakland Haiders on Sunday at Detroit in place of injured Hich Gannon. 
Gannon, the reigning NFL MVP, was listed as doubtful Wednesday with a shoulder injury. The Raiders still haven't said how severely the 37-year-old Gannon is hurt. 
Gannon was injured in the Raiders' 17-10 loss to Kansas City on Oct. 20 and hasn't thrown a pass since. 
The 24-year-old Tuiasosopo nearly rallied the Haidcrs (2­
5) to a comeback wiri against the Chief's, but fell just short when Tim Brown was tackled on the 1-yard line as time expired. Tuiasosopo was 16­for-28 for 224 yards after replacing Gannon. 
Tuiasosopo, a seldom-used backup in his third pro sea­
son after a stellar college career at Washington, has had extra time taking snaps with the first-team offense because the Haiders had their bye last week. 
"''m just fired up to be able to contribute to the team a little bit more and help us win a ballgamc," he said. ''I'm just going out there to try to have some fun and try to win. It's been a while. We need to get back on a win streak." 
MLB 
Maddux, Millwood file for free agency 
-
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Greg Maddux and Kevin Millwood, team­mates with the Atlanta Braves from 1997-2002, head the list of 16 players who filed for free agency Wednesday. 
Maddux's filing could signify the end of his 1 0-ycar relation­ship with the Braves. The 37­year-old righthander has been the anchor of a rotation that has helped produce an unprecedented 12 straight division titles. 
Maddux and the Braves 
nearly parted ways last winter before agreeing on a one-year, $14.75 million contract. 
While Maddux is expected to be among the most sought after frontline starters. the jury remains out on Millwood, who put together an erratic 2003 campaign for the Philadelphia Phillies. The 28­year-old righthander was 14­12 with a 4.01 ERA and threw a no-hitter on April 27. But he also failed to produce down the stretch for a team desper­ately needing an ace. 
Millwood made $9.9 million in 2003 and was hoping to 
land a big, multi-year con­tract. 
Other starting pitchers filing Wednesday were Pat llcntgen of the Baltimore Orioles, Kenny Hogers of the Minnesota Twins and Pedro Astacio of the New York Mets. 
Seattle Mariners All-Star closer Shigctoshi Hasegawa also filed. Coming oil' the best season ol' his career, Ilascgawa offers teams the llexibility of being able to set up or close. 
Wednesday's filings brought to 149 the numbers or players who have opted for free agency. 
Lafayette Square To,vnhomes NOW Is the time, they won~t last longl 
+ 
Only 9 Blocks from Campus 

+ 
Laundry Area with Washer and Dryer 

+ 
Fully Equipped .Kitchen Including Dishwasher and Garbage Disposal 

+ 
4 I 5 Private Bedrooms 

+ 
Private Patio 

+ 
Optional ADT Alarm System (Optional Monitoring) 

+ 
Central Air Conditioning 

+ 
Assi_b.rned Parking 

+ 
Energy Eftlcient Gas Heating 

+ 
Professionally Managed 

+ 
24 -Hour Emergency On-Call Maintenance 


For More Information: Real Estate Management Corporation 
P.O. Box 540 
South Bend, L~ 46624 
Telephone: 574-234-9923 
Facsimile; 574-234-9925 

Notre Datne Apa.r·ttnents starting at Just $120..-00 per month, per person! 
"The Best Value for your Dollar!" 
+ 
Just 4 Blocks South ofthe Notre Dame Campus 

+ 
Spacious 2··Bcdroom Apartments on Notre Dame Avenue 

+ 
Current l-year & 10-month Leases Available 

+ 
On-Site Laundry Facility 


+ 2 Closet~ and 1Desk in Each Bedroom 
+ 
Private Parking Lots 

+ 
24 -hour On-Call Emergency Maintenance 

+ 
Up to 4 Persons Per Apartment 


For More lnfom1ation: Real Estate Management Corporation 
P.O. Box 540 
South Bend~ IN 46624 
Telephone: 574-234-9923 
Facsimile; 574-234-9925 
Rludwjg(d?cbresb.com 
NFL 
Green arrested for manJuana possesion 
out these proceedings. We will

Associated Press 
work in conjunction with the National Football League to 

WESTLAKE, Ohio monitor this matter closely." Cleveland Browns running NFL spokesman Greg Aiello back William Green pleaded would not comment specifically innocent Wednesday to on Green's case. But Aiello did charges of marijuana posses­say that under the league's sion and driving under the substance abuse policy, any influence. player breaking alcohol-or 
Green was arrested Monday drug-related laws is subject to 

.... after police received a cell a fine and suspension . phone call from a motorist Green was released on bond reporting a possible drunken Monday night. · driver. An officer found a bag Green, in his second NFL of marijuana weighing 3.2 season, missed Cleveland's grams in Green's car, accord­game last Sunday against the ing to police. New England Patriots with a If convicted of the DUI separated right shoulder. It charge, Green could be put on would have been a homecom­probation or face up to a ing of sorts for Green, who--$1,000 fine and six months in starred at Boston Collegejail. His license could be sus­before turning pro after his pended for up to three years. junior season. The marijuana charge is a mis­While at BC, Green was twice demeanor and carries a $100 suspended from the team for fine. marijuana use. Green and his attorney did The Browns made him the not comment after the arraign­16th overall pick in the 2002 ment. NFL draft. "Our team policy dictates Following a slow start as a that we handle all incidents rookie, Green ran for 887 involving our players within yards -726 in his final seven the organization on an individ­games -as the Browns won ual basis," Browns president seven of their last 10 games to Carmen Policy said. "William is earn a playoff spot. represented by counsel, and Green leads Cleveland (3-5) 
we have been assured that we this season with 559 yards on will be kept advised through-142 carries. 



·---------------------------------;-;-----------~------­
OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, October 30, 2003 CoMPlLED FROM THE 0BSERVlltS WIRE SERVICES Page 19 
NBA 
tfiam 

1 North Carolina 
2 NOTRE DMtE 
l1 UCI.A 4 Portland 5 VIrginia 6 Colorado 7 TexasAUI a Penn State 9 Santa Clara 10 Florida 11 West Virginia 12 Illinois 
13 Connecticut 
14 Washington 
15 Auburn 
16 Tenne»lle 17 Ulah 18 Florida State 19 Ohio Stale 20 Boston College 21 Kansas Z2 Nebraska 23 Clemson 24 Calllomla Polytechnic 25 Texas 
team 

1 UCLA 2 MarylanrJ 
3 Wake Forest 4 Old Oomlrilon 
5 SL John's 6 North Carnllna 7 NOTRE DAME · 
REUTERS

8 Saintlouil; 
LeBron James sets up for a shot In his first professional game. Though Cleveland lost to Sacremento 106 • 92, 
9 SaJtla Clara 
James made a mark with 25 points and nine assists. 
10 Virginia COmmonwealtll 11 Brown 12 Fairleigh Dickinson 
13 Florida lnt~;~rnational 
James lives up to expectations in NBA debute 
14 Indiana 15 oregon Slata · 16 Cr~;~lghton played at this level. point deficit, givwg running their halfcourt
Associated Press 

11 Ha11Wick James' point total was Cleveland its first lead by offense. James made 18 Comal carolina by far the most by any feeding J.R. Bremer for a things happen whenever 
19 ClnclnnaU · · 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. -prep-to-pro rookie since 3-pointer that made it 85-he was moving with the 20 UC Santa Barbara Le Brilliant -except for Kobe Bryant made the 83 with 10:05 left in the ball -using his 11rst step21 Alabama -Birmingham the result. jump in 1996, eclipsing fourth. to get around defenders 
22 Drake 
<11~ ..3~3>?o,:;;;;:.:x:{/ ) 
LeBron James more -the 10 points scored by Sacramento regained and initiate action. 
23 VIrginia Tech 
than lived up to his hype both Jonathan Bender of control with a 6-0 run. James' best stretch of 
23 Columbia 
in the lirst regular-season Indiana in his 1999 debut and the Cavaliers never the third quarter included 
25 Michigan 
game of his NBA career, and Amare Stoudemire of made a game of it down a high-arcing bank over 
25 Akron 
playing like no other 18-Phoenix last year. the stretch. James capped Vlade Divac on a 1-on-3
25 Wawington 
year-old ever had in his In fact, James' 25 his night by shooting an break, followed by a left
25 Villanova 
professional basketball eclipsed the combined airball from 3-point range handed linger-roll from 5
25 Connecticut 
debut as th.e Cleveland totals of Bryant (no just before the final feet away in the lane. Cavaliers lost 106-92 points), Jermaine O'Neal buzzer, drawing taunts As impressive as that Wednesday night to the (two), Kwame Brown from the fans. stretch was, it was Sacramento Kings. (two). Eddy Curry (two). Those taunts. however, equal1~d by what James 
James had 25 points, Tyson Chandler (on e). were only half-hearted. did right from the get-go. nine assists, six rebounds Kevin Garnett (eight) and James entertained the Just 88 seconds into tlw and four steals, mesmer· Tracy McGrady (none) in fans too much to be treat­game, James earned his izing one of the league's their professional debuts. ed too shabbily. lirst professional assist on loudest crowds with skills James led the Cavaliers Though the Cavaliers an allcy-oop pass to Hicky no teenagllr had ever dis· back from an early 19-often were uncreative Davis for a dunk. 

.... 
around the dial 
NBA 

Washington at Chicago 1 p.m., FSN Denver at Houston 8 p.m., TNT Cleveland at Phoenix 10:30 p.m., TNT 
CoLLEGE FooTBALL Boise State at BYU 7:30 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 

Philadelphia at New Jersey 10 p.m., ESPN2 

IN BRIEF 

Lemieux becomes sixth to 
reach I, 700 points 
PITTSBUHGH -Just like always. it was Mario Lemieux who got the rebuilding Pittsburgh Penguins going -this time. with his history-making 1.700th point. As usual, it was the other team that had the big finish. 
Lemieux became the sixth player in NIIL history with 1,700 points with an assist that started a four­goal run by Pittsburgh, but the New York Islanders scored twice in the third period for a 4-4 tic Wednesday night. 
"I thought we were going to win the way we played tho lirst two peri­ods," said Lemieux, who scored in his seventh straight game. "It's dis­appointing." 
Not necessarily to the Islanders, who are 9-1-1-3 in their last 14 games against Pittsburgh. 
"It's bad the way we played in !Pittsburgh's two-goal) second peri­od." Islanders goalie Garth Snow said. "But in the hole two goals in the third period and to come back and salvage a point, it's good." 
With the Islanders up 2-0 late in the first. Lemieux took Konstantin Koltsov's pass along the right wing boards, slipped the puck between the legs of defenseman Janne Niinimaa, then made a backhanded pass to the slot to Dick Tarnstrom for his second gqal of the season. 
"It's nice to get it out of the way," Lemieux said. "Sometimes when you're going for a milestone, you try to do too much." 
Lemieux joins Wayne Gretzky (2,857), Gordie llowc (1,850). Mark Messier (1,847), Marcel Dionne (1,771) and Carolina Hurricanes captain Hon Francis (1.760s) on the 1,700-point list. Only Gretzky reached the mark faster than Lemieux. 
Lemieux's exceptional play not only halted what was threatening to become another Islanders' rout of Pittsburgh, it was the first of the Penguins' four straight goals -a 
veritable flurry for a team that scored only four goals in its previous three games. Tho Penguins lost to the Islanders 7-2 Saturday night and are winless in four games (0·2-2). 
Rubin advances in tennis 
quarterfinals 
VILLANOVA, Pa. -Fourth-seeded Chanda Hubin charged to an early lead and beat Alexandra Stevenson 6­2, 6-4 Wednesday to advance to thn quarterfinals of the Advanta Championships. 
Ninth-seeded Meghann Shaughnessy and local favorite Lisa Haymond also advanced. 
Stevenson eommittnd snvnral unforced errors early in tho match and Hubin capitalized. In the second set, the players held servo until the ninth game when Hubin broke and served out the set. 
"I dclinitely wantl~d to be the stead­ier player," Hubin said. "If I can really make the points last, that gives me more opportunity." 

NBA 

Bryant says he'll get along with Shaq 

API 

Shaqullle O'Neal and Kobe Bryant sit by each other In the Lakers opening game win over the Mavericks. Both players said they will get along and focus on a championship this season. 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Kobe Bryant insists he and Shaquille O'Neal will get along this season and do whatever it takes to help the Los Angeles Lakers win another NBA championship. 
Coach Phil Jackson fined Bryant an undisclosed amount for publicly criticizing O'Neal. and the team met for 20 minutes Tuesday to discuss the feud that has developed between the two players. 
"We don't see this as insur­mountable at all," Jackson said before the Lakers opened the season with a 109-93 victory over the Dallas Mavericks. 
"It's like a family feud," guard Gary Payton said. "You have it for an hour and it's over." 
Bryant was not in uniform Tuesday night after he said he didn't think his surgically repaired knee was strong enough to withstand the rigors of a 48-minute game. The Lakers had expected him to play until hearing otherwise Monday on ESPN. · 
Bryant said he hopes to return Saturday night in Phoenix. 
Bryant castigated O'Neal dur­ing a telephone interview with ESPN, calling him "childlike," "unprofessional," "selfiSh," "fat" and "jealous." He also accused the 7-footer of overstating the severity of his foot injury last season when he reported to training camp overweight. 
Bryant's comments came a day after O'Neal said the Lakers were "my team," adding that Bryant needed to be more of a team player -an observation based on two exhibition games. 
"We're cooL We talked this 
morning. He said what he said, I 
said what I said. We put it behind 
us," Bryant said after the Lakers' 
victory. "Shaq and I are going to 
move on, be teammates and help 
this team to a fourth title." 
Asked if he wanted to clarify 
his comments to ESPN, Bryant 
replied, "I don't have anything to 
clarify. I'm past it." 
O'Neal blamed the media for 
starting the controversy. 
"We don't really have issues," 
he told TNT after the game. 
"[Bryant) said something that 
was misconstrued and I said 
something that was miscon­
strued and we talked about it. 
Right now, we are going to play. 
We are just trying to win." 

One member of the Lakers said Tuesday morning's meeting last­ed about 20 minutes, with O'Neal and Bryant addressing the team but not each other. The only other player to speak was Karl Malone, the player said. 
"What we tried to do was not to overkill the situation," guard Derek Fisher said. "We all know it's there, we're aware of it, it's not necessarily going to go away just today, so we addressed it." 
At practice Monday, Jackson ordered the team not to discuss the dustup with .reporters. He fined Bryant for defying that order by talking to ESPN later that day. 
"We had an agreement, the agreement was broken," Jackson said. "We were really disappoint­ed." 
Bryant appeared on the court with about 15 seconds left in the third quarter after icing his knee and doing weight work. He was greeted by a loud ovation from the sellout crowd at Staples Center. They chanted "Kobe! Kobe!" and he raised his right hand in acknowledgment. 
One fan held up a homemade sign that read 'Can't we all just get along' with Bryant's and O'Neal's jersey numbers on it. 
Bryant sat next to O'Neal on the bench. O'Neal appeared to talk to Bryant while covering his mouth with his hand. Bryant responded without looking at O'Neal. 
Bryant described their conver­sation as "just clowning around, just silly stuff. I'm kind of a comedian sometimes." 
The conflict between O'Neal and Bryant has been simmering throughout their seven seasons together, but their public pot­shots have never been as person­al as the most recent ones. 
"All that's going on is not charted territory for us," Jackson said. "There's a lot involved in what's going on here." 
Adding to the tension for the team is the publicity brought by a sexual assault charge against Bryant. 
Bryant lashed out publicly after Jackson declined to get in the middle of the fight. 
BOXING 

De La Hoya decides he wants a rematch 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Oscar De La Hoya has changed his mind. 
Before fighting Sugar Shane Mosley last month, De La Hoya said he would retire if he lost. When Mosley beat him for the second time, lift­ing the WBA and WBC 154­pound titles, De La lloya said he wasn't interested in a third fight. 
Six weeks after losing the disputed decision, De La Hoya promised Wednesday to get back in the ring one more time with Mosley. 
"I'm definitely going to fight again, that's for sure," he said. "I will box again. There 
will definitely be ''I'm definitely tell the story, a rematch with tell it right and
going to fight 
Mosley." make sure the
again, that's for 
De La Hoya viewer under­
.. 

was outraged by sure. stands it." the defeat and De La Hoya demanded an said he was
Oscar De La Hoya
investigation excited to be
Boxer

into the unani­mous decision. He has since backed away from that. 
"I had a lot of response from fans who said, 'You were cheated. How can this happen?"' De La Hoya said. "A decision is a decision. They can be wrong at times. People make mistakes. Nobody's perfect. 
"I landed over 150 more punches and didn't get the decision. The public knows who really won. As long as the public knows who really won, that's all that matters." 
De La Hoya made the com­ments Wednesday during a news conference to introduce him as an Olympic boxing commentator for Telemundo Sports, the Spanish language network owned by NBC. He will also contribute to NBC's coverage of the Athens Games. 
Telemundo plans more than 130 hours of program­ming from Athens, the first 
exclusively non-English lan­guage Olympic broadcast in 
U.S. television history. It will be part of 806 1/2 hours of coverage from Athens. nearly double the 441 1/2 hours of NBC's coverage from Sydney in 2000. 
Broadcasting is a new experience for De La Iloy a, a five-time champion who recorded a pop music CD that was nominated for a Grammy in 2000 and formed his own boxing promotion company, Golden Boy Promotions. in 2001. 
"The strategy is to be hon­est with the viewer," he said. "You cannot cheat them. You have to be honest. That's 
what I believe in. I want to 
returning to 
the Olympics for the first time since he won a gold medal at Barcelona in 1992. 
"I always wanted to go back to the Olympics as a spectator," he said. "Never in my wildest dreams did I think I would go as a com­mentator. It hits home. It touches my heart. This is a huge honor and I appreciate the opportunity." 
De La Hoya said he is con­centrating on his promotional company and wants to use it as a vehicle to change box­ing. 
"It takes time," he said. "To be able to correct a bad deci­sion, I think we need that. I feel I can make a difference and take care of boxers. There is so much room to make the sport a better one. It can be a sport organized like the NBA or major league baseball. It's a mission I have, to make a difference, especially for fighters." 


WAVEs ... 
......· .. . . . ·.· 
: . .
'TU.···.

···. ·.· .. ·.·,. <...,·o······.·'···y·····.· 
:. . .. ·. ·:
5 IN 
JAf>AN 
SPM 
wed. ootobeY g , · .. :tq_j f-f'Attts-H"tAlel:j 
Ole 
--H.,J.<YS.. · OCTD"&E?R. so 
.. ::::::...:·.:-:.·· .·. ..· ...·. 
·•·· ·········,·~···· ·~tJts-H"tALttJ 
or NAGOYA, 
Thursday, October 30, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Falcons need Vick to return soon to save season 
doctors projected the recovery

Quarterback has been 
time at six to ten weeks. 

out since preseason Philadelphia quarterback 
Donovan McNabb returned

with ankle injury from a similar injury in a day 
short of eight weeks -coinci­

Associated Press dentally, in time to lead the 
Eagles to a playoff victory 

FLOWEHY BHANCII, Ga. -over Vick and the Falcons last After watching his team get January. ofT to a miserable start with­If Vick doesn't play until out its best player, Atlanta Dec. 7, his rehab will have Falcons coach Dan Hcevcs lasted 16 weeks. wants Michael Vick back on Second-stringer Doug the fit~ld now. Johnson started 
No way, says the first six Vick, who insists ''I'm kind of games, but he he won't come was benched
frustrated. I

back until his bro­after throwing
thought I would be 

ken lng is totally 10 intercep­healed. back a little earlier. tions. Third­And, in the first stringer Kurt
But I don't have

firm timetable on Kittner started 
any control over

his return, Vick the last game, a 
said Wednesday the way my body 45-17 loss to 
he'll probably New Orleans.
feels... " 

makn his debut and will appar­
l>cc. 7 against ently start again
Michael Vlck

Carolina -much against 
longer than the Falcons quarterback Philadelphia. 
projected recovery As for Vick, poriod. Heeves said, "If ''I'm kind of frustrated," he he's going to be better, it's said. "I thought I would be going to be getting in ball­hack a little earlier. But I games and not watching Kurt don't have any control over and Doug playing. It isn't the 
the way my body reels .... same." 
Hight now. I can't do it. I hon­Heeves originally was told estly can't do it." Vick would be out for six to Beeves obviously feels dif­eight weeks. Just to be on the ferent. lie gave a totally unso­conservative side, he figured licited assessment of Vick's his quarterback could be out 
n~covery after being asked a as long as 10 weeks. 
gr.ncral 4uestion about how Under that scenario, Vick tht~ Falcons (1-6) would have been arc holding up ready to go 
during a six-game Sunday.
"Mike needs to get

losing streak. "lie wants to "Mike needs to back as soon as he get back out get back as soon there as quick
possibly can. " 

as he possibly as he can," ean," Heeves said Reeves said. Wednesday. "lie Dan Reeves "We're about 10 
talks about how Falcons coach weeks into it, Vick figures he'll be able to of owner Arthur Blank, who he shouldn't come and hopefully resume practicing in two or has told the quarterback to back, but I think he's close to three weeks, and he'd like to make sure he's fully recov­he realizes, too, being ready." have at least two weeks of ered before he tries to play.that you've got a small win­Vick began running in a practice time before playing Blank, of course, also will 
dow or opportunity, and he's straight line on Monday with­in a game. decide Reeves' fate. not getting better sitting on out much problem, but found While expressing surprise at Vick also suggested that his tlw sidelines." the leg was still too painful to Reeves' comments, Vick said recovery has been prolonged
Viek, a Pro Bowler in his do any change or direction -he doesn't expect the situation because Beeves wants him at 
first season as a starter. broke critical to the running ability to cause a rift between player practice.his right leg in an Aug. 16 that separates him from other and coach. "I do a lot of standing on it exhibition game. At the time, QBs. Vick said he has the support in practice," Vick said. "I 
JISI irish athletics 
Hockey 
Friday 10/31 vs. Nebraska...omaha 7:30pm Gate 3 JACC 
*FREE official ND hockey goalie masks for first 1,000 fans (sponsored by Hoos1er 
T1res) *FREE Papa John's pizza for ND students (while supplies last) 
#7 Men's Soccer 
Friday 10/31 vs. Villanova 7:30pm Alumni Field 
*LAST CHANCE to see the team play in a regular season home game *FREE glow-in-the-dark necklaces for first 250 fans *One lucky fan has a chance to win 2 tickets to the Toby Keith Concert (Nov. 1st in Fort Wayne) . *One lucky fan has a chance to win 2 ND vs. FSU football ttckets *Come Trick-or-Treat with the Irish 6:30pm FREE admission with costume *Half-time costume contest winner receives C&C Limo ride &tickets to Niles 
Haunted House #2 Women's Soccer 
sunday ll/2 vs. Miami 1:00pm Alumni Field (Quarterfinals ofBig East) 
-~' *Soccer season tickets are not valid ~~~ *Tickets are $5/adults, $3/ND students, $3/youths # 14 Volleyball Sunday ll/2 vs. Syracuse 2:00pm Gate 10 .JACC 
*FREE ND volleyball bottle jersey with a Coke product for first 500 fans 

think that's set me back, too. 
... I'm trying to stay off it as 
much as I can." 
The quarterback flatly rejected any suggestion he's delaying his comeback because the Falcons' season already appears hopeless. lie said the team's record is irrel­evant. but he's got to protect his future. 
"The opponents don't care about you," Vick said. "I have to care about me. This is my livelihood. I want to play for a long time." 
Safety Keion Carpenter stood by his teammate and close friend. 
"He's one of the fiercest competitors I've ever met," Carpenter said. "lie's the leader of this team. lie wants to be out there, but nature won't Jet him." 
In the past two weeks, Vick has spoken with McNabb, who acknowledged he wasn't 100 percent when he retumed for the playoffs last season. "lie emphasized to me not to rush it," Vick said. 
Vick tried to play with a severely sprained ankle dur­ing his sophomore year at Virginia Tech, but could bare­ly run. Never again. 
"If I go out and try to play at 80 percent, I'm not going to play like I want to play," Vick said. "I know what that feel­ing is like. I don't want to feel it again." 

Thursday, October 30, 2003 

page 22 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 
ministry.1@nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu
Campus Ministry C-M 
Freshman
siQn uo now
.-

Get involved, go on a retreat 
Retreat #so 

More info & applications in Room114 and 
December s-6

online at campusministry.nd.edu 
wh t' h 
saturday 11.01 
All Saints Day 
sunday 11.02 
RCIA 1o:oo a.m.-11:30 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Dia de Los Muertos Blessing of the altar at 1 p.m. LaFortune 
followed by Mass at 1:30 at St. Edward's Hall Chapel 
monday 11. oJ 
Forgotten Wars 
Paolo Mancinelli of Rome presents "The World's Forgot­ten Wars" on the witness of the Community ofSanr Egidio, International Catholic Public Lay Association 
4:00p.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
· 
tuesday 11.04 
Campus Bible Study 

7:00 p.m. -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Confirmation Session 
Sponsor's Meeting 
7:00-8:45 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 

Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 P·!T'· St. Edward's Hall 

wednesday 11.os 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 8:oop.m. Wilson Commons 

The Gospel according to Bono Part 2: the words & the Word 
presented by Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
1o:oo p.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
internship opportunity 

Graduating this year? 
Interested in serving your friends and peers in the Notre Dame community? 
Come by the Intern Open House to hear about the opportunity to spend a year interning for Campus Ministry here at Notre Dame. 
Free pizza will be provided and applications made available. 
Wednesday, November 5th 5:00p.m. -6:00p.m. Coleman-Morse Center, Room 316 
mass schedule 

Sign up deadline: November 28 
Main Office (CoMo 319} & Retreats Office (CoMo 114), Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. CM Welcome Center (room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight. 
considerations... 
Mother Teresa 
A Lesson Most Definitely Learned 
by Keara Coughlin Intern, Office of Campus Ministry 
When I was a kid, being 'cool' was never that appealing to me ... but being strong, being tough-that meant EVERYTHING. I wanted to win every footrace, be the champion of every athletic event ... and no matter what happened, I never wanted to reveal pain or weakness. 
Irony, I have learned, seems to be the vehicle of choice for God as He teaches me (and the rest of the world) the most important lessons. In 1946, a tiny and unassuming young woman whose body suffered from the damage caused by tuberculosis began to follow a path that would bring unexpected hope and inspiration to this 'modern' world diseased with despair. It was then that Agnus Gonxha Bojaxhiu, known to her fellow sisters of Loretto as 'Teresa' heard a "call within a call" which demanded of her a com­plete surrender to God. "And when this happens," she said, "the only thing to do is to say 'yes.'" 
Mother Teresa spent the last fifty years of her life working not to realize great aspira­tions of transforming the world, but rather to live with a dedication to holiness -a holiness she was 
Mother Teresa will forever remind us that it is
certain was available to 
not important that we do 'great things,' but 
everyone. It was a holiness attained rather 'little things with great love.' She herself through follow­
was a little thing with great love. 
ing a "simple path." Silence, prayer, faith, love, service, and peace: these were her steps on the simple path to holiness. This meant loving Christ and doing so in the poorest of the poor by becoming one of them -sharing with them their suffering, washing their feet, tending to their wounds, caring for their sick and dying. 
Simplicity? Poverty? But I wanted to be strong -not weak and poor. I wanted to do amazing things that would impress everyone, not 'simple' things that nobody noticed. How "great" and "effective" could a person be if he or she doesn't fight for something? 
Enter The Cross: the moment when God himself became weak and broken. And in this brokenness, He healed the world. And with Mother Teresa's life, He again reminds this modern world of true efficacy. In her meekness, in her poverty, and in her simplic­ity, she did change the world. She very simply yet very deeply loved Christ: seeing His face in every beggar, every orphan, every leper. Last week, the whole Church praised God for the gift of this woman's life to the world, and by proclaiming her "Blessed," recognized the power of her actions during her life and her intercessions for us now. In the ceremony attended by hundreds of thousands, Pope John Paul II reminded us that her life was "a testimony to the dignity and the privilege of humble service." 
Mother Teresa will forever remind us that it is not important that we do 'great things,' but rather 'little things with great love.' She herself was a little thing with great love. Now that is strength ... that is everything. 
basilica of the sacred heart 
Saturday Vigil Mass 
30 minutes after the game 
Most Rev. Charles Grahmann, Bishop of Dallas Most Rev. John Vanta, Bishop of Amarillo 
45 minutes after the game 
(Stepan Center) Rev. James K. Foster, c.s.c. 

around campus (every Sunday) 
Sunday  
8:ooa.m.  1:30  p.m.  
Rev. Ricahrd S. Bullene, c.s.c.  Spanish Mass  
1o:oo a.m.  St. Edward's Hall Chapel  
Rev. William M. Lies, c.s.c.  s:oo  p.m.  
11:45 p.m.  Law School Mass  
Rev. Mark L. Poorman, c.s.c.  Law School Chapel  

7:00 p.m. 
MBA Mass 
Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 

31st Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Sunday's Scripture Readings 1st: Wisdom 3:1-9 2nd: Romans 5:5-11 Gospel: John 11:17-27 
~· ~ .. <., ,,;.._·. .:~: " .L. '·' ­


CHIP MARKS/The Observer Notre Dame's Meg Henlcan digs a ball against Seton Hallin a game earlier this season. The Irish won their 11th straight game by beating Illinois State Wednesday night. 
Author Discussion 
& Signing 

Meet Jack Sacco, ND '78 
Thursday October 30th 7:00-S:OOpm in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 

HAMMES 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 
Open to the public • Convenient parking 
,,C • .r ." • . , ~ -,-, t • • . . ... ~ ...~ .._ . . . "•~ "'t 
Sweep 
continued from page 28 

to the Irish for the fifth straight year, as they hit -.008 on the match, largely due to the dominating Irish blockers, who finished with 16.5 team blocks to the Hedbirds' five. 
"I think we were confident [coming into today's game]." coach Deb Brown said. "I think that we feel like we knew that if we played well. we were capable of winning in three [games]." 
Brewster led the Irish with her impressive .524 hitting percentage, as she had 11 kills in 21 attempts with no errors. She ended game three, and the match, with her strong serving (17 points on the match). Meanwhile. Kelbley hit a strong .444 with her 11 kills. Jessica Kinder also added nine kills to round out the offense. 
However, this was after a horrendous first game. in which the Irish ended with a .044 hitting percentage. 
"I just think that our set location wasn't as good as it could have been and it got much better in games two and three," Brown said. 
The Irish didn't come to play in game one, making it easy on the Redbirds, as the Irish made mistakes on their side of the net. However. Illinois State didn't do much better, as they hit a meager ­.130 in the first game. 
"1 think it was more unforced errors than any­thing," Brown said. "But it was certainly uncharacteristic of this team and not the way 
we  wanted  to  start  game  
one."  
Game  two  saw  the  Irish  

begin to play their game. as setter Kristen Kinder led her offense to a stellar .531 hit­ting percentage. The Irish closed the match hitting a respectable .333 in game three. Kinder finished with 29 assists on the match to go along with her 12 digs. 
"I was pretty pleased with game two. and game three I thought we could have played better," Brown said. 
Defensively, Meg llenican once again led the Irish, a) the libero registered 17 digs. 
In the end, the Irish got the job done, as they increased their win streak to 11 games. and they look forward to Syracuse on Sunday, when they resume Big East play. 
"I don't want to sound like the coach who's never pleased. but we need to be better," Brown said. "We are preparing to play at a higher level -to play in the NCAA tournament. What we're look­ing for is more consistent play from the beginning to the end of the match." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
MEN'5 BASKETBALL 

Irish picked third in Big East conference 
Special to The Observer 
NEW YOHK. N.Y. -The Connecticut Huskies have been picked to win the 2003-04 BIG EAST regular season title by a vote of the league's head coaches. The Huskies received 13 first-place votes. 

Coaches did not place their own teams on their preseason ballots. It is the first time a team has been chosen unani­mously to win a regular sea­son crown since UConn received all possible votes in ~98-99. 
The BIG EAST is returning to one division this season. Last year, Connecticut was co­champion with Boston College in the East Division with 10-6 records. Connecticut finished the season 23-10 and advanced to the Sweet 16 round of the NCAA Tournament. 
The Huskies will be building around forward-center Emeka Okafor, the BIG EAST Preseason Player of the Year. and guard Ben Gordon, a pre­season first team All-BIG EAST Selection. UConn can also boast the Preseason Bookie of the Year, freshman forward Charlie Villanueva. 
Syracuse, the 2003 NCAA champion, is picked a solid second with Notre Dame third. Pittsburgh edged Providence for fourth place. 
Notre Dame and Pittsburgh were Sweet 1u teams last sea­son. Providence returns most of its key players from an 18­14 squad. 
The firth-place projection for the Friars matches their high­est preseason ranking in BIG EAST history. 


page 24 
Loss 
continued from page 28 
Michigan defenders, the Irish cashed in as senior Amy Warner played the ball to Katie Thorlakson who beat a defend­er and Tuura to get the Irish within 3-2 with 21:37 to go. 
Despite having some chances to tie the game in the last twen­ty minutes, the Irish finally were unable to convert, as the Michigan defense was able to 

hold on long enough to thwart 
the Irish offensive effort. 

"Everyone on our team is a 
competitor, so of course we'd 
have liked to have walked away 
with a win," said senior Kim 
Carpenter. "But we've had a 
great season thus far, and we 
plan to continue to do well 
throughout the playoffs." 

The Irish lost despite out­shooting Michigan 19-6, includ­ing a 10-6 edge in shots on goal. With the win, Michigan improved to 7-6-6 on the sea­. son, while the Irish fell to 18-1­
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish take down Ta:mpa 
. Special to The Observer 
Tampa, Fla. -The Notre 
Dame women's swimming 
team concluded a fall training 
trip to Florida Oct. 23 with a 
convincing 158-114 victory 
over the University of Tampa. 
The Irish won 11 of 14 events 
in improviqg its dual-meet 
record to 1-0, while Tampa is 
now 0-1. 
In the first event, the 200 
medley relay of freshman 
Rebecca Grove, senior Laurie 
Musgrave, sophomore Christel 
Bouvron and senior Danielle 
Hulick finished first, while the 
relay of freshman Ellen 
Johnson, junior Georgia 

Healey, senior Lisa D'Olier and freshman Meghan Linnelli placed second. 
In the 1,000 freestyle as junior Kristen Peterson fin­ished in 10:32.25. Junior Brooke Taylor followed in 
10:41.80 and junior Katie Eckholt placed fourth in 10:56.24. 
The Irish dominated the 200 freestyle event, placing first, second, third and fifth. Freshman Ann Barton touched the wall in 1:55.36 in earning top honors, while senior Lisa Garcia was second in 1:55.57. Healey was third in 1:56.23 and freshman Abby Strang placed fifth in 1:59.63. 

The Observer + SPORTS 
1. Tuuara made eight saves for the Wolverines. 
Having closed their regular season, the Irish play again at home Sunday when they open the postseason by hosting Miami at 1 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
Thursday, October 30, 2003 

WoMEN's SoccER 
Loss could help Irish for playoffs 
Over and over in sports sports fans have seen just how difficult it is for any team to go undefeated in a season. Rarely even do championship teams escape their sea­Andy Troeger 
son without a loss. and for all but 

Sports Writer 
the best teams win­ning every game is often an unrealistic goal. 
Notre Dame's women's soc­cer team made it one game short of achieving that goal before running out of time against Michigan. 
With a No. 2 ranking, this begs the question about how the loss will affect the Irish come the postseason. 
With the loss coming out of the Big East schedule, the Irish still remain the favorites to win their eighth Big East Championship in nine years, especially if normal standouts Mary Boland and Melissa Tancredi return Sunday from nagging ankle injuries. If the Irish are able to get through the Big East, they still likely will get one of the top four seeds in the NCAA Tournament, meaning they would likely get to host as many as four games. In short, this loss itself could have very little impact on Notre Dame's upcoming postseason stand­ing. 
So the next question is, how does this Irish team regroup for their game Sunday against Miami? There are a few rea­sons to think that this loss could help the team's mentali­ty heading into the postseason. 
First, the Michigan game was a classic "trap game" for the Irish, who had only one game in between ending their dominating run through the conference and beginning the postseason on Sunday. Expect the Irish intensity to rise come Sunday. 
Second, the loss to Michigan was a wake-up call for a team that had so thoroughly domi­nated its last few opponents it was primed for a physical team like the Wolverines to catch them off guard. The Irish had scored 27 unan­swered goals in a row before Wednesday's loss. Don't count on them being caught off­guard again. 
Finally, the Irish now can head into the Big East not hav­ing to worry about how many teams they have shut out or how many games in a row they have won. Those types of statistical distractions are out of the picture with this loss, and it allows the Irish a chance to refocus on their two primary goals -winning the Big East Championship and winning the national champi­onship. 
And while the goal of an undefeated season was lost to Michigan, those other two goals are very much still in the picture. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd. edu. 


Thursday, October 30, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
HOCKEY 
Cey returns to net after missing first six games 
Irish look to avoid letdown at home 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associate Sports Ediror 
lie's back. 
After missing the first five games of the season recovering from ofT-season knee surgery, junior goaltender Morgan Cey will return to action this Thursday and Friday as the Irish take on Nebraska-Omaha at the Joyce Center. 
Irish head coach Dave Poulin has made it perfectly clear that Ccy remains the No. 1 goaltender on the team, despite the recent play of freshman David Brown. 
"Morgan is going to play !Thursday) night and then we'll go from there," he said. "He's healthy and going to win the game." 
The Irish went 3-2-0 (2-2-0 in the CCII/\) in Ccy's absence, to a large part due to the play of Brown. who pitched back-to­hack shutouts in Notre Dame's two most recent wins, including an upset victory over then-No. 1 Boston College. 
But it is hard to keep a talented player like Ccy off the icc. Since arriving with the Irish in the 2000 season and making the CCI lA all-rookie team as an hon­orable mention, the Canadian native has been Notre Dame's workhorse in net. 
Over his first two seasons with the Irish, Ccy appeared in 71 out of 79 possible games and collect­ed a .912 save percentage and a 
2.80 goals-against average. He is on pace to easily beat the Irish career goaltending r.ecords in each category (Tony Zasowski's .892 and Forrest Karr's 2.92, respectively). 
Cey and the rest of the Irish will have to avoid a letdown against Nebraska-Omaha (0-3-1, 0-1-1) after knocking off the No. 1 team in the country on the road last weekend. Poulin does­n't believe his team will underes­timate the Mavericks. 
"I think I worry about us," he said. "You always respect your opponent, but I think rather than think about who's coming in here we're going to worry about what's happening with Notre Dame. 
"There's no such thing as a let­down in this league. There can't be, every team is too competitive and too good." 
The Irish held their home opener Oct. 17, and lost by a score of 5-3 to Bowling Green despite outshooting the Falcons 59-25. 
"It's interesting because that might have been our best game of the year," Poulin said. "We created lots of chances, but just didn't finish them. 
"We want to play that kind of game again, but we want to have a better final score." 
In addition to solid goaltending, a key component of Notre Dame's start to the season has been a penalty kill that is ranked frrst in the CCHA with a 92 per­cent success rate. On the power play, howev~r. the team has struggled -scoring just three goals with the man-advantage for a 10.5 percent success rate. 

"Special teams play is a huge part of college hockey," Poulin said. "I think the power play has created chances but just hasn't scored. We're pretty close, I think. 
"We have to get our power play going, though, there's no ques­tion. In each game there's a criti­cal turning point where a power play goal can really help swing the momentum in your favor." 
The Mavericks' last game was a 2-2 tie on the road against Western Michigan Oct. 18, the first game in which Nebraska­Omaha has earned a point this season. 
Offensively, freshman forward Scott Parse leads the team with five points (three goals, two assists) and is followed by senior forward Andrew Wong with four points, all assists. 
Senior Brian Haaland has been average in net so far this year, collecting a .893 save percentage and a 2.71 goals against average. 
Nebraska-Omaha split a two­game series with the Irish last year, with each team collecting a 5-3 win. The teams have met 13 times in the all-time series, with the Mavericks holding a 7-5-1 edge over the Irish. 
Faceoff for each game is scheduled for 7:35p.m. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 



''T········.······11···.····........ ·· · ·a··· ··. ····n···.·..'' ···z············:···o·········o:···.4·
.. .. ..·······:·h· 
· .·. ·.· · ·· · ..··:·· ····.e·. .·:·........... ) ·..•.•.. ··.··· .......... ······.·.·.·······...·.·· ·:... ·. < .•....
··•········· ····1··. 
... .· ·. ... ·. .:·. .:. . •. . 
A New 

For Shirt President 
. ·:..:.· 

Applications are available at the Stu.dent Activities Office 
-:~ . . 



---~------~ ~ -----~---­
page 26 Thursday, October 30, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 
Mattison was aware of Campbell's injury 

Willingham, Baer did not realize tackle hurt himself in game 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Wrirer 
All the conversation about Darrell Campbell's unex­plained absences is baffling to Notre Dame coaches. 
After Notre Dame's 27-25 loss to Boston College Saturday, both head coach Tyrone Willingham and defensive coordinator Kent Baer said they didn't know Campbell was out of the game in the second half. 
At his Tuesday press con­ference, Willingham said that it's not uncommon for the head coach or the defensive coordinator to know if a play­er is in or out because posi­tion coaches are often responsible for rotating play­ers in and out. 
"Sometimes I am not aware of some of the specific per­sonnel," he said. 
Campbell left Saturday's game because he said he lost feeling in his arm, defensive line coach Greg Mattison said. He is probable fpr this weekend's game, according to Willingham. 
"In my 30 years of coach­ing, I have never, when a defensive lineman has told me he couldn't play, gone running to the head coach or defensive coordinator," Mattison said. "And I might say that when I was a defen­sive coordinator, if a guy would have come up to me and said, 'My nose guard can't play,' I would have looked at him like he had two heads and said, 'Put in the next guy who can."' 
In the hands of the enemy 
A copy of the Notre Dame playbook is in Tallahasse, Fla. 
Or that's what Matt Root, a 

tight end who transferred 
from Notre Dame to Florida 
State in the spring, said, 
according to a story in the 
Tallahasse Democrat. 
"I got all the playbooks," 

the Florida native boasted. 
But Root said that Seminole coaches have teased him about turning them over, they haven't formally asked him for the playbooks. Instead, he said he has been queried about players and tendencies. 




That's all he'll be able to do to help beat his former team. Root is unable to play against the Irish because he must sit out for one year as mandated by NCAA regulations. Booker's return 
On signing day two years ago, Notre Dame head coach Tyrone Willingham believed his first Irish recruiting class would contain running back Lorenzo Booker, who planned to announce his decision on an evening ESPN telecast. 
But on national television, Booker stiffed the Irish and donned a Florida State hat. He said he's never once regretted his decision and looks forward to playing against the Irish Saturday. 
"I just want to go up there and win that game," Booker told the Tallahassee Democrat. "Because walking off that field there, if we win that game, I'd be feeling real good -letting all of you guys know, 'Yeah, I made the right choice."' 
What tipped the balance, Booker said, was the fact that he couldn't see himself play­ing for Willingham. 
"You can't be yourself," he said. "I felt whenever I was going to be around him, I would have to put on some kind of act." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at 

Spoiler 
continued from page 28 
Oklahoma or Miami lose and the Seminoles don't lose the rest of the way. 
They'll be lead by Bobby Bowden who, with a 48-24 vic­tory against Wake Forest Saturday, became the all-time winningest coach in Division I­A college football history. 
Saturday's game will be the second time in three weeks that the Irish will face a Top 10 opponent. USC blew out Notre Dame 45-14 Oct. 18. 
"We're lucky that our sched­ule at this time of the year gives us this opportunity that we have against one of the top four, three, five teams in the country, depending on what particular poll you are looking at," Willingham said. "We ha~e 
How's it feel to be 22 Kelly? Sweeeet. HAPPY BIRTHDAY Love, The Quint 
luisb Cuossings 
A new upscale villa development within walking distance (one block east) of the Notre Dame campus. 
single-detached and duplex luxury villas with attached garages 
priced from $189,900 customizable floorplans owneF-occupied 
walk to campus, grocery store, retail stores, restaurants & bars 
very close to ND stadium, Joyce Center, & the new performing arts building 
located one block east directly across from tennis courts and sports fields 
quiet residential area with quick access to major roads, mall, & toll road 
enjoy a low-maintenance lifestyle including lawn care & snow removal 
city water and sewer low county property taxes semi-gated community 
avery limited number of home sites are available on this 8.25 acre parcel 
only development of its kind next to the University of Notre 
Final development planning almost complete. evelopment construction to begin November 2003 First homes completed by Spring/Summer 2004. 
got a great football team com­ing in here that gives us an opportunity to be the spoiler." 
Notre Dame thrived in that role a year ago, when players claimed they weren't getting enough national respect a year after a losing season. The 2002 campaign culminated in Tallahassee, when the Irish humiliated Florida State 34-24 to reach 8-0 on the season. Notre Dame seemed on its way up and Florida State, fighting to find a quarterback and its identity, was heading out of control. 
Now, the situation is com­pletely different. 
Behind quarterback Chris Rix, who reconciled with his teammates over the offseason and now directs a potent offense, the Seminoles are a Miami loss away from control­ling their own destiny. The Irish, 2-5, are trying to band­age a wound that seems to be re-opened week after week. 
Still, Willingham is encour­aged by Notre Dame's 18-point rally last week. Trailing 24-6, the Irish took a one-point lead with less than five minutes remaining, only to watch the Eagles win with a last-second field goal. 
And because the Irish haven't given up this season, according to Willingham, the ITish head coach believes his team has a chance at winning this weekend. 
"We can knock off Florida State," he said. "We have got to play consistent. We have got to execute. 
"We can't have lulls because Florida State, from what I have seen this year, doesn't have lulls. They go pretty hard the entire football game." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 


NotreJJame 

NUniversityClubN 
·w~'w.nd.eduhunivcJub 
Membership available to all ND/SMC Faculty, Staff Alumni, td year PhDs, Friends ofNotre Dame Applications 631-4685 or stop by the Club. 

,Lunch or Dinner Reservations 631-4683 
lvfeetings and Private Parties 631-4681 
SCHOOL DAZE 
fiVES 

Wh~r~ are they now?: The Producers of ESPNs 


CLARE O'BRIEN 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
I knew \-Ve sh<>tAd
·­
h"'ve. dol'!~ TC.V tl
\ .. 

Why God? WHY?! 
\ 
JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
MUGMY 

1 rJ (] 
02003 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Righla Reserved. 
YAIDS 

± 
MASTIG 

J rJ J 1 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WHAT THE: SWITCH­BOARD OPE:RATOR GAVE: HE:R BOSS. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
ffilli: A 

"[ I I I J' [ I I I I I J 
{Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: FAMED AUGUR HICCUP CONCURYesterday's Answer: 
A hug for hubby after a shopping trip is a good way to get-"AROUND" HIM 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Leaf beneath a bloom
1 Place for fox hunting 27 Algonquian tribe 7 Thailand's 30 Fast escape Chiang_ 
33 Commuter

University 
option 10 "So that's it!" 
34 Swear 13 The All·_ 
35 Ice cream(backup band additivefor Ringo) 37 Indentation14 Oil source 39 One's partner • 

15 Guys 40 Translate
16 Hyper, impatient ones 42 Like some church matters
17 "The Morning Watch" writer, 44 Ball point? 1951 
45 "ER" and 18 Grecian art "C.S.I.," for two object 46 Yearned 19 1985 John 
48 Coffee size: 

Malkovich film 
Abbr. 20 Chicken dish 
49 Historic 

22 Hemp fiber women's grp. 23 Resinlike 50 Bedtime call, substance informally 
24 Formerly, in a 54 Vets often see way them 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

57 Sacred text 58 Sweep's take? 59 Squeal 60 Like many a 
palace 61 Greek cross 62 Rousing cheers 63 Two-seater 64Big_ 65 Cotillion honoree 66 Flying Circus 
alum John 
DOWN 1 Left-handed 
pitcher Shawn 2 Hi-li parts 3 Evidence hard 
to refute in court 4 Game sites 5 Movie promo 6 Letter on 
Superman's chest 7 Certain stage show 8 Pianist Templeton 9 "This is no joke!" 1 0 Diversion 11 "Catch!" 12 Last of the Stuarts 
14 What 1·, 5·, 10-, 32·, 43-and 53-Down are, in a manner of speaking 
20 Thrash 21 Alliance created in 1954 26 Treasure map distances 

WILLSHORTZ 

27 Monet's  32 "Duty, Honor,  51 Rank  
"Ny!Jlpheas le 28 Catalina, e.g.  Country" speaker, 1962 36 Lover  52 Can't stand 53 Composer's base  
29 Eye sore 30 Alan who starred in "Saigon," 1948  38 Carnivals 41 Thick sandwich 43 Key 47 Quints' name  54 Taps 55 Jacob's brother 56 Green or blue shade 60 Stock page  
31 Golden·_  49 Star in Cygnus  letters  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1·800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Celebrities born on this day: Harry Hamlin, Grace Slick, Henry Winkler, Fred Friend! y 
Happy Birthday: Emotional matters may not be as bad as you think. Use discipline to pursue your goals and achieve your dreams. You have what it takes to make things happen, so don't sit back waiting for others to do things for you. The time to put a move on it is now. Time's wasting and you need to take advantage of every possibility thai comes your way. Your numbers: I 0, 19,22,28,46,48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Travel and educational pursuits will be favorable. You will be easily misinterpreted by friends, colleagues and relatives. Legal affairs will be detrimental to your rcputalion. •••• TAURUS (April 20-May 20): It's best to stay home and catch up on some things. Disagreements are likely if you socialize. Loss of money or possessions will cause upset and anger. Don't get involved in get-rich-quick schemes. •• GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take your time and don't make rash decisions resarding others. Your desire for freedom may disrupt your happiness. You wtll be your own worst enemy when it comes to affairs of the heart. ••••• CANCER (June 21-July 22): It's best for you to work on your own, where you can stay out of trouble. Your temper will be explosive when dealing with colleagues. Business trips will be successful; however, be careful while traveling. ••• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): I;>on't overspend on friends unworthy of .YOUr generous nature. You should avoid any form of gambling or overindulge'flces. Don't let relatives put unreasonable demands on your time. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Sudden changes of heart are like!)' if precautions aren't taken. Resolve any existin~ problems. Major upsets wtll occur if you haven't been completely nonest wtth your lover. • • LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Underhandedness on the part of collea~ues may damage your reputation. Be careful not to divulge ,r;rtinent inforrnatton in the heat of an argument. Don't get involved in gossip. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Uncertainties about money will result from extravagance. Don't lend or borrow your money or J?OSsessions and avoid getting entangled in joint financial ventures. Overexertton will cause physical limitations. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't make changes that involve your domestic scene. Accept the inevitable and learn from your experiences. Opposition is likely if you haven't been completely honest. It's best to avoid confrontations. ••• * CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Misinterpretation is likely if you have been evasive. Be careful while driving and take heed of the advtce given by close friends. Don't let others take advantage of you. ••• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): Your anger will mount over joint financial ventures that are less then adequate. Give advice --not cash -· to friends. Losses are evident if you are careless with your belongings. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your temper will be tested today if you get involved in confrontations with a stubborn individual. It's best to walk away and put your time and efforts into obtaining additional knowledge or skills. 
Birthday Baby: You arc a born toiler, eager to put every ounce of effort into anything that you believe in. You have strong convictions and will enforce whatever is necessary in order to get your own way. You're a giver who is fair, just and loyal. 
Need advice~ Visit Eu~:enia 011 the Web at www.a.vtroadvice.com or www.eu~:enia/ast.com 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
-
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City __________ State _____ Zip_______ 
I
I 
THE OBSER\''ER 
r 
I 
i PORTS
Thursday, October 30, 2003 Page 28 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Wake-up call 
Irish drop first game of season 3-2 to Michigan at home 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Wrirer 
The stage was set for the women's soccer team to com­plete an undefeated regular season and win coach Randy Waldrum's 200th game Wednesday night against Michigan. 
Instead, the See Also Wolverines s n a p p e d "loss could help 
Notre Dame's Irish for 10-game 
playoffs"

shutout streak early page 24 in the contest and went on to upset the second-ranked Irish 3-2 at Alumni Field. 
The Irish. playing without their No. 2 scorer Mary Boland and defensive leader Melissa 

Tancredi, strug­
"Everyone on our

gled from the ance and Chavez onset against the team is a deposited the physical competitor, so of goal. 
Wolverines. Upon taking the
course, we'd have 

Michigan took the two-goal lead, lead early when liked to have Michigan changed Katie Kramer shot walked away with their strategy and over Irish goal­dropped back into
a win."

keeper Erika a more defensive Bohn for the 1-0 game, forcing the lead in the 12th Kim Carpenter Irish to take time minute. Irish captain in trying to chip 
The Irish, down for only the sec­ond ijme all season, struck back quickly. Senior Amanda Guertin nailed the crossbar off of a set play after a foul and then scored the equalizer only 64 seconds after the Michigan goal. Guertin made a move to get by Michigan goalkeeper Megan Tuura and stuck a low shot to make it 1-1. 
Although it appeared the Irish were ready to seize the momen­tum, the Wolverines were not through as they used their only two corner kicks to build a two­goal lead. The first came late in the first half as Therese Heaton played a kick from Robyn Vince into the net for the 2-1 lead. 
The Wolverines further stunned the Irish by scoring on a rebound goal from Stephanie Chavez off of their other corner kick to take a 3-1 lead early in the second half. Bohn was able to stop and deflect the initial header, but the Irish were unable to make the clear­
away at the lead. After initially struggling to break the mass of 
see LOSS/page 24 

NO VOLLEYBALL 
Win streak hits 11 with sweep 
Irish win 3-0 over ISU at Joyce Center 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
The middle blockers of the Irish cannot be stopped, as Illinois State found out Wednesday night at the Joyce Center. Sophomore middle blockers Lauren Brewster and Lauren Kelbley combined for five blocks and 22 kills en route to the 3-0 Irish sweep of the 
-
Redbirds (30-23, 30-18, 30­20). The Redbirds (11-13) lost 
see SWEEPIpage 23 

~ 
win both games of 
their star quarterback 
want to focus on win-

The NBA regular sea-
series against Nebraska-
this season. 

son has tipped off. 
ning this year. 

Omaha. 
page 25 
page 20 

page 16 
page 21 

Irish looking to upset No.5 FSU 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Oh, how times have changed for the Irish. 
A year ago -or 10 years ago, if you will -Notre Dame played (and beat) Florida State in two games with national title implications. This year, Notre Dame can only play the role of a spoiler. 
A week ago, Notre Dame lost to Boston College in a game coaches defined as "must-win" if the Irish wanted to go to a bewl. This week, it's "a heck of an opportunity to 
HOCKEY NFL 
NBA 
Irish hope to Vick needs to 
WrC:C.s of 
avoid letdown return We nesday's games 
Hockey team looks to Atlanta is 1-6 without 
upset one of the best teams in the country," Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said. 
That's what the Irish season has been reduced to as the door was slammed virtually shut on a Notre Dame bowl game after last week's loss in Boston. 
But as bleak as Notre Dame's season is, Florida State's is shining bright. Ranked No. 3 in the Bowl Championship Series rankings released Monday, 7-1 Florida State could jump into the national title game if 
see SPOILER/page 26 
NBA 
Bryant says he and Shaq are okay 
Teammates say they 







