
. 
I 
I 
I 
O. 86 
Investigators travel to Minn. for Sharon case 
By TERESA FRALISH Assistant News Editor 
An investigator from Notre Dame Security Police met Wednesday in Minneapolis, Minn. with police from other areas in 
t h e Midwest where male college stu­dents have disap­peared, said Rex Hakow, 

director of Chad Sharon N o t r e Dame Security and Police. 
NDSP attended the meeting to discuss the Dec. 12 disappear­ance of freshman Chad Sharon with other investigators. 
Shortly afler the investigation into Sharon's disappearance began, NDSP contacted the FBI to investigate possible links between Sharon's case and the disappearances uf three other male college students who had been drinking and disappeared in areas near a body of water, said Rakow. 
"We asked the FBI to look into it," he said. "They didn't feel that there were any [con­nectionsJ." 
The main purpose of tho meeting was not to discuss pos­sible further links between the cases of missing male students but rather to cnmpare notes on how the different police depart­mcnts were conducting their investigations. 
"We heard this meeting was going on [and] we asked if we could attend," said Rakow. 
The three other cases involve missing students from the University of Minnesota, the University of Wisconsin-Eau 
see SHARON/page 6 

TROTTING AROUND THE COURT 
HTTP://OBSERV . . 

STUDENT SENATE 

Senators call emergency meeting 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES Associare News Editor 
Eight senators submitted a petition Friday to Trip Foley, student body vice president, calling for an emergency meeting to discuss tho position of Libby Bishop, student body president, regarding in-hall dances in her report to the Board of Trustees on Thursday. 
This petition followed a lengthy debate at Wednesday's Senate meeting regarding the failed resolution to attach a letter to Bishop's report asking for in-hall dances to be reinstated. 
Section II Article II of the Student Union Constitution states that a minimum of five senators is needed to call an emergency meeting. 
The petition said the reason for the meeting was "to pre­sent a unified student voice on the issue of reinstating the 


Obscrvrr Staff lkport 
Scott Brodfuehrer and Lori Lewalski have been hired to oversee The Observer's editorial and business operations in 2003-04, respectively, incoming Edilor in Chief Andrew Soukup announced Sunday. 
Brodfuehrer will serve as Managing Editor, while Lewalski will serve as ~usiness Manager. Their appointments are effective March 17. 
As Managing Editor, Brodfuehrer will be responsible for assisting the editor in chief in overseeing The Observer's editorial deparments. He also plans to oversee the develop­ment of a new Web site. 

"I look forward to helping provide the leadership and the vision necessary to continue the tradition of excellence at The Observer," he said. 
Lewalski, who has worked as Business Manager since January after serving as Controller since last March, is responsible for implementing a comprehensive financial plan for the paper. 
'Tm honored to have been 

for The Observer," Lewalski said. "After working as Controller, Business Manager is the next natural position to fall into." 
Brodfuehrer, a junior Computer Science major, is cur­rently an Associate News Editor and Web Administrator. He began working at The Observer in fall 2000 as a new writer and has also been a wire editor and copy editor. 
Brodfuehrer spent the fall semester studying in London and currently lives in Knott 
selected as Business Manager see STAFF/page 6 SYR for a probationary period ty to represent his opinion in 

of one year beginning in the order to gauge an accurate 
fall of 2003." The petition also understanding of student opin­
called for an evaluation and ion. 
discussion of Bishop's report. The agenda set by Foley 
The petition said each senator 
see SENATE/page 6 
should be given the opportuni-




SMC responds to pro-choice funding 
+ College says 
sponsorship "doesn't fit'' Catholic identity 
By SARAH NESTOR 
SaincMary's Editor 
The recent decision by Saint Mary's Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership (CWIL) to sponsor four stu­dents to attend a pro-choice conference has left many on the Saint Mary's campus con­fused, although Saint Mary's does not stand behind the decision, said Melanie Engler. a spokeswoman for the College. 
While CWIL student, who
"They're learning leader­
is a separate applied for a department ship for what? To become grant to 
within the leaders that support pro-attend the 
College, it "Never Go
choice causes?" 
must still Back" stu­
respect the dent leader­Catholic tradi­John D'Arcy ship confer­
tion of the Bishop of ence, which College, said 
focuses on

Fort Wayne-South Bend
Engler. 
Sponsoring the trip to the conference "doesn't fit into the Catholic identity of the College," she said. "Any event that the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership spon­sors should fit into the Catholic identity of Saint Mary's. I don't think the intention of the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership was negative LandJ I'm sure the intention was to expose stu­dents to Washington D.C.; it was just the wrong conference to choose." 
Meredith Sarkees, director of CWIL, did not return Observer phone calls seeking comment. 
"The program itself wa:, stu­dent leadership. The purpose was to show students how to become involved in lobbying and leadership," Sarkees told the Observer last week. 
" The College's position is that this was a regrettable decision to fund support for this workshop," said Pat White, vice president and dean of faulty for the College. 
White also added that the College and the CWIL would continue to review the Center's grant approval procedures in the coming weeks. 
CWIL provided funds to four students, Heather Engstrom, Mary Watrobka, Emily Welsh 
and a fourth 
advancing 

pro-choice causes. Engstrom refused com­ment, and Watrobka and Welsh did not return Observer phone calls seeking comment. 
The Feminist Majority Foundation organized the con­ference. which was held in Washington on Jan. 22-23, one day after the 30th anniversary of the Roe v. Wade Supreme Court decision that legalized abortion on demand. 
The Feminist Majority Foundation description of the 
sec PRO-CHOICE/page 6 

page2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Monday, February 3, 2003 


INSIDE COLUMN 


Roommate ruminations 
A recent New York Times article docu­ment.ed the rise oflavish, single housing for university underclassmen. Colleges like Amherst and Swarthmore have recently implement.ed apartment-like res­idence halls that cat.er to the growing 
Joe Trombello 
number ofstudents 
who wish to reside 

in single housing, News 
thus providing them 

Production 
with privacy and 

Editor
more elaborate digs 

than normal donni­tories found at many other national col­
leges. 

Does anyone see a problem with this? 
Many university officials do, comment­ing that a greater emphasis on single housing will give students one more rea­son to hole themselves up in their room. With a greater importance on privacy, some students may never need to share their personal space or possessions with a roommate. Such arrangements often divorce students from the real world because they never have to learn the art of compromise, negotiation, or simple interaction they will ultimately encounter with co-workers, bosses or spouses. 
Don't get me wrong, I respect the wish­es of many upperclassmen that have dealt with the negative aspects of having a roommate and have decided against such living arrangements, but I find that pro­viding single housing for demanding freshman would violate many ofthe lessons that college is supposed to teach. 
As important as the academic realm of college is, there are other areas in which students should experience growth and maturity. Shared experiences such as housing provide students the opportunity to interact with their peers in ways that living alone does not. 
The housing system at Notre Dame eliminates many barriers that would impede such necessary social maturity. Many students choose to live in a dorm for all four years because they so highly value the dorm life -one that does not allow students to live in a class-discrimi­nated dorm but rather ensures that all four classes will come in contact with one another. Since Notre Dame does not have fraternities or sororities, the dorm is meant to provide many ofthe same social benefits without the potential for danger­ous and even deadly rush practices. Donn spirit unites many Notre Dame under­graduates who would seem to have very little in common other than a similarly colored sock-cap or sweatshirt that proudly announces their dorm allegiance. Furthermore, the abundance ordoubles, triples, quads and even quints requires undergraduates to avoid isolation and instead to interact with the person or peo­ple they live with. 
living with a roommate means learning to compromise and having to live with idiosyncrasies and oddities you may never have imagined. such as your roommates' penchant for obnoxious country music or bizarre sleeping patterns. You may not always like your roommate. He or she may not be your best friend. Or he or she may. Neverthel~. the experience is an important one and should not be bypassed by increasingly demanding stu­dents who refuse to compro~e and are accustomed to getting their way. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Joe Trombello at Jtrombel@nd.edu. 

CORRECTIONS 
Due co a production error, four pages did not appear in Friday's papet. The OhS<!tvei: regrets this etror. 
The Observer regards itselfa.s a professional publia­cion and mives for che highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, how4'Ver, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have: made a mistake please con­tact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTS
NEWS NATION NEWS 
Boeing pledges 
Debating 

Check out the 
Irish defeat
SMC students 

Americans 
pass out flyers 

support for 
pro-choice 

Sophomore 
Georgetown in
gather to 
double
to protest the 

Columbia 
sponsorship at 

Literary
mourn loss of 
Keenan Revue 

investigation 
Saint Mary's 

Festival 
overtime

Columbia 
A group of Saint 

Officials from 
Readers con-

Scene reviews the 
Americans across 
The Irish mens 
tribute on both
Mary's students 

the country 
Boeing, NASA's 
36th annual 
basketball team 
sides of the discus­
passed out flyers 

mourned the disas­
largest space con­
Sophmore Literary 
defeated the Hoyas 
that criticized what 

tractor, said it 
sion about Saint

ter that killed seven 
Festival and its 
93-92 in a spec­
they felt were 

astronauts while 
would offer assis­
Mary's sponsorship 

ta tcular overtime
offerings of book 
unfair jokes at this 

tance to the investi­
for students to 

finish on Saturday. 
investigators con­
signings and poet­
weekend's Keenan 
attend a pro-choice

tinued to gather 
gation into the 
ry readings. 
Revue perfor­

evidence. 
Columbia's crash. 
conference. 
mances. 

page 24 
page 12
page 10 
page 5 

page 7
page3 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
"Holl, Jordan, Holl: Photographs of the Gullah Culture" All day at the Snitc Museum 

. 
Film and lecture. "Profit and Nothing But" 4 p.m. at the llesburgh Center Auditorium 



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. Lecture "Depression: An Invisible Heality," Dr. Mid Depauw 
12 p.m. at llaggar Parlor 
. Class election information session 7 p.m. at Ifaggar Parlor 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Pasta alla carbonara 
Oil & garlic sauce, Chicken fajita pizza, mushroom stroganoff, kluski noodles, brown sauce, pork gravy, whipped potatoes, green beans, apple cobbler, tuna casserole, barley greens & risotto, baked potato, corn, grits, sausage links, blueberry pancakes, scranibled eggs 
Today's Dinner: 

Pasta alla carbonara, Oil & garlic sauce, Roast pork loin, Wild pecan rice, Brown sauce, Pork gravy, Whipped potatoes, Broccoli cuts, Apple cobbler. Garden quiche, Lemon couscous, Baked sweet potato, Baked potato, peas 
TODAY TONIGHT It: 
LLI 
:c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
-I 
cc
f.) 


0

..I HIGH 46 HIGH 39 LOW 41 LOW 31 
South Dining Hall 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 

fraud reported in graduate hons­
mg 

NDSP received a complaint of fraudulent use of a credit card. The situation is being investi­gated and there are no suspects. 

Engineering vehicle stuck 
The Department of Engineering reported to NDSP that their vehicle was struck while parked by an unknown hit-and-run vehicle. There are no suspects. 

Wallet stolen from Siegfried 
A student reported leaving wallet in laundry room unsecured, and when he returned for the wallet it was missing. There are no sus­pects. 

Larceny in Dillon reported 
A student reported the theft of her cellular phone from her coat pocket while in Dillon Hall between 10 p.m. on Nov. 16 and 2a.m. on Nov. 17. There are no suspects. 
complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Today's Lunch: Turkey tetrazzini, 
Mushroom marinara, Spinach-cheese tortellini, Garden quiche, Baby Hrna beans, Baked potato neptune, Beef tips & mushrooms, Kluski noodles, Roast top sirloin of beef, Long grain & wild rice, Italian chicken sandwich, Crinkle fries 
Today's Dinner: Turkey tetrazzini, Mushroom marinara, Spinach-cheese tortel,Eggplant parmesan, Herbed veg­etable medley, Swiss steak, Grilled salmon fillet, Rotisserie chicken, Roasted herb-garlic russet potatoes, Shrimp poppers, Crinkle fries, Soft pretzel. Pork tempura, Beef fajitas 
TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

,,
*****
* * 

HIGH 32 HIGH 19 LOW 8 LOW 8 

Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
No Information was available 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
HIGH 22 HIGH 18 LOW 8 LOW 10 
Atlanta 63 / 54 Boston 41 / 33 Chicago 41 / 27 Denver 36 / 22 Houston 77 / 43 Los Angeles 74 / 48 Minneapolis 30 / 12 New York 45/ 36 Philadelphia 43 / 37 Phoenix 68 / 43 Seattle 47 / 34 St. Louis 57 / 28 Tampa 74 / 58 Washington 50 / 45 
Monday, February 3, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Saint Mary's students protest Keenan Revue 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
News Writer 
Several Saint Mary's students handed out llyers of protest prior to the Keenan Hevue this past weekend. The rlyer and its authors criticized the program for utilizing "hatcf'ul stereotypes" in many of ilc; skits. 
The Keenan Revue, a comedic variety show put on annually by the residents of Notre Dame's Keenan llall, well known for its vulgar and sexual satire. The show's producers and participants embrace this image. However, in recent years the show has been increasingly criticized for what some call its overly racist and sex­ist content. Some Saint Mary's stu­den ts have been particularly angered at the inclusion of numer­ous jokes about the Saint Mary's student body. 
"I don't understand why if we arc truly a Christian community there are such negative stereo­types on campus," saic.l Jessica Bland, one of the flyer's authors. "It is truly hateful." 
The distributed flyers included the definitions of words such as "stereotype." "misogyny," and "intolerance." On the right side of the sheet in bold type was the question "Still Laughing?" 
One specific Revue comment that the flyer cited was a skit's ref­erence to 
Saint Mary's patron saint as 
"Saint Mary Magdalene, patron saint of whores." The flyer called the reference "slanderous" and "degrading," and said ''this implies that the College communi­ty is composed of such persons." 
The Oyer also noted the fact that Keenan Hall was voted the best residence hall of the year. Keenan, as a result of this honor, has the responsibility "to uphold a stan­dard of leadership, respecting all community members." the flyer said. 
"I want to challenge Keenan residents. and all members of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's 
and Holy Cross College to ask hard questions about how we're living up to the tradition of 'God, Country. Not re Dame,' and what that means to us as Americans and Christians," Bland said. 
Not all Saint Mary 's students, however. were so critical of the program, and felt that all the jokes were in good fun. 
"The tickets arc free and every­one knows what goes on," said Saint Mary's sophomore Kelly Doherty. "If you don't want to hear yourself get made fun of, don't go." 
'They made fun of Notre Dame girls more than the Saint Mary's girls," added sophomore Kelsey Schatz "Why shouldn't we be able to take some ofit?" 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu. 



Scientists study heinophilia 
By MELISSA LOU 
News Writer 

Researchers from Notre Dame's Keck Center for Tra.nsgene Research have been investigating cellular transplan­tation as a possible cure for hemophilia, said Elliot Rosen, associate director of the center. 
The Center has been studying the genes involved in dissolving and forming blood clots. In order to perform this research, the Center has used mice with genetic modifications that affect this process. 
"One of the main challenges we faced wa'l that a lot of these animals died early on tufter their birth] so we couldn't studv them," said Rosen. · 
A possible solution came in 1999, when Rosen attended a scientific meeting, where he learned about an in-utero tech­nique for transplanting blood cells. 
By the summer of 2001, tho concept of using in-utero trans­plantation techniques to pro­long the lives of the genetically modified mice had gained momentum. Given the possible medical impact of this research today, the initial results of this innovative research were fea­tured in the inaugural run of the Journal of Thrombosis and Homeostasis. 
Rosen discussed the social dimensions of the research by expanding upon the relation­ship between hemophilia in humans and the condition pre­sent in the mice. Hemophilia is caused by a missing or defective protein known as factor VII or 
IXI. The mice Rosen works with present a rare and deadly form of hemophilia because of their lack of a protein necessary for proper blood coagulation known as Factor X. Because of this, many of the mice exhibit massive hemorrhaging upon birth and die shortly after. 
The strategy Rosen and his team developed involves taking cells from healthy mice embryos and transplanting them to the livers of sick mice. 
"Currently, the donors have a gene that allows us to track the cells in the recipients by adding X-gal to the cell<;, turning them blue," Rosen said. 
If the cells from the donor embryos survive and colonize in the liver of the recipient, they could make enough of the Factor X to allow the mice to survive. 
Rosen explained several posi­tive factors about the current research. 
"Because the defective genes that cause hemophilia are known, it is possible to detect the disease before the child is born by genetic screening of a fetus in utero. Genetic screening would be focused on potential carriers eliminating the need for an impractical general screening of all unborn chil­dren," said Rosen. 
The strategy he and his researchers developed trans­plants cells in utero so that the disease could be cured before it develops. 

The second advantage of this strategy is rnlated to current cures for hemophilia. 
"Currently, if a person mani­fests the disease, you can inject the missing protein and manage the illness [and] sometimes 15 to 20 percent of the patient's immune systems begin to rec­ognize the protein as alien to the body and build antibodies to inhibit the injected factors," said Rosen. "We are injecting the cells before the immune system forms. thus our hypothesis, which we still have to prove, is that the immune system will recognize these cells as 'self and will not develop antibodies inhibiting the therapeutic pro­teins." 
In order to use the strategy in humans, however, the team needs to increase the cfiiciency of the procedure and find a more convenient source of' donor cells than isolating them from another embryo. Additionally, the team must prove that tl1e recipients do not reject the donor cells as alien. explained Rosen. 
At present, the research team has successfully increased the life expectancy of 50 percent of the mice in the experiments. The next series of experiments are designed to test if the mice are developing the antibodies that would inhibit the curative factors, said Hosen. 
Contact Melissa Lou at mlou@nd.edu. 

is now accepting applications for
THE 

2003-2004 General Board 




BSERVER 
Any full time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross is encouraged to apply. Applicants should submit a resume and an application at least 3 pages long explaining how they would run their department. 

NEWS EDITOR 
Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR 
Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accom­modations tor reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR 
Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of editors and columnists and decides what letters will run 
each day. 
SCENE EDITOR 
Applicants should have feature writing and editing experience. The Scene Editor manages edi­tors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas and is responsible for the content of the Scana pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR 
Applicants should have photography experience. The Photo Editor manages a staff of photogra­phers and lab technicians and must work closely with the News, Sports and Scene department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARYS EDITOR Applicants should have reporting, writing and editing skills. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saini Mary's. 
DESIGN cDITOR Applicants should have page design skills. The Design Editor manages The Observer's produc­tion staff and must work closely with the various department editors to coordinate and enhance The Observer's page design each day. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER 

Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising 
Manager oversees a staff of account executives and is responsible for generating advertising 
revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER 

Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of Quark Xprass, Aldus 
Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER 

Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and print­ers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER 

Applicants must be sophomores or juniors majoring in accounting or finance. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
WED ADMI N ISTRATOR Applicants must be familiar with building and maintaining a Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial department of The Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the site. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with News, Sports and Scene to match top-quality graphics with the content of each day's newspaper. 
All applications must be submitted to Andrew Soukup in The Observer's office, located in the basement of South Dining Hall, by Friday, February 7, 2003. Questions about the application process can be directed to Andrew at 1-4541. 


Monday, February 3, 2003

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
International students talk about involvement 
. Foreign students look to student leaders for new ways to become active in the Notre Dame community 
By KEVIN ALLEN 
News Writer 
In an attempt to provide international students with a stronger voice on campus, a group of foreign undergradu­ate students met to discuss possible strategies for involv­ing more international stu­dents in campus activities. Connie Peterson­
"International students only 266 of
Miller, assis­tant director don't necessarilly feel these stu­
dents are

f o r like they need special 
undergradu­

International 
favors, but they have ates. Due to
Student Services and unique insights and per­their larger 
numbers,

Activities spectives that could ben­
international

(ISSA). orga­
efit the student body as a graduate stu­
nized the 
forum. whole." d en ts are more orga-
L a s t n i z e d ,

November, in 
Peterson­

an effort to 
Connie Peterson-Miller Miller said.
provide inter­
Several

n atio n al stu -assistant director for intemation­d ents with a al student services and activities international 
better voice in student gov­ernment, Libby Bishop, student body presi­dent, proposed the addition of an international student rep­resentative to the Campus Life Council. Because of the struc­ture of the CLC, the idea was rejected but that did not halt the initiative to better include the unique perspectives of international students in University life. 
Peterson-Miller said most of the students in attendance at the Jan. 23 meeting were not necessarily interested in run­ning for student government offices, but they wanted to learn more about the process of becoming involved at Notre Dame. ISSA currently works with First Year Studies and student government to deliver that type of information to international students when they arrive at Notre Dame as freshmen. 
"International students don't necessarily feel like they need special favors, but they have unique insights and perspec-
DOWT LET COLLEGE PA~S YOU llP WITHOu1 THE EXPERIENCE OF OFF·CAM~US LIVING AT TURTLECREEK 
ALL FOORJLAN~ AVAlLABLE FQR WJ)•W~4! 
CALL ll~ NOW! 17HU~OR Vl~IT U~ AT WWWJURTLECREEKND.C.QM 

TURTLE CREEKAPARTMENTS 
"WHERE FRIENDS AND MEMORIES ARE MADE." 
-··--­
tives that could benefit the student body as a whole," said Peterson-Miller. 
Student body vice-president Trip Foley attended the forum to offer support from student government for international students. Foley said most of the students present were freshmen and seemed to be happy with University ser­vices. but have found it diffi­cult at times to learn about all of the opportunities that are available. 
"A lot of their concerns were not much different from those of any group of students," said Foley. 
Notre Dame hosts over 1,000 international students from 
about 100 
countries, but 
undergradu­
ates still 
manage to 

become involved in activities on cam­pus, but several obstacles stand in the way. 
Kriti Kohli. a sophomore from India, who is involved with the Student Union Board, said it is difficult for interna­tional students to run for stu­dent government positions or to become involved with other activities because of issues such as culture shock and homesickness. Kohli added that many international stu­dents do not know about all the opportunities available to them. 
Kohli said an international student representative on stu­dent government or the CLC would be of immense help to international undergraduates. "At least international stu­dents would have a voice," said Kohli. 
Contact Kevin Allen at Kevin.P.Allen.6l@nd.edu 


SMC plans disabilities week 
wear silver rib­o r 
bons that were "Being disabled {myself}, ha [ s] 
provided in sev­I realize that people are come era I campus i n t o
curious about disabilities 

buildings to sig­contact 
n al their sup­[and] this week gives stu-with a 
port of disabili­dents the opportunity to d i s ­ties issues, said ab I e d
understand disabilities 

Francis Bruder, person.
better."

Students with W e Disabilities m a y Representative. Sara Mahoney just not "Students realize
Student Diversity Board

need to under­it or

President

stand that there under-
organizers for Disabilities Week have planned for a wheel chair rugby team to come to the College to demonstrate their skills. On Thursday, some Saint Mary's students will use wheelchairs and crutches to travel around campus in an attempt to discover what it is like to be disabled and to get around campus. 
"On a scale of one to 10 I would rank Saint Mary's as a five for physical handicap accessibility," Mahoney said. 
Improving the accessibili­ty of campus is a concern for both students and visi­tors, explained Mahoney. 
"An admissions counselor told me of a tour she gave to a student who had a grandmother in a wheel­chair," Mahoney said. "They had to enter all of the unat­tractive parts of campus so that the grandmother could get in and eventually they had to leave her behind." 
Bruder said she hopes this week will increase aware­ness for accessibility. 
"Since the 1990 Disabilities Act, the campus has done more for mental disabilities, but the campus is working at a pace that will show change and improvements for physical handicaps as well," she said. 
Contact NatalieBailey at Baill 407@saintmarys.edu 


By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 
Beginning today, Saint Mary's Student Diversity Board will sponsor a variety of activities designed to increase understanding of special needs as part of Disabilities Awareness Week. 
Today, students have the opportunity to 
depression today and dis­cuss anxiety disorders on Friday. 
In addition to growing in their knowledge about peo­ple with disabilities, the committee also wants stu­dents to come to an under­standing of what it is like to have a disability by addressing their natural curiosity about disabilities. 
"Everyone probably knows someone with a dis­ability 

are 50 million Americans with disabilities, both apparent and non-apparent," Bruder said. 
This year's planning com­mittee for Disabilities Awareness Week decided to focus 
on physical as well as mental disabilities, organiz­ers said. Mary Depauw, director of 
counseling and career development at the College, will speak about the topic of 
stand it 
CO m ­pletcly," said Sara Mahoney, president of the student diversity board. "Being disabled [m}'sell], I realize that people are curi­ous about disabilities [and] this week gives students the opportunity to understand disabilities better." 
The committee will be posting signs around cam­pus to make students think about disabilities, said Mahoney. On Wednesday, 


Do you want to travel to ND, away football games as part of a live, worldwide radio broadcast? 
o is looking for energetic, football-knowledgeable,. on air personalities to join our crevv next year. Interested? 
Call J.B. at 634-3172 or Greg at 234-0167 


wvfi.nd.cdu 



WORLD & NATION 
Monday, February 3, 2003 COMPILED FHOM THE 0BSEH.VEH Wilm SEH.VICES page 5 
Americans mourn Columbia disaster 
Assodated Press 
United again in sorrow, Americans mourned the deaths of the space shuttle astronauts at church services Sunday, while investigators pursued early clues about what went wrong. Search crews -some on horseback. some in helicopters -tracked charred debris across Texas and Louisiana. 
"I don't know that we'll ever find all these pieces." said Sheriff Thomas Kerss, overseeing the hunt for hundreds. possibly thou­sands, of bits of wreckage strewn over Nacogdoches County after the shuttle burst apart above Texas. 
At churches across America, at the Johnson Space Center in IIouston, at a U.S. Army base in Afghanistan, even in the Iraq National Assembly, the loss of the seven Columbia astronauts gave rise to grief and rel1ection. 
"A lot of things occur, we just wonder why and how," said Jim Andreini, 58, attending a service at Grace Brethren Church in Westerville, Ohio. "We like to think it's all part of the plan. Sometimes, it's hard to under­stand." 
Officials said the collected debris would be trucked to Barksdale Air Force Base in Louisiana for analysis by engi­neering experts. Their findings will be part of a NASA investiga­tion aimed at discovering why the shuttle disintegrated Saturday, just moments from its scheduled landing in Florida. 
The shuttle program manager, Ron Dittemore, said engineers have detected a sudden, sharp rise of temperature on the fuse­lage -60 degrees in five minutes -moments before the craft broke apart. 
That was followed by signs of increa::,erl drag that caused the shuttle's computerized control system to try to adjust the flight pattern, he said. 
Stressing the evidence was pre­liminary, Dittemore told a news conference it was possible there had been damage to or a loss of thermal tiles that protect the shut­tle from burning up during re­entry into the Earth's atmos­phere. 
NASA chief Sean O'Keefe said investigators would examine whether damage was caused by insulation from a fuel tank during Columbia's Jan. 16 ascent. 
A special federal commission also will conduct an investigation, with its emphasis on policy mat­ters affecting the future of the U.S. space program. Harold Gehman Jr., the retired Navy admiral who helped lead the Pentagon's inquiry into the USS Cole bomb­ing, ~ill head that commission. 
Committees in the House and Senate also plan to examine the disaster. 
"The key issue for us in it and then how do we project on civilian and military authorities Kerss said it could be weeks or forward with manned space used horses, four-wheel drive months before searchers reach flight?" said Sen. Sam vehicles, Army helicopters and remote areas that might hold Brownback, R-Kan. satellite data to locate shuttle pieces of the shuttle. 

ITALY 
Pakistanis deny involvement in terrorism case 
Associated Press 
ROME 
The 28 Pakistanis arrested in a raid that turned up explosives and maps of a NATO base either have denied any links to ter­rorism or rel'used to answer questions during interrogations, lawyers said Sunday. 
After an all-day hearing, a judge ruled Sunday that the suspects should remain jailed while the investigation continues, lawyer Gennaro Razzino said in a tele­phone conversation from Naples, where the Pakistanis were jailed. 
Razzino said all 10 of his clients invoked their right not to answer questions during the first hearing in the case, which began Thursday when police raided a Naples house during a crackdown on illegal immigration. 
Another lawyer, Giovanna Cacciapuoti, told Italian state television that those who did answer questions denied the charges. 
"They denied having any knowledge about this explosives material and denied having any connections with, or any knowledge, about fundamentalist circles or terrorist circles," Cacciapuoti said. 
No future hearing dates were set, Razzino said. During Thursday's raid, police said they 
found a circled newspaper photo of Britain's military chief as well as a few pages of a map, ripped from the directory of city streets that all local telephone sub­scribers receive, of the area of Bagnoli, a suburb that is home to a NATO base. 
Italian media Sunday reported that sub­sequent searches of the apartment turned up other maps, including of tourist spots like a Naples museum, the coastal town of Sorrento, the spa island of Ischia, and Ercolano, site of the ancient Roman city Herculaneum. 
But a police officer familiar with the probe and speaking on condition of anonymity said only the map of the NATO base area was found in the raid. 
Razzino, however, said prosecutors pre­senting evidence at Sunday's hearing pro­duced a highway map of the Campania region, which includes Naples, that they said was found in a subsequent search of the apartment. The lawyer said no partic­ular targets were marked on the map but that places like Pompeii and Positano, two top tourist draws, were circled. 
A police official on Saturday confirmed reports that a Jan. 25 newspaper in the house had a photograph of British Adm. Sir Michael Boyce, who was expected to visit Naples next month, but declined to say if the admiral was a target. 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Israeli astronaut named national hero 
In a Cabinet meeting, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon declared astronaut llan Hamon a national hero. And across the country, flags flew at half-staff as the nation mourned its latest loss. After 28 months of daily violence with the Palestinians, a depressed economy and the threat of being drawn into a war with Iraq, Israelis had been celebrating Ramon's journey as a testament to their achievements. 
Venezuelans petition for Chavez's ouster President Hugo Chavez declared victory Sunday after his opponents agreed to ease a two-month national strike, but thousands of Venezuelans still lined up for a petition drive seeking his ouster. Strike organizers said Friday they would ease the work stoppage this week to protect businesses from bankruptcy. However, the strike will continue in the vital oil industry, where production was cut from 3 million barrels a day to 150,000. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Bush to send deficit-boosting budget 
President Bush will send Congress a $2.23 trillion spending plan Monday featuring new tax cuts to boost the economy, a conservative tilt to major social programs and record deficits for the next two years -shortfalls that Democrats blame on Bush's tax cuts. White House budget officials said Sunday the president's tax and spending blueprint will roll out as scheduled despite Saturday's space shuttle disaster. 
Fund seeks to aid Columbia survivors 
A fund that raised $1 million to assist the children of the Challenger disaster in 1986 will launch an effort to do the same for survivors of the Columbia crash. With non-profit status and volunteer administrators, the Space Shuttle Children's Trust Fund was established with the support of NASA to provide for the health, education and related sup­port of the Challenger survivors. 

Poll: Bush rallying support on Iraq war 
President Bush has reversed the slide in public sup­port for a possible war with Iraq, with 66 percent saying they support military action against Iraq in an ABC-Washington Post poll released Saturday. That's up from 57 percent who felt that way in mid­January in this poll. Significantly, 51 percent said they support military action even if the United Nations is opposed, up from 37 percent in mid­December. 


American secondhand smoke levels down 
Americans have lower levels of lead and second­hand-smoke byproducts in their bodies than they did a decade ago, according to a government study. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention attributed the decline to such things as stricter reg­ulations on harmful chemicals, bans on smoking in the workplace, and programs to reduce children's exposure to lead paint. 

page 6 The Observer . NEWS Monday, February 3, 2003 

Senate 
continued from page a 
states that the purpose of the meeting is to discuss and review the Board of Trustees report. 
Rick Harris, Siegfried Hall senator, said he organized the petition beGause he and other senators felt they should be given the opportunity to express what they thought Bishop should emphasize. 
"I received information from a member of Libby's office that her report that she would be giving would include a recom­mendation for one in hall dance per hall per year," Harris said. "I felt and other senators felt this would be a big compromise from the stance that we wanted where dances should be brought back for a probationary period." 
Harris said a resolution addressing Bishop will be pre­sented and it will state the Senate's view. Harris referred to the constitution when he said he and others feel Bishop should respect their opinion. Article II Section II of the consti­tution states that the Senate shall formulate and advance the position of the student body on all issues concerning campus life. 
A resolution is a call for action 

Prochoice 
continued from page 1 
event states, "If we do not act 
now, women's most funda­
mental right -the right to 
control their bodies -could 
be obliterated. Join pro-choice, 
feminist students from across 
the country in demanding the 
perservation of abortion rights 
at our Never Go Back Student Leadership Conference: Mobilizing Youth to Save Abortion Rights in 
attending the conference came as a surprise to many on the Saint Mary's campus. 
"Knowledge of this trip was not widespread," College spokeswoman Engler said. "Many, if not most. did not know about it until they read about it in The Observer." 
Bishop John D'Arcy, bishop of the Fort Wayne-South Bend diocese, which includes Saint Mary's, further added, "I think that at any institution of higher learning the issues of the day should be discussed but one expects [at Saint Mary's] that the Catholic position should be presented. Based on the infor­mation I have received [from The Observer]. it is disturbing and in opposition [to) the Catholic Church and the truths it teaches," D'Arcy said. 
The bishop also questioned the explanation that atten­dance at the conference could be justified on the grounds of developing leadership skills. 
"They're learning leadership and must be passed by a two­thirds vote. The president must sign it within a week for it to be adopted. 

Bishop said during the debate of the resolution at Wednesday's meeting that the letter asking for the reinstatement of in-hall dances would have been super­fluous and detracted from her report. This influenced some senators to vote against the let­ter. Bishop initially supported the letter, but said she changed her mind after reading drafts of it. Bishop said after the meeting that she would have welcomed and referenced the letter in her report had it been addressed to her. 
Kevin Conley, chair of the Residence Life committee that presented the letter, said after the meeting he intended to dis­cuss the letter and who to address it to at Monday's Residence Llfc committee meet­ing. Conley, who signed the peti­tion for the emergency meeting. said he thought it was important that student opinion is voiced and that he still intends to dis­cuss the status of the letter at Monday's Residence Life com• mittee meeting. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at Mdownes. l@saintmarys.edu 
for what? To become leaders that support pro-choice caus­es?," said D'Arcy. 
Saint Mary's received a $12 million grant from the Lilly Endowment, Inc., in November 2000 to open the Center. CWIL officially opened in September 2001. The executive summary submitted by the College to Lilly states, "In establishing the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership. Saint Mary's will build on its position as the nation's premier Catholic women's college and its tradition of pioneering 
Washington, "Knowledge ofthis trip change in 
D.C." women's 
was not widespread."
CWIL's deci­education to sion to spon­create a new sor the four Mary Engler and unique w o m e n locus for
college spokeswoman 
innovative 
thinking, 

reflection and action." 
During the summer of 2002, the College hired Sarkees as the new director for the cen­ter. As the first permanent director of CWIL, Sarkees' task is to implement the procedure! by which students and faculty can receive study and travel grants. I 
Any student, or group of stu-1 dents, has the chance to apply' for a grant. Once the grant' proposal has been turned into, the center, it is then reviewed by CWIL's Grant Committee to evaluate the proposal's "poten­tial for positive impact on the individuals invovled, the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership, and the College as a whole." The committee then decides whether to provide funding for the proposal. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at Nest9877@saintmarys.edu 


Childrens' prescriptions vary 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Prescription rates for Ritalin and similar attention deficit disorder drugs -.both widely praised and widely maligned ­vary dramatically across the nation, new research indicates. 
While the prevalence of the disorder is not thought to vary greatly by region, a study being released Monday found that treatment rates ranged from 
1.6 percent of children's pre­scriptions examined in Washington, D.C., to 6.5 per­cent of children's prescriptions in Louisiana. Significantly high­er rates were found in the South and Midwest than in the West. 
Overall, about 4 percent of prescriptions examined for children ages 5 to 14 in 1999 were for stimulants including Ritalin. 
The study, appearing in February's issue of Pediatrics, was done by researchers at Express Scripts Inc., a Missouri-based pharmacy ben­efits management company. The researchers reviewed a nationally representative sam­ple of company prescription claims for 178,800 children throughout 1999. The claims were for all types of medica­tion. 
Lead researcher Emily Cox and colleagues said that while they did not determine if high­er prescription rates repre­sented overuse or if lower rates represented underuse, "both may be occurring." 
The variations should be examined "to reduce the risk to children from unnecessary drug therapy as well as the negative health and emotional consequences to children with untreated medical conditions," the researchers said. 
Critics of excessive use of such drugs, including some doctors, have worried that the drugs sometimes are promoted by schools and others as a "quick fix" without other appropriate treatment. 
Advertising of the drugs, physician practice styles, par­ents' and teachers' values and anti-Ritalin campaigns may have contributed to the varying drug use rates, the researchers said. 
Methylphenidate, the drug more widely known by the brand name Ritalin, was the most common stimulant pre­scribed. Others were dexedrine and other amphetamines. 
Stimulant use was found to be more prevalent among white children and those from higher-income families. Cox said the higher rates likely are representative of the nation's commercially insured popula­tion. The study did not look at Medicaid claims. 
The American Academy of Pediatrics' guidelines for treat­ing attention deficit hyperactiv­ity disorder cite data suggest­ing the disorder affects 4 per­cent to 12 percent of school­age children, or as many as 3.8 million youngsters, most of them boys. 


Staff 
continued from pagel 
Hall. 
Lewalski, a junior accounting major, joined The Observer as a member of the Viewpoint staff before becoming Controller, a post she has held for the past year. 
Lewalski is from Michigan City, Ind., and lives in Howard Hall. She interned at E.K. Williams, a small South Bend accounting firm. 


Sharon 
continued from page 1 
Claire and St. John's University in Collegeville, Minn. 
Rakow said his department came away from the meeting strongly encouraged that everything possible was being done to find Sharon. 
"We think we're doing more than most of the agencies," said Rakow. "We're just uncovering every stone we can." 
Along with this, Rakow said that the campus police in one of the Minnesota cases had simply listed the case in their crime file, forcing the missing student's parents to hire pri­vate investigators. 
Sharon's has been unac­counted for since his disap­pearance on Dec. 12, where he was last seen attending an off­campus party on Corby Street. Sharon was reported missing by hall staff when he did not return to his Fisher Hall resi­dence the next morning. 
Contact TeresaFralish at tfralish@nd.edu 







BusiNEss 
Monday, February 3, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch January 31 
Dow Jones 
8,053.81 
+108.68 


NASDAQ 

1,320.91 • -1.44 

S&PSOO 

855.70 
+11.09 
820.49 +11.41 
NYSE•

4,868.68 +84.24
LJ 

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.60 -0.50 13.37 


NA$DAQcc•10e•··•··1·Nt'J~i{i:t~:·••;tl;•1~:2~,:i~c1@1I~i44
-···-•.-:•:•:•:•:•:.,,..... -•-·.•·.•-·-•·.-.·.•.·.-.·.•-·,·.•-<-:-:-; 
APPLIED MATERIA(AMAT) -7.57 -0.98 11.97 SUN MICROSYSTEM(SUNW) -1.90 -0.06 3.09 

IN BRIEF 
Wall Street suffers heavy losses 
Wall Street suffered its third straight weekly decline, a slide not seen in nearly four months. 
Investors took some chances on blue chip stocks Friday, picking up bargains after the Dow Jones industrials' nearly 900 point drop over the past two weeks. But the buying wasn't enough to save heavy losses for the month. 
Analysts attributed the day's gains to investors seeking lower-priced stocks rather than improving sentiment about the market or the economy, especially since the news on both fronts was mixed Friday. The blue chip advance came despite investors' ongoing con­cerns that a war with Iraq would derail what's already been feeble economic progress. 

EBay deletes 'shuttle debris' listings 
EBay deleted several items billed as debris from the space shuttle Columbia from the online auction site Saturday, warning that anyone attempting to sell fragments from the doomed shuttle could be prosecuted. 
EBay spokesman Kevin Pursglove said cus­tomer service representatives received a handful of listings throughout the day from people purporting to have found debris in Texas. 

AOL reports first subscriber drop 
After a relentless decade-long climb to more than 35 million global subscribers, the number of America Online users has slipped for the first time. 
Tucked in among the more dramatic announcements in its earnings release on Wednesday, the online division of AOL Time Warner reported the departure of 170,000 
U.S. users in the fourth quarter -despite the splashy release of its latest software, version 8.0. 
"While AOL is still the No. 1 online service in terms of reach and time spent onlinc, it is losing relevance steadily," said Dylan Brooks, an independent analyst of Internet service providers. 


Boeing offers help with probe 
. Aerospace firm pledges support for Columbia investigation 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Boeing Co., NASA's largest space contractor, said it would do what it could to help officials deter• mine what caused Saturday's tragedy aboard the space shuttle Columbia. 
Chicago-based Boeing generates about $2 billion, or about 4 percent of its business. from its work on NASA's manned space operations. which includes the space shuttle and the internalional space station programs. 
"We are doing everything possible to support NASA and the United Space Alliance in their investiga­tion of [the] tragedy," the company said on its Web site. 
A Boeing spokeswoman declined to comment on what effect the shuttle dis­aster might have on the company. 
Columbia was built by Rockwell International, but Rockwell turned its shuttle program over to Boeing in the mid-l990s. 
One analyst said it was too early to assess what effect Saturday's tragedy might have on Boeing's business because so little is known about what hap­pened. 
"They probably will stand do\\-'Il until they know what the problem is, but will continue with the program ... so you probably will not see an enormous financial impact," said Cai Von Rumohr. an aerospace ana­lyst with SG Cowan Securities Inc. in Boston. 
Boeing announced Jan. 

BellSouth gets court order to keep exec 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA 
A judge has granted BellSouth Corp. a temporary restraining order preventing its vice chairman, Gary Forsee, from accepting an offer to be chairman and chief executive of Sprint Corp 
A Fulton County Superior Court judge issued the order over the weekend after the company filed the request late Friday, BellSouth spokesman Jeff Battcher said Sunday. 
Forsee, who joined BellSouth in 1999. has a noncompete clause in his contract that prevents him from taking a job with a competitor of the Atlanta-based regional phone company. Sprint and BellSouth both sell long-distance irnrvice in nine Southeastern states and compete nationally for wireless customers. 
BellSouth went to court Friday after Forsee, 52, told the company he wanted to take the Sprint posi­tion, replacing William Esrey, a person familiar with the situation said. Forsee, who was a Sprint executive for nine years, oversees lfollSouth's domestic operations. 
Forsee did not immediately return a message left Sunday at his Atlanta home. Sprint spokesman Bill White declined to comment Sunday. 
BellSouth is trying to prevent Forsee from divulging "intellectual capital," including company pricing plans and merger and acquisition information, to a competitor like Sprint. Forsee also is chairman of Cingular Wireless, BellSouth's joint venture with SBC Communications Inc. 
"BellSouth attorneys and Sprint attorneys are in discussions about this matter." Battcher said. 
Sprint, based in Overland Park, Kan., has repeatedly declined to comment on the possibility of Forsee joining the company. 
Sprint is scheduled to report its quarterly earnings on Wednesday. and analysts believe the company will discuss the issue then. 
Esrey's departure has been expected since Sprint announced in November that he was undergoing chemotherapy treatment after being diagnosed with lymphoma. But analysts had expected chief operating officer Honald LcMay to be his successor. 
The Wall Street Journal reported last week that LeMay also is expect­ed to leave the company. Sprint declined to comment. 
Esrey, 63, was elected chief exec­utive officer of Sprint in 1985 and chairman in 1990. LcMay, who joined Sprint in 1985, was appoint­ed president and chief operating officer in February 1996. 
Sprint is the nation's third largest long-distance provider and fourth­largest wireless provider. BellSouth is the dominant local phone provider in the South, serving 44 million customers. 


30 it posted a $590 million Boeing offered its condo­the bravery and dedication profit in the fourth quarter lences Saturday to the fam­of the astronauts who lost thanks to a flourishing ilies of the seven astronauts their lives in the pursuit of defense business and killed. discovery and science despite a slump in the avia­'The men and women of today," the company said tion industry. the Boeing Company salute on its Web site. 



page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, February 3 2003 

Black History, Month Celebration 2003 
Sp,:insoAtd br African and African American Seudies 
February 4 :30-9:00 p.rn. February l 0 Taste of African American 5:30-8:30 p.m. LfoodJ CuUure. &, History Film & Panel Discussion­;;• Soul Fbod Menu Open to All Panelfal!!~ SanKofa Cyr,aLrM. Jolmson•rtO\:lliei, John Charles Bryant & Karen Richman, & Ayo Coly
D.a.nl-ry Chambliss, 
Disc~-ta..n,, 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium

Coleman-Morse -r-ebruary. 18 8 p• m ~ a-W•,""'-i-''··-_" .. i"": -~•3"'.>a..:~ . t .~fl'c•·" "1
C -::-· •

.[! • . I . .· 1j 
hou.ngo . • :1 T1;r·f:~-f/ ~ 1;
• .
The Last Lecture Senes: t::::::·{'~;~s ti;:~~: l "Black ExceptionaJism· r Iif:1,t"f:':~~~ :·:::,;
• ,:;·zLl~;;~\~.;~:·. ~ '-~•: 'i/4: -c~ 


Why Reparat.ions for Slavery are b~~i~YL~~-;J~t 
J 
& G d P. b'1· p· 1· ·11 k,,._,,.._.,,, . •"~•..AC~ J.~-4'" ~•-,; .i 
USt 00 U lC O ICY f:f'."f'#."t'~;;t~t~~ih~ 
Al T'll if~,f~..: f/&~.:,. I 
-1. OtY, ~-~~~j-jt~'l;f}~::;;-j 
O'Neill Hall Open Space 
February 25, 7:30 p.m. 

7:30 p.m. Lecture: Before Spike : .Making Music: Jazz to Motown 80 Years of Independent 
featured!~e~,::rformer ~rican ~erican ;.ta Band Buildingt F1lmmak1ng \]it''l• 
Middle Rehearsal Room Christophe, Siev· • 
t't.. --~ 




March 2, 
.,,f, I 0:00-11 :00 p.m. March 3, 7: 
Living Next Door to the KKK: 
.. -::1:J~raye:r Service 
Ho.•1 the Klan Hurts Americans 
· I of All Colors
ape B • .ub FraJ\lcll:n~ LJiz Dobbs, & S1acie So-,.,.al~1 
Cc~11t'! ~-=•· 
A!di:-.u1 & Mn:uA.."'±.•U~U!lt.id.l•i members of UC4PEACE 
~'Y l 0ThLiJt,Jhl':1td,ty J-IJ!J!l 
U'.:t.~tAzlY tJl~U'!lill Dliftn­


126 DeBartolo 
1:t•;..-~:I t1..t:"•:hJt'l

Uoitr. Ih.!nt,IU U.1H.ii 
!,ft, c·,w,y n..,,mf,?

!1'4 ~t ,,!t*" 
llr GIM l'•rr.•r••lu:e

llml>-ilff@~;'t M'J 
Co-~,;:-e;iit,.,:; Amek.L'"I e.r:.,dJ.tt, liHa.ck .IJ,:mM afNQ11~ P~.CampLJ Mi;w.::,. Ctin!•r fo: ~:A!. Cc,r,•:+r:,a E:.ut .l.UL'l ~ltdiH, l~w~ D-t,;.a,t;rflll'l'l.Cta..ur $tlild:tff, lii>·a,;n 1re:gn.m. l<J:-;lflt:"'.all.itt.l lh1f•lll fr,;-,pam1 uai f,to,·r.r1tJ t}:'l\r.\!I f,~ lr,11r;t1r.r.1l l~1~11:,•. Om«« lbt f'rukini. Pol:lk-11~,.,.,._, O+JlfiJtmi!"rl. t1f,.,.i<tr,I vr/l'ff!lm-TT'II, 'l.'(lffl'!'n .;r }l-!'·•~1lt P,H_..m~lr H,l'IAflrf 

Monday, February 3, 2003 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 

GERMANY 




Schroeder's party crushed in vote 
Associa tcd Press 
BERLIN 

Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's party suffered a crushing defeat in two German state elections Sunday, reflecting a loss of confidence in his govern• ment's economic course despite broad support for his anti-war stand on Iraq. 
In final results, the Christian Democrats grabbed 48 percent of the vote in represented. 
Though the defeat turned heavily on dissatisfaction with tax hikes and Germany's grim economic picture, it also demonstrated the limits of the strident anti-war stance that helped Schroeder narrowly win re-election in September. 
The conservative party's leader, Angela Merkel, expressed satisfaction that "people in Germany refused to be seduced a second time by a mood of fear" she a c c u s e d 
German participation in a military attack against Iraq and campaigned saying Germany would refuse to back a war authorization in the 
U.N. Security Council. which it is chairing in February. 
Schroeder's stance will be tested this week when Secretary of State Colin Powell offers new evidence of Iraqi weapons programs. Backed by polls showing that most Germans oppose a war, the Social Democrats insisted 
Schroeder 

Lower Saxony from 36 per· Schroeder of would stick
"This is an important sig­

cent in the last election five exploiting at the to his defi­years ago. The Social expense of the nal to the European ance. Democrats were at 33 per­country's relia­allies and to the T h e r e cent, down from nearly 48 bility as a U.S. was no
American government." 

percent last time. ally. immediate 
In Hesse, the Christian "This is an comment Democrats won 49 percent imporlant sig­Angela Merkel f r O m compared with 39 percent in nal to the Schroeder,
conservative leader 

t 999, with the Social European allies 
Democrats slumping to 29 and to the 
percent from 39 percent. With American government," 
a one-seat majority, t h e Christian Democrats 
have  the  
chance  to  
drop  the  

F r e e Democratic allies and g o v c r n alone. 
Sunday's 
Merkel told The 
Associated 
Press.

"People in Germany 
"I think much

refused to be seduced a 
is at stake for second time by a mood of German foreign fear.,, policy. I myself represent a pol­icy of our Angela Merkel Christian conservative leader Democrats in which we hold important result also friendship with the United 
increased the conservatives' legislative leverage by increasing their majority in the upper house of parlia­ment, where the states are 
States not just out of gratitude but because of the long-term 
security  of  Europe  and  
Germany."  
Schroeder has  ruled  out  

who spent 

Sunday with his wife in the Lower Saxony capital of Hanover, where he governed for more than eight years before becoming chancellor. 
But the conservatives, who said they avoided raising the Iraq issue during the cam­paign to avoid being branded warmongers, signaled that they now intend to sharpen the tone of Germany's debate over Iraq. 
"Germany is bound to two important lessons from World War II. 'No war ever again' is an important lesson," Merkel said. "But it's just as impor­tant for Germany never again to act alone." 

Convenient bus access from Library Circfe and Notre Dame Avenue Circle, with service Monday through Saturday.* 
'Check tfl Notre Dame/University Park Mall schedule for times. 
Getting to class is just 
or area restaurants. So one of the many reasons check out TRANSPO, students ride public offering bus service transportation every day. They also throughout South Bend ride it to go to the mall, the movies, and Mishawaka. 
For route & schedule information please call: 
:t2&3~ . ~1]&)'[j 

-...IfL-£if;.T&J~ ~~ 
Wherever Life Takes You 
NIGERIA 




At least 40 perish in Nigerian bank blast 
Associated Press 
LAGOS 
A powerful explosion tore apart a bank and dozens of apartments above it Sunday in Nigeria's crowded com­mercial capital, killing at feast 40 people and trap• ping many others, relief workers said. 
Police were investigating a range of motives including that the blast was part of a bank robbery plot. Looting and bloody fights broke out as hundreds of young men grabbed fistfuls of cash from the leveled bank and battled over them. 
In the chaos, trapped vic­tims cried for rnscue and onlookers wailed as res­cuers retrieved bloody. bro­ken bodies. 
The Red Cross said searchers had recovered more than 30 dead and 32 injured. Ten of the wounded died later at Lagos General Hospital, hospital workers said. 
Many more victims were believed caught in the rub­ble. and the death toll could rise, said Emmanuel Ijewere. president of the Nigeria Red Cross. 
The blast occurred about 
12:30 p.m. on Lagos Island. a crowded high-rise district of banks and other busi­nesses packed side-by-side with poor, densely populat­ed residential blocks. 
The four-story bank build­ing collapsed, bringing three floors of apartments crashing down on the ground floor Prudent Bank. Fires flared briefly after the blast, which could be heard for miles and sent a tower of smoke in to the sky. 
Two adjoining buildings were heavily damaged, and buildings for blocks around had shattered windows and other marks of the explo­sion. 
Residents said some vic­tims had been blocks away from the bank building. 
"My uncle was in the bal­cony of our house talking with a friend and the force of the explosion threw them down," resident Remi Oyebanji said. "They're both dead." 
An Associated Press reporter saw 10 crushed bodies. One covered corpse appeared to be that of a child. 
Resident Omololu Kassim. who was helping carry the victims, said he saw 40 dead and as many inj urcd. Local radio put the toll at 50 or more. The blast came as many were at church. pre• venting an even higher death toll. 
Hundreds of police sur­rounded the damaged neighborhood, dispersing the looters and forcing back thousands of onlookers. Cranes and other heavy equipment moved in to lift up the heavy concrete slabs and other debris. 
Ambulance drivers fought to navigate narrow streets and push through the throngs to get to victims. 
Survivors bundled togeth­er what possessions they could and set off in search of safe housing. 
"My husband is dead." one middle-aged woman cried. carrying a bundle on her head and dragging a lit­tle boy behind. 
Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo flew in from the capital of Abuja to visit the blast site. Obasanjo, accompanied by Lagos state Gov. Bola Tinubu, had no comment. 
Tinubu said his govern­ment will begin a judicial investigation into the blast and he promised free med­ical treatment for the injured. 
Lagos Island is one of two islands that, with the main­land, make up this city of 12 million. Congesti:m on the island has sent many busi­nesses moving to other parts of Lagos in recent years. 
Nigeria is Africa's most populous nation, with 120 million people, and urban crowding contributes to high death tolls in disasters and other tragedies. 
On Jan. 27, 2002, a series of explosions at an army munitions depot in Lagos killed more than 1,000 peo­p Ie. Hundreds of them drowned after jumping in the canal to escape the blast. 

SEMESTER. AR.OUN®) THE/ WORLD~ PROGRAM L4STCALL Interviews in progress. To be considered for fall 2003, applications must be in by February 14 at the latest. For information and application forms please call Dr. Pullapilly at 284-4468 or e-mail: pullapil@saintmarys.edu Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India, focusing on the Asian world 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements Opportunity for travel and study in many countries of the Far East, Southeast Asia, South Asia, Eastern Europe and Western Europe -~­SAINT MARY'SSEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM (574) 284-4468 OR 4473, FAX (574) 284-4866 OR 273-5973 COLLEGE NOTRE DAME. lNe-mail: pullapil@saintmarys.edu; http://www.saintmarvs.edu  

O
THE 
BSERVER 



VIEWPOINT 
Monday, February 3, 2003 

page lO 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notr< Dame. IN 46S5G 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  8USINF.SS MANAGER  
Kare Nagengast  Lori Lewalski  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hettler, Mate Lazar 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna SAINT MARi"s EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
An OF.SIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 

WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer 
CoNTR0I.J..ER: Michael Flanagan 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmroR/Assr. ME............ ........631-4541 BUSINF.SS OFFICE ........................................ 631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631--4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARi"s............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:llobserv,r. ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as weU as cartoons and reviews. 

POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither insrirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as aa:urately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent che opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include conract information. 
Questions r,garcung Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chu[Jason McFarley. 

POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
fhc Olucmr (USPS )99 240J UpubW:hed Mond,1,7 i:hroU3h Frida)' rxcep, during ~ and vaairion periods, Asub1o1;riprion co The ObtcrvC'I' is j l00 fur one academic }'C'.U; 155 fot unc Jeffle1rcr. 
The Observ.:r i, pub\M,~d at: POST~WTF.R 
024 Stauih Dimng H.ll Smd add.ms wrr«:tiom ro: 
Non~ OLIT1i:-, IN 46556 The 01:.u:n« 
P.O. l-loxQ Ptriodical po5taV paid ar Nottt Dunc Noue Dame, IN 46556-0179 ir;J adJirional maiGnr; offiu$ 
ThcOh~h :.mcmkroftllc~atd 1'rcu. Al1 rq,roJucrion rights -re 
'"""cJ. 

When I got the news that my little brother had been admitted into Notre Dame's auspicious graduating class of 2007. I immediately thought, "Go Irish." He is a decent dude with out­standing analytical skills and thick 
David Barrett 
hair, and we really could use more like him. I thought 
Notre Bum

of the benefits, the symbiosis if you will, that would follow from the two of us sharing this small campus. I thought of the costs. 
First, and l do mean foremost, he would be tapped into a life of seduc­tive indulgence and unparalleled cool­ness. Mine. With connections to the raging off-campus party scene, he'd instantly be the coolest kid in 3B. 
Not like I'd mind either. I remember those first few days of freshman year when we'd march single file toward Turtle Creek, following the kid who claimed he had a big brother who lived there. If I could just give him the honor of being "that" kid, my life would be complete. 
In return I could hit up his thrilling section karaoke parties. We could jam to some Ashanti and duet on Foolish, then skirt over to Sbarro for a slice, preferably stuffed. Freshman love that crap. I love that crap. 
Of course it wouldn't be all grins, we'd have to share a car and what limited sum of women dig on us thick­haired math wizards. 
Yes, his first year would be unforget­table. However. when reality hits sophomore year. he'll find himself in the back row of 101 DeBartolo watch­ing the Friday night SUB selection. People will still be searching for the next Boat Club, the next beer, while they lament their late birthday. They'll still be waiting for football season when they can steal sips of Icehouse from a Styrofoam cup. 
That's our problem though. We are always waiting. Waiting until 1 a.m. to go out, in expectations of the next buzz kill. Waiting for something to happen. Despite what many might think, that something is not Panera Bread Company. If anything can illu­minate the severity of the South Bend condition, it's Panera. 
Walking back from class on Thursday, I saw three girls running frantically toward the Joyce Center parking lot. Concluding that they must be running from NDSP, I sprinted to catch up. "Panera!" they screamed. Apparently, they were just hoping to snatch the first tasty morsel of Pumpernickel at Panera before the dinner rush set in. Panera, man. Not Pantera, Panera. 
There is no easy answer here. Theme parties are a start, but they alone cannot subvert this Panera mad­ness. We have to get creative with this one. Joe, a quick learner from Alumni, has grown fond of tennis matches at the Pavilion with the incentive of pro­motional giveaways. Windsor is anoth­er option, or beanbag toss. 
l don't know. What I do know is that we have 8,000 individuals at this uni­versity, all with different tastes, hob­bies and concepts of fun. Sadly, we all end up doing the same thing. We settle for overcrowded bars and under-sup­plied house parties. We show up at the architecture party though we can't draw. We go to the boxing house though we can't box. We get in the cab and ask the cab driver, "What's hot tonight baby'? Take us there." Then we complain that there's nothing to do. 
I used to blame it on the Notre Dame breed. Legacies like myself show up thinking it's going to be like it was in '75, like Dad would always talk about. We think of college as four football seasons connected by a negligible spring. Once we get here we realize those springs are far from negligible, but in fact are sobering and long. We realize that if we don't get up and do something, they'll seem even longer. That's why us legacies are so stinking crazy. 
So we go to the spots Dad used to talk about, the ones that are still standing and haven't lost their permit, and we get our laughs. We soon understand that this is still the same place we heard about in all those sto­ries, minus a couple of bars and plus a couple of rules. 
It's easy to wander through here and think that we missed out, that we came a few decades too late. It's easy to forget why we came here. I didn't come for the business program or the diversity. I came for the tradition, the football, the beer and because it was the best school I got into. 
I came. So did all of you, and so will my brother. He can wait until he hears from Georgetown, but he heard the same stories I did and will be here next fall. 
So go to Windsor if you need to and enjoy the casinos. Mix things up and go drinking on Tuesday instead of Friday. Just don't complain that there's nothing to do in South Bend. I hate that. 
Pantera man. 
David Barrett is a junior economics and philosophy major. His column appears every other Monday. Contact him at barrett.43@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 



TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Teresa Fralish Shannon Nelligan Sarah Nestor 
Viewpoint 

Patrick McElwee 
Graphics 
Katie McKenna 


Sports 
Bryan Kronk Kurt Bogaard Christine Armstrong 

Scene 
Emily Howald 
Lab Tech 
Melissa Flores 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you agree with Saint Mary's decision to fund a student trip to a pro-choice conference in Washington, D.C.? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Boredom is a vital problem of the moralist, since at least halfthe sins of mankind are caused by the fear ofit. '' 
Bertrand Russell philosopher and logician 
O
THE 

BSERVER 





VIEWPOINT 
Monday, February 3, 2003 page 11 
I am 23 going on 35 
My lifo has turned out to be quite like 
Charles Dickens's "Tale of Two Cities." The best of times. The worst of times. At home over Christmas break, I 
became "Laura" again. My mom served as my alarm clock. She woke me up a.t 
Laura Rompf
11 a.m. to go to my dentist appoint­ment -one that 
Beyond the 
she had scheduled. 
Bubble
On Christmas morning, I waited patiently with my siblings before we all opened our stock­ings. Once again, mine was full of little trinkets my father had carefulJy picked out and wrapped. 
I went out to a movie with my sister, and my father footed the bill. I also noticed he had filled my gas tank. 
At home in Kentucky, I was 23 going on 18. 
However, reality quickly slapped me in the face as I headed back to Oklahoma City on Jan. 4. I realized I once again had to plan for my daily rou­tine of facing high school seniors, hop­ing the lesson I had planned for the day would be educational and somewhat entertaining. 
However. it's not the routine. the long hours or the sometimes annoying stu­dents that slapped me in the face. 
In Oklahoma City, I am not "Laura." I'm "Ms. Rompf." 
I cannot act as if I'm 23. 
I cannot laugh at immature jokes my students make. Jokes I myself would have cracked whHe at home with my lit­tle brother. 
I cannot stop in the middle of lecture because I'm bored of giving notes. and my students are tired of taking them. There is material to cover, and lam the one responsible to make sure that these students learn or at least are exposed to that material. 
Perhaps the most extreme example I can give occurred at the beginning of the semester. One of my students warned me that she has epilepsy. This means at any moment she could have a seizure, and she wanted me to be informed. 
Here's where "Ms. Rompf' comes into play. 
If she has a seizure in my classroom, there would be no adult figure to turn to. No one to ask what to do, or how to control the situation. 
A classroom full of 25 18-year-olds would be looking to me for an answer. To 25 18-year olds, I would be the adult figure. 
Quite a change from the little girl whose dad buys her gas and mom wakes her up in the morning. 
Perhaps everyone faces this quick transformation after graduating from 
college. 
Perhaps we go quickly from seniors that frequented Corby's on Tuesdays, to adults that can barely stay up past 11 
p.m. on weeknights. 
Perhaps we all long for the day when our idea of responsibility was going to class -even if we weren't showered or hadn't done our reading. 
All I know is that less than a month ago I was 23 going on 18 -and now l feel as if I'm 23 going on 35. 
Laura Rompfgraduated from Notre Dame in 2002. She is currently teaching in Oklahoma City through the Alliance for Catholic Education. Her column appears euery other Monday. Contact her at lrompj@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Readers contribute to the SMC funding discussion 
The College was in the wrong 
As a recent alumna of Saint Mary's, I applaud Right to Life's criticism of Saint Mary's pro-choice sponsorship in Friday's Viewpoint section. 
Disregarding one's personal beliefs, Saint Mary's as a whole is a Catholic college, and as such, should uphold Catholic values. While I appreciate that Saint Mary's encourages its students to voice their individual beliefs with courage and conviction, I am disap­pointed in my alma mater for support­ing a venture so obviously against the creed with with it identifies itself. 
I also must address Eric Glass's Friday statement about the "so many people at Notre Dame" who think "the girls across the street are immoral and ignorant." 
Mr. Glass. like you, I am pro-life. I agree Saint Mary's Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership, a Catholic entity. was in the wrong for sending students to Washington, D.C. to support pro-choice endeavors. In short, I agree you have a valid and noble point. 
However, I do not appreciate your tactless stereotyping of students at both our respective colleges. The Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross community has enough strains as it is. In the future, please use some fore­thought before making such remarks. 

Katherine Rzepka 
class of'02 Indianapolis Jan. 31 

Saint Mary's mission is to educate 
I am writing in response to the negative letters about the Saint Mary's sponsor­ship of student participation in a pro­choice conference. 
We can talk about the Catholic identity at Catholic institutions until we are blue in the face, but what is more important to recognize is that Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are educational institutions. In order to educate, an institution has to allow its students to explore all ideas and views in society. 
It cannot possibly be accurate that sim­ply because I attend a Catholic institution I have to live in a closed off, conservative bubble for my college years and adult life. I would b~ extremely disappointed that I wasted an entire college career by never questioning or probing into the ideas that I have been indoctrinated with since childhood. 
I have based my life on the assumption that learning is fostered through unique and diverse experiences. I commend the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership for allowing women "across lhe street" to develop into open-minded, strong, moral, informed and intelligent individuals that are able to make up their own minds about important issues. 
The Catholic identity of this fine institu­tion has provided its students with a sound basis ofethics and values that we will use to forge our own paths and sta­tions in life. 
God forbid, this institution provides its students with the freedom to learn and be educated through first hand experience. 
God forbid, women be allotted the sup­port to think outside of the Notre Dame, Indiana bubble without being labeled "immoral and ignorant." 
God forbid, women be intelligent enough to make their own informed choices. 
Given Eric Glass's overall portrayal of women in his letter, I suppose he is sur­prised that a Saint Mary's woman, or any woman at all for that matter. would be gifted enough to articulate her ideas on paper. 
Glass might also be surprised that a woman from Saint Mary's would have enough time to write this letter, due to all the "immoral" (sluttish) and "ignorant" (stupid) behavior and activities that we all so obviously participate in. 
Sarah Beth Bailey 
LeMmsHall junior Jan. 31 
Respect the right ofpeople to believe in values different from your own 
In one ofmy classes today, several girls reacted in horror and shock to arti­cles in Friday's Observer because they agreed. 
After reading, I realized that I don't agree. I have deliberated how to say this and although it may be hard to hear, I am a pro-choice supporter. I am not Catholic, or any religion, for that matter. 
That doesn't mean I'm an immoral person. I was simply not raised in a church, but that's a different story alto­gether. I am not writing this letter to change anyone's opinion; it would be nearly impossible and unfair to sway such a controversial issue in a person most likely given one value or another a very long time ago. 
When I think pro-choice I don't think murder. as it is often associated with. Murder is a deliberate crime based on hate. While abortion certainly isn't acci­dental, women who have abortions (or any pro-choice advocates for that mat­ter) aren't hateful people. 
In fact, two very close people in my immediate circle have had abortions, and they are two of the best people I've ever met. They made a mistake, and paid for it in a different way than many women. 
Yes that's right, they paid; it is proba­bly hard to believe. They have made a choice that will affect them for the rest of their life. 
Yes, it was at the expense of another human life, which is wrong, and I am not trying to justify it. 
However, there are many instances where choices have been made at the expense of other human lives that many pro-life supporters don't take a second glance at. For example, the choice to sentence someone to death or the choice to bomb an abortion clinic. 
You may be thinking, yes, but abortion kills innocent people, but so do the afore­mentioned "choices." It has been proven in the former that many people who are sentenced to death are later found inno­cent. The latter, however, is an act based on hatred for people who are guilty of having a different set of morals. 
We people who believe in a woman's right to choose aren't monstrous mur­derers. Not all ofus have had abortions either. We simply believe that it is wrong to make it illegal to tell a woman what to do with her body. 
As for Saint Mary's response to the two different trips to Washington, D.C.: Were both groups sponsored by the Center for Women's lntercultural Leadership or was it an individual act? 
I don't know all of the facts on this. I can understand up to a point being upset with the support of those values different than those of Saint Mary's and, as I understand in turn, to those of the Catholic Church. 
As I understand it, the pro-choice girls were sponsored by an organization here on campus dedicated to just such a cause (that is, diverse values). Were the pro-life girls sponsored by the same group, or were they doing this on their own resolve? 
If it was by the same group, I can understand the outrage expressed in prior articles. If not, as a non-Catholic, I don't understand. 
One of the greatest things here at St. Mary's is that I don't feel like I have to conform in religion or any other areas. I feel that as a student, and really, as a woman, they will support me through my four years and beyond, paying no atten­tion to the fact that I'm not Catholic. 
I'm sure that this letter will spark anger and I hope that's all. I'm actually surprised that for my first opinion article I decided to choose two controversial topics; pro-choice and St. Mary's "sup­port" of it, 
I just hope that, because I'm pro­choice, you won't glare or do anything else sparked by hate when we pass each other going to classes. Most of us are a gentle people, and haven't in fact had an abortion, so please treat us as you would any of your pro-life friends. 
Lyndsey Bergen 
sophomore McCandless Hall Jan. 31 
THE 


OBSERVER 

us 

page 12 Monday, February 3, 2003 
By CHRISTIE BOLSEN 
Assistant Scene Editor 
In the beginning, there was William Faulkner. 
The first Sophomore Literary Festival commemorated the works of this Nobel Prize-winning American writer. 36 years later, SLF looks to expand beyond the traditional and into more diverse types of writing -including writing about fic­tional news, with headlines like, "Man Totally Proud of Last Night's Drunken Phone Calls." 
Joanna Cornwell, one of the co-chairs of the 2003 festival, explains the changes in the spirit of the festival this year, as opposed to recent years. 
"This year, we really wanted to change the direction of the festival and restore [it] to some of its former glory ... we've really tried to increase student involve­ment and appeal to a larger range of people. This year we have multicultural aspects, journalists, playwrights, fiction, nonfiction and poetry. It really is a large variety," Cornwell said. 
Also as co-chair, Meghan Martin wants to provide a wide range of styles, but emphasizes the importance of literary 
From The Sound and 
The 36th annual Sophomore Literary Festival 
tradition at Notre Dame. 
"SLF's 36 year existence is a testament to the thriving arts community here on campus-no matter how quiet or unim­posing it may be, it proves that the writ­ten word must be celebrated, if for no other reason than the power that it evokes in such a subtly ubiquitous exis­tence," Martin said. 
Sophomore Literary Festival 2003: WordFest is the latest in a series of SLF's devoted to "Celebrating the power of the written word since 1967." This year's festival includes a partnership with the St. Joseph County Literacy Council, incorporating service to help raise literacy awareness. $1 admission to two of the events will benefit this cause. Another feature of this year's SLF was the organization of pre-events, such as "A Very Potter Evening" in November, held to celebrate the release of the latest Harry Potter movie. 
On Wednesday, the actual festival begins. The first guest making an appearance will be Dan Coyle, class of 1987, journalist and author of "Hardball: A Season in the Projects." The acclaimed non-fiction work is Coyle's memoir of his experience as a baseball coach for troubled kids in 



Chicago's infamous Cabrini-Green housing project. The story of a makeshift young base­ball team playing in the rough projects was adapted into a movie starring Keanu Reeves in 2001. Following Coyle's presentation there will be a recep­tion and book-signing session that will fea­ture entertainment by the student a cappella group Big Yellow Taxi. The next event will be Cavanaugh Coffeehouse, with Sister Jean Lenz. Lenz, assistant vice­president for Student Affairs, is the author of Loval Sons & Daughters: A Notre Dame Memoir. The book narrates her per­sonal recollections of three memorable decades in Notre Dame's history and describes her role in those pivotal years. Lenz contributed as an administrator, 

Students smile at the Sophomore Literary Festival pre-event o
teacher, minister and 


prior to the release of the latest Harry potter movie. 
alumna, sharing her 
experiences with the University's first generation of women. During the first years of co-education, she served as rector of Farley Hall for 10 years. Her appearance at SLF's Cavanaugh Coffeehouse will appropri­ately commence the dorm's Women's Awareness Month. The event will also showcase Harmonia, the all-women a cappella group, and end with refresh­ments and a book-signing. 
Nikki Giovanni, who also participated in the 1993 festival, will make the next writer's appearance. Giovanni has earned extensive critical acclaim, reception to follow. This is the first event to take tickets; the cost is $1 and pro­ceeds will benefit charity. 
Next up is SLF Slam, featuring top spoken word artists from Chicago as well as Notre Dame students. Jelani McEwen-Torrence, who is hosting this event, sees it as a forum for introducing ideas and sharing art. "[It's] an open avenue for the intellectual and philo­sophic, while maintaining a fun and free environment," he said. The student slam poetry showcase is an open mic night and another opportunity 
including the NAACP "This year, we really for students to partici­Image Award for pate.
wanted to change the 
Literature in 1998 and the Another exciting
direction ofthe festi­
Langston Hughes Award guest this year is Joe for Distinguished val and restore [it] to Garden, one of the Contributions to Arts and founders of and a staff
some ofits former 
Letters in 1996, for her writer for "The poetry reflecting on the glory ... " Onion." One of the African-American identity. most popular satirical She has been named newspaper in the

Joanna Cornwell 
Woman of the Year before country, "The Onion"


SLF co-chair
by several publications. including Essence, Mademoiselle and Ladies Home Journal, and holds numerous other honors as well. 
Giovanni is considered a leader among black poets, and has written books including Love Poems and her latest, Quilting the Black-Eyed Pea. Another sure-to-be-legendary figure who has made strides in the black com• munity will introduce her, Notre Dame football coach Tyrone Willingham. The book-signing for Giovanni will take place before her presentation, with a 
combines clever fic­
tional stories with an 
amazingly realistic reporting style to call itself "America's Finest News Source." Recent headlines in the paper: "U.N. Orders Wonka To Submit To Chocolate Factory Inspections," "New Swiss Army Phone May Pose Health Risks," "Depressed Roommate Hitting The GameCube Pretty !lard" and "Guy at Gym Keeps Offering To Spot Everyone." 
Garden, a former liquor store employ­ee who denies being a journalist in interviews, landed at "The Onion" in 
-~ -------------­


THE OBSERVER 

Monday, February 3, 2003 page 13 






e Fury to The Onion 
fresh faces and up and coming talent 

1993 and brought a 12-pack of Olympia Gold to his first staff meeting. The paper does not use bylines, because the stories are intended to be from "The Onion" instead of a specific writer. The news stories cover an assortment of topics, from sardonic takes on serious current events to parodies of normally unnoticed aspects of everyday life. A reception and book-signing will take place after this event as well; this event also costs $1. 
For the next author, SLF will be a homecoming of sorts. Journalist Kevin Coyne, when writing the book "Domers: A Year at Notre Dame," managed to incorporate as many aspects of our University, from freshman orientation to graduation, as would fit in one year. Coyne's book will be filled with familiari­ty for students, alumni and die-hard fans alike, as it references a plethora of staples in the Notre Dame lifestyle. Pep rallies, classes. dances, parties. masses, football games. faculty meetings and trustee meetings all contributed to Notre Oame eventually winning over the author. 
Coyne's outlook remains realistic, however, and he addresses common issues such as the often-precarious bal­ancing act between spiritual, academic and social life on campus. The book also provides a view into the roles of leg­endary figures in Notre Dame's past, like Father Sorin, Father Hesburgh and the remarkable Knute Rockne. There will be a reception and book-signing after his presentation. featuring Notre Dame's all-male pop a cappella ensemble. 
The next event will present actor and playwright John Buffalo Mailer, with a 
reception to follow. a young boy, the tradition continued the Mailer. whose father following year. Sophomore John Mroz Norman Mailer was assigned the task of carrying out appeared Rossi's dream of at the sec-making it an ond annu­annual event, al SLF. is a "You need to have a com­but Mroz envi­promising sioned inviting
mittee. a little army of 
r e c e n t writers instead
dedicated men and
graduate of scholars. The 0 f women who share a problem was Wesleyan that he had no
vision. Mountains are
University. money or con­
moved by vision. You have
It was nections to there that the potential to move a entice high pro­he and file authors.
mountain ifyou want to ... 
friends The second founded year's festival the acting John Mroz was saved when company fonner chair of SLF Joseph Heller of 
B a c k 
house; as 
Executive 
Producer of the com­
pany, Mailer also wrote 
an original play that 
they performed. His 
"Hello, Herman" takes 
an explanatory view of 
a high-school mas­
sacre; the 16-year-old 
protagonist and mur­
derer is also the play's 
victim of suburban 
American life. One of 
the event's organizers, 
Becca Van Schoick, is 

looking forward to a fun event and believes that Mailer is headed for fame. 
The final event will be ND Unplugged II, designed to be a student and faculty coffeehouse with poets, spoken-word artists, singer-songwriters, fiction authors, nonfiction authors, essayists, playwrights and more from the Notre Dame community. There will also be refreshments and a student art display. Beth Franzosa, one of the organizers of ND Unplugged, is excited for this event because of the tremendous success of last year's. The committee is prepared for an even better response this year, with a larger venue and longer hours. 
The organization and execution of so many events is the result of countless people putting in hours of work. 
"The committee has met weekly since September, and made efforts to bring a wide array of literary artists to campus for WordFest ... Meghan Martin and Joanna Cornwell have worked tirelessly since last April to put together this year's festival and committee," assistant chair of SLF, Bryan Kronk, said. 
I-low did all this literary madness begin? 
In 1967, as the Packers played the Chiefs in Super Bowl I, a Notre Dame student named Richard Rossi was busily establishing an enduring tradition. Inspired by a literary convention he had al.tended in high school, he dedicated himself to organizing a symposium of lit­erary scholars at Notre Dame. With the help of the sophomore class, the first Sophomore Literary Festival was held that year. honoring William Faulkner. 
Thanks to the promise of a football for 
Catch 22 fame 
agreed to speak 

after an autographed football was promised for his son. 
As invitations were sent out, the event began attracting the attention of promi­nent writers; as a result, it also gained support and monetary assistance from the University. The final lineup that year included impressive names in addition to Heller: Wright Morris, Ralph Ellison, Granville Hicks. William F. Buckley, Kurt Vonnegut and Norman Mailer. Mailer, whose youngest son John Buffalo is the Mailer in this year's festival, garnered national attention for the event with the premiere of his film, "Beyond the Law." 
In an e-mail Mroz sent to Martin this year as one of the new chairs, the sec­ond-ever SLF chair had inspiring words for the new chair. 
"You need to have a committee, a little army of dedicated women and men who share a vision. Mountains are moved by vision. You have the potential to move a mountain if you want to," Mroz said. Martin and Cornwell did find their dedi­cated committee, and those words of advice pushed them throughout the planning process. 
The festival has done a great deal of evolving since those first years. More focus is placed now on the students and their contributions. Cornwell feels strongly about how rewarding student involvement will be for all participants. "There is this untapped potential for fes­tivals like this and we feel that only if we can get the word out, students can expe­rience the power of the written word and even showcase their tremendous talents at nights like ND Unplugged," Cornwell said. 
After 36 years, SLF is still going strong, thanks to unique visions by every sophomore class each year. This year is no exception. "Sophomore Literary Festival more or less had a face lift," Cornwell said. 
Sophomore Literary Festival 2003: WordFest will take place from Wednesday to Feb. 13. All proceeds from ticket sales and donations accepted at the door will benefit the St. Joseph County Literacy Council. 
Contact Christie Boisen at bolsen. l@nd.edu 

., 
... 
Schedule of Events  
Wednesday-Dan Coyle at 7:30 p.m. in 155 DeBartolo Hall Followed by reception and book-signing in Coleman-Morse, featuring Big Yellow Taxi Thursday-Cavanaugh Coffeehouse at 7:30 p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom Sister Jean Lenz followed by reception, book-singing and Harmonia Saturday-Nikki Giovanni book signing at 4:30 p.m. in Hammes Bookstore Presentation at 7:30 p.m. in Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business Followed by reception in Mendoza's atrium Ticket price: $1 Sunday-SLF Slam at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall Feb.10­Joe Garden at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall Followed by reception and book-signing in basement of Zahm Hall Feb. 11­Kevin Coyne at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall Followed by the Unaertones, reception and book-signing in LaFortune Ballroom Feb.12­John Buffalo Mailer at 7 :30 p.m. in Washington Hall Followed by reception in LaFortune Ballroom Feb. 13­ND Unplugged Il from 8p.m.-1a.m. in Lafortune Ballroom (tentative location)  

Monday, February 3, 2003
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 

Garnett and short-handed Wolves easily defeat 76ers 
quarter buzzer to give the and Yao seven apiece as the 
Associated Press 

Wolves a 77-66 lead. Rockets led 88-66 after three. 
Kevin Garnett had 30 points and 17 rebounds as the short­Rockets 105, Kings 89 Hawks 97, Magic 89 handed Minnesota The Sacramento Kings found Shareef Abdur-Rahim has Timberwolves won their out just how far Yao Ming has discovered the best way to eighth straight home game, come since the beginning of block out trade rumors -just 99-91 over the Philadelphia the season. keep winning. 76ers on Sunday. Yao had 18 points, 11 "The game is an emotional 
Marc Jackson had 14 points rebounds, four blocked shots game," he said. "Even if I'm and Gary Trent made all six and a season-high six assists not showing it, I'm fired up shots he took for 12 points to as the Houston Rockets beat inside." offset the absence of Joe the Kings 105-89 Sunday. Abdur-Rahim scored 23 Smith, who sprained his ankle "Every time I play him, he points and Dion Glover added Friday and will miss at least continues to get better and 22 as Atlanta overcame a 38­three weeks. The Wolves better," Sacramento's Vlade point performance by Tracy dressed only 10 players, with Divac said. "He's definitely McGrady to beat the Orlando 
Rod Strickland on the bench going to be a great player in Magic 97-89 on Sunday. due to a strained groin. this league. I really like the McGrady broke the team 
Allen Iverson had 21 points way he thinks on the court. He record he set earlier this sea­on 7-for-23 shooting for the plays very unselfishly and son with his eighth straight 76ers, whose four-game road understands the concept of the game of at least 30 points, but winning streak ended. game." the NBA's leading scorer 
Derrick Coleman, who had In early December, missed his last three shots 15 points and 11 rebounds, Sacramento and Houston split after his 3-pointer cut the scored four straight points to two games in which Yao had a Hawks' lead to 82-76 with pull Philadelphia to 95-91 with combined 25 points and 20 4:44 remaining. 
1:24 left, but Garnett made a rebounds. He was much Atlanta, winning for the fifth long jumper on the other end improved this time, as he time in six games, has won to give Minnesota some notched his team-leading 15th three in a row for the first breathing room. double-double. time since Nov. 12-18. Hawks 
Iverson -unable to practice "We passed the ball a lot center Theo Ratliff tied a Saturday because of an today so there were a lot of career high with nine blocked inflamed right knee -scored open shots," Yao said. shots, the last of which came the Sixers' first seven points, Eddie Griffin led the Rockets with 6:05 remaining and led to 
but he started leaving shots a with 22 points while Steve Abdur-Rahim's hard dunk 
hair short after that and Francisand Cuttino Mobley over Andrew DeClercq, which couldn't find many openings to scored 21 each. made it 80-73. drive at in the lane. Sacramento coach Rick The Hawks have struggled 
Even without Smith, one of Adelman was unhappy with all season and carry a 19-29 their best interior defenders, his team's effort coming off a record into Miami for their the Timberwolves were tough 124-113 loss to the Lakers on final game before the All-Star on defense underneath and Friday. break. Most of the players on outscored the 76ers 60-42 the "They were aggressive and the roster have been the sub­
paint.Iverson, whose season took it to us and we were the ject of trade rumors since high of 41 points came in a opposite," Adelman said. Terry Stotts was named head 99-94 win over Minnesota in "They played the game with coach after Lon Kruger was December, was 5-for-14 in the more energy and took advan­fired Dec. 26. first half and missed his first tage of it. They were very good "I was proud of the way the five attempts of the second and we were very bad." team withstood their come­half. Peja Stojakovic led the Kings back," said Stotts, who 
Keith Van Horn, who had 33 with 31 points. improved to 8-13 since taking points on 11-for-19 shooting Yao, Griffin and Francis over. "We managed to hold the for the Sixers on Sunday in a sparked a 12-3 run late in the lead the whole time. I thought win over Miami, was 2-for-8 period as the Rockets expand­we played well offensively and from the floor in the first half ed their lead to 29-9 with 2:47 didn't let the frustration end and finished with 13 points. left in the quarter. Houston up hurting us at either end of 
Anthony Peeler, who had a 32-12 lead at the end of the court." Miller and Pat Garrity. Miller, Atlanta's largest lead was the period as Griffin had 11 Garrity and Kemp were a com­17, first on Abdur-Rahim's 14­
replaced Smith in the starting Abdur-Rahim, Glover and 
lineup, found Ras ho and Yao 8. Mohammed each had 10 bined 0-for-11 on first-half footer late in the second and Nesterovic for an alley-oop Houston shot 65 percent (15-rebounds for Atlanta. Glover's attempts from the floor. then on Jason Terry's 18-foot­dunk to give Minnesota a 48-of-23) in the first while 19-footer from the right wing Orlando coach Doc Rivers er in the final minute of peri­44 lead just before halftime. Sacramento hit only 22 per­with 1:54 remaining gave the tried to fire up his team when od. 
Spindly rookie Igor cent (5-of-23) in the quarter Hawks their last 10-point lead he was ejected late in the third "I think we're coming Rakocevic, pressed into more and just 29 percent (12-of-42) before Mike Miller's three­quarter for arguing with refer­together," Glover said. ee Ted Bernhardt. "Defensively is where we're
playing time with Strickland for the half. point play made it 92-87 a 
out another two-to-three Stojakovic had 19 in the minute later. "I thought the team needed a doing it. When Theo's playing weeks, had one of his best third quarter to help keep the The Magic shot only 8-of-31 jolt," Rivers said. "If that's 'D' like he played today, we'll games. He drained a long 3-Kings from getting blown out. on 3-pointers, including a what lost the game for us, win a lot." 
we're in a lot of trouble." 

pointer just before the third-But Griffin had 11 and Mobley combined 2-for-12 effort by 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED Dallas bound? Will pay for transport of baby bassinette. ND alum 2145590868 ciclb@aol.com SOCCER Officials Wanted Apply w/ RecSports by Feb. 4th Clinic: Feb. 5 @ 7pm RSRC More info; Hadams@nd.edu NOTICE Acapulco s #1 Spring Break Company, Bianchi-Rossi Tours, is 'Going Loco' with a 'Last Chance to Dance' Special! Book now and get $100 off our already low price! Your seat is available now, but may be gone tomorrow! Call now 800­875-4525. www.breaknow.com  SPRING BREAK on South Padre Island, ranked #3 S.B. destination by the Travel Channel. South Padre Resort Rentals has the best 1,2&3 bedroom condos. Great location and amenities, close to Mexico. Call 800-944-6818 Visit gosouthpadreis­land.com LOST & FOUND Lost: Gray wool scatf in or around South Dining Hall. Please call 634­2757 if found. FOR SALE Oak Hill Condo for Sale. 2 Bed, 2 Bath, 0.5 miles from campus. 574­243-2621  JUDAY LAKE 3 BDRM HOME. ON LAKE.WALK TO CAMPUS. BRO­KER OWNED. GILLIS REALTY 272-6306 1990 Honda Civic, Super depend­able and very clean. California car. Paul ph. 256-2998 FOR RENT New four bedroom 3 bath home for rent with two car garage Gas heat, central air conditioning, all appli­ances, lire place. Call 574-232­4527 or 269-683-5038. Rent $1600 plus utilities. Rooms For Rent $250 month includes utilities 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol.com  Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus mmm­rentals@aolcom 272­1525 www.mmmrentals.com Ivy RD condo avail-short term rentals-ND staff/guests/grad stu­dent. Pis call 610-541­0486 DOMUS PROPERTIES -HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN­TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS -STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS ­· SECURITY SYSTEMS -MAINTE­NANCE STAFF ON CALL· WASH­ERS/DRYERS -CALL TODAY -HOUSES GOING FAST -CON­TACT: KRAMER (574)315-5032 OR (574) 234-2436 ALSO LEAS­ING FOR 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR.  Brand New Everything. 2-story rental house with porch and yard just blocks from campus. Off-street parking. 3,4 or 5 students. Summer or tall availability. 235-3655. 3-6 BDRM HOMES. 03/04 YR. SEC SYS. WASHER/D 272-6306 Four bedroom house for rent CALL Anlan Properties, LL.C. 532-1896 TICKETS Two tickets for CATS appearing on March 22 at the Morris Performing Arts Center. Good seats on main floor. $45 each. Please call 271­9539  PERSONAL Chemistry Tutoring. Call 360-1983 Need auto insurance? www.southbendautoinsurance.com 574-254-2626 Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 23 more days until debauchery! Youngest senior ever1  
..  

Monday, February 3, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 1 S 
HIGH SCHOOL BASKETBALL 
Jaines ruled ineligible after accepting jerseys as gifts 
. Prolific prep school player appealing decision after allegedly returning jerseys  amateurism by accepting the trendy, "throwback" jerseys from a clothing store on Jan. 25. The decision came four days after James was cleared follow­ing a two-week investigation for  said Muscaro spoke with a shift supervisor "who was not involved in any of the transac­tions." "We remain available to pro­vide any information the OHSAA may need," he said.  the AP seeking comment Saturday. OHSAA spokesman Bob Goldring said for James to appeal, he would have to make his intentions known to Muscaro in writing. The appeal  "He was here," Joyce said. "lie didn't work out with the guys." After learning James had accepted a Gale Sayers No. 40 Chicago Bears jersey ($395) and a Wes Unseld No. 41  
accepting a $50,000-plus sport  Muscaro earlier had said  would  be  Washington  
Associated Press  AKRON, Ohio  utility vehicle as an 18th birth­day gift from his mother. On Friday, OHSAA commis­sioner Clair Muscaro declared  James' returning the jerseys wouldn't affect the ruling. Muscaro could not be reached for comment Saturday night.  heard by a state panel on Feb. 13 at the OHSAA's  "He did not pay for these items."  Bullets jersey ($450), Muscaro spoke with  
LeBron  James  sat  in  the  James, a senior expected to be  The Fighting Irish (13-1).  offices  in  the  store  
bleachers Saturday, watching as his high school's freshmen basketball team warmed up for  the first overall selection in this year's NBA draft, ineligible and said St. Vincent-St. Mary had to  ranked No. 1 this week by USA Today, host Canton McKinley on Sunday at the University of  Columbus. St. Vincent-St. Mary  Clalr Muscaro OHSAA commissioner  manager at "Next Urban Gear and  
a game.  forfeit its last win on Jan. 26.  Akron's  James  A. Rhodes  coach  Dru  Music"  in  
For now, it's as close as the  James,  dressed  in  street  Arena.  Joyce did not  Cleveland.  
18-year-old superstar can get  clothes, did not comment when ,  James will be there only as a  know  when  Muscaro was  
to the court.  approached inside the school's  spectator unless he takes legal  -or if ­ the appeal would be  told James did not pay for the  
James, widely acknowledged  gym.  action to be allowed to play.  filed, and said any statements  jerseys.  
as the nation's top prep player,  Robert Rosenthal, owner of  Attorney Fred Nance, recently  on the matter would come from  By doing so. James had vio­ 
spent his first day on the side­ "Next Urban Gear and Music"  hired to represent James and  Nance.  lated an Ohio amateur bylaw 4­ 
line after being ruled ineligible  in Cleveland where James got  his family, could seek a tempo­ Joyce asked school athletic  10-1 (c) that states  "an athlete  
by state officials for accepting  the jerseys, released  a state­ rary restraining order to keep  director Grant Innocenzi if  forfeits his or her amateur sta­ 
two  vintage sports jerseys  ment Saturday night saying the  the  two-time  Ohio  Mr.  James could still practice, but  tus by capitalizing on  athletic  
worth $845.  OHSM rushed to judgment.  Basketball eligible pending an  when he didn't get an  answer,  fame by receiving money  or  
The Ohio High School Athletic  Rosenthal said he 'tried to call  appeal of the OHSAJ\'s ruling.  the coach kept James from par­ gifts of monetary value."  
Association ruled Friday that  Muscaro back after the com­ Nance did  not immediately  ticipating in Saturday's 1 1/2­ "The bottom line," Muscaro  

James violated a state bylaw on missioner left a voice mail. He return a phone message from hour session. 
Explore your career potential at 
www.gecareers.com 
or your campus career center 
.,./ . 

. -/\ , \ .i \ . 
.,"' ~ ~ 
'\ ~) 
i \ 
t 

, .. __ .___ •. ...(' 
---~' . ·.•· -•~ '.r ,,,:. ; . ·, ·. 
..... .,,
' ...~­
,-.: '!'>,......... . ~ ~. 
. <-~'~ .' . ·, "~-. I'""' 
'/ 
(,.
imagination at work~ 

Aircraft Engines • Consumer Products • Consumer Finance • Commercial Finance Equipment Management• Industrial Systems• Insurance• Medical Systems • Plastics Power Systems • NBC • Specialty Materials • Transportation Systems 
said, "He did not pay for these items." 
Hobert Rosenthal, the store's owner, declined comment on Saturday. 
Gloria James said she was 
disappointed in Muscaro's rul­
ing, and claims the OHSAA did 
not contact her during the 
inquiry. 
St. Vincent-St. Mary is sched­uled to play five more regular­season games, including a Feb. 8 date in Trenton, N.J., before it will try and win its third state title in four seasons. 
Joyce said his team is dealing with losing its best player as well as could be expected. 
"Kids are resilient, man," he said. "They're about business, and that's how we're looking at it. Yeah, we don't like the cir­cumstances, but this is an opportunity. I don't want our guys to feel bad and not play because of how they received the opportunity." 
Joyce has asked the media to refrain from interviewing any of James' teammates, and said he wouldn't appoint one of his players to act as a spokesman for the group. 
"At this point, even if I appointed one, they don't want to talk," he said. "They just want to play basketball. They want their game to do the talk­ing for them." 

CM~ . ACAPULCC> lt JAMAICA 'BAH~ . Fl."'lllDA 


Monday, February 3, 2003 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMENS SWIMMING 

Women's s-witnniing beats Wolverines in last dual meet 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 

The womens swimming and diving team ended their dual meet season on Saturday with a nail-biting 153-147 victory over Michigan at Rolfs Aquatic Center. The Irish (9-1-1) edged the Wolverines (3-3) in the mcet's final event of the 200 freestyle relay by .33 sec­onds to pull out the win. 
Junior Danielle Hulick. senior Heidi Hendrick. sopho­more Katie Eckholt and sophomore Kristen Peterson clocked in at 1:35.03 and gave the Irish a win over their then-No. 19 opponent. 
"We've had some pretty close meets with them over the years," said coach Bailey Weathers. "Usually they're better at the freesty le relay. But our girls swam hard and I think our girls probably sur­prised them a little bit." 
Notre Dame won nine events on the day. Hulick is responsi­ble for three of the nine victo­ries. Hulick swam on the dif­ference-making relay team and also won two individual events, the 50 freestyle (23. 90) and the 100 backstroke (56.33). 
"Danielle has had a great season for us," Weathers said. "She did an awesome job yes­terday and she is definitely a team leader for us." 
A three-time Big East cham­pion and the Big East 200 freestyle relay record holder. Hulick competed strongly in other events as well, taking second in the 200 medley relay, the 1650 freestyle, and the 200 freestyle events. 
Other Irish victors include Hendrick in the 100 freestyle (51.86), Peterson in the 200 backstroke (2:03.42) and junior Lisa Garcia in the 200 butterfly (2:01.03) 
Junior l\leghan Perry-Eaton won the 1-meter (322.64 points) and 3-meter (307.95) diving competitions. Weathers said that while divers are expected to be more consis­tent as fatigue is not an issue, his swimmers do not take Perry-Eaton's consistency for granted. 
Prior to the weekend, Weathers said he wanted his team to swim its hardest, win or lose, to show themselves they were ready for the Big East Championships. 
So is the team ready to trav­el to Uniondale, N.Y. on Feb. 20? 
"This win gave us a lot of confidence in terms of where we arc," Weathers said. "The girls are really looking for­ward to the Big East Championships. This meet gave us real good idea of where we are and what we have to do to get the girls ready, which is important." 
The Irish finish the dual­meet season one win behind the team's 10-1 record of a season ago and will now con­centrate on resting for the upcoming championships. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu. 

COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Blue Devils suffer their 3rd loss 

Associated Press 

TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 
Adam Waleskowski sand­wiched a left-handed hook and a dunk around two free throws by Tim Pickett in the final 20 seconds Sunday night as Florida State upset No. 5 Duke at home for the second straight season, 75-70. 
Florida State (11-8, 2-6 Atlantic Coast Conference) moved out of the league's basement with the victory while handing the Blue Devils (14-3, 4-3) their third straight conference road loss. 
Last season, the Seminoles shocked then-No. 1 Duke with a 77-76 victory that ended the defending national champi­ons' 22-game winning streak. 
Pickett's free throws gave Florida State a 73-70 lead with 9. 9 seconds left and Duke raced down the court looking for a tying 3-point shot, but· Chris Duhon slipped and fell in front of the Blue Devils bench. losing the ball with 6 seconds left and lead­ing to the game-ending dunk by Waleskowski. 
Pickett had 15 points, nine rebounds and four assists for Florida State, which made nine of its last 10 free throws. 
Freshman J.J. Reddick led 
Duke with 16 points. 

Florida State led by 11 
points twice in the second half, the last time with 15:36 left on ,a jumper by Anthony Richardson, who finished with 14 points. 
Duke responded with a 12-1 run over the next five min­utes, tying the game on a layup by Daniel Ewing with 
11 :33 remaining. But the Seminoles came right back 
with seven straight points, taking a 56-49 lead on Nate Johnson's 3-pointer with 8:35 remaining. 
Duke rallied again and tied the game at 56 when Lee Melchionni connected on a 3­pointer with 6:48 left. The Blue Devils, though, never reclaimed the lead. 

Show us what you've got! LATIN EXPRESSIONS 2003 

We welcome a variety ofperformances that reflect LATINO CULTURE! Dancing, Singing, Instrumental Skits, Poetry, etc... 
Performance Try-outs Monday Feb. 3 or Wednesday Feb. 5 9 to 10 PM--CSC Classroom 
Think you're funny? Try our for MC! 
MC Try-outs Monday Feb. 3 or Wednesday Feb. 5 9 to 10 PM--CSC Classroom 
Got some great moves? Try our for our Opening/Closing Acts Please come with a dance partner if possible 
Dance Try-outs Monday Feb. 3 or Wednesday Feb. 5 8 to 9 PM--CSC Classroom 
Latin Expressions 2003, Friday, March 28 at 7PM 
Any Questions? Please Contact: Mercedes Boyd: mboyd@nd.edu April Garcia: agarcia9@nd.edu Michelle Hogan: mhogan4@nd.edu Sponsored by: La Alianza 


. I l t l ~ ) J l · I i: 'l I, (-l j ~ l 1 l l I r ) '. ) 3 1 J: i: --Sc 1 l ( : · 1, ) t "1 i 1 3 / } , ~Cl i J ~ ) I C l I J l l J 
AROUND THE NATION 
Monday, February 3, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIHE SERVICES page 17 
•. .········• ... /I' .•. )ii\, •••••l•if·iif..,,,.,,,. ....,,,,.
r::I~~".
2•• •Glln~•~tlt.11,(it •· :::1 ~:;:: ~:1:.r.Jl]!•ii!!:l!••:•:!:},,:,i·~~:1 ·\::: ...... it§l~~t!;llill!lii!i
5• ..· ltU•t·'· . 6 S.taJi(ord 
·· ·· ~::.:. ~=m2;ij;:;, 
s LoUl$ia!laXiltll
10 . Pimflif ., .. ._. 
•ti!itl 
;·•:m:•·•::,..;;:: ffllrl!it.WJ£:•::•: ~]t•····•~:::~s·"li•··•··••.••·••'•·'··••·•·•
13 Mr-ssttslppf · .· ..·.·.·...-.·..· .·.·.·.·•·:!lit!!• 
14 
~.ii~•'"~~-/
.· ·• ~fJJtf,g~.;:,::
1l ...Vili~etbllt 
1a q,oruliH ... 
19\Oklftlldmf 
20 VUbilioviiW .· ............·.. . 
21 w1~•.Gra,n aay .. .
22 Sa'*' Barbara ...·.·. 
23 Ohio Slalif 
24 Arhoaa 
25 · W~dlfagto~ < ••.·• ~@ijn:ton~u~:•gs '> 
:-::::::-.: //.:::::::· 
t~a04· ··. .· ....::::::;::•c~,i,:::•..·.·.·.·.·.·.·.· 1 ••Miii111fln1 I:.•:irlliigiII!ilr :.:·.·•;i:~~f•.~.•••I·••·•··•· ,....,,,J:iiii;f;lf,.lilllil1liilii•!1: 
:·•·· ..·•ii;~;.!11":•••;........... i:::llil:::::::ll !1•1• 11:i:!•i!!~ill!il:illl:••:11:11 
6 .OklallOi)la ) 
7 Kefilildif 
·· l t°'ij'ijmtt r
" ··•••.Oija®fuastatt ·· 
1O. •t,\&J'1Jud { , 11 
12 
13 ·14 ii 
~·i ·••i:!i~][~····••• i•tr•··• =!i!jljlll~ilj;IJillillljli~JJjlllllliilljl!llili~i. 1s .Marqtiette ) ·· •··•rnwat,f!.jtt@Jll!~ 
hjlfli!la •• : ::r.. ·•.· :·~4,:l•i ' 
21 22 23 
24 
· 25 
.....•:• •·•_M:• :m•@Wjj:if~•I@Jtl'%if''¥MMlMiWl@NiM&•:::1nw:rrn:rnn 
-:::.=:-· )l/i?t:
,:.­
c,,~ I 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Georgetown at Syracuse 7 p.m., ESPN Villanova at St. Joseph's 7 p.m., ESPN2 Missouri at Kansas 9 p.m., ESPN 
AHL HOCKEY 
All-Star Game 7 p.m., FOX 
MENS TENNIS 


Reuters 

Miami Dolphins halfback Ricky WIiiiams evades the Patriots defensive line to score a touchdown during the reg­ular season. The Doplphlns failed to make the playoffs, but WIiiiams had an MVP performance at the Pro Bowl. 
William.s leads AFC to Pro Bowl victory 
but it's especially great to halftime lead and eliminat­the win, with the NFC's
Associated Press 

do it against the best play­ed the tension -already stars receiving $15,000 ers in the world with mil­minor at best -from this apiece.
HONOLULU 

lions of people watching." good-natured exhibition. The Super Bowl champi­Ricky Williams might be He was the biggest con­The AFC nearly broke the ons were well-represented,the NFL's most profoundly tributor to a balanced AFC Pro Bowl record of 51 with six Tampa Baymellow star, so it isn't sur­effort featuring 100-yard points set by the NFC in Buccaneers in the lineup.
prising that Hawaii's warm passing games by all three 2000. The coaching staffs Unebacker Shelton Quarles

sun and cool breezes 

quarterbacks and a record­from Philadelphia and was a last-second addition;always bring out the best in tying six interceptions by Tennessee made sure the he already was in Hawaiihim. 
the defense. Staked to a big game was decided in the for a vacation whenIn his first Pro Bowl, the early lead by Williams and air. The teams set records Atlanta's Keith BrookingMiami running back rushed starting quarterback Rich for most combined pass dropped out.
for 56 yards. scored two Gannon, the AFC cruised to attempts (101) and com­Asked if the AFC wastouchdowns and forced a its sixth victory in the last bined interceptions (8). seeking revenge for thefumble on special teams to seven Pro Bowls. A sellout crowd at Aloha Buccaneers' Super Bowlearn the MVP award in the Williams, who led the Stadium enjoyed another triumph, safety John LynchAFC's 45-20 victory over NFL in rushing for the blowout victory for the said: "It seemed like Richthe NFC on Sunday. 

Dolphins after three tough AFC, which has dominated Gannon did. I don't know"What's fun is how laid­seasons in New Orleans, the matchup in recent what it is. They've been
back everything 1s, 

also caught three passes as years. Each of the AFC's getting the better of us inWilliams said. "It's always the AFC jumped to a 28-6 players earned $30,000 for this game."
great to get in the end zone, 
IN BRIEF 

Hawks soar over Magic fire up his team when he was eject­against goalie Marty Turco. 
Shareef Abdur-Rahim has discov­ed late in the third quarter for ered the best way to block out arguing with referee Ted Heated remarks in trade rumors -just keep winning. Bernhardt. Hawaii 
Abdur-Rahim scored 23 points Peyton Manning called teammate and Dion Glover added 22 as West shines in NHL All­Mike Vanderjagt an "idiot kicker" Atlanta overcame a 38-point per­Star game at the Pro Bowl on Sunday, three 
formance by Tracy McGrady to beat Dany Heatley did something days after Vanderjagt apologized the Orlando Magic 97-89 on that's almost impossible to do in an for making disparaging remarks exhibition like the NHL All-Star about the Indianapolis Colts quar­
Sunday. 
game -he made it dramatic and terback.
McGrady broke the team record 
exciting. Manning made the comment dur­
he set earlier this season with his 
Heatley joined hockey greats such ing a live interview on ABC. He also
eighth straight game of at least 30 
as Wayne Gretzky and Mario claimed Vanderjagt was "liquored
points, but the NBA's leading scor­
Lemieux by scoring a record-tying up" at the time of the Canadian
er missed his last three shots after 
four goals Sunday, though he cable TV interview earlier this
his 3-pointer cut the Hawks' lead to 
couldn't prevent the Western week in which he said Manning
82-76 with 4:44 remaining. 
Conference from beating the. East should show more emotion.
The Hawks have struggled all 
in the first All-Star shootout in NHL Vanderjagt, the most accurate 
season and carry a 19-29 record 
history. field-goal kicker in NFL history,
into Miami for their final game 
After a 5-all regulation tie set up apologized Thursday to Dungy,
before the All-Star break. Most of 
the fourth overtime All-Star game, Manning and the rest of his team­
the players on the roster have been 

the West won 6-5 when Markus mates. He signed a $7.75 million, the subject of trade rumors since Naslund, Bill Guerin and Paul five-year contract extension with Terry Stotts was named head coach Kariya scored against goalie the Colts in November 2000 -at after Lon Kruger was fired Dec. 26. Patrick Lalime. Only Heatley -of the time making him the league's Orlando coach Doc Rivers tried to course -scored for the East highest-paid kicker. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 3, 2003 
Upset 
continued from page 24 
dropped only her third col­

..,,_-legiate match and is now 60-3 in her two-year career. 
Senior captain Anna Carnick was the only wom­e n s epeeist 

with a "We are trying to build a s a i d . 
winning team during the season. "There is record no posi­
They responded very 
against tion they
u;ell. They started to
P e n n are in State. work as a team." w h e re Her 2·1 they only record c a r e
Janusz Bednarski 
was high-a b o u t 
Notre Dame coach
1i g ht e d fencing 
highest combined team score, Bednarski is trying to build a team-first atti• tude. and that was evident when he gathered the team together before the Penn State showdown. 
"We are trying to build a team during the season. They responded very well. They started to work as a team," Bednarski 
by a 5-4 overtime win over All-American Jessica Burke. 
Despite going 57-15 for the weekend, the womens sabre team was only 2-7 against Penn State. Junior captain Destanie Milo was competing in her first com­petition of the year so Bednarski is not too con­cerned just yet. 
"Against Penn State I think she could get more victories but she has had a health problem almost since December," Bednarski said. "She just started training a couple of days ago and I was a little concerned with her physi­cal condition." 
"We have time to work but it will be tough for her with the competition being very good." 
With the national cham­pionship awarded to the 
for them­

selves. They care about the team." 
Notes: 
Overall for the weekend, the Notre Dame mens team won all eight of its dual matches and improved to 14-0 on the season. The eight wins extends the third-longest winning streak in school history to 74 regular-season match­es. The womens team went 7-1 and is now 12-2 this year. 
Szelle is now seventh on the career wins list after an 18-3 weekend. He is 162-11 in his career. Carnick went 13-3 and now has 167 career wins, which ranks her fourth on the womens epee wins list. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
Overtime 
continued from page 24 
hang their hat on their free throw shooting ability. It paid off big-time, as seven of Notre Dame's 11 points in the second overtinrn came on free throws. 
At one point, the Irish led 90­85 in the second overtime. But the Hoyas slowly chipped away at that lead. Drew Hall, who made a 3-pointer with 4.4 sec­onds left in the first overtime to tie the score, hit another three pointer. And after Matt Carroll ­who finished with a career-high 36 points, including 6-for-12 from 3-point land -hit a short jumper, Mike Sweetney scored a layup to pull the Hoyas to within two with 46 seconds to play. 
After Jones missed a 3-pointer from the corner, Hall hit two free throws to tie the score with 10 seconds left, setting the stage for Jones' heroics. 
"They were frenzied and foul­ing us, and I thought whoever we could get it to, [they had to] just drive and take it all the way to the hole," Irish coach Brey said. "Then we could see what we could get out of it." 
But the game wouldn't have even gone into overtime had the Irish not squandered a 15-point lead. Throughout the first half and for most of the second, Notre Dame seemed firmly in control, and when Carroll hit a 3-pointer -setting a school record for most career 3-point­ers -with 14:05 remaining to give the Irish a 55-40 lead, the only question remaining seemed to be at what point walk-on Dan Lustig would enter the game. 
But Brey didn't think the game was over, the Hoyas 
didn't fold, and Notre Dame tied the score, an acrobatic dri• didn't score. Georgetown began ving dunk by Jones gave Notre dumping the ball into Michael Dame a 76-74 lead with 2:12. Sweetney, who scored 38 points The two teams then traded and finished with 15 rebounds. baskets, but when Carroll hit a 
"You almost have to let him pair of free throws with six sec­get some and hope nobody else onds to play, the Irish were on flat out crushes you," Brey said. top 82-79. That's when Hall 
"I think we did  dribbled  the  
a good job of that." Slowly but  "We're going to keep .fighting ifit takes three  length of the floor and buried a 3·  
surely, the Irish watched their lead  overtimes, four over­times, or two overtimes.  pointer to tie the score with 4.4 seconds  
dwindle. And  We're gonna keep .fight­ left.  
when Victor Samnick hit a 10-foot  ing until we get that win."  "I thought we had it," Carroll said. "I  
jumper. the Hoyas led 66­ Matt Carroll  thought we had a3-point  
65 with three  guard  cushion,  and  

minutes to play. 
Notre Dame, however, refused to yield. They scored the next three points on free-throws to take a 68-66 lead -a lead they saw disappear again when Sweetney scored, got fouled and made the subse­quent free throw. 
After Tom Timmermans made a free throw to tie the score with 28 seconds left, the Hoyas called a timeout to set up a linal play. Although Hoya coach Craig Esherick said his team was trying to get the ball into Sweetney, they never passed the ball into him and their guards never got a shot off. 
"We had tried to get the ball into Mike, and it obviously didn't work," Esherick said. "We did a great job recovering from that, but we obviously made a mistake." 
In the first overtime, Carroll got the Irish on top quickly by scoring the first five Irish points. Then, after the Hoyas then he makes 

an unbeliev· 
able play." 

Yet the Irish still nearly pulled out the victory in the first over­time. Chris Thomas, who scored 24 points despite shooting 4-for­20 from the field and fouling out in the second overtime, drove the length of the floor and launched an off-balance shot from the right elbow as time expired. The ball glanced off the backboard and bounced on the rim twice before falling a way. 
But in the final overtime peri­od, the Irish weren't about to be denied. 
"We have a team that just refuses to lose, no matter what it is," Carroll said. "We're going to keep fighting if it takes three overtimes, four overtimes, or two overtimes. We're gonna keep fighting until we get that win." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

Apple @ Notre Dame Tuesday, February 4 Apple Computer will visit the University of Notre Dame, sponsoring technology demontrations and presentations in the Lafortune Student Center, for all students, faculty and staff. Product showcase, from 9:30-4:00, in the first floor lobby of LaFortune Student Center. Presentation focus and times listed below (all are welcome). For Staff For Faculty For Students 1"Create and Organize Your "Why Move to OS X' "Using Photos and Videos in the Curriculum" Digital Life" Learn how OS X makes your job easier and Learn how to use iPhoto and iMovie to Have photos and music? Learn how to use faster. It is simple to use and more manage both new and old photos and Apple's iApps to create and organize your digital life. powerful. videos as we automatically create a great looking web site. 2:00 pm Sorin Room10:00 am Sorin Room 12:00 pm Sorin Room LaFortuneLaFortune LaFortune Co-sponsored by Apple Computer and the Notre Dame's Computer Products Store Solutions Center.  



Monday, February 3, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles extend losing streak to seven games 
MENS SWIMMING 
Up-and-down weekend for Irish in series split 
By LISA REIJULA Spom Writer  200 backstroke. and Obringer took first in the 200 freestyle. Continuing the dominance for the  close. Notre Dame's diving trio of Maggio, Tong Xie, and Joe Miller placed sec­ In the 400 freestyle relay, the Bonnics touched first in 3:07.44, just barely edging out Notre Dame's  
It  was  one  step forward.  one step  Notre Dame were first-place finishers  ond, third and fourth in the 3-meter  3:07.52 finish.  
back for the Notre Dame mens swim­ David Moisan (200  event  to  earn  the  "When you're  on  the road and it  
ming and diving team this weekend, as the Irish (6-7) handily defeated  IM). Fitzpatrick  Jason (200  "When you 're on the road  team points. Maggio went on to win the  comes down the last event, it can be hard to beat another team in their  
Cleveland State 156-85  on  Friday,  breaststroke),  and it comes down to the  one-meter event.  own  pool," said Bauman. "Saturday  
then lost a close contest 125-118 to St. Bonaventure Saturday. At Cleveland State, the Irish showed  Patrick Davis (1650 free). J .R. Teddy (200 butterfly).  last event, it can be hard to beat another team in  The Irish gained momentum and began a rally in the second  we didn't win the close races like we did Friday [against Cleveland State]. The whole team needs to swim well to  
their all-around talent, as seven dif­ferent swimmers contributed to the  The dual against  meet St.  their own pool. "  half of the meet. Teddy won the 200  have the positive results we want." The Irish will next face Oakland  on  
team's 10 event victories. The Irish divers came through, claiming the top  Bonaventure Saturday came  Doug Bauman  butterfly, Bauman led  an  and Irish  the road Saturday in the last dual meet of the season.  
three spots in both competitions.  down  to  the  last  freshman  sweep  in  the  200  Bauman believes that the Irish will  
Senior Andy Maggio  won  both the  event  of  the  day.  back. With two events  benefit from their schedule.  
one-meter and three-meter contests.  The Bonnies  came  to go, the Irish held a  "It's good experience and important  
The Irish 400 medley relay team  out strong to start  105-102 lead.  to have away meets  even  if we  don't  
was  also victorious,  as  the team of  the meet, winning the 400 medley  St. Bonaventure answered with vic­ win them, so that we're ready for Big  
Tim Randolph, Doug Bauman, Matt  relay, 1000 freestyle, and 200 free.  tories in the 500 freestyle and the 200  East," Bauman said.  
Obringer,  and  Frank  Krakowski  Second place finishes by Obringer  breaststroke, ensuring that the win­ 
touched first in 3:28.47. Randolph  (1000 free), Teddy (200 free), and  ner of the final relay would win the  
also  won  the 100 free,  Bauman the  Jamie Lutkus (200 IM) kept the Irish  meet.  Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu  

ByHFATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Spom Writer 
Olivet (7-12. 2-6) proved to be too much for Saint Mary's in the second half. as the Lady Comets overcame a 13-point first half deficit to come back and defeat the Belles 67-58. 
Amanda Johnston was unstoppable for Olivet, scoring 19 points and grabbing nine rebounds in only 24 minutes of action. 
Olivet lived up to its billing as a well balanced squad, as three players scored nine points to help out Johnston, who shot eight of l 3 from the field. As a team, Olivet shot well, in the second half -51 percent-to help them pull away. Olivet also out-rebound­ed Saint Mary's 43-39. 
Saint Mary's was dealt another blow earlier in the game, when leading scorer Emily Creachbaum went down with an ankle injury at the 17­min ute mark in the second half. However, the Belles were not fazed, as the last time these two teams met, Creachbaum did not play in the Belles victory. 
"Losing [Creachbaum] wasn't something that we focused on, because we had beat them without her earlier in the sea­son, but we just couldn't get it done," junior point guard Katie Miller said. 
Saint Mary's has had some trouble finishing this season, as they have been outplayed in the second half in many games. However, the Belles (5-14, 1-7J are not getting down about their season just yet. 
"We are still staying positive, and focusing on getting a win," Milter said after the team's seventh straight loss. "It was very disappointing that we didn't win, because we needed to beat Olivet, but there are other teams in the conference that we can beat. We will get some 'W's,"' said Miller. 
The Belles have reason to stay positive, as they played a great first half, building a 13­point lead. However, they were unable to put the game away early. as the Lady Comets went on a 13-4 run to close the half, and cut the lead to four. The Belles then struggled to start the second half, and the Lady Comets never looked back. 
"It has been so frustrating," said Miller. "We have strug­gled in the second half all year long." 
Despite the loss, the game was not a total negative for the Belles. Freshmen Anne Hogan and Bridget Boyce were bright spots in the loss, as both scored in double digits. with 13 and 15 points, respectively. Hogan also added six rebounds. Miller was also impressive with ten points. 
The Relles now travel to Hope College (19-0. 8-0) on Wednesday night, to face the third-ranked team in the rank­ings of D3hoops.com -and the MIAA leader. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Students at Notre Dame 
7:30 -9:30 pm 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Comittee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
invites Gav, I _,eshian, and Bisexual members of the Notre Dame 
I!.;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;:;==;;;;;;;;==--=--;;;;;;;;==--=--===-=--=;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;...;;;;..=----===----=--=~ We want him to take big shots," 
family, their friends and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. Everyone is welcome. and confidentiality is assured. 
Coffee and refreshments will be served 
Carroll 
continued from page 24 
Dame-Georgetown tilt went into overtime. He told his team to believe. 
And believe they did. 
Even Helen Keller could see how much Carroll means to the Irish. 
In the summer, he rallied his teammates for two, sometimes three, workouts a day, because he knew that practice would pay off in games like the one the Irish played Saturday. 
When the Irish headed into the weight room, Carroll didn't team up with backcourt mate Chris Thomas or fellow senior Dan Miller. No, he chose freshman big man Torin Francis, both acknowledging and helping the young McDonald's All-American understand his importance to Notre Dame's success. 
His game has evolved dramati­cally from the point where, as a freshman, Carroll was purely a shooter. Now, he developed the ability to take opponents off the dribble -with left and right hand equally -and shut down opponents on defense. Now, he's poised to leave his John Hancock all over the Notre Dame record book. 
Brcr might cringe at the sight of Thomas hoisting up crazy shots in big games. He winces if Notre Dame's big men 'shrink under the glare of a spotlight. 
Then he looks at Carroll and sees Notre Dame's most consis­tent player scoring, defending and leading at will. 
"He wants to take big shots. 
Brey said. "l will live or die with 
him taking a shot  - or even a  
bad shot, sometimes ­ when the  
game's on the line."  

A week ago, Brey lived to cele­brate an overtime victory over Boston College, keyed in part by a spectacular 4-point play Carroll made in the extra period. 
Saturday, he was at it again. In the two overtime periods alone, Carroll tallied 11 of his career­high 36 points. On defense. he crashed the backboard. often poking rebounds out of the grasp of a Hoya and into the hands of an Irish player. 
And during timeouts, he reminded his teammates that they don't know how to do any­thing other than win. 
There was Carroll talking to freshman Chris Quinn, in the game after Thomas fouled out early in the second overtime, telling him his teammates were going to help him out. 
There was Carroll patting Torrian Jones on the butt after he missed his first free throw, telling Jones the second -and game-winning -free throw was a piece of cake . 
There was Carroll waving his arms frantically to spur the crowd and his teammates during their final defensive stand, and there he was seconds later wav­ing his arms again in triumph. 
"This team believes," Carroll said. "There's something about this team." 
Did he know he was talking about himsetr! 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of 11te Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 


--~~e 2~ . -------_________ __R_T_I_S_E_M_ENT Monday, February 3 2003 
Ti_'h_e_O_b_se-rv-er_._P_'A_I_D_A_D_VE 
================================================================================================================ 
~; 2002 Pr,ctwater 11mis~Coopers LU' P<i<:~waterhou$eCmpers ,eiers to the IJ.S. firm of Prrcewate, hcuseCoopers LLP and other membe~ of the worldwide PricewatarhouseCoop~rs organization. We are l)((>rJd to tie an Affrrmat,ve Action and Equal Opr,ortunrty Employer. 

f'RtcEWATERHOUsE[roPERS I 
VOTED •1 IDEAL EMPLOYER BY BUSINESS STUDENTS, UNIVERSUM UNDERGRADUATE STUDY, 2002 
Help us help companies determine how import taxes, manufacturing costs and labor will affect their profits, and we'll help you build a career. 
For opportunities and information go to: 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere 
Look beyond the numbers. 


Monday, February 3, 2003 The Observer . .SPORTS page 21 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Irish win away at West Virginia 
By KATIE MCVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish can officially say that January is over and, this time, they've started the month off on the right 'foot. Notre Dame opened the month of February by snapping a four-game home losing streak with a 69-64 victory against West Virginia on Saturday. 
"I don't think I was ever so glad to turn a page in my cal­endar," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "J was so happy to be out of January and mov­ing forward." 
The Irish finally began to find what they were missing during their last four home games, and it paid off. 
For starters, Notre Dame returned its usual players to their places of prominence, Alicia Ratay, last year's go-to scorer, found her rhythm again and hit 14 of Notre Dame's first 24 points on the way to 21 points, her second highest point total of the sea­son. 
"It was great to see Alicia Hatay come out and have a great game," McGraw said. 
Ratay, who West Virginia expected to stand around and shoot, started to do something else on Saturday too -she started to score ofT the dribble. That alone was enough to throw the Mountaineers off their game plan and, despite their two-point halftime lead, they left the floor with some­thing to think about. 
"Ratay, she just took over the game. She had a great game," Mountaineers coach Mike 

I'm having ResNet problems. Can you HELP? 

YES WE CAN!!! 
We are available 
Sunday, 3:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m. Monday -Wednesday, 6:00 p.m. -11:00 p.m. Thursday, 6:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. 
Contact the ResNet Support line at 631-7610 Don't come to us, our friendly RCA's will come to you. ······································································ Interested in becoming an RCA (ResNet Computing Assistant) for the 2003 -2004 academic year? Fill out an online application at http://www.nd.edu/~ndoit/employ. 
Carey said. "What made her tough this game is she started taking it off the dribble ... that made her a double threat and that made it tough." 
But the best part for Notre Dame was that Ratay did not single-handedly win Saturday's game. Sophomore Jacqueline Batteast added 21 points of her own, either scor­ing or assisting on nine of Notre Dame's 13 field goals in the second half. Several of her five total assists went to team­mate Teresa Borton, who the victory as
''/ was so happy to be out 

was perfect w e I l . from the field ofJanuary ~nd moving Although she for 14 points. forward." recorded 15 
"Those points, Notre were some Dame man­
Muffet McGraw 

really nice aged to neu­passes coach tralize the 
Jackie, thank you," Borton told her teammate during the post-game press conference. 
Le'Tania Severe also had her part to play. The junior guard played with some shoulder padding despite the fact that a shoulder injury she sustained against Boston College had left her questionable for Saturday's game. Severe had three assists and seven rebounds during her 32 min­utes of play. 
-"She's the glue to our team. She doesn't have to score to be effective," McGraw said. "She probably played in a little pain but she said it didn't hurt." 
The solid play of last year's all-stars, supplemented by nine points from freshman Courtney LaVere, added up for the Irish offense. The team effort removed much of the pressure on a single player that had left the Irish cornered in their last four games at the Joyce Center 
"A lot of my teammates played really well tonight," Batteast said. "Teresa [Rorton] was 7-for-7 and Alicia [Ratay] came out really aggressive. So I didn't feel as much pressure. It was good to see everyone was willing to help out and everyone was willing to do their job." 
Notre Dame's defense had its 
part to play in 
three-point 
threat from West Virginia's Kijte Bulger. The junior guard, who leads the Mountaineers in scoring and in treys, was just 1-7 in the second half, hitting her only shot with just 18 seconds left to play. She was just 5-13 overall with three baskets out­side the three-point line. 
"I think we did a great job of finding her," McGraw said. "And after [the first haln we did a great job of shutting her down." 
Notre Dame will take two days off before hitting the floors of the Joyce Center to start practice before taking on Georgetown on Wednesday at home. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5694@saintmarys.edu 
WOMENS TENNIS 
Women lose to a 5th­ranked Tarheels tea111 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame began its Saturday match against North Carolina with a promising start. The No. 21 Irish won the doubles point to take an early 1-0 lead. 
The lead was extremely short-lived, however. as the fifth-ranked Tarhcels domi­nated in singles play, and visiting North Carolina claimed the match, 5-2. 
Senior Katie Cunha and freshman Kristina Stastny registered a 
doubles upset of Kendrick Bunn and  "North Carolina is an excellent team. There's  m o n t h absence from the  
K a t e Pinchbeck, the No. 19­ nothing to be ashamed if. " 0  competitive courts. Junior  
ranked pair  Alicia,  the  
in the nation,  Katie Cunha  most expe­ 
to secure the  senior  rienced  

doubles point 
for Notre 
Dame. 
Prior to their triumph, freshman Jennifer Smith and sophomore Sarah Jane Connelly improved to 11-6 as a pair this season when they won 8-4 at No. 3 doubles. 
Cunha and Stastny did not know they were playing a highly ranked opponent until after the match had been settled in their favor. 
"When we were playing them, I had no idea they were ranked," Cunha said. 
Cunha said she had to check the program after one of her friends claimed that the Bunn-Pinchbeck duo was ranked. 
"After I found that out, [ was really pleased," said Cunha, the team's captain. "That was just an added bonus." 
With the doubles point secured, Connelly would be the only Irish player to claim a singles victory. The sopho­more defeated North Carolina's Lee Bairos, 7-5, 7­6 (7-5). Her victory came only after the Tarheels had already won five straight sin­gles matches. 
"They are a highly ranked team," Cunha said. "Regardless, we kind of let them off the hook in singles." 
Although Cunha believed the Irish showed improve­
-~···~­
SIGN YOUR HOU~ING CONTRACTS WITH 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS! 
GUARENTEED OPEMNG~ FOR 
lBEDROOMS AND TH'S 
FOR 1~B-i0~ ACEDEMIC YEAR! 

CALL u~NOW! in.m~ OR 
vmru~ AT !WW,TURTLECR~~~ND.(OM 
..._.....~----.......-~ . 
ment coming off their anguishing 7-0 defeat at 
Northwestern  on  Thursday.  
she  sees  much  room  for  
refinement.  

"Knowing our team's capa­bilities, I think we could have played a lot better," Cunha said. "I think we let some matches slip away a little bit. But it's early in the season, and we have a young team." 
The Irish certainly have to deal with inexperience. Three players in the singles lineup Saturday were fresh­men, one a sophomore, and one is making her comeback 
after a 14­
Irish player 
in the sin­gles matches, was defeated in straight sets by No. 38 Marlene Mejia. Salas is cur­rently ranked No. 124. Freshman Kristina Stastny lost 6-0, 6-3 to the Tarheels' Aniela Mojzis, ranked No. 61 nationally. 
Cunha acknowledged that gaining experience and becoming better able to deal with tough opponents will take a little time for the Irish. 
"I am not worried," Cunha said. "Winning the doubles point [Saturday] gave us a lot of confidence. "North Carolina is an excellent team. There's nothing to be ashamed of." 
The Irish will not compete again until a Feb. 14 home match against Virginia Tech. 
Over the next two weeks, the Irish have plenty of work to do. 
"I think everyone has something they want to work on individually," Cunha said. "We'll probably be playing a lot of practice matches amongst ourselves. We can work really hard without worrying about getting too tired for matches." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlind­sle@nd.edu 


' . 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 3, 2003 
HOCKEY 
Irish tie 1, lose 1 over w-eekend 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Writer 
For both games this week­end against Ohio State, the Irish found themselves down 2-0 quickly. 
The results couldn't have been more different. 
Friday. Notre Dame scored three unanswered goals after the two-goal deficit, only to 
... end up with a 3-3 tie when Ohio State scored with 4. 7 seconds remaining. Saturday, the Irish offense simply never got going and the team ended up with a 2-0 loss, despite a phenomenal effort in goal with Morgan Cey making 41 saves. "We got outplayed tonight, which was disappointing com­ing off the way we played last night," said Irish coach Dave Poulin after Saturday's loss. Friday, in front of one of the smallest crowds this year, the Irish put on perhaps one of their best performances of the season, leading No. 10 Ohio State 3-2 going into the third period before the Buckeyes were able to tie. In front of a sellout on Saturday, the Irish went back to square one. "We need some guys to step up and make plays," said Poulin after his team was shutout for the first time this season. The shutout on Saturday was unexpected following an impressive performance the night before. The Buckeyes normally average giving up 
24.1 shots to their opponent over the course of a game. 
Notre Dame had 24 shots on goal just shortly into the third period. 
Ohio State had a power play that was clicking at a rate of one goal every five chances. 
The Irish only allowed the Buckeyes one power play goal in 11 opportunities. 
"I thought we had a lot of energy," said Poulin about Friday's game. "We didn't throw the puck away and had many great chances." 
The Buckeyes scored on its first power play chance of the game, with defenseman Doug Andress scoring from the blue line past a screened Cey' about four minutes into the first period. 
Ohio State padded its lead just 43 seconds into the sec-and period with a goal by for­ward Paul Caponigri. would have been difficult to 
Even after the early deficit. tell after Saturday's perfor­it was apparent that the Irish mance, a game in which Ohio were playing exceptionally State simply dominated the well and just not getting any Irish and held a 43-23 advan­breaks. Finally, the breaks tage in shots on goal. started coming. The Buckeyes got on the 
A little more than halfway board a little less than 15 into the second period, with minutes into the first period, the Irish on a 5-on-3 power when Paul Caponigri took play, defenseman Brett Lebda advantage of an Irish slapped a hard shot toward turnover and wrlsted a shot Buckeye goaltender Mike over Ccy's glove. Betz. Betz bobbled the save, Ohio State got all the scor­leaving an easy rebound shot ing they would need on a for forward Kyle Dolder, who power play goal five minutes scored his first goal of the into the second period, when season. Ryan Kesler snapped a shot 
Five minutes later on the past Cey after a beautiful feed power play, the Irish tied the from R.J. Umberger. game at two goals apiece There was no sign of let-when forward down in J o h n t h e
"The guys should be 

Wrob I e w ski Buckeyes 
scored after angry and we can't keep after th is Betz gave up a falling just short. " 2-0 lead 
rebound from though. as a hard Neil the physi­
Dave Poulin

Koma dos k i cal play of shot. coach the Ohio 
Just 40 sec­onds later, it was again special teams that gave the Irish their first lead, although not in the usual way. Despite being on the penalty kill, Lebda was able to wrist a shot past Betz from the right circle for the third Irish short­handed goal of the season. 
For most of the third period, the Irish appeared headed to perhaps its biggest win of the season, with Cey coming up huge as the Irish were being outshot 13-3. 
It was that 14th shot that Cey could not save. 
With a little over a minute left, the Buckeyes decided to pull Betz in favor of another offensive player. Despite sev­era! opportunities to clear the puck down the ice, the Irish could not get the puck away from their goal, and Buckeye David Steckel was able to score off a rebound with just 
4.7 seconds left in the game to send the contest into over­_ time. 
It was the second straight home overtime tie for the Irish, after a 3-3 result on Jan. 25 against Michigan State. The result Friday was the same, with neither team scoring in the extra period. 
"There's no question this feels like a loss," Poulin.said. "The guys should be angry and we can't keep falling just short." 
If the guys were angry, it 
State club 

kept the Irish from being able to orga­nize any kind of offensive flow. 
Even in the third period, when the Irish were trying their hardest to mount a comeback, Ohio State outshot them 17-6. 
"Maybe it's a good time for an off-week," said Poulin. "It will give us a chance to regroup. Maybe we need this." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
MENS TENNIS 
Seminoles chop Irish 
on final point of match 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
A precious win was in sight for the Irish Friday night at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
After losing the doubles point in the match against Florida State, Notre Dame had rallied to win three singles matches, tying the score at three points apiece. Seminole Matt Cloer and Irish tri-captain Luis Haddock were the last competi­tors on the court. An Irish victo­ry in that final match would give Notre Dame its first tri­umph in a winless spring sea­son. A Seminole win would knock the Irish, still ranked 34th nationally, down once again, for the fourth time in as many matches. 
In the end, Cloer prevailed as he upset No. 72 Haddock, 7-5, 6-4. And the Irish moved to 0-4, the worst start in school histo­ry, as the Seminoles won, 4-3. 
"We're not going to get down from this," junior tri-captain Matt Scott said. "We're just going to build on this and take this to Wisconsin [Tuesday]." 
Scott suggested that the loss was made even more painful because the Irish nearly were able to pull off their first win of the season. 
"I think we felt a little more confident," Scott said. "Then again, is it better to come really close and lose, or to get beat pretty badly? It almost hurts more when you come that close." 
Scott and freshman Brent 
D'Amico won their doubles match 8-3, after senior captain Brian Farrell and sophomore Paul McNaughton were defeat­ed 8-5 at the No. 3 flight. Haddock and Ben Hatten tried to grab the doubles point for Notre Dame, but they lost 8-5 to the 38th ranked doubles duo in the country. The Irish refused to concede the match with the Seminoles' securing of the dou­bles point, and Scott, ranked 119th nationally, defeated Romain Jurd, 6-3, 6-1. It was Scott's first win in dual-match play this season after contend­ing against players ranked sev­enth and second nationally. 
Inexperience most likely played a role in the Irish loss. with freshmen Patrick Buchanan and Eric Langenkamp both suffering defeats in straight sets. 
"With every match the guys are getting more and more experience," Scott said. "I think that will really come in handy towards the latter part of the year when it really matters, come tournament time." 
D'Amico and Farrell, with their wins at the No. 3 and 4 flights, respectively, kept the Irish in the match. D'Amico upset Florida State's Alex Herrera, who was ranked 114th. "We played better than we played against Indiana and Ohio State," Scott said. "Florida State is a great team and they came through when they had to." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 


Monday, February 3, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
-------------------------------------~-------------------~--------------~-­
SCHOOL DAZE 
So,Wl-\A'i'S rr ~ONNA {3~ PUNXSUTt\W~i;y PH\~? 
g\)( we~ DR 1\tiD'? 
HAPPY TOWN 
What's with the radio? 
SafeWalk, baby. Would / you like me to walk you some place sexy?
,,.,;<•). ,
.-:< j ~ 
CLARE O'BRIEN 
H£lk NO TM NOT CDH/N~ CUT-ME AND MY PEPJ;::E55E'D 5HADOWAR.,;. sr~U,JlJ tN BGDL 
HA! SI)( WE.EKS! t-1012.E Ul::E SI)( ----.:M-.:.:.:.DRE_:___ MONTHS! 
JACK MONAHAN 
So... wa~ that a yes? 

I Awesome. 
JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
INGEF 
[ J I b
02003 Tribune Media Servlcea, Inc. 
All Rights Ra..rvod. 
IRROG 
[ J I 
tNAPOWE t
J I I IJ
www.jumble.com 
ICKEOO ± 
t:J [ J I 

IT 

:,,
Ms: 
(IIIIIIJ 
I Jumbles: STUNG BEGUN OCCULT UPSHOTSaturday's 
Answer: Whal Dad did with his new pest sprayer -GOT THE "BUGS" OUT 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
The dJshes an:, done. 
Anything else, dear? 
2-J 
WHEN HE. MARRIED FOR MONE=Y, HE: E=NDl=D UP DOING 

• 
THl5, 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Visit The Observer on the web at http.1/observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 
59 Somerset Maugham novel, ~---­
with "Ttle • 
62 Mideast's Gulf of_ 63 Native Alaskan 64 Like a lime 65 Pair 66 Duke, earl, etc. 67 Three, in cards 
DOWN 
1 Game show host Pat 2 With mouth wide open 3 Like some gravy and mattresses 4 Midleg 5 Maze runner 6 Preceding day 7_Maria liqueur &_Antony 
PUDiobyO.vld­

9 Signs, as a 32 Possible result 43 Most Yugoslavs 53 Language of check of 40-Down Pakistan
45 Cuba. e.g,

10 Spanish grocery nonpayment 
11 Den 
12 "life is hard ... • 13 Colored 18 Englishman in 
colonial India 22 Author Roald 25 Take a walk 26 Flat part of a 
chart line 28_Alamos, 
N.M. 29 Occasions 30 Differentiate 31 Modest people 
have small ones s.c Out of sight of
46 Red suit33 Exploding star shore 

49 Elizabeth I was
34 Delinquent G.I. 

55 Bush's alma 35 Carillon part mater 
the last one so Present a case 

39 Nonsense in court 57 Joke 
40 Auto 51 Drunken 6() Zuider 
42 Opposing 52 Triplet plus one 61 Your and my 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card. 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more lhan 2,000 
past puzzles. nytimes.comfdiversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaminglxwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Fran Tarkenton, James Michener, Morgan Fairchild, Blythe Danner 
Happy Birthday: No one is likely to surpass your fortitude, willpower and high-energy approach as you strive for results. You will dazzle those watching from the sidelines as you maneuver yourself into a key position. Your numbers are I, 5, 13, 17. 22. 39 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): You should focus on doing the best job you can to avoid any hassle. Work hard so that you will have some free time later in the week to relax. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Partnerships will be hot. Others will be impressed with your efficiency and appreciate what you are able to accomplish ... in a short time. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A rising temper will only cause trouble when working with a group. Keep your feelings to yourself. Don't be misguided by people who enjoy making life difficult for others. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): People from your past may try to get back into your favor, Don't be too forgiving; you shouldn't be moving backward. Experiences should make you wiser. ***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Money is coming your way, so keep your eyes open and take advantage of it. Make a valuable purchase, but also put something away for an unexpected expense. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Travel will lead to all sorts of exciting things. Romance should be high on your list, but don't be too eager. An aloof approach will be far more enticing. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Don't worry if your personal life is not going according to your desires. Put your time and energy into your professional moves, It will make you far more attractive. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You need to create a diversion for yourself so you don't dwell on your troubles. Getting involved in sports activities will help relieve the tension you've been experiencing.***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your problems are escalating today and you either have to distance yourself from the situation or face your dilemma head-on. Seek legal advice if you think you may need it. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will meet new people or even a potential partner if you attend a social gathering. Don't waffle if someone has a different agenda or plan. Stick to what suits you best. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You are quick to come up with some great ideas that could result in a cash injection. Don't hold back because of your own lack of self-confidence. It's time you started to believe in yourself. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your active imagination may take over today, leading you in many directions. Don't be led astray by bizarre ideas. Strive to learn about different cultures and traditions. ** Birthday Baby: Your curiosity will lead you into all sorts of unusual experiences throughout your life. You will be daring, quick to try new things and always in the center of whatever is happening. You will be ingenious when it comes to finding solutions 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com, 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Polio vaccine developer 5 "Step aside, I'll doir 1 O Unexciting 1-4Have to one's head 
15 Bird-related 16 Where Pearl Harbor is 
17 Popular cookbook author 19 "Thin" coin 20 Come into view 21 Emergency situation 23 Lock opener 24 Lock location 27 Scott Joplin's "Maple Leaf 
28 lad 
33 Muckety-muck 
36 "Bolero" 
composer 
37 Advance in years 38 Isn't solvent 39 Dove houses 40 What's harvested 41 Remote control abbr. 42 Filmmaker Woody 
43"1fyou_• (words of deference) 
« Worked up 47 Fuel additive 48 Manipulative 
one 49 File folder 
feature 52 Excellence 56 Formally 
renounce 58_Minor (constellation) 

.,,.. 



PORTS 
Monday, February 3, 2003 
MENS BASKETBALL 

Irish top Hoyas in double-OT thriller 
. Jones' late free throw provides final margin after Irish blow huge lead 
• By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Torrian Jones watched his first free-throw attempt clang off the rim. He heard his teammates come up to him and encourage him, telling the 
t( 66 percent free throw shooter they had confidence in him. He looked at the scoreboard and saw the score tied at 92 with four seconds on the clock. 
So he stepped to the free­th row line again, sunk the shot, and then forced Georgetowns's Drew Hall into launching a 30-foot despera­tion heave at the buzzer. 
And when the ball rico­cheted off the backboard, No. 11 Notre Dame had survived a scare from Georgetown to win 93-92 in double-overtime. 
The game brought back memories of Notre Dame's quadruple-overtime victory over Georgetown last year. And after the game. parallels to the two games were far too easy to come by. 
"We were like. 'Here we go again,"' Jones said. "But we were tested and we'd been there before. We had guys who went through it before, and I knew we'd be ready." 
Notre Dame (18-3, 6-1 in the Big East) is now off to its best start since 1978. And part of their success this sea­son has come when the Irish 
see OVERTIME/page 18 

. Carroll sets 3-point record, ignites Irish to victory 

The record-setter should have been the backbreaker. 
With the Irish leading the Hoyas 52-40, Matt Carroll caught a pass a few feet in front of Mike Brey -a few steps behind the 3-point arc -and launched a shot toward the basket. 
The ball swished through. the crowd erupted. Georgetown called a timeout and Carroll had career 3-point­er No. 260, surpass­ing his former team­mate David Graves. 


"I know Dave 

probably hates me Andrew Soukup right now," Carroll joked after the game. "He probably Sports won't call me after Columnist this one, he's pretty 
[ticked] off." 

So what would have made Graves more upset -the fact that Carroll broke his record or the fact that Notre Dame blew a 15-point lead? 
Give the Hoyas credit -they knew how to beat the Irish. All the guards did was dump the ball into human dump truck Mike Sweetney, who then made scoring baskets look as easy as taking out the trash. 
But Carroll wasn't fazed. And if Carroll isn't fazed, then neither are the Irish. Because Matt Carroll is the heart and soul of Notre Dame's team. If Notre Dame is Frankenstein, then Carroll is the spark that gives them life. 
Look what happened as Georgetown started to chip away at Notre Dame's lead. Every timeout, Carroll pulled his teammates together and reminded them what happened the last time a Notre 
see CARROLL/page 19 
FENCING 

Top-ranked Nittany Lions tamed by No. 2 Irish 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Editor 

After going 9-4 in his first collegiate bouts last weekend, junior sabre Brian Dosal came into this weekend's match against No. 1 Penn State with realistic hopes. 
"I didn't expect to win at all," the second-year fencer said. "I got lucky and when I got some momentum, it really fired me up." 
Sometimes the best surprises come with no expectations. 
Using Dosal's two upset wins. the second-ranked Irish mens fencing team defeated the top-ranked Nittany Lions 15-12 to made their claim for the top spot in the country. 
"He started almost fencing with us like a walk-on and had a little skill but not much," Notre Dame coach Janusz Bednarski said. "He is progressing very quickly." 
Dosal dropped his first bout 5-0, and his next one wasn't looking promising with talented freshman Marten Zagunis on deck. Dosal surprised everybody by posting a 5-3 victory, and by following that win with a 5-3 win over Noah Jacobson. 
"It feels great. They didn't expect me to do it, so doing it makes the whole season worth it." Dosal said. "I defi­nitely can compete at that level. It is only five-touch bouts, but I feel I can steal away a couple which can make the difference [in future matches]." 
Gabor Szelle and Matt Fabricant also posted individual 2-1 records against the Nittany Lions to the give the Irish sabre squad a collective 6-3 record. Fabricant defeated two-time All­American Amir Rahimi 5-4 and Szelle also beat Zagunis 5-4. 
The mens epee team also went 6-3 against Penn State and was led by senior captain Jan Viviani's 3-0 record. Viviani and sophomore Michal Sobieraj each won crucial overtime matches. 
Mens foil compiled a 3-6 record that was highlighted by sophomore Derek Snyder's 5-4 win over current NCAA Champion Nonpatat Panchan. 
While the mens team was able to knock off the top-ranked team in the country for the third straight season, the womens team couldn't complete the upset, losing to Penn State 16-11. 

"This is not unusual with such close rivals clashing with each other. It is good for us because it is good training. a lot of good bouts and we can see how it will be in the future." Bednarski said. "Our fencers fenced very well. I am happy, not really happy, but happy." 
The womens foil team was the only weapon to post a winning record against Penn State, going 5-4. Sophomores Andrea Ament and Alicja Kryczalo each went 2-1. Kryczalo 
see UPSET/page 18 
u, WOMENS B-BAU. 
MENS SWIMMING 

SMC BASKETBALL 
WOMENS SWIMMING 
HOCKEY 

WOMENS TENNIS 
Notre Dame 69 
Notre Dame 156 

Olivet 67 
Notre Dame 153 

North Carolina 5
Notre Dame 3
t--c., w 

=s West Virginia 64 
Cleveland State 85 

Saint Mary's 58 
Michigan 147 
Ohio State 3 

Notre Dame 2 
The Belles squan-
Alicia Ratay scored 21 
In their last dual meet 

The Irish fell to the 
points as the Irish 
dered a 13-point lead on 
St BonaverrbJre 125

== 
of the season, the Irish 
Ohio State 2 

fifth-ranked Tar Heels 
snapped out of their 
Notre Dame 1.18 
improve to 9-1-1 head-
Notre Dame 0

the way to losing their 
Saturday. 

January slump. 
ing into the Big East

seventh straight game. 
Tournament Feb. 20.
Am ti 

page 16
page 22
page 21
page 19 
page 19

u, page 21 





