
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Accuser testifies in Dykes trial 
Obsuv<r Staff Report 

The rape trial of former Notre Dame football player Donald Dyhs began this week and his accuser, a former Notre Dame student. testified as the first wit­ness for the prosecution on Tuesday. 
Dykes is the second of the four former Notre Dame football play­ers accused of sexually assaulting tlw woman to be tried. lie is charg11d with rape. conspiracy to commit rapn and sPxual battery. 
Dyk1~s. along with Abram Elam. 
Lorenzo Crawford and Justin 
Smith. testified at Elam's trial 
earlier this 
month and 
all main­
tained their 
innocence, 
claiming the 
acts were 
consensual. 
Elam was 
acquitted on 
the charges 
of conspira­
cy to commit rape and criminal 
deviate conduct. but found guilty 

on the charge of sexual battery. 

The woman claims the four football players sexually assault­ed her multiple times the morn­ing of March 28, 2002 at Smith's off-campus home. She testified today that she was too scared and in too much pain to leave Smith's home after the alleged gang rape and waited to report it because she did not think accus­ing Notre Dame football players would win her much sympathy. 
Jury selection for the trial started Monday and was a lengthy process as special prose­cutoc Maureen Devlin and defense attorneys William Stanley and Michael Tuszynski questioned the approximately 90 potential jurors. The juror pool was larger than usual for this case due to fears that ·the pool may be tainted by the extensive media coverage throughout Elam's trial. 
The trials for Crawford and Smith begin later this year. 
WNDU and the South Bend Tribune contributed to this report. 
SMC vaccinates against meningitis 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Health and Wellness Services provided their third annual vaccination clinic for meningococcal disease, or bacterial meningitis, on Tuesday. 
With recent research showing that first year college students have a higher rate of contract­ing meningitis, awareness of the illness and vaccine is increasing. 
This fall semester, colleges are begiiming to fully implement the state statute issued in October 2002 that required colleges in the state of Indiana to inform students and their parents of the risks associated with the disease, as well as the availabil­ity and effectiveness of vaccina­tion. Those students who decline vaccination must sign waivers. 
"The thing that makes 
see VACCINE/page 4 


Two students to screen '9/11' film 
' 
By MATTHEW SMEDBERG News Writer 

Ask Scotl Schanfer and Amanda Hothey what they did this summer. and tlwy will nut 1Je1~d to seurch th1dr nwmory for sonwthing interesting. 
That's because they partici· patnd in a fellowship with the Foundation !'or the l>dense of Democracies that sent them to Israel for twu weeks this August to learn about terror­ism and its effects. While then~. they underwent an intensive regimen of lectures and activities. including meet­ing an agent of the Israeli counterterrorism force and touring the naval base at Ilaifa. 
Back on campus. Hothcy and Schaef1~r have decided to organize a screening of the documentary "9/11" today as a commemoration of the tor­
rorist attacks and a chance to raise awareness of terrorism and its effects The screening will begin at 7 p.m .. in 102 Debartolo llall 
"9/11" is a film made by bruthers Jules and Gedeon Naudct, whJ were originally documenting the life of a trainee NYFD firefighter. However, their purpose changed dramatically as air­planes slammed into the World Trade Center towers barely blocks away. "9/11" has been hailed as an extraordinary tale of heroism. heroic too in its own right, and was shown on CBS tclevi­sio.l last year. 
Schaefer and Hothey applied for the fellowship after taking political science with Keir Lieber. who is a fellow of the 
FDD  as  well  as  of the Notre  
Dame  Institute  for  
see FILM/page 4  


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


County 
rezones 



parcel 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Editor 
The St. Joseph County Council unanimously approved the rezoning of a land parcel near Notre Dame which will become a new upscale residential development near Notre Dame. 
Dan Folny and Nicholas Tyszka, who formed the development company DNPEG. decided to build "Irish Crossings" as a resi­dential location for profes­sors and administrators that is close to Notre Dame, citing a need for an upscale community within walking distance of the campus and a retail area. 
The site is located on 
8.25 acres between Willis and Burdette Streets one block east of Notre Dame. Final plans for the develop­ment are awaiting approval and Foley expects the 11rst villas to be completed in spring 2004. 
"We knew people who wanted an upscale living area that was an alterna­tive to Granger," Foley said. "Hight now the area is a hodge-podge of different homes. Some arc rented, some are owned and some arc run-down. People arc very hesitant to invest there, but by making this into a community, people can be assured they have made a sound investment." 
The development. which will begin construction this fall; will have a maximum of 70 single-detached and duplex villas. The entry price for a 1,600 square­foot duplex villa with a basement and attached garage will be $189,000, Foley Sdid in a press release. 
Foley said "Irish Crossings," which comple­ments Notre Dame's mas­ter plan to rejuvenate the area adjacent. to the University, could have a ripple effect on the area by improving the surrounding residential community and increasing the property values over the next five to 10years. 
Foley and Tyszka decided to develop this land in May after learning the county council, in a 8-1 decision. voted against the develop­ment of a tailgate park on the same site. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu. 

Wednesday, September 10, 2003 
page2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Co111plainers 
be-ware 

I always thought writing the Inside Column for The Observer would be a great gig. You've got four hundred words to complain about ... well, any­thing you want, really. 
But when I got the fateful call to 
actually write this N" 1 z k column, I had to ICO e 00 rack my brain to find a topic. For Staf!Writer 
once, I had noth­ing to whine about. So I turned to my best resource -my room­mates. 
"What about the dining hall?" they said. True, the lack of a deli or sun­dae bar (and pretty much any good food) has been the major topic of con­versation in our room since school resumed. But the fine quality of the SMC dining hall is a topic that has been beaten to death in the pages of this paper. 
So the roommates left me back where I started. Other friends didn't leave me with too much either­book prices skyrocketing (no news there), no money to buy beer (I'm not 21, can't complain about that), and how hard it is to get football tickets if you're not a student (it's been done). 
I can't complain about the baseball season because this isn't the sports section. I can't complain about the people who write dumb crap on the sidewalks, because I would dread opening my e-mail for the next two weeks. 
I can't complain about the masses of poison ivy down by the lakes, because I haven't rolled in it. I can't complain about the South Bend weather, because it's great so far this year. And as much as it irritates me, I can't even complain about the con­struction on campus, because my hall is so far away that I can sleep through all of it-and regularly do. 
For the first time in my life I had an open forum to gripe to the masses, or the ten people that read this, anyway. I just couldn't think of a single thing that bothered me enough to write about! 
So I perused through some old issues of The Observer, looking for some ideas. I figured I could steal some poor sap's argument. 
And while I was looking, I really did run across something to complain about. · 
I cannot stand the people who write in to The Observer to complain about dumb stuff. Really -do we need to go over and over the same argument about whether or not Notre Dame should support homosexuals? The same letter-to-the-editor rant between SMC and ND girls? The never-ending concern with the schools' policies on alcohol, tailgating and party busts? 
Trust me. No moans to The Observer are going to change the way the University works, how people feel about war or even the Saint Mary's DH. So please-next time you feel a spiteful letter coming on, turn on some music, let in some fresh air and just be happy to be alive. 
You have nothing to complain about. 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook892 8@saintmarys. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 63 I -4 54 I so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO DO YOU THINK PROGRAMS THE SPRINKLERS ON CAMPUS? 




Kat Donovan  Robert Bauchman  Dan Maguire  Jana Miller  Tai Baird  Jenny Peterson  
Senior  Senior  Senior  Freshman  Sophomore  Junior  
McGlinn Hall  Offcampus  Off-campus  McGlinn  McCandless  LeMans  

'The squirrels. " "It has to be "Somebody with Monk.,, "Jesus!" a sense of humor.,, 

ALLISON NICHOLS!The Observer 

Saint Mary's students had an opportunity to enjoy the warm weather Tuesday. The annual Twilight Tailgate, which took place on Library Green, featured food, games, and live musical entertainment from 3 to 7 p.m. 
OFFBEAT 
FBI probes how man shipped self to Texas 

DALLAS -A homesick shipping clerk had himself shipped from New York to Dallas in an airline cargo crate, startling his parents -and a delivery man ­when he broke out of the box outside their home. 
Charles McKinley, 25, was arrested and jailed on unrelated bad-check and traffic charges after his overnight odyssey. Federal officials are considering additional charges of stow­ing away on a plane. 
Federal officials want to know how the stowaway bypassed airport security. 
Man falls into judges chamber 
DECATUR. Ga. -Ail inmate found himself before a judge sooner than he expeded when he fell through the courthouse ceiling into the judge's chambers while trying to escape, police said. 
Ben Rogozensky, 31, was one of about a dozen inmates awaiting hearings Monday when he was taken to the empty jury room to speak with his attorney. 

The inmate asked to go into the adjacent restroom and from there climbed into the ceiling crawl space, DeKalb County sher­iff's spokeswoman Mikki Jones said. 
State Court Judge J. Antonio DelCampo was in the courtroom when the barefoot Rogozensky fell through the ceiling and landed near the judge's desk in his chambers. 
Rogozensky was arrested Sept. 2 and charged with obstruction of officers and giving false information. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 0::: 
UJ 

::1: 
~ 
UJ 
3: 
..... 


~~ 
c:c 
(.) 
• 

..... 0 HIGH 77 HIGH 82 HIGH 90 HIGH 85 LOW 61 LOW 69 LOW 68 LOW 65 
"God." "Your five o'clock shadow.,, 
IN BRIEF 
The Student Union Board will show "The Italian Job" this Thursday, Friday and Saturday in 101 DeBartolo Hall. The movie will play at 10 p.m. on Thursday and 8:30p.m. and 10 
p.m. on Friday and Saturday.•. Admission is three dollars. 
Mothers: Founders of the Environmental Justice Movement will sponsor a lec­ture featuring !laze! Johnson, a lifetime resident of Chicago Public Housing. The lecture takes place today at 4:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
Anyone who is interested in pursuing a Latin American Studies minor is invited to a meeting today at the Hesburgh Center at 5:30 p.m. 
View the SISTAR Grant Project by Sandi Ginter and Lisa Ritter at the Moreau Gallery at Saint Mary's College. 
Students for Environmental Action will host their first meeting of the year at the Center for Social Concerns classroom. The meeting begins at 6 p.m. 
A Tri-Military Service will be held in honor of those who lost their lives in the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001 . The service will take place at 7 a.m. Thursday at the Pasquerilla Center. 
Enjoy campus musicians at the Student Union Board's AcoustiCafe Thursday night at 9 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e~mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


HIGH 78 HIGH 
65 

LOW 50 LOW 
38 

Atlanta 80 I 64 Bos~on 70 I ~0 Chicago 82 I ?S Denver 68 I 43 Houston 90 I 72 Los Angeles 80 164 Minneapolis 77 162 New York 76 I 67 Philadelphia 76 I 62 Phoemx 89 I 72 Seattle 66 I 52 St. Louis 88 I 69 Tampa 90 I 73 Washington 76 160 
----------------------------------------~----­
Wednesday, September I 0, 2003 page 3 
The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS 
GSU 

Graduate Union kicks off nevv year 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Wmcr 

Tlw l'irst Craduate Student Union nwcting of' the 2003-04 school year openNI with the unanimous approval of a new budget and a proposal for an economized council system that would d!)Crease the number of standing committees while inlTP<L<;ing their allotted stipends. 
Tlw tl'ntatiVP budget is set at $11 ].h~:3 with a projected $2f>.000 surplus rolled over from last yPar. llowev1~r. because the budget calculations are based in part on tlw $55 file paid by grad­uate studenl-;, and the number of actual stU<knL-; is said to be con­sidl'rably higlwr than was esti­rnatl'(l, council nwrnbers antici­patl~ higher numb1)rs when sta­tistics become availablll in 
Novemlll~r. 

Tlw budg~~t includes modifica­tions on the stipends for the chairs of each of the GSU's standing cornmitteiJS. These changes st1~m from the proposal to reduce tlw number of comrnit­tiJns from 12 to llight. !hJeing up more morwy to be given to the remaining groups. 
"It is very diflicult to find peo­ple every year willing to be dtqwd into working for the GSU," said Acadmnie A!l'airs Committee rhairman Tim Dale, adding that the condPnsed committees would mean more shared work, less recruiting issues and more morwy for the members to work with. 
"I think the plan sounds entire­ly sensible, and students arc being paid fairly for the time they put in," said llolly Vanderwall, a history and philosophy of science graduate student. 
Both the budget and the reduc­tion of committees were approved unanimously, though a second budgetary proposal may be necessary when fund statistics are solidified in late fall. Since the committee plan involves amending the GSU constitution, there must be two consecutive majority votes at two consecutive meetings for it to pass. 
In other GSU news: 
• 
The motion proposed by Electronic Hesources Administrator Yanto Go to pur­chase an upgraded, $700 server to rcplacn the current one was unanimously passed. Go said that reasons for the change were that the existing server is too slow to accommodate graduate student needs. and still runs the old. out­dated operating system. 

• 
The GSU will be running a concession stand at the Nov. 8 football game against Navy, and volunteers with training are needed. 

• 
The council unanimously approved the motion to sponsor Alexandra Imrc and her free EuroGym aerobics course, as she has currently been denied club status by HecSports and can no longer reserve a room for the 



Graduate  Student Union  
President  Martiqua  Post  
updates  members  at  

Tuesday's meeting. 
class. 

• Misty Schieberle's r~quest for help in funding the Kaneb Center's program to send gradu­ate students to the Wakonse Conference on Cc.llege Teaching was unanimously passed. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

SMC issues cantpus security w-arnings 
era! tips for students, includ­By NICOLE ZOOK ing staying with friends, never News Writer leaving a drink unattended 
and keeping a cell phone on. 

Two Saint Mary's students After the report, a posting have reported to campus was also hung in each resi­security that they were the dence hall in several conspic­
victims of unwanted sexual uous places. advances during the weekend Health and 
of Aug 29. The advances occurred in a setting where alcohol was present, they said. 
Saint Mary's security did not disclose the identity of the women. 
"I wouldn't be able to comment at all." said Hosemarie Harris. Interim Director of Security. 

"I alwaysjeel safe on campus. It's such a small campus that you are never very isolated; there is usually a security car, building or other people around, even late at night. I personally have never fell like I wasn't safe. " 
Corrie Brisson Saint Mary's sophomore 
Security, however, is taking steps to ensure that other Saint Mary's students feel safe. On Sept. s; Security Program Coordinator Chris Pennino sent an e-mail to the entire student body. 
It reminded students that in situations where alcohol is involved, the chance for an incident such as the one the women faced is much greater. 
The message included sev-
Wellness 
S1~rvices 
also issued a warning earlier this week. In it, tips for safe drink­ing were released. 
In spite of the report by the two y o u n g women, most Saint Mary's stu­dents arc not wor­ried about 
being attacked. 
"I've always felt safe on campus," sophomore Corrie Brisson said. "It's such a small campus that you are never very isolated; there is usually a security car, building or other people around, even late at night. I personally have never felt like I wasn't safe." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS presents WOMEN AND MEDICINE IN THE GRAECO-ROMAN WORLD The Henkels Lectures Conference Friday and Saturday September 12 & 13, 2003 McKenna Hall Room210 This conference will bring to Notre Dame a group of world-renowned authorities on Greek and Roman medicine to discuss and debate ancient medical attitudes to women and the place of women in ancient medical thought and practice. Members of the university comtnunity and all those beyond with interests in Graeco­Roman constructions of gender and in an­cient social and cultural history will find this conference absorbing and enlightening.  I  Conference Schedule Friday, September 12,2003 1:30 p.m. David Ladouceur, University of Notre Dame Modem Approaches lO the History of Medicine 2:15p.m. Helen King, University of Reading Beards.. Blood and Gender: Displaying Difference in the Ancient World 3:30p.m. l...esley Dean-Jones, University of Texas at Austin Pseudo-Aristotle on a Woman :s-Sexual Emissions Saturday, September 13, 2003 9:30a.m. Lawrence Bliquez, University of Washington Gynecological Surgery from the Hippocratic.\· to the Fall ofthe Roman Empire 10:45 a.m. Ann EUis Hanson, Yale University Alternative Medicine in Graeco-Roman Antiquity: The Role ofAmulets 1:30 p.m. Keith Bradley, University of Notre Dame Retrospect and Prospect 2:15 p.m. Open Discussion  


~---~---~----­
page 4 Wednesday, September 10, 2003 
The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS 

Film 
continued from page 1 
International Peace Studies and the Nanovic Institute for European Studies. The FDD is a non-partisan, non-profit think tank based in Washington. D.C. dedicated to educating Americans about the threats which terrorism poses to democratic societies. Among its board members are Steve Forbes of Forbes magazine, Newt Gingrich and Donna Brazile, who managed AI Gore's 2000 presidential campaign. Approximately 50 students were selected from around the country to partici­pate in the fellowship, which attempts to use Israel as a case study of how a demo­cratic government can effec­tively fight terrorism. 
"The program wasn't intended to study the political 



Law suits against 
•

ptracy anger some 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -The record­ing industry has taken its pira­cy fight directly to music fans, suing more than 200 people this week alone. Now comes the hard part: Persuading the very people it has threatened with legal action to. revisit music stores or to sample legal down­loading services. 
It might prove difficult to do so, some observers say, because the industry's lawsuit campaign could spark a consumer back­lash spurred by the discontent many music fans already feel over soaring CD prices and the reduction of retailers offering varied music titles. 
"The real hope here is that people will return to the record store," said Eric Garland, CEO of BigCampagne LLC, which tracks peer-to-peer Internet trends. "The biggest question is whether singling out a handful of copyright infringers will invigorate business or drive file-sharing further under­ground, further out of reach." 
Jason Rich, of Watervliet, N.Y., said the record compa­nies' campaign prompted him to stop downloading music from file-sharing networks, but he called the issue "disconcert­ing." 
"I think it's kind of silly to go after individuals," said Rich, 26. "There are so many Web sites out there, people don't know necessarily they're doing any­thing wrong." 
Some of the music fans 
crises and issues which sur­round the Middle East, par­ticularly Israel and Palestine," said Schaefer. "It was so that we, the partici­pants, and those with whom we come in contact, may realize that terrorism in any form, in any place, is a terri­ble thing which must be stopped." 
Nevertheless. the program included lectures from the Turkish and Indian ambassa­dors to Israel. 
The program primarily took place in Tel Aviv, and although the students were not injured, there were two suicide attacks in the city's suburbs, and two days after they group departed from Israel, another suicide attack on a Jerusalem bus left 18 dead and over 100 wounded. 
Contact Matthew Smedberg at smedberg@nd.edu. 
caught in the piracy net cast by the recording industry took steps Tuesday toward settling the copyright infringement law­suits levied against them for sharing song files over the Internet. 
The industry sued 261 people on Monday and has promised to sue hundreds more in coming weeks as it strives to stamp out music piracy it blames for a three-year slump in CD sales. 
The Recording Industry Association of America settled the first of the suits Tuesday for $2,000 -with the mother of a 12-year-old defendant, Brianna LaHara of New York. Brianna was accused of downloading more than 1,000 songs using Kazaa. 
RIAA Vice President Matt Oppenheim said he was not surprised to see young and old alike caught in the industry's snare. 
"We know that there are a lot of young people who are using these services and we totally expected that we would end up targeting them." Oppenheim said. 
For more information contact Nancy O'Connor at 631-5432 
Vaccine 
continued from page 1 

[meningitis] so frightening, even though it is considerably rare, is that it r.an be so severe and fatal," registered nurse Cynde Harton-Cavanaugh said. "A significant number of peo­ple who contract it die or have life long side effects. Understanding this is a major motivation for parents to encourage students to get immunized." 
Studies show that about 2,600 people get meningococ­cal disease each year in the 
HI w~iln shnplkity. \Vith nine ATi\18 on campw.i~ Dame Fcdcmt Credit Vnion uru,h:rstands tny 
l H 
rny nee<.ts. 
0 

NOTRE DAME 
FE.DERAL CREDfl UNtON You eon oonk on us 
to be beHer 

9 ATMs on Campus with No Surcharge! (We have one near you) 
United States and 1 0 to 15 per­tis] seem so common," Tindall 
cent of these peo­ple die. Of these. "The thing that approximately 100 
makes [meningitis]
to 12 5 cases are 

among college stu­so frightening, even dents and five to though it is 15 result in death. 
considerably rare, 
Junior Cathy Tindall became is that it can be so 
aware of the dis­severe and fatal." 
ease just before her first year at 
Saint Mary's. She Cynde Horton-Cavanaugh remembers being nurse told about a stu­
dent athlete who contracted risk for the disease and why. the illness, showed the symp­toms, and went untreated until it was almost too late. Contact Natalie Bailey at 
"The symptoms [of meningi-baill407@saintmarys.edu. 
said. "The flu goes around so much that they can easily be ignored, so think that it is better to be safe and get the vac­cination. than be sorry." 
Further research is being 
p e r form e d to determine who is at an increased 

When it's the prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yearjob in the Far East, strategically chosen to match your career goal. Apply by November 7, 2003. 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end of May 2004) an ND degree? No east-Asia experience? 










ORLD &NATION 
Wednesday, September I 0, 2003 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER WIRE sERVICES Page 5 
ARGENTINA 

Government defaults on IMF loan 
Associated l'ress 
BUHNOS AIHES Argentina defaulted on a $2.9 billion loan owed to the International Monetary Fund on Tuesday, complicating pf'f'orts to restore its stand­ing with tlw international financial community. 
It was the second time this year the nation failnd to make a payment to a multilatPral lendnr. It also missed a deadline on a $fJH 1 million payment to the World Bank in January. 
A governnwnt official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the pay­nwnt wasn't made by the elose of business Tuesday but rwgotiations with the IMF wnre continuing. 
Tho missPd payment is not likely to irnnwdiately affect ttw economy, but l:ould f'urthPr damage investor confidence at a time when the country has shown signs of beginning to emerge from a financial crisis that began in 200 I. 

Argentine officials said they were not willing to tap the country's $13.5 billion in reserves to make the paymnnt without assurances of a new long­term deal. They aren't SIH~king any fresh loans, but a rollover of about debt it defaulted on in IMF's executive board Kirchner has been outspo­$12.5 billion the country December 2001 at the approved a $320 million ken about giving priority owes the IMF over the height of its worst-ever loan installment as part of to Argentina's domestic next three years -a step economic crisis. That deci­an interim program. That needs, dismissing IMF that would give the econo­sion cut off badly needed approval came despite demands that the country my significant breathing external financing for both Argentina's failure to maei increase budget savings room. the government and local several economic bench­for those measures. 
Officials had been nego­companies, leaving most marks. During the months of tiating with the IMF for businesses to rely heavily As part of a new accord, talks, Argentine and lMF months to secure the long­on cash instead of credit. the IMF wants Argentina officials have sought to term agreement. But talks In recent months, the to overhaul the banking mend a relationship that appeared to stall last week economy has stabilized sector, compensate banks soured over the financial after Urn IMF insisted the after a turbulent period for losses and increase crisis. An IMF decision to government implement that forced a currency public utility rates that suspend an emergency aid deeper economic reforms. devaluation and a $143 were frozen since last program months before 
Argentina needs a new billion debt default over­year's currency devalua­the economy unraveled agreement to restructure all. tion. had forced the country the $103 billion in public Earlier this year, the But President Nestor into default. 


Alabama rejects tax increase 
even if it did pass the money worst budget deficit since the Great 
Associated Press 
wouldn't go to education," said Depression. Without a tax hike, he 
David Lanoue, chairman of the said, budget cuts would be so deep 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. -Gov. Bob political science department at the that state government wouldn't Hiley's $1.2 billion tax package was University of Alabama. function. rejected overwhelmingly Tuesday At polling places across the state, The Alabama Legislature is night as voters agreed with those voters voiced their distrust of expected to be called into special who said Alabama needs spending politicians. session in about a week to deal cuts rather than the largest tax "If the money they have now was with the red ink. The new fiscal increase in state history. spent wisely, we wouldn't need year begins Oct. 1. 
With 39 percent of precincts this," said Adie Ward, a 74-year-old Riley's plan was aimed at erasing reporting, 342.058, or 66 percent, retired state employee irom a $675 million budget shortfall and opposed the plan while 173,565, or Montgomery. pay for new education programs, 34 percent, voted for it. Some, however, agreed with the including college scholarships, a 
The Republican governor promot­governor that a tax hike could lift longer school year and distance­ed the tax package -the largest Alabama's public schools. learning technology that would percentage tax boost proposed in "This tax bill is written for the allow rural schools to offer the any state -as the way to get future of our kids and of Alabama," same advanced courses as urban Alabama off the bottom of many said Roger Smith, a 54-year-old schools. national education rankings. minister of music in Birmingham. Many states raised taxes and fees 
But opponents, including leaders Riley repeatedly told voters in in 2003 to cope with budget prob­of Hiley's own party, said Alabama last year's election for governor lems. California added $4 billion politicians need to cut wasteful that he never supported a tax and New York nearly $2 billion, but spending rather than raise taxes. increase during his six years as a Alabama's package was the largest 
"The opponents were able to play congressman. But when he became in terms of the percentage increase on the voters' cynicism about politi­governor in January, he said he in state tax revenue -nearly 20 cians in Alabama, that the tax "had no choice" in proposing a tax percent when completely phased in increase wasn't necessary, and that increase to alleviate the state's over four years. 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. alleges Iranian nuclear violations 
VIENNA. Austria-The United States accused Iran on Tuesday of violating the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty but said Tehran had "a last chance" to prove it wasn't running a covert weapons program. 
Backed by key allies. chief U.S. delegate Kenneth Brill took Iran to task on the basis of a report outlining discrepancies between its past statements on its nuclear program and findings by the International Atomic Energy Agency. The report. by IAEA chief Mohamed EI-Baradei, lists the discovery of weapons­grade enriched uranium and other evidence that critics say point to a weapons program. 
"The United States believes the facts already established would fully justify an immediate finding of noncompliance by Iran," Brill said at a meeting of the agency's board. Still, he said, the Americans were ready to give "Iran a last chance to drop its evasions" before pushing for punitive action. 
Car bombing rocks northern Iraq 
ANKARA, Turkey -A car bomb exploded Tuesday outside an oflice u<>ed by U.S soldiers in northern Iraq, private CNN-Turk television reported. Several people were wounded, but it was unclear if Americans were among them. 
The wounded included Iraqi Kurdish guards and children from nearby houses. Firefighters were at the scene of the blast in lrbil. the largest city in Kurdish-controlled northern Iraq. 
U.S. 
military officials said they could not immediately confirm the report on CNN-'l\1rk. a local subsidiary of U.S.-based CNN. 

U.S. 
soldiers flew to the site by helicopter and cordoned ofT the area together with local Iraqi Kurdish fighters. 


A Turkish reporter at the scene said by tele­phone that the blast collapsed the front of the two-story building. I le said that most of the injured were from nearby houses. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Democratic candidates criticize Bush 
BALTIMORE -Sen. Joe Lieberman accused Howard Dean in a campaign debate Tuesday night of turning his back on Israel, and the Democratic presidential front-runner shot back that he and former President Bill Clinton held the same view on the issue. 
"It doesn't help ... to demagogue this issue," Dean quickly added in the sharpest clash of the young Democratic debate season. 
Two days before the second anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, Democrats criticized President Bush's handling of the war on terror at the same time they began to sketch out their differences on foreign policy. 
Rep. Dennis Kucinich of Ohio criticized Hep. Dick Gephardt of Missouri for voting to sup­port the war in Iraq. 
Without mentioning any names, Sen. Bob Graham of Florida attacked Democrats for voting for the same legislation, saying they "gave the president a blank check." 
LOCAL NEWS 
Homeless man to run for city council 
PAINESVILLE, Ohio -A self-employed homeless man will face an eight-year incum­bent at the Nov. 4 elections, despite his oppo­nent's concern over residency requirements for the city council seat. 
The Lake County elections board voted 4-0 Tuesday to add Michael Padula"s name to the ballot, rejecting City Councilman William Horvath's questions about Padula's eligibility. 
The city charter requires a council member to have lived in the ward for one year. The board agreed that Padula had established resi­dency by living in a garage for 18 months. lie now lives out of a 1985 Chevrolet van. 
Padula, a self-employed carpenter, said he earned $2,500 last year, but a slow economy cut into his home-remodeling business. 
The part-time council position pays $6,000 a year. 
~------------~------------------------------------------------------------------~------·-------------------­
Wednesday, September 10, 2003

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Domus Properties educates students about safety issues 
By KATE DOOLEY 
News Writer 
Domus Properties spon­sored a seminar Tuesday to educate its tenants about personal safety and hosting responsible parties. 
The company rents over 38 houses to students and said they have a vested interest in educating their tenants about personal safety. 
"We do this for the students because we are concerned about them and their safety," Mark Kramer. owner of Domus Properties, said. 
Speakers at the annual BBQ and seminar included repre­sentatives of the South Bend Police Department, the South Bend Code Enforcement Department, Notre Dame Security, and Residence Life. 
The speakers focused on potential issues students may face and ways these issues can be prevented. 
Patrick Hechlinski, a South Bend Police officer, said that the seminar is a good way to 

educate students who may be living on their own for the first time. 
"We want to make sure stu­dents are alert and using their street smarts while they are living off-campus," he said. 
He said that criminals are looking for easy targets, so the best prevention is being aware of your surroundings. Hechlinski added that the seminar is not specifically in response to crime or prob­lems in the area, but instead organized for preventative reasons. 
"By hosting the seminar, we are taking pro-active steps to prevent problems", he said. 
The police officers gave students phone numbers that they can call for help and informed them of programs the police department offers to assist students. 
One program is a Homewatch service, where officers will monitor a house while its tenants are on break, to help prevent break-
Boston Archdiocese settles for $85 m_illion 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -The Boston Archdiocese agreed Tuesday to pay $85 million to 552 people who claim sexual abuse by Roman Catholic priests devas­tated their lives, giving victims long-awaited recognition of their pain and the U.S. church a chance to move forward from its worst scandal ever. 
The deal is the largest pub­licly disclosed payout by a U.S. diocese to settle molestation charges. 
Finalized after months of negotiations, the pact came with a new pledge from the church to prevent abuse in the future and a sense from vic­tims that the burden of their anguish has been lightened. 
"This piece of paper means one thing to me and many men I represent here today. From this day forward I am not an alleged victim of clergy abuse. I am recognized, I'm a sur­vivor," said Gary Bergeron, who sued for molestation by the late Father Joseph Birmingham. 
Under the agreement, vic­tims will receive awards rang­ing from $80,000 to $300,000. Award amounts will be decid­ed by a mediator, based on the type of molestation, the dura­tion of the abuse, and the injury suffered. 
Parents who filed lawsuits claiming their children were abused will receive $20,000. 
The church also will provide for psychological counseling for victims for as long as they want it, and will put some vic­tims on advisory boards moni­toring the abuse problem. 
Boston's new archbishop, Sean O'Malley, was in Washington at a meeting of the 
U.5. Conference of Catholic Bishops as the deal was struck but sat in on critical negotia­tions over the weekend. 
"It's a good day for the arch­diocese," said his spokesman, the Father Christopher Coyne. 

"We haven't had too many over the last couple of years, but this is one." 
The archdiocese also released a statement saying in part that it is "comn:itted to doing everything humanly pos­sible to make sure that this never occurs again. Our prayer is that this may, with the help of God, become a reality." 
Coyne said the church is still looking for ways to finance the settlement. Possible revenue sources include selling off surplus property and suing the archdiocese's insurance carrier&. 
ins. 
Along with safety tips, Hechlinski also warned stu­dents of the ramifications of violating South Bend laws. He wanted students to be aware of the fact that they could receive citations for serving underage drinkers or breaking noise ordinances. 

Residence life and Notre Dame security also addressed the idea that actions by stu­dents off-campus have real consequences. 
He said that the University expects students to respect duLac rules even when they are living off-campus. 
"Just because you are off-
campus, certain types of behavior will still come to the attention of Resident Life," Rick Kazm ierzak, a Notre Dame Security and Police officer, said. 
Contact Kate Dooley at dool6110@saintmarys.edu 


Piramides, Palacios y Playas 
Study in Notre Dame's International Study Programs in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
5:00PM 
Wednesday, Sept. 10, 2003 
119 DeBartolo 
Physics taught in Puebia in the fall semester for Pre-Professional Students Huge variety of internships available in Puebla 
Engineering COLJrses offered in Monterrey AL, BA courses offered in both locations 
QUOTES & FACTS 
between art and life. Unlike painting and literature, the cinema The Nanovic Institute both giues to life and takes from it... literature and painting both for European Studies exist as art from the uery start; the cinema does not. • www.nd.edu/-nanovic -Jean-Luc Goddard ( 1930-)~ French film director 
"The cinema is not an art that films life: the cinema is something 


•FREE 
Famous Dave's pre-game party (while supplies last) 

• 
Hand clappers will be given out to the first 250 fans 


Sunday 9/14 •1 :30PM: NO vs. Akron 
• 
See the world's largest soccer ball hot air balloon 

• 
Hot Air Balloon ride will be given away to one lucky fan 

• 
Marcos Pizza to the first 250 fans (while supplies last) 



II£Jiilllrijtft1Jttl111,1lolltJii)Ji,fijijJI 
Saturday 9/13 • 7:00PM 
ND vs. Western Kentucky **KID'S NIGHT** 
•Get your picture taken with the Rugrats 


Fri. 9/12 7:00PM:ND vs. Indiana 
• First 350 people \vill recieve a free t-shirt 

Sat. 9/13 7:00PM:ND vs. Utah 
• First 350 people will recieve a free t-shirt 

Sun. 9/141:30PM:ND vs. S. Carolina 
• 
First 350 people will recieve a free t-shirt 

• 
Post game pizza party in Gym 1 & 2 

•Visit 
game promotions link at und.com! 







~~~-~­
THE OBSERVER 








USINESS
Wednesday, September I 0, 2003 
Page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

9,507.20 -79.09
jones /', 

q,: Sin11e Down: C.nmpasiiE Vohn11e: 6 0 1,9(J1,869,()(X)
.. 

AMEX 992.81 -3.94 NASDAQ 1 ,873.43 -15.19 NYSE 5,766.18 -39.42 S&P500 1,023.10 -8.47 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE JDS UNIPHASE (JDSU) +4.74 +0.19 4.20 SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) +5.95 +0.10 1.78 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.38 -0.08 20.78 INTEL CORP (INTC) -1 34 -0.39 28.79 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -1.63 -0.47 28.37 
IN BRIEF Conseco recovery plan approved 
INI>Ii\Ni\I'OLIS -i\ judge on Tuesday approved <:onseco Inc.'s bankruptcy reor­gan iza lion plan, cl1~aring the way for the company to pursue its goal of emerging as a prof1tahlP insuror aftPr nearly nine months under LhaptPr 11 protection. 
Tlw plan ruts <:onsnco's debt load to $1.4 billion from tlw $7 billion it owed Dec. 17, wlwn it bPeamc tho third-largest U.S. com­pany to l"ile for bankruptcy. 
Bondholders, who wt•re owed $1.5 billion, will assume majority control as Conseco casts ofT unprofitable consumer finance orwrations. The reorganized Conseco will focus on restoring improved credit ratings to the traditional insurance business that made the firm a Wall Street darling through most of the liJIJOs. 
i\t a hearing in Chicago, U.S. Bankruptcy .Judge Carol Doyle approved Conseco's exit plan, as well as a separate plan for the con­sumer finance unit the parent company is selling. 
Dollar records heavy losses 
Nt·:W YOHK-llurt by continued concern about the stubbornly weak U.S. labor mar­kl't, the dollar slid sharply against its main rivals Tu1~sday apart from the yen, thanks only to anotlwr round of apparent interven­tion by .Japanese monetary authorities. 
Strong bids from Japanese and U.S. finan­cial institutions-some out of Tokyo-lift­ed tho dollar from its lows during New York trading, preventing it from sinking below 11 (,()() yen. a level market participants say .Japanese authorities arc determined to pro­tect. 
This was virtually the only respite the dol­lar got all day. Against the curo, Swiss l'ranr. sterling -and until the apparent intPrvPntion. the yen -the currency was ronsistently under heavy selling pressure. 
FfC investigates Dana Corp. takeover 
Dl\THOIT The Federal Trade Commission on Monday asked for more information about potential antitrust issues surrounding automotive supplier i\rvinMeritor Inc.'s $2.2 billion hostile takeover bid l'or rival Dana Corp. 
Last month. i\rvinMeritor, a Troy-based supplier of shocks, struts, suspensions and exhaust systems, extended its offer for To!Pdo, Ohio-based Dana, its largest com­JH~titor, to Oct. 2 after its original $15 per share cash offer expired. Both companies havn extensive Indiana operations. 
Dana said the FTC's request highlights antitrust concerns about the potential takeover, while i\rvinMeritor said the request wasn't unusual and its scope was expected. The request was expected to give the FTC more time to examine the bid. 
NO joins prepaid tuition program 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Notre Dame has joined a popular prepaid-tuition program which offers sig­nificant tax benefits to families, University officials announced. 
.Joseph Husso, director of the Office of Student Financial Services, praised what he called "a more secure approach" to saving for college. 
The program, called the Independent 529 Plan, allows families to lock in the current level of tuition and fees -minus a small discount -by contributing to a specially managed investment account. Contributions of up to $110,000 arc not subject to the federal gift tax, and the investment grows tax-free, as long as the funds are used for educational expenses. 
The accounts are also portable, meaning the money can be used at any of the 200 participating private collegPs and uni­versities. In the event a beneficiary attends a pub­lic or non-participating pri­vate institution, the funds can be used for those expenses without penalty. 
While 529 plans -which get their name from the section of the tax code that authorized them -have been around since 1997, they were administered by "We're taking a national eting tuition bills in the are still in grade school, or states, with the intent that leadership role, and we're . future. "There's $25 billion even younger. I le said the the money would be used very proud of it." out there in 529's," Russo Alumni Association is at public universities. The program is adminis­said. working to educate its 
Hecognizing the need for tered by TIAA-CREF, a New The money is certainly members about the plan, a plan to help families pay York-based firm that man­needed. According to a since about 25 percent for expensive private edu­ages over $250 billion in 2002 survey by investment Notre Dame undergradu­cation, hundreds of institu­ass.ets. By investing in con· bank Morgan Stanley, only ates were born to alumni. tions formed the Tuition servative but profitable 33 percent of U.S. families Notre Dame financial aid Plan Consortium, aimed at securities, TIAA-CREF -believe they are saving officials will also work with lobbying Congress to the nation's largest pension enough for college expens­TIM-CHEF to build aware­amend the 1997 law which fund manager -can mini­es, while 54 percent of ness of the program. authorized 529 plans. mize risk, while ensuring families have not started Russo encouraged fami­
"There were over 200 that the money will grow saving at all. lies to start saving early. institutions who supported steadily over time. Russo At the current rate of "With a little discipline the effort," Russo said. praised the company as a hikes in tuition -around 5 early on in a young family's 
The result was the first leader in the college-sav­percent -a Notre Dame life ... paying for college 529 plan administered by ings business. education for a child born can be a lot easier," he colleges rather than states. "TIM-CREF manages a today will cost over said. "!The 521) plan] is 
"Notre Dame has, as part number of programs, so $290,000, excluding room another product that can of our basic mission, the they've got a lot of experi­and board. keep a Notre Dame educa­responsibility to take a ence," he said. Russo acknowledged that tion affordable." leadership role in promot­The plans have proven to marketing the program will ing planning and saving for be very popular among be challenging, since many Contact Matt Bramanti at education," Husso said. families who fear skyrock-of the students it will help mbramant@nd.edu 


Purdue gets $18M grant for germ research 
tor for the projects, said in a news establish a new type of laboratory Associated Press release Tuesday. and "produce about 100 proteins The grants will enable Purdue simultaneously," he said. 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -The researchers to more efficiently ana­The second grant, $3.2 million, federal government has awarded lyze the protein building blocks of will support development of antiviral Purdue University nearly $18 million viruses, Kuhn said. The money also compounds that might emerge from in grants to study viruses thought to could allow researchers to make the research. have potential as biological advances in viral research in a frac­"We have moved with unprece­weapons. tion of the time they now consider dented speed and determination to 
The two grants awarded by the necessary, he said. prepare for a bioterror attack or any National Institutes of Health will The larger award of $14.7 million other public health crisis since the allow Purdue biologists to study will support basic research on the terrorist attacks of 2002," said viruses and also speed the develop­fundamental biology of viruses, Tommy Thompson, secretary of the ment of antiviral agents that could including the myriad proteins that U.S. Department of Health and result from the research. form various parts of viruses. Human Services. "These new grants 
"This grant is a significant "Up to this point, we have only add to tbis effort." 
achievement for both structural biol­been able to focus on one protein at Spending of the money from both ogy and Purdue as a whole," a time," Kuhn said. grants is to be spread over 4 1/2 Hichard J. Kuhn, primary investiga-The money will allow Purdue to years. 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September I 0, 2003 

Exploitation Role Models 

Learning is all atx1ut cJiscovering new meaning in the wor1cJ arount) us. Emid1 your learninn experience t;y usino me nation's rnost honoreci newspaper and The New York Times KnuA*.,cJ~JH Network. At nvtirnes.corn/college. access our news t)y subJect searct1 engine, receive e-rnail alerts on your areas of interest. and acJvcmce vour job searct' tt1rouqr' Jot; Market. I v more 1nforrnation. anu to orc.Jer a subscnplion to Tne Times at student rates. visil ny1irnes.corn/colle~w or call l-888.. 698·2655. 
~be Nc\ttlork~imes KNOWLEDGE NETWORK. 
INSPIRING THOUGHT 
Wednesday, September 10, 2003 
page 9 
Study urges society to battle underage drinking 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Alcohol and youth make a dangerous combi­nation, a $53 billio11 problem that can lead to increased crime and traffic deaths and one the gov­ernment, parents and industry need to solve, the Institute of Medicine said Tuesday. 

The institute, a health policy advisory center affiliated with the National Academies, urged high­er federal and state taxes on alcoholic beverages, tougher state drinking laws, better state identification cards and improved policies for detecting and stop­ping underage 

legal drinkers and the underage tend to watch many of the same shows and read the same maga­zines. 
Besides advertising, the FTC said national alcohol policy should deal with the ways under­age drinkers obtain beverages 
they cannot
BOOKMAKER'S PUB SOUTH BEND'S NEWEST RESTAURANT AND SPORTS BAR GREAT FUN-GREAT FOOD-YOU BET LARGEST BIG SCREENS IN THE AREA MON: Monday night football on 15 screens TUES: 99 specials WED: Give away night THURS: 32 oz specials FRI: Live music featuring:_ Darryl Buchanan, "What's the Name" SAT: Game day on 15 screens with live waor remotes SUN: NFL Sunday ticket 2046 SOUTH BEND AVE  
528 :E. Colfax ?-ve., Suite #2 South 13end, nf46617 574/231-1822 312 W. C(eve(ana%f. ~1ranger, •JtJf46530 574/277-6693  
KEEP THE MEMORY ALIVE "9/11" A DOCUMENTARY OF THE HEROISM OF SEPTEMBER 11TH WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10!"H AT 7 P.M. DEBARTOLO 102 SPONSORED BY THE FOUNDATION FOR THE DEFENSE OF DEMOCRACIES  

drinking  par­ "There's still too much  legally drink.  
ties. As the report was being  advertising in the magazines and on the  Nonetheless, Jim O'Hara of the Center on  
issued, the alco­ television and radio  Alcohol  
holic beverage industry said it will increasingly  programs that attract our kids."  Marketing and Youth at Georgetown  
target its adver­ University said  
tising away from youth. The Beer  Jim O'Hara Center on Alcohol  alcohol compa­nies have to do more to keep  
Institute and the  Marketing and Youth  their advertis­ 
Distilled Spirits  Georgetown University  ing  from  

Council of the United States said their members plan to limit advertising to media with 70 per­cent adult audiences. 
The current standard is a majority adult audience -over 50 percent -and the Federal Trade Commission said Tuesday, in its own report, that the indus­try has improved to 99 percent compliance. 
The FTC study was issued at the request of Congress because of the suspicion that newly popu­lar flavored alcoholic melt bever­ages were being targeted at youth. 
The FTC concluded that was not the case but noted that young 

reaching chil­
dren. 
"There's still too much adver­tising in the magazines and on the television and radio pro­grams that attract our kids," he said. 
The Center for Science in the Public Interest welcomed the Institute of Medicine report as "a historic first step toward ending decades of complacency about one of the most damaging and widespread public health and safety threats facing society." 
Alcohol use is deeply rooted in American society. the report observed, but underage drinking is a significant factor in traffic fatalities, suicide, violent crimes and academic failure. 
Hichard Bonnie, a professor at the University of Virginia and chairman of the institute's com­mittee that prepared the analysis. said a major goal needs to be to persuade adults to avoid behav­ior that would encourage under­age drinking. 
The need is a "comprehensive program involving all sectors of society and a common accep­tance of responsibility," he said. 
The committee estimated the cost to American society of underage drinking at $53 billion annually in losses stemming from crime, traffic crashes and other activities. 
A 2002 study found that 72 percent of 12th graders and 39 percent of eighth graders report­ed having consumed alcohol in the previous year. 
Federal and state excise taxes are potentially important tools for preventing and reducing under­age drinking, the report suggest'i. The committee said that even small changes in these taxes can reduce drinking by youths, who tend to have limited incomes. 
Bonnie said he expects opposi­tion to higher taxes, but evidence shows that they have a significant impact on youth drinking. 
State taxes vary. but federal alcohol taxes amount to $2.14 per 750-ml bottle of 80 proof spirits, 33 cents per six-pack of beer and 21 cents per bottle of wine. 


Three wounded in Calif. drive-by 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Three teenage students were critically wounded in an apparent drive­by shooting across the street from a San Fernando Valley high school Tuesday afternoon. 
Police Chief William Bratton said investigators believed the shooter, one of three people in a car, missed an intended tar­get, instead hitting three of the hundreds of students in the area. 
Someone in the car yelled out "where are you from," police said, describing that as gang language. 
A 17 -year-old girl and a 16­year-old boy were rushed by ambulance to trauma centers and a 15-year-old boy was flown by helicopter to a hospi­tal. said Fire Department spokesman Brian Humphrey. 

Blood and book bags remained on the sidewalk where paramedics treated the teens. 
All were students at Taft High School in the Woodland Hills area, said Los Angeles Unified School District spokeswoman Francine Eisenrod. Their par­ents were notified, but the school declined to release their identities. 
"We do know those children were not gang-involved. They were innocent kids," said Taft interim Principal Pete Ferry. "This is a community crisis that we just aren't used to." 
The victims had been stand­ing at a bus stop across the street from the school, police said. 
Steven Montalvo. a student at Taft, said he was waiting for the bus when he heard the gun­shots. He thought they were fireworks at first. 
"All of a sudden two more shots, and everybody started running," he told KCAL-TV. Montalvo said the girl was shot in the stomach, and one of the boys was shot in the chest. 
Taft's 3,400 students had been given a scheduled early release about 1:30 p.m. and the shooting occurred about a half­hour later, school district spokeswoman Hilda Hamirez said. 
Officials planned to have cri­sis teams at the school when classes resumed Wednesday. 


Barnes & Noble ends e-book sales 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Barnes & Noble.com, once an aggressive competitor in the electronic market, stopped selling e-books Tuesday, citing both limited sales and limited technology. 
"We did not see sales take otT as we and many others had anticipated," Daniel Blackman, vice president and general manager of Barnes & Noble.com, said Tuesday. 
"The other factor is that con­sumers haven't embraced the technology. There isn't wide­spread adoption of an afford­able and an easy to use e-book device." 
In an e-mail sent to cus­tomers. Barnes & Noble.com said that those who purchased an e-book in the Adobe format have 90 days from the date of purchase to complete their download. People using Microsoft have until Dec. 9 to access their e-books. 

"In the short term, it's disap­pointing," said Arthur Klebanoff. founder of RosettaBooks, which sells digi­tal versions of works by Pat Conroy, William Styron and oth­ers. 
"But it's also true that if the market keeps growing, and I think it will, they'll be back in with both feet." 
Demand for e-books has been growing quickly, but remains relatively tiny. According to the Open eBook Forum. a trade organization, e-book sales totaled about $5 million in the first half of 2003, compared to $3.8 million in the first half of 2002. 
"One bookseller dropping out will have no impact on Handom House's commitment to e­books," said Random House Inc. spokesman Stuart Applebaum. 
Open eBook Forum executive director Nick Bogaty said he has no individual corporate sta­tistics, but believes Barnes & Noble.com had just a small per­centage of sales. Palm Digital Media, OverDrive, Inc., and Amazon.com are among the leading e-book competitors, Bogaty says. 
Barnes & Noble.com had been quite active in the market, even starting its own digital imprint in 2001 and releasing an origi­nal work by Dean Koontz. 
"We all believe there is a future for e-books," Blackman said. "It's just not here yet." 

THE OBSERVER 

Page 10 
IEWPOINT Wednesday, September 10, 2003 

THE OBSERVER 

Th< i"""P...,Imi, D,nly N""".puSmri•gN."< lim.< -.1$8'!< 1<1"'7~ 
P..O, Box Q, Nw~ Dame, fN 4J:i$?6 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHiEF Andrew Soukup 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
S<:on Brodfuehrer  Lori Lewa!ski  
AsS1: MANAGING EDITOR  
Sheila Flynn  

NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR! Teresa Fralish 
SPORTS EDITOR! Joe Hetrb 
ScENE EDITOR: Sarah Vabu!as SAINT MARY's Eorroa: Annelii:Se Woo!fqrd P:HOTO EDITOR: Tim Kiicinaf 
GRAPHICS Eo!TOR: Mike Harkins 
ADVERTISING MANAGER! Maura Cenedella AD DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haiglu 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR! Jason Creek CoNTROU.ER! Mike Flanagan 
CONTACT Us 0FACE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
•. 
ADV£RSTISING {574} 631-6900 ob~!Vad@nd:edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631~4542 MANAGING EDITOR & AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574)631-4541 obirne@ndctidu 
BUSINESS 0FACE . (574)631-5313 NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obmews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK CF4) 631-53{)3 viewpoiflt.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESK .. (574) 631-4543 sportsJ@rid.epu SCENE DESK 
(574}631~4540 scene,l@r~d.edu.. 
SAINT MARY'$ DE$K · (574) {)31-4324 smcJ{illnf.Ledu PHOTO 0~81C (574) 631-8767 ph<:>to@nd;edu SYSTEMS & Wu ADMINISTIIATORS (574)63l-883~t . 

OlistRVERONiiNs···· 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

Th~ Observer is theindependent, dJilly nmpap« published in prim and online by the~t$ ii'the University ofNotte Dame du Lai-:md SiiiriiMarys 
College. Edirorial content. including advertis($ent$, is . not govem7d by policies ofthe ~~~tr:Jc~i9n of~lt?ey institution. The Observer res~ 1fi~ tlgR~ i& :i'i:fiii;e: .·. advertisements based on CQ!ltflnk • ·• • • •. · · • · 
The news isreporrtid as accurately~d obje<:dvdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majodty of the Editor in Chicl) M~g Ediror, Assist:Uu Managing Editor and d~p~r edirOt$. Commentaries, ler:rcu and colurriris' present the views of the authors and not necessari!yiliose df'The •· 
Observ~. ·· 

Viewpoint space is available ro all ~dcrs. The fn!e expression ofall opinions through letrefli is eneouraged. Lettm to ilie Editor must be signed and mustinclude. 
conracr information. 
Q:;;mions n-garding ObserverpoliciN Ihould b~ dim:tcd 14 EriiMr in Chi4Arrdl"fw SM.Ikup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

-rh<: Ob"'"" MJ>S $~~ l.4lJQQ).j; p<>bli>h«J M<ii>d.? <h'"•llli l'•~r """P' o•<;.\g • ~ an:d.v:aa,l® ·pctk><L:; /1. -$uOitijXW" wTh(:.obm-~~)s..~toQ. ~:URt:.:&Udr::mK: yw-~ 555 fcit .ont stiJI(:$tc:(. . ..... . 
'fh<QO="·~p•oo•h«<"' POSTMliST~;Jt·· P24So~t~b O~n§·H~~ Sm<t·:&ild:(es$·~tiom ro:: No<« lh><l<..fN. 41ii56-U7/9 T&,; obiC,;:t 
Ptr~~-~dilt"NQ~D~ no~)f~ii::Q _md adilltiDrW ·~jn; nEih:Q. o~~ ~·n:~0i.H~. : · w...,,p...,,JN ~~'<>on~· 
1-h~ o~~W:~~$ •~~b~ flr:~be: Anod~.t~.~ ~~P:~~~!® ~~~ ~1'1: ~rved. · · · ··· · 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Illustrator 

Andrew Thagard Pat Quill Oaire Heininger Sports Matt Smedberg Joe Hettler Viewpoint Heather Van Cheryl Barker Hoegarden Graphics Scene Chris Naidus Emily Turnbrink 

I walk into a party on some familiar street near campus and I see a lot of familiar faces. Saying hello and mak­ing sure to be seen, I make my way through the crowd in search of some­thing or some­one I have yet to 
Adam Cahill 

determine. I'm always in search of something 
A Domer's 

that can hold my 
Outlook

attention for awhile -if not the whole night. The music is loudly blaring some unknown rap artist that I have no intention of hearing again after tonight. Everyone seems to be mov­ing in hyper drive, the frustrations of the week and a close football game having finally subsided. Usually, I would head straight for the doorman who holds the rights to housa cups but tonight I don't feel like drinking and I'm not sure why. Maybe the excitement found at the beginning of each school year is wearing off. Who knows? 
I weave in and out through the crowd and stop to have a couple two minute conversations with people that I know neither of us is going to remember the next day. In one of these chats, though, I come across some troubling information. My aim­lessness now has a goal and I begin to search. One person. One goal. I need to help out, do something. 
It isn't long before I pass through an open doorway and around the crowd that has accumulated near the keg. A group of my friends are in the pack, though, and distract me into a couple of meaningless and testos­terone driven conversations that none of us would repeat to our moth· ers. It isn't too long before I break free from them, citing the urge to pee 
OBSERVER POLL 
as my excuse . 

Two steps in the opposite direction and I see her. Vertical streaks cover both sides of her face and her eyes remain locked on the center of the floor, empty and distant. I ask a friend of mine how long she's been like this and he says about an hour. I sit down next to her and without a word she slides one shoulder down and lays her head on my left shoul­der. Her body is trembling so I lift my arm over her head and pull he'r close with my left arm. 
It will be okay, I tell her. Everything will work out. She tries to talk but nothing audible comes out. Don't talk I say. There will be time for that later. 
Her boyfriend had heard of some­

thing that she had­"In a world ofreality done anything for 
n't done from television and Jerry each other. When is someone who had the last time we've
Springer, we've lost the 
11ever talked to her made a stranger feel
will to interact with each 
or had any busi­good? Or better yet, ness talking about other peacefully. " when is the last time know, but we do. Are we that desper­ate to find things to talk about? 
In a world of reality television and Jerry Springer, we've lost the will to interact with others peacefully. Instead of learning about the person we are talking to, it seems more appropriate to talk about someone else. Do we find ourselves, as individ­uals, so dull and boring that we have to delve into the lives of others in order to keep a conversation going? 
Come on people, let's grow up. We spend years of our lifetimes trying to prove to our parents that we've grown up when all we've accom­plished is a lot of empty talk. I'm going to do this. I'm going to do that. But when it comes down to it, none 
of that matters 
because we haven't 

her. The rumor train had gotten the best of her and there was nothing she could do about it. Sitting there on the couch I could say nothing to comfort my friend. I mean, what is there to say? She had not done anything wrong but the damage had been done. No matter 
.what kind of mending abilities she had, her boyfriend would always have that shade of doubt when it came to trusting her. 
Why do we, as human beings, do this? Why do we feel it necessary to bring to the forefront that which we know nothing about? We have noth­ing to gain by spreading rumors and ruining the lives of others, but yet we still do. We have nothing to gain by talking ill about people that we don't we resisted the temp­
tation to talk about 

someone we don't know? 
Now I'm not saying that everyone is guilty-it is not my intention to be so bold. But wouldn't it be wonderful if the drama was left up to those who were involved and not those who were not? There is enough drama in the world to go around, but their lives are theirs, we should keep it that way and let each person live it. 
Adam Cahill is a senior history and American Studies major. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted at acahill@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Has the University implemented enough alternative programing for students? 
"Never attribute to malice that which can be adequately explained by stupidity." 
Vote by 5 p.~. Thursday at 
anonymous
www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
-fH E()BSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 10, 2003 page 11 
Let's Inake an Honor Code deal 
In tlw lirst part of this column, I argued that only a tiny fraction of honor code violations at Notre Dame arc IH~ing rPferrcd to honesty committees. I also suggested that this fact should alarm all of us, facuHy and stu­dents alike. In this concluding column, I wish to discuss how we might deal with the prob­
lt~m. 

Thomas Flint
Mending our ways will not be easy. Still, some first steps arc evi­dent. Students might do some gen­
Guest
uine soul-searching about their 

Column
own dedication to academic intPgrity. Academic commissioners in the residence halls might ask themselves whether the maintenance of dorm Iiles, con­taining exams, essays and the like, is anything more than a smni-clandcstinc means or encouraging sucLess­ful cheating. Administrators could do a better job or Pducating new teachers about the honor code. Department chairs could discuss the code with their faculty and could appoint to honesty committees only those who will take their responsibility seriously. And instructors could be honest with themselves about why they might be inclined to ignore their obligations under the code and could think more carefully about the ~~xample they set when they do so. 
These are all rather conservative remedies. Some might feel that other, more radical courses or actions arc called for, such as scrapping the code entirely, say, or strengthening it by mandating much harsher penal­ties both for students who cheat and for faculty who ignorn the code. But one other intriguing possibility falls somewhere betwe1~n the tame and the wild: adopting what we might call a Let's Make a Deal honor code. 
Many honor-code universities explicitly give individual instructors the authority to confront students they sus­pect of dishonesty and to negotiate a litting punishment. Most of those universities require that both the instruc­tor and student sign (and send to the appropriate administrator) a form describing the offense and the agreed upon penalty. Should the student either deny the 1)-lk~~t~on, of dishonesty or feel ~hat the propose~ pun­ishmcr:Jt is inappropriate, an appeal is usually available. 
Notre Dame could easily adopt a Let's Make a Deal code. Faculty and students who reach an agreement would send a signed report to the associate provost's office, which would, as it does now, keep track of these files and impose additional sanctions on those guilty of recidivism. When agretJments could not be reached, cases would be forwarded to the relevant honesty com­mittees, which would handle cases exactly as they do how. Appeals of honesty committee decisions would also proceed as they do now. And all records would end up in the associate provost's office. 
What is there to be said for a Let's Make a Deal code? Provided that the procedures for reporting private agreements were simple and clear, many faculty would probably report. Such, at least, seems to have been the case at a number of universities that have adopted such a policy. Since Penn State moved to this type of system recently, roughly 400 cases have been report­ed per year. Under their old, all-cases-go-to-hear­ings system, the yearly average was less than 6. 

Faculty might thus be saved from the dishonesty inherent in the under-the­table deals they now make with students. Honesty commit­tees would probably need to meet even less often than they do now, thereby saving members a good deal of time and energy. Furthermore, since all records would eventually reach the associate provost's office, repeat offenders would find it much harder to escape detection. 
The likely advantages to a Let's Make a Deal code are thus apparent and significant-but so are the probable disadvantages. Since experience suggests that most stu­dents will go to great lengths to avoid the embarrass­ment involved in a full hearing, teachers would clearly have the upper hand in negotiating agreements. Though I have no doubt that most instructors would try to fashion just agreements. they would often be doing so while dealing with strong feelings of personal aiTront, feelings which are not the most conducive to students' receiving fair and consistent penalties. Furthermore, our current code, by insisting that all cases of apparent academic dishonesty be handled communally via set procedures, makes a strong statement about how grave an oll'ense cheating is, an offense against the whole 
academic community. No such statement is made when private deals arc sanctioned. On the contrary, some might argue that the offense of academic dishonesty is in fact trivialized by a university that treats it as a matter for in­class housecleaning. Many would no doubt discern an ele­ment of lowering our stan­
dards to match our practice were we to make such a shift. And it's not obvious 
that this is the best means of closing a gap between one's ideals and one's behavior. 

There are undoubtedly more pluses and more minuses connected to our moving toward such an alter­native. It is a change we should make, if at all, only after 
extended discussion. I believe, though, that it is a change worthy of such a discussion. Our honor code 
is far from a complete failure. But the code simply has not become the integral part of campus culture that its initiators 
hoped it would be. Whether this means that further changes to the code are in order, and (if so) whether mild or more radical amendments are called for, are matters eminently worthy of further thought and con­versation. 
Thomas Flint is a professor ofphilosophy. This col­umn is the second in a two-part series. lie can be con­tacted at flint. I @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Observer should follow Church teachings 
The inaugural issue of The Observer provided incoming freshman with the following information: "The University I Iealth Center docs not prescribe birth control, but prescriptions can be filled at Planned Parenthood on 1818 Miami St. as another health resource." We take issue with The Observer promoting contraception and the world's largest abortion provider in direct opposition to the teaching of the Catholic Church. 
The Observer's position is that the paper has a duty to provide objective information to the student body, regardless of religious belief. That stance is appropriate when it comes to reporting the news. It is a different matter when the paper attempts to subvert a principled decision of the University. 
The Catholic Church has always embraced sexual intercourse as the uni­tive and procreative act of a married couple. Thus, the Church opposes con­traception because it frustrates these innate aspects of the sexual union. Notre Dame, in accordance with its Catholic mission, has made a conscien­tious decision not to offer contraception at the Health Center. In response, The Observer made an equally determined decision to provide students with information that will enable them to act in direct opposition to the moral goals of the University. Unlike advice concerning restaurants or auto repair, the use of contraception is a moral question and providing such information implies an editorial stance, regardless of the section in which it appears. 
Furthermore, rather than reference the various medical facilities in South Bend, The Observer specifically provided Planned Parenthood with free pub­licity. Far from a mere "health resource," the organization has a very specific agenda. Statistics show that for every pregnant woman who visits Planned Parenthood and decides to keep her child, 60 arc persuaded to abort. 
Women deserve better than the thinly veiled agenda of Planned Parenthood. And the Note Dame student body deserves better than a news­paper that willingly takes students' money and the University's aid and uses it to subvert the foundational mission of this great institution. The University should take an active role in assuring that the paper does not publish such immoral advice to 18 year old freshmen. 
Law School Right to life Ryan Dwyer president Sept. 4 
l~H E OBSERVER 
CENE

page 12 
Wednesday, September 10, 2003 
ALBUM REVIEW 
John Mayer soars on new release 
By EMILY TUMBRINK Assistant Scene Editor  teners can already tell they are in for something a little different. Abandoning the completely acoustic  Sadness" pos­sesses mourn­ful strings  
feel found on the majority of Inside  layered  
John Mayer's second studio release  Wants Out, Mayer explores a jazzier,  underneath  
Heavier Things, one of the most antici­ more electric sound, complete with  catchy drum  
pated albums of the year, has the abili­ horns, with the end result sounding  and guitar  
ty to either make or break Mayer's  like a combination of Van Morrison and  hooks, creat­ 
staying power as a pop star. Listed as  The Police. Though the comparisons to  ing a true  
number one on Amazon.com's sales  Dave Matthews have bombarded Mayer  sense of sad­ 
rank days before it was even released,  since he first entered the public eye,  ness in this  
the question of whether or not Heavier  Heavier Things finds Mayer tackling  otherwise  
Things will live up to everyone's expec­ new terrain and taking cues from the  upbeat song.  
tations has yet to be answered.  bands of his childhood. Mayer, always  But perhaps  
From the opening strains of "Clarity,"  one tQ admit to being a bit of a  the-most  
the first track on Heavier Things, lis­ "square," has repeatedly named Sting  stunning bal­ 
as one of his favorite artists and this  lad on Heavier Things is the final track  his major label debut Boom for  
influence becomes apparent on the  "Wheel." With beautifully spare instru­ Squares, Mayer has rapidly become a  
song "Homelife." With lyrics like "I am  mentation, Mayer's voice takes center  household name. On Heavier Things,  
not a nomad I I am not a rocket man I I  stage. and the soft guitar jam in the  Mayer both explores new territory, and  
was born a housecat I by the sleight of  middle of the song is the closest thing  also reformulates the familiar sound  
my mother's hand," Mayer once again  to Mayer's live performances found on  found on both Inside Wants Out and  
shows his poetic skills with a wittiness  any album.  Room for Squares. Though Mayer must  
that is unparalleled.  When. asked how Heavier Things  be classified as a pop star due to the  
Mayer's first single "Bigger Than My  would be different than his previous  accessibility and popularity of his  
Body," which was released in August,  releases, Mayer told Crazewire.com  music, his obvious talent as a  
contains a catchy chorus and is more  that "It's going to change a little bit. It's  singer/songwriter shines through on  
upbeat and rock-inspired than many  not going to be so crazy. It's going to  Heavier Things, making him more com­ 
scngs on his previous releases.  become a little more electric, but not  parable to the new brand of pop stars  
Familiar to many fans, the song  heavier, still smooth. The record is also  including Norah Jones. rather than the  
"Something's Missing" has been played  going to be a little less sunny than "No  likes of Britney Spears. Heavier Things  
during Mayer's concerts for several  Such Thing" (I remember somebody  shows marked progress from the suc­ 
years now, and the version found on  saying that it had a tropical light). It  cessful Room for Squares, and is sure  
Heavier Things remains relatively  will be more complex. I like the idea of  to bring even more critical acclaim and  
unchanged from the recognizable live  producing record after record, and  success to this wunderkind.  
version. Mayer's talent as a guitarist is  them all being completely different  
Photo courtesy of mtv.corn  evident in "Come Back to Bed," with  Hopefully, I won't lose too many fans in  
John Mayer's new release highlights  ·his electric stylings becoming the cen­ the process."  Contact Emily Tumbrink at  
his skills as a singerI songwriter.  tral focus of the track. "Split Screen  Quickly growing in popularity since .. :' . .  etumbrin@nd.edu ,,_;, 5r!t ·rlt .!9VO'IQ tsrtt mudls wsn s  

Rooney's debut impresses 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Disney's "The Princess By REBECCA SAUNDERS Dairies" before begin­
Scene Music Critic 
ning serious touring with the band. Having Through the barrage of bands that are toured with bands constantly releasing new albums every­such as Weezer and day, it has become increasingly difficult The Strokes, Rooney is to encounter a new band that embodies now beginning the a fresh and different sound. The increas­climb to success, and ingly popular new band Rooney has it shouldn't take long accomplished just that. Rooney, a five­to get there. member band hailing from Los Angeles Compared by critics to attains their unique and modern emo bands ranging in style meets rock sound by "combining sounds from the Beatles to of the last four decades," and in doing so Weezer, Rooney is creates a distinct sound unlike anything enjoyable for listeners 
Hailing from Los Angeles, Rooney's self-titled debut embodies a fresh and different sound, one
heard before. with a variety of musi­
combining emo and rock to create a style that is unique and completely their own.
Rooney's self-titled debut has only cal tastes. · recently become a popular item. The Lyrically the album lead singer and guitarist, Robert carries many emo themes, with all but pattern. "Blue Side" carries an extreme­"Sorry Sorry" where heavy repetition is Carmine, is actually already known by three of the songs being about a girl in ly upbeat melody on top of an almost used to describe an extremely unusual many, but not for his music. Carmine some capacity. The band's latest single, vintage guitar sound, making the sound subject. Throughout the song, a guyrecently played the leading man in however, is one of the aberrations to this both modern and classic at the same approaches a girl and introduces himself 
time. There is even a tambourine saying, "Having seen the future ... I'm thrown in there and it simply all sounds sorry sorry for making.your life a living amazing together. hell". Although all these elements seem 
The instrumentation found on the almost comically ridiculous, they work Rooney album is simply terrific, but the together extraordinarily well. sound is also securely backed by terrific, The album as a whole is spectacular. clever and thought-provoking lyrics Rooney brings so many different ele­throughout the album. Although many of ments together to create their unique
Roonev 


the song lyrics relate to females and dat­sound, and that is just what they create, ing, the subjects of the songs range from a sound that is exclusively Rooney. At falling in love to being left behind. In the times the lyrics can be a bit typical of the energetic "If It Were Up to Me," the song emo style of music, but even those
Rooney 

tells of a boy yearning to tell a girl how cliches are rare throughout the album. he feels about her. Carmine reveals his Rooney is a group of artists, which feelings to her in a unique way singing, becomes exceedingly apparent as the
Geffen Records 

,;I want you to know I've done our charts album progresses. It is an album that I And it says that we work as one I Like transcends typical music genres and the Jackson Five and The Temptations." begins to develop a category that It is fun, distinctive lyrics like this, set to belongs exclusively to the band. Expect Rooney's unique blend of music, that to see much more of Rooney very soon. make this album a project of such quali­ty and excellence. Another clear exam­Contact Rebecca Saunders at ple of this quality is shown in the song rsaunder@nd.edu 


'fHE ()BSERVER 
CENE

Wednesday, September I 0, 2003 
Page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Punks prove they are indestructible 
By STEPHEN HOEPLINGER A.o.sistanr Scene Editor 
A lot has happened to Hancid since its 
·last album. They've endured major trau­ma and hospitalizations, the death of fam­ily members, close friends and a mentor and the breakup of marriages. The good news for them. and for punks all over the world, is that they have picked themselves up, dusted thems1~lves off and come back with a personally touching, totally balls­out hardcorn rneord that proves why they are Indestructible. 
The album opens up with the title track, a rocking little song in which lead singer and guitarist Tim Armstrong blasts con­sumerism and his ex-wife. gives a mini­lesson in Greek history and pays tribute to his late mentor Joe Strummer, all in under two minutes. The tone shifts radically with "Hed Hot Moon," an addictive ska piece featuring rapper Rob Aston that is remi­niscent of 1995's album ... And Out Corne the Wolves, and proves that Rancid are still the masters of the ska-punk genre. One of the most interesting tracks on the album is a song called "David Courtney." written about a punk rocker crime boss who acts as a Robin Hood figure to the poor people of London. Aside from the hooky chorus, it features a chilling spoken word monologue at the end of the song that leaves tingles up the spine. 
Indestructible also shows Rancid's politi­cal side. "Start Now" is a song about talk­ing your problems through instead of going to war, "Born Frustrated" blasts dead-eyed mall junkies, "Stand Your Ground" is dedicated to the homeless of Los Angeles and "Arrested in Shanghai" features Armstrong singing from the point of view of a political prisoner in China. 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Damien Rice delivers powerful performance 
By LIAM FARRELL 
Scene Music Critic 
Very few albums exist that can com­pletely consume you when you listen to tlwm. So many elements have to come tognther in the right formula to pro­ducn a memorable sound that makes you lose yourself in the music, lyrics and production of each successive song. What is even more remarkable than making such a record is having that success on a major label debut. I>anlien Hiee, an Irish singer song-
Punk purists would most likely scoff at The problems, though few, are easy to this slow, ballad-esque poem, but the song identify. At times, the sound mix gets 
muddy and some
is reminiscent of both Joe Strummer and Bob Dylan and exhibits the band's more mature musical talents. 
Also, the album's per­sonal songs do not dis­appoint. The first of these is "Fall Back Down." The chorus is easy to identify with for anyone who has ever relied on their friends to help them through a bad time: "If I fall back down, I You're gonna help me back up again." "Spirit of '87" is about growing up in the punk community and how it saved them from being "either dead or in jail." The album also has a few breakup songs dedi­cated to Armstrong's wife Brody, who left him halfway through the recording process. "Tropical Melbourne" and "Ghost Band" leave the singer's heart on his 


Indestructible 
Epitaph Music 
guitar solos blur and sound gener­
ic. The most important thing missing from this album is bass player Matt Freeman. Freeman is undoubtedly the best rock bass player alive today, but this album lacks the amazing bass 

-· 
lines and jaw­dropping solos that have become his trademark. 
On the whole, this is a solid album. Fans of the band will like hearing the more heartfelt lyrics and punk rockers in general should get a kick out of the variety in the musical styles. 

sleeve for all to hear. "Other Side" is dedi­It's just hooky enough that people who cated to the memory of guitarist Lars have never heard of the band before or Frederickson's brother Robert, who died who don't like punk rock as a principle in 2001. As the album's final track, it is a might find a few songs they enjoy. sendoff that manages to be mature and hardcore at the same time. 
While "Indestructible" is a quality Contact Stephen Hoeplinger at album, it is by no means the band's best. shoeplin@nd.edu 
writer who began to make critical waves this past year in Ireland, has made such a record in his astounding and haunting 0, a deceptively simple and incredibly complex homemade masterpiece. 
Hice possesses a voice that is entirely his own, one that whispers words of Jove and loss one moment and screams pain and anguish the next. His versatil­ity as a vocalist makes what he says true. Like Chris Martin of Coldplay, or early David Gray recordings, every song seems to be written actually about someone or something rather 
than just an idea that came into his head one evening before a ses­sion. The musical tex­ture behind his delicate guitar work only makes the overall effect stronger; strings,· cho­ruses and, on occasion, seemingly infinite lay­ers of music seem to tran­scend the gap between musician and listener. 
The songs on 0 reach into the deep and personal territory of 
0 
Domien 
Rice 

Vector Recordings 

love, friendship and desire, and Rice seems to come out of the experience with more questions than answers, more contradictions than certainty. On the tear inducing "Cannonball," Rice sings "stones taught me to fly I love taught me to lie I life taught me to die I so its not hard to fall I when you float like a cannonball." Luckily for the lis­tener, Rice's music floats for him. 
One of the most intense elements of the album is its overall composition and production, with songs, melodies and lyrics weaving in and out of each other to the point where there are hardly any boundaries between songs. One gets the feeling that conceptually, and more importantly musically, the album can barely be analyzed or dis­cussed in separate pieces. To say the album is a musical opus or perhaps a concept album may be too pretentious. However. there is a certain grace and harmony that bleeds through every part of this album, unlike in most dis­jointed pop albums. The strength of one song seems entirely dependent on the ability of the one that carne before. 


On an album mostly concerned with self-reflection, it is somewhat ironic that outside musicians provide some of the album's best moments. Vocalist Lisa Hannigan's solos on "Older Chests" and "I Hemember" do for 0 what Natalie Merchant did for Billy Bragg and Wilco's Mermaid Avenue, adding color and depth to an already exceptional album. The string and vio­lin work also stands on its own, turning simple melodies into movie sound­tracks. 
Damien Hice's 0 is an outstanding example of what an album should be. Its haunting melodies and lyrics pro­vide a worthy companion for late night drives, reflection and heartbreaks. When the album finishes playing. the listener will be left understanding Rice's lines in the song "Arnie." "You know when you found it I there's some­thing I've learned I 'cause you feel it when they take it away." 
Contact Liam Farrell at lfarrell@nd.edu 

Wednesday, September 10, 2003 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 

Associated Press  and the New York Yankees beat the Detroit Tigers Tuesday night.  Toby Hall homered and drove in three runs for the Devil Rays,  
BALTIMORE  - Derek Lowe  Jorge Posada hit a two-run sin­ who are 33-31 since June 28.  
pitched six innings of six-hit ball, and David Ortiz homered and  gle for the Yankees, who got an excellent effort from their  Joe Kennedy pitched the final three innings for his first career  
drove in four runs to lead the Boston Red Sox past the Baltimore Orioles Tuesday night. With his towering home run in the third inning, Ortiz enabled the Red Sox to set a club single­season record for homers (214) and extra-base hits (591). The shot also gave Boston a 4­0 lead and propelled the Red Sox to their sixth win in eight games. Bill Mueller and Jason Varitek also homered for the Red Sox, who improved to 6-8 against the pesky Orioles. Lowe (15-6) struck out five and walked two, throwing 109 pitch­es in winning his fourth straight decision since losing two in a row to Baltimore in early August. Larry Bigbie and Jack Cust each had an RBI for the Orioles, whose three-game winning streak ended. The Red Sox went up 2-0 in the second inning against Damian Moss (1-4). Damian Jackson drove in a run with the third of four straight Boston sin­gles, and Mueller added a sacri­fice fly. Manny Ramirez opened the third with a single and Ortiz fol­lowed with his 26th homer, a titanic shot to right that became the 33rd drive in the 12-year his­tory of Camden Yards to land on Eutaw Street. Moss, obtained in the trade the sent Sidney Ponson to San Francisco, allowed four runs and seven hits in three innings. A run-scoring grounder by Ortiz made it 5-0 in the fourth against Sean Douglass, making his 2003 debut for the Orioles.  maligned bullpen and remained 3 1/2 games ahead of Boston in the AL East. Detroit (37-106) needs six wins in its final 19 games to avoid matching the post-1900 record of 120 losses in a season set by the 1962 New York Mets. Yankees starter Jose Contreras came out in the fifth with a mild­ly sprained left ankle. X-rays were negative and he is day-to­day. Fernando Rodney (0-3) walked Posada with one out in the eighth and was replaced by Henson. The former Michigan quarterback moved to second on Rube·n Sierra's single and Williams then snapped a 6-for-43 skid with a single off the glove of diving second baseman Warren Morris. Henson tripped and fell coming around third, but still scored eas­ily. The Tigers appealed at third base, but umpire Paul Schrieber ruled Henson hit the bag, and he smiled in the dugout with his teammates. Henson was called up from the minors last Friday amid rumors that he plans to give up baseball for a possible NFL career. Hideki Matsui followed with a sacrifice fly, making it 4-2. Gabe White (1-0) threw one pitch in the eighth for his first win with the Yankees since being acquired from Cincinnati on July 31. Mariano Rivera worked the ninth for his 34th save in 40 chances. Tampa Bay 11, Toronto 6  save. Toronto got homers from Josh Phelps and Orlando Hudson. The Blue Jays are 3-10 against Tampa Bay this season. Cory Lidle (12-12) gave up seven runs, five hits and four walks in 4 1-3 innings. He is 1-4 over his past six starts. Cleveland 7, Kansas City 1 Jason Davis gave Cleveland five shutout innings, and the Indians parlayed Angel Berroa's error into a big sixth inning and a 7-1 win over the fading Kansas City Royals on Tuesday night. Victor Martinez hit his second career home run, a three-run shot that capped Cleveland's five­run sixth, as the Indians handed Kansas City its eighth loss in 11 games. Davis (8-10) scattered five hits over five innings. He retired the last eight batters he faced before Jack Cressend took over to start the sixth. Cressend retired the first five he faced before back-to-hack doubles by Desi Relaford and Brent Mayne broke up the shutout with two outs in the sev­enth. All five of Cleveland's sixth­inning runs were unearned, the result of a rare fielding error by Berroa that undid Jimmy Gobble's strong start. Gobble (3-4) gave up just one hit through 5 2-3 innings and was on his way to a perfect sixth when Berroa misplayed Casey Blake's groundball to deep short­stop. Gobble then hit Jody Gerut  AI Photo David Ortiz had 4 RBis to carry the Red Sox past the Orioles. The win was Boston's sixth In their last eight games. fourth. Jerry Manuel. Gobble gave up four hits in six Paniagua, who gave up three innings, striking out two and hits and a walk. walked off the walking five. mound and apparently said Aaron Guiel had three hits and something to plate umpire Mark Mike Sweeney had two for the Carlson, who then ejected the Royals, whostranded 10 runners reliever. -four in scoring position. Tom Gordon came in and walked Torii Hunter and A.J. Pierzynski drove in another runChicago 8, Minnesota 6 with a sacrifice fly to make it 8-5. Mark Buehrle got another win Pinch-hitter Jacque Jones sin­against Minnesota, and the gled in another run beforeChicago White Sox held on to Gordon struck out Michaelbeat the 1\vins and take a two­Cuddyer to end it for his 11thgame lead in the AL Central. Buehrle (12-13) allowed seven save. hits and two runs in six innings Ordonez's 27th homer, off Rick and improved his career record Reed, put Chicago up 4-2 in the against the 1\vins to 10-4 -his fifth. most wins against any team. Alomar hit his third homer Magglio Ordonez, Roberto since coming to Chicago, also off Alomar and Carlos Lee homered Reed. After Frank Thomas dou­as Chicago won its fifth straight bled, Ordonez delivered an RBI and also beat the 1\vins for the single off Grant Balfour and Lee  
Bigbie singled in a run with two outs in the fifth, but Boston went ahead 7-1 in the sixth on  Carl Crawford hit a three-run homer and rookie Doug Waechter won his third straight  with a pitch, and Alex Escobar and Ben Broussard followed with RBI singles before Martinez  sixth consecutive time. The 1\vins made it close with four runs in the ninth. Lew Ford  followed with his 28th homer for an 8-2lead. In the second, Lee singled and.  
Mueller's 19th homer and an RBI  game as the Tampa Bay Devil  homered into the leftfield bullpen  hit an ground-rule double, and  after Paul Konerko walked, stole  
single by Ortiz.  Rays beat the Toronto Blue Jays.  for a 6-0 lead.  Denny Hocking followed with an  third. Joe Crede then doubled to  
New York 4, Detroit 2  Crawford put the Devil Rays ahead 6-4 with his three-run  The Indians went up 1-0 in the first on Coco Crisp's leadoff triple  RBI triple off Jose Paniagua to make it 8-3. Justin Morneau  make it 1-0, Konerko scored on Sandy Alomar's sacrifice fly and  
Pinch-runner Drew Henson stumbled home to score the tiebreaking run on Bernie Williams' eighth-inning single,  shot in the fourth. Waechter (3-0) gave up four runs and eight hits over six innings.  and Blake's sacrifice fly. After Crisp's hit, Gobble retired the next 11 batters before walking Escobar with two out in the  drove in Hocking with a pinch­hit single. Paniagua then walked Corey Koskie one out later before he was removed by manager  the White Sox went up 3-0 when Tony Graffanino hit a jam-shot grounder past first for an RBI single.  


AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Ortiz's 4 RBis lead Red Sox past Orioles at Camden 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
SEX IS NO BARRIER 3-6 BDRM HOMES.AVAIL. NOW & NO Alumni need Michigan St GAs! Jimmy Johns Gourmet Sandwiches 04/05.FURN.272-6306 Call Wendy, 617-501-6400 NOTICES is looking for a few good men and FoR SALE TICKETS 
women who wish to work in a FUN That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast USC tickets-97 grad needs 4 PART-TIME WORK and fast pace environment. A new BEDROOMS, 2 FLOORS WON T has space available for football/par-NO FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL. please!!! Can buy separately. EXCELLENT PAY WWW.WORK-store will be opening up in early LAST LONG! 574.243.3911 OR ent wknds. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR Contact Jennifer at FORSTUDENTS.COM October. 574.532.0956 LEAVE MESSAGE1 5 Rooms/private baths, full hot TOLL FREE 877-773-3911 jennifermtoland@msn.com or 
We have aggressive pay. breakfast, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 (202) 486-4037 STUDENT WORK. $11.50 base-Hrs from11 am to 3am. In-shoppers, LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO miles from TOP$$$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX appt. Flex.pi hrs. drivers and mgmt available. FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO. campus. Toll Road, Exit#107,1-OR INDIVIDUAL GAMES. DISCRE-Need MSU tix Call (574)233-5361. Cust.svc/sales. No D-T-0/No Call Andy at 574-277-0850 for NON-RENTAL. NEWLY 800-418-9487. TION ASSURED. 654-8018. Telemkt. interview. REMODELED, FULLY EQUIPPED. Fun work schol./interns. $94,500. Email: Clean 2-bdrm house, 1.25 mi. to NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED PERSONAL cond. apply. Babysitter wanted for 2 kids. Car is Williamson.1 @nd.edu NO. Desirable neighborhood. -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378 work w/other students preferred. Please call $550/mo + utilities. PM 288-2726 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 574-282-2357 Susan 271-9634. 97 Volkswagen Jetta.Low miles.A1 57 4-233-1604. not go it alone. If you or someone www.earnparttime.com condition. Sunroof.$5,900 0/B/0. NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR you love needs confidential support 
Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO 269-663-8422 Furnished 2 bdrm apt. for NO home SALE AM -232-2378 or assistance, please call Sr. Mary I NEED GA TIXS. exper. required. games. 1.4 miles to NO. $595 per PM -288-2726 Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For 2726306 All looks & ages. LOFT, single, wooden. Will deliver weekend. 269-more information, see our bi-weekly 
Earn $100-$300 a day. and help set up. $165. Call574-684-6409. WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. ad in The Observer. Congratulations Kyle LeClere! 1-888-820-0167, ext. U187. 243-0853. TOP DOLLAR PAID. Kyle won a FREE Privacy! One-bdrm home, 1026 (574)232-0964. Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America Kaplan Test Prep LSAT ROCK!! Drummer and Bassist Foster St., $590/mo.574-784-3275. s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring classroom course worth $1,099. needed for new rock band. FOR.SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. campus reps. Call for discounts: Interested in Kaplan Courses? Contact Michael Barrett FoR RENT 2,3,4,5 and 8 BEDROOM HOUSES LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570. 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com Call 272-4135 for more for more info. 4-41 00 FOR RENT FOR 2004/5: CALL information. 2-bdrm apts. $435/mo plus utilities. ANLAN PROPERTIES JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, HUGE YARD SALE· SATURDAY, 
ROCK!! Drummer and Bassist 2-story, 4 bdrm, 2 full baths. Avail. 532-1896 NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT· SEPT. 13 FROM 9-3 ONE DAY needed for new rock band. immediately. 273-4555. BALL GAME. ONLY!I1 Housewares, lawn & gar-Contact Michael Barrett COLLEGE PARK APT. 2 BED, 2 PLEASE CALL 674-6593. den, bicycles, exercise/sports 
WANTED for more info. 4-4100 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO BATH, LIVINGROOM, DIN-equipment, camping gear and much 
CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM NINGROOM, KITCHEN, ALL Will trade 2 MSU, 2 NAVY, or 2 BYU more. 50541 Portage Road (north of SUMMER RENTAL WANTED NOW HIRING. Kaplan Test Prep is MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272-APPLIANCES INCLUDED $970-for your 2 FSU or 2 USC tickets. Adams Road) Retired Arizona couple looking to currently hiring test proctors and 1525 (630) 897-0777 574-289-8048 
renVsub-lease apt./home student advisors. Some fibers are unac.counted for. for summer of 2004. Work from 2-16 hlwk. 2-bdrm house close to NO. 269-4 Rooms NO football & grad 3 miles Will trade 2 MSU tix for 2 FSU. Call Call 574-289-8800. To apply, call 272-4135. 699-5841. NO Best area (574)287-4545 Jim Newell at 203-748-8926. There's trouble downtown. 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, September I 0, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
l
I I 
I
COLLEGE fOOTBALL PREVIEW 
Cornhuskers ready to upend Nittany Lions 
Associated l'n:ss 
OMAHA, Neb. -Based on P1~nn State's two lackluster per­formances this season, Nebraska appears poised to exact a meas­ure of revenge for last year's blowout loss in Jlappy Valley. 
But Cornhuskers coach Frank Solich donsn 't think his squad is staring at a cakewalk in Memorial Stadium on Saturday. 
"We expect it will· be the same type of Penn State team that we always see," Solich said. "I know coach (Joe) Paterno will have them ready to play in Lincoln." 
The 18th-ranked Cornhuskers (2-0) look to avenge their worst loss of last season when they host the struggling Nittany Lions (1-1). 
Nebraska traveled to Penn State last year armed with a 3-0 record and a No. 8 national ranking. But the Lions used three interceptions to score 33 unanswered points en route to a 40-7 triumph. 
The loss marked the beginning of Nebraska's tailspin as the Cornhuskers dropped seven of their final 11 games for their worst season since 1961. 
"It's on everybody's mind. defi­nitely," Nebraska linebacker 

----· -····-·· ..........-----·----------.,-------------------, 
STUDY IN BRAZIL 

INFORMATION SESSION 
Thurs. Sept. 11, 2003 
., .8':00-9:00 'PM.· 
ROOM 125 HAYES-HEALY 
Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2003 for Spring 2004 Dec. 1, 2003 for Fall 2004 Applications available on-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud/ 
Barrett Ruud said. "It was a pretty embarrassing moment last year. I haven't brought it up a lot, but I think about it quite a bit." 
This season, Nebraska's offense has been racking up the yardage but is having trouble getting in the end zone. 
After scoring just one offensive touchdown in a 17-7 win over then-No. 24 Oklahoma State on Aug. 30, the Huskers scored three in last Saturday's 31-7 rout of Utah State despite generating 405 total yards. 
Quarterback Jammal Lord 
"It was a pretty
ran for 72 yards elTectively in a and a touch­embarrassing moment lot of dillerent down for ways, particu­
last year." 
Nebraska, larly until we which settled decide what for four David Barrett Ruud the makeup of 
Dyches field Nebraska linebacker the team is 
Aug. 30 and followed it up with Saturday's 15-of-28 performance for 143 yards and an intercep­tion. 
Backup Michael H.obinson, who's also been used as a run­ning back and wide receiver. relieved Mills in the third quar­ter and seemed to provide a spark for the offense, directing the Lions to their lone second­halfscore. 
But Paterno doesn't see a change on the horizon. 
"Zach Mills is the quarter­back," Paterno said, "and I think 
we can usc 
Hobinson 

goals. Lord also completed 8 of 12 passes for 85 yards before giving way to Joe Dailey late in the third quarter. 
Dailey, a highly touted fresh­man, finished with 47 yards on nine carries, and completed 4-of­5 passes for 47 yards. 
However, he doesn't foresee a quarterback controversy brew­ing with Lord. 
"Jammal's the starter no mat­ter what," Dailey said, "and peo­ple have to accept that. I'm still learning the game." 
Despite Paterno's insistence to the contrary, a quarterback con­troversy may be breWing in State College, Pa. 
After a rough season opener against Temple, starter Zack Mills had his second poor outing of the season in Saturday's 27-14 home loss to Boston College. 
The junior passed for just 79 yards with one score and one interception against Temple on going to be." 
Paterno has 
also been 

questioned about his tailback-by-committee approach. With Heisman Trophy finalist Larry Johnson now in the NFL, Penn State is using a com­bination of three and even four running backs, including fresh­man Austin Scott, Tony llunt and Donnie Johnson. 
Paterno hopes that as the sea­son goes on, the youngsters' grasp of the offense will allow him to be more creative at the position. 
"Obviously, you are hoping they are getting better each week," Paterno said. "I would hope that when the staff sits down to talk about what kind of substitutions we are going to make, and in what situations, that we will be more comfortable that we can do more things with those kids." 
Penn State holds a 7-5 edge in the all-time series. 
Hawkeyes ready for Cyclones on Saturday 
Note to our Advertisers 
The ads office is currently upgrading to a more digital process of 
receiving advertisements in order to improve the placement, appear­,ance and accuracy of advertisements that appear in The Observer. 
On the morning of Tuesday, September 9, our e-mail system experi­enced a failure, causing us to lose ad material for several advertise­ments. If you sent an e-mail to the advertising department on Monday, September 8 or Tuesday, September 9, please contact our office at 574-631-6900 to confirm that we received your e-mail. Alternatively, please resend your e-mail. 
We are working to improve our system to ensure that we do not have experience any more failures. In the meantime, thank you for your patience. 
Sincerely, 
Maura Cenedella 
Advertising Manager 
Associated Press 

IOWA CITY, Iowa -As far as the people of Iowa are con­cerned, there's just one game: Iowa against Iowa State. 
The 23rd-ranked Hawkeyes (2-0) and the Cyclones (2-0) will renew their longtime rivalry when they meet Saturday at Jack Trice Stadium. 
"Every year it's what the fans talk about, in season, out of season, it doesn't matter," Iowa State wide receiver Jack Whitver said about Saturday's game. "Even on my summer break, that's all people want to talk about. 
"It's important to a lot of peo­ple. There's not much in profes­sional sports going on around here. That's why I say it's like our Super Bowl." 
Iowa, which leads the all-time series 33-17, owned Iowa state during the mid-1980s and early 1990s, winning 15 straight meetings starting in 1983. The Cyclones have since turned things around, winning five straight over the Hawkeyes, including handing Iowa its only regular season loss last year ­36-31 in Iowa City. 
Iowa comes in well-rested fol­lowing a 56-7 win over Buffalo last week. The Hawkeyes scored touchdowns on their first four drives and added Sean Considine's 11-yard intercep­tion return for a 35-0 second­quarter lead. 
Hawkeyes coach Kirk Ferentz then sat starting quarterback Nathan Chandler and running back Fred Russell. Freshman quarterback Drew Tate led an eight-play, 69-yard scoring drive before the half. Freshman running back A.J. Johnson had a second-half touchdown and receiver Maurice Brown fin­ished with four catches for 82 yards and a TD. 
"I think we have a lot of excit­ing young players on our foot­ball team right now, intriguing players," said Ferentz, who is 0-4 against Iowa State. "It's always good to have them get a chance to get in and play ... It's kind of fun." 
The Cyclones arc feeling bet­ter about themselves following last week's 48-20 win over Ohio. Iowa State was coming in off a lackluster 17-10 win over Division 1-M Northern Iowa on Aug. 30. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September l 0, 2003 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Governing body wants White stripped of medals 
will begin a review process that ning the 100 on Aug. 24. She The IAAF gave White until of the drug. She said her per­
Associated Press 

could last months. passed a drug test after win­Tuesday to produce medical sonal doctor prescribed the The IAAF made clear it ning the 200 four days later. documents explaining her use medication for narcolepsy. LONDON -Track and field's expects U.S. authorities to governing body wants remove White's medals. 
American sprinter Kelli White stripped of her two gold medals from the World Championships. Now it's up to U.S. anti-doping officials. 
The International Association of Athletics Federations ruled Tuesday that White committed a doping offense when she test­ed positive for a stimulant and should lose her world titles in the 100 and 200 meters. 
The IAAF rejected White's explanation that she took the stimulant for a sleep disorder and sent the case to the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency for a hear­ing and disciplinary action. 
Rich Wanninger, a spokesman for the U.S. Anti­Doping Agency, said his organi­zation had not received any information from the IAAF as of Tuesday afternoon. Once that information is received, Wanninger said, the agency 
"The proper sanction under IAAF rules will be a public warning and disqualification from the competition con­cerned," IAAF general secre­tary Istvan Gyulai said. 
If the IAAF isn't satisfied with the U.S. action, the internation­al body would take the case to the Court of Arbitration for Sport in Lausanne, Switzerland. 
"She is disqualified only at the end of the procedure because further legal issues need to be exhausted," Gyulai told The Associated Press by phone from IAAF headquarters in Monaco. "This can only hap­pen after she has been given a hearing by her national federa­tion." 
White, the first American woman to sweep the sprint events at the worlds, tested positive for modafinil after win-


The .Nanovic Institute for European Studies 
• C' •
FllmJertes 
Women In Europe«n Film: Loss, Identity~ Belonging 
'Ttte One ana Only'' (UK 2002) 
September ll, Thursday, 7:00 pm Hesbllrgh L.ibrary Carey Auditorium 
Introduced bythe (ilwts produce~ Leslee Utfwin (rom Assassin Films!~> Lonaon ··with QtiA atterwara 
Ct>--:SliDHSOred by The Gmdume SCb()fJI*The .Institute fer S:C'hQiarship in the Liberal Arb_. The Londfln Pmgmm,and the de~Jartmems ot HiststY and Political Sckitc~ 
www~nd~edut-nanwic (or more information 
l('iii1'Ut.N>Jfi10NAL$l\10\ PM.OORA,.ts t~l tnJRUf\' ltJltbtNG l"; ~U·SS:s.l: fh f;.lJ..oJ111 

SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFORMATION MEETlN'G 
\Vith Carmen Nanni Student Returnees 
TIJ:u.r* Seu,.J12 2003 125 Hayes-Healy 
7:00~8:00 m 
A.ppUeation lleadline: Od~ ~~ 1003 f<trSp.ring l004 Dec. 1, 200l for Fall '04 and AU Year' 2004-05 
. .. .·1· . . t• . · . A. .. •c...t..l · .,.,., 1 ·., tJ t d1
._.:a ..
A.pp 1ca Jons ,.,.,·;n~u e.: www.nu..-euu. -tn s u '< 
Wednesday, September 10, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
A>sociated Press 
Pf'ITSBUHGII -Steelers line­backl~r Joey Porter. who was shot outside a Denver night club less than two weeks ago, could be on the field this Sunday in Kansas City. 
Steelers Coach Bill Cowher announced Tunsday that he has list1~d Porter I).S doubtful to play in the game, which in the NFL means Porter has a 25 percent chanw of playing. 
Cowher initially said Porter would return within two to eight wePks, and his best esti­mati~S are coming true. 
"I really just tried to get you guys to understand this was not as bad as some people were saying," Cowher said at a news conference. "As the information comes, it just keeps getting bet­ter and better and, knock on wood. hop1~fully it'll continue to lw that way." 
Cowher said the risk of infec­tion was thl' biggest concern of doctors after they removed a IJmrn bullnt l'rom Porter's upper right thigh on Labor Day. The risk has been minimized with the help of the Steelers' training staff. who have been changing the dressing on the wound twiw a day. 
"That was the biggest concern and he's doing better," Cowher said. "We just don't want to pKt him out there w1Ul1t he's not ready to play and be able to defend hims()!f, but at the same time we're welcoming him back as soon as he can get back." 
Porter's presence was felt by both teams during the Steelers' 34-14 season-opening victory against the Baltimore Havens. 
Porter and Havens linebacker Hay Lewis engaged in a pre­game argument, and then Porter was pointed out to the TV audience for running ahead of teammate Kendrell Bell along the Steelers' bench area during Bell's 42-yard intercep­tion return in the first quarter. After the game. Porter took his pre-game problem with Lewis to the media and criticized Lewis' performance during the game. 
"lie had one tackle today, maybe two," Porter said, "and he was jumping around like he had 30." 
Two Steelers, linemen Aaron Smith and cornerback Dewayne Washington, made gestures during the game indicating their sympathy for Porter. Wide receiver Plaxico Burress wore a sticker on his helmet bearing Porter's No. 55. 
"Before the game, in the lock­er room, we got together as a team, getting ready to pray, and you could see a guy bending over on the counter with tears in his eyes because he couldn't be out there," Burress said. "It kind of sent a message to all of us to just go out there and play hard every down. because you never know what's going to happen. 
API pholo 

Pittsburgh Steeler Joey Porter congratulates a teammate after a play last season. Porter was shot two weeks ago at a bar, but could play this Sunday against the Chiefs. Porter was a key part of Pittsburgh defense last season and his teammates are eager for his return to their lineup. 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Priest charged vvith Inanslaughter 
as pastor of St. Maximilian attorney, said he will handle
Murder charge 

Kolbe parish in Homestead, the case the same way he did was arraigned Tuesday after­during the coroner's inquest.
dropped, death 

noon and released on his own "I don't think any of the called an accident recognizance. facts have changed," he said. Gaines, a 19-year-old wide Zappala said he would ask receiver and the Court of
Associated Press 

kick returner Common 
.PITTSBUB.GH -An involun­f r 0 m "The family ofBilly Pleas in tary manslaughter charge Ijamsville. Allegheny
Gaines is impressed and 
was refiled Tuesday against Md., died County to the priest accused of provid­after he fell grateful for the decision send the ing alcohol to a drunken about 25 feet and the district case directly Pittsburgh football player who onto a to an admin­
attorney's actions." 
fell to his death through a church pew. istrative or church ceiling. He and a motions 
Father Henry Krawczyk was teammate, Christopher Hellmlch judge in recharged, one day after the placekicker order to
spokesman for the family
Allegheny County coroner's David Abdul, avoid anoth­office ruled Billy Gaines' had been er coroner's death was an accident and exploring a inquest. dismissed the charge. crawl space. An attor-
Allegheny County District Abdul and ney for 
Attorney Stephen Zappala Jr. two other men testified at a Gaines' family welcomed the said the case was too impor­coroner's inquest Monday news that Krawczyk has been tant to be t h a t charged. dismissed. Krawczyk "The family of Billy Gaines and a jury "Whether or not we get a furnished is impressed and grateful for should be alcohol to the decision and the district
conviction, the most 

allowed to six underage attorney's actions,"
important thing is 

decide men at a Christopher Hellmich. "We whether whether or not a jury cookout in continue to monitor the civil the hours and criminal aspects of this
Krawczyk is hears this matter 

responsible leading up to case very carefully."
because injuries 

for Gaines' Gaines' fall Father Honald Lengwin, a death. determine guilt or around 2:30 spokesman for the Homan 
"Whether innocence. a.m. Tests Catholic Diocese of or not we get showed Pittsburgh, declined com­a conviction. Gaines' ment.
Stephen Zappala Jr.

the most blood-alco­Krawczyk is already facing
Allegheny county

important hol content a single count of reckless thing is district attorney was 0.16 endangerment, a misde­whether or p e r c e n t meanor punishable by up to not a jury when he was two years in prison, as well as hears this matter because taken to the hospital, well six counts of furnishing alco­juries determine guilt or inno­above the state's legal intoxi­hol to minors, all misde­cence," Zappala said. cation limit of 0.1 percent. meanors carrying up to one 
Krawczyk, who has resigned David Cercone, Krawczyk's year in prison each. 
Wednesday, September 10, 2003 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Alou's single puts Cubs ahead for good in victory 
Associated Press 

SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico­Moises Alou hit a tiebreaking two-run single in the seventh inning, and the Chicago Cubs overcame a scary moment when Sammy Sosa was hit in the hel­met with a pitch in a 4-3 victory over the Montreal Expos on Tuesday night. 
Sosa was plunked by Zach Day in the fourth inning, draw­ing boos from the crowd of 15,632 at Hiram Bithorn Stadium. The All-Star right fielder took a knee and was immediately approached by manager Dusty Baker and the team's trainer. After a few min­utes, Sosa walked to first, and appeared to be fine. He later scored on a sacrifice fly by Aramis Ramirez. 
In April, Sosa was hit in the helmet by a pitch thrown by Pittsburgh's Salomon Torres. The ball's impact was so severe it ripped a large hole in front of his left ear flap. 
With the win, Chicago moved a half-game ahead of Houston in the NL Central. The Astros played Milwaukee later Tuesday. 
The Expos were playing the fourth of a six-game "homes­tand" in Puerto Rico-the team's third this season away from Montreal. 
Pitcher Carlos Zambrano led off the seventh with a single. One out later, Day (7 -7) hit 
Mark Grudzielanek, the last batter he faced. 
Reliever Hector Almonte then walked Sosa to load the bases, and Alou hit a hard grounder between second and third that squeezed just beyond the reach of shortstop Orlando Cabrera, scoring Zambrano and Grudzielanek to make it 4-2. 
Colorado 8, St. Louis 1 
Gregg Zaun homered and drove in four runs for the Colorado Rockies, who snapped an eight-game losing streak with an win over the St. Louis Cardinals. 
The loss left the Cardinals 2 1/2 games behind Chicago and Houston in the NL Central with 17 to play. 
The Rockies had lost 13 of their previous 14 games overall and 10 straight road games, tying a team record set 1997 and tied in 2000. Colorado is an NL-worst 21-52 on the road this season. 
Colorado starter Jason Jennings (12-12) ended a per­sonal road losing streak of six games, allowing one earned run on six hits over six innings. He struck out three and walked two. 
Three Colorado relievers com­bined for three scoreless innings. 
Philadelphia 18, Atlanta 5 
Tomas Perez and Jason Michaels both hit grand slams and Philadelphia reached a sea­son high in runs with a rout of the Atlanta Braves, keeping the Phillies even with Florida in the NL wild-card race. 
Perez and Michaels became the third duo in Phillies history to hit two slams in a game. Ralph Miller and Lee Meadows were the first on April 28, 1921, followed by Billy McMillon and Mike Lieberthal on Aug. 18, 1997. 
Lieberthal also hit a three-run shot in the first off Shane Reynolds. Perez nearly hit another homer, settling for an RBI double off the left-field wall. 
Philadelphia won for the sev­enth time in eight games to keep pace with the Marlins, who defeated the New York Mets 3-1. 
The Braves gave up two grand slams in a game for only the second time in modern fran­chise history. Miller and Meadows hit their 1921 slams against Boston. 
Houston 7, Milwaukee 6 
Lance Berkman doubled home the go-ahead run with two outs in the ninth inning and the Houston Astros rallied past the Milwaukee Brewers. 
The Astros tied it on pinch­hitter Jose Vizcaino's three-run homer in the eighth, then went on to their fifth· win in six games. Houston remained in a f!rst-place tie with Chicago in the NL Central. 
Milwaukee lost its fifth in a row. 

With two outs in Astros ninth, Dan Kolb (1-2) walked Jeff Bagwell. Jeff Kent followed with a single and Berkman doubled. 
Brad Lidge (6-3) pitched the eighth for the victory and Billy Wagner closed in the ninth for his team-record 40th save. 
Vizcaino hit his third homer of the season, connecting on the first pitch from reliever Luis Vizcaino. 
Clnclnnatl10, Pittsburgh 6 
Russell Branyan hit a three­run homer and Wily Mo Pena added a go-ahead two-run shot in Cincinnati's six-run sixth inning as the Reds rallied past the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
Pittsburgh led 6-2 when D'Angelo Jimenez and Sean Casey opened the sixth with sin­gles off starter Salomon Torres. 
Craig Wilson followed Matt Stairs's one-out single with his third homer in two nights to give Pittsburgh a 2-0 lead in the second. 
Reggie Sanders hit a run-scor­ing double and Wilson added an RBI single as the Pirates made it 4-0 in the fourth. 
Florida 3, New York 1 
Jack McKeon chomped on another victory cigar after his surprising Florida Marlins pulled out another clutch win. 
And the Marlins manager had several more cigars on his desk, waiting to be lit during the final month of the pennant race. 
Alex Gonzalez tripled in two runs with two outs in the ninth to lift Florida to a 3-1 victory over the New York Mets and keep the Marlins tied atop the NL wild card standings Tuesday night. 
The Marlins won for the 1Oth time in 12 games and moved to a season-high 15 games over .500 (80-65). They remained deadlocked for the wild card lead with the Philadelphia Phillies, who won 18-5 at Atlanta. 
"It's a lot of fun," said Derrek Lee, who scored the final Marlins run. "September is when you're making offseason plans already. But right now, we're in it." 
New York lost in its oppo­nent's last at-bat for the fourth time in six games. 
"A lot of times this year. one pitch has beat us," losing pitch­er David Weathers said. "The bullpen on the whole has not been real good at that." 
Tempers flared in the ninth inning for the second straight night. Lee slammed his bat down after he was struck by Weathers' pitch and strode toward the mound. He was steered to first base and the benches didn't empty. 
Ugueth Urbina (3-0) worked one inning for the victory. Braden Looper pitched a perfect ninth for his 28th save. 
"We feel like if it's a close game, we have a great chance of pulling it out," Lee said. 


THE FISCHOFF NAT:IONAL. CHAMBER MUStC ASSOCIATION PRESENTS 
V4l..IOHt CO~i:'M4N,. ~lo.liJ'Ut .. TQVl~ fi!IP$11...~~~:; pi$Q~ .~ M»o~IAM Abi\~, <:J;.A-~IHl"t' JEFF kOTI, HORN ;. M:ON~CA i:LL.15, 111.1\.H~Nl A FIM::MOt"l" Alirt&•lN•·Et.n.tCA'nON Rlti!UOfi:NCY E._.·~kl 
THuRSDaY, J:PTff'\ttR 11, zoo3 
7:30 PfA, vlaSHiN9TON HatL 


!!IV~'>'PO!'IT~P ~N """"~ !!!'r nnr; !-f~NWi-'<~$ t.,!!;;;TV.~J> SJ>:f'!JJ:$, Jt,UIITnvr~ FQ~ s~~ot,~~!!IH!!" JN T~E IL¥1!1£~A.L A.A'fS, C:.OLLECE OF .IJ.R:T'$ AND L£'f'f'Uti!IJ U'NlVER&fl"'i' Of' NOTft£ DAM£ 
*''''"r.::-.c.n:· AWfto•lt•·,t;:a:..;.w.::;..n($111 tlc"~<;"~·'!>.i:l:::f f..!N=R'JII>'RIH<.Rlii Ft.~!::'!<l<.:.;e: V. C·M'IMOI. F'O'tmc;>.~'!t;.W~ .' JI.HHO~ ltNZU!e ·o-1' &OI.I'H·'I· St:N'D i 89!1'11'-'!;r.,M~· i\.ot.W!Oj!!'f!c!FN<;h i:'!<lr.:.,. ,f'~&O,r.BCK Z·. Ul''l't:wf, i"·CIJt><ct:.liO.''l'IOS! .{ A'll!l Gl<:cW~~Al. { OCIJG M ~,.; •' i'>tDU•I>fA AiicT:ii C:·.::t~'f•H:Iok!ilO!;i S<n"!"<:'-"''fi:'O ''~ ll".~i'li '!!'f .o, !'.>l'l,.M:< f'·,~ ·n:~r;:. r-o,,,n·mN..,L ErH.>O·'>'<t'"'!l:.t~r "01'1' ™'t A.IU'5! on:· Tl•tr. *'lcli:i.,li<:IO~£ Lu::r·lJ~r. :$";:;w:~. i<•:!i·nruH: r·-.'li<i lilC.foi<:IL.O.ru<>Hr.• ~:>< ToH' u·~<;{:RII~ . .o.r(ffi, ·C"-'i.l."il>t: '-"~' AR'r''!l M~r.:<l..:t·TTI';:"~' 'I)N:~~·!f'!HT·Of QJ<' lltr.tr·~·'f. :0AI>I.,f:! 'l'Hf: i(.~·U.Q<»Ili f:~~nTI-.11'\!. ~;:::<~· l'I'~T!:fflN:IiTNl:>~AL jii~·,lfttt~~ ANO ~b· TH~ 'UI>i'i\ri<~.,;;~r;,· <:!~· l'i.;}TRI<:. b.;o.MIO. b"i>,o.nn~»:tH 0<1' MU:IKI"' 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­-
I I 

Wednesday, September I 0, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NCAA ATHLETICS 
Vanderbilt will extinguish athletic department 
"There is a wrong culture in "Let there be no misunder­ond in the nation. Vanderbilt's sports programs
Athletics will be 
athletics, and I'm declaring war standing of our intention:· Vanderbilt's move comes at a have been cited for just one on it," Vanderbilt Chancellor Vanderbilt is committed to com­time of much debate in college major NCAA violation since
placed under central 
Gordon Gee said. at a news con­peting at the highest levels in sports about how schools run 1953, an unethical conduct university control ference. the Southeastern Conference their programs, and follows charge involving the women's No NCM sports programs or and the NCAA, but we intend on numerous scandals across the basketball coach in 1991, and jobs will be eliminated, but just competing consistent with the country. the school self-imposed penal-Associated Press about everything else will values of a world-class universi­Gee said the traditional struc-ties of fewer recruiting visits 
change at a school that has run ty," Gee said. ture for collegiate athletics was and the loss of one grant. 
NI\SIIVILLE, Tenn. one of the country's cleanest Vanderbilt's sports programs "broken." This month's NCM report on Vanderbilt will eliminate its ath­programs in the last half-centu­have had mixed success in "At least (Vanderbilt) has a graduation rates had the uni­letic department in a major ry. That includes the elimina­recent years. chance for success because it versity leading the Southeastern shaknup designed to curb the tion of the athletic director posi­The football program has lost has athletes and academics in Conference with 84 percent of ills of big-time college athletics. tion, which Todd Turner has 18 straight Southeastern the same enterprise," he said. all 1996 freshmen graduating, 
Vanderbilt will continue play­held for seven years. Conference games and 27 of its Last season, Georgia and 75 percent for athletes and 91 ing intercollegiate sports, but Turner has been offered a job last 28 SEC games. The Fresno State withdrew their percent for football. the reorganization merges the as special assistant to the chan­women's basketball team went men's basketball teams from Gee, who has been crusading dnpartments that control varsity cellor for athletic and academic to the NCAA regional tourna­postseason play because of aca-for higher academic standards and intramural athletics, put­reform, a position in which he ment last year and lost in the demic fraud, while St. since he came to Vanderbilt in ling sports under the central would advance "a national second round while the men's Bonaventure forfeited two 2000, said college athletics "is university administration, the agenda for the reform of inter­basketball team finished 11-18. games when players boycotted in a defining moment in its life. school said Tuesday. collegiate athletics." The men's tennis team was sec-after a player was declared Either we get control of it 

EVERY WEDNESDAY 

Standard Mixed Drinks All Night. Long 
EVERY THURSDAY 
$ 2.00 Long Islands & Domestic Bottles All Night Long 
This place rocks!! 

100 N. Center St. (The 100 Center) Mishawaka-(574) 259-7522 
MUST BE 21 WITH VALID ID! 
r --------------------------.. --------.· .--..-.. ---•• -.. 
I 
Coupon Good Sept. 8th through Oct. 31st 
Bring this Card in for 
FREE! 
*With $5.00 Minimum Purchase TWO 16 Ounce Loaves of Grissom Bread 
Limit One Coupon per Family 
Must Have Coupon 
574-247-4400 
" 

G!ifllm•!!!. 
Baylor President gets 'no confidence' vote 
In recent days, five of Baylor's 
Associated Press 

36 regents and three former 
regent chairmen have called forWACO, Texas ----: The Baylor ­
Sloan's resignation. 
faculty senate passed a "no con­Baylor is reeling from the fatal 
fidence" motion Tuesday for shooting of basketball player
embattled President Robert 
Patrick Dennehy, the arrest ofSloan. 
former player Carlton Dotson on
A group billing itself as a murder charge, and revela­"Friends of Baylor" countered 
tions of serious NCAA rules vio­
the senate's action -acade­
lations in the basketball pro­
mia's severest form of criticism gram. ­--by announcing it has raised Last month. Sloan accepted$300,000 for a public relations the resignations of coach Davecampaign to defend Sloan and Bliss and athletic director Tomthe scandal-ridden university. 
Stanton and put the program onThe opposing messages came voluntary probation. 
amid mounting pressure from 
Friends of Baylor, founded 

some circles for Sloan, who has less than two weeks ago, issued
headed the world's largest 
a statement saying it has
Baptist university for eight 
"recruited a heavy hitting com­.....
years, to step down. 
mittee of Baylor alumni and
The 26-6 vote of no confi­supporters from across Texas"dence came after the faculty to support its campaign. 
senate met for more than three 
U.S. Rep. Max Sandlin, D­
hours. 

Texas, a Friends of Baylor steer­Joe Cox, the faculty senate ing committee member. said tlwchairman, said the motion cites group "is not just a pep squadthe "deeply polarized and rela­
-we are a group of highly
tionally paralyzed Baylor com­­
active, highly motivated Baylor
munity" under Sloan's presiden­
alumni and students who arP 
cy. 

committed to supporting Baylor
The senate, which has no 
and its current leadership."
actual authority over Sloan's 
A few hundred yards from tlw 

employment, will forward its building where the faculty sen­
recommendation for his ouster ­
ate met, about 200 students to Baylor's 36-member board of gathered at a special prayPr regents, which opens a two-day service, asking for peace of ineligible. 
At Missouri, school officials have appointed an engineering professor to oversee a probe into allegations a basketball player received improper aca­demic and financial help. At Baylor, former coach Dave Bliss is accused of attempting to cover up the finances of a slain basketball player, Patrick Dennehy, by portraying him as a drug dealer. 
Another high-profile basket­ball coach, Larry Eustachy, resigned from Iowa State earli­er this year after the Des Moines Register published pho­tos of him drinking and party­ing with students from another school. 
At Ohio State, star running back Maurice Clarett was sus­pended indefinitely and charged with lying to police about items stolen from his car. 
The National Association of Basketball Coaches has told all Division I basketball coaches to 
through university presidents, or it becomes simply a segrega­tiona), embarrassing part of .. institutions, and we'll just have to close it down." 
He said leaders from other SEC schools have told him, '"Gordon, you go ahead and do it, and if you succeed we'll fol­low.' There's not a great deal of courage out there." 
But Gee, a former university president at football power­house Ohio State, acknowledges that he faces far less pressure than his peers at schools with big-time football and basketball programs. 
"If I did this at Ohio State I'd be pumping gas," he said. 
Charles Bloom. spokesman for the Southeastern Conference, based in Birmingham, 1\la., said it's too early to tell whether the changes at Vanderbilt are a trend or an anomaly. 
"There's been discussion on the national level about bring­ing athletics into the academic 
attend a summit next month in • world, and the question is, is Chicago to discuss all the prob-this a sign of things to come?" !ems and ways to avoid them. he said. 
meeting Thursday. mind and strength for Sloan. 
------------------------------------------~ 
OUND THE NATION 


COLLEGE fOOTBALL 


.. 

-
-
around the dial 
MLB 

AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Detroit at NY Yankees 7:05p.m., ESPN2 Anaheim vs. Oakland 9 p.m., ESPN 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Philadelphia at Atlanta 6 p.m., ESPN 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio Maurice Clarett was charged Tuesday with lying about items stolen from his car, and Ohio State coach Jim Tressel said the school is ready to cut ties with the star running back. 
Clarett was charged with misdemeanor falsification, city attorney spokesman Scott Varner said. If con­victed, Clarett would face up to six months in jail and a $1,000 fine. But proba­tion is likely the harshest sentence a judge would impose, city prosecutor Stephen Mcintosh said. 
Tressel said he does not expect Clarett to return this season to the defending national champion Buckeyes. He would recom­mend that Clarett be released from his scholar­ship if the request was made by Clarett, the coach said. 

Clarett has already been suspended indefinitely from the team, and probably will not play for the Buckeyes this season. He is also being investigated by the NCAA. 
Tressel was asked if it was time for Clarett to move on. 
"I think that he needs to make, along with his fami­ly, whatever decision he thinks is best for him," Tressel said. 
If Clarett's career at Ohio State is over, the running back's last carry would rank among the most mem­orable in school history. He scored on a 5-yard run in the second overtime in a 31-24 victory over Miami in the Fiesta Bowl, giving the Buckeyes their first nation­al championship in 34 years. 
Alan C. Milstein, the Clarett family attorney, said he wasn't surprised by Tressel's comments or the misdemeanor charge. 
"Nothing Ohio State does surprises me," he said. "I don't think the family rec­ognizes what Ohio State's actions and motivations are, either." 
Milstein declined to com­ment on whether Clarett would consider transfer­ring. 
If Clarett transferred to another Division I-A school, he would have to sit out a year in addition to any sus­pension or ineligibility handed down by the NCAA. He could transfer to a Division I-AA, II or III and be immediately eligible to play, but any possible penalties would also per­tain. 
Hawes said th/NCAA had not received Ohio State's formal response. 
IN BRIEF 
Devil Rays sign top pick
Young 
· The Tampa Bay Devil Rays signed No. 1 overall pick Delmon Young to a $5.8 million, five-year contract Tuesday. 
The outfielder will report to the Devil Rays' instructional league pro­gram Sept. 19. 
Young, the younger brother of Detroit's Dmitri Young, hit .541 with seven homers and 28 RBis in 22 games this season at Camarillo (Cal.) High School. He was the first selection in June's amateur draft. 
Asked if signing a major league contract was a dream come true, Young said, 
"Winning the World Series would be," Young said. 
Young, 18, hopes to reach the majors during the 2005 season. He also believes the Devil Rays, who have one of the major's youngest teams, can become championship contenders in the near future. 

"We should be able bring a World Series title back before 2010," Young said. 
Tampa Bay general manager Chuck LaMar foresees Young as a corner outfielder. 
"He's got a chance to be an awful­ly good offensive player," LaMar said. "I think we've signed a tremendous competitor." 
To make room on the 40-man ros­ter for Young, Tampa Bay trans­ferred shortstop Rey Ordonez from the 15-to the 60-day disabled list. Ordonez is out with a knee injury. 
Young gets a $3.7 million signing bonus, of which $25,000 is payable in November, $225,000 in January, $1.5 million each in January 2005 and January 2006 and $450,000 is July 2006. 
Ueberroth drops out of 
recall race Former baseball commissioner Peter Ueberroth dropped out of the 
California gubernatorial recall race Tuesday. 
The move came as the latest poll showed him trailing badly among candidates in the Oct. 7 election. 
Ueberroth, chief of the 1984 Los Angeles Olympic Games, said his focus on creating jobs had caught on with people but conceded his candi­dacy didn't have enough time left. 
"In the four weeks where we are and where we have to get, we just can't get there," he said during a news conference at his campaign headquarters. 
Ueberroth's departure is the latest among GOP candidates. Former gubernatorial candidate Bill Simon and U.S. Rep. Darrell Iss a, who financed the recall effort, earlier said they were dropping out of the race. 
Simon and Ueberroth's names will still appear on the ballot, while lssa's will not because he never filed candidacy papers. 
page 21 
The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, September 10, 2003 

VBall 
continued from page 24 
Loomis was joined by Big East Player of the Week Lauren Kelbley. who had 11 kills in the first two games. She did not play the third game. 
"We had the opportunity to play everybody today," Brown said. 
Senior Jessica Kinder set a school record with 28 digs on the match. She was joined by Meg Henican, who had 14 digs to go along with three kills. 
Senior se.tter Kristen Kinder led the attack with 35 assists and only one ball handling error. She also had eight digs in the three games. 
Sophomore middle blocker Lauren Brewster contributed eight kills as well. 
The Irish had trouble finish­ing the match after dominating the first two games. Game one began with a 13-5 Irish lead. This was too much for the Crusaders to overcome, as Loomis had eight kills in the game. 
Game two looked to be more of a challenge for the Irish, as Valparaiso was within one point at 11-10. However, Kelbley put together a string of serves, including two aces that put·the Irish up 15-10. After that, the Irish never looked back. 
In game three, Notre Dame got off to a slow start once again. However, unlike the 
previous game. the Irish couldn't break it open. as the Crusaders were winning most of the way. 
With the score 24-20 in favor of Valparaiso, Loomis put the ball away, and proceeded to serve three straight points to bring the Irish within one. She tied the game at 30 a l'ew min­utes later, and senior Kim Fletcher put the Irish ahead 31-30; Loomis then finished Valparaiso off. 
"In game three. we made a lot of unforced errors," Brown said. "That was a little disap­pointing. but hopefully it's a learning experience for us and we don't repeat that." 
The Irish will take the win. but they are not yet satisfied with their play. 
"We can definitely play at a higher level," Brown said. "What we were looking for is really steady play from start to finish." 
NOTRE DAME :J, 
Valparaiso 0 
at the JOYCE CENTEH, 
Tuesday 
NOTRE DAME 30 30 32 
Valparaiso 21 17 30 

NOTHE DAME -Kill~ 62 (LoomL~ 24). Assists 55 (K. Kinder 35). Digs 81 (J. Kinder 28). Blocks 7 (Urewster 3). Hitting percentage .257 (Loomis .571). Aces 7 (Three with 2) 
Valparaiso-Kills 37 (Hobinson 12). Assists 35 (Norman 32). Digs 75 (Silcox 26), Blocks 7 (Mikos 4), Hitting p!lrcentagP .135 (Norman .333), Aces 1 (lhlllsl'n 1) 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
the match, holding close to Calvin in a first game that was only decided by three points. After that, it seemed as though the team might have lost a bit of intensity, a fact reflected in the scores of the final two games. 
"We're the kind of team that needs to win that first game." Schroeder-Biek said. "When we started this match it was just like this weekend [at the Kilt Classic, where the Belles went 4-1]. 
"The first game we made some sloppy mistakes that caught up to us, and after that we didn't ever seem to get that original intensity back." 
Freshman Kristen Playko continued her impressive rookie season, leading the Belles with 11 kills and also contributing nine digs and three service aces. Senior cap­tain Alison Shevik led the team with 15 digs. 
Setter Lauren Temple had 32 assists to lead the team. and middle hitter Elise Hupright pitched in with a solid per­formance -eight kills. seven digs, two solo blocks and three service aces. 
The loss drops the Belles to 0-2 in conference play. but their coach maintains that this team has the ability to be something special. 
"We have great potential this year," Schroeder-Biek said. "We cannot lower our expecta­­tions. We need to play at the level we know we can play at, for the entire game." 
Saint Mary's returns home to face non-conference opponent Hochester College Thursday. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

r 
! 
Wednesday, September 10, 2003 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 

Watson focused and ready to play Saturday 
Renewing bitter ties more than anything else -Michigan. I think it's a real
By MATT LOZAR 

In case you didn't know, it's winning," Notre Dame coach big deal for our team this 
Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame-Michigan week. Tyrone Willingham said. "By year and how the season will Which means the players and that I think you have the No. play out." 
For the second straight 

coaches are attempting to not 1 program in the country in Last year, the Irish were 2-0 year, linebacker Courtney over hype this game. terms of winning percentage going into the game with 
Watson missed the beginning 

"You still have 11 guys on involved in this contest. On Michigan. In the season's of the Notre Dame season. offense, 11 guys on defense. the other hand, I think you third game, the offense finally
Watson missed the first two You still have to lineup and have the No. 1 program in found the end zone and for­games in 2002 due to an ill­

execute your technique and terms of games won in this mer Irish cornerback Shane ness. This season, Watson the play calls," cornerback contest. Walton sealed the 25-23 victo­was forced to watch the open­Vontez Duff said. "It's one of "It's a natural that this ry by breaking up a fourth er from the sidelines after a those games where there are becomes a game that gathers quarter two-point conversion 
circumstance outside of his 

more fans. We have to have the interest of a lot of people, and an interception on control resulted in a one­the mindset and attitude to go not only in this region, but Michigan's final dri-ve late 
game suspension. 

in there and execute our tech­around the country." interception.
The mystery surrounding 

nique and get things done." Notre Dame has a winning 
Injury update 
the cause of his suspension 

Even Duff admits it's hard percentage of .750 compared 
Cornerback Jason Beck­
brings about a lot of atten­

not to think about how big to Michigan's .746. The Irish strom participated in team
tion-which Watson is trying this game actually is. have won 791 games in 114 
drills in the beginning of
to ignore. 

"It's a battle man. It's going years while the Wolverines camp when the media was''I'm trying to do the best I have won 823 games in 123
to be a way. It's going to be allowed to watch practice. Hecan to put it behind me. A lot down to the last second on the years. was in full pads. Cornerbackof people want to ask ques­clock just like last year," Duff Telltale sign? Dwight Ellick had his left legtions about it and bring it up," said. "I feel as though if we go After surviving a major in an immobilizer TuesdayWatson said. "I can't focus on in and execute, it's going to be scare from Washington State and did not participate init. I can't worry about that. I 
a great game." Saturday, the Irish know this practice.
have a big enough task at The significance of this game will be very important Linebacker Mike Goolsby

hand Saturday to be worried rivalry goes back to Nov. 23, to determining their course worked out in the team drillsabout stuff like that." 

1887 when the Irish played for the rest of the season. in a helmet and shoulder
The return of Watson for 

their first game against the A loss drops their record to pads, but was not in full-body
Saturday's game against 

Wolverines. Michigan won 8-even, but a win could propel pads.
Michigan is extremely impor­0. the Irish into the top 10 and Willingham said the statustant since his performance is 

Besides the length of this give the Irish attention of the injured players will
key to stopping the running 

rivalry, the success of these around the country. become known throughout
game. Michigan's team run­two programs adds that much "I think this is a game, this the week and no one has beenning attack leads Division I 

with 367.0 yards a more meaning to every game. year, that means a lot to us as ruled out of Saturday's game.
game. 

"From my perspective, I a team," Watson said. "It's a
Chris Perry is first in the 

think you would say really pretty big game to show how Contact Matt Lozar at
country averaging 208.0 

one word probably captures it we can play away, at mlozar@nd.edu
yards per game. 

''Back to school, back to schooL .. '' 
-Adam Sandler, genius 
Wednesday at Interfaith an equally prolific thinker, also named Adam, Adam Kronk '02 
talks about the transition of coming back to school: as a first year student, from abroad, or simply a great summer. 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer • Wednesdays • 10 p.m. • Coleman-Morse Center 

D-backs 
continued from page 24 

jump on the loose ball. Duff isn't ready to switch roles just yet. 
''I'm not too much of a hitter. I'm going to leave that to Earl. It's kind of weird making those big hits and Earl getting the fumble," Duff said. "Usually it's the other way around. If it hap­pens that way, it's great for our team. If it gives us that burst, then I'm glad to have that role." 
The one disappointment for this secondary was its inability to directly contribute on the scoreboard. The whole defense. namely the defensive backfield, takes ·a lot of pride in making the big play to turn the game around and help out what has been an inconsistent offense. 
Saturday at Michigan, Duff and company are ready to get back to their old habits. 
"It's not just making those big plays and making those turnovers, but we need to score off those turnovers. That's what we really talk about as a defense," Duff said. "We help the offense a little bit more if we're scoring on defense. It helps the team out in the end. We always look forward to [not only] creating turnovers but also scoring off those turnovers." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


Wednesday, September 10, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 

HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

-

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
CNOTH 
± 
Q2003 Tribune Media Services, Inc. AU Rights Reserved 
NAISE 
1 

rJ 

WHE:N THE' TE:E:N

TIM CAP 
OUTL..INE:D HIS HOMI:WORK PL.ANS, MOM THOUGHT IT WAS--­

t
SMIREY t 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.

J I I I J 
Ans= 

"( I I I J" ( I I I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: APRON BISON TREMOR GAIETYYesterday's 
Answer: When the teen outlined his homework plans, Mom thought it was-"PROMISING" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 38 Verse, part 3 
Leno, notably 41 Rioter's take 
Black key 42 Grates on 
Cyber-nuisance 43 Fertile spot 
The Charleses' 
44 Newswoman can1ne 
Compton SuspiCious 
45 Slats for Sosa Place to spend 
46 S.D.I. weapon 

euros 47 End of the verse
Start of a 
roadside verse 53 Simple chord 
1994 Jodie 55 Addition 
Foster film 
56 High dudgeon An1mat1on pic 
57 Library refs. Tempe sch. 
58 Provider of the Broad scarf verse Verse, part 2 62 _greens Enzyme suffix 
63 Code1ne source Lukas of 
64 "Battle Cry" "Witness" 
author Article 1n Hoy 
65 Joy Adamson's 

Sacagawea, e.g. cub Word with back 66 Come home or black 
67 Daly of "Judging "Just !" Amy" 

DOWN 1 Come out of 
one's shell? 2 Actor Milo 3 Long-legged 
wader 4 Road crew supply 5 French government, 
with "the" 6 Sick and tired 7 Idyllic place 8 Document 
ender? 9 Cobb and others 10 Brainpower 11 Quiche holders 
12 Alice's chronicler, in song 
13 Hot sandwich 18 End of a stalk of corn 22 Focus of stomach­crunching 24 "I've _ up to 
here!" 25 "Really?" 26 Lets up 27 Han 31 Brand once 

advertised as "Tops in taste" 32 The Red Baron and others 33 Blowout 34 Abreast of 35 Old _ (Boston sight) 
WILLSHORTZ 


36 Like some 46 Burning 53 Option for tabloid Hamlet
48 Ziti, e.g.

headlines 54 Angler's need49 Big bone
37 Rhett's last words 58 Diddley and 50 Lock site, Derek 
39 Be in accord maybe 59 It's scanned in
40 Prestigious 51 Sen. Sam of mkts.
prizes Watergate fame 60 Uruguay, e.g.
45 McCarthy 52 Snider quarry teammate 61 Unfancy home 
For answers, call 1-900·285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Joel Grey, Louise Lasser, John Sheffield, Mitkle Scarabelli 
Happy Birthday: Pick and choose what's impottmt to you !his year. The focus shoukl be on you !his year and not on helping everyone around you. If you are steadfust and forceful in your approach, you will impress those willing to support your efforts. Your numbers are 10, 19,22,28,41,46 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You11 have plenty of options today. Do things that will provide you with adventure and cultw-al knowledge. l(s tim:: for you to make professional and personal changes in your life. ***** 
TAURUS (April :ID-May 20): A fumily nunber will be upset ifyou make changes widJOUt consent Be careful not to offend people that you have to deal with regularly. Do what you mJSt to avoid trouble. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Get involved in activities that require stamina and endurance. Your competitive nature, versatility and know-how will lead you in a tmtive direction. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Extravagance will be a key issue today. Refrain fium trying to buy liienlship. l(s tim: to make SOIOC pasooai changes. *** LEO (July 2..1-Aug. 22): You11 probably drive everyone around you crazy if you arc too intent on getting everyone to do things your way. Allow olhL'fS the freedom to do as they please. You doo~ have to lead all the time. ** VIRGO (Aug. 2..1-Sept. 22): You may want to look over your personal ~ today. You11 probably discover that you can save a bit of money if you make a few changes. Investm:nts will ~y offifyou play your Clllds right *** LIBRA (Sept. 2..1-0ct 22): Your offer of help will make a difference to the way other.; view you. You will receive an opportunity fiurn sornoone who is impressed with your creative, inlelligent suggestXm. **** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your change in attitude will cause upset and worry. 
Foorulate your Kka<; OOt do not irrpletn:nt themjust yet ** SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Grnb any oppmunity to trnvel. Th: ideas and coocepts that you discover will lead to prosperous ventures. Different perspectives can be 
gaiml. ***** 
CAPRICORN (Du:. 22-Jan. 19): There are ~ues to be dealt with regarding your financial situation, and you need to clear them up now. Make whatever changes are necessary to irnpove yOll" investm:nts. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. :ID-Feb. 18): You may feel a little nruddled by the signals that other 
...
people are sending you. Be blunt and ask what's going oo before the situatioo occupies your day, leaving tittle IOOIIl to aanrnplish anything else. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You won't be short of good ideas for making some extrn money. Be inventive and believe in yourself and what you can produce. You can make a 
rrofit*** 

Birthday Baby: You will want it all, and that may be difficult if you aren't willing to compromise. You will be slrong, stubborn and will not back down regardless of what you tiw::e. You will have high stuxlards, rrrrals and ethics. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.corn, eugenialast.com. wnetwork.corn. 
COPYRIGHT2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ____________________________________ 
City ____________ State _______ Zip__________ 
THE 0BSERV'ER 

-
PORTS
Wednesday, September I 0, 2003 
Page 24 
FOOTBALL 
By MATT LOZAR Associate Sports Editor 

The thinnest position on the Notre Dame defense was tested against Washington State, going past the traditional two­deep depth chart. 
Starting right cornerback Jason Beckstrom, who missed 2002 with an arm injury, was hurt on the Cougars' first quar­ter touchdown drive. Dwight Ellick, who was listed as a potential co-starter on the right side, replaced Beckstrom and later left with an injury in the first quarter. Preston Jackson, listed as the backup to Vontez Duff at left cornerback, shifted over to the right side. 
Insert true freshman Freddie Parrish into the picture. 
Parrish moved into the nickel back role, vacated by Jackson, and saw significant playing time throughout the rest of the game. 
"Coach Walters told me [Friday night] to be ready regardless. We went to our hotel, went through the note­book and he told me to be ready since you never know when your number is going to be called," Parish said. "When the opportunity presented itself, I just tried to do the best I could. 
"I thought I might play a little bit, if we were blowing them out or something. I had no idea it was going to be in for crunch time." 
Parrish only had the past summer to really learn the defensive schemes and adjust from the high school to the col-
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Irish win big in home opener 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
The Irish gave the home crowd something to cheer about Tuesday night, as they handed the Valparaiso Crusaders their first loss of the sea­son. 
No. 15 Notre Dame (5-1) swept Valparaiso (8-1) right off the court, winning 30-21, 30-17 and 32­30. 
"It is great to be home," coach Debbie Brown said after the game. "We were on the road for a very long time." 
The Irish shined in the home opener, once again dominating at the nets. Notre Dame fin­ished with 62 kills to Valparaiso's 37. Emily Loomis led the way for the Irish with 24 kills on 

ADAM MIGLORE!The Observer .574 hitting percentage. 
Freshman llbero Danlelle Herndon passes the ------------------,--­ball against Valparaiso Tuesday night. see VBALL!page 21 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles play well, but fall just short 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's came out of the Calvin game on the short end of the score, but that doesn't mean there's nothing the team can learn from its loss. 
The Belles fell to the Knights by a score of 27-30, 21-30, 19-30 Tuesday night, but coach Julie Schroeder­Biek was proud of how her team performed its game plan. 
"One of the reasons Calvin is 6-0 now is that they have a strong middle attack," she. said. ''I'm very happy with how we played up the mid­dle." 
Calvin's leading player, mid­dle hitter Kara Kuipers. came into the game hitting an aver­age of .600, but the Belles were able to hold her to well below that average. It was not enough as Kuipers' team­mates were able to back up their star. 
The Belles started strong in 
see BELLES/page 21 

lege game. Therefore, Parrish relied on the knowledge of his willing teammates to make sure he had the correct assignments. 
"They were all willing to help me, whenever we went to the sideline, Preston was always going over this and that," Parish said. "When we were on the field, Glenn [Earll would talk to me and Garron [Bible]. Same thing as Vontez [Duff] when I was on his side he let me know." 
Parrish wasn't the only unex­pected player to get into the game. When Duff went to the sidelines with an injury later in the game, Mike Richardson stepped onto the field for his first collegiate action. 
Being able to call on players like Parrish and Richardson in important situations says a lot about the Irish secondary. 
"Our depth came in and played a great game," Duff said. "They came in and stepped up. Just coming in and getting that experience on defense really helps our defense in the long run of the season." 
Besides the Irish having to go nine players deep into their secondary, some of the roles from 2002 were reversed against the Cougars. 
Earl earned the reputation of always making the big hit. Duff picked up fumbles or made interceptions and used his play­making ability to make some­thing happen. Saturday, Duff got the big hit that turned around the game in the fourth quarter and Earl was there to 
seeD-BACKS/page 22 
Cl) SMC SOCCER 
TRACK AND FIElD
MLB 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
COllEGE FOOTBALl 
COlLEGE FOOTBAll 
1.1.1 

Saint Mary's 2 
Iowa vs. 
Nebraska vs.
1--u 
IAAF wants to take 

Ohio State tailback
Calvin 2 

Baseball scores from 
Iowa State 
Penn State 
Kelli White's gold 

Maurice Clarett has
yesterday's action in
a: 5 z 

Interstate rivals 
The Huskers look for
medals, after testing 

been charged with a
Belles fall short in 
the American League 
square off in a marquee 
revenge against the
positive for stimulants. 

misdemeanor and will
and National League. 
MIAA opener. 
matchup. 
Nittany Lions.

not return to school. 
== page 20
page 14

D..!;i page 21 
page 15 

page 15
page 16
Cl) . 







