
\Vednesday, January 29, 2003 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXVII NO. 83 

Food Services: Flex 10 will cost more 
By CHRISTINA CEPERO 
News Writer 
Food Services said that the Flex 10 meal proposal from Student Senate would be more expensive and decrease student unity in the dining halls. 
Last week, the Student Senate passed a resolution calling for a Flex 10 meal option, a 10-meal plan with a proportional amount of Flex points. 
Director of Food Services Dave Prentkowski said, "The more flexibility and the more options, the more expensive." 
If Flex 10 were added to students' meal plan options, the expenses of running the dining hall and its services and variety would remain about the same due to fixed costs and the fact that stu­dents eat an average of 



SEEKING EMPLOYMENT 

about 10 meals a week in the dining halls, said Prentkowski. 
Prentkowski said the main question is determining where the money would come from to contribute to the additional Flex points in a Flex 10 plan. He said, "It's a matter of economics." 
Increasing Flex points would possibly result either in higher dining fees for stu­dents or their having to give up a significant dining hall service, such as extended hours, Grab 'n Go or the expanded menu, which the dining halls have instituted over the last 10 to 13 years in response to student input. 
Trip Foley, student body vice president said, "There are ways to eliminate excess cost in order to make this work." 
Prentkowski said the retail establishments on campus at 1unchtime already are packed and have long lines. Offering more Flex points to students would add to the overcrowding of areas such as LaFortune, whereas the dining halls have the capaci­ty to handle the volume. 
Foley said, "I don't think it would have a significant impact on the traffic of the retail outlets in Lafortune." 
He said Flex 10 would respond to the current situa­tion, not aggravate it. Foley said the reality is that a lot of students are already eat­ing at Subway, Sbarro and Burger King, which reflects the popularity of the retail outlets and testifies that stu­dents want more options in their meal plans. Students can currently purchase Domer Dollars if they run out of Flex points. 
The proposed Flex 10 plan also brings into question"the University's overall phi• 
losophy of encouraging stu­
dents to eat in the dining 
halls," said Prentkowski. 
Sarah Bates, Pasquerilla 
West Hall senator. said, 
"The Senate has said all 
along that Notre Dame's 
social atmosphere tran­
scends the dining hall sys­
tem." 
Students can maintain 
their camaraderie by eating 
with each other in 
LaFortune and engaging in 
other campus activities 
together. Bates said, "The 
Flex 10 plan would be more 
adaptive to students' needs 
and more convenient for stu­
dents who have meetings 
and activities." 
Dave Brenner. Dillon Hall 
senator, said. "Our main 
goal as the Student Senate is 
to represent the interests of 
students." 
Brenner and Bates said students have voiced in their .____________ see FLEX/page 4 



Bush delivers State of the Union 
page 5 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Malloy's mother dies at 94 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
The mother of University President 
Father Edward Malloy died Monday. 
Elizabeth Malloy, who was 94, died of natural causes in a nursing home in the Washington, D.C. suburb of Chevy Chase, 
Md. 
Elizabeth Malloy was placed in a hos­pital on Saturday shortly before Malloy arrived in the city for a meeting with the Association of Malloy Catholic Colleges 


and Universities. 
The wake service is scheduled for Wednesday and the funeral Mass will be celebrated by the University President Thursday in Washington. 
"She's a very sweet person and she was so extremely proud of Father Malloy," said Joan Bradley, officer assistant to the president. 
Born March 20, 1908, Malloy spent much of her life caring for her three children and working as a secretary. Her deceased husband, Edward Malloy, worked on the D.C. Transit System. 
Both of the University president's parents enjoyed reading and cross­word puzzles, two activities that the top Notre Dame administrator does daily also. 
"[Reading and vocabulary were] very important to them," Bradley said. Elizabeth Malloy is succeeded by her son and two daughters, JoAnne Rorapaugh of Washington and Mary Long of Manchester, Conn.; three granddaughters; one grandson and one great-grandchild. Her husband, Edward Malloy, is deceased. 
Funeral arrangements are being handled by Joseph Gawler Sons Funeral Home, 5130 Wisconsin Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C. 

BETTY QUINN/The Observer 
Students network with employers representing diverse companies at the 2003 Winter Career and Internship fair Tuesday 
Contact Helena Payne at 
night at the Joyce Center. 
payne.30@nd.edu 


NEWS ANALYSIS 



Legacy preference challenged in affirmative action debate 
By COLLEEN GANEY 
News Writer 
Legacy preference, the admissions policy that favors alumni children, has recently been characterized as a form of discrimination in college admissions. 
Because most alumni of prestigious institutions are white, legacy preference over­whelmingly rewards white middle-to upper-class stu­dents, and therefore has fueled arguments in recent 
debates over affirmative action. 
Last week, President Bush sided with white plaintiffs suing the University of Michigan for fulfilling racial quotas for minorities in under­graduate and law school admissions, claiming that "stu­dents are being selected or rejected primarily on the color of their skin." 
Some claim Bush was admit­ted Yale University as the son of an alumnus and a grandson of a member of the Board of Trustees. Sen. John Edwards, D•N.C.• a candidate for the 2004 Democratic presidential ticket, criticized legacy prefer­ence in his speech at the University of Maryland in November. 
He said that legacy prefer­ence "does not reward over­coming barriers based on race or adding diversity to the classroom. It is a birthright out of the 18th century British aristocracy, not 21st democra­cy. It is wrong." 
Affirmative action is closely scrutinized, but legacy prefer­ence is less vulnerable to legal attacks. Post-secondary insti­tutions are required to report race/ethnicity enrollment num­bers to the National Center for Education Statistics in compli­ance with the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Education Amendments of 1972 and the Carl D. Perkins Vocational Education Act, according to Notre Dame Institutional Research. 
No such legislation keeps tabs on whether legacy prefer­ence favors particular races, yet it often perishes in the wake of affirmative action reforms. Both the University of Georgia and the University of California discontinued legacy preference immediately after being forced to terminate the use of racial quotas. 
Notre Dame is a strong pro­ponent of legacy preference. According to Bob Mundy, director of operations for Notre Dame Admissions, Notre 
see LEGACY/page 4 page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Wednesday, January 29, 2003 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Who's policing the police? 
Where are they? 
I'd like to know exactly whom Notre Dame Security Police is here to protect and serve, because I'm starting to have trouble believing it's the students. Even though we are the ones who support them and pay their salaries through our tuition pay­ments and, later, alumni donations, I honestly don't think I can say it is the students they are out to serve. 
Take for example the plight of a fel­low student last Sunday as we were leaving our MCAT class at the Kaplan Center just a block or two away from campus. This girl discovered that in the snow and 15-degree weather, she had left her lights on and was left with a dead battery. After trying in vain to jump her car, we figured we could call NDSP for a jump or some form ofhelp. Unfortunately. we were told they didn't leave campus to help students. 
Now, this policy wouldn't have both­ered me too much ifI didn't often see NDSP cars writing tickets for traffic vio­lations and accidents on Ivy, Douglas and Edison. Obviously, they don't mind leaving campus too much to write tick­ets. 
But this also comes from the same police force that can't catch muggers and burglars on campus (in D6 parking lotjust behind the Security Building and right in front ofSouth Dining Hall to be exact), but yet always manages to issue dozens ofdrinking violations on any given weekend to those dangerous Notre Dame students. 
Myjob with The Observer often caus­es me to leave our office in South Dining Hall in the middle ofthe night for the trek across campus back to my room. In the two and a halfyears I've worked here, and the countless early-morning trips I've made, I've yet to see a NDSP officer out on patrol on campus. Even if they never stop anyone on patrol. the presence of officers going around cam­pus would help keep anyone away that knows he doesn't belong there. 
But of course, who poses more of a threat: the guy looking to hold me up, possibly injure or kill me and steal my wallet, or those rambunctious drunk kids in Reckers at night. 
In the wake ofthe Chad Sharon disap­pearance and the muggings that have occurred on and around campus this year, I think it's important for NDSP to analyze where the real threats lie. 
Yes, it's true that minors-even Notre Dame students -should not be in a bar ifit is against the law in that state, but is it really imperative that NDSP offi­cers haul offto Boat Chili on the night of the raid with student phonebooks in hand to issue ResLlf e notices? 
After all, these are the same officers who could, instead, be back between Edison and Douglas securing the same campus they say they can't/won't leave, even to help their own students. But I guess they don't mind breaking that rule to punish their own students. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 


CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. W c do, however, rccogniz.c that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-454 I so we can correct our error. 

WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Feminist writer speaks at Reckers 
Besides writing, Marilyn Krysl is also an activist and environmentalist. 
page 3 
WORLD& NATION 
Rebels die in clash with 
U.S. forces 
A mountain clash between Afghanistan rebels and U.5. troops left 18 rebels dead. 
page 5 
SCENE SPORTS 

Summer can't Mens basket-come soon ball gears up 
enough for next game 
The No. 11 mens St. Ed's Player's 
Scene reviews the 

basketball team play, Betty's 
will play West Summer Vacation. 
Virginia tonight at the Joyce Center. 
page 20page 10 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Missing decal found in car 
A victim notified NDSP that the parking decal he reported missing on Sunday was inside his vehicle. 

Misplaced purse found 
A student who reported losing her purse in DeBartolo Hall on Monday, notified NDSP she found her purse in a friend's room Tuesday. 

Vehicle vandalized in D2 
There are no suspects in a reported vandalism to a student's vehicle parked in the D2 lot between 12 a.m. and 10:55 a.m. on Monday. 
NDSP investigated rules violation 
NDSP assisted in investigating a possible work rules violation at the Security Building on Monday. 


Locksmith mistaken for thief 
NDSP discovered a possible attempted motor vehicle theft. The student notified NDSP his vehicle was not broken into. A locksmith had been working on his vehicle. 
Compiled from NDSP crime blotter. 

Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Mexican black bean, roasted cauliflower, Caribbean porto­bello wrap, sauteed fajitas. turkey strollers, fishwich sandwich, grilled chicken, teriyaki loafer, roasted turkey salad with grapes and walnuts, slice turkey breast, sliced roast beef, hum­mus, sugar cookies, New England clam chowder, tomato basil bisque 
Today Dinner: Chickpea and walnut empanada, roasted pepper quesadilla, baked ziti ratatouille, rotisserie style Greek chicken, confetti rice, home style vegetables, warm bread pudding, white cake with fudge icing 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 




:** '* 
** * 
HIGH 38 HIGH 48 LOW 30 LOW 34 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Fresh corned beef, boiled cabbage, peas and carrots, apple crisp, cheese strata, Italian risotto, grits, scrambled eggs, sausage patties, cinnamon french toast, macadamia chicken. Chinese steamed rice, veg­etable egg rolls, chicken taco, fried potato triangles, cheese frenchbread 
Today Dinner: Penne with gorgonzo­la, chicken in the pot soup, cream of broccoli soup, minestrone soup, south­ern fried chicken, collard greens, brown sauce. apple crisp, spinach quiche, baked herb zucchini, baked potatoes. beef chop suey. vegetable egg rolls, chicken taco, beef wet burrito 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Unemployment in the U.S. Is the highest in the West 
The ailing econo­my was a factor as the West Coast leads the country in unemployment again. 
page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
Who needs direction? 

Viewpoint columnist Adam Cahill says its OK to not have post college plans. 
page 8 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
LA,
:c 
~ 
LA, 
3: 
-I 
~****

C( 
CJ 
0 HIGH ** * 

-I 26 HIGH 17 HIGH 28 HIGH 33 LOW 20 LOW 3 LOW 20 LOW 25 
. 
Pcrkinclmcr \Vcbcast, Center for Continuing Education, McKcnna Hall room 200, 12:30 to 3:30 p.m. 

. 
Girl Culture: Lauren Greenfield Photographs, Snitc Museum, all day. 

. 
Student Senate; llammes Bookstore representatives Dan McCabe and Jiin O'Connor will speak; resolutions regarding TCE-sub commit­tee formation, alcohol awareness for abroad students and student meal referendum will be presented; LaFortune Notre Dame room, 6 p.m. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Semester Around the \Vorld Interviews, LeMans. 3 p.m. 

. 
Adult Children of Alcoholics Meeting, Carroll Auditorium, 7 p.m. 

. 
SAB Event -A Capella singer, Carroll Auditorium, 7 p.m. 




South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Spaghetti puttanesca, southwestern pasta sauce, boiled basiVgarlic linguine, winter blend veg­etable, beef chop suey. cajun baked pollack, roast top round, baked sweet potato, long grain and wild rice, pret­zel, oriental vegetables, chicken tem­pura, California eldorado casserole 
Today Dinner: Spaghetti puttanesca, southwestern pasta sauce, boiled basiVgarlic linguine, Hawaiian pizza, potato pancakes, hot chunky apple­sauce, stuffed green peppers, tuna casserole, roast turkey breast, bread stuffing, baked sweet potato, sauteed chicken breast. broccoli garlic tofu 
Atlanta 58 / 45 Boston 36 / 20 Chicago 30 / 6 Denver 49 / 28 Houston 67 / 48 Los Angeles 73 / 54 Minneapolis 12 / 5 New York 36 / 20 Philadelphia 36 / 21 Phoenix 76 / 49 Seattle 48 / 43 St. Louis 30 / 15 Tampa 73 I 53 Washington 44 / 27 

, 

Wednesday, January 29, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Prominent.activist and author visits Notre Dame 
Ca11PS ON THE Ami 

COME TO THE NEW PLACE IN TOWN 
2206 MISHAWAKA AVE. 10 MIN FROM CAMPUS. ON FRIDAYS ENJOY $1.00 PITCHERS OF BEER AND $2.00 WELL DRINKS AND DANCING WITH PRO SHOW 
D.J. AT 10:00 P.M. $5.00 COVER 
MUST BE 21 TO ENTER 
SEXY NAVEL JEWELRY 
THAT 

By MELISSA LOU News Writer 
On Tuesday, the Notre Dame Creative Writing Program host­ed a reading by author Marilyn Krysl. Described as an activist. witness and deeply engaging writer. Krysl read from several of her short stories and poems before a mixed audience of stu­dents, administrators and acad­emics in the Reckers Hospitality Room. 
Krysl described much of her work as "a homage or love song to those women I have met throughout my life. While I wrote [these stories). I felt this writing was a way of honoring these women and their suffering and loss due to war and pover­
t ,,
y. 
Krysl said her work has been heavily influenced by the service work she has done. as "writers write about their experiences." These experiences have them­selves been a remarkable jour­ney. 
After a decade of teaching at the University of Colorado, Krysl decided to take a break and said that she "needed to get back in touch with the real world." 
To accomplish this. the activist spent a year teaching English as a Second Language in China. 
After that year, she went on to work with the Sisters of Charity at their Kalighat Home for the Destitute and Dying in Calcutta. There she worked in the women's ward, an experience she described as "quite interest­ing, moving and sometimes maddening," as many of the patients were dying and aban­doned. 
During her time in Calcutta, Krysl was inspired to write a series of poems. one of which she read aloud before the Notre Dame crowd. "While I was there a lot of commercial terminology. such as sustainable develop­ment. came to mind. These terms always seemed cold to me, this is where many of the titles of these poems come from," said the author. 
Krysl volunteered with Peace Brigade International in Sri Lanka, an experience that had a profound effect on her and inspired her to write many of her 'love songs' to women. 
The self-described environ­mentalist, social justice and poverty activist, explained her feminist views, stating that she is a feminist in that she "want[s] not only the lives of women to improve, but ... want[s] every­one's life to improve." Krysl also said she is "a part of the rest of the world, thus I don't see how my life can improve if every­one's life doesn't improve." 


~ 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can banK on us to be belter 
Indiana and Michigan 574/239-6611 ·800/522-66l I Outside Indiana and Michigan 800/400-4540 You can also stop by your nearest branch 
or visit our web site atwww.n<lfcu.org. 

:• I . 
: ' 

IIUll 19VlllC 

LENDER 

Getting to class is just one of the many reasons students ride public transportation every day. They also ride it to go to the mall, the movies, 

or area restaurants. So check out TRANSPO, offering bus service throughout South Bend 
and Mishawaka. 

When asked for her opinion regarding the events of Sept. 11, the self-described "die-hard pacifist" compared the U.S. national experience to that of other countries she has visited. "When you work abroad you tend to learn to love these places," said Krysl. "One of the things I learned was that many hundreds of people are killed in other countries by terrorists. The kinds of violence we see as unusual are common for other people. [When September 11th occurred] a part of me was extremely upset. yet another part of me knew that for the majority of the people on the planet this is commonplace." 
Krysl went on to explain her views on the current political situation by stating that her 
· "wish is that we would all work harder at getting to know what life is like for others, give much more foreign aid, and that our government would put more effort towards a diplomatic solution." 
Krysl read aloud from her book of short stories "How to Accommodate Men," as well as excerpts from her well-known poems. She published seven books of poetry, and three of fic­tion. She is the former director of the Creative Writing Program at the University of Colorado, Boulder. She continues her work as an activist, working in Boulder with Sudanese refugees. 
Contact Melissa Lou at lou.l@nd.edu 

Convenient bus access from Library Circle and Notre Dame Avenue Circle, with service Monday through Saturday.* 
•check .flNotre Dame/University Park Mall schedule for times. 
For route & schedule information please call: 

t2~gja22Ll~ll 
~-./iYi9fJ!J_:.~1:. 
Wherever Life Takes You 

. . . . -, ·Y,.·: ,-,. 
. .• ~'iiY~iH~ _ \~tr:,~;~ 
-·: l .· ~:-• 
_;~ ' 
•f.,~J;-,tJ::i ,:~ 

The perfect home: Thafs been your dream. Now, with annual percenlage rates as low as they are, you can live your dream. Notre Dame Federal Credit Union can help. We'll design afixed or adjustable-rale mortgage around your specific needs. Plus, you can finance up to 100% of your home. And, we'll do it for you quickly, with no hassles. We even offer first mortgages nationwide! Slill dreaming of your perlect home? Notre Dame Federal Credit Union will help make it areality. 
l~tofllx!Urwersi~ 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 29, 2003 

Legacy 
continued from page 1 
Dame ensures that about 1/4 of enrolled students are children of alumni. 
"Our commitment to recog­nize those family ties is higher than normal," Mundy admitted. 
Notably, other elite institu­tions such as Harvard, the University of Pennsylvania and Princeton have higher percent­ages of enrolled legacies than Notre Dame. 
Far from a quota system, Notre Dame's "holistic" approach is "part science and part art." 
But Mundy said, "We admit alumni applicants at a higher rate than non-alumni appli­cants." 
While Michigan champions affirmative action because of the educational benefits of diversity. Mundy justifies lega­cy preference because it deep­ens the strong sense of Notre Dame community. 
"(Legacy preference] is a true manifestation about how the University will behave vis-a-vis their family members,'' Mundy said. He added that Notre Dame's emphasis on family is "the basis of the very reasons that students are interested in Notre Dame." 
Other institutions, such as 
friday 8 and 10:30 pm saturday 8 and 10:30 pm 

the University of Virginia, can­didly admit that they honor legacy preference in order to appease alumni and encourage donations. 
Notre Dame also experiences forms of "natural family-build­ing," Mundy said. 
Notre Dame does favor lega­cies, but legacies also favor Notre Dame. The confirmation rate, the percentage of admit­ted students who enroll, is 18 percent higher for legacies than the overall confirmation rate. 
Siblings of alumni are also attending in ever-increasing numbers. lending to the notion that Notre Dame's strong sense of family naturally attracts alumni relatives. 
Notre Dame's official admis­sions policies could be affected by the Supreme Court's deci­sion in the Michigan affirma­tive action lawsuits, depending on how the Court defines a public institution. 
"They can craft [the defini­tion] anyway they want," Mundy said. 
Because Notre Dame receives public funds. it could be labeled as a public institution, in which case preferential admissions based on anything other than academic perfor­mance may be scrutinized. 
Contact Colleen Ganey at mganey@nd.edu 



NOH gets creative with rice 
By MATI BRAMANTI News Writer 

North Dining Hall won a $2,000 prize for its partici­pation in. activities celebrat­ing National Rice Month. The USA Rice Federation, the national advocate for the American rice ind ustry, sponsored the September contest among institutional food service departments. 
The contest boosted rice 
consumption at NOH by 55 
percent, according to gener­
al manager John Glon. 

Flex 
continued from page 1 

residence halls that they would like more freedom in dining options. 
Foley said, "There is a small but valid percentage of students who are not being served by the current meal plan options. That's why we need to offer anoth­er plan to meet their needs." 
Foley said student govern­ment wants to take a fresh 
"We all worked together to put together recipes and activities that would interest students," Glon said. 
NOH chef Mike Huffer assembled new recipes, while service crew members' and student managers' activ­ities included a "rice race," in which participants raced from NOH to South Dining Hall, collected a bag of rice, and returned to NOH. A triv­ia contest testing students' knowledge was also held. 
Glon also credited the 
quality of the new recipes. "A very popular dish we had 
perspective and work together with Food Services to do something within the framework of what is possi­ble to meet the needs of students at Notre Dame. 
Student Government and Notre Dame Food Services plan to meet next week to discuss the issue of the pro­posed Flex 10 meal plan. 
Contact Christina Cepero at ccepero@nd.edu 
r.,:.,:: 

•.  # ...': . ~ GREAT WALL  
CHINESE AMERICAN RESTARUURANT  
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine!  
$895  
SPECIAL CHINESE Sat. Feb 1: 11 :30am-9:00pm  
NEW YEAR BUFFET Sun. Feb 2: 11 :30am-9:00pm  
.  ALL YOU CAN EAT Children Under 10 Half Price  

Includes: Soup, Salad Bar, Appetizers, 10 Entrees and Desserts Other menu items also available 
222 Dixie Way, South Bend 574.272.7376 
flt~ 6tr).l~1rtil:tfif/ttt~,. C#tt-t t°5 Mt-tfft'lrJ /09~ i.-t6o/lr5 lo, tit~ 1r-tw 
"tf Gf NPG 11(/ol'lttel'II{ 6ENlfJf$Al(). ,2fJOpnz-e to, tftt w1,,,t,9dt-6,,,, Mrd tlr.t it6t9/ft/' 6phn Mri. h90 wt/Ibt. dt1pfQffd41tlt.t lfttv ''t,tlfd5. " ~P.6tllt Q NotJ,t, P~ etuit1rtto eu/Jmita. iteiJlf.J • 
P-eai.u1t-e /fJ, 5u./Jmittik9 IP9P i.-e6191te i6 &ti41(, &IJ,aa/41{ 2/, P,op o/1t,lffl'/-e6 f'p t/r.t, 5tuitlffAt,ttvtf(f,5 fJ#(tt,, '!fftan,tAA-t. Fo, ail.ftto1ra.ftir./u,mefto:1, tQlffa.i;ftltt 6ttd.tlffi?ttfvtfit.6 fJ#ftt., I,'!{-7'!tJS. 
was Rijstafel," Glon said. 
This Dutch-Indonesian "rice table" consists of dozens of meats, vegetables and other ingredients, which diners can mix-and-match to assemble an exotic dinner. 
"We came out with some really good rice dishes that we've kept since September," Glon added. "Hopefully, the USA Filet Mignon Federation will give us a contest to work on." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 



$3 dbrt 101 thursday 10 pm 



Wednesday, January 29, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 


Bush pledges to fight with full force if necessary 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Building a case for war against Iraq, President Bush said Tuesday night he has fresh evi­dence that Saddam Hussein con­sorts with terrorists and seeks to "dominate, intimidate or attack" with weapons of mass destruc­tion. He pledged to "fight with the full force and might of the United States military," if necessary, to disarm Iraq. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell will go to the U.N. Security• Council on Feb. 5 to present the 
U.S. case, outlined by Bush in stark terms in his second State of the Union address. 
"We will consult, but let there be no misunderstanding: If Saddam Hussein does not fully disarm for the safety of our peo­ple, and for the peace of the world, we will lead a coalition to disarm him," the president said. 
Speaking to Congress and a global television audience, Bush presented a laundry list of Saddam's alleged offenses, some of them newly revealed to the public. He said intelligence sources have reported that thou­sands of Iraqi personnel are at work hiding documents and materials from the U.N. weapons inspectors. 
Specifically, Bush said Saddam has not accounted for up to 25,000 liters of anthrax, 38,000 liters of botulism toxin, 500 tons of sarin, mustard gas and VX nerve agent and upwards of 30,000 munitions capable of delivering chemical weapons. 
"If this is not evil, then evil has no meaning," Bush said in his annual State of the Union address. 
For the first time since the Sept. 11 attacks transformed him into a wartime president, Bush faced serious questions about his leadership. Most Americans don't approve of his handling of the economy, polls show, and only a bare majority support his policies on Iraq -an area where the president enjoyed support of more than 80 percent a year ago. 
The speech was delivered amid intense security as lawmakers, Cabinet members, military lead­ers and Supreme Court justices gathered for the annual event. Several hundred people massed on the Capitol lawn to protest Bush's policies,. ranging from a possible war in Iraq to his approach to health care. 
The first half of Bush's address was devoted to domestic policy, a reflection of his desire not to let Iraq overshadow a presidential agenda geared toward the 2004 re-election campaign. 
The heart of Bush's domestic agenda is his $67 4 billion plan to revive the economy and a $400 billion, 10-year plan to overhaul Medicare. 
Democrats challenged Bush's efforts both at home and abroad. 
Washington Gov. Gary Locke, tapped to deliver the Democratic response to Bush, said that eco­nomic recovery would not hap­people here at home," Locke said. pen until states and cities receive The president described the help from Washington -some­nation as still recovering from thing missing from Bush's eco­recession, terrorist attacks, cor• nomic proposals. porate scandals and stock market 
"People are clearly worried declines. "Our economy is recov­about terrorism and Iraq but ering, yet it is not growing fast those concerns should not over­enough or strongly enough," shadow the pressing needs of the Bush said. 

AFGHANISTAN 
18 Afghan rebels dead after clash with U.S. forces 
Associated Press 
BAGRAM 

Hundreds of U.S. troops pressed toward rebel fighters in rugged moun­tain caves Tuesday, while warplanes bombed dug-in enemy positions in the fiercest battle in Afghanistan in nearly a year. 
At least 18 rebels were killed in the assault. The U.S. military believes the fighters are loyal to renegade warlord Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, a powerful Pashtun strongman who has vowed to link his forces with remnants of al-Qaida and the ousted Taliban regime. 
About 80 rebels were believed to be remaining in the southeastern cave net­work, under attack from 350 troops, including soldiers from the 82nd Airborne Division, U.S. Special Forces and allied Afghan militia. 
"It's the largest concentration of enemy forces since Operation Anaconda," military spokesman Col. Roger King said, referring to a fierce eight-day battle in March against Taliban and al-Qaida holdouts in a dif­ferent area of southeastern Afghanistan, about 250 miles northeast of the current fighting. 
While King said evidence pointed to Hekmatyar's military arm, the Hezb-e­Islami movement, he gave no further details, and a former high-ranking Taliban member questioned that. 
Obeidullah, who goes by only one name, told The Associated Press that the fighting was being led by two ex-Taliban -Hafiz Abdul Rahim. the regime's for­mer chief of the border security, and Sirajuddin, former district chief of Shindand in western Afghanistan. 
Obeidullah was assistant to the Taliban's intelligence chief. 
The fighting, which started Monday. had ended by Tuesday evening, and coalition forces were searching the caves where the rebel forces had been hiding, said Lt. Col. Dave Lapan, a Pentagon spokesman. The coalition soldiers found a weapons cache at the site, Lapan said, adding he had no details on the specific number or type of arms found. 
Lt. Col. Michael Shields, operations officer for the Coalition Task Force's 82nd Airborne Division, said there were indications that some of the entrances to the caves were camouflaged. 
"The number of caves is far greater than we anticipated," Shields said, adding that American forces had been unaware of the cave network before fighting began. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Sharon wins crushing victory over labor: 
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, who has taken a hard line against the Palestinian uprising, won a crushing victory in Israel's election Tuesday, and TV projections showed his Likud and other hawk­ish parties easily winning most seats in parlia­ment. After polls closed, Sharon said he would seek a "broad-based national unity" government ­one that presumably would include the defeated opposition Labor Party, which campaigned on a pledge to restart peace negotiations with the Palestinians. 
Iraq criticizes U.N. report as biased: 
Arms inspectors exaggerated problems over progress in their pivotal reports to the U .N. Security Council, a senior Iraqi complained Tuesday. He said Baghdad would work on the problems, including scientists' rejection of private 
U.N. interviews. 

U.S. President George W. Bush speaks before a joint session of Congress on Tuesday, as Vice President Dick Cheney and House Speaker Dennis Hastert listen. In a somber State of the Union speech, Bush braced wary Americans for a possible war with Iraq. 
He proposed spending new money for research to develop hydrogen powered cars and to tutor children of prison inmates. He also called for a new $600 million drug treatment program in which federal money could go to religious community service programs. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 



Teen sniper suspect's trial set for Nov.: 
A judge set a Nov. 10 trial date Tuesday for 17­year-old Lee Boyd Malvo, who could face the death penalty for his alleged role in the sniper attacks that terrorized the Washington area. Prosecutors had asked for a trial date in late June, while the defense had requested February 2004. Circuit Judge Jane Roush picked a date in between, saying it allowed twice the time normal­ly granted under Virginia law for a speedy trial. 
Cable problem cited in N.C. plane crash: 
Control cables connected to the tail of the Beech 1900 turboprop plane that crashed in Charlotte, N.C., three weeks ago weren't set at the proper ten­sion level, federal investigators said Tuesday. The crash killed all 21 people aboard US Airways Express Flight 5481. The cable problem could make a plane harder to fly because it would respond to the controls differently, aviation experts said. 

Teenager saved by utility wires in crash: 
A Kansas City, Mo. teenager was catapulted at least 25 feet in the air during an auto accident but grabbed onto overhead utility wires like an action hero and dangled for about 20 minutes before a res­cue crew brought him down by ladder. Joe R. Thompson III, 18, was treated for bruises and scratches at a hospital and was released. "God was definitely in control," he said. Thompson lost control of his Jeep on Monday evening after another car suddenly turned in front of him. Thompson's Jeep clipped the other car and rolled over and over, pos­sibly five times, witnesses said. 
United flight held at Boston Airport: 
A United Airlines flight bound for San Francisco from Logan International Airport was grounded Tuesday after a first-class passenger found a box cutter in the magazine pouch in the seat in front of her. 
Wednesday, January 29, 2003 

page 6 The Observer . NEWS 



Students discuss SMC college experiences 
new culture as well. She said the weather 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
was one of the biggest differences, and 
Saint Mary's News Writer 
said Americans were welcoming. "Everyone is so hospitable here," sheIn Tuesday's student run discussion. 
said. "They smile at you even though they Saint Mary's students had the opportunity 
don't know you." Burns, Board of
to listen to the stories of five of their fel­Governance athletic commissioner andlow Belles, each with different experi­transfer student from Indiana University­ences at Saint Mary's. 
South Bend, said she was particularlyThe panelists, Ellen Burns. Adrienne happy to be at Saint Mary's. 
Dorbish, Rachel Finley, Angelique "At IUSB I would go to class, and thenIngabire and Sarah Nestor, shared their go to my car and go home," said Burns. 
freshman impressions of Saint Mary's, "Here, you don't evenand how those impressions 
have to try that hard.

evolved as their college "Here, you don't even 
Everyone is so friendly,experiences grew. 

have to try that hard. they come up to you."
They also commented on Everyone is so Burns said it was the firm ways in which they believe moral grounding of thethe Saint Mary's experience friendly, they come up Saint Mary's student body can be improved for future 

to you ... 
that to transfer to the

students. 
College. She said theFinley, senior class presi­
Saint Mary's students,dent, admitted she was Ellen Burns 

unlike those of her previ­unhappy with her choice of SMC panelist ous school, were academi­schools as a first year stu­

cally and career driven

dent. "I literally filled out a and they welcomed her warmly.
transfer application every single day," she "The women here are amazing, and Isaid. Finley applied to-be a resident advis­knew right away I wanted to get moreer in an effort to get more involved on involved," said Burns. 
campus, and then went on the run for stu­Dorbish said there were areas wheredent government. 
student life needed improvement. 
"I truly believe that you get out of Saint "I would like to see things improve inMary's what you give," Finley said. 

the residence halls," said the panelist.
Nestor, Saint Mary's news editor at The "There isn't that much of a social atmos­Observer, agreed with Finley. She credit­phere." Other problem areas noted wereed her positive experience at Saint Mary's the quality of the dinning hall, as well asto her active participation in the activities the Saint Mary's-Notre Dame relationship. 

available to students. This included study­ing abroad, as well as writing for The Observer. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at
Ingabire, and international student, had 


onei0907@saintmarys.edu
to adjust not only to a new school hut to a 



'Chicago' leads SAG awards with five 
Kidman, who won back-to-back 

Associated Press 
Golden Globes for "Moulin Rouge" and 
"The Hours" and scored an Academy 

The sassy musical "Chicago" led con­Awards nomination for "Moulin tenders for the Screen Actors Guild Rouge," said a second-straight Oscar awards with five nominations Tuesday, nomination is not a certainty despite all including lead actors Renee Zellweger the film honors she's accumulated this and Richard Gere. season. 
The drama "The Hours" was next "Along with Kidman, Moore and with four nominations, among them Zellweger, the best-actress contenders Nicole Kidman for best actress, were Salma Hayek for "Frida," a film Julianne Moore for supporting actress biography of painter Frida Kahlo, and and Ed Harris for supporting actor. Diane Lane for the adultery thriller Their co-star, Meryl Streep, had been a "Unfaithful." Besides Gere and Cage, strong lead-actress contender for "The best-actor nominees were Adrien Brody Hours" and a supporting-actress for the Holocaust drama "The Pianist," prospect for "Adaptation," but was shut Daniel Day-Lewis for the 1860s epic out in both categories. "Gangs of New York" and Jack 
Moore also had a best-actress nomi­Nicholson for the black comedy "About nation for the 1950s melodrama "Far Schmidt." From Heaven." Along with Cooper and Harris, sup­
"Adaptation," a twisted Hollywood porting-actor nominees were Alfred saga from the creators of "Being John Molina for "Frida," Dennis Quaid for Malkovich," earned three nominations, "Far From Heaven" and Christopher including for Nicolas Cage as lead actor Walken for the con-man romp "Catch and Chris Cooper as supporting actor. Me If You Can." 
"Chicago," ''The Hours" and Joining Moore in the supporting­"Adaptation" were among nominees for actress category were Kathy Bates in the ensemble-acting prize, the guild's "About Schmidt," Queen Latifah and equivalent of a best-picture award. The Catherine Zeta-Jones in "Chicago," and other nominees were the fantasy epic Michelle Pfeiffer in the mother-daugh­"The Lord of the Rings: The Two ter drama "White Oleander." Towers" and the surprise blockbuster Bates was a double pick, nominated "My Big Fat Greek Wedding." The as well for best actress in a TV movie guild's nominations are the last major or miniseries for "My Sister's Keeper." awards announcement before the Sean Hayes also was nominated twice Academy Awards nominations Feb. 11. in the television awards: for best actor 
This month, "The Hours" won the in a comedy series for "Will & Grace," Golden Globe award for dramatic fea­and best actor in a movie or miniseries ture, while "Chicago" won in the musi­for "Martin & Lewis," in which he cal and comedy category. played Jerry Lewis. 


is currently accepting applications for the 2003-2004 term fqr thefollowing positions: 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER ASST. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER 
Applications for Managing Editor and Assistant Any sophomore or junior business major Managing Editor should demonstrate strong interested in gaining valuable work experience is journalistic and management skills. An in-depth encouraged to apply for Business Manager or understanding of newspaper production, Operations Manager. Applicants should be including skills in Microsoft Word, Quark XPress comfortable in a management position, and Photoshop, is required. Experience with demonstrate strong organizational skills and have Macintosh computers is helpful. a solid understanding of accounting principles. 
An application/or any ofthe above positions should be at least five pages and explain the applicants qualifications and goals. 
Managing Editor and Business Editor applications are due by Friday, Jan. 31 at 5 p.m. Assistant Managing Editor and Operations Manager applications are due by Wednesday, Feb. 5 at 5 p.m. 


Submit all applications to Andrew Soukup in the Observer office located in the South Dining Hall basement. 
Please direct questions about these positions or the application procedure to Andrew Soukup and Managing Editor Kate Nagengast at 631-4541 or Business Manager Lori Lewalski and Operations Manager Bob Woods at 631-5313. 
THE . 
OBSERVER 


Wednesday, January 29, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch January 28 

DowJones 

8,088.56 • +99.28 


NASDAQ 

1,342.18 • +16.91 
S&P500 

858.54 • + I 1.07 
AM.EX 

803.54 • -3.55 


NYSE 

4,840.99 ~ +54.03 TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +3.72 +0.51 14.22 


!ltlltl::;ilfflliill1:~)-~!~~:!Mi~jt\1m!~Sitf*'~:~asil~~ia1:e~ 
SUN MICROSYSTEM(SUNW) +2.12 +0.07 3.33 

::111111111111:1:ij1il11iillilllllllii1111:llllli:!ll!II.I 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.34 +0.04 11.97 
IN BRIEF 
Tokyo stocks, yen strong at open 
Tokyo stocks posted tentative gains at Wednesday's opening ahead of earnings reports from major technology companies. The dollar slipped against the Japanese yen.The benchmark 225-issue Nikkei Stock Average opened up a marginal 4.28 points, or 
0.05 percent, at 8,529.67. On Tuesday. the index lost 84.08 points, or 0.98 percent, at 8,525.39. The dollar bought 118.70 yen at 9 
a.m. Wednesday, down 0.14 yen from late Tuesday in Tokyo but slightly above its late New York level of 118.67 yen. 
Treasury nominee backs tax plan 
Treasury secretary nominee John Snow told his Senate confirmation hearing on Tuesday that President Bush's tax plan will boost a lagging U.S. economy. But critics told Snow the program was weighted too heavily to the wealthy and would have to be changed. Snow faced a barrage of questions from members of the Finance Committee about the stimulus proposal, but his nomination to replace the controversial Paul O'Neill won widespread praise from both Democrats and Republicans. Committee Chairman Charles Grassley pre­dicted Snow would win quick confirmation, perhaps as soon as Thursday. 
Adelphia Corp. moves headquarters 
Adelphia Communications Corp. will move its corporate headquarters to Denver, the bankrupt cable television operator's board decided Tuesday, dismaying the man who founded the company a half-century ago in rural north-central Pennsylvania. Subject to approval by regulators and the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. the headquarters will move from Coudersport, Pa.• to Denver by midyear. Adelphia spokesman Eric Andrus said. "After 50 years of building the system with my broth­er and the family. it naturally saddens all of us, because we worked so hard to build the company," said John J. Rigas. "It's not an unexpected move, but it hurts." 




w. 
leads in unemployment 
• Economic woes reflected in jobless rates 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
West Coast states are 
being battered by the ail­
ing economy, leading the 
country again in high 
unemployment rates last 
month, while the Dakotas 
and Nebraska posted the 
lowest jobless rates. 
The new data, released Tuesday by the Labor Department, shows that the jobs outlook in much of the country remains bleak. But no states reported wild swings in their unemploy­ment rates, suggesting some stabilization -at least for now. 
Finding a job is taking longer for people out of work. Last year, jobless workers spent an average of 16.6 weeks looking for employment, up from 13.2 weeks in 2001. 
The economy's uneven recovery poses challenges for President Bush, who is pushing for another round of tax cuts to stimulate growth and create jobs. The nation's unemploy­ment rate has hovered around 6 percent since April 2002. 
The bumpy recovery is similar to the last reces­sion, when Bush's father was president. High unem­ployment that failed to start dropping until almost two years after the reces­sion ended helped cost the first President Bush a sec­ond term. 
Though jobless rates aren't reaching the levels of the last recession, voters who can't find jobs could spell trouble for Bush, par­ticularly in key battle­ground states such as Michigan, Pennsylvania and West Virginia -which had among the higher unemployment rates of 5.9 percent, 6 percent and 5.6 percent, respectively, in December. 
But the West Coast has been particularly hit hard, and Bush, who has viewed political opportunities in that Democrat-backing region, may be forced to shift focus. Many econo­mists predict the nation's jobless rate will continue to rise in coming months, hitting as high as 6.5 per­cent this summer and end­ing the year at current lev­els. 


"The economy is flat ­there is no new job growth," said Mark Zan di. chief economist at Economy.com 
Alaska posted the high­est state unemployment rate last month at 7 .4 per­cent. rising from 6.8 per­cent in November. A drop in tourism and low energy prices earlier this year are major factors for that state's job troubles. 
The technology bust, the 2001 energy crisis and the weak travel and aviation industries have taken a major toll on West Coast states. Oregon's jobless rate was second highest at 7 percent after dropping from 7 .1 percent in November. Washington posted an increase in December to 6.8 percent, up from 6. 7 percent; California saw a rise to 6.6 percent, up from 6.5 per:. cent. 
Also among the highest rates were Mississippi at 
6. 7 percent and the District of Columbia at 6.6 percent. 
The upper Midwest has consistently posted the lowest unemployment rates in the country. North and South Dakota had job­less rates of 3 percent last month, and Nebraska had 
3.4 percent. 
Those states have bene­fited from large agriculture subsidies that helped keep their economies afloat, Zandi said. Also, many workers laid off by compa­nies in those states return to farming and are not counted as unemployed. 
Another factor is the small populations in those states, Zandi said. North Dakota was the only state, along with the District of Columbia, that lost resi• dents from July 1. 2001, to July 1, 2002. 
During 2002, employ­ment fell in 28 states and the District of Columbia. The largest declines were in Illinois, Massachusetts, New York and Georgia. The biggest employment gains for the year were in Florida, Nevada, Kentucky and Wisconsin. 

War threat breeds consumer anxiety 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The threat of war with Iraq is eroding consumer confidence, econo­mists said Tuesday, but it doesn't yet seem enough to jeopardize the upward trend in new home sales. 
"There's no doubt the uncertainties about geopolitical events weigh on people's minds," said Josh Feinman, chief economist with Deutsche Asset Management in New York. "Is there going to be a war? Certainly, that's contributing to people's anxiety," 
The Consumer Confidence Index slipped to 79 in January from a revised 80.7 in December, but was above the 78.5 that analysts were anticipating. The index is based on a survey of 5,000 U.S. households and compares to its base of 100 in 1985. 
"Overall readings continue to reflect the country's lackluster eco­nomic activity," said Lynn Franco. director of the Conference Board's Consumer Research Center. "Now, with the threat of war looming, con­sumers have grown increasingly cau­tious about the short-term outlook." 
The Conference Board report showed consumers were also con­cerned about the job outlook and their incomes in the next six months. The index has fallen since May when it stood at 110.3, ticking upward just once in November. 
"The decline came entirely from the expectations component, again refle'cting fear of what comes next." said Oscar Gonzalez, senior econo­mist at John Hancock Financial Services in Boston. "The next few weeks are so uncertain that, in this instance, the numbers probably reflect the American mood, rather than a rational assessment of the economic environment." 
Separately, the Commerce Department reported Tuesday that sales of new single.family homes rose in December to their highest level since the government began tracking results in 1963. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, January 29, 2003 

page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Lori Lewalski  
~. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Herder, Matt Lozar 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer CONTROllER: Michael Flanagan 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL (NF0..............631-7471 FAX..............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING ................ .....................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITORiAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWP0INT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SroRTS....................•.......•...........••..•.•.........631-4543 observer .sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS............... ..631-8839 

THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.l!du for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contem, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse ad·,ertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions rl!f,arding Observl!rpolicil!S should bi! dirl!ct­rd to F.ditor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
Posr OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Olnc,v., (USPS 599 240) ;. publi,hcd Monday through Friday nccpr during cum and vacation pcricxl,. A 5ubacription ao The Obkf'\'er ii S l 00 for one academic year; SSS for one 1C111ntcr. 
The Obt<rva-i, publuhcd at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Smd addn:u corrucioru. to: No"" [)..,... IN 46556 The oi..c.v.r 
P.O.BoxQ Periodical P""'i"' paid ar Notr< Dam, N<>tr< [).,,,... IN 4655CH>779 and .ddi,ional m.iUnc offic.n. 
Tht Obs,rn,e, is a member of rhc Astodw:d Pros. All rq,roducrion rig:ha. ate 
........d. 


When lost, follow your own path 
The trees and the tall grass swayed in the wind as I looked up at the sun. The large, white clouds seemed like gigantic marshmallows against the radiantly blue sky. It was so bright that it hurt my eyes to look at it for 
Adam Cahlll

more than a few seconds. At any other time, this day would have been ADomers considered perfect Outlook in my mind. But, under the circum­stances, things weren't going well. 
In the palm of my hand lay the com­pass I had brought with me. Its needle was stuck halfway between the N sig­nifying north and E signifying east. I had turned around in a circle over half a dozen times, but the needle had remained locked in the same position. My compass was broken and I had no idea where I was. 
I was, unmistakably, lost. 

Having just finished my sophomore year in college, my buddies and I had decided to take a road trip to Montana to get away from the pressures of col­lege life. Even after two years of school, none of us had any future ambitions. We seemed to be floating along in the portless sea of academia without a course or a heading to fol­low. All we wanted was for someone to tell us what to do. But we soon found out that things weren't that easy. 
Our goal was to find ourselves by identifying our hidden passions. Maybe then we could finally realize who it was we each wanted to become. 
We camped. We talked. We tried to sing and tell stories by the fire. But the answers didn't seem to be coming. 
So, feeling adventurous, I decided to embark on a little expedition around the wilderness for a day or so. Alone and away from the companions I came with, I wanted to do something by myself for once. I didn't know why I wanted to venture forth single-hand­edly, but I did. But the feelings were there just the same and the more I thought about it, the more I desired to experience something new and differ­ent. And what could it hurt? I would only be gone for the better part of an afternoon, or so I thought. 
My sense of direction had been lost during the morning fog, and the rest of the day had been spent trying to fig­ure out where I was. Looking around, everything looked the same. In all directions, the trees and grasses of the valley were being accentuated by the mountains. Through a line of trees, a small stream lazily glinted in.the sun­light and sounds of birds chirping meshed well with the echo of rushing water. 
There were no signs of civilization anywhere. I was hopelessly lost, but the overwhelming beauty of God's nat­ural order calmed me to the point of tranquility. A soft breeze suddenly grazed my cheek, bringing with it an unidentifiable wildflower scent that softened any recollection of the morn­ing's desperation. 
The first half of the day was spent in such an apprehensive nervousness that I had neglected to see the beauty around me. But now that I had calmed down a bit, I could see that not know­ing where I was going had its advan­tages. 
Had I set out with a planned direc­tion for the day. I would have likely stuck to the major paths and walk­ways. And as much fun as that would have been, it would have been unin­spiring. The real experiences came when I wasn't expecting them. 
Now, I was looking at a world that seemed clearer and more focused than any I had previously known. No roads or paths led to this place. It was a world whose sunrise had not faded and didn't have any intention to. And for the first time, I felt emancipated. 
The mountains of Montana had given me an answer. And for the first time in my life, I wasn't afraid of what was ahead of me. I didn't need a set of directions to guide me through college and into the real world. Sticking to or wanting a set plan for life, I suddenly realized, closed off an endless amount of possibilities. 
It was fine not to have a compass to guide me step-by-step through life. Without the fear of straying from some unforeseen path that was set aside by someone, I was liberated to find an individual path. 
My path would be mine and no one else's. It would, of course, have peaks and valleys, but it would also be a world, unknown to anyone else, left for me to explore. 
Looking down at the broken com­pass in my hand, I closed my fingers around it, took one step forward and pitched it into the creek. I didn't need a compass anymore. I had to be brave and make my own path. 
Adam Cahill is a junior majoring in history and American studies. His col­umn appears every other Wednesday. He can be reached at acahill@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer . 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Meghanne Downes Kiflin Turner Mike Chambliss 
Viewpoint 
Claire Kelley 
Graphics 
Mike Harkins 

Sports 
Bryan Kronk Matt Lozar Heather Van Hoegarden 

Scene 
Christie Boisen 
Lab Tech 
Lisa Velte 



NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Does student goverment take actions that impact your life? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"In the attitude ofsilence the soul finds the path in an clearer light, and what is elusive and deceptive resolves itselfinto crystal clearness. Our life is a long and arduous quest after truth.,, 
Mahatma Gandhi Indian leader 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, January 29, 2003 page 9 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Alcohol policy should not reflect legal contradictions 
Alcohol prohibition for people under 21 is a sterile idea. 
Lawmakers, enforcers and support­ers of this regulation never gave suffi­cient consideration to its repercus­sions. The police are also on a 
tion breeds rebels and ram­
underage drinking, just pant underground activ­as they did at Boat ity, if we may call it Club last Thursday. that. The authori­
Drinking, ties and parental
HTO DIE F 

whether the figures cannot

OUNTRY B 

person is "of ignore the fact 

AVE ABE

age" or not, that their chil­radical, it generates thirsty and curi­ous adolescents that turn loose at any chance they get. The lack of indepen­dence from parents and taboos cas­trate them from moderation in those 
instances. Thus, legal prohibi­
will always exist, and its censors are per­haps more irrespon­sible than the actual breakers of this law. 
To begin with, oppression cannot exist without insurgence. This may take many forms, like the actual act of underage drink­ing or the present article. As the criminal­ization of underage drink­ing gains momentum, its adver­saries grow in proportion. 
The forbidden fruit always seems to be the most appetizing for humanity; it is inherent in our nature. For example, since the national alcohol policy is so 
dren hide from them 
like thieves to sip vodka in 
dark rooms painted by shad­
ows. 
Alcohol policy seems to 
be on a carousel, since the government has yet to learn from its mistakes during the 1920s. Al Capone, one of the most potent despots in history. fed on the alcohol prohibition. As soon 

as alcohol became a common­
place household item instead of a cher­
ished illegal substance. its lure van­
ished and in turn its mafias and relat­
ed crime were destroyed. The econom­
ic, intellectual and personal resources used in busting illegal alcohol were replaced by disproportionate taxes that quickly bloated politicians' pockets. I don't see why they do not apply the same concept on a smaller scale for people under 21 to continue their lucrative enterprise. 
The double standard for adulthood in general is even more ridiculous. Men and women are eligible to wage war and "die for country" at 18, while they are mere kids when it comes to having a beer in a bar. That discrepancy is the one that is most abhorrant. 
Furthermore, law enforcement's hierarchy of tasks appears to suffer a similar disease. The cracking down on Boat Club is a perfect illustration of this inconsistency. Instead of patrolling the streets to provide a safe environ­ment which could help prevent tragedies such as the disappearance of Chad Sharon, they would rather hound the youth in a bar. 
Another case that has shed light upon the efficacy of the police is the successful robbery another ND student returning from Boat Club two weeks ago. Why is it that the police are so keen in one occasion and not in anoth­er? Why are the basic safety and sur­vival needs of a community buried under the verification of IDs and cut­ting down underage alcohol consump­tion? 
The detriment people under age experience because of the public ser­vice's lack of prioritization continues. The consequences of police busts for minors' alcohol consumption lead to colossal fines and a stained academic record. For instance, if a person plans to apply to medical school with under­age drinking in the record, it closes most doors upon him or her. That indi-
Let go of that rainbow 
There has been a lot of discussion recently about Notre Dame's position on homosexuality. A little known phe­nomenon is infecting Our Lady's university. That phe­nomenon? ND has gone gay. 
That's right, and I'm not just talking about the Kelly green. When I think Notre Dame, I think flamingly homosexual. While 
Amy Schlll
smoking is prohibited, sodomy on South Quad is all too common. Why? 
Because gay, lesbian and bisexual students here get more help and sup­Dazed and port than they know what to do with. Amused You can't look in The Observer every two months without seeing an ad from the Standing Committee. 
The Standing Committee is dangerous because it undermines the University's responsibility not only to condemn gays and lesbians for having sex. but also for thinking about sex or considering thinking about sex one day. Sure, the administration won't recognize OutreachND or IFLAG, or add sexual orientation to its nondiscrimination clause, but can you believe that a Catholic institution is actually devoting resources to allow homosexuals a forum for discussion without shame? Why don't we just tear down the Virgin Mary statue and put up Cher? 
If I could turn back time, I would go back to freshman year, when I overheard some of my classmates telling gay students that they were not only sinful. but also inhuman. You just don't see enough of that these days. I mean, there's no better way to follow Jesus than to spit in the face of the marginalized. 
Notre Dame should also condemn gay and lesbian stu­dents because the homosexual relationship is a dead end with no future that would effectively end civilization if it were universalized. I think it's obvious that the Standing Committee and academic classes on sexuality do not exist to help gays and lesbians who are persecuted for something they did not choose. Nor do they open stu­dents' eyes to the reality of different forms of sexual expression throughout history. The sole mission of the University and the College of Arts and Letters is to turn every one of us into card-carrying homosexuals. It may seem like the University offers minimal support for gays and lesbians, but if you give 'em an inch, they'll probably decorate it. 
So clearly, beneath the fai;ade of Dave Matthews and light beer, Notre Dame is a hotbed of gay and lesbian thoughts and inclinations, and we're getting gayer by the second. We need to condemn this because, well, I'm sure it says why somewhere in the Catechism, or maybe it actually doesn't, but I'll be sure to make some absurd exegesis. However, we must remember not to discrimi­nate against gays and lesbians themselves, as long as we let them know that they are disordered for every sexual thought they have. . 
But what else can be done? We need to instill an atti­tude of healthy heterosexuality among students, prefer­ably through more tackle sports and single-sex dorms. Nothing says 'Tm straight" like shooting one to the tight end and enjoying a nice shower. 
You may ask why I'm so concerned about an essentially private issue of personal morality that really has nothing to do with the mission of an institution of higher learn­ing. Maybe I really have nothing better to do than propa­gate slightly sophisticated hate speech. Maybe I don't understand that the way in which I express my beliefs can seriously hurt people of good will just trying to cope with a very difficult issue. Maybe I just need to get laid. 
Amy Schill is a senior English major. She can be reached at schill.2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 
vidual's future darkens before his or 
her eyes in a matter of seconds, all 
because he or she decided to have a 
beer with some friends. A system in 
which a person is considered an 
"adult" by all standards except to 
drink obviously has deficiencies. 
In addition, it is sad to contemplate the submission of the University to nonsensical governmental policies. All college students are grown-up, far removed from the parental niche. This institution, like any other, is supposed to educate adults, not make them. Thus, the enormous measures that are currently being taken to dry the cam-· pus of alcohol of any sorts seems unbe­lievable. Sadly, this establishment is not autonomous and has to cooperate with the government, despite its incon­sistencies. 
Legal prohibition of under 21 drink­ing is ludicrous. Law is supposed to be a set of moral rules to live harmo­niously as a community. Morals are the collective, inherited agreement on how to live a proper, righteous life. Therefore, laws that are not beneficial. but injurious to a society should be abolished or modified. 
\Vhen drinking has been a cultural, gastronomical and social activity for ages, why should people between 18 and 21 years of age be caught in the middle of adolescence and adulthood at the discretion of Washington? It is clear that busting underage drinkers is a business in itself, sustaining a mon­strous bureaucracy. Perhaps that is the catch. 
Juan Bernal 
freshman Keough Hall Jan. 28 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Encourage 
•
voting 

On Monday, The Observer editorial staff was derelict in its duty, when it endorsed abstention in the Saint Mary's elections for the reason that there is but one party running. Voting "abstain" would be a vote of "no confi­dence" according to The Observer. 
Instead of urging "no confidence," the Observer staff should be applaud­ing Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl and Sarah Brown for volunteering to do the job no one else seems willing to do. 
That there are no other candidates is not their fault, but the fault of the whole Saint Mary's student body. Also according to The Observer, a vote of "no confidence" would force another election. So, volunteers will suddenly come out of the woodwork? "[Having no choice in an election] is a disturbing trend in student government politics that needs to stop." 
The press is the watchdog of the gov­ernment, so it behooves The Observer staff to encourage participation in stu­dent government, not to discourage it. 
Michael Swadener 
staff Hessert Cenrcr for Aerospace Research Jan. 28 
THE 
OBSERVER 


page 10 Wednesday, January 29, 2003 Wednesday, Janua 
I 


ett mer 

St. Ed's Players present a dark comedy featuring
' 

l 
By COLLEEN BARRETT 
Scene Theatre Critic 
As you head out to Washington Hall this weekend to watch the St. Ed's Players' production of "Betty's Summer Vacation," make sure you leave something behind. 
"Leave your inhibitions at the door." said Lena Caligiuri. 
Caligiuri plays Trudy in Christopher Durang's dark satire on American sensationalism and its thirst for entertainment at the expense of oth­ers. 
Trudy and her friend Betty head off to the New Jersey shore to summer in a house that is, unknown to them. already occupied by Keith, a quiet serial killer. and Buck, the stereotypi­cal. testosterone-filled sexist. Trudy's alcoholic, emotionally abusive moth­er, Mrs. Siezmagraff, arrives shortly after the girls. 
The situation becomes more bizarre when characters begin to hear voices coming from the ceiling. The voices monitor the characters' fears and fantasies, egging them on and mock­ing them. The voices react to the characters as if they are watching a sitcom or daytime television show, and the characters begin to behave with the intention of keeping the omnipresent voices laughing. Eventually, the voices drive the char­acters to irrational actions, including rape, dismemberment and murder. 
"The voices in the ceiling laugh and talk; they make you ask why you laugh at something. They make you ask why you think something is 
funny," said Bill Kalman, presi­dent of the St. Ed's Players and director of the play. 
When asked why he chose the particular play, Kalman said that while browsing through plays. .. Betty's" bright cover jumped out at him. 
"I read it, and it was good, it was funny," he said. 
In spite of the whimsical title and its classifica­tion as a comedy, "Betty" deals with the darker ele­ments of life, including rape, murder and alco­holism. Trudy experienced sex­ual abuse at the hands of her father, though her mother refused to acknowledge the fact. Other sensi­tive and poten­tially offensive interactions take 


"You have to desensitize yourself to at least apprecia some of the things your character play, will notice tt says and does," said Jessica Manske, between the voice who plays Trudy's contemptible moth­the American pub] 

er. "You have to pretend that you don't know the things you are saying are com­pletely ridicu­lous." 
The things that Trudy's mother and the other characters say are indeed ridiculous, and will shock some, though it will leave others laughing. 
"You have to be able to laugh it off and know that 
St. Ed's Players 
Director: Bill Kalman Playwright: Christopher Durang Stage Manager: Beth Colombo Starring: Jessica Manske, Meghann Tabor, Paul Sifuentes, Tara Murphy, Lena Caliguiri, David Buckley, Tom Sutton, Jordan Kohl, and Ryan Greene 
Thursday through Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. $5 admission. 

Durango isn't meant to be taken seri­for sensational ! ously," said Caligiuri. "If you don't, recent obsession you will be offended." perfectly reflects t 
THE OBSERVER 

:lay, January 29, 2003 Wednesday, January 29, 2003 
page 11 


aca ion' 
dark comedy featuring murder, sex and insanity 

msitize yourself to at least appreciate the theme of the s your character play, will notice the striking similarity d Jessica Manske, between the voices in the ceiling and ontemptible moth-the American public. 
"Betty's Summer Vacation" 
"-'i 

~-::::·-:
.,,1,;;1 . 
.'";:;;/ ' 
St. Ed's Players 

Director: Bill Kalman Playwright: Christopher Durang Stage Manager: Beth Colombo Starring: Jessica Manske, Meghann Tabor, Paul Sifuentes, Tara Murphy, Lena Caliguiri, David Buckley, Tom Sutton, Jordan Kohl, and Ryan Greene 
Thursday through Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. $5 admission. 
"It's a commen­tary on the tele­vision viewing public and its obsession with publicity," said Meghann Tabor, who plays Betty, the sole sane role in the play. 
The voices demand outra­geous behavior from the charac­ters, laughing at their plights and misery in much the same way the public clamors 
t to be taken seri­for sensational stories. America's tri. "If you don't, recent obsession with reality shows 
,, 
perfectly reflects the theme of "Betty," 
as television 
audiences eagerly 
revel in the pain, 
misery or fear of 
those participat­
ing. 
"I've tried to 
write in things 
during the scene 
changes that 
weren't in the 
play just to make 
people think 
about the theme," 
said Kalman. 'Tm 
trying to make 
the tone of play 
like a television 
show." 
Kalman hopes 
that the commen­
tary between the 
scenes, as well as 
additional seg­
ments that reflect 
the nature of tele­
vision, will fur­
ther the sense of 
a television 
dynamic. 

Another way that Kalman looks to imple­ment his idea is through the set. Washington Hall main stage has been transformed by set designer Sean Quinn into a large, neon green room with touches of bright pink. The set and the supplementary props are elaborately built and painted to reflect the surreal world of television. Quinn, a fifth year architecture stu­dent, acknowledges that the set has taken a lot of effort. 
"It's the whole architecture thing, you go too far," he said. 
But going too far is what "Betty's Summer Vacation" is all about. What can one expect from a play in which all characters but one are insane? 
"Well. Trudy tries to be sane, but she never quite manages it," said Caligiuri. 
"The play needs a Betty," said Tabor, "or it would be completely off the wall and things would get too out of hand." 
As it is. the play promises to be as off the wall as Betty will let it get. 
Whether the events in the play leave audience members laughing or shocked, they will go away thinking about Durango's message, which is exactly what the cast and director of "Betty's Summer Vacation" want to happen. 
"Betty's Summer Vacation" runs this Thursday. Friday, and Saturday in Washington Hall. Tickets for the St. Ed's Players production are avail­able at LaFortune Box office or at the door for $5. 


Contact Colleen Barrett at cbarrett@nd.edu 
Wednesday, January 29, 2003 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 
Robbins missed Super Bowl because of depression 
Associated Press 
ALAMEDA, Calif. 

Oakland Raiders All-Pro cen­ter Barret Robbins, who spent Super Bowl Sunday in a hospi­tal after disappearing from the team's hotel, has a history of depression. 
The 6-foot-3, 320-pound line­man had apparently stopped taking his medicine for depres­sion and bipolar disorder, the San Francisco Chronicle report­ed, citing a source close to Robbins. 
Robbins disappeared Friday night and didn't resurface for nearly 24 hours, after which the Raiders kicked him out of the team hotel and put him on the inactive list for the champi­onship game. 
..We're really handling this as a personal issue for Barret," Raiders senior assistant Bruce Allen said Tuesday. "We 're involved in his situation, but there is privacy involved." 
Allen said he had spoken to Robbins recently, and talked more than once with the cen­ter's wife Tuesday. Allen declined to offer specifics. 
Robbins had been acting strangely during the week, appearing dazed during Tuesday's Media Day, and seemed disoriented when he showed up for a team meeting, the Chronicle reported. citing several unnamed teammates. 
Shortly after the team told him he wouldn't be playing in the Super Bowl, he was admit­ted to a San Diego hospital, Robbins' agent Drew Pittman said . 
A Robbins family member said he was on a suicide watch, according to the New York Daily News. 
Because of his history of depression, he was treated by doctors associated with the NFL's emergency response team, a league source told the Chronicle. 
Allen wouldn't confirm any of the reports. 
"Everybody with the Raiders is still disappointed with the game," he said of the 48-21 loss to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. "We're trying to recover from that, including him." 
Pittman, who was flying to Hawaii on Tuesday for the Pro Bowl. said he didn't know which hospital Robbins was in, and was unaware of his condi­tion. But he said Robbins' wife told him no illegal drugs were found. 

"He's receiving ongoing treat­ment, and had some prelimi­nary tests done that showed there were no drugs in his sys­tem," Pittman said Monday night. 
Robbins told the Chronicle in 1997 that both his parents had struggled with depression and that he controlled his own ill­ness through medication. "It's a battle within your head," he told the paper then. "It's not an easy thing to deal with. Anybody who can overcome something like this is bound to be a better person in all aspects of life." 
A Raiders spokesman said Tuesday that the team was uncertain whether Robbins 
remained hospitalized. 
Calls to Pittman and Raiders senior assistant Bruce Allen Tuesday were not immediately returned. 
Robbins was replaced on the AFC Pro Bowl roster Monday by New England center Damien Woody. 
Four teammates, all speaking on the condition of anonymity, told the Chronicle that Robbins spent Saturday in Tijuana, Mexico, despite warnings from team officials not to go there. Pittman called that "specula­tion." 
Checks with the U.S. Consulate in Tijuana, the Customs Service, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, San Diego police and several area hospitals yielded no further information. 

Tampa celebrates city's first Super Bowl championship 
been here 10 years and I've 
Associated Press 
waited a long time to do this, 
so help me out -We're No. 1! 
TAMPA, Fla. We're No. 1!" 
Warren Sapp blew kisses to Sapp added: "Thank you the crowd, and head coach Jon from the bottom of my heart." Gruden received the key to the Long-suffering Bucs support­city as an estimated 100,000 ers waited 27 years for a people lined the streets of championship. The frustration downtown Tampa on Tuesday turned into elation Monday as to celebrate the Buccaneers' they rushed to stores across Super Bowl victory. the region to buy anything 
Fans clad in the team's red commemorating the Super and pewter colors waved ban­Bowl triumph. ners and chanted "Defense!" Many of the fans along the and "Tampa Bay!" as the parade route were clothes Buccaneers rode in convert­emblazoned with the Super ibles and pickup tricks in a Bowl XX.XVII logo. parade in their honor. Alstott, a cigar clenched in 
"This is about you Tampa, I his teeth. stopped for a love you," running back Mike moment as he walked the Alstott told the crowd. parade route slapping hands 
Tampa Mayor Dick Greco, with happy fans. flanked by mayors from "Look at this," he said, ges­Clearwater and St. Petersburg, turing up to people who waved presented Gruden the key to from the top of a downtown the city and said Tampa owed parking garage. "It's better him "a million thanks." than anything ever. It's for the 
"There's a storm warning out fans. Look at all this!" there," Gruden said. "We've "Unbelievable," said receiver got a heck of a football team, Joe Jurevicius, as he worked the front, Gruden waved the parade," Glazer said. again that the Bucs never won and we're just getting started." the other side of the street. "I'll Vince Lombardi Trophy high Fred Sanders, a longtime a Super Bowl." 
Tampa Bay won its first never forget this as long as I over his head. Bucs fan originally from Tania Stablein had dressed Super Bowl title Sunday, beat­live." Riding alongside Gruden in Pahokee, flew down from her tiny black poodle in a No. ing the Oakland Raiders 48-21 Many schools closed early for the same convertible, Bucs Edison, N.J ., just to witness the 99 Sapp jersey. in San Diego. the celebration. Fans owner Malcolm Glazer won­celebration. "This is probably the best 
"I was raised in San Diego, screamed, waved signs and dered if anyone was working in "It's been a long time com­thing to happen to Tampa," she but my hometown is Tampa," chanted as the coaches and the region Tuesday afternoon. ing," he said. "All my friends in said. "Maybe now this will put safety John Lynch said. "I've players came into sight. Near "Everyone's here at the New York can't ever tell me us on the map as a real city." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edic all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. _, 
CLASSIFIEDS 
New four bedroom 3 bath home for rent with two car garage.
NOTICES 
Gas heat. central air conditioning, 
all appliances, fire place. Oak Hill Condo for Sale. 2 Bed, 2 Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683­Bath, 0.5 miles from campus. 5038. Rent $1600 plus utilities. 
Need travel or missionary insur­574-243-2621 ance? 
Purchase online at www.travelmed-Acapulco s #1 Spring Break icalinsurance.us www.missionaryin-Company, Bianchi-Rossi Tours, is surance.net 
•Going Loco" with a •Last Chance 800-893-0692 to Dance· Special! 
Need auto insurance? www.south-Book now and get $100 off our bendautoinsurance.net already low price! Your seat is available now, but may be gone 574-254-2626 tomorrow! 
Affiliates wanted asap! Get your Call now 800-875-4525. www.brea-free website! www.wirelessopportu­know.com nity.com 287·9643 ND & Smc Women: South Bend professional couple seeks responsi• ble female student(s) to provide occasional afternoon, evening or overnight care for two daughters, ages 11 and 5. Located 1 mile from campus in his­toric district. Must have own trans­portation. Get away & earn extra money in low-stress setting. 
Call 707-2047 or email Tommp@mbm.org. 
Rooms For Rent $250 month includes utilities 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol.com 
Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus mmm­rentals@aol.com 
272-1525 www.mmmrentals.com 

SPRING BREAK on South Padre Island, ranked #3 S.B. destination by the Travel Channel. South Padre Resort Rentals has the best 1,2&3 bedroom condos. Great location and amenities, close to Mexico. 
Call 800-944-6818 Visit gosouth­padreisland.com 
Ivy RD condo avail-short term rentals-ND staff/guests/grad stu­dent. Pis call 610-541-0486 
FOR SALE 

JUDAY LAKE 3 BDRM HOME. ON LAKE.WALK TO CAMPUS. BRO­KER OWNED. GILLIS REALTY 
272-6306 

FOR RENT 
DOMUS PROPERTIES • HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR • WELL MAIN• TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS -STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS • SECURITY SYSTEMS -MAINTE­NANCE STAFF ON CALL· WASH­ERS/DRYERS· CALL TODAY • HOUSES GOING FAST • CON­TACT: KRAMER (574)315-5032 OR (574) 234-2436 ALSO LEAS· ING FOR 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 
Brand New Everything. 2-story rental house with porch and yard just blocks from campus. OH-street parking. 3.4 or 5 students. Summer or fall availability. 235-3655. 
3-6 BDRM HOMES. 03/04 YR. SEC SYS. WASHER/D 272-6306 
PERSONAL 
Let's go sunbathing on the quad it's a balmy 30 degrees outside. 
Oh wait, there is a toot of snow on the ground. 
Soukup = Hussein 
100% = 100% 
<Slurp> <Slurp> He He He Ha <Gulp> <Smack> 
Would this be better if we were lying down 
<Slurp> Scandal 


Wednesday, January 29, 2003 page 13
The Observer . SPORTS 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Committee investigates financing options for Expos 


WEDNESDAY, 129-DEBARTOLO 
Fischoff's Culinary Feast invites Students, Faculty & Staff to • 
stnng ()f 1s 
.Pear 

Saturday, February 22, 2003 
7:00 pm 
Palais Royale (downtown South Bend) 

Gourmet creations by 16 chefs from the American Culinary Federation Music by Fischoff Competition Winner, Chiara String Quartet Dancing to "Pieces of Dreams" Limited Silent Auction 
Dance away the winter blues!! 
Proceeds benefit the educational programs of the Fischoff National Chamber Music Association and the American Culinary Federation . 
Black tie optional 
Reservations: 1-2903 

Fischoff, 303 Brownson Hall, info@fischoff.org 
in place for a new ballpark and the timeline for getting Portland ·s PG E Park and 

Volunteers Needed 
ECDC, at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, is looking for volunteers to play and interact with young children. If you enjoy reading to children, playing games, building with blocks, an activities and singing songs, please consider volunteering for two hours once per week. It is both rewarding and fun! Paid positions also available at ECDC-ND: M-Th 11:15 -12:30 and M-F 12:30 -1:30 & 2:30 -3:30. 
EarlyChildhood Development.Center, Inc. 
Please call ­
631-3344 or 284-4693 
"We believe you build a ball­
park where people live, work 
and come to be entertained," 
Goldwater said . 
Baltimore Orioles owner 
Peter Angelos opposes a 
Washington team, which he 
says would cut into his team's 
revenue. Downtown 
Washington is about 40 miles 
from Camden Yards. 
"It came up in a general dis­
cussion today," Goldwater said. 
"We know we'll certainly have 
to discuss that in detail." 
Baseball also wanted to know 
if rain would be a problem in 
Portland, one of the wettest 
U.S. cities. It's unclear if a new ballpark would have a retractable roof, such as Safeco Field, the home of the Mariners in rainy Seattle. 
"It doesn't rain any more in Portland than some East Coast cities," Katz said. 
Portland's only professional team in the four major sports is the Trail Blazers, who began play in 1970. 
"Portland is by far the most underserved professional sports market in the United States," Kahn said. 
No potential owners have been invited to speak with baseball, only government authorities. This contrasts with baseball's meetings prior to expansion in 1993 and 1998, when ownership groups put the bids together. 
CM~ . ACA~ . JAMAICA SAHAMM . R..OilOA 

WINTER & SPRING 
IRERK 
Pana!'l'la City teach• South Padre Island• Vall Stearnboa1 • Daytona Beaclu Breckenridge 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Baseball had a loud message in its first meetings with suitors who want to lure the Expos from Montreal: Show us the money. 
Financing for a new ballpark is the top priority for the com­mittee, which wants to know how fast the areas -Portland, Ore., Washington, D.C., and Northern Virginia -could put in place plans to host the Expos in 2004. 
"The committee is clearly focused on funding," said Bobby Goldwater, executive director of the DC Sports and Entertainment Commission. 
Portland Mayor Vera Katz and District of Columbia Mayor Anthony A. Williams led their delegations Tuesday. Virginia Attorney General Jerry Kilgore heads the Northern Virginia group, which meets with the committee Wednesday. 
Katz said she believes base­ball wants to make a decision by the end of the summer and said the groups will be invited back for more formal presenta­tions in six to eight weeks. 
"This can't be done if it involves raising income taxes, involves raising property taxes," said David Kahn, the former Indiana Pacers general manager who is a leading fig­ure in the Oregon Stadium Campaign. 
The Expos, who report to spring training in 16 days for what could be their final season in Montreal, have drawn poorly in recent years at Olympic Stadium. The franchise was purchased before the 2002 sea­son by the other 29 teams and is operated by the commission­er's office. Baseball moved 22 of the Expos' 81 home games this year to San Juan, Puerto Rico, to increase revenue. 
At Tuesday's meetings, base­ball wanted to hear how quickly both areas could put financing 
Washington's RFK Stadium 
ready for major league play. 
PGE Park, the 19,566-seat ballpark of the Triple-A Portland Beavers, and RFK Stadium. the 45,000-seat home of the expansion Senators until they moved to Texas after the 1971 season, would be the Expos' temporary home until a new stadium is built. 
Kahn said a bill would be introduced in the Oregon Legislature to use state income tax money from player salaries to service bonds the state would issue to raise money to con­struct a ballpark. which would cost $300 million or more. 
"If that's the case, then there's no problem," said Gene Orza, the No. 2 official of the players' association. "But if they're singling out baseball players for a special tax to help finance a ballpark, they would not find an ally in us." 
Several potential sites for ballparks in Portland, Washington and Northern Virginia have been discussed, but none has been selected. 
"They wanted to know what our situation is in Oregon, who . had authority for what revenue sources, whether we need to go to the voters," Kahn said. 

Washington, which included District Council chairman Linda Cropp in its delegation, has not yet come up with a financing plan. It thinks a team has a bet­ter chance to succeed down­town than in the suburbs. 


'' 
, I , I I 
page 14 
NCAA 
Title IX 
\ 
' 
report due 
il 
' 
l 
\ 
I' Friday
' 
Associated Press 
\VASHINGTON 

A group representing female athletes asserted Tuesday it would be unthinkable to retreat on a 31-year-old law designed to ensure gender equity in educa­tional institutions. 
"To suggest that it's OK for a federal law to allow women to be treated in a manner that is inferior to men is unfathomable in this day and age," said Donna Lopiano, executive director of the Women's Sports Foundation. 
Lopiano argued her case -as did representatives of organiza­tions with contrary views ­before an Education Department panel that will soon recommend changes to the law known as Title IX. 
The department's 15-member Commission on Opportunity in Athletics will debate and vote on as many as 24 competing rec­ommendations during public meetings Wednesday and Thursday. It must submit a final report to Education Secretary Rod Paige by Jan. 31. 
The commissioners appear to be leaning toward recommend­ing a less restrictive interpreta­tion of the law's proportionality standards -a move that sits well with supporters of a Title IX lawsuit filed by the National Wrestling Coaches Association. 

The lawsuit contends that a "proportionality" rule that is a part of Title IX has led to the elimination of hundreds of men's sports team. 
Opponents of the existing rule stemming from that 1972 law say that many universities have struggled to comply. The stan­dard says the male-female ath­lete ratio at such institutions must be "substantially propor­tionate" to the male-female enrollment ratio. 
"It's clear that proportionality just doesn't work.'' said Eric Pearson of the College Sports Council, the lead plaintiff. "It's created a quota system that was never intended when Title IX was originally created." 
Commissioner Julie Foudy, a member of U.S. national women's soccer team, said she feels the majority of her fellow commissioners want to tinker with proportionality. 
She said she is especially con­cerned about a proposal by University of Maryland athletic director Debbie Yow, which would allow schools to have a 50-50 split of male and female athletes regardless of the make­up of the student body -with a leeway of 5 to 7 percentage points. 
"That scares me," Foudy said. "The reality is that the universi­ties are going to go down the path of least resistance, which would be 43 percent." 
A member of the commission, speaking on condition of anonymity Monday, said the "directions they are moving toward" include a less restrictive interpretation of the law's pro­portionality test. It also is expected to call for new surveys to gauge sports interest among student bodies. 
"The majority seem to be in favor of some form of change," the commissioner said. 
The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 29, 2003 
We designed our corporate ladder to make it easier to succeecJ. 
At Ernst & Young, you will be given the best tools to work with, such as the latest technology, information and resources. And our challenging, high-paced environment will stretch and grow your capabilities, increasing your opportunities for leadership all along the way. Step on. 
F()RTUNE'
100 BEST 
COMPANIES§
TO WORK FORC"J 

Quality In Everything We Do 


Wednesday, January 29, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Page 15 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

West Virginia at NOTRE DAME 7p.m., WNDU North Carolina at Georgia Tech 7p.m., ESPN 
NHL HOCKEY 

Toronto at Carolina, 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 
'. :·=~:~~;(~'..«•X•:•,,.,; .,, 
~li~t;:;;:;;::;:!~~r.;,: 
~-:,:....., .... ' .... . ····•·······..........·.· ..·.. •:•:: 
Reuters 

Washington Wizards guard Michael Jordan drives against the Bulls In what could be Jordan's final game in Chicago last week. Tuesday, Jordan was named as a reserve on the East All-Stars. 
Jordan picked as All-Star reserve 
game in Atlanta. Dirk Nowitzki of Dallas, Jazz, those notable for
Associated Press 

Malone was selected Gary Payton of Seattle not being selected includ­
NEW YORK every year since 1988, and Chris Webber of ed Indiana's Ron Artest, 
Michael Jordan was but did not make the cut Sacramento. Washington's Jerry selected to the All-Star in balloting by the 29 O'Neal, who finished Stackhouse, Dallas' team for the 14th time NBA coaches. behind Houston's Yao Michael Finley and Tuesday, and Karl Malone Also chosen for the Ming in fan balloting to Golden State's Antawn was shut out for the first Eastern Conference team pick the starters, was Jamison. time in 15 years. were Jason Kidd of New chosen an All-Star for the Among the league's top 
Jordan moved into a tie Jersey. Paul Pierce and 10th time. 20 scorers. only Jamison with Malone and Jerry Antoine Walker of Boston, The selections of (23.4 points), Chicago's West for the second-most Brad Miller of Indiana, Ilgauskas (Lithuania), Jalen Rose (23.1), All-Star selections in NBA Zydrunas Ilgauskas of Nash (Canada) and Stackhouse (2 2. 9). history behind Kareem Cleveland and Jamal Nowitzki (Germany). Cleveland's Ricky Davis Abdul-Jabbar's 19. Mashburn of New along with starters Tim (22.4) and New York's 
Jordan, who has the Orleans. Duncan (U.S. Virgin Allan Houston (21.3) were highest career scoring The Western Islands) and Yao (China), not selected. average in All-Star histo­Conference reserves are tie the record set last sea­Marion, Yao, Ilgauskas, ry at 21.3 points, was Shaquille O'Neal of the son of five international Mashburn, Miller and voted in as a starter in his Lakers, Stephon Marbury players. Wallace will be making 13 previous selections. He and Shawn Marion of Other than Malone or their first All-Star is a reserve for the Feb. 9 Phoenix, Steve Nash and anyone else from the Utah appearances. 
IN BRIEF 

James gets in accident with Monday night to file the accident Norman to qualify now is to move 8S.year old woman report with Akron police. from No. 121 to No. 50 in the world James' attorney, Fred Nance, was ranking by the end of March, to be in
LeBron James hasn't completely not immediately available for com­the top 10 on the PGA Tour money

steered clear of trouble with his 

ment. after The Players Championships orHummer. 
to win The Players. 
The nation's top high school bas­ketball player was cleared Monday Norman won't play in Norman is playing the Heineken 
Classic at Royal Melbourne this
after a two-week investigation by Masters 

week. and said he plans to play four state officials determined he did not Barring a remarkable rebound in 
PGA Tour events before the dead­
violate amateur bylaws by accepting the next two months. Greg Norman a Hummer H2 vehicle as a gift. will not be returning to the Masters. line. 
Hours after James was cleared, an Norman, the epitome of collapse Johnson invited Norman to be a 88-year-old woman filed a police and heartache at Augusta National, guest at Augusta National if he report claiming that he backed his said he received a letter from chair­doesn't make it, but the Shark isn't 
interested.
sport utility vehicle into her car. man Hootie Johnson that he will not 
Iola Winston of Akron said the be offered a special invitation. "There's no point in me going up accident occurred while she was "Hootie wrote explaining the deci­there," he said. stopped in traffic Friday afternoon -sion, and I think it is the right deci­Norman's best chance to win the 
sion," Norman told the Sydney green jacket came in 1996. He had aa few hours before James' final 
six-stroke lead over Nick Faldo going home game at Akron St. Vincent-St. Morning Herald. "I support him 100 
Mary. percent and respect him for that." into the last round, but shot 78 and Winston said she gave James her Norman, a runner-up three times lost by five. phone number after he said he at the major he craves the most, did The most devastating loss might would have the damage repaired. not qualify for the first time last year have been in 1987, when Larry Mize She was not injured. but was given a special exemption by defeated him on the second playoff Her car later broke down, and she the club. He tied for 36th. hole by chipping in for birdie from had it towed. She waited until The only way for the 48-year-old 140 feet. 

page 16 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, January 29, 2003 

The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
The Olin 

Lecture Series 

.• '•'' 
, ' 
-·.•\-, 

'' 
_aw an~ 
.._____..u ture''
I 
'' 
'' 
'. 
!l
I) 
) 
' 
Upcoming Lectures 
l 
I 
t Christopher Tollefsen February 17 
. 
\ i 

Joseph Raz April 10 
t 

Francis Cardinal George Archbishop of Chicago 
Thursday, January 30, 2003 
3 p.m. 

Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 


Wednesday, January 29, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

Home 
continued from page 20 
Schifino. The sophomore is the leading scorer for the Mountaineers this season with nearly 21 points a game. West Virginia also likes to find big man Kevin Pittsnogle open from three-point land. The 6­foot-10, freshman center has made 31-of-57 three-pointers to lead the team in that cate­gory, counting for a large por­tion of his 13 points a game. 
"They run in a tough offense," Carroll said. "They use a lot of screens and get a lot of easy buckets against teams. I think [West Virginia's offense] is very hard to guard, so we're going to have to be very attentive to detail." 
The Mountaineers have seen a lot of turnover since they last faced the Irish, with a new coach this year and several new faces on the floor. 
First year head coach Joe Beilein has started three freshmen -Pittsnogle, and guards Joe Herber and Jarmon Durisseau-Collins ­in all 17 games this year. Combined with sophomore starters Schifino and Tyrone Sally, that makes for a very young West Virginia squad. 
"This year, their leading scorer is Schifino, and he wasn't last year," Carroll said. "Guys that played more last year aren't playing now, so you just never know. The thing about it is that you have to be ready no matter who is out there. We have to know everybody and what they can do, so we'll be prepared for whoever they have in the game." 
The biggest challenge for the Irish may be to try not to look past a less talented West Virginia squad, and toward their big matchup against Georgetown Saturday. 
"It's such a big game, and I think this team understands this year that every game in 
Nielsen 
continued from page 20 
to both play hockey and get a good education." 
After making a name for him­self at Taft, one of the premier hockey prep schools in the coun­try. Nielsen was confronted with the choice of where to attend college. For him, the choice was simple. 
"Notre Dame was the only school I visited that wasn't on the East Coast," he said. "When I had the chance to come here, it was really refreshing to be back in the Midwest. Attending Taft gav~ me the academic reputa­tion to go to any school I want­ed." 
As a freshman, Nielsen clicked with the Irish right away, taking advantage of the chance to be an important part of Notre Dame's defense. 
"I always knew I had those other guys to count on," he said. "So I was able to go around and play my game. I didn't play all situations back then either, like the penalty kill, so it was nice to get a chance to rest. It was a great opportunity to grow as a player." 
the Big East is a huge game," 

Nielsen's growth was well Carroll said. "No matter who 
noted by scouts, and after his you 're playing, whether it's 
sophomore year, as he was dri­home or away, any win here 
ving to South Bend for a summer is a huge one with all the 
hockey camp, he received a call great teams in the confer­
from his parents that he had ence. Any night, anybody can 
been drafted. beat anybody. We have to 
That year and the year after, focus and be ready to get this 
he was invited to take part in the one." 
Atlanta Thrashers' prospect camp, which consisted of nearly 
Contact Chris Federico at every prospect in the Atlanta 
cfederic@nd.edu organization, many of whom are 
currently in the NHL or the 
minor leagues. 
"It's a great experience," he 
said about the camp. "The last 
two summers I knew I was com­
ing back to school. so it was a 
chance to get a taste of what 
kind of skill is needed to play at 
the next level. You really get a 
sense of what it would be like to 
have hockey as your profession." 
Poulin noted a difference in 
Nielsen's play immediately after 
the Irish defenseman returned 
from prospect camp. 
"I think that really helped him," Poulin said. "You never really know until you've been there and can say, 'I can play with these guys.' You could just see the increased confidence." 
Nielsen may be confident, but he's certainly not arrogant. 
"Definitely one of my goals is to play in the NHL." he said. "But I plan on playing for as long as it takes to get there." 
After the final game of the sea­son for the Irish, Nielsen will hang up his Notre Dame jersey for good and continue on the road toward his ultimate goal. 
"That's the driving force in my life," he said. "I'm looking for­ward to new experiences and meeting new people. It's been a good four years here, but I'm also looking forward to moving on." 
Maybe some day, in some NHL city, a young fan in the stands will see Nielsen skating around on the ice in a bright clean uni­form. And maybe that kid will turn to his mom and say, "I want to do that." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


RSM JAifllD.OfDAlli4l 
]MS Building 

Up the river without a paddle? Did y~ur boat sink? 
Call udy! 
-Minor consuming charges -Minor transporting -Minor in a tavern/liquor .store -Infractions, Speeding, Reckless driving -Battery -Resisting arrest -Public intoxication 
QuallffcatJons: 
-8.A., Stanford -J.D., Notre Dame Law -Former Assistant Rector, 
Siegfried Hall -Se habla espanol 
108 N. Main Street #800 South Bend, Indiana 46601 


page 18 The Observer . sPORTS Wednesday, January 29, 2003 
MENS TENNIS SMC BASKETBALL 
Struggling Irish face No. 2 Illinois Belles seek 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
After beginning the spring season with two losses, the Irish, winless in dual match play, will face No. 2 Illinois today at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Illini roster is rich with talent, with five singles players and two dou­bles teams ranked nationally. The Irish, on the other hand, are a relative­ly young and less experienced squad. 
''They are, I think, the best team in the country," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
Although Bayliss recognizes the for­midable challenge awaiting the Irish on the courts today, he believes Notre Dame has valuable assets· that could help the Irish register their first victory of the season. 
Primarily, he believes the Irish roster has players with the heart and energy to rebound after two consecutive loss­es. 
"Sometimes our guys have played their best tennis with their backs against the wall," Bayliss said. "We're going to be ready to play and we'll be out there firing on all cylinders." 
While the Irish lost six of nine letter­men to graduation, the Illini roster from last season remains intact. Last year, Illinois won two out of three matches with the Irish, but the Irish triumphed 4-3 in Champaign, Ill. 
So far this spring though, the Irish, as a team, have not had much to smile about. 
"To say I'm disappointed in an 0-2 start is an understatement," Bayliss said. "I think we had a chance to beat Indiana." 
Nevertheless, several players have provided hope for the team. 
"I am extremely happy with play of [Luis] Haddock," Bayliss said. "Even though Matt Scott has lost twice at No. 2, that's a huge jump to go from five to two in our lineup. He's done a very good job." 
Additionally. sopho­more Brent D'Amico, who saw little singles playing time last sea-· son, has earned two singles victories in the matches against Indiana and Ohio State. 
The two freshmen in the lineup, Eric Langenkamp and Patrick Buchanan. need time to adjust to colle­giate tennis, according to Bayliss. 
"Both lost matches they could have won, and they're going to win as the year goes on," he said. "They're going to get pretty good. I just have to be patient and wait for them to develop and get used to the intensity of college tennis." 
But if Langenkamp and Buchanan are not able to aid Notre Dame in trying to succeed with a tough schedule, the Irish have enough 
ADAM MIGLORE/The Observer 
depth to manipulate the 
Sophomore Brent D' Amico serves In a match
lineup. 
In doubles play, earlier this season. The Irish face No. 2 llllnols D'Amico and junior today at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Matt Scott were suc­
team," Bayliss said. "They're going tocessful against Indiana, but struggled grow, and they're going to get confi­
against Ohio State Sunday. Senior 
dence. We're going to be heard from asBrian Farrell, who has been playing at the year goes on." 
For now, the Irish are looking for­ward to the challenge ahead, the chal­lenge that begins today against a team ranked second in the nation. 
"This is an extremely exciting week," Bayliss said. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at j1indsle@nd.edu 

the No. 2 doubles flight with Haddock, may not play today due to a shoulder injury. 
After playing Illinois today, Notre Dame will welcome Florida State Friday. Next week, the Irish will face a challenging trio -Wisconsin, Purdue and Duke. 
"We've got to remember [we are] a very young and very inexperienced 


SOCIAL CONCERNS 

home upset 
By TREY WILLIAMS 
Sports Wrirer 
The "upset" has become as much a part of sports as the players and coaches who make it all possible. 
Perhaps that's just one of the reasons \vhy Saint Mary's basketball team goes into its match against the third-ranked team in the conference with a positive attitude and out­look. 
The Belles (5-12) don't expect to be the favorites as they square off against the Scots (10-5) of Alma College, coming in with a five game losing streak, but that hasn't distorted their image of themselves. · 
"A lot of teams are going to underestimate us at this point, and I think we can use that to our advantage," said guard Katie Boyce. "We're a stronger team than we've shown and we know that." 
The Belles have had a rough past couple of weeks, losing their last three games on the road. 
However, with the home-court advantage, a long standing school rivalry, and the chal­lenge of facing the third-ranked team in the MIAA, coach Suzanne Bellina and her squad believe they can take the season in a new direction. 
"I think returning to their home court will definitely motivate [the· team] to play their best," said Bellina. "Alma has also been a rival of ours for a while, and I think these fac­tors challenge the team to perform well." 
Besides playing on their own turf, the Belles have yet another advantage over the Scots, and that is the depth of their bench. 
Forward Emily Creachbaum, who has shot for 43 percent from the field this season, leads the Belles. Creachbaum is backed by guard Maureen Bush who has shot for 42 percent. 
Contact Trey Williams at Williams.3l7@nd.edu 
,i.., "5soc.
ff-~~­
-< 0~ 

SUMMER SERVICE INTERNSHIPS ENHANCE YOUR FIELD OF STUDY 
Business: most ofthe sites (NFP) Architecture: llabitaL programs, outreach housi111J Accounting/Business: ACGONPrograms in Micro-lending qffices Psych/Soc/Anthro: every site would apply Gender Studies: Abuse shelters, Women's Care Centers Political Science/Government: Shelters-outreach t,rograms Science/Pre-Prof: Low income clinks, A.IDS programs., 
f>regnancy programs, elderly health Theology: All sites-reltued l.ry course pacl,et. 


lneo/ogymajor.; andCSTconcenlralionmayreceive a graderatherthanS/U !his1sa parliollist--a/mostallma/or.; wllbenel7t/Ton7 onSSI. 

• Devote 8 weeks to the service 'of those in need 
• 
Choose from 180 sites across the United States 

• 
Earn 3 theology credits (with possible crosslists) S/U 

• 
Receive a $2000 tuition scholarship with the option for an additional $1000 Americorps Scholarship 

• 
Establish valuable contacts with Notre Dame Alumni 


LAST INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29th at 5:00 PM At the Center for Social Concerns 
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS: FEBRUARY 1 2, 2003 

Wednesday, January 29, 2003 
The Observer . TODAY page 19 
========================================================================================================================== 
SCHOOL DAZE 
DO f\..\~ A F"AVDR­At-.JD ~E:.T 'IOUrz. 
OCA L-CHD12-P5 
lA~le.AU.."'( 
l>/eO. 

HAPPY TOWN 
CLARE O'BRIEN 
UM... I ...l.>ST ro 11-\\S fo~ fUN. T'N\ AN !JFf£12..·Cl.t6S PRE· MED fv'\A..)()J:2. WITH A~-~ AND I'VE 
1'~ kef::.fTE.D TO STANFOIZO. 


JACK MONAHAN 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE F A C 
AD 0 
_......,..... 
":'i'~:-t-::1 26 O.C.S. relative 

i-,,,+.,..,.,,,,,..,.,"'4  29 Olympics event  
30 Pigeonhole's  
place  
31 Salinger  
----­ heroine  

~~"!'"1-:-t 32 Skater Michelle 33 Cause of a rush --+.,,.+....+,,..+,,,,f 35 Frequently, in 
verse 
........i......._._-' 36 Fuss 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
70 Place for a fish (which is a hint to this puzzle's theme) 
71 Sets a price of 
DOWN 
1 First of all 
2 Regaled, in a 
way 3 Links rarity 4 Record 

protector 5 Gen. Pershing's troops: Abbr. 6 Texas politico Phil 7 Major maker of 
beverage cans 8 "Oh, yeah?" 9 Sony rival 

1oIt flows to Khartoum 11 •_ expert, but ... " 12 Sol, say 15 Mysterious: Var. 18 Fragrant rings 22 Gateway products 25 One who follows the news 
WILLSHORTZ 
, 
63 British record kingdom 55 Croupiers' gear 

label 47 Old muscle car 
56 Inferior 65 Federal 49 Good earth merchandise purchasing org. 
Puzzle by Merle El.Iker 
37 "The_. (Uris 50 Lipton rival 57 Breezed novel) through
52 "My Way" writer 40 Object bitterly 58 Traveler to 53 Leaves port Cathay
41 Like the 
61 M.O.'s
Romanovs 54 Tom's 
diagnostic tools 
"Roseanne" role 

42 Old Testament 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles. nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords . 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
..

D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to term four ordinary words. 
RIVOS 
j
I I r 

C:!003 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Aeaeived. 
YESTT 
(IJ 


, .AHLEEX 

(XJJ 
www.jurri>le.com 
·t KALTEC I

IJ I tJ 
Answer: A 

( I I )"( I I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles:  MOUTH  VIPER  POSTAL  SULTRY  
Answer:  What the aviator became when he auditioned  
for a TV role ­ A TEST "PILOT"  

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Torn Selleck, Ann Jillian, Oprah Winfrey, Sara Gilbert 
Happy Birthday: Protect your interests and your reputation this year and you will reach whatever goals you set for yourself. Be careful not to take on someone else's responsibilities. Self-confidence and the ability to say no when necessary will be the key to getting ahead. Your nwnbers are 9, 12, 22, 25, 36, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Family discussions will prove to be exhausting. Think before you act. Give yourself a break away from everyone else to regroup. ** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your ability to make extra cash is evident. Lending or borrowing will be beneficial. You can take a bit of a risk if you do your research properly.*****
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Relationships will be erratic today. Be sure to think twice before you say something that might hurt ymu partner's ego. Re-evaluate your personal intentions and motives. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let yolll' personal obligations interlere with your work responsibilities. An unstable home environment may cause you to miss small but important details. Stay focused on the task at hand. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Make the physical and mental alterations that will raise your self-esteem and put you back on top of things. You'll do better if you feel confident to explore new areas. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Spend some quality time with children or friends. They have been neglected because your career has been all-conswning. Everything should run smoothly without you for a little while. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Travel or educational pursuits will bring added knowledge. Secret affairs will be prevalent. Make sure the person is not already involved with someone else. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Talk to a friend who knows about marketing. You can tum your innovative ideas into moneymaking opportunities. This is an ideal time to launch those dreams. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let others put unrealistic demands on you. Be cautious when dealing with other people's possessions or personal papers. ­Get some rest so you are alert. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Confusion regarding your personal life will lead to change. Talk to someone you trust who is impartial. Be sure that you are doing the right thing before you implement your ideas. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Romantic opportunities will evolve through work­related activities. Secret affairs are not to your benefit Be careful who you trust with private infonnation. *** PISCES (Feb, 19-March 20): Don't be too eager to give others financial help. Avoid being railroaded into donating money to organizations that you don't truly 
believe in. *'*** 

Birthday Baby: You will be determined, clever and quite willing to do whatever it takes to get ahead. You will be curious about many different aspects of life and will always strive to be the best. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

THIS AGE:NT WORKS HE:l<f:. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Blows away 5 Turkish title 8 Apollo 15 
astronaut James_ 13 Call 14 Agatha contemporary 16 Bonehead 17 Cherubic child 19 "_funny, McGee!" 20 It may follow a bench-clearing 21 Change form 23 Water tester 24 Cavalier 27 Language suffix 28 Not sober 31 Med. readout 34 Wordsmith Webster 38 R.E.M. singer Michael 
39 Imminent disaster 43 Brunei native 44 Axis leader 45 Comics scream 46 Place for an 
0. Henry surprise 48 Jolson and Jarreau 51 Far from buxom 57 Dian Fossey subject 59 Sub system 60 Auto option 62 Commit a deadly sin 64 Powerful politico 66 Fragrant resin 67 Father-and­daughter boxers 
68 Metric prefix 69 Column type 
:t 


Wednesday, January 29, 2003 

HOCKEY 
Nielsen follows childhood dream 
• Irish captain knew he wanted to play hockey since age of 3 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Writer 
The day Evan Nielsen skated off of the rink in his figure skates and saw the older boys leaving their hockey practice was the day he knew he wanted to play hockey. 
"About the time I was three years old, I was in the rink for my skating lessons and saw some of the bigger boys coming off with all their hockey equip­
.~ 
'~ ment on," Nielsen said. "I looked up at my mom and said, 'I want to do that. ... That day, Nielsen traded his chance to be the next Brian Boitano for a chance to be the next Brian Sutter, and began a lifelong love of hockey that even­tually brought him to Notre Dame. Since wearing the Irish jersey, Nielsen has achieved almost every accolade one can earn in college hockey. He was named captain his junior year and con­tinues to wear the "C" this sea­

son. 

He served as the only fresh­man on a defense filled with seniors and juniors his first year at Notre Dame, and still man­aged to tie for the team lead in goals by a defenseman. 
After his sophomore season, he was selected by the Atlanta Thrashers in the eighth round of the 2002 entry draft. 
In his junior year, he achieved career highs in goals, assists, points, shots and plus-minus. 
"If I could sum up Evan in a few words it's that he's an all­around player," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "He has improved his play in each cate­gory of the game every year he's been here. He's a mature kid and his leadership and presence are intangible." 
Nielsen has always had the tal­ent to compete at a high level of play. At the age of 16, he was faced with the decision of going to play junior hockey or going to prep school. He chose to attend The Taft School, in Waterbury, Conn., hundreds of miles away from his home in Evanston. Ill. 
"I knew I was going to have to leave home," he said. "But play­ing at Taft offered me a chance 
see NIELSEN/page 17 

MENS BASKETBALL 
Home sweet home 
. Irish return to Joyce Center against West Virginia 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 
It's nice to be home. 

After its longest road trip of the season -a stretch of three games over eight days that saw the Irish go 2-1 ­Notre Dame (16-3, 4-1) returns to the Joyce Center for a Big East matchup with West Virginia (11-6, 2-3). 
"It was a long. long stretch on the road, but it's great to be home," Irish guard Matt Carroll said. "I think ... we're ready and excited to play in front of our home crowd." 
While the Irish got only their first two victories on the road last week against Providence and Boston College, they have been stellar on their home court. Notre Dame is a perfect 12·0 this season in the friendly confines of the Joyce Center. 
The trip to South Bend may be more difficult for the Mountaineers, however, who are 0-5 on the road this sea­son. West Virginia has been outscored by an average of 12 points in those five road loss­es. 
A danger for the Irish could come in their opponent's inconsistency. however, as West Virginia is a team that has shown this season it has the ability to play with anyone in the country. The Mountaineers' 11·6 record includes impressive victories over No. 4 Florida, Tennessee and Miami, and a tough two­point overtime loss to Georgetown. 
"They're a good team. They have a good coach there," Carroll said. "He's done a good job with them this year. It's going to be a tough game just looking at how they run their offense." 
Much of that offense comes in freeing up guard Drew 
see HOME/page 17 

WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Irish searching for consistency 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 

Notre Dame took a step for­ward last Saturday by beating a ranked opponent, No. 20 Villanova, 58-56 on the road. 
Now the Irish look to take another step to improving their confidence -and their overall record -when they face Boston College tonight at the Conte Forum. 
"We definitely made a step forward [against Villanova)," Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said. "I think that we have really been making really some strides since after the Purdue game." 
McGraw said that the differ­ence has been in practice. 
"We kind of came to the realization that we really had to step it up in practice," McGraw said. "Our intensity wasn't quite where it needed to be." 
Notre Dame will need to play another game like their last, if they hope to secure a second road win in the past week. The Eagles present several prob­lems for the Irish, specifically their experience. They start four seniors, including three fifth-year seniors. 
"They present a lot of prob­lems, because they're a veter­an team," McGraw said. "They're the kind of team that doesn't b e a t 
Courtney LaVere,

"We need to play well.
them• Teresa Borton selves." That's what we and Katy Flecky. T h e need to do.,. LaVere has been Eagles solid all season perime­for Notre Dame, ter game Muffet McGraw and is coming off 

a I s o head coach could give the Irish some problems. They start three guards, with anoth­er coming off the bench and all four players can knock­down 3-pointers. Guard Jessalyn Deveny leads the Eagles in scoring, averaging 
18.2 points per game. 
But the difference in the game could be whether Notre Dame can shut down Boston College's inside presence of Becky Gottstein. Gottstein averages 14.1 points and 8.3 rebounds per contest. 
"She's really, really trouble for us," McGraw said. "She's really good on the block. She's mobile, she passes well, she scores well. They're just a really solid all around team." 
The Irish will counter 
Gottstein with 
a 20-point scoring 
performance 
against Villanova. 
For the Irish, the biggest fac­tor will be if they can simply play well. 
"We need to play well. That's what we need to do," McGraw said. "So then we can go out and feel good about what we've done on the court." 
The game tips off at 7 p.m. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


MENS TENNIS 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Illinois at Notre Dame 

Alma at Saint Mary's 
Today, 4 p.m. 

Today, 7:30 p.m. 
After starting the season with two losses, the young and inexperienced Notre 
Currently on a five-game losing streak, the Belles look to surprise third-place 
Dame mens tennis team faces a tough challenge with second ranked Illinois visit­
Alma and pull the home upset. 
ing the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
page 18
page 18 

"t 
I 
I 










