
VOLXXXVII NO. 93 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Workers speak out against Azteca 

• Workers have been on strike since Sept. 30 in protest of contract 
By KATERI McCARTHY 
Nc:ws Writer 
Employees from Azteca Foods Inc. of Chicago spoke aboul lhcir current four month long strike in at Tuesday's lecture entitled, "Support Justice." 
.Josclina Bonilla and Maria Montcsof Aztoca Foods. employees who walked out on Sept. 30, spoke of the abuses and injustices they and their fellow employees claimed they experi­enced working at the Aztcca roods factory. 
Azteca Foods, a tortilla company that boasts of producing "3 million tortillas a day," is owned by Art Velasquez, a Notre Dame grad­uate and a member ofthe Board ofTrustees. 
Velasquez is said to have made the com­ment that his company "is the best paid tor­tilla company in the nation," while his workers arc being paid $9 to 10.75 an hour, said Leah Freed, a representative of United Electrical Workers Union. The annual revenues for Aztcca are approximately to $33 million, while labor costs is less than 10 percent, Freed said. 
Azteca employees said that while the com­pany is making millions, they struggle to make ends meet -with many working almost daily overtime. Bollina regularly worked 12 hours a day, 6 days a week, often under verbally abu­sive supervisors and hostile work conditions. Although almost all of the employees speak Spanish, Azteca roods refuses to translate their proposals or the bargaining meetings said Freed. 
"It's an ugly place, it's hot in there and there is metal everywhere," Bonilla said through a translator. "In the summer we are very sweaty, some faint because they can not leave to gefwater." 
Freed said Azteca Foods wants to "cut take­home pay up to 32 cents an hour by increas­ing health insurance costs by up to 700 per­cent, while offering raises of 5 cents to most 
ANDY KENNA/The ooserver 

Marla Montes speaks to students as Josefina Bonllla looks on at the presentation given Tuesday by workers and union representatives. The group asked for a boycott 
of Azteca Foods products. 

workers.... When you're only making $9 .32 an hour, [this] is a lot." 
Freed said the company also wants to remove seniority rights, make cuts on job pro­tection and ban union leaflets from the com­pany property. 
"Someone who graduated from this presti­gious university, I [didn't] think he could act this way," Bollina said. 
Freed said that after four moths of negotia­tions it was fair to say the workers have not made any progress with Velasquez. 
Two weeks into the strike, the union called for a national boycott of all Azteca Foods tor­tillas and chips. An audience member said Reckers, an on-campus restaurant, serves tor­tillas chips that are made from Azteca. 
Contact Kateri McCarthy at kmccart3@nd.edu 

Faculty members speak against war in Iraq 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Wrircr 
As thousands of U.S. troops amass in the Middle East poised to invade Iraq, Notre Dame faculty members cir­culated a petition calling for a diplomatic solution to the international crisis. 
Kristin Shrader-Frechette. a professor of biology and philosophy, wrote the peti­Lion in support of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops' open letter to President Bush last fall. That document called on the Bush administration to "step back from the brink of war" and urged "moral limits on the uso of military force.'' 
The faculty petition also calls for the use of diplomat­ic channels. broad interna­Lional support, convincing evidence and the implemen­tation of Catholic just-war doctrine. 
"Being a Catholic universi­ty. wo wanted to make it clear that the Church is on 
the side of peace," Shrader­speak to the U.N. alone." Frechette said. While calling for more 
The number of full-time inspectors, Shrader­faculty who have signed the Frechette cast doubts on the petition is "in the hundreds," president's claims that Iraq she said. without specifying retains weapons of mass how many of the 760 full­destruction. time faculty members at "Saddam Hussein doesn't 
Notre  Dame  h  a  v  e  
signed  the  nuclear  
petition. "We've had good responses from people all  "It's not national security that runs this country, it's vested interests."  weapons, and he couldn · t h a v e  
over  campus,"  them for  
Shrader­Frechette said, emphasizing  Kristin Shrader-Frechette biology and philosophy professor  a long, l o n g time,"  

the document's popularity in the English, theology, soci­ology, and philosophy departments. 
Shrader-Frechette said the solution to the brewing con­flict lies in strengthened inspections by U.N. person­nel. "There should be a mul­tilateral agreement with multinational forces," she said. "We should make sure that Iraqi scientists can 

she said. 
S h e 
also criti­
c i z e d 
U.S. policy on weapons of mass destruction as hypo­critical, claiming the Pentagon unleashed bio­chemical agents on unsus­pecting Americans. "The U.S. government continues to experiment with chemical and biological warheads on its own citizens without their knowledge," Shrader-
Frechette said. 
Shrader-Frechette also called for campaign finance reform, characterizing the Bush administration as beholden to political donors. 
"It's not national security that runs this country, it's vested interests," she said. "Thomas Jefferson would say that we've become like the worst part of corrupt Europe." 
The Bush administration's war plans hit speed bumps recently, as France, Belgium and Germany blocked NATO plans for the defense of Turkey in the event of an Iraqi reprisal against that country. 
According to U.S. defense officials, some 150,000 troops will be in position in the Persian Gulf region by week's end. They will join four Navy battle groups, each with a complement of 5,000 personnel and 75 war­planes. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at bramanti. l@nd.edu 

Items stolen from pub 
By AMANDA ROTHEY 
News Wricer 
Fiddler's Hearth, the pop­
ular downtown Irish pub, 
has experienced several 
incidents of theft this winter. 
the owners said. 
Among the stolen items arc family heirlooms and collector's pieces ripped from the walls of the restau­rant. 
Owner Carol Meehan noted 
an increase in stealing since 
the Notre Dame-Boston 
College football game on 
Nov. 2, 2002, when a circa­
1870 photograph of the 
Notre Dame Crew team on 
St. Mary's Lake disappeared. 
In subsequent weeks, more 
items vanished, including a 
picture of Meehan's father­
in-law as a young boy in 
South Bend and a receipt 
from the Bank of Scotland. 
Meehan removed many of the more valuable items from the walls. Items that remained were secured with glue. 
"I began gluing things to the wall. so that they could not be taken very easily," said Meehan. "But soon after that, we lost another picture that someone had pulled off the wall, taking some of the plaster along with it." 
In one particular incident, several items were taken from an area where a group of young people had spent the evening, including the receipt from the Bank of Scotland, a family photo­graph and a bronze plaque emblazoned with a Celtic cross. 
As the group left, a bar­tender noticed the plaque partially hidden in the coat of a young woman. The bar­tender followed the woman outside and recovered the plaque for the restaurant. 
Meehan expressed her dis­may at the disappearance of the items and the effect the thefts have on the pub's atmosphere. 
"We enjoy having young people here who like the slower atmosphere we pro­vide. It's unfortunate that a few bad apples can spoil things for the bunch," Meehan said. 
Terry Meehan. co-owner of Fiddler's Hearth. said the items should be returned and any of the stolen items would be accepted willingly with no questions asked. 
"These things have been in our family for a long time and we'd just like to see them again," Terry Meehan said. 
Contact Amanda Rothey at arothey@nd.edu 
page 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Lone star Yankee misses Texas 
As I look out my window on the barren Indiana tundra, I can just barely make out the trees through the blowing snow. I know it's just another winter night in South Bend, 
but I r;an't help Matt Bramantl 
but thmk of a few little words: 
I miss Texas. 
That's right, Wire Editor I'm from Texas. I say things like"y'all" and "dadgum,,. and I call carbonated beverages "cokes." I learned how to drive in a big ol' Suburban and I know that the Astrodome really is the eighth Wonder of the World. I listen to country music, I love hot peppers and I voted for George Dubya Bush. 
I like to think my folks raised me to deal with whatever comes my way, but it's not easy being a Texas exile up here. When I wear my cow­boy boots, I get funny looks, and a certain friend of mine says I "look like a four-year-old kid." When someone comes into my room, I cringe and wait for the inevitable question: "Why do all you people have Texas flags?" And God forbid I should cheer for my hometown Houston Texans. There are just too many Yankees around for any of that stuff. 
Now don't get me wrong, I have nothing against Yankees personally, it's just that there's a lot they don't know. They don't know how to make a Frito Pie. They don't know the lyrics to "Me and Billy the Kid" by Pat Green. They don't know how much fun it is to see a rodeo with 55,000 of your closest friends. 
But as much as it pains me to write this, some Yankee manner­isms are beginning to rub off on me. After two and a half years at Notre Dame. I fear I'm becoming a pseudo-Yankee. It occurred to me over Christmas break. My little sis­ter was all bundled up and shiver­ing in the 60-degree "cold," while I was in a T-shirt, scoffing. If I'm offered a beer at home, I have to pause for a second, torn between a Shiner Bock and a Guinness. I've even noticed my "y'all" occasionally degenerate into "you guys." Let's just pray I don't stop missing the Texas blondes I've come to know and love. 
All in all, I'm developing a split geographical personality. I've learned to deal with the bitter cold, the bland food, the generic music. the perpetually pajama-clad women. But every once in a while, worlds collide. When I'm in Houston, wearing my Notre Dame hat, I can feel the occasional evil eye. They're sniffing out a yankee. But I know that at some point this summer, when I go out to my car and the steering wheel is too hot to touch, I'll think of a few little words: 
I miss Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Matt Bramanti at mbra­mant@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and suives for the highesr sramLmls of journal­ism ar a.II rimes. We do, however, recognize char we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
WHAT'S INSIDE 

CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Bar bust might 

CIA director not affect 
warns of attack most abroad applications 
Information the the International 
An official from 

CIA received sug-Study Programs 
gests al-Qaida may said a citation from 
attack this week-The Boat Club bust 
end. will not immediate­ly prevent a stu­dent from being accepted. 
page 3 page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Oil company makes $6.75 billion deal 
British Petroleum makes a $6.75 bi)­lion deal to acquire 50 percent of a Russian energy company. 
page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
Professor calls for debate 
David Ruccio calls for a respect­ful and rational debate about eco­nomics department split. 
page 11 

. 
Deloitte and Touchc Open llousc, McKcnna llall, 3:30 to 6:30 p.m. 

. 
Film: Gaelic Football, LuFortunc, Monlgomcry Theatre, 7 p.m. 

. 
Lecture with Ted Koppel 2 p.m. at llcsburgh Library Auditorium 

. 
Senate: Letter of nomination for IIcnry Scott. Notre Dame Hoom, 6 p.m. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Writing Center Tutors meeting, Noble Family Dining llall, noon. 

. 
Tax Assistance Program Training, llaggar College Center, 3 p.m. 

. 
Irish Dance lessons, Madaleva Ilall,5:30 p.m. 

. 
We Pray with Open Hands, Le Mans, 3:30 p.m. 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Chicken in the pot soup, broccoli cheese soup, tomato soup, pastabean Tuscany soup, BetsyFlan chicken breast, boulangere potatoes, cherry crisp, portobello and creamorzo, broccoli quiche, scrambled eggs with cheese, raisin bread French toast, fried potato skins 
Today's Dinner: Oriental shrimp with noodles, vegetable eggrolls, Chinese steamed rice, chicken taco, honey glazed ham, cherry crisp, rabat vegeta­bles, scrambled eggs with cheese, French toast sticks, fried rice, couscous. broccoli cheese soup. tomato soup, pastabean Tuscany soup 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Linguine with veg­etables, Puerto Rican pasta sauce, sausage calzones, honey-garlic pork chops, rotisserie chicken, winter-blend vegetables, boulangere potatoes, herb­baked pollock, wild rice pilaf with pine nuts, honey-orange glazed carrots, scalloped corn casserol, tangy grilled chicken sandwiches, steakhouse fries 
Today's Dinner: Puerto Rican pasta sauce, sausage calzones, cauliflower au gratin, zum zum potato salad, grilled ham steak, beef potato pie, parslied potatoes. rice valencienne, lemon-baked perch, Jamaican-jerked pork loin, BBQ chicken, soft pretzels 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
w 
% 
!cc 
w 
3 
... 
<
(,) 



25 20 

33 
15 
0 

HIGH 22 HIGH 18
..J 

LOW 10 LOW 5 
Wednesday, February I 2, 2003 

SCENE SPORTS 
Still need to 
Womens B-ball find that perfect 
play St. John's gift? 
Check out Scene 
The Irish play St. if you are still clue­
John's tonight at 7 less as to what to 
at the Joyce Center. get that special someone for Valentine's Day. 
page 13 page 24 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
NDSP responds to car 
accident 
NDSP responded to a one car accident on Angela Blvd. Sunday. There were no injuries. 
Two cars collide 
Two cars collided Sunday on State Road 933. There were no injuries. 

Student loses earring 
A student reported losing her earring at Stepan Center on Sunday. 

NDSP tows student car 
A student's vehicle was towed for a parking violation Sunday at Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
NDSP tows employee's 

vehicle 
A University employee's vehicle was towed at the Stadium for a parking violation Sunday. 
Compiled from the NDSP blotter. 

Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Mexican black bean stew, pasta. marinara, roasted cauli­flower, Caribbean portobello wrap, sauteed fajitas, grilled hamburgers, turkey strollers. fishwich sandwich, French fries, French dip sandwich, curley French fries, green beans, roast­ed turkey 
Today's Dinner: Chickpea and wal­nut empanada, roasted pepper que­sadilla, baked ziti ratatouille, pasta, pasta bar, rotisserie style greek chick­en, confetti rice, home style vegetables, ranch pizza with bacon, cheese pizza, bread sticks, warm bread pudding, white cake with fudge icing 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

27 
12 

HIGH LOW 


Wednesday, February 12, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Citations -won't affect tnost abroad progratns 
By TERESA FRALlSH Assistant News E<liror  Bogenschild said it is typical for his office to maintain con­stant contact with Residence  on the matter. Letters regarding initial acceptance and wait list deci­ his office can suspend an acceptance for a study abroad program, he stressed that ISP  
Life regarding students' disci­ sions for the London Program  will consider such applications  
Though reports regarding  plinary records before and  were mailed to students on  individually and pay attention  
student citations issued in the  after the application dead­ Jan. 29. Students contacted by  to such problems, although  
Jan. 24 raid of The Boat Club  lines.  The Observer who had been  Bogenschild said such prob­ 
havo been forwarded from the  Meanwhile, officials from  cited at The Boat Club and  lems would not necessarily  
Office of Residence Life and  the London Program declined  who had applied to study­ prevent a student from study­ 
!lousing  to  the  .London  10 comment on whether their  abroad programs declined  ing abroad.  
Program and the Office of  office  had  interview  Hegarding Boat Club cita­ 
International Study Programs, officials from both depart­mcn ls said such a citation  been in con­tact with the Residence  "It in itself probably isn't going to prevent someone  requests. Because many stu­ tions specifically, BogenschiJd said the same policy would apply.  
would not necessarily prevent  Life regard­ from going. "  dents apply  "It in itself probably isn't  
a student from being admitted  ing The Boat  to  London,  going to prevent someone  
to or participating in an abroad program. Students cited from the bar  Club tions. "I  cita­don't  Thomas Bogenschlld director of International Study  Australia and Dublin, Bogenschild  from going," he said. "It's part of a larger picture," he said. Bogenschild also said that  
bust were sent letters Jan. 29  think  it's  Programs  said  his  the only issue that automati­ 
instructing them to appear for  appropriate  office makes  cally prevents a student from  
disciplinary conferences.  for me to say  decisions  participating in ISP is discipli­ 
The Of'lice of International  whether we have or not," said  regarding the Dublin and  nary probation.  
Study Programs (ISP) said it  Anastasia Gutting, director of  Australia programs first so  Gutting said disciplinary  
was notified early this week  the London Program, over e­ that students receive notifica­ probation was not the only  
about  the  citations,  but  mail. "Such [disciplinary) mat­ tion from the London Program  matter that automatically pre­ 
declined to say exactly what  ters are handled on a case-by­ and ISP around the  same  cluded a student from partici­ 
type of in formation it received.  case basis."  time. The director expected  pating in the London Program,  
"We have received word,"  Gutting did not say how a  decisions for the remaining  but did not say what those  
said Thomas Bogenschild,  recent citation might affect a  programs  to  be  finalized  other issues were.  
Notre  Dame's  director of  student  on  the  London  shortly. "They should be com­ 
international study programs.  Program wait list.  plete in about two weeks," he  
"We are in ongoing discussion  She did not return phone  said.  Contact Teresa Fralish at  
wilh Student Affairs."  calls seeking further comment  While Bogenschild said that  tfrallsh@nd.edu  

SPORTS FOR CHARITY 
LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS 
Results 

.,,: .....t.. .. ....... .,,.,..... ..... .. .. ·:=:···•:=··,:,:·. 
J,:ij:l~~,i~ij.>,t:t;::::!:,::~:;~.;a(,:::fM 
Nerf Football Alum.ni/McGHru,, 
~J~~~~~l~~$.j~~~~M~~;~M~~~~~j;;~~~l~ii~;~;-~~~a.Wi::;~;~;~~ 
~i;~:.;~;:r::~:~:i:::~!=:=::M~~:;:::f-i:}:::::::4~~:~:;:~.=:r:~z.h~J
Tar et O olf Dillrn1/Lewi1
.: :··'.:..····:'·,~:t:•IJm,•?ttrn::~~wttm::::w::::it?i 
Kickball O' Ncill/Lyoo, 
· •._.<l!lia'll:'S~i?.._".:lif't{\::::':'11/ii!Mlt!::i'''''::,,:,,::::l::ii/M?M':::::
Racquetball Smglea -Womca·• fi1bcr/Paugboro/Ho11 Crou
fii.~t:::t:ttf::?:se::........... i~<ir.~iii!iii:i!.lwt,i.;i: Mtuu:lll!:f DodReball Team I: Stanford/Ho,nrd/Rcgiua Knoll/PE Sorui/Wallh/Mc Cudlc11 Siegfried/PW DiUaQ/Lnris 

GRAPHIC/Mike Hall<ins Dorms competed Friday In various sports events for the annual Late Night Olympics. Keough Hall and Welsh Family Hall accumulated the highest point totals. Money from the event Is donated to the Special Olymplcs. 

Summer Employment 
The Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC), at Saint Mary's College and Notre Dame, is seeking individuals to wo;k in the 2003 summer day camp program, June 5 through August 1and Augsut 11-21. If you are 18 years or older, enjoy children, and have experiences with preschool ancVor primary children ages 5-10, please contact one of the numbers below for further information and an application. 

Early Childhood Development Center, Inc. 
284-4693 (ECDC-SMC) 
631-3344 (ECDC-ND) 


flr.-t ~tv.i-8HtAatfvlti-tt C#ia-t i6 au-8pti1r9 IPfl i-t5t91r, /OI' tit~ lf~W 
"/fGfN'fJ5 11(/mr1tl'fl( 5!NIP/flM/f}. 
1_2()()piz~ /g,, tftt llli1111i1r9 i-&6i911, tVtdtk~ it6(91!-&I' 16plr.bh tVti {fJ9fJ wl{fut ii1pfll{dattit-& lr-&w qt~11i1. " ~,t~ 4. ,#n,~ P4ftld ,M~11tf!J 6a.bhllf4. ,~,;,,,.) 
P-eur,11-e 10,, mtttt,,11o, ,~~/{5 i6 &Ida.I(, [-t!Jl'auff ti. 
p,gp Mlt1rt'l'f~6 h tit-& ~tuit,tA~tftt6 P#it-&, !Iff.anl'twtt. (o,. aid.ttim.filf/grnaftP,,, a11tad'tit~ Gtui~1rtAt-tMti~6 O#it-~, 6rt-7r(}$. 
Wednesday, February 12, 2003
page4 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Columbia tape released 
. Conversations offer insight into Columbia's last moments 
Associated Press 
SPACE CENTER, Houston 
Engineers in Mission Control never lost their com­posure even as they lost hope that space shuttle Columbia would make it safely home. 
Conversations between the flight controllers, released Tuesday, suggest the engi­neers were waiting helpless­ly at Mission Control while Columbia came apart on the threshold of space, scatter­ing debris across two states and killing seven astronats. 
Flight director Leroy Cain quickly shifted his attention from landing the craft at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida to saving computer data that might help experts learn what destroyed shut­tle. 
Thirty minutes before the landing, Cain was concerned about which end of the Kennedy runway Columbia commander Hick Husband would use to guide the shut­tle to landing, a relatively minor issue. 
In fact, there was no hint of any problem until the final six or seven minutes of the flight when Jeff Kling, the maintenance, mechani­cal arm and crew systems officer, reported a sudden and unexplained loss of data from spacecraft sensors. 
"I just lost four separate temperature transducers on the left side of the vehicle, the hydraulic return temper­atures," Kling said. "Two of 
them on system one and one in the ETES systems 10 and 3." 
Cain quickly asked if there was anything common to the sensors and got bad news in reply. Kling said there was no commonality, suggesting there was a general failure instead of a single system. 
Moments later. more bad nows. Mike Sarafin, the guidance and navigation officer, announces Columbia's wing is encoun­tering drag, or increased wind resis­tance. 

Cain, still "I don't see anything out a g o , 
hopeful. asks ofthe ordinary." flight," if everything comes the else is nor­response
Mike Sarafin 
mal. and f r o m Sarafin guidance and navigation officer Richard assures him, on tapes released Tuesday Jones, 
"I don't see anything out of the ordi­nary." 
There is a short indistinct call from the spacecraft and, almost at the same time, Kling says the landing gear tires have lost pressure. 
Capsule communicator Charlie Hobaugh, then addresses the spacecraft: "And Columbia, Houston, we see your tire pressure mes­sages and we did not copy your last. 
Husband's response ­"Roger, huh -" -is abruptly cut off. It is 7:59 a.m. CST. 
In short order, night con­trollers begin reporting a litany of bad news. There is evidence of small collisions on the tail, and signals are cutoff from the nose landing gear and from the right main landing gear. Then more sensors are lost and the drag increases to the 

left. 
Hobaugh begins a series of radio calls to Columbia. There is no response as the minutes tick down toward a planned landing at the Kennedy Space Center. 
"MILA [the Kennedy space­craft communication center] is not reporting any HF {radio frequency] at this time," says Bill Foster, a ground controller. 
"OK," says Cain, who then 
asks hopefully when  a radar  
signal was expected.  
"  0  n  e  

minute 
flight dynamics officer. 
The communication checks continue. So does the silence. A radar station near the Kennedy center then says it is putting its radar in a "search mode." 
"We do not have any valid data at this time," said 
Jones. He said there  was  a  
"blip" but it was bad data.  
Then  a  long  pause,  a  

silence of despair. Then Cain says the final words, the phrase that marked the lack of hope: "Lock the doors." 
This meant nobody could leave Mission Control or even make phone calls. For the next several hours, the engineers have to ignore the certain loss of the crew and store the data in their com­puters, finish reports and then write personal accounts of what they saw, heard and did Feb. 1. 
Agent: Tyson found investigation 
Associated Press 

CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. 
A government agent testified Tuesday at the trial of Tyson Foods that the company dis­covered the undercover inves­tigation that led to the immi­grant smuggling charges against it. 
Border Patrol agent Benito Maldonado, the government's lead undercover agent in the case, testified as the second week of the trial got under way. 
Tyson managers are accused of conspiring to smuggle illegal immigrants to work on the production lines of the nation's largest poultry processor. 
Maldonado described a tele­phone conversation with Keith Snyder, manager of Tyson's Noel, Mo., complex, that took place on July 12, 2000, four months after the two men met. 
Maldonado said Snyder sud­denly began asking if the workers the undercover agent was delivering were illegal -a question that "totally contra­dicts" previous conversations the two men held. 
Hours later, he testified, he learned that Tyson had discov­ered the government's under­cover investigation, which had been under way almost three years. 
Maldonado later testified under cross-examination that no one at the company directly asked him to smuggle workers before he first brought illegal immigrants to work at a plant. 
"Did [former Tyson manager Robert] Sanford tell you should go to Mexico and direct you to smuggle workers?" Tyson attorney Tom Green asked. 
"He did not use those words," Maldonado said. 
Prosecutors have played hours of secretly recorded con­versations between undercover agents and Tyson managers accused of conspiring to smug­gle illegal immigrants. 
Notre Dame MBA Entrepreneur Club Speaker Series 
The Notre Dame community is invited to attent our speaker series this semester, held on Thursdays from 12:30-1: 15 in COBA 162. Tom Suddes speaks this week. Contact cnemecek@nd.edu for more info. 
2/1 l Tom Suddes 11 Lifestyle Decisions facing Entrepreneurs" 2/27 James O'Brien "New Ventures and the Law" l/20 Jim David "Disruptive Technology" 4/l Mike Garatoni "Growing Kids Learning Center 
Start-up Process1' 4/17 Teri Willey "The VC's Evaluation of your Start-up" 
Want coverage? Talk to News at 1-5323 


'l'l'IJPW'l'l'I 
Bring yo·ur parent(s)/guardian(s) in to see 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
this weekend and get your housing worries for next year taken care of...on the spot!! 
**Guaranteed 
TOWNHOUSES AND 2-BEDROOMS 
available for 2003-2004** 
Office hours are: Friday February 14: 9am-6pm Saturday February 15: 10am-5pm Sunday February 16: BY aPPoJ~MENTONLv 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
STUDENTS' #1 CHOICE IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING 
CALL US @ 272-8124 OR VISIT US AT WWW.TURTLECREEKND.COM 
WORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, February 12, 2003 COMPILED HlOM THE OBSERVEH WIRE SERVICES page 5 
QATAR 
Bin Laden tape urges Iraq to attack Americans 
Associated l'rcss 
DOHA 

A raspy voice believed to be Osama bin Laden's urged Iraqis to carry out suicide attacks against Americans and draw 
U.S. troops into combat in Iraqi cities. U.S. olfo:ials said the call broadcast Tuesday proves the world must fear Saddam II ussein 's ties to the al-Qaida terror network. 
The appeal was made in a voice tape aired by the Al­Jazeera satellite television sta­tion throughout the Arab world and believed by U.S. officials to be authentic. It was broadcast as U.S. ollicials warned of dev­astating attacks within the United States and the Persian Gulf, where U.S. forces are massing for a possible attack against Iraq. 
"This nexus between terror­ists and states that arc develop­ing weapons of mass destruc­tion can no longer be looked away from and ignored," Secretary of State Colin Powell told the Senate Budget Committee. 
Some analysts wondered at bin Laden's motives for issuing a statement supporting Iraq, given many countries' skepti­cism of U.S. allegations of lraqi­al-Qaida links. Others worried the recording would inflame Muslims against U.S. troops in the Persian Gulf region. 
On the tape, broadcast on the first day of the Muslim holiday Eid al-Adha, the speaker advised Iraqis how to fight the Americans, based on al-Qaida's experience in Afghanistan. 
"We stress the importance of martyrdom operations against the enemy, these attacks that have scared Americans and Israelis like never before," the man identified as bin Laden said. 
"We advise about the impor­tance of drawing the enemy into long, close and exhausting fight­ing, taking advantage of camou­flaged positions in plains, farms, mountains and cities," he said. 
The speaker urged the Iraqis to draw the Americans into 1,.1rban combat, saying "the thing that the enemy fears the most is to light a city war." 
U.S. 
military planners fear Saddam might ring Baghdad with his best troops of the elite Republican Guard and draw 

U.S. 
forces into bloody street lighting where they could not use their high-tech weapons for fear of causing massive civilian casualties. 


The speaker also told Iraqis not to worry about American smart bombs and laser-guided weapons because "they work on only the clear, obvious targets." He encouraged Iraqis to use 


U.S. State Department spokesman Richard Boucher speak to al-Jazeera anchorman Jamll Azar Tuesday after the broadcast of an audio tape allegedly made by Osama Bin Laden. In the tape, bin Laden called for suicide attacks and urban warfare from Iraq. 
deception techniques to neutral­and Saddam's government, for Muslims to fight on behalf of ize American technological which nominally adheres to a Iraqi "socialists" because "in superiority. Pan-Arabic socialistic doctrine these circumstances" their 
Some Middle East experts called Baathism. interests "intersect in fighting have questioned ties between In the tape, however, the against the Crusaders," or bin Laden's Islamic extremists speaker said it was acceptable Christians. 
CIA director warns al-Qaida may attack this week 
Associated l'rcss 
WASHINGTON 

Intelligence information suggests al­Qaida attacks may occur as early as this week in both the United States and on the Arabian peninsula, CIA Director George J. Tenet told Congress on Tuesday. 
The information led to last week's rais­ing of the national terror alert level to "orange," the second highest level of five. The information came from "multiple sources with strong al-Qaida ties," Tenet said without providing details. 
'The intelligence is not idle chatter on the part of terrorists and their associ­ates," Tenet said. "It is the most specific we have seen, and it is consistent with both our knowledge of al-Qaida's doc­trine and our knowledge of plots this net­work -and particularly its senior lead­ership -has been working on for years." 
The information pointing to imminent attacks was gathered both in the United States and overseas, said FBI Director Robert S. Mueller III, who joined Tenet and other intelligence chiefs to brief the Senate Intelligence Committee in an annual public session on threats to national security. 
The CIA director said the information suggests the attack may involve a "dirty bomb" -a weapon that spreads radioac­tive material over a wide area -or chemical or poison weapons. Officials last week worried the attack was timed to coincide with the hajj, a Muslim holy period this week. 
But Mueller and Tenet said the U.S. government has no specific information pointing conclusively to where, when, or how terrorists would strike. They said raising the national alert level -and taking security measures at government and business centers -makes it more difficult for the terrorists to carry out an attack. 
Tenet had little information Tuesday morning on a new audio message attrib­uted to Osama bin Laden, which aired later in the day. Some previous record­ings of the al-Qaida chief have served as a prelude to terrorist attacks. 
The CIA chief also repeated many of Secretary of State Colin Powell's state­ments last week to the United Nations regarding Iraq's efforts to acquire chemi­cal, biological and nuclear weapons, and linking al-Qaida supporters to the Iraqi government. Tenet said the key link between Baghdad and al-Qaida is Abu Musab Zarqawi, a senior associate of bin Laden. 
About two dozen of Zarqawi's followers remain in Baghdad, where Zarqawi spent two months last summer. All are members of Egyptian Islamic Jihad, a terrorist group that has merged with al­Qaida, Tenet said. But he said he has no evidence suggesting Iraq has any opera­tional control over Zarqawi's group or al­Qaida. 
Echoing Bush administration policy­makers, Tenet and the other intelligence chiefs offered little hope that U.N. inspec­tions would prompt Iraq to disarm, say­ing Saddam is intent upon and capable of circumventing the inspections. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Papal envoy urges Saddam to cooperate: 
A French cardinal came to Baghdad on Tuesday with a personal message from Pope John Paul II for Saddam llussoin, to urge the president to work more closely with the United Nations and its arms inspectors to give peace a better chance in Iraq. Cardinal Hoger Etchcgaray, landing at Saddam International Airport, said ho also had a message for all the world's political leaders -that war "would be the worst solution." 
14 pilgrims trampeled during hajj ritual: A human stampede erupted during the devil-stoning ritual at the ha] Tuesday, killing 14 people in the latest tragedy to darken the annual Muslim pilgrimage. The ritual, where hundreds of thousands file past stone pil­lars representing the devil's temptations, has been the scene of lethal bottlenecks in the past. The stampede occurred after a group of pilgrims finished the ritual and left the site as another group was entering. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Powell: NATO risks breakup over Iraq: 
Addressing a historic rift within NATO, Secretary of State Colin Powell said Tuesday the future of the 53-year-old military alliance is at risk if it fails to confront the crisis with Iraq. Distressed by the refusal of three U.S. allies to agree to bolster Turkey's defenses, Powell told the Senate Budget Committee that it is not the United States that is fracturing NATO by seeking support for the option ofwar to disarm Iraq. 
Majority would get smallpox vaccine: 
Michaele Tharett represents the majority view when she says she would probably get smallpox vaccinations for herself and her child if the vac­cine were to become available. More than half of U.S. adults say they would get vaccinated, and six in 10 parents say they would want vacci­nations for their children, an Associated Press poll found. 
Witness testifies woman ran over husband: 
The prosecution's final witness used toy cars Tuesday to show jurors what he remembered see­ing: Clara Harris repeatedly ramming her Mercedes-Benz into her adulterous husband in a hotel parking lot. Punctuating his testimony with sounds of squealing tires and crashing metal, Oscar Torres gave an eyewitness account in Harris' mur­der trial, the last witness to appear before closing arguments Wednesday. "He was mauled and he was gasping for air," Torres said of David Harris. 
Mo. death row inmate to get new trial: 
The state Supreme Court on Tuesday unanimously overturned a convicted killer's death sentence, saying his lawyer failed to pursue evidence that would have cast doubt on his guilt. Based largely on the testimo­ny of one witness, Danny Wolfe was convicted of two counts of first-degree murder for robbing and killing Leonard and Lena Walters in February 1997. 

page6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 12, 2003 
Tuition increases hit students nationwide 
Associated Press 
Cash-strapped states from coast to coast are weighing hefty tuition increases for pub­Ii c colleges and universities, prompting experts to wonder aloud if state schools are pric­ing themselves out of the mar­ket for most students. 
"This trend is going to catch up with the middle class at some point," said Barmak Nassirian, an analyst with the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers. 
With most states unable to cover their expenses, tuition increases have been imposed midway through this academic year by several states including 
Maryland,  Oregon  and  
California.  
Vermont,  Hawaii,  West  

Virginia, Oklahoma, Alabama, Arizona, Florida, New York and Utah are among the states that have already adopted or are considering tuition hikes at public institutions for the fall semester. 
The budget woes have been especially painful for University of Oregon junior Rachel Pilliod, who may forego her senior year if an additional tuition hike is imposed next fall. Students at Oregon this year have already faced tuition increases of $10 per credit hour for the winter and spring terms. That'.s more than $100 per term for a full­time student. 
"I'm ahead on my credits so I can graduate with the bare minimum for a degree. That's graduating without honors and that's graduating without the classes that will fully develop me," said Pilliod, a self­described middle-class student who has assumed most of the cost of her own education. "The real determining factor will be my ability to pay for school next year." 
If she can't afford the extra classes, Pilliod fears it will affect her chances of getting into graduate school. 
The tuition increases at Oregon and elsewhere come in an academic year when tuition at four-year public institutions jumped by an average of 9.6 percent, according to the annu­al survey of college costs released last October by the College Board, the owner of the SAT exam. 
The National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education reported in a study released Tuesday that students at public, four-year colleges in 16 states were hit with tuition hikes of more than 10 percent for this academic year. 
One expert sees no end in sight. 
"Just about every state out there, except for a couple, ls dealing with significant budgets shortages," said Julie Bell, the education program director with the National Conference of State Legislators. "And almost every state is looking at higher education either through a budget cut or a tuition increase." 
Of course, the specific finan­cial picture for education varies from state to state. Overall, the College Board found that stu­dents at public four-year col­leges this year paid an average of $9,663 for tuition, fees, room and board. 
Each tuition hike, said Christopher Davis, a spokesman for the Washington­based Council for Opportunity in Education, sends a "message of discouragement" to low­income students. 
"We spend most of our time telling them that college is within reach," said Davis, whose organization promotes educational opportunities for low income and disabled stu­dents. "And every time we turn around, every semester the fees keep going up." 
For many students, staying home to attend more-afford­able community colleges is the alternative to covering tuition increases with student loans. 
After tuition rose at the larg­er universities in Kansas last year, enrollment at Cowley Community College in Arkansas City rose by 19 percent. "Generally, when the economy is in the tank we flourish," said Stu Osterthun, a school spokesman.encountering their own budget woes. 


Wednesday, February 05 •155 DeBarlolo Hall, 7:30 pm Aulhor of HambsU, recepbon in lhe Coleman-Moise lounge lealuring music or sluden! acappella group Big Yellow Taxi 
SR.JEAN LENZ, OSF '67ND lbursday,februar; 06 -lafortune Ballroom 7:30 pm Aulhor of Loyal Soos and Daugllle!s ofNoire Oa/11!/: AMemoir of Notre lnme, co-sponsored by Cavanaugh Coffeehouse. 
leaturing !he music of female acappela group Hannonla, book s~ning, and refreshmenls 
NIKKI 'iiOVANNI Saturday, february 08 Jordt111 ~udltorlum, Mendoza C011A, 7:30 pm
N 
PO!t of Ovilung IJffl Bfack-Ey9d Pea and tove Poems, into<Juclory rema~s by NO head loolba!I coach TyWiffir.glam Co-sponsored by lhe Hammes No~e Dame Bookstore, Ifie College of Arts ~ letlers, Gender Studies Program, Departmenl of English. lhe Crealive Wnting Program, and !he Oepartmenl ol Alncan and African-American Siudie, 
STUDENT SLAM 
Sunday, F~brualj' 09 N Washington Hall, 1:30 pm fealurin~ studenl slam poelS and spoken-word artisls in atriJllimedia s~e. loilowed by an open-mi: session 
JOE &ARDEN Monday, February 10 N Washington Mall, 7:30 pm Q1l <illmlll!! lllhe1s<ll 1"" °"""'· mmduc!o,y remait, by ND professor of art Robert Sed!acl( reception tolo!owin IM wmenlof Za!m Haff 
Kf!JIR COYRt 
luelday, February 11 Willh!ngton Hall 7:30 pm
N 
Auh,-ol O,,,,,c,,re<iephon "t,Fomme Baikaom lealuring lhe music of male acappela groop The Undertooes 
JOHN BUFFALO l"A/i£R 
Wednesday, FelM'llary 12 • Washington Kall 7:30 pm Pla)'olrir>'ad..-of 'Helo, Herman", reception in Ifie laFortune Ballroom to follow 
ND UNPL!JGGED II lbursdo!V, febnmy 13 • lafortuneHuddle, !1:00 p.m. • !:OCa.m. Simlenls and farulty of !he Universilyol Nolrn Dame, Holy Cross Col~ge and s~nt Mary's C~llege showcase Iner work as s,nger-soogwnler;, poels, ficaon and non·ficlion wrile!s. spaken-wo,d ailisls. essa~s~. and ~sual a~1sls 
donations wl/1 bemfllt th-• St. Jns.ph County lltlltae:y c-0,.,,.,cir fer mare lnh,rnatlon. contact MGqh.tn M•rtln (mmarlln@m1.edu) or Joarm• Camlffll (jco,11 we t@ml.fl11u) 
vr1111nd.e111'%7Eis!a1SW•e/Jpaie~attslr,orhitl;11110¥1/\je,DJ.h/m 

Shuttle investigation expands 
Associated Press 
SPACE CENTER, Houston 
The head of the space shuttle inquiry said Tuesday he has the best investigators in the country to figure out what caused the Columbia crash and is confident the mystery will be solved. But one of those experts cautioned the scope of the disaster is the biggest any of them has ever seen. 
"Looking at the complexity of this, it is huge. It is one of the biggest debris fields that 1 think any of us have ever seen," said Navy Rear Adm. Stephen Turcotte, who as commander of the Naval Safety Center is responsible for investigating every aviation mishap in the Navy and Marine Corps. 
Thousands of pieces of debris have been found in a 500-mile area across Louisiana and Texas. The search is expected to take at least several more weeks. 
The head of the investigation board, retired Navy Adm. Harold Gehman Jr., said the panel was still collecting data and hasn't ruled out any potential cause. He said no debris has been recov­ered west of Fort Worth, Texas. 
"We don't have proof, but we have reason to believe that we should keep looking west of Fort Worth," Gehman said in the board's first full news confer­ence since taking over the inves­tigation from NASA last week. He said NASA is tapping into military and weather radar to try to pinpoint wreckage. 
Debris found west of Fort Worth could be extremely important because it would help investigators understand how and when Columbia started breaking apart as it aimed for a Florida touchdown the morning of Feb. 1. All seven astronauts 
scary mood? 
tHE RIWG 
Thurs 'J.../1"3 1o t,M 
Fri 1./1¥ 8 ~ 10:"J0 t,M Sat 'J./1 S 8 ~ 10:'30 l'M 
l>BR'T 101, $1 
aboard were killed when Columbia broke apart at an alti­tude of more than 200,000 feet. 
Air Force Maj. Gen. John Barry, a board member, noted there was no "black box" aboard Columbia, as there is on every airliner. Instead, each shuttle has "on the order of 4,000 sen­sors that we're going to be able to take advantage of." 
Gehman renewed NASA's request that amateurs turn over any photos and video of the shut­tle as it flew over the United States. Those pictures, along with telemetry data and radar. will enable experts to build "a stereoscopic mosaic of the shut­tle as it came across the sky." 
NASA released tapes of the final conversations between Mission Control in Houston and the shuttle crew. The tapes include the final communication from spacecraft commander 
SAY... 

COFFEE, BAKERY&: CONFECTIONS Proudly Serve 
Cheesecake from The Cheesecake Factory Seattle Best's Coffee &The Republic ofTea Joseph Schmidt's Chocolate from San Francisco 
Mon~Fri 7and0pm/Sat IOam~IOpm 213 North Main Street, Downtown South Bend 233~(;..je. 
C;/..,eei ,lj ~~J ! 
j(e.w-'Y-4J~J,.G-.e'4 ,lj~
') 
funny mood? 
'll'OOWffi@ ~/ll@ ll@ lPl:MI Willll ~/lltfi ® ~ ll@::@@ lPl:MI @~1f ~/ll~ ® ~ ll@::@@ lPl:MI 
Rick Husband, whose is abruptly cut off, and the calm demeanor of the flight controller as he slowly realizes the shuttle Le; in trouble. 
Separately, NASA also said officials from Johnson Space Center called experts at its Langley research facility in Hampton, Va., on Jan. 27 to ask what might happen if the shut­tle's tires were not inflated dur­ing a landing attempt. 
NASA spokesman Keith Henry said the question was based on assumptions that damage to the shuttle's thermal protection sys­tem would cause the tires to deflate. The Langley experts said such a failure could cause broad damage to the shuttle's tires.to comment on what impact or debris tests might be performed, saying: "We don't have favorite theories. We're pursuing every­thing." 

Wednesday, February 12, 2003 COMPll,ED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch February 11 
Dow Jones 

7,843.11 -77.00
•
N4SDAQ 

1,295.46 -1.22
•
S&P5fXJ 

829.20 . -6.77
•
AMEX 

812.95 -1.00
•
NYSE•
.

4,708.69 -24.08 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDE (QQQ) +0.54+0.13 24.15 
£!.~g;~j~~!~~a::iz~-~~::iJ:Jj:;;lil~lf:tl~l,~~~;~~iiil~i~,~ 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +0. 46 +0. 07 15. 34 
I~Bei!illa!l;:·· ...•.]!tc,i11~1ll1~iil1lll1i,!!l~il!l;:l1!~:II 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +1.36+0.16 11.91 
IN BRIEF 
Greenspan warns Congress on deficits 
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan dealt a blow Tuesday to President Bush's drive for new tax cuts, saying he did not believe the economy needed further stimulus and warning Congress to be "very careful" to keep budget deficits from exploding. Greenspan, who two years ago lent critical support to Bush's first round of $1.35 trillion in tax cuts. threw cold water on the new $1.3 trillion package. Bush is seeking $670 billion in accelerated tax cuts and elimination of taxes on stock dividends as part of a stimulus program. The rest of the package is devoted to making the 2001 tax cuts permanent. They are now due to expire after 2010. 
Panel OKs Donaldson for SEC vote 
The Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday approved the nomination of Wall Street investment banker William Donaldson to head the Securities and Exchange Commission. He has promised to work to rebuild investor con­fidence. The panel's voice vote action cleared the way for approval by the full Senate, possi­bly lhis week. Donaldson, 71, a former New York Stock Exchange chairman with ties to the Bush family, will replace lame-duck SEC Chairman Harvey Pitt. Pilt, the Bush adminis­tration's first SEC chief, resigned under fire in early November after a series of political mis­steps amid last year's wave of corporate scan­dals. Senators of both parties have been impatient to see him replaced. 
Tokyo stocks higher, dollar climbs 
Tokyo stocks opened moderately higher Wednesday morning after the yen weakened, raising hopes of higher profits for blue-chip exporters. The dollar rose against the Japanese yen. The benchmark 225-issue Nikkei Stock Average climbed 29.85 points, or 
0.35 percent, to 8,514.78 at Wednesday's open. On Monday, the average rose 36.77 points, or 0.44 percent, to close at 8,484.93. 
which enforces EU competition laws. 
ND accounting team goes extreme 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 

A team of five Notre Dame stu­dents did it to the extreme ­accounting that is. 
The group participated in PricewaterhouseCoopers' inaugur­al eXtremeTAX learning experi­ence and finished first out of four Notre Dame teams. going on to receive honorable mention at the national level, according to Craig Oliver, a sophomore on the team. 
In addition to Oliver, Notre Dame's winning team included sophomore Jason Kingery, junior Mark Bellantoni, senior Andrew Van Cura, graduate student Matthew Fumagalli and faculty advisor James Wittenbach, an accounting professor. 
The program, called xTAX for short, was implemented in 21 uni­versities around the United States by the international accounting firm and was designed to give col­lege students a perspective on real world tax policy work, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers' press release. 
The contest required students to develop a tax policy case study on Panadrevia, a fictitious country with economic issues similar to those of former Soviet republics. Teams needed to address and sug­gest ways of implementing solu­tions to problems plaguing the nation's economy, including an exodus of youth, an aging popula­tion, stagnant industries, defense issues and declining tourism. 
"This isn't your typical competi­tion," said Tyrene Federick, a tax public relations manager at PricewaterhouseCoopers. "It's designed to get students to think outside the box. There is no right answer." 
Representatives from PricewaterhouseCoopers visited the 21 participating universities during November and December to review teams' presentations. The four Notre Dame teams presented their proposals in front of six to eight judges from the accounting firm at the McKenna Hall and engaged in question and answer sessions. The presentations were video taped. Judges selected a win­ning team from each school and their tapes were judged at the national level. 
"We focused on changing the tax structure and creating more industry growth," Oliver said. "At the same time we wanted to increase tourism but not decrease defense funding." 
The group criticized Panadrevia's existing personal income tax and corporate tax sys­tems as too high. They recom­mended introducing a lower, grad­uated tax rate at the individual and corporate level, adding a nationwide income tax and launch­ing a social security program to service the aging population. For improving tourism, the team not only suggested a more aggressive, visual advertising campaign, they passed out sample brochures. 
Fumagalli attributed the team's success to the diverse talent of the individual members and their ability to work together well. As a graduate student who had worked for PricewaterhouseCoopers, Fumagalli did the bulk of the research while Van Cura spear­headed work on the presentation graphics. 
"The rest of the guys were phe­nomenal," Fumagalli said. "l was really impressed." 
Wittenbach, the team's advi­sor, was available for feedback and guidance but also let the stu­dents take control, according to Oliver. 
"He was really helpful," he said. "He took sort of a detached role. He didn't help us with the presen­tation or anything along that line." 
According to Frederick, the first run of xTAX was very success­ful. PricewaterhouseCoopers plans to increase participation in next year's event, she said. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at atha­gard@nd.edu. 
BP makes $6. 75 billion deal 
. Acquires 50 percent share in Russian 
Associated Press 

LONDON 
British energy group BP PLC said Tuesday it plans to pay $6. 75 billion for a 50 percent stake in a major new Russian com­pany, pinning its hopes for growth on that coun­try's vast resources of oil and gas. 
BP and its Russian part­ners -Alfa Group and Access-Renova -have agreed to combine their interests in Russia to cre­ate a new company with 
5.2 billion barrels in oil reserves and daily crude production of 1.2 million barrels. The new venture would be Russia's third­largest energy business, with stakes in five refineries and 2,100 retail outlets, BP said. 
The deal is one of the largest ever by a Western company in post-commu­nist Russia, and it marks a major strategic move by BP into an energy-rich nation it almost aban­doned after a commercial dispute. 
"BP's made a very bold move with this deal. It's got a lot of opportunities, but I do think it's long term," said Jason Kenney, an analyst at ING Barings Charterhouse Securities in Edinburgh, Scotland. 
BP, Alfa Group and Access-Renova plan to pool their shares in the Russian energy business-es TNK and Sidanco to form the new company. The new company will include exploration inter­ests in Siberia and Sakhalin Island in Russia's Far East. 

BP plans to invest $3 billion in cash on comple­tion of the deal, plus three subsequent annual installments of $1.25 bil­lion worth of BP shares. 
"We believe this to be a great moment in the his­tory of BP and of TNK/Sidanco and, indeed, an important milestone in the history of the indus­try," said BP chief execu­tive Lord John Browne. 
He described the agree­ment as "a major strate­gic step into a country with massive oil and gas reserves and immense potential for future growth." 

Kenney compared the deal to the pioneering efforts of oil companies in Europe's North Sea in the 1970s. BP would enjoy advantages -and face the risks -of being a "first mover" in a country that many foreign oil companies still view as a frontier for investment. 
"It's a pretty big bet," Spedding added. 
~----------------------------------------------------------, 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 12, 2003 
Government had clues before Okla. City attack 
members of the compound dis­ATF documents show the that his own Washington head­-someone who provided occa­
Associated Press 

cussing plans for "assassinations, informant provided agents with quarters had debriefed Noble, sional information about the 
bombings and mass shootings." fragments of practice explosives the former white supremacist, compound without getting paid. 
WASHINGTON 

The government also had detonated by Elohim City mem­about the earlier Murrah bomb­That information came out two
Two federal law enforcement 

information suggesting that com­bers and had suspicions about a ing "plot or the suspicions of' an years later in court testimony by 
agencies had information before 

pound members had detonated a possible target. "It is understood attack on April 19. an FBI agent.
the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing 

500-pound fertilizer bomb like that ATF is the main enemy of "The biggest problem is we The ATF also didn't know the
suggesting that white suprema­

the one McVeigh would use and the people of EC," one report don't know what we know," FBI had concerns about the com­
cists living nearby were consid­

had visited Oklahoma City sever­states. ATF offices were in the Defenbaugh said. "I blame most pound until an Oklahoma state
ering an attack on government 

al times. The FBI could never building McVeigh struck. of it on antiquated computers trooper tipped the ATF in late
buildings, but the intelligence 

verify the detonation. Gram also disclosed that Howe inside the bureau, which can't February 1995 that the FBI also
was never passed on to federal 

The ATF informant would tell provided. before McVeigh's find information we need to have had an investigation on Elohim
officials in the state, documents 

the FBI shortly after McVeigh's attack, a copy of "The Turner for investigations." City.
and interviews show. 

bombing that Elohim City mem­Diaries," a book about a plot to McVeigh's own trial attorney Ricks said his FBI office in
FBI headquarters officials in 

bers had specifically discussed blow up a federal building with a suspected McVeigh had received Oklahoma didn't have an ongo­
Washington were so concerned 

targeting federal buildings in truck bomb that was circulating help from Elohim City, but the ing investigation and he was
that white separatists at the 

Oklahoma for "destruction around Elohim City. Prosecutors attorney failed to persuade a unaware of the Washington FBI
Elohim City compound in 

through bombings." later would con-judge to debriefing of Noble, the reformed 
Muldrow, Okla., might lash out 

But when ATF considered tend the book allow the white supremacist familiar with
on April 19, 1995 -the day 

raiding Elohim City two months inspired "We never received any theory at the earlier plot to blow up the
Timothy McVeigh did choose ­

before McVeigh struck, the then­McVeigh's trial -even Murrah building.
that a month earlier they ques­warning ofa specific
FB I agent in charge in attack. after some of Noble said as soon as McVeigh
tioned a reformed white threat against the 
Oklahoma, Bob Ricks, stopped A former top the ATF doc­struck he became certain there
supremacist familiar with an 

the plan. law enforce­Murrah building." uments came was a connection with the earlier 
earlier plot to bomb the same 

"I do remember I told them I ment official to light. plot.
Alfred P. Murrah federal building 

didn't want another Waco on our said the docu­The docu­"I don't see any other possibili­
McVeigh selected. Viki Reath
hands," Ricks said, comparing ments from the ments show ty, honestly. It is not a coinci­
"I think their only real concern 

the danger of a raid on Elohim ATP informant -spokeswoman for the General evidence of dence that he picked April 19,
back then was Elohim City," said 

City to the ill-fated A TF action on whom the gov­Services Administration miscommu­and even if it was, to pick the
Kerry Noble, the witness ques­

David Koresh's compound in ernment later nication s same building that we had
tioned by the FBI on March 28, 

Waco, Texas, in 1993. "At the turned against between the picked? There are only a handful
1995 -just a few weeks before 

time. they hadn't told me every­and tried to prosecute unsuc­FBI and ATF, and within the of people who knew about that," 
McVeigh detonated a truck bomb 

thing they apparently knew." cessfully -provided plenty of agencies themselves. Noble said. 
outside the building and killed 

Neither law enforcement detail to warrant action. For instance, ATF officials had FBI officials said they suspect­
more than 160 people. 

agency passed on any informa­"They certainly should have evidence that the leader of the ed Millar was initially involved, 
Noble told The Associated 

tion or concerns to the agency taken some action," said Robert compound, Robert Millar, was but he cooperated with the inves­
Press that his FBI questioners 

that managed the federal build­Sanders, who served as the among those inciting violence tigation and was eventually ruled 
appeared particularly concerned 

ings in Oklahoma City. ATF's No. 2 official in the 1980s against the government in the out as a suspect.
about what Elohim City members 

"We never received any warn­and later reviewed documents on weeks before McVeigh struck. Millar died in 2001. His former
might do on April 19 because 

ing of a specific threat against behalf of the Oklahoma City Millar "gave a sermon solicit­attorney, Kirk Lyons, said he
one of their heroes, Wayne Snell, 

the Murrah building or any other informant. "You had reliable ing violence against the U.S. gov­doubts his client had anything to
was being executed that day and 

building in Oklahoma," said Viki information from a reliable infor­ernment" and "he brought forth do with McVeigh's attack and
another, James Ellison, was 

Reath, a spokeswoman for the mant." his soldiers and instructed them that Millar's fiery rhetoric was
returning to Oklahoma after end­

General Services Administration Sanders said the whole case to take whatever action neces­aimed more at uniting members
ing parole in Florida. 

that manages federal buildings. suffered from the same miscom­sary against the U.S. govern­at his compound than inciting
FBI officials confirmed Noble's 

Federal investigators said that munications and missed signs ment," one ATF report from violence. "He was trying to keep
account, including concerns the 

while they had concerns, they seen before Sept. 11. "It is the January 1995 said. his followers together," Lyons
group at Elohim City might strike 

had no information before April lack of coordination -intelli­Millar made a trip to said.
on April 19. 

19 about a specific target and gence going one way, and then Oklahoma City about that time Though ATF agents had
Snell, El1ison and Noble had 

had not even heard of McVeigh going into a black hole," he said. and on the day of McVeigh's reports of dramatic threats
plotted to attack the Murrah 

until his arrest, making it impos­Dan Defenbaugh, the retired bombing traveled to Arkansas to against the government, they
building in 1983 with plastic 

sible to issue a useful warning. FBI agent who supervised the comfort Snell before his execu­focused their investigation on
explosives and rocket launchers, 

"ATF, as it has said before, Oklahoma City bombing investi­tion. making a gun violation case
according to Noble and FBI offi­cials. The plan never reached never had any information or gation, agreed. He said he But ATF did not know that against a German citizen there,evidence beforehand about the doesn't recall ever being told Millar was a "source" for the FBI documents show. 
fruition and the group was 
attack on the Oklahoma City
arrested after a siege with law 
building," spokesman Andrew L.
enforcement in 1985. 
Lluberes said Tuesday. 
The FBI wasn't alone in its 
Agents said they had concerns
concerns, according to thou­
about the credibility of the infor­
sands of pages of federal inves­
mant and afterward investigated 
tigative memos and handwritten 
whether McVeigh received help
notes obtained by AP, which por­
from Elohim City and concluded
tray government miscommunica­
there were no additional accom­

Come to the run-off
tions that mirror the intelligence 
plices.
failures before the Sept. 11 
"We believe we conducted an
attacks. 
exhaustive investigation that
In the days before he was exe­
pursued every possible lead and
cuted for a 1980s murder of a 
ran it to ground," FBI spokesman
pawn broker, Snell began mak­

debate for the student
Mike Kortan said. "We are confi­
ing threats from his Arkansas 
dent that those who committed
prison that there would be a 
the crime have been brought to
bombing or explosion on April 19 
justice."
to avenge his death, according to 
Elohim City -which means
prison and FBI officials. He also 
"City of God" in Hebrew -is
had contact in his last days with 

bodv president.
located about three hours east of
members of Elohim City, who 
Oklahoma City, and the com­
later took his remains back to 
pound is dotted with rudimenta­
their compound. 
ry buildings that were frequent­
"Some of the corrections offi­
ed by leaders of the white
cers heard [Snell] in a visitors 
supremacist movement in the
room talking with people, saying 
1990s.
there would be a large explosion 
The ATF agent who supervised 
or event of some type. He said 
the key informant inside Elohim
the immediate reaction would be 
City, disclosed in sealed court
to blame it on Middle Eastern 
testimony in 1997 that she in fact 
types. This was prior," said Alan 
had received information before
Ables, a former Arkansas correc­
McVeigh struck that federal
tions official. 
buildings might be at risk.
Jeff Rosenzweig, Snell's death­
The informant, Carol Howe,
row attorney, said Tuesday he 
mentioned "threats to blow up
does not believe his client knew 
federal buildings, didn't she?" a
of McVeigh's plot beforehand but 
lawyer asked ATF agent Angela 

8pm
that "Snell tended to talk in 
Finley Gram in sealed testimony
apocalyptic terms and certainly, 
reviewed by AP.
frankly, I wouldn't doubt if Snell 
"In general, yes," Gram
said something bad is going to 
answered.
happen." 
"And that was before the
Separately, the Bureau of 
Oklahoma City bombing?" the 

librarv Auditorium
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms 
lawyer asked. 
had an informant inside Elohim 
"Yes," Gram answered. She
City who had disclosed before 
said she considered the threats
the bombing that white 
"general militia rhetoric" used

supremacists were "preparing 
frequently by members of Elohim
for a war against U.S. govern­
City.
ment." Other reports quoted 

Wednesday, February 12, 2003 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

VIEWPOINTS ON IRACI A series of events to encourage disenssion. 
"WE PRAY WITH OPEN HANDS: VOICES OF THE IRAQI PEOPLE" WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2003 
3:30 pm STAPLETON LOUNGE 
A conversation with Sheila Provencher, who recently returned froma Pax Christi delegation to Iraq. An exhibit of some of her photos will accompany. 
"IRAQ BRIEFING" WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2003 
7:00 pm CARROLL AUDITORIUM 
Background information on the conflict with lag from a variety of perspectives, to initiate an informed dialogue with the audience. Moderator: Sr. Kathlee Dolphin, Director, Center for Spirituality Panel Participants: Teresa Marcy-the political/historical background on Iraq 
Linda Berdayes-media coverage of the conflict Joe Miller-the psychology of war-making Jerry McElroy-the economic costs of war 
A STUDENT PANEL DISCUSSION ON IRAQ MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2003 
5:00 pm WEDGE ROOM OF THE DINING HALL 
Hosted by the Political Science Student Club and Peacemakers 
''IRAQ: A JUST WAR?" MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2003 
7:00 pm CARROLL AUDITORIUM 
Margaret O'Brien Steinfels has been editor of Commonwealth from 1998. Her writing has appeared in the New York Tinies, the Los Angeles Times, the New Republic, and other publications. Her book, Who sMinding the Children? The History and Politics o Day Care in America was published in 197 4. 
Sponsored by: Campus Ministry, Center for Women's lnterCultural Leadership, Department of Political Science, 
lnterCultural Community Living Program, Justice Education, Peacemakers, The Political Science Student Chili, Women's Studies. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, February 12, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kare Nagengast  Lori Lewalski  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hettler, Matt lozar 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 
SAINT MARv's EDITOR, Sarah Nesror 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR; Scott Brodfuehrer CoNTROWR• Michael Flanagan 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO........... ...631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 Af>YERTISING..................................... 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHI.EF ........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmmR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS................................................. , ........ 631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
YIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.................. ,......................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MAR'l"s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTF.Ms/WEII ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://obrmm.nel.edu for daily 11pdates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion col11mns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either inscirucion. The Observer reserves the rigbr to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present che views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q;,ntions regarding Obrnverpolicm rhould be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The OblCrvu (USPS 599 2401 Upubfuhi::d Monday rhrough friday act'p, during cum .md v~npcriods.. A,ubscription tu 1"hrODICner U, $100 ioronc liCadc:nuc year; $,S for OQlt! ~. 
The Observer Upubh,hc(J at: l'OSTMASTER 024 Sood! Dining Ht!l Smd llddra, corm:dons w: N..,. D""'• IN 46556 The Ob,avcr 
P.O.B..Q Periodi,~l po,t~ ri<l ~t Notre: Dune Notre Darnr, IN 46556.0779 and additio11al m<ailing offices. 
lkObacn,er is• mcmbn of the Auoci~tcd Prat. All reprocluctlon right11 -,: ....,,,,d 

A fictitious letter from the heavens to those left behind 
My Dearest, 

Writing a letter to you that can never be delivered, I know, may not come as any consolation after recent events. It doesn't bring me much consolation, either. I only write it for myself with 
Adam Cahill
the hope that some­how you will feel the presence that 

A Domer's 
my message 

Outlook
intends. I can't seem to explain it any other way. All you know is that I am lost and will never see me again. I am left with much the same sentiment having lost both you and the life we had together. But no matter what happens, I don't want you to worry about me. 
I know it is hard to understand my death, especially since I was within minutes of holding you in my arms when things went wrong. But, as much as my world revolved around my love for you, l have no regrets of the choic­es I made in life and the direction in which I led it. I knew the dangers that were involved when I volunteered for the astronaut corps and accepted them. In the end, we paid the ultimate price, but any confusion our crew might have felt upon our arrival at the gates was eased by a group of old friends who have gone through this before. 
My darling, I've grown up with the idea that I was meant to make a differ­ence in the world and I believe, now, that I have. In the 16 days I spent on the Columbia. I realize we were help­ing the world sail into unforeseen waters and doing it with our sails at full mast. And sad though it may be, the deaths of my crew and I are mak­ing a difference around the world. Nations will mourn now, but things will only get better because of this. 
The program must move forward, and hopefully the first Israeli man or Indian-born woman in space will not be the last. It's too important to world relations not to extend the necessary olive branch to all nations around the world. 
I was part of a space exploration project that furthered people's under­standing of God's plan. In my crew of seven, we have two women (one which was born in India), an African­American man, and the first Israeli in space. The Columbia was a guiding light of human liberties and world relations, and I was proud to be a part of her crew. The shuttle and others like it have brought the nations of the world together in concert with a com­mon goal to improve humanity. 
Sweetheart, there is a lot of noise in the world today. There is talk of war, disease and terrorism. But this much I know. If God's sacrifice of our lives can help soften the voices of hostility, I would die a thousand deaths to ease the suffering of mankind. I am certain that if the leaders of the world could have seen through my eyes the past 16 days. politics and partisanship would cease to exist. They just don't under­stand that the questions of power and ownership can be muted by a few inch­es of a space shuttle's window. God's power can be spoken without words. 
My love, it is hard for me to bear the thought of being without you, even in this place. How thoughtless and foolish I feel to have put you in the position that you are in now. I can do nothing to change the circumstances that have befallen you. And for that I am eternal­ly sorry. I only wish I could have done more. 
But this I promise you. If you ever worry about my fellow astronauts and their families who are and will contin­ue to follow me into the frontiers of space, do not be troubled. We will always be with them. Always. For when the next landing of astronauts takes place, they shall have new sets of eyes watching over them. And when the wings of the shuttle waver in the wind, they will remain firm. When the astronauts touch down on the runway, know that they floated back to earth under the wings of angels. 
I can do nothing to change the tragedies of the past, but I will do all that I can to prevent them from hap­pening again. I believe that Sullivan Ballou, a union major in the Army of the Potomac during the Civil War, said it best in a letter to his wife, "Do not mourn me dead, think I am gone and wait for me, for we shall meet again." 
My dear, tell our friends that heaven is on their side and when we meet again the mood will be heavenly. I promise. 
All my love, 
One of Columbia 
Adam Cahill is a junior majoring in history and American studies. His col­umn appears every other Wednesday. He can be reached at acahill@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer . 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Meghanne Downes Will Puckett Mike Chambliss Viewpoint Claire Kelley Graphics Mike Harkins 
Sports 
Katie McVoy Bryan Kronk Heather Van Hoegarden 
Scene 
Christie Boisen 
Lab Tech 
Stephanie Grammens 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
What do you consider most in voting for 
"The guardian angels oflife sometimes fly so 
student body president? 
high as to be beyond our sight, but they are always looking down upon us. " Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Jean Paul Richter German author 

O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, February 12, 2003 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Serious claims of discrimination deserve review 
I would like to respond to both Kiflin Turner's Inside Column and Kristine Rosario's letter in Viewpoint from last Wednesday's Observer. 
First of all, I have had my valid Connecticut driver's license questioned at three different South Bend establish­ments {the Linebacker, Corby's and yes, Heartland). In every one of these instances, the bouncers at each respec­tive bar told me to go home and get my passport, regardless of how many cred­it cards or student IDs I had with my name and picture. If a driver's license looks fake, most bars will request the next most verifiable piece of identifica­tion, which in most cases is a passport. 
Because of this, 1have a tendency to take my passport with me whenever I go to bars. If Rosario's ID is as phony and easily replicable as she says it is and she often has trouble with it, I would suggest carrying around some sort of identification that is less ques­tionable. The fact that her ID was ques­tioned and they asked her to get a pass­port as a second form should not even be an issue. 
Second, I completely agree that any derogatory remarks or attitudes are intolerable and should be dealt with immediately. However, I do not believe it is applicable in this case. I happen to waitress at Chicago Steakhouse, which as many of you may know is attached to and under the same management as Heartland. 
I have discussed the events of last Thursday at great length with the man­ager and have come to the conclusion that things did not go quite the way they have been portrayed. For those of you who may not know, the doors of Heartland are under video surveillance. 
According to the video of that night, the bouncer looked at the ID and refused Rosario admittance. She then proceeded to talk with him for 35 to 40 seconds, presumably about how her ID was in fact valid. She then turned to walk away, which, according to her version of the story, is when he made the negative remarks to her. 
Most of Rosario's friends mate identification. The caller had already been then described the bounc­admitted into the er who had taken the bar ahead of ID, so the manager her, out of could confront him. hearing Unfortunately, range of the person that anything was described that could was not actually have been the bouncer who said. took the ID. The 
In addi­one in question, tion, nei­as a matter of ther the fact, is remark­other bounc­ably distinguish­er standing able from the one at the door described. that night, nor Personally, if I had any of the many been so offended by people standing in someone's comments, 1 line heard any deragato­would remember exactly who 
ry comments. (If a third party does happen to come forward and refute that, I will gladly retract these statements and agree wholeheartedly with Rosario and Turner.) However, at the moment, it seems that Rosario, in her frustration of already being refused, may be mistaken in what she claims she heard. 
Right now, at best, this is a story of he-said, she-said. But, I would also like to address the phone conversations that occurred the same night. A few hours after the incident, the manager received a phone call with the com­plaint that someone's valid ID had been rejected. According to the manager, they spoke about how the ID was never a problem before and Heartland's poli­
cy regarding second forms of legiti­
they were and what they looked like. In addition, the caller did not bring up the deragatory comment supposedly made by the bouncer until the very end of the conversation. Now it seems to me that that comment is the main issue in this case. and it strikes me as odd that it is only mentioned as an afterthought. 
If this was indeed the main problem, it should have been brought up first and foremost. 
Now if Kristine still sticks by her story, it is obviously her choice not to return to Heartland. However, it has come to my attention that the Viewpoint letter written in Wednesday's Observer has been copied and distributed all around town. 
This letter, if you recall, claims that Heartland is ignorant and hires people who discriminate. These are very seri­ous accusations. Besides the fact that Kristine had spent many, many nights at Heartland without a problem, I would venture to say that I have never seen anyone refused admittance for any reason other than fake (or fake-looking) IDs. 
For Kristine and her friends to spread this kind of information based upon one story (of hearsay, at best) could obvi­ously be very damaging to a reputation. One incident of a frustrated patron refused admittance who thinks she hears something is not. in my opinion, a valid reason to say an establishment discriminates. 
Once again, I agree that any deroga­tory remarks indicating discrimination are intolerable and should be dealt with immediately. However, such powerful accusations should be backed by indis­putable facts. which, I believe, are lack­ing in this case. 
Jessica Donnelly 
graduate student off-campus Feb. 6 

Call for respectful economics debate 
It is always unfortunate when insult and invective replace mutual respect and rational dialogue. This is all tho more true in a university set­ting, where diverse views are meant to coexist and interact 
Professor Thomas Gresik concludes his remarks in yesterday's Viewpoint on the proposal to split the existing economics department and to create a new department exclusively devot­ed to mainstream economics with " ... the Department of Economics is an embarrassment...•· 
Along the way, he accuses my col­leagues and me of treating main­stream economists in an "openly hos­tile" manner, of not "supporting and objectively presenting diverse points of view," of engaging in an "unpro­ductive and nasty politicization of the department" and much else, which crosses the line of simple disagree­ment and becomes a form of slander. 
Gresik is, of course, entitled to defend mainstream economics, to endorse the proposal to disrupt and dismantle the department of eco­nomics and to make his views known via The Observer. (Let it be noted, though, that no member of the department has sought to involve the students in this imbroglio or, until now, written directly to The Observer about this matter. The fact that the administration has not solicited the views of students is another matter.) What is unaccept­able. however, is to launch personal auacks and to impugn the integrity of colleagues elsewhere in the University. 
Unacceptable but, in all honesty, we'll survive. As I'm sure Gresik will agree, a war of words sometimes gets heated, and you can't survive in this academic business without developing a bit of a thick skin (espe­cially, as many will have noted, in and around the discipline of econom­ics). 
Actually. what is even more dis­tressing is Gresik's version of history and recent events. Let me provide, in the interests of brevity, just two examples. 
First, my colleagues and I stand accused of failing to provide "an accurate and honest presentation of the strengths and weaknesses" of diverse approaches and schools of thought. That is precisely what we do, each of us individually and as a department. The distinctiveness of the existing department is precisely (in contrast to many economics departments in other universities) the idea that alternative views are presented and discussed, carefully and in a balanced manner, with the aim of providing students a sophisti­cated understanding of a range of perspectives on important economic issues. 
Indeed, the department is proud to have some of the best teachers in the College of Arts and Letters. What makes us good teachers is precisely the fact that we provide our students with a solid foundation in the disci­pline of economics, including main­stream theory and methods, which would not be possible if we spent our time "vilifying" economic orthodoxy. 
Second, Gresik recommends the proposal to split the department as a thing of "beauty" because it "allows both groups of economists to credibly co-exist." Besides the fact that we consider ourselves to be members of a single department, with a single goal (of conducting high-quality research, teaching and service), and not two different groups, Gresik fails to mention salient features of the proposal currently being discussed. 
Additionally, it seeks to create a new department of economics that excludes what have always been important aspects of economics: thought and policy. Also, the two departments would not be allowed to "credibly co-exist": one (the new department) would have a graduate program and a series of new hires, while the other (the renamed depart­ment) would have no graduate pro­gram and no projected new hires. Separate and unequal is a poor way to develop economic knowledge. 
In the end, what is important is not just that one member of the faculty might treat his colleagues in another department with contempt. It is that all of us, especially the students, are and should be interested in some­thing more than rankings. Learning about and exploring diverse points of view those that are comfortably mainstream as well as more hetero­dox contributions are what make a truly great university. 
DavidRuccio 
associate economics professor Feb. l l 
Joe Millionaire: Who's laughing? 
There I was in our dining hall after deciding not to pursue this issue. when I was incessantly aggravated by the conversation a table over: Joe Millionaire. Please understand that I do have some sympathy, for the premise truly is idiotic. You get to laugh at a mimbo named Joe Millionaire and his naive female gold-diggers every Monday night. 
Picture this: a multitude of children all gath­ered around the clown relentlessly yelling, "Entertain us! Make us laugh! Make us happy!" Now put this in the context of the millions of viewers of Joe Millionaire and other reality television programs. Perhaps to some people today, reality television is more real than life itself. Is this so far from the truth? 
The question I pose is this: Who is really hav­ing a good laugh here? Is it simply the viewers that get a good chuckle out of Joe and his pur­suers? Or is it the network that knows that they can put trash television on the air and get mil­lions of people to watch its absurdity? They may even promise that they will reveal the lucky (or unlucky) female companion. and then waste an hour of your life leaving you even less fulfilled than before. Maybe they already did that. Who knows what lurks in the future of such chaotic reality series: an institutionalized blind democratic marriage service? 
So remember that while you may be laughing at the robust yet idiotic and fictitious Joe Millionaire, Fox, Joe Millionaire, the annoying butler and even Zora may be having a heartier laugh at your expense. 
Andrew Litschi 
freshman Dillon Hall Feb. 11 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 12 Wednesday, February 12, 2003 
vVvVW.TrueLove.co111 
Tips for successful Valentines Day online shopping 
By MARIA SMITH and CHRISTIE 
BOLSEN 
Scene Editor and Assistant Scene Editor 
Valentine's Day is rolling around again, and everyone is searching for exactly the right way to show their love for the special someone in their life. Of course, with the stress of classes and Junior Parents Weekend coming up, the special someone in your life may recently have taken sec­ond place to books and other plans. 
Don't panic yet. The world is wired to make up for the inconveniences bothering busy people like you. You can still find the perfect gift for your boyfriend or girlfriend, no matter how The site is also affiliated with a fresh flower site that can send flowers to your sweet­heart direct from the grower. The prices are higher, like the silver and black Night and Day vases and flowers for $85 on sale, but are a change from 


A pricier and more unique selection can be found at www.architectstouch.com. This site offers architect designed gifts ranging from distinctive jewelry to designed vases with pretty paper roses. 

long you've been together-without even leaving campus. Grab a credit card and you can find gifts for anyone and everyone online. 
Combine that with a reservation at one of South Bend's fine restaurants and you're good to go. Whether you're entertaining your parents or your significant other this Friday, it can still be a fun night. 
Contact Maria Smith 
and Christie Boisen at 
msmith4@nd.edu and 
cbolsen@nd.edu 


the ordinary. 
For some less expen­sive but romantic gift ideas, check out www.redenvelope.com. The site features tradi­tional candy, jewelry and flowers, as well as more unusual choices such as There are several reasonably priced sale items. and also more extravagant choices for the more serious cou­ple. Whether you get the $16.99 pearl ring, the $75 cocktail set or the 


Got a girl­friend or boyfriend who's really into their MIS major? You can find gifts for the techno­1o g i call y obsessed at www.comput­ergear.com. Not only can 

you buy a silver-or gold-plated 
mouse and keyboard boxers, the 
site offers a valentine motif 
office desk set and a gold 
mounted 
computer 
chip ear­ring a n d neck-I ace set. The site even offers valen­tine keycaps with messages like "Cutie" and "Be Mine." Remind your boyfriend how much you care with every e-mail and late night paper {provided he knows how to touch-type}. The site is a bit expensive with prices rang­ing upwards from $20, but the price is surely worth it for gifts so well suited to a technological lifestyle. 



If you're fed up with your 
valentine and don't know quHe what to do, www.despair.com can help you out. The site offers candy hearts that say exactly what you've been think­ing with 37 differ­ent messages including "WANT 2C OTH­ERS." "SHE COOKS" and "RETURN MY CDS." Also available are greeting cards to remind you that the only consistent feature of all your dissatisfying relationships is you. Get a look at the flip side of Valentine's Day for under $10. 

hugging teddy bears, an $48 steamy love aphrodisiac garden and spa kit, there is somethingerotic fortune cookies. for every type of relationship. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Wednesday, February 12, 2003 page 13 
Grecian Delights 
Grecian Delights offers a tempting array ofdelicious Greek dishes 
By ON-KAY WONG, ANNIE HASTERT, 
and GWEN SCHMIEDEBUSCH 
Scene Restaurant Critics 
Grecian Delights, a small restaurant, combines a pleasant atmosphere, an assortment of Greek tunes -in addi­Lion lo more familiar pop tunes -and dnlicious food at a decent price. The service was a little slow, perhaps because of the amount of food ordered, but the waiter was very friendly and eager to please. 
The meal began with sourdough rolls and pita bread, as well as butter, Feta cheese and Kalamata olives, a tasty treat for those who enjoy strong, slightly bitter foods. The appetizers offered were an assortment of dips for the pita bread, salads and cheeses. 'The Sampler,' consisted of three appetizers chosen from the menu. Hcvithosalata is a dip made with chickpeas, tahini, garlic, olive oil, cumin and lemon. It tastes similar to hummus but slightly spicier. Htipiti, made with red peppers, feta cheese, garlic and jalapenos, is definitely for people who like tangy foods. Lastly, Melitzanosalata combines eggplant, garlic, cumin, lemon and olive oil, and has a bean-like taste to it. Overall, the appetizers could have been skipped, especially since most of the entrees at Grecian Delights come with a choice of any three sides. 
The sides were wonderful, especially the soup. Faki tasted like a spiced up version of American lentil soup and was delicious. Avgelemono is basically a chicken and rice soup with eggs and lemon, and was strong but surprising­ly tasty. Out of the three salads offered, the garden salad was the best selection. While the other two had a bland "secret dressing" on them, the garden salad came with a selection of three dressings: Balsamic Vinaigrette, Lemon Tahini or Tarragon Mustard. It is best advised to stay away from the Lemon Tahini, but the Balsamic Vinaigrette and the Tarragon Mustard are solid choices. 
By the time the entrees arrived, it seemed impossible to eat any more. The Garithes Portobellos, Chicken Souvlaki and Mediterranean Makaronia were chosen as entrees. The Garithes Portobcllos, Portobella mushrooms with shrimp and a zesty hot sauce, were a little much for someone who doesn't handle spicy foods well. However, the Chicken Souvlaki and the Mediterranean Makaronia were both excellent dishes. The Chicken came with rice pilaf and Tszaziki, which is a dipping sauce made from yogurt, sour cream, cucumbers and dill. The sauce is high­ly recommended for sour cream lovers and the rice pilaf was outstanding. The Mediterranean Makaronia is pasta with sauteed veggies, garlic, Kalamata olives and Feta cheese on it. It was the best of the three dishes, and well worth the $12 price. 
Dessert, of course, was necessary to finish off the meal. and pineapple sor­bet, a lemon bar and floyetta were chosen. The floyetta was a little too sweet, but the pineapple sorbet and the lemon bar were delicious. At just $2 apiece, the desserts are relatively inexpensive and won't double the cost of the whole meal like they tend to do at some restaurants. 
Grecian Delights was a very pleasant dining experience, an ideal place for a casual lunch or dinner date. Overall, with its excellent food and first-rate service, it is well worth the trip off campus. Grecian Delights is located at 2349 Miracle Lane, in the Town & Country Shopping Center in Mishawaka. Hours are Thursday through Saturday 11 a.m.-3 p.m. and 5 p.m.-lOp.m.; Sunday noon-8p.m. 
Contact On-Kay Wong, Annie Hastert and Gwen Schmiedebusch at wong.48@nd.edu, hastert. l@nd.edu, schmiedehusch@nd.edu 

-
Hana Yori: Dinner and a Show 
amazing you with their acrobatic culi­the Shogun dish, featuring savory first date or for a Valentine's meal By ERIN ENGLISH nary skills. steak and chicken and a glass of when you want to have your date all Scene Restaurant Critic Meals range in price, but usually fall sweet plum wine for after dinner. to yourself in conversation. The 
in the range of $15 or Hana Yori also atmosphere is better suited for a large 
Ever smm an egg tossed four feet i_n more. While this may offers alcoholic and boisterous group and you are the air, hit metal and not break? Well, seem like a lot, it is a drinks such as sake much more likely to enjoy yourself it is a common occurrence at Hana good deal for the and Sapporo beer with a large group of friends than Yori. amount of food that is "Hana Yori is not just a for those over 21. with that cute girl from your theology 
1-!ana Yori Japanese steakhouse is a served. which is While it is an class.
place to eat--it is a place
place where they cook the food right enough to burst your interesting detour Hana Yori is located at 3601 Grape
to be entertained at the
in front of you, providing you with an stomach. The menu from the usual, Rd.. off of Edison. It is recommended unusual break from the usual routine offers you a choice same time." Hana Yori isn't the that you call ahead for reservations to of Steak 'n Shake and fajitas. Cook, between their many most romantic place avoid a wait and to make sure that however, is not the word l'or the show­dishes, including to dine. While pro­your party is not split up. The lunch
Erin English ­
case you get while watching your steak or lobster tail viding a quiet hours are Monday through Friday meal being prepared before your eyes. on the grill or sushi Scene Restaurant Critic atmosphere for eat­from 11 a.rn. to 2 p.m.. Dinner hours Chefs toss food up in the air and catch and sashimi a la ing, most tables seat are Sunday through Thursday, 5 p.m. it on hot spatulas, light flames ablaze carte. All entrees on eight people. so if to 9 p.m. and Friday and Saturday and quickly flick your meals about at the grill come with you have a small from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. But even with­dizzying speeds. Hana Yori is not just soup, salad, a shrimp party, you will find out reservations, Hana Yori is worth a place to eat -it is a place to be appetizer and a hearty helping of yourself sitting a table and engaging the wait. entertained at the same time. Service fried rice. Recommended are the in conversation with complete is friendly, and the chefs are quite Samuri meal, which includes shrimp strangers. While fun in its own right, Contact Erin English at entertaining, even when they aren't and chicken grilled to perfection, or it is not the best idea for the shy, for a english. l 7@nd.edu 
-. 
Wednesday, February 12, 2003 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
....... 
NBA 

Timberwolves topple league-leading Mavericks 
and left Wally open. I'm happy learning of the suspension just he'll unravel,' what they're say­took any assertive, aggressive
Associated Press 

for Wally," said Garnett, who before leaving home for the ing is The only way to beat him control was going to win. They 
.. 
-
MINNEAPOLIS 
It wasn't just the aggressive fast breaks and the pounding of the ball into the paint that got the Minnesota Timberwolves past the perimeter-oriented Dallas Mavericks. 
Kevin Garnett, right, and Dirk Nowitzki squared off Tuesday. 
A perfectly designed inbounds play made the biggest difference against the team with the NBA's best record. 
Wally Szczerbiak made a cor­ner jumper as the final buzzer sounded Tuesday night, giving the Timberwolves a 100-98 vic­tory after they squandered a 17­point third-quarter lead. 
"I hope we can just keep this going," said Szczerbiak, who had 21 points, nailing his shot from 17 feet to give the Timberwolves their 10th straight home victory. 
On an inbounds play with 1.6 seconds left. Szczerbiak set ajar­ring screen on Eduardo Najera for Kevin Garnett and darted to the corner. 
"That's the shot Wally always makes," said Minnesota's Anthony Peeler. 
Dirk Nowitzki had 34 points and Michael Finley had all 21 of his points in the second half for Dallas, which had its four-game road winning streak stopped. 
The Mavericks, who trailed by as many as 19 in the first half, led 98-95 on a basket by Nowitzki with 1:35 remaining. Garnett -who had 26 points, 12 rebounds and seven assists ­converted a three-point play to tie the game with 1: 17 left. 
Dallas had three chances to take the lead, and Minnesota had three of its own -finally seizing it on Szczerbiak's shot. 
Finley, for all his success in the second half, made a mistake on the Mavs' last possession by rushing a 3-pointer that bounced high off the rim and over the backboard with 8.7 seconds left. 
"It was a stupid play," Finley said. "I wasn't thinking out there." 
Said a smiling Szczerbiak: "Oh, boy. I couldn't imagine what our coaches would say if we took that shot." 
Garnett, the MVP of Sunday's All-Star Game after scoring 37 points in 41 minutes, received a hearty ovation during the intro­ductions and helped the Wolves surge ahead with 11 points in the fi~ quarter. 
After carrying his team for much of the game, Garnett was the decoy on the final play. 
"They all swamped toward me was hugged hard by Szczerbiak in a celebration on the court. 

Magic 92, Nets 83 

Coach Doc Rivers gazed around the quiet Orlando locker room and chose his words care­fully. 
Magic center Shawn Kemp was suspended earlier Tuesday by the NBA for violating the terms of the league's anti-drug policy. and Rivers knew the status of the six-time All-Star was weighing heavily on the minds of his play­ers. 
"The first thing I told them was forget basketball. I like Shawn Kemp as a person and I care about him as a person," Rivers said after the Magic withstood a late New Jersey rally to defeat the Nets and stop a three-game losing streak. 
"They were down and it was pretty emotional. But one of the things I told them is that you have to choose to be miserable. I don't care if the situation is mis­erable, you still have to make that choice to be miserable." 
Tracy McGrady had 32 points and eight rebounds and Darrell Armstrong delivered a clutch 3­point shot to stop the New Jersey's momentum after the Nets used a 16-6 run to pull to 83-81 with 1:40 to go. 
The loss was just the second in eight games for the Nets, who won three straight going into the All-Star break for a share of the best record in the East with the Indiana Pacers. 
"We shot 32 percent and you are not supposed to have a chance to win, but we did. That gives us something to draw from," said Nets guard Jason Kidd. "We just didn't make shots." 
That wasn't a problem for McGrady, who 12-of-25 from the field and made six of eight free throws. Armstrong finished with 20 points and five assists for the Magic, who began the fourth quarter with a 15-2 run, opening a 12-point lead. 
Kidd led the Nets with 19 points, but made just five of 21 shots. Kenyon Martin had 17 points, while Kerry Kittles added 13 on6-for-16 shooting. Richard Jefferson scored 15 before foul­ing out in the final minute. 
The specific reason for Kemp's suspension was not revealed, however it will continue until the six-time All-Star has resumed full compliance with his treat­ment program. Rivers said he had not talked with Kemp since arena. 
Pacers 107, Cavaliers 96 
Ron Artest wasn't going to let some late-game jabbering by Cleveland send him into a mental meltdown. Instead, a calm Artest simply walked away hoping to show he's a changed man. 
Jermaine O'Neal scored 28 points and Brad Miller had 25 as the Indiana Pacers opened the second half of the season with Artest back in the lineup and coach Isiah Thomas on the side­lines in a victory over Oeveland. 
Artest scored 11 points in his first game since Jan. 27. More importantly, he walked away from the taunts of Zydrunas Ilgauskas and Jumainc Jones in the final minutes. 
Artest, who already has been suspended seven games this sea­son for his behavior. felt Ilgauskas and Jones were trying to bait him into another incident. 
"I had a sense of that and I'm glad I caught on to that," Artest said. "Even if they weren't trying to bait me, I didn't like the fact they got in my face. But that's part of the game. I do the same thing." 
Artest completed a four-game suspension and Thomas had served a two-game suspension. Even during the All-Star break, the pair were making news. Thomas, who coached the East, angered Ilgauskas by playing him only four minutes during Sunday's All-Star Game. 
Artest was erroneously report­ed to be involved in an alterca­tion with Houston's James Posey at an NBA Players Association party in Atlanta. Turns out, Artest was at Disney World. 
'Tm not really sure where that came from. I was having a good time," Artest said. 
That good time extended onto the court, thanks to Jamaal Tinsley who led Indiana's fast­breaking offense with 17 points and five steals. 
The Cavaliers, who trailed by as many as 17 points in the first half. closed to 99-92 following a one-handed dunk by Ricky Davis. 
It was 102-94 when Artest leapt over Ilgauskas while going after a loose rebound. Ilgauskas took exception to the contact and said some words to Artest. Then, on Indiana's inbounds pass, Jones tried to antagonize Artest, but he wouldn't bite, putting his hand in front of his face in ignor­ing them. 
"When people come into the game saying 'Just bait him and 
is to bait him,"' Thomas said. O'Neal would hit a baseline 3­pointer to seal the win. 
Hornets 78, Heat 69 
Even without Jamal Mashburn scoring at his reccntpacc, the New Orleans Hornets still found a wav to win. 
Mashburn couldn't match his offense output from before the All-Star break, but the Hornets relied on his rebounding and defense for a victory over the Miami Heat. 
Mashburn, who averaged 31.7 points in his three previous games, finished with 15 on 6-for­18 shooting to help the Hornets to their third straight win. Mashburn also had 14 rebounds and three assists. 
"You kind of figure it's going to be a bit of an ugly night with the layoff and all that," said Mashburn, who scored 39, 30 and 26 points in his three games prior to the All-Star break. 
"The shots sometimes don't fall, and that's just part of it. As long as we continue to play hard, it will come." 
Mashburn hurt his former team in other ways. His 14 rebounds were just one shy of his season high, and he also came through with a pair of steals. 
"We all struggled on the shoot­ing part, but the third quarter really picked us up," Mashburn said. "It's tough when you're not scoring, so you try to do other things to help your team." 
Jamaal Magloire also scored 15 points, while David Wesley and P.J. Brown added 11 and 10, respectively. 
The Hornets shot just 41 per­cent, but their defense proved to be the difference, holding Miami to 36 percent shooting. The Hornets also had a big edge in rebounding, 49-31. 
"Neither team shot that well,'' Hornets coach Paul Silas said. "When you come off the {All­Star) break, the first game you play usually is a sluggish one. We outrebounded them by 18, and that really says something about our guys. We picked it up in the second half and dominated. We really needed this win." 
Eddie Jones scored 26 for the Heat, who have dropped four of five. The Heat scored fewer than 70 points for the sixth time this year. 
"The game was played poorly from both sides,'' Miami coach Pat Riley said. "It was sort of sluggish, and the first team that went on about a 10-0 run. That, coupled with our horrible shoot­ing and not rebounding the ball, did us in." 
After trailing 44-40, the Hornets closed the third quarter with a 20-4 run to open a 60-48 lead. The Heat never drew closer than nine points the rest of the way. 
Pistons 89, Bulls 79 
No one would have questioned Ben Wallace if he'd taken the night off or had a quiet game. 
After all, the last 10 days been a drain, both mentally and physi­cally. He missed the Detroit Pistons' last game before the break because of his mother's death, then played in the All-Star game Sunday night after attend­ing her funeral in Alabama the day before. 
But Wallace is all about hard work, and he proved that again Tuesday night as he grabbed 22 rebounds and blocked two shots to lead the Pistons to a victory over the Chicago Bulls. 
"He's a worker," said Clifford Robinson, who finished with 10 points, one of five Pistons to score in double figures. "The fact that he has been off (1 {) games, it didn't show. He's going to go out and give you what he's got every night." 
Wallace set the tone for the Pistons, who won their fifth straight. Though they shot just 34 percent, they held their fifth straight opponent below 90 and outrebounded the Bulls 55-44 ­including a whopping 23-10 advantage on the offensive boards. 
The Pistons have now beaten the Bulls in 16 of their last 18 meetings, and are 6-0 at the United Center since January 2000. 
"I didn't want to let my person­al life get involved in my job," said Wallace, who finished two shy of his season high in rebounds. "I put stuff from this weekend behind me and I want­ed to go back to work." 
The Bulls might want to take note of his attitude. Chicago turned the ball over on four of its first six possessions and fell behind early. Jalen Rose scored 18 of his 27 points in the third quarter, but the Bulls could never recover after falling behind early. 
It was the their first loss at home since Jan. 2, snapping a five-game winning streak, and fans booed them as the clock ran out. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m-at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hal!. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righc to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Walk to School.  WANT $10,00Q? NEED AN  LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­ DON T FORGET TO SEND YOUR  
NOTICES  2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus rnrnmrentals@aol.com  INTERNSHIP? Earn a $10,000 scholarship towards next years tuition and have one of the best  FOR RENT  TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF ND. 3-5 PEOPLE. 2773097  SWEETIE AN OBSERVER VALEN· TINE CLASSIFIED.  
...  Acapulco s #1 Spring Break Company, Bianchi-Rossi Tours, is "Going Loco• wtth a "last Chance to Dance" Special! Book now and get $100 off our already low price! Your seat is available now, but may be gone tomorrowt  272-1525 www mmmrentaJs com SPRING BREAK on South Padre Island, ranked #3 S.B. destination by the Travel Channel. South Padre Resort Rentals has the best 1 ,2&3 bedroom condos. Great location  summer jobs in America. Looking for an industrious self-starter with a strong work ethic and amiable per­sonality, who is responsible, impec­cably well-groomed and has excel• lent service skills. The job entails house and property work at a pri• vate beach estate in East Hampton.  DOMUS PROPERTIES -HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR • WELL MAIN­TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS • STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS • SECURITY SYSTEMS -MAINTE­NANCE STAFF ON CALL -WASH­ FOR SALE Two tickets for CATS appearing on March 22 at lhe Morris Performing Arts Center. Good seats on main floor. $45 each Please call 271 •  Arny and Candi ­Good luck on your interviews girls. Show 'em what being a SMC chic is really about! Roommate-We need an island in the sun!  
and amenities, close to Mexico.  NY. Only freshman and sopho­ ERS/DRYERS -CALL TODAY ­ 9539  Sambuka ­ bubble, bubble  
mores to apply. Room, board, and  HOUSES GOING FAST· CON­ 
CaU now 800-875--4525. www breakQow com  Call 800-944-6818 Visit gosoull1padreisland.corn  weekly spending money is provid­ed. Work from mid-May to mid-Aug. If interested, please send a one  TACT: KRAMER (574)315-5032 OR {574) 234-2436 ALSO LEAS· ING FOR 2004-2005 SCHOOL  PERSONAL  L Yeah cast!  
Rooms For Rent $250 month includes utilities 272-1525  #1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space is Limited!!! 1-800-234-7007  page letter on why you think you should get the job and your resume to hamptonsjob03@hotmail.com. Will slop taking applications on Wednesday, February 19th, but you are encouraged to send before this  YEAR. 3·6 BDRM HOMES. 03/04 YR. SEC SYS. WASHER.ID 272-6306 Four bedroom house for rent CALL  Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Marv Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi­ Only two more weeks of Hell ­literally! Rarnon­SQUEAK'  
mmmrentals@aol.com  www endlesssummertours com  date.  Anlan Properties, L.L.C. 532-1896  weekly ad in The Observer.  all-encompassingly  

Tuesday, February 11, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS 
PGA 
Sources say Sorenstam could play in PGA 
Associated Press 
TRUMBULL, Conn. 

Annika Sorenstam of Sweden could be ofTercd an exemption to the Colonial and become the first woman in 58 years to play on the PGA Tour, a magazine reported Monday. 
Golf World cited unnamed sources as saying Bank of America, in il<; first year as the title sponsor, wants Sorcnstam to play. The Colonial is May 22-25 in Fort Worth, Texas. 
The 32-year-old, who last year won 13 times around the world and shattered the LPGA Tour scoring average, said two weeks ago that she would love to com­pete against the men if offered an exemption. 
"I have nothing to lose," Sorenstam said. "ft would be a challenge." 
Her only stipulation was to play on a course where she would not be at a huge disadvantage ofT the tee. Colonial is only 7,080 yards, although it plays to a par 70. 
Messages left for Sorenstam's agent and her husband by The Associated Press were not imme­diatcly returned. 

Tournament director Dee Finley suggested last week that Colonial had no room for Sorenstam because it had several players interested in their exemp­tions and "we're here t.o provide a place to play for PG/\ Tour players." 
"It would be fun to see her play, but I'm afraid that will not be possible for Colonial this year," Finley said at the time. 
On Monday, Finley told Golf World that talks had reached an advanced stage. 
The last woman t.o play a PGA Tour event was Babe Zaharias in the 1945 Los Angeles Open. Zaharias not only qualified for the tournament, she made the 36-hole cut until a 79 eliminated her for the final round. 
If Sorenstam were to play Colonial, she would steal the spotlight from Connecticut club pro Suzy Whaley, who has said she will play in the Greater Hartford Open in July. 
Whaley qualified by winning a PGA of America sectional tow-na­m ent, even though she was allowed to compete from a short­er set of tees. 

-¢-Sprint Store.. 
The PCS Center 
Share the love. 
Two phones
It's easier when you get two free phones and 
reg.~ 
Unlimited PCS to PCS calling'.M 
Now 
FREE 
alter $200 instant savings with qualifying credit and in-store activation of new lines of service.
dL. Two select PCS Phones FREE"Ywith $200 instant savings. 

~·cs·fE-1
Or two PCS Phones with full-color screens plus two PCS Visionw 

PCS Phones by Sprint
:sr'(E,'(E)
Cameras for just $149.99 with more than $400 in instant savings. 

t.-1~s11 
~.@rtE>·
w 

c~ut.1,;~6~·s7 ·.-:. 
500 Anytime Minutes to share/$65a month Two phones Perfect for families and friends, Only $32.50 per line when you share. Withwith cameras a two-year PCS Advantage Agreement and qualifying credit. Nows149.99 Plan includes: 
reg.~ 

Unlimited Night & Weekend Minutes 
aher $409.97 instant savings with qualilying credit and Unlimited PCS to PCS Calling"'in-store activation of new lines of ser,ice with PCS Visioo Nationwide Long Distance Every minute, every day. 
Plus for just S10 more a month: Unlimited PCS Vision'" 011 Vision-enabled PCS Phones. All of this available on calls from anywhere on our enhanced 
nationwide PCS network. 
Sprint Stores. More phones. Expert help. 
--=!-Sprint Store­

Th• PCS C•nt•r Indiana Indiana Indiana Ohio 
Elkhart Fort Wayne South Bend Findlay 422 East Bristol St. Jette rson Pointe State Road 23 & Ironwood Dr. 2018 liffin Ave. 574-264-4100 4120 West Jefferson Blvd. 2035 South Bend Ave. 419-423-9500 
260-434-9100 574-277-7727 
Fort Wayne Lima Coldwater Crossing Kokomo Warsaw 3215 Elida Rd. 5525 Coldwater Rd. Kokomo Plaza Woodland Plaza 419-331-9596 260-482-7271 621 South Reed Rd. 3638 East Commerce Dr. 
765-452-5500 574-269-5001 
Fort Wayne Covington Plaza Marion 6336 West Jefferson Blvd. 3022 South Western Ave. 260-436-1445 765-668-0000 
For business pricing please call: 1-866-5-SPRINT (866-577-7468) 
Nationwide network reaches more than 230 million people. Instant Savings OIiers: Subject to qualifying credit. Not all customers will be eligible. Require in-store purchase and activation of each phone 011 a new line or service by 2/16/03. Total savings may not exceed total purchase price Subject to availability Service Plan: Subject to two-year agreement and credit approval. $150 early termination fee and nonrefundable $34.99 phone activat,on fee apply. Night & Weekend Minutes: Mon.-Thurs. 9pm-7am and Fri. 9pm-Mon. 7am, Depending on credit, a deposit and initial prepayment for services may be required. Voice usage rounded to next whole minute, Prices do not include taxes. fees or other charges, Included minutes are not good for calls made while roaming off our network. Roaming calls are charged $0.50 per minute and, if applicable, an additional $0.25 per minute for long distance. Unlimited PCS Vision: Offer limited to PCS Phones and is not available with any device used as amodem. OIiers may not be available everyvvhere. Olfers subject lo change without notice and may not be combinable. See in-store materials for details. Copyright ©2003 Sprint Spectrum L.P. All rights reserved. Sprint and ll1e d1amo11d logo are trademarks of Sprint Communications Company LP. 
MLB 
Matsui sw1ng1ng for fences 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. 

Hideki Matsui hit six homers in 67 swings during his first live batting practice session Tuesday with the New York Yankees. 
W i t h about six d o z e n Japanese media on hand to watch at New York's m i n o r league com­plex, Matsui ­went deep for the first time on his 32nd swing. 
The three-time MVP of Japan's Pacific League met several of his new teammates for the first time. He was in a hitting group with Derek Jeter, Alfonso Soriano and Jorge Posada, also on hand for early workouts ahead of Sunday's reporting date for posi­tion players. 
"I think they are nice guys," Matsui said through an inter­preter. "We talked about hitting." 
Two of Matsui's homers went over 400 feet. 
"It's tough to decide in only one day," Posada said. "His bat, when he swings, he's got a lot of top spin. It carries. The ball keeps going and going." 
Matsui, known as Godzilla, signed a $21 million, three-year contract during the offseason after becoming a free agent in Japan. He wore a T-shirt and Yankees' shorts during the work­out. 
"It's exciting," Matsui said. "A lot of famous players wearing the Yankees' uniform. The Yankees' uniform is historical. I'm proud of the Yankee uniform." 
Matsui arrived in Florida on Monday after spending a week in New York. Yankees general man­ager Brian Cashman accompa­nied him on the flight. 
"It looks like he has a good swing," Jeter said. "Good guy. They signed him for a reason. Obviously he can play." 
Matsui also took part in fielding drills during his two-hour work­out. 
"I have a little pressure, but I think baseball is the same in Japan and the United States," Matsui said. "I didn't play with ­American pitchers. Ihave to pick up (on) American pitchers." 
Notes 
. 
Soriano, who pulled out of a home run-hitting contest last weekend, has been cleared to practice. "No concerns whatsoev­er," Cashman said. "He passed all tests." After taking batting practice, Soriano took grounders and had a 15-minute throwing session with Jeter. 

. 
There will be no restrictions on closer Mariano Rivera, who was slowed by shoulder problems last season. "We may baby him a lit­.., tle," manager Joe Torre said. "He's fine physically. He'll get his innings." 

. 
RHP Steve Karsay probably won't pitch in games until the last 2 1/2-to-3 weeks of spring training due to back surgery. Torre says the setup manwill be ready by opening day on March 31 at Toronto. 




Wednesday, February 12, 2003 


Wednesday, February 12, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NASCAR 
Five-car collision ends practice for Daytona 500 

As.ociated P rcss 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. 
Jeff Burton, Elliott Sadler and Mike Skinner will switch to backup cars after a crash Tuesday proved just how risky even practice for the Daytona 500 can be. 
The five-car crash came on the front straightaway of the 2 1/2-mile oval with about four minutes left in the 60-minute practice, the only Winston Cup track time on the day's sched­ule. 
Hookie Jack Sprague, a three-time NASCAR Craftsman Truck Series champion. was riding in the middle of a three­wide pack, with Steve Park above him on the banked Daytona International Speedway track and Skinner on the low side. 
Sprague's Pontiac appeared to slide up the track, banging olT Park, then sliding down into Skinner, who went sideways. Burton and Sadler then drove into the melee. 
There were no injuries, but Skinner's Pontiac and the Fords of Burton and Sadler got the worst of the accident and were put out of action for the rest of this week. 
Those three will have to get their preparations for Thursday's twin 125-mile qual­ifying races done in the single 45-minute Winston Cup prac­tice on Wednesday. 
It was the second year in a row that Burton and Sadler have been in wrecks that put them in backup cars for the season-opening race. 
'Tm tired of wrecking in practice," Burton said. 
The other drivers heaped most of the blame on Sprague. who .is trying to qualify for his first Daytona 500. 
"To the best of my knowl­edge, we got ran into by a rookie," Skinner said. "Whether he got pushed down there or not, I don't know." 
Sprague said he was in the middle, while Park was on the outside "and he didn't stay up and he hit me in the right front. drove me into Skinner and it was all over." 
Park disagreed with that ver­sion, saying Sprague "bounced off me." 
"I was up by the wall and couldn't go any higher, except for the grandstands," Park said. 
''I've been here a lot more than Jack's been here. We all know how to race here, and we all know you don't even want to consider causing a crash during practice. You have to look at having the experience to run here, and not put your­self or your car in jeopardy." 
It's hard to avoid this type of crash at Daytona. Thanks to the horsepower-sapping carbu­retor restrictor plates used here to slow the cars, the rac­ing is often in huge packs. 

"One thing about restrictor­plate racing is to go ahead and put your nose in there," Burton said. "You've got to run two­and three-wide in practice because that's what you're going to do in the race. Accidents happen." 
Sadler was less forgiving. 
"It's a shame to wreck a bunch of good cars on the straightaway. I mean, we're supposed to be professionals and using our heads, and they're out there running into the side of each other on the straightaway. There's not much common sense going on," Sadler said. 
Skinner had much the same view. 
"This was our first race prac­tice of the year, so I would say it was preventable," he said. "Nearing the end of practice, people doing stupid things, I guess I made mistakes when I was a rookie, too." 
Dale Jarrett had the fastest time in the practice in a Ford at 188.494 mph, followed by the Pontiac of Jerry Nadeau at 188.336, the Ford of rookie Greg Biffie at 188.111 and the Chevrolet of Jimmie Johnson, also at 188.111. Daytona pole­winner Jeff Green was 20th at 
187.141 in a Chevy. 
Of the drivers in the crash, Skinner was fifth at 188.025, Sprague 12th at 187.578, Park 19th at 187.149, Burton 25th at 186.939, and Sadler 41st at 186.343. 
·-.. .. 
,•'.:-""'""' 
t 
.;­
{ ·'' 
, 


KRT Photo 

Jeff Burton walks off the course after a five-car colllslon during practice Tuesday. Burton wlll drive his backup car Sunday. 
-
-
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 12, 2003 
HIGH SCHOOL BASKETBALL 

James' referee may face sanctions for photo 
Associated Press 
TRENTON, N.J. 
The postgame encounter was brief, just long enough for LeBron James to put his arm around a referee. lean in and smile for the camera. 
Now, however, that seemingly innocent moment could hurt ref­eree Tony Celantano, who faces possible sanctions for his actions following James' impressive comeback game on Saturday night. 
The president of the central New Jersey chapter of the International Association of Approved Basketball Officials said the group is investigating whether Celantano broke any rules by posing with the 18-year­old high school basketball star. 
"We're just trying to sort out all the facts,'' the association's presi­dent, Fred Dumont, said Tuesday. 
Celantano posed with James after the senior scored a career­high 52 points to lead top-ranked St. Vincent-St. Mary's of Akron, Ohio, to a 78-52 victory over Westchester of Los Angeles at the Prime Time Shootout in Trenton. 
It was James' first game since a judge in Ohio restored his eligibil­ity on Feb. 5, allowing him to resume playing. 
James. expected to be the No. 1 pick in the next NBA draft, was ruled ineligible for the rest of the season by the Ohio High School Athletic Association on Jan. 31 after he accepted two retro sports jerseys valued at $845 from a Cleveland clothing store. 
But the judge reduced James' punishment to two games; he's already missed one and will sit out the other later this month. 
After Saturday night's game, James posed with his right arm around Celantano. James is grin­ning slightly. 
While posing for pictures with a player doesn't violate any specific rules for referees, Dumont said Celantano spoke to him and con­ceded he used bad judgment. 
Dumont added, however, that he was confident the game was called impartially. 
"I was at the game. I don't have a problem with how the game was officiated," Dumont said. 
Dumont declined to specify what sanctions that Celantano might face, but he said he expect­ed his association to make a determination within a week. The organization that oversees scholastic sports in New Jersey will review the findings. 
Celantano, a 27-year veteran, remains eligible to officiate, Dumont said. 

"He's still free to be a referee and happens to be an outstand­ing referee," Dumont said, "He's a very professional person; he's an experienced oflicial." 
Celantano told The Times of Trenton that the photo was taken by a relative and was not for per­sonal use. 
After officiating another high school game Sunday, Celantano told the newspaper he sought an autograph from James for a friend's child. 
Cclantano did not return sever­al telephone messages left at hLs Hamilton home Tuesday by The Associated Press. 
Jim Loper, associate director of the New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association, saw the pose during television coverage of Saturday's Prime Time Shootout. 
"I thought, 'Holy cow.' As offi­cials, you want to stay in the mid­dle," he said. 
OIISAA director Bob Goldring said that if the same thing hap­pened in Ohio, "we would deem it unethical, and we would have the authority to fine or suspend an official in that case." 
Goldring said it would not affect James' playing status in Ohio. 
NBA 

Kemp suspended for violation 
Associated Press 
NEWYORK 
Orlando Magic center Shawn Kemp was suspended without pay by the NBA on Tuesday, the third time he has violated the terms of the league's anti-drug policy. 
Kemp's suspension was to begin with Tuesday night's game between the Magic and the New Jersey Nets, and will continue until he has resumed full compli­ance with his treatment program. 
A year ago, when he was with the Portland Trail Blazers, the 6­foot-10 Kemp was suspended for five games for violating the poli­cy. He sat out from Feb. 22 through March 4 and lost $141,889 of his $12.77 million salary for each game he missed. 
The 33-year-old Kemp, a six­time All-Star, also missed the final eight games of the 2000­2001 season, taking a leave of absence from Portland and enter­ing a substance abuse program. Because he volunteered to enter a program, he was not suspended by the league at that time. 
Certain substances, such as cocaine and LSD, call for dis­missal from the league, although players may apply for reinstate­ment after two years. 
The league, its teams and the players' association are prohibit­ed from publicly disclosing infor-


Sportschrome High school basketball player LeBron James elicits a crowd response to his performance at a recent game. 
Have a spontaneous dance party! 
It's Merrie Cousin's 21st! 
2002-03 Season 

Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 
-
Actors Frorn Tl1e Lo.ndo11 Stage 
The Tempest 

Wednesday, February 19... 7:30 p.m Thursday, February 20... 7:30 p.m. Friday, February 21... 7:30 p.m. Saturday, February 22 ... 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office.

-
MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631 -81 28. The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 

mation regarding the testing or treatment of any player in the program, other than to announce a player's suspension or dismissal from the league. 
Wednesday, February 12, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
.. 
NFL 
Spikes wants out of Cincinnati 
Associated rl'CSS 
CINCINNATI 

Linebacker Takeo Spikes was tagged as the Bengals' transition player Tuesday. disappointing one of Cincinnati's top defensive players and emotional leaders. 
Spikes, the Bengals' top draft pick in 1998, wants to leave as a free agent because he's worn out from flve years of losing. The Bengals have the NFL's worst record since 1991. 
Marvin Lewis talked to Spikes several times since he became the Bengals' head coach last month, but the club couldn't convince him to accept a con­tract extension. 
The tag allows the Bengals to match any offer from another team, keeping Spikes in Cincinnati for another season. 

Spikes has led the team in tack­les four times during his five seasons. 
Winning over Spikes is one of Lewis' first challenges. Several of the team's leaders said at the end of last season that they had given up hope the Bengals would ever win. 
Lewis' hiring has made some players reconsider, but Spikes remains unconvinced that there will be significant change. 
"I don't have to persuade him. I can just say it," Lewis said. "It's a very difficult job to be a professional football player. It's a privilege. I'm going to ask a lot of things of him. I don't need to talk him into it." 
Lewis said the club will contin­ue talking to Spikes about a con­tract extension. 
The Bengals tendered Spikes a 
T H A I R'ESTAURANT 
\\'e arc looking fonvai-d to creating a wonLlerful evening ..ind a romantic experience for you ancl your special guest dus Valc:ntine's clay. 
( i'h:JSL' m:.1k~· J rt.'SUYJLion in ct{hJnt:, if }'NI rbn LO s1x·nd ynur rnm;.111Lk c\..:11i11g with u~.) 
Lunch: \1,111 t-ri IL.1m-1pm />inner\ l,1n Sal 5pm <)pm 
2ll N. ~fain no,.vntm,vn South Bend 
232-4445 OpenaNEW 


one-year, $4.8 million offer ­the average of the top 10 line­backers' salaries last season ­to make him their transition player. 
The Bengals also tendered offers to receivers Ron Dugans and Danny Farmer, kicker Neil Rackers, linebacker Armegis Spearman and snapper Brad St. Louis. The fourth-year players will become restricted free agents on Feb. 28 if they don't sign with the Bengals. 
Worn out by all the losing, Spikes stopped talking to the media midway through the Rengals' 2-14 season. the worst in franchise history. After Lewis was hired, Spikes told The Associated Press that he still wanted out. 
"I don't want a tag on me," Spikes said at the time. "I feel like my time is done. I did all I can do. I did all that I owed not only to them, but to myself. 
"I just want to win. I just want to compete. That's my whole objective. I don't look at the time I spent in Cincinnati as wasted time. I just want to go somewhere to compete and 
win." 
Spikes and his agent, Todd France, did not immediately return phone messages Tuesday. Spikes told the team's Web site that his feelings hadn't changed and he still wanted out of Cincinnati. 
"The tag is something they're using to keep me there, even though I'm not happy and I don't understand it," Spikes said. 
Spikes has insisted that change has to start at the top. Team owner Mike Brown has given Lewis more authority than his predecessors, but remains in control as the de facto general manager. 
Members Choice Account and we'll give you a special BONUS RATE until April 30. 



¦ 

Liquidity, security, and total access. You'll see, you can bank on us to be better! 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/239-66 l 1 • 800/522-66 ll 
www.ndfcu.org 

'$25.000 minimum deposit. APY of 2.50% (Annual Percentage Yield) in effect unl1I Apnl 30, 2003, al which lime lheAPYwill become variable and will change each Sunday to reflecl !hat week's rate. Offer valid only for new Member, Choice accounls opened wilh funds not currenlly or, deposit at Notre Dame Federal Credit UnK>n. Ifthe da,ly m1mmum balance falls below $25,000 on any given day. a $7.00 monthly maintenance feewill be :assessed against the account, and the share savings rate will apply, thereby reduang 
earnings. Funds are federally insured up to $100.000. Independent of the University. 
Seahawks welcome new GM Ferguson 
Associated Press 
KIRKLAND. Wash. 
Bob Ferguson thinks the odds are stacked against any­one trying to succeed in the NFL as a coach and general manager at the same time ­even Mike Holmgren. 
'Tm a little prejudiced obvi­ously, but it's very difficult nowadays because of the demands you have contractu­ally with the players if you're in that seat," said f"erguson, who was introduced Monday as the Seattle Seahawks' new GM. 
Holmgren relinquished his title as Seattle's general man­ager -a job he held for four seasons -on Dec. 31, but will remain as the Seahawks' coach. 
"Coaches have to make cer­tain decisions on those con­tracts and it's really difficult for them to go out and make some decisions on those play­ers as far as the team goes," Ferguson said. 
Holmgren, who has com­piled a disappointing 31-33 record in four seasons with the Seahawks, did not attend the news conference. 
Team president Bob Whitsitt made the decision to hire Ferguson, who was fired as general manager of the Arizona Cardinals after last season. 
It was unclear which man, Holmgren or Ferguson, would have more clout with Whitsitt and Seahawks owner Paul Allen. But it's also clear there is pressure on Holmgren to get the Seahawks back to the playoffs and fill the team's new downtown stadium next season. 
The Seahawks have missed the playoffs three consecutive seasons. 
"I think he's going to be a great fit for the organiza­tion," Whitsitt said of the 51­year-old Ferguson, who is a native of Enumclaw in south King County and went to high school in Federal Way. 

"Bob's a very good person­nel man," Whitsitt said. "If you can get a good personnel person in your organization, you get him. I like his experi­ence." 
Whitsitt doesn't expect there to be any problems between Ferguson and Holmgren, who has four sea­sons left on the $32 million, eight-year contract the Seahawks gave him to lure him away from Green Bay after the 1998 season. 
Ferguson and Holmgren have served together on the NFL's prestigious Competition Committee. 
"To me, we've become good friends," Ferguson said. "We just hit it off. I understand what he wants and he wants the same thing I do. That's a championship." 
Ferguson played linebacker at the University of Washington and worked with the Seahawks as director of sales and special events in the 1970s. 
He has spent 29 years in the NFL, including the last seven with the Cardinals, where he was hired as gener­al manager in 1999. 
was fired by Arizona on Jan. 6 after the Cardinals fin­ished with a 5-11 record, los­ing nine of their last 10 games. 
Ferguson said the new opportunity in Seattle came as a surprise. 
"I didn't expect to be here," he said. "I was going to retire completely. This kind of opportunity just kind of fell out of a tree." 
He thinks he can become a major asset for Holmgren so he can concentrate exclusive­ly on coaching again. In Green Bay, Holmgren coached the Packers to two Super Bowls. 
"I think it's the best situa­tion for Mike Holmgren because there are just so many things that can come up that have to be dealt with in a different manner than the head coach," he said. 

-
AROUND THE NATION 
page 20 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, February 12, 2003 
-

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBAU Virginia at North Carolina 7 p.m., ESPN 

-NBA 
Dallas at Milwaukee 9 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 
Toronto at Chicago 8 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 


Dennis Erickson, former Oregon State head co.ach, was hired by the San Francisco 49ers, replacing Steve Marluccl. Erickson Is only the fourth head coach of the 49ers since 1979. 
49ers search for coach ends with Erickson 
signed a five-year contract following Bill Walsh and State, Erickson won nation­Associated Press with the Detroit Lions last George Seifert -who both al titles at the University of SANTA CLARA, Calif. week. won Super Bowls -and Miami in 1989 and 1991, Dennis Erickson was Erickson. who will turn Mariucci. Erickson also is going 63-9 over six seasons. hired Tuesday by the San 56 next month, is an unex­the first coach with prior New York Jets defensive Francisco 49ers to replace pected choice for San NFL head coaching experi­coordinator Ted Cottrell, Steve Mariucci as coach in a Francisco. ence to take over the 49ers Chicago defensive coordina­surprising end to a search The search was praised since Norman "Red" tor Greg Blache and San that stretched nearly four by the candidates as delib­Strader in 1955. Francisco defensive coordi­weeks. erate and thorough, though Erickson coached the nator Jim Mora interviewed 
Erickson will be intro­Pro Bowl quarterback Jeff Seahawks from 1995-98, for the job in Santa Clara duced as the 49ers' 14th Garcia called it "embarrass­going 31-33. last week. head coach at a news con­ing'" for its apparent lack of Many thought Erickson Mariucci was fired despite ference on Wednesday. The direction. deserved better in his native four 10-win seasons with a former Seattle Seahawks Earlier, several college Seattle, where he rebuilt remarkably brief rebuilding coach leaves Oregon State, coaches said they weren't the Seahawks but couldn't period in between. York where he went 31-17 over interested, including make the playoffs. had a difference in philoso­the last four seasons. Washington coach Rick Erickson's greatest success phy with Mariucci, who led 
Mariucci, who was fired Neuheisel and Southern has been in college. where the 49ers to a 10-6 record, by owner John York on Jan. California coach Pete he has turned four schools the NFC West title and a 15 despite leading San Carroll. into winners. Before resur­playoff victory over the New Francisco to four playoff Erickson is just the 49ers' recting a formerly mori­York Giants this past sea­berths in six seasons, fourth coach since 1979, bund program at Oregon son. 
IN BRIEF 

Stewart's term with Steelers Stewart in 1999 will count against leaving the restroom when a man he may be ending soon their cap. later learned was Jones said ''I'm Kordell Stewart could be in his final With Stewart likely to be on the tired of you" and punched him in the month with the Pittsburgh Steelers. open market, teams seem reluctant to face. May said Jones then tackled him, 
With a pair of important deadlines part with any players for his services. sat on him and punched him in the approaching and the Steelers engaged If he is released, Stewart, as a vested face 10 to 12 times. in no active trade talks involving their veteran, would be free to sign with The report indicates May showed former starting quarterback, it any team. the reporting officer a chipped tooth appears they will release Stewart on Following a dreadful start last sea­and some residual swelling around his or about Feb. 28. son that saw the Steelers lose their right cheekbone; the result of the 
That date is important not only first two games and nearly lose a third alleged attack. May said he also because it is the start of the NFL free­before Tommy Maddox replaced him, received 18 stitches to close a split agent signing period, but also is the Stewart spent nearly the entire season lower lip. day the league's 2003 salary cap goes on the bench. On Nov. 23, the day before the into effect. With numerous NFL teams looking alleged assault occurred, Jones told 
With this year's cap set at $75 mil­to upgrade at quarterback, Stewart the Cardinals that he broke his hand lion, the Steelers are currently about could have his choice of teams. reaching for a telephone in his home. 
$1.8 million over. That could rise to as The Cardinals placed Jones on the much as $4 million after various 2002 Cardinals' Jones accused of reserve/non-football injury li'it the fol­player bonuses and incentives are assault lowing week and declined to pay him paid. A Tempe barber has accused the balance of his salary; about 
The Steelers could get under that Arizona Cardinals running back $135,000. figure just by releasing Stewart, who Thomas Jones of beating him at a Paul Jensen. a spokesman for the is scheduled to make $6.3 million in Scottsdale nightclub in November, Cardinals, said he was made aware of 
2003. No matter what they do, a pro­around the same time the player sus­the police report by media accounts, rated $1.62 million share of the $8 tained a hand injury. but the team had no other immediate million signing bonus they paid Maurice May told police he was comment Tuesday. 
Wednesday, February 12, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
-
PGA TOUR 
Woods returns to PGA after knee surgery 
Associ:ned Prus 
SAN DIEGO 

Dressed in a black rain suit, Tiger Woods ducked out from under his umbrella on the 13th tee at Torrey Pines and gazed at what was rumored to be the Pacific Ocean. All he saw Tuesday morning was a soupy fog. 
"Can you believe this?" he said. "Perfect weather at every West Coast tournament, then I show up and we get this." 
Out of competition for two months because of knee surgery, and the only red car­pet rolled out for Woods' 
won
"He's my favorite player 

return was a first two mat to wipe besides me. He gives the events to his foet at the establish
Tour a lot ofnotoriety. " 

end of a anew his soggy prac­rivalry with tice round on Chris Woods Woods. Vijaythe North golfer Singh won in 
Course. 
Not that Woods was complaining. 
"I feel great," he said. "My knee feels great, and mentally I feel fresh." 
Woods was back in his domain, a familiar silhouette outlined against dense fog that covered the cliffside course north of San Diego. 
A steady rain, not to mention his 6:40 a.m. start, kept the crowds to a minimum. No more than 60 people were following Woods when he finished 18 holes in just over two hours. 
Players walking to the range along a path next to the fair­way stopped to watch him hit a 3-wood to about 12 feet on the par-5 18th hole. In the locker room, Paul Stankowski gave him a gentle tap on his derriere to welcome him back. 
How long the love lasts is anyone's guess. 
Woods brings a certain fasci­nation to the masses, which is why television ratings are spiked whenever he plays -up 113 percent when he is in con­tention. 
The PGA Tour is off to a great 
start. Ernie 
Els the 
Phoenix, 
Mike Weir in 
the Bob Hope Classic and Davis Love III at Pebble Beach with two great shots under pressure. 
Still, most of the talk on Tour has been dominated by when Woods will return. 
No one holds that against him, especially not his peers. 
Thanks to Woods, golf is more popular than ever. The PGA Tour has been able to negotiate mammoth TV con­tracts, which is why prize mane has more than doubled 


·------, ·------..
I I $15 I $26 I 

I I Mens Cut I Cut & Style I
.. ______ ..
I .. ______ ..I 

since he showed up six years ago. 
"He's my favorite player besides me," said Chris Riley, who grew up playing junior golf with Woods. "He gives the Tour a lot of notoriety." 
He also makes it a little tougher to win. 
Len Mattiace was asked why there were a record 18 players who won for the first time on Tour last year, and one expla­nation he gave was that some of the top players were not at their best. 
"Tiger was great, but he didn't win nine times," Mattiace said. "What did he win, five times? Which is fan­tastic. If he wins 10, it takes five other potential winners 
CM/1.W . Af:APUI.~ . JAMAICA 
8Af{AfMi • FLOJlIDA 

SELL TRIPS, 
EARNCUH, 
URl'ICU
GOFIH! ' 
1.800.641.4849 
-www.ststraval.com 
r------• r------'I 
I I I
$69 

I I I
$69 

I Color, Cut& I I 
I Perm, Cm ll( Style I
I Style

.. ______. I
I One Process I

·------· 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and seNice we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 

-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STI'LISTS ONLY­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must be presented to Receptionist Before Seroi~es Are Performed 

AFP Photo Tiger Woods practices In the gloomy conditions at Torrey Pines Golf Course. Woods Is making a retum to professional golf after a two-month hiatus following knee surgery. 
·------· 
$69 
Highlights, Cut & Style 
·------· 
_ 
Melissa-Connie-Serge' -Kristin-Jennifer-Elaine -Michele -Efena -Jenmfer 
ATRIA SALON 2 
ATRIA SALON 1357 N. lronwood Dr.  Nonali<lfu,'J'U'lpam• Longonin1alhairadd$10. Noodi,rdi~""'f'f'Y· CJi,cn,omccveni'I? ATRIA 5a1o0 .......,..rhc~u,rditsc.t<MC<w"'J'dic,vwhruch•i"x"Ji<ioni,unm=hlc.  M . 'Sh . C tartUI S opptng en er Next to Sprint  
Corner of Edison  271-8804  
289-5080  OFFER EXPIRES 2-25-03  Less than l mile &om campus  

away." 
The gap between Woods and everyone else is as large as he wants. It was a gulf after 2000 when Woods won nine times and three majors. It only appeared to shrink when his victory count dipped, even though it was still higher than anyone else. 
"When those guys play good, the gap is not very big," Thomas Bjorn once said. "But it's still there, because Tiger is capable of more things. There will always be that gap." 
It appears more narrow now because Woods hasn't played, and because Els has won three of the first four tournaments he has played around the world. 
The curiosity is what happens now that Woods has returned from Dec. 12 surgery on his 
left knee to remove fluid and benign cysts in around the liga­ments. 
"I do have some catching up to do," Woods said as he left the course Tuesday, although he didn't sound as if he was in a big hurry. After all, the sea­son-opening Mercedes Championships at Kapalua was the only tournament he had planned on playing. 
He also has some catching up to do with Phil Mickelson. 
Lefty caused quite a stir last week by saying that Woods has "inferior" clubs and he's the only player "good enough to ove!C01:lle the equipment he's stuck with." 
Mickelson later said he meant it only in jest, but it did not escape Woods' notice. After belting one drive on No. 5, he smiled and said, "Pretty good for inferior equipment." 
The rest of his round looked as if Woods never left. 
He hit every fairway, missed only two greens. Rain left so much water on some of the greens that Woods didn't both­er to putt. He simply fixed his pitch mark -a couple of them within 3 feet of the cup -and picked up his ball. 
"Straight up the hill. I would have made that," he said on one hole. 
The fog grew thicker on the back nine, and there were a couple of holes where visibility was reduced to about 100 yards off the tee. 
"Another shot out of sight," caddie Steve Williams said when Woods ripped another drive that quickly vanished into the white mass. 
Out of sight, but never more back in the picture. 
Media credentials for the Buick Invitational have more than doubled to 300. 
In the lobby of a nearby hotel, a manager was on the phone Monday night trying to explain to a desperate customer that he had no rooms left. 
"Tiger Woods is coming to town tonight," he said. "It's very busy." 

ATIONAL WORKING O PORTUNIIT 
OBC ENGLISH ~ONVERSATION SCH 


is seeking uniYersilJ graduates ror aone yur teaching position in Japn. •ttrtctite saluJ, benefits and tratel opportunities. 
llEC/lUITING DATES: February 20fl 11; 1003 
11t c11reer 11nd Plilcement senl/ces. ­./A/JAIIISI ://.AN~IIA$1 SElll.S HITl•11•1•1& 
Open to 1111 ml(jors. 
SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 
r~­
I 
I page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 12, 2003 
t 
I I I 
I -Garcia
I 
I 
I continued from page 24 
and earned Honorable Mention All-American honors for the 2001-2002 season. 
"She's extremely versatile," coach Bailey Weathers said. 
Weathers does not use the word 'versatile' loosely. In her freshman season for the Irish, the precocious Garcia finished in the top five of nine different individual events for the women. Since, she has honed her skills in particular on the butterfly stroke events. but Garcia regularly contributes in other areas as well. 
"She's leading the [Big East] conference in her best event, the 200 butterfly. She does extremely well in the short !M's [individual medleys) and the 100 and 200 freestyle," said Weathers. "She's a good, well­rounded athlete." 
Garcia runs away with hon­ors for the best butterfly swim­mer in the Big East. After set­ting the school record at the Big East championships last season. Garcia continued her dominance during Notre Dame's 9-1-1 campaign of 2002-2003. 
In the team's first dual meet and victory over Colorado State (162-100). Garcia posted two victories in both the 100 and 200 butterfly. She also cap­tured both butterfly events in a 150-150 tie against Purdue, at the Minnesota Invitational and in a December, 195-105 win over Pittsburgh. 
Proving the butterfly is not the only individual event she can dominate in a meet, Garcia won the 200 freestyle (1:52.17) in addition to the 100 butterfly 
(56.27) in the team's only defeat, a 154-146 loss to then #14 Indiana. She took the 1,000 freestyle and the 100 back­stroke (59.70) in a win over Bowling Green, Louisville. and St. Louis in January, as well. 
Garcia's talents extend even beyond the individual events. At the 2002 Notre Dame Relays held at the Rolfs Aquatic Center in October. Garcia swam on the 400 individual medley relay team that set a new meet record with a time of 4:00.29, breaking the mark of 4;01.65 set a year ago. 
Most important and notable, however, are the junior's intan­gible qualities of leadership and dedication. 
"We are real fortunate our captains are good leaders and we have a lot of juniors who are really good leaders," sajd Weal.hers. "Lisa is certainly one." 
Weathers says the leadership from the senior and junior classes is the biggest reason for the team's consistency. After graduating numerous top per­formers from last year's team, the team needs its upperclass­men to step up and take responsibility for holding the swimmers and divers together as a unit. 
"We're a different team than last year," Garcia said. "There is no doubt about it. We've have had some tough dual meets and we've had to pull together as team more. We need to depend on each other as a team, and that helps us swim better as a team." 
Garcia and other swimmers acknowledge their team is just that, a unit in which the indi­viduals collectively determine the direction of the season. As the Irish so far are headed in the right direction (9-1-1 in dual meet competition), they bring a tough, dedicated mind­set that swimmers like Garcia exemplify. 
"Lisa has a great work ethic," said Weathers. "She's there [working out and practicing] every day. And she supports hard work for other people." 
Garcia and her teammates exhibited this work ethic during the team's week-long training program in Acapulco, which culminated in a 129-69 spank­ing of Kansas. Garcia won the 200 IM with a time of 2:22.24. 
The highlights of Garcia's and the team's season, however, came fittingly in the team's final dual meet competition against Michigan on Feb. 1. It was a close, 153-147 home vic­tory in which Garcia won the 200 butterfly (2:01.03). This butterfly victory, however, meant more than the others. 
"For me that was a big race 


Ride FREE to and from 
MAIN CIRCLE, ROBINSON CENTER, and LEGAL AID 
College of En~~ertng 
¦ 
Spotllght Nia 2003 
for First~Year Students 

-
-


because I knew their butterflier was ranked 9th in the nation. Going in knowing that was mentally difficult," Garcia said. "For me to overcome that is something I've really been try­ing to work on, to not be wor­ried about who I'm racing against and instead just go out and race." 
Not only did the Michigan meet give Garcia fulfillment, it also marked an important con­fidence booster for the team heading into the Big East championships. 
"For the team, that game was a huge barrier," she said. "We did all have io pull together. [This year] we won some races we didn't expect to win and lost some we didn't expect to lose. But we bounced back from things that didn't quite go our way. Ending on that note for the dual meet season was a real big confidence booster." 
Though she shows individual leadership and accomplishes her individual goals, Garcia's mind and comments always return to the status and well­being of the team. 
Just what Coach Weathers wants. 
"Actually one of my favorite quotes is four short words: a little bit more," Garcia said. "What puts the most successful individuals above the crowd is that little bit more. I do what coach tells me [to do] and a lit­tle bit more. When I do that, others around me do that and it has kind of a snowball effect. 1 know I couldn't swim without my teammates, and it's really important to do everything that's expected." 
Garcia's drive to succeed is contagious. The team hopes it will continue to be contagious in Uniondale, N.Y., when Notre Dame competes for its seventh straight Big East title. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
MENS SOCCER 

Irish announce new class of 2007 recruits 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame mens soccer coach Bobby Clark has announced the signing of seven highly-regarded prep standouts to national letters of intent. 
Three of those players have been members of the 
U.S. national team program and are current members of the under-18 national squad. 
Joining the Irish program beginning in the fall of 2003 will be goalkeeper Chris Cahill (Louisville. Ky ./St. Francis DeSales) central defender Greg Dalby (Poway, Calif./Poway), mid­fielder Ian Etherington (Temecula, Calif./Chaparral IIS). forward Justin McGeeney (Ames, Iowa/Ames), midfielder Ryan Miller (Barrington, Ill ./Barrington), forward Brian Murphy (Granger, Ind./St. Joseph's) and for­ward/midfielder Nate Norman (Rochester, Mich./Rochester Adams). 
"These seven players com­prise a fabulous recruiting class for us," Clark says. "All the individuals we iden­tified early on in the recruit­ing process decided to come to Notre Dame. We were looking for players who would come in and give up depth as well as have an impact immediately. We're very excited to have all of them join our program. 
"I think we've been very successful with our recruit­ing efforts the past two sea­sons. This year's class adds tremendous depth to our team and continues to move the program in the direction that we want to go." 

Students ride free on Transpo Route #7 between Main or Library Circle and the Robinson Center and Legal Aid with a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's ID. 
OPERATING HOURS: Monday-Friday: 5:30 a.m. -10 p.m. Saturday: 6 a.m. --6 p.m. 


TRA\ISPO BUS SCHEDULE:  
From Downtown toward Mall  From \.fall toward Downtown  
Minutes ()l\St the hour (A11pro,imatc times)  
,Legal Aid  25 & 55  08 & 38  
Robinson Cenrer  '27 & 57  06 & 36  
!\lain Circle  29 &: 59  04 & 34  
Library Circle  0 I & 3I  02 & 32  

Schedules are available at the Lafortune lntormation Desk. Center for Social Concerns or Student Government Otlices 
NOT!<:: Notre Dame/St l\larv's afternoon shunle bus#"' \~ill be discontinued as of \larch J.fil.c Students should begin using the Transpo bus instead. Shuttle bus# l servin!.( Notre Dame. St iVlarv's and Holy Cross will continue as scheduled. ­

Wednesday, February I 1, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
-----------------------------------------------------------------~-------­
CLARE O'BRIEN 
SCHOOL DAZE 
501 DID 'IDU TAt.E: ~N-l-JTWAS f;UT IT'S t.lKE YCU'J;:t C:iETTI~ WGU.,YCU ~CAUTIONS? '/OJ JUS1 A DN£ £ HA\L fl?CN E.VE{Z)'oNS THES ' AA\/\; 10 ~ow 11-ir:Sc IA"'IS 1lfv\(; 11-\ INfr. t::'/~ t::rOITEN 11 Fa)\\,! !1l-\E.)' pg()m::f YOO qCTTA BE: SAFE.. -....--__,. WJLD MV~ A \J\~usq '/fJJJl!:Bf! 
-THIS SOUNDS U\;::E.ASE">' 
"TAU::-NOT f'l'-11\I L.ADVICE. 

JACK MONAHAN
HAPPY TOWN 

JUMBLE  HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION  
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME  
~  by Henri Arnold and Mika Arglrlon  

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LAWRB j 
1 
rx 
Q2003 Tribune Media Service&, I~. 
All Righi, Rose,vod. 
PRUSN 

b 
EXDULP 
A.' L.ar CF Wl-4Ni'::>.

b 
eol,l!Ff!()Ml"HIS,,
www.jumble.com 


-
t

tDYGOTS Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as
J t J J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
klswer: [ 

I I I Jc11 I I I J 
(Answers Monday) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: ERASE LURID OPENLY SHOULD ,,l Answer: Important for a garbage man to be -AT • YOUR "DISPOSAL" 
24 Circle

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
overhead? 
~~-+---1 25 Norwegian king 
-=+-+---+--t 26 Part ol O.E.D. 
28 Sigmoid shape 30 They may be crunched in a gym 31 Get prone 32 Usher's offering 
34 Bud 36 Short 
37 Pipe jomt 38 Frick collection 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILL SHORTZ 

59 Marathon, e.g. 60 Conductor Koussevitzky 63 It may be hard
54 Bounds along
43 Bad way to go? or soft 55 Podded plants
48 Czars' edicts 65 Vein find 56" fast!"
-
49 Stair parts 67 Resistance unit 
58 Like seven 50 Young newt Ryan games 68 "I'm impressed'" 
For answers. call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card. 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learn1ng/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame. IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jim Stafford, A.J. Foyt, Marilyr Home, Ethel Merman 
Happy Birthday: You'll have the staying power required to reach your goal: this year, so don't let anyone tamper with your plans. Follow your owr timetable if you want to receive the rewards you've been dreaming about. Yom numbers are JO, 13, 27, 30, 43, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You'll be ready to pick a fight if anyone looks a you the wrong way. Back off and spare yourself the grief of making a mistak1 that is likely to cost you dearly. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be a good listener and you will gain respect. l may not be apparent today, but in the long run, you will discover that the mon you do for others, the more you will get back in return. ***"" GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Although opportunities to make financial gain: are evident, you mustn't take on too much of a burden in the process. Don't le someone put pressure on you. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let your sulkiness turn into a bi! production. You won't get the sympathy you expect if you try to make other: feel guilty today. Be comforting, not judgmental or opinionated. *"" LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will experience difficulties if you are workin1 with others today. Be extra careful not to ruffle feathers or push others int< doing things your way. Pitch in and do the best you can. **1' VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Financial gains can be yours if you are willing t1 push a little harder and invest in yourself for a change. Don't pay for othe1 people's mistakes.**** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You may take things the wrong way today. Refrair from making statements that you'll regret later. Ask for help and guidanc1 before making a decision. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will get the cold shoulder if you have no been doing your share. Listen to the complaints of others and assure thos1 around you that you will help out more.***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): If you find yourself in a difficult financia position because you haven't been saving money, it's never too late to start You can rid yourself of a stressful situation by setting up a strict budget. **;. 
...
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't be too quick to judge, but don't le this person take advantage of you either. Take a look at your own motive: before you discuss your future plans. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may want to lay low today. Difficultie: with the people you are dealing with may be disconcerting. You need to spem time sorting out your own life.*** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Check out the possibilities for the upcomin1 weekend. You should be making plans early so that you won't be disappointed Don't try to mother the world. ***** Birthday Baby: You will be sensitive, caring and always there for others. Ym will make decisions based on all sides of any issue. You will help those !es: fortunate and you'll be highly regarded for your kindness and generosity 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com wnetwork.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Santa Anna at the Alamo, e.g. 9 "Dixie" composer 15 Judge too highly 16 Like a big grin 
17 Start of a comment on a popular adage 
18 Cries of pain 19 Papas on the screen 20 'The Mikado" accessories 22 "What was do?" 23 To be, to 
Bernadette 
24 Comment, part 2 
27 It may be raw 
29 Hind, e.g. 
JO C.S.A. state 
33 Response to an insult 35 Hammett pooch 39 Comment, part 3 44 Rest area sight 45 Favor one side? 46 Thus far 47 "You betcha!" 51 South Vietnam's Ngo Dinh_ 53 Comment, part 4 57 Certain column 61 Just fine 62 Regarding 63 Hand warmer? 64 Ascended 66 End of the comment 69 Not so remote 70 Bombarding 71 Take stock of 72 Brunch order 
DOWN 
1 Alamo defender 2 Three-time Wimbledon champ 3 Setting for a famous "Les Miserables· 
scene 4 Smoothed (out) 5 Seaside raptor 6 Flit about 7 Hot time in 
Paris 8 Arrange into new lines 
9 Star of France 10 Chilled dessert 11 Soft shoe 12 Set of principles 13 Certain sorority 
woman 14 Iron Mike 21 Oyster's home 

I 
I 
! I 
PORTS
I 
t t 
Wednesday, February 12, 2003 
WOMENS SWIMMING 
A little bit more 
. Lisa Garcia leads the Irish through her words and her 
-results 
By PAT LEONARD Spores Writer 
When Bailey Weathers accepted the womens swim­ming head coach's position 
.. prior to the 1995-96 season, he knew the type of girl he wanted on his team. 
He wanted what every coach wants. 
He wanted a leader, a team member who could not only put in the physical effort but encourage her teammates to do the same. 
He wanted a contributor, a swimmer who could shoulder the burdens of regular season competition and then rise to the challenge in the post-sea­son. 
It was no surprise. then. that the Irish came calling at Cherry Creek High School in Denver, where Usa Garcia had, among other accomplish­ments, set state records in the 200 individual medley and the 100 backstroke. 

Garcia chose Notre Dame over other top swimming schools and made an immedi­ate impact on an already strong squad. While seniors graduate from championship teams -the Irish have won six straight Big East titles ­swimmers like Garcia are the ones who keep the Irish pro­gram at the top of the Big East and in the national spotlight. 
Born Elizabeth Louise Garcia, the junior has slowly slid her way among the top tier of swimmers for the Notre Dame women. As a sophomore last season. Garcia qualified for her first NCAA champi­onship. setting a school record at the NCAAs with a time of 
1:59.28 in the 200 butterfly. She also finished runner-up in the 100 and 200 butterfly in the Big East championships 
see GARCIA/page 22 

WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Storm warning for Irish at Joyce tonight 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw knows her team wants just one thing when it faces St. John's tonight at the Joyce Center. 
"We just want to win at home," McGraw said. "We need to start another streak after losing four in a row at home." 
McGraw is referring to the month of January when Notre Dame lost all four of its home games. However, the Irish (13­8, 5-5 in the Big East) have won their last two home games and are looking to 
build on that 
"As a team, we need to

momentum ahead," against the focus on ourselves and McGraw said. 
Red Storm improving in our areas of "I think 
(8-14, 2-9). we've shown
weakness -rebounding

"As a all season team, we defense and turnovers. " that we can't need to look ahead." focus on McGraw
Muffet McGraw 

ourselves also said she
head coach 
feels that if

and improv­ 
ing  in  our  
areas  of  
weakness  - rebounding,  
defense  and  turnovers,"  

McGraw said. "We've done all three of those well in the last few games and we did a good job with [fewer] turnovers against West Virginia and Georgetown.ff 
The Irish are coming off another tough defeat, this time a 53-50 loss to Virginia Tech on the road. With the win, the Hokies improved to a perfect 11-0 at their own court. However, McGraw was pleased with her team's effort. 
"It was a great game," McGraw said. "We put our­selves in a position to win and that's al) you can ask for. I'm happy with how we played." 
At 13-8, Notre Dame needs to focus on ending its season strong so the Irish can make a run at an NCAA Tournament bid. The toughest part of their schedule is behind them, allow­ing the Irish an opportunity to reel off much-needed victories. 
One of those victories could come tonight against St. John's. The Irish pounded the Red Storm 71-42 Jan. 14 at Alumni Hall. But the Johnnies were without their best player and leading scorer in that game, Danielle Rainey, who averages 
16.4 points and five rebounds per game. 
"We can't afford to look 
Notre Dame 
can get 18 wins heading into the Big East tournament, the Irish will have a legitimate shot at an NCAA bid. 
Aside from facing Connecticut on the road, the Irish face four other Big East foes that are either tied or below them in the conference standings. 
The Irish will likely need to win five of their last six. to ha.ve a good chance of making the tournament. 
The first of those six games starts tonight at 7 p.m. when St. John's comes to town. 
CHIP MARKSffhe Observer 

Contact Joe Hettler at Notre Dame's Le'Tanla Severe dribbles up the (:OUrt against jhettler@nd.edu West Virginia. The lrlsh face St. John's tonight at 7 p.m. 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles battle Britons 
By TREY WILLIAMS 
Sports Writer 
The Belles have had their fair share of second chances. 
However, with their losing streak climbing to nine with Saturday's loss to Kalamazoo, guaranteeing their last place MIAA ranking for the third straight week, it's evident that Saint Mary's is having a little trouble cashing in on its oppor­tunities. 
Belles coach Suzanne Bellina and her squad wi11 take to the court at home tonight with yet another chance at victory as they challenge third-ranked Albion College (13-8, 6-4 in the 
MIM). 
The Belles (5-16, 1-9 in the MIM) have searched for a way of regaining that certain some­thing that pushed their game along at the beginning the sea­s on, focusing on correcting their weak points -rebounding and capitalizing on their oppo­nent's mistakes. 
Unfortunately, these adjust­ments have minimal effect for a team that has lost its star play­er. 
Sophomore guard Emily Creachbaum, who accounts for 22 percent of the Belles' season points, has watched from the bench for the past three games after spraining her ankle in the opening minutes against Olivet Feb. 1. 
The loss has already taken its toll on the Belles, and their numbers have taken a dramatic dive. While the Belles have been consistent shooters with scoring averages usually around 40 percent, these stats dropped fol­lowing Creachbaum's injury, falling as low as 21 percent in a game against Hope College. 
Saint Mary's bench will need to be ready to step up against the Briton with leading scorers such as Bridget Boyce and Anne Hogan who average 7.4 and 7.3 points per game, respectively. 
"At this point, I think we just have to throw everything behind us," Creahcbaum said. "Everyone on the team is focused on the game at hand and nothing more." 
The Belles need wins against their next three conference foes for a desirable MIM seed going into the conference tournament. 
Contact Trey Williams at Williams . .3 I7@nd.edu 



NASCAR  NBA  PGATOUR  NFL  MENS SOCCER  
A  five-car collision  Orlando's  Shawn  Tiger Woods returns  Cincinnati  Bengals  The  San Francisco  The Irish introduced  
halted practice at the Daytona 500 Tuesday.  Kemp faces a suspen­sion for violating the NBA's drug abuse poli­ to professional golf for the first time since undergoing knee  linebacker Takeo Spikes asks to be traded from the Bengals, and the  49ers hired Dennis Erickson as its new head coach Tuesday.  their 2003 recruiting class Tuesday.  
cy.  surgery  two  months  Seahawks introduce a  
ago.  new general manager.  
page :17  page 18  page 21  page 19  page 20  page 22  








