

VOL.XXXVII NO. 115 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Irish set milestones with weekend performances 
• Mens basketball advances to the Sweet Sixteen 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Mike Brey won't forget his 44th birthday anytime soon. 
As the final seconds of the Irish's 68-60 win ticked off the clock Saturday, Brey pranced around on the side­line of the RCA Dome, swing­ing his fist through the air before giddily walking over to shake hands will Illinois coach Bill Self. The grin on his face was almost as big as Notre Dame's win over Illinois. 
"Tonight, I was probably going to have a beer any­way," the birthday boy said Saturday. "Now I might have two." 
Chances are pretty good Brey won't have to buy a drink in South Bend for a while, not after he took a team that spend most of the 1990s in the NIT to the Sweet Sixteen in just three years. 
Back in June, back when the memory of a narrow sec­ond-round loss in the tour­ney to Duke was still fresh in the players' minds, the Irish made it their collective mis­sion to advance to the second weekend of the NCAA Tournament for the first time since 1987. And when the season began. all the players could talk about was how they weren't satisfied with merely making the NCAA Tournament -they wanted to make some noise in it, too. 
"I've been in this game, I lost this game two years in a row and it wasn't something I didn't want to have happen again," senior Matt Carroll 
"Shaved Irish 
said.  
To  do  so  Saturday, the  
Irish turned  
to  Dan  
Miller, who  
See Also  played on a  
Final Four  

team at scalp Illini" Maryland 
before

page24 
transfer­ring. With sharpshoot­
er Matt Carroll plagued by a sore ankle, Miller scored a career-high 23 points, putting the Irish on a colli­sion course with Arizona, the top s e e d in the \Vest Regional. 
When the regular season ended, however, the Irish looked like they were headed for an early exit in the Tournament. They had lost three of their last four games and left the Big East Tournament after a first­round loss against St. John's. 
But as the Big East Tournament continued in New York, the Irish searched for the formula that enabled them to knock off three top­10 teams in one week in 




see BASKETBALUpage 4 


. Fencing wins first national title since 1994 
ByMATI LOZAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. 

Maybe Notre Dame coach Janusz Bednarski should think about taking up a job as a sta­tistics professor. 
"Before the competition we thought we needed 180 See Also 
points and it turned out "Fencers win that way," national Bednarski 
championship"

said. 
N o t r e page24Dame won the 2003
Above: The fencing team N C A A Championships with 182 points. 
gathers to celebrate their --:.::­

Penn State was second with
national championship 

179. win over Penn State. That's scary. 
Bednarski did something in
. 

one year that former Irish COURTESY OF coach Yves Auriol couldn't do in seven years at the helm ­

SPORTS 

win a national title. INFORMATION "It feels great and I'm a little bit tired," Bednarski said. "I
Right: Notre Dame 

lost my voice from giving soBasketball players cele-many comments. It was not easy and we had a lot of great 
brate as they advance to 

opponents. To win in such great the Sweet 16 after defeat­competition, it's a pleasure," ing the Illini Saturday. As the competition pro­
gressed, everybody knew it 
. 

would come down to the last round of bouts. Bednarski pre-
PHOTO BY TIMKACMAR see FENCINGIpage 4 
Split to occur next fall 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame's Economics Department will split next fall into two departments with separate faculty and a single undergraduate major, following a 39-3 vote by the University's Academic Council in favor of the split Thursday. 
Current faculty will be separated into the new departments of Economics and Econometrics and Economics and Policy Study, said Carol Mooney, University vice president and associate provost. 
Mooney is responsible for recording the min­utes of the Council's meetings; the Council is 
see SPLIT/page 4 

Students pray for peaceful solution 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students, faculty and staff gathered in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Friday evening to pray for peace. 
University President Edward Malloy presided over the 45­minute service, which featured prayers, hymns and readings from scripture and came amidst increased military action in Iraq. During the day on Friday, 
U.S. forces continued the bomb­ing campaign over Baghdad, the Iraqi capital. and British and American forces moved into the country from Kuwait. 
"May the God of peace be with all of us," Malloy said at the start of the service. "We join in prayer with our Holy Father John Paul II who recently plead­ed, 'Violence never again, war never again, terrorism never again."' 
A moderate number of people filled the center row of pews in a Basilica already stark for the Lenten season. Spotlights that typically illuminate the ceiling paintings were turned off Friday evening and lights over the alter were dimmed, adding a more somber tone to the service. 
Malloy used his homily to remind those present of Jesus' ~ommitment to peace and love of all people. He also urged stu­dents to pray for an end to the conflict and the safety of those involved. 
"We pray for peace, for an end to the violence that we see around us, for a calming of fears," Malloy said. "We pray for the well being of those who represent our country. Most of all we pray for peace that, in the end. will be a gift from our lov­ing God." 
Closer to home, Malloy encouraged students to consider their own actions and question whether they were in line with Jesus' teachings. 
"We pray ... that we may rec­ognize our call, our need to change our hearts," he said. "Jesus taught us over and over again that the call for peace begins with each one of us." 
After the homily, the lights in the Basilica were turned off and those present knelt with lit can­dles. Two students read prayer intercessions modeled after the Beatitudes and members of the congregation exchanged signs of peace. 
Friday's prayer service for 


KEVIN BURKE/Notre Dame Photographic The Notre Dame Community paused Friday afternoon to pray for peaceful solution to war. 
peace marked the beginning of a series of religious services scheduled around campus for the duration of military action in Iraq. Earlier Friday, people gathered in the Basilica for a special Mass for peace and throughout the coming week­days, a traveling rosary for peace will be held in a residence hall chapel. The series of rosary and prayer services will begin 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athaga.rd@nd.edu 

Monday, March 24, 2003

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
WHAT'S INSIDE

INSIDE COLUMN 
Floating to freedom 
Imagine being 60 miles or more away from land, drifting in a small rubber raft with just a straw hat to guard you from the harsh Caribbean sun. Thousands find themselves in this very sce­nario every year as they attempt to make their way to the United States. Few make it, many die and some are res­cued. 
This spring break, I wit­nessed such a scene as my cruise ship stopped to rescue five Cubans float­ing in the dis­tance in some­thing that appeared to be a black dot. The accounts of people risking their lives for the slight possibility of something better became a reali­ty. 
For a moment, nearly all the peo­ple on the ship ceased sunning themselves. put down their Caribbean concoctions and gathered on one side of the ship to witness the rescue. Some made brash com­ments while others took time to realize how lucky they were to be born in a country that they didn't have to escape. 
I have always been hopelessly proud of the United States and its values. Maybe it's because of the numerous family trips to American landmarks like Plymouth Rock, end­less battlefields and trips to our nation's capitol. 
I have never been able to articu­late these feelings until a friend asked, after I returned from a year abroad, if I would permanently move to another country or give up my citizenship. Without skipping a beat, I replied, "No." I might one day own a summer home in Europe or travel extensively, but I would never relinquish my citizenship. I consider it a true blessing given to me by relatives who made their way through Ellis Island and Canada to make a new home and establish a better life for their posterity. 
Off course, we have problems in the United States and there always will be. We are human beings trying to do the best we can. Fortunately, we have the option to raise our voice to change the wrongs and we should take this responsibility seri­ously. 
If I ever forget how privileged I am to live in this country, I hope to remember the five Cubans who risked their lives for a chance at freedom. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Shannon Nelligan at nell2040@saintmarys.edu. 

CORRECTIONS 

Friday's article "Chamber music festival at SMC" incorrectly stared the rime ofthe Leighton Festival Concerts. The correct time is 7:30 p.m. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Student government chief of staff appointed 
Student body president-elect Pat Hallahan announced that freshman Emily Chin will be chief 
of  staff for  his  
office.  
page 6  

WORLD& NATION 
Allied troops hit setbacks on road to Baghdad 
Iraqi troops used surprise tactics to kill and capture 
U.S. 
troops Sunday. However, 

U.S. 
leaders say war on Iraq on tar­get despite set­backs. 


page 5 
7:30 p.m. at lVladelcva, room 349 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Four-cheese pizza, cherry turnover, southern fried chick­en, au gratin potatoes, brown sauce, chicken gravy. whipped potatoes, mixed vegetables, cherry crisp, baked cajun pollack, Italian rice pilaf, sliced carrots, Italian-blend vegetables, baked potato, swiss oatmeal, bacon, scrambled eggs, buttermilk pancakes 
Today's Dinner: Vegetable lasagna, Italian sausage marinara, cherry turnover, breadsticks, grilled pork chops, broccoli-rice casserole, brown sauce, pork gravy, whipped potatoes, corn, cherry crisp. grilled tilapia, baked noodle casserole, sweet potatoes 
TODAY TONIGHT 
0: 
IJJ 
::c 
~ 
IJJ 
3: 

_, 

·i• •f.:'. 
ct 
(.) 
BUSINESS 

VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTS
NEWS 

Irish ready for 
Columnist 

LatinIraqi oil not 
knock off world 
questions Expressions 

Wildcats market 
bringsactivists together a 
variety of acts actions 
The womens bas­Once war is over, 
Columnist Mike This year's Latin 

ketball team heads
Marchand ques­

Expressionsexperts expect it 
to the second

"Lacura Latina" is
tions anti-war pro­will take months 
round of the 

a show that brings
testers and demon­before Iraq's oil 
NCAA tournamentstrations which can 

togetherta !entedwill be prepared to 
for eighth straight

latino acts, showenter world mar­
be construed as 
year after beating

casing music andkets. 
civii disobedience. 
page 7 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
\Vhy \Vashington D.C. needs economists 4 p.m. at llcsburgh Center Auditorium 

. 
Fatlwrs. brothPrs, masters and slaves: A rcconsidPration of Benjamin Franklin in Boston 7 p.m. at ()'Shaughnessy Ilall, room 119 

. 
Gender Hclations Fonun 


7:30 p.m. at ColPman '.\1orsc Lounge 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Student nurses blood drive 8 a.m. at llaggar College Center 

. 
College president Dr. Marilou Eldred addresses community 

3:30 p.m. at ()'Laughlin Auditorium 

. 
Gloria Steinem, the Spice Girls and Mn 


South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Meatless baked ziti, meatball stroganoff sauce, supreme pizza, toasted pretzel sticks. pasta pri­mavera, steamed spinach, chicken and dumplings, baked haddock jardiniere, teriyaki london broil, whipped pota• toes, mashed red-skin garlic potatoes, baked potato, cut corn, broccoli cuts, sliced carrots, peas, roasted vegetables 
Today's Dinner: Meatless baked ziti, meatball stroganoff sauce, chicken cacciatore pasta sauce, supreme pizza, toasted pretzel sticks, noodles romanoff, baked beans, roast beef hash, turkey broccoli bake, pork loin with apple, hot chunky applesauce 
TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 


0 
HIGH 66 HIGH 64 HIGH 53 HIGH 39
...I 
LOW 45 LOW 55 LOW 37 LOW 31 
the Arizona

dance. 
Wildcats. 
page 24

page 12
page 10 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Car towed from Joyce 
A student's car was towed from the Joyce Center parking lot Friday for a parking viola­tion. 
Employee reports theft of decal 
A University employee reported the theft of 
his parking decal from his vehicle while off 
campus. 
Employee injured 
NDSP transported an employee from Hesburgh Library to the University Health Center for treatment of a laceration last Friday. 
Car towed from Stadium 
A University employee's car was towed from the Stadium for a parking violation Friday. 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Chilaquiles, rissotto, roasted onions and carrots, tomato sauce, herb pasta, fettuccine car­bonara, grilled hamburger, south beach panini, grilled cheese sandwich, french fries, parmesan peppercorn chicken breast, mexican cinnamon rice, cauliflower and broccoli, veg­etable ranch pizza, cheese pizza 
Today's Dinner: Sweet corn tamale pie, pasta fantastica, black bean salad, grilled chicken breast, cherry muffins, sweet and sour pork with sticky rice, pasta pronto bar, chickens soft taco. spanish rice, refried beans, seasoned green beans, vegetable ranch pizza 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
&·$)····. 

$It I 
HIGH 47 HIGH 48 LOW 39 LOW 39 


at all rimes. We do, however, rccogmze rhat we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please con­
Atlanta 73 / 49 Boston 50 / 39 Chicago 66 / 46 Denver 44 I 28 Houston 78 I 58 Los Angeles 68 / 52 Minneapolis 58 / 34
tact us at 631-4 541 so we can 

New York 57 / 41 Philadelphia 59 I 41 Phoenix 82 / 57 Seattle 52 / 41 St. Louis 73 / 50 Tampa 77 / 57 Washington 64 I 44
correct our error. 


page 3

Monday, March 24, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Study Abroad programs comment on the conflict in Iraq 
By KEVIN ALLEN 
News Writer 
The commencement of large­scale military action in Iraq by the United States and Britain stirred a great deal of emotion on Notre Dame's campus in the past week. In addition to anxi­ety about the well-being of the nation and the soldiers on the battlefields, considerable con­cern arose about the safety of Notre Dame students spending the semester abroad. 
Torn Bogenschild, director of International and Off-Campus Study Programs, said the office of International Study Programs is very concerned about possible hostility toward American students but has not yet put any restrictions on travel or other activities for students abroad. 
"We think. the local adminis­trators are much better equipped to make those deci­sions than we are," Bogenschild said. 
He added that it is highly unlikely that any programs will be closed this semester or that students will be forced to return to the United States before the end of the semester. 
"Ever since Sept. 11, we've been very concerned about security issues," said Bogenschild. 
Those events have increased concern for students partici­pating in the University's pro­gram in Washington, D.C. ­the only city to which Notre Dame sends students that has been hit by international ter­rorism. 
ISP has also been keeping a close eye on travel advisories from the United States and abroad and has been in contact with international studies pro­grams from other universities. 
"We have not heard of any major security problems at any of [Notre Dame's] sites," said Bogenschild. 
ISP recently added a "Security Update" link to their website for students and par­ents to access information on the atmosphere abroad. The 
U.S. State Department and var­ious American embassies have also been sending information to students. 
"We have been receiving advisories from the State 
Department all semester," Padraic McDermott, a junior who is spending the semester in London, said. "And the London Program sent us an e­mail about precautions to be taking on our spring break, as well as a strong suggestion that we might avail ourselves of the opportunity to travel inside the United Kingdom, and not fur­ther abroad." · 
AU of the students contacted for this story said they still feel safe and welcome in their host countries and that they do not have any plans to return home early due to the recent devel­opments in the Middle East. 
With the closure of the Jerusalem Program, the ISP site that is closest to the war in Iraq is in Cairo, Egypt. Junior Terry Fitzgibbons is participat­ing in the Cairo Program, and said that he feels very safe in the Arab nation and has felt no hostility from any Egyptians. 
"Because there are a lot of visitors and foreign students [in CairoJ, people here always ask you where you're from," said Fitzgibbons. "When I tell them, they usually sigh and smile at the same time, and [say] they like me but they don't like Bush." 

Fitzgibbons said he receives messages from the American embassy to avoid crowds and to vary his patterns. 
"We were advised not to go downtown near the protests," Fitzgibbons said. "Staying out of the way of the protests, I haven't felt threatened." 
In spite of heightened ten­sions abroad, Fitzgibbons added that he is still happy to be witnessing the events from another nation. 
'Tm witnessing history," he said. "And this is history, for better or for worse." 
Tom Marotta, a junior spend­ing the semester in Shanghai, China, said he feels very wel­come in his host country, despite military conflict with Iraq. 
"I haven't felt any animosity from either the Chinese authorities or the average Chinese person on the street," said Marotta. "I have been asked my opinion about the war by Chinese students and heard some anecdotes from other Americans being asked their opinions. Most Chinese are against the war and anti­Bush, but still pro-American. 
"I've had more hostile con­versations with my fellow American students here about how the United States ought to proceed," Marotta said. Unlike Fitzgibbons and Marotta. students in the London Program find them­selves among America's most loyal allies. But that also exposes them to a greater ter­rorist threat. 
"With the talk of imminent terrorist attacks, it is hard to view London as the safest place to be," Dominic Paschel, a junior who is spending the semester in London, said. McDermott said he will be changing parts of his daily rou­tine due to the threat of terror­ism. 
"I think I'm not the only one who will be trying to avoid public transportation a little more actively." McDermott said. 
Meghanne Downes con­tributed to this article. 
Contact Kevin Allen at kallen@nd.edu 
Security a top priority with Notre Dame administration 
forces having entered Iraq, "Working with local. state 

By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
University President Father and federal law enforcement News Editor 
Edward Malloy released an e­and emergency management mail to the University commu­personnel, we remain confident With the country's terrorist nity last week outlining Notre that Notre Dame can appropri­level at orange alert and allied Dame's security measures. ately and effectively respond to 

REQUEST A CATALOG TODAY! REGISTRA~TION flEGINS APRIL 14 CLASSES BEGIN JUNE 23 
NORTHWESTERN 
UNIVERSITY 
847.491.5250 vvvvw.northwestern.edu/summernu 

situations that may threaten the cially football games, following 
community," Malloy said in his e-mail. 
R e x Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security and Police, said t h e University did not increase security in response to the height­ened national security level. Rakow said NDSP assessed safety and security on campus and increased 

"Working with local. state and federal law enforcement and emergency management personnel, we remain confident that Notre Dame can appropriately and effectively respond to situations that may threaten the community.·· 
Father Malloy University President 
security at major events, espe-

Get a mass age. 

Be happy. 
In my office ­1/2 hr. $35; 1hr. $60 ( on-site & outcalls available) 
Pennie Christie, CMT 
574-247-0661 
E-mail: Touchright@aol.com 
Ask about meditation classes & wellness parties. 
the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Rakow said the e-mail was released to the University com­munity because several students, faculty and staff inquired about security and emergency plans. Though no addi­tions were made to security mea­sures, NDSP reviewed their numerous emer­gency plans. 
"We have been in contact with the necessary people and the [homeland securi­ty] alerts are geo­

graphically specific," Rakow said. "There is nothing of great threat in Northern Indiana." 
Rakow added that his office has been in contact with the FBI and other police agencies in the area. 
"We are doing as much as anyone else." Rakow said. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
Recycle 

The Observer. 

Monday, March 24, 2003 

page 4 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS 
Split 
continued from page1 
made up of faculty and administrators and votes on academic issues such as the proposal to change this department. 
Prior to the vote on the proposal, the members of the Council debated the possible changes to the Economics departments. 
"There were a number of questions raised about 
ranked in the bottom 25 percent of national pro­grams. 
Under the new guidelines, undergraduate students will be offered a single major, while graduate students will eventually choose one area to specialize in. "There will be a core curriculum for all graduate students," said Mooney. 
The two departments will each have a separate facul­ty and be responsible for 
their own  organization and  
faculty  hiring.  "Each  
depart­ 

ment will

the meaning 
"There were a number of 

of the propos­operate as 
questions raised about a separate

al. There was no strong dis­the meaning ofthe unit," said 
s en t [at the proposal. There was no Jensen. 
meeting] and "Each will
strong dissent fat the also have

a number of people spoke meeting] and a number of its own s t a n ­
in favor of people spoke infavor of 
[the propos­dards."
{the proposal]." Jensen

al]." said Mooney. said that the split
1' h e Carol Mooney Department of w o u l d
University vice president

Economics help the 
a n d Econometrics will focus on mathematical or neoclassical economics, while the Department of Economics and Policy Study will concentrate on hetero­dox economics. which takes a less quantitative approach. 
The proposal passed Thursday differs from an earlier proposal that would have established two sepa­rate undergraduate eco­nomics majors. However, many economics faculty and students had expressed concern about this possibili­ty. 
"The new departments are going to provide the best opportunity [for eco­nomics]." said Richard Jensen, current chair of the Economics Department. "In a situation like this nobody's going to get every­thing they want," he said. 
Changes to the Economics Department were consid­ered after the Blue Ribbon Committee, appointed by University Provost Nathan Hatch, recommended form­ing two separate economics departments. 
Traditionally, the study of economics at Notre Dame has focused on a heterodox approach and administra­tors wanted to improve the department's neoclassical study. In the last review of the College of Arts and Letters, economics was the only department that 
t W 0 depart­
ments to improve in  areas  
of  faculty  hiring  and  
research.  
Jensen  said  that  some  

changes will be made to graduate program core classes, such as dropping the requirements for politi­cal economy and history of economic thought classes. 
The new changes are set to take effect July 1, said Jensen. 
Over the summer, Mark Roche, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and Jensen will consider possi­bilities for the new chair of the Economics and Policy Study Department and placement for current facul­ty into one of the two new departments. Jensen, who was hired to help strength­en the econometrics section of the department, will be the chair of the new Econometrics and Economics Department. 
While some were con­cerned that the new econo­metrics department would not study social justice issues that have traditional­ly been the focus of the Economics Department at Notre Dame, Jensen said it would. Both departments will consider social issues, but will study them using different approaches, Jensen said. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 


Fencing 
continued from page I 
round of bouts. Bednarski prepared his team for that situation the entire year and 

been there for each other," junior sabre captain Destanie Milo said. "We have all been in it together from the begin­ning, supporting each other. holding each other up. and there is no way you 
"The whole roster made contributions," Bednarski said. "We didn't have a weak link and that's why we won." 
In the storied history of the 
fencing program, the Irish had previously won five 
they came through when it can win a "We have all been in it national titles counted the most. champi­from 1977­
together from the begin­
"I think it was very decisive onship like 1994. From in the end because we had this indi­ning. supporting each 1995-2002, the done a lot of hard work vidually." other, holding eachother Irish finished throughout the whole year." S i n c e either second
up. and there is not way
Bednarski said. "Our fencers N o t r e or third and 
you can win a
were stronger. If you want to Dame was could never win the gold medal, you have one of championship like this find the magic to be strong at the end of the only two to put it all
individually. " 
game, not only at the begin­schools to together. ning when everyone is qualify 12 They did this fresh." fencers, it Destanie Milo year, and the 
That decisiveness and had a junior sabre result was dif­
fighting ability exemplified b a s i c by the Irish can be attributed numbers to sim-advantage over p l y Penn State with
"The team dynamic has

being a 11 and St. John's
just been outstanding who had 10.
team. 

"The this year" While some t e a m fencers had many dynamic , wins and were at 
Destanie Milo 

has just the top of the b e e n sabre captain leader board, oth­
0 U t ­
stand­ing this year. We have all 
Basketball 
continued from page 1 
December. And they found it. 
"That wasn't us, we're not that type of team. We didn't have our edge," Miller said. "We got our edge back, and we've got to make sure we keep that edge heading out to California." 

ers came through 
when all the chips were down. 
Although it might not have 
had anything to do with the 
new hairstyles the players 
sported -the Irish shaved 
their heads two nights 
before a narrow first-round 
victory over Wisconsin­
Milwaukee Thursday ­
Notre Dame played Saturday 
with an intensity that had 
been missing since March. 
And when the final horn 
sounded and the Irish 
bounced around the court in 
ferent. 

"It really made a big difference in the end having everyone working together to take the pressure off the individuals," senior epee captain Jan Viviani said. 
It also helps to have a coach who could double as a psychic statistician. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
celebration, a mission the Irish began back in June had finally been accomplished. 
'Tm really happy that this group set a goal and achieved it," Brey said. "I think it's just another feath­er in our cap as a basketball program, and it says that we are back as a legitimate big­time basketball program." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
SIGN-UP YOUR TEAM FOR BOOKSTORE 2003 BE A PART OF A GREAT ND TRADITION AND WORLD'S LARGEST 5 ON 5 OUTDOOR BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
Available Sign-up times: 

*Tuesday, March 18th (11-2 PM and 5-7 PM in LaFortune Lobby) 
*Wednesday, March 19th (11-2 PM Dooley Room in LaFortune and 5-7 PM in LaFun Lobby) 
*Thursday, March 20th (11-2 PM Dooley Room in LaF'ortune and 5-7 PM in Dooley) 
*Friday, March 21st (11-2 PM and 5-6 PM in LaFortune lobby) 
*Monday, March 24th (11-2 PM and 5:30-7 PM in LaFortune lobby) 
*Tuesday, March 25th (11-2 PM Dooley Room in LaFortune and 5-7 PM in LaFun lobby) 
Cost: $15 

($5 donation also can be made to ND Jumpball Programme) 

Monday, March 24, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
Allied troops hit setbacks on road to Baghdad 
coalition troops but then

Associated Press 
attacking them. 
AN NASIRIYAH Lt. Gen. John Abizaid of U.S. 

Iraq used ambushes and even Central Command said a faked fake surrenders to kill and cap­surrender near An Nasiriyah, a ture U.S. troops Sunday, inflict­crossing point over the ing the first significant casual­Euphrates River northwest of ties on the allied forces driving Basra, set off the "sharpest toward Baghdad. U.S. war engagement of the war thus leaders declared the invasion far." Up to nine Marines died on target despite the bloody before the Americans pre­setbacks. vailed, he said. 
Up to nine Marines died and Twelve U.S. soldiers were a dozen U.S. soldiers were missing and presumed cap­taken prisoner in surprise tured by Iraqis in an ambush engagements with Iraqis at An on an army supply convoy at Nasiriyah, a southern city far An Nasiriyah, Central from the forward positions of Command said. the allied force. "We, of course, will be much 
On the third day of the more cautious in the way that ground war, any expectation we view the battlefield as a that Iraqi defenders would sim­result of some of these inci­ply fold was gone. dents," Abizaid said. 
"Clearly they are not a beaten Some of the missing prisoners force," said Gen. Richard were from Fort Bliss. Texas, Myers, chairman of the Joint said Jean Offutt, an Army Chiefs of Staff. "This is going to spokeswoman at the base, get a lot harder." where families members gath­
Even so, the U.S.-British ered Sunday night. coalition fought to within 100 "The mood, of course, is very miles of Baghdad and tended to tragic," she said. a growing northern front. U.S. and British officials said 
Baghdad came under heavy some of the stiffest resistance air attack early Monday, even was coming from paramilitary as a mosque blared "Allahu guerrillas known as the 
Akbar" and "Thanks be to Fedayeen Saddam and from led coalition. Maryland. "We are slowly but wouldn't get it. "There is no Cod," perhaps to boost morale. Saddam Hussein's personal President Bush kept his eye surely achieving our objective." hope in these rulers," Iraqi Vice 
Allied soldiers came under security forces. on the big prize -the removal He demanded that U.S. pris­President Taha Yassin attack in a series of ruses, U.S. "These are men who know of Saddam's government and oners of war be treated Ramadan said. officials said, with one group of that they will have no role in Iraq's eventual disarmament. humanely. But Russia and Chinese for­Iraqis waving the white flag of the building of a new Iraq and "I know that Saddam Hussein With allies closing in, Iraqi eign ministers reasserted their surrender. then opening up they have no future," said Peter is losing control of his country," leaders appealed for a united view that the invasion has no with artillery fire; another Wall, chief of staff to the British Bush said upon his return from Arab front to condemn the legal basis and asked for an group appearing to welcome military contingent in the U.S.-the Camp David retreat in invasion but knew they immediate halt. 

U.S. military finds suspected Iraqi chemical plant 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

U.S. troops have found a suspected chemical factory in Iraq and officials were trying to determine late Sunday whether it was involved in making chemical weapons, U.S. officials said. 
The plant is near the city of Najaf, which U.S. troops reached Sunday on a push to Baghdad, the officials said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
U.S. Central Command said in a state­ment that troops were examining "sites of interest,'' but did not elaborate. The statement said reports describing the 
discovery as a chemical weapons factory were "premature." 
President Bush and other U.S. officials say ridding Saddam Hussein's regime of chemical and biological weapons is the main objective of the war. 
Saddam's government denies it has any chemical, biological or nuclear weapons or programs to produce them. 
Asked at a news conference in Qatar Sunday about reports of the chemical plant, Lt. Gen. John Abizaid of U.S. Central Command declined comment. He said top Iraqi officers have been ques­tioned about chemical weapons. 
"We have an Iraqi general officer, two Iraqi general officers that we have taken prisoner, and they are providing us with information," Abizaid said. 
If the plant is confirmed as a chemical weapons factory, it would be the first find by the U.S.-led invasion force vali­dating U.S. allegations that Iraq still has weapons of mass destruction. 
Iraqi officials have insisted that they destroyed all of the chemical and biolog­ical weapons they made after the 1991 Persian Gulf War -a claim U.N. weapons inspectors have questioned. 
U.N. weapons inspectors are not aware of any large-scale chemical sites which could be used to make chemical weapons in Najaf, said Ewen Buchanan, spokesman for the inspectors. However, there are many such dual-use sites in other parts of the country because of Iraq's petrochemical industry. 

U.N. inspectors visited a cement plant in Najaf earlier this year but did not report finding anything. 
The U.S. military's discovery was first reported in the Jerusalem Post, which has a reporter traveling with the unit from the Army's 3rd Infantry Division which reached the chemical plant. The newspaper reported that about 30 Iraqi troops, including a general, surrendered at the plant. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Chechens appear to okay constitution 
Voters in Chechnya appeared to approve a constitu­tion Sunday that the Kremlin hopes will bring stabil­ity to the separatist region after nearly a decade of bloodshed. The Kremlin and Chechnya's Moscow­appointed administration have portrayed the refer­endum as a key step toward peace and a return to normal life in the region, which since 1994 has experienced two wars and an interim period marked by lawlessness. 
Mexican drug lord charged over weekend 
Reputed drug lord Osiel Cardenas was charged with drug smuggling, organized crime, money laundering and illegal weapons possession over the weekend, the Justice Department announced Sunday. The charges were handed down in two separate hear­ings Sunday and Saturday. Cardenas is the alleged head of the powerful Gulf cartel. which has moved tons of cocaine and marijuana. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. soldier held in attack on own troops 
A U.S. soldier most likely acted out of resentment Sunday when he threw grenades into tents at a 101st Airborne Division command center, killing a fellow serviceman, an Army spokesman said. Fifteen other soldiers, including the division com­mander, were wounded -at least three of them seriously -in the early Sunday attack at Camp Pennsylvania, the rear base for the 101st near the Iraqi border. The 101st is based at Fort Campbell, Ky. 
U.S. protests Russia-Iraq weapons deal 
The State Department protested Sunday that Russian companies sold sensitive military equip­ment to Iraq in the run-up to U.S.-led war against Saddam Hussein's regime. Three Russian firms are helping the Iraqi military deploy electronic jamming equipment against U.S. planes and bombs in violation of United Nations sanctions. 

1V holds off on airing captured soldiers 
U.S. television networks spent hours weighing Sunday whether to air video footage, shown else­where in the world, of what appeared to be American prisoners of war in Iraq. The images were picked up from Iraqi television by the Arab satellite station Al-Jazeera. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld said the Geneva Conventions make it illegal for prisoners to be pictured and humiliated. That left network executives with ago­nizing decisions involving both matters of taste and the question of whether they were letting the Pentagon influence their independent newsgather­ing decisions. All of the networks said they would not show video of what was said to be an Iraqi morgue containing American bodies, saying the material was neither newsworthy nor appropriate for airing. However. both CNN and NBC have aired a still image of bodies that could not be identified. 
page 6 
Former NFL player shares faith, virtues 
By HIMANSHU KOTHARI 
News Writer 
Former New York Giants player Chris Godfrey, founder of Life Athletics, spoke about his experi­ences with service as part of the Blessing Unto Others lecture series Sunday. 
Godfrey talked of his journey from football to faith. 
"I decided to quit the NFL after nine years and did not know what to do from then on," Godfrey said. 
At that point, a friend of his who knew a law profes­sor at Notre Dame suggest­ed law school, which brought him to Notre Dame in 1990, where he 
"Parents need to talk to

searched for are unique his vocation. their kids about these is their "None of ability to
issues and married 

us are love.
people need to live by

h a p p y He said unless we the same virtues as he believes are doing that people
single people. All virtues 

what we are listen to 
are expressions oflove ... 

meant for his organi­doing, our zation vocation" because
Chris Godfrey

Godfrey t h e
former New York Giants player

said. 
Between volunteering for various projects, one thing led to another and Godfrey formed "Life Athletics." The program is endorsed by more than 300 Olympic­level athletes and reaches out to people from middle school to college. Godfrey said it is based on "living a life by the principals of virtue, abstinence and respect for life." 
He said people nowadays feel that a sexual relation­ship "is not a big deal." 
"Our faith teaches [us] that we can only find our­selves in the giving of our­selves," Godfrey said. "The only context that justifies a sexual relationship is the commitment of marriage, for otherwise there is the possibility of a break-up, which leaves one emotion­
ally and spiritually heart­broken and at times unable to bond with other individu­als." 
Citing a study, Godfrey said people who engage in premarital sex are more likely to be divorced later in life. Godfrey added that abortion was not the answer to an unwanted pregnancy. 
"Abortion is never the answer, it cannot change the fact that the child want­ed to exist. It harms a child's life and the parents. If a mother is willing to kill her own child what guaran­tee does she have to secur­ing her own life or those of others?" Godfrey said. 
Godfrey emphasized the 
reason 
humans 
spokespeo­
ple are 
icons and 
ambas­sadors of the sporting world. Godfrey publicizes the program by introducing it into the curriculum of certain schools and orga­nizing sports camps where he teaches students about virtue. 
"Parents need to talk to their kids about these issues and married people too need to live by the same virtues as single people. All virtues are expressions of love." Godfrey said. 
The weeklong series is part of another project of the office of the student body president called "Greatness Grants" to bol­ster service. 
Contact Himanshu Kothari hkothari@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE DEPARTMENT of COMMUNICATION STUDIES, DANCE & THEATRE 
presents 
.":
..• 
~ 
j~ 
i: ~'; 
\. ?/;
(; :;j 
·. -t 
J., 
~~:· 
'· 
..............Cf 
Euripides' classic tale of betrayal, revenge, and murder. 
March 27 -28 at 8:00 p.m. • March 29 at 2:30 & 8:00 p.m. March 30 at 2:30 p.m. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium Stage 
S•int ...,,,, C•ll•&•o 
Limited to 120 seats per performance. MO~AU Advanced purchase of tickets is ~ENTER._
suggested FOR THE ARTS 
· NOTRE DAIii!, IH 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 
S74/184 4626 
Monday, March 24, 2003 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Hallahan appoints chief of staff 
said. administration -or at least By MATT BRAMANTI Hallahan echoed the senti­get some type of response News Writer ment. "She's only a freshman about why they took [in-hall 
and she's been very involved dances] away," Chin said. 
Student body president-elect and active already," he said. During the election cam­Pat Hallahan appointed fresh­"She comes in with a level of paign, the Hallahan-Lao ticket man Emily Chin as his chief of experience that not many called on university adminis­staff for the 2003-2004 acade-freshmen have." trators to make the results of mic year. Chin said her teacher and course evaluations 
Chin, a focus would be available to students. Chin said resident "Wzth Emily and the on fulfilling the the measure would accomplish of Welsh, campaign her goal of improving teaching
group we·ve put together,

currently promises she quality.
we can be effective in 

serves as helped Hallahan She also plans to spearhead student addressing students' and Lao engi­more academically oriented union sec­neer, including events, including a lecture
concerns ... 

retary. As improved com­series featuring distinguished chief of munication with Notre Dame faculty and alum­staff, Chin Pat Hallahan University offi­ni. will lead student body president-elect cers, academic Chin characterized the tran­
and coor­dinate all activities of the Office of the President. 
Chin, who managed the cam-, paign to elect Hallahan and his running mate, Jeremy Lao, said the trio "complement each other well." 
"Pat and Jeremy both approached me" about the appointment, Chin said. She expressed confidence that her experience in student govern­ment will lead to a successful year. 
"I saw the internal student government workings first hand," Chin said. 
Hallahan heaped praise on the rising leader. "Anyone would be willing to work with her," he said. "She has a way about her that's very profes­sional and very warm." He went on to express confidence in his staff with Chin at the helm. "With Emily and the group we've put together, we can be effective in addressing students' concerns," Hallahan 

programming 
and working to bring dances back into the res­idence halls. 
"Opening the lines of com­munication" is vital to "creat­ing more of a respect for the sition from Libby Bishop's presidency as "smooth." 
In February. Hallahan resigned as Bishop's chief of staff in protest of her report to the Board of Trustees, which he cal!ed "watered down." 
student body from the 

"Opening the lines of
administra­tion," Chin communication is vital to said. The new 
creating more ofa 
officers hope 

respect for the student
to unify stu­dent opinion body from the on the dance 
administration. " 
issue in order to present a cohesive case Emily Chin to university 2003-04 chief of staff leaders. 
"Once that opm1on is demonstrated said. 
through [Student Senate and Chin agreed, saying the Hall Presidents Council] resolu­incoming and outgoing presi­tions, it shows a unified sup­dents are on great terms. port that we can take to the officers and board of trustees," Lao said. 
"We're hoping to get some Contact Matt Bramanti at type of compromise with the mbrarnant@nd.edu 
Domus 

PROPERTll!S 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSES FOR RENT 
FOR 
2003-2004 

2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT www.domuskramer.com 
OR CALL 574-315-5032 OR 574-234-2436 ASK FOR KRAMER 
Hallahan attributed the dis­agreement to a differ­ence in leadership styles. 
''I've been a friend of Libby's for a long time and I still will be," Hallahan 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, March 24, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch March 21 
DowJones 
~

8,521.97  +235.37  
NASDAQ  
1,421.84  ~  +19.07  
S&P500  
895.90  ~  +20.06  
AMEX  
825.53  ~  +1.79  
NYSE  
4,970.94  ~  +114.50  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.00 -0.14 13.90 
1

iiii::111:1:1111i111:11~111~11 111111111i1i1:1ii:;~iiitiiiiif:i~iliiiitii
:: 1111:;1i 1 

NASDAQ-100 INDEX(QQQ) +1.38 +0.37 27.17 
~~1111 llli ll~l!llliJi:::1:::;1i~llliiillr~i:ll:ll!111:r!iii~I 
SIRIUS SATELLIT (SIRI) -1.69 -0.01 0.58 
IN BRIEF 
War in Iraq hurting French economy 
"In the last year, or rather in the last six months, I think the Iraqi events have already created negative consequences that France regrets now," French economy minister Francis Mer told LCI television and RTL radio. 
'Tm not saying that to deny the intensity of the Iraqi problems, but the main part of the negative consequences from the Iraqi crisis is behind us," he said. According to a survey by the IFOP agency published Sunday in the French newspaper Le Journal du Dimanche, 46 percent of French people worry the war will aggravate economic and other problems in France. 
Airlines cancel flights in time of war 
Airlines responded to the start of war in Iraq by canceling flights Thursday, while oth­ers sent special planes to ferry their citizens home. The German carrier Lufthansa can­celed flights to several destinations in the Middle-East for Thursday and Friday. Singapore Airlines said it was suspending 65 weekly flights due to "softening demand." Air New Zealand and Air Canada reported pas­sengers were canceling their own flights or asking to postpone them because of the war. 
The international body overseeing aviation prepared to reroute commercial flights around Iraq. Flights will be diverted to the north or south, depending on the area of con­flict, the International Air Transport Association said. 
U.S. wants FedEx to repay 9-11 funds 
The federal government is demanding that FedEx Express repay $31.6 million in funds to offset losses from the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. But FedEx says the U.S. Department of Transportation owes the Memphis compa­ny $18 million. The money is part of $5 billion that was given under the Airline Safety and System Stabilization Act to help the industry recover from the groundin~g of all flights after the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Iraqi oil not ready for market 
. American market must be patient for oil 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Once the war in Iraq 
ends, it's likely to take 
months before the coun­
try's oil again flows into 
world markets, analysts 
say. 
Getting wells, pipelines 
and pumping stations back 
into operation is a priority 
for U.S. planners who see 
oil, and the income it pro­
duces, as essential to 
rebuilding postwar Iraq. 
By all accounts it will be 
several years before the 
country's dilapidated oil 
industry can boost produc­
tion significantly. 
U.S. and British troops moved swiftly once the war began to control key parts of Iraq's southern oil fields. Just as importantly, they secured crucial oil­gathering points and the major export terminals on the Persian Gulf and counted only nine wells on fire. 
Iraq's northern fields also appeared to have avoided damage thus far. 
Destruction of the fields and shipping terminals had been a patential nightmare for U.S. war planners. They worried that President Saddam Hussein might order Iraq's wells set ablaze as he did Kuwait's wells toward the end of the Gulf War a dozen years ago. 
Adm. Michael Boyce, chief of the British defense staff, said "practically all" Iraqi oil and gas installa­tions had been mined or booby-trapped, indicating Saddam was "prepared to blow up his entire econo­my." U.S. Brig. Gen. Vince Brooks said Saturday that only nine of Iraq's 500­plus oil field~ had been sabotaged. 
"On the whole, the oil infrastructure appears pretty much intact ­beyond the odd bit where they managed to do some damage." said Maj. Charlie Eastwood of the 


British 7th Armored 
Brigade at an oil field near 
Basra. 
Still, getting Iraq's oil to flow into world markets again will take time, said Robert Ebel, director of the energy programs at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. 
Until recently, Iraq had produced about 2.5 mil­lion barrels of crude a day, exporting 2 million barrels. The exports stopped when it became clear war was imminent. Buyers were unwilling to enter into contracts for oil that they might never see. 
Exports dwindled to almost nothing a week ago. The last shipment of Iraqi crude left the Ceyhan terminal in Turkey on Thursday, according to 
U.S. officials. Iraq's 1,685 wells in the Basra area in the south and around Kirkuk in the north have stopped pumping. 

The world's oil markets have hardly noticed. Oil prices have dropped from nearly $40 a barrel in mid-February for future delivery to $27 on Friday for oil to be delivered in May. 
The reason: There is plenty of oil. 
For weeks, Saudi Arabia has pumped as much as 
9.5 million barrels a day -1. 5 million barrels above its quota set by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Also, Saudi Arabia is said to have 50 million barrels in storage and in tankers already on the high seas. 
Other OPEC members have stepped up produc­tion as well. 
U.S. planners already are mapping strategy to get Iraq's oil flowing again. 
The Pentagon has con­tacted a number of major oil industry service com­panies -among them Halliburton Co.. once run by Vice President Dick Cheney -to repair any of Iraq's wells that are dam­aged and assess other facilities. 
One problem is that so little is known about the condition of Iraq's oil infrastructure. 
The last time an outsider produced an assessment was three years ago. It found "dilapidated" condi­tions because of poor maintenance, neglect and pressure on oil managers to keep production as high as possible, oil experts said. 

Uncertainty continues in wartime 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The start of war doesn't wipe away all the potentially stock-sinking uncertainty from Wall Street. Plenty of market-rattling unknowns still abound. most having to do with the potential fallout of war on American consumers and businesses -and the global economy. 
"The uncertainty that's still out there is less like a veil and more like a curtain," said Tim O'Neill, chief economist at BMO Financial Group in Toronto. 
With tensions mounting over Iraq and no resolution seemingly near, stocks slumped through much of the winter amid worries over what was to come. 
And then this past week, a rally set in once it seemed war was upon us. Investors cheered the clarity, trigger­ing Wall Street's longest winning streak in nearly three years. 
"From our point of view, while the markets have priced in the probabili­ty of war. they still expect the fight· ing to be short and successful," said Burt Hilton, head of U.S. equity derivatives at Citigroup Private Bank. "Investors haven't yet discounted the negative scenario for the conduct of the war itself." 

While most economists say the war itself won't damage the economy, it could exacerbate many of the prob­lems already weighing on the slug­gish economy. 
In the buildup to war, consumer confidence plunged and retail sales began to slow. Corporate executives further reduced their spending, which has been weak through most of the economic downturn over the last three years. 
Now with war here, questions loom over how war -especially a pro­longed battle -will affect the psyche of businesses and consumers. 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, March 24, 2003 
~, 200:~ Pricewalert1,)tJSeCt><.)pers LLP. "Pn~w.it.1rhouseCom>ers' ret,,r,; 10 Pncewalerhou~oopers LLP (I Delaw,,re limited hab1ht, partnership o,, as the conte-.t reqwr.is, the netw,,rk of rne,nt>,~r firms 01 Pn,:cwats1it1,111,;1~0,'>pe'r<; lnl,!rnanon,,1 L,rnil,><t ,',it'h <)! which ,s a separate and independent legal entity, W,;. ar? proud ro ti., an Atfirmative Action and Equal 0ppor1tmity Empk1yer, 
f'R/cEWATfRttousE(roPERS I 
VOTED 'i IDEAL EMPLOYER BY BUSINESS STUDENTS, UNIVEASUM UNDERGRADUATE STUDY, 2002 

Become part of a multi-disciplinary tax planning and compliance team to help us help companies determine the tax basis of damaged assets, and we'll help you build a career. 
For opportunities and information go to: 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere 
Look beyond the numbers. 

------------.------------------------~--~ 
1v1onday, March 24, 2003 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Chicago wins best picture; Brody, Kidmanwin acting awards 
musicals hit a critical peak 40 gun violence in America. 

Associated Press 
years ago with best-picture Moore, a harsh critic of the 
Oscar winners that included Bush administration, invited 

The razzle-dazzle musical "West Side Story," "My Fair his fellow documentary nomi­
satire "Chicago" won the Lady" and "The Sound of nees on stage, saying they
Academy Award as best pic­Music." Musicals gradually fell were there in "solidarity with 
ture Sunday, while top acting out of favor since the late me, because we like non-fic­
honors struck a more somber 1960s as moviegoers grew tion, and we are living in ficti­
note: Adrien Brody as a more sophisticated and studios tious times .... We live in a time 
Holocaust survivor in "The became convinced that audi­where we have a man who's 
Pianist" and Nicole Kidman as ences would no longer abide sending us to war for fictitious 
suicidal novelist Virginia Woolf characters who burst into reasons. in "The Hours." song. "We are against this war, Mr. In a ceremony overshadowed "Moulin Rouge," a best-pic­Bush. Shame on you, Mr. Bush. 
by the U.S. -led war in Iraq, ture nominee a year ago, whet­Shame on you," Moore said,
"Chicago" became the first ted the public's appetite for amid a mix of boos and 
musical since 1968's "Oliver!" musicals, and "Chicago" has applause from the crowd. 
to win the top Oscar and also packed theaters, with its Kidman 's Oscar win was a 
took home the most trophies, domestic haul of $134 million Hollywood ending for her after 
six. Its other awards were sup­and climbing. a turbulent couple of years.
porting actress for Catherine Zeta-Jones was the first per­She had a miscarriage in 2001 
Zeta-Jones, and four technical former to win an acting Oscar and broke up with husband 
honors including costume for a musical since Liza Tom Cruise, in whose shadow 
design and art direction. Minnelli and Joel Grey for she had lingered throughout
Veteran character actor 1972's "Cabaret." In "Chicago," their 11-year relationship. Chris Cooper won as best sup­Zeta-Jones played a jailed Kidman emerged as a bigporting actor for his role as vaudeville scamp scheming for star in her own right later that scraggly-haired, toothless hor­celebrity after slaying her hus­year with "Moulin Rouge,"ticultural poacher in band and sister. which earned her a best­"Adaptation." Due to deliver her second actress Oscar nomination, and 
Brody's victory was some­child with husband and Oscar the horror hit "The Others." In 
thing of a surprise, as was the winner Michael Douglas in a "The Hours," Kidman played awarding of the best-director few weeks, Zeta-Jones joined suicidal author Virginia Woolf, Oscar to Roman Polanski, also co-star and fellow supporting­wearing a fake nose to capturefor "The Pianist." Polanski has actress nominee Queen Latifah the writer's plain features. 
been an exile from the United in the Oscar performance of "I "Why do you come to the States since fleeing 25 years Move On," the best-song nomi­Academy Awards when the ago to avoid sentencing for nee from "Chicago." world is in such turmoil," having sex with a 13-year-old "My hormones are too way Kidman said. "Because art is girl. out of control to be dealing important. And because you about a family of Jews who a banner reading "God Bless 
"The Pianist" also won the with this," Zeta-Jones said believe in what you do and you leave Germany before World America." adapted-screenplay award for after winning. want to honor that, and it is a War II and settle on a farm in Planners scrapped the glitzyRonald Harwood, giving it a Brody played the title charac­tradition that needs to be 
Kenya. red-carpet arrival festivities. 
total of three, while Pedro ter in "The Pianist," based on upheld." 
The Japanese fantasy And some celebrities opposed
Almodovar earned the original­the real-life story of musician Cooper, a veteran character "Spirited Away" won the to the war wore peace pins. A screenplay prize for "Talk to Wladyslaw Szpilman, a Polish actor whose credits include 
award for animated feature few, Susan Sarandon and Tim Her." Jew who lived through World "American Beaut"" and "Lone film. The movie, which had a Robbins among them, showed 
World events sparked several War II by hiding from the Nazis Star," played a man on a mis­limited U.S. release last fall up in fuel-efficient gasoline­
emotional highlights, including in the Warsaw ghetto. sion to preserve rare orchids in and grossed a modest $5.5 mil­electric hybrid vehicles instead Brody's tearful speech and an "This film would not be pos­the film loosely based on 
lion, was a surprise winner of limousines as a statement attack on President Bush by sible without the blueprint pro­author Susan Orlean's "The against a field of nominees that against U.S. dependence on filmmaker Michael Moore, win­vided by Wladyslaw Szpilman," Orchid Thief." 
included $100 million overseas oil. 
ner of the best-documentary Brody said. "This film is a trib­"In light of all the troubles in Hollywood hits "Ice Age" and "Well, I'm glad they cut back Oscar for "Bowling for 
ute to his survival. this world, I wish us all peace," "Lilo & Stitch." on the glitz," host Steve Martin 
Columbine." "My experience making this Cooper said as he received his ABC News twice offered a quipped at the show's start. "Chicago" came in with a film made me very aware of award. brief war update, then "You probably noticed there 
leading 13 nominations, fol­the sadness and the dehuman­"Lose Yourself," from the switched back to the Oscars. was no fancy red carpet
lowed by the crime epic "Gangs ization of people in times of film "8 Mile" starring Eminem, Earlier, demonstrators on tonight. That'll send them a of New York" with 10. But war, and the repercussions of won the best-song Oscar for both sides of the war issue message.""Gangs" was shut out in every war. And whether you believe the rap star and his co-writers, gathered near Hollywood's After a few initial references category, including best direc­in God or Allah, may he watch Jeff Bass and Luis Resto. Kodak Theatre, site of the to the war and its effects on tor, where Martin Scorsese was over you, and let's pray for a "I think he's going to feel Oscars. the Oscars, Martin's opening a sentimental favorite. peaceful and swift resolution," great about the Oscar," Resto Anti-war protesters held monologue stuck to mocking
"Chicago" was adapted from Brody said, fighting back tears said backstage, after accepting signs such as "Bush Betrays nominees, other celebrities and the Bob Fosse stage hit about and drawing a standing ova­the award for the absent USA," "Bush: Dumb and Hollywood at large. And in a two Jazz Age murderesses tion. Eminem. "He's very proud Dangerous" and "Oscar for rarity, the show ran just over 
using their jailhouse celebrity Documentary winner about the song." Peace." Half a block from the its alloted 3 1/2-hour time. to further their singing "Bowling for Columbine" is The Oscar for foreign-lan­area where stars arrived, sup­Some past Oscar shows, includ­careers. Moore's alternately hilarious guage film went to the German porters of U.S. troops in Iraq ing last year's, have topped
Once a Hollywood staple, and horrifying examination of drama "Nowhere in Africa," chanted "USA, USA," and held four hours. 


•••·111cr1 
Tuesday, 3/25 ... 4:00PM ... ... Moose Krause Field ... (in Loftus if poor weather) 


All NOTRE DAME STUDENTS have a chance to walk away with cashn Be there EARLY to find out how..... 
$$$FREE$$$ 
~~~~ 

THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE IS MOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR ALL POSITIONS: 
24 Hour Lounge Monitors Ballroom Monitors Building Set Up Crew Information Desk Attendants LaFortune Building Managers ND Cake Service ND Express Attendants Program Assistants Sound Technicians Stepan Center Managers Student Activities Office Assistants 
Applications available outside the Student Activities Office, 315 Lafortune or on-line at www.nd.edu/-sao/office/jobs. 
APPLICATIONS DUE MARCH 28. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, March 24, 2003

page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
Tb, f,.,hp,,.Jn,r, D,u/y N,wtp.,,,,,. s,,.,,;,.t Not>T D,a,,~ -,IS.mt M•ry 's 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR TN CHIEF 
Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINF.SS MANAGER 
Scan Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hertler 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek CONTROLl.ER: Michael Flanagan 
SYSTEMS MANAGER: Ted Bangert 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWs.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VI.E\VPOINT.................. ...............................631-5303 
observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE............................................. , ..... ......631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0 ........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ............. ....631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:llobservtr.ndedu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obseroer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefAndrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The O1>,,rva (US!'~ 599 240) ii published Monday through F,idar e=pt during exam ~nd vacation p<riodi. A suhKripcion to The-ObSC'rvct h, S 100 for one-a.cadnni, 
year: SS5 for one' sanesrer.  
The Observer "  puhli,hcd at:  POSTMASTER  
024 Sou,h Dining Hall  Send adJras corrcnlons 10·  
Nom, D,mc. IN 465%  ·n., Obscrver  
P.O. lloxQ  
Penodic.11 p<>lif~C' pa1J a.t Notl"C' Dunc  Notre Dam<. IN 46556-0779  

and •dditional mailing offiu:!>. 
The-0hK"rva i~ ~ member of fhc Af.SO(;iarcd Prcu. Alt rcproducrion tighu .re rnlCO'cd. 

This is peace? 
According to a news story by Amy Webb in yesterday's Indianapolis Star. "about 140 war protestors" gathered in Monument Circle on Saturday after­noon, compared to "nine Bush adminis­tration supporters in Army fatigues." 
That's funny. I was in Indianapolis on Saturday after­noon (though not for the protests, or the basketball game; I had to be content to listen on the radio as the Irish whipped the Illini in the Battle of the Schools with "Fighting" Mascots). I drove by Monument Circle, and I didn't see 140 protestors. I know -I counted. There were exactly seven. Those who stood on the other side, literally and metaphorically speaking, numbered about 20. 
Now, I didn't get to Monument Circle until about 4:30 p.m., so perhaps I arrived too late to pass by the more populated part of the anti-war demon­stration. Maybe the other 133 protes­tors had to go to work, or maybe they hopped over to Starbucks to grab a latte or something. 
The more likely explanation is that they got bored, since there was no action. Many of the people who publicly oppose the war call themselves "activists" to deceive themselves and others by pretending that when they do something offensive or outrageous, they're helping to affect action. The problem is, as more and more people support military action to oust Saddam Hussein and disarm Iraq, the "activists" stoop to more and more extreme tactics. Although they congrat­ulate each other on their creativity on Internet sites, and share tales of their arrests like how they earned merit badges, they may unintentionally drive more normal people away from their cause. 

I want to make an important distinc­tion here, and an apology. In my last column, I lumped peaceful protestors in with the nutballs for the sake of effect, and I apologize for that, since they're nothing alike. I regret insinuat­ing that similarity, and painting people who are anti-war with so broad a brush. I really do respect people who demonstrate peacefully, for this or any other reason. They're exercising the same First Amendment rights that I have, not offending anyone and just believing in their ideals. I may disagree with the members of the Notre Dame community who held candlelight vigils at the Grotto or the peaceful demon­strators in Indianapolis, but I have absolutely no qualms about their actions. 

However, the anti-war movement does have some real whack-jobs. To find them, we have to escape "middle America" and go to places where you have to smack strangers upside the head to get their attention. Many of the demonstrations in major cities are sponsored by organizations with names like Act Now to Stop War and End Racism (ANSWER), whose Web site advocates halting "business as usual" during the war. A group called "Freeway Peace Virus Human Billboard Campaign" is trying to block highway exits for two hours every week. 
Actions like this are labeled "civil dis­obedience" as if they're walking in Mahatma Gandhi's sandaled footsteps, arm in arm with Martin Luther King and Henry David Thoreau. They're not. The protests are marked by a complete lack of civility. Witness these events: 
In San Francisco, those darn crazy "activists" demonstrated how the war made them sick by intentionally vomit­ing on the plaza of the Federal Building. More than 2,000 people have been arrested for shutting down traffic in the city. 

In New York, a group called Lesbians Against Boys Invading Anything (I'll let you do the abbreviation yourself) joined the march down Broadway. While the march started peacefully. thousands of protestors refused to disperse after their permits expired and began throw­ing rocks and spraying mace at police. According to the NYPD, 17 cops were injured and 91 people were arrested. 
Even in Chicago, 10,000 demonstra­tors shut down Lake Shore Drive and shouted, "Killers! Killers! Killers!" at a group of supporters they walked by. Five hundred arrests were made. 
This is peaceful? 
Peace advocates have historically been represented by a dove, but there's really nothing dovish about most of these events, unless there's some odd species of dove that shout in mega­phones and stage puke-ins on public property. Meanwhile, the so-called "hawks," despised as war-mongers by peace "activists," hold demonstrations of their own that. though they don't have the sheer numbers of the anti-war movement, are far more orderly. 
Fifteen thousand people attended the "Rally For America" in Auburn, Ind .. 120 miles northeast of Indianapolis. They gathered, prayed, sang songs and chanted and although they didn't real­ize it, they served as a stark contrast to the outrageous behavior at many "peace" demonstrations. 
Meanwhile, at least things were calm in Indianapolis. Except for the RCA Dome -I heard that place was rau­cous. 
Mike Marchand, '01, had Notre Dame in the Sweet 16 in his NCAA Tournament bracket. If he didn't look absolutely ridiculous with no hair. he would have shaved his head to support the Irish ballers. His e-mail address is Marchand.3@alumni. nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Sarah Nestor Shannon Nelligan Kevin Allen 
Viewpoint 

Patrick McElwee 
Graphics 
Mike Harkins 
Sports 
Bryan Kronk Kurt Bogaard Christine Armstrong 
Scene 
Emily Howald 
Lab Tech 
Lisa Velte 
NDT0DAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you think people should protest the war in Iraq? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Nonviolence is a powerful andjust weapon, which cuts without wounding and ennobles the man who wields it. It fr; a sword that heals." 
Dr. Martin Luther King_ Jr. civil rights activi.st 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, March 24, 2003 
page 11 

Effects ofwar felt in an Islamic republic 
The last few days have been long. I am mentally exhausted. The United States and Britain started the war in Iraq. I have lived in a village in an Islamic Republic for 22 months. I final­ly felt comfortable, certain about my 
Maite Uranga 

place and comfort­
able in the rela­
tionships that I 
established. 
Life in Africa 

Work was easy. The volunteers in Mauritania pre­pared for this since early September. We all knew exactly what we were supposed to do and when. From what I see and hear, everything went exactly as planned. Really, in many ways it has so far been anti-climatic and I hope it continues to be. 
Despite all this my ability to form complete thoughts is weak right now, let alone an 800-word column. I was also here through Sept. 11. I thought I knew how this time would go. But, this time feels different. The threat of vio­lence or direct harassment against me is very, very unlikely. But, there was a coldness in the weeks leading up to war and especially the last two days. Or perhaps there is the lack of com­plete support (that most people did show after the Sept. 11 attacks) to off­
set the cold reactions. 
Today is Friday and my region choose to stay close to home on the advice of our host families. This war is so real to me. They let all the schools out a week early for spring break to cut down on protests. The police made all the European and American expa­triates check in at their local police station. The day before this all started we went to the police station and learned about safety and security. They gave us multiple cell phone num­bers, including a direct line to the police chief and promise of police pro­tection whenever and wherever we needed it. After that, we went to the mayor's office and then the prefect's office. Both were in meetings. When they saw four American kids walk in, they cleared out the room. 
Suddenly many of the shop keepers who I saw nearly every day in the mar­ket make me nervous. Many have tur­bans and beards. Even after living here for two years, I realize how deeply rooted some of my biases are ­perhaps largely as a result of the American media using turbans and beards as the stereotypical symbol of violence. I see pictures of American tanks rolling across the desert and it 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Quality of teaching at an all-time high 
Fathers Hesburgh, Joyce, Malloy and Poorman will quit trying to make Notre Dame a "great research uni­versity" while maintaining Notre Dame's tradition of strong undergraduate teaching and learning when they hear me say it, but the quality of undergraduate educa­tion at Notre Dame has improved tremendously since the "great leap forward" a quarter of century or so ago. 
Of course Professor Charles Rice and I disagree about almost everything, so what else is new? 
This is one of those debates where what's old counts for something. Unlike Professor Rice, I'm a graduate of this University (science pre-med, 1953). I know what the University was like in the "good old days." I came back and joined the philosophy faculty in 1959 and have spent the intervening years in inter-disciplinary research and teaching requiring me to maintain con­tact with faculty and programs in many departments in the humanities and the sciences. Some very perceptive children (six in all) of mine were in continuous atten­dance at the University between 1974 and 1992. Finally. unlike Professor Rice, I actually teach Notre Dame undergraduates. 
Every bit of information at my disposal indicates that the quality of learning and teaching in all departments in Arts and Letters and Science, the two colleges my children and I know best, has been steadily improving since 1977 and is currently at an all-time high. 
We're not perfect yet, but Professor Rice is pointing in the wrong direction. For starters. we need academic administrators who can think outside the "business model" box, and we need Residence Life administrators whose understanding of gender relations has outgrown the "same-sex play group" style of small children. 
We've got a long way to go, but our problem is not that our dreams are too big. 
Edward Manier 
philosophy professor South Bend March 20 
looks like it could all be about a half a 
mile from my house here. 
I listen to the BBC on my radio. I heard about protests and riots in Islamic countries that started after the Friday prayer. At the same time, the Call to the Mosque went off in my vil­lage. About half an hour later I heard the sounds of a crowd. My heart dropped. I asked my Mom across the compound what it was and she said it was the soccer game. Every time my cell phone rings, I expect something to have happened on the other end. Usually they are as neurotic as I am as we play the waiting game. 
Tonight I went to another family's house for dinner. Al-Jazeera, the CNN of the Arabic world, was on, and I saw pictures of downtown Baghdad under attack and the Arab version of events. Western media shows Iraqi soldiers with their hands in the air. Arabic tele­vision shows close-ups of the destruc­tion in downtow(l Baghdad. The truth lies somewhere in the middle. It is a big roller-coaster ride with hundreds of unknowns and a very uncertain out­come. I have heard no predictions of time frame and every day seems so long. 
Even today, when I stayed close to home people talked about it and asked me what I thought. The woman to 

whose house I go to fill up my water 
bucket seemed to think that I had an 
inside track and asked, "Did you get 
him yet?" It is unnerving to have to 
explain my beliefs and my country to 
people -especially to family and 
friends whom I thought I knew well a 
couple of days ago. 
Again the question arises as to why I continue to be here. Nothing threatens me, but there is so much to be cautious about. I am supposed to call the police whenever I leave my house. I am in contact with the main office in Nouakchott twice a day and still worry what will be said each time. I wake up after nine hours of hours of sleep with my body still exhausted. This country is still recovering from the last Gulf War. I stay because if I leave I feel like that is a symptom of the country going backwards. I stay because this is now my home. 
Maite Uranga graduated from Notre Dame in 2000 as an anthropology and go1Jernment major. She is currently a Peace Corps volunteer in the Islamic Republic ofMauritania. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
A defense of the strike against Iraq 
We would like to establish the purpose of "Operation Persian Gulf War II," hereinafter cor­rectly called Operation Iraqi Freedom. One of the most com­mon protests to the war is "No Blood for Oil," and it seems that a letter by Jessica Needles on March 21 echoes this sentiment. While it is easy to fall into this trap, this war is actually being waged for the purpose of freeing a people from a self-serving dic­tator who has continually ignored U .N. resolutions and other forms of diplomacy for over twelve years. By disregard­ing world opinion and by keep­ing and pursuing weapons of mass destruction, Saddam Hussein has become a legitimate threat to the United States and to the world. 
Ms. N·eedles claims that "the Bush administration has destroyed U.S. foreign relations by ignoring our allies in the United Nations." We find this claim to be unfounded since the 
U.S. is acting with a coalition more then 40 members strong. It was President Bush who initially secured a U.N. resolution giving Iraq a last chance to comply with weapons inspectors. As it became clear that Iraq was deceiving the U .N. and all means of diplomacy had failed, force was the only viable option. 
The U.S. is completely within its rights as a sovereign nation to defend itself from outside threats. While Ms. Needles seems to think that there is no "meaningful" reason to go to war, we believe that the protec­tion of our nation and the libera­tion of an oppressed people are certainly meaningful enough. 
U.S. intelligence has shown that not only does Iraq possess both chemical and biological 
weapons; it also has attempted 
to acquire the components to 
produce nuclear warheads. 
Additionally. it is known that 
Saddam has used such weapons 
on his own people in the past 
and it is therefore feasible to 
assume that he could use them 
on the rest of the world or sell 
them to terrorist organizations. 

While Ms. Needles believes that the Iraqis have no desire to be liberated. it is our under­standing that this is not the case. Clearly one can not believe state-sponsored rallies to gauge Iraqi public opinion regarding Saddam. In light of recent reports that liberated Iraqis are thanking U.S. troops, it seems that a majority is in favor of being free. Under an oppressive regime such as Saddam's, it is impossible to discern the desires of the people and it is for this reason that freedom is impera­tive. 
In regards to Ms. Needles's position that the U.S. is attack­ing Iraq for its oil, it is helpful to understand the foreign ties of the second-most oil rich nation in the world. While most assume that Iraq is one of the largest suppliers of oil to the U.S., only 

8.5 percent of all U.S. crude oil imports actually come from Iraq, as reported by the Department of Energy. 
According to globalpolicy.org, France is the No. 1 European trading partner with Iraq under the U.N. oil for food program. In fact, the French oil company TotalFinaElf owns the rights to 25 percent of all Iraqi oil fields. These rights are believed to be worth in excess of $400 billion. In addition. Russia is the world's No. 1 trading partner with Iraq. Iraq owes Russia more than $8 billion in debts from the Soviet 

era and has made deals with the 
Russian oil company Lukoil to 
develop its West Qurna and 
other lucrative oil fields. Both 
nations realize that these con­
tracts may not be honored by the 
new Iraqi government and 
therefore are hesitant to support 
a regime change. 
The U.S. has repeatedly stated that it will not claim Iraqi oil as its own but will instead use it for reconstruction costs. The oil in Iraq is to be owned by the Iraqi citizens and will not be used by the U.S. to pay for our war debts. These debts. estimated at between $80 to 100 billion are being accounted for in the cur­rent budget debate in congress. As recently as Friday, the Senate voted to trim $100 billion in tax cuts to President Bush's "friends" to help pay for the war. In our minds, the cost of war is not an issue. We don't believe that a price tag can be placed on freedom and security. 
We don't believe that normally expressing one's first amend­ment rights is unpatriotic. However, we believe that at times like these when debate has ceased and the Congress has passed a resolution to go to war, protests are in fact unpatriotic. We find it hard to believe that one can support the troops with­out supporting the cause for which they are giving their lives. These troops deserve our full support and nothing less. 
In closing, please remember that we are merely "a misguid­ed" bunch willing to blindly place our trust in our President. 
Ben Haney, Beth Monteleone and Jacque Wilson 
sophomores Washington, D.C. March 23 

THE 
OBSERVER 

ure 
page 12 Monday, March 24, 2003 

MICHELLE OTTO/The Observer 

By CHRISTIE BOLSEN 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Latin Expressions 2003 is appropri­ately entitled "Locura Latina." 
Meaning "madness" or "insanity," Latin Expressions has become an event on campus that can be relied on each year to showcase cultural enter­tainment at its best. It promises to be no different this year, with an impres­sive array of talented artists perform­ing dance, singing and poetry acts 
"It's about 

lined up. 
The perform­understanding the ance premiered 
culture a little more, 

in 1990, with 
the different types of

the purpose of raising funds music and the way for a scholar­
things go socially.

ship to be pre­
People can also see

sented to a local Latino that there is diversity high school 
at Notre Dame and 

senior who 
that anyone can be in 

wanted to attend Notre it because we're open Dame. Now an 
to everybody ... 

annual event over a decade old, the partici­Mlguel Luna pation and sophomore attendance level has 
increased dramatically, making it nec­ple trying out for only ten openings. essary to move it out of its former With such gifted competition vying for small-scale venue of the Hesburgh these two performance slots that Library Auditorium. The spirit of the linger in the minds of the audience, production has changed as well. from the beginning and ending to Locura 
Locura Latina: 
ore 
This year's Latin Expressions brings together a wide va 
a politically charged and angst dominat­ed perform­ance to a cele­bration of being Latino at Notre Dame. 
L o c u r a Latina begins with six cou­ples that dance in both the 
open­ing act a n d t h e 
Cl OS ­
i  n  g  
a  C  t  .  
F  o  r  
t  h  e  

organ­izers, this is one of t h e most difficult portions of the event to put together. because there are so many talented dancers to choose from. These dancers audition at the same time as the rest of the acts, and are then paired up to open and end the show. 
There were close to 50 peo­Latina should be memorable and exciting. Miguel Luna, a sophomore from Siegfried, and Cecilia Lesmes, a senior from Lewis. are the commis­sioners in charge choreographing the opening acts and dance in them as well. 
Luna feels that there are multiple objectives and themes in the produc­tion as a whole. 
"It's about understanding the cul• ture a little more, the different types of music and the way things go social­ly. People can also see that there is 


Members rehearse for the Latin Expressions late Sunday night, practicing their dance moves so that they may perform dances llke those of years past. 
diversity at Notre Dame and that any­one can be in [Latin Expressions] because we're open to everybody. There's no discrimination," Luna said. 
"In high school I danced and was in Latino club. We had International Night where the different clubs put on performances, and last year I danced in the opening and closing act. I was approached this year to be a commis­sioner and I wanted something differ­ent and to make it enjoyable for everybody," Luna said. 
The next act to take the stage is the Irish Dance Group. Co-executive director April Garcia, a sophomore from Lyons, feels that the decision to include the Irish dancers was impor­tant not only because of their ability but also because it highlights the diversity of the student body and stu­dents who have more than one ethnic background. The Irish dancers were adamant about being as Latino as possible, dancing to Latin music, since the organizers feel that as long as the acts express Latino culture they com• plement the production as a whole. An interesting aspect of Celtic dancing is that it does have roots with flamen­co dancing, making it even more suit­ed for the production. 
Mariachi ND. a student-run organi­zation on campus, will be performing twice in Locura Latina. Also perform­ing will be individual dance and singing acts that composed their own acts, and a poetry performance. The poetry reading is focused on the theme of being the Latino woman. Rounding out the first half is Ballet Folklorico. Although the group's instructor is from outside the University, the organization is basical­ly run by students. One of their dances will be from the state of Jalisco in Mexico, "La Negra." Their other dance is to a type of music 
called nortefio, and is usually done in 
couples. 
THE 
OBSERVER. 


Monday, March 24, 2003 page 13 
madness for 
arch 
riety oftalented acts celebrating the Latin community 
One of the individual dance acts is an extremely creative dance by three girls, entitled "Malaghena." This is a Brazilian influenced dance, with much "Shakira-style" hip movement. Garcia feels this performance exhibits a central objective of Latin Expressions, which is to present the many faces of Latino culture. A stu­dent who knows about being Mexican-American might not know about other parts of Latin back­ground, and can come to the per­formance to experience new kinds of Latino heritage, as well as students who know nothing about Latino cul­ture. 
Troop ND, a hip-hop influenced dance group that makes up their own routines and learns their dances from each other, is another exciting addition. 
"They're able to be in so many pro­ductions because they're able to mold themselves to whatever the produc­tion needs," Garcia said. "If we say we have a Latin show, they'll dance to Latin music and incorporate Latin dance moves." 
Another act that brings variety to the show is Coro Primavera, which is the Spanish choir that generally sings at Spanish Mass. Their partici­pation in the show will include songs that are more contemporary than the ones they would sing in church, since this is an opportunity to expand their students to let them experience a slice 

repertoire. 
There will also be the presenta­tion of the Julian Samora award, which is given to a faculty member that has influ­enced and helped Latino students at Notre Dame. The recipient of the award is someone who has also con­tributed to the Latino community 
in  South  Bend  
and  at  Notre  
Dame.  

A tradition for Latin Expressions is for it to coin­
"It's meant to get students who are unable to visit the University to come and figure out whether it is the right place for them. These productions are meant to say 'Look what we can do. · The show is very broad. You can come here and get more cultured than you were before." 
April Garcia sophomore 
of Notre Dame life. There have been objections to lining up cultural events 
while  prospective  
Notre  Dame  stu­ 
dents,  who  are  

deciding whether to attend the University or not, are visiting because it creates a false impression of campus life. 
"There are a lot of complaints that Spring Vis is one big, fat lie, and that Notre Dame is excep­tionally diverse, especially for stu­dents that come from a much more diverse 

cide with Spring Visitation Weekend. background. But that's not the point which is the weekend when the of Spring Vis. It's not to make Notre University hosts minority high school Dame look like a very diverse place, it's not meant to lie to the student and say that this happens all the time. It's meant to get students who are unable to visit the University to come and fig­ure out whether it is the right place for them. These productions are meant to say, 'Look what we can do.· The show is very broad. You can come here and get more cultured than you were before. As the years go by and as the administration strives for more diversity, it also helps the show broad­en its appeal," Garcia said. 

The organizers emphasize the point of expressing a wide spectrum of forms of Latino culture, so that the Notre Dame community can learn more no matter what, even if they have extensive knowledge about one kind of culture. 
"For instance, I didn't learn salsa and merengue until I came here, and they're staples of someone else's cul­ture. Or different kinds of food. This weekend is our one big event, and it's meant to bring the entire Latin com­
munity together and show the kids at Spring Vis that these are the kinds of events that we can have, and this is where you can express yourself. While bringing in all the Spring Vis kids, you're doing the same thing for the students are Notre Dame, who know a little bit, or nothing, or even more than you do," Garcia said. 
While this is a celebration of Latin culture, all stu­dents and members of the 
.. 


community are welcomed and encour­aged to attend to learn about .the cul­ture. Oftentimes, people have a very narrow view of the Latino culture, which is why the production is set up to expose audience members to a much broader view. The production is an easy outlet not only for partici­pants to show off their skills and knowledge, but also for others to learn and experience new back­grounds. 
This year's sponsors are La Alianza, Institute for Latino Studies, Multicultural Student Programs & Services and Saint Mary's Student Diversity Board. There are also other contributors, which is why the organ­izers feel this is such an important opportunity for more of the Notre Dame and South Bend community to see the culture and talent of students and find more ideas of ways to con­tribute to diversity and the University. 
Audience members can expect to be educated and also highly entertained as they watch fellow students showing off their talents. A word of advice from both co-executive directors, Garcia and Michelle Hogan, is to "watch out for the emcees." 
It's going to be madness. 
locura Latina. Latin Expressions 2003. is Friday, .March 28th at 7:30 
p.m. in the Century Center. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Box Office. $5. For complimentary shuttles, inquire within. 
Contact Christie Boisen at cbolscn@nd.edu 
Monday, March 24, 2003 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS NCAA BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
Orangemen overcome 12-point deficit, crush Cowboys 
shifted the momentum. and that This time, the deficit was

. Big East teams 
carried over into the second more than a temporary setback improve to 8-0 in half. Syracuse outscored the for the Hoosiers (21-13}, who tournament games Cowboys 66-42 after trailing 14-lost in the championship game 
2. to Maryland last year. Oklahoma State went up 43-Bracey Wright, who scored all 

Associated Press 
40 before Hakim Warrick hit of his 17 points in the second BOSTON two free throws. Then Anthony half against Alabama, had nine Never count out Carmelo put the Orangemen ahead for of his 11 in the second against Anthony and Syracuse's other good with a 3-pointer. He fol­Pitt -not enough. Coverdale, freshmen. lowed that with a layup that who led Indiana with 23 in the 
And don't write off the Big made it 47-4 3 by the time first round, had just six points East, either. The conference McNamara re-entered the game on seven shots against Julius remained unbeaten in the NCAA with 8:36 left. Page's defense. 
tournament when Syracuse Just six seconds later, Leach scored 15, and Wright overcame a disastrous start and McNamara hit one of his four 3-added eight rebounds for the beat Oklahoma State 68-56 pointers for a 50-43 lead. Then Hoosiers, but they also turned Sunday in the East Regional. he hit two more, stretching the the ball over 16 times for 18 Pitt 
The second-round victory lead to 59-50 with 4:02 remain­points and got outrebounded sends the Orangemen to Albany, ing and 64-52 with 1 :56 to go. 28-17. N.Y., and the round of 16 next It was the 11th consecutive 
Friday against the winner of Pittsburgh 74, Indiana 52 victory for Pitt and the sixth Sunday's game between Wake Pittsburgh has a Steel Curtain time in seven games that the Forest and Auburn. defense again, thanks to coach Big East champions held an 
Syracuse (26-5) will be joined Ben Howland. opponent under 60 points. The by three other teams from the His Panthers completely wore only exception was an 87-61 Big East, 8-0 in the tournament. down Indiana in a 7 4-52 victory first-round victory over Wagner. The conference received only Sunday to reach the round of 16 Indiana trailed just 22-21 four bids to the NCAA, which for the second consecutive year. when Brown and Knight each excluded one of its division win­Jaron Brown scored 20 points. hit a 3-pointer to make it a ners, Boston College. and Brandin Knight added 1 7 seven-point game. Brown 
Pittsbur.gh advanced with a points and seven assists for sec­blocked Wright's shot with 3:08 
7 4-52 victory over Indiana in ond-seeded Pittsburgh, which left in the half, then Knight stole 
Sunday's first game in Boston, will play No. 3 seed Marquette the ball from Wright and hit 
while Connecticut and Notre in the Midwest Regional semifi­another 3 to make it 31-21 
Dame won Saturday. nals Thursday in Minneapolis. heading into the break. 
Second-seeded Syracuse's Knight also had five steals, Indiana was within seven 
chances of moving on seemed and Chevon Troutman grabbed before Brown dunked to make it 
bleak as No. 6 Oklahoma State nine rebounds to go with his 10 52-43 with 6:49 left, then Page 
(22-10) rushed to a 14-2 lead, points as the Panthers (28-4) stole the ball at the other end. 
running after nearly every miss did most of their damage on He hit a 3-pointer to give the 
by the Orangemen. But they defense. Panthers a 12-point lead, and it 
trailed only 31-25 after scoring Drawing on the Steel Curtain was never within single digits (24-9). The Cardinal relied on their 

the last seven points of the half. defense that brought the city again. The Huskies (23-9) advance to outside shooting, and the strate­
Syracuse came back even four Super Bowl titles in the the South Regional in San gy worked in the first half when 
though Anthony and Gerry 1970s, Howland used a bulky Connecticut 85, Stanford 74 Antonio, where they will play they made seven 3-pointers. But 
McNamara, the nation's highest frontcourt rotation of Ontario Connecticut coach Jim the Texas-Purdue winner on they shot only 1-for-7 from long 
scoring freshman duo, each Lett, Donatas Zavackas and Calhoun challenged his two best Friday. range in the second half. 
missed all six of their shots in Troutman. players at halftime to be more Calhoun has urged Gordon to "If we had continued to shoot 
the half. Listed at an average of 6-foot-aggressive. Ben Gordon and be more selfish offensively, and the ball well, we could have 
But McNamara finished with 7 and 246 pounds -but proba­Emeka Okafor answered the he followed the advice at just stayed in there," Stanford coach 
14 points, despite missing near­bly heavier -they pushed call and sent the Huskies to the the right moment, penetrating Mike Montgomery said. 
ly six minutes to have a wound around Indiana's taller but round of 16. to the basket and hitting four of Rashad Anderson hit a 3­
bandaged above his nose. And spindly George Leach (6-foot-Gordon scored 18 of his 29 five 3-pointers. pointer to give the Huskies a 72­
Anthony, perhaps the nation's 11, 240) and Jeff Newton (6-9, points in the second half, and Trailing 54-51, Connecticut 64 lead, and after Barnes 
top freshman, had 13 points. 225). Okafor dominated the offensive went on a 14-4, run highlighted missed a three. Gordon came up 
Freshman Billy Edelin, who is Indiana (21-13) trailed by one glass to lead fifth-seeded by Tony Robertson's alley-oop with his most spectacular move 
sometimes overlooked, had two before going scoreless for the Connecticut to an 85-7 4 victory dunk off a nice feed from of the game. 
outstanding halves -scoring last 6:33 of the first half, com­over No. 4 Stanford in the South Gordon. Okafor converted four He took the ball inside and 
12 points in the first and eight mitting five turnovers during Regional on Saturday. offensive rebounds into baskets was blocked by Childress. He 
in the second for a game-high that span while missing five Gordon, held to 14 points in a in the opening eight minutes of recovered the ball outside, took 
20. shots -mostly long, contested poor-shooting opening win over the second half. it back into the lane and scored 
The Cowboys were led by Ivan 3-point attempts. At the same BYU, shot 8-for-14 and made all Okafor had to go find the ball on a double-pump scoop shot to 
Mcfarlin with 14 points and time, Brown had a blocked shot nine of his free-throw attempts. because Stanford wouldn't take put the Huskies up 10. 
Victor Williams, whose 1 3 and a 3-pointer, and Knight Okafor had 18 points and 15 it to the nation's leading shot "I didn't expect my shot to get 
points were far below his added two steals and a pair of rebounds, including six offen­blocker. blocked. I just erased the mem­
career-high 29 points in a first­3s to give Pitt a 31-21 halftime sive boards in the second half. "Coach made a point of telling ory right away," Gordon said. "I 
round win over Pennsylvania. lead. Calhoun yelled at Gordon for me I had zero offensive tried to go back down the lane 
Oklahoma State, which was Indiana, a seventh seed, had a his passive perimeter defense in rebounds. If we wanted to win I · and make something happen." 
18-1 when leading at halftime, similar stumble at a similar the first half, sending him to the had to be a major part of it," Barnes hit four threes in the 
got off to a strong start, taking time of its opening-round game bench with a light shove. Okafor said. "I got a rebound first half as the Cardinal took a 
advantage of Syracuse's misses against Alabama before over­Julius Barnes scored 23 and the first score, I got the sec­44-40 lead. Barnes was held to 
and turnovers. coming an 11-point halftime points, and Justin Davis ond score and I realized this is seven points on five shots in the 
But the spurt by the deficit to beat the Crimson Tide bounced back from a scoreless working. So I kept doing it and second half as the Huskies Orangemen late in the first half 67-62. opener to score 21 for Stanford doing it." denied him the ball. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICE 
Taking the June LSAT? The August MCAT? Enroll in a Kaplan course by March 31st and get $100 back! Call for details. 
1-800-KAP-TESt 
FOR SALE 
Laptop Computer $250, Dell Computer (with mon, kb, mouse, Win98) $150. 
229-3333 
FOR RENT 
DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR-WELL MAIN­TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAM­PUS-STUDENT NEIGHBOR­HOODS-SECURITY SYSTEMS­MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL­WASHERS/DRYERS CALL TODAY-HOUSES GOING FAST!!! -CONTACT KRAMER (547) 315-5032 OR (574) 234-2436 ­ALSO LEASING FOR 2004-2005 VISIT OUR WEBSITES @ DOMUSKRAMER.COM 
HOUSE AVAILABLE furn. 4b2ba, walk to campus 1o5225@aol.com 
STUDENT RENT AL HOUSE 3-4 OR 5 PERSON 2 STORY. 8 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW EVERYTHING. WIRED FOR COM­PUTERS ECT. AVAIL. SUMMER OR FALL. 235-3655 
3-4 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR RENT: CALL Anlan Properties, LLC 532-1896 
Very nice 3 bdrm home. Avail. June 1st for summer or fall. East Race dist.near Corbys Pub & St. Joe Church. Incl. alarm syst, washer/dryer. Can email picts. Call Joe Crimmins @ 273-0002(h) or 514-0643(cell) or JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com. $650/m negotiable. 
HOUSE AVAILABLE furn. 4b2ba, walk to campus.jo5225@aol.com 
Summer Sub-lease 1 bedroom apartment-fully furnished-cable tv.• 5 minutes from campus/good neigh­borhood. $350 a month. 
Call 229-1691 
Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus. mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 
www.mmmrentals.com 
1-Bdrm apts 1/2 mile from ND. $500/mo. 283-0325 Summer Sublease-Great House 4 Bedroom 3 Bath A/C Garage Call 243-9753 

LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF ND 2773097 
2 Rms(1 fum),Lg house.nice area. Spa.tanning bed 229-3333. 
Lakeview Ashland/Belmont two good-sized bedrooms, nice closets, Hardwood Floors, bright apartment, near el, heat included! May/1 , $1100/mo or 1340 (rehabbed) 773/472-7775 
PERSONAL 
Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE. Are you pregnant and dont know what to do? Loving, open-hearted, finan­cially stable woman would like to consider adopting a baby. Free counseling, living expenses and medical expenses. This can be a good thing for you and your baby. Discreet and legal. Call 904-824­7006 

Monday, March 24, 2003 page 15
The Observer . SPORTS 

HIGH SCHOOL BASKETBALL 
James finishes high school career 


Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Before his final high school 
game tipped off, LeBron James 
walked slowly toward the Akron 
Saint Vincent-Saint Mary student 
section holding his finger in the 
air to signal "No. 1." 
Whether he was referring to 
himself or his team doesn't mat­
ter. Both are correct. 
James, likely to be the top pick in this year's NBA draft, scored 25 points and had 11 rebounds as the Fighting Irish (25-1) won their third state championship in four years, beating Kettering Alter 40-36 Saturday in Ohio's Division II. 
"It's just all joy,"_James said when asked whether he was relieved that the Irish had capped their stellar four-year run with another title. The 6­foot-8 senior was ruled ineligible by the Ohio High School Athletic Association for accepting two free sports jerseys from a Cleveland clothing store. A judge later reinstated him, reducing his punishment to a two-game suspension. 
"I think of my career like a roller coaster," James said. "There's been ups, there's been downs, there's been double loops. 
James seemed loose and care­free in the jammed postgame news conference. ½'hen asked about his plans, such as whether he'll declare for the NBA draft, James smiled, ducked down to the microphone and said, "What's next is ... party tonight." 
Alter had been beaten 7 3-40 by the Irish earlier this season. The Knights weren't about to get blown out again, slowing the game and refusing to let the Irish push the tempo. 
It didn't matter. James was too spectacular and just too dominant when he needed to be. The only three­time Mr. Basketball in Ohio history was far better than every­one on the court. 
James made a pair of free throws to put the Irish up 31-25 with about 5?minutes left. The inbounds pass was tipped and James gathered it in and nailed a long 3­pointer, holding his follow-through and again holding one finger in the air. 
Reuters Akron St. VincentwSt. Mary High School's LeBron James reacts to a last minute bas­ket In the Ohio high school championship. 
The outcome looked like it was decided, but Alter wasn't done. Alter came within 40-36 with less than a minute to play on a three-point play by Adam Gill. 
James then threw away a pass. Alter missed a 3-pointer and Romeo Travis was fouled after pulling down the rebound. He missed the free throw, but James got the rebound and passed to Dru Joyce III, who dribbled out the clock and threw the ball straight up toward the ceiling. 
The game opened with SVSM's usual theatrics. James slipped past his man, took a pass down low and threw down a two­handed dunk 19 seconds in, drawing cheers and gasps from the state-tournament record crowd of 18,454. 
NHL 

Wild clinch their first play-off berth 
Associated Press 

ST. PAUL, Minn. 
The Minnesota Wild accom­plished two significant things Sunday night. One took 21 sec­onds, and the other was three years in the making. 
Minnesota clinched the first playoff appearance in their 3­year history as Matt Johnson scored 21 seconds into the game to spark a 4-0 victory over the Detroit Red \\lings. 
Minnesota becomes the third expansion team in the past 30 years to advance to the NHL playoffs in its third season of existence. The San Jose Sharks lost in the 1994 conference semifinals, and the Florida Panthers advanced to the 1996 Stanley Cup finals. 
Dwayne Roloson had 33 saves for his fourth shutout of the season as Minnesota extended its winning streak to three games. Detroit had its six-game winning streak snapped. 
"We played so well as a team tonight," said Roloson. "There weren't many second or third shots, and I saw most of them." 
On the opening shift of the game, Johnson, the Wild's penalty minutes leader, was alone in front of the Red Wings' net when a puck hit the skate of Detroit's Darren McCarty and bounced to Johnson's stick. He fired a rising shot that eluded the blocker of Detroit goalie 
Manny Legace for the fastest 
goal at the start of a game in 
team history. 
"It was certainly a bad way to start," said Red Wings coach Dave Lewis, whose team won 4· 2 in St. Louis on Saturday. "I thought in the second we played better, but we weren't as crisp as yesterday. I don't have an answer why." 
Sergei Zholtok gave Minnesota a two-goal lead in the second period after taking a pass from Marian Gaborik and finding himself alone in front of the Detroit net. Zholtok faked a backhand shot, which caused Legace to dive, then lifted a forehand shot over the goalie. 
The Red Wings' attempts to come back were hampered when they were whistled for a pair of penalties in the final five minutes. Minnesota's Antti Laaksonen scored an empty-net goal with 1 :41 to play, and Jeremy Stevenson scored with 
18.5 seconds left to clinch the victory. Afterward, the Red Wings were complimentary of the Wild, whom they face again on Tuesday in Detroit. 
"They play a good system like the top teams in the league," said Luc Robitalle. "They stick to their system no matter what and it's paid off. They seem to find a way to win a lot of games." 
Legace had 17 saves for Detroit. 
"Thank you!" and "Congratulations!" to the over 200 students and staff of the 
.fl_ppafacliia, Cliifdren and<.Poverty, Jfo[y Cross 911.issions: Hispanic :Jvlinistry, Wasliington, ::Migrant, £ 'Jlrclie, and Living tlie qospe{ofLife 
Seminars who represented The University of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College, and Holy Cross College during Spring Break mservice and experiential learning at 20 sites across the nation and in Canada. 
Katy Garcia Anne Lim Kevan O'Neill Jacquelyn Werling Kelly Rich Paul Graham Monica Garvey Andrew Litschi Katie Olson Jessica White Kevin Sandberg, CSC Jackie Heap Kristen Gehring ShanwJan Liu Jennifer Osterhage Zachariah Wiggins Lisa Beth Skalla Katherine Kennedy Kerrie Glass J.B. Long Mary Emily Paladino Michael Wolz Alicia Lachiondo Sara Goodman Jennifer Lucado Sarah Palandech John Wrenn Washiniton Seminar Patrick McElwee Estenban Granados Katherine Lutkus Kathy Peterson Andrea Wysocki Katherine M. Ball Marisa Robles Mike Grow Lindsay Lutz Megan Price Yaqoob Bangash Adarely Trejo Blake Haan Tiffany Mah Brittany Radcliffe Children and Povem Justin Brandon James Tyrrell Kevin Haas Ben Marley Pete Rakowski Seminar Andrew Deberry Daphne Zeringue Ryan Hackett Erin Marx Laura Reardon Meghan Anderson 
Mary Ann Doughton John Harding Brian Masse Danielle Reyes Lauren Chamblee Julia Fitzpatrick 

Livin& the Gospel of 
Annie Hastert Shannon Masse Jenny Rinehart Teresa Hansen Peter Kralovec 

Life Seminar 
Lindsay Hastert John McCarthy Thomas Samaras Colleen Harkins Jonathan Lorenzo Kyle Bertoli Christopher Heck Sean McConnell Mehgan Schaffner Stephen Keppel Michael Poffenberger Nicole Brinck Emily Hellmuth Katie McCoy Charles Schnorr Kathryn Lent Peter Quaranto Laura Chacon Patrick Hobbins Peter McCullough John M. Sengenberger II Daniel Parziale Michael Quisao Brian Haffey Angela Hoclzle Michael McCusker R. Joseph Shonkwiler Jennifer Prins Erica Ruddy Patricia Keppel Brandon Hollihan Catherine McGeeney Ruth Stefanski Yunji Willa Qian Silvana Zepeda Catherine Kolf Erin Home Mary Meehan Elizabeth Stelloh Mark Rossi Brad Leeman Timothy Jaeger Elizabeth Melchor Molly Swanston Jane Sloss L'Arche Seminar Shannon Oglesby Meg Jones Brigitte Meyer Meredith Sweeney Sara Sweeney Brian Cruz Jack Savino Heather Kimmins Neal Michalik Peter Talevich Leoncio Gil Andrea Swinehart Jason Koralewski Jim Milan John Thibodeau Holl Cross Mission: Morgan Monte 

Himanshu Kothari Jane Mitsch Roxanna Trevino HisRanic Ministn: Rebecca Walter Danielle Kraft Shannon Murphy Teresa Tumbaga Jennifer Aguirre Katherine Zakas Kelly Lanktree Robert Murphy Allison Yater Elizabeth Christian Katie Laskasky Dan Murphy Michael Vitlip Patrick McGowan, CSC Mie;rant Seminar Kristen Leary Kelly Ninneman Tommy Weber Matthew Mitchel] Melissa Alvarez Nicole Lee Brendan O'Connor Annie Weidert Brian Noon AngelOciel Castelan 


Nicholas Lescanic Brendan O'Neill Molly Welch Amy Peterson Melody Gonzalez 

I 
' . 
I I 
' 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Appalachia Seminar 
Stephanie Aberger Kim Anderson Matthew Barringer Grant Bartucci Bridget Baudinet Melissa Bauters Laura Beauchamp Matthew Bleecher Jennifer Block Katherine Bobo Alex Borowiecki Brendan Bowes Angela Brewka Natalie Bustamante Rebecca Byers Stephen Canham Matthew Christ Elizabeth Clouse Bonnie Leigh Cockerill Jessica Collado Brian Conkright Davin Costa Kaitlin Cronin Paul Cruickshank Jocelyn Cubbon Molly Cummings Jacqueline Dammann Meghan Desmond Stephen Dick Nicholas Dobbertin Elizabeth Donnelly Joseph Dubbs David Elpers Sean Fedyna Leslie Follmer Courtney Follmer 
Jennifer Gaisser-Sadler "We cannot uve on[yfor oursefves. jJ. tfiousand fi6ers connect us witfi ourJe[fow men anawomen. " 
Rachelle Galecki Patrick Gallagher -¾ennan 9rfe{vi[fe 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, !vlarch 24, 2003 
PGA 
Woods wins Bay Hill for the fourth time in a row 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. 

Not even a nasty bout of food poisoning could stop Tiger Woods from winning the Bay Hill Invitational for the fourth straight year. 
So sick that he frequently ducked into the bushes and dropped to his knees, Woods still looked as dominant as ever Sunday with a 4-under 68 to win by 11 strokes, the fourth time in his career he has won by double digits. 
Woods became the first player in 73 years to win the same tour­nament four straight times, and the final margin indicates this one was the easiest of all. 
That was hardly the case. 
Woods, whose girlfriend col­lapsed Friday outside the club­house with food poisoning, came down with it himself after eating spaghetti on the eve of the final round. 
He threw up three times during the first five holes and often stopped in· his tracks and doubled over, wincing in pain. When he tapped in for par on the final hole, he had just enough strength left on a rainy afternoon to raise his right arm and salute the crowd. 
\Voods finished at 19-under 269 and became the first player since Gene Sarazen in the Miami Open (1926-30) to win the same event four straight times. 
Brad Faxon missed a 6-foot par him $189,000. He had a 74 and dropped into a four-way tie for second with Kirk Triplett (70), Kenny Perry (71) and Stewart Cink (72). 
An anticipated showdown between Woods and Ernie Els never materialized, with the South African finishing 19 strokes back after a 77 Sunday. 
Arnold Palmer owns the Bay Hill Club & Lodge. Woods owns the tournament. 
The 11-stroke victory was the largest margin in the 25-year his­tory of Bay Hill, breaking by two the previous mark, set by Fred Couples in 1992. 
It matched the third-largest margin in Woods' career, behind his 15-stroke victory in the 2000 
U.S. Open and his 12-stroke win in the 1997 Masters. Woods also won at Firestone by 11 shots in 2000, when he could barely see the 18th green because of dark­ness. 
Steady rain that fell throughout the day almost kept Woods from finishing this one. Large pools of water covered every fairway, but there was no point in stopping ­everyone knew how this was going to turn out. 
Woods improved to 28-2 when he has at least a share of the 54­hole lead, and he has won the last 16 times when leading through 36 holes. 
Woods had the advantage of a five-stroke lead to start the final round, and the steady rain and sloppy conditions made it difficult His job was to make pars, and that's what Woods did. 
A poor swing on the par-3 sec­ond hole left him 90 feet from the hole, and his first putt came up 15 feet below the cup. Woods made that one for par, then holed a 12-footer for par on the next hole after a weak chip. 
Woods ended everyone else's hopes on the par-5 fourth hole with a 3-wood from 265 yards in the rain to within 12 feet for eagle. 
That increased his lead to eight strokes, and the only thing left to determine was the margin of vic­tory and whether Woods could finish the round. He frequently stopped in his tracks, doubled over in pain and gritted his teeth. 
Everyone else was spinning their wheels. 
It was the 12th time Woods has won a PGA Tour event by at least four shots. 
Woods won for the 37th time in his career, 11th most in history. He earned $810,000 and again leads the PGA Tour money list with over $2.8 million in just four tournaments, after missing the first five weeks while recovering from knee surgery. 
This is only the second time in his career that Woods has won three times before the Masters, and he still has The Players Championship next week. 
The other time was 2000, when Woods turned in one of the great­est seasons in golf with nine victo­ries and three straight majors. This is shaping up to be another 


Tiger Woods shoots out of the rough on the 16th hole In his fourth straight victory at the Bay HIii lnvltatlonal. He won the tournament by 11 strokes. 
He won by four at Torrey Pines time on his knees or resting on in his first competition in two his golf bag. months. He won by four at Bay At times, it looks like he can't 

Do You Know an Outstanding Student? Do You Know an Outstanding Teacher or Staff Member? 
Nominate them for: 
The Irish Clover Award 

The Irish Clover Award is presented to two outstanding members of the Notre Dame Community. Students, Faculty and Staff are eligible for nomination. The award is based upon outstanding service to the students ofNotre Dame. 
Frank O'Malley Teaching Award 
The Frank O'Malley Undergraduate Teaching Award is given to an outstanding member of the Notre Dame faculty. The award is based upon outstanding service to the students of Notre Dame. Any faculty member is eligible for consideration. 
To make a nomination, please type a brief statement describing your nominee and include your name and contact information. Nominations are due by 3:00 pm on Friday, March 28th• You can tum in or mail the nomination to the Student Activities Office, 315 Lafortune. Nominations can also be emailed to studegov@nd.edu. For more information, call 1-7668 or check out www.nd.edu/,·---studegov 
ff~ Sponsored by Student Government ({,~'~!J 
"' 0'1~'\ 


Monday, March 24, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 17 

•••1111:11111:••l!i:••:•
••IB¦¦::•111¦11••••••••••• 
... ··:-.,.·-\:;:;:::;:::::::::::::·. 
-.-.-.;:;:;:;:::::::::::.:>:• 



· i 
ti1~Jita11~illBltml:Fli 

:-=-:://f:i\?i•::\T//\/X:// ::.><-:·:-: · -::_: :::-<:::-:::> ;:_::·:-_:_.-::::::::::::::=. 
···•···············•·te~lfi·······•··•·······•·· ···••w•••······ ·········••··········•f ••·············••·
·••••·••·••·•·<··sJstl)flt~lt~gi// •••·••·••! <• <>•••••.i1••·•·••t•••> 
Geqrget.own ....................... :ti: .·· · ·· · •: •· ·•·• 9: ·•·•·.•· ·•·· Pijts{l1,m.1b . . ;• is A 
•••••·••·•··••••·•·•··:::tit~:.r>·· •••••:••;••:~!• ......•··:1:1 
•r••····•••••·fJ:!.I~~~!> H11• ............................. ::! 
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL NCAA Womens Tournament 7 p.m., ESPN NCAA Womens Tournament 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NASCAR 

Totally NASCAR 7 p.m., FOX 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 


Gonzaga nearly pulled off The Bulldogs collapsed to and 11 rebounds, and Luke an upset that would have the floor in disappointment, Walton 16 points, nine
SALT LAKE CITY 

dwarfed anything the and Arizona (27-3) assists, two blocked shotsThose ever-lovin' Zags Bulldogs did during their advanced to the West and three steals. His basket 
almost did it again, this 

exhilarating tournament Regional semifinals against with 4.1 seconds to gotime in a double-overtime runs in 1999, 2000 and Notre Dame, a winner over forced the second overtime. 
thriller against top-seeded 2001. Illinois on Saturday. But the team that toppedArizona. 

"Of all the teams I've had "That's the greatest game the national rankings forIf the Wildcats win the at Gonzaga, I've never been I ever played in," Arizona's 13 weeks couldn't shake
national championship, 

more proud," coach Mark Rick Anderson said. "I the cool, aggressivethey will always know that Few said. could see it in their eyes. Bulldogs.
this was the one that came 

Tony Skinner, whose Everybody on the court The Zags went to the a few missed shots by 
career-high 25 points wanted to win." round of 16 three of theGonzaga from ruining it all. 
included 5-of-11 shooting All five Wildcats starters last four years, and to theSalim Stoudamire, quiet 
on 3-pointers, missed an reached double figures. regional finals in 1999.
most of the intense 

open 3 with 4 seconds to Gardner scored 22. They were anything butevening, scored five points play for the Zags. Channing Frye had 22 flustered by the Wildcats,in the second overtime as Blake Stepp, who scored points and 12 rebounds, who shot 52 percent in thethe Wildcats held off the 19 of his 25 points after and played the final five first half and still foundninth-seeded Bulldogs 96­halftime, missed a 5-foot minutes and both over­themselves trailing by three95 Saturday in a game that follow-up bank shot just times with four fouls. at the break. 
ranks with the best in 
IN BRIEF 

Arenas leads Warriors past at Atlanta. He heaved the ball high Sunday and defended his Food CityWizards into the stands after the final buzzer 500 title by gambling on pit strategy 
Gilbert Arenas scored a career-high sounded.. and avoiding all but one of the 17 cau­41 points and Antawn Jamison added Washington lost its 12th road game tions at Bristol Motor Speedway. 37 points and 11 rebounds as Golden in the last 14. The Wizards play 10 of Coming off last week's thrilling door­State spoiled Michael Jordan's last their final 14 games away from home. to-door battle with Ricky Craven that game in Oakland, defeating the The Wizards missed their first five he lost, Busch had little competition as Washington Wizards 113-107 Sunday shots in the fourth, and Arenas made his Ford Taurus led the final 96 laps night. a 3 with 8:22 left to tie the game at 93. and easily held off Roush Racing team­
Jordan missed two shots down the Arenas' 3-pointer followed by Bobby mate Matt Kenseth by .390 seconds. stretch, committed a turnover with 22 Sura's three-point play a minute later When Dale Jarrett finally hit the seconds left and was held scoreless on made it 104-101, and Jamison hit a 3 wall 109 laps from the finish, there O-for-4 shooting in the fourth quarter, with 3:08 left for a 107-101 lead. were only five cars on the lead lap and 
finishing with 24 points and five The Wizards' 68 points were their all needed to pit. It was the break they rebounds before a sellout crowd of most for a half this season, topping needed. and Busch capitalized by 20,149. their 67 against Memphis on Dec. 18. bringing his car in for service then 
The Wizards dropped 1 1/2 games passing Bobby Labonte for the lead on behind idle Milwaukee for the eighth Busch defends Food City 500 the restart. 
and final playoff spot in the East. title The ending lacked the drama of last Golden State, looking to make the His tires were worn out, his gas tank year, when Busch scored his first postseason for the first time in nine was nearly empty and his crew chief career victory by knocking Jimmy 
years, pulled within 21/2 games of wanted him to pit. Kurt Busch over­Spencer out of his way. Houston and Phoenix for the last spot ruled him and the gamble paid off for This year, he stayed patient as he in the West. his long-awaited first victory of the coasted around the .533-mile bullring 
Arenas shot 15-for-23 and had four year. -he spun out once midway through of his team's 10 3-pointers to top his Busch, a runner•up three times this -and let the bumping and banging previous career high of 37 set Feb. 11 season, earned his first win of the year go on behind him. 

Monday, March 24, 2003 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS TENNIS 
Irish split tough weekend series 
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
After suffering several close 4­3 defeats to strong teams this spring, the Irish finally regis­tered their first big win of the season -without the services of one of their top players. 
Sunday, Notre Dame defeated No. 48 Virginia Tech 5-2, and with the victory the Irish (6-9, 1­0). moved into first place in the Big East. This came one day after the Irish suffered a 6-1 loss to No. 12 Minnesota Saturday. 
The Hokies were the first Big East opponents for the Irish, and Notre Dame will meet its sec­ond, and last, regular season conference opponent when the team travels to No. 22 Miami Mar. 30. 
l 
The Hurricanes lost to the Hokies 5-2 in Miami earlier in the season, so the Irish are especially pleased with the 
! I 
weekend's accomplishment. For the second match in a row, Notre Dame was also without junior tri-captain Matt Scott, its No. 2 singles player, because he became ill during Saturday's match with Minnesota. 
The Irish began the afternoon when the bottom two teams claimed the doubles point. The No. 2 pair of senior Brian Farrell and junior Luis Haddock won 8-6 over Angel Diankov and Grant Reynolds to clinch the point. Sophomore Paul McNaughton replaced Scott in the No. 1 doubles match. McNaughton and D'Amico lost 8­2 to the Hokies' Andreas Lauland and Stephane Rod. 
After three singles matches were completed the score was tied 2-2 with the remaining matches all straight sets. 
Senior Brian Farrell registered his first ever upset of a ranked 

player when he defeated No. 64 Saber Kadiri to put the Irish within a point of victory. 
Farrell survived three sets to come out on top, 6-2, 3-6. 6-4. Then freshman Patrick Buchanan came through with the clinch for the Irish. Playing the No. 5 flight, he topped Michael Kurz, 4-6, 7-5, 6-2. 
With the contest settled, Haddock triumphed over the Hokies' Francis Huot, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4. 
Then sophomore Brent D'Amico, playing at No. 2 for 
just the second time in his career, commanded Laulund in straight sets, 6-3, 6-4. 
Saturday the Irish fell to 1-6 in the Eck Tennis Pavilion after going 10-0 there last season. Haddock posted the sole singles victory for Notre Dame when he defeated No. 63 Thomas Haug. Haddock was also part of the only winning Irish doubles team. Along with Farrell, he beat Eric Robertson and Avery Ticer, 8-3. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 

WOMENS TENNIS 
Win streak ends in loss to Tribe 
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish extended their home wining streak Saturday to three matches as they defeated Iowa 4-3. but No. 13 William and Mary put that streak to an end Sunday with their 4-3 win over the 27th-ranked Irish. 
The Irish have only two more home con­tests on their schedule, and both of those arrive this week. 
Against the Tribe Sunday. Notre Dame started off promising as the Irish pulled out to a 2-0 lead. 
The Tribe then took the next two singles matches to even out the score and ultimate­ly prevented the upset, as the Irish dropped to 8-7 on the season. 
Junior Alicia Salas and freshman Lauren Connelly helped the Irish begin the morn­ing match ahead as they trounced Megan Muth and Lena Sherbakov, 8-2. Then junior Caylan Leslie and freshman Jennifer Smith registered a point-clinching dou­bles win over Kari Olsen and Lingda Yang. 
With Leslie's upset of No. 26 Candice Fuchs, it looked like the day was going to end in favor of the Irish. 
Leslie, ranked 51st, won at the No. 1 flight 6-3,6-1. 
The Tribe's Amy Wei, ranked 114th nationally, initiated the William and Mary rally as she successfully fought Lauren Connelly to win 7-6 (7-4), 6-0. Wei's teammate, Kate 
Boomershine,  beat  
Irish  senior  Katie  
Cunha 7-5, 6-3.  

Muth, ranked 82nd nationally, then put her team ahead and within a point of victo­ry after she rallied in three sets to defeat No. 65 Salas 3-6, 6-4, 6-4. 
But sophomore Sarah Jane Connelly tried to save the match for Notre Dame, as she won her fourth match in a row. Connelly defeated William and Mary's Sherbakov, 6-1, 6-7 (4-7), 6-1. 
Freshman Kristina Stastny fought in three sets to attempt to give the Irish win, but Nina Kamp defeated her, 6­4, 5-7, 6-2. Stastny had clinched the win for the Irish Friday against Iowa. 
The Irish next two matches will be their last home meetings for the season. 
Michigan travels to Notre Dame Tuesday. and Purdue will follow on Wednesday. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 

r 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Offense lacking as Belles win 1, lose 2 over weekend 
f; 
) ) By PAT LEONARD 
I Sports Writer 
I The Saint Mary's softball team 
did not bring as much firepower 
i to the plate this weekend and went 1-2 in an Indianapolis tour­nament, but they still sit com­' fortably on a 10-5-1 overall record. The Belles defeated Olivet Nazarene University 2-1 in their third game, but lost to the University of St. Francis and Judson College. In a 1-0 loss to St Francis, the two teams combined for only five 
hits. Freshman Jackie Zurcher and juniors Katrina Tebbe and Erin Sullivan had the only hits for Saint Mary's. 
It was the same story against Judson College for coach Anna Welsh's squad, as the Belles dropped the contest 2-1. Sullivan and Tebbe each had one hit, and freshman Kate Sajewich reached base for the only three hits of the game. 
In its third game, the team rose to the occasion against Welsh's alma mater, No. 10 Olivet Nazarene University, where Welsh was an assistant coach in 2001. 
Saint Mary's recorded seven hits in a 2-1 victory that saw Sajewich shine on offense and defense for the Belles, giving up only five hits and striking out six. 
In the bottom of the seventh inning, following two one-out singles by Susan Kutz and Tebbe, Sajewich drove in both runs ¼ith a game-winning, two­run RBI to right center field. Sajewich and Tebbe both had two hits in the game. 
"We did not play to our poten­tial in the first two games, how­ever we did in game three," Welsh said. "Olivet Nazarene University has a good team and 

/, 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
THE STUDENTS' #1 CHOICE IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING 
NOW LEASING FOR 2003-04 2-BEDROOMS AND TOWNHOMES AVAILABLE 
VISIT US AT WWW.TURTLECREEKND.COM OR CALL 272-8124 

we were able to play a solid starting Saturday." seven innings, both defensively and offensively, and behind great Contact Pat Leonard at pitching by Sajewich. That game pleonard@nd.edu will prepare us for conference 


Monday, March 24, 2003 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 

possession. Thomas then took the ball, utes ofthe game. have gotten the Illini within five. raced through the lane "I haven't seen a stat With 13:40 remaining in the game.
Sweet 
continued from page 24 Illinois cut the Notre Dame lead to six on a Brown free throw. but the Irish responded with a Timmerman layup and a Chris Quinn 3-pointer to give them a 32­21 lead with 7:42 remaining in the half.  and finger rolled a layup in with three sec­onds remaining to put the Irish up 47-34 at the break. "The way they came out and played in the first half, no one would  "... I Jee[ like we didn't miss any shots . ... If they 're hitting twos and you 're hitting threes. you 're going to win...  sheet yet, but I feel like we didn't miss any shots," Carroll said. "Especially when you're hitting threes; if they're hitting twos and you're hitting threes, you're going to  Brown made a free throw to get the Illini to 52-44. But Notre Dame came right back when Thomas and Miller made layups and Miller added a jumper to put Notre Dame ahead 58-44. Illinois made one last run when Sean Harrington nailed a 3-pointer from the right corner to slash the Notre Dame lead  
Notre Dame went up by 12 on another Carroll 3-pointer, before Illinois ripped off  have been able to beat them," Illinois coach  Matt Carroll  win." Illinois  came  out  to 64-58. But Carroll made a layup on the next  
a 6-0 run to trim the Irish lead to 42-34 with 1 :29 left before halftime.  Bill Self said. "We got a lot of looks. They just  Notre Dame guard  strong in the second half and went on a 7-2  Irish possession and Quinn sank two free throws to clinch the victory.  
But Miller answered the Illini run with a  didn't fall today."  run to get within 49­ 
long 3-pointer to put the Irish ahead 45­34. Brown missed a layup on Illinois' next  Carroll couldn't believe the way the Irish shot the ball during the first 20 min­ 41. But Illinois' Roger Powell missed a 3­pointer at the 14:56 mark that would  Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu  

Tournament-tested Miller brings Irish to sweet success 
INDIANAPOLIS 

In a room in an Indianapolis 
hotel, one senior starter 
turned to another to ask for 
help. 
Matt Carroll was nursing a 
sore right 
ankle -an 
injury that 
might have 
kept lesser 
men from 
playing­
and trying 
to do some­
thing he'd 
never done 
in his col­
lege career. 
Carroll 
wanted to 
advance to 
the Sweet 
Sixteen. 
So he talked to the one play­
er on Notre Dame's team who 
had. 
On the eve of Notre Dame's 
second-round game against 
Illinois, Carroll looked at Dan 
Miller, his roommate on the 
road, and-said, 'Tve never 
been there. man. I want to get 
there so bad." 
Miller simply responded, 'Tm going to get you there, man." 
Games like Saturday's are why Mike Brey originally accepted a senior transfer two years ago, a player who could help fill the leadership void the Irish would suddenly have. This is why Brey said Miller, who has played in 12 NCAA Tournament games and a Final Four, could help the Irish make a run in March. 
But could even Brey have imagined how much Miller would have provided the late­season leadership the Irish would need to enter the Sweet Sixteen for the first time since 1987? 
Known more for his scowl than his smile on the basket­ball court, a player who oper­ates in the shadow of the more prolific Carroll and Chris Thomas. Miller all but carried Notre Dame to its biggest win in a decade by scoring a career-high 23 points. 
And he did it in his custom­ary act first, talk later man­ner. 
"It was fitting that the oldest guy led us," Brey said. 
When Torin Francis tumbled to the ground in the first half after battling for a rebound, Miller reached down to pull the freshman to his feet. \Nhen the Irish needed an offensive lift, Miller loosed 3-pointers with deadly accuracy. \,Vhen Carroll drained a 3-poiner from the corner, Miller simply raised his hands in celebration as he walked backward. 
When the Irish dropped out of the Big East, the Irish spent 

a week trying to figure out 
how to fix things. In that span, 
Brey turned to Miller and had 
the only player on his team 
who had played more than one 
weekend in the NCAA 
Tournament explain what it 
took to make it to the next 
level. 
Miller might have talked 
about what it took, but his 
teammates probably remem­
bered his actions on the floor 
Saturday a little better. 
With Carroll hobbled by a 
sore ankle and the Irish get­
ting relatively little offensive 
production from their post 
players, Miller decided to take 
over. 
A few weeks ago, Brey told 
Miller not to ''hang his hat" on 
his jump shot. But after Miller 
drained 5-of-5 3-pointers in a 
first-half shooting clinic, the 
Irish coach could only shake 
his head in disbelief. 
Even Miller wasn't quite sure what to think when his fifth 3-pointer sailed through the net with 48 seconds to play in the first half, giving the Irish a 45-34 lead. But as he ran back toward midcourt, he shimmied his arms a little bit and a smile briefly crossed his face -a huge display of emo­tion for a player who some­times looks like he'd rather be having a root canal instead of playing basketball. 
They say experience is one of the most valuable things in the NCAA Tournament. with the last few national champi­ons having teams loaded with senior leaders. They say a tal­ented, youthful team can tum­ble to a team more accus­tomed to playing in March. 
That might have been true in Notre.Dame's game against Illinois, where the Illini started just one senior and the Irish started two, including one with Final Four experience and one with a burning desire to reach the Sweet Sixteen for the first time in his career. 
But after the game, as the final seconds ran down while Brey excitedly pumped his fist and the Irish hopped around the court in a mass bear hug, Miller simply stood by himself. staring at the ceiling, thinking thoughts that nobody else could know. 
In short, while the rest of the Irish celebrated, Miller looked like a man who had been there before. 
And a man who isn't con­tented just by making the sec­ond weekend of the tourna­ment. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 



G 



BASEBALL SOFTBALL 
Tuesday, 3/25 
Wednesday, 3/26 5pm 3pm a11d 5pm Eck Stadium Ivy Field 

Monday, March 24, 2003 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
FENCING 
Teatn attitude leads to teatn victory 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. 

Maggie Jordan hadn't won a bout all day. 
In fact, prior to her last three bouts, Jordan had won only four bouts in 20 previous attempts. But she saved her first win of the day for the perfect time. 
With the national championship still undecided, the Irish were ahead by less than five points when Jordan and teanunate Destanie Milo fenced Nittany Lion Austin O'Neill in the last round of the womens sabre competition. 
Milo had won her firstbout,butJordan dropped her first one when her pivotal bout with O'Neill was up. 
Jordan won 5-2. O'Neill was so shell-shocked, she dropped her bout to Milo 5-0. 
Credit those knockout punches to the inspi­ration provided by the rest of the Notre Dame fencers. 
"That was incredible because Notre Dame was cheering so much for me and I didn't even hear Penn State cheering for the other girl. I just blocked them out," Milo said. 'Their cheering helped me, kept me going and kept my adrenaline going. Idon't know if I could have done it ifI didn't have the team helping me out." 
\Vhile the sabre fencers were finishing off the Nittany Lions. the Irish were also fencing their last bouts in epee. As these two weapons simultaneously took place, the Irish faithful went from strip to strip providing support as they did all weekend. 

They cheered the epeeists to a perfect 6-0 record, which set up the womens foil squad to put the finishing touches on a long­deserved national title. 
"It feels unbelievable because we have been trying to do this forever," Jordan said. 
More talented Notre Dame teams in the past failed to win it all. They didn't under­stand in such an individual sport as fencing, it's the team attitude that matters the most. 
Notre Dame was the team from the first round Saturday yelling and cheering every point; last year that enthusiasm wasn't pre­sent until it was too late. 
Notre Dame was the school with team members who weren't fencing encouraging others and giving advice, knowing each bout means so much. 
Most importantly, Notre Dame was a team from the first touch at 9 a.m. Saturday morn­ing to the trophy presentation 4 p.m. Sunday. 
That support and team attitude out­matched any other school based on sheer numbers. 
No other school had scholarship fencers who didn't qualify and walk-ons make the trip to Colorado Springs to cheer their team. Through being a part of the team in prac­tices and dual meets, they knew first-year head coach Janusz Bednarski was building something special. 
In the matchup against Penn State in early February, Bednarski brought the team in a huge huddle before the match against the defending national champions. 
Bednarski had the team come back from spring break a few days early to travel to Chicago and train as a team at a fencing chili. 


Notre Dame fencer AllcJa Kryczalo, right, goes on the attack at the NCAA Tournament held over the weekend. Kryczalo and the Irish captured the first 
national title for the Irish since 1994. 
They went to see the movie "Chicago" Friday as a team. 
Bednarski gathered them as a team before the start of Sunday's competition for some final words of motivation. After his speech, a loud "Go Irish" echoed throughout the Cadet Fieldhouse. Then, when all the flashbulbs were done popping, Bednarski gathered his team again in the middle of the fieldhouse. 

told them, "For the whole year, we made it," led them in the Our Father and once again, a "Go Irish" rattled the training facility. 
Never before had that phrase meant so much to this team. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily tfwse of The Observer. Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 
Last year's disappoinments step up to lead Irish 
lot, tremendously," Fabricant After a disappointing third­year 26-1 but suffered a foot learned from those past experi­
ByMATTLOZAR 
said. "Last year, I didn't know place finish at the Midwest injury that caused him to miss ences to compile a 16-7 record 
Associate Sports Editor 
what to expect coming in. It Fencing Conference five weeks of competition. He this weekend and become a helps a lot knowing exactly how Championships by the mens won the regionaJ title before second team All-American. COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. many bouts you have to fence epee squad, Bednarski chal­finishing a disappointing 10th "This year everything just 
With all the pressure at the and the format." lenged sophomore Michal at the NCAAs. clicked for me. Mentally, I was NCAA Championships to per­As former All-Americans Sobieraj and said if he straight­That letdown provided some on my game," Milo said. "The form well for the team, one Andrzej Bednarski, Andre ens himself out, he could win motivation for this year, but last two years, I was so nervous thing totally invaluable is a lit­Crompton and Luke La Valle the national title. like the rest of his team, about NCAAs. This year I tle something called experi­and current All-American Bednarski must have been Sobieraj put the team first. looked at it again as a team ence. teammate Gabor Szelle blocked right, because Sobieraj was "Last year I didn't fence very aspect. 
For three Notre Dame fencers his path to being one of the top first after the team bouts and well because I had a foot injury "We are all going into this at this weekend's national two sabre fencers, Fabricant dropped an 8-7 overtime match and that didn't allow me to together. I am there for my championships, that experience waited patiently and worked to to Weston Kelsey in the epee judge distances correctly," teammates and they were going factor meant all the difference become the All-American he is championship to finish second Sobieraj said. "First, it was for to be there for me." in the world. today. in the country. the team competition so I want­The only way to not let histo­
Senior Matt Fabricant quali­"Matt Fabricant was waiting "I am still telling everybody ed to win as many bouts as I ry repeat itself is to learn from fied for his first NCAA because we had so many good he is one of the most talented could for the team." the past and over the weekend, Championships last year as a fencers," Notre Dame coach fencers. He was very close to The third Irish fencer to these three Notre Dame fencers junior and finished 15th with a Janusz Bednarski said. "When winning," Bednarski said. "We recover from past substandard did just that. 9-14 record. Fabricant had that he came, he worked hard, but enjoyed his victories because he performances was junior sabre many wins after his first 10 they were a little ahead of him. helped us win the gold medal in captain Destanie Milo. In her bouts this year. He made a great jump here to the team competition." first two years, Milo failed to Contact Matt Lozar at 
"[The experience] helped a help us." Sobieraj started his freshman earn All-American honors but mlozar@nd.edu 
15-13 to become the first 2002 NCAA Championships fencers in Notre Dame history day one to win the team woman in Notre Dame fencing and was in first place after to earn that distinction. national title after last year's
Champs 
history to pool play Sophomore foilist Derek disappointing third place fin~ continued from page 24 repeat as with a 20-3 Snyder finished fifth and ish. national "She is a great fencer record. earned second-team All­When they had the advan­butterflies, epeeist Jan Viviani champion. Sobieraj lost American honors for the sec­tage of 12 fencers compared to
and is one ofthe best in 

had total confidence in Notre "She is a 8-7 to ond year. Junior sabre Penn State's 11, that was the Dame's "A-Team." great fencer the world. It is a great Weston Destanie Milo improved on fin­final piece of motivation neces­"I think we had a lot of confi­and is one of feeling ofsatisfaction Kelsey in the ishes of 17th and 18th in her sary. dence in them and it was really the best in mens epee first two years and became an "Coming into this year, I
and we are proud ofher

exciting to have them in con­the world," champi­All-American for the first time knew that like any other year, trol of what happens," Viviani Notre Dame winning the gold medal onship bout with a sixth place finish. and we were going to end up in said. "For us, it was exciting coach Janusz again . ., to end up Notre Dame had two All­the top three. A couple of bouts waiting. I wasn't really ner­Bednarski second. Americans at mens sabre and separating us from Penn vous, but waiting for the said of Overall, womens epee. State," Debic said. "After the
Janusz Bednarski

moment to actually happen." Kryczalo. "It Notre Dame Fabricant and Gabor Szelle qualifiers, I knew that we had 
Ament and Kryczalo finished is a great Notre Dame coach had a school­finished sixth and 11th, respec­the man advantage. If we put in the top four after the round­feeling of sat­record 11 tively. our heads together, we could robin bouts and claimed first­isfaction and A l Junior Kerry Walton and get it done." team All-American honors for we are proud of her winning Americans. Seniors Ozren senior Meagan Call recovered And get it done they did. the second straight year. the gold medal again." . Debic and Jan Viviani earned from rough starts on day one Ament took third while Michal Sobieraj rebounded the honor for the fourth time to take fifth and 10th. Contact Matt Lozar at Kryczalo defeated Zimmerman from a 10th place finish at the and became the 11th and 12th The Irish set the goal from mlozar@nd.edu 

Monday, March 24, 2003 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 

HOCKEY 
Irish blow lead, ousted from playoffs by Buckeyes 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Sports Writer 
DETROIT 

For Notre Dame to stand a chance against No. 13 Ohio State in the CCHA Super Six, they knew they had to stop tal­ented Buckeye center and first­team all-CCHA member R.J. Umberger. They did just that, keeping Umberger· off the scoreboard all game and forc­ing him into taking penalties. 
Unfortunately, they didn't count on senior forward T.J. Latorre and freshman defense­man Nate Guenin stepping up for the Buckeyes. 
Latorre scored his first goal of the season and Guenin scored just his second of the year, which would end up being the eventual game-win­ner, to lead the No. 3 seed Buckeyes to a 3-2 victory over the No. 6 seed Irish at Joe Louis Arena in Detroit on Thursday afternoon. 
A little more than six minutes into the third period and with the score tied 2-2, forward Paul Caponigri skated the puck down the left side of the ice before centering to Guenin, who had jumped into the play from the right point. Irish goal­tender Morgan Cey tried to get back into position, but Guenin was able to wrist the shot above his glove. 
"Obviously, we're very disap­pointed in the locker room right novv," Irish coach Dave Poulin said following the game. "I thought we played well tonight. I liked where we were at the end of the second period. I thought we were forechecking them well," Poulin said. "We built a game plan around stop­ping R.J. Umberger, and I 
thought our guys, particularly Aaron Gill and John Wroblewski. did a great job doing that." 
It was the Irish who had the 
most offensive pressure early in 
the first period, before the 
Buckeyes came back with an 
offensive flurry of their own, 
but neither team was able to 
score. The Irish outshot the 
Buckeyes 9-8 in the period. 
The Buckeyes came out strong at the start of the second period and finally cracked the scoreboard a little more than two and a half minutr:.i !n. Forward Dave Steckel sent a beautiful pass to junior 
..,.J 
Chris Olsgard the. 
remained onsides. Olsgarc.! took 
the puck down the right side of 
the ice before centering back to 
Latorre, who beat Cey low for a 
1-0 lead. 
The goal ended Cey's shutout streak at 147:19, an impressive feat that spanned four hockey games and included two shutouts. He had blanked the opposition since the 15:25 mark of the third period in the opening game of the Miami series on March 14. 
The Irish kept up its offensive pressure and managed to tie the game six and a half min­utes later when sophomore for­ward Brad Wanchulak scored his second goal of the season after sloppy puckhandling by Ohio State netminder Mike Betz. 
Freshman forward Mike Walsh beat a Buckeye defense­man to the puck and tried to center to junior forward Rob Globke. Betz came out of goal to poke the pass away, but Wanchulak was trailing the play and shot the loose puck into the vacated net. 
The Irish gained the lead five minutes later, after a terrific individual effort by senior for­ward Connor Dunlop. 
Dunlop blocked a pass by a Buckeye defenseman and then carried the puck in down the left side. He saw Globke coming down the right side and made a cross-ice pass to get him the puck. Globke then went around Betz before beating the goalie high with a wrist shot. 
The Irish were unable to end the second period with the lead, however. With a little more than two minutes left in the period, Kesler poked a their last game in an Irish uni­form. 


"This is a tough way to end my career," Nielsen, who is also a captain, said. ''I've had a good four years here. I've made a lot of friends and had some great experiences. That's what I want to take away from Notre Dame." 
Cey, who was a crucial factor in Notre Dame's first round upset of Miami of Ohio, com­mented on his team's season following the disappointing loss, the third straight year that the Irish have been ousted in loose puck in the crease between Cey's pads to tie the game at 2-2. Notre Dame out­shot the Buckeyes 8-5 in the period. 
The third period was all Buckeyes as Cey made several nice point-blank stops before Guenin's game-winning goal. The Irish were outshot 9-3 in the final period and 25-22 for the game. 
Notre Dame tried to pull Cey for an extra attacker, but were unable to get the equalizer past Betz. At one point, Betz knocked down an Irish shot 
Save some green during March Madness!! 
Save some green when you visit aparticipating Jackson Hewitt location during March Madness: you'll SAVE $20.00 on the cost of tax preparation! 
C ' Our tax experts know all the latest
(/
,,) / 
tax law changes. We find the hard-to-find deductions Accurate, computerized tax returns. FREE electronic filing with paid tax 
preparation. 

and a Buckeye appeared to knock the puck all the way down the ice for an empty net goal, but replays showed the puck was illegally played with a glove. 
The disallowed goal ultimate­Iv did not matter. The Irish end their season with a 17-17-6 record. 
"I think the key for us was when the score was 2-1," Poulin said. "We had several 
chances to  put it away, but  
could not."  
Michael  Chin,  Connor  

Dunlop, Evan Nielsen, Jake Wiegand, John Wroblewski and Tony Zasowski played 
the first round of the Super Six. 
"Getting to the Joe [Louis Arena] was really expected of us this year. As the year pro­gressed, I think a lot of people thought we had a disappointing season, but we stuck together through the ups and downs," Cey said. 
The Irish return 20 players next season, including team­leading scorer Globke and number-one goaltender Cey. 
"There's a lot of really talent­ed guys coming back next year," Nielsen said. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

-Rebuilding Together >1 Benefit Run 
formerly Christmas in April 
Saturday, March 29, 11 :00 AM 
Stepan Center 
SK & 10K Runs 
2 Mile Walk 
T-Shir,s to all Registrants Register at RecSpcrts by 3/28. 5:00pm $6.00 In Advance or $8.00 Day of f<ace

Cal I 888-800-1040 for a location near you! 

·---------------------------------------· 
I Present this coupon to SAVE $20.00 on I I your income tax preparation. I
SAVE

I Present this coupon at a participating Jackson-Hewitt Tax 1 Service location. I 
I 
Coupon valid through March 31, 2003, Valid only at participating locations, I I and may not be combined with other otter. Most offices are independently I 
I $20.00 
I owned and operated3ed Coupon Code: 4300 Promo Code JH0B I 
~---------------------------------------· 
All Proceeds to Benefit 
H 9 b !J 11 ci] fL~ ;Jo~ 9 i fl~ I 
Sponsored By 

MOTH DAMI fOO0 SUVICU 



..JP 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 24, 2003 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 


Irish survive, thanks to leadership and persistence 
MANHATTAN, Kan. 
If Notre Dame proved any­thing in their win against Arizona Sunday night, it was simply that the NCAA tourna­ment is all about sur­viving. 
Sure, the Irish could have used a seeing­eye dog in the first I half en route to shooting an atro­cious 19.4 percent. Sports Editor Then there was Jacqueline Batteast's 1-for-16 perfor­mance from the field. (For those scoring at home, that equates to an impressive 3.9 percent shooting percentage.) And yes, Notre Dame was
'' 
outrebounded 52-43, including giving up a 28-15 edge on the offensive glass. 
But the only stat that mat­
I, ters is points -59-47. 
'I '\, Advantage Notre Dame. l Despite only shooting 29.1 percent for the game and looking sloppy at times with ugly shots and turnovers, the Irish upset the Wildcats to advance to the second round of the NCAA Tournament. "It's hard to believe you can win a game when you give up 52 rebounds, 28 offensive to the other team. I don't know how it happened, but I thought defensively we made a lot of stops," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. Notre Dame was able to win 


Upset 
continued from page 22 
Ratay was the difference on a night when both teams shot the ball in a disgusting manner. 
The Irish shot a woeful 19.4 percent (6-for-31) from the field in the first half, just below Arizona's 22.6 percent (7-for-31) shooting. 
"That wasn't the prettiest game to watch," Arizona coach Joan Bonvicini said. "Both teams didn't shoot a great percentage and it was pretty much a defensive game." 
The Irish held Pac-10 Freshman of the Year Shawntinice Polk to 14 points on just 4-of-14 shooting. Arizona's 6­foot-5 center, who averaged 17 points in the regular season, didn't hit her first field goal of the game until the 18:28 mark in the second half. 
"Our goal was to double-down on her anytime she got the ball, whether it was a man or a zone," Irish forward Courtney Lavere said. "I think that really affected her play and got her out of rhythm and made her pass out of the double team." 
Notre Dame also limited Arizona to connecting on just 2­of-25 3-point field goals in the game. The Wildcats Dee-Dee Wheeler and Aimee Grzyb com­bined to make just one of 18 3­pointers. Notre Dame also forced 23 Arizona turnovers. 
"That's the best defense we've 
played in a long time," McGraw 
said. 
The turning point in the game came with the Irish down 37-34, and both teams still struggling the game thanks to great play bench, Arizona's star fresh­down the stretch by Alicia man Shawntinice Polk showed Ratay, solid defense and the how important experience and fact that Arizona couldn't, as maturity can be to a player. their coach Joan Bonvicini put After missing all five of her 
it, "throw a  shots in the  
pea in the  first half and  
ocean" from the perime­ter after  "It's hard to believe you can win a game when  picking up four fouls with eight  
their atro­cious 2-of­25 3-point shooting  you give up 52 rebounds, 28 offensive to the other team. I don't know how it  minutes still left in the game, you could see the  
perfor­mance. Notre Dame's vic­ happened, but/thought defensively we made a lot ofstops. ••  mounting frustration on Polk's face. She missed a  
tory can also  free throw  
be attrib­uted to  Muffet McGraw Notre Dame coach  with 4:25 left in the game  

experience. The Irish didn't get flustered when shots didn't fall or they had a turnover. They simply moved onto the next play and didn't dwell on the negative. 
Batteast was a great exam­ple of this experience. After missing 9-of-10 shots in the first half, the forward didn't hang her head. 
She didn't quit, although that would have been the easy option. 
Instead after missing two easy layups in a row in the second half, Batteast just looked at the Irish bench, then laughed, as if to say, "It's been that kind of night." 
But she still played good defense and pulled down nine rebounds and even was com­plimented by Bonvicini for her defensive effort in the game. 
She sucked it up when things went bad. However, on the other 
with their shooting at the 11: 13 mark in the second half. The Irish grabbed a defensive rebound and pushed the ball down the court. LaVere took the ball in the paint, then kicked it out to Ratay who swished an open 3-pointer to tie the game at 37-37. 
After sinking one of two free throws on the Irish next posses­sion, Ratay drilled another long ball to extend the Irish lead to 41­37. 
The Irish went up 43-37 after Ratay stole the ball from Arizona and passed to Megan Duffy, who eventually assisted Lavere on another field goal. After an Arizona timeout, Ratay drove to the basket and drew contact, then sank two free throws to put the Irish ahead 45-37. 
The Irish scored two more field goals to extend their lead to 49­37 before Arizona finally scored. The Wildcats went held scoreless for 8:35 during the Irish 15-0 run. 
"We were all just trying to do the best we could because none of us wanted to go home early," Ratay said. 
The Irish shot only 29 percent for the game but hit on 41. 7 per­cent of their second half shots. Ratay hit four of her five second half shots and knocked down 5­of-6 free throws. 
Meanwhile, Arizona only hit 
23.3 percent of their field goals for the game. 
"I think when the lead got a lit­tle bit bigger later in the game, the basket probably looked a little bit smaller [for Arizona]." McGraw said.. "That's why we stayed with the zone, instead of the man-to-man." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
and threw 
her arm 
across her body in disgust. 
Her immaturity was what showed, while Notre Dame's poise came through when things got tough. 
That difference made all the difference in the outcome of the game. 
So for all the things they didn't do well at times, the Irish definitely did enough things right to pull out the vic­tory. 
And that's all that matters. 
Just ask Arizona. 
They'll be watching the sec­ond round of the tourney from their comfortable dorm rooms, while the Irish try to reach the Sweet Sixteen for the first time since 2001. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 
Personalized 
Notre Dame Graduation Announcements 

urNa urDe 

Phone, mail or fax orders: Jostens 1401 Union Street Shelbyville, TN 37160 1-800-353-5299 

University of Notre Dame 

fax: l-931-685-6473 Place orders in person on: 
Tuesday and Wednesday, March 25 and 26 Lafortune Student Center Sorin Room 9:00 a.m. -4:30 p.m. 
j l 
! j l 
J 
-


Monday, March 24, 2003 page 23
The Observer . TODAY 

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 

HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 
eep in an Iraqi u Saddam and sons. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, 
to form tour ordinary words. 
VETEN 



C2002 Tnbune Medoa Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
UNOMT 

WHAT HIS Mf=NTOR TI.>f<NW INTO WHf=N 1-E DIDN'T PAY ATTl=NTION. 
tRUMMUR I 
www.jumble.oom

tMORTER Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

IJ I 
Answer: HIS 

rXXXXXXXXJ 
(Answers tomorrow)  
Saturday's  I Jumbles:  CREEL  OBESE  GOBLET  TRUSTY  
Answer:  Why the band teacher kept the brass section after  
practice ­ TO SETTLE A "SCORE"  

JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 2ll • To order, aend your name, addrea ¦ and $5.95 and make cheek payable to Tribune Media Services, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 60680-4330. 


CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 33 Pooped out 63 Paper size 
1 Rand McNally 35 "Mazel _!" 64 Editor's "let it offering stand"
36 Zoo bosses 

s Senor's 39 Ns opposite, in 65 Paper purchase emphatic yes 
England 66 Clear the 10 Poker stake 
40 Former veep boards 14 It's rubbed on a Agnew cue tip 
42 Extra-wide, at 

DOWN 15 Garden with the shoe store 
1 Good-size field forbidden fruit 43 Sorrows' 2 "How 'bout 16 "Gone With the opposites 

?!"

Wind" plantation 44 Sellers in stalls 3 Chem classes 17 Indoor antenna 48 Mattress 4 Vatican19 Egyptian supports vestmentgoddess 49 Sizable 5 Downhiller's20 UFO crew sandwich sport
21 Charged 50 On the_ 6 Witnessed
particle (preparing for battle) 7 Actress Lupino
22 Sneaker 53 Poet's 8 Italian film 
24 Swan song "eternally" director Leone 
25 "Jelly's Last Jam" dancer 
54 Mai cocktail 9 On the same wavelength

Gregory_ 57 Skin soother 26 Conductor of a 58 Inedible 1 O Under debate sham trial mushrooms 11 Ogden who 31 Ramadas and 61 The ·o· in co wrote light verse Puui. by Naney Salomon ,nd H¦ rvey e.ia. such 62 Jane Austen 12 Duet plus one 34 Football gains: 45 Mean 53 Red-wrapped 32 Spigot classic 13 Simplicity Abbr. something Dutch cheese 
36 Furry marsupial 46 Where 54 Roman robe 

-------------18Sofar
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE telecommuters
23 Cat chat 


37 Comics shriek 55 Word of woework 
24 U .S.N .A. grad 
38 _Peanut 47 Terrapin, e.g. 56 Castaway's25 What the starts 
Butter Cups locale
of 17-, 26-, 44· 50 Rolls of bills and 58-Across 41 Look up to 51 Hit the ground 59 Doc bloc: Abbr. all are 
43 One of the 52 Flower for 60 "_the 
.
26 Big name in 
Bushes Valentine's Day ramparts ... 
book publishing 
27 Blacksmith's For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with ablock credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
28 Sally Field's Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday "Norma • 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 29 Gillette product 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). 31 •-show Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, time!" nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary,s Community. 
Join the more than 13.000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ---------------------------­Address --------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Bob Mackie, Patti Labelle, Robert Carradine, Louie Anderson 
Happy Birthday: It's time to stop hiding from issues that are uncomfortable and deal with them head-on. Shed yourself of everything and everyone who has held you back and take charge of your life, your direction and your future. You can do it if you really want to, and now is the time. Your numbers are 8, 13, 17, 22, 31, 37 
ARIES (March 21-Aprll 19): You will be energetic and ready to try anything that sounds the least bit exciting. Socializing will lead to a romantic time. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Real estate and home-improvement projects will bring you high returns. Invest in something you have always wanted to do. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may be emotionally sensitive today, but if you focus on love and relationships, you should be able to satisfy your needs. You will have a wonderful opponunity to fonn a partnership. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't worry about the changes going on around you at work or at home. Wait patiently and you will see that any alterations being made are to your benefit. Accept the inevitable and success will be yours. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You should gear yourself toward making personal changes that will enhance your appearance today. Make social plans with friends. The conversation will spark new ideas. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You should do the things around the house that will please you as well as those you live with. Valuable changes can be made without overspending. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You may be forced to change your plans. Be prepared to do whatever is necessary quickly and efficiently. Relationships will develop if you volunteer your services. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Opportunities are present that will lead to sudden changes regarding your direction. Set your goals high and put your time into developing your own original ideas. *** · SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A change of attitude will take place, especially if you don't see eye to eye with someone with whom you are dealing. Control your actions and focus on the things you enjoy.*** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Investments should start to pay off. You will be able to make changes to your personal papers th.it will be beneficial in the future. 
*** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will discover an opportunity to get to know someone worthwhile if you take a serious approach to volunteer work. Your involvement will contribute to your good fortune. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Think for yourself. Emotional instability will take over if you leave yourself open to other people's abuse. Put your efforts into yourself and your own work. ** 
Birthday Baby: Nothing will be able to stand in your way once you set your mind on something. You will be dashing, deliberate and determined to set high standards for yourself and those you love. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
• . , :-r ' t -'. • 
1111111111 


I Monday, March 24, 2003 
' } 
:·i ,, 
, I FENCING 
' 
) 
'' 
l 
i 
I 
I 
1. l 
l
I ) ) 
I Irish -win national chatnpionship
1 
j fencers, finished second with 179 and weapons completed, the Irish possessed her first bout to Eva Petschnigg of• Thrilling finale helps
' ' 
St. John's finished a 178-174 lead over Stanford and Andrea Ament made thelead Notre Dame to first third with 171 despite the Nittany Lions. Irish hearts beat faster by losing to NCAA title since 1994 having only 10 "It feels great. It's Notre Dame needed a Stanford's Iris Zimmerman. 
, I 
fencers. combination of three Ament recovered to defeat Cal-State
l 
iJ. amazing. Three years of
"It feels great. It's Notre Dame wins and Fullerton's Senta Breden to give the
ByMATTLOZAR trying and to finally get
amazing," Notre Penn State losses to Irish 179 points. A Penn State loss 
Associate Sports Editor 
Dame sabre Matt it in your senior year is clinch their first title brought the Irish within one. Fabricant said. "Three since 1994. To win the title, Kryczalo needed to
great.,,

f COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo.
I ,) years of trying and to "I couldn't even defeat Zimmerman. Kryczalo dropped
Finally.

! finally get it in your watch. I was just sit­the first point, but came back to win the 
\ After eight years of disappointing sec­
\ senior year is great." Matt Fabrlcant ting there waiting for next two. Tied at three, Kryczalo won 
ond and third-place finishes, the Irish What made the day someone to scream the next two points to give the Irish the
Irish sabreman

used a total team effort to win the 2003 
even more stressful and then turn title. 
,; NCAA Championship with 182 points
I 
was the fact the title around," Fabricant While Fabricant's stomach was full of\ this weekend at the Air Force Academy.
\ wasn't officially decided until the final said. "I was really nervous." 
\ Penn State, who qualified only 11
I \ round of womens foil. With all other Sophomore Alicja Kryczalo dropped see CHAMPS/page 16 
I i 
I 
I;
ii 
MENS. BASKETBALL
I I 
' 

Shaved Irish scalp Illini 
. Strong defensive performance gives Notre Dame first Sweet 16 berth since 1987 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 
INDIANAPOLIS 

,, When asked what he thought about his team shaving their heads before the NCAA tourna­
J 
' I ment, Notre Dame coach Mike' :i Brey could only shake his head and laugh.
,!I 
I "If they play See Also 
defense, I )1 don't care "Tournament­I what they do," 
; tested Miller 
! 
Brey said. 
brings Irish to

The Irish did just that sweet success" 
} ·• Saturday 
l 
page 19
a ft er noon against Illinois, and now they're advanc­ing to the Sweet Sixteen for the 
I 
·; first time since 1987. 
1 Dan Miller had 23 points,i including five first half 3-point­
:i
, ers, and Notre Dame held their
-.
:; ! second straight opponent to 
< 
under 35 percent shooting, en 
route to a 68-60 victory over the ., Illini. I "Our defense won the basket­
! 
ball game for us today." said Brey, who celebrated his 44th 
birthday Saturday. "It is an area where we knew we needed to be 
I 
~ 
-~ better at if we wanted to win any( games in this tournament. 
Chris Thomas added 17 points, including three 3-pointers, and Matt Carroll limped his way to 
I , 11 points for the Irish, who will
i ' 
face top-seeded Arizona Thursday in Anaheim. Cal. 
"This is huge for our pro­gram," Brey said. "In the sum­mer, we talked about playing on the second weekend. I'm happy this group set a goal and achieved it. They should be proud of themselves." 
Brey also credited the superb play of Miller, who has played in 12 NCAA tournament games in his college career, as the differ­ence in the basketball game. 
"Dan Miller was fabulous and that's one of the reasons we invested in him," Brey said. "... He's made us an overall tougher team. There's no question he has talked in our locker room on what it takes to advance. He has helped us take the next step." 
Illinois's All-American candi­date Brian Cook had 19 points, but made only six of his 23 shots and Dee Brown added 14 points for the Illini. Neither got many easy looks, thanks to the defen­sive play of Jordan Cornette, Tom Timmermans and Torin Francis. 
The Irish jumped out to an early 8-0 lead on 3-pointers by Miller and Carroll and two Torin Francis free throws. Francis, who scored 23 against Wisconsin-Milwaukee Thursday, was held to only two points, but did pull down 14 rebounds for the Irish. 
Brown then knocked down a jumper and a 3-pointer to cut the Irish lead to 8-5. Notre Dame extended their lead to nine, at 16-7, when Thomas nailed another 3-pointer. The Irish drilled 11 of their 16 3-pointers in the first half. 
see SWEET/page 19 


WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Irish knockoff Wildcats 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 
MANHATTAN, Kan. Just when it seemed no one on the court could hit a shot, Alicia Ratay found hers and sent Notre Dame into the second round of the NCAA Tournament
See Also 
for the eighth "Irish survive, straight year. thanksto The Irish 
guard over-
leadership and came a poor persistence" first half of shooting to 
page22 
score 20 
points, includ­ing three second half 3-pointers, and grabbed nine rebounds to lead 11th-seeded Notre Dame to an upset victory over sixth-seed­ed Arizona 59-47 Sunday night at Kansas State University. Notre Dame will face host Kansas State for a spot in the Sweet Sixteen Tuesday. 
"She played, probably, her most complete game of this sea­son," said Irish coach Muffet McGraw, who picked up her 450th victory as Notre Dame's head coach. "Offensively. we called her number every single time down the floor for awhile there. Rebounding, steals -she did it all tonight. Obviously, it was great to see her step up like that as a senior." 
see UPSET/page 22 
HOCKEY 
MENS TENNIS 
WOMENS TENNIS 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Ohio State 3 


Saturday 
Saturday 

Saint Francis 1 
Notre Dame 2 
Minnesota 6 
Notre Dame 4 

Saint Mary's 0 
A third-period goal by the 
Notre Dame 1 
Iowa 3 

Judson 2
Buckeyes sinks the Irish in the Super 

Saint Mary's 1 
r i 
Six round of the CCHA playoffs. 
Sunday
Sundal,
Notre ame 5 
William and Mary 4

I' 
Saint Mary's 2
Virginia Tech 2 
Notre Dame 3 

Olivet Nazarene 1 

page 21 
page 18 

page 18 
page 18 






