----------------------------------------------------~-------------------------------~ --­

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ROTC commemorates Veterans Day 
By ClAIRE HEININGER 
News Writer 
Col. William Brooks started for Frank Leahy's first foot­ball team as a freshman in 1941, then pioneered the U.S. Army's Airborne unit as one of its first members in 1942. The Navy kept Notre Dame financially afloat in the 1940s, and over 12,000 naval officers departed the peaceful shadow of the Golden Dome for the battlefields of World War II. Father William Corby famous­ly g-ranted absolution to the Irish Brigade before they marched in the Battle of Gettysburg. ROTC scholar­ships at Notre Dame outnum­ber those of any other volun­tary ROTC program in the natjon. 
Clearly, Notre Dame has a strong military history -a rich. respected heritage that today's Veterans Day cere­monies will strive to honor and reflect. 
Hetired Lt. Col. and Associate Graduate School Vice President Anthony Hyder summed up the relationship between Notre Dame and the military. 
"What better place to com-
see VETS/page 6 
BoARD OF GovERNANCE 
SMC students discuss Keenan Revue 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
News Writer 
Board of Governance members and Saint Mary's students debat­ed the College's role in the Keenan Revue at Monday's BOG meeting. 
The Keenan Revue, an annual comedy show presented by Keenan Hall, has traditionally been held at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium and pokes fun at student life at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
BOG President Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl opened the meet­ing and explained that the forum was being held only to discuss opinions, not to cancel the show. 
"The Revue will be on campus as scheduled," Jablonski-Diehl said. "This is not a discussion about whether the Keenan Revue is held campus. It is a discussion about what the issues are." 
However, some board mem­bers said that the show as a whole Contradicts the College's mission. 
"Saint Mary's is unique because it is Catholic," alumnae commissioner Anna Bauer said. "1 am a firm believer that every­thing that happens at this school should follow with the Catholic faith." 
Others said they felt the event had an overly negative perspec­tive. 

"I think it is the content of the Keenan Revue that is the prob­lem," said senior Emily Walsh. "The Keenan Revue is not the most positive thing to bring peo­ple to Saint Mary's campus with." 
"It is the same mentality that kept women in the kitchens for all but the last 30 years, and slaves in the fields for hundreds of years," senior class president Desiree Paulin said of the Revue's comedic content. 
Some members questioned whether comparable skits would be permitted on Notre Dame's campus and whether a similar show produced by a group of Saint Mary's students would be permitted to be held in a Notre Dame facility. 
"If we went over there and held the same event, I think we would be held to an even higher standard." sophomore class pres­ident Michelle Fitzgerald said. 
Most participants, however, said that while some of the show's jokes were in poor taste, they remain committed to having the show on campus each year. They would like to see it evolve into a more constructive exami­nation of the issues it addresses, though. 
"I think we need to look at the 
see BOG/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Me111bers consider women's center 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
Assistant News Editor 
Members of the Campus Life Council debated a resolution passed by Student Senate last week that called for a University-sponsored women's resource center. 
"We found that, for the most part, Notre Dame is one of the few [top 20 universities] in the nation without a women's resource center," said Kaitlyn Redfield, the senator from Pangborn Hall who spoke to CLC on behalf of Senate. 
Currently, a student club exists that aims to meet many of the needs that the proposed center would serve; however, it is limited in its hours, staff and programs, Redfield said. She envisions the proposed center serving as an umbrella organi­
see CLC/page 9 


Conference to focus on Catholic authors 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Catholicism, literature and the American South. Most people wouldn't immediately connect the three. However, this week, Southern Catholic writers Flannery O'Connor and Walker Percy are the subjects of a weeklong series of lectures, sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture. 
The series, entitled "A Reason to Write: Two Catholic Novelists," is modeled after a similar program last year, when the Center celebrated the life and work of Catholic author 
G.K. Chesterton. 
Jennie Bradley, the under­graduate assistant at the center who planned the week, said that she hopes the lectures will bring Catholic literature to the fore­front at Notre Dame. 
"The idea is to introduce the Notre Dame community ­especially the student body -to these writers who are so impor­tant in Catholic culture," she said. "Percy and O'Connor fit together so well because they're both Southern, Catholic and well respected." 
Ralph Wood, an English pro­fessor at Baylor University, kicked off the week Monday evening in DeBartolo Hall by delivering a lecture on the Catholicism of Flannery O'Connor's work. 

''I'm goiQg to tell you why you as Catholics should hang on to your distinct culture," he said. 
Though the subjects of her short stories are generally fi.m­damentalist Protestants, O'Connor believed strongly in the Catholic Church. "''m not a Catholic the way someone else would be a Baptist or Methodist," she said. ''I'm a Catholic the way someone else would be an atheist." 
She was strongly against the sentimentalism she found in some religious faiths, preferring instead fervent prayer and the study of Scripture and theology. 
"The cross is the one tree whose roots are big enough to encircle all the dead and whose branches are big enough to embrace all the living," she wrote. 
In the fall of 1950, while she was finishing her novel "Wise Blood," O'Connor became ill with lupus, a disorder in which the immune system's protective cells turn against the body. Lupus would ultimately kill her before the age of 40. Wood noted O'Connor's letters show that she did not allow the affiic­tion to dominate her character. 
see AUTH 0 RS/page 9 
Tuesday, November 11, 2003 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

No more 

video games 
It's Saturday night. The football team has notched a win, and despite being exhausted you are in a cele­bratory mood. You look anxiously at the pile of textbooks sitting on your desk, but instead turn to your robe 
Megan O'Neil 
and caddy and head for the shower. 

Wzre Editor
You scrub, shampoo, condi­tion, shave, exfo­liate, blow dry or straighten (depending on the weather), mois­turize, pluck, deodorize and per­fume. You try on a minimum of three different sets of clothes before settling on the perfect outfit. 
Two hours later, looking more preened then a peacock, you head over to one of the male dorms on campus with a friend or two, expec­tations high. You climb several flights of stairs and head down the · corridor, careful not to trip on your heels. You approach his doorway, and after taking a deep breath you knock and enter. 
But something is amiss. There is no dancing. There is no music. No drunken welcoming hugs. No evi­dence of partying what-so-ever. You say your hellos and make a quick assessment of the situation. 
It doesn't take long to identify the guilty culprit of what looks like it will be a lackluster evening. Female college students' enemy No. 1: The video game console. 
You silently groan and sink back into the futon: You make a teasing but sarcastic remark to the hosts, something to the effect of "video games on a Saturday night?" They grunt a half apologetic response, but their fingers remain glued to the controllers and their eyes to the screen. 
Although the outlook is grim, you are not ready to throw in the towel yet. You make a timid attempt at conversation, commenting first on the previous night's activities and possibly on the array of assignments you have due in the upcoming week. Your efforts are fruitless, however. You suspect that there is something about manual stimulation which leaves your friends unable to do anything more than utter a few phrases of profanity at the animated characters with which they are so enthralled. 
In a desperate attempt to engage the boys you might ask to be permit­ted to play a round of Halo. After 15 disorienting minutes of running around a death mazes and register­ing zero kills, you are done. You don't even think about making an attempt at NCAA Football; if you can't hit a human target with an automatic weapon, you certainly will not be able to complete a virtual pass to a speedy wide receiver. 
It is nearly two by that time any­way, so you leave your friends to their games, knowing that they will continue to play for several more hours. You return to your room, flop down on your bed and fall asleep, praying that next weekend arrives quickly. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
In the Viewpoint section ofMonday's Observer, Gary Caruso's e-mail address was incorrectly print­ed. The correct e-mail address is hotrline@aol.com. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WOULD YOU SUPPORT REINSTATING THE DRAFT? 



Andy Callan Chris Mader Molly Welton 
junior junior junior. Australia Siegfried LeMans 
'Tll come back "/think it "/ love the NFL from my would cause draft." semester in social unrest Australia right and would after Bush's undermine the daughters effort ofour enlist." professional soldiers. " 




Brian VIloria BJ DuBray Ricky Sadowski 
junior senior alumnus Australia O'Neill class of2003 
"As long as my 'Td be proud to "Ifthey 
M4 comes with a grenade launcher, I'll be fine. , 


Firms make big products for bigger people 
PITTSBURGH -Scales that go to 1,000 pounds, steering wheels for drivers who can't fit behind stan­dard wheels, a device to help people who can't bend over to put on their socks and super-size tow­els. 
Increasingly, companies are making bigger prod­ucts for America's bigger people, customizing every­thing from caskets to seat belts. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 20 percent of Americans are considered obese. 
TODAY 
a::: 

While some researchers say the products can help overcome the stigma of being overweight, others suggest they might encourage obesity by mak­ing extra-large the norm. 
Women claim condom found In clam chowder 
SANTA ANA, Calif. ­Four women sued an Irvine restaurant after one of them said she found a condom· in her clam chow­der when they dined there last year. 
Laila Sultan said she was eating at McCormick & Schmick's Seafood Restaurant on Feb. 26, 2002, when she bit into something rubbery. 
"We said, 'Of course. You're chewing on a clam,"' said Paula Wild, one of her dining compan­ions. 
When she spit it out, Sultan, 48, said she dis­covered it was an unwrapped, rolled-up con­dom. 
She said she spent the next 15 minutes in a rest­room vomiting and has since seen a psychiatrist and taken medication for depression and anxiety. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
LLI 
:::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
c:r: 

CJ 0 HIGH 65 HIGH 48 HIGH 45 HIGH 42

..... 

LOW 45 LOW 45 LOW 30 LOW 22 
serve." reinstate the 
draft, I'll be sure to stay in med school." 
IN BRIEF 
Listen to Kun-Chin Lin, a visiting scholar from the University of California­Berkeley, speak about "After Decentralizing the Planned Economy: New Directions in Governing the Market in China Since the Mid-1990s," taking place today from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. today in the Hesburgh Center Room C-103. 
Health Services will be offering flu shots to Notre Dame faculty and students with ID cards from 9 a.m. to 4 
p.m. 
today in the Dooley Room of LaFortune and the Hesburgh Library Concourse. 

The Tri-Military ROTC will conduct its annual Veteran's Day Ceremony at the Clarke Memorial from 4:30 to 5:30 

p.m. 
today. Father Hesburgh will be the guest speaker. 


Go see the international film "Such a Long Journey," which is from India with English subtitles, sponsored by the International Students Services and Activities, today at 7 p.m. and 11 p.m. in the LaFortune Montgomery Theatre. 
Benjamin Alexander of the Franciscan University of Steubenville will present a talk on "A Reason to Write: Two Catholic Novelists," today from 7:30 to 9 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall Room 138. 
Head over to Rolfs Sports and Recreation Center Court 1 today from 8:30 to 10:30 p.m. for Drop-In Soccer. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

~ 

HIGH 44 HIGH 45 LOW 33 LOW 35 
Atlanta 53 I 40 Boston 50 I 44 Chicago 58 I 45 Denver 52 I 34 Houston 80 I 66 Los Angeles 67 I 51 Minneapolis 51 I 35 New York 52 I 48 Philadelphia 56 I 46 Phoenix 68 I 54 Seattle 52 I 44 St. Louis 64 I 52 Tampa 84 I 66 Washington 60 I 48 

Tuesday, November 11, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 3 


ND alumni sponsor service initiatives 
Food drive raises $2,000 
By DUSTIN VONHANDORF News Writer 
The Alumni Association-sponsored "One Can Make A Difference" drive to benefit the North Central Indiana Food Bank has raised $2,000 in the first three weeks, organizers said. 
The Alumni Association began the fourth annual fund drive Oct. 20. It aims to collect money and non-perishable canned goods to benefit the North Central Indiana Food Bank, desperately in need of funds due to the holiday season. 
Scan O'Brien, director of Alumni Community Service at the Alumni Association, estimates that by the end of the drive about $10,000 will be donated to the Food Bank. 
The Food Bank was forced to close its doors Friday because it did not have enough food supplies to operate. It reopened Monday after it received the donations that had already been collected. 
The 46 collection sites, located in campus build­ings such as O'Shaughnessy Hall, both dining halls, Dccio Faculty Hall and LaFortune, as well 24 of the 27 student dorms, aim to collect approximately $500 each. 
"We wanted to make it as easy as possible," O'Brien said. We decided to work for spare change." 
Some locations, especially in the faculty and administration buildings, have yielded several checks written for $50 and $100 dollars. 
"The turnout has been simply overwhelming­the amount of support that the community has shown," said O'Brien. 
At first, organizers collected canned goods at Notre Dame Stadium. Due to logistics, the drive shifted to pep rallies and residence halls and from canned goods to monetary donations, but canned goods are still accepted in some locations. 
After the initial invitations were sent out, various departments asked to participate in the drive. 
The Food Bank, which serves over 140,000 people per month, said that for each $500 that is donated, approximately 40,000 pounds of food can be deliv­ered and distributed. 
The fundraiser is scheduled to conclude Nov. 16. 
Contact Dustin Vonhandorf at dvonhand@nd.edu 
Thursday -Live Music with Eric at Guitar 
Directed 
32 oz. Specials 
by 
Siiri 

Open for Lunch at 11:00 
Scott 

Lunch Dinner Late-night Snack 
Playing 
Washington 
Hall 
I 0 Reserved Seats 

Saturday, November 22 7:30pm $9 Senior Citizens 
Sunday, November 23 2:30pm $7 All Students 
Tickets are available in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCardNisa orders call 574-631-8128. 

Group promotes events nationwide 
ByWILLPUCKETT 
News Writer 
Many students are aware of the ongoing "One Can Make A Difference: Working for Positive Change" collection for the food bank of Northern Indiana, but the Alumni Association. through its Alumni Community Service department, sponsors many more community service initiatives. 
"Notre Dame students are very active in community service, with about 80 percent of them engaging in it," said Sean O'Brien, director of alumni community service. "We want to help those students remain active 
after they graduate and become alumni, as · well as allow the entire Notre Dame family to participate." 
According to O'Brien, about 240 alumni clubs exist worldwide, and 80 percent of these clubs engage actively in community service. 
"Our department really helps facilitate this involvement," 
O'Brien said. "We provide a lot of service opportunities and try to help alumni and students, as well, get involved." 
The Community Service Department runs or participates in about 16 programs every year, with a wide-ranging group of beneficiaries. While many projects are held in the area of a local alumni club, there are always service opportunities on cam­pus or in the greater South Bend area. 
For example, Notre Dame Prostate Awareness and Cancer Education, 


NOTRE DAME FILM,TELEVISION,ANDTHEATRE PRESENTS 
"We provide a lot of service opportunities and try to help alumni and students, as well, get involved." 
Sean O'Brien director of alumni community service 
along with Memorial Hospital and St. Joseph Regional Medical Center, sponsored a two-day prostate cancer screening for 662 men in four loca­tions around South Bend. 
Another event, the annual Domer Run, benefits cancer programs like Notre Dame's PACE Program and Awareness of Breast Cancer. Next year's Domer Run may benefit ovari­an cancer awareness, O'Brien said. 
Multiple projects also take place during the summer, when alumni can easily return to campus. Family volunteer camps occur in July, allow­ing alumni and friends to return to campus for a week to do service in the South Bend area for a variety of 
causes. 
in June. In this program, approxi­mately 30 alumni join together to build a home in four days. 
Over the midterm breaks, Notre Dame students participate in the Alumni Student Appalachia Program, in which students and alumni join together to aid service organizations in the Appalachia region. The pro­gram is generally well attended. 
After Sept. 11, alumni started the "God, Country, Notre Dame" pro­gram, which provides support to people affected by Sept. 11 and sub­sequent events, especially military 
families. 
A variety of smaller service 

projects are undertaken every year, such as the weekend Alumni Social Concerns Forum, the Notre Dame Day of Service, Notre Dame's Tax Assistance Program and Medical Missions, in which alumni provide medical help worldwide. 
Contact Will Puckett at wpuckett@nd.edu 
Summer Service Projects are spon­sored by alumni clubs that host over 180 Notre Dame students who give up their summer vacations to per­form community service in various locations. 
Finally, the Hammerin' Irish swarm a Habitat for Humanity build site 

College hosts show 
By ANGELA SAOUD 
News Writer 
"Della Donne: A Night of Fashion," a European-style fashion show, will be held tonight at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The event will be twice the size it was last year, featuring 17 segments and about 80 models. Proceeds will benefit Memorial Hospital's Spirit of Women services, which edu­cate women about cancers and health issues. 
Vikie Mason, owner of Illusions salon, is one of five women involved in starting the event. 
"We wanted this to be a night out," Mason said. "This is supposed to be a night for women to go to a feel-good thing and have a sense of empowerment." 
This year, organizers hope to raise $20.000 -double the amount raised last year. 
"We received so much sup­port last year, we feel this is a goal we will reach," Mason said. 
Models will take to the run­ways to display the latest in fashion, jewelry, makeup and hair from area boutiques and businesses. Participant Boutiques will include Girly Girl, Noelle's and a clothing line designed by Dr. Alissa Shulman. Babiole, a home­based jewelry business, will also be shown. 
Mason is one of five local businesswomen involved in creating Delia Donne, as well as Kim Poulin, creator of Babiole; Lenore Tracy and Jennifer Cole, co-owners of Glance Optique; and Anne Feferman, senior director at Teacher's Credit Union. The team does all of the choreog­raphy and advertising for the show and works with the Saint Mary's Theatre department. 
The team feels strongly about applauding women can­cer survivors. 
"Our goal was to include local businesses, local bou­tiques and local companies," Mason said. "That local feeling is so important because can­cer affects our community and the women in it." 
The winner of the Della Donne makeover drawing, Mary Cichowicz, will also be announced at the event. Cichowicz spent the last six weeks receiving her makeover, valued at $2,000. Three Spirit of Women Award winners also will be introduced by WSBT news reporter Debra Daniel. 
Doors will open at 5 p.m. for shopping, with wine and hors d'oeuvres served at 6 p.m. Seating will start at 7 p.m., and the show will begin at 7:15p.m. Following the event, dessert will be served and shopping will continue until10 
p.m. Guests will receive a gift bag including items from par­ticipating boutiques and busi­nesses. 
Tickets are $45 each and are available at the Saint Mary's box office and will be sold at the door. Seating is lim­ited. 
Contact Angel Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 

Tuesday-DJ, Food, and 2 for .4 Specials 
Tuesday, November 11, 2003
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
Short speaks on death penalty 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
News Wrirer 
Missouri public defender and Saint .Mary's graduate Cyndy Short spoke Monday at the College about her work with capital defendants and the injustices of the death penalty. 
The lecture, titled "Of Life and Death: Rethinking the Death Penalty," was attend­ed by over one hundred fac­ulty members and students. 
Short explained to the audience that, as a young woman, she never envi­sioned herself as a public defender of death row inmates. Influenced by a strong Texas upbringing, her views on the death penalty were quite different from those she holds today. 
"If someone had asked me as a college student, I would have said 'Yes, I support capital punishment,"' Short said. 
After being encouraged to attend law school by her father, Short enrolled at St. Louis University Law School in Missouri. The type of law admired there was not pub­lic service or pro bono work, she said. Instead, most grad­uates attempted to obtain positions at big-name firms. Short did just that, and after graduation she went to work for a prestigious labor law firm. 
She found the job imper­sonal. however, and after being appointed to represent a young woman accused of an assassination attempt on Rev. Jesse Jackson during his 1988 presidential elec­tion, she quit the firm alto­gether. 
In what proved to be a turning point in her profes­sional career, Short engaged herself in the case entirely, and her client was acquitted of the more serious charge of assassination. She was still not completely opposed to the death penalty, howev­er. 
"At that time, I still thought there were some appropriate death penalty circumstances," Short said. 
In 1989, when Short lis­tened as a colleague explained to a woman that the state of Missouri would seek the death penalty against her son, and proba­bly succeed, she began to change her mind about capi­tal punishment. 
"That moment with Mrs. Taylor sitting in my office changed the death penalty for me," Short said. 
Since that day, Short has accepted the challenge of working with some of the most despised and marginal­ized criminals in the state of Missouri. She has represent­ed 50 capital clients, none of whom have been sentenced to death. 
Short recently helped free a client who had been on death row for over 20 years. But to stand and speak for the accused in court is not enough, Short said. 

"To really represent some­one in these cases, you have to love them," she said. "Even when it comes to the most horrendous crimes." 
Short believes that poor representation for capital criminals is one of the great­est injustices in the system. Many public defenders are more inclined to hate their clients than to love them, she said. 
"The representation of these clients is extremely complex," Short said. "It is an enormous undertaking, and there are too few of us who are willing to put them­selves out there." 
The public image of capital defendants is also skewed and misleading, she said. 
"Those that we picture as the monsters that are paint­ed in the media every day are not the people who sit across from me," Short said. 
Short said she is encour­aged by the recent trend in many states to reexamine the use of the death penalty. She cited former Illinois Governor George Ryan's moratorium on executions and the subsequent blanket pardon for death row inmates, describing it as an "enormous act of courage." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at oneil0907@saintmarys.edu 
IRISH STUDIES COURSES SPRING 2004 
IRISH LANGUAGE 

4542/IRST 101:01 Beginning Irish I: 6 Rfordfun 4162/IRST 101:02 Beginning Irish I: 6 Riordfun 4494/IRST 102:01 Beginning Irish II: 6 Rfordfun 4164/IRST 102:02 Beginning Irish II: McQuillan 4572/IRST 103:01 Intermediate Irish: McKibben 
Three different levels of modem spoken and written Irish are offered. In the lower levels, students 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group debates changes to student govermnent 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Wrirer 

Members of the Council of Representatives met Monday to discuss their progress on revamp­ing the student government consti­tution. One proposal being dis­cussed involves separating student government organizations into two basic groups: programming and policy. 
Under one version of the propos­al, the off-campus council would have a seat on the revamped Council of Representatives, an idea some members disliked. Student Union Board manager Charlie Ebersol said that off-campus resi­dents would be over-represented by the presence of an off-campus council representative. "I don't see why they should be represented more than a dorm. They're not an entire class," he said. 
Ebersol asked council members to think of the proposed changes to the structure of the Student Union as a brand-new organiza­tion. 
"We shouldn't be asking where Senate fits in or where Hall Presidents Council fits in. We need to look at this as starting from scratch," he said. 
The council unanimously passed an amendment to its bylaws allow­ing for the creation of an ethics committee. This five-member committee, to be randomly select­ed from among council members, will establish and enforce stan­dards related to attendance, par­ticipation in council business and ethics. 

Two other amendments giving the council the Student Senate's 
-authority to fill vacancies in stu­dent government offices were tabled until next week's meeting, as council members did not have three days' notice of the proposals. 
In other Council news: 

+ 
Chief of Staff Emily Chin said the office of the student body pres­ident will sponsor the latest install­ment of the popular "Last Lecture" series. The lecture by English pro­fessor Joseph Buttigieg will take place today at 7 p.m. in Pangborn Hall. 

+ 
Council members will hold informal roundtable meetings on Sundays to discuss new amend­ments to the constitution. Student body president Pat Hallahan said the meetings would allow mem­bers to hammer out details of their proposals so that formal meeting time may be used efficiently. 


Contact Matt Bramanti at mbra­mant@nd.edu 
learn the basic principles of grammar and sentence structure, as well as core vocabulary; emphasis FILM, TELEVISION AND THEATRE 
is placed on the application of these principles in every-day situations. In the more advanced lev­els students read twentieth literary works in the original Irish. 
6499/IRST 476:01 Irish Film and Culture: Gibbons 
This course examines images of Ireland in film and literature, and places their development in a LITERATURE IN ENGLISH wider cultural and historical context. Comparisons between film, literature and other cultural 
forms feature throughout the course, and key stereotypes relating to gender, class and nation are 4138/IRST 302:01 Progress in 19th Century Novel: O'Brien . . analyzed, particularly as they bear on images of romantic Ireland and modernity, landscape, the Using nineteenth century concepts of crime and progress as a frame for analysis, th1s course focus-city, religion, violence, family and community. Students are also required to register for IRST es on issues such as poverty, women's suffrage, colonization, and the nascent idea of human rights. 476L Lab: Irish Film and Culture. . 
482/IRST 371A:Ol Introduction to Irish Writers: Fox This class introduces students to Irish writing in English from Jonathan Swift's Gulliver's Travels to the novels of Maria Edgeworth, the poetry of W. B: Yeats and the plays of Brian Friel. Key issues include representations of "national character" and the relationships between religion ~d national identity, gender and nationalism, and "Irishness" and "Englishness." 
5155/IRST 382 20th Century Irish Literature: Wallace Ireland has produced four Nobel Prize-winners for Literature, not to mention James Joyce. This course examines the cultural and political factors that have shaped Ireland's extraordinary literary achievement. In addition to readings, students view John Huston's The Dead and Neil Jordan's The Crying Game. 
6498/IRST 474C:Ol Passing and the Fictions of Race: EHmann "Race" is a fiction, with no basis in biological fact. This course examines how "fictions" in the artistic sense (novels, stories, movies) have both fostered and challenged "fictions" in the ideologi­cal sense; that is, the lies and mystifications about race that pervade American cultural life. 
4993/IRST 478E:Ol Contemporary Irish Drama: Harris This course looks at drama produced by Irish playwrights during the latter half of the 20th century. Major themes include the legacy of Ireland's literary and historical past, partition, the Northern Irish conflict, and gender and sexuality. Authors include Brendan Behan, Frank McGuinness, Marina Carr, Martin McDonagh and Paula Meehan. LITERATURE IN IRISH 
4167/IRST 301:01 The Irish in Their Own Words: McQuillan Irish responses to conquest and colonization; students engage with texts composed by the natives 
HISTORY 

4672/IRST 435:01 Medieval Ireland: O'Leary The pre-Christian era to approximately A.D. 800 is the focus of this course. Students discuss what Saint Patrick really achieved, the nature of monastic life in Ireland, and whether the Vikings were the brutal savages they are often said to be; they engage with a range of issues including the uses and limitations of archaeology, the historical value of Celtic mythology, how the Irish relat­ed to the outside world, and Ireland's place in medieval European history. 
4604/IRST 327B:01 Irish History II: Mac Suibhne Drawing on monographs and general studies, students consider how different social groups expe­rienced the profound changes that produced modem Ireland. Although the course traces political developments, it pays equal attention to socioeconomic and cultural issues, including the shift from high fertility to sexual restraint; patterns of emigration, consumption and social unrest; lin­guistic change and changing devotional practices. • 
4770/IRST 329:01 Northern Ireland Since 1920: Mac Suibhne This course concerns society and politics in Northern Ireland from the partition of Ireland to the current peace process. Students examine the changing structure of the Catholic and Protestant communities and their ideologies and the Anglo-Irish dimension of the conflict; they also assess the analyses and interpretations advanced by both participants and academic observers. 
ANTHROPOLOGY 
4920/IRST 228:01 Irish and American Tap Dance: McKenna. Students will learn a range of Irish and American tap pieces and dances, enabling them to expand 
rather than that of their colonizers. These texts are read in translation so no previous knowledge of on them to fit a wide diversity of music types and rhythms. Irish is necessary. 






ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 11, 2003 CoMPILED FROM Tt·--IE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Council delaying new constitution 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Delays in drafting a new constitution. a key part of Washington's political blueprint for Iraq, are fraying rela­tions between the U.S.-led coalition and the U.S.-appointed Iraqi interim leadership. 
Some American officials believe key mem­bers of the 25-seat Iraqi Governing Council arc stalling in hopes of winning concessions from American politicians eager to turn power over to the Iraqis quickly. 
Civil administrator L. Paul Bremer has so far held firm against suggestions by some council members that the political process he has charted -a seven-step program that concludes with a democratically elected gov­ernment in place by the end of 2004 ­should be set aside. 
Instead, some council members, who were appointed by the coalition in July, are press­ing for full sovereign powers as a provisional government, with the United States handing over responsibility for security to an Iraqi-led paramilitary force composed of private mili­tias. 
Bremer, however, will only hand over power to an elected government after a con­stitution is in place to ensure Iraq's future. said a coalition official closely involved in the process. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Kerry fires campaign manager 
MARSHALLTOWN, Iowa-Democrat John Kerry shook up his foundering presidential campaign Monday. firing his campaign man­ager as the Massachusetts senator, once the party's establishment candidate, struggled to makl.) up ground on front-runner Howard Dean. 
Trailing Dean in the current measures of the race -fundraising, opinion polls. crucial endorsements -Kerry replaced campaign manager Jim Jordan with Mary Beth Cahill, chief of staff to Sen. Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts. 
The move came less than three months before voters in Iowa participate in the state's caucuses, the first in the nation. 
"There's a new phase of the campaign now, and I wanted to change the dynamic," Kerry said during an Iowa campaign stop. 
FCC OK's transfer of cell numbers 
WASIIINGTON -Federal regulators gave the go-ahead Monday for consumers to switch their home phone numbers to their cell phones. 
The Federal Communications Commission said people will be able to transfer their numbers as long as their wireless coverage area overlaps the location of their conven­tional phone. 
In some cases. cell customers also will be able to transfer their numbers to convention­al phones. However, the FCC said it needed 
. to gather more information so it could expand the number of people who could do so. 
The new home-to-cell number and the lim­ited cell-to-home rules take effect Nov. 24, the same day wireless customers will be able to keep their numbers when they switch cell phone companies. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Man holding ex-wife captive shot 
MITCHELL, Ind. -A man holding his ex­wife captive exchanged shots with police offi­cers in the living room of her apartment and later was found dead inside the home, authorities said Monday. 
The body of Erhie Cobb, 36, of Bedford was found in the apartment Sunday afternoon after police negotiators did not receive a response from him, Indiana State Police said. 
Cobb was struck by a shot fired from across the living room by Mitchell Officer Daniel Atchison, but it was not clear whether that was the fatal shot, 1st Sgt. Mark Clcphane said. Autopsy results were not immediately available. 
Jury selection begins in Malvo trial 
Associated Press 
CHESAPEAKE, Va. -As sniper suspect John Allen Muhammad stood trial in a courtroom 15 miles away. jury selection began Monday in the murder case against 18-year-old Lee Boyd Malvo, with his lawyers arguing he was brainwashed by the older Muhammad. 
The start of Malvo's case sets the stage for simultane­ous sniper trials in separate courtrooms in different cities. 
Malvo, wearing black pants and a navy sweater over a white shirt, respond­ed, "Not guilty," in a clear voice each time he was asked for a plea to two counts of capital murder and one count of using a firearm in a felony. 
He is accused in the slay­ing of FBI analyst Linda Franklin, who was cut down by a single bullet outside a Home Depot on Oct. 14, 2002. 
In contrast to Muhammad's usual stony demeanor, Malvo smiled fre­quently and occasionally laughed as he conferred with his attorneys. 
His lawyers plan to pursue an insanity defense, and they said Monday after court that they have subpoe­wounding three during the Muhammad should be held caring for terminally ill rela­naed Muhammad to testify sniper spree last fall in the responsible even if Malvo tives. small-business owners in attempt to bolster their Washington area. pulled the trigger. and people with vacation brainwashing theory. Both cases were moved Similarly, Malvo's lawyers plans. One man said that for 
"We have a number of away from the nation's capi­plan to argue that he was so religious reasons, he could questions we would like to tal out of concern that an "indoctrinated" by not "sit in judgment of ask him," defense attorney imp_artial jury could not be Muhammad that he either another." Craig Cooley said, adding, found close to Washington did not know what he was The judge and attorneys "not the least of which is the because the shootings doing or could not control questioned potential jurors motivation for the indoctri­caused such widespread himself. about whether they had nation of Lee." fear. Malvo's case was Twelve jurors plus four heard about the case in the 
Malvo's defense team said moved to Chesapeake, alternates will be selected media, whether they could that neither Muhammad nor Muhammad's to nearby from a pool of 151 potential fairly weigh evidence about his lawyers have indicated Vrrginia Beach. jurors for Malvo's trial, brainwashing and insanity that Muhammad would In Muhammad's case, which is expected to last six and whether they would be invoke his right against self­prosecutors called their weeks. willing to impose the death incrimination. final witness after three Circuit Judge Jane Marum penalty on someone under 
Cooley also· said the weeks of emotional testimo­Roush said she expects jury 18. Malvo was four months defense expects ny from victims and wit­selection to take several shy of his 18th birthday Muhammad's wife, .Mildred nesses about the sniper days. Seven potential jurors when the sniper spree Muhammad, to testify "to killings. were qualified Monday. occurred. describe the manipulative Muhammad's lawyers Once 28 are qualified, each One woman, who was dis­nature of Mr. Muhammad." want the charges thrown side will get to strike six, missed, told defense attor­
Malvo and Muhammad, out, saying prosecutors leaving 12 jurors and two neys that she "was a little 42, are being tried for dif­offered no evidence that he alternates. prejudiced towards guilty" ferent killings; Muhammad pulled the trigger in the Forty-six people were dis­based on media coverage. is accused of gunning down slaying for which he is on missed for various reasons, "It's been in the news so a man at a gas station. The trial. Prosecutors contend including a doctor, a man much and we've heard so pair have been been Muhammad exerted such awaiting surgery. several much, it's hard not to have" accused of killing 10 and control over Malvo that full-time students, people a bias, she said. 

U.S., Vietnam ·discuss defense issues 
Vietnam. The United States has been forging 
Associated Press 
"During the meeting, the secretary stronger ties around the world in its 
WASHINGTON -With a smile and and minister discussed regional and search for help with the counterter­a handshake, U.S. and Vietnamese global security issues," it said. "The ror war and is seeking Vietnam as defense ministers met Monday to secretary acknowledged the impor­an ally. talk about Asian security and other tance of the continued Vietnamese Vietnamese officials have said they bilateral issues, the first such meet­cooperation on U.S. efforts to want the United States to help case ing in the Pentagon since the end of account for missing American serv­Vietnamese suffering from exposure the Vietnam War in 1975. ice personnel." to Agent Orange, a chemical sprayed 
Flanked by an honor guard, a Rumsfeld announced at an unre­by U.S. planes during the war to smiling Defense Secretary Donald lated press conference later in the remove leaves off of trees. It has Rumsfeld stood on the steps of the day that he will travel this week to been linked to cancer, diabetes, Pentagon to greet Vietnam's Pham visit two other Asian nations-long­spina bifida, birth defects and other Van Tra. A Pentagon statement time allies Japan and South Korea. illnesses. issued after the meeting said it He said the trip was to "discuss the Tra also wants the Bush adminis­"highlighted positive progress in the arrangements we have with them tration to do more to clear unex­overall defense relationship" and our close cooperation in the ploded weapons that kill and maim between the United States and global war on terror." dozens of people every year. 
~---~~----------­
Tuesday, November II, 2003

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Hyder and Hemphill, over the event because "the cere­While veterans do not seek 100 members of the mony at Stonehenge is an out recognition, they appreci­
BOGVets 
University's Army, Navy and absolutely fine. thing ... It ate the community's grati­Air Force ROTC units held doesn't memorialize anything tude, Hemphill said. 
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 

their annual overnight vigil at but the spirit, bravery and "I don't know of any veter­the Clarke Memorial sacrifice of a lot of people an who asks for anything," he 
Keenan Revue for what it is ­memorate Veterans Day than Fountain. The vigil began at 4 who have given their lives so said. "I know a lot who would 
a social commentary," said Notre Dame?" he said. "What p.m. Monday and concludes we can be free." just appreciate a thanks, but 
public relations commissioner. better place to train military at 5 p.m. today with a com­"The fact that Father that's not what they're going 
Stephanie Patka. officers with outstanding memorative ceremony featur­Hesburgh is able to speak around looking for." 
She added that the show moral and ethical values? ing Father Hesburgh as the there is one of the greatest "Until Sept. 11, it was easy 
reflects upon the conceptions When we look at Notre guest speaker. gifts we have," he added. "It to get lulled into thinking of 
within the college community Dame's long-term involve­"The Veterans Day vigil is is a great mark of respect." Veterans Day as just another 
of South Bend, and without ment with the national such a small sign of what the In addition to the ROTC day off." he added. ''Now 
concerted efforts on all sides defense ... the mutual respect ROTC cadets and the Notre vigil, several St. Joseph there is a far more immediate 
those conceptions will be per­is long-lasting." Dame community can do to County Veterans Day cere­understanding of the fact that 
petuated, whether or not they Retired Lt. Col. and assis­remember those who have monies will be held off cam­there are real threats out 
are acted out on stage. · tant professor of business gone before us," Lynn pus as well. The largest cele­there ... Veterans are people 
Marissa Kirkman said she Douglass Hemphill offered Wojszynski said as she dis­bration will take place at the who have said over the past 
supports the Keenan Revue similar praise. "(University tributed commemorative rib­future site of the Military 200 years that [the United 
and that the audience should President Emeritus] Father bons and fliers a few feet Honor Park Museum, which is States] is something worth 
not take the show's content so Hesburgh said it the best: away from where her fellow currently being constructed protecting, worth defending, 
seriously.These [ROTC] students are cadets somberly stood guard near the main entrance of the worth standing up for." 
"If you are that opposed yougoing to take responsibility on each of the fountain's four South Bend Regional Airport. Hyder agreed that 
don't have to go," Kirkman for leading the young people sides. Bill Flaugher, president of Americans are very fortunate 
said. "I think it is something who are the sons and daugh­As a senior Air Force ROTC the St. Joseph County to live in a country where 
that should be on our campus ters of our friends and neigh­member and commander of Veterans Commanders members of the military are 
because it brings all the cam­bors," Hemphill said. "Surely Arnold Air Security, which Council who served in Korea so passionate and patriotic 
puses together." we prefer people who have organized and sponsored the from 1950-1954, said he about their cause. "How lucky 
Others said that while the been through the Notre Dame retreat, Wojszynski was expected the ceremony to we are to live in a country 
Keenan Revue remains on experience and have Notre scheduled to stand guard on draw veterans from all over where people volunteer to put 
Saint Mary's campus, the Dame values." back-to-back shifts from the Michiana area. their lives on the line for fel­
school could exert some con­Hemphill's own Notre Dame 11:30 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. "In this great country, low citizens," he said. "That 
trol over the skits and jokes. A experience began in 1972, Monday night. She encour­Veterans Day is something is why we need to commemo­
Saint Mary's board reviewed when the Army sent him to aged Notre Dame students to that people can forget easily," rate them on campus." 
the show before its first pro­the University to earn a honor veterans because "they Flaugher said. "It means a lot "There are two things about 
duction in the past several degree in International have given their lives to keep to those who are still in hos­Notre Dame that make me 
years. If held at an off-campusRelations and continued in this country free." pitals and institutions ... very proud," he continued. 
venue however, the College 1986 when he returned to Major Mark Lyon, marine We're trying to spread what "One is the flagpole in the 
could exert no such influence. run the Army ROTC program. officer and instructor of the these men and women are all middle of the main quad ­
Student government officers "It was then that I had my Naval ROTC program, com­about-each other and fami­it's often forgotten but it's 
said they intend to continue to first deep encounters with mended his cadets for their ly and God and country." hard not to smile when you 
assess student opinion on the Notre Dame undergradu­participation in the ceremony. The ceremony, which is realize that it's there. The 
Keenan Revue, and share the ates," said Hemphill, who "We have all of the cadets scheduled to begin at 11 a.m., other is Stonehenge -can 
College's concerns in a meetingserved from 1966-1991, and midshipmen out to com­will include retired Lt. Cmdr. you even think of another 
with the production managersincluding two years in memorate the veterans who Robert Miller and campus who recognizes our 
before the show in January. Vietnam. "I fell in love with have served and sacrificed -Congressman Chris Chocola veterans that way?" the school ... It's a terrific so we can honor them in our as speakers and will recog­place." community," he said. nize veterans from all Contact Claire Heininger at 
Contact Megan O'Neil at To honor veterans such as Hemphill said he admired branches of the military. cheining@nd.edu 
oneil0907@saintmarys.edu 
"<J:«.. 




Law& 
An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series 
.November 12,...2003 

4:00 p•.m., Law School Courtroom 
"Acting as If: S_uspicions of Semblance In Early Modern Critiques ofVirtue" 
Presenter Jennifer Herdt 
Associate Professor Department ofTheology 
Commentator John Coughlin, OFM Professor · Law School 
~ . 

THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Tuesday, November 11, 2003 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 9 756.53 -53.26

Jones ' 
4-Sane: ~ Composite Volume: 
1,146 168 v 1,2 13,991,040 
-~~~-··
NASDAQ 1,941.64 -29.10 NYSE 5,950.68 -38.49 ANIEX 1,065.73 -0.97 S&PSOO 1,047.11 -6.10 NIKKEl (Tokyo) 10,504. 54 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,341.80 -35.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICI 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) -7.26 -0.17 2.2 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.38 -0.099 26.00 liNTEL CORP (INTC) -1.42 -0.48 33.3 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -1.70 -0.07 4.0 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.67 -0.15 22.1 
Treasuries 
30-YfAR BOND +0.32 +0.17 52.6 10-YfAR NOTE +0.22 +0.10 44.51 S-YfARNOTE +0.44 +0.1 5 34.4l 3-MONTH 8II.L -1.07 -0.10 9.3: 
Commodities UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.03 30.8. GOlD ($ffrcy oz.) +3.1 0 386.5' PORK BB..UE5 (c:a-G'lh) -2.775 84.37 
Exchange Rates YEN 108.' EUPD 0.871 POUND 0.599 CANADIAN$ 1.31 
IN BRIEF 
Alliance fires two in mutuals probe 
NEW YORK -Two top executives at Alliance Capital Management were ousted Monday and the investment management company warned of a "high likelihood" that it will face sanctions and penalties for improper trading of mutual funds. 

The company requested the resignations of John D. Carifa as president, chief operating officer and director of Alliance Capital and chairman of the board of its mutual funds, and of Michael J. Laughlin as chairman of Alliance Capital's mutual fund distribution unit. 
"They had both senior and direct responsi­bility over the firm's mutual fund unit which, as previously reported, allowed inappropriate market timing transactions, some of which had an adverse impact on mutual fund share­holders," said Lewis Sanders, Alliance Capital's chief executive. 
Alliance announced Gerald Lieberman will become a director and chief operating officer of Alliance. Marc Mayer, currently head of the institutional investment management sales and marketing unit, will assume the leader­ship of Alliance Capital's mutual fund busi­ness. Alliance has said it will make full restitu­tion to affected investors. 
Panel denies funding for stem cells 
BAI;f!MOHE -A medical ethics panel said Monday it would be unethical and risky to treat people with the embryonic stem cells approved by President Bush for federally funded research. 
The cell lines, created for possible future disease treatments, were initially grown on mouse cells. That could expose humans to an animal virus their immune systems couldn't fight, the panel said. The experts said that safer stem cell lines now exist, but those would not be eligible for federal funding. 
The ethics panel announcement was the lat­est sign of the friction between stem cell scien­tists and Bush, who two years ago set limits on the controversial research which destroys human embryos. 
Earlier this year, the director of the National Institutes of Health called on the president to lift his restrictions. A number of scientists also pointed out that research into stem cells is progressing overseas. 


IG Farben defaults on reparations 
Associated Press 
FRANKFURT, Germany -IG Farben, the former German chemical giant that used thousands of slave laborers at Auschwitz, said Monday it plans to file for bankruptcy and is unlikely to pay fur­ther compensation to vic­tims of the Nazi war machine. 
Once the world's largest chemical firm, IG Farben was broken up and ordered into trusteeship by the World War II Allies in 1952. It continued operat­ing as a trust to pay Nazi­era claims and its shares are still traded on stock exchanges. 
Bankruptcy has become unavoidable because a deal to sell real estate holdings, the company's main remaining asset, fell through, trustee Volker Pollehn told a news confer­ence. As a result, no fur­ther compensation is likely to be paid, he said. 

IG Farben's wartime fac­tories included a synthetic rubber plant at the Auschwitz death camp complex where 30,000 inmates worked until they died or were deemed unfit for work and sent to the gas chambers. The compa­ny partly owned Degesch, which made the Zyklon-B poison used to gas death estimated 350,000 prison­IG Farben's German suc­The Claims Conference's camp inmates. ers at its chemical facto­cessor companies -BASF, Frankfurt office refused to 
Monday's news confer­ries during the war. Under Bayer and Hoechst -were comment on Monday's ence drew about 30 pro­a 1957 deal with the founder members of the announcement. testers. who held placards Jewish Claims Conference, industry-government fund, Pollehn said the trust asking "Where Is The the IG Farben trust agreed but IG Farben set up its had hoped to bring in more Money To Compensate The to pay $7 million in com­own $295,000 fund in July money through an option Victims" and whistled at pensation, mostly to 2001. agreed two years ago with the trustees as they left. Jewish former prisoners. However, the trustees German investment com­
Henry Mathews, who Former IG Farben slave decided the fund was too pany WCM, which under­heads a group of IG laborers are also eligible to small to pay credible com­took to purchase IG Farben Farben shareholders claim compensation from a pensation and had hoped property holdings valued pressing the trust to pay $5.9 billion German fund to fill it up with proceeds . at about $19.7 million. But former slave laborers, that in 2001 began com­of the real estate sales, WCM ran into financial urged banks owed money pensating remaining for­Pollehn said. trouble and paid only $1.4 by IG Farben to forego mer slave laborers and The trustees say that all million, he said. their claims in bankruptcy camp inmates. remaining legal claims Now the trust, which had court. Most of them had been against the company by planned to keep going until 
"We want the banks to deported from Eastern former laborers have been as late as the end of 2004, renounce these claims so Europe and missed out on settled and that any fur­will move into bankruptcy the money can be paid to compensation because ther payments would have proceedings and its the victims," Mathews said. they returned to homes been on a moral and remaining assets disposed 
I.G. Farben employed an behind the Iron Curtain. humanitarian basis. of, Pollehn said. 

SWITZERLAND 

WTO orders sanctions for U.S. steel 
Associated Press 

GENEVA -The United States faces up to $2.2 billion in European Union trade sanctions after a World Trade Organization appeals panel ruled Monday that U.S. tariffs on imported steel are illegal. 
In a 170-page report, a three­member WTO panel rejected the bulk of the U.S. appeal of an earlier ruling that said duties of up to 30 percent introduced in March 2002 by the Bush administration breached trade rules. 
The appeals body is WTO's highest tribunal, and the decision is final. In a joint statement, the countries that brought the case said the 
United States had "no other choice" but to remove the import duties without delay. The EU said it will impose retaliatory sanctions of up to $2.2 billion by introducing 100 per­cent duties on some U.S. imports, effectively pricing those goods out of the EU market. 
The United States insisted it was right to impose the tariffs for three years. 
"We disagree with the overall WTO report and we are going to study it and look at its implications and go from there," said White House spokesman Scott McClellan, aboard Air Force One with President Bush. 
McClellan would not offer a 
timetable for a White House deci­sion on whether to rescind the tar­iffs or accept the sanctions. For sev­eral weeks, Bush has been studying a separate report from his interna­tional trade commission on the sub­ject. 
"The steel safeguards the presi­dent imposed were to provide our domestic steel industry an opportu­nity to adjust to import competition . .. to give our domestic industry an opportunity to restructure and con­solidate and become stronger and more competitive," McClellan said. 
"We believe [the safeguards] are fully consistent with WTO rules and we will carefully review those deci­sions." 

page 8 Tuesday, November 11, 2003 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

' •..! '; fk,
#% ·1· o· ·~·· 
. . I 4J ' . ' . '.' :t." . ·~ 

WENDY KOPP FOUNDED 
TEACH FOR AMERICA TO TACKlE 
SOME OF S.OCI·ETY'S DEEPEST 

SOCIAL PROBLEMS. 
Hear from this social entrepreneur about how she started and grew leach For America and what she learned· atong the way« 
Tuesday, November 11, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Speaker to discuss smoking at ND 
Special to The Observer 
Nationally known motiva­tional speaker Patrick Heynolds, grandson of tobacco company founder 
R.J. Heynolds, will give a talk titled "Tobacco Wars: The Battle for a Smoke Free· Society." at 7 p.m. Wednesday in the McKenna Hall auditorium. 
Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, IHISIIealth, and the Healthy Communities Initiative of St. Joseph County, the event is free and open to the public. 
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company is the nation's sec­ond largest cigarette manu­facturer. Patrick Reynolds was the first tobacco indus­try figure to turn his back on a family company, which he did after losing his father and brother to lung cancer. He has since lobbied for a smoke-free society in both Congress and state govera­ments, spoken at many schools nationwide and in 1989 created the Foundation for a Smokefree America. 

Senate begins week of wrangling 
Associated Press Senate Chaplain Barry Black opened Monday's session of his chamber by seeking God's help so senators could "sidestep the divisive power of contention." But it was all downhill from there. Opening a week that prom­ised to be contentious and then some, Sen. Mitch McConnell, R­Ky., said recent Democratic crit­Icism of the Senate's Republican leadership was "callow, petu­lant" and "quite unsenatorial." Minutes later, Sen. Harry Heid, D-Nev. -like McConnell his party's No. 2 Senate leader -launched a speech that he initially said would last all after­noon but went much longer. It was sparked by Heid 's anger over GOP leaders' decision to have the Senate spend 30 con­secutive hours this week dis­cussing judicial nominations by President Bush that Democrats have blocked. The 63-year-old Reid ended up speaking for more than 8 1/2 hours, leaning at times on his desk but remaining on his feet the entire time to avoid losing 
his right to speak. 
Pausing only occasionally to answer questions, he spoke to a mostly empty chamber about the nominations, the economy and the way the GOP majority has been running the Senate. He also read at length from "Searchlight, the Camp That Didn't Fail," a book he wrote on his tiny hometown of Searchlight, Nev. 
"The majority has to work with us or nothing gets done," warned Reid, referring to the Senate minority's ability to use procedural delays to grind the chamber's work to a halt. 
The back and forth under­lined the partisan discord that typically mushrooms as a ses­sion of Congress draws to an end, particularly with presiden­tial and congressional elections looming next year. 
Senate leaders hope to com­plete their work for the year so Congress can adjourn on Nov. 
21. To do so, lawmakers still must complete nine of the 13 routine spending bills for the new budget year, and Republicans would like to finish major Medicare and energy leg­islation as well. · 
To achieve that, deals must be struck on overtime pay, media ownership limits, veterans spending and other issues that have proven intractable all year. 
House leaders decided Monday to cancel all votes this week because there was little that chamber can do until those agreements are reached. But in the Senate, which is lagging behind the House, leaders decided to keep working. 
Last week, Democrats agreed that to help speed work on the spending measures, the Senate could take the unusual step of scheduling votes this Monday and Tuesday. Normally, law­makers would have gone home for Tuesday's Veterans' Day functions. 
But then, at the insistence of conservatives, Republicans scheduled 30 consecutiv.e hours of debate to protest the Democratic blockade of four of Bush's judgeship nominees. The marathon is scheduled to begin at 6 p.m. Wednesday. 

University ofNotre Dame International Study Program at , 




Trinity College 
Dublin, Ireland 
Information Meeting 
Thursday, Nov. 13, 2003 138 DeBartolo 5:00PM 
with Sarah Coyle, Trinity College Dublin and Katie Keogh, Associate Director, Dublin Program 
Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2003 All Year 2004-2005 Applications submitted on-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 
CLC 
continued from page 1 

zation that would provide a net­work system to connect different University organizations that already have gender relations components. 
CLC members appeared sup­portive of the idea but wanted more information before consid­ering recommending it to the Office of Student Affairs. 
"I think if you really want to make a good case of this, I would want to see specific numbers [from peer institutions]." said David Moss, assistant vice-presi­dent ofStudent Affairs. 
Other members voiced concern about fmding funding and space for the proposed center and sug­gested that the needs it would address could be fulfilled through existing programs. 
"I don't think that this consti­tutes creating a new office," said Wyatt Maxwell, co-president of the Hall Presidents Council. "I think a lot of this can be dealt with through existing establish­ments." 
Ultimately, CLC agreed to pass the issue along to its Gender Relations Committee to investi­gate it further and work with the committee of the same name in Student Senate to gather more information. 


Authors 
continued from page 1 

"What's remarkable about these letters is the complete lack of self­pity," he said. "She saw her disease as a nuisance, a harassment that was killing her." 
Wood offered an anecdote that exemplified O'Connor's direct style of writing. When she was applying to a writer's workshop, the director 

DUTPDST 
~ 
Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes {rom Campus 

Call259·1ooo for more details 
In other CLC news: 
+ Joanna Cornwell, a junior in Breen Phillips Hall, addressed CLC about the need for on-cam­pus transportation for temporari­ly handicapped students. The University's Office for Students with Disabilities previously pro­vided golf carts to handicapped students or had drivers transport them around campus. The pro­gram, however, was eliminated due to budget cuts and excessive damage to the carts stemming from vandalism. 
The CLC agreed to form a task force to investigate the matter. 
+ The CLC is in the process of forming a committee to evaluate the attendance requirements of resident assistant training. At their last meeting, members passed a proposal that mandated its formation. 
+Jeremy Lao, student body vice­president, asked members to think about changing the organi­zation's meeting time for next semester because he is consider­ing registering for a class that conflicts with the current time. Members resisted the suggestion, however. Lao will take over next semester as student body presi­dent and chairman of CLC. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
of the program couldn't under­stand her thick Georgia drawl. O'Connor scribbled these words on a piece of paper: "My name is Flannery O'Connor. I am a writer." 
Both writers have connections to Notre Dame. O'Connor spoke at the University in 1962 to what she described as a group of"clergymen and baby-faced seminarians." Percy won Notre Dame's Laetare Medal in 1989, the highest award given to American Catholics, for his contributions to Catholic literature. 
The week will continue Tuesday through Thursday evenings at 7:30 with further lectures on O'Connor and Percy. A table of both authors' works is on display in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Bradley said she would like to see events like these become a lit­erary staple at Notre Dame. "We should try to do a Catholic culture week every year," she said. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 



·'Jihad in America" 
ADoclll88ntan bV Steven Emerson 
Wednesdav, November 12 
1:00pm 

102 DeBartOlO Hall 
SPOIISOred bVlbe foundation fer the Dtf8DS8 Dl Oemocraci8S 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 
Tuesday, November 11, 2003 
Preaching love to the School of the Am.ericas 

It was during my sophomore year in high school that Joe Flood, my friend and track teammate at the time, and current stud columnist for the Harvard student newspaper, posed the most important ques-p t J 
tion of my life as e er · 
we drove home Quaranto in his green 1989 Toyota 
A Call to 

Corolla. At least, 
Action

that is what I think it was. It could have been a Mercury Sable. 
The question was this: Did I know that the U.S. government ran a military school in Georgia to train soldiers of Latin American countries that had turned out a horrifyingly high number of perpetrators of human rights abus­es? I had no clue. 
All right, perhaps this question was not the most important of my life, but it was very important nonetheless. It was important because it opened my eyes to the imperfection of the United States. It impelled me to acknowledge that while our country has done much good for the world, it has also made many mis­takes that have cost millions their lives. 
A particular mistake for which we need to demand justice is the School of the Americas. which was recently renamed the Western Hemisphere Institute of Security Cooperation. For the past 56 years. this military school has trained thousands of Latin American soldiers who have killed mil­lions and committed countless human rights violations. 
On the surface, the School of the Americas does not seem very alarming. Founded in 1946, the stated purpose of the former School of the Americas is to provide military education and training to the nations of Latin America to pro­mote democratic values and respect for human rights. That seems like a posi­tive mission statement. The problem. though, is one that only further research can explain. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Can military forces bring about democracy and human rights? That seems a great contradiction. History seems to show that such a democracy, brought about by the military, is far from true democracy and a lot closer to bloody dictatorship. Just ask the Chileans about the Pinochet regime during the 1970s. We need to examine the alumni records of the School of the Americas to highlight this point. 
The alumni track record of the School of the Americas is appalling. There are countless human rights vio­lations, massacres, bloody coups and assassinations in countries all over Latin America by graduates of the school. Two examples are particularly relevant to our University's Catholic identity. 
On March 24, 1980, Archbishop Oscar Romero was assassinated by a graduate of the School of the Americas as he was celebrating Mass. Days before he died, Romero sent a letter to President Carter that said, "If you are really Christian, please stop sending aid to the military here, because they use it only to kill my people." 
A second example was the massacre of six Jesuit priests, their housekeeper and her daughter on Nov. 16, 1989 in El Salvador, which was also by gradu­ates. lgnatio Ellacuria, S.J .. the mur­dered superior of the Jesuit community, also had fitting words before dying: "The struggle against injustice and the pursuit of truth cannot be separated. nor can one work for one independent of the other." 
These words and examples are pro­found, as is the long list of violence per­petrated by graduates, yet many people continue to rationalize the School of the Americas. There are two common arguments. 
First, some say that these human rights violations were only committed by a small segment of the many gradu­ates of the military school. As far as I am concerned, such an argument is ridiculous. If 10 percent of those who graduated from Notre Dame were rapists, murderers and dictators, you'd better believe that most of us would be outside "Main Building protesting. 

Second, some argue that the military school has cleaned up its past mistakes and is now committed to human rights. democracy and peace. This is a stronger argument. but the facts show that graduates from the school have perpetrated numerous human rights violations in the 21st century in Colombia, Peru, Bolivia and Guatemala. I encourage you to do your own research by juxtaposing the school website (www.benning.army.miVwhin­sec/) and the SOA Watch website (www.soaw.org). 
So what can we do? We can close the School of the Americas. In 2001, a bipartisan amendment on Capitol Hill to close the school was defeated by only 10 votes. There is hope. On Nov. 21-23, a large group of us from Notre Dame will be traveling to the School of the Americas in Georgia to participate in the annual vigil, where we stand in sol­idarity with the victims and speak out against violence and terror. Please con­sider joining us and sign up at the Center for Social Concerns. 
In closing, let us heed the words of Archbishop Oscar Romero: "Let us not tire of preaching love; it is the force that will overcome the world. Though we see that waves of violence succeed in drowning out the fire of Christian love, love must win out; it is the only thing that can." May we preach that love amidst the violent world we live in. 
Peter Quaranta is a sophomore politi­cal science and international peace studies major. He is involved with the Notre Dame Peace Coalition and is greatly anticipating the release ofLord of the Rings: The Return of the King in one month. Contact him at pquarant@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 



OBSERVER POLL 
Do you support moving the Pass-in-Review, the procession by ROTC students, to an outside location? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If everyone is thinking alike, someone isn't thinking." 
George S. Patton, Jr. Former U.S. Army General 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Tuesday, November I I, 2003 page I I 
Too many business majors? 
To touch upon the topic of Notre Dame having too many business majors, I agree, for all the obvious reasons. College is a time for essays rather than scantrons. It should teach us to think critically and write fluidly, and to raise David Barrett questions rather than provide answers. It doesn't, for most of us. Jigga Geoff 
College seems more like a quick fix. Maybe for a moment or two, you think about doing things right this semester, picking a class for content rather than because the teacher thinks Bs are simply too harsh. However, your initial urge to study Islamic archi­tecture is countered by an online review that says the teacher's accent is hard to understand. Furthermore, it's four cred­its, meets on Fridays and isn't listed as American Studies. So you decide not to take it, to settle instead for a self-paced psychology class with computerized quizzes and no final. 
In an efTort not to alienate everybody who reads this. I'd like to toast all PLS majors. Probably not reading this, but nonetheless a commendable group. Nowhere else will you find a classroom full of kids so committed to learning. I know because, along with two of my roommates, I gave it a shot sophomore year. 
We learned how pointless it would seem to read 800 pages for one class meeting, only to freeze up and not say one single word about it. Yet that's what we did, week after week. We did it because it seemed right. It was encour­aging to know that we were actually studying something worthwhile. On top of that, we would sit across from some of the smartest people on campus and lis­ten to them say what our teacher, who had read the book 30 times, simply couldn't. 
It was awesome, and we all bailed out by Christmas. 
It was one of those times when I really had to sit down and ask myself, who am I? What is college and why am I here? At the time, I really didn't know. I wasn't sure if it was a group of seniors doing keg stands in a Jiving room screaming "College rules," or the precocious 12­year-old with the 10-gallon backpack headed to the library on a Saturday. 
So I went the safe route and chose the middle road. Like usual. I decided to cover my business bases with an eco­nomics major, and maintain my intellec­tual integrity with the philosophy. It's only that now I find myself applying to Jaw schools that I question my decision to leave PLS, and to constantly toe the 
LEITERS TO THE EDITOR 

This isn't Mass 
Last Sunday morning, I did what any God-fearing, young Catholic ought to do: I rose at 9:00, showered, shaved, buttoned my shirt to the stiff collar and parted my hair. It was time for Mass. My friends and I arrived at the crowded Basilica a few minutes early, just as the priest took the podium to begin the service. 
"This Mass is televised on the Hallmark Cable Channel," he said, "and whereas the cameras primarily focus on the altar and the choir, they do occasionally pan the congregation. So I encourage you to participate and to sing, not to yawn or check your watches." 
Something seemed incongruous. l had always been told that l should sing at Mass. but not once had I been told to do so in order to boost ratings. But I didn't have much time to contemplate it. The dig­ital clock countdown next to the altar showed that Mass would begin in 1 minute, 38 seconds, and we had to look for a seat. There were none left, and even the steps leading to the altar were already claimed. We shrugged and decided to go eat breakfast and come back for the 11:45 service. 
As we were leaving through the side door, we stepped aside as a young handicapped man on crutches struggled through the doorway and into the Church. His progress was slow, but the game clock still had about 25 seconds left on it, so he had time. Just as he got inside, however, a lady wearing an usher nametag walked briskly up to the man and his family and said in a stern voice, "The cameras are on. This door can't be open; you need to close it immediately." No offer to help the poor guy up the steps or to find him a seat. I am sure she would ordinarily have extended this courtesy, but show biz doesn't stop for anyone, right? The show must go on. Maybe she found him a seat during the commercial break; l never did find out. 
Frankly, something about all this is downright wrong. Mass on tel­evision? I have no problem with a closed-circuit broadcast for the infirm who cannot attend services, but even this begs the question: Do the sick and elderly not attend because they are too ill or because the ushers arc too busy testing the light and doing sound checks to find them a seat? · 
Additionally, there is no need to trivialize our faith by asking a sub­stantial body of believers to act pious for the cameras, nor is there a need to have a digital clock reminding the priest he had better con­secrate the hosts more quickly because revivalism reruns start at 11. I wonder if they roll the credits during the final blessing. I will hon­estly not be surprised if there is a boom-microphone being held over me when I take communion next week. Maybe after I accept the holy sacrificed body of our savior and am reminded of my salvation. the. director will yell, "Cut!" and ask us to shoot it again so that he can explore another camera angle. This isn't holy, this is disgusting, and this isn't Mass. 
Oh, and one more thing: in Sunday's gospel reading, Jesus flies into righteous anger at the money-changers who are secularizing his Father's house. Funny how the gospel still applies to everyday life. 
Ben Nickol 
sophomore 
Knott Hall 
Nov. 10 

line throughout my years here. 
It pretty much all stems from a letter I got in the mail from my dad the other day. His post-it told me, "You might want to consider this approach." Attached was a letter from a Jewish Iraqi-American, who had recently graduated from Harvard and was hoping to attend their law school. Of course, he was already admitted, and was just trying to solicit a little financial help from philanthropists like my father. 
This guy was an admission board's golden boy. He was a minority. He had achieved success despite having a disad­vantaged youth, appeared on television multiple times, served in and started numerous clubs and interned at the White House. Included in his request for sponsorship, and beneath the Jist of his many accomplishments, was a landscape he painted in the fourth grade. A true prodigy, who made sure to include that he runs 15 to 20 miles each week. 
J\nyway, this got me thinking to my sorry state of affairs. I guess I could write somebody important telling him how much I've achieved. Perhaps I could boast of my intramural involvement. I was a two-sport phenomenon my fresh­man year, and the first in Notre Dame history. Or maybe I could brag about all I've accomplished in the classroom, and show them the obscenities I carved into my desk that semester. No, I know, I should tell about those times I ate with­out any utensils at the dining hall. I fig­ure that is worth at least half of my tuition. 
The truth is, I wish I had done more with my time here. I find that people spend more time marketing themselves and reshaping their resumes thll-n actu­ally learning. College has become a pre­requisite. For many, all that matters is their salary when they come out. But I'm not just talking about business majors. They were just the ones smart enough to realize what they really wanted early enough their sophomore year. 
Sure, if I had the opportunity to do it all over again, I would. I would make sure to take the Islamic architecture class, because when else would I have that chance? I would work past his diffi· cult accent and get through the long reading assignments. 
And when I was done with all that. I'd sit down, paint a landscape, and write a letter. 
You know, just to cover my bases. 
David Barrett is a senior economics and philosophy major. Contact him at dbarret1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

Let's prevent millions of body bags 
Frankly, Gary Caruso's negative one-sided cynicism has trivialized what should be an important foreign policy debate. His Nov. 7 col· umn shocked me with its callous nature. I am unashamedly a Republican, and l have many friends who are Democrats. I don't judge a per· son by party, but I cannot stand igno­rance and cynicism. The heart of a democracy is reaching across party lines and working for the true pub­lic good. 
First off, he entitles his column, "How many more body bags, President Bush?" I don't have to explain the tact­lessness of this title. When I see 15 soldiers die for their country, I con­sider that a tragedy to be mourned. To trivialize the deaths of these brave men is classless. 
Democrats are equally responsible for the safety of the troops over in Iraq. With the exception of Howard Dean, the major democratic contenders for 2004 all supported action against Iraq's WMD program last year based on the same intelli­gence as Bush. 
I would much rather give our intelligence community the benefit of the doubt before I trust the word ofSaddam Hussein on Iraq's WMD program. Their entire western half of the country is nothing but desert that could be used to hide weapons, and it would be like finding a needle in a haystack ifSaddam decid· ed to the move them before the war during the inspections. 
Caruso claims Clinton couldn't do anything against terror during his administration because he was too busy defending himself from Kenneth Star. This was one year of his presidency out of eight. During the other seven, he reduced the budget of the military and CIA substantially, limiting the manpower we had with many terrorist threats. 
As Bush has said, this war is much broader than weapons of mass destruction. These sol· diers are dying to bring democracy to the Middle East. Terrorists have shown their resolve with airplanes full of civilians. Can we afford to allow authoritarian regimes to proliferate, perhaps allowing these same men access to chemi­cal, biological or even nuclear material? 
Say what you will about his intelli­gence, but Bush is a rationally-minded human being. Sure, 
you can engage the international commu· nity, and this should always be encouraged. However, there are certain junctures in histo­ry, such as the time between the world wars, in which disaster could have been avoided with quick action. 

Look into the future. If this war pre· vents the development of just one deadly bio­logical weapon, or even a small nuclear terror· ist attack, the lives of these brave young men and women are preventing the deaths of mil­lions. 
Broader democracy in the Middle East is the only way to true security in the future. Right now, the result of the 2004 election is the last thing l am worried about. When facing this type of enemy, you must strike hard, and you must strike first, before he gets the opportunity. 
Tom Rippinger junior St. Edw-Md's Hall Nov.9 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, November 11, 2003 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Poor plot disappoints in 1 Matrix' sequel 
By DAN KEOUGH Scene Movie Critic 
I loved the original Matrix. I think it's one of the greatest science fiction films of our generation. This fanaticism over the first movie might be why I am so bit­ter about The Matrix Revolutions. And it's not like I had incredible expectations of which the movie fell just short. After the explosions-driven plot of The Matrix Reloaded, I was ready for the worst, or so I thought. 
The movie starts out~where Reloaded left off: the machines are drilling towards the human city of Zion, Neo (Keanu Reeves) is being held captive by the Merovingian (Lambert Wilson) in a train station, and Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss) and Morpheus 


(Laurence Fishburne) 

"The Matrix Revolutions"
set out to free him. actors in the Also, Agent Smith 
movie (i.e. (Hugo Weaving) con­Hugo Weaving) tinues h.is quest to had their per­eliminate Neo, which formances 
Director: Andy and larry Wachowski
was really the only totally undercut 
Writers: Andy and Larry Wachowski
plotline that the by the afore­
Starring: Keanu Reeves, Laurence
Wachowski brothers mentioned hor­
Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving,
took time to develop rific dialogue
Jada Pinkett Smith. and Mary Alice
sufficiently. The other branches of the plot try to cover too much ground in too little time and the result is a poorly paced special effects show that leaves the audience numb and indifferent towards the fate of the humans. 
The biggest shock to me was that almost the exact same crew that worked on the first movie claimed responsibility for this train wreck. From start to finish, this movie has some of the worst dia­logue I've ever encountered. With every day that passes, I'm becoming more con­fident that there was a contest in Mrs. Wachowski's Kindergarten class to write a script for her sons' new movie. I assume that the winner got a personal pan pizza and a homework pass. 

One of the most glaring flaws of this movie is that Keanu Reeves plays the main character. This is why I was initial­ly skeptical of the first one, after having my childhood forever scarred by Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. But every­thing else about the original Matrix was so good, you could make -a few allowances for the Keanu-isms that it contained (like "Whoa!" and "Whoa ... "). Unfortunately, Revolutions offers so little to begin with, one can't help but pay serious attention to him. And it hurts so much. Plus, the few decent 
and direction. 
The little, though much hyped, philosophical and theological symbolism in the movie is unnecessarily convoluted. The Wachowskis used what I like to refer to as the "Emperor's New Clothes Tactic," or, "Let's confuse the hell out of them so if someone says they don't like it, it's because they're too stupid to get it." So far I haven't talked to one person who has given me a satisfactory explanation of the plot. 
And when there's absolutely nothing left to say about the movie, fans inevitably comment, "At least the special effects were good, right?" Yeah, terrific. That's like when you're watching your favorite team getting blown out in the AFC Championship game and your mom comes in and says, "Well at least the Raiders have cute uniforms." Special effects are like ice cream toppings, and this movie's foundation was built solely on sprinkles, chocolate chips and those crumbled up cookie things. 
All in all, if this movie had just sucked all the way through with some cool action scenes (see Reloaded), it wouldn't have been nearly this painful. But throughout the movie there were a few brief flashes of brilliance, reminders that this cinematic atrocity is the conclusion to one of my favorite films of all time. 
The minute I finish writing this article, I'm going to start pretending that the Matrix sequels don't exist. If you never see me again, it's because I'm off in a cave somewhere, clinging to my original Matrix DVD and trying to bend a spoon with my mind. Wish me luck. 
Contact Dan Keough at dkeough@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 



Ferrell shines in delightful, witty film 
By ANNIE ROHRS Scene Movie Critic 
Elf, directed by Jon Favreau, excels as both a comedy and a holiday film. It is fun and charming the whole way through, and the humor, brought mainly to the movie by Will Ferrell, can be appreciated by anyone, regardless of age. 
Ferrell plays Buddy, a human who accidentally ends up in Santa's bag as a baby and is subsequently raised in the North Pole as an elf. Bob Newhart endearingly plays Buddy's elf father, Papa Elf, a kind and loving dad who seeks to protect Buddy from the truth as Buddy begins to realize he doesn't fit in with the rest of the elves. 

The movie begins to really take off when Buddy decides to journey to New York City to seek out his father Walter, played by James Caan, who isn't aware that Buddy even exists, as Buddy's mother is a now-deceased old flame of Walter's. 

Walter is totally absorbed in his career at the expense of his family life, and Buddy is shocked to hear that Walter is on Santa's Naughty List, but he doesn't let that deflate his hopes that his dad will want to hold hands and snuggle with him. While Walter is extremely wary at first about Buddy and his claim of Walter's paternity, his wife and son warm up to Buddy's sugar-induced giddiness and bubbling 
his quirky behavior and child-like innocence. 
The movie achieves every goal it shoots for. The actors are all perfect for their roles and the humorous sub­plots keep the message of holiday cheer from being too heavy-handed. Ferrell's acting and comedic genius shine through in his very one-sided, simpleton role, in which he is totally endearing and believable. 
Buddy has an unfortunate run-in with a midget he mistakes for an elf, but he manages to make friends 
everywhere he 

holiday cheer goes just because
"Elf"
right away. of his undisguised 
M a r y 
love for everyone· Steenburgen he meets. plays Walter's The subplots all wife Emily, a flow together 
gentle and lov­Director: Jon Favreau seamlessly and Writers: David Berenbaum
ing woman who the movie is fast­
Starring: Will Ferrell, James Caan, Bob
is more than paced enough to 
willing to open Newhart and Zooey Deschanel keep up with 
her home to a grown man wearing a ridiculous green and yellow elf suit. 
Buddy is bent and determined to make his way into his dad's heart, and iri the process he gets himself involved in various adventures in the city, some of the funniest of which occur in a department store where he, appalled at the audacity of the store to masquerade an imposter Santa Claus, reveals "Santa" to be a fake who sits "on a throne of lies!" 
He also manages to find love. Zooey Deschanel plays Jovie, Buddy's love interest who remains undeterred by 
Buddy's energetic personality and burning drive to spread cheer through Christmas cook­ies, paper snowflake cut-outs, hugs and maple syrup. 
Ultimately, Buddy has to salvage Christmas from the cynicism of the world, not just the cynicism of his dad. The loose ends all come together in the end, and Buddy has the audi­ence rooting for him to pull through and save Christmas in this humorom. and delightful movie. 
Contact Annie Rohrs at arohrs@nd.edu 

.------------------------------------------­
1 
I
THE OBSERVER 
I I I 
I 
I






CENE I 
Tuesday, November 11, 2003 
page 13 
DVD REVIEW 

'The Lion King' roars onto DVD 
Unfortunately, this feature is hard to By TIM MASTERTON test on a dorm room TV and DVD play­Scene Movie Critic er, but I'm sure that this, and any film, 
would sound excellent on a home the­
Since 1994, The Lion King has been ater system. released theatrically, on VHS, on IMAX Also included is a special edition screens and now on DVD. For those of presentation of The Lion King that adds you who have never seen The Lion in a new scene featuring the song King, this DVD will show you all that "Morning Report," originally written for you have been missing and much more. the Lion King Broadway musical. This And for those of you who think you is an interesting addition and will likely have seen The Lion King, think again. please children and first-time viewers. Disney just released its masterpiece, Most long-time fans and purists will The Lion King, in a "Platinum Edition" probably want to steer clear of this 90­two-DVD set. second clip. Whatever your reaction, 
First and foremost, The Lion King is the scene is seamlessly added into the not only a solid children's movie; it is film, so credit must be given to Disney also an outstanding animated film and animators. a phenomenal film of any type or genre. Already-established Lion King fans For first-time viewers and fans alike, will find more material on this DVD included on disc one is the original release than they will know what to do widescreen 1994 release of the film. with. Parents and children will love the Disney animators have restored the film two interactive games, music videos trace the development of the film and more importantly, educational. The frame by frame, and now the film's bril­and the option to sing along with the its music and story from beginning to navigation on disc two can seem con­liant use of colors and contrast is beau­entire film. Older viewers will favor end. In addition to these behind-the­fusing at first, but Disney conveniently tifully evident again. The sound quality three deleted scenes, one featuring an scenes extras is the "Stage Journey" includes a fold-out map inside. The is consistently excellent, featuring a entire verse of "Hakuna Matata" origi­feature, showing clips of rehearsals and majority of the material is great on first "Disney Enhanced Home Theater Mix." nally performed by Timon preceding performances, as well as interviews viewing, but only a minority of devoted 
Pumbaa's memorable with those involved with the Broadway fans will ever view it more than once. verse detailing his hard­staging of The Lion King. The Lion King DVD release is a must­ships with his own Another journey combines animated own for DVD and Disney enthusiasts stench. The only down­clips from the film with actual footage alike. The film deserves the clarity of sides to disc one are the of animals. It is clearly intended as edu­picture and sound that DVD provides, multiple previews and cational content, but I particularly and it surely takes advantage of the an 80-second 3-D ani­enjoyed the "Lion" sequence because it technology. This two-disc proves that mation before even giv­first shows Simba saying, "''m so hun­The Lion King truly is a modern master­ing the viewer access to gry I could eat a lion." Then it proceeds piece of animation, computing and film­what the disc holds. to show an actual lion pouncing and making. 
Disc two will keep Lion taking down a zebra and then dragging King fans old and new a zebra carcass away, as "I Just Can't busy on first viewing. Wait to Be King" merrily plays in the Contact Tim Masterton at Viewers are able to background. Weird, yet hilarious -but tmastert@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Cast charms in uplifting romantic comedy 
With credentials like these, it's not Park error of only using each charac­written, involves a great deal of nudityByJACK WATKINS hard to see why he tapped himself for ter's proper name once, and so we are and feels at odds with the rest of the Scene Movie Critic 
the script to his first film. Nor is it more than capable of telling everyone film. Were it not for these scenes, the hard to see how he assembled such an apart. film would probably have been rated 
Hichard Curtis had never directed a impressive cast: the movie features Rather than a single plot, the movie PG-13 and would be considered "fami­film before making Love Actually, but Hugh Grant, Colin Firth, Laura Linney, is essentially a half dozen or so inter­ly friendly." Perhaps in Britain, where his writing portfolio is impressive and Emma Thompson, Alan Rickman, twining stuDies, with some characters the movie is set, these concerns are contains what some consider to be the Keira Knightley, Billy Bob Thornton, never meeting and some interacting less significant. best modern romantic comedies: Shannon Elizabeth, Claudia Schiffer, on the fringes of each others subplots. Otherwise, the film is excellent. If no Bridget Jones's Diary, Notting Hill and Rowan Atkinson and Denise Richards. Like other films that have used this actor stands out, it is because Curtis Four Weddings and a Funeral. Fortunately Curtis avoids the Gosford technique (think Short Cuts), the sto­took no casting risks -everyone plays 
ries are united thematically. Naturally, their type, so that Hugh Grant is the theme in this case is love, or charming, Colin Firth is noble, Alan rather, as we are told in the opening Rickman is dry and sarcastic, etc. minute, that · The one excep­"love actually is tion is probably all around". "Love Actually" Rowan Atkinson, 
With a premise 
who seems to be like that, Love playing a sort of Actually could Christmas angel have easily in disguise. His become a sickly­Director: Richard Curtis character, who 
Writers: Richard Curtis

sweet celebra­only appears in Starring: Hugh Grant, Colin Firth, Laura
tion ·of holiday two scenes, gives 
goodness, but it Unney, Emma Thompson, Alan Rickman, Kelra the film one of its Knlghtley, Bill Nlghy and Rowan Atkinson
(narrowly) most touching avoids this fate moments. by not providing Love Actually happy endings to each story. The probably will not receive much in the overall effect of the film is still, of way of awards consideration, because course, uplifting and inspiring, but the Academy is evidently under the with a touch of bitterness mixed in impression that comedies are some­that allows it to approach the level of how a lesser form of art than dramas other great Christmas movies. and historical epics. Nevertheless it is 
I deliberately use the word quite likely one of the five best main­"approach." There is one major flaw stream films of the year and quite to Love Actually, which is Curtis' deci­worth seeing. sion to include a plot about body dou­bles. In a film that otherwise consists mostly of "cute" or romantic story­Contact Jack Watkins at lines there is one that, while cleverly John.F.Watkins.25@nd.edu 



Tuesday, November 11, 2003 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
-NHL 
Torres' back-to-back goals lead Oilers over Rangers 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Raffi Torres had his first two-goal game in the NHL, and Radek Dvorak scored against his former teammates in the Edmonton Oilers' 5-4 victory over the New York Rangers on Monday night. 
Torres scored consecutive goals 3:53 apart in the second period to push Edmonton in front 4-2. Dvorak's first of the season tied it for the Oilers, who trailed 2-0. 
Jarret Stoll, playing for the first time in six games follow­ing a bout with tonsillitis, scored his first NHL goal, and Jason Chimera added one in the third for Edmonton. 
Ty Conklin made 32 saves for the Oilers, who sent regular goalie Tommy Salo back to Edmonton to have his injured hip examined. 
Bobby Holik scored twice, and Boris Mironov added one in the first period for the Rangers. Brian Leetch got his first of the season late in the second period to bring New York within 4-3. 
Holik made it a one-goal game again at 5-4 when he took a pass from Eric Lindros and scored with a backhander with 4:23 left. 
Blowing a lead is not what Rangers coach and general manager Glen Sather had in mind for his first game behind the bench against the Oilers. Sather served as either coach or general manager of the Oilers for 24 years, winning five Stanley Cups. 
New York dropped its third straight but it was just the sec­ond time in seven games the Rangers didn't earn a stand­ings point (3-2-0-2). The Oilers are 3-1-2 in their last six games, scoring at least four goals four times. 
Torres, acquired from the New York Islanders at last sea­son's trade deadline, has six goals in 14 games this season after not scoring any in his first 31 career games. 
He gave the Oilers a 3-2 lead with 8:52 left in the second when he picked up a rebound of Ryan Smyth's shot in front and put it past Mike Dunham, who dived to try to get back into position. 
Torres scored again at 15:01 when Smyth found him wide open at the right point. His first drive was stopped, but he followed his rebound and scored as defenseman Tom Poti stood alongside him. 
Dvorak tied it 2-2 after a shot by Mike York -dealt to Edmonton for Poti at the 2002 trade deadline -struck the post. The puck came right to Dvorak, who scored the power­play goal into the open right side. 
Stoll started Edmonton's four-goal outburst by scoring with 5:08 left in the first. 
Holik deflected Poti's point shot past Conklin 3:53 in dur­ing a power play and nearly had another with 5:30 left in the period. Mironov flipped a shot from the left point that got through traffic and in. The goal was originally credited to Holik. 
Chimera made it 5-3 less than five minutes into the third. 
Kings 3, Capitals 2 
Trent Klatt scored two goals to lead the Los Angeles Kings to a 3-2 victory over the Washington Capitals on Monday night. 
Sean Avery also scored for the Kings, who have now won five straight games in Washington dating back to 1998. 
Robert Lang scored twice for the Capitals, who have now lost 10 of 12 games. 
Klatt, who also had a two­goal game last week against Florida, gave the Kings the lead at 8:14 of the second peri­od when he took a pass from Brian Chartrand and beat Washington goalie Olaf Kolzig. 
Chartrand, who last had an assist on Feb. 17 of last sea­son, also assisted on Klatt's first goal, which was deflected from the top of the crease behind Kolzig at 4:26 of the first period. Alexander Frolov also assisted on Klatt's goals. 


Lang scored more than a minute later to tie the game. 
Avery knocked in his first goal of the season at 6:19 of the third period to give the Kings a 3-1 lead. 
For the second time, it was Lang who provided the response for the Capitals when he tapped a loose puck inside the post with 5:48 to play in the third. 
Washington has now scored two or fewer goals in 12 of its last 13 games. 
Roman Cechmanek made 23 saves for the Kings. 
Red Wings 3, Blackhawks 0 
Dominik Hasek stopped 21 shots for his 63rd career shutout and the Detroit Red Wings beat the Chicago Blackhawks 3-0 on Monday night. 
Pavel Datsyuk, Ray Whitney and Brendan Shanahan scored and Brett Hull had two assists in leading Detroit to just its second win in its last eight games (2-5-1). 
Hasek ranks third in career shutouts among active goal­tenders. New Jersey's Martin Brodeur and Toronto's Ed Belfour each have 66 shutouts. 
Hasek, returning after miss­ing five games with groin injury, made a glove save on a short-handed breakaway by Scott Nichol just a minute into the contest. 
He also made several big saves during a Blackhawks power play in the middle of the second period. 
Detroit scored its goals in the second period. 
Datsyuk scored on a power play at 1:32 when he cut in off the right wing and beat Michael Leighton through his pads. 
The Red Wings then scored twice in the last two minutes of the period. 
Whitney tapped in a cross­crease pass from Kris Draper with 1:50 remaining and Shanahan put a shot over Leighton from below the right circle with 11.1 seconds left. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid.
--· CLASSIFIEDS 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Condo-footbaiVJPW/Grad-sleeps Wanted Mens Football Tickets A "Reality" Spring Break 2004s 8+, 1/2 mile to campus. $$ Pay Top Dollar $$ Hottest prices NOTICES WANTED FoR RENT Domercondo@ yahoo.com 1-866-808-0990 Book now.. 
Free Trips, Meals ~ Parties  
'''ACT NOW!Book 11 people, get 121h trip free. Group discounts for 6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com or 800-838-8202.  Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO exper. required. All looks and ages. Earn $100-$500 a day. 1-888-820-0167, ext. U187  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272-1525  Apartment tor rent. Close to bars and campus. 711 E Washington Ave South Bend 46617. $650 per month. Ready to move in! No smoking, pets possible. Full private deck in rear. A/C, 2 bd.  Buy/Sell Notre Dame Football tick­ets 574-289-8048 "LOOKING FOR FOOTBALL TIX** ND@Cuse Need at least 2.'  sunsplashtours.com or 1800-426-7710 ADOPTION:Irish, affectionate, child­less, stay-at-home mom and envi­ronmentalist dad, dream of sharing  
HOUSES FOR RENT: 3-5 BED­ 1.5 bath, full basement.  Will pay BIG $$$$ to get these.  love with Caucasian or Hispanic  
Vector/Cutco  Part time/Full time opportunity for  ROOM HOMES. GOOD CONDI­ 289-0262.  Call212.723.6585 or 917.846.8865  newborn through adoption.  
workforstudents.com  honest, motivated, success minded  TION. CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  if U have tix to sell.  Legal &confidential.  
574-282-2357 VECTOR MKT. has many cust. sales/service openings. Flex. sched. Excellent Pay. No. Exp. Nece. workforstudents.com. 574-282-2357 Do~egleftnews.com 'Pu ing the Pathetic in Apathetic" Brought to you by NO Students and  individual. Exciting !-Commerce internet based business. Contact: waynew54@ pronetglobal.com Event Staffing $8 hr./pm &week­ends Call for details 245-61 01 Ampco System Parking FoR SALE  ANLAN PROPERTIES 532-1896 HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS­ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004­2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 614 S. ST.JOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS· 214 S. STPETER 4 BEDRROMS­718 E. WASHINGTON ST. 2BEDROOMS. CALL KRAMER AT  2 bdrm home, walk to NO 315-8730 TICKETS NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED -TOP DOLLAR PAID· AM-232-2378 PM 288-2726  Stanford tix 4 together + another pair for sale. FACE VALUE obo. I will pay shipping. 607-336-7218 PERSONAL UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  Call Jacqueline and Allan toll free at 1-800-484-6754, PIN: 8642 **** IRISH CROSSINGS ·A NEW LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY**** Build your dream home next to Notre Dame. A limited number of home sites are available. For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com  
....­ Alumni #1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in Acapulco now offers 3 destinations! Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get crazy in Gabo--with BIANCHI-ROSS TOURS. Organize a group and trav­el for FREE. Book now before its too late! Call 800-875-4525 or www.bianci-rossi.com.  99 Chevy Lumina LTZ. 4dr,leather,power,cruise,CD,3.8-Iitre V6 w/115k. 20/26mpg. $5500. 283-0708. • LARGE, ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu  234·2436 OR 315·5032 HOTEL ROOM·BYU game; SAT Nov. 15; Red Roof Mishawaka $190 no markup. Steve 518-330-3818. 4 bedroom house. 1136 E Madison. Close to campus, ample parking, AC, huge yard. Contact Mike (216) 408-0780 or Matt (216) 408-0744 if interested  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE AM • 232-2378 PM -288-2726 WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232-0964. FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570.  Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at 1­7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  Anthony will you marry me? riiight i'm not tawkintuhanybuddy hands down AM I NOT A GOOD INTERVIEWER ... aaaahhhh yeah wonderwall....  

Tuesday, November 11, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NASCAR 
Kenseth surprised to be NASCAR champion 
Associated Press 
HOCKINGIIAM. N.C. -Matt Kenseth wanted simply to be a race car driver. He says he never dreamed of grandeur, that one day he would be a Winston Cup champion. 
Now. he is just that. And he has team owner Jack Roush, teammate and mentor Mark Martin and crew chief Robbie Heiser to thank. 
"Before Hobbie called me to drive his Busch Series car, I felt like my time was past," Kenseth recalled. "I think I was 26 years old. 
"I had a chance the year before to drive a Busch car one time and that deal never worked out and l was back to Wisconsin driving ASA cars. l didn't think I'd ever get the chance again." 
lie did. And this year. after leading the standings most of the season. the 31-year-old driver from Cambridge, Wis., wrapped up the title with a fourth-place finish Sunday in the Pop Secret 400 at North Carolina Speedway. 
Reiser, another Wisconsin native who had raced against Kenseth in late model stocks. surprised Kenseth when he called to see if he'd be inter­ested in driving in the Busch Series in 1997. 
"My father owned the car and we both knew Matt and what kind of driver he was," Reiser said. "We knew we needed someone like him to drive for us when we moved up to Busch." 
Kenseth was running second in the American Speed Association standings when he left. He drove only 21 races in Busch that year, but gave an indication of things to come by finishing second in the rookie of the year standings. 
Martin. who has been with 
Roush since 1988, the owner's first season in the Cup series, saw Kenseth race and took an instant liking to the younger driver. Martin decided to help him get a foothold in NASCAR. 
He convinced Roush to find a Busch ride for Kenseth the next season. 
Kenseth took advantage of the opportunity, finishing sec­ond and third in the Busch points in 1998 and 1999 and moving up to Winston Cup, where he was the top rookie in 2000. 
He won his first Cup race that year and added five more wins and a then-career best eighth-place finish in the points in 2002. 
This season. Kenseth led the points from the fourth race on, building a big points lead with consistency. He has won just once going into the season­finale Sunday at Homestead­Miami Speedway, but Kenseth has amassed 11 top fives and 24 top lOs -the latter a sea­son high -in 35 races. He failed to finish only once. 

Martin is listed as the owner of Kenseth's No. 17 Ford, but he takes no credit for the championship. 

''I'm embarrassed to some degree because the only rea­son I'm a partner in the 17 car is because it was a gift to me from Jack Roush," Martin said. 
"Matt and Robbie have earned this and, even though I cared an awful lot. and even though I tried to help as much as I could, my contribution to this doesn't add up to any­thing." 
Kenseth doesn't agree, giving Martin considerable credit for helping him to the title in only his fourth season of Winston Cup racing. 
''I'm real lucky that Mark Martin got me hooked up with Jack to start with and got me testing with him," Kenseth said. "He's taught me so much, especially my first few years. and I can't thank him enough for all the help that he's given me. 
"He's really guided me a lot and told me the dos and don'ts -not just on the track, but off. He's a great guy to learn from." 

e11or~mous 




FLEECE 

Selecti:.?• 
~ 
{rom DUTPDST 

Campus :1•1•Jii: 
Cold Weather Experts 
Col1259·1ooo for more details 

page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, November 11, 2003 

MLB 


Leaders call for World Cup tourney 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Another World Cup may be in the off­ing, this one for pitchers and batters. 
Looking at soccer's success at creating the world's most­watched tournament, major league baseball could give the go-ahead by the end of January to start a World Cup in March 2005. 
Many issues are unsettled, but both the commissioner's office and players' association would like to have at least one year of lead time to prepare. 
The U.S. team might have a difficult time winning. Stars such as Pedro Martinez and Vladimir Guerrero could play for the Dominican Republic, and the Japanese team could include Ichiro Suzuki and Hideki Matsui. 
"We're very optimistic that we can get it all accomplished and start a World Cup in the spring of 2005," Bob DuPuy, baseball's chief operating offi­cer, said Monday. "That's our current objective. It's our goal to sort it out in the next 60 days." 
The tournament would include 8-to-16 national teams and be played in 4-to-8 
U.S. ballparks. according to DuPuy and union head Donald Fehr. Talks with the union already have begun. 
"That's a goal we share, and with a reasonable amount of luck, I think we will get there," Fehr said. 
While the United States was eliminated from Olympic qual­ifying on Friday, that roster was stocked mostly with minor leaguers. Management and the union envision the World Cup teams having top stars. 
The Olympic qualifying loss shocked many major league baseball officials, who repeat­edly have said they cannot stop the regular season to allow major leaguers to par­ticipate in the Olympics. Canada and Cuba will repre­sent the Americas in Athens next year. 
''I'm sure that's going to get people's attention and could lead to further discussion on a World Cup and the Olympics, as well," said Paul Archey, senior vice president of Major League Baseball International. 
The commissioner's office and the union are working on several international events for the 2004 season. Talks are under way to start next sea­son in Japan -last season's opener between Oakland and Seattle in Tokyo was scrapped because of travel concerns prior to the U.S. war in Iraq. 
While talks for next year's Japan games originally envi­sioned having the Athletics and Mariners participate, the teams could be changed, sev­eral baseball officials said. 
The union is awaiting a management response to its latest proposal to move 22 Expos' games from Montreal to San Juan, Puerto Rico, or Monterrey, Mexic(,). 
NCAA BASKETBALL 




Huskies are No.1 in AP Poll 
Associated Press 
Connecticut is thrilled to be the runaway No. 1 pick in The Associated Press' preseason col­lege basketball poll. The Huskies can only hope it leads to better things than the last time they started the season on top. 
Connecticut received 67 first­place votes and 1,793 points from the 72-member national media panel, which likely found it hard to overlook the returning inside-outside combination of the Huskies' Emeka Okafor and Ben Gordon. 
"The No. 1 ranking matters because it does put some high­lights on your program and helps some of the kids get recog­nized," coach Jim Calhoun said Monday. "I don't find it being pressurized. It's how you handle it because we all aspire to be No. 1 at the end." 
Connecticut never even came close to being there at the end of the 1999-2000 season, the last time it was the preseason No. 1. The Huskies lost the opener to Iowa and finished 20th in the final poll -the only time since 1980 a No. 1 preseason team did not end up in the Top 10. 
"I can do without that," Calhoun said. 
He preferred, instead, to talk about the season before, when Connecticut was No. 2 in the preseason voting to Duke. 
"That year it was us and Duke and one of us was No. 1 the whole season. Then we met in the championship game -and I'll take that again," he said, referring to Connecticut's 77-7 4 victory and its only national championship. 
This time, Duke is No. 2, with three first-place votes and 1,667 points. 


Connecticut went 23-10 last season and reached the third round of the NCAA tournament. 
"I would make us one of the top five with Emeka, with Ben and with a deep and fairly expe­rienced team," Calhoun said. "I can't argue if some people think we're No. 1 of that top five." 
This is the fourth season in which the Huskies have been ranked No. 1. In addition to the other preseason No. 1, they were also on top in 1994-95 and 1998-99. 
Duke has four starters back from a team that went 26-7 last season and, like Connecticut, reached the third round of the NCAA tournament. 


Tuesday, November 11, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NBA 

Lakers' comeback falls short against Grizzlies 
Associated Press three-point play on the fast nine of their last 10 at Gund break for a 76-58 lead. Arena. MEMPJIIS, Tenn. -Shane Los Angeles went with its Houston, who came in averag­Battier's four-point play with reserves for most of the rest of ing 34 points in his last three 
1:58 left ended the Lakers' last the quarter, and Luke Walton's games, scored the Knicks' final comeback attempt, helping the buzzer-beating 3-pointer cut the seven points as New York closed Memphis Grizzlies to a 105-95 deficit to 85-69 entering the the third quarter with a 17-7 victory over turnover-prone Los fourth. Memphis went scoreless run to pull within 74-65. Angeles. for a five-minute stretch early in But after missing nine straight 
The Lakers were uncommonly the fourth, but the closest the shots, the Cavaliers finally sloppy, committing turnovers on Lakers could get was 91-84 with found their stroke as James hit eight consecutive possessions 5:31 left. three more jumpers, the final early in the third quarter to let one a 3-pointer from the right 
the game get away from them. Cavaliers 94, Knlcks 80 wing to cap an 11-2 run to put it 
Kobe Bryant scored nine LeBron James scored 17 away. straight fourth-quarter points as points -all on jumpers -and From the moment James hit the Lakers pulled to 97-89, but Chris Mihm had 19, leading the his first jumper -a 17 -footer 
Battier -who had just checked Cleveland Cavaliers to a 94-80 -it was the Cavaliers' night. 
in after James Posey fouled out win Monday night over the list­Cleveland scored 13 straight -hit a 3-pointer from the cor­less New York Knicks. to open the game as the Knicks ner and was fouled by Bryant. The one rap on James was missed their first six shots from The Grizzlies left the floor to a that he couldn't shoot from the the floor. After a monstrous standing ovation after handing outside, but the rookie star dunk by Davis made it 11-0, the the Lakers their second straight showed nice range in draining Knicks called a timeout and loss and defeating them for just seven perimeter shots, including James walked to the middle of the third time in 32 tries in all three of his 3-point attempts. the floor flexing his muscles and franchise history. James didn't attempt an screaming, "Let's go!" to the 
Pau Gasol had 20 points and inside shot until he missed a fin­crowd. 10 rebounds, Lorenzen Wright ger roll with 3:09 remaining. The Cavaliers shot 68 percent and Posey scored 15 apiece and James made his first four in the opening period to take a Jason Williams had 10 points, jumpers as the Cavaliers bolted 32-20 lead. eight assists and five steals. to a 13-0 lead and built a 22-Silas rested his starters for 
Bryant scored 19 and point lead in the first half. much of the second quarter, but Shaquille O'Neal had 18 points Ricky Davis added 16 points, the Cavs, who have four games and 12 rebounds for the Lakers seven rebounds and eight this week, were still able to 
on the final stop of a four-game assists in just three quarters for push their lead to 22 before the road trip. Bryant and Karl the Cavaliers, who have won Knicks cut it to 17 at halftime. Malone each had six of the two straight following an 0-5 Lakers' 23 turnovers. start. Nuggets 105, Bulls 97 
Memphis started pulling Carlos Boozer had 15 points Tiny Earl Boykins came up ahead late in the second quar­and Zydrunas Ilgauskas 13 for with the biggest shot, hitting a ter as the Lakers committed Cleveland, which only won two 3-pointer with 38 seconds left to 
four turnovers in a 4:40 span, straight once all last season lead the Denver Nuggets to a allowing the Grizzlies to take a when it went an NBA-worst 17-105-97 victory over the Chicago 55-44 lead on a layup by Gasol. 65. Bulls on Monday night. 
The sloppiness got even worse Allan Houston scored 22 Boykins had 14 points and in the third quarter. with Bryant points on 9-of-25 shooting and nine assists for the Nuggets, committing three of the Lakers' Kurt Thomas had 14 points for who had five players in double eight straight turnovers. Posey the Knicks, who have dropped figures in their second road win turned the last of them into a five in a row to Cleveland and of the season. Rookie Carmelo 

The Keough Institute is pleased to announce that Maud EHmann, University Lecturer in English, University of Cambridge, will be a vis­iting professor in the Institute in Spring 2004. A leading literary theorist, she is the editor of 
The Hunger Artists: Starving, Writing, and Imprisonment (1993) and The Poetics of Impersonality: T S. Elliot and Ezra Pound 
(1987), and many articles on literaty theory, feminism, and psychoanalysis. She is now com­pleting a major study of the Irish novelist Elizabeth Bowen. A highly regarded instructor, Professor Ellmann will teach an undergraduate course on Passing and the Fictions ofRace and a graduate course on Irish Modernism. 
6498/IRST 474C:Ol Passing and the Fictions of Race: EHmann "Race" is a fiction, with no basis in biological fact. This course examines how "fictions" in the artistic sense {novels, stories, movies) have both fostered and challanged "fictions" in the ideologi­cal sense; that is, the lies and mystifications about race that pervade American cultural life. 
GRADUATE/6513/ENGL 577E Irish Modernism: EHmann James Joyce and Samuel Beckett are the towering figures of Irish literary modernism, so this course begins with Joyce's Dubliners and ends with Beckett's minimalist later plays. But the aim is to restore these writers to their historical context by examining key works by their percursors and contemporaries, including Oscar Wilde's plays, fiction, and essays, the poetry ofW.B. Yeats, and Elizabeth Bowen's novels and short stories. Central to the course is the tug-of-war between mod­ernist cosmopolitanism and Irish nationalism, and the complicated ways in which these rival ten­dencies both thwarted and abetted one another. The battlegrounds of religion, class, and gender will also engage our attention, along with the cultural consequences of the Irish policy of neutrali­ty during World War II. 
Anthony had yet another big night, scoring a team-high 26 points and adding eight rebounds and three assists. 
The Bulls trailed 89-80 with 
6:37 to go, but managed to make a game of it thanks to Donyell Marshall. Fouled by Andre Miller, Marshall made his first free throw and grabbed his own rebound when he missed the second. He made the layup, sparking a 17-6 run. 

Hookie Kirk Hinrich capped the run with a free throw, tying the game at 97 with 58 seconds left. 
But Boykins spoiled Chicago's comeback. Barry didn't have a shot and saw Boykins open at the top of the key, behind the 3­point line. He fed the 5-foot-5 guard, who cooly drilled the 3 to put Denver ahead, 100-97. As the ball swished through the net, Boykins calmly raised his right arm. 
Ilinrich missed a 3-pointer at the other end, and the Bulls were forced to foul. Denver made all six to seal the game. 
But the Bulls have themselves to blame for this loss. They had 25 turnovers -16 in the first half alone -and Denver turned the miscues into 30 points. 







OUND THE NATION 
page 18 CoMPiLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, November 11, 2003 


around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Harlem Globetrotters at Syracuse 8 p.m., ESPN2 
PROFESSIONAL TENNIS Master's Cup 11 p.m., ESPN 2 
MLB 


Associated Press released Monday by the Berroa said from his deserves to win." 
Baseball Writers' home in the Dominican Each was missing from 
NEW YORK -Kansas Association of America. capital of Santo Domingo. the ballots of two voters. City shortstop Angel Matsui got 10 firsts, nine "Super-happy is the ideal Pat Caputo of The Berroa beat New York seconds and seven thirds expression to describe Oakland Press in Yankees outfielder Hideki for 84 points. how I feel about receiving Michigan and Bill Matsui for AL Rookie of It was the closest vote this honor." Campbell of The Dallas the Year in voting that since the BBWAA adopted Berroa, 25, spent parts Morning News left off rekindled the debate on the current format in of five seasons in the Berroa. Bill Ballou of the whether veteran Japanese 1980, a year after minor leagues before this Worcester Telegram & players should be eligible. Minnesota's John Castino year and began 2003 with Gazette and Jim Souhan 
Florida pitcher and Toronto's Alfredo 128 major league at-bats. of the Minneapolis Star 
Dontrelle Willis easily Griffin tied with seven Matsui, 29, was a three­Tribune didn't include defeated Milwaukee out­votes each. Berroa and time MVP of Japan's Matsui. fielder Scott Podsednik to Matsui each were picked Central League before '"I really do think he is 
win the NL award. on 26 of 28 ballots. signing with the Yankees not a rookie in the tradi­
Berroa's victory came in Berroa had to lean last winter. tional and true sense of the closest AL rookie race against a wall to hold "I guess I just looked too what a rookie is," Ballou in 24 years. He received himself up when he heard old for a rookie," Matsui said. "I think major 12 first-place votes, seven the news. He then jumped said in a statement, going league baseball has to seconds and seven thirds and shouted. on to congratulate look at redefining what a for 88 points in totals "I was astounded," Berroa. "I think he rookie is." 
IN BRIEF 
Murderers charged in Stenson case 
PHOENIX -Two people were charged Monday with first-degree murder in the death of Cincinnati Reds outfielder Dernell Stenson. 
Reginald Riddle, 19, and David Griffith, 20, were charged with first­degree murder, robbery and kidnap­ping. Riddle was also charged with hindering prosecution and attempted hindering prosecution. 
His half-brother Kevin Riddle, 43, was charged with theft, hindering prosecution and attempted hindering prosecution. 
A fourth suspect in the case, Robert Maye, was being held on suspicion of hindering prosecution. 
Stenson, found dead early Nov. 5, was shot and run over by his own SUV after suspects robbed him, police say. 
According to court records released Monday, Maye told police he was with his cousin Kevin Riddle when Riddle received a phone call from Griffith the day Stenson was found dead in a Chandler neighborhood. 
TCU moves into 6th place in latest BCS poll 
TCU moved a big step closer to busting up the BCS. 
The Horned Frogs jumped up to sixth place in the Bowl Championship Series standings Monday, the highest ranking ever for an outsider to the system. 
"We understand those things are in the hands of other people," TCU coach Gary Patterson said. "We feel privileged to be where we're at. We really appreciate the respect around the country." 
TCU (10-0) needs to remain in the top six to guarantee a bid to one of the four most lucrative bowls. 
Oklahoma remained the runaway leader in the standings that will determine which two teams will play for the national championship in the Sugar Bowl. 
The Sooners (10-0) are No. 1 in both polls and the seven computers used in the BCS. 
Southern California leads the three one-loss teams hoping to challenge Oklahoma for the title, followed by Ohio State and LSU. 
Treatment not helping injury for Lemieux 
CANONSBURG, Pa. -Mario Lemieux, out with a strained left hip flexor muscle since Nov. 1, will miss at least three more games because the injury hasn't responded to treat­ment. 
Lemieux tried to skate during prac­tice with the Pittsburgh Penguins on Monday, but left the ice after only six minutes and did not return. Coach Eddie Olczyk said Lemieux would def­initely miss games at New York on Wednesday and at Buffalo on Friday, as well as Saturday's home game with Florida. 


Tuesday, November 11, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 

Men 
continued from page 24 
diet of tailback Alex Staffieri, the Knights moved into Dillon territory and used an 18-yard run by Reed Langton to set up an eventual 33­yard field goal by Warner to knot the score at 3-3 with three minutes left. 
Three straight Dillon incomple­tions and a punt followed by a 37­yard catch by Knight Blake Haan gave Keenan a chance to take the contest in regulation. 
However, Warner hooked the potential game winning 35-yarder wide left. and the game headed to 
• overtime. Starting with the ball and a first­and-goal at the Dillon 1 0-yard line in overtime, Keenan ran the ball three times and opted to go for the touchdown on fourth-and-goal from the two. IIowever, tailback Ben Ramsour was stopped short, setting up 
Dillon's first opportunity to win the game. 
"We did consider [kicking a field goal]. but we were around the two and wanted to put a lot of pressure on Dillon," Keenan captain Patrick Downey said. "Hindsight is always 20/20, but we were confident that we could get it." 
Needing only a field goal, Dillon took over at the 10 and moved the ball to the three-yard line. Instead of attempting the game-winner on third down. the Big Red waited until fourth. The decision proved costly. 
Dillon quarterback and holder Michael Johnson couldn't handle a poor snap and the Knights dodged a season-ending bullet on the mis­cue. 
After trading field goals in the second overtime, Staffieri coughed up the ball on the first play of the third overtime, handing Dillon yet another prime opportunity. 
Once again, however, the Big Red was unable to take advantage of the gift as Dillon failed to reach the goal line on both third and fourth down from inside the one. 
"It was discouraging [not to score]. but we knew the offense was working well and that we could stop them on defense," Arseniadis said. "I believed in my teammates, and they showed a Jot of heart, which is the biggest mark of a great team." 
Finally, Dillon broke through in the fourth overtime when Johnson plowed into the end zone on third down. The Knights were unable to match the Big Red as Downey's fourth down desperation pass fell incomplete. 
"Our go·al was to get to the Stadium, and we have some unfin­ished business there," Arseniadis said. "We just need to play up to our potential. Everything hasn't clicked all at the same time, and if there is ever a time for that to hap­pen, it's in [the championship] game." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglis@nd.edu 


Wo01en 
continued from page 24 
looked like the better team. 
"It's unfortunate, but !Badin) played well," Huffer said. 
Badin's senior cap­tains were particularly excited about their vic­tory. 
"This is my fourth year playing," Badin senior captain Lindsay Wind said. "It's a sweet victory. The seniors have been putting this together so well." 
"This was a great cul­mination of four years of hard work," Zachry said. 
Badin's Jack of indi­vidual stars but large number of solid players best explains this team's victory. 
"It was a total team effort," Badin running back and wide receiver Lizzy Chappell said. "We worked so hard for this." 
Badin will play for the 2003 interhall women's championship title in Notre Dame Stadium Sunday. Lewis, their competitor. has beaten them once before, but only by two points. Since Badin's Joss to Lewis, they have not lost a game. 
Contact Katie Wagner at kwagner@nd.edu 
••· ., ., ~ith ademonstrated interest in are encouraged to apply. 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL fOOTBALL 
Lewis comes away with overtime victory 
an undefeated season. 
By RACHEL SCHIROS 
Sportss Writer 
With the Welsh Family wind at its back, the Lewis Chicks flew into the stadium on a 14-13 victory in Sunday's game. The outcome was far from certain as the two teams headed into overtime, usually not an option but necessary in this case to determine who would go on and who was done for the year. 
In the end, a Lewis touchdown broke the deadlock and the Whirlwinds could not reciprocate before the end of the game. The Chicks are now one win away from 
INFORMATION MEETING ABOUT THE INTERNSHIP 12 NOVEMBER 2003 @ 5:15P.M. 210 DEBARTOLO HALL 
Meet Katie (Associate Director, Keough-Notre Dame Centre, 
Dublin) and the 'interns who went to Dublin last summer. Ask j questions and find out how nice it really is. This year we have 5 ' internships. 
Throughout the game, the defen­sive-offensive struggle gave evi­dence the teams were closely matched. Even the best of offensive performances was thwarted by the aggression of the defenders. 
"They were well prepared to play against us," Lewis senior Amanda DiOrio said. "They'd done their homework and studied our forma­tions to hit us where it hurt most." 
Lewis and Welsh Family empha­sized the passing game, though this frequently meant losing the play to the work of defensive players. By the end of the first half, Welsh was up on a score from a touchdown by 
Jamie ~cEldowne)' and the extra pomt. 
"We came into the game real­ly excited, especially with our lead at the start. Of course we were disappointed to Jose, but our defense held them all the way to the end of the game, and we real­ly played 
well," Welsh "They'd done their sessions of the 
quarterback homework and studied our quarter, and Melissa the referees
formations to hit us where
Sands said. were forced to
it hurt most. " 
Lewis had call for over-possession time to deter­once again Amanda DIOrio mine the play­to open the ofT game win­
Lewis senior 
second half, passing suc­cessfully at first but forced to punt by several incomplete attempts. 
Welsh finally made the con­nection on a third down pass caught despite being tipped by a Lewis player. The Whirlwind receiver grabbed the next pass as well, but subsequent plays didn't bring a Welsh first down. The team opted to punt and Mary Murphy made a strong 25-yard kick, received by Lewis' Sheila Dawes. A penalty on the play, however, required the kick to be replayed. 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS Buy -SELL -TRADE ALL GAMES -ALL LOCATIONS PREFERRED TICKETS 234-5650 
ner. 

The Chicks had the football first and scrambled for yardage. A 15-yard pass brought them within yards of the goal, and Erin Nasrallah made the game win­ning reception. 
It looked as if the game would be forced into double overtime as Welsh skillfully brought the ball to the end zone for another score from McEldowney. The final extra point. however, was not completed, and the game ended in a 14-13 Lewis victory. 
Contact Rachel Schiros at rschiros@nd.edu 
Coming into the fourth quarter, the Whirlwind offense showed some lack of communication that cost downs. An overall strong ofl'ensive line enabled the team to progress down the field, but this was done several times by last second deci­sions by the ball-carrier rather than by planned play-execution. 
A number of times, Sands had to run the ball when her teammates weren't watching for the pass and giving her the opening she needed. 
Lewis' Mimi Lundgren made a strong return on a Welsh punt, which was followed by quick pass­ing plays for the tying Lewis touch­down by Katie Clune. 
"We didn't have our head in the game in the first half. but we knew we wanted the victory, reminded each other of how hard we worked and made all the right changes and adjustments," Lewis captain Erin Nasrallah said. 
Neither team made much 
progress with 
their last pos­

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 11, 2003 
MEN'S INTERHALL fOOTBALL 
Siegfried earns the opportunity to defend title 

By MATT MOONEY 
Sports Writer 
It was worth the wait. 
Siegfried had to anxiously endure four overtimes of Dillon and Keenan before finally taking the field, but the defending champions get the chance to repeat, as the second seeded Ramblers outlasted third seeded Morriseey 10-6 Sunday after­noon. 
With the victory, Siegfried will advance to the interhall champi­onship game at Notre Dame Stadium for the third consecutive year. 
In a battle of high profile quar­terbacks, Rambler Bill Bingle out-dueled Morrissey's Marty Mooney, completing 12-of-19 

· pass attempts for 179 yards and a touchdown. Mooney finished the day 15-of-26 for 140 yards with a touchdown toss and an interception. The clear skies and crisp air did not reflect Siegfried's play in the first quarter, however. Fullback John Hughes fumbled 
down pass. 

Turnovers continued to plague the Ramblers as they lost anoth­er fumble two plays into their next possession. 
"We were pretty pumped at that point," Morrissey running back Nick Klein said. "We thought we had a chance after we got the fumble to put the nail in the coffin." 
Morrissey tried to go for that knock-out punch, electing to go for the first down on fourth-and­three from the Siegfried nine­yard line. Morrissey's gamble ini­tially appeared to pay off as Mooney completed an eight yard reception to give the offense first­and-goal on the one. 
But the Ramblers got a jolt of life when defensive end Kevin Phipps stripped Mooney of the football. Fellow lineman Vince Siciliano recovered the ball on the Siegfried 3-yard line. The sig­nificance of the play was not lost on Rambler coach John Torgensen. 
"That was the biggest play of the game," he said. "If they shot downfield. With a defender draped around his legs, the 6­foot-5 Bingle stood tall in the pocket and launched a 44-yard strike to a streaking Bolden for a Siegfried touchdown. 
"It was a fly route," Bolden said afterward. "The play was supposed to go the opposite way, but Bingle told me to try and beat my guy, and that's exactly what I did." 
John Nowak added the extra point to send the Ramblers into halftime with a 7 -6lead. 
Siegfried continued to establish its offense in the second half. The Ramblers put together a 13-play, 68-yard drive, ending with a 32~ yard Nowak field goal. The score gave Siegfried a 10-6 fourth quarter lead with the clock working against Morrissey. 
Starting from their own 35, the Manorites began to respond, driving the ball into Siegfried ter­ritory. But just as the Rambler fortunes turned on a fumble, they used another to seal the vic­tory. Cornerback John Lira knocked the ball loose from a siders the season a success. get a championship." 

"We got farther than we did last year," he said "We made it to Contact Matt Mooney at the semis this time and had a mmooney@nd.edu strong regular season," 
For the Siegfried juniors and 
on the Rambler's third play from would have gone up 12 or 14 to Morrissey receiver, and Bingle seniors making their third stadi­scrimmage and Morrissey took zero on us, then it would have picked up the fumble. After tack­um trip, the taste of victory never possession at the Siegfried 4 7-been a long uphill battle." ing on a 15-yard personal foul loses its flavor. yard line. While Siegfried did not score penalty, the ball was finally spot­"It doesn't get old," Bingle said. 
Mooney kept the Manorite on the ensuing possession, the ted on the Manorite 28. "It's pretty sweet every time." drive alive by picking up two cru­fumble significantly deflated Siegfried could not run down Bolden, a first-year member of cial third downs with pass com­Morrissey's momentum. After the clock, but Morrissey simply the team, says there is something pletions of 21 and 15 yards. The holding Morrissey to three and ran out of time. Mooney's last special about the first time. Manorites finally capitalized out, Siegfried got the ball back desperate heave from midfield "[Last year] I wasn't a part of when Mooney scrambled and with time running out in the half. was intercepted by Mark Ryan, that, so this year I finally get to bought just enough time to find Bingle made two quick comple­and the Rambler celebration experience what it's like to play Matt Young in the back of the tions to receivers John Kaup and began. in the stadium," he said. ''I'm end zone for a 10-yard touch-Marques Bolden and then took a Despite the loss, Klein still con-ready to get a win, get a jacket, 

' 
·rt'' 
S,UBMIT YOUR DESIGNS NOW! 
DUE WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 26TH AT
... 

STUDENT ACTIVITES 

Tuesday, November 11, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 



nents to .149 hitting on  the  
season.  
"When  teams  come  up  

against our block, it makes them think a little bit, and it changes their swing a little, too," Brown said. 
The Irish hitters, who have hit .259 on the year, will need to have a strong match against the Panthers, as they come off a win against Bradley. Northern Iowa and Notre Dame share common oppo­nents this season -South Carolina and Illinois State. Both teams defeated Illinois State, but the Irish lost to South Carolina and the Panthers were victorious. 
Today will be a big game for both teams, as the NCAA Tournament begins Dec. 6, and the seedings will come out shortly before that. The Irish are looking for a win to prove they are a team that can com­pete with the best in the nation. 
The Irish will get a boost from the great weekend they had in the Big East. and they have faith in their play at the net. 
"That's exactly what we needed to go into Northern Iowa and have confidence that we can play well against a good team," Brown said. 
The Irish will play in Cedar Falls, Iowa at 7 p.m. today. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoee:@nd.edu 

Tea01 
continued from page 24 
Tancredi. She's so good in the air and good on the ball that it really adds a dimension. She's been fantastic this year." 
Heed has been another bright spot for the Irish, as she has stepped in at positions all over the field to assist the team. Heed, who was a prolific goal­scorer in high school, has had to make the adjustment to play­ing in her many different roles. 
"Playing in the defense was a new thing, but I was happy to get back there," Reed said. "I've gained some experience at every position, and being a freshman and getting some minutes is great." 
The freshmen came to South Bend early to practice and get to know each other before the season started. They also have meshed well with the team by adding a lot of character. 
"It was good that we came in early," Heed said. "We got to know each other better and to know the upperclassmen. That was good for preseason because we became more com­fortable in our environment." 
"It's really helped that the 10 of us are so close," freshman Becky Tweneboah said. "I think it's really brought the team closer. We contribute to each other's personalities and work off each other very well." 
"Everybody talks about the chemistry that our team has, compared to the last few years," freshman midfielder Claire Gallerano said. "The freshmen have a lot of charac­ter and we're very complemen­tary." 
The impact of the freshmen has not been lost on Waldrum. 
"It's rare to have so many in the same class [come in ready to play as freshmen]." he said. "A couple of them have sur­prised us. We knew some of them would be good, but we didn't know that some of them would be able to impact us as quickly as they did." 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
Match 
continued from page 24 
season Big East at home, and they improved to 97-4 in Big East play all-time. 
The Irish took the day off Monday to travel to Iowa, where they face the Panthers (21-4) for the second time in the program's history. In the only other meeting of these two teams, Northern Iowa, No. 16 at the time, took the match 3-1 (26-30, 30-14, 30-16, 30­23), in 2001. 
Tonight's match also marks the first time in over seven years that the Irish are playing in a match up of two top-15 teams. 
Leading the Irish this season is senior setter Kristen Kinder. She was named Big East Player of the Week last week after registering a career-high 68 assists against the Hokies Friday in a five-game match. She leads an offense that has dominated opponents all year long. 
Middle blocker Lauren Kelbley led the Irish against Miami Sunday with 15 kills on .353 hitting. Meanwhile, Emily Loomis was good. for 12 kills and 10 digs. Meg Henican (15 digs), Danielle Herndon and Jessica Kinder (nine kills, nine digs) were key to the hitters' successes, as they contributed solid passing throughout the whole match, giving Kristen Kinder the option to set any of the three hitters. 
Middle blocker Lauren Brewster leads the nation in blocks, averaging 1.82 blocks per game. The Irish squad also leads the nation in blocking, with 3.72 per game. 
Due to their hard work and with the help of assistant coach Robin Davis, the Irish have become a force to reckon with at the net, holding oppo-
Veterans' Day 
··:...,v,".., ·• 
Joint Military Ceremony 

NO 
un 1t1 p1' trlt:1uil 1:CI Am 1r1 c1· 1 m111t1r' nil rtn 1 ~Mitt'l ;u11t 1p • 1k1r: 
Father T. Hesburgh 
l:•nrn•nr ~-rin!l: !: aa ,.rn. 
t: II ra !Urn• ril IFl Untl it Rll it Llli:ltil n -JAt: t: !:1 ftliiiiiU n• 
GreyhouncL has 
Indiana covered for the holidays. Greyhound makes it easy to travel throughout Indiana or across the country during the holidays wlth everyday low fares and convenient departures. Save even more when you ship your holiday packages anywhere In the U.S. with Greyhound Package Express. 
South Bend: 4671 Terminal Drive 574-287 ·6542 
,.---~ 
~~ 
'GREYHOUND 

1.~22 
---The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, November 11,2003 
: 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish receive No.2 seed forNCAAs 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's soc­cer team has received the No. 2 overall seed for the upcoming NCAA Championship and will serve as one of 16 hosts for first­and second-round games, to be held this weekend at Alumni Field. 
Notre Dame (19-2-1) will face Loyola of Chicago in the second game at Alumni Field Friday at 7 
p.m. 
with the earlier game featur­ing Michigan vs. Oakland at 4:30 

p.m. 
The winners will advance to Sunday's second-round game at 1 p.m. 


The winner of that game then will play a third-round game the following weekend versus the winner of games being hosted by 15th-seeded Boston College in Newton, Mass. The Eagles face Central Connecticut while Boston University and Connecticut will meet in the other first-round games at that site. 
The winner of the above third­round game then will head to the quarterfinals versus the team that emerges from games involving 7th-seeded Virginia and 10th­seeded Colorado. 
Notre Dame opened 18-0-1 before dropping two of its last three games, versus Michigan 3-2 and Boston College 2-1. 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 


====================================================================================================================~ 
FOOTBALL 

Win over Navy provides step for Irish 

Irish fell to the Trojans 45-14 Arizona State 38-27 last Oct. 18. weekend, while the 
Notre Dame goes on the Orangemen have taken two road for its last two games of its last three after defeat­against Stanford ( 4-4) and ing Temple 41-17. Syracuse (5-3), two teams that are playing much better of late. The Cardinal have Contact Joe Hettler at won two straight and beat jhettler@nd.edu 

By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 

After losing three straight games earlier this season, Notre Dame beat Pittsburgh and many believed the team had turned the corner. 
They were wrong, as the Irish dropped their next three games to fall to 2-6. 
Now Notre Dame will try to end the season with three more victories and finish 6-6 after beating Navy 27-24 last Saturday. Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said he believes his team may have finally started turning the corner after the win over the Midshipmen. 
"We are starting [to mature]," Willingham said. "I still think that we still have some growth and need for improvement in so many areas ... but I like the direc­tion." 
Willingham was pleased with the way his team responded to the adversity of starting the season winning just two of eight games. 
"You have to be a good football team to be a win­ner," Willingham said. "[We had to] issue a statement that we are here to say and that we aren't going away and we aren't going to fade and that was very encourag­ing to see that." 
Notre Dame moved the ball better, gaining 417 yards and 280 rushing yards. Julius Jones led the rushing attack with 221 yards and two touchdowns. 
Irish quarterback Brady Quinn had a solid day against Navy, completing 14 of 27 passes for 137 yards and a touchdown. He feels the team will-use its momen­tum from the win and head into Saturday's BYU game more confident. 

"We have a little bit more swagger in our step, but we are still going to go and do the same things we have been doing the past couple of weeks and go and work hard and practice hard and make sure that we are prepared for BYU," Quinn said. 
While Willingham cannot say for certain that his team has turned the page, he does believe there's a good chance more wins could come soon if they can continue to play like last weekend. 
"As a coach you are never sure when that moment arrives, but I have faith in my football team that they work hard, they haven't given up days at a practice," Willingham said. "They will come out and try to be a good football team and they haven't changes." 

BYU is 4-6 in 2003 and lost to Boise State 50-12 last weekend. They lost to USC 35-18 on Sept. 6, while the 
Volunteers Needed for Turning Over a New Leaf project 
The third annual Turning Transportation will be Over a New Leaf project will provided to and from Library be held on November 22. and Main Circles beginning at 
8:45am.

Turning Over a New Leaf volunteers rake leaves and Signups will be held in both help clean up the homes ofel­dining halls during dinner derly and disabled residents of hours on November 17-18, the North-East in the Lafortune Neighbor­
Student Center hood ofSouth from 9-11 am 
Bend. . 

on November 18-19, and in The project all the residence kicks off with halls until No­breakfast at vember 20. 
the Robinson Center at 9 am. Volunteers You can sign up to work will then go into the commu-. with friends in groups of nity from 10 am until 12 pm , up to eight! Hope to see followed by a complimentary you all there! Email any lunch at the Robinson Center. questions to Mike Vitlip at 
mvidip@nd.edu. 

Coordinator Needed 
CSC needs a Graduate ish, needed to help coordinate Student Coordinator for logistics, educational sessions, Mexico Seminar and accompany undergradu­
ate participants to Mexico. 

Mexico Seminar is a 2 week Coordinator of Seminar is aimmersion to culture, reli­volunteer position at the escgion, politics, and economics with a minimum stipend and of Oaxaca, Mexico. Director all trip expenses paid. Con­oflnt'l Service Learning is in tact Rachel Tomas Morgan need ofa graduate student as­(tomasmorgan.2@nd.edu) ifsistant, with fluency in Span-interest. 
'Organizing for Community Controlled Development' 
Join Patricia Watkins the Sixties, Building Neigh­Murphy and James V. borhood Organizations, and Cunningham for two A New Public Policy for upcoming presentation. Neighborhood Preservation. 
"Organizing for The event is sponsored by Community Controlled 
the Department of Sociology, the Center for Social Con­cerns, the Robinson Commu­nity Learning Center, and the Department of Economics. 
Development:Renewing Civil Society. 

A Banquet for All 
When: Thursday, Nov. 20 at 6:00 pm (Refreshments Served) 
Where: Robinson Com­munity Learning Center, 921 North Eddy Street, South Bend 
"Organizing for Economic Development at the Small Community Level" 
When: Friday, Nov. 21 at Noon (Refreshments Served) 
Where: Center for Social Concerns 
About the speakers . This event is organized and All proceeds will help to presented by participants of fund organizations in Chile,

Patricia Watkins Murphy the International Summer Thailand, and Ghana.
is author ofOrganizing for Service Learning Program Everyone has a place at this 
Community Controlled (ISSLP). table.
Development (with Cun­ningham). 

For a $5 donationenjoy When: Thursday, Nov. 13 great ethnic Thai, Mexican, at 5:30-8:30pm (dinner &
James V. Cunningham is and Indian food, the oppor­silent auction). 
Professor Emeritus, School tunity to learn more about
ofSocial Work, University of Where: COMO lounge.
our brothers and sisters and 

Pittsburgh. He is the author bid on silent auction items Cost: $5 donation at the 
ofThe Resurgent Neighbor­from around the world. door.
hood, Urban Leadership in 



----------~-~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Tuesday, November 11, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD CLARE O'BRIEN 

JUMBLESCHOOL DAZE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

~L]]1[! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
I need this toto form four ordinary words. 
look decent 
MIFLY 
1 

rJ (J 
C2003 Tribune Media Servk:ea, Inc. 
All Righla Raurved. 
GANYM j 
1 
FIVES 
FORPIT ri j

rJ r () 
www.jumble.com
IVAQUER±

I rI J I 
Ms: 

"( I I I I I J" rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: WINCE TRUTH POTENT VIOLIN Answer: What the comedian gave the heckler -A "PUNCH" LINE 


WHAT 5Ht= Kt=Pr IN Ht=R. MAKt=UP CASt=. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


'I 
.• 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
lilr.::-F.;+iM 12 Shelf material 13Sun. speech 21 ·-Mio" 
27 Partook of 

Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
61 "Let _I" ("Go ahead!") 62 Surg. workplaces 
63 Dweebish "Family Matters" boy 
64 Long-legged bird 65 Midattemoon repast 66 Mystics 67 Decalogue recipient 66 Visitors from afar: Abbr. 
DOWN 1 Snugly 
ensconce 2 Alternative 3 Rabbi's text 4 Exam lor a jr. 5 Mark 
permanently 6 Confirm, as a 
password 7 Sidestep 8 Baby delivery 
method 9 Stagecoach robber Black 
10 Distant 
11 Relinquish
control of 

WILLSHORTZ 

29 Indicates, as a 39 Bank takebacks 51 Broadcaster gauge 
40 Samurai's sash 
53 Brief brawl 30 Clinton or Dole 
41 "Face/Off' 
58 Sushi fish 32 Manual readers 
director John 57 TICk off
46 Wreckage
35 Long-running 58 Withdraws, with 
film role 47 Distinguished 
·our 

37 Snail, e.g. 48 Popular table wine 59 Juilliard subj. 
38 Distrusting disposition 49 Dorothy's home 60 Pay dirt 
For answers, call 1·900-285·5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1·800·814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best ot Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords lor young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.comlleaminglxwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Demi Moore, Leonardo DiCaprio, Jonathan Winters, Daniel Ortega 
Happy Birthday: You'll have to keep a close eye on your goals, or you may find yourself falling short of them. Along the way, don't let others distract you, trying to get you to help them pursue their goals instead of your own. You need to put time aside for yourself if you want to be successful this year. Your numbers: 6, \4, 18, 22, 3t,47 
ARIES {March 21-Apri119): You'll do your best work at home where you can avoid interruptions. Your health may suffer if you have been burning the candle at both ends. Don't put limitations on yourself or others. ••... TAURUS {April 20-May 20): Take an interest in the groups that the little ones in your family join. You need to spend more time interacting with others. You will learn through the connections you make. ••• GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Problems with roommates can be expected. Don't get taken for granted. Real estate investments will be profitable. You can buy products for your home, but don't go over your budget. •• ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may be taken advantage of by friends or relatives. Don't be too eager to lend money or your possessions to others. It's time you did something special for yourself--maybe a day at the spa. ••• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make some money if you push your ideas to those in a position to back you financially. You will have to watch out for minor health problems that are directly related to stress. ••• •• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't get angry with family members who didn't help with the workload. Take care of the things that matter to you and leave their jobs undone. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't depend on in-laws to stay out of your business. Be prepared to counteract whatever they do to upset your household. Don't overreact, but hit them with the truth and the facts. •••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You should ask for help if you need it. It's time to promote your ideas and find individuals who can make your dreams come true. Don't hesitate to say what's on your mind. You will tum heads. ••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Emotional matters will not be easy for you to handle. You don't like confrontations at the best of times, but you may find them difficult to avoid ·this time. Observe and listen. ••• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Luxury items will cost way too much. Don't pick up the tab to impress others if you go out on the town. Your changes of attitude will upset some of the people who Jove you.*"'* AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Joint financial ventures will only result in confrontations and loss. You must be careful not to let your stress level get out of hand. Lowered vitality will slow you down. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't let your partner take advantage of you emotionally. You need to join forces with someone who understands you better. It's time to promote your creative work. •• 
Birthday Baby: You'll make your loved ones proud. Your dedication, loyalty and courage will help you to follow your dreams. You are not one to give up or get down about anything. Instead, you set your sights on what you want and relentlessly pursue your desires. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 ·_so last!" 
4 Georges who wrote "Life: A User's Manual" 
9 Foundation 
14 Pollution watchdog: Abbr. 
15 Jobs In the computer biz 
16 Girt with a looking-glass 17 Cardinal's insignia 
18 Serve in the capacity of 
19 With 59-Across, a 35-Down portrayer 
20 35-Down portrayer 
23 Baseballers Brock and Piniella 
24 "Senior" in French names 
25 Kind of bean 28 Come out lor 31 _de cologne 

33 Marshy 34 Golfer Trevino 35 Crew needs 36 The Tin Man's 
prop 37 35-Down portrayer 
40 "Whoo" caller 42 Biblical time of rest 43 Prior to, poetically 
44 Alarming shout 45 Place to buy 

tickets: Abbr. 46 Parental adviser 50 Part of the Corn 
Belt 
52 Seine tributary 54"Man_ Mancha" 55 35-Down portrayer 
59 See 19-Across 
~~~--­

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Tuesday, November 11, 2003 Page 24 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
. .r 
Freshmen make presence felt early 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Wrirer 
Coming into the season, the women's soccer team knew that they would count on their high­ly touted freshman class to pro­duce immediate results. The 
-. Irish were coming off a disap­pointing season and were look­ing for the freshmen to help the team return to the top. Those freshmen have come through with flying colors. "We certainly wouldn't be where we are [without them]," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "We wouldn't have been 18-1-1 going into the postsea­son. They've brought so much to the program -some great chemistry to the team and some personality, which we needed." Overall, 10 freshmen have played for the Irish this season, with five of them already mak­ing strong impacts on the suc­cess of this year's Irish team. "It's really influenced even the older players," Waldrum said. "The level [of play] has been good enough to push everybody. The veterans found out real early that we better play or somebody's going to take our spot. I'd certainly say they are a key reason why 
we're as successful as we are right now." 
"Our freshman class is very strong," freshman Lizzie Reed said. "We've helped contribute with the upperclassman by highlighting what their great qualities are." 
Leading the pack thus far has been central defender Christie Shaner. After earning a starting role a· few weeks into the sea­son, Shaner played a major role in the Irish defensive success that was shown through their 10-game shutout streak in October. After settling in, the accolades started rolling in for Shaner, who was named Co-Big East Rookie of the Year after winning the Big East Player of the Week award three times during the season. 
"I watched her play for about two years in the recruiting process, so it doesn't surprise me what she's doing," Waldrum said. "She was a little tentative and injured when she came in, but after the first couple of weeks she got her opportunity, and she's really made the most of it. She's probably been one of our most steady players and has really been a great match back there with Melissa 
see TEAM/page 21 


NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish look to build on success 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sporrs Wrirer 
It's time -time for the No. 12 Irish to face a ranked oppo­nent after 21 matches of unranked competition. 
Tonight's match versus No. 14 Northern Iowa marks the first time the Irish play a ranked opponent since Aug 30, when they faced then No. 5 Pepperdine and Eastern Washington on the same day in the Longhorn Classic. 
Notre Dame (21-2, 10-0) is coming off a big weekend; they defeated Big East foes Virginia Tech on Friday and Miami on Sunday in a nationally televised game. 
"I think that [the past week­end] is the preparation we needed for this game," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. 
With the wins, the Irish improved to 55-0 in the regular 
see MATCH/page 21 


WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Badin upsets Cavanaugh, earns trip to Stadium final 
By KATIE WAGNER Sports Wrirer 
What appeared to be a dis­advantage ended up a windfall for Badin Sunday in its 12-6 win over Cavanaugh to advance to the women's inter­hall final in Notre Dame 
" Stadium. While the Bullfrogs had to play through the first round of the playoffs, the Chaos got to sit the week out because of their better record, and the bye may have hurt, as Cavanaugh looked very rusty through the first half. Badin senior captain Jenn Carter fired up her team by quickly ending Cavanaugh's second possession of the game. During Cavanaugh's third pos­session, Carter had another interception, which she ran 30 yards for a touchdown to put the underdog Bullfrogs ahead early. Badin sophomore Laura Huarte quickly got the ball back for her team with an 
interception. Soon after, Huarte .received a pass thrown by junior quarterback Stephanie Heath to score a touchdown for Badin. 
Cavanaugh finally scored its first touchdown with fewer than four minutes left in the game. The pass was thrown by sophomore quarterback Lisa Ruffer and caught by Jennifer Nokes. 
Despite Badin's scoreless second half, the Bullfrogs still played great defensively and even offensively at times. Badin's quarterback Erin Zachry was 2-for-3 passing and had some impressive runs. Also during the second half, Carter blocked a pass when Cavanaugh was within 25 yards of scoring. Laura Feeney's block further delayed Cavanaugh's scoring drive. 
Badin's Erin Diminick made for a strong finish, catching a 40-yard pass thrown by Heath. 
For much of the game, Badin 
see WOMEN/page 19 

MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Persistency pays off for Dillon 
By MATT PUGLISI 
Sports Wrirer 

If at first you don't succeed, try, try again -and use Dillon as an example. 
After squandering a pair of golden opportunities to put Keenan away, Dillon finally punched in a third-and-goal and then held off the Knights as the Big Red triumphed 13-6 in four overtimes and secured a trip to the stadium for the championship game against Siegfried. 
"Our defense bent, but it did­n't break," Dillon captain J.T. Arseniadis said. "We gave up a lot of yards, but they never made it into the end zone." 
After a missed field goal by Keenan kicker Andrew Warner and a punt by each team, the Big Red drew first blood as the half came to a close. 
Taking over at its 20-yard line with only 26 seconds remaining in the half, Dillon used an 18-yard run and a 45­yard reception by Jamie Martin on a tipped pass to set up a field goal attempt at the Keenan 17-yard line with 10 began a do-or-die drive at its seconds left on the clock. own 47 with just over eight 


The Big Red kicker split the minutes left in the fourth quar­uprights on a 34-yarder, stak­ter. ing Dillon to a 3-0 lead at the Feeding the Big Red a steady half. 
After a trio of punts, Keenan see MEN/page 19 
en 
FOOTBALL 
INTERHALl FOOTBAll 

COllEGE BASKETBAll 
Niil
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER
LLI 

Sie~ried 10 Lewis 14
1--u z 
Irish receive the No.2 

Morrissey 6 Welsh 13 
Raffi Torres scored

Connecticut is ranked 
back-to-back goals to

Irish look to finish the 
overall seed for the 

The Ramblers earn the Lewis edges Welsh 
No. 1 and Duke is No. 2 
== 
NCAA tournament and =~ season strong following 
right to defend their Family in overtime to 
in the AP preseason 
lead the Oilers over the 
will host the first two

their win over Navy. 
title in the Stadium. earn a trip to the 
Rangers 5-4.
hoops poll. 
rounds. 
Stadium.

a.=: 
en 
page 22 
page 22 

page 16 
page 14

page 20 page 19 




