
Mass remembers Moore's life 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
News Wrirer 
Hundreds filled the Basilica to remember Dennis Moore at a Mass of Christian Burial Monday. 
Moore, an associate vice 
president of public affairs at t h e University, d i e d Wednesday at St. Vincent's 
Hospital in Dennis Moore 
New York after a yearlong battle with prostate cancer. lie was 55. 
In his homily, Father Michael Baxter remem­bered Moore as a son of God who was devoted to his family, had an extremely strong faith and always served others. 
Baxter recalled how Moore entered Notre Dame as a member of the Class of 1970, but returned to Chicago in 1968 to care for his sick mother. He spoke about the journey Moore embarked on with his wife, Doreen, and later with their three children Erin, Colleen and Brendan. 
"lit] took them to Ireland several times, to the Upper Peninsula. to Chicago, lots of stops in between and eventually in 1988 to our good fortune to Notre Dame to serve in public relations," Baxter said. 
see MASS/page 4 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2003 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Alum donates $6 M to Health Services 
By KATIE LAIRD News Wrirer 
University Health Services received a $6 million donation from Notre Dame alumni William Warren to completely renovate the University's existing health care facility and incorporate Ilealth Services, the Counseling Center and the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education into one facili­ty. 
Ann Klcva, director of Health Services, said she is very eager to begin the reconstruction. 
"We hope to become an accred­ited health care facility. Our care meets the standards, but our building does not," she said. 
The current building docs not meet fire codes, does not have handicap accessibility and lacks central air conditioning. In addi­tion, the water is less than perfect due to pipe lining. The new reno­vation calls for the complete restoration of the building, including new ventilation and electrical, plumbing and fire-pro­tection systems. 
The anticipated cost of the total project is around $9 million, Kleva said. The University hopes to raise the remaining $3 million from funds for building mainte­nance and students' health care services fees. 
"Construction will be limited because we're going to work with the existing building ... it's a beautiful old building, one of the best-built buildings on campus," Klevasaid. 
Health Services will remain centrally located on campus as the University plans to expand Notre Dame's borders in future years. 
The University hopes to begin construction of the facility in May 2005, and anticipates its comple­tion in August 2006. During this period, students will still be able to receive medical and counseling care. 
"There is available space in the security building, so we can pro­vide health care and provide 24-7 care that we have now. We won't have interrupted care," Kleva said. 
Warren, who donated the fund­ing for the facility, is the president of the Warren Foundation in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and is a mem­ber of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees. 
He also funded the construction of the Warren Golf Course on campus a few years ago. lie was recently inducted into the Oklahoma Hall of Fame, where he was recognized for his contri­butions in health care and in higher education through schol­arship funds, endowments and other programs. 
"Historically, a lot of the [Warren] foundation has gone to health care. Mr. Warren is into 
see HEALTH/page 4 

Amnesty to erect walls outside of dining halls 
By DUSTIN VONHANDORF 
News Wrirer 
The Notre Dame branch of the Amnesty International social action group will con­struct a wooden wall in front of each dining hall today in response to rising tensions in the Middle East, prompted by a wall erected between Israelis and Palestinians in the Middle East. 
AmnestyND did not initial­ly plan to call attention to the tensions, said its presi­dent, Teriss Conterato, but decided to go ahead with the event due to the rising media coverage of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. 
In addition to the increas­ing media coverage, Conterato said AmnestyND is security barrier, but it vio­concerned with the issue late~ so many international "because of the actions of treaties and is cutting off both Israel and Palestine. human rights. People can't Israel said that the wall is a get to water or the work-

place." 
The goal of AmnestyND in erecting these structures, Conterato said, is to increase awareness of the 
conflict among the Notre Dame community. 
"We want to educate peo­
see AMNESTY/page 4 


Hallahan ends term as Student Body President 
these changes to the Student Government an efficient body. ever is the Democratic nominee 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS Government that the [Board of "I really hope, with the work we [for President]." Hallahan said. 
Associate News Editor 
Trustees] has asked us to make do this year and into next semes­Aside from this opportunity, and continue to make Student ter, . . . that five or ten years from Hallahan expressed a desire to 
Monday marked Student Body Government a voice for students now we'll have an efficient, work in the White !louse one day President Pat Hallahan's last offi­and more efficient to get what stu­respected Student Government and possibly even run for political cial day in office; he led the dents want," he said. that can voice student needs to the office. semester's last Campus Life Lao commented on his readi­administration and get results," he "Ideally. if the Democrats can Council and Council of ness to take over Hallahan's posi­said. beat [President George W.] Bush, Representatives meetings to end tion and said that he and Emily Hallahan, a political science which I think we're going to do, I his term. Chin, who will assume Lao's major, will graduate at the end of want to go to the White House and 
Hallahan expressed pride in his vacant vice president position, are this semester and receive his stay involved in politics," he said. administration's work so far and excited to continue Hallahan's diploma in January. However, he "I love politics and public service; I voiced his hopes for the coming work. will return in May to attend the hope to keep doing it. I don't know semester, when current vice presi­"Pat's done a great job this year, graduation ceremony with the rest if I want to run for oflice. but I dent Jeremy Lao will take over as and I'm sad to see him go, but he of his class. He made this decision want to be involved." student body president. has a great opportunity and I'm to accept a job at the Democratic Hallahan's graduation marks 
"I think we got a lot started and really excited for him." Lao stated. National Committee as the execu­the first time a Notre Dame stu­got some things done," Hallahan "[Emily and I] are excited and tive assistant to Jackson Dunn, the dent body president has done so said. "I think we started a big ready to take on new jobs and get DNC's finance director. in the middle of his term. important project with the Council stuff done next semester." "[Dunn], the finance director, is of Representatives and we did a Hallahan said he hopes future in charge of all the Democratic lot of good in the CLC." Student Government officials will Party's major fundraising. We'll be Contact Maureen Reynolds at 
"I just hope that we can get continue to make Student working to raise money for who-mreynold@nd.edu 
'
INSIDE COLUMN 
Confessions of an AIM addict 

I'm coming clean. My parents will be ashamed, I know. It is time, however, for me to let go of those conversations that move slower than traffic on a football game weekend, to be free from those Megan O'Neil little yellow smi­ley faces. 
Hi, my name is Wzre Editor Megan and I'm an AIM-oholic. 
Even as I sit here now expressing my desire for rehabilitation, I am chatting away with four different friends, darting from Microsoft Word to AIM. At this point I have typed about five times as much in those little gray boxes as I have on this page. 
The sitmition is even worse when I am actually working on something important, like a phi­losophy paper. I would estimate AIM adds 90 minutes to every five­page paper I write. Further, it jeopardizes the coherency of whatever I finally do turn in to my professor. 
The away message was designed to combat this problem, to empow­er those with a love for the latest, such as myself, with a tool to con­trol themselves. It can be agreed however, that while an excellent concept, it has failed miserably. 
First of all, the composing of away messages has become an art in and of itself. Some detail their entire daily schedule, while others reference inside jokes. It is not uncommon to see inspirational quotes from great minds such as Martin Luther King, Jr., or mes­sages written in foreign lan­guages. Indeed, some students do keep a list of convenient pre­scripted ones such as "class" or "dinner." But admit it, you hate those boring one-worders whether you are addicted or not. 
Second, even with my away mes­sage solidly posted, I cannot resist the urge to check my buddy list every ten minutes or so. On stress­ful days when my condition flares I will read every away message on my list of 107 screen names. Some of them require decoding, of course, and you could say I am inadvertently receiving a degree in away message analysis. 
If AIM is so distracting, you might ask, why do you just not sign on at all? This would seem like the simple solution, but yet another misconception. My need to talk online and to check others' away messages is such that absti­nence is even more distracting than the alternative. I will think about who is on, and what mes­sages are up, to the extent that I might as well be signed on any­way. 
So the struggle continues, day in and day out. At this point, howev­er, I would say it is a losing battle. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.com. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT SHOULD THE ADMINISTRATION GIVE THE STUDENTS FOR CHRISTMAS? 



Brian McKenna  Catherine Schmidt  Dave Witowski  
Senior  Sophomore  Senior  
Siegfried Hall  Welsh Family Hall  Keenan Hall  
':4 voice."  "Renovate the  "Jaundice."  
art building."  






Megan Healy Freshman Lewis Hall  Selim Nurudeen Junior Carroll Hall  Tom Mulcrone Freshman Siegfried Hall  
"Co-ed dorms. "  "Extension on parietals. "  "More flu shots."  


IU center breaks world dreidel record 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind.-A Jewish community center at Indiana University says it has broken the world record for spinning drei­dels. 
Officials at the Helene G. Simon Hillel Center in Bloomington set 713 of the traditional Hanukkah toys spinning for 10 seconds on Sunday. They were await­ing official confirmation of the feat by the Guinness Book of World Records. 
The previous record, held by the University of Maryland, involved spin­ning 536 dreidels for 10 seconds in 2000. 
As the crowd gathered before the event, volunteer "spinners" signed in and 
TODAY a: 
received a colored plastic dreidel. But planners at the Hillel Jewish community center discovered there were not the hoped-for 561 people present. 
So volunteers handed out a second dreidel to most of the crowd, and participants practiced a two-handed technique or tried spinning the dreidels one after the other. 
Hillel Center Rabbi Sue Shifron said Guinness will have to confirm the record by reviewing participant sign-in sheets and any visu­al evidence. The process will take abnut four weeks. 
Secret Service not to investigate Eminem 
WASHINGTON -The 
U.S. Secret Service has looked into reports that 
rapper Eminem wrote lyrics that said ''I'd rather see the president dead," but it doesn't plan a formal investigation, said a Secret Service spokesman. 
John Gill, the spokesman, cautioned such lyrics can have unintended conse­quences on others. 
"The Secret Service has no current plans to open an investigation into this mat­ter," Gill said Monday. But "we are concerned about communications that can be interpreted in a manner perhaps not intended by the artist, and the potential peripheral impact that such lyrics can have on other individuals." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
LLI 
:c 

!ci: 
LLI 

~ 
..J 
ct 
(,) 0 


HIGH 46
..... 
LOW 42 

44 42 


47 
29 

35 22 
IN BRIEF 

The ND Center for Ethics & Culture will present a lecture entitled "Subject to Allah and/or Science? Ambivalent Narratives in Contemporary Muslim Ethics," in the McKenna Hall auditorium at 4 
p.m. today. 

The Center for Social Concerns will present an infor­mation session for students interested in participating in a summer service internship in the family room of Welsh Family Hall from 5 to 6 p.m. tonight. 
International Students Services and Activities will present a Belgian film with English subtitles entitled "Pauline et Paulette" at 7 p.m. tonight in the Montgomery Theater of the LaFortune Student Center. 
Howard Hall and ND-HOBY will present a talk by Chris Bowers, author of "Don't Tug On The Wire: How to be a Risk Taker!" tonight in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library from 8 to 9 p.m. 
Wednesday is the last day of classes for Notre Dame stu­dents. 
The Class of 2004 will spon­sor a class dinner for seniors at K's Grill from 6 until 8 p.m. Wednesday. 
Notre Dame's men's basket­ball team will play Indiana University in the Joyce Center Wednesday at 9 p.m. · 
The Student Union Board will sponsor a stress-reliever event, "Study Days," in the ballroom of the LaFortune Student Center Thursday from 9 p.m. to midnight. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Members present model of new government structure 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
N<ws Wrirer 
Members of the Council of Beprosentativcs convened Monday night to reline their plans for tho restructuring of the Student Union system. 
At the meeting, the group's last of the scmestP.r, members pre­sented a working model of the new student government struc­
tun~. 
Outgoing student body president Pat I Iallahan said student leaders would continue to develop the proposed structure. "It's the not the final model, but it's what you're going to focus on next semester," Hallahan said. The meeting was his last. as he will graduate in December, turning over his position to vice president Jeremy Lao. 
Under the broad proposal. a student body president, elected by the students, would lead student government. The Council of Heprescntatives would be com­posed of 10 voting members, chaired by the president, who would only vote in the event of a tie. Elected members of the new council would include the student body vice president and each class president. The president would appoint members to represent the Financial Management Board, the Club Coordination Council and the Judicial Council. In addition, the president's chief of staff and the chair of the to-be-created Campus Programming Council would sit on the Council of Hepresentatives. 
The CPC would assume all cam­pus-wide programming efforts, replacing the Student Union Board. In discussions about pro­gramming, council members have said that the current SUB struc­ture is defective. 
"What we have right now is broken," said SUB manager Charlie Ebersol. "We need to cre­ate something that makes more sense." 
In the proposed model, 28 rep­resentatives -one from each res­idence hall and one ofT-campus resident -would sit on the CPC, which would be run by a steering committee overseen by an appointed chairperson. 
Members had differing opinions about how the CPC would be assembled, however. Under one plan. the CPC would have a body -similar to the current Hall Presidents Council -focused on dorm activities. In a competing proposal, hall presidents would meet informally to discuss those issues, while the CPC would focus exclusively on campus-wide events. 
It remained unclear exactly how residence halls would participate in the CPC. Some members called for dorms to elect a vice president, who would sit on the CPC, allow­ing the hall president to focus on dorm matters. Others, like HPC co-chair Sarah Keefer, said the proposal should include more hall leaders. 
"It takes a lot of work to do [programming]. Two people couldn't take on the responsibility for dorm programming and cam­pus programming," Keefer said. 
Hallahan encouraged members to weigh the costs and benefits of the different plans. "We need to lind a balance between one per­son doing everything iJ.nd 900 people doing hardly anything," he said. 
Director of Student Activities Brian Coughlin, who advises the COR, told members that the pro­posals' differences could be ironed out, and should not stall progress. 
"The frustration you're feeling right now might be unnecessary," Coughlin said. 
All members agreed on the basic structure of the policymak­ing side of student government, however. That side, to be called the Campus A!Tairs Council, would effectively replace the Student Senate. The CAC-which would be chaired by the vice president -would consist of 28 members, one from each dorm and one ofT­campus resident. The group would be divided into issue-specif­ic committees for the sake of effi­ciency. 
Lao was optimistic about the future of the Student Union. "We're going to create a new stu­dent government that's leaner and meaner, and we're going to get stuff done," he said. 

Ebersol wasn't as positive, not­ing the slow progress of the restructuring. "We're getting bogged down in titles," he said. "We've spent three and a half months having this debate." 
In other council news: 
+ 
Members voted to increase the number of signatures would-be candidates must gather to run for student body president and vice president. Beginning next semes­ter. a student must assemble 700 student signatures to be eligible for candidacy, up from 300. 

+ 
Judicial Council president Elliot Poindexter said his organization will hold an informational meeting 


for students interested in running for campus-wide office. The meet­ing will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in the Foster Hoom on the third floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 
+ Senior class president Jazmin Garcia said the class of 2004 will sponsor a Christmas party at K's Pub and Grill on Wednesday from 6:30-8:30 p.m. "We're getting together to celebrate the end of classes and to get ready for the men's basketball game against Indiana," Garcia said. "It's a toast to the Christmas season." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 


s I B c 


Student International Business Council 


ThankYou Congratulations to the 2003 Board ofDirectors 2004 Board ofDirectors 
President: Parker Davis President: Jake Roffman COO: Daniela Urs COO: Daniel Silva CFO: Jason King CFO: John Boots SPC: Jim Krenn SPC: Steve Wierema 
Finance: Jake Roffman Finance: Tim Lavelle Business Consulting: Bob Goedert Business Consulting: Paula Bucher Human Resources: Courtney Zeph Human Resources: Erin Cook 
Marketing: Melanie Lauck Marketing: Melanie Lauck Accounting: Bill Coffey Accounting: Jason Kingery Global Development: John Boots Global Development: Daniel Degen Information Technology: Michael Flynn Information Technology: Joseph Dubbs Internships: Daniel Silva and Pedro Bollmann Internships: Pedro Bollmann and Mike Panzica 

www.nd.edu/~sibc 


page 4 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, December 9, 2003 


Mass 
continued from page 1 
Both Baxter and University President Father Edward Malloy praised Moore's service to the University in his role as its princi-P a I spokesman. 

In his open­"We're going to Denny was one 
ing remarks, miss Denny." of our most M a I I o y wonderful, referred to faithful com­
Father Ted Hesburgh
Moore as the rades in this 
"voice of Unlverslt President great work of Notre Dame." emeritus Notre Dame," 
"[In his] job he was enor­mously dis­creet, always honest and never spoke uncharitably. He loved Notre Dame," Baxter said. 
Baxter said that the strength of Moore's faith and his devotion to his family became even clear­er as he dealt with cancer. 
"For some people, the story of their life is a proclamation of the gospel. The shape of their life is good news," Baxter said. 


A01nesty 
continued from page 1 
pie about the crisis," Conterato said. "If they want to ignore it, that's fine. We hope to get a pret­ty positive ·reaction [to the wall]. We're hoping people realize we are trying to give as objective of a view as possible." 
AmnestyND wanted to bring the issue forth in a physical nature, instead of just merely posters, Conterato said. "[A wall] is large and eye catching, so why not?" 
The walls, which are made out of four-foot-by­eight-foot pieces of ply­wood, will be painted with the phrase "Stop the Wall," and will be covered with posters that highlight the crisis. 
Contertato said that the walls will be built in the high-traffic areas in front of the dining halls to draw 

University President emeritus Father Ted Hesburgh also spoke of Moore's commitment to Notre Dame when he gave his closing remarks. 
"I think I can give voice to all the people in this church -all the people who don't get to say any­thing, except to say by their presence that 
Hesburgh said. 
"We're going 

to miss Denny. ... I have a feeling that Denny, like so many of the wonderful Notre Dame people who preceded him, is somehow still with us and will be with us with his spirit." 
Internment at . Cedar Grove Cemetery followed the Mass. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 
extra attention to the cause. 
Portions of the wall were constructed on Sunday, and were to be brought to the dining halls to undergo final assembly Tuesday morning. 
The date of the event is particularly significant, timed one month after 
Amnesty's  annual  
International  Day  of  
Action.  

Conterato said that the group also wanted to make sure that the event took place during the fall semester. before students and faculty leave for Christmas break. 
Amnesty aims to educate people about the current events and issues in the world. The group focused this year specifically on the death penalty, the prison system. domestic violence and the situation in Liberia. 
Contact Dustin VonHandorf at dvonhand@nd.edu 
Reusable Grab-N-Go Bags FOR SALE IV $3 
Notre Dame students use almost 200,000 lunch bags per year. 
Buy a reusable bag and help reduce the waste! 

ON SALE AT: Center for Social Concerns (front desk) South and North Dining Halls Grab-N-Go 
*(statistic !rom 2000-2001 school year) 

Sponsored by: Students for Environmental Acion 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Officers pass changes to constitution 
By MEGAN O'NEIL News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance wrapped up the semester with holiday flair at Monday's meeting as officers unanimously passed minor changes to the student govern­ment constitution and exchanged Christmas gifts. 
Vice President Sarah Brown detailed alterations being made to the structure of the constitu­tion. Most consisted of specific wording changes and chronolo­gy of the document's sections. The description of the Student Government Association, for instance, will not precede the description of BOG. 
Brown also briefly discussed the new constitutional amend­ment process. 
"We just made it a lot clearer and more specific," she explained. 
Constitutional amendment submissions must be sent first to the constitutional committee for review. If approved, it will then move on to BOG where it will be voted on. Under the new rules. rejected amendments cannot be resubmitted without some change. 

"You can't just keep submit­ting the same amendment over and over," said Brown. "You have to change it somehow, whether it be the wording or format." 
In other BOG News 

+BOG voted to grant Pi Mu Epsilon $1,500 in co-sponsor­ship money for their trip to the Joint Mathematics Meeting, which will be held in the spring in Arizona. Pi Mu Epsilon is the senior math majors club and the conference traditionally provides great opportunities for seniors to network with prospective employers. 
+ BOG also granted $1,000 to the senior retreat committee to help cover the costs of this year's senior retreat. The event, which committee members hope will be held at the Moreau Seminary, is a weekend of personal reflec­tion open to the entire senior class. The committee's request for sponsorship from the 
Committee  for  Women  in  
Leadership was rejected.  
+ "Lessons and Carols,"  an  

annual ecumenical celebration of the advent season, will be held Dec. 14 at 7:30 p.m. in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto. It will feature scripture readings, songs and dance. Participants are encouraged to bring an offering of non-perishable food items to be donated to the Chapin Street Clinic. +The Student Activities Board is sponsoring a holiday movie, "National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation," Tuesday and Saturday at 8 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. Free sub sandwich­es will be provided. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at 
onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

he said he'd always take care of Notre Dame. It means so much to him ... When he found out there was a need for health services he was eager to help," Kleva said. 
The new facility will be named after the Warren family. 
"After meeting him and his fam­ily, there isn't another family that I would want the health center to be named after ... I feel privileged to have their name on the build­ing. Mr. Warren will take a per­sonal interest," Kleva said. 
Contact Katie Laird at klaird@nd.edu 



Health 
continued from page 1 
research. He sees the need to improve the quality of life and to help the underprivileged. He's very passionate about it," Kleva said. 
Kleva attended the induction ceremony in Oklahoma last month, where she had the chance to meet with Warren. 
The Warren family has estab­lished other health facilities. including Saint Francis Health Services. a 750-bed acute care hospital in Tulsa. Kleva toured the facility and was impressed by the kindness and generosity of the staff. The family is also planning to construct a senior citizen care facility in Tulsa to assist the elder­ly. 

''I've never seen such caring, such warm people in my whole life. How they interact with everyone ... you get that sense of caring regardless if they're a patient or a doctor," Kleva said. 
Kleva also described Warren as very passionate and loyal to Notre Dame. 
"When he talked about Notre Dame and how excited he was ... 
New Course for Spring 2004 -Register Now! 

"Women l.e~ding: Is It Different?" (8A325 &MBA 525) 
1:s Credits, Assigned Readings &Discussion-No Exams or Term Paper 
9Lectutes, Fridays 10:40 am;_.. 12:10 pm, beginning January 16th Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 
. . . . . . . COURSEDESCRIPTION 
This timely new lecture series is designed for male and female students alike, examining the "truths and myths" aboutwomen in leadership positions. A prestigious group of speakers will offer their perspectives and insights on what Ws like to be a woman leader and what it's like 
to work with and for one. 

Scheduled speakers include: 
• 
Dr. Paulette R Gerkovich, Catalyst, Inc. 

• 
Dr. Jana MattheWs, Boulder Quantum Ventures 

• 
RoxanneMartino;.Hahis Alternatives, LLc·· 

• 
Kathy Mendoza; formerly of Network·Appliance 


• 
Danielle Boucree, entrepreneur 

• 
Sara Martinez Tucker, Hispanic Scholarship Fund 

• 
Zein Nakash, SuperCiubs International 

• 
Muffett McGraw, Notre Dame Women's Basketball 


Visit www.nd.edu/""cba/womenleading for more information. 
ENROLLMENT AND COURSE REQUIREMENTS 
"WomenLe~dirg: ls,ltDifferen~?tlfs1ed?sBA~325 andMBA-525, is open to any Notre .oameor:Sa1ntMarys StudentyJaDART. There are no prerequisites to enrollment. See .your academic advisor oryour.department chairforadditional detail. 
You are expected to attendhine lectures, complete assigned readings, and be prepared to engage speakers. This is a"Satisf9ctory/Unsatisfactory" course with no more than one verified, excused absence to receive agrade of "Satisfactory.'; There are no examinations and no term paper requirements. 
,,,,:. 







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, December 9, 2003 COMPILED FROM TliE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. begins anti-terror offensive 
KABUL. Afghanistan -The U.S. military launehed its largest postwar offensive against Taliban and al-Qaida insurgents Monday, sending 2,000 soldiers into a law­less swath of Afghanistan to put down a wave of attacks. 
The operation began as Afghan and U.N. officials warned that one of the military's most tragic blunders -the weekend killing of nine children in an airstrike -could drive morn Afghans into the arms of the rebels. 
Operation Avalanche, in southern and east­ern Afghanistan, "is the largest we have ever designed," Lt. Col. Bryan Hilferty told reporters at the coalition military headquar­ters at Bagram. north of the capital Kabul. 
Putin allies defeat liberals in vote 
MOSCOW -A sweeping victory by President Vladimir Putin 's allies pushed lib­eral. Western-oriented parties out of parlia­ment for the first time since the Soviet col­lapse, and the White !louse expressed con­cern Monday over the fairness of a vote human rights oflicials said marked a retreat from democracy in Hussia. 
The main pro-Kremlin party, United Hussia. won nearly three times as many votes in Sunday's elections as its closest rival. according to preliminary results. 
Il'> new power, together with the defeat of liberal parties and a surge by nationalists who have called for strong state control of the economy, raised questions about Putin's plans for what seems certain to be a second term following March presidential elections. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Congress moves to can spammers 
WASIIINGTON -Congress on Monday approved the first national effort to stem the flood of unwanted e-mail pitches offering prescription drugs, cheap loans and other come-ons. 
President Bush has indicated he intends to sign the measure into law. Indeed the White !louse revamped its own e-mail system this summer over a nood of so-called spam. 
Clogged inboxes have become a leading irritation among Internet users. an increas­ing business expense for companies and a popular target for Washington interest before an election year. 
The House voted without dissent to approve slight changes Senate lawmakers made to the "can spam" legislation, which would outlaw the shadiest techniques used by the Internet's most prolific e-mailers, who send tens of millions of messages each day. 
N.J. hunters begin bear hunt 
VEHNON, N.J.-Slogging through a foot of snow left by a weekend blizzard, hunters ventured into the woods in New Jersey's first I.Jcar hunt in 33 years, prompted by a rising number of complaints about the animals breaking into suburban homes and raiding trash cans. 
About two dozen protesters rallied near a weigh station at Wawayanda State Park, chanting, "Stop the slaughter, save the bears." They took to the woods with video cameras to monitor the hunt, which went ahead despite a number of legal challenges. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Late editor bequeaths books 
ELKIIAHT -A retired newspaper editor who loved reading books almost as much as he relished giving them away has bequeathed his personal library-all 3,000-plus volumes -to Elkhart Community Schools. 
The books Hobert Schnuck collected in his life will soon form a library in his name at Elkhart's Central High School. All of the books will be housed in the same room. 
"I think he'd be very pleased that the school will receive them," said Phyllis Warrick, a dose friend of Schnuck's, who died in July at age 85. 


Gore to endorse Dean campaign 
Former vice president snubs Lieberman as Dean candidacy picks up steam 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Former 
Vice President AI Gore will 
endorse Howard Dean for 
the Democratic presiden­
tial nomination Tuesday, a 
dramatic move that could 
tighten Dean's grip on the 
front-runner's position and 
usher more support from 
wary party elite. 

Gore, who won the pop­ular vote but lost the elec­toral vote in the disputed 2000 election, has agreed to appear with Dean in New York City's Harlem neighborhood and then travel with the former Vermont governor to Iowa for a formal endorsement. several Democratic sources, including one close to Gore, said Monday. 
The coveted endorse­ment is a breathtaking vic­tory for a candidate whose anti-war, anti-establish­ment candidacy has given Bush after a tumultuous No. 2 bolsters Dean's case McEntee said. pause to party leaders and 36-day recount in Florida that he can carry the In choosing Dean, Gore key constituencies, several and a 5-4 Supreme Court party's mantle next bypassed his own vice Democratic strategists vote against him. Gore's November and represents presidential pick in 2000, said. concession came Dec. 13, more than an Internet­Sen. Joe Lieberman of 
"What this says is that 2000. driven outsider relying on Connecticut, who is strug­all these Washington insid­The former vice presi­the support of largely gling in his bid to capture ers who have been gnash­dent is widely popular white, upscale voters. the nomination. ing their teeth, wringing among key primary voters It also helps Dean, who Lieberman even waited their hands and clinging to due in part to the wide­leads in state polls in New until after Gore made his their cocktail cups can spread belief among Hampshire and Iowa as decision last December not relax now. Dean's been Democratic activists that well as in the fund-raising to run before embarking knighted by the ultimate the election was taken battle, as he tries to per­on his candidacy. insider," said Democratic from him. In several sur­suade Democrats worried The Lieberman cam­consultant Dean Strother veys of Democratic voters, about his lack of foreign paign issued a terse state­of Washington. "It's game, Gore and New York Sen. policy experience and ment Monday, saying, "I set and match. It's over." Hillary Rodham Clinton, campaign missteps that was proud to have been 
Other Democrats offered who repeatedly say they his nomination is all but chosen by AI Gore in 2000 more cautious appraisals, won't seek the nomination certain. to be a heartbeat away but the overwhelming con­next year, have fared bet­AFSCME President from the presidency," and sensus was that Dean's ter than the announced Gerald McEntee said added, "Ultimately, the coup makes him the over­presidential candidates. Gore's support is more sig­voters will make the deter­wh~lming favorite to claim The Gore endorsement nificant than all of Dean's mination and I will contin­the nomination. Even comes just weeks after two labor endorsements. ue to make my case about advisers to Dean's rivals key unions -the Service "It goes so far in dis­taking our party and conceded they were Employees International pelling this idea that swirls nation forward." stunned and disheartened Union and the American around that Dean would Lieberman spokesman by the news. Federation of State, not be a good candidate in Jano Cabrera said Gore 
Gore won the popular County and Municipal the general [election], that did not tell the Connecticut vote by half a million votes Employees -backed Dean in some way would senator about the endorse­in 2000 but conceded to Dean's candidacy. The be damaging to the ment, which Lieberman Hepublican George W. approval of Bill Clinton's Democratic Party." had sought. 

IRAQ 

Saddam killed 61,000 in Baghdad 
Gallup, 6.6 percent said yes. Forensic teams will begin to
Associated Press 

The polling firm took metropolitan exhume four of those graves next 
BAGHDAD -Saddam Hussein's Baghdad's population-6.39 million month in search of evidence for a government may have executed -and average household size-6.9 new tribunal, expected to be estab­61,000 Baghdad residents. a number people -to calculate that 61,000 lished this week, that will try mem­significantly higher than previously people were executed during bers of the former regime for crimes believed, according to a survey Saddam's rule. Most arc believed to against humanity and genocide. More obtained Monday by The Associated have been buried in mass graves. graves will later be added to the list. Press. The U.S.-Ied occupation authority But nobody expects all the mass 
The bloodiest massacres of in Iraq has said that at least 300,000 graves to be exhumed, and nobody Saddam's 23-year presidency people are buried in mass graves in expects to ever know the full number occurred in Iraq's Kurdish north and Iraq. Human rights officials put the of Iraqis executed by their govern­Shiite Muslim south, but the Gallup number closer to 500,000, and some ment. Baghdad Survey data indicates the Iraqi political parties estimate more Hichard Burkholder, who headed brutality extended strongly into the than 1 million were executed: Gallup's Baghdad team, said the capital as well. Without exhumations of those numbers in Baghdad could be high 
The survey, which the polling firm graves, it is impossible to confirm a for two reasons: People may have planned to release on Tuesday, asked figure. Scientists told The Associated understood "household" to be broad­1,178 Baghdad residents in August Press during a recent investigation er than just the people living at their and September whether a member of that they have confirmed 41 mass address; and some families may have their household had been executed graves on a list of suspected sites that moved to the capital from other areas by Saddam's regime. According to currently includes 270 locations. since the executions occurred. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Saint Mary's students celebrate feast day 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's students cele­brated the Feast of the Immaculate Conception with a special dinner, mass and reception Monday. The scheduled events came as part of a new movement on campus to increase devotion to Mary, the College's patroness. 

In an effort to build up awareness for the Feast, a day of holy obligation for Catholics, student govern­ment posted signs around campus reminding students to honor the holy day of their patron saint. Students were encouraged to dress in the color blue, the symbolic color of Mary, as a sign of solidarity and were given blue ribbons to wear. 
Inspiration for the celebra­tion of the Feast of the Immaculate Conception came from such religious celebrations in years past in the Saint Mary's community. 
"We actually just got the idea for the event because we were going through some old stuff." said admissions commissioner Katie Harrison, "and we found that the Immaculate Conception is the patron saint of Saint Mary's." 
Adapting old religious col­lege traditions for the stu­

dent body today has not been easy, however. 
"You have to make it rele­vant to students, because something we had in the 50s might not work today," said Mission Commissioner Leah Holden-Corbett. 
She added that there had been a traditionally strong devotion to Mary at the College in the past, and annual events such as the Madonna Night and May Day were quite popular. In recent years this interest had begun to wane. 
"It is something that has 
been  lost  over  the  more  
recent  years  at  Saint  
Mary's," she said.  

In applying for her student government position, Holden-Corbett hoped that it was something she would be able to change. She and other board members explored ways in which to revitalize interest in the saint. The first step towards this goal, she said, was to honor Mary on her feast day in a way that students of today would enjoy. 
"We are trying to unite the school in new ways that per­tain to students in present days but still maintain the devotion that we had in the past," Holden-Corbett said. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Letter on senior privileges planned 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
Assistant News Editor 
The Campus Life Council tied up loose ends during its last meeting of the fall semester and the final one presided over by Student Body President Pat Hallahan. When the council reconvenes in January, Jeremy Lao, current student body vice president, will oversee the organ­ization. 
"I think we did a decent amount of stuff this semester," Hallahan said to the CLC. "We're making progress in a lot of areas. Keep up the good work." 
Lao promised to work with members to maintain the momentum started by Hallahan. 
"I really look forward to work­ing with everyone next semester," he said. 
During Monday's meeting, the council also discussed the work of the senior privileges task force. Members agreed to draft and send a letter to Father Mark Poorman, vice president of Student Affairs, outlining the research done so far on the feasi­bility of reserved parking for on­campus seniors without taking a position on the option. 
"I hate to see the work that this task force has done just sort of die," said Heather Rakoczy, rec­tor of Pangborn Hall and a mem­ber of CLC, regarding the deci­sion to forward the information. 
The senior privileges task force also informed the CLC that it is continuing to work on the possi­bility of having a weekly senior night at Legends during one of the establishment's slower days. While the event would be adver­tised to seniors, Legends would remain open to the general public during the proposed event. 
"We're continuing to get more senior leaders involved with the discussion," said Elliot Poindexter, Judicial Council presi­dent and a member of the CLC. 
In general, members respond­ed positively to the idea. 
"When someone spends mil­lions of dollars for the Notre Dame community [for building Legends] we should always be thinking of ways to use it," Hallahan said. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
Korean museum reveals rifts 
Associated Press LOS ANGELES -A museum expected to unite the city's diverse Korean-American community, the largest outside the mother country, instead has divided it over differences about money and manage­ment. A grand opening ceremony was scheduled for Tuesday at the Korean National Association Memorial Hall, 
though questions about who will run it and even whether admission will be charged were still unanswered. 
Some involved in the dispute said it is a symptom of a com­munity divided between recent Korean immigrants and those whose families have been here for generations. It's a divide experts said is common in Korean-American communi­ties, where large gaps sepa­rate waves of immigrants. 
"What I've noticed is we don't think alike even though we're all Korean," said Christine Lee, a deaconess at the Korean United Presbyterian Church of Los Angeles, one of the parties in the dispute. "We want to leave this beautiful legacy for the future, but we're not doing a good job because everybody is fighting over who will be 
Interestecfin 6eing the nex] S;ttitfent (}Jotfy <Presitfent... , I A11 informal meeting willl?e held for all those interested in holding the office. Informati<J.n Session Tuesday, December 9 7:00P.M LaFortune Student Center 3rd Floor, Foster Room All undergraduates welcome. Por more information contact stutfegov@tzcLerfu.  

Tuesday, December 9, 2003 
MARKET RECAP Dow 9 965.27 +102.59

}ones ' 
... 

Up: Same: Dowp: ComposM Volume: 
2,157 

AMEX NASDAQ NYSE s&P 500 
183 • 1,2186,446,976 
1,130.26 +11.70 1, 948.85 +11.03 6,166.17 +43.28 1,069.30 +7.80 
NIKKEI(Tokyo) 10,100.55 +55.16 FTSE IOO(London) 4,359.80 -7.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +1.00 INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.43 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.27 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -0.48 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.55 
Tlt!Osurles 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.37 10-YEAR NOTE + 1.49 5-YEAR NOTE + 1.75 3-MONTH BILL -0.34 
CDmmoditles 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy OL) 
+0.26 26.24 -0.46 31.64 +0.54 24.29 -0.02 4.37 +0.07 12.81 
+0.69 51.16 
+0.63 42.78 
+0.56 32.57 
-0.03 8.92 
+1.37 32.10 +0.20 407.50 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.775 87.625 
Excha Rates 

YEN 107.4 EURO 0.8186 POUND 0.577 CANADIAN$ 1.299 
IN BRIEF 
Analysts predict no Fed move 
WASHINGTON -The Federal Reserve, linally starting to see the hoped-for rebound in the economy. is expected to leave interest rates unchanged at its last meeting of the year, allowing consumers and businesses to enjoy the lowest rates in decades into the new year. 
Analysts uniformly are predicting that the Fed's target for the federal funds rate, which has been at a 45-year low of 1 percent since June, will not be changed Tuesday even though the economy finally seems to be emerging from an extended period of lacklus­ter growth. 
The funds rate is the interest that banks charge each other for overnight loans. Commercial banks' prime interest rate, the benchmark for millions of consumer and busi­ness loans, moves in lockstep with changes in the funds rate. 
McDonald's stores post gains 
CHICAGO-McDonald's Corp. extended the recovery in its once-slumping restaurants to an eighth straight month, on Monday report­ing a double-digit gain in U.S. same-store sales and a modest improvement in Europe, its second-biggest market. 
Systemwide sales from the more than 30,000 McDonald's-brand restaurants world­wide jumped 14.9 percent from a year earlier as the world's largest fast-food chain contin­ued to benefit from new products, new mar­keting, a stronger economy and the dollar's weakness overseas. 
Court OKs Air Canada infusion 
TOHONTO -A Canadian bankruptcy judge approved a plan by Hong Kong businessman Victor Li to invest $488 million into Air Canada but left the door open Monday for a rival bid by a big U.S. investment company to help bail out the insolvent carrier. 
The court's ruling approved the Air Canada deal with Li's Trinity Time Investments, part of the carrier's plan to secure new financing so it can emerge from bankruptcy restructuring by year's end. Montreal-based Air Canada filed for bankruptcy on April 1. 
-----------· ---­

THE OBSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 

Bush signs Medicare drug bill 
Seniors will face difficult choices when $400 billion in benefits begin in 2006 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
President Bush signed a 
new prescription drug ben­
efit into law Monday as 
part of historic Medicare 
changes that also will con­
front seniors with numer­
ous, sometimes-difficult 
choices on their health care 
coverage. 
Bush said the new drug insurance "will save our seniors from a lot of worry." But the bill's critics said the worries have just begun for Medicare's 40 million older and disabled Americans. 
The government will spend nearly $400 billion over the next 10 years to subsidize prescription drug coverage, which begins in January 2006. At the same time, the government will encourage insurance com­panies to offer private plans to millions of older Americans who now receive health care benefits under terms fixed by the federal government. 
"Medicine has changed but Medicare has not ­until today," Bush said, explaining that prescription drugs and outpatient care have replaced hospital stays over the past two decades. "Our seniors are fully capable of making health care choices, and this bill allows them to do that." 
Republicans generally hailed the signing as a political triumph they could use in next year's election to neutralize Democrats' usual advantage on issues regarding the elderly. 
"Democratic leaders have lashed out at us, at the president and AARP," House Majority Leader Tom DeLay of Texas said. "But Democrats have no one to blame but themselves for their abject failure on health care. We wanted a bill, they just wanted an issue, and now the American people know who took their concerns seriously." 
Democrats pledged to 


Reulers 

President George W. Bush signs the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act as congressional leaders look on Monday. The controver­sial act pledges nearly $400 billion to pay for prescription drugs for seniors. 
fight in the Republican-controlled Congress for changes in the law, princi­pally for measures to bring down the price of prescrip­tion drugs. "You sold us out, so we're going to go all out to repeal what you've done," Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., said. 
The first tangible result of the Medicare law will be prescription drug discount cards that the president said would take effect in June. He said seniors will receive a mailing in the spring to explain the card, which will cost no more than $30 a year. It will offer discounts that Bush said will range from 10 to 25 percent off retail prices. Critics say the promise of savings is wildly inflated. 
The president sought to reassure seniors Monday that their choices will be explained to them in detail and that they can keep the health care they have. 
"If you don't want to change your current cover­age, you don't have to change," Bush said. 
But that option may not exist for some seniors. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that 2.7 
million retirees will lose the drug coverage they now receive from former employers, although other projections are much smaller. 
Those seniors who now rely on supplemental insur­ance to defray the cost of prescription drugs can choose to keep those so-called Medigap policies instead of signing up for the new benefit, the White House said. However, Medicare beneficiaries can­not be enrolled in both a Medigap plan and the new prescription drug plan. 
Some Medicaid benefici­aries, among the poorest of seniors, also could see restrictions placed on their drug coverage, several health analysts said. 
Whether to sign up for the drug benefit or switch from traditional Medicare to an HMO or preferred provider organization will be a decision that for many seniors will depend on their current or anticipated future spending on drugs. 
After paying for the first $250 in prescriptions, sen­iors will be responsible for 25 percent of the next $2,000 in drug costs. 
Between $2.250 and $5,100 in drug costs, the government will pay noth­ing. Over $5,100, the gov­ernment pays all but 5 per­cent of prescription costs. 
The monthly premium for the drug plan is estimated to-be a national average of $35 in 2006. But the exact shape and cost of the drug benefit also could differ from one region of the country to the next. And nothing in the law pre­eludes private insurers from offering more goner­ous but also more costly plans. 
The president said the average senior will see today's drug bill cut rough­ly in half. but his calcula­tion includes a savings of 20 percent that is not found in the law. Instead, the administration assumes that insurers will take advantage of seniors' aggregate purchasing power to negotiate drug prices that are on average 20 percent less than today's retail prices. 
The discount drug card will offer the administra­tion a test run of how well it can explain seniors' choices. 

Time Warner to offer voice on Net 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo.-Time Warner Cable announced a deal Monday with Sprint Corp. and MCI Inc. to offer phone service using the up-and-com­ing voice-over-Internet technology, one of the surest signs yet that cable companies are assaulting the local phone industry. 
While other cable companies sell phone service to their customers in selected markets, this deal is the first time the "voice-over-IP" technology will power nearly nationwide phone service by a cable company. 
"We've moved out of the talking stages and into the reality," said Jeff Kagan, an independent industry ana­lyst based in Atlanta. "2004 is going to be the year cable and phone com­panies get into each other's business and start competing." 

The technology will let Time Warner customers make calls with their regular phones, but the calls will travel as packets of data over the cable line that feeds into the house, rather than going through tradition­al, circuit-based phone wires. 
At a switching station, the calls will be transferred to either the MCI or Sprint phone networks and into the traditional format that reaches most phone users. 
Though the quality of voice-over-IP calls often aren't quite up to the standard of the traditional telephone networks. the technology is improv­ing. 
That gives cable companies an efii­cient way to break into the phone business. Meanwhile, telephone providers are increasingly going after the cable companies by cutting prices on digital subscriber line (DSL) high-speed Internet service and by bundling satellite TV service with local phone bills. 
Overland Park, Kan.-based Sprint and Ashburn, Va.-based MCJ, for­merly known as WorldCom Inc., said they were in talks to facilitate phone service for other cable providers but provided no other details. 
The companies provided no details about how much the deal was worth. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
CDC to monitor flu complications 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA-The nation's health agency plans to closely watch flu complications among children, who have swamped hospitals in some states and surprised doctors with the severity of their illnesses. 
A new concern is the rise of a common drug-resistant staph infection that is complicating efforts to treat children with the flu. an official with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Monday. 
Tim Uyeki, epidemiologist with the influenza branch of CDC. said that some children have died from the staph infec­tions -a phenomenon the CDC has not seen before. 
Flu complications for chil­dren have always been dire: pneumonia, kidney and heart failure, possible brain damage. 
"We've just never seen them in the proportions we've seen them this year," said Steve Schexnayder, chief of pediatric critical care at Arkansas Children's Hospital in Little Rock. 
From Texas to California, children's hospitals have been swamped with sick children ­many of them desperately ill. 
The waiting room at Children's Hospital Central California in Madera was standing room only during the Thanksgiving holiday, and hos­pital officials said nearly every child tested positive for the flu. 
Children's Medical Center in Dallas has seen more than 500 kids with the flU: since October. One day last week, two dozen more appeared, most with enough lung disease to be put on ventilators, said Jane Siegel. 
"Because it seems to be a strain that has not circulated in the U.S. before and is not well-covered by the existing vaccine, we're seeing far more cases," said James Todd, direc­tor of epidemiology of Denver Children's Hospital. "Just because you're seeing more cases, you're seeing more com­plications." 
Doctors say some children are coming into hospitals with so much damage they are put on heart-lung bypass machines just to stay alive. 
Others face additional prob­lems: Nine-year-old Nick Collins at Arkansas Children's Hospital needed four chest tubes to drain fluid from holes in his lungs caused by bacterial pneumonia. Doctors are trying to prevent a blood clot from killing him. 
He also had methicillin­resistant staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), a usually mild infection which led to his severe pneumonia. Staph bac­teria are commonly found on the skin or in the nose and often go undetected. 
Uyeki said the children with staph-related flu likely picked up the bacteria before they were hospitalized. In October CDC warned parents that many school athletes had been found to carry MRSA. 

These infections don't nor­mally cause pneumonia with­out the flu virus, said Dr. Frederick Hayden, a flu expert and professor of internal medi­cine at the University of Virginia. 
But the flu virus can impair the body's ability to fight the bacteria and expel it. The bac­teria, in turn, can produce enzymes that enhance the flu's ability to infect cells. he said. 
Nick, a healthy boy until he got the flu in early November, is doing better, having been removed from a ventilator on Friday. But he'll likely have to stay in the hospital through the end of the year, his mother says. 
"It's scary to find that some­thing as common as the flu can cause something this major every year," said his mother, Kim Collins of Texarkana, Texas. "We sit around for days in awe of the fact the flu has caused all of this." 
Flu and its complications are the sixth leading cause of death nationally among chil­dren age 4 and younger, according to the CDC. 
Anecdotally, this flu season seems to be worse for children. But because the CDC doesn't keep track of flu deaths, it's unclear how much worse. This year the agency is planning to collect data on children who die from the flu, those with MRSA, and those who develop brain damage, said Keiji Fukuda, chief of epidemiology in the CDC's influenza branch. 

Psychologist said Malva was spotter, not shooter 
Associated Press 
CHESAPEAKE, Va. -Lee Boyd Malvo was th spotter ­not the shooter -in all but one of last year's sniper killings, Malvo told a psychologist, con­tradicting the confession he gave to police. 
Malvo blamed himself for the arrest of sniper mastermind John Allen Muhammad, and felt compelled to take the blame for the sniper rampage, psychologist Dewey Cornell tes­tified Monday at Malvo's trial. 
Malva's confession -in which he claimed he wa.s the shooter in all of last year's sniper shootings in metropoli­tan Washington that left 10 dead -was "an attempt to sacrifice himself and claim credit to spare Mr. Muhammad," said Cornell, of the University of Virginia. 
"He felt responsible for their being caught by falling asleep, and he blamed himself for the failure of their mission," Cornell said. Malvo and Muhammad were arrested while sleeping in a car at a highway rest stop in Maryland. 
Malvo is presenting an insan­ity defense to capital murder charges in the Oct. 14, 2002, slaying of FBI analyst Linda Franklin outside a Home Depot. The defense claims he was brainwashed by Muhammad and could no longer tell right from wrong. 
Cornell said that after Malvo had been indoctrinated by Muhammad. "he believed what he was doing was right and that John Muhammad was a chosen person of Allah." 
Cornell diagnosed Malvo with a dissociative disorder, a form of mental illness in which a person loses touch with reality and his own identity becomes distorted. Cornell gave no opin­ion on whether the mental dis­ease rose to the level of insani­ty. 
"This was a very unusual, rare case," he said. 
Prosecutor Robert Horan Jr. expressed skepticism about the diagnosis, saying that a disso­ciative disorder from brain­washing is poorly defined in the medical literature. 
While Malva's lawyers admit he took part in the killings. they have disputed that he was the triggerman. If the jury rejects the insanity defense but concludes that the government could not prove Malvo was the triggerman. it may be more dif­ficult to obtain a death penalty under Virginia law. 
Cornell said Muhammad and Malvo often discussed right and wrong, and Muhammad told him "that right and wrong do not exist." 
Muhammad said the two were in a war, and that "the winners in a war determine which killings are right and wrong," Cornell said. 

aft~· ad lt8.. fhl ~ ~ 94' ~­mde ~ 94' ~· aft~ ad H(J !hi mde ~ 94' ~ aft~ ad lt8 !hi mde ~· 94' ~· aft~ ad t«J {de ·-·· .. L .. ,/A...i . .J.·.·•. ~.· t'.JIAJI.·.···,:•·~··.... ·.··•.·,~ ~ 7­·~_. ....,t/7 aft~· ad-!hi·~ 94' ~· aft ~ ad t«J ftLcut ~~ ad t«J ftLcut ~· ~ 94' ~· ';~tee '~'twt· '9ue t'Jamu~. # 7~, "D~ IItie# 9-IIft~#~ ,La';~ ~~~ . . ../.,.·.. I..•..;A····. •.. , ..# .. FtAAAf'  



South Dakota congressman convicted of manslaughter 
Associated Press 
FIANDHEAU, S.D. -In a ver­diet that could bring an abrupt end to a three-decade political career. a jury convicted Hep. Bill Janklow of manslaughter Monday for a collision that killed a motorcyclist. rejecting the con­gressman's claim that he wa.<> dis­orhmted by a diabetic reaction. 
The jury in Janklow's boyhood hometown deliberated for about live hours before returning its verdict. 
Janklow appeared stunned as the verdict was read. lie walked steadily out of the courtroom, got in a vehicle driven by his son and left the courthouse. He refused to respond to questions shouted by a horde of reporters. 
Janklow, 64, was convicted of second-degree manslaughter, reckless driving, running a stop sign and speeding for the Aug. 16 crash that killed Handy Scott, 55, a farmer from Hardwick, Minn. Prosecutors said Janklow was traveling more than 70 mph in his white Cadillac when he crashed with Scott's Harley­Davidson. 
Janklow could get up to 10 years in prison on the manslaughter charge and also 

face a House ethics committee investigation that could lead to his expulsion. Judge Rodney Steele set sentencing for Jan. 20. 
Jurors left the courthouse with­out talking to reporters. '}'hey were escorted out by the sheriff, who said the jurors don't want to talk to the media. Both prosecu­tor Bill Ellingson and defense attorney Ed Evans refused com­ment. 
Janklow, a Republican, was elected to South Dakota's lone !louse seat last year following an 
· extraordinary political career in which he served four years as state attorney general in the 1970s and 16 years as governor. During his two stints as governor, Janklow won over legions of vot­ers in heavily conservative South Dakota with his tough-talking, maverick style. 
His trial created a scenario that once would have seemed unthinkable in this rural state: the enormously powerful Janklow on trial for manslaugh­ter in the farming community where he grew up. 
The trial began Dec. 1 with a jury-selection process that revealed Janklow's widespread popularity in Flandreau, a town of about 2,000 people. Several jury candidates knew Janklow and his family, including one who shook hands with the former governor as he len the court­room. 
Once a panel was chosen. jurors witnessed several emo­tional images during five days of testimony, including Janklow in tears as he described his grief over the crash. A man who was riding motorcycles with Scott cried as he recalled finding the victim's mangled body in a soy­bean field. Senate Democratic Leader Tom Daschle, himself a pillar of South Dakota politics, also took the stand. 
Kerry touts technology I as key to future growth 
Holy Cross College could make your wish come true. 
If you have a relative or friend who would like to be closer to you next year, tell them about Holy Cross College -we're right next door to Notre Dame. They could complete our Associate of Arts curriculum, transfer, or pursue our Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Studies degree. 
Give us a call at 239-8400 or e-mail admissions@hcc:-nd.edu. Freshmen and transfer applicants are currently being accepted for Spring and Fall admission~ 
HOLY CROSS 

~N2e~a~~~n~* 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, Indiana 46556~0308 574-239-8400 • FAX 574-239-8323 • www.hcc-nd.edu 


Associated Press STANFORD, Ca. -Democratic presidential candidate John Kerry proposed a broad eco­nomic recovery program that ties job creation to technological innovation, investment and training as he campaigns in a Silicon Valley still reeling from the technology bust. "Today, an agenda for high­tech is an agenda for our eco­nomic future," the Massachusetts senator said in a speech Monday at Stanford University. "And the promise of the Information Age was more than a bubble-it was a break­through from which we will never turn back." Kerry's praise for Silicon Valley's fabled garage-based startup companies and the soar­ing possibilities of the Internet carried an ironic note: Former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean cat­apulted to the top of the field through his campaign's innova­tive use of the Internet in fund­raising and organization. With Dean dominating polls in New Hampshire, Kerry's aides released a memo over the weekend that said the senator now is "competing for the top three spots in Iowa and top two in New Hampshire." The memo noted that any candidate who gets 15 percent of the vote will win delegates to the party's national convention. It also cited statistics from 2000 that showed 82 percent of New Hampshire Democrats didn't decide for whom to vote until after Jan. 1. In Iowa on Monday, the Kerry campaign described plans for a 
live broadcast with uncommit­ted voters to broaden his appeal in the state and a separate push to attract veterans and women. Staffers said they arc increasing the size of their Iowa organiza­tion, in part by bringing in workers from other states. 
In his remarks at Stanford, Kerry charged President Bush with having an "anti-science attitude" that had hindered research into stem cells and global warming. He also blamed Bush for the loss of 3 million jobs nationwide, including thou­sands of high-tech jobs in New Hampshire. 
Kerry outlined five major goals of his job-creation plan of encouraging technological inno­vation by investing in small technology companies, offering tax credits for research and development, and expanding broadband Internet capability; improving high-tech infrastruc­ture and making Internet access universally available; strength­ening markets by enforcing trade law, preventing intellectu­al piracy, boosting corporate accountability and balancing the federal budget; preparing students for the work force by improving math and science education and making college more affordable; using technol­ogy to improve health and safe­ty through biotechnology, stein­cell research and national secu­rity. 
Kerry also used the forum to continue his criticism of Bush's handling of Iraq, accusing the president of using "hubris and swagger" in his handling of international affairs. 

Godfather of funk arrested for possession 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -Funk music pioneer George Clinton was arrested and charged with drug possession after allegedly admitting to an officer he had cocaine in his pocket. · 
Clinton, of Tallahassee, was arrested Saturday and released on bond, according to jail offi­cials, who wouldn't release any other information. 
The musician's lawyer, Shoshana Zisk of San Francisco, didn't immediately return a call for comment. 
Clinton's home number is unlisted. 
Clinton, 63, who headed the funk bands Parliament and Funkadelic -and the collabo­ration later known as P-Funk­in the 1970s and 1980s is con­sidered a father of the genre. In 1983, Clinton's solo record, "Atomic Dog," rose to the top of the H&B charts. 
Clinton was sitting by himself in a car in a gas station parking lot early Saturday when a police officer approached him, said Tallahassee Police spokesman Stewart Clendinen. 



THE 0BSER\'ER 




IE\1\'POINT 
Tuesday, December 9, 2003 

Saying goodbye to two Notre Dame legends 
One was a born people-person, eloquently spoken, hon­can only dream. At the age of 29, he became the manag­estly diplomatic, and always rea.dy to greet people by ing editor of The South Bend Tribune, and he was named name and with a smile. executive editor in 1984. His career glittered with awards 
The other was a tough weathered newsman and teacher and honors; he served as president of the Indiana who, to his students' delight, would satirize papers, tear Associated Press Managing Editors Association and spent them apart and subsequently mold pupils six years on the national board of directors into smarter, savvier journalists. OJhe of the Associated Press Managing Editors. 
Denny Moore and Jack Powen were When he retired from The Tribune in 1990, beloved at Notre Dame and revtred in the he continued to teach journalism courses at journalism world, and the University lost two Notre Dame, where his students loved and
Editorial
treasured figures when they died last week. 

Both attended Notre Dame and returned to bolster the University and the surrounding community with their energy and talents. Moore, a member of the founding staff of The Observer, spent 20 years working in journalism and corporate relations both in this country and in Ireland. He returned to Notre Dame to work in public relations in 1988, was promoted to director in 1990 and served as the official spokesman for the University until 2002, when he was appointed associate vice president of public affairs and communication. He was universally respected for his tact, personality and deep faith. His love for God and the University shone through his service and his actions every day. 
Powers, an inductee in the Indiana Journalism Hall of Fame, led a journalistic life about which most reporters 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

idolized him, hanging on his advice and criti­
cism about work and journalism. The University established an internship at The Tribune in his name. 
These two men embodied the spirit of Notre Dame. They gave their all to their families, their communities, their jobs and the University. Everyone who knew them -and those who knew of them -knew of this dedication and aspired to live by their examples. 
Moore lived for people, always remembering faces and names-and no one will ever forget his. Powers provided his students with an example of excellence and dedication and will be remembered as a legend. The University suf­fered a great loss with their deaths, as Notre Dame would not be what it is today without the differences they made 
· with their lives. May we all aspire to live lives so great. 

Does pornography plague ND? 
What is the most harmful addiction facing men of the Notre Dame cam­pus? Surprisingly it's not alcohol or any narcotic; it's pornography. 
Although pornography affects both men and women, this addiction is pri­marily one of males; yet it involves everyone. Pornography has long-last­ing, damaging effects; it is a fantasy world and a gross misrepresentation of the body and sexuality. 
The human body is not the air­brushed, plastic surgery fantasy of XXX material. No one's body looks like that, or will stay that way. Men, what happens when your wife has children and the curves you married begin to sag? Women, do you want to worry about your husband always looking at women with better bodies? 
This is why Ms. Griswold effectively compares pornography to slavery in her Dec. 3 letter; it reduces people to objects, mere role players to be used rather than people to be loved. Sex becomes selfish gratification rather than a gift of self, and its beauty is dis­torted into something dehumanizing. 

Surprisingly, many men are unaware of tpe subtle danger of pornography; they are unknowingly training themselves to get their sexual "fix," becoming slaves to their sex drive. The result is a dysfunctional sex life and a distorted view of life and relationships. One becomes incapable of healthy relationships and a normal marriage. 
The disastrous effects are manifest­ed later in life: divorce, multiple mar­riages, broken families and heartache for children, the extended family and the entire community. 
This is the reality of pornography; it is never an isolated act. It affects all of society. and this dirty secret will make itself known. Yet we are all responsi­ble. Women, don't reduce yourselves to objects for men to use by the way you dress and act. Men, even if women do, that gives you no right to abuse them. 
Here Mr. Duda in his letter makes a weak argument by saying "All have made the choice to be there." This argument is a smoke screen that fails to address the actual problem of pornography and its effects. The "right to choose" says nothing about the choice itself. Kids choose to play with fire. Teenagers choose to use drugs. Their choices do not justify their actions. 
So the question remains: Do you want to have healthy relationships and a strong marriage and family in the future? 
If the answer is yes, then everyone must begin to say no to pornography right now. 
Jim Lee senior Morrissey Manor Dec, 8 
OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Have you ever been in a final that has been 
"I don't go by the rule book;

interrupted by a prank? 

I lead from the heart, not the head." 

Vote at ndsmcobserver.com 

Diana Spencer 

by 5 p.m. today. 

Princess of Wales 

THE 0BSER\'ER 






IEWPOINT
Tuesday, December 9, 2003 page 11 
Wishing you a just and humane Christmas 
I was planning on starting this col­umn off in typical fashion, by condemn­ing all of humanity to hell or appealing for some sort of political revolution, but my roommate Mark would have none of it. Thus, inspired by his 
Peter Quaranto 
ever-present wit­
ness in the desk 
behind me here in 
A Call to 
good, old 203 Sorin 
Action
llall, I am going to write this, my final column of my tirst semester as an Observer columnist, about the most mainstream thing on America's plate these days: Christmas. Just don't count on me being too con­ventional. 
When I begin to reflect upon the holi­day that more Americans enjoy than any other, I lind myself torn. Of course I want to condemn the rampant materi­alism, consumerism and commercial­ism that plague modern Christmas, but I have to admit that I. too, love running down the stairs in the Quaranta house on Christmas morning, pushing my brother and sister to the side that I might gel the first look at the presents under the tree. 
This leaves me with one grand ques­tion: Can we have a modern Christmas with materialism and still pursue a just. humane and meaningful celebra­tion of the birth of Christ, who is the light and redemption of the world for all who call themselves Christian? 
For the sake of argument and because I will never give up my lie­Man action tigures, I am going to wager a yes. 
Of course. this does not mean that I am sanctioning or recommending the sort of materialistic approach to Christmas that so often pervades Macy's, Michigan Avenue in Chicago and even our own God-given Notre Dame Bookstore. At what point does Christmas become more about buying gifts and spending money than showing love and celebrating hope? How much can one justify buying in a world where more than 3 billion people live with under $2 per day? These are all questions that each individual must evalu­ate. 
The question that I want to tackle is this: How can we act, in simple and real ways, to make this Christmas sea­son a more just and humane time? 
I want to suggest four ways that we can do so. These simple acts take lit­tle time, little money and little effort, but they can make a huge difference. 
First, one way to promote jus­tice this Christmas is to be conscious of the places and com­panies from which we buy our gifts. We all have significant power as consumers to support compa­nies that promote just practices ver­sus those that are guilty of such crimes as treating women unfairly, using sweatshop labor and polluting the envi­ronment. A good place to start for such empowered and focused consumerism is www.idealswork.com. 
A second way to promote a just and 


LETTER TO THE EDITOR Committing to both God and politics 
BJ Strew's Dec. 8 column, "Bush's imperial theology," attempts to strike the worst fears in Americans. In it, he not only por­trays America's president as a 19th-century imperialist stalwart, but he also compares President Bush's ideology to that of the ter­rorist group Al-Qaeda. Such fear­mongering and degradation is not only divisive, but it is rather unhelpful to the effort of helping our country during this time of war. 

I do not know for Strew, but as for me, I do believe there is evil in the world. Slavery was evil, as was the Holocaust; ditto for the gulags of the Soviet Union. The use of the term "evil," by our President mere­ly illustrates an otherwise abstract adversary to common folks in America: he is calling it as he sees it. Any reasonable American, regardless of his or her position on the Iraqi War, agrees that there is a such thing as good and evil in this world, and Saddam Hussein sure isn't on the side of good. 
Moreover, the magazine that Mr. Strew quotes from, "The Nation," is not known for its American-friend­ly articles. In fact, its most recent online version has a piece that blames the riots of the 1970s not on drug-crazed draft-dodgers, but rather on men who actually went to Vietnam to defend America. against communist insurgency: "Thirty-five years ago, hundreds of thousands of people took angrily to the streets, universities were taken over and a sitting President was hounded from the White House because of people like Wesley Clark." Clark was then a Lieutenant in the Army and felt it his duty to serve America. 
It is no wonder that this fringe element of American politics is always the most critical of those who serve "a higher calling" and seek guidance from God while doing so. It is clear that the likes of "The Nation" and Mr. Strew don't think too highly of tradition-minded Americans. whether President Bush or General Clark. Thus, regardless of your party affiliation, let not this fringe element question your com­mitment to God, Country or Notre Dame. Instead, let us unite to ensure that light will overcome darkness throughout the world. 
Darrell Scott junior Washington, D.C. Dec. 8 

humane world this Christmas is to make donations to charities as part of or in place of giving gifts to another person. A good friend of mine of the 
more radical nature is asking for his parents to donate money to OxFam International, an organization that focuses on development in the third world, rather than give gifts, but not everyone needs to go that far. There are so many charities 
and organiza­tions, though, which are in 
dire need for 
. · funds and could use as much help as they can get. A couple good ones, for a start, are Maryknoll, 
Catholic Relief Services and Catholic Charities. Third, one can 
give the gift of commitment. The holiday season is a perfect time to make 
a commitment to vol­unteer in a local soup 
kitchen. become more politically engaged or do some other small act for the 
common good. Imagine if everyone committed to spending the same amount of time that they went shop­ping to doing some sort of community service. 
Fourth and finally, we can give the gift of time. By this, I mean we should make it a point to spend more time with those around us, especially family and friends. Amidst our hectic, work­driven existences, it is important to make time to sit down, drink coffee and develop fellowship. Christmas, in its purest sense, is about love, which finds its home most clearly in community (and coffee). 
Very often, our actions at Christmas, aimed at showing our love for someone close to us, cause the suffering of many people that we will never know. It does not have to be this way. In the end, rather than playing to a zero-sum game as we so easily can do, we arc able to play to a positive-sum game, where everyone wins and justice rolls forth. 
If and when we do these four things, the world will become more just and humane. Through these practices, we will also be making our own holiday celebrations more fultilling and mean­ingful. 
Though it is unlikely that this piece of Christmas literature will tinct its way into the box of such classics as "A Christmas Carol" or "The Charlie Brown Christmas" special, at least I appeased my roommate, made an argument for justice. did not offend too many people and did not call for revo­lution. 
As for talking about revolution, there's always next semester. 
Peter Quaranta is a sophomore politi­cal science and international peace studies major. 1/e would like to thank Jamie and Michael for their friendship, wisdom and Tuesday lunches. Merry Christmas to all and, in the words of Bruce Springsteen, "Don't waste your time waitil]g." Contact Peter at pquar­ant@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, December 9, 2003 
CONCERT REVIEW 

Bebop Rocksteady intpresses Reekers crowd 
By PAUL STEINLE 
Scene Critic 
I've seen Bebop Rocksteady before, off and on, since 7th grade. Three guys playing covers isn't exactly groundbreaking material. We've all seen and heard it before; BBR represents the latest incarna­tion of three guys playing songs they didn't write. 
So what led me to Reekers on this Saturday night? If I really wanted to appease my appetite for music, I could always go to Legends and lis­ten to a pretty boy with a sweet voice croon sappy acoustic love songs to a 90 percent female audi­ence or I could swing into South Bend and check out the thriving bohemian arts scene -and we all know it's there 

with BBR. Play a cover, do sorr e­thing funny. Play a cover, do some­thing funny. 
It's not my place to criticize the lack of original material in BBH's seL They are capable musicians. Featuring Andrew Zwers on bass and Justin Oppel on drums, each song was full of spirit and was played with a unique twist that comes to define BBR. 
Despite a late start and slight unpreparedness evident by t.1e arguments about which songs to play, BBR displayed an enthusia~m that carried over to the good-siz~d crowd present. 
The set was comprised of two types of songs: those written in t.1e 1970s and those written in the 1990s -Green Day to the Doobie Brothers, from Blink-182 to 
C r e e d e n c e 

somewhere. I Clearwat{r
Bebop Rocksteady
came to Reekers Revival and because I needed Venue: Reekers back agaiQ. to smile. A smile Date: December 6, 2003 Pop-punk is 
was achieved; courtesy of three young men from Dillon who collec­tively call themselves Bebop Rocksteady. 
Standing on stage with horn­rimmed glasses and a sweater vest, lead singer/guitarist Matt Fantazier bore a certain resemblance to one Rivers Cuomo. I was not surprised, therefore, when BBR played Weezer's "Don't Let Go" early in their set. 
Yet I was greatly amused when Fantazier ended the song by tossing a sweater vest to a pretty young lady in the audience. This sequence of events summarizes an evening 
better than no 

punk at all, and technically, 70s rock isn't all th'l.t bad. Afterall, Lynrd Skynrd d.d release an album the same year as the Stooges, right? No complaints, given the circumstances. However, I must question the choice to plE.y "Fortunate Son" by CCR. 
Disregarding subtle political me.>­sages, Fantazier's infectious sen~:e of humor won over the crowd as be adopted a flawless Scottish infleG­tion for BBR's rendition of the Proclaimer's hit ''I'm Gonna Be (50 0 Miles)." Zwers's John Fogerty-influ­enced vocals could use some work however, as he missed the stuttering 

present on "My Sharona" by the Knack. 
A little more stage presence wouldn't hurt the band either, yet this won't be a difficult obstacle to overcome, given BBR's obvi­ous love of the spotlight. And kudos to drum­mer Justin Oppel: anyone who brings their drum set to one of Notre Dame's cell-block dorm rooms deserves our respect. Either you truly have a passion for music, or you enjoy putting as much junk as possible in your room. I believe in the former. 
Photo courtesy of Matt Fantazier 
My confession 

Guitarist and vocalist Matt Fantazier performs live with
is that I smiled 
his band 'Bebop Rocksteady' at Reekers on Dec. 6.
more than once 
as BBH played. I couldn't help it. They're funny. Like the kid who tells so many dumb jokes that by the 20th time you feel your ribs breaking from laughing; that's BBR. Perfectly harmless, unconcerned with being "cool." They just want to rock, and they want you along with them. 
Artistic vision is not a prerogative. Radiohead, they are not, but hey, this isn't NYU. This is Notre Dame. 
It's wonderful to see three guys who scoff at taking themselves seriously. Bebop Rocksteady supplies a sense of humor to a university that sorely needs it. 
Now if we could only get a band to supply a more progressive way of thinking. 
Contact Paul Steinle at psteinle@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 

'In Time': A brief history of R.E.M. 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Scene Music Critic 
R.E.M. does not look or act like a typical rock band. Michael Stipe, the lead singer, is tall, lanky and bald and the other band members don't have a visible tattoo, piercing or obnoxious dye job among them. The fact that they've been around long enough to put out their "best of" CD, In Time: The Best of R.E.M. 1988-2003, pro­vides further proof of their distinct difference from the rest of rock and roll. 

The CD covers R.E.M.'s music from the release of their album, Gree1::, which was the first that gained any major national attention. This unfor­tunately keeps their infamously karaoke-unfriendly song, "It's the End of the World As We Know It (And I Feel Fine)," off of the album. 
Aside from that major exclusion, the album includes a variety of their most famous songs, as well as a few lesser­known but equally good ones. In Time spans from "Man on the Moon" tJ "Everybody Hurts," and to their most 
famous song, "Losing M.v Religion." 
Songs that aren't quite a.;; famous but still provide perspec­tive on R.E.M.':; style and caree • include "At M'f Most Beautiful;, and "Daysleeper" from their 199B disc Up; "E-Bow the Letter" and "Electrolite" from 1996's New Adventures in Hi-Fi and "The Sidewinder Sleeps Tonight" from Automatic 

for the People ir 
1992. 
The CD also includes two new songs, "Bad Day" a n d "Animal," which are surprisingly good and add to the album as a whole which is a rare occur­rence, consid­ering the kind 

of hastily thrown together "new" songs that are usually included with greatest hits COs. "Bad Day" is reminiscent of "It's the End of the World As We Know It (And I Feel Fine)" because of it's rapid-fire delivery and up-beat tempo, and "Animal" has a more driving melody. 
The booklet included with the CD contains the background behind each song on the album and the insight provided on the sources of or mean­ings behind some of the songs is fasci­nating, not just for R.E.M. fans but also for anyone with an interest in how music comes to fruition. 
Nothing other than the background to songs is included in the booklet and lyrics, like on most R.E.M. albums, and must be hunted down on the Internet because the band doesn't include them. 
Overall, In Time is an enjoyable CD, and it represents the breadth of R.E.M.'s career, but it doesn't have the depth that a band with the longevity and talent of R.E.M. deserves. Granted, summarizing their lengthy career in one disc is a near impossible task, and In Time is a valiant effort, but it just feels incomplete. 
The music itself suffers nothing by being on the disk, but R.E.M. as a band isn't adequately represented by the material included. If they had just taken the risk and made it a two-disc set, it would have been a much more complete and satisfying effort. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·---­
-

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, December 9, 2003 
page 13 
DVD REVIEW 
A DVD fit for a blockbuster 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN Scene Movie Critic 
Sometimes, watching a "summer" movie you enjoyed in theaters after it is roleased on DVD makes you wonder if you'd been out in the heat too long. Notorious for having little to no plot and more than enough spPrial offects to make up for that vacuum in the story line, they fre­quently have the shelf life of a dairy product. 
Summer movies are a lot like Popsicles: they're perfect in the summer, but come January their appeal is gone. X2: X-Men United, surprisingly breaks this trend. It had everything that makes a great summer flick, but it doesn't Jose its charm on subsequent viewings. It also breaks the mold of most Sl'(jUPis by being just as good, if not bPtt.Pr. than thP original. 
Ht•turning from thP first X-Men i'iltu are Wolverine (Hugh Jackman). Storm (llalle Berry), Hogue (Anna Paquin). Jean Grey (Famke Janssen) and Cyclops (James Marsden), as well as their villainous mutant coun­terparts Magneto (Ian McKellen) and Mystique (Rebecca Rom ij n -Stamos). 
Joining the cast are Nightcrawler (Alan Cummings). a blue, German monk who can teleport, and Deathstryke (Kelly Hu). a sort of female Wolverine in serious need of a manicure. 
It can be a little hard at times lo keep track of all of the mutants and their individual background stories, but fans will appreciate glimpses of characters like Colossus and Beast who played a large role in the comic and cartoon but not on the big screen. 
X2 picks up where the first movie left off, following the exploits of Professor Charles Xavier (Patrick Stewart) and his school for gifted youngsters-a.k.a. mutants. 
The twist with X2 is that they bring back the same villains from the first film, but instead of fighting these same forces, the X-Men must unite with them to fight an even greater threat. 
Mutant registration acts arc being pushed through congress. and General William Stryker (Brian Cox) 
is dedicated to hunting every mutant down. Stryker is a great vil­lain, and the second movie proves to be highly entertaining, although a bit on the slow side at times. 
The two-disc DVD set of X2: X-Men United provides a ton of extras, and the additions prove to be a fitting addition to the 

Photo courtesy of WW1N.Im1oo.c1Jm Iceman (Shawn Ashmore), Wolverine (Hugh Jackman), Pyro (Aaron Stanford) and Rogue (Anna Paquin) find themselves in a tight spot in 'X2: X-Men United.' 
film itself: The sound and picture on the discs are good, and the sound­track, as with most big, action-driv­en films, is quite loud and bombas­tic. 
Extras include interviews and dis­cussions with the director, produc­ers, writers and cinematographers about various facets of the film, and there is an almost hour-long docu­mentary about the production and the biographies of the individual characters, which includes cast and crew interviews. 
There are several special effects explanations, including many 
regarding Nightcrawler and one focusing on the Wolverine/Deathstryke fight, and there are pieces on the costumes, music and design for the film. Also included are trailers. webcast high­lights from interviews for the film's release and a photo gallery. 
All in all, this DVD is a fitting addition to a film with a fan base and a history that demands more than the average from a DVD. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

'Last Samurai' cruises to box office win 
Auo<iatrd Press 
The /,ast Samurai came in first at the weekend box office as the Tom Cruise war epic cut down the compe­tition with $24.4 million in ticket sales, according to studio estimates Sunday. 
In the film, Cruise plays a down­trodden Civil War veteran who roelaims honor by forging a bond with samurai warriors-despite having been brought to Japan to quash their rebellion by training a mercenary army for the Japanese 
nrnperor. 
Cruise's other recent films have opened stronger, such as the $35.6 million debut for Minority Report and the $57.8 million opening of Mission: Impossible II. Samurai, which is nearly two-and-a-half hours long, had a similar opening gross to Vanilla Sky, which collected $25 million in its first weekend. 
"It's almost a lock that every time lw opens a movie it comes in at No. 1. This guy is box office insurance per­sonified," said Paul Dergarabedian, president of box-office tracker Exhibitor Helations. "For an H-rated film, a very long film. a period epic­
think this speaks to Tom Cruise's drawing power." 
The debut of Samurai toppled last week's No. 1 movie, Dr. Seuss' The Cat in the 1/at, which fell to fifth place with $7.3 million. 
So far, Cat has earned a total of $85.5 million, according to Universal Pictures, placing it far behind the studio's 2000 Jim Currey comedy Dr. Seuss · How the Grinch Stole Christmas, which had collected about $172 million at the same point in its release. Grinch ultimately earned $260 million by the end of its run. 
The Jessica Alba aspiring-dancer melodrama Honey, the only other new movie opening in wide release, ranked second this weekend with $14 million despite generally poor reviews, some of which compared its story to the infamous Mariah Carey bomb Glitter. 
It's a strong opening for the former star of TV's Dark Angel, and distribu­tor Universal Pictures said the audi­ence for Honey was about 75 percent under 21 and 74 percent female. That proved to be wise counter pro­gramming against Samurai, which had audiences skewing older and predominantly male, Dergarabedian said. 
"Universal selected just the right movie to go up against The Last Samurai, the two movies couldn't be more different," he said. 
In only 126 theaters, a re-release of The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Rir?g added $431,000 to that film's total gross, bringing it to $313.8 million. 
New Line Cinema is reissuing the previous two films to a handful of theaters in advance of the Dec. 17 debut of the final Rings installment: The Return of the King. This coming week, The Two Towers will be in the­aters again. 
There's a moviegoing vacuum that usually follows the weekend after the Thanksgiving holiday, and many of the top holdover movies saw ticket sales drop by more than 60 percent this weekend. Snowfall in the north-

eastern states may also have kept people at home and away from the­aters. 
Nonetheless, the overall box-office was up about 34 percent. The top 12 movies took in $91.8 million from Friday to Sunday compared to $68.5 million from the same weekend last year, when Die Another Day and Analyze That topped the box-office. 
Tuesday, December 9, 2003
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
.­
NBA 
Magic snap 19-game losing streak with win 
17 rebounds for his fifth double­
Associated Press 
double. 
Penny Hardaway had season 
ORlANDO, Fla. -The Orlando highs of 22 points and eight Magic narrowly dodged becom­assists. He scored 14 points in the ing only the sixth team in NBA first quarter when the Suns broke history to lose 20 straight games, out to a 38-16lead. beating the Phoenix Suns 105-98 Spurs 96, Bulls 82 on Monday night. Manu Ginobili scored 14 of his 
The Magic had to climb out of a 26 points in the last five minutes 22-point hole in the first quarter to lead the San Antonio Spurs to to win for the first since Oct. 29, a 96-82 victory over the Chicago an overtime victory in the opener Bulls on Monday night. at New York. It was the third­Tim Duncan had 17 points and biggest comeback in team history 14 rebounds, and Rasho and the largest deficit the Magic Nesterovic added 17 points and have overcome at home. seven rebounds for the Spurs, 
Drew Gooden scored 15 of his who won their third straight. 21 points in the first half, and Tony Parker -playing in front of Tracy McGrady had 16 points, 11 his father, brothers and grand­rebounds and nine assists. parents -had 13 points and 
Orlando, for once, was on the seven assists. good side of a late-game surge. Eddy Curry scored all 16 of his The Magic closed the game on a points in the fourth quarter, but it 10-2 run, with Gordan Giricek wasn't enough to keep the Spurs hitting a 3-pointer and two free from sweeping Chicago for a throws. third straight season. The Bulls 
Giricek had 19 points, as did lost in San Antonio last month. Juwan Howard. Howard's up­Curry had looked lost for most and-under layup broke a 95-all of the first three quarters, losing tie and started the Magic to their the battle of the big men to since early in the third quarter. shooting 4-of-6 from 3-point one-handed dunk that cut the first home win since April12. Nesterovic and Duncan. He didn't Hornets 91, Bucks 85 range. Michael Redd also had 14, score to 69-67 at the end of the 
Orlando topped 100 points for score until there was 9:55 left in Jamaa Magloire had 20 points but was held without a field goal third quarter. only the fourth time this season. the game, getting his first points and 11 rebounds, including three until midway through the third New Orleans opened the final 
The losing streak was the NBA's on a pair of free throws. late baskets, to help the New quarter. period with an 8-0 run for a 77­longest since 1997-98, when the But those two shots seemed to Orleans Hornets hold off the The Hornets never trailed after 67 lead, but Mason's layup to fm­Denver Nuggets lost 23 straight get him on track. He ripped off Mihyaukee Bucks 91-85 on Brown hit an 18-foot jump shot ish a fast break, followed by and to tie the 1995-96 Vancouver three more baskets, cutting San Monday night. with 3:39 left in the first quarter, a close-range shot by Smith cut Grizzlies for most consecutive Antonio's lead to 70-68 on a tip-in Baron Davis added 18 points and New Orleans built several the score to 84-81. Magloire's losses in one season. with 8:07 left. and 10 ru;sists on a night when he double-digit leads. The Bucks short jump hook mad it 86-81, 
The overall record is 24 by the Then he made two huge plays struggled with his shot (6-of-25). refused to wilt, however, staying and both teams exchanged score­Cleveland Cavaliers at the end of that seemed to turn the momen­But his floater off the glass with in the game by outrebounding less possessions -including two 1981-82 and the start of the fol­tum in the Bulls' favor. As 30 secon :is left and his three free New Orleans 59-47. Milwaukee missed free throws by Daniel lowing season. Duncan drove for a layup, Curry throws on the Hornets' next two had 20 offensive rebounds and 20 Santiago -before Davis' floater 
The Suns lost for the fifth time rose up and swatted the ball possessions kept the Bucks at second-chance points. forced the Bucks to foul on New in six games, with only a come­away. Chicago got the ball and, at bay. · New Orleans led 66-53 in the Orleans' remaining possessions. back at Boston on Friday pre­the other end of the floor, Curry David Wesley added 18 points third period after Brown passed But the Bucks climbed back venting a complete collapse scored on a driving layup, draw­and P.J. Brown had 12 for New to Magloire for a jam and George into the game with a 10-0 run 
Phoenix coach Frank Johnson, ing a foul in the process. Orleans, which handed Lynch scored on a tip-in on suc­during which Jones, shooting 29 under fire for his team's poor Curry roared and pumped his Milwaukee its fourth loss in five cessive possessions. percent on 3-pointers coming in, start, was ejected with 12.4 sec­fist as the crowd gave him a loud games. Milwaukee regrouped during a hit two straight shots from long onds remaining. ovation, and his teammates gave Desmond Mason led the Bucks timeout and responded with a range. Jones had eight points 
Shawn Marion scored a season­him high-fives. Curry then con­with 17 Joints, while Joe Smith 14-3 run, capped when Jones during the run, which made the high 29 points, 20 in the first half. verted the three-point play, giving had 13 ~oints and 15 rebounds. faked an outside jumper and score 41-36, and he later hit He also tied his season best with Chicago a 76-75 lead -its first Damon Jones scored 14 points, found Smith underneath for a another 3 for 11 points. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Large 5-6 bdrm home @NO Ave &  3-6 BDRM HOMES $165/PERSON  
SB Ave(908 SB Ave). Walk to cam­ MO.,FURN.272-6306  
NOTICES  WANTED  FoR SALE  FoR RENT  pus.Off street  
parking. Recently updated.  BULLARD HOME.$650.M0.272­ 
Washer/Dryer. Lots of living space to  6306  
***ACT NOWIBook 11 people, get  Part time/Full time opportunity for  LARGE, ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  spread outCall  
12th trip free. Group discounts for  honest, motivated, success minded  FOR SALE.  CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM  Joe Crimmins:cell-574-514-0643 or  3rd Roommate Needed, spring  
6+  individual.  ONE MILE TO NO. NON-RENTAL  MMMRENTALS@AOLCOM 272­ home-574-273-0002  sem. furnished house near NO  
www.springbreakdiscounts.com or  Exciting !-Commerce internet based  NEWLY REMODELED.  1525  $325/mo., 1/3  
800-838-8202.  business.  FULLY EQUIPPED.  Clean 3 bdrm home near Corbys  utilities, Ryan@ 386.1785  
Contact:  $84,900. email:  HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS  Bar-East Bank District(327 Hill  
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in  waynew54@pronetglobal.com  Williamson.1 @nd.edu  PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS­ St).Available  
Acapulco now offers 3 destinations! Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in  ROOMMATE WANTED-share spa- TOP GUN SELLING The six selling  ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004­2005  June2004.Basement w/washer­dryer.Convenient to downtown  PERSONALS  
Vallarta, or get crazy in Cabo--with  cious turn. 2bd house w/female  systems that are used by virtually  SCHOOL YEAR. 614 S.  fun.Walk or ride to  
BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS.  grad stud. Master  every  ST.JOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS-214 S.  campus.On bus route.Contact Joe  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
Organize a group and travel lor  bdlbth avail.  business in America and Eunpe.  STPETER 4 BEDRROMS-718 E.  Crimmins@ cell-574-514-0643 or  not go it alone. II you or someone  
FREE. Book now before its too latel  2 mi from campus on Ironwood.  Reference STU-466: Studen  WASHINGTON ST. 2 BEDROOMS.  home-574-273-0002  you love needs  
Call 800-875-4525 or www.bianci- Rent $300 + util.  Special: $49.97  CALL KRAMER AT 234-2436 OR  confidential support or assistance,  
rossi.com.  251-1802  Includes the full Selling Systum  315-5032  4 Bedroom house. 1136 E Madison.  please call Sr. Mary Louise  
Prospecting, Account Management  Close to campus, ample parking,  Gude,CSC, at  
READY TO MOVE IN TODAY! 2­ AWESOME SUMMER CAMP  and Closing.  JAMISON (NEAR SOCCER FIELD)  AC, huge yard.  1-7819. For more information, see  
bedroom townhouse 1 0 minutes  JOBS!-Residential camp located in  www.sales-job-training.com  1 BR, 1ST FLOOR, BASEMENT,  Contact Mike (216) 408-0780 or  our bi-weekly ad in The Observer.  
from campus. Approx. 11 00  Brown County, Indiana.  AVAIL DEC 1, $695  Matt (216) 408-0744 if interested  
sq. It For more information call kat- Operated by the Catholic Youth  COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICESI  (INCLUDES UTIL.), CONTACT  Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America  
rina at 252-4663  Organization since 1946.  Search 24  BOB 607-723-7373, EMAIL:  Two story house completely remod­ s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring  
Serving campers aged 7  bookstores with 1 clickl S&H calcu­ rjhdds @pronetisp. net  eled 2003. Ready tor 2nd semester  campus reps.  
Two story house completely remod­ to 17 in various programs.  Iated.  and 2004-05  Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or  
eled 2003. Ready tor 2nd semester  Inclusive of persons with disabilities.  www.bookhq.com  3 BEDROOM, 2 BATH HOME,  school year. Off street parking  www.ststravel.com  
and 2004-05 school year. Off street  Positions  MANY XTRAS. CLOSE TO NO  includes motion sensor light for  
parking includes motion sensor light  available for General,  JUDAY LAKE HOMEON  AND MALL  security. Four  •••• IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW  
for security. Four  Specialty, and Health staff.  LAKE.WALK TO CAMPUS.  $1000/MO. 277-2176.  individually locked bedrooms, six  LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY ••••  
individually locked bedrooms, six  Extensive training provided  GILLIS REALTY 272-6306  blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop  Build your dream home  
blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop  starting late May.  BEAUTIFUL HOUSE FOR RENT:  in Ironto!  nex1 to Notre Dame. A limited num­ 
in front of house, surrounded by  Welcoming staff community.  Queen bed, desk, TV, DVD p ayer,  1803 Corby, Wooded Estates, 5  house, surrounded by other student  ber of home sites are available. For  
other student housing, laundromat  For application and more  table, dresser,  blocks from campus, 3  housing, laundromat nex1 door  more info  
nex1 door (drycleaning  information contact:  kitchen stuff, car, & more.  large bedrooms, 2 full bath, washer  (drycleaning  go to: www.lrishCrossings.com  
also}, basement available for stor- Angi Sullivan,  621 8818 or  and dryer, home totally remodeled,  also), basement available for stor­ 
age of bicycles, luggage, trunks,  CYO Camp Rancho Framasa,  ddyer1 @nd.edu  new  age of bicycles, luggage, trunks,  Wear green for the game on  
.  etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove  CYOCamp@aol.com or toll tree  1996 Land Rover Discovery.  appliances, two car garage, fur­nished. Need 3-5 students ($400  etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen  Wednesday  
and refrigerator,  888.988.2839,  Fun car.  ea.) for  including new stove and refrigerator,  Another game, another tough loss  
large living room tor TV or entertain­ ex1. 25.  $3500, or best offer.  January.  large living room tor TV or entertain­ -Ute sucks being a Browns fan  
ing, free trash removal.  Online at  621 8818 or  Need 5 students ($400 ea.) for fall.  ing, free trash removal. Call 289­ 
Call 289-4071.  www.campranchoframasa.org  ddyer1 @nd.edu  231-8823 evenings.  4071.  I like Dan Fogleberg music  


Tueday, December 9, 2003 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

-. 
FIRST TUESDAY BACK TO CAMPUS 
.Jan. 13th 7:00 M 




PRE-GAMETAILGATE 
courtesy o~ ''T~e Rib S~ac.k''z.77-3l'13 ~,t..Rl 
1
fREE RI'SS of FR~~ 1R
sM G 
~.-o•s 



fREE DRI~~S 
....-IIIIJIIIII,_ ALL P RilES 

fREE fRIES 
COURTESY OF: 
.... 


MEIJER. 

page 16 The Objerver + SPORTS Tuesday, December 9, 2003 
==================================~ 
MLB 
Maddux, Braves part ways after 11 seasons 

Team declines arbitration with long-time starter 

Associated Press 
ATLANTA -If Greg Maddux stays true to form -and does­n't he always?-the 300th win should come shortly after next year's All Star game. 
He won't get it wearing an Atlanta uniform. 
The Braves bid adieu to their longtime ace, cutting ties with Maddux by declining to offer arbitration by a midnight Sunday deadline. While the decision had been expected for weeks. if not months, it still marked the end 
"He's one of the best 
of an Atlanta era. negotiations early "You can't pitchers ever to toe in the process, expect to replace unwilling to meet
the rubber in the 
a Greg Maddux. Maddux's salary
history of the game." 
either his ability demands after he to pitch or his made $14.75 mil­impact on his fel­John Schuerholz lion last season. low pitchers," Atlanta general manager Atlanta is 
Braves general manager John Schuerholz said Monday. "He's one of the best pitchers ever to toe the rubber in the history of the game." 
Maddux had played for the Braves since 1993 -winning the NL Cy Young Award the first three years. setting an NL record for most consecutive innings without a walk, becom­ing the poster child for consis­tency with his streak of 15-win seasons. 
He could be counted on to 

HAP·PY 21ST 
GOLDIE 
Love, M,D,A,J 
Tne 


(!;inceton

Review 

Hyperlean1i1Jg MCAT 
• Expert instructors. 
Classes startin January. Space is limited. 800-2Review www.PrincetonReview.com 

take the mound every fifth day, each other." emerging from the dugout with MadduK, who lives in Las a nonchalant stroll that masked Vegas. wa.s vacationing with his an intense competitive streak. wife and couldn't be reached for He was good at whatever he commen :, according to his did, where it was golf (his off-agent, Sec tt Boras. field passion) or crossword puz­The Braves also declined arbi­zles (a familiar clubhouse pur­tration for sluggers Gary 
suit). 
Maddux went 194-88 with a 2.63 ERA during his 11­year stint in Atlanta. Throw in those years with the Chicago Cubs and he's got a career mark of 289-163. 
At age 37, the right-hander still hopes to pitch a 
few 

more years. But the Braves cut off 
expected to cut 
its payroll by at 
least $20 million this season. 
"There was absolutely no pos­sibility this was going to fit into our operating scheme this year," Schuerholz said. "I would have loved to have seen him say, 'I want to stay with the Braves no matter what. I want to achieve these goals wearing a Braves uniform. I want to stay.' We all would have loved that. But our economics and his eco­nomics weren't anywhere near Sheffield and Javy Lopez, los­
"There was 
ing two players absolutely no who combined for 82 homers
possibility this was 
and 241 RBis in 

going to fit into our 
2003. operating scheme Schuerholz said the Braves
this year." 
had !'very seri­ous" talks with John Schuerholz Sheffield, who Atlanta general manal~er is close agree­
ment on a $39 

million, three­year deal with the Yankees, a deal the Yankees insist is not final. 
Schuerholz never pursued another contract with Lopez, who had spent his entire career with the Braves. Despite a career sea.son (43 homers, 109 RBis), At! 'l.nta had been plan­ning all along for Johnny Estrada to take over at catcher in '04. 
Estrada. was acquired from Philadelphia a year ago in a cost-cutting deal that sent Kevin Millwood t'l the Phillies. 
That was only the beginning of the Braves' new world, which calls for the team to pursue its 13th straight division title with a much-smaller payroll. 
But Schllerholz confidently predicted that Atlanta will again be a contender in the NL East, even with lower-salaried play­ers. 
"We shouldn't worry what the team's roster looks like today," he said. "We have a lot of time to work on the construction of our roster. This is a meaningless date in terms of what our team will look like on opening day. We will have a very good team." 
The team is pursuing a trade or signing to fill Sheffield's spot -Jose Cruz Jr., Jose Guillen and Jacque Jones have been mentioned as possibilities ­and the top of the rotation is still strong with Russ Ortiz, Mike Hampton and Horacio Ramirez. 
· "I think it's going to be very interesting, and maybe very exciting for the fans," Schuerholz said. "While we have said goodbye to some favorite players over the years, I think they're going to be excited by the new look, the new mix." 
Asked what he'll remember 
about the right-hander, 
Schuerholz paused for a 
moment. 

"Just his consistency," the GM 
finally said. "Just his consistent 
excellence." 


,:,~~¥--'.....,.·. Applications due Wednesday, December 17th 
Contact Darrell Paulsen 1-5827 Keara Coughlin 1-3389 LaurenWilloughby 1-3390 John Glynn l-3391 

NCAA FOOTBALL
NCAA BASKETBALL 



O'Leary natned Central 
Florida third No.1 in three weeks 
Dec 11 IOpm to 3:00am Midnight Snacks! 
Christmas break? The Morris Inn will be 
Dec 12 IOpm to 3:00am Midnight Snacks! 
offering a special rate for returning students on Dec 14 8am to 3:00am Midnight Snac.ks! 
Saturday, January to Finals Week Dec 15-18 Sam to 3:00am 
$59.00 / single or double occupancy. 
*Dec 19 DeBartolo closes 30 minutes after last 
Please call to reserve a room with us.
scheduled exam through the Registrar's Office. 36 Non-technology rooms, first come/ first serve 
See Building Support Person ifyou have specific needs: Room 103, 104. 

Crissy's tBoutiqY&
Coleman-Morse: 1st Floor Lounge 7;00am-4am daily. Same dates as listed above. Always-Free 
UPSTAIRS
Snacks! 

• 925 Imported Silver Monday-Thursday 5:00pm-3:00am. 
O'Shaughnessey: Sunday 1:00pm to 3:00am. 
• One of a Kind Fur Jackets
Rooms: 108, 109, 204, 206,207, 208,209. Same dates as listed above. 
• Hand Knitted Scarfs 
S11acks during Study Days courtesy of: 
• Consigned Designer Clothes 
Business Operations 
Campus Ministry 
Studtmt Unio11 Board 
521 E. JEFFERSON, SOUTH BEND
***Good Luck wltb Finals*** 
Happy Holidays 
Above Michael & Company Salon 
Kansas drops after loss to Stanford 
Associated Press 
Three weeks, three No. 1s. 
Florida moved into the top spot in The Associated Press college basketball poll Monday, the third straight week there has been a new No. 1 team. 
The Gators (5-0) moved up one spot to replace Kansas, which lost 64-58 to Stanford on Saturday. The Jayhawks held the No. 1 ranking for just one week after replacing Connecticut; the Huskies were on top for the preseason and the first two weeks of the regular season. 
Stanford, which beat a No. 1 team for the third time in school history, had the week's biggest jump, moving from 21st to 13th. 
The last time there were three No. 1 teams in as many weeks was the end of the 1999-00 season, when Stanford. 
"We're in the 
Cincinnati and panel. Duke each had a middle ofa long No. 2 stay on top in the Connecticut (6­
race, and it's just
tina! three polls. 1) and No. 3
started."
The record for Missouri (3-0) consecutive polls each moved up with a different Billy Donovan one place in the No. 1 is seven. rankings. The
Florida coach 
From  Jan.  3  to  
Feb.  14, 1994,  
the  top  teams  were:  

Arkansas, North Carolina, Kansas. UCLA, Duke, North Carolina and Arkansas. 
Florida was No. 1 for the first time in school history last season, holding that spot 
DeBartolo Hall: Open Study Hours: 
for one week. The Gators lost soared from No. 6 to No. 1 ­70-55 to Kentucky in their fell back to fifth. 
Florida head coach 
first game as a No. 1 team Texas, North Carolina, then. Kentucky, Arizona and 
Current Vikings,
The Gators host Maryland Georgia Tech rounded out the on Wednesday, and they play Top 10. 
former Irish coach,
at Louisville on Saturday. Seven teams received first­
"We're in the middle of a long race, and it's just started. It's very early in the sea­son, and I feel like we're still learning who we are as a team," Florida coach Billy Donovan said Monday. 
"We moved to No. 1, which is always great, but my total focus is for our team to 
continue to improve regard­less of what our ranking is. We've got two very difficult tests this week and our sole focus is on improving as a basketball team." 
Florida received 46 first­
place votes and 1,732 points from the national media 
Huskies got 

nine first-place votes and 1,593 points. while the Tigers were No. 1 on six ballots and drew 1,512 points. 
Duke (5-1) moved up two places to fourth, and Kansas (3-1} -which last week 
"We moved to No.1, which is always great. but my total focus is for our team to continue to improve regardless ofwhat our ranking is. " 
Billy Donovan Florida coach 
Stanford, 

'"e)kj (JY/; orris 9mt 
-

Returning to campus early after 
place votes this 

to take over at
week, two fewer than last week. 

seasons end 
Georgia Tech had four No. 1 

Associated Press 
votes, while 
Texas and North ORLANDO. Fla. -George
Carolina had 

O'Leary was hired Monday to 
three each, and 

coach Central Florida, giving
Kentucky had 

him another chance in college 
one. 

football two years after Notre 
Oklahoma 

Dame forced him to resign
moved up three because he lied on his resume. 

places to 11th O'Leary, the Minnesota and was fol­

Vikings' defensive coordinator lowed by Saint for the past two seasons, said 
Joseph's, 

he chose Central Florida 
Illinois, Wake 

because he saw the opportuni­an interim basis by Alan Gooch on Nov. 10. 
O'Leary, the former Georgia Tech coach, wasn't out of work long after his brief stay at Notre Dame. After leaving in mid-December 2001, O'Leary was hired by the Vikings less than a month later. 
At Georgia Tech, O'Leary had a 52-33 record from 1994­2001. UCF athletic director Steve Orsini was Georgia Tech's senior associate athletic director during O'Leary's tenure there. 
O'Leary will finish the season with Minnesota, which is 8-5 and in position to make the playoffs. 
He is a taking over a Central Florida program battered by losses on the field and disci­pline problems off the field. 
Although the Golden Knights were expected to contend in the Mid-American Conference's East Division, their 3-9 record was their worst since 1984. Coincidentally, that was the last year the program lost a coach during the season. 
In addition, the Knights had eight players, including four starters, suspended this season for various infractions. 
O'Leary's five-year contract reportedly was worth about $700,000 annually. 
That financial package would be far mon'l than what UCF has paid in the past. Kruczek made $185,000 a year. 
Central Florida spokesman John Marini said he did not know the details of O'Leary's contract. 
Central Florida has been competing at the Division 1-A level for eight years, and the 2002 season was its first as a member of a conference after 23 years as an independent. 

The Morris Inn "On The Campus" Notre Dame, IN 
(574) 631-2000 

Forest, Purdue, Gonzaga, Cincinnati, Syracuse and Pittsburgh. 
The last five ranked teams were Michigan State, Marquette, Wisconsin, Iowa and Dayton. 
Iowa and Dayton are new­comers, replacing Notre Dame and Oklahoma State. 
The biggest drop was by Michigan State, from No. 5 to No. 21. The Spartans (3-3) lost to Duke and Oklahoma last week, and it doesn't get easier this week, with a game against Kentucky. 
Other upcoming meetings between ranked teams: Texas vs. Arizona in the Jimmy V Classic at Madison Square Garden on Tuesday; Purdue at Oklahoma on Thursday; Missouri plays Gonzaga in Seattle; and Marquette at Arizona. 
ty to build the program into a national powerhouse. 
"I see the University of Central Florida as a sleeping giant," O'Leary said at a news conference. 
O'Leary acknowledged the problems in his past, saying he was ready to move on. He had lied about earning a master's degree and receiving three let­ters playing football at New Hampshire. He resigned less than a week after Notre Dame hired him in 2001. 
"I made a terrible, terrible mistake as a youngster and I paid a dear price for it," he said. ''I'm truly sorry for that ... My past is my past." 
Central Florida president John Hitt said a thorough background check was done on O'Leary, and he was confi­dent he made the right deci­sion in hiring him. 
"I think he deserves another chance," Hitt said. "How he handles that chance, of course, we'll all be watching to see." 
Central Florida fired coach Mike Kruczek late in the sea­son, and he was replaced on 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, December 9, 2003 
NHL 
Hullm_oves to into third place on scoring 
Red Wings jump ahead 2-0, hang on to win 
Associated Press 
DETROIT-Brett Hull moved into third place on the NHL career goal list by scoring 1:51 into overtime Monday night of the Detroit Red Wings' 3-2 vic­tory over the Los Angeles Kings. 
Hull's 732nd goal snapped a tie with Marcel Dionne and moved the Red Wings forward behind only Wayne Gretzky 
(894) and Gordie Howe (801). Hull, who also had an assist, one-timed a shot from the bot­tom of the left circle to give him a goal in his seventh straight game. 
Los Angeles rallied from a 2-0 third-period deficit on goals by Mike Cammalleri and Martin Straka to force overtime. 
Straka tied it at 2 with 2:10 remaining after a turnover by Steve Thomas along the boards. Straka beat Dominik Hasek between the pads with a shot from the bottom of the right cir­cle. 
Cammalleri brought Los Angeles within 2-1 when he scored with 9:06 remaining. 
Brendan Shanahan and Pavel Datsyuk had the other Detroit goals, 
Shanahan's goal was his 544th, tying him for 19th place with Hall of Farner Maurice Richard. 
Red Wings defenseman Chris Chelios left the game early in the second period with a knee injury. He collided with Cammalleri late in the first peri­od and went down holding the knee. He returned for the first shift of the second period, but went to the locker room after that. 
Bruins 2, Senators 2 
Glen Murray had a goal and an assist to lead the Boston Bruins to a 2-2 tie with the Ottawa Senators on Monday night. 
Murray gave the Bruins a 2-1 lead with a breakaway goal 
6:45 into the second period. He stole a pass near center ice, skated in and flipped a back­bander past goaltender Patrick Lalime into the far top corner of the net. 
Lalime made 21 saves in his return from a bout with the-flu that forced him to miss the pre­vious four contests. 
The Senators tied it with 3:39 remaining in the second when defenseman Wade Redden put a rebound past Boston's Andrew Raycraft for his seventh goal of the season. 
The Bruins are 0-2-3 in their last five home games and are winless against Ottawa in four. Boston hasn't beaten the Senators since Nov. 9, 2002. 
Ottawa. which failed to beat the Bruins in its ftrst 22 games. is 13-4-4 in 21 games against them since the start of the 1999-2000 season. 
The lone goal of the first peri­od came when Raycraft's skates slipped from under him, leaving an empty net for forward Vaclav Varada to score his fifth of the season. 
PGA 

Woods wins fifth straight PLOY award 
Associated Press 
THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. -A wild season in golf came to a familiar conclusion Monday when Tiger Woods was voted PGA Tour player of the year for the fifth straight time, nar­rowly beating Vijay Singh. 
Woods failed to win the PGA Tour money title or a major championship for the first time since 1998. Still, his peers decided his season was the best on tour. 
Woods won five times, including two World Golf Championships, had the lowest scoring average and was sec­ond on the money list, despite playing only 18 times. 
"There's a tremendous amount of satisfaction because it just shows that guys on the tour respect that I was consis­tent, that I've won numerous times," Woods said. "I think that's what the award reflects." 
The PGA Tour does not release vote totals. 
Ben Curtis was voted rookie of the year for winning the British Open in his first appearance at a major. Peter Jacobsen was voted comeback player of the year for winning the Greater Hartford Open at age 49, his first tour victory in eight years. 
Woods won for the sixth time in seven years; no one else has won player of the year more than twice since it was created in 1990. 
He became the first player since Greg Norman in 1995 to win the award despite not winning a major. 
Woods led the PGA Tour in victories for the fifth straight year, and his 68.41 adjusted scoring average was the sec­ond-lowest in history behind his 68.13 mark in 2000. 
While Woods has said majors are the most important, more than that went into this vote. 
"Number of wins and quality for the entire year," Woods said. "I had the second-lowest scoring average in tour history next to mine in 2000, so that shows I played at a consistent level for the entire year." 
Singh was equally consis­tent, winning four times -in the winter, spring, summer and fall -and ending Woods' four-year reign atop the money list with $7.5 million. 
NBA 
La.kers getting along just fine 
Tean~ starts season 17-3 behind good team chemistry 

Associated Press 
EL ~iEGUNDO, Calif. -Shaquille O'Neal has never been on such a tight-knit team. 
Karl .\1alone is reminded of what it was like to play in high school. 
Hora ~e Grant and Gary Payton love what's happened so far but think there's plenty of room for improvement. 
Yes, the Los Angeles Lakers have hit it off-on the court and away from it. And much faster month. They're 11-0 at home and have won 26 straight regu­lar-season home games since losing to the Knicks 117-110 last February. 
"We're playing well, but we haven't hit our groove yet," Grant said. "The new guys are still learning the offense. When we hit our groove, the league better look out." 
Phil Jackson coached the Chicago Bulls to six champi­onships in the 1990s and the Lakers to three from 2000-02. He acknowledged this season's team has come together faster than he expected. 
"I think it's the attitude -the 
players have a 
good attitude 

than  anyone  "This is the most  about  playing  
thought possible,  talented team and  together,"  he  
producing an NBA-leading 17-3  the closest team  said, adding that defense has been  
record.  I've ever played  a major factor.  
"This  is  the  on.  "That's a ticket  
most  talented  to  winning  
team and the closest team I've  Shaquille O'Neal  games," Jackson said.  
ever played on,"  Lakers center  Regarding the  

O'Neal :>aid after practicE Monday. "We should be 20-0. We let a couple slip away. When we clamp down and get mad, we're ... near perfect at times." 
Nine l)f their victories have been by 15 or more points, and they bring a nine-game winning streak into Tuesday night's game against the New York Knicks. 
The Lakers are 3-0 against the reigning NBA champion San Antonio Spurs. They also col­lected a 22-point victory over an India.na Pacers team that was 14-:~ entering the game. 
The L1kers lost at Memphis, New Orleans and Detroit last closeness O'Neal 
brought up, Jackson smiled and said: ''I've noticed that Shaq has lost his nickname of Mr. Moody. That's a pleasure for us if players get along together. 
''I've been with teams who have had great on-and off­court rapport. I've been with teams who have had on-court rapport and no off-court rap­port. I'm enjoying watching the behavior on airplanes, on buses going to shootarounds." 
Malone, the NBA's second­leading career scorer, and Payton, a nine-time All-Star, joined the Lakers as under­priced free agents during the offseason. 

The Lakers were clearly in need, having been pretty much a two-man team before being eliminated by the Spurs in the Western Conference semifinals. 
Now, O'Neal and Bryant have plenty of support; including the emerging Devean George and Slava Medvedenko, along with Derek Fisher and newcomers Grant and Bryon Russell. 
When Malone and Payton joined the Lakers, both said a championship ring was the thing-something that's eluded them in their sterling careers. 
"''m having a great deal of fun," the 40-year-old Malone said. "The way guys are pulling for each other is very underrat­ed. It's kind of like a high school team. It's not the big things that are keeping my hunger for bas­ketball. It's the little things ­the closeness of the guys. I haven't had that since high school. That says a lot." 
Malone said he's been more impressed with O'Neal than anything else. 
''lie's not looking to score 30 points anymore," Malone said. "He's looking to win ball­games." 
Bryant leads the Lakers in scoring, but still isn't 100 per­cent healthy following offseason operations on his right shoulder and right knee. 
And he's still dealing with a rape charge that figures to go to trial next summer -something that's been a blip on the radar rather than the major distrac­tion many predicted. 
Payton, for one, is surprised the Lakers have done so well. He entered the season believing they wouldn't come together until early next year. 

University of Notre Dame Int'l Study Programs 


irtsn Studies· Summer School at Trinity College, Dublin Ireland 
i[lf,tt;e 24 -.August .1.1, 2004 
~..: :;..·•· 

C()urses in Irish ()ulture, History, Current Issues .Program includes Field Trips and One week in Belfast 
Application andlnformaiion Olt~Line atwww.~.rd.tHlul-i!ttlsttul lit IntertJationa!Study Programs Office in 151 Hurley Applicato!ll)eadline: Apri/1_, 1004 

Tuesday, December 9, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
College bowl system causes annual dilemma 

MLB 
Colon, Angels close to an agreement 

Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Bartolo Colon was close to an agreement with the Anaheim Angels, The Associated Press learned Monday, a contract that would give the team one of the top pitchers on the free-agent market. 
While neither Colon nor the Angels discussed the talks Monday, both Anaheim and the Chicago White Sox believed the right-hander was on the verge of a deal with Anaheim, said two baseball officials who were familiar with details of Colon's negotia­tions with the two teams. The pair spoke on the condition of anonymity. 
Anaheim offered a $48 mil­lion, four-year contract, one of the officials said. Once a pre­liminary agreement is reached, the right-hander still must pass a physical. 
Colon's agent, Mitch Frankel, did not return sever­al telephone calls from The Associated Press. Angels gen­eral manager Bill Stoneman refused to confirm or deny talks. 
"We've been more active 
this offseason than last," Stoneman said. "We're still trying to get some other things done. In terms of what they are, we're only going to comment on that stuff once we do have something that we announce publicly." 
The Angels could be dealing again if the Alex Hodriguez­Manny Hamirez trade goes through. Five-time All-Star shortstop Nomar Garciaparra would be out of a job, and it's believed the Red Sox could trade him to the Angels for a pitcher, possibly Jarrod Washburn, or second base­man Adam Kennedy. 
The Chicago White Sox badly wanted Colon back, with general manager Ken Williams offering a three-year contract worth a reported $36 million -the largest ever for a White Sox pitcher. But Colon rejected the offer in October. 
Though the White Sox offered Colon arbitration Sunday night, Williams seemed resigned Monday to losing the 20-game winner. Asked if he was still negotiat­ing with Colon, Williams said no, but didn't rule out the pos­sibility. 
Associated Press 
The best team in the land? Nobody will know for sure this season. 
What if the winner of the Rose Bowl could play the winner of the Sugar Bowl a week after those big games? Oklahoma vs. Southern California would be a dandy. So would LSU vs. USC. Of course, if Michigan slipped in with its two losses, some folks might be upset, though nobody could say the Wolverines went through the back door. 
A one-game playofl' is one of a handful of solutions that have 11oated around for years in an attempt to crown a true champi­on out of one of the most contro­versial. some say antiquated, concoctions in sporl'i -the col­lege bowl system. 
"We have this conversation every year," Texas coach Mack Brown said. "Unless we change the system, we'll have this con­versation every year." 
The system that gives us No. 1 USC vs. No. 4 Michigan in the Hose Bowl and No. 2 LSU vs. No. 3 Oklahoma in the supposed title game, the Sugar Bowl, is in place for at least two more sea­sons. 
Some tweaking is surely in order. But wholesale changes almost certainly aren't. In fact, while many vocal fans might be irute, at least one expert believes the key decision-makers ­coaches, athletic directors, school presidents -probably will stick with something close to the status quo even when the current contract is up. 
"The overwhelming majority want to keep the bowl system in some form," said Grant Teaff, executive director of the American Football Coaches Association. "Just like with the BCS, you're not going to serve every institution in every confer­ence, even with a playoff sys­tem." 
The most likely change in the contract would involve adding a championship game, or maybe two rounds of playoffs, after bowl season. It's a plan that has been debated quite often. 
Oregon athletic director Bill Moos made the most serious push in 2001, after the Ducks got bypassed for the top bowl in favor of Nebraska, which had lost 62-36 to Colorado and didn't even play in the Big 12 title game. 
The pros for a post-bowl play­ofT: A tournament-style ending would leave less room for debate. For instance, if Oklahoma and Southern Cal each won its bowl game, then played a week later, there would be little doubt about who the real champion was. 
Cons: It adds an extra week of football, something school presi­dents aren't thrilled about. And would fans really pay to go to the Rose Bowl one week, then take another trip for the champi­onship game the next? 
A more radical change would be taking 16 top teams and throwing them into a big tourna­ment, a Ia basketball's March Madness. 
"There needs to be a big play­off," said Texas Tech's Mike Leach, a member of the minority of coaches who would like to see a tournament. "We would do away with putting all this fool-Southern Cal in the Rose Bowl, the winner of the Sugar Bowl will be crowned the champion in both The Associated Press and the coaches' polls because only one team will be left with one loss. 
But if Southern Cal wins, there's a good chance of a split. Coaches don't even vote for the top team in their poll because of an agreement that automatically awards their trophy to the win­ner of the BCS title game. 
ishness into the computer and hoping somehow it is going to come up with the right thing." 
Proponents of that idea say it makes more sense to decide a football title the same way as almost every other champi­onship in major sports. No doubt, it wouldn't reward excel­lence in the regular season as much, but nobody disputes the legitimacy of an NCAA basket­ball champion that gets hot in March and wins it all. 
Critics, however, claim a full­fledged playoff would gut the bowl system as we know it. And no matter how many teams reach the playoffs, there always will be a debate about the third­or ninth-or 17th-ranked team­the frrst one that gets left out. 
Much of how this season will be remembered rides on Michigan, the only team in the Rose-Sugar pairings with more than one loss. 
If Michigan can upset 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, December 9, 2003 
TENNIS 

Serena Williams may sign with Nike 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Serena Williams is close to signing an endorsement contract with Nike, two tennis sources told The Associated Press on Monday, a deal that could be the richest for a female ath­lete in history. 
The multiyear agreement would include royalties and performance bonuses for win­ning Grand Slam tourna­ments or reach-pulled out of every tourna­ment the rest of the year and finished 2003 at No. 3. 

She expects to return to action by the Australian Open. 
Her contract with Puma expired early this year. 
ESPN .com, citing unidenti­fied sources, reported that Williams and Nike agreed to a five-year deal plus a three­year extension that could be worth as much as $55 million. Sports Business Journal reported it is a lifetime 

stakes football. 

Their offensive line was over­whelmed by the Ravens, who sacked Jon Kitna six times and forced two fumbles and two interceptions. Receiver Chad Johnson was double-teamed and didn't catch a pass until the fourth quarter, when the Ravens were pulling away. 
As the game wound down, some Baltimore fans chanted, "Same old Bengals." Bengals coach Marvin Lewis took note and took exception, saying the fans' conclusion was all wrong. 
"We've got a chance to prove that this week," Lewis said. 
He agreed with the assess­ment of several players that the Bengals seemed to be trying too hard during their most impor­tant game in 13 years. Cincinnati hasn't been to the playoffs or had a winning record since 1990. 
"That's what these guys work for, to play games that mean something in December," Lewis said. "You'd like to be doing it with a three-game cushion, but we're not. We don't need to press. We pressed yesterday. 
"We've felt that level of inten­sity, but when you get behind in the game, you have to realize that the only way to get out of this funk is to do things the right way. Don't try to invent plays and do things like that. It's just part of maturity." 
The Bengals have two home games left -against San Francisco on Sunday and against Cleveland -and one in St. Louis on Dec. 21 that will be significant for both teams. 
"At a crucial point in the sea­son, you're going to have to go on the road and play a team that has the same thing on the line that you do," Simmons said. "Hopefully we learned what it's going to take to go into their house and steal a ballgame from them. 
ing No. 1 in the "We have no deal deal for $60 mil­lion.
rankings, one with Serena at this 
source said. "We have no Both spoke on time.'' deal with Serena condition of at this time," anonymity. Dave Mingey Nike spokesman Those clauses Dave Mingey
Nike spokesman 
could make the contract worth more than the deal with Reebok that Williams' older sister Venus signed in December 2000 after winning Wimbledon and the U.S. Open. That was worth up to $40 million over five years. 
Serena Williams, 21, has won five of the last seven Grand Slam tournaments, beating her sister in the final each time. 
She held the No. 1 ranking for a year until being side­lined because of left knee sur­gery on Aug. 1. Williams 
MLB 
said. 
If Williams 

does sign with Nike, the company would benefit from her non-tennis interests that have made her more visible, including clothes designing and acting. 
With help from the William Morris agency, she landed roles in a movie called "Beauty Shop" and the Showtime drama "Street Time." 
A 2002 survey of the public relations industry deemed Williams and Tiger Woods the most attractive spokespersons among athletes. 
NFL 

Bengals still eye playoff berth 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI -The Bengals' worst drubbing since the season opener knocked them out of first place but not out of the playoff chase. They've still got a chance to make it and enough confi­dence to predict it. 
A team that's come so far can't imagine an unhappy ending. 
"With three games left, there's a lot of meaningful football to be played," linebacker Brian Simmons said Monday. "At this point, it's going to be who takes full advantage of those three games they have left." 
The Bengals (7 -6) had a chance to take the equivalent of a two-game lead by beating Baltimore on Sunday. Instead, the Ravens (8-5) pushed them around in a 31-13 defeat that was the Bengals' worst since a season-opening 30-10 loss to Denver. 
Now, the Bengals have to plan on winning their final three games and hope the Ravens or one of the other wild-~ard candi­dates fades down the stretch. Given the way their season has gone, the Bengals expect it. 
"I know everybody's probably going to jump off the bandwag­on," right tackle Willie Anderson said following the game. "But I'll tell you this: We're getting to the playoffs. I guarantee that we'll get to the playoffs. I said it, and remember I said it. We're going to do it." 
With a chance to make them­selves the odds-on favorite to win the AFC North, the Bengals looked like a team not quite ready for the pressure of high-
Mantle MVP award sells for $275,000 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK Mickey Mantle's 1957 MVP award sold for $275,000 Monday night in an auction of items belonging to the family of the late New York Yankees star. 
The hundreds of items ­including other awards, con­tracts and a prize watch ­were offered Monday at Madison Square Garden by the Guernsey's auction house. The items came from the collection of Mantle's widow and two sons. 
The family chose to auction the items to celebrate Mantle's career and "to share the great treasures and fine heritage with the millions who adored him," Guernsey's said in a release. 
The 1957 MVP award was the priciest of the 300 items, all of which sold, according to Kim Anello, of Nancy Seltzer and Associates, a public relations firm working for the auction house. 
Mantle's 1962 MVP award sold for $250,000, and his 1956 Silver Bat batting title award fetched $270,000. Mantle's Hall of Fame gold watch sold for $9,500. 
Also on sale were professional contracts signed by Mantle. His first one, which gave him a $1,150 bonus and $140 a month to play for the Independence (Mo.) Yankees in 1949, sold for $100,000. His last contract, with the New York Yankees in 1968 for $100,000, sold for $5,500. 
The total sale price, including an auction house commission on the items, would be released Tuesday, Anello said. 

Christthe King Lutheran Church 17196 Cleveland Road . . South Bend (574) 272-4306 
Sunday Worship and Communion 8:30AM 
11:00 AM 
6:00 PM .. Free Light Supper Afterwards 
Free Transportation for ND/St Mary's students. "Call Church 272-4306 or Cab 288-nn preferably by Saturday aod at least one hour before pick up. 

Call Checker 

Conversation 
Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
·.·. rsday, December 11 12:00-1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
..··The Standing Committee on Gay and 
•.• < •. · . • Student Needs invites gay, 
\ : •.••.• ·· · ·an, and bisexual members of .the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal lunch and study break at the Co-Mo. 
*Lunch Willbe served* 


AROUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, December 9, 2003 Cn\WILED FROM 'fHE 0BSERvurs Willi SERVtCES Page 21 
Men's Basketball PoUsT 'i··•·' 
AP 

1 Florida (46) 
2 Connecticut (91 
3 Missouri (6) 
4 Duke 
5 Kansas 6 Texa' (3) 
7 North Carolina (3) 
8 Kentucky (1) 
9 Arizona 
10 Georgia Tech (4) 11 Oklahoma 
12 St. Joseph's 
13 Stanford 
14 Illinois 
15 Wake Forest 
16 Purdue 
17 Gonzaga 
16 Cincinnati 
19 Syracuse 
20 Pittsburgh 
21 Michigan State 
22 Marquette 
23 Wisconsin 
24 Iowa 
25 Dayton 

Women's Basketball ,Polls.·.•·•·•,'• 
AP 

1 Connecticut (471 2 Texas 3 Tennessee 4 Duke 5 Texas Tech 6 Stanford 7 Purdue 
8 Penn State 9 Minnesota 10 Louisiana Tech 11 Georgia 12 Kan,as Slate 13 North Carolina 14 Ohio State 15 Santa Barbara 16 Oklahoma 17 Colorado 18 LSU 19 Utah 20 oregon 21 TCU 22 Rutgers 23 VIrginia Tech 24 Michigan State 25 Auburn 

Team 

1 HQpe 2 Albion 3 Calvin 4 Kalamazoo 5 Alma 6 OUvet 1 Saint Mary's 

around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Illinois at Providence 7 p.m., ESPN Arizona at Texas 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA Washington at Indiana 7 p.m., Fox Sports Philadelphia at Detroit 7:30 p.m., Comcast 
NFL 


Associated Press 

CLEVELAND -The St. Louis Rams are going back to the playoffs, and their high-potency offense didn't have very much to do with it. 
Aeneas Williams had two interceptions -the first for a 46-yard touchdown -in the final 1 :04 of the first half and the Rams clinched an NFC postseason berth, holding on for a 26-20 win Monday night over the Cleveland Browns. 
Williams' two picks enabled the Rams (10-3) to score 14 points in a 42-sec­ond span at the end of the first half, giving St. Louis a 23-7 lead. 
"All I can say is, he's Aeneas," Rams coach Mike Martz said. "He sets the standard for all of us. He makes the plays in clutch situations.n 
Jeff Wilkins kicked four field goals -26, 28, 29 and 3 7 yards -for the Rams, who won their fifth straight game and advanced to the playoffs for the fourth time in five years. 
"This is just one step," Rams wide receiver Dane Looker said. "We're excited but not overly excited. n 
The Rams, who have a two-game lead over Seattle 
IN BRIEF 

Derrick Strait named best 
defensive player 
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina ­After helping lead his team to a berth in the Sugar Bowl. Oklahoma corner­back Derrick Strait on Monday was awarded the Bronko Nagurski Award as the best aU-around defensive play­er in college football. 
Strait became the second Oklahoma defensive back in the last three seasons to win the award. In 2001, safety Roy Williams won the honor, which is presented annually by the Football Writers Association of American and the Charlotte Touchdown Club. 
The 5-11, 195-pound Strait record­ed 69 tackles -the third-most for the 12-1 Sooners -and intercepted three passes for 127 return yards. The senior set Oklahoma career records for passes broken up, career starts and interception return yards. 
"You see very few players who have the impact on the game like he does," Sooners coach Bob Stoops said. "I in the NFC West, had to withstand a valiant come­back by the Browns (4-9), who were making their first regula~season appearance on "Monday Night Football" since 1995. 
Quarterback Tim Couch rallied Cleveland, but was stripped of the ball by Rams defensive end Brian Young on fourth down with 
1:51 left, and St. Louis ran out the clock. 
Marshall Faulk rushed for more than 100 yards for the fourth straight game, picking up 102 yards on 24 carries. 
Couch went 6-for-9 for 98 yards and threw a 28-yard TO pass to Quincy Morgan after replacing Kelly Holcomb, whose two inter­ceptions just before half­time doomed the Browns. 

"To give up 14 points like that is unforgivable," said Holcomb, whose first shot at being a starting quarter­back has not gone well. "It's all on me. You can't make mistakes like that. They got 14 points ofT me." 
Holcomb. whose 2-yard TD pass in the first quarter gave Cleveland a 7-3 lead. was benched with 17 sec­onds left in the first half. 
Following the game, Browns coach Butch Davis refused to answer ques­tions about his quarterback situation. 
have never seen a guy do what he does." 
In the Sooners' 65-13 thrashing of rival Texas on October 11, Strait had 11 tackles, broke up three passes, recovered two fumbles and had an early interception. He also had an interception and 97-yard return against Texas Tech on November 22. 
U.S. athletes might not wear traditional corors 
RALEIGH, N.C. As a precaution, American track and field athletes at the 2004 Athens Olympics might be discouraged from wearing red, white and blue or anything with "USA" when they are not competing. 
"For security reasons, if that's the way they want to go, that's what we'll do," said U.S. men's track coach George Williams, also track and field coach at St. Augustine's College in Raleigh. 
USA Track & Field spokeswoman Jill Geer said Monday that "off-track uniform issues are governed by the U.S. Olympic Committee." 
"Coaching and managerial teams always look at a number of security issues before any international com­petition, including clothing," Geer said. "For the 2004 Games. the Olympic team is within the oversight of the U.S. Olympic Committee." 
Greece is spending more than $750 million for security -the biggest security budget in Olympic history and more than 3 1/2 times as much as what was spent for the 2000 Sydney Games. Authorities plan to deploy about 50,000 security person­nel -including 16,000 soldiers ­during the games. 
Williams said track officials have suggested ways to lower the profile of American athletes around Athens. 
"They said it would be good if we low-keyed it," he said. But he added: "Some of us are going to look American. We're going to have our Bermuda shorts on and our white tennis shoes. It's going to be hard to do." 

said. "I think guys like to see Although Brady Quinn themselves and believe that stepped into the West coast
Recruits 
they have got an opportunity offense as a true freshman and continued from page 22 to score a lot of will remain at points and do a lot the helm to Bob Davie and of Willingham. of things." "/think we're start next sea­Speedsters like Duerson and The 57 -point run­son, Notre
getting a little bit 
present freshman talents like up on Stanford last Dame is lack­promising cornerback Freddie weekend could be a closer to where I'd ing depth at Parish and wide receiver Jeff booster to offensive like us to be. " the quarter­Samardzija are the type of recruits looking to back position players made for the system come to Notre Dame with the early
Ty Willingham
Willingham and his staff of and run a spread, season transfer former passing Notre Dame coach of Chris Olsen Stanford s t y I e and the uncer­coaches plan "We've got to have offense. tainty of to implement. "We want to be Carlyle Holiday's future. 
continued growth 
Securing a balanced, but bal­Willingham sounded opti­
and improvement
prospect like ance should mean mistic about the quarterback Duerson puts in every area ... " that you have a prospects in the workings up Notre Dame slightly more passing to this point. on the right yardage than you do "I think we are hanging in
Ty Willingham
track to rushing yardage," there okay," Willingham said.
Notre Dame coach 
another solid Willingham said. "I "I think we are on the lists of class. The think we're getting a some very good players. and Irish hope winning just five little bit closer to where I'd we just need them to say yes." games this season does not like us to be." affect the caliber of the To have a passing offense, recruiting class. there must always be a reli­Contact Pat Leonard at 
"Winning helps," Willingham able player behind the center. pleonard@nd.edu 
Records 
continued from page 24 
with a time of 2 minutes and 
16.96 seconds. 
"[Fitzpatrick] had pleasant­ly surprising times, she had pretty siz­able times," said Saint 

Mary's "We are looking to make ished first 
swimming some NCAA cuts. They with 60 points coach Greg a n d
exceeded expectations 
Petcoff. "We Fitzpatrick
and people were right
wanted finished fifth everyone to where [the coaches] with 54 have the points. Kelly
wanted them to be"
opportunity Nelis, Julie to help the McGranahan team." Greg Petcoff and Maureen 
.T h 

e Saint Mary's coach Palchak fin­
seconds from her season best time to finish 14th in the 400 yard individual medley. 
"Everyone sees how hard [Kleinfehn] works and if you keep trying you're going to score points," said Petcoff. "It was a boost because she was the only person entered and 
she scored." 
Individually, 
Ramsey fin­

momentum of finishing with top times continued for Saint Mary's as the team entered Saturday's portion of the Invitational. But Saint Mary's remarkable finish came from a culmination of efforts from every swimmer. 
"We were looking for many people to score," said Petcoff. 
Notable finishes came from team captain Megan Ramsey, who finished first in the 100 yard fly despite a nagging shoulder injury and Amy Kleinfehn. who dropped 10 
ished 22nd, 
33rd and 38th 
respectively. 

Due to the impressive results, Saint Mary's is now looking to rework their goals as the Belles near the mid­point of the season. 
"We are looking to make some NCAA cuts," said Petcoff. "They exceeded expectations and people were right where [the coaches] wanted them to be." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
··:::::::::::::_...-.._..·-::.=·"""::.:-=--::.=·:::'::::::===========~ 
7:00-9:00 pm Joyce Center Ice Rink 
·.· ..;......._·..;.,.;•..:..::...,.. 

Open to Not(l¢ C)ame 
and..•····•·• 

St. Maris Students Bring your IDI 
'--------·--·-----..·--··-•m....,.._________.......J 
RECSPORTS 
Women's ice hockey splits games 
Special to The Observer 
"We had a great weekend and should have had two wins because we totally dominated the play in all six periods. But were 1 and 1 on the weekend. That's right, our first win." With those words, captain Tori Blainey summed up both the frustration of a near sweep and the exhilaration of win­ning as Notre Dame's women's ice hockey club split a pair of games against Oakland U. this weekend. The Irish dropped the Saturday contest 2-1 before rebounding Sunday for a 3-2 victory. 
On Friday. Oakland's Lauren Brick scored the lone goal in the first period with an assist from Melissa Orr. Just 3:30 into the second period, the lead was extended to 2-0 on a goal from Kristin Czarnecki, assisted by Daniela Marrocco. The Irish answered with a goal at 11:37 of the period as Julia LaPointe found the back of the net. with assists credited to Kate Abowd and Karrie Koski. The Irish wasted several excel­lent scoring opportunities and were unable to reward an excellent performance by Becca Frigy making her debut in goal. 
Saturday found a resilient and determined Irish squad strike quickly as Annemarie Kennedy ripped the nets at 
11:10 of the first period and Megan Mattia rifled home a shot just 22 seconds later for a two goal lead. 
Bowling 

The Notre Dame bowling club's men's squad competed this weekend in a pair of American Heartland Bowling Conference tournaments. fin­ishing 14th on Saturday and held 13th on Sunday in a 19 team field before having to leave the competition early to return for classes. 
On Saturday, the Irish posted a five man team average of 948 for six games, the best showing by the Irish in recent years. Daniel Martin posted a 217 average, highlighted by a 265 game to lead the Irish. Jim Talamao rolled a 244 game en route to a 202 aver­age. Van Koppersmith and captain Jason Raver earned high games of 226 and 217 while averaging 190 and 188 respectively. Vance McClenton just missed a 200 game, with a high score of 199 as he aver­aged 169. 



CLARE O'BRIEN

ScHOOL DAZE 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI
FIVES 
This Christmas, a young Coach Brey receives a gift that will change his life forever. 
, Mikt.y , r h""e "~r 
~r&Wt+ ~<Jr yov•.. yovf' 
+\r~t tie. 'l 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-:+::+::+:::-1 15 Traitor of America 
22 Sentry's cry 
23 Small, in Dogpatch 24 Like a wet noo­die 
25 "He's nowhere man" (Beatles lyric) 
26 "Soap" actor Jimmy 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne. 
59 Moon goddess 60 Alamos 61 "Star Wars" 
extras, for short 62 Longtime Oreo competitor 
DOWN 1 The Colonel's 
restaurant inits. 2 Kind of tide 3 Loyalty to the 
cause 4 Traitor of 
Norway 5 Blunted blades 6 Sun. talks 7 Send far, far 
away, maybe aPuts through a food press 
9 _-nighter 10 El_, Tex. 11 Composer_ 
Carlo Menotti 1220's dispensers, briefly 14 Traitor of Jesus 

WILLSHORTZ

CROSSWORD 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
~·
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 0 Enclosed is $55 for one semester ­
Name __________________________________________ _ Address ____________________________________ City ______________ State _____ Zip_______ 
-
-----------------------., 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form lour ordinary words. 
ADDIE ± 
C2003 Tribune MAdia Servicea, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
OXTIN 
[I J t J 
BOWELL± 
www.jumble.com
tBEFLAD 

IJ I 

Ms: rI I I I I I J"( I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) VIGIL AGILE GIGGLE FAMISHYesterday's I Jumbles: 
Answer: When he kept repeating the old jokes, the host wanted to-GIVE HIM A "GAG" 

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Allison Smith, Beau Bridges, Lee J. Cobb, Redd Foxx. John Malkovich, Kirk Douglas 
Happy Birthday: Focus on your goals, take charge of your life, and don't let anyone stand in your way this year. You have too much on the line this year to let small mailers slow you down. Delegate what isn't as important to capable and willing individuals who would also like to see you get ahead. Your numbers: 8, 13, 20, 23, 31, 42 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): It is best to get out of the house and do a bit of shopping. You won't be able to satisfy family regardless of what you do. Tempers will flare, and ultimatums are quite possible. 2 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your hard work has paid off. You should feel satisfied and confident about your direction. Don't Jet negative friends or relatives give you doubts about your abilities or your self-worth. 5 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't feel obligated to pay for others' mistakes. Someone you live with will create problems for you. Distance yourself from personal stress and concentrate on money-making investments. 3 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have to control your anger. You've been burning the candle at both ends. and your attitude regarding the lack of support and help you are gelling is resulting in friction. 3 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Insincere gestures should be expected when dealing with friends or relatives. Keep your thoughts to yourself if you want to avoid discord. Travel and shopping are your best bets. 3 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Financial problems will escalate. Don't spend money on entertainment or unnecessary items. Losses will occur if you gel involved in questionable investments. 5 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make financial gains through conservative investments or property purchases. Your participation in humanitarian groups will bring you into contact with people who can help you. 2 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Friends and relatives won't be completely honest with you. You will have to evaluate your motives and theirs carefully. Refrain from overspending on children, entertainment or presents. 4 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Financial affairs will not go according to plan. Keep your cash in a safe place and don't go spending it foolishly. Get promises in writing in order to avoid disappointment. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You mustn't let family members push you. Your ideas regarding residential moves or changes will be upsetting to some loved ones. Stand your ground and do what you feel is necessary. 3 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Travel may be exciting, but it will also be far costlier than you ever imagined. You will meet new and exciting people if you join organizations offering help to less fortunate countries. 3 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Joint ventures will not be too clearly defined. Someone may request your assistance regarding his or her finances. Don't get blamed for something you didn't do. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: Keeping busy will be your goal. Idle time will lead to uncertainty. Your strength will lie in your ability to recognize, assess and take action. If you teach yourself to focus, you will prosper. If you spread yourself too thin, you will lose sight of your goals. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.concerns. 
page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
George always was antisocial 
---~~ ':" ~ ~­
----.... .
'~~-­
:: ~":':::= ..: =-5 
WHAT THE: BANKE=R DID. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

ACROSS 
1 Jacks, in cards 
7 Bikini part 10 Links org. 13 One of base-
ball'sAiou brothers 14 Underage temp­tation, slangily 16 Mobile maker Alexander 17 He wants you 
18 Some toy dogs, for short 
19 Go kaput 
20 French denials 
21 Astronaut Grissom 
22 Big bother 
24 Reclined 26 Criticize harshly 27 Beatnik's 
"Gotcha!" 
30 2003 war zone 31 Saba 32 Glass splinter 34 Dessert 35 "There, there" 37 Traffic marker 38 "Simone" star AI 40 Coquettish 41 Excursion 42 _-majeste 43 Challenge for a 
rat 44 Affirmatives 45 1831 Poe poem 47 PC screen 48 Calvary inscrip­
lion 51 Si, across the Pyrenees 52 Military medal, 
e.g. 54 Way to sway 56 Declarer 58 "Baby Baby" 
singer, 1991 
28 Intellectual's retreat 29 Wish granter 32 terrier 33 Sales team, informally 
36 Flow like mud 39 Wedding cal­umn word 

43 Shows grief 46 Like dietetic 
yogurt 47 Group of quails 48 Slanted type: 
Abbr. 49 Hurler Hideo 50 Beachgoers 
catch them 52 Beanery fare 53 Ashcroft's pred­
ecessor 55 Rap's Dr. _ 57 Stout of who-
dunits 

For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSER\'ER 
PORTS
Tuesday, December 9, 2003 
Page 24 
FOOTBALL 
Disappointing season may affect recruiting 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 

The frustration dissipated a bit with three straight wins in the month of November, but the Notre Dame football team is now searching for answers to turn around a 5-7 losing season after a 38-12 Joss to Syracuse in its final game. That search has already begun in the recruiting process, as coach Tyrone Willingham's job gets even harder. 
Last season, Willingham rode the wave of momentum from a ten-win season into the month of January. He announced his first recruiting class as Irish head coach, a group ranked top-five in the country behind only programs like rival USC. Notre Dame secured commitments from top prospects such as true fresh­men starters quarterback Brady Quinn, offensive tackle Ryan Harris and defensive end Victor Abiamiri. 
The question now is, will the second go-around be just as successful? 
"I think we are hanging in there," Willingham said. "I think we have got some key players that if we can get the right ones to fall, it will help us." 

Notre Dame has received seven verbal commitments, as no official commitments can be made until the first week of February after bowl games have been played. 
Its most recent recruit is Chicago area cornerback prospect Tregg Duerson. The son of a former Notre Dame football player, Duerson stands at 5-10, 170 pounds and runs a 4.5 60-yard dash. He also played running back at Loyola Academy, where he carried the ball this season 184 times for 1,200 yards. 
Recruiting analysts said Willingham is bringing Duerson in as a defensive back with possibilities of contribut­ing on special teams. 
"We've got to have continued growth and improvement in every area," the coach said. 
Willingham and the Irish struggled this season with the meshing of recruits of two sys­tems -that of former coach 
see RECRUITS/page 22 

SMC SWIMMING 

Belles break Inultiple records at invitational 
points, Carthage College and
Saint Mary's finishes 

Maca! ester. After the first day of compe­
fourth at Gene Davis 

tition, Saint Mary's was off to Invitational an incredible start as the 
Belle's won three of the first 
six events. 
By DAN TAPETILLO 

Fitzpatrick began with an 
Sports Writer 

impressive 200-yard back­
stroke with an event winning 
Records are made to be time of 2 minutes and 12.7 4 
broken. seconds. In the 200-yard indi­
Last Saturday, freshman vidual medley, she shattered Caitlin both season best Fitzpatrick and meet times. broke four. Saint Mary's also 
Competing won the 800-yard
"It was a boost
in the two­freestyle relay with
because [Kleinfehn] 
day Gene a meet record time D a v i s was the only person of 8 minutes and Invitational 8:88 seconds.
entered and scored." 
this past Fitzpatrick also weekend, broke school Saint Mary's Greg Petcoff records in the 100­finished Saint Mary's coach yard backstroke fourth as a with a time of 1 team with minute and 3.10 431 points. seconds and the The Belle's finished behind 200-yard individual medley Invitational winner Gustavus Adolfus who won with 1270 see RECORDS/page 22 
Only 200 IUfans will be allowed into a pre-game meeting 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 

If students thought Indiana University was planning a pep rally in the north dome of the Joyce Center before the Notre Dame-Indiana basketball game Wednesday, they might want to think again. 
A Notre Dame official said Indiana fans will have a gather~ ing in a partitioned section of the Joyce Center, but the gath­ering is similar to other pre­game events the University allows visiting alumni organiza­tions to hold before basketball games. 
The only reason it is in the north dome of the Joyce Center is because another group had already booked the Monogram Room -the room on the sec­ond floor of the Joyce Center where visiting teams' fans nor­mally congregate -for the evening. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
IU gathering not a pep rally 

Indiana will have a pre-game meeting before their contest against Torln Francis (above) and the Irish Wednesday. 
"It's not an IU pep rally," Notre Dame sports information director Bernie Cafarelli said. 
Cafarelli added that Notre Dame typically gives any alum­ni club from any visiting school a place to hold a pre-game meeting, just as the Irish often receive a space to meet before games at other school's cam­puses. 
But Notre Dame will only allow up to 200 fans with tick­ets into the partioned area, said Cafarelli, and no Notre Dame students would be admitted. 
Several students, under the impression that Notre Dame was allowing an Indiana pep rally in the Joyce Center, were planning counter-rallies before the basketball game. 
"We don't need anything to transpire from this," Cafarelli said. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

-
-
en 
NBA 
PGA 
NB.A 
TENNIS 
NFL

NHL 
w

1--
(,) Magic snaps 
Woods voted 

Lakers off to a 
Bengals seeking 

Hull ranks third in 
Williams close to 
z losmg streak 
Player of the Year 

great start 
signing with Nike 
playoff birth 

all time scoring 
a: ~ 
The Lakers attribute 
=c::s The Magic make the 
Despite failing to win 

Despite losing
With a goal in over-
The multiyear agree-
a major this year, Woods 

their 17-3 NBA-leading
third biggest .comeback 
Sunday, the Bengals still 
time, Hull's 732nd goal 
ment wtih Serena
cr: 
still managed to win the 

in team history to defeat 
feel they can make the
record to great chem-
places him third among 
Williams could reach 
honor.
Phoenix. 
playoffs.

top scorers. 
more than $40 million.
istry.
D. t:c 
en 
page 18
page 14 
page 20
page 18 
page 18 

page 20 








