
VOL XXXVII NO. 137 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
STUDENT SENATE 
Hallahan delivers State of the Student Union 
• Speech focuses improve student life academically TCEs, students would be able to interest students and also find drinking culture that has devel­and socially. better choose their classes and ways to ensure the safety of stu­oped and move in a direction or
in part on aiding "We need 
professors. dents when they travel off cam­more responsible alcohol use." 
student life to work to 
The next way to improve stu­pus. Hallahan said in an interview give every dent life, Hallahan said, is to "pro­In addition to improving student after the address that the govern­student the vide students ,.vi.th the best chance life at Notre Dame, Hallahan ment will effect this change pri­By MAUREEN REYNOLDS best academ­to succeed once they graduate." believes that the government marily through work with the News Wrircr ic exp~rienc~ He proposed to give graduates must work to improve the student Office of Alcohol and Drug possible, the opportunity to have an alumni body itself. To this end, he focused Education and through simple 
l'at llallahan, student body Hallahan mentor to aid them in networking mainly on the new alcohol policy. communication with the student president. delivered his State of said in his and job searches for "postgradu­"There has been much debate body to let students know that the Student Union address follow­speech. In Hallahan ate life." over the alcohol policy of last more responsible behavior is ing the Student Senate meeting order to do Finally, Hallahan said, Student spring.... We are the only ones expected. WPdncsday night and elaborated this, he said Government "must also find ways responsible for our behavior, and "We lost some of our privileges, iu an interview Thursday on his he would like to implement a to better the social life on-and oiI• that behavior has been far from but we need to work to keep the plans for the following year. process of publishing TCEs by the campus." He wants to sponsor what is acceptable," he said. "We 
At the top of his list arc ways to end of' next year. By reviewing concerts and events which would must work to change the abusive see SENATE/page 8 

Another bar busted 
. About 300 students inside The Library during Friday morning raid 
Observer Staff Report 
Police entered The Library Irish Pub early Friday morning and issued citations to students under 21, an employee of the popular student bar said. 
Student eyewitnesses said approximately 300 students were in the bar around 1 a.m. when police entered. Eyewitnesses said police told those over 21 to show idcntil1cation and leave while the rest were ordered to stay in the building. 
Police oflicials would not con­firm the raid and it was not imnwdiatcly clear how many stu­d<mts were cited. 
The bar was also raided in October 2000. Although the new owners changed the name from Finnegan's to The Library Irish Pub, many students still refer to the bar by its old name. 
The bust is the second major raid of a popular student bar in four months. Police issued 213 citations in a Jan. 24 sting at The Boat Club. 


The Shirt 2003 unveiled 
• Sophomore Rozann Carter submits winning design 
By ClAIRE HEININGER 
News Wrirer 
Saturday's annual Blue and Gold game signals a new sea­son of football that gives Irish fans the chance to see what Tyrone Willingham has planned for the following sea­son, learn the new starters and new cheers. But before the game begins, today in the Bookstore at noon, fans will be able to see for the first time the brand new version of The Shirt 2003. 
Dave Brenner, president of The Shirt committee, said that the design of The Shirt for this season has been kept "pretty tightly under wraps," and was unable to reveal any specifics about The Shirt's appearance in advance. However, Brenner did afTirm that, like last year, The Shirt is the right color to create the "Sea of Green." 
Each year, the design for The Shirt is carefully selected from entries in a contest open to all Notre Dame students. 

Sophomore Rozann Carter submitted the winning design for this year's Shirt. 
"She did a great job work­ing with the design and we are very pleased with the out­come," Brenner said. 
While the design was tweaked several times to get the best-looking final result, Brenner said that such revi­sions are "pretty standard procedure" and that "every­one working with the project has been very helpful and very dedicated towards this project's success." 
The Shirt project encoun­tered tremendous success last year, as a record number of shirts were sold, and new shipments beyond the original number of 44,000 had to be reordered several times. Brenner said he hopes for a similar positive response this 
see SHIRT/page 6 
Females seek fair salaries 
Editor's note: This is the third in a three-part series looking into the issues that face female faculty members at Notre Dame. 
By MEGHAN MARTIN 
Assistant News Editor 

As many female professors at Notre Dame face obstacles within their departments to gain tenure, another sensitive issue is salary equity. 
Because Notre Dame has a non-disclosure policy where publishing salaries are con­cerned, many faculty members have expressed doubt as to how equitable the University's merit­based pay system really is. 
Although the Office of Institutional Research publishes salary averages across the University, these numbers are not particularly useful to indi­viduals within specific depart­ments. The differences between 
see TENURE/page 4 


Student government to help students in lawsuits 
By TERESA FRALISH 
A.m,ciatc News Editor 
In response to over 200 court summons students received yesterday. student government plans to provide advice Lo those who face law­suits after citations incurred during the Jan. 24 police raid on The Boat Club. 
"We'n, going to send out an ti-mail and ask any student who has bc1en affected by this to contact us," said Pat Ilallahan. student body presi­dent. Ile is asking students to either respond to the e-mail or contact the Student (;overnment office at 631­7666. 
Hallahan said that if a large enough number of the stu­dents involved respond. he and Jeremy Lao, student body vice president, want to orga­nize a meeting and offer resources and legal advice to the students. Additionally, llallahan said he would wel­come any feedback from stu­dents about the type of' resources the students would like to see student government provide. 
Over the next few days, Hallahan said he and Lao would continue to develop resources for those students being sued. 
"We hope to find ways to address their concerns," he said. 
Hallahan said students would benefit most by cooper­ating on any future action. 
"We think -based on the people we've talked to -that this can be solved without a lot of trouble but we really need students to work together," said Hallahan. 
Students began receiving their summons Tuesday from Not.re Dame Security/Police officers, said Chuck llurley, assistant director of NDSP. Hurley said it is normal for NDSP to deliver this type of notification and said that some students were alerted by tele­phone and asked to pick up their summons. 
The suits are being brought individually by the Millennium Club, Inc., which is listed as the owner of the property at 106 North Hill Street. The Boat Club's address. Each individual suit requires a $42 legal fee to be filed with the St. Joseph Small Claims Court. 
In a copy of the articles of incorporation for the Millennium Club obtained by The Observer, Mike McNef'f was listed as the president. incorporator and secretary of the corporation. No other names are listed on the docu­ment. 
According to information obtained from the Indiana Secretary of State's office, many other local bars, includ­ing Corby's, Club 23, The Linebacker and Fiddler's Hearth, are incorporated in a similar way as a "for-profit domestic corporation." 
McNeff was the owner of The Boat Club at the time of the Jan. 24 raid, although the bar could eventually be sold to new owners as a result of legal action being taken by the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission against the bar. 
Neither McNcff nor Mitchell lleppenheirner, the attorney representing Millennium Club, has returned repeated phone calls seeking comment. 
Matt Bramanti contributed to this report. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 

Friday, April 25, 2003
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Notre Dame is really our rnotfier? 
I am graduating from Notre Dame in just a few short weeks, and so I am continually reflecting back on my time here. For the most part, it has been incredible. I have very few complaints about Notre Dame. Not even the oblig­Kurt Bogaard atory loathing for parietals, dining 
Assistant 
hall food or gen­
Viewpoint
der relations on 
Editor
campus. In fact, I have only one major criticism of Notre Dame, and that is the University's extremely paternalistic method of decision mak­ing. 
Time and again I have seen Notre Dame's administration and the Board of Trustees make decisions with very little regard for the opinions of stu­dents. Perhaps they know better ­certainly they have more experience and possibly more knowledge. Still. most students go to colleges like Notre Dame to gain experience as leaders and broaden their perspec­tives. What sort of leaders can be cre­ated if students are not involved in Notre Dame's decision-making process? 
It is clear that the administration and Board of Trustees are not infalli­ble. In doing research for a senior seminar paper, I examined the topic of divestment in the apartheid state of South Africa during the 1980s and Notre Dame's stance on the important issue. Notre Dame insisted on a policy of continued investment that was established by a director at General Motors, Leon Sullivan. Students and faculty both voted overwhelmingly against this continued investment, yet the administration and Board of Trustees continued with limited investment in South Africa. Finally, even the policy's writer, Sullivan, denounced his plan as a failure. Yet Notre Dame, always with its hand on its pocketbook, continued to invest against the wishes of South African activists, students and faculty. 
The issues facing Notre Dame now are not nearly as prolific as the fight against apartheid, yet the University continues to take a unilateral approach to decision making. Students were not integrally involved in the establishment of new alcohol policies and new dance policies. Just last week, in a poll of 329 students, 89 percent of those polled did not agree with the decision to hold the ROTC Pass Review indoors again this year, but the administration ignored petitions from earlier in the month to move the event outside. 
This method of decision making is not likely to change quickly. However, for those students leaving Notre Dame this year, and those that will remain, please continue to try to influence the decisions regarding any kind of policy that you disagree with. Students will slowly gain a greater voice. The administration is not Notre Dame. We are Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Kurt Boga ard at kbogaard@nd.edu. 
CLARI FlCATION 

In \)1/ednesday's article, "Women's tenure fuels ques­tions," Professor Toni Irving, whose photo appears above rhc story, is not affiliated with the WATCH rnovc:mcnc. 
CORRECTION 

The headline for Thursday's article, "Anthropologist pens novel on genocide," should read, "Anthropologist pens book on genocide." 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Gay alliance approved at Boston College 

After 28 years, Boston College has approved its first homosexual sup­port group. Members of the Notre Dame. 
page 8 
WORLD& NATION 
U.S. coalition forces seize former Iraqi leader Aziz 
The most visible Iraqi leader, former deputy prime min­ister Tariq Aziz, is in custody of U.S. forces in Iraq. 

page 5 

BUSINESS NEWS 
AMR chief resigns amid furor 
American Airlines president Gerard Arpey will replace Donald Carty as chief exec­utive of the compa­ny after Carty resigned Thursday. 
page 7 

SCENE SPORTS 
The Marriage 
Draft looms of Figaro 
for Irish seniors 

Saint Mary's 
Center Jeff Faine performs a contem­
is projected to gar­porary English ver­
ner a slot in the sion of Mozart's 
first round of the opera, "The 
NFL draft. Other Marriage of 
seniors of the Notre Figaro." 
Dame football team gear up for the process. 
page 24page 13 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 

Employee injured during work 
NDSP transported a University employee Wednesday from the Food Services Facility to the University Health Center for treatment of an injury. 

Student reports larceny 
A student reported her vehicle was broken in to while outside Building 22 near Fischer Graduate Housing Wednesday between midnight and 9 a.m. NDSP has not identified any suspects in the case. 

Students alert police of thefts 
Two students reported bike thefts during the week. One locked bike was taken from outside gate 3 Tuesday between 4 and 6:30 p.m. Another stu­dent told NDSP his unlocked bike was stolen from the north side of Fisher Hall between 9:50 p.m. Tuesday and 1 
p.m. Wednesday. There are no sus­pects in either case. 

Vehicle hits parked car 
NDSP received a report Wednesday of a vehicle hitting a parked car on Stepan Drive. 
-Compiled from NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Grilled vegetables and quinoa wrap, seafood paella, green bean salad, sizzling California salad meat ball sub, baja beef sand­wich, grilled cheese, twice cooked pork, steamed broccoli, pizza bit loafer, sliced turkey, sliced ham, brown sugar cookies, chewy blond brownies 
Today's Dinner: Pasta fantastic, veg­gie cutlet with mushroom sauce, olive cous cous, vegetable corn muffins, nacho bar, chicken parmesan, herb pasta, cauliflower, garlic bread, cheese pizza, mushroom pizza, beef stroganoff casserette, breadsticks, apple bread pudding, chocolate cream pie 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 71 HIGH 69 LOW 49 LOW 42 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
VIEWPOINT 
University can't turn a blind eye to suits 

The Observer calls on the University to assist students in the Boat Club case, which involves court sum­mons for over 200 students. 
page 10 
. 
Gandhi's Non-Violence: The Political Dilemma of a Hcligious Vision, 11 a.m., Eck Visitor·s Center ­

. 
Badin Spring Breakdown, 4 p.m., South Quad 

. 
Bhangra Bash 2003 (Indian dance party), 9 p.m., Knights of Columbus 

. 
Comedian Tim Young, 9 p.m., LaFortunc Ballroom 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
"P" Lunch, noon, Noble Family Dining Hall North Wedge Hoom 

. 
The Marriage of Figaro, 7:30 p.m., Moreau Center for the Arts, Little Theatre 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Fettuccine with fennel. spinach fettuccine, al prosciutto pizza, four cheese pizza, grilled Betsy Flannigan chicken breast, boulangere potatoes, cherry crisp, Canadian bacon, scrambled eggs, raisin bread French toast, hash browns, BBQ beef sandwich, Szechuan beef and vegetable stir-fry, chicken taco 
Today's Dinner: Fettuccine with fen­nel, spinach fettuccine, al prosciutto pizza, four-cheese pizza, honey-glazed ham, vegetable rice pilaf. mixed vegeta­bles, cherry crisp, turbot amandine, scrambled eggs with cheese. gourmet hamburger, foot-long hot dog, polish sausage, oriental shrimp with noodles 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Chicken mozzarella. red clam sauce, chicken fajita pizza, mushroom stroganoff, saute~d zucchini and yellow squash, meatloaf, mississippi fried catfish, baked glazed ham, cut corn, broccoli cuts, cut green beans, peas, gyro, sweet and sour pork, flame­roasted fiesta corn and black beans, fried chili crispitos 
Today's Dinner: Chicken breast vesu­vio, chicken fajita pizza, toasted pretzel sticks, rice with black olives, veal parmi• giana, steamed spinach, beef stew, roasted pork loin, hot chunky apple­sauce, cut corn, broccoli cuts, peas, cut green beans, chicken strips, julienned beef mongolian, chili frito 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 0: 
I.LI 
::c 
~ 
I.LI 
3: 
...I 


~

~ 
ct 

CJ ...J 0 HIGH 61 HIGH 57 HIGH 62 HIGH 72 LOW 57 LOW 50 LOW 35 LOW 48 
Atlanta 70 / 58 Boston 62 I 43 Chicago 58 I 40 Denver 69 / 44 Houston 85 / 60 Los Angeles 66 / 54 Minneapolis 64 I 44 New York 65 I 47 Philadelphia 70 / 46 Phoenix 86 / 63 Seattle 56 / 42 St. Louis 62 / 44 Tampa 80 / 72 Washington 66 / 49 
Friday, April 25, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Student trustee selected 
. Mahoney to serve as student representative to Board of Trustees 
and dozensof Web s i t e s  . U N l V E R_ S I T y OF · . NOTRE DAME ::'.:2,  N o .t r eDame s fun• damental  
a Ire ad y  ·  character.  
feature the  ~---------------'  "It speaks  

By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 

Sara Mahoney will serve as the l:loard of Trustees' stu­dent trustee for the 2003­2004 academic year. 
Mahoney, a rising senior biology and chemistry major. acted as the 2002-03 Student Diversity Board President and was also a member of Sophomore Board, Friends with Sisters, Christmas in April and Urban Plunge. 
Kristen Matha. 2002-03 academic year student trustee, says the selection committee values communi­cation skills as well as expe­rience with student govern­ment. 
"The student trustee must be knowledgeable of and able to articulate student concerns," Matha said. "I think a woman who is knowledgeable about Student Government Association and the College administration is also a valu­able quality." 
From her experience, Matha learned that it pays to have a voice as the student trustee. 
"I will advise her to listen carefully and contribute to the discussions," Matha said. 
The selection process began with an e-mail to the senior class describing the position and asking for appli­cants. Interested students submitted a letter to the selection committee, com­prised of students, faculty and administrators as well as letters of recommendation from one student, one faculty member and one additional letter. The selection commit­tee narrowed down the applicants into a group of candidates that are given to President Marilou Eldred to make the final decision. 
Today the Board will meet primarily to formulate and approve a presidential search process, due to Eldred's recent retirement announcement. 
Contact Natalie Bailc.-y at 

bail 1407@saintmarys.edu 
A must see: 

Furnished efficiency apt. Lower level of my home. Separate bathroom. Close to Notre Dame and shopping. Off Grape Rd. $350 all utilities paid. Must pay for own phone. Call 259-3445 
Retail Sales Help Wanted Immediate full and part lime openings in retail sporting goods store. Must be 18 and able to lift objects. Prior sales experience helpful. Apply in person at: Play II Again Sports 620 W. Edison, Suite 122 Mishawaka, In. 46545 No phone calls please. 

Notre Dame releases new icon for usage 
By MATT BRAMANTI Nc,wsWritcr 
Notre Dame has a new identi­ty -at least in print University Communications Design, Notre Dame's in-housn graphic design department, has announced that the new University mark is available for use in print, video and lntcrnct-ba:;ed media. The mark will adorn all stationerv. business cards, brochures and other oflicial Notre Dame docu­ments. It was adapted from the 1931 University seal, designed by Harvard artist Pierre de Chaignon la Hose. 
Laura Moran, interim general manager of UCO, said the mark aims to provide a consistent, positive design to represent Notre Dame. 
"A lot of people were excited about having a mark with acad­emic excellence as its focus," Moran said. 
Moran said that the success of the mark depends on its accep­tance by its users -academic departments, administrators. brochures, and other materials faculty and staff. She added that until supplies run out, at which the design has gained wide-time they will switch to paper spread use since its approval in featuring the new mark. the spring of 2002. With a $50.000 budget, a 
"Overall it's been very well team of nine UCD graphic received," Moran said. designers created the mark. A 
Over one million pieces of sta-member of that committee, Tom tioncry, 300 brochures and Walker, said the mark faithfully booklets~------------~ represents
I)·.. 

new mark. 
The project began in the fall of 2001, when vice president for university relations Lou Nanni, then vice president for public af't'airs and communication, identified the need for a unified symbol to represent Notre Dame's academic identity. At the time, different departments used a variety of inconsistent symbols, including the interlock­ing ND and differing versions of the university seal. 
Moran said departments will use their previous letterhead, 
to the foun­dations of the University as well as its academic excellence," Walker said. 
The development of the mark also involved granting a new printing contract to produce the new stationery and other print­ed materials. 
Impressions, an Elkhart-based printing company, was awarded the contract. Moran said the use of the new mark has been accompanied by the creation of a streamlined, Web-based sys­tern that allows Notre Dame users and external printing ven­dors to customize and order materials online. The system provides for "better speed and ease of use," Moran said.The mark features an open book, representing the University's academic mission, inscribed with the Latin phrase "Vita Dulcedo Spes," or ''our life, our sweetness. our hope" -a refer­ence to an ancient prayer to Mary. By September, all acade• mic and administrative docu­ments will feature the new mark, according to UCD's Web site. 
"We've already seen a signifi­cant turnover," Moran said. 
The mark. including varia­tions for use by Notre Dame's eight schools and colleges. is available at http://mark.nd.edu to anyone with an AFS user­name and password. The site also gives information about the history and appropriate usage of the mark. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at hramanti. l@nd.edu 

Notre Dame Law School 


2003 Distinguished Lecture Series 



Legislating Corporate Ethics 
Harvey J. Goldschmid Commissioner, U.S. Securities &Exchange Commission Dwight Professor ofLaw, Columbia University 
Friday, April 25 2:00 p.m, Room 120 
The Distinguished Lecture Series has been made possible through the generosity of Robert T. '74 J.D. and Ann Therese Darin Palmer '73 B.A., '75 M.B.A. 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 25, 2003 
Tenure 
continued from page I 

salaries in the Mendoza College of Business and the College of Arts and Letters, for example, arc significant. 
"Averages by rank across the University is not helpful," Provost Nathan Hatch said. "The standards in business and law, for example, are very dif­ferent." 
Economics professor Teresa Ghilarducci cited a trend in the early 1990s that raised a red flag among female faculty mem­bers that their pay might not be equal to those of their male counterparts. 
"In the early '90s, many women got huge increases in pay when their male colleagues did not," she said. "That is indicative of salary inequity if we had to all of a sudden ·catch up' to what they were making." 
English professor Valerie Sayers said that her own recent leap in salary was completely unexpected, and came without notice. 
"Over the years. there have been these periods of significant disparities," she said. "It's hard to tell whether some of our rais­es have come at the expense of our colleagues, particularly pro­fessional specialists, but without really knowing what the stan­dards are, it's really hard for people to figure out how to get a raise." 
Because specific numbers are not made available to the teach­ing community at Notre Dame, Ghilarducci said. anecdotal evi­dence of salary discrepancies runs rampant and have led a 
number of women to believe 
that their salaries are indeed 
much lower than those of their 
ND Endowed Chair Holders 
equally-qualified male counter­parts. Ghilarducci helped to found 
MEN vVOI\1EN 
WATCH, an informal group of 
female faculty members formed 
Year No. Percent No. Percent Total 
to monitor the status of women at the University. in 1999, par­ticularly in the interest of upholding the quality of educa­tion at Notre Dame, which she said is a natural function of a content faculty. 
Ghilarducci said that one of the group's primary goals right now is to achieve salary trans­parency. 
"We're forming committees to investigate the salary discrimi­nation issue," she said. "Basically, we want salaries to 
MIKE HARKINSffhe Observer 
be published." 
WATCH, its members con­they need to gauge their own "It's an issue that a lot of peo­female faculty are given consid­tend, has played a significant compensation without embar­ple talk about," said English eration for top administrative role in bringing the issue of rassing individual employees professor Glenn Hendler. "I'm posts such as department salary transparency to the fore­sensitive to their place on the certainly not the only man who chairs, a position that is front or dis-salary spec­has been unequivocally support­inevitably tied to a rise in pay. cussion. trum, and ivo of There are 
Many mem­"Over the years, there would help WATCH currently two 
bers have the faculty as and other "The problem here is the female depart­
have been these periods 
gone so far a. whole, not s u C h culture ofsecrecy and ment chairs, as to discuss ofsignificant just the groups." Professor Dayle
confidentiality. That 
their own disparities." women. Hendler Seidenspinner­
keeps us from being able 
salaries at "It's defi­said that Nunez in the meetings, a nitely some­the bulk of to argue our position. " Department of 
Valerfe Sayers
practice thing that the issue Homance which Sayers English professor benefits men lies in the Languages and

Glenn Hendler 
a n d as much as it traditional­Literature and benefits ly conserv­English professor
Ghilard ucci Professor said has proven incredibly bene­women," Sayers said. "We ative char-Jeanne Day in ficial to everyone involved. [WATCHJ don't see ourselves as acter of the the Department 
"It riles people up. People do oppositional, trying to divide the University. of Psychology. feel sensitive about their faculty in any way. I don't feel "The problem here is the cul­"There's such a gap between salaries and that it's a measure it's a 'men-versus-women' ture of secrecy and confidential­who's a chair and who's not," of their worth, which I think is issue." ity. That keeps us from being Sayers said. "There are so l'ew arbitrary," Sayers said. Indeed, WATCH members able to argue our position," he female chairs." 
Publicizing salary averages, have found considerable sup­said. Ghilarducci said, would provide port among the ranks of their Salary equity is eternally wed­Contact Meghan Martin at faculty with the information that male counterparts. ded to the question of whether mmartin@nd.edu 

With joy and thanksgiving we invite you to celebrate the ordination to the priesthood of 
Rev. Mr. Thomas J. Eckert, C.S.C. 
The Sacrament of Holy Orders will be conferred by the Most Reverend Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. Bishop of Peoria: 
Saturday, April 26, 2003 
1:30 p.m. at Sacred Heart Basilica 
"We heard a summonstogive over our livesin a more explicit way1' 
(Constitutions, 1.3) 
r/r.:::::.··:r.(-t <·_.:,:::-~ 




www.nd.'edul-vocation 



WORLD & NATION 
rriday, April 25, 2003 COMPILED FH0M THE OBSEHVEH WIHE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
Coalition forces capture top Iraqi leader Aziz 
arrested in the past 24 hours.
Associated l'rc!S 
Aziz was often the public face WAS! IINGTON or Iraq when responding to 
U.S. forces in Iraq have laken accusations by the United custody of Tariq Aziz, the for­States and United Nations. mer dnputy prime minister and Ile was the only Christian in tho most visibl11 Iraqi leader Saddam's inner circle, most of otlrnr than Saddam llusscin. whom were Sunni Muslims like 
Ol'licials at the Pentagon and Saddam. Ile served as foreign at C,mtral Command headquar­minister during the 1991 ters in Qatar said Thursday Persian Gulf War and was a fre­thr.y dicl not know whether t\ziz quont spokesman at that time. was captured or whether he Aziz last appeared in public turn1id himself' in. March 19, when hl'l held a news 
On the U.S. list of the 55 conf'ercnce in Baghdad to most-wanted members of the quash rumors he had 11ed the former government, Aziz was Iraqi capital. No. 43, the eight of spa.des in "I am carrying my pistol to thti milila.ry's card deck of lop confirm to you that we are Iraqi leaders. ready to light the aggressors," 
llis prominence in Lhe regime Aziz said Urnn, "American sol­could make Aziz a source for diers arc nothing but merce­the best information yet on the naries and they will be defeat­l'al<i of' Sa<ldam an<l his two ed," sons, as well as the location of Although he was one of any hidden weapons of mass Saddam's most loyal aides, destruction. Aziz, like most non-Tikritis, 
"We can confirm Tariq Aziz is had virtually no power, U.S. now under coalition control." officials have said. That could said Central Command spokes­explain his longevity in woman Capt. Dani Burrows. Saddam's inner circle -with­
Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., for­out an independent power mer chairman ol' the Senate base, he posed no threat. Intelligence Committee, said In recent years Aziz did not Thursday night the arrest of have the international profile Ile had to do with Saddam's not battle between Ziad and Odai, lie also conducted the govern­another top Iraq official, in he had in the 1990-91 Gulf cri­liking a Cabinet minister to who was equally known for ment's negotiations with the Syria, would bn announced sis when, as Iraqi foreign min­become too well known. graft. U.N. weapons inspectors. shortly. ister, he was virtually "Mr. Others point to the fact that However, Tariq Aziz retained When Saddam fired Aziz's 
Graham, at a session of the Iraq" to the world's media. Saddam's son Odai did not like weight within the government. replacement as foreign minis­Council on Foreign Helations, Saddam promoted him after Aziz. Odai's newspaper. Babil. He was Saddam's deputy on ter, Mohammed Saeed al­declined to identify the Iraqi, the Gulf War to deputy prime often criticized foreign policy. the foreign affairs and media Sahhaf, in 2001, he appointed saying only that he held one of minister, forcing him to relin­In 1996, Aziz's son Ziad was committees, in which positions Aziz as acting foreign minister the most sensitive positions in quish the foreign ministry port­arrested for corruption in what he interpreted Saddam's poli­for four months until Naji Sabri the Iraqi government and was folio. Some believe this reshuf-Baghdad insiders saw as a turf cies to the ministers concerned. was given the post. 

CHINA 
Officials isolate thousands as SARS worries increase 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 
Authorities closed a major hospital Thursday and put patients and 2,000 workers under observation for the SAHS virus, while across the city, anxious res­idents emptied grocery stores of rice, oil an<l frozen food in a bout of panic-buy­ing. 
The People's Hospital or Peking University was tho sucond medical facil­ity to close because of severe acute res­piratory syndrome. which killed four more pPople. raising Beijing's death toll to 39. Nationwide, 110 people havu died from the disease, the llealth Ministry said. 
It was being disinfected and an unknown number of patients and 2,262 employees were under observation at one of the six hospitals designated to handle SAHS, said a university official. He would give only his surname, Sun. 
lie didn't know how many patients were in the hospital; the hospital Web site says it has 1,020 beds. 
It was China's latest action this week -along with the closing of public schools and plans for a quarantine -to try to contain the respiratory disease. Its spread has touched on virtually every aspect of society, from tourism to business to sports. 
Beijing's airport and train station were packed this week with people try­
ing to flee. 

Shoppers worried that officials might close stores as a preventive measure, or worse, quarantine all of Beijing. which would cut off food supplies. They have been rushing to clear the shelves of eggs, dumplings. soy sauce, rice and instant noodles. 
At the Ito Yokado, an upscale grocery, a store clerk stacking towers of instant noodles apologized to shoppers seeking 22-pound bags of rice. 
They were sold out of that size bag. 'Tm sure more will be coming," said the clerk, Zhao Shuli. 
China's soccer association postponed the start of the professional season. originally due to begin in mid-May. "to 
ensure the health and safety of the ath­letes, coaches and fans." It said new dates would be announced later. 
On Wednesday, the city government announced it would invoke emergency measures to have people who were exposed to SARS quarantined at home and to restrict access to buildings and areas of possible infection. No other details were provided. 
Earlier this month, the People's Armed Police General Hospital shut down after staff members fell ill with SAHS. 
Globally, more than 260 people have died of the virus and about 4,400 have been infected -roughly half of those in the Chinese mainland. 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
N. Korean envoy threatens to use nukes 
North Korea's lend official at nuclear weapons talks in China told a U.S. envoy that his country has nuclear weapons and may test, export or use them depending on U.S. actions, a senior American ofti• cial said Thursda.y. 
The commtrnl was made bv North Korean dele­gate Hi Gun to Assistant Secretary of State James Kelly during a social gathering Wednesday following fnrnrnl discussions on the North's nuclear weapons program, said the senior U.S. oflicial, speaking only on condition of anonymity. 
I le did not respond to Hi's comment, said the olTicial. 
According to the official, Hi said during tho ple­nary sossion oarlier that North Korea has r1)proc11ssPd all 8,000 spent nuclear fuel rods in its possession. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Actress critical after being shot in face 
An actress who had recently completed work on an episode of NBC's "Law and Order" was shot in the face by her ex-boyfriend early Thursday in the doorway of her apartment, police said. 
The victim's mother. who was visiting. watched as the ex-boyfriend then fatally shot himself, police said. 
Lyric Benson, 21, was hospitalized in extremely critical condition Thursday evening. Acquaintances said Benson broke off her relation­ship with Robert Ambrosino, 33, weeks ago after a religious reawakening prompted her to rethink their living together. 
"She became religious," agent .Jerry Hogan said. "It didn't quite work with living with someone out of wedlock." 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 


Jackson to testify regarding song rights 
Michael Jackson could be making a return trip to his native Indiana soon. though not to perform. 
lie is expected to be in Indiana, possibly as early as this week, for a deposition. according to Stecltown Hecords Inc. founder William Adams, also known as Gordon Keith. one of the plaintiffs suing Jackson. 
Jackson is a def'cndant in a 1997 federal lawsuit that also accuses some of his brothers and two record companies of copyright infringement. 
The lawsuit contends the Jackson Five were improperly credited for two songs done by another group, Hippies & Waves, that was based in Gary in northwest Indiana. 
A weeklong jury trial was scheduled for April 28 at the federal courthouse in Hammond, but it could be rescheduled. 


page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 25, 2003 
Hacked server changes registration 
them aware that the prqi~ct is about more than football. "We

Shirt 
plan to do this by informing continued from page 1 customers of the project's ori­
gin and reminding them that season, and that "we hope to most of the proceeds go strengthen the message that directly towards charity and this shirt is a great way to student organizations," he show fan unity while also gen­said. erating funds for worthy caus­However, The Shirt is still es." an unrivaled promoter of foot­
The spirit of ball unity, supportive and as the
''There is a lot of
fundraising Blue and 
behind The anticipation about this Gold game 
Shirt has upcoming football season approach­existed since es, Brenner
and there is a renewed
the tradition believes 
began in excitement amongst the 
that it will 1989, when Jans." be a big Sister Jean success in Lenz encour­this aspect

Dave Brenner
aged students as well. 
to purchase president of The Shirt project "There is them in sup­a lot of port of former Notre Dame anticipation about this upcom­graduate student Zheng de ing football season and there Wang, a hit-and-run victim. is a renewed excitement Today, proceeds from The amongst the fans," he said. Shirt are used to fund several "They are ready to show their scholarships and charities, as support for the Irish, so we well as to contribute to have to let them know that Student Government. wearing The Shirt is the best 
Brenner said that it is way to do that." important to The Shirt com­mittee to encourage customers Contact Claire Heininger at to choose The Shirt by making cheining@nd.edu 


-Roger Ebert, EBERT & ROEPER 
"~~ ¦ ~LI-II 
and very well-acted!" 
-David Ansen, NEWSWEEK
"****! A tour de force." 
-C.W. Nevius, SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE 
HUOSIIN HIVfH fNlfRlAINMlNf CHfHHY S!Y HlMS llAY OPHUllUl:IIUNS,nm11 1fRA!llNI, JOHNSUN Rn111:u1w "BHHR lllCK lllMflRROW" PARRY SH[N JASOH TOBIN 
SUNG KANG HOGrn fAN JOIIN Cllfl11111111ooi11,cKARIN ANNA CIJ[IJNG ,ooNNA IINA CHARl[S l'::SlMIAUfnMAIICM11Mlr.l!All J. GON/Al[S l?.:SANIII urn~:YOOJUNG /!AN .i:.'fA!RICf IUClfN COCHfl ''M/JOAN HUANG .:t.GUSTAVO SPOUANSK\' MICHAfl MANSHfl MICHAfl COlf IAOY CRAIG POON rnooirmvJUll[ A.~AIU ERNESTO M. fORONOA,,uJUSIIN UN 111m1rnlRN[SlO MfORONOA JUSTIN UN 
.'.~_ l!t.f~~~J:'.~~~~~~~::::::[:~:~~~'.~-ffi'~r Rr 
STARTS FRIDAY, APRIL 25111 siiow,W:'fis'
I SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT. NO PASSES OR DISCOUNT TICKETS ACCEPTED j ~01~2~~~,~~~ 


By KATE NAGENGAST 
Senior Staff Writer 
Senior \\leek registration will not be held online this year as original­ly planned, because dming Easter Break a source outside the University hacked into the server that supported Senior Week's rcg­istration Web site and compro­mised the site's security, said Matt Smith. senior class president. 
Registration for Notre Dame's Senior Week activities will now be held Thursday from 10 a.m. to 1 
p.m. at Stepan Center. 
Although the server was restored Thursday. Smith and the Senior Oass Council felt it was nec­essary to provide seniors with a definitive registration plan by Wednesday, the day online regis­tration was to have started, and at that time it seemed unlikely the Web registration server would be repaired. 
"Given the circumstances, we did the best we could," Smith said. "Registering online would have been innovative and nice. but we did what was most practical at the time. 
"We're confident that through preparation and staffing, the sys­tem at Stepan will be efficient. We're not just settling for the same old delays," he said. 
Although the new registration plan does require seniors to come to Stepan on Thursday and fill out registration forms in person on paper, Smith said the process is still more similar to the online reg­istration method than the long lines of past years because the event selection process is separated from the payment process, which often takes longer to complete. 
Jacqueline Browder, Senior Week co-chair, said that moving registration to Stepan from its for­mer location in the LaFortune Ballroom will allow for two pay­ment lines and also help to speed up the process. 
"We learned from past mis­takes," Smith said. "We've taken feedback from the last two years and created a manual way of sign­ing up the seniors most efficiently. Essentially it's just like the Web site, but what's disappointing is that you won't be in the comfort of your own home. 
Six of the Senior Week activities require registration at Stepan and three events have a limited num­ber oftickets available. 
Events that require registration are: "Margaritaville" on May 10 for $5; the Chicago Cubs game on May 11 for $35; the golf outing on May 12 for $10; the volleyball tourna­ment also on May 12 for no charge; the Sertior Formal on May 13 for $15 and tailgates at the Notre Dame baseball game on May 14 for no charge. 
Events which do not requrre reg­ist.ration include: Senior Oass Mass on May 11; the class service project May 15; and the last trip to the Grotto and class ring blessing on 
May 15. 
"Margaritavi!le" is limited to 1,000 students, the Chicago Cubs game to 575 and the golf ouling to 80. 
"If seniors really want to get to these events, they should take it upon themselves to get [to registra­tion] early," said Smitl1. 
He said he did not expect mas­sive lines before registration begins at lOa.m. 
'We're going to try to get people in and out as quickly as possible," said Browder. "We know it's a study day and the day after the last day ofclass, so the last thing people want to do is stand in line." 
Seniors who cannot make it to Stepan on Thursday can have a friend register on their behalfifthe fiiend has the absent student's stu­dent ID card, and a signed waiver, which will be available via e-mail byTuesday. 
Only cash and checks made payable to the "University of Notre Dame" will be accepted as pay­ment for Senior Week events. 
Additional information about Senior Week activities can be found at www.nd.edu/-msmith15/ srweek.htm. 
Contact Kate Nagengast at knagenga@nd.edu 

DeBartolo Hall:  
May 1 Times: 10pm to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
May 2 Times: 10pm to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
May 3 Times:  8am to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
May 4 Times:  8am to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
May 5, 6,7, 8:  8am to 3:00am  

36 Non-technology rooms, first come first serve basis. If you have specific needs please see the Building Support Person for assistance. Room 104, 105. 

Mendoza: 
May 1 Times: 5:30pm to 3:00am May 2 Times: 5:30pm to 3:00am May 3 Times: 5:30pm to 3:00am May 4 Times: 1 :OOpm to 3:00am May 5, 6, 7, and 8: 5:30pm to 1:00am Rooms: 121, 122, 203B, 266, 369. 
Coleman-Morse: 1st Floor Lounge 7:00am-4am daily. Always-Free Snacks! 
O'Shaughnessey: Sunday 1:00pm to 3:00am. Monday-Thursday 7:00am-1 :OOam. Rooms: 108, 109, 203, 203A, 204,206,207,208, 209. 
Snacks courtesy ofStudent Union Board 
r------------------------------------~­
O
THE 
BSERVER 









BUSINESS 
Friday, April 25, 2003 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch April 24 

DowJones  
8,440.04  • NASDAQ  -75.62  
1,457.23  ·• S&P500  -8.93  
91 l.43  •  -7.59  
M1EX  
852.08 5,085.30  • NYSE •  -1.80 -49.82  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.72-0.5318.95 
CISCO SYSTEMS ··-{GSCQ}ill::,i,111:i111:::11~1~:111illl 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0. 89 -0. 23 25. 49 
SUN MICROSYSTEM-..(?~iI:11:~l!l1t!l~llltllli.!llllli 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.25 +0.03 12.03 
IN BRIEF 
OPEC cuts summer oil production 
!loping to stabilize weakening crude prices, OPEC members agreed Thursday to cut their current oil output by 2 million barrels a day, or 7 percent. 
At the same time, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries took the sur­prising step of temporarily raising its official output target to 25.4 million barrels, up 900,000 barrels a day from its existing ceil­ing. 
The changes lake effect June 1, OPEC President Abdullah bin Hamad Al-Attiyah said. 
The group, whose 11 members pump about a third of the world's oil, announced its deci­sion at a chaotic news conference at its head­quarters that left some energy analysts bewil­dered. 

Daimler warns as QI earnings slip 
DaimlcrChrysler AC said Thursday it will be difficult for its U.S.-based Chrysler Group to achieve its 2003 profit target, following a first quarter in which heavy incentives and lower volume offset cost savings. 
The German-American automaker said its first-quarter profit fell amid heavy price com­petition and the Iraq crisis, but results still beat analysts' expectations. 
UaimlcrChrysler, created five years ago by the marriage of Daimler-Benz AG and Chrysler Corp.• said it earned 588 million euros ($646 million) for the first three months of 2003 

SEC orders insiders to file via Web 
Investors soon will be able to find out more quickly when corporate executives and direc­tors sell or buy their company stock, following a rule change Thursday by the Securities and Exchange Commissir,n. 
Starting June 30, company insiders no longer will b" able to report their stock trades on papor forms submitted to the SEC. Under the rules adopted by the agency, they will have to file the reports electronically to the SEC and on their companies' Web sites within two business days of the stock transactions instead of the current longer deadlines, most often 40 days. 

American CEO calls it quits 
• Arpey to take over troubled airline company 
Associated Press 
FOHT WOHTJ I, Texas 
The embattled chairman and chief executive of American Airlines resigned Thursday as the flight attendants union split bit­terly over a cost-cutting package that was the last hope for avoiding bank­ruptcy. 
Two other unions repre­senling pilots and ground workers agreed to the company's sweetened offer, but leaders of the flight attendants union were said by a source to be embroiled in a "holy war" over whether to go along. The union's board rejected the deal, but the executive committee was seeking to overturn the decision, a source familiar with the situation said on condition of anonymity. 
The company has said it would file Chapter 11 bankruptcy unless all three labor groups accepted the $1.8 billion in annual wage and benefit concessions. 
With the airline's fate uncertain, Donald J. Carty resigned as chairman and CEO. Gerard Arpey, the company's president, will replace Carty as CEO, while board member Edward A. Brennan will take over as chairman. 
It was not clear, howev­er, whether the combina­tion of Carty's resignation and the sweetened labor deal would be enough to prevent a bankruptcy fil­ing. 

The new deal improves potential bonuses for employees and shortens the length of concessions by one year to five years. The deal would also pro­vide incentives for "addi­tional cash compensation," said John Darrah. presi­dent of the pilots union. 
The original package unraveled last week after employees learned of pre­viously undisclosed execu­tive perks, including bank­ruptcy-proof pensions and huge bonuses. 
Carty apologized for not telJing workers sooner about the executive bene­fits. The company eventu­ally canceled bonuses for the top six executives that were worth twice their annual salary, but left in place $41 million in pen­sion funding for 45 execu­tives. 
Arpey, who will remain as president, said he would work to "restore the confi­dence of all employees in their great company." 
In fact, Arpey late Thursday invited four offi­cers from the flight atten­dants union to his office to discuss the impasse, union spokesman George Price said. The union's board would likely reconvene Friday, Price said. 
Adding to the pressure on Carty was Wednesday's first-quarter financial report from American's parent, AMR, which posted a worse-than-expected $1.04 billion loss. 
After details of the exec­utive perks were made public, two unions last week called for new elec­tions. which threatened American's plans to cut spending by imposing the concessions May 1. Some AMR board members were angered, and one, University of Oklahoma President David Boren, said he would call for Carty's replacement. 
The new management 

team combined the long experience of Brennan with the youth of Arpey, a rising star within American. 
Brennan retired from the helm of Sears in 1995. Some shareholders had demanded his resignation because of the retailer's flagging fortunes and its sale or spinoff of successful side businesses. He has been an AMR board mem­ber since 1987. 

Gigot Center hosts entrepreneurs 
By MATT BRAMANTl 
News Writer 
The Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies will announce a winner today in its Dorothy Dolphin Family Business Plan Competition. 
The competition joins two other similar events, the Mccloskey Business Plan Competition and the Social Venture Plan Competition. hosted by the Gigot Center. 
Major universities commonly host business plan competitions in which participants submit business pro­posals in the hope of winning funds, but the Dolphin Competition is unique in its focus on family-owned enterprises. 
"It's the first time a family busi­ness plan competition has been done anywhere," said David Hayes, director in family business enter­prise at the Gigot Center, which was established in 1998. 
Hayes said the initial stage of the competition featured plans from alumni as well as graduate and undergraduate students. All the entries dealt with businesses run by at least the second generation of family members. while some enter­prises went back three or four gen­erations. Participants submitted brief descriptions of their plans, 
and semi-finalists were invited to submit detailed business plans, which typically include information about the company's operations, financial structure and future prospects. 
Hayes was enthusiastic about the six-member panel. which will judge the final round. The fields of law. business consulting and academia are represented on the panel, which Hayes praised as very quali­fied. 
"These are all family business professionals," Hayes said. 
After a morning of closed-session judging, the Gigot Center will pre­sent the winning team with a $7,000 grand prize to aid in imple­menting its business plan. 
Promotional materials described the four final teams' ambitions for the contest. 
El Fenix Bakery's plan aims to "specialize and consolidate in order to experience growth and stability," according to the team's written description. 
Gilsigner Implement Company is a four-store John Deere dealer hop­ing to effect "the transition of the company to the next generation." 
Wyss Farms, an agricultural pro­duction concern, looks to run its business with "clearly defined goals and responsibilities, including a genuine enthusiasm for the future." 
Martin Whalen Office Solutions, the only alumni team represented in the undergraduate-dominated field, is planning to "change the company from an entrepreneurial one to [one] with an organizational focus." 
Hayes said that family business fits in with the values of the University. 
"With family business initiatives, we're very consistent with what we stand for as a University, as the Notre Dame family," he said. 
He went on to express hope for the future of the Gigot Center·s competitions. 
"From what I've seen in the last couple of days, ... I'd say with a lot of confidence that we're doing something very meaningful," Hayes said. "We operate in the spirit of Notre Dame." 
The competition is named for Dorothy Dolphin, who founded Dolphin Staffing. an employee ser­vice company, in 1969. Her $1,500 investment grew dramatically, and Dolphin Staffing is now the largest company of its kind in Minnesota, serving many Fortune 500 compa­nies. Dolphin's family funds the business plan competition in honor of their mother. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at bramanti. l@nd.edu 
--------------------------,, Friday, April 25, 2003
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
ones we have. I have all the faith in the world that studen1s can do anything," he said. 
In the final part of his address, Hallahan focused on the University's commitment to service and using service as a way to better the world as a whole. 
"We can do more and must work to get to the point where every student can more easily give back to the community," he said. 
Hallahan also said that his administration has begun the eITort to raise awareness of ser­vice opportunities by offering students or clubs funding for "new and creative service work." 
However, Hallahan also said, "We also need to look beyond just doing service work, but to also develop a socially con­cerned mentality on our cam­pus." 
He said the best way to do this is through events such as the conference on Solidarity with Africa, taking place in September and sponsored by the Institute for Church Life. 

"I think we can have more of a socially concerned mentality and really understand what's going on in the world," Hallahan said. "We need to think of where we are and the opportunities we have as opposed to other places, and by doing that we can find ways to grow as students and give back to people who don't have as much as we have." 
At the close of his address, Hallahan stressed the impor­tance of becoming leaders on campus and in the world. 
"We cannot shy away from the opportunity to lead and make a difference both here and throughout the rest of the world," he said. "No longer are we the generation of the future, but instead, we are the genera­tion of the present, and we must accept the responsibility to fully realize the potential we have as leaders in this world." 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at rnreynold@nd.edu 
f -WALLET
'{kpot~~• -l§5: :;~}~i~KS

'\ -CHANGE PURSES 
LOADS OF SILVER JEWELRY, SILVER RINGS AND TOE RINGS, TAPESTRY WALL HANGINGS/BEDSPREADS AND MUCH MUCH MORE 
DIRECT IMPORTERS! LOW PRICES! 
Guatemala -Bolivia -Peru -Thailand -India La Fortune Room 108 
May 5-9 10-5prn 

Proceeds from sales of jewelry guarantee the loving hands of Guatemalan families 3 times their average salary, as well as fur,ds for the,r education 


BC approves gay/straight group 
By JESSICA DALSING 
Senior Staff W rirer 
Boston College has approved its first gay/straight alliance. The alliance was granted official recognition on April 15, following a 28-year struggle for a homosex­ual support group on campus. 
Princeton Review had ranked the Catholic institution as the sec­ond most unwelcoming college to alternative lifestyles. Now, Boston College is ranked among 21 other Jesuit colleges that recognize a gay/straight alliance on campus. 
Paul Brienes, faculty adviser of the Lesbian, Gay and Bisexual Community of Boston College commented about the recognition in an April 22 article in the col­lege's student newspaper, The Heights. 
"This is a great day for Boston College. I feel immensely proud of the students who made this hap­pen. and I know that others who have waited for this will be forev­er grateful." Brienes said. 
Boston College appears to be making great strides toward a more open community, yet this does not mean that they have surpassed other Catholic institu­tions. 
"Notre Dame has been a leader within the Catholic context due to the model of the Standing Committee," said Sister Mary Gude, chair of the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Needs for Notre Dame in a February Observer article. 
However, Notre Dame has not officially recognized Outreach ND. the homosexual student group on campus. Yet, the Standing Committee fulfills many of the same roles that Boston College's new student group Allies hopes to pursue. 
"Allies seems to have great par­allels to the Notre Dame Standing Committee," Gude said Wednesdav. 
The club has paid special atten­tion to the Catholic component of Boston College. In the club consti­tution, the group promises to "consider issues concerning sexu­ality and sexual orientation in the context of the University's Jesuit, Catholic tradition." 
The Notre Dame Standing Committee is directed toward the needs of the gay, lesbian or bisex­ual student. Gude said the com­mittee offers coffee hours, retreats and other opportunities for students to "discuss sexual orientation in the context of the Catholic tradition." 
Nlics must work within a num­ber of different limits in order to keep their club status. It is strictly a support group and not allowed to be involved in any protests or advocacy. 
The Notre Dame Standing Committee must also work within the limits allowed by the University. 
"The student members of tho Standing Committee have been adept at understanding how to walk the fine line," Gude said. 
Contact Jessica Dalsing at jdalsing@nd.edu 


SATURDAYI 
DO:UBLE HEADER 
WOMEN vs. Norchwcsccrn -11AM MEN vs. H.xvard -2PM Moose Krause Field 
**Enjoy a FREE Famous Dave's BBQ@ both games! **Watch the FRISBEE DOGS perform @ both games! **FREE ADMISSION! 

SUNDAYI 
WOMENS LACROSSE ND vs. Rucgecs -1PM 
Moose Krause Field 
**Early fans get a FREE lacrosse stick with ball! **FREE ADMISSION! 
Friday, April 25, 2003 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Alabama executes man convicted of 1986 killing 
Associated Press  injection Thursday for the Gary Leon Brown. 44, was 1986 stabbing death of a 60­executed after Gov. Bob Riley  He made no final state­ment, but appeared to mouth  
ATMOHE. Ala.  year-old  man  during  a  rob­ denied  him  clemency  on  the words "go with God" and  
A  man  was  executed  by  bery.  Wednesday.  "forgive them"  to  his wife.  
Elizabeth Anne Brown, who  
was in the witness room with  

,--~f:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_::-_-_-.-_-_-.-.-_-_-_-_-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-_-_-.-.-_-_-.-.-:_-.-.-_-_:-.~~~-.:-:;------.Brown's friend.
None of' the victim's family 

THE

Tlie......... 


OF THE 


Aw,'!':!'!!t'.!!.~~=~!"!:.,West 
Evening Talks: 7:30pm, 141 DeBartolo Hall Friday, April 25t& Building a Culture of Life Saturday, April 26th: Marriage and Celibacy 
Both-talks are open to Jlte public. 
A Day of Prayer: 9am-5pm, Coleman-Morse A Crash Course in the Theology ofthe Body 
•c111utopller West will cive talks OD the TJ,eoiogy of11,e Body coapled 
with Ma" and other times for prayer and refleetio ¦ on the Holy Father's life-chan,:i111 tucllinga. 
*Please register for tlte Day ofPrqer. Pfuse sendyow-, addras, pltontt n11mbu, unall tlddress, and II clteckfor SJ I madl! out to !Votn Danv Rig/rt lo l.ife to: 
Notre D11rw Right to Life JU Lil Fortwte Student Center Notre Dome, IN ~6556 
Qucsnm•~ conll<t rnwl«lcy@rld.edu 

~~IE~ 
presents 


BOWLING FOR COLUMBINE 

<C> MOM . <C> UNITED ARTISTS 
attended the execution. 
gy 
Brown told investigators that he and his cohorts went to the home of Jack David McGraw on Memorial Day 1986 to drink with him, hop­ing that McGraw would pass out so they could rob him. 
But McGraw said he had to 
work the next day and couldn't party with them. 
lie was tackled and dragged back inside the resi­dence, and Brown said he repeatedly stabbed McGraw with a pocketknife. 
McGraw's body was left in the mobile home, where he lived alone, until it was found by neighborhood children. lie had been robbed of $67 and 
several appliances. 
At the time of the murder, Brown was out of jail on bond in an unrelated rob­bery. 
The trial judge noted that fact in upholding the jury's recommendation for death. 
McGraw, described in trial testimony as a homosexual. was stabbed 78 times. 
According to trial testimo­ny, the killers boasted of the murder using homosexual slurs. 
Prosecutors said the sav­ageness of the attack indicat­ed the killing may not have been simply a robbery. but it was not prosecuted as a hate crime. 
Archie Bankhead, accused in court of cutting McGraw's throat with a butcher knif'e. is now serving life without parole. Also convicted in the murder was James Lynn Bynum, who was paroled from a life sentence in 1997. 
...·· .· . ' 
·· 


TWO MEN ANDA TRUCK 
"Movers Who Care®" 
• 
Residential • Local & Long Distance 

• 
Commercial • Boxes & Packing Supplies 

• 
Packing Service • Loading & Unloading of 

• 
Insured & Bonded Rental Trucks Available 



(57'1) 675-9700 
www.twomenandatruck.com 
Visit Our Box Store! 
11590 McKinley. Suite D • Osceola, IN 46561 
Now accepting applications for summer help 

... 
..41 
.,

i: J:., :, 
G) .c 
Ill ii 
..41 ,: II) " 
Q. 1
.. 
111 

..41 l! ~ 
Q. 0 >, ii 
0 gj
,, ~ .c a. 
r: ~ E
C 
Cl

,n 0 I: 0 
1:1 • ~ 
~ 

111 ~ C) 
CJ 'i .c 0 
C)

'iii :ii: 
g 
:r

...E ~ !
0 
~ 
C. == 
0 
-:3' 
....
:, i.',
i!! 0
,,
i 
i g, I ~ 
:r () 
C
i I
C. 
fC 0
::, l i 


; :r
:, S" 

Date: April 25th and 26th 
f 
:;
!!. ~ 
:I s
Ill
:, 


Admission: $3 

T'~ H" ..~ •
Movie Times: Friday & Saturday 



~l_.,e ~.appy 1r"'t·1nce 
Tickets, $6 resenied seating, $3 unioni/s1udents. Avallable at the LaFortune Bo• Olflcee (574) 631-11128
(8 and 10:30 PM) 
O
THE 
BSERVER 









IEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, April 25, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nom: Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR Busrmss MANAGER Scott Brodfuehrer Lori uwalski 
NEWS EDITOR; Meghanne Downes 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm 
SPOIi.TS EDITOR: Joe Hettler 
ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO WITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
SAINT MA.R\'"'s EDITOR: .Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Ccneddla 
AD DESIGN MANAGl!R: Tom Haight 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek 
CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 
Svsn:Ms MANAGER: Ted Bangert 
CONTACT Us 
OfFICE MANAGERiGENERAL INF0 .......•..•... 631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 
ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 
MANAGING Emma/AsS'r. ME.. .................. 631-4541 
BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................ 631-5313 
NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. l@nd.edu ScENE..... ....................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARYS .............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0 .......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 

THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://o6server.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns. as weil as cartoons and reviews. 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either insrirurion. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department edimrs. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qurstions ngarding Oburver policies should he direct­ed to Editor in ChiefAndrew Soukup. 

POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tht-Obrna (USPS 599 2-40} is pvtililb.-d Monday rhro~ hiday acrrr during aam andna1ion pcriod1, A 1uhi:cription 10 The Oh-K'twris 1100 fu,onc: academic yc-.u-: tss for on,: 'KT!tc,ucf. 
Thr Oh1enu i1 pubfuh....J ti: 1'0.S-TMASTl!.K 
02. ~01.uh Diniri.t Ha!J 5&nJ .tdJlt"ll wrl'tl.;ciOHI to: 
Nctm' ll.imc. lN "6';56 TIM, O~c-r 
P.O. Km:Q l'a-ioclii;al.pae:up paid al' No1r~ D.uru-Notre DaIM, [N 46556-0779 ~ ad.:linonal mailing offico: 
lkObs.cn-ci u .i. n'IQ'nbcr of rhea Auocured. P1cn, A.!1,quod..aioo nihu ue ""'crvcd, 
University can't turn a blind eye to suits 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Helena Payne Matt Lozar Bill Puckett Pat Leonard Matt Bramanti Lisa Rejula Viewpoint Scene 
Teresa Fralish Sarah Vabulas Graphics Lab Tech Chris Naidus Claire Kelley 
When underage students entered The Boat Club on Jan. 24, they did so knowing their actions were illegal. But no one could have imagined I.he chain of events that could have been trig­gered by a bar bust. Students have faced disciplinary action from the Office of Residence Life and criminal action from St. Joseph County; this week they discovered they are OJhe 
userver

being sued for $3,000 truth. Boat Chili was the hangout for underage students for two years, the popular place for 19th and 20th birth­day parties and the bar where bounc­ers often turned a blind eye to ques­tionable identification. Most of the peo­ple in the bar on any given night were underage, and the night of the Jan. 24 
raid was no different. Police cited 213 under­age patrons and esti­mated that at most 300 

each. people were in the bar The lawsuit alleges -meaning at least two­


Editorial

that underage students misrepresented their age and falsely signed an affidavit stat­ing they were 21. It seeks damages from the underage students to help defray damages, expenses and other losses. In short, the suit implies that the underage individuals who entered The Boat Club should be held account­able for the repercussions the bar has faced since the bust. The suit would have you believe students took advan­tage of a bar that did its best to keep out underage patrons. 
Any student, Notre Dame or Saint Mary's, knows that was far from the thirds of those in the 
bar were there illegally. 
This lawsuit, if successful, would allow a bar that relied on underage clientele to prosper. Clearly, underage students were wrong to use fake iden­tification to enter the bar. But they have already paid the price for thejr actions -both in ResLlfe and in court. A successful civil lawsuit means stu­dents will have to pay fines to a club that claimed ignorance but had a rep­utation for letting underage patrons in. 
Instead of suggesting that the University cannot be responsible for students' actions off campus, school 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Parietals disrupt social life 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should the University intercede on behalf of students facing a Boat Club lawsuit? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Tuesday at 5 p.m. 

officials who already punished stu­dents should intervene and assist stu­dents in fighting the lawsuit. By pun­ishing students for drinking underage while at the same time protecting them from frivolous lawsuits, the University would send a two-fold mes­sage: students will be punished for breaking the law. and bars cannot benefit by catering to underage patrons. 
Leaving students to face lawsuits on their own creates the possibility that The Boat Club could receive a pay­check of over $600.000 -all because of the owners' dubious claim they didn't know underage students patron­ized their club. By seeking payment now from the underage clients it wel­comed before the bust, Boat Club is trying to profit further from its lax admissions practices. The University should step in on behalf of the stu­dents to ensure that the club faces its share of the consequences for what h1tppened on Jan. 24. The students who have already paid their fines, per­formed their community service and made their court appearances have certainly faced theirs. 
Let's face it. Parietals are about one thing and one thing only: sex. I mean try to figure it out. Why else would such a rule be in place? Sure, the University will sprout out some bull about it being a "natural end to the night" or a way to "quiet the dorm down." But if that were true, why are parietals pushed back on breaks, when no one has any class the next day and there are relatively few people in the dorm to bother? This Friday parietals have been pushed back to midnight in my dorm because people taking the MCAT need to sleep. I respect that, but why don't we just make quiet hours at midnight and then enforce them? It's time the University stops treating us like we're still in junior high. We can have girls over and not be loud. No, parietals are not in place to quiet the dorm down. Parietals are in place because the University has a ridiculous no-sex policy, a policy that the administration knows it can't enforce without the aid of parietals. 
What the University doesn't seem to understand is that there already is a "natural end to the night." It's the time when everyone gets tired and goes home. Meri and women can be friends and they can stay out past 2 a.m. without having sex. It has happened before. But parietals discourage members of the opposite sex from being just friends. When a group of friends is hanging out, the girls are not going to stay past parietals because eventually they'll want to go home and going home puts people at risk of get­ting caught. Couples, on the other hand, usually have few problems with breaking parietals because they don't mind staying the whole night. It happens almost every day, and 1·d bet that a large percentage of the people on this campus have broken parietals at some point. In this way, parietals 
only hinder gender relations on this campus and do nothing to limit sexual contact. Parietals may have some benefits. Many people have expressed that they like parietals because that means that their roommate's girlfriend or boyfriend has to leave at a certain time. My 
response is that you should be able to talk to your roommate. a person who is supposed to be your friend, about their signifi­cant other being over too 

much. In real life, you can't just ignore problems until they go away. Yet another way that parietals disrupt the social lives of Notre Dame stu­dents. I realize that not everyone shares my views. I would love to hear what you. stu­
dents, faculty, alumni and parents, have to say. This is an issue that affects all of us but does not receive adequate discussion. Many people believe that there is noth­ing we can do to change the status quo. I say that talking about the issue is a great starting point. 
Ramin Saghafi 
sophomore Sr. Edward's Hall April 24 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Experience is a hard teacher because she gives the test first, the lesson afterward.,, 
Vernon Law Pittsburgh Pirates pitcher 

OifstRVER 




VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, April 24, 2003 page 11 
Choosing between the destination or journey oflife 

For most Notre Dame seniors, the remaining montll of their final semester is lwctic, emotional and unsettling. At this timn :-m ycur:; ago, it wus no different for me. It was a time when I was approach­ing Lhc destination or my undergrad­uate education and beginning the 
journey of my 
career. It wu::; nol a time for mn to reflect 011 what I might value more -my life's jour­ney or my lifo's cl esti nation. 
Today, with three decades of socio.I intPraction and experience behind me, 1 can betwr dr.bate the value or both. Few among us can foresee at an narly age what our life may hold. During tragic times in our lives, like the death of a loved one, we scrutinize every aspect of life. Yet it is at the milestones of our lives, like college graduation, that we should take Um opportunity to routinely appreciate from where we have come and contnmplal!\ where we arc going. 
Upon graduation from college, most of us do not know what lies ahead on our journey of life. Each of us would relish the opportunity to relate with others in such a way that positively influences them. Some. like the Pope or other well­known figures, arc role models for mil-lions across the world. Most of us have a life. more limited scoµe of influence, but none Looking back on my personal journey, I less important than others. The secret for immediately recall three high points. The making a difference in another's life is experiences of some duration that I most knowing how to relate your per-enjoyed occurred while studying sonal journey with an eye on in graduate school, working at your destination. Singer the U.S. House of Elton John expressed it Representatives on a best when he wrote, Congressional commit­"How wonderful life is tee and my appoint­while you're in the ment in the Clinton world." Administration. 

May is a special While all three month at Notre relate to the world Dame. For me, it of politics. I can conjures memories attribute those of opening dormito• peaks to several ry windm~·s to invite passing events that a fresh smelling served as bricks in evening breeze that my road. tingles with the imma­When I pause to ture warmth ofspring. analyze my stepping In the distance, the stones, it begin at age 11 excessive chatting of ducks with my standing two feet on the lakes prevents solitary from President John silence. Everything on campus Kennedy. His charm and influ­
seems to awaken from the long, gray, overcast winter. lt can be a time that brands itself into the minds of those who experience spring on campus. 
For the Class of 2003, the coming month invites every senior to savor each moment with an eye on what may lie ahead. While it may be a time to set career and family goals, it is also a time to reflect on the journey taken thus far. Life, in general, is a mixture ofjourneys and destinations. Both should be equally appreciated to robustly walk the path of 
ence led thousands of his time to seek public service careers. I am one of those who sought to follow Kennedy's call. But where has it led? Since my experience with President Kennedy, I either attended events with presidents or shook hands with Presidents Nixon, Carter, Reagan, Clinton and both President Bushes. My political journey has been particularly generous with presidential meetings, something I could never have fathomed at age 11. 
Since about the age ofseven, one of my Notre Dame classmates, along with his 

family, focused their utmost energies on 
him attending Notre Dame. Once he was 
accepted into my class, his influence on 
others and his experiences on campus 
highlighted his life. However, upon grad­
uation, he found himself with no more 
important destination. llis journey to and 
through Notre Dame had been his most 
important quest in his life. Today, while 
successful and somewhat content, his life 
is anti-climatic. Ile will watch Notre 
Dame sporting events on television, but 
for 20 years he has not stepped foot on 
the campus that was once his reason for 
living. 

With commencement addresses and the wisdom of many elders about to bombard the Class of 2003, I add my advice. The wonders of life during your personal jour­ney are like a spring shower. The first few drops feel like they have no effect. But with time, as the shower continues, it eventually drenches everything. The jour­ney will bo most rewarding if you savor each drop as it falls. And remember, you are a drop on the journey of others, so make life wonderful while you're in the world. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame class of 1973, served in President Clintons administra­tion as a Congressional and public affairs director. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dollars reward bias 
This is in response to Vincent Laufer's April 24 letter. I commend him for trying to get an objective perspective on world affairs. But, as I am sure most of you know, the media is paid to be biased. 
Newsweek and Fox News are rather conservative while CNN bats lefty. But there is not a truly unbiased source ofinformation. There is an agenda behind virtually every broadcast, even though I believe people like Bill O'Reilly have concretely pointed out biases and what he likes to call "spin." I do not agree with him on some issues, but it is interesting to see how unfair some people and the media can be. Not to pick on the Democrats -even though I personally like to -but recently several Senators have come out criticizing car companies for pollution from their SUVs in particular. And after their tirade, they ride off in their parade of Yukons or whatever enormous SUVs of their choosing. 
It is disheartening, however, that we live in a society that puts agendas before fairness. CNN wants to attack Fox News because of their higher ratings and for other reasons, so they headline an article of a Fox News employee trying to bring back Iraqi merchandise. While I do not think this is right, it is not headline material. Fox News takes their own jabs against CNN and The New York Times whenever they can. The American people are left with a barrage of information that they are to sort out themselves. And subsequently, people's own ideas and convictions will usually dismiss information that invades their "comfort zone" and accept what they believe to be true. In effect, there seems to be an increase in polarity on many issues, which can only lead to further disagreement. 
Paul Fowler 
senior offcampus April 24 

Seniors, contribute to The Observer's Senior Week Edition. Send your letters to viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
Use anger to battle ignorance 
I write because I am compelled to respond to Michaela Murray-Nolan's April 24 letter to the editor which supported John Litle's column as a healthy dose of anger at the tragedy which occurred on Sept. 11, 2001. 
I worry about several things which she wrote in her letter, the first of which is her support of generalizations as statements which are "partly inflammatory and partly true." I think that it is important to realize that nearly every statement contains some element of truth -even lies. The fact that there are some -perhaps many -Arabs who are ignorant is not useful in determin­ing the fate of an entire region. There are also some -perhaps many -white Americans who are ignorant, yet that does not give us sufficient grounds to "fight" their ignorance with bombs and guns. 
I agree with Murray-Nolan that freedom of speech is truly a great American liberty and that Litle has every right to opine whatever he wishes about racial and ethnic groups. But 1think that perhaps the best method for combating ignorance is that which has already been so well demonstrat­ed by the faculty members who wrote in to correct Litlc's misstatements about Arabs and the Middle East, not violence born out of the anger which many of us felt after being attacked in our own country. 
With respect to Murray-Nolan's criticisms of those who oppose the war, I wish to pose to her the following question: Which prob­lem is it that the U.S. is there to solve? It certainly cannot be ignorance, because we are undoubtedly guilty of taking a very "passive" strategy in our efforts to fight ignorance and lack of education worldwide. 
Apparently then, it is not interest in the education of the Iraqi people which puts our soldiers in the Iraqi desert. And it can­

not be just because we want to make Iraq a better place or because we disagreed with its former regime. In my mind, Iraq will be a better place after we have finished recon­structing it, but that is not why we are there. We disagree with our neighbor, Fidel Castro, in the way he administers his coun­try, and we could certainly invade and set up a government more tasteful to us, yet no one would seriously advocate doing so. 
So apparently it was not these altruistic and humanitarian reasons which compelled us to wage war against Saddam, but rather because we felt that his regime posed a real and imminent security threat to the United States by fomenting terrorism and creating weapons intended to harm us and our allies. Many disagree with the current administration over whether this was actu­ally the case, including myself. 
Though I do not want to engage in a debate which is now essentially moot, I think that it is important for those of like minds with Murray-Nolan to realize that it was not only disagreement over the solu­tion which motivated those who opposed the war, but also disagreement over the problem. 
The same Sept. 11 anger that Murray­Nolan supports as useful in battling igno­rance is what I believe has fueled many of the rash and irrational decisions made by authority figures that have had serious neg­ative consequence for civil liberties domes­tically and peace internationally. Perhaps the first problem of' ignorance which we should focus on solving is that which exists here at home. 
Ross Wilson 
Washington, D.C. Class of '02 April 24 
THE 
OBSERVER 

Friday, April 25, 2003 

page 12 
Love culn1.inates in operas 
Notre Dame opera reminds audiences ofthe transforming power of love 
By LAUREN PRlCE 
Scene Writer 
At first glance, the Notre Dame Opera seems to be a little confused this year. After all, the bottom half of the posters advertising Malcolm Williamson's "The Happy Prince" and Henry Purcell's "Dido and Aeneas" are upside down. :\nd initially Williamson's 1965 opera adaptation of Oscar Wilde's play seems to have little in common with Purcell's 1689 mythical baroque masterpiece. 
But the two one-act operas, directed by John Riley-Schofield, are connected by a deep and moving theme: the power of self-sacrificing love to over­whelm all else. They both star strong­voiced women facing cruel realities and dashing lead men whose duty brings pain to those around them. Silva Schuster's fantastic Gostumes and make-up design bring the characters to life. 
In "Dido and Aeneas," evil appears personified, whereas in "The Happy Prince," Evil is the looming specter of miserable poverty. 
Their three centuries separate musi­cal styles, under the fine baton of John Apeitos, no doubt differ. However, regardless of stylistic divergences, the parallel portrayals of Love's power make this theatrical double-header a not-to-miss production. 
The characters of "Dido and Aeneas" come from ancient mythology, telling a story of the Queen of Carthage, played by senior Angela Zawada, and the Trojan prince, played by senior Michael Holderer. 
The first scene opens as Aeneas' dark, warm bass voice declares his love for Dido. At first, she cannot accept his affection, even though she loves him too. Her sister Belinda, played by charming Danielle Svonavec, and her emotionally honest "alter ego," played by Kate Daugherty's Second Woman, convince Dido to accept Aeneas' love. 
The chorus' well-rehearsed, but occasionally self-conscious, dances in praise of Love and Beauty. All seems well. 
Then enters Evil, the majestic Sorceress played by sophomore tenor Brandon Hollihan. She and her two partners-in-crime, the delightfully bickering and light-footed Witches, played by sophomores Erin Sjostrom and Jamie Pilloni, contrive a plot to break her heart and take the city. The Sorceress sends a playful Spirit mes­senger, played by Jeff Golden to Aeneas, allegedly as from Zeus, demanding that he leave Carthage. 
Yes, that's right. The SorcerESS demands Zeus' exit. Although an all­female cast originally performed "Dido and Aeneas," Riley-Schofield's decision to cast Hallihan conforms to traditional performances. And besides, as Hallihan quips, "Evil was always meant to be a flat-chested deity! Playing an evil woman is a wonderful challenge to my acting techniques... She just controls everything." 
The supernatural does run the show. Aeneas is torn between his desire to stay and his duty to the gods; Dido refuses to let him stay. As he leaves, Dido realizes her love for him is too great for this earth. Zawada's heartfelt deliverance of the famous aria "When I am laid in earth" only becomes more haunting by the Sorceress' sinister fig­ure triumphing over her. Dido's still body is surrounded by her loving citi­zens, obeying her last command to "Remember me! hut forget my fate ... " 
Despite the apparent triumph of Evil, the chorus sings for the angels to come and cover her tomb with roses "soft and gentle as her heart." 
"The Happy Prince" opens with 
another still figure center stage: the statue of the Prince, played by golden­voiced freshman Nicholas Tonozzi. The townspeople come and go around him, singing blithely in complicated chorus. Only the partying and hallucinating woman Swallow, played by senior soprano Kristen Moskow, pays him much attention. In fact, under Riley­Schofield's direction and interpreta­tion, the entire opera almost consists of Swallow's psychedelic fantasies. Complete with disco ball and hazy orchestration like Gilligan's dream sequence music, this opera makes quite a beautiful fantasy! 
On her way to Egypt, a new nightclub in this production, Swallow stops for a rest and warmth under 1.he statue of the Prince, who comes to life in her hallucinations. From his place above the town, he can see a Seamstress' sick Son, a poor Author and a penniless match girl. Three times he begs her to take the riches from his statue and give them to the town's poor. It hurts her to pluck them from his body, but she gives his ruby, sapphires and gold to the needy townspeople who he can see from his pedestal. 
Swallow begins to love this selfless and beautiful Prince, but the winter is setting in. Because she has been delayed in her departure for warmer climate -here the new production demands an allegorical interpretation of dialogue -she dies on the cold, frozen ground at his feet. 
The townspeople and the Mayor, played by an impressive Juan Pablo Alban, discover her body under the weatherworn and undignified statue of the Prince. They insist the statue and body be thrown into a furnace, but the lighting changes and an angelic choir declares that Swallow and the Prince's broken lead heart are the city's most precious possessions. 


TIM KACMAR/The Observer 

The delightful, bickering witches are partners with the Sorceress. 
The two stories, as different in plot as in harmonics, both beautifully remind the audience of the transforming power of Love. These days, that's always a welcome message. 
"Dido and Aeneas" and "The Happy Prince" play at Washington Hall Friday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are available at the LaFortune box office. 
Contact Lauren Price at lprice@nd.edu 

TIM KACMAR/The Observer The Sorceress, played by sophomore tenor Brandon Holllhan, sends a playful Spirit messenger allegedly as from Zeus, demanding that he leave Carthage. 


r 
Friday, April 25, 2003 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Irish search for chemistry 

Perusing the Notre Dame football media guide from last year. one can't help but notice the relative variety of majors. 
There's psycholo­gy majors, sociology majors, political science majors 

and film 
Andrew Soukup 
majors. There's marketing 
majors, Sports Writer 
finance majors, account­ing majors, computer majors. There's even the occasional pre-med or engineering major. 
The only thing missing, it seems, is a chemistry major. 
That's ironic, especially considering how Notre Dame's team chemistry helped propelled the Irish to an 8-0 start when national experts figured the Irish would have been lucky to escape from September with only two losses. 
Last year's Irish had a severe aversion to losing. lt began in January, when Tyrone Willingham ended his first team meeting with a PowerPoint slide that said simply, "Win." It continued through the summer, when the focus was not on a team that had two losing seasons in three years but on a team one year removed from a BCS bowl. It permeated the fall, as coaches assigned offensive players defensive roommates. It dominated the final week of practice, when the mantra was win at all costs instead of a scatterbrained focus on individual units. 
By the time Notre Dame stormed onto a field against a higher-ranked Maryland squad, most expected a blowout game. Few expected the Irish would deliver the smackdown. 
The 2002 Irish didn't know how to lose because the word had never crept into their vocabulary. A senior class fed up with three years of medi­ocrity refused to allow that to happen. 
But unlike teams in the Bob Davie era, the Irish seemed to be more about action and less about talking. Jeff Faine reserved his leadership by setting an impressive exam­ple on the field. The diminu­tive Shane Walton earned the respect of his teammates to the point where he was voted team MVP. And two years of inconsistency couldn't keep Arnaz Battle from becoming Notre Dame's offensive go-to guy. 
Behind the seniors, behind the leaders, the Irish won games based on a sheer force of will. And if they want to duplicate their 2002 success, the leaders of the 2003 Irish need to begin making their presence heard -and seen -immediately. 
Each team is unquestion­ably unique, and developing solid team chemistry is about as difficult as riding a unicy­cle blindfolded. But every great team has great chem­istry -and great leaders who help bind the team together. 
The leaders are already starting to emerge. Vontez Duff, Darrell Campbell and Courtney Watson will play in their final spring game Saturday, and each has sig­nificant goals for the Irish before the next Notre Dame team plays in a Blue and Gold game. Carlyle Holiday already demonstrates a confi­dence -with his arm and with his mouth -he rarely showed last season. Countless others will emerge in the summer months to help shape Notre Dame's sea­son. 
They'll have huge shoes to fill, too. The departing seniors made up arguably one of the best leadership classes in recent Irish histo­ry. Through words or exam­ples, each member left an indelible impact on the Irish football program. 
Now, their successors will try to make a bigger one. 
And their success won't be evaluated in degrees -it will be judged by trophies in the case at the end of the year. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
ND Habitat lor Humanity presents 




.. 
Today, 11 am• 4 pm 
. ...
.,,.
,,,.,_ .. South Quad Flagpole
~. ·.·;• 
.I 
Concession Stand and FREE Sno~ Cones!! 
The lollowing people have agreed to be jailed: 
Aaron Medlock  Colin Dowdall  Kevin McCormick  Matthew Smedberg Roxie Trevino  
Allison Ferber  Courtney Waggenspack  Laurie Moore  Meagan Call  Ryan Goes  
Alyse Latour Andrea Wolfe  Elizabeth Fruzynski Erin Dally  Laurie Riesbeck Lindsay Lichtenberg  Megan Bears Megan Johnson  Sara Goodman Sarah Bates  
Andrew Hochsteitler  Gina Lopresto  Lindsay Lutz  Michael Hannigan  Sarah Brown  
Anne Kwiatt  Jacqueline Pimentel-Gannon Lynn Wojszynski  Michelle Beasley  Sarah Finnane  
Annie McDonough Annie Nagengast Ben Anderson  Jeff Skarski Jennifer Morgan Jim Kronn  Maggie MacDonald Margaret Morgen Maria Mahon  Mike Lyden Missy Spurr Nicholas Diacou  Sean Ryan Sean Smith Sister Susan Dunn  
Brenna Mannion  Jordan Biessel  Marissa Congemi  Nick Ca Jacob  Talia Goldman  
Brian Adams  Karis Kornfied  Matt Castellan  Peter Garrison  Tanya de Sousa  
Charles Senkier  Katie Ball  Matt Feeks  Peter MacCourtney  Taylor Hemps  
Chase Heaton  Katie Wagner  Matt Hogancamp  Rashelle Simpson  Tim Dysart  
Christina Bax  Kevin Crumb  Matt Molyneux  Rebecca Cashore  Tommy Gaeta  
Christine Armstrong  Kevin Haas  Matt Mulka  Robert Bauchman  Will Dubon  

Come to South Quad and just pay $5 lor NDSP to come pick up your lriends and jail them! 
Friday, April 25, 2003 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Leading his troops 
Milligan only returning starter on inexperienced offensive line 
ure" for the group. He's been
. Guard will be 
in almost every situation theleader on and off linemen will face and he's 
learned the ropes throughout
field for Irish 
his career. "Bight now. obvious to every­
By JOE HKITLER 
one is that we don't have a lot 
Spmrs EJitor 
of experience on the offensive 
line so one of' the guys we'veSean Milligan looked to his really leaned on from a coach­lnl't, then to his right during the 
es standpoint to teach the
first practice in spring f'ootball 
young guys how lo go about
and saw nobody he recognized. 
their business is Sean
The faces hn had seen all of' Milligan," offensive line coachlast season as a starter on the 
Mike Oenbruck said. "He'sIrish nffonsivc line were 
really taken on that role and
nowhere to be found. In their 
taken in to heart and reallyplace were an array of new 
been a positive force into the
facm;, inexperience and poten­
way we've conducted ourselves
tial /\ bunch of guys that had 
this spring."
Lhe talent. bul sorely lacked gamo day experience. A new role So Milligan knew what his 
Milligan admHs he's not a role would be as a fifth-year 
vocal leader. He'd much rather 
senior for Notre Dame's 2003 
let his play talk. then his football Warn. 
words. So instead of getting in "It rnally was a shock looking 
his teammates faces this 
around and not seeing any 
spring, Milligan simply resort­Ifaces from last year I any ed to executing his blocks to more. It meant 
perfection
that I had to 
and showing 
step up and "It really was a shock 
others the bncome a looking around and not way to carry
leader," 
themselves
seeing any {faces from 
Milligan said. on off In his throe last year}." and 
the field. 
years as a 
''I'm not startur at 
Sean MIiiigan really much 
guard, Milligan 
of a vocal
guard
never had to be type of guy.
the main 
I'm trying to 
leader. Ile had 
lead by example and be there teammates like Jeff Faine and for the other guys,n MilliganScan Mahan who would take said. "If they have any ques­
charge of thu unit and had a 
tions, I encourage them to 
vocal presence. But now it's 
come and talk to me. They'reMilligan's turn to be the gener­
going to be the guys in there al of the offensive line. a line 
playing with me so I want guysthat, arguably, presents more 
in there that know what they'requestion marks than any other doing."position for the Irish when they 
As a three-year starter for 
head into the fall season. 
the Irish, Milligan's play at the 
guard position has done a lot of
From old to young 
talking. He's played in over 400
Of last year's regular starting 
minutes during his career,
offensive line, only Milligan including 266:27 last season.
remains. Gone is guard Mahan The Norcross, Ga. native start­
and tackles Brennan Curtain ed 17 games in his first three
and Jordan Black, and All­
years and came off the bench
American center Jeff Faine 
in seven others. Last season,
declared himself eligible in 
Milligan started 12 of 13
January for this weekend's than adequate job helping his
games. As a sophomore, he
NFL Draft. younger teammates.
started live games before suc­
Leaving with those four are "He certainly has a lot to
cumbing to an injury that limit­
117 career starts and countless offer these younger guys in
ed his action in several other
minutes blocking defenders in terms of experience and being
games throughout that season.
the trenches of the football out there and doing it,"
Denbrock said he believes
field. In their place are fresh Denbrock said. "We're fortu­
Milligan's work ethic has been
faces -guys like junior Dan nate that he feels comfortable
a good example for his team­
Stevenson, who's only career enough to step up in that role."
mates to follow throughout the 
start came in last year's Gator Milligan won't just be a good
spring practice sessions and in
Bowl loss lo North Carolina player for the Irish next fall,
the weight room.
State. Stevenson recorded 82 but he'll also be a coach on the
"As a player he's making
minutes, 23 seconds in 11 field. His team­
strides on 
games for last year's Irish mates will turn
his own 
squad, which gives him the to him when
accord,"
second most ('Xperience, in they're frustrat­
Denbrock "He certainly has a lot to
terms, of minutes of the return­ed with their
said. "You 
ing lineman. offer these younger guys coaches or if
would think Fellow sophomore Mark you would in terms ofexperience they don't agree 
J.eVoir has played in all of six with what those
get to a and being out there and 
games during his first two coaches
point, sume­are 
years al Notre Dame and start­t i m e s . doing it." telling them. ed zero. Senior Jim Molinaro "It's kind of
where you
does bring some experience to like your par­
feel like 
Mike Denbrock

the unit. but has only started in you've got it ents telling you
offensive line coach

3 games while playing in 17 licked, and something and others. you've got you won't listen Centers Zach Giles and Bob to them, but
the gameMorton have never played in a figured out. Sean's never you'll listen to it from a friend collegu game, while other line­struck me as a guy that feels or someone else's parents," men like Jamie llyan, Brian that way and he's always Denbrock said. "So the more Mattes, Darin MiLchell and Jeff worked hard at getting better that our young guys can hear Thompson all will be vying for and it's helped the other guys the right things and the things spots despite none or very lim­follow his example." we're trying to get across and ited playing time during their While Milligan might not be teach, the better it is for them." careers. totally comfortable with his His teammates agree that All this inexperience leaves new role, Denbrock believes Milligan's experience will help Milligan as a sort of "father fig-the senior has done a more them during practice and in 

games. 
"He is a leader because he has more experience than any­one else. He has been through it more than we have and we have to look up to him with respect," Mitchell said. 
Proving doubters wrong 
The expectations aren't very high for Notre Dame's offensive line next season, but Milligan isn't worried. He's heard the questions surrounding the line­men. He knows people think they're too young and that their inexperience will be cost­ly. I-le understands people's concerns about the loss of four starting offensive linemen from the 2002 football squad. 
But the lineman has stayed 
calm  and  focused  on  the  
upcoming season.  
"I  think  we've  made  big  

strides on the offensive line," Milligan said. " ... Now we have the whole offense pretty much in and we know what we're doing, and we feel more com• fortable with the guys around us." 
Now it's only a matter of time for the line to mesh together and gain the game experience they are desperately lacking. But how long it will take is unknown to anyone, including Milligan. 

UYou can go through all the practice you want, but you don't know what it's like to be in there until you're actually in the fire," Milligan said. "When the bullets are flying and you've got 300-pound guys running and linebackers blitz­ing that's when you know whether or not you can hang in there. 
"We hope (the linemen) are good to go by the first game," he continued, "and once they get their feet wet, there shouldn't be many problems." 
If the line can come together and be the force the Notre Dame coaches believe they can be, the future will be very bright for the Irish -and Milligan -next season. 
'Tm glad to be on this team," he said. "I'm here where I want to be. I want to be the best I can and be a leader ... I'm looking to have great season because we have a solid core of returning players on offense and defense. Basically it comes down to the 0-line -we have to decide whether we're going to be [buttkickers) or not." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
page4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 25, 2003 
•·;•: (>•.····•·····.•.•.•.···•}:·• /•)·· e,•;r .:ff i•··• ·. 
. 
Stories by Matt Lozar 
Four stal'tei:$ 0 . 'faiiV.iiigfrom last year's offensive. line
and Andrew 
and, of the players currently 
:E 
cc 
II.I 
I­
I­
(/) 
0:: 
LL. ­
:E 
cc 
II.I 
I­
C 
z 
0 
(.) 
UJ 
f/'J 
practicing on the first team line, their 2002 combined game
Soukup 
experience is 121 minutes, 58 seconds.
. But those new starters know they are being looked upon to open up large holes for the run­ning game and keeping quarter­back Carlyle Holiday's jersey clean. 
"When we came in, we 
JIM MOLINARO 
Stuck on the bottom of a depth chart after Bob Davie's assistant coaches suggested he switch positions, the Tyrone Willingham. Elra couldn't have come any soon­er for Jim Molinaro. 
ing up a junior's seat ... Last year was going to be the make or break year for my career," he said. ~But the coaches told me if I worked hard, they were going to put me in tbere. And they were 
He first came to Notre· true to then-word." Dame as a defensive line A sunuiler of intense work . prospect, but oneJoo.k at the " h}sulte~:.in.:~No. 2 spot on the · number of peppl~ .hEl y.,9uld -<4fptlf pli~rf~t left tackle.· have to leapfrog;in,orderto ··.·. Alth~JJg-h,olinara played 
get on the fielcl CQil:vi:nood the coaches to have. Molinaro switch sides oftbe ball before his junior year began. And while Molinaro welcomed the switch, he knew he'd have to work hard tolearn the specif-. ic techniques requir_ed of an offensive lineman. / i ....· 
But while· Molmato. worked hard, he never felt like the coaches gave him a fair chance. So when Willingham arrived touting a philosophy that everyone began with a fresh slate, Molinaro saw his chance and grabbed it. 
"In the old regime, I was looked at as a freshman talc­
spa.i'irtgly <luting thtdirst half 
· ofthe siiason, he started the last throo\games of the sea­son wliert starters Jordan Black and Brennan Curtin couldn't play: 
For Molinaro, starting vali­
·.. dated his position switch. It gave him confidence heading into winter workouts, know­ing he was the front-runner for the starting slot "Two to three years ago on the depth chart, I was so deep I couldn't see all the way up," he said. "I just tell the other guys that if they work hard, they're going to get their chance." 

BRIAN MATTES 
When Brian Mattes needed encouragement after switch.; fng from defensive line to offensive line, he didn't have tolook very far. 
In fact, all he had to do was glance at the name ahead of his on the depth chart. There, Mattes would see Jim Molinaro, who switched from defense t6 : offense three 
After spending most of his .· · :freshmrui. campai'gn b-uri~({ 
ohthe;seori.ttea.mas a deferi­:s1t~'.II;n:emiµ\,Jhe coachm,g ·. sctaff/s\,\iltb,h(ld Me;ttes···t~·•·· offe1istv~ Jin.e during pfepa:)··•. 
rations for the Gator Bowl. 
The switch was a daunting 
one for Mattes, whose only 
offensive experience came at 
tight end. 
years ago and is now playing · · But he buckled down over left tackle with the·-top offeo~ the.yv.jnter, acclimating him­sive line unit. · i ffffi<·0 ..•.....• }J$i(. · ~ew position. He The sight Qf'Molin.arQtS'.. ]µer .,· •..... his strength and success -coupled with the <·dedicated himself to learning 
advice the fifth~fear senior· has given to the.rising sopho­more -was enough to con­vince Mattes that he, too, could end up on the starting offensh1e line someday. 
"Some days you're.going to come out and think, 'What was I doing out :there,' because you're nofused to it out there," he said. "But !Molinarol taught me a lot over the summer, and I feel a lol. more comfortable than when I started.M 
the nuanCes of playing left tackle -the same position Molinaro plays. 
So far, the transition has been relatively smooth. And while Mattes entertains few notions about playing next year, he knows he has to be ready should something hap~ pen to his mentor. 
"He was in the same posi­tion then that I am now," Mattes said. ''And if he could be successful, then why can't I?" · 
.!°g~:a:~:e:;~ight:~~i 
r:~ti;f\fw efiJ~f1\~;~~~ ~~~~e~~ 
§' ope11," Zach , , : .. <):it~ ·curtin declared himself eli­.. We hay~}a•· chance lo yl~y,.Jt\ : gibl~J~rth. e ~FL.Q.i;~t.... stepJt..·µpijnd do our. parts; 1'fie ... •·.. •··: :f:b::rµ-$t.'itlt..t4e.·si~m·JU.neup 
spots are open for us and are ·was · Jim Molinaro · · · and available. to take them." · •Stevenson to take the place of 
"Now, they are expecting a lo.t of us to step up and become starters," tackle Dan Stevenson added. "That is a big difference from before." 
Prior to the Gator Bowl loss to North Carolina State, the Irish offensive line mainly featured five senior starters. A University issue kept tackles Jordan Black and Brennan Curtin from play-those seniors with less than a month of practice time under their belts. Stevenson had the added task of learning a new position having practiced at guard prior to last December. 
Two-year starter Sean Mahan graduated and Jeff Faine left Notre Uame a year early and to likely be a first or second-round pick in this weekend's NFL 
MARK LEVOIR 
It took a wh.iler.bofMark playing field, He sat out his LeVoir's slide aerhss the entire freshman year and offensive line appe~fJto onlfplayed 10 minutes last have finally ended. <C \ ·..·•·· .. ·• ·. season. 
As one the most liigt,ily~ · At the end of the season recruited prnspects pilfof .· and over the winter, the Irish high school, . recrJ:r.i~ing'/ coae'hes noticed a relative experts wonderedw®t~the · lackof ~E¼pth at guard, and Irish would play 'llie ver$a.tile' looked 1nto moving either ·· LeVob:. ln Mione$9f::t/~Y?b'. LeV-oir. Q.tDan Stevensoll to · wasa·.tforceS()~~tigl:(t(~~d\>•··· . inside. ··• / .> who.also play~soin~.:tacklif .. / .....·. en in the ea.tlfday$:•qf.··. The biggest pl~ye.r on.Ni?tJ:e •···· ·sprµig practke,<the coaches · 
Dame's rostor, he dmilirtated opponents on the outside With his monstrous size. 
But the day he arrived at Notre Dame, the coaches turned LeVoir into a t~kle -'--a change he knew·was inevitable. 
"I don't think I wow.d have been that productive at tight end with hovv big Jam, but now at tackle ~µti guard. I feel a lot better," he said. 'Tm a lot more comfortable now, and that's vvlt:¢te my future is at." (, ;,. 
Still, it took a Wh~fffor LeVoir to carve a &pQ(Qt.ftpe 
rotated the two trying to find what combination would work the best. Eventually. they settled on having LeVoir play guard -a dramatic shift for a player who had never played the position his life before. 
However, LeVoir thinks the shift -which he hqpes is his last -is worth.it/ After two years of learnfag<different positions and /different offenses, LeVoiris prepared for the changes. 
"I needed those couple of years," he said. "Arid :now I'm ready to go." ·· · · 

DARIN MITCHELL 
Darin Mitchell played in and for when he could be 
only one game during the looked to contribute in a 
2002 season, but he time of need. 
learned a lot more than "When I first came in, I :0~¢ would expect from) wa,s more nervous when · minute, 59 seconds of· theythrewme in, but now · playing time. lam 1lHH'C comfortable 
Watching twQ~year and m·o::t·e prepared than 
starter Sean Mahan and lastyear>". M,itchell said. 
seeing how two batkups .When Mitchell was fur­
were thrust into the start-the-t. doW~>the depth 
ing lineup TorJhe team.'$. chart; h~ didn't have to 
last gamejn:.the Gator .•:';'VorrYj1b9ut knowing the 
B9:w1., MH~,ll'Ml know~ : i:ritd~a,cies of the offense. 
l!l@Q.:rrow ,¢,ould he th~· ',/\')!ritb:ine"four ~tarters not 
d*Y be goes from the '·t~iur11Jng for tl:te 2003 
· sidelines to the huddle. 
"You have got to be ready it does open your eyes knowing that any­thing could happen," Mitchell.said. "Even if you don't start right now, anYtl:1ing .can happen, 
·Y.u'&(I got• to be ready/' .. · He's only ho,ep Qt\.:,J).e field for one ganlciiiuthy
working on and \ilt(>the 
~i~dfo~!1;.~et~Jteglsr~~~i~ tions on the prac(i(;:e field 
season, Mite.hell has taken a much rnofe deter­mined intereftjn being ready. He.knovvs>that his time could prime at any moment. ./i ··. · · 
"Now it is nioro op:en and everybody hiij\·a chance. You. have to workhard anq:$•t~p it up," . Mitthell·said;<''l'm more · th · > I h :.,t
~~ud; ~t:•::riboor:~~ 
pay more attention." 
.. ·<: •,f.,J Draft. . .... 0, /' ti Over the past 14 practices; the <·11 Irish have been working on h finding . the right combiii.a~ 
"We wouldn't,,
tion of players 
we weren't go<J
to replace the four departed Now we have 1 starters. While 
and answi 
progress has 
challen1
been made, there is still obviously work Mark Le1 
to be done. 
guard
"I think it has  
been  a  very  
positive improvement but yet  1~  
there is still a lot of room for us  11  

ZACH 
Re learned from sec­ond-team All-American Jeff Faine and now junior Zach Giles is trying to take what he observed from a first or second round pick in this week-. end's NFL Draft and use tt . on the field. 
"I learned as much last year from just watching Jeff as I did from doing it," Giles sa,id. "His play·.•.. speaks for himselL · I learned a lot from him on how to play the game. 
"He set an example for everybody." 
During the 2002 season, Giles was much further down the depth chart behind Faine and Ryan Scarola. With both of those players not return-J ing for the 2003 season. 1 Giles has been competing i with sophomore Bob 1 Morton in Spring Practice t to claim the starting cen-1 ter position. i 
Giles came to the Irish ; 
BoBM 
The grin on Bob Morton's , 
face is as wide as the gap in l 
th.e middle of the offensive , 
line. t 
With all-everything center 1 
Jeff Faine heading for the 
NFL draft. the red-headed, 
rosy-cheeked Morton is 
angling to replace Faine in 
the starting lineup next fall ­
even tb.ough he hasn't played 
a down:in college. 
Bufthat doesn't diminish 
the' i:'i$fng sophomore's. 
enthusiasm. Nor does ho us it 
as an ~kcusc. 
"I.f fvvant any role in the offensive line, the guys have to know they can tfust me in the battle and I can get the job done," he said. "The wh9le thing with it being my sophomore year, that•doesn't fly any more." ... 
The. year he spent on the sid~J:lnes wearing a uniform free·.oJ' dirt was a year he spent learning the nuances of being a college center. A .USA Today All-American after a stellar high school 

Friday, April 25, 2003 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 


go," Notre Dame coach rone Willinghn.m said. ''It is possible in 14 dilYS, to roplacc the kind of experi~
e here if 
ence that we
d enough. 
had leave that 
o step up position." With tho
.r the 
departure of 
e. " 
four starters, including Mahan who was a team captain, the question of .adnrship on the line becomes pparenl. Losing four players 
olr 
ILES 
the fall of 2001 as a cond team pick on USA >day's prop All-America ,i.m and the USA Today assachusetts Player of 8 Yriar. The Marshfield, 
•ss. native was nanrnd 
,,~ of the top 100 players 
flionally by the Dallas 
t,rning News Chicago 
In-Times. 
l'hrnn. and a half weeks fo, Giles and the rest of 1e offtrnsive lineman Ppped onto Cartier Field 1oking to replace four mrters. What seemed ~H an 1·ternity went by istor than Giles could avo imngined. Now it's 
,~ir turn to step up and ec11me the future. 
wWlrnn you start wilh 14 ractices it seems like so ud1 but with none left, 
's like, 'Geez'," Giles Lid. "You hope you are oing your best everyday, king little steps and fix­g the little things you 
re doing wrong." 
RTON 
areer in Texas, Morton egan his freshman season 
'th tho Irish expecting to sit n tho sidelines the entire 
ii. And while he admitted 1! constant watching wore n him at times, he knew he s watching om~ of the best. "With a guy like Jplf Faine 
t cent.er, you kind of prepare roursnlf to be 11 scout team iuy," lw said. ''But I don't ~•ink I ruallv settlnd for a role on the sco11t toam. I camH len~ looking to us,i that first fmtl' to grow strongHr, and I know was ijoing to be here !cir livn ym.trs.'' 
Morton wanted to imitate Fuint!'s work ethic. And he ,wanted to imitate how Faine linrtml the first game he ever ~laynd. i Now, he gets a chance to 
11itate Paino on the field. 
"Last. year, l was able to 
ilax a littlo bit, knowing I 
1111d sit in thP film room and 
'ILtch how things could be omi," Morton said. "But that tops now." 
who. appeared in ll ttJtil'.;. 7'.)leader,tqj,ili~: .·.•· games in their tareers ~ ' ·..·Having littl~,vie put a lot of.p.res,u,:~::11~:"' ·· . 4,tj:<[;~~f'ttiing starter Sean Milligan:•.· rlexu,t1<,.the;I tho youthftilline. ··.. ·· _·••·· ·.. . .....{..}Hrt want tp.}!'
While Milligan has made·..ft. a · flXCUses and ate te . y to go Q~ . priority this season to be a and .create their own personll.U~ · leader on and off the field, the ty. · other players aren't going to "We ·ve got a long way to go solely roly on him. but we have a lot of upside," 
"The leadership role is divided guard Mark LeVoir said. "I one-fifth of whomever is out think a lot of people are looking there at the time," Giles said". at that we don't have a lot of Everybody needs to take experience but that's because responsibility for what they are we had four great players ahead doing. Everybody is trying to of us last year who are all leav­step up and if you are going to ing to play on Sundays now." be out there, you need to be a Even with the youthfulness 
SEAN MILLIGAN DAN STEVENSON 
Sean Milligan enters the 2003 football season with an entirely new set of offensive line teammates. He's the only returning starter from last year's offensive line that gradu­ated three players and had another enter the NFL Draft. 
But Milligan's confident his younger, inexperi~ enced teammates can overcome these hurdles to dominate in the trenches throughout the season. 
"This is why you come to Notre Dame, to play on a team like this and to be a leader," Milligan said. 
Milligan anchors a line that has less than 150 minutes of gametime in their careers, as a whole. His job will be to coach the younger players and guide until they're more comfortable with the posi­tions as the season pro­gresses. 
wwe hope [the lineman] be good to go by the first game," Milligan said, uand once they get their feet wet, they're shouldn't be many problems/ 
A three year starter on the line, Milligan has logged over 400 minutes for the Irish. He has start­
. ed l 7 of the 24. games · he's played in as Well. 
Whi.Je the other lineman may be saying that every~ tone must be leader, those guys will still look to Milligan for leadership as the unit faces chal­lenges throughout the upcoming season. 
Milligan will also serve as another coach on the field for Notre Dame. His knowledge of the game and experience should be key for the Irish in 2003. The biggest questions marks surround the offensive line and Milligan 
will do his all  to make  
sure  the  line  exceeds  
expectations.  


JAMIE RYAN 
He doesn't want to remember it, but Jamie Ryan learned to go hard on every play because It could be his last. 
In his senior year of high school, Ryan developed a blood clot that allowed him to only play four games. The blood clot also prevented Ryan f'rom getting a lot of practice time early on last season. . 
Now, even if it'sjust spring practice, Ryan. is happy to just be on the field. 
ul am very happy practic• ing and being out there with the team. It's just something· l want to put in the past," Ryan said. "I know that it could be your last play so it is f'ull go all th~ time. f know what it feels like from the. sideHnes." · 
Like most or the offensive lineman, Ryan js part of the· numerous players working at a different position this spring. When he came to Notre Dame Ryan was a 
guard, but the loss of both 
starting tackles from last 
season forced the coaching 
staff to move him to right 
tackle. 
And it's a whole new 
world. 
"It is a big ditf erence with 
the footwork, The guards 
work on the. inside helping 
the center sometimes. 
Tackle has some mor~ foot­
work kicking out and getting 
the d(}fcnsiv.e e,nd ()1.1.p~ss . 
plays," Ryan sai.d,;,.''lt bas · 
been a big ttdju~taje'nt and 
f'mjust trying to l{:)arn day­
by-day." . 
The inexperience of the offensive line keeps every­body on their toes not know• ing what to expect. Coupling that fact with the Gator Bowl situation Ia$t}'e.ar. Ryan .wants to be readv becat1so his number cou:ld' be called 
sooner than later.· •. 
"You have to prepare and 
can't go out there and slitck 
off because God forbid some• 
thing happen," Ryan said. 
g J.beCJrish energy and 
m'iriation to not let the 
~ttons affect them, the 
r$don'tlie. 
c.u•frent starters have .·. . .•. l game time experience, and their backups have even less, with 4 minutes, 29 seconds of playing time in 2002. 
But they're ready to answer the bell. 
"We wouldn't be here if we weren't good enough," LeVoir said. "Now we have to step up and answer the challenge." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@.edu 
• 

Photos by Chip Marks 
• 
.DanStevenson played 10 games at guard during the 2002 regular season but started at tackle in the Gator Bowl North Carolina State. 
Due to the suspensions of Jordan Black and Brennan Curtin prior to Notre Dame's postseason gam,e, the Irish coaching staff.was forced make some. changes and.. Stevenson's switch was, as· expected, difficult. 
"That was a big adjust­ment for me after practicing at guard earlier that year," Stevenson said. 
So far this spring, Stevenson remains at his "new'' position from last season as the first-team rt,gh:ftackle. He has made the adjustment from being a guy who just watches on the sidelines to being in the middle of the action and watched by everybody. 
uWhen I came in and you were a second-team kind of guy, you stood around and 

waited for the chance to do 
something," Stevenson said. 
"Last year you were looking 
up at the leaders trying to 
see what they do but now 
you are looked at to be that 
guy." 

Everyone knows about the offensive line returning only one starter in senior guard ·Se~n Milligan. The natural tem:.lency of looking to the fifth-year senior for leador­ship seems logical, but in talking with Stevenson, the 
line can't depend on one 
player to provide leadership 
out on the field. 

"Leadership is dependent on everyone. I don't think it is one individual person," Stevenson said. "Good lead­ers out there aren't anyone in particular. You can't have everyone looking at one guy out there. Whether it's myself, Zach [Giles), Sean Milligan or Jim Molinaro, it doesn't really matter where it is coming from but that everybody is a leader." 
JEFF THOMPSON 
Jeff Thompson might have changed from defense to offense, but that doesn't give him a huge advantage into the defense's plan of attack. 
"A little bit but I think that will come more down the road," Thompson said. "Right now I'm just trying to learn what I have to do." 
Being on the defense, Thompson worked to plug up holes made for running backs and chase down opposing quarterbacks. Instead of being on the pur• suit, Thompson is watching the defensive linemen and being reactive. 
"It is a big switch. You are sitting back not playing on your toes as much," Thompson said. "You have to play with more balance. It 
·· is more mental since instead of reacting, you have to know what to do." Moving from the defense, Thompson· can't just go into the film room or absorb the teachings of his coaches by 

studying the playbook. The Spring practices have given Thompson an opportunity to take snaps and learn through repetitions. 
"You can't just use the chalk work but have to get our there and go through the motions," Thompson said. "l work on getting better by just playing." 
With the chance to move over to the offense, the loss of four startors puts Thompson a lot closer to get• ting onto the field. At the defensive llmi, three starters return and the young depth at the line gives the Irish a solid two-deep rotation. 
Now, Thompson knows, just like in the Gator Row! last year. he is one event away from being in thn hud­dle . 
"It is a groat opportunity for all tho guys. They are really counting on us to pro­vide depth and have the chance to get on the field," Thompson 
,,
-

CA 
n'" 
0 
z 
C -I '"l>
:s: 

page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 25, 2003 
CARLYLE HOLIDAY 
QUARTERBACK 
Irish fans are still waiting for quarterback Carlyle Holiday to have his breakout season. The rising senior has one year of coach Tyrone Willingham's West Coast offense under his belt and should be primed for a big year. 
Holiday's play wil be a key for how well Notre Dame per­forms next season. If he can throw the ball with consistency and find ways to scramble when under pressure, the Irish offense may finally produce, after several seasons of strug­gling performances. 
GARRON BIBLE 
SAFETY 
Safety Garron Bible looks to fill the void left by graduating senior Gerome Sapp. The rising senior recorded 32 tackles. a sack, a tackle fo a loss and 19 special team appearences in '02 for the Irish. 
Sapp is arguably the biggest loss for Notre Dame's defense, so Bible must play well to fill the gaping hole in the secondary. 
Bible will be pushed by rising juniors Lionel Bolen and Quentin Burrell. But the competition should help Bible become a bet­ter player. 
If Bible can play well, the Irish defense will have, perhaps, it's biggest question answered and make them that much better. 


PLAYERS TO 

WATCH IN 2003 
These four Irish players could determine the success of the 2003 team 
MAURICE STOVALL 
WIDE RECEIVER 
Rising sophomore Maurice Stovall didn't play like a fresh­man lasts season for the Irish. In '03, he'll be expected to carry an even bigger load for Notre Dame's receiving corps, with the departure of Arnaz Battle, 
Stovall had 18 catches and three touchdowns in '02 and should surpass those numbers with ease this fall. He has the size and the athletic ability tu become the go-to guy for Notre Dame. 
With Holiday still searching for his best year, Stovall could give the senior quarterback a consistent target to throw to for big plays and first downs. 
Juuus JONES 
RUNNING BACK 

After missing a year for ada­demic troubles and transferring to Arizona State, running back Julius Jones is rumored to be returning to the Irish in '03. If he does. the senior could be the 


biggest difference maker on the Irish squad. 
ESPN analyst Lee Corso said Jones would give Notre Dame at least two extra wins. which could be the differnce between a BCS bowl and the Gator Bowl. 
Jones gives the Irish more depth at the tailback position and a dangerous kick/punt returner. If he can play like he did during 2001, the Irish may be contending for a BCS berth or even better. 
Injuries 

James Bonelli OL Carlos Campbell DB Daniel Chervanick DL 
Glenn Earl  DB  
Dwight Ellick  DB  
Gary Godsey  TE  
Mike Goolsby  LB  
Ryan Grant  RB  
Corey Mays  LB  

Players may svvitch teams before/ during the game 
Blue/Gold 

Spring Football Festival 

Friday, April 25, 2003 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Returning starters 
FB RB QB 
WR 

Tom 
Ryan Lopienski Carlyle Grant Arnaz Graduating Holiday Junior Battle Powers-Neal and Senior Rushed for 1160 GraduatingSchiccatano are the yards in 2002 season elading candidates for Continues to search but hasn't participat-
McKnight and 

fullback in '03. for his breakout year ed in spring practice 
Stovall will look to
after throwing for this year. 
replace the playmak­
1788 yards and 10 
er Battle and his 58
TDs in '02. 
catches in '02. 

WR LT LG C RG RT TE 




Omar Jordan Sean Jeff Sean Brennan Gary Jenkins Black Mahan Faine Milligan Curtin Godsey Senior Graduating Graduating Graduating Senior Graduating Senior 
Grabbed 37 rccep-Fifth-year senior LeVoir must replace Giles and Morton Only returning reg-Stevenson played in Returns for fifth­
tions for 633 yards in Molinaro has the task Mahan. who started must try to replace ular from last year's 11 contests last sea-year after catching 16 
'02. Could be the go-of taking over for all 13 games for the All-American Faine. offensive line. Has son and replaced passes for 155 yards 
to recicver for the Black, who started in Irish last season. The two have little started 17 games for Curtin in the Gator last season. 
Irish next season. 42 games. experience in games. Notre Dame. Bowl loss. ­
DE DT DT DE 



CB 

Shane 
Walton 
Graduating 
Fifth-year senior 1leckstrom returns l'rom injury to take ovnr Walton's spot. 
Kyle Darrell Cedric Ryan Budinscak Campbell Hilliard Roberts Senior Senior Senior Graduating 
Recorded 20 tackles Had 33 tackles and Mainstay at nose Campbell may move and three sacks in six sacks last year tackle for much of the to end, but if he '02, while playing in Also credited with last two seasons. doesn't Landri or all 13 Irish games. eight tackles for a Tallied two sacks and incoming freshman 
loss. 31 tackles in '02 . Abiamiri will play. 

OLB ILB ILB 

ss 

FS 

Derek 
Courtney Mike Curry Watson Goolsby Senior Senior Senior 
Gerome Glenn
!lad breakout year Butkus Award can­Bad breakout year in '02 with seven didate last season. in ·02 with 75 tackles.
Sapp Earl
tackles f'or a loss and Returns as arguably including team-high four sacks. the best linebacker in 13 tackles for a loss.
Graduating Senior
the country. Bible hopes to take Known for his hard over for Sapp and fill hitting, he was second a major void on the on team with 81 tack­Irish defense. les last season. 
-
CB 

Vontez Duff Senior 
Dangerous punt/kick returner who played a large role for the Irish 
. defense in '02. 

I 
i 
I ­I 
' 
I ­I 
t 
i 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, April 25, 2003 
Subscribe to The Observer to stay on top of the latest Fall football action. 
The only source of daily campus news. 
Call 574-631-7471. 
I I I I ­
I 
t 

THE 
OBSERVER 


tre 

Friday, April 25, 2003 page 13 
'The Marriage of Figaro' 
Saint Marys music department performs Mozarts classic comedic opera 
played by Jeremy Stayton, is a rich and talents as well as the flow between the By SARAH VABULAS 
powerful architect himself, who, different voices as the characters Assisi.ml Scene EJitor 
despite his best efforts, cannot win develop. Sherry Klinedinst, a Saint over Susanna's heart. Mary's faculty member, plays the piano 
This weekend, thc Saint Mary's The Countess picks up on the Count's throughout the show, aiding the actors Music Dcpartrncnt presents Wolfgang affections. and persuades Figaro and in their singing. The actors' voices are Amadeus Mozart's "Le Nozze Di Susanna lo help her catch the Count in phenomenal. generating awe and Figaro" or "The Marriage of Figaro," a the act. respect from the audience. comedic opera of sorts. The talcs of love and lust continue as This isn't the typical music or lyrics 
The Saint Mary's music department Marcellina, a wealthy woman played one thinks about in relation to operas. 1iditod the opera by updating it and by Kathleen Douglass, falls in love with Fun, upbeat music with humorous omilting some scenes in efforts to save Figaro and hires a lawyer to keep lyrics rules this modernized show. timn. /\!though Mozart originally wrote Figaro and Susanna from wedding. She Since it is sung in English rather then the opera to be performed in Italian, hopes to break them up on the morn­Italian, the audience has an easier ­lhti English translation will be per• ing of their wedding. Marcellina time keeping up with the complicated, formed. despises Susanna since Figaro loves yet highly humorous plot. 
Set in the I <J50s in the Michiana her only. The young man Cherubino, a "The Marriage of Figaro" is sure to area. it features a modern plot line trouser role or a male role written to please both the opera enthusiast and dcspile being composed in 1786. The be acted by a female is played by the comedic enthusiast alike. This actors' costumes, designed by Maggie Kristina Schliesman, falls in love with opera offers a form of entertainment Baker, imitate the clothing trends from the Countess. The Count discovers this for everyone, if not simply because it tho '50s, adding llare and character to passion and becomes jealous and full features possibly the most beautiful Lhc actors' voices. of rage. voices one can find in one place at one 
The music department significantly The conclusion. however, can only be time. 
edited the piece, resulting in a two• revealed if you attend the show. hour performance rather than the All of this combined makes for a "The Marriage of Figaro" is playing four-hour version Mozart intended. highly entertaining and delightful in little Theatre at Saint Mary's on There is a short intermission following experience. Mozart's plot is similar to a /iriday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. and the lirsl acl. Shakespearian comedy, leaving the on Sunday at 2:30 p.m. Admission is 
In an e-mail sent by the opera's audience wondering where the charac­free and open to the public. 
musical director Dr. Laurel Thomas, a ters will take them next. Saint Mary's faculty member, she The music department consistently describes "The Marriage of Figaro" as performs solid and entertaining pieces; Contact Sarah Vabulas at a tale of mistaken identities, disguises, "The Marriage of Figaro" is no excep­
vabu454 7@saintmarys.edu 

deceptions. double crosses and blun­tion. The opera features Saint Mary's ders that create total and delightful women in the female roles, while the confusion set against a musical tapes­male roles are sung by students from try that demonstrat<'s Mozart's artistic IUSB, with the exception of the role of genius al its greatest. Bartolo, sung by Mark Abram­
The opera involves many twists and Copenhaver, a member of the Saint turns characteristic of a Mozart opera. Mary's music department. The plot br.gins when Figaro, an archi­The cast exhibits great unity and the tect living in Count /\lmaviva's house ability to adapt well with each other. 
while working for him played by Since the entire play is sung. the audi­Darren Kemble, suspects that the ence benefits from the beautiful. gifted Couut desires his fiance Susanna, the voices or the actors. From the moment CountPss' live-in maid played by when the first notes is sung to the last, t\ndjcla Subotic. Count !\lmaviva. the audience can enjoy the individual 
-

Cherubino, played by Kristina Schllesman, hides from the Count when he Inter­rupts his conversation with Susanna so that he may win over her heart. 





The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Small school seeks part-lime mid­die-school math teacher now thru 
NOTICES summer. Experience with Saxon and Math-U-See a plus. 273-3010 or unitydayschool@aol.com 
Study Abroad with CEA. England, 
Italy, Spain, France, Australia. 
Request a Free Catalog 
www.GoWithCEA.com 
FOR SALE
-Babysitter, May-Aug., 3 kids ages 2, 6, 8. 10-12 hrs./wk, 2 morn., 1 Oak Hill Condo. 574-243-2621 For Sale: Futon-$60 Desk-$80 DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 CHICAGO ROOM available for Book case-$40 Bed-$160 Dresser-HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 summer tease and/or longterm $50 All in excellent condition. Call SCHOOL YEAR-WELL MAIN-lease. 3 ND grads as roommates. 243-9988 TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAM-Near Wrigley Field. Available start-
PUS-STUDENT NEIGHBOR-ing anytime in May. Call 773-871 • 27" Sony Wega Flat Screen TV for HOODS-SECURITY SYSTEMS-8893. sale Just 2 years old • $400 OBO MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL-call Marc 289-5651 or 317-402-WAHSERS/DRYERS CALL 2 bdrm apt. summer sublease at 1121 TODAY-HOUSES GOING FAST!!!-Turtle Creek. Contact: macdon-
CONTACT KRAMER (574) · ald.18@nd.edu or 273-4668 RANCH HOME: Architect-designed 315-2436-ALSO LEASING FOR California Contemporary Ranch 2004-2005 VISIT OUR WEBSITE Summer Sub-lease, 1 bdrm, fully 

eve, $7/hr. Robyn @ 271-3646. built in 1958, purchased from origi-@ WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM furnished, good neighborhood, rent 
nd senior selling 1 br apt furn. like nal owner; restored and original negotiable. 229-1691 A BUSINESS MAN IS LOOKING new. prices negotiable. call 243-features include sunken house: 2-3-4 bedrooms; 234-9334; TO BUY YOUR ND FOOTBALL 0064. livingroom, beamed cathedral ceil-800-966-8399 3-6 BDRM HOMES. SEASON TICKETS. (TOP DOLLAR ings, huge patio. garden toyer. WASHER/DRYER$175.PP/MO.27 PAID)Discretion Assured.Calf·277-Acura lntegra LS 1996 Red 60,000 Email mfitzgib@nd edu for details Very nice 3bdrm home. Avail.June 2-6306,329-0308 
1659 Thank you, miles, sun roof, CD player, power 1st for summer/fall. East Race dist. locks and windows $9850 or best 94 Saturn; teal; gd cond; reg main; near Corbys Pub and St.Joe Chrch. Summer Sublease -$700 for entire Retiring Notre Dame Professor sell-offer. 287-4306 74,000 mi; 4-dr; $3,100 Call Meg: lnci. Alarm syst,washer/dryer. Can summer 4 bedroom house w/ 1 
ing 1 Bedroom Condo in North 634-3293 email picts/floor plan.Call Joe room available less 1 mile from Shore Complex In good condition 2 Computers-$150 & $225 (574) Crimmins@273-0002(HJ or 514-campus behind Linebacker washer and includes 1 Car Garage Call 229-3100 
0643(cell) or & dryer; AC call Marc 289-5651 Doris at 299-2000 for additional JCrimrn1ns@rnyLandGrant.com
FOR RENT

information JUDAY LAKE HOME ON $650/m negotiable. GOING TO SUMMER SCHOOL? 
Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis• tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
ADOPTION ALTERNATl VE Are you pregnant and dont know what to do? Loving, open-hearted, finan­cially stable woman would like to consider adopting a baby. Free counseling, living expenses and medical expenses. This can be a good thing for you and your baby. Discreet and legal. Call 904-824­7006. 
Mexico/Caribbean only $125 each way all taxes included! If you can beat 1hese prices start your own damn airline! Book on line www.airtech.com or (212)219­7000. 

LAKEWALK TO ND.GILLIS REAL­94 Ford Expl Sport 4x4 98K Black TY 272-6306,329-0308 Sunroof Pioneer CD $3750 Call 
514-8568. Must Sell! FOR SALE. Varsity Club of America time share apartment for full week 
i heart paut schreck during the football season. Choose week of 2nd or 4th ND home game every year Units accommodate up to 4. Purchase at great savings 
WANTED from owner who must sell at least one unit. Great accommoda­lions for visiting ND. Can be 
Female Aupair for 2 young children. exchanged for resorts worldwide. So side SB furn. apt & $$ inc. 20+ Call Bob (954) 349-1880 
hrs/wk. Flex schedule some satur­days 95 Black Jeep Cherokee Sport 288-7699 78,000 Miles $4,500 
Rooms for rent. Cheap. Close to Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom Spring Semester 2004 only! 4 campus Call 634-0820 homes 112 mile from campus. Bedroom, 2 Bath ..GOOD Student ask for Jared mmrnrentals@aolcom 272-Area. Dave 243-5353 1525 www mmmrentals.com 
Two bedroom cottage in good stu-
TICKETS
HOUSE AVAILABLE furn. 4b2ba, dent area $350 per month. Dave walk to campus.jo5225@aol.com 243-5353 
Extra grad ticket? Call 4-1613 
2 BDRM House, A/C, close to cam-Newly remodeled house for rent. 4 David Belczyk 
pus. 269-699-5841 bdrm, central air, fully carpeted, security system, ott street parking, Student Rental House 3-4 or 5 per-walk to school. Available immedi­son 2 story 8 blocks from campus. ately. Call 289-4074. PERSONAL New everything. Wired for comput­ers etc. Avail. Summer or Fall, 235-1 bdrm apts for summer close to Attention Kaplan MCAT Students: 
3655 ND $450. 283-0325 Good Luck Tomorrow! 
Dear lizzadies .. .wizzaunts to get shizzy... with the nizzy. plizizzy givizzy me sizzle. sizzizzerely yizzizzours. I think that's fly. 
The D.S.A. will be back in action this weekend. Two words for you: Alaskan Subway. 
Happy Birthday, Tommy. From your big brother. 
Bill Parcells = great coach. Chad Hutchinson= bad OB Parcells + Hutchinson= no playotts. What... 
2:58, 2:59 ... TIMEI 
---------------------------.. --·­

Friday, April 25, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page I 5 
day selections, slip all the way telling you your future, where to the second day, or remain you're going to be living, and
Draft 
undrafl.ed and subject to free how much money you're going continued from page 24 agency. to be making." 
"It's nerve wracking to sit Some Irish players are trying Black, Brennan Curtin and there and wait for your to stay away from watching Mahan could either be first name," Mahan said. "It's the draft on television. Battle. 
Domus 
PROPERTIES 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSES FORRENT 
FOR 2003-2004 2004•2005 

SCHOOL YEAR 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT www.domuskramer.com 
OR CALL 574-315-5032 OR 574-234-2436 ASK FOR KRAMER 
North Food Court's 
Last Shout Appearing Tonight 
Sponsored by: Lamb Wesson & Tyson Foods Wings & Fries of ALL SORTS!! 

~ 
NOTRE DAM 
V C r 

for example, plans to attend December -got a chance to his 14-year-old sister's musi­shine in individual workouts. cal in Chicago to get away He participated in various from the agonizing wait. But combines to boost his status to he'll have his cell phone with the point where Mahan said him if he hears his name "teams are saying they'd be called. shocked if I was still around in 
Others, like Faine and Black, the fifth round." will wait at Others. like 
home with the televi­ "It's nerve wracking to sit  Walton, have  may hurt  
sion on, but  there and wait for your  themselves  
won't stay glued to the draft. 'Tm going  name. It's telling you your future, where you 're going to be living, and how  since the Gator Bowl. Regarded as a scrappy cor­ 
to practice," Mahan said, "so I don't  much money you 're going to be making. "  nerback dur­ing the sea• son, some  
go insane."  teams raised  
Mahan  is  Sean Mahan  questions  
one  of  a  fonner Irish football player  a  b  o  u  t  
handful  of  Walton's size.  
Irish players  And  a  4.62  

who improved his draft stock 40-yard dash time he ran at since the Gator Bowl. the NFL Combine might have Overshadowed during the sea­dropped him from the first to son by Faine, Mahan spent the second day. most of the 2002 season play­But for now, all the rampant ing in the shadow of Notre speculation is just that, specu­Dame's highly-regarded cen­lation. At least until Sunday. 
ter. 

But when the season ended, Mahan -voted one of Notre Contact Andrew Soukup at Dame's team captains in asoukup@nd.edu 
Aweekend retreat experience for Notre Dame graduates and grad students 
We invite you to take aweekend away with fellow young ND alums and grad students in the South Bend area to reflect upon your faith journey and listen to God's call in your life. 
-

When: Fri., May 9, (evening)-Sun., May 11, (morning) 
Where: Rosewood Pointe Retreat Center in Holland, Michigan 
Cost: $95 (includes room and meals) 
To reserve your place or get more information, please visit the Vocare website at www.nd.edu/~ndvil. 
If you-have any questions, please contact: Kathy Fanning -Fanning.8@nd.edu Gerry Olinger· Olinger.4@nd.edu Nicole Shirilla-Shirilla. l@nd.edu 

RETAIL SALES/MANAGEMENT After Hours Formalwear is expanding! We are hiring for several positions! Full Time and Part Time sales. Earn a great wage PLUS commission! Flexible hours and scheduling. Benefits available (Vac, ins, Vision, Dental, 401K, Paid Holidays). 
STARTING WAGES 
PART TIME: $7-8 HR. FULL TIME: $8-10 HR. 
all After Hours Formalwear at (269)934­
0269 and ask for Amanda or Theresa. Opening new store: across from University Park Mall-next to David's Bridal 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 25, 2003 
WOMENS LACROSSE 
Coyne sets goals for -weekend on the road 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Spores Writer 
The overwhelming sentiment surrounding the lrish is that their play has been much bet­ter than thelr record shows. Their last opponent, Davidson, would certainly agree as Notre Dame dominated them en route to an 18-6 victorv. Notre Dame hopes to make believers out of Northwestern and Rutgers this weekend. 
The Irish are looking to work toward two goals this weekend -finishing third in the Big East and finishing with a win­ning record. To finish 
chance to fin­ish with a winning record. The Irish stand at 5-7 with three games to go. 
"Northwestern is a regional rivalry for us, and Rutgers is for third place in the Big East," Notre Dame coach Tracy Coyne said. It's also important for us because we want to win our
-last Big East game." Coyne was very pleased with the way her team responded against Davidson, which snapped a three game losing streak. "It was a good game and everyone got to play," said Coyne. "It was just a very posi­tive game for us." A number of players scored goals for the Irish against Davidson, led by Danielle 
Shearer and Crvsti Foote, both of whom scored three first half goals. The game against Davidson was the first contest against a team not ranked in the top 20 in weeks for the Irish, whose brutal schedule has already included eight out of 12 games against ranked teams, including five in a row before the game against Davidson. 
The Irish will be looking to build on the momentum gained in their win, but also felt they played fairly well in many of their losses. Notre Dame lost at :"Jo. 3 Duke before losing in double overtime to Stanford 
third. the "That /Stanford] game Irish need to 
was an anomaly. The
beat Rutgers 
team has been very 
Sunday, while they focused and W(J showed must also 
character in fighting 
knock off 
back from adversity. " 
Northwestern on Saturday to give them­
Tracy Coyne 
selves a 
Irish coach 
and in over­time against top ten foe Georgetown. The Irish had late leads in both of those games. 
"We had a pretty good game against Duke and expected a good game against 
Stanford, but we expected to win," said Coyne. "That game was an anomaly and we've just moved on. The team has been very focused and we showed character in fighting back from adversity." 
"I think the game against Georgetown was better even than Stanford. I was pretty pleased, although it was disap­pointing to lose because we were up three with a few min­utes to go. It was such an excit­ing game though and I was happy with everything we did to put us in position to win." 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
TRACK 
Chamney, Nurudeen to run Drake Relays 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
Most of the Irish will take the weekend off to prepare for the Big East, but for others the Drake Relays this weekend give them the opportunity to shine. 
Luke Watson will take a break, as last weekend, he joined Molly Huddle by breaking a school record in the 5,000 meters, tak­ing 11th overall and fourth among college athletes (13:38.73). His time was also good enough to put him third among the national qualifiers both overall in the United States and in the Mideast Region. 
Joining Watson was Lauren Klng, who broke her own school record in the 1,500 meters, tak­ing fourth place. 
Freshman Thomas Chamncy will lead the way for the Irish this weekend in the 800-meter run. Chamney has already qualified for both the Big East and region­al meets. 
Selim Nurudeen, another run­ner already qualified for the postseason, will compete in the 110-meter hurdles. Nurudeen finished third in the event (14.10 seconds) last weekend at the Mount SAC Relays. 
The men will also send a 1,600-meter relay team and a four-man mile relay team to Drake. 
For the women, Stephanie Madia and Kerry Meagher will run in the 1,500-meter. Madia will also run in the 5,000 meter­run for the Irish. 
New qualifiers for the NCM Regional as of last weekend include Molly Huddle (5,000 meters), Jennifer Handley (5,000 meters) and Petra Dankova (triple jump). 
New qualifiers for the men include David Alber (3,000 meter steeplechase), Luke Watson (5,000 meters) and Tim Moore. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
MENS LACROSSE 

Irish seek postseason at-large bid 
By PAT LEONARD 
Spores Writer 
The Irish did their part. 
No. 19 Notre Dame (8-4, 4-1 GWLL) concluded league play last Saturday with a convincing 14-4 victory at Fairfield, extend­ing its winning streak to three games. 
Now, all the Irish can do is wait -and win out. 
In order tu stay in the hunt for an at-large bid to the postseason NCAA tournament, Notre Dame must defeat Ivy League foe Harvard (4-8, 1-4) Saturday at Moose Krause Stadium. 
The Irish have two non-con­ference games remaining, with l\1aryland traveling to South Bend on May 3. 
Coach Kevin Corrigan has rea­son Lo be optimistic after seeing his team blowout !:<airfield on the road, where the Irish are just 3-3 on the season. The Irish dominated the Stags on both ends and were up 8-2 at the half. Senior midfielder Travis Wells scored three goals and junior attackman Dan Berger netted three to increase his team-leading goals total to 31. 
The league win over Fairfield was big, but closing out the sea­son with two wins over Harvard and Maryland would be even bigger. 
Notre Dame has the advan­tage on paper this weekend. The Irish are 6-3 all-time versus the Crimson and 4-1 at home this season. In addition, Harvard has lost to both Fairfield (10-7) and Penn (8-6). both teams Notre Dame has defeated. 


Still, while the Crimson is struggling, they bring a talented team that includes freshman attack man Sean Kane. Kane has been named Ivy League Rookie of the Week the previous two consecutive weeks. Harvard also boasts a 7 -6 overtime victo­ry over Notre Dame last season. 
While Corrigan is concerned with avenging last season's loss, he is looking for consistent play at every position. 
"It's kind of been an up and down year," he said. "You win three, and you lose three. You come back and win a couple. We have to show we've made some progress, to show we're getting better and developing more con­sistency." 

With Denver upsetting first place Ohio State, 7-6. the Irish and Buckeyes sit in a tic for first in the GWLL. As of right now, however, Ohio State (7-3, 3-1) would win the head-to-head tiebreaker due to an 11-5 win over Notre Dame April 6. If the Buckeyes defeat Butler in their final league game Saturday, they will clinch their first ever NCAA tournament birth and leave Notre Dame hoping for an at large bid. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
3rd Annual Notre Dame Chess Club Tournament 
When: Sunday April 271\ 12:45 P.M 
Where: Notre Dame Room. 2nd Floor 
LaFun! 

The Notre Dame Chess Club will be hosting their 3rd Annual Tournament. 
Prizes offered for Top Undergrad, Top Female, Top "Rook"ie, and many other prize categories, so everyone can win! 
Everyone will play four games of chess, and will play those of similar strength to assure everyone has a chance to win! 
Contact Mike at ndchess@nd.edu or 4-0867 to register or for more details 
--·---·-­

Friday, April 25, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
ROWING 
Irish drop five of six races to Spartans in East Lansing 
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG Spom Writer 
Notre Dame rowers contend­ed with strong winds as they !'ell to Michigan State in five of their six races Tuesday on Lake Ovid at Sleepy Hollow State Park in East Lansing. Mich. 
The Irish crew of' Maureen Gibbons, Kristen Mizzi, Sarah Keefer, Kristen llenkel and Jacqueline Ilazen was the only exceplion, as they led the scc­011 d varsity four to a win by almost 12 seconds, with an 8 minutes 32.70 seconds finish. The Spartans took second in 8:44.70, while Notre Dame's B 
boat of Hebecca Campbell, Courtney Quinn. Antionette Duck, Megan Sanders and Ann Mulligan placed third with a time of 9:06.10. 
"Our boat had a strong race and we plan to take the momentum to the Big East," Gibbons said. 
The Spartans' first varsity crew, who crossed the finish line in 7:28.05, defeated the Irish by over 8 seconds. Notre Dame's boat of Cassie Markstahler, Natalie Ladinc, Ashlee Warren, Casey Buckstaff, Rachel Polinski, Alice Bartek. Meghan Boyle, Katie Chenoweth and Danielle Protasewich finished in 7:36.17. 
In the second varsity eight, the Spartans easily beat the Irish by more than 20 seconds with a time of 7:28.80. Notre Dame's crew of Kathryn Long, Shannon Mohan, Kerri Murphy, Kathleen Welsh, Meredith Thornburgh, Kati Sedun, Devon Hegeman, Erica Drennen and Melissa Felker finished in 7 :49 .6. 
Michigan State's third victory came in the varsity four, with the Spartans winning in 
8:23.48. The Irish crew of Kacy Mccaffrey, Katie McCalden, Christy Donnelly, Katie O'Hara and Andrea Amoni finished in 8:33.52. 
The Spartans won both the first and second novice eight 
races, posting times of 7:54.37 and 8:34.0. The Irish novice eight crew of Shannan Lettieri. Pamela Jefson, Julie Lewis, Morgan Ertel, Danielle Stealy, Jenna Redgate, Sarah French, Andrea Doud and Catherine Schmidt posted a time of' 8:08.50, while the second eight crew of Nicole Barczak, Megan Sheehan, Meghan O'Neil, Nikki Karis, Fallon Shields, Laura Joyce, Marcia Luttio, Katie Hanafin and Rachel Kemp fin­ished in 8:59.10. 
The Irish are hoping to redeem themselves when they travel to Lake Quinsigamond in Worcester, Mass., for the 2003 Big East Rowing Challenge Sunday. Notre Dame hopes to prevent Syracuse from defend­ing its title. Nine Big East teams will compete in six races -second novice eight. novice four, first novice eight, varsity four, second varsity eight and varsity eight. 

Last year, No. 10 Notre Dame placed second with 109 points at the 2002 Challenge behind No. 13 Syracuse, who scored 117 points. Boston College, Georgetown and Rutgers followed behind Notre Dame. 
"We are looking forward doing well at the Big East this weekend," Gibbons said. 
Contact Christine Armstrong at carmstro@nd.edu. 
. Baseball traditions collide
..  
Notre Dame  rizona State  
Tonight at 6pm • First 300 fans receive a Notre Dame baseball  Saturday at 3pm • First 200 fans receive a Notre Dame green bean bag bear  

With so many so..called charities asking for cars and material goods these days, how ~an you be sure your donation is going to a non-profit organization that benefits the community? 
The Answer is sim le: 
Donate to The Salvation Army Adult Rehabilitation Center! 
Why The Salvation Army? ... . The Salvation Army is a registered non-profit charitable organization 
. All donations are tax-deductlble 
. The Salvation Army Adult Rehabilitation Center operates the #1 alcohol and drug rehabilitation program In tho nation 
. The Salvation Army Adult Rehabilitation Center ls fully self-supporting through the sale of donated items In The Salvation Army Family and Thrift Stores 
How can I hel 7 
Donate your used clothing, furniture, household goods and, yes, even automobiles to The Salvation Army Adult Rehabllltatlon Center and know you're making a difference in your community 

326 N. Ironwood
52750 IN 933 

574.143-1111
574¦143-1111 
Serving Motre Dame & St. Mary's 

Comer of Ironwood & McKlnle:y 
FREE DELIVERY. $7.00 Minimum For Delivery. Not Valid With Any Other Offer. Limited Time Only, 

A NAME YOU CAN TRUST! Call The Salvation Army Adult Rehabilitation Center today! 
PHONE: 288•2539 
Famlly Storoe at '506 s. Main Stroet and at 2009 South Bend Avenue 
AROUND THE NATION 
page 18 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Friday, April 25, 2003 

around the dial 
STANLEY CUP PLAYOFFS Flyers vs. Senators 6:00 p.m., ESPN2 Wild vs. Canucks 9:30 p.m., ESPN2 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL Twins at White Sox 7 p.m., FOXCH Brewers at Braves 6:30 p.m., WTBS 
NBA PLAYOFFS 
Pistons at Magic 7 p.m.1 ESPN Mavericks at Trailblazers 9:30 p.m., ESPN 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 


Associated Press 
SYRACUSE. N.Y. 
With tears in his eyes and his voice trembling, Carmelo Anthony deliv­ered the news most Syracuse fans were expecting but none wanted to hear. 
'Tm here in front of you today to announce that I will not be coming back next year," Syracuse's standout freshman for­ward said Thursday. just 17 days after he led the Orangemen to their first national championship. "I will be moving on, moving on to the pros." 
And just like that, all 
those pleas for Anthony to stay "One More Year!" were forgotten. 
"This is a very happy day for Syracuse basketball, and a sad one, too," head coach Jim Boeheim said, his voice cracking with emotion, too. "The guy sit­ting here has done more for Syracuse basketball than any player we've ever recruited or that's ever played here. To lead his team to a national champi­onship as a freshman is truly a historic moment in college basketball. I'm very thankful that he was here with us." 
Anthony had delayed making the decision until after the season, prefer­ring to focus on winning. He led the Orangemen during the regular season with 22 points and 10 rebounds per game and broke Lawrence Moten's freshman scoring records and Derrick Coleman's freshman rebounding mark. 
At the Final Four in New Orleans, Anthony had a career-best 33 points and pulled down 14 rebounds in Syracuse's semifinal win over Texas. He then put up 20 points in the champi­onship game victory over Kansas and was named Most Outstanding Player of the Final Four -just the third freshman to earn that honor, and the first since Louisville's Pervis Ellison in 1986. 
"I've got to move on," said Anthony, who will turn 19 in May. "We won the national championship, I brought Coach Boeheim what he was waiting for for 27 years. I don't want to make it sound bad, but there's really nothing more that I could get out of college. And I'm going to get my degree -you can quote me on that." 
He said he made up his mind after discussing his situation with his mother, Mary, over Easter week­end, and his coaches. 
IN BRIEF 

Burroughs claims he was hit of an umpire, but he did not elabo­Sacramento. by cell phone at Wrigley rate. Police were questioning three Malone expects his daughter, 
San Diego Padres third basemen people. Cheryl Ford, to be selected in the Sean Burroughs said he was hit by a Burroughs said it "barely hit me." WNBA draft. cell phone thrown from the stands at He said he then picked it up and "I've got a list of the teams, so I've Wrigley Field during Thursday's handed it to one of the umpires. He got a good feeling of where she's 
game. expressed hope the phone could be going to go. I don't want to tell her 
Burroughs said the phone hit him tracked back to the fan who threw it. 

though," Malone said. in the right foot sh•irtly after the Five days earlier, Texas Rangers "The whole way to practice this right fielder Carl Everett was beaned
Cubs' Mark Grudzielanek grounded morning, she wouldn't get off the 
out i.n the bottom of the eighth in the back of the head with a cell phone unless I told her. I told her I'm innini;. phone in Oakland. 

sworn to secrecy right now." 
"It shocked me," Burroughs said. On April 15, a fan ran on the field Like Malone was nearly two"It could have been worse, it could at U.S. Cellular Field and attempted decades ago, Ford is a Louisianah ,ve hit me in the head." to tackle an umpire during a game Tech star about to embark on a pro­He blamed immature fans. between the White Sox and visiting fessional career.

"They are going to rag you a little Kansas City. Last Sept. 19, Kansas The 6-foot-3 center averaged 15.7

bit," Burroughs said. "But I was a lit­City coach Tom Gamboa was points and 12.9 rebounds as a seniortle rurprised to see an object come attacked by a father and son who and helped lead the Lady Techsterson tiie field. That's uncalled for." came out of the stands at the same within one win of reaching the Final

The Cubs said no one was arrested stadium, then called Comiskey Park. but that a police report had been Four. filed. The team said the report indi­Malone's dauahter e~ected The women's league tentatively cated no one was hit by the phone. to be selecteoin WNBA draft scheduled its draft for Friday after­
Chicago Police spokesman Carlos Karl Malone will have a nice diver­noon pending the approval of a col-Hererra said a cell phone was sion Friday from questions about his 1e c ti v e bargaining agreement thrown onto the field in the direction future and his team's 2-0 deficit to between the WNBA and its players. 
hiday, April 25, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles drop doubleheader to Knights in make-up ga1De 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
The Belles knew they were ready to play Calvin a w11ek ago. Calvin decided not to travel due lo imposing weather and can­cclh\d thf\ game. 
The Belles thought they would be prcparnd Wedtrnsday for the make-up games. No umpires showed up. 
By yesterday, the Saint Mary's softball team must have been unsure whether they could win the two biggest games of their S!lllSOn. 
Whether it was extra time to think that bugged the Belles or just a bad day. Saint Mary's (15­15-1. 4-6 MIA/\) lost both gumes of a doubleheader to Calvin (18­11. 6-4) yesterday, 11-2 and 5-3, to erase any hope of a trip to the postscason. 
To taunt Lhe Belles even more, first place Alma beat Hope twice today. Not only does that slide Ilope into a tie J'or third in the conf'crcnce with Albion, it bounces Calvin io second place with a 6-4 record in league play. The Belles know that with two wins yesterday, that could have been them. 
"We are having a hard time finding the mental state to play our games in," Belles coach· Anna Welsh said. "Whether that's getting fired up for some /players), getting focused, visual­izing, or just being ready to play, we can't seem to make il work." 
Saint Mary's was desperate for at least a split in the double­header. To the disappointment of an upbeat but concerned coach, it did not happen. 
"For the most part, we are breaking down," Welsh said. "The good thing is I've seen the team at their tinest, and there is so much talent and so much drive. I know it's out there. I'm just trying to find a way to get it out of them again." 
In the t'irst game against Calvin, the Belles and Knights were in a close. 3-2 battle after four innings. Then came the fifth. 
Calvin scored eight runs in the inning and the game ended after five with a mercy rule in effect. The inning began with Saint Mary's pitcher Libby Wilhelmy getting Calvin's Trisha Balkema to ground out to the shortstop. A single, a walk and a wild pitch later, Hachelle Heyboer's field­er's choice knocked in two runs for the Knights. With two outs, Calvin went for the throat and scored six more runs, totuling eight runs on five hits and two errors. 
Wilhelmy struck out five bat­ters and walked just two for the game, but she also surrendered eleven runs on eleven hits. Only six of the runs were earned. 
"Since we arc not ready to play mentally, we are not ready phys­ically, and we make errors," Welsh said. "We all make ill­advised decisions." 
The second game was closer, but it ended in the same result. 
Freshman pitcher Kate Sajewich started with a shaky, three-run first inning but settled down and pitched well the rest of the day. giving up five runs and four earned runs on seven hits. 

Freshman Meghan Marenkowic knocked in two runs in the second inning and scored on an RBI single by fresh­man Jackie Zurcher in the fifth inning, but Calvin added an insurance run in the sixth inning and held the Belles scoreless to attain their second victory of the day. 
The Belles play their next league doubleheader away Saturday versus first place Alma College, who also is ranked as eighth in the nation in Division III softball. 
"We are hoping to surprise them," Welsh said. "The great thing is that there is no pressure on us because on paper, Alma is supposed to win. So we are going to try to sneak up on them." 
Contact Pat Leonard at plconacd@nd.edu 

THE ANNUAL KARAOKE CONTEST ON SOUTH QUAD 


FlEE fIZZA Al)) 801)A!! 

TEMPEST! 
Sun, April 27 -8:00 pm 
Cl~Trc JlOCI< 
Tempest regularly blows rooms away, mixing mythology, history, Irish jigs & reels, Norwegian traditional music, and Scottish ballads with a crunchy helping ofRock & Roll. $ tOcover. 


Ff<)<)leR"-s HeaRfb 
127 North Main Street "' South Bend, Indiana 46601 "' (574) 232-2853 
HEY, NOTRE DAME, YOUR POT OF .·-:i::ril'~>\?·GOLD IS AT THE STATE LINE. 

Congratulations to the employees of the University of Notre Dame! Campbell Ford Lincoln Mercury has been authorized by Ford Motor Company to give you special savings on all new Ford, Lincoln and Mercury cars and trucks. It's called Ford X-Plan and to qualify all you need to be is an employee of The University of Notre Dame or a family member of one. It's a great opportunity to save even more on the largest selection of Ford, Lincoln and Mercury vehicles in Michiana. just minutes north of campus. Campbell Ford-Lincoln-Mercury. Always the right price right at the state line. And now, right for the University of Notre Dame. 
(----~ 
~ 

F~!IDl!!!~lN 
1/2 mi. N. of the State Line/ Old 31 N1't1 Niles 269 684 8300 / Toll Free 888 FORD 999 • www.carsbycampbell.com 
Friday, April 25, 2003

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Saving the best for last 
. Final 2 rounds of 16 games result in thrilling finishes 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Senior StaffWrim 
In probably the two most intense games of the Bookstore Basketball tournament this year, four of the top 16 teams bashed heads in games that went down to the wire. 
No. 13 1/2 Man, 1/2 Amazing 21, No. 4 Hoosier Racing Team 
19 
Forget about half amazing. This team was completely amazing. 
The No. 13-seeded 1/2 Man, l/2 Amazing squad fended off a big­ger, bulkier Hoosier Racing Team for the day's only upset. 
The smaller 1/2 Man, 1/2 Amazing team maintained a healthy lead throughout the first half, and was able to extend the lead even further in the second, leading at one point by seven at 16-9. 
But the fourth-seeded Hoosier Racing Team battled back, fight­ing for boards and penetrating for inside layups. Thanks to an 8­1 run, Hoosier Racing Team was able to even the score at 17, set­ting the stage for a dramatic fin­ish. 
Mer the two teams exchanged baskets to draw even at 18-18, 1/2 Man, 1/2 Amazing drew loud cheers with its second consecu­tive hoop -a long jump shot ­which pulled them ahead 20-18. 
Hoosier Racing Team brought the lead back down to one, keep­ing the score at 20-19 for quite some time. 
However, 1/2 Man, 1/2 Amazing was too much in the end, sinking a layup off an offen­sive rebound and prompting their fans to rush onto the court in a frenzy. 
No. 7 S.P. Shockers 22, No. 10 Ouhh Slaking 20 
Though neither their uniforms nor their team names indicated so, this game was a battle of Knott versus Keenan. 
In the most hard-fought match of the day. the Juggs emerged victorious over the Knights. 
This game had "extra time" written all over it from the begin­ning, as neither side ever led by more than three points. 
After the No. 10 seeded Ouhh Blaking battled to a 16-13 lead, 
S.P. Shockers rallied to tie the game at 16-16. 
The game seemed perpetually tied, as the teams matched bas­kets at 17. 18, 19 and 20 points apiece before S.P. Shockers were able to put the game away "dth two strongly-contested baskets in 
a row. 
No. 3 We Get Wet 21, No. 14 5 Jamonies 16 
On paper heading into the night, this game seemed like a blowout. 
On the court, the game was anything but. 
After falling behind 7-3 early in Lhe first half, 5 Jamonies responded. battling for rebounds and driving to the hoop to send the game to halftime at 11-9. 
The lead grew smaller, to 11­10, with the first basket of t.he second half, but We Get Wet never cooled off, extending its lead back to four at 14-10 and maintaining that lead for the rest of the game, sealing its Elite Eight berth with a free throw. 
No. 8 RBC 21, 
No. 9 Irvin Jones 14 
lf the rest of Thursday's games were sprints, this game was four marathons back-to-back. 
In easily the longest match of the night, in which both teams relied heavily on the jump shot. RBC crossed the finish line first with the win. 
Both teams decided to air it out from long range rather than dri­ving inside, as both teams stepped up their defenses to pre­vent most driving lay-ups. 
Unfortunately for any impatient spectators, the shots were not failing much of the time, and the two teams plodded into halftime with RBC holding an 11-9 lead. 
The second half featured much of the same, with both sides attempting penetration into the key, but uru;uccessfully, and then resorting to the outside game. 
In the end, RBC wore down the older Irvin Jones squad, eventual­ly converting on some inside dri­ves to put the game away. 
No. 2 ndtoday.com 21, 
question? 1.1 
Should our name be a ques­tion? couldn't find the answer for just one thing: Dan Lustig. 
The Notre Dame mens basket­ball team walk-on put on a show for the fans and the second-seed­ed ndtoday.com team walked away with the victory, thanks to a run that spanned both halves. 
The tvvo teams fought to a 5-5 tie early on, and the game seemed like a hotly-contested match at 7-6 in favor of ndtoday.com. 
Lustig and company had other plans. 
ndtoday.com ran off six straight points before Should our name... brought the game back slightly within reach at 14-8. 
However, Lustig sparked another 4-0 run to quell any doubts about the second-seeded squad. 
No. 6 Michael Jackson's 
Buddies 21, 
No. 11 Nunc Dimlttis 9 
In perhaps the most ironic match of the night, Michael Jackson's Buddies, sporting T­shirts direct from the Kitty Kat Lounge, overpowered the semi­narians of Nunc Dimittis. 
The vvin was aided in no small part to a dominating presence down low for Michael Jackson's Buddies, as the team's center converted some key drives and grabbed plenty of rebounds to spark a 6-0 run to put his team ahead, 9-2. The teams then exchanged baskets to go into halftime at 11-4. 
The game was delayed for a few minutes in the second half, with Michael Jackson's Buddies ahead 13-5, when a member of Nunc Dimittis suffered an ankle injury and had to be treated before the game could continue. 
However, the offense of Nunc Dimittis ,11,as just too inconsistent -relying heavily on the jump shot, which often didn't fall for them -and in the end, even divine intervention would not have saved the seminarians from defeat in the round of 16. 
No. 5 La-Z-Boy Furniture 
Galleries 21, 
No. 12 Derelict 18 
This game was a tale of two halves. 
After trailing heading into half­time, 11-5, the fifth-seeded ­and much bigger -La-Z-Boy squad came storming back, wearing down the Derelict team 
THE ELITE EIGHT 
No. 3 We Get Wet
No. l Adworks No. 6 Michael Jackson's Buddies 


No. 7 S.P. Shockers 
No. 2 NDToday.com 

Saturday's semifinals will start about one hour after the Blue-Gold Game. Sunday's Championship will start at 2 p.m. 
with its strong inside presence. someone's finally going to 
Some strong offensive posses­ResLlfe. sions, combined with some key Not intimidated in the least by defensive stops, guided the La-Z­their opponent's threatening Boy team to a huge run in the name, AdWorks dominated the second half to halt any upset­Beat us -Go to ResLlfe squad, minded members of Derelict. putting the game out of reach 
early thanks to an 11-4 halftime No. 1 AdWorks 21, lead. No. 16 Bat us -Go to ResUfe Perhaps the highlight of the day 
1.1 turned out to be the highlight that If the team's name is true, wasn't, as AdWorks' Carlyle Holiday missed a dunk after leap­ing over a defender, prompting boos as well as laughter from the crowd, which included virtually every member of the entire Notre Dame mens basketball team. 

In the end, AdWorks dominated all aspects of their game to cruise into the Elite Eight. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 

Friday, April 25, 2003 The Ob,erver . SPORTS page 21 
Edwards 
continued from page 24 
Edwards! lo have this kind of season," Mainieri said. ''I had a lot of' faith in what Matl was going to do, w,i just hadn't se,in it yet I because of' injuriesI." 
Fnw were as confident as Maininri that Edwards would perform the way ho did before th,\ numerous injuries. The reasons for doubt wen: obvi­ous: hdwards had only a limit­rd number of' at-bats in over a year, had an injury that could hav,\ bccm r.arcf\r-lhr<~atening and could hardly move for nine months while rnhabilitating from tlrn leg injury. The ques­tion marks surrounding hlwards wcrn manv more than the certainties. · 
Tlrn injury against USC loomPd largest over Edward's head ,md presented the great­est uneasiness to his return lo the field. The subject is one Mainicri donsn't like to talk ahoul. 
"That was one ol' the saddest days I've llVM experienced on the baseball field." Mainieri said. 
Edwards, playing shortstop, had allowed a pop up lo drop between him and Irish leltlield­er Matt Bok earlier in the con­les t. So when a similarly hit pop l'ly headed toward the space between Edwards and Bok in the bottom of the fourth inning, the Notre Dame short­stop wasn't about to let anoth­er ball drop. 
Edwards raced hard after the ball, while Bok charged in to make the catch. The two collid­ed, leaving Edwards with a grotesque injury and his base­ball earner in jeopardy. 
"The pain was much worse than anything I've ever felt by for," Edwards said. "I didn't start thinking about my career until laLer. BuL I never doubted l could come back, ever at any poinl." 
l•:dwards healed and entered winter practice ready to polish tlrn skills that had been out of use for almost a year. best players in the Big East. 
But there were still more "He's a clutch hitter that dri­challenges awaiting Edwards. ves in the big runs for us. He In the winter, Mainieri does it with two strikes on him, approached Edwards and which is especially tough," asked him to change positions Mainieri said. "I think he's from third base to first base so been a great leader for our freshman infielder Greg Lopez team because of the way he could play on a more regular performs in the clutch and in basis. the wake of what adversity he 
The move wuuld help the had to go through." team, Mainieri told Edwards. Notre Dame needed So instead of complaining, Edward's clutch hits and run Edwards simply agreed, and production after losing players quickly began to learn an like Steve Stanley, Brian entirely new position. He's held Stavisky, Andy Bushey and his own at first so far. touting a Paul O'Toole after the 2002 .975 fielding percentage with season. Those absences left the 16 regular season games middle of the Irish lineup with remaining for the Irish. some gaping holes. 
It's this type of unselfishness "Clutch hitting is something I that makes Edwards standout as a coach emphasis more than 
from  just  anything else,"  
being a good hitt!'r or fielder. He's  "He's a clutch hitter that drives in the big runs for  Mainieri said. "I think the greatest thing  
the  com­ us. He does it with two  he does is just  
plete base­ball player. "I was lit­ strikes on him, which is especially tough."  perform in the clutch. He seems to  
tle  con­ always make a  
e e  r  n  e  d  Paul Malnlerl  big play for us.  
about Matt Edwards'  Irish coach  His greatest form of leader- 
reaction  to  ship  is  how  

(tho switch! but Matt has been you can count on him in clutch so unselfish," Mainieri said. situations. "(He's! made the move for Greg "Some guys have that ability Lopez. I think his unscllishness to raise their game in pressure is something that has really packed situations." stood out." Edwards must continue his 
And the position change stellar play if the Irish hope to hasn't affected his hitting return to Omaha, Neb. for the either. Through 40 games this College World Series. The team season, Edwards is hitting .355 needs his slugging and defense and tops the Irish with seven to contend for another Big East home runs. His 48 HBis lead title. But most importantly, the the Big East conference, while Irish must get the clutch hits his slugging percentage hovers and unselfish play that around .600. Edwards has provided all sea­
"He has not flinched a bit son. [since the injuries}," Mainieri "Honestly, I expect myself to said. "He stands right on top of [have this kind of] season every the plate, he challenges pitch­season," Edwards said. "I set ers to challenge him and he's really high goals for myself and fearless up there." I thought I could do this going 
But his excellent stats don't into the season and I'm happy do Edwards justice. The I've been able to do what I've infielder from Mechanicsville, done so far. Hopefully I can fin­Va. seems to always come ish it out as strongly as the through in the clutch for his season started." team. Mainieri says that's Edwards' biggest asset and the Contact Joe Hettler at reason he's become one of the jhettler@nd.edu 
A1TENTION: NOTRE DAME EMPLOYEES 
FULL-TIME & PART-TIME 
''AnnouncingYour Exclusive Employee Purchase Program" 


¦ E 
VOLVO ----.. .-··
X 
. . .. . -.. 

PIAN 
Did you know. .... As an employee of Notre Dame, you are automatically eligible for special pre-determined pricing from Ford Motor Company and its brands. 
This plan is called ~-Ask for it when you buy or lease your next new Ford, Lincoln, Mercury.Volvo, land Rover, Jaguar, or Mazda and receive manufacturer pricing below dealer invoice. 
Just bring in to the dealership proofof employment (payd1eck stub or ID card) and askfor "X-Piaff' 
•Only 
offered to Ford Motor Company suppliers and select partners 

•Special 
vehicle pricing is pre~determined by Ford Motor Company 


•XPlan visible on facrory invoice-ask to see it 
a~ 

•Jordan is a volume dealership-More $ for your trade-in t.. "i\ 
•Additional rebates available k. ,~.~~ J 
•Hassle-free -No negotiation necessary C-~~,11¼1 ~
\ .. {(
0 )\

AN 
I 


AUTOMOTIVE GROUP 
I 
In Elkhart;

In Mishawaka: 609 East Jefferson .Boulevard I005 North Nappanee Street Corner of Jefferson & Cedar Streets Corner of California & Nappanee Roads 
259-198 l or 674-9926 674-6112
Showroom Hours: M, ,; Th: 8:30 a.m. -8 p.m. ; W. F. S: 8:30 a.m.-6 p.m. 
Call: 1-SG0-837-1981 ext. 355 

SOHA t;ALU)N/ !he Observer 

Freshman Matt Edwards overcame multlple Injuries sustained In the summer and fall to lead the Big East In RBIs with 48. 
Irish hitters light up IPFW ace in blowout 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 
Indiana University-Purdue 
University Fort Wayne and Notre 
Dame weren't supposed to play 
this season, but they scheduled 
the game to make up for rain 
outs each team had earlier in 
the year. 
The Mastadons might want to 
fire whoever made that decision. 
Notre Dame (31-9) batted 
around in the first inning, scor­
ing six times on six hits and blew 
out IPFW 13-3 at Frank Eck 
Stadium Thursday. 
"I was really happy with the 
way we swung the bats tonight," 
Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. 
"That was not just any guy out · 
on the mound, (IPFW's] David 
Zachary is a good pitcher. He 
has a good arm and a good 
curveball. ... He was no easy 
guy, he was a challenge out 
there. I thought our hitters did a 
really good job, especially in the 
first inning. 
Righthander Torn Thornton went six innings, allowing one earned run on five hits and strik­ing out four. The win improved Thornton's record to 3-1. 
Notre Dame, who hadn't scored more than two runs in any first inning this season, pushed ahead early when desig­nated hitter Alex Nettey singled to start the game, rightflelder Cody Rizzo walked and then left­fielder Brennan Grogan drilled an RBI double off Zachary. Zachary allowed an incredible 17 hits fn 6 213 innings of work, yielding 10 earned runs. 
First baseman Matt Edwards followed Grogan with a fielder's choice to score Rizzo. Centerfielder Kris Billmaier then knocked in Grogan with a single before catcher Javi Sanchez scorched a double down the lell field line to plate Billmaier. Shortstop Matt Macri singled before second baseman Tim Murray added a single to score Sanchez. Third baseman Greg Lopez ended the Notre Dame scoring with his own RBI single to make it 6-0 Irish. 

Notre Dame added another 
run in the second on an 
Edwards' RBI single. 
The Irish raised their team 
batting average to .311 with the 
season-high 20 hit performance. 
"We're not going to hit a lot of 
home runs so we must get hit­
ters on base early in the inning," 
Mainieri said. "I thought our 
execution was good and we hit 
in the clutch." 
The Mastadons fought back to score three runs, one earned, off Thornton in the fourth inning. Second baseman Brent Alwine opened the inning with a double over Billmaier's head, followed by Dustin Frernion 's single that sent to Alwine to third and allowed Fremion to reach sec­ond on an error by Macri. IPFW outfielder Brandon Armstrong singled in Alwine to cut the Irish lead to 7-1. Shortstop Tyler Fowler had an RBI base hit and designated hitter Jacob Abramson added his own RBI hit to make it 7-3 Irish after three and a half innings. 
Notre Dame responded in the bottom of the inning with two runs of their own. Edwards picked up his third HBI of the game with a sacrifice fly and Billmaier added an RBI double to give Notre Dame the 9-3 edge. 
Billmaier also had an RBI sin­gle in the sixth inning to extend the Irish lead to 10-3. 
Notre Dame added some more runs in the eighth when Murray singled in two runs and Zach Sisko picked up an RBI with a fielders choice. 
The Irish will face Big East rival Connecticut in a three­game series this weekend at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Notes: 

. 
Second baseman Steve Sollmann did not play for the second straight contest due to a slight wrist sprain. 

. 
Prior lo the six-run first inning Thursday, Notre Dame had only outscored opponents 17-16 this season in the first. 


Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 25, 2003 
ND SOFTBALL 
Lowly Illinois-Chicago gives Notre Dame a scare 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame was involved in a David vs. Goliath matchup at Illinois-Chicago Thursday night. 
Luckily for the Irish, the sling­shotjust fired wide. 
After outscoring Valparaiso by a combined score of 26-1 in its two previous games Wednesday. the Irish looked set to easily add to their winning streak against the Flames, who came into the game with a losing record. 
Someone forgot to tell Illinois­Chicago, as the unassuming Horizon League members gave the Irish more than enough of a challenge. 
Notre Dame (29-11} had to rally from an early 2-0 deficit against the Flames (16-32), but was able to tie the game in the sixth inning before scoring the go-ahead run in the top of the seventh to eventually win 3-2. 
The nail biting win extends the Irish's winning streak to 19 games, and continues an April winning streak. 
Relief pitcher Carrie Wisen picked up the win by pitching throe innings of scoreless relief, after previous Irish pitchers Heather Booth and Steffany Stenglein each gave up a run. 
Notre Dame started off looking as though they were going to strike early in the game, finding the bases loaded with one out in the top of the first. Feisty Flames starter Alison Aguilar worked out of the jam by striking out shortstop Andria Bledsoe and then getting first baseman Lisa Mattison to line out to second. 
Irish starter Heather Booth had difficulty early in the game, allowing the Flames to also load the bases with one out in the bottom of the first. Unfortunately for the Irish, the Flames were able to get on the scoreboard. 
After getting a groundout, Booth allowed a single and a double, then intentionally walked the next flame batter to load the bases in hopes of a dou­ble play. Instead, Booth walked Alycia Creese to push ahead the first Flame run. 
Booth settled down, getting the next batter to strike out and then inducing a popup to shortstop to get out of the inning with no fur­ther damage. 
With the score stlll 1-0 going into the fifth inning, the Irish pulled Booth in favor of Stenglein. Stenglein received a 

SMC TENNIS 
Belles travel to league tournament 
By LISA REIJULA 
Sports Writer 
After finishing in a tie for second in the conference standings after the dual match season, the Saint Marv's ten­nis team still has a ch.ance to make a run at the conference championship. The Belles will compete in the MIAA confer­ence tournament today and Saturday at Kalamazoo College. 
The overall champion of the MIAA is determined by a point system using dual meet results and the outcome of the confer­ence tournament. Saint Mary's has been the overall winner for the past two seasons. 
While the Belles feature a slightly different roster from last season. having lost former No.1 singles player Annie Knish to graduation, the team is ready to make a statement. With last year's success and experience. the team feels 
confident that they can com­
pete again for the title. 
"We're still confident and 
have an incredible chance to 
win conference," Elisa Ryan 
said. "But if we don't get first 
no one will think the season 
was a disappointment. 
"My freshman year we were 
third in the MIAA and we 
were happier than the teams 
that were first and second 
because we had more fun 
together." 
This year the Belles (13-5, 5-2 in the MIAA) faced stiff competition in a conference that saw improvement from ·many teams. Saint Mary's lost to Albion and Kalamazoo in dual matches. Albion was undefeated in the MIAA at 7 ­0, while Kalamazoo finished 
5-2. 
Rounding out the MIAA is 
Calvin (8-6, 4-3), Hope (11-8, 
4-3), Adrian (6-7, 2-5), Alma 
(1-9, 1-6) and Olivet (0-9, 0-7). 
All teams will compete in the 
conference tournament in 
Kalamazoo. 
Last year Saint Mary's won the tourney and had several conference champions among its roster. 
Last year's conference tour­nament MVP, Kalamazoo sophomore Clark, returns this season as a nationally-ranked player. Several first-team All­MIAA players will be compet­ing, including Saint Mary's Jeannie and Annie Knish, 
Clark,  Sally  Skodinski  of  
Calvin,  Amiee  Greene  of  
Albion  and  Hoorn  of  
Kalamazoo.  

From the second team, Jennifer Coleman of Hope, Karen Dumas of Albion, and Cutler from Saint Mary's return to the tournament. 
The Belles compete all day April 25 and 26 in the MIAA conference tournament at Kalamazoo College. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 
rude greeting with a home run over the left field wall by fresh­man Joyce Cathey, giving the Flames a 2-0 lead. 
Stenglein would allow two more singles before she was replaced with Wisen, who doused the Flames by retiring the next three batters in order. 
The Irish took advantage of Wisen's clutch pitching and tied the game back up in the sixth inning. After Mattison grounded out to shortstop to start the inning, Jen fielder Liz Hartmann followed with a hard double to left field. 
Catcher Mallorie Lenn then doubled off Aguilar, scoring Hartmann. Right fielder Nicole deFau hit an infield single and Lenn advanced to third. 
The Irish then loaded the bases on another infield hit by Kellie Middleton. Second base­man Alexis Madrid bounced into a fielder's choice scored Lenn to tie the game at 2-2. 
Aguilar got the next two outs, including one off a tremendous throw from left field to gun down deFau at the plate. 
would score. With the game tied at two going into the final inning, the Irish led off the seventh with a walk by designated player Meghann Huthrauff. 
That walk would prove deadly for Aguilar, as Bledsoe followed with a single that moved Ruthrauff to third base. Bledsoe was thrown out at second trying to stretch the hit into a double. 
Mattison struck out looking for the second out of the inning. Hartmann dribbled a weak grounder to second base, but emergency second baseman Michelle Miller bobbled the ball and allowed Ruthrauff to score the go-ahead run. 
Wisen got the first two outs of the bottom of the seventh easily ang got out of a two-out jam to end the game. 
The Irish travel to Massachusetts Saturday for a crucial doubleheader against Boston College, who sit in second place in the Big East. Notre Dame does not return home until May 5 against Villanova. 

Wisen allowed two hits in the Contact Justin Schuver at bottom of the sixth. but no runs jschuver@nd.edu 
,Since 1923 •Group Services •Professional Drivers 
•Luxury Buses •Competitive Rates •Wheelchair Accessible 

Friday, April 25, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 23 

DE FIGHTING IRISH BASEBALL '~~ 

CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 
HAPPY TOWN 

The 1111:1 is 1hat the world h11s a hn ol·prohlcm~ lit<lay. mo,t of th~"Tll prelly hard t n -~ o Ive. 
I'm nm SU)'ing !hat oil _iews ar,: communisls, huts om,: 1i m,: $ w h ,: n I PJ)<.,'TI up Lhe p"J't:r ,., the World 

• Watch for paesages ewllng 
author's viewpoint hnmadiately 
preceded by "rm not savln11..." 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~::+::-t 27 Confederates 28 "Brrr!" 29 More likely to 
bump into 30 Park place? 
producer 
3411 may be humanitarian 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
. I am ",n,ple1cly shamed and i,,. 1tragcd at such a huli<.TOus stale• , i$ nhvivu.<ily not palriolic and i 
1m writing lo s.iy th:ll. I rnmplet· :rw, though ROT(' ~hl>W$ Liuil ·, :cau~e Che 1rntl1 i~ \hat mos, je1> 
Samuel I :30 we sec IH>W .lt.'su., telling u, exactly whm needs tt · 
• Au&!tions of lad< orprruiotl&m 
• Inexplicable Blbfe quotations 
• ROTC snmehow gets brought up 
2 Maintain 
3 Sainted pope called "the Grear 
4 1962 Joseph Wiseman title role 
5 Really shine 
6 Set (against) 
7 L. L Cool J's "In Too D~ep" co-star 
8 Commercial prefix with mundo 
9 Weak 
10 Pacific 
11 Wise one 
12 • ... die strangled _my Romeo comes?": Shak. 
13 Firms: Abbr. 
14 Explosive 
21 Influential journal publisher: Abbr. 
23 Deborah's "The King and I" co-star 
25 Green 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Ktwln Hagen  
38 Big show of  46 Marshall  57 Unpleasant one  
support 39 Magnifier, of sorts 40 Truncation indication: Abbr.  Mathers. familiarly 47 Doubtless 48 Fancy home amenity  58 Historical sewer 59 Comedian Ritz and others 60 On, in a way  
43 Taverner of "The Simpsons" 45 Bilingual  53 Bun's place 55 SO-oared ship  61 Dupin's creator 63 It's named for a Germanic war  
woman, maybe  56 Draft, e.g.  god: Abbr.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card. 1-800,.814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-?-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
,!'!!nl ~e~r.,>Ntl yef1r~ in C()mmuni !Slli.i, and $everal year~ in J.:rus ,d I cim h.ill you t]liu jl'Y.'S arc, m, 
,m a proleMor al 1he college of ,<JI wouldju~l likc tu poinl oul • \ myseH; T find this very ollen; 
,w lh1>1.1gh I am ju:,, a l'rc:;hmar: , obvious, hecnuse my rnommi:. 
-~•~cM ··.cM$ihothellipeech1~ 
1 

• Pral'essars and freshmen respond capitalism, refrgioo, and Notre Dame wltll e1tual 51:rangth ofcooviction defended to no one in par1icular 
~ all ha~·e Uw righ1 to free SJ)\l,K ,d TIIJ)plaud lhe Ot,server for pn '!J nN agree. but that'$ not wha\ 
,e members ~,!'Nolte Dame's R< ;.d lv have thb year':; 'Pa<;,~ in R , South Quad, or o!htirwise the.' 
.Jre Dame is .i gr..:J.l uniy<...-sily, -,,pie -~no Jnn't think sn ure Cllr, 
JUMBLE 
JJ~ 
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
KULCC 
j
I rx 
02003 Tribune Madia Sarvlca6, Inc 
All Rlghta Reaen1ed. 
ZENOO 
rJ I lu 
YADLAM 

b
www.jumbla.com
tPHESCY±
J I t J I 

Ans:[ I I Jl I I I I IJITJ 
Yesterday's  I Jumbles:  BRIBE  MAKER  (Answers tomorrow) DARING BRIDLE  
Answer:  How Dad felt after fixing the clogged sink ­ 
DRAINED  
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIlS DAY: Al Pacino, Ella Fitzgerald, Paul Mazursky, Renee :zenweger 
Happy Birthday: Separate your personal am.I professional Iives this year ifyou want to get ahead. Deal quickly with any issue that arises. As long as you can envision what it is you are trying to accomplish, you should be able to achieve your goals. Your numbers 
are?, 18,29,33,38,46 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): You are in a winning mood today. Your actions will 
make a strong statement, so make sure that your motives arc virtuous. This can be a morrentous day. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Difficulties with someone you care about may lead to loneliness. You may have per.;onal problems. but professional duties must be dealt with regardless ofhow you feel.** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): The connections you make today will lead to a better professional position or to infonnation that will help you in the future. Financial losses are likely ifyou insist on taking arisk. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take the safe route today especially where work or partnerships are concerned. If you have been spending money unnecessarily, you will feel the C1U11ch. Focus on being caring and kind. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A business or emotional partner may be getting fed up if you've been refusing to make acommitment Ifyou are partnered with the wrong person, end it** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Put your personal aspirations on the back bwner today and focus on work, money, career and advancellll..'lll. A one-sided romantic attraction is likely to develop. *** LIBRA (Sept. 2.'\.0ct. 22): Toke care of yourself and your nwk Relax and rejuvenate. You need the attention. 5 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You have probably been holding in your anger. which could lead to ablow-up. Put your efforts into making changes and improvemenlS around your home. Keep busy and you may minimize your stress. ** SAGITfARillS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Listen to what people with experience have to say and you'll discover awhole lot about yourself. Mix business with pleasure and you will 
pro6per. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may not be totally happy with your position 
today, but don't be too eager to quit yourjob. Unless you have a deal on the table and in writing. stay put *** AQUARRJS (Jan. 20-Feb.18): You'll be tom in too many directions ifyou take care of 
everyone's demands all at once. Organize yourself and don't get taken for granted. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Look out for your own interests today. This isn't the day to trust anyone to do what's best for you. Be precise and do the best job possible. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will swprise everyone with your imagination and vision. You will be creative, detennined and you'll know what you must do to find peace of mind. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com. eugenialast.com. wnetwork.com. 
COPYRIGHT2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

HOW JUNIOR FELT WHEN HE: KNOTTED Hl'7 FIR'?T TIE', 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Yeachl I can't breathe 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Unlocked area? 
9 Phase 15 Gradually 16 It does a lot of 
firing 17 Very recently delivered 18 Winemaker 
Gallo 19 Lover of Eos 20 Criticized and 
how! 22 Stuff in a robber-foiling 
pack 24 Lowest 28 Clique 32 Common 
solvent 33 Fault line? 35 He chalked up 
915 points 36 100 points 37 Taste 39 1983 Woody 
Allen film 41 Mouths: Lat 42 Aspiring artist's 
submission 44 Like a snake 49 Doggies 50 Concoct 51 Dreaming 
phenomenon 52 Capital near the 
Adriatic 54 Partner of parts 59 Like 
Liechtenstein 62 Trusted friend 64 Its amptoyees 
are in training 65 Snake 
alternatives 66 Erotic 67 Trash heaps, 
e.g. 
DOWN 
1 Rock star turned activist 

PORTS 
Friday, April 25, 2003 

NFL DRAFT 
Draft looms for Irish seniors 

By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Wrirer 
The wait, for Sean Mahan, is nerve-wracking. 
He has spent over four months training on his own. been put through rigorous physical fitness tests and met with countless football teams. Everything has been devoted toward improving his draft stock so Mahan can fulfill his dream of playing professional football. 
This weekend, the wait will be over -finally. 
Over the weekend, Mahan and a handful of other former Irish football players will learn where they are headed next season in the NFL Draft. And finding out their fates 
.... BASEBALL Edwards overcomes adversity for Irish 
By JOE HETTLER Spores Editor 
He pulled a hamstring four games into his summer 
See Also
season after high "Irish hitters school 
light up IPFW
graduation. Then he ace in blowout" went down 
page21
with a knee injury before fall ball started. 
And finally there was the gruesome compound fracture of his lower leg that hap­pened during a game versus USC last season. 
In all, Irish infielder Matt Edwards played in a grand total of 14 baseball games from the end of his high school career to the begin­ning of the 2003 Notre Dame season. 
So why is Irish coach Paul Mainieri not surprised by the outstanding season Edwards has put together thus far for Notre Dame? 
"I really did [expect 
see EDWARDS / page 21 


can't come soon enough. 
'Tm just ready to get this over with," Mahan said. "This is the worst part. There's nothing I can do but sit back and wait." 
The draft's seven rounds are divided across two days. with the first three rounds being conducted Saturday and the final four rounds being held Sunday. Most draft analysts predict as many as eight grad­uating Irish athletes will be drafted over the weekend. 
When they'll be drafted, and by which teams, remains any­one's guess. 
Center Jeff Faine is general­ly seen as the Notre Dame player likely to be drafted first, but he has no idea where he'll be heading. According to a multitude of mock drafts, Faine -one of the top center prospects in the draft -could either be a first-or second­round selection. 
After Faine, though. nobody knows who could go next. Depending on who you asked. defensive backs Shane Walton and Gerome Sapp, wide receiver Arnaz Battle and offensive lineman Jordan 
see DRAFT I page 15 


BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS 

Young Irish have work cut out 
. Men must win to advance; women look for Big East Championship 
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Spores Writer 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. 
For both the mens and wom­ens tennis teams. this week­end's Big East Championships will serve as an opportunity for proving that despite inexperi­ence and youth, pure mettle and hard work can make a team successful. 
For the men, the tournament is crucial. Save for some act of God, they must emerge as the victors of the Big East if they wish to advance to their 12th straight NCAA tournament. 
For the women, the burden is a little lighter -they will very likely reach the NCAA Tournament no matter how they finish this weekend. Nevertheless, a conference title is coveted, particularly in a strong conference like the Big East. 
Both Irish squads will see their toughest opponents in Virginia Tech and Miami. Both Irish squads defeated the Hokies, and both were topped by Miami. 
Ever since they began the season with a 0-4 start -the worst in program history, the Irish have had trouble over-coming the mental barriers cre­ated by their initial losses. 


A great deal of the Irish loss­es have been very close match­es. 
"It's been disappointing to not have had a better season," Irish mens coach Bobby Bayliss said. "We did not win very many of the close matches we played. That's been a trait of our teams over the years -the ability to win the close ones." 
It has been hard to pinpoint a specific source for the Irish troubles. 
"I don't know if things didn't fall our way or if there are any real concrete reasons." Bayliss said. "There's no one particular player or point that broke down. We just didn't quite seem to get it down. Coming close in tennis is like being a little big pregnant." 

Because coming close does not count, and because the Irish must make it count this weekend if they count on going to the NCAA tournament, Bayliss is hoping for a "break­out tournament." 
"We're good enough to play with every team, but we just haven't gotten over the hump," Bayliss said. "I think everyone knows the score. The scene is pretty well set and we've got to win the whole thing." 
Usually Notre Dame is 
see BIG EAST/ page 14 

en 
Nil SOFTBALL 
BOOKSTORE 
SMC SOFTBALL 

MENS LACROSSE
ROWING 
WOMENS LACROSSE 

1--u LLI 
Notre Dame 3 
No. 1 Adworks 21 
Calvin 11 

Harvard at Notre 
Irish to face
Michigan State 

z Illinois-Chicago 2 
No. 16 Beat us ­
Saint Mary's 2 
defea s Notre 
Dame 
Northwestern and

s 
go to Res Life 11 
Dame 
Rutgers 

=c:s The Irish came back 
Calvin 5 
The Irish lost five of 

Saturday, 2 p.m. 
from a 2-0 deficit to win 
The Elite Eight field is 
Saint Mary's 3 
six races in Sleepy 

This game against an 
Coach Tracy Coyne is

C 
a close non-conference 
set. 
Hollow State Park in 
setting goals for her

Ivy League opponent is 
game Thursday. 
East Lansing, Mich. 

a must-win for the Irish. 
team this weekend. 

D.m ti 
page 20 

page 16
en 
page 22 
page 17 
page 16
page 19 





