---------·-----·-~ -----------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
London Program to offer year-long option 
numbers for the program, presently at 150 students per semester, would likely increase but that the majority of students would still study for only a semester. 
Additionally, the eurriculum for both semesters, which generally requires science and engineering majors to study in the fall and business majors in the spring, would not change, either. Because of the change, the London Program has extended the application deadline and will also allow students who alrnady applied to change their prefer­enee to a full year. · 
see LONDON/page 6 


Absence of Am.erican llinits opt!ons 
Some students face higher prices for holiday travel 


By TERESA FRALISH Assistall! News Editor 
Thn London Program will now allow studnnts to study abroad f(Jr lim nntirn year, instead of the traditional onn s~mnstnr option. 
"It's somr.thing wn had been looking into fhr quito some time," said London Program associate dirnctor T11rri Bays. "Tiw full year gives studnnl<> thn opportu­nity to nngagn in morn extended projncl'i." 
The l.or)(Jon Program, which is dirndly run by the University, is tlw largest of Notrn Damn's inter­national study programs. Most otlwr study abroad locations allow students to spend an entire ynar in the foreign country. 

Currently, the London Program oll'ers students numerous oppor­tunities for internships and other experiences, such as working for a Member of Parliament. Bays said that, with the year-long option, student would be able to do longer internships and more in-depth research projects, and that her office would work to develop more long-term opportu­nities. 
"That's certainly something that's in the works," Bays said. "We're ready to put the invest­mont in." 
As a result of the new year­long option, Bays said enrollment 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Me111bers debate, pass two resolutions 
hubs in the Midwest or on the East Coast. However, the change has limited the travel options of some students, especially those living in the Saint Louis area. 
These students, formerly able to fly directly home from South Bend on American Airlines, now must choose between signifieant­ly higher ticket prices and travel­ing to a Chicago airport. 
Saint Mary's sophomore Rachel Kevehazi, a resident of Valley Park, Mo., has opted to drive to Chicago's Midway Airport to catch a flight home. 
"I tried to get a ticket from South Bend, but I would have had to pay $400," said Kevehazi. 

Mary Kowalski, Travel Manager for Anthony travel, said that the loss of American 
see AIR/page 6 
By ANDREW THAGARD A•sistant News Editor 
Membnrs of the Campus Life Council unanimously passed a rnsolution calling for a letter to lw snnt to the Office of Student Affairs asking for the crnation of a Univnrsity spon­sornd gnnder relations center and approved the drafting of a separatn lettnr requesting the rnirnplnmentation of trans­portation serviens for students with tnmporary injuries dur­ing their mn1~ting on Monday. 
The proposNI gender rela­tions enntnr would n1plaee the nxisting student-sponsored Women's Hesourcn Cnnter. It will educat11 both male and fnmaln Notre Dame studnnts on irn portant women's issuns, inrluding rape, said Emily Chin, chief of' staff' in the 0 f'fil~ n of' Student Body l'n~sident and a mnmbnr or tlw CLC. 
Tho name, Chin said, speaks 
of the proposed center's broader purpose. 
"We wanted to not limit it to women," she said. "We want to open it to anyone on cam­pus and educate males and females." 
During the meeting, mem­bers also continued a debate foeusod on on-campus trans­portation for students with temporary disabilities. The Of'fice for Students with Disabilities has traditionally provided limited transporta­tion using golf carts for injured stu-dents. The policy, however, was discontinued due to budget cuts. 
Members passed a resolu­tion supporting the reinstate­ment of these or equivalent services and a temporary task force formed to address the issue will draft a letter to the Of'fiee of Student Affairs out­lining CLC's stance and pre­senting research they com-
see CLC/page 3 By MIKE CHAMBLISS 
News Writer 

The recent departure of American Airlines from South Bend Regional Airport has forced some students to change travel plans for Thanksgiving Weekend. 
Earlier this month, Trans State Airlines, which provided direct nights from South Bend under the aegis of American Airlines, discontinued service to Saint Louis. 
Many students, like junior Annie Hohrs, who plans to fly on Northwest Airlines, are able to fly with one of the airlines that still service the South Bend area. These include Delta, ATA, United, Continental and USAirways, all of which have 
SMC assists 'scholars at risk' 
Program allowed columnist from Swaziland to seek asylum at College 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 

When professor _and social eriticism columnist Sarah Mkhonza was forced to 11ee her country for speaking out against injustice, she didn't know who might offer her a safe haven. 
But Mkhonza, a scholar from Swaziland, Africa, arrived at Saint Mary's Nov. 4 seeking academic asylum. ller pres­ence is part of the Scholars-At­Risk Program, an organization that gives refuge to scholars who have spoken against inequality and are in danger as a result. 
Her refuge at Saint Mary's is made possible by a matched grant of $20,000 from the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership and the Scholar Hescue Fund of the 
Institute  of  International  
Education  at  Harvard  
University.  

"The Scholars-At-Hisk pro­gram is an outgrowth of the College's interest in human rights and humanitarian serv­ices," said Janice Pilarski, jus­tice education and program coordinator. 

Saint Mary's professors and CWIL fellows attended a con­ference at University of Chicago in 2000 at the onset of the program and have been working since to host a scholar. The Scholars At Hisk Web site reports that more than 70 institutions, ranging from Ivy League research universities to small liberal arts colleges, are members of the network. 
Seholars receiving asylum through the program hail from around the world, with the largest amount, about 30 per­cent, corning from sub-Saharan Africa. 
Over half the applicants have soeial science or humanities backgrounds, while only six pnreent am journalists or writ­ers. 
Mkhonza, a linguistics pro­fessor at tlw Univer·sity of' Swaziland who was highly crit­ical ol' government practices. 
see SCHOLAR/page 6 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



A not so 

thankful day 
As I was watching the Thanksgiving episode of "The O.C." last week, there was one line of the script that stood out to me: "Thanksgiving is celebrating the genocide of American Indians." 
You know what? I ~-~=-~ agree. This accurate­ly describes why I have never really liked Thanksgiving. The only thing it's good for is to get a break from school. I'm serious. 
Mymomisa great cook and it's nice to have a home-cooked meal, but we need to think beyond the realm of good food to the reason behind the holiday itself. 
When little kids think of Thanksgiving, they think of Pilgrims, their little buckle shoes and silly hats. They think of turkeys running around and smiles on everyone's faces. 
But when I think of Thanksgiving, I don't think of that. I think of how the orig­inal Europeans treated the Indians badly, killing them and forcing them to move out of land which was rightfully theirs. 
But yet, I embrace it just the same as everyone else. But I embrace it because while it supports and celebrates the geno­cide of American Indians, it also fosters family. Family togetherness is nothing to be snuffed at. Anything that brings fami­lies closer together in a positive way is worth keeping as a tradition, 
Another reason to keep Thanksgiving is definitely the food. I live in Georgia, where big ole' meals are never taken lightly. The food is amazing and in abun­dance, at least in my household -or used to be before my parents decided that going to our country club was a much better idea than staying at home like.most normal people, cooking a turkey, stuffing, all the vegetable fixings and pecan pie. But who am I to com­plain? I never liked Thanksgiving that much to begin with. 
And we cannot forget the football aspect of Thanksgiving. I am a lover of the pigskin sport and watch it the entirety of the day, whether I care about the out­come of the game or not. 
But I guess the best part of Thanksgiving is that it is the beginning of the Christmas season. Yes, I said the magic word -Christmas. Santa rides the sleigh in New York and then takes his seat at Macy's. my family always watches the movie, "It's a Wonderful llie," star­ring Jimmy Stewart and we watch the lighting of the Rich's Great Tree in down­town Atlanta, while my mom cries and my brother and I laugh about it. 
I love Christmas and would just rather skip the whole Thanksgiving thing. I've been that idiot down the hall playing Christmas music since Halloween ended, bought the Christmas Coca-colas as soon as they hit the stores and already have been passing out Christmas cookies and candy. My roommate calls me nuts. I just say I love Christmas. 
So, skip class and go home early to cel­ebrate the genocide of American Indians. Chow down with your friends and fami­lies, and I'll do just the same. But remem­ber, Thanksgiving really is the start of Christmas. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu454 l@saintmarys. edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 sd we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 25, 2003 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE PART OF THANKSGIVING? 

Brian Hedges  Chip Roberts  Kathryn Wolohan  Kevin Durney  Mike Conte  Pat Manning  
Junior  Junior  Senior  Freshman  Senior  Junior  
Off-campus  Siegfried  Off-campus  Siegfried  Offcampus  Off-campus  
"When  "/ thoroughly  'The Detroit  "/ always love  "/ have to have  "When my Dad  
Grandma grabs  enjoy dark  Lions game. ,,  the stuffing.,,  the cranberry  argues with my  
my cheeks.,,  meat.,,  sauce with  uncle over  
whole  politics. ,,  
cranberries. I  
hate that cheap  
jelly stuff,  


OFFBEAT 

World's only known albino enjoyed a fantastic quality said Monday the organiza­gorilla dies of life, interacting normally tion has sent 114 farmers a 
BARCELONA -Snow­with his children and grand­compact disk of sounds flake, an extremely rare children," said the zoo's including birds twittering in albino gorilla and the most chief and veterinarian, the early morning, wind popular resident of Jesus Fernandez. "Lately chimes, whale sounds and Barcelona Zoo, died of skin though, he deteriorated the gobble of "happy cancer early Monday morn­quickly. In the past four or turkeys," to play to their ing, zoo officials said. five days we noticed signs of birds. 
Zoo officials put the elder­pain and suffering and so The National Farmers' ly gorilla to sleep after his decided to practice euthana­Union came up with the health deteriorated in sia." plan after consulting animal recent days, zoo officials The gorilla was thought to behavior experts at the said. Snowflake had been be between 38 and 40 years Roslin Institute in dying of skin cancer since old. The average life span in Edinburgh, where the 2001. the wild is 25. world's first cloned animal, 
Snowflake, or Copito de Dolly the sheep, was pro­Nieve in Spanish, was taken Farmers use COs to help duced. to the zoo's veterinary relax turkeys department for an autopsy. LONDON -Officials at Information compiled from 
"Until the end Copito the National Farmer's Union the Associated Press. 
TODAY 
a:: 
w 
:c 
~ 

;: 
.... 
c( 
CJ 


0

.... HIGH 37 
LOW 19 

TONIGHT WEDNESDA THURSDAY 
IN BRIEF 
Layna Mosley, a political sci­ence professor and fellow at the Kellog Institute, will deliver a lecture titled "Rules in International Finance: Public Institutions, Private Regulation and Everything in Between." The lecture will take place this afternoon at 12:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center. 
Come watch "Never on a Sunday," a Greek film with English subtitles. The movie begins tonight at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune. The event is spon­sored by the International Student Services. 
Participate in drop in indoor soccer at Rolfs tonight from 8:30 to 10:30 p.m. 
Purchase your tickets for Handel's "Messiah" presented by NO Chorale and chamber orchestra. The play is directed by Alexander Blachly and will take place at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall on Dec. 3. Tickets are $3 for students and may be purchased at the LaFortune Box Office. 
On Sunday, play in-line hock­ey at Rolfs from 8:30 to 10:30 p.m. 
The sophomore class will sponsor a blood drive on Dec. 2 from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The Saint Mary's Chamber Ensemble and Wind Ensemble will deliver a concert on Dec. 2 at 6 p.m. at the Little Theatre of the Moreau Center for the Arts. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 
~ 
~ 
~
$ :;; 

(f
:· 


HIGH 40 HIGH 43 HIGH 42 HIGH 40 HIGH 48 LOW 34 LOW 30 LOW 27 LOW 43 LOW 38 
Atlanta 54 I 30 Boston 48 I 34 Chicago 38 I 26 Denver 39 I 22 Houston 60 I 50 Los Angeles 67 I 46 Minneapolis 32 122 New York 47 I 39 Philadelphia 48 I 32 Phoenix 68 I 44 Seattle 46 I 42 St. Louis 46 I 32 Tampa 75 I 63 Washington 48 I 34 
Tuesday, November 25, 2003 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Members discuss deadlines 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer' 
Members of the Council of Hepresentatives met Monday night in LaFortune to continue planning tlw future of student government and discuss other issues. 
Most of the di<>cussion centered on upcoming deadlines for revamping the structure of student government. 
"It was originally Dec. 1, but now that's dust in the wind," said Club Coordination Council presi­dent Seth O'Donnell. 
Elliot Poindexter, president of the Judicial Council. said that the plans to reconstitute the Student Union should be in place by Jan. 13. 
"We should have our top struc­ture done by no later than when we come back [from Christmas breakI." Poindexter said. 
This deadline is crucial for his organization, which is rp_sponsible for conducting fair student body elections and overseeing cam­paigns. Members discussed the possibility of moving elections back. but they acknowledged that doing so would decrease transition time to the newly elected adminis­tration. 
Members also presented infor­mation on their constituencies to the council. To aid in the overhaul of student government, student body vice president Jeremy Lao called for each member organiza­tion to report to the council on its goals, missions and purposes. Several organizations presented brief reports, and more will occur during next week's meeting. 
In other Council news: 
+ Peggy Hnatusko of the Student Activities Office said LaFortune Student Center will be open for shorter hours during the Thanksgiving break. The center will close at midnight Wednesday, and will remain closed all day Thursday. It will be open noon-6 
p.m. Friday and Saturday, but the Huddle will remain closed for the 
entire break. Normal hours will resume Sunday. 
+Lao announced the formation of a committee to make recommen­dations on basketball and football ticket policies. Lao said the com­mittee would submit a report next semester to Jim Fraleigh, assistant athletic director for ticket opera­tions. 
"We want to create a task force to look at ticketing in general and improve ticket procedures," Lao said. 
+ 
Senior class president Jazmin Garcia asked members of her class to attend class events in the near future. Programming functions include a Dec. 1 dinner and foot­ball watch at Buffalo Wild Wmgs and a class rosary on Dec. 8. 

+ 
Hall Presidents Council co-chair Sarah Keefer encouraged resi­dence hall staffs to participate in the HPC Christmas decoration con­test. 


Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 



Vetre,-: w~v~ 3riL T~: 5 :30pJ1111 P~: Ce-vttev-for Soci.aL C011leer~ Co-ffe€/t£~ (F~Provl.de<L) RSVP: 1-68'+1 by V~ 1}i(: 
Presented by Multicultural Student Programs and Services 
~~~~~~ ~1~\~··­

RSVP by Monday, December 1st 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Proposals n1ade to change election process 
By MEGAN O'NEIL News Writer 
Elections commissioner Nicole Haeberle detailed changes to be made t<l the student government elections process at the BOG meeting Monday. The changes are part of a yearlong effort to update the student govern­ment constitution. 
One of the biggest changes Haeberle proposed was a separation of first year elec­tions from the other classes. Under the new provisions, the First Year class board elec­tions will be held a week after the class office elec­tions. The shift in dates, Haeberle hopes, will improve candidate numbers. 
"We split the first year elec­tions to ensure a higher turnout in the board elec­tion," said Haeberle. "A lot of women I talked to didn't run for board because they ran for president." 
Increases in allotted cam­paign funds were also pro­posed. Upon reviewing past elections commissioners' notebooks, Haeberle noticed that permitted financial expenditures had not be increased for over five years. 
"Campaigning on only a hundred dollars is rough," said President Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl. 
Under the constitution amendments candidates for major student government positions will be allotted $150 to campaign. a $50 increase from the previously amount. 
The last serious change to the existing policy was a con­tingency plan in the case of a computer network outage. In a recent election the campus 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
piled. 

The task force includes Charlie Ebersol. Student Union Board Manager, David Moss, assistant vice president of Student Affairs, and Chin. The three reported that between seven and 10 stu­dents sustain injuries that limit their ability to walk each month, according to University Health Services. CLC members also considered asking each residence hall to donate money to fund the reinstatement of services. 
"We're hoping to get this done before the real snow comes down," Chin said. 

Call 259-1aoo for more details 
server shut down for twenty minutes leaving students unable to vote. Under the updated constitutional policy the election will be permitted to continue if the shut down does not exceed two hours. If the electronic election ballot is unavailable for more than two hours, the election will be officially canceled for the · day and reopened as soon as possible. 
In Other BOG News 

+ 
Student Diversity Board will host Religious Awareness Week Dec. 1-5. The week will include a variety of events to promote consciousness and acceptance about religious diversity. Locations and times will be available online on the student activities calendar. 


+ 
The Student Government Association is hosting a vari­ety of events on Dec. 8th to celebrate the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. in honor of the Saint Mary's patroness. Faculty, staff. and students will be invited to attend a dinner at Noble Family Dinning llall at 5 p.m., followed by a mass and reception. All participants are encouraged to wear blue as a sign of recognition of the day. 

+ 
Student government will host a Christmas feast title 'Christmas Around the World' on Dec. 3 at 6 p.m. in Reignbeaux Lounge, Lc Mans Hall. The event will include a variety of Christmas specialty dishes from different culture all over the globe, such as Spain. Germany, and France. 


Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

In other CLC news: 
+ The Senior Privileges Task Force updated the Council on progress toward establishing reserved parking for on-cam­pus seniors. The group said that while Bill Kirk, associate vice president of Student Affairs, expressed interest in the proposal. members of Notre Dame Security Police were concerned about their ability to enforce it. 
"Given the fact that NDSP has reservations about it we're still working out the details," said Jeremy Lao, stu­dent body vice president. 
+ Members continued a previ­ous discussion on the quality of landscaping on the University's grounds. Wyatt Maxwell. a member of CLC, said that he believed the appearance of landscaping around campus has deterio· rated this year. CLC targeted eight areas that they consider merit the most attention and will present their findings in a letter to the Office of Student Affairs. Hepresentatives also plan to meet with Landscaping Services to dis­cuss the issue. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 


page 4 Tuesday, November 25, 2003 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Career, Job and Internship Fairs 2004 University of Notre Dame · The Career Center 


The job and internship search isfarfrom over! Look at thefollowing events to continue your searchfor pemument and summer employment opptunities!!! 


Chicago Career and Internship Connection Date: January 05, 2004 -9:00 AM-5:00 PM 
Location:  AMA 8655 West Higgins Road Chicago, IL  
Website:  

http://www.rochester.edu/careercenter/students/cic/chicago.html 
Details: 

*DEADLINE to register, upload and submit resumes for Chicago is December 
1' 2003 

+ 
Seniors, Juniors, Sophomores and Freshmen Network in Chicago! 

+ 
The Chicago Career and Internship Connection blends the best of a career fair and a pre-screened interview event. 

+ 
Identify and interact with recruiters from fields including: advertising, biotech, engineering, healthcare, investment and commercial banking, consulting, law, public relations, publishing and more! 

+ 
Interview for post-baccalaureate and internship opportunities! 


New Jersey Collegiate Career Day 

Date: January 07, 2004-9:30 AM-3:30 PM Location: Browers Commons & Rutgers Student Center 
College Avenue -Rutgers University 
New Brunswick, NJ 

Website:http://careerservices.rutgers.edu Details: Rutgers University is hosting the 33rd semi-annual New Jersey Collegiate Career Day for anyone interested in working in the New Jersey or New York City areas. 
About 150 employers will discuss current and anticipated openenings with can!dates in .most career fields and academic majors, including liberal arts, bus~ne.ss, sc1ence: and technical areas. Students from any college or university who w1sh to work 1n the New Jersey area are invited to attend. 
Students can register online and submit a resume to be distributed employers from December 1, 2003 -January 9, 2004 online at http://careerservices.rut­qers.edu 
Washington, DC Career & Internship Connection 
Date: January 08, 2004 -9:00 AM-4:00 PM 
Location: National Press Club 529 14th Street Washington, DC 

Website:http://www.rochester.edu/careercenter/students/cic/dc.html Details: *DEADLINE to register, upload and submit resumes for Washington is December 1 . 2003 
+ 
Seniors. Juniors, Sophomores and Freshmen Network in DC! 

+ 
The Washington Career and Internship Connection blends the best of a career fair and a pre-screened interview event. 

+ 
l~enti~ and interact wi~h recruiters from fields including: advertising, biotech, eng1~eenn~. healthcare,. Investment and commercial banking, consulting, law, public relations, publishing and more! 

+ 
Interview for post-baccalaureate and internship opportunities! 


Careers 2004-New York 

Date: January 09, 2004 -8:00 AM-3:00 PM Location: New York City New York, NY 
Website:www.careerconferences.com Details: ~arge event with Fortune 500 employers and some governmental organiza­~lons. Op_en table format with students meeting employers. Students must reg­Ister on-line at www.careerconferences.com. Initial application deadline is November 28th, but you may apply up to December 19, 2003. 
Boston Career & Internship Connection 
Date: January 12, 2004 -9:00 AM-4:00 PM 
Location: John Hancock Conference Center 40 Trinity Place -3rd Floor Boston, MA 
Website:http://www.rochester.edu/careercenter/students/cic/boston.html Details: *DEADLINE to register, upload and submit resumes for Boston is December 1 
~00ieniors, Juniors, Sophomores and Freshmen Network in Boston! ' +. The Chicago Career and Internship Connection blends the best of a career fa1r and a pre-screened interview event. 
• l~ehti~ and interact wi~h recruiters from fields including: advertising, biotech, Careers 2004 -Atlanta 
Date: January 19, 2004 -8:00 AM-3:00 PM Location: Atlanta Atlanta, GA 
Website:www.careerconferences.com Details: Expect about 40-50 Fortune 1000 employers and a few governmental orga­nizations attending the event. To register, logon to www.careerconfer­ences.com. The event is invitation only. Initial application deadline is November 28th, but you may apply up to December 19, 2003. 
Careers 2004 -Chicago 
Date: January 26, 2004 -9:00 AM-4:00 PM 
Location: Chicago Drury Lane Oak Brook Terrace, IL 
Website:www.careerconferences.com Details: Register on-line at www.careerconferences.com to attend this live event in Chicago with 40-50 Fortune 1,000 companies and a few governmental orga­nizations. Bus transportation will be provided for the first 45 students who will be attending. Email Bridget at kibbe.1 @nd.edu or call, 1-5200. Initial application deadline is November 28th, but you may apply up to January 19 2004. ' 
Hire Big Ten Plus 
Date: January 26, 2004 -1 :00 PM End Date: February 16, 2004 -1 :00 PM Location: Virtual 
On-line 

Website:http:ljcareercenter.nd.edu Details: Welcome to the HIRE BIG 10 PLUS Virtual Career Fair for Full-Time and Internship Opportunities! This is the largest virtual career fair for college stu­dents in the world. You're invited to browse the fair to check out what employers have to offer. Links-to the registration interface can be found below every job description. Interested students must email Lee Svete at svete.1 @nd.edu for application information. 
2004 Winter Career Fair and Diversity Reception 
Date: January 27, 2004 -4:00 PM-8:00 PM Location: Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
Website:https:ljcareercenter.nd.edu/winterfair2004.php Details: Register on-line for the largest Career Fair of the year for Notre Dame. In addition, be sure to attend the Diversity Reception 1:00-3:30pm (EST) Monogram Room located in the Joyce Center. We are currently seeking Corporate Sponsors for the Reception, which will include a student/employer bus~ness card exchange and networking event. 
Indiana Journalism Job Fair 
Date: February 07, 2004-10:00 AM-4:00PM Location: Ball State University Muncie, IN 
Website:http://careercenter.nd.edu Details: Meet and Interview with Newspaper Editors seeking to hire for FULL-TIME and INTERN.SHIP Opportunities. Information about Participating Employers and Scheduling Interviews will be available from The Career Center after December 10. Contact Anita Rees for more information at rees.4@nd.edu 

I




0 g 0 n at c a r e e r c e n ter. nd . edu 

eng1~eenn~. healthcare, Investment and commercial banking, consulting, law, public relations, publishing and more! 
+ lnter~iew for post-baccalaureate and internship opportunities! 



ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 25, 2003 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BsFRVER'S WJRE SERVtCFs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Deal reached on Iran nukes 
VIENNA, Austria -U.S. and European negotiators agreed Monday on how to con­demn Iran for hiding its nuclear programs while still encouraging it to cooperate with the U.N. atomic agency. 
The proposed resolution was weaker than the United States had wanted. U.S. ofl1cials had hoped that Iran's past nuclear cover-ups would be enough for the U.N. Security Council to get involved. The coun­cil has the power to impose international sanctions. 
The draft avoids any direct mention of the Security Council, but warns the agency would usc "all options at its disposal" ­an allusion to the cou neil. 
Russia and U.S. aided Georgia 
TBII.ISI, Georgia-Hussia and the United States worked intensely behind the scenes to resolve Georgia's political crisis, as it became clear that Eduard Shevardnadze­who cultivated the West during more than a decade as president -might be forced into a bloody battle to maintain power. 
Hussian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov play«HI the key last-minute role in mediat­ing betwenn the opposition and Shnvardnadzn, who resigned Sunday after thr·1Hl weeks of protests over disputed par­liamentary elections. 
Although Secretary of State Colin Powell and United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan spoke by telephone with Ivanov, no American diplomats participated in the talks to end the political standoff. Instead, the Bush administration called for restraint and a restoration of order. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
American Muslims sentenced 
I'OHTLANO -Two American Muslims who trind to join thn Taliban were sentenced to 18 years in prison Monday during a hearing in which they denounced the Bush administra­tion and pleaded in song for freedom. 
Patrice Lumumba Ford, 32, and Jeffrey Leon Battlc,33, had pleaded guilty in October to conspiracy to levy war against the United States. 
Both said that in trying to reach Al'ghanistan, they were fulfilling their Islamic duty to defend fellow Muslims. 
"The attack on Afghanistan killed and maimed thousands of people without achiev­ing its objective," said Ford, who had trav­eled to China in an unsuccessful attempt to reach Al'ghanistan. "I refuse to stand passive in the face of such policies." 
U.S. swaps prisoners in Cuba 
WASHINGTON -The U.S. government released 20 more prisoners from its high­security jail for terrorist suspects in Cuba, the Pentagon said Monday. 
After these prisoners were returned Friday to their home countries, the U.S. military brought some 20 new suspects to the facility from an undisclosed location, officials said. The Sunday transfer means the prison on the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba still holds some 660 people suspected of taking part in terrorist activity'-many bnlieved al-Qaida and Taliban ligures cap­tured in Afghanistan and Pakistan two years ago at the start of the global war on terror­ism. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana Guardsman dies in Iraq 
OTWELL, Ind. -Hcsidents of a small southern Indiana town are mourning the loss of an Indiana National Guardsman who died Sunday in Iraq when his llumvce overturned during a patrol. 
Cpl. Darrell Smith, 28, was in the llumvec's turret-called a gun ring mount -when the vehicle flipped over and into a canal south of Baghdad, said Capt. Stephen Bartels, rear detachment commander of the Indiana National Guard 1st Battalion, 152nd Hcgiment. 
Sniper dealt death sentence 
Jury recommends execution for sniper mastermind John Allen Muhammad 
Associated Press 
VIHGINIA BEACH, Va. ­A jury decided Monday that John Allen Muhammad should be executed for tak­ing it upon himself to choose who should live and who should die during the sniper attacks that gripped the Washington area for three terrifying weeks last fall. 
The enigmatic 
Muhammad reacted with 
the same flinty look he had 
through most of the trial. 
The jury deliberated more than live hours over two days before deciding the fate of Muhammad, a 42-year-old Gulf War veter­an who masterminded the attacks and asked police to "Call me God" during the reign of terror. 
The jury's recommenda­tion is not final. Judge Leroy Millette Jr. can reduce the punishment to life in prison without parole when Muhammad is formally sentenced on Feb. 12, but Virginia judges rarely take such action. 
Some jurors said the lack of any emotion or remorse from Muhammad, com­bined with the broad scope and violence of the shoot­ings, convinced them that the death penalty was the only option. 

"I looked for something in him that might have shown remorse," said juror kind of man that doesn't Oct. 24, 2002, various essentially shopped around Hobert Elliott. "And I never deserve to be in society." jurisdictions scrambled to for a jurisdiction willing to saw it the whole time." The jurors looked solemn prosecute them. Ultimately, impose death. 
The jury concluded that as they came back with Attorney General John "What is more unseemly prosecutors proved both their decision; Muhammad Ashcroft sent the two to than the attorney general aggravating factors neces­stood ramrod straight as Virginia, citing the state's of the United States saying sary to impose the death he listened. The courtroom ability to impose "the ulti­we're going to go to penalty: that Muhammad was silent; the judge had mate sanction." Virginia where Mr. would pose a danger and warned against any out­Only Texas has executed Muhammad is going to be that his crimes were wan­bursts before the jury's more people than Virginia killed?" Greenspun asked. tonly vile. Muhammad was decision was announced. since the death penalty Greenspun indicated he sentenced to death on both Prosecutors had depicted was reinstated in 1976 -sees several major issues counts he was convicted of Muhammad as a ruthless 310 to 89. Virginia is also for appeal, including last Monday: committing murderer who was "cap­one of 21 states that allow whether Virginia's post­multiple murders within tain of a killing team," and the execution of killers who Sept. 11 terrorism law three years and committing they presented evidence of committed their crimes at applied in the sniper case. murder as part of a plot to 16 shootings, including 10 16 or 17. Malvo was 17 at Muhammad became the terrorize the public. deaths, in Maryland, the time of the shootings. first person convicted 
"They took pleasure in Virginia, Alabama, Virginia uses lethal injec­under the law. Greenspun terrorizing people," prose­Louisiana and Washington, tion for executions unless also argued that Virginia cutor Paul Ebert said D.C. Muhammad could be the prisoner requests the law docs not allow the Monday of Muhammad and prosecuted in those juris­electric chair. death penalty for fellow suspect Lee Boyd dictions as well. Defense attorney Peter Muhammad because there Malvo. "They took pleasure When he and 18-year-old Greenspun suggested that was no evidence he was in killing people. That's the Malvo were arrested on the Justice Department had the triggerman. 

Killings in Iraq show resentment 
Nevertheless, Mosul, Iraq's third-largest car they were driving and stole person­
Associated Press 

city, has been among the safest areas al e!l'ects from the soldiers' bodies. MOSUL, Iraq -The killings of two for American soldiers, a place where Witnesses said that an Iraqi mob, 
U.S. soldiers, who witnesses said were U.S. troops could stroll bustling streets most of them teenagers, dragged the dragged from their car and pummeled and frequent stores and cafes. two bloodied soldiers from the car, with rocks, offended some in this neigh­Countering some Iraqi witnesses, U.S. threw them to the ground and pum­
borhood of dilapidated houses and pot­military officials said Monday that there meled their bodies with concrete blocks holed streets where the deaths was no evidence the soldiers' throats -scenes reminiscent of the savagery in occurred. But few Iraqis were shocked were slashed after assailants shot the Somalia against American troops a by the brutality, and some even gloated. two as they drove through Mosul's decade ago. 
"They are occupiers, and this is their working class neighborhood of Ras al­A few accounts said the soldiers' punishment," truck driver llisham Abed Jadda, sending their vehicle crashing throats were cut-either by the attack­said Monday of the soldiers. "The into a wall. ers or by the mob. But witness Bahaa Americans make nothing but empty A military official, speaking on condi­Jassim said the wounds appeared to promises. There's no electricity, no tion of anonymity, also said there was have come from bullets. Jassim, also a gasoline and no work." no indication the men were beaten with teenager, was among Iraqis who said 
Gunmen ambushed a U.S~ patrol here rocks or that their bodies were mutilat­they saw the crowd pummel the sol­Monday, wounding one soldier. ed. The official said Iraqis robbed the diers' bodies with concrete blocks. 

-~~---~-~­

page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, November 25, 2003 
Scholar 
continued from page 1 
left her politically unstable country at odds with the Swaziland regime. 
The country has two forms of government, the Swazi system, with a king, chiefs and princes and the Western system with a prime minister. 
Swaziland faces domestic and international scrutiny fol­lowing King Mswati's decision to prohibit court challenges to the rulings issued by him and other traditional leaders. Because a Swazi court would not dismiss charges against Mswati of kidnapping his lOth wife, the king chose to severely restrict the power of the judi­cial system. 
The new Swazi constitution denies citizens of the right to voice dissent, among other civil rights. In addition, the govern­ment has charged countless individuals with acts of sedi­tion. 
Through her column, Mkhonza immersed herself in the human rights violations of these incidents. She particular­ly concerned herself with a recent action of the king expelling people from their homes because he decided he wanted their land. 
A few years ago, as the prime minister wished the citizens of Swaziland a Merry Christmas, Mkhonza composed an article. 
"I asked 'How are we sup­posed to have a Merry Christmas when so many of our own people are out in the open during the rainy season?"' she recalled. 
Despite her active role in fighting for human rights and criticizing the government, Mkhonza was unaware of the impact she was making and how strongly she felt. 
"I realized what I was saying was true," Mkhonza said. "But what I didn't realize was how much I cared for these pMple." 
Such bold writing and ques­tioning of the government earned Mkhonza the hatred of political leaders, but brought her international recognition through the Hellman/Hammett Grant. She received this grant, named after two American writers, in recognition of her courage to face opposition through her writing. Mkhonza also received a grant for her weekly column. 
By the time of her award, Mkhonza was a direct target of political oppression and experi­enced several incidences of theft and vandalism. Mkhonza's computer was stolen from her University office twice, with the second computer discovered tossed in the mud just outside campus grounds. 
Recently Swazi journalists have been beaten by police and silenced by government offi­cials for covering events simi­lar to those Mkhonza wrote about. Another journalist was brutally murdered returning from work in late October. 
As a CWIL Fellow and part­time professor, Mkhonza's resi­dence on campus will not only ensure her safety, but offer enrichment to students as she shares her first-hand experi­ence with injustice and her refusal to accept it. 
"[Mkhonza] will enrich both campuses greatly," Pilarski said. "She has worked with poor women in her country and with women who were abused; but she has most expe­rience with writing immersed in real life." 
Drawing from her experience with exposing her life and the lives of others as a vehicle for change, Mkhonza will teach a class this spring focused on developing students' ability to find their voice in writing and to narrate stories of their lives and others. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at baill407@saintmarys.edu 
important consequences for their future travel plans. 
Junior Dan McGuire, a Tampa, Fla. resident, has always had American Airlines as an option, but says the change has not affected him. 
"I usually choose to fly out of Chicago anyway because American has relatively high fares," said McGuire. 
Contact Mike Chambliss at mchambli@nd.edu 

Report finds high speed limits lead to deaths 
Associated Press 
States that raised their speed limits to 70 mph or more have seen a big jump in traffic deaths, according to a report Monday by an auto safety group. 
Some 1,880 more people died between 1996 and 1999 in the 22 states with higher speed limits on rural inter­states, said the study, compiled by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, funded by insurers. It was based on data collected by the Land Transport Safety Authority of New Zealand. Congress repealed the 55 mph national speed limit in November 1995. 
An institute researcher said New Zealand did the study because groups are question­ing whether to raise the coun­try's speed limit, which is 100 kilometers per hour -about 62 mph. 
"There's a significant socie­tal cost," said Allan Williams, the institute's chief scientist, who said drivers often think a speeding ticket is the worst that can happen. 
Supporters of higher speed limits pointed out that federal highway data show the nation's vehicle fatality rate fell each year from 1996 and 1999, from 1.69 deaths per million miles traveled to 1.55 deaths. 
"We've moved toward a transportation system where cars are a lot safer and there are better measures like guard rails on highways," said Stephen Moore, a proponent of limited government and presi­dent of the Club for Growth. "We've made it safer to drive at faster speeds" 
Institute researcher Susan 
Ferguson agreed that other factors are making highways safer, and that the nation's death rate dropped as a whole. But she said the study expands upon institute studies from the late 1990s, which showed a 12 to 15 percent increase in deaths when speed limits rise. 
The study said the 10 states that raised limits to 75 mph ­all in _the Midwest and West ­had 38 percent more deaths per million miles driven than states with 65-mph limits. That's approximately 780 more deaths. 
The 12 states which raised their limits to 70 mph include California, Florida, North Carolina and Missouri. They saw a 35 percent increase ­some 1,100 additional deaths. 
The report didn't examine the effects of other trends, such as the tendency to drive faster in rural states where cities are far apart. Nor did it analyze the increasing number of sport utility vehicles on the road in the late 1990s. 
A separate review of six states by the institute found drivers are traveling faster than any time since the insti­tute began collecting data in 1987. Researchers observed in Colorado, which has a 75-mph speed limit, one in four drivers going above 80 mph. In California, where the speed limit is 70 mph, one in five drivers was clocked at 80 mph. 
The institute's study of speeds in Georgia, Massachusetts, Maryland, New Mexico, Colorado and California also found that when rates are raised on rural interstates, speeding increased on urban interstates. 
Air 
continued from page 1 
Airlines has made it more diffi­cult to find competitive prices from South Bend. 
"Flights are very full Wednesday and Sunday of Thanksgiving weekend, and over the past few years it has become tougher and tougher to find cheap fares. The airlines are operating at a higher capacity, and we've had to get used to the decrease in service," Kowalski said. 
She added that special holiday fares are available during off peak travel times. but taking advantage of such fares would require students to depart on Thursday and return on Friday. 
Students, however, said they did not see the airlines' depar­ture from South Bend as having 

Observer Advertising Policies 
-All requests for advertising must be made no later than 3:00 p.m. two (2) business days prior to the date on which the advertisement is to appear. Copy for the advertise­ment must be received by the Observer by 11 :00 a.m. one (1) business day prior to the date on which the advertising is to appear. If copy for the advertisement is not received prior to this deadline, the advertisement will not run in the scheduled issue and the advertiser will be charged full price. 
Advertisers will not be charged for advertisement cancellations made prior to 3:00 
p.m. two (2) business days prior to the date on which the advertisement is to appear. Any advertisement cancellations made after this deadline will be charged full price. 
Prepayment is required for all first time advertisers, political adv_ertising, advertise­ments from non-local travel agencies, bars, and any establishment deemed to have insufficient credit history. The Observer reserves the right to extend or withdraw credit for any reason at any time. 
The advertiser agrees that the Observer shall be free of responsibility for any errors that do not decrease the value of the advertisement or when copy, illustrations, or any other required materials are submitted after the deadline. Liability for any error when the Observer is responsible shall be limited to the cost of the space occupied in the first insertion of the erroneous advertisement. Percentage discounts may be issued in any situation in which the Observer in found liable at the discretion of the Advertising Manager. 
The advertiser agrees to hold the Observer wholly harmless against any and all claims, expenses, damages, or liabilities that may incur by virtue of the Observer's advertisements placed by the advertiser. 
No position or page location will be guaranteed. When throught an advertiser's request an advertisement appears on a certain page or location, no assurance or guarantee is given by the Observer that such a position will continue nor shall adver­tisers be notified prior to publication if the Observer chooses to run advertisements elsewhere for reasons of its own. 


London 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame has the third high­est percentage of students study­ing abroad behind Yeshiva University and Georgetown University, according to a recent report by the Institute for International Education. In the 2001-02 academic year, for 
White House, Hill 
agree to TV limits 
which the statistics were com­plied, 50 percent of Notre Dame students studied overseas, up about 10 percent from the previ­ous year. 
"[Studying abroad] allows for deeper immersion in the culture than [students] would otherwise have. It opens up a number of different possibilities," Bays said. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
Associated Press 
Congressional bargainers bowed to White House pressure Monday and agreed to let net­works own larger numbers of television stations as lawmak­ers put finishing touches on a year-end $390 billion spending package. 
Facing a veto threat, top law­makers decided to include a provision letting companies own stations watched by up to 39 percent of the nation's view­ers, congressional aides said. Last week, lawmakers said they would use the massive bill to kill the Bush administration's proposal for a 45 percent threshold -up from the cur­rent 35 percent. 
Congressional leaders 
planned to have the long-over­due spending bill in its final form by Tuesday and moved toward resolving loose ends. Guns rights advocates, for example, wanted federal reporting requirements eased for firearms buyers. 



Dow 9 747.79 +119.26
jones ' 
·I!:~ sc;~ • Co~~~me: 
AMEX  lio7z~:.J;.g  : · M~;$Z :i.:•:  
NASDAQ NYSE S&PSOO  1 947.14 +53.26 ~·ol!~·1•QQ: =:==·=···•±z~•~zz•·•:•.•·•·•· 1,052.08 + 1.63  
NIKKE.I(TokyoJ·.··: •··  9;~zgi$§  ··:····m~~,~Ra.  

FTSE IOO(l.ondon) 4,382.40 +63.40 COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +2.47 +0.62 25.73 SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) -4.02 -0.08 1.91 INTEL CORP (INTC) +3.53 + 1.14 33.46 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) + 1.43 +0.17 12.05 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.84 +0.63 22.80 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND + 1.22 +0.6 I 50.62 I0-YEAR NOTE + 1.93 +0.80 42.27 5-YEAR NOTE + 2.87 +0.90 32.24 3-MONTH BILL +0.55 +0.05 9.17 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.87 29.74 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -4.50 392.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.75 84.75 
Excha Rates 
YEN I 09.4 EURO 0.849 POUND 0.5896 CANADIAN$ 1.317 

IN BRIEF 
Warner sold for $2.6 million 
LOS ANGELES -A partnership led by for­mer Universal Music chief Edgar Bronfman .Jr. has agreed to buy Warner Music Group for $2.6 billion cash, creating one of the world's largest independent music compa­nies. 
The announcement Monday came just hours after London-based EMI Group PLC said it had withdrawn its offer to purchase Warner Music, a unit of the giant media con­glomerate Time Warner Inc. 
Under terms of the Bronfman group's deal, Time Warner would retain an option to buy back a minority stake in the company, which is home to such artists as Madonna, H.E.M and the Bed II ot Chili Peppers. 
The purchase, which also includes Time Warner's Warner/Chappell Music publishing business. would create one of the world's largest independent music companies and include some of the industry's best known music labels, including Warner Bros., Atlantic and Elektra Hecords. 
Boeing fires CEO for misconduct 
CIIICAGO -Boeing Co. fired its chief financial ol'ficer Mimday for negotiating the hiring of a missile defense expert who worked for the federal government and was in a position to inllucnce Boeing contracts. 
Boeing said executive vice president and CFO Mike Sears was dismissed immediately over the hiring of former Air Force official Darleen Druyun. 
Druyun also was fired, just 10 months after she was hired as vice president and deputy general manager of Boeing's Missile Defense Systems business. 
Both executives tried to cover up their misconduct, which is being investigated by the government, Boeing said. 
"Compelling evidence of this misconduct by Mr. Sears and Ms. Druyun came to light over the last two weeks," chairman and CEO Phil Condit said in a news release. 
The dismissals follow months of contro­

versy  over  a  plan for the Air Force  to  
acquire 100 Boeing 767 planes for  use  as  
aerial refueling tankers.  

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 
Delta CEO plans to step down 
Leo Mullin, chairman and CEO of Delta announced his resignation Monday 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA -Delta Air  
Lines chief executive Leo  
Mullin will sever ties with  
the struggling company  
and leave unfinished  
tasks in the hands of a  
board member and indus­ 
try veteran: persuading  
pilots to accept steep pay  
cuts and restoring the  
nation's third-largest car­ 
rier to profitability.  
Mullin said Monday his  
decision to resign, which  
caught Wall Street and  
employees off guard, was  
not influenced by the  
company's simmering  
controversy over execu­ 
tive pay.  
"Obviously, the job is  
not done," Mullin said in  
an interview. "I wish we  
were in better financial  
shape. I wish the pilot  
contract was done.  
Having said that, I would  
say there has been a  
tremendous amount  
accomplished. There's  
never a perfect break  
point. This is the right  
break point."  
After its worst down­ 
turn ever, the airline  
industry is in the early  
stages of what analysts  
expect to be a long recov­ 
ery process. With passen­ 
ger demand and ticket  
prices low, traditional AH' 
hub-and-spoke carriers  
Delta Airlines chairman and CEO Leo Mullin announced Monday that he will stepsuch as Delta need to dra­ 
down as CEO In January and as chairman In late April.matically reduce operat­ 
ing expenses in order to  tried to dissuade Mullin  cult task Mullin has faced  lay off more workers if it  
reverse years of massive  from resigning, has a  in recent months has  doesn't get the conces­ 
losses.  good track record in  been persuadin~ pilots to  sions.  
With that process  terms of getting wage  agree to deep wage cuts  Delta's pilots union,  
incomplete at Delta,  concessions from employ­ -concessions he has  which was scheduled to  
Mullin, 60, will step down  ees and reducing operat­ said the airline needs as  meet with company exec­ 
as CEO on Jan. 1 and as  ing.  part of its survival.  utives Tuesday, issued a  
chairman in late April.  "He saved Western  Delta, which lost $168  statement saying it "looks  
He will be replaced as  Airlines," Blaylock &  million in the third quar­ forward to a productive  
CEO by board member  Partners airline analyst  ter, has said it wants to  working relationship with  
Gerald Grinstein, 71, who  Ray Neidl said. "They  cut pilots' hourly wages  new CEO Gerald  
ran Western Air Lines  would have gone bank­ by 22 percent. cancel pay  Grinstein."  
from 1985 until 1987,  rupt if not for him."  raises due over the next  But the company's rela­ 
when it was acquired by  Investors seemed happy  year and reduce some  tionship with employees  
Delta, and recruited  with Delta's choice for a  benefits. The airline also  has been strained in  
Mullin for the CEO job in  successor.  wants to rescind a 4. 5  recent months because of  
1997.  Shares of Atlanta-based  percent raise the pilots  revelations that the com­ 
John Smith Jr., a former  Delta rose 82 cents or  received May 1 and a sim­ pany spent millions of  
chairman and CEO of  more than 7 percent, to  ilar raise due next May.  dollars to protect the pen­ 
General Motors Corp.,  close at $12.25 on the  Delta, which has laid off  sions of a select group of  
will take over as chair­ New York Stock  16,000 workers since the  executives even as it  
man.  Exchange.  2001 terrorist attacks,  sought concessions from  
Grinstein, who said he  Perhaps the most diffi­ has said it might have to  rank-and-lile employees.  

Medicare overhaul nears passage 
Kennedy, D-Mass., said the legisla­pitals and health care providers, a
Associated Press 

tion "starts the unraveling of the requirement for higher-income sen­
WASHINGTON -The Senate Medicare system," and he accused iors to pay more for Medicare Part B cleared the way Monday for final the Hepublicans of planning a fol­coverage and billions of dollars to congressional passage of legislation low-up attack on Social Security discourage corporations from elimi­to add a prescription drug benefit after the next election. He indicated nating existing coverage for their and a free-enterprise flavor to the he would delay final passage as long retirees once the new government government-run Medicare program, as possible. program begins. repelling twin attacks by die-hard At its heart, the legislation was The bill would satisfy other goals Democratic opponents. designed as a compromise of sorts, of conservatives, including creation 
"Today is a historic day and a the new drug benefit long sought by of tax-preferred health savings momentous day," said Senate Democrats, combined with a accounts, open to individuals who Majority Leader Bill Frist, H-Tenn .. Republican-backed plan to give pri­purchase high-deductible health anticipating a fi.nal vote no later vate insurance companies a vast insurance policies. Most controver­than Tuesday on a bill to make the new role in health care for the pro­sial of all, the legislation would cre­most sweeping changes in Medicare gram's beneficiaries. ate a limited program of direct com­since the program was created in The scope of the bill goes far petition between traditional 1965. beyond that, though, including an Medicare and private plans, begin­
Defiant in defeat, Sen. Edward additional $25 billion for rural hos-ning in 2010. 

THE OBSER\'ER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, November 25, 2003 
Teaching should come first 
Research first, tpen teach. the experiments won't help the professor's fmdings. 
That seems to be the direction University officials want faculty Perhaps if there was a clear-cut way of rating the quality of members to focus their actions, in the wake of University an undergraduate education beyond student-faculty ratio in a President Father Ed"Yard Malloy's discussion with over 60 facul­national magazine, then Notre Dame might be more likely to ty members last week. And while there is noth­ensure an equal balance between teaching and ing wrong with trying to improve the research The research. It might even allow professors to special-base of the University's faculty, it shouldn't OBserver ize in either research or teaching, recognizing that come at the expense of undergraduate educa­•al different people have different strengths. Or, when tion . ~on tenure applications come up, officials might find a
Edi

.~ 
. ·. •. .r 
',.., ; :·: '1!(1!1 
'~! :: •. ,.,••• 


So, I was at this party last night. To be
: .. 
safe, let us call it a get-together . 
People were sitting on couches, all feel­ing a little confused about the rave music blaring from the stereo: "Hyper! Hyper! Come on! Put your hands in the air! David Barrett Hyper! Hyper!" Secretly wishing we were all in some discotheque in Jigga Geoff Zurich, we sat there as two kids came in grunting, yelling and killing the mood. Just when the song was getting good, one of them thought it an appropriate time to approach one of my friends and speak his mind. 
"Hey, your little brother is a complete loser; he's, like, not cool at all, man. Get this: he calls pizza 'za.' Yeah, totally stu­pid." 
It was one of those moments whe11 you asked yourself, "Did that kid seriously just say that?" I wasn't sure how to react. Maybe I should just dismiss it as some kid who thinks he's a smoothie running his mouth. No, it was more than that. 
For a second I thought I was a 5th grader getting on the bus to barbs from our neighborhood bully, who kept reminding me that my ankle length jeans made it look like I was getting ready for a flood. It had honestly been a long time since I had met a kid with that much atti­tude. 
When does some closed-minded doink in a yellow oxford and Blue Blockers think it is ever okay to put people down, 


:' .·. much less family? There was so much wrong with that 
': ::.: 
moment. I honestly thought that four or five years ago diversity and sensitivity 
.: ··:;{-·: =·=~~~~ 
. ,.. :: ; '• ' .. 
•...· ..,·:: :· 

More than just cheese 
became cool, popular and actually prac­ticed. Sometime, hopefully during high school, people reached a level of maturi­ty when they realized that making fun of people's expressions or second hand jeans simply wasn't acceptable anymore. Hopefully. Not realistically. 
Some Notre Dame students, while exceptional in mathematics and the nat­ural sciences, cannot muster up enough tact and sensibility to keep from embar­rassing themselves in social situations. 
This past week I had an opportunity to drive up to Madison, Wise. for a couple of days. I decided to take a tour of the Law School and sit in on a class. Of the rough­ly 60 kids in the class, 40 of them had laptops and about 20 of those with lap­tops were playing some variety of Yahoo games. It is always nice to see kids in school for the right reasons. Relatively unimpressed. 
However, outside the school, on the main drag of campus known as State Street, part of which is only accessible to pedestrians and panhandlers, I was in a whole other classroom. I saw hippies, Hell's Angels, and a flutist in prison issue orange. There were about four Thai restaurants and two Greek ones, a kiosk called "Jamaicamerica" specializing in all things jerked and countless others. Everywhere you looked there were back­packs, students scurrying to class and soaking it all in. 
I always thought state schools were fun. Yet they were only fun in the sense that you knew a kid there whose floor you could sleep on for a weekend. Too overwhelming to make me actually want to attend one. 
But Madison was more than that. Instead of a colorless campus indifferent to its uniformity, you have an amazing city completely devoted to and proud of its diversity. It thrives on the fact that so many different types of people walk past each other on their ways to class. Sure, they don't have the true blue student body that Notre Dame does, but nor do they have the juvenile who continually criticizes those around him simply because they may not share with him the same sense of "cool." 
I was impressed by what Madison offers and Notre Dame really doesn't. Their students can get an education merely by walking through town or grab­bing a bite to eat. They don't really even have to do anything. Lucky them. 
Unluckily for us, we are stuck with kids who criticize "za" and your little brother. Kids that might have come to Notre Dame partly because they knew they'd fmd someone who'd laugh with them. Which brings me to my point. 
People should get off campus and into the community of South Bend, which, although no Madison, still offers a differ­
-ent perspective and perhaps a better one. There are a number of centers and clinics where you can be a great help, if only an extra set of hands. In return, you might get the education you missed out on when you decided against that state school. Then we can all live together peaceful­ly. We can celebrate our newfound per­spective, and commemorate the moment with a pizza party at my house. I'll order some "zas" with "zooms" and "zonis," and you 'lllove it. 
David Barrett is a senior economics and philosophy major. His column appears every other Tuesday. He can be contacted at dbarretl@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author, and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
'· :. ' ·.,,., 
OBSERVER POLL 
~··· 
Students, what are you doing for Thanksgiving? 
·= =.; :· 
Going to Going friend's house Home 
':· ,. 
0% 
73%
•
•: :: : ..,., *Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on II responses . 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
·"Only the spoon knows what is stirring in the pot." 
Sicilian proverb 
Notre Dame currently uses a unitary faculty system, where professors are hired with the knowledge that they must simultaneously teach and research in order to receive tenure. Moreover, demands for increased research, which bolster Notre Dame's all-important ranking, have led academic officials to cut back faculty course loads in order to free professors to do more research. Even the tenure process itself appears to place more emphasis on how many papers a professor has written than teaching or service, the other factors considered in the tenure process. 

Forcing faculty members to increasingly concentrate on research projects can only have detrimental effects for under­graduate education, even if the University says otherwise. Professors frantically trying to fmish a book will pass more grading and lecturing off to teaching assistants, instead of eval­uating students themselves. Seminar classes will become forums for a professor to test out theories he later will defend in an article. Helping students to finish a lab becomes secondary if way to identify how many students changed their 
major because they were so inspired by one profes­sor's class. After all, what is more likely to impact the average student-a dense 200-page book on principles of Bulgarian economics or a lively professor who actively engages students through lectures? 
Just as teachers without knowledge are useless to students, so are researchers who can't pass on their knowledge to others. If Notre Dame was a think tank instead of a prestigious University, then there would be nothing wrong with emphasizing research to faculty members. But as an institution that has long prided itself on a strong undergraduate education, academic officials would do a disservice to the Notre Dame community if they failed to reward and extend tenure to exceptional teachers who may lack a strong research background. 
After all, Notre Dame students don't pay $34,700 a year to support a faculty member's obscure research proposal. They pay it to receive a quality education. 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------­
THE 0BSER\!£R


IEWPOI.NT
Tuesday, November 25, 2003 page 9 
You, me and the 2004 election 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Preserving Church and U.S. law 
Next year at this time, as we complain about registration flaws, get our flu shots and become excited for Notre Dame basketball. the presidential elec­tion will be over. That is, the United States presidential election, not our 
Peter Quaranto 

own intense stu­dent body presiden­
tial election. The 
A Call to 

2004 elcetion will 
Action

be history, but my question is this: What will that his­tory say? And my message is this: It will be whatever you and I make it. 
It is easy to become disillusioned with student government politics here as the leading issues range from changing the constitution to organizing dances, and my fear is that this disillusionment translates from the campus level to the national level. Let's be honest; Notre Dame students care about politics as much as Boston University students care about football. (Boston University had to cut its football program in 1997.) 
The rampant political apathy on this campus is also rooted in the fact that most of us do not feel the direct effects of political elections. Frankly, whether a Hepublican or Democrat is in office, you and I will still be privileged and on the career path to a blue home with white shutters in some suburb of Chicago, married to another Domer and going to Mass every Sunday with our 2.2 chil­dren. OK, I should not be so harsh. Some of us might move to California or Texas. Some of us will be lawyers or doctors, rather than businessmen. There might even be a college professor out there amidst our anti-academic-engagement wonderland. 
So, here's my plea: Care. As the presi­dential hopefuls spend overwhelming amounts of money trying to convince the many uninformed idiots of America that they should vote a certain way, the edu­cated masses on college campuses have a huge responsibility to demand higher standards. 
Educated masses of the United States, unite! It is time that we stop elect­

ing presidential candidates for 
before. owning baseball teams, In all seriousness, fighting in wars and look-though, quite a bit is at ing good on the Jay stake with the current Leno show. It is time election, and it is time for citizens to push for us to take action. both parties on the The challenge of issues that really making this elec­matter. It is time tion one of serious for us to start car­debate about ing. serious issues 
If there were an lies in our hands. election to start Rather than sim­caring, the 2004 ply perpetuating one is perfect. the image-based Never since voting system of Teddy Roosevelt America, we ran as candidate need to recreate for the Bull Moose a system of issue­Party in 1912 has based voting. Our America seen such forefathers surely a circus. Of course, did not envision a my good friend country where a can­George W., former didate would win for owner of the Texas looking good on televi­Rangers, poor student of 
sion or spending lots of international relations at money. 
Yale and architect of the term "Axis of Evil," will be returning. 
Joining him, however, are some classic individuals, ranging from Joseph "Could Not Be More Moderate" Lieberman to the ambiguous Gen. Wesley Clark, who could just as easily be running for the Republican ticket. The democratic front­runner, Howard "Never Should Have Mentioned the Confederate Flag" Dean, seems to be making a run. Personally, I like the Catholic and Hed-Sox-supporter John Kerry from Massachusetts, but I have to admit that there is something about the Reverend AI Sharpton that tickles my fancy. Hard to argue with a guy who is committed to getting people 

to vote and has been stabbed 
We have to ask the pertinent 
questions. When will we know that we have won the war on terror? How long will it take? What will you do to restore our global reputation as a law­abiding nation? How will your presiden­cy be an inclusive one with the vast dif­ferences on issues that define our coun­try? How will you help the least fortu­nate in our country? Where do you stand on the issues of importance in our time? We need to demand answers from our leaders and then hold them accountable. 
This needs to begin here at Notre Dame. It does not matter if you are a Republican or a Democrat or somewhere in the middle; we need to engage one another with debate about the issues and the future of our country. 
We need to hold rallies, teach-ins and debates. We need to get everyone regis­tered to vote. How about a political retreat? 
I mean, if we can hold a Man's Weekend with pig roasts and a football game watch, how about a retreat where everyone wears suits, debates politics and watches CNN? Let's call it the Political Weekend. You'd better believe I would be the first person to sign up for such a retreat. 
So it all comes back to you and me. Will we shy away from hard-nosed, engaging politics and continue our foot­ball-laden, work-driven, middle-of­Indiana, alienated existences? 
Or will we stand up, as our seniors have to the marshmallow-hating ushers, and demand a better standard, a more just America? It is the hope of this lowly idealist columnist that we may. 
Peter Quaranta is a sophomore politi­cal science and international peace studies major. 1/e would like to thank his advisor and idol. Professor George Lopez. for the inspiration for this col­umn. He wants to wish everyone, espe­cially the guys in Sorin, a wicked awe­some Thanksgiving. Contact him at pquarant@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
In his Nov. 20 letter, "A Call for Equality," Lucas Sayre made several assertions defending the rights of gay marriage as a civil institution. However, Mr. Sayre failed to realize how his opinion is not only literally contrary to the laws of this country, but also to the very nature of our laws. 
Like it or not, the United States was founded on a combination of natural law described by Enlightenment thought and the Judea-Christian belief system. Thus, the nature of our laws, stemming from freedom of the individual with the realization of responsibility toward the common good, can be best illuminated by these two philosophies. With regards to marriage, then, we most clearly understand why our laws define marriage as they do by understanding the union between two peo­ple as the Founding Fathers understood it. 
Marriage is a partnership valued as a life-long com­mitment, which is ordered toward the good of both the spouses and the procreation and education of children. (If you are Catholic, and most of you reading this arti­ele are, you ought to be in accordance with this state­ment.) In his letter, Mr. Sayre asked for convincing evi­dence that homosexual marriage would endanger the sanctity of marriage itself. Clearly, no one could ration­ally argue that that "homosexuals are incapable of the love, respect, loyalty, honesty and other qualifications necessary for a successful and fulfilling marriage," as Mr. Sayre suggests. Every Christian ought to know that all humans are capable of expressing these virtues because they are created in the image and likeness of God. 
However, attempting to live out these virtues in the context of a homosexual relationship is a manifestation of disordered affections. (To be clear, I am not suggest­ing that homosexuals have a disorder; I am stating that their affections, which were meant to be ordered toward the good, are disordered. There is a difference.) 
Moreover, the covenant of marriage goes beyond the simple practice of these virtues in a relationship. 
Marriage must also be open to the possibility of creat­
ing natural children, which is the key element to 

understanding marriage as a mirror image of God's 
own love. When two are married they become "one 
flesh" (Eph. 5:31-32), and in this mystery where one 
plus one equals one, by the love of the Father, they are 
allowed to become three, a direct parallel to the image of the Trinity. Homosexual relations lack all physical 
possibility of this aspect of marriage, which would 
prove such a union somewhat less than completely ful­filling. I hope this brief explanation provid.es a starting place for Mr. Sayre and others to explore exactly why 
marriage must be between a man and a woman. 

For many, the question now becomes, "Well, maybe that's the way Christians view marriage, but how could the United States employ this definition in light of the First Amendment Establishment Clause?" I would like to suggest that this clause may be viewed in more than one way. Popular interpretation suggests this clause protects the state from religion. The original intent, however, may have been something closer to protecting religion from interference of the state, as well. Drawing on the writings of the Founding Fathers and our nation's history of seeking freedom from religious tyranny, our history seems to suggest that perhaps this latter interpretation is also part of the Establishment Clause. Thus, it may be incorrect to invoke the Establishment Clause at all in this debate. 
Instead, we should focus on the roots of how this nation came to define marriage as it does. Our laws have an inherently Christian flavor to them, which is probably why we find images of the Ten Commandments in courthouses all over the country, not just in Alabama. Undermining the values recog­nized in the sanctity of marriage between a man and a woman, we are only left to question all assumptions underlying any law of the United States. For example, when is it OK to take a life? In "Roe v. Wade", the Supreme Court acted contrary to the nature of the United States laws, and, as a result, we waited through 
30 years of legislation to finally ban infanticide. 
Likewise, it takes a major risk by a high-powered 
politician to prevent a single case of euthanasia. Our 
laws have an underlying morality because, without a common understanding of societal standards, we have 
nothing on which to base any laws. 
In addition, I find Mr. Sayre's delineation of conserva­tives as defenders of the status quo and liberals as the champions for change problematic. First, many conser­vatives support "radical" ideologies on a variety of cur­rent issues ranging from abortion laws to school vouch­ers. Secondly, the act of calling for a major change in a state-recognized institution just for the "sake of change" does not make such an act right. Perhaps on this issue conservatives are defending the status quo, but have you ever stopped to think that it might be for a well-thought-out, legitimate reason? Regarding homosexual marriage, those opposed to it are not scared of change, especially not just because it is some­thing different; they are not homophobic. Instead, they are courageously defending what they know to be right by careful study of natural and moral law. 
In conclusion, please consider that Dante's "Inferno" reserves the hottest places in Hell for those who in a time of moral crisis maintain a position of neutrality. Justice Antonin Scalia is correct; we are in the midst of a "culture war." Recently, the Massachusetts Supreme Court has propelled this nation into deeper moral ques­tioning. I would like to challenge each and every mem­ber of the Notre Dame community to decide in your hearts the correct course of action for our nation in this case, and to stand up for what you know to be right. 
Lauren Galgano junior Cavanaugh Hall Nov. 24 

------------------------. 
THE 0BSER\'ER 

CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, November 25, 2003 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Gothika': scary but stupid script 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS Scene Movie Criric 
You might like Gothika better the first time you saw it, when it was called The Ring or The Sixth Sense ­or maybe The Stupid Parts of The Ring Meets the Stupid Parts of the Sixth Sense. 
Oscar-winner Halle Berry plays Miranda Grey, a psychiatrist at a Connecticut hospital for criminally insane women that gives Dracula's castle a run for its spooky money, complete with conveniently timed power outages. After a harrowing ses­sion treating a patient named Chloe (Penelope Cruz) who claims she is raped by the devil at night, Grey takes a fateful detour on 
The real shame of Gothika is that it 
starts out with some pretty intriguing 
psychological premises and symbol­
ism, but it never develops any of 
those themes. As the movie progress­
es, it goes from psychological thriller, 
to occult thriller, to Nancy Drew­
solves-the-case-of-the-crazy-ghost­
possessed-women. Robert Downey, 
Jr., who turns out a stellar perform­
ance with disappointingly little screen 
time, is under-utilized, and his char-_ 
acter, along with a possible romance 
with Berry, all but vanishes about 
halfway through the film. 
After seeing Gothika, one can only wonder what went awry with the script. It almost seems as if the last quarter of the movie was amputated and replaced by a campy Hollywood ending. During 


her way home and the last scene
"Gothika"

runs off the road of the movie, when she swerves 
you can almost to avoid a half­hear the audi­naked girl standing ence thinking, in the road. When "OK, hit me 
Director: Andy and larry Wachowski

she approaches the with the twist 
Writers: Mathieu Kassovitz

girl to see if she is ending. Here it
Starring: Halley Berry, Robert Downey Jr.,

all right, the girl comes. Here it
Penelope Cruz and Charles Dutton

grabs her, bursts comes. OK, 
into flames and Grey blacks out. 
When she wakes up, she finds her­self committed to her own hospital under the treatment of one her col­leagues, Pete Graham (Robert Downey, Jr.), who reveals to her that she has brutally murdered her hus­band. The plot is pretty much a down­ward spiral from there, involving ghosts, possession and satanic ritual abuse. 
now hit me with the real twist ending. Hey! Why are the credits rolling?" 
To give the devil his due -quite lit­erally -Gothika is pretty damn scary. Director Mathieu Kassovitz really knows how to turn the screws when he's building up to a scare. 
For the most part, Gothika steers clear of slasher flick-esque red her­ring scares and jump out "gotchas." Kassovitz telegraphs most of his scares -the audience knows exactly where and when they're coming, but they're going to get you anyway. Kassovitz gets what he wants with audiences screaming out loud, cover­ing their faces and spilling their pop­corn. 

Gothika is scary because of the art­ful design and cinematography, but it doesn't summon enough intelligence to invoke the true psychological terror that marks a good horror movie. There's too much in Gothika that just plain doesn't make sense; Where The 
Ring intelligently decided to stay away from explanations and The Sixth Sense intelligently decided to give a complete one, Gothika only offers half of a really bad one. 
Of course, this should have been evident from the movie's title: It kind of looks like gothic, but adding an extra letter to the word is just plain pointless. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Suspense abounds on the open sea 
By KATIE WAGNER Scene Movie Cdtic 
Master and Commander: The Far Side ofthe World is a suspenseful, emotional­ly drawing, slightly gory, war-at-sea movie. "Lucky" Jack Aubrey (Russell Crowe) plays the captain of a British ship seeking to prevent a mysterious French ship from taking over Britain's shores. This-movie is set during Napoleon's takeover of Germany, but it provides minimal historical insight into the Napoleonic wars. Instead, the film main­ly presents a realistic view of the horrors of living on a war ship, focusing on the lifestyle of the sailors on the British ship, where there is little food and few places of shelter from the rough weather. 
British sailors die, are injured, get sea­sick, argue with each other and suffer from depression. The ocean is presented as a terrifying force to all sailors on board. Its power is especially obvious during battle and storm scenes -the approximately two and a half hour film is filled with such eye-capturing clips and interesting characters that it moves very quickly. 

The movie begins with the British ship being attacked by the French ship. The French attack leaves the ship badly wounded along with some of the British sailors. After this attack, the French ship disappears. Throughout the rest of the film, the British ship plots to retaliate by sneaking up on the French ship to destroy it. The problem is that the British ship is much smaller, slower and less sturdy than the French ship. The leadership of Captain Aubrey and the medical talents of the captain's best screen, also does a great job of staying in character, although his acting is still secondary to Bettany's. Crowe makes all of the decisions, commands respect from his sailors and is also well-liked. He remains calm, regardless how danger­ous the situation, and he does a great job of handling deaths of his sailors. 
There are several young children on board the British ship. These child actors' reactions to death and injuries are very touching and viewers can't help but empathize with these boys. The 

friend, Dr. "Master and Commander: British's constant Stephen Maturin anticipation of
The Far Side of the World" 
(Paul Bettany). attacking the help keep the 
French ship is sailors' spirits up. another of the The horrible con­film's greatest ditions at sea, strengths. The 
Director: Peter Weir
however, threat­clips of the Spanish 
Writers: Peter Weir andJohn Collee
en these two ship, through the 
Starring: Russell Crowe, Paul Bettany, Billy
characters' rela-lens of a telescope,
Boyd, James D'Arcy and Edward Woodall
tionship with are dramatic. 
each other. Captain "Lucky" wants to continue pur­suing the French ship, regardless of how dangerous this quest becomes, while the doctor insists on returning to England. 
Bettany's acting is one of the greatest strengths of the film. He convinces view­ers that he is very different from the rest of the men on board through displaying his intellect -and his 'indifference to defeating the French ship. In many of his scenes, Maturin is alone reading, writing or thinking. His mannerisms, language and appearance distinguish him from the other actors. 
Crowe, the only big name actor on 
Some bloody seg­ments are included, but since this is a PG-13 movie, the camera only provides short clips of these scenes. The film's glimpses into too many minor characters are confusing and leave many ques­tioned unanswered about them. 
Despite these flaws, this film is defi­nitely worth seeing. The cinematography and acting are excellent. The film's maintaining of suspense captivates view­ers. 
Contact Katie Wagner at kwagner@nd.edu 



--------------------~--...... 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, November 25, 2003 
Regular season success puts Irish in great spot 

THE TOP SIXTEEN SEEDS 
TOP SEEDS AND THEIR SECOND ROUND OPPONENTS 

vs. Virginia vs. Creighton 
vs. Connecticut 
-

vs. California 
No. 7 Saint LOIJiS (13-3-3) 
vs. Coastal vs. Binghamton 
Conference
C li 
aro na 

Notre Dame i 
No. 10 Washington (12-4-2) 
vs. Santa Clara vs. Portland 
Huskies lost twice to UCLA by small­est of margins, 1-0. 
No.5 Notre Dame (15-3-3) 
vs. Wisconsin­vs. Rutgers

The Irish s~rri' loaded1and ready to 
Milwaukee make. a seriousrun at the Cup. 
vs. St. Peter's 

vs. Old
The 

Dominion
has to 





The Irish .are in a good spot, and for three rounds at least, they can stay there. 
The men's soccer team did not even appear 
on the NSCAA Preseason Top 25 rank­ings at the start of this year. But like coach Bobby Clark always 


says, the last Pat Leonard season does­
n't matter. 
Sure enough, Sports Writer they jumped to fourth in the nation for the Sept. 1 rank­ings, and Notre Dame never real­ly left the national spotlight. Sparked by a surge of shutouts in the Big East tournament that culminated in a 2-0 champi­onship victory over St. John's in the final, the men's soccer team now carries momentum into a home match against Wisconsin­Milwaukee in the NCAA tourna­ment round of 32. Why are the Irish in the perfect position to make a run at a national title? · Well, being ranked fifth overall and getting a bye in the first round doesn't hurt. Home field advantage on Wednesday doesn't hurt either. In fact, Notre Dame was just one spot away from get­ting home field advantage all through the playoffs. Now, they must be the higher seed in a match to play at Alumni Field. This will work in the favor of 
the Irish, who are 9-2-1 at home counting a postseason victory over Connecticut. 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee is already traveling, and ifthe Irish can get by the Panthers safely, they will face the winner of St. Peter's vs. Michigan. 
That game's winner would also have to travel to South Bend, as St. Peter's is unranked and the Wolverines sit at No. 12 in the brackets. 
Picture Notre Dame in the elite eight. First of all, that would automatically mean the Irish had advanced further than any men's soccer team in the history of the program. Furthermore, that would also mean Bobby Clark and the boys could have home field advantage for a third straight tournament game, as long as No. 4 seed North Carolina loses one of its next two games. 
The Tar Heels are in a similar­ly comfortable spot, and a loss to Coastal Carolina this Wednesday is not likely for the Atlantic Coast Conference power. Still, don't dis­count No. 13 Loyola Marymount from a possible upset of North Carolina ifthey can get by Santa Clara, a winner in penalty kicks over Southern Methodist. 
Notre Dame has reached the five seed in the tournament due to a tough schedule, both out of conference and within. While the ACC boasts three of the top four seeds-Maryland, Wake Forest and North Carolina -the Big East is clearly a top conference that has served the Irish espe­cially well in determining their fate for the tournament. 
Six teams, including Notre 
Dame, made the cut to the 
national tournament. Five 
remain, with Seton Hall losing to 
Virginia in the first round. 
St. John's, the six seed who 
also received a bye .in the first 
round, will take on the University 
of Connecticut, a 3-0 first round 
winner of Rhode Island. 
Virginia Tech has a date with 
Virginia Commonwealth after 
disposing of Clemson in penalty 
kicks, and Rutgers advanced past 
Lafayette to take on Akron. 
Strength of schedule definitely 
helps, and giving up a stingy 15 
goals all season almost makes 
the Notre Dame defense the 
aggressor. 
Analysts like ESPN's Tommy 
Smith have said this tournament 
does not matter if top-seed UCLA 
plays its best soccer, because 
they can play an unbeatable 
style. 
Still, the Irish cannot be con­
cerned with such matters right 
now. They have a game to take 
care of and then hopefully anoth­
er. 
The team played its way to ·where it stands, and they now 
have a golden opportunity to 
take advantage of home field, 
momentum and a combination of 
coach, leadership and chemistry 
that could take this Irish team 
soaring even further into the 
record books. 
The opinions expressed are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 




-----------------------------------------------~-­
Tuesday, November 25, 2003 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Leaving a mark 
The Irish seniors hope to leave Notre Dame having accomplished all their goals --especially the biggest one 

Hy JUSTIN SCHUVER 
A."oc·iatc Sport> Editor 
Whm1 the Notre Damn snniors takH thll f'iHid Wednesday against Wisconsin-Milwaukee in thn snmnd round of' the NCAA tournament. it eould possibly be thll last time f'or those seven playnrs to step onto Alumni Finld and play a soccer game. 
llopef'ully it won't be, but 1wen if' it is, this year's seniors havn rnally put a special touch on not only the 2003 Irish soc­cor season but also their entire r.arHers. When the six scholar­ship snniors arrived on the South Bend campus for the first timll in 2000. they each agreed that they had one goal for their tirnn at Notre DamH. 
"I think we came here with the mission to make this a soc­cer sdwol," team captain Greg Martin said. "In a couple of weeks we'll have left this school and I think I can say we have probably accomplished that goal. 
Forwards Devon Prescod and .Justin Dettnr, m i d l'i e I d ~~ r s home-field advantage through­out the playoiTs. 
This is also the first year since 1996 that the Irish have won the Big East conference cham­pionship, and the l'irst under Clark's leadership. Like any other coach, Clark has expected a lot out of his senior class. 
"They look for us for leader­ship, both on and ofT the field," Hiley said. "I think a lot of the guys-Greg, Devon, and Justin -have probably scored about HO pereent of the goals this year, so that's another impor­tant area we've had to con­tribute in. 
"We've also been asked to just kind of show a good example to the younger kids so they can see how to improve their play." 
Preseod and Detter have indeed paced the Irish offense most of the way through the season, with each forward col­lecting 11 goals this year. Martin, the next closest, has three. The offensive flurry for the talented forwards has been a result of Clark's decision to make the two his top attacking 
tandem this sea­
son.
"/ think that off the

F i I i p p o "It's a fairly Chillemi, field we've become a new chemistry Martin and very tight group and I for us, you might Chad Hilny and say,'' Detter said. 
can honestly say that

defender Knvin "We've always Hiehards have these guys have played together, done their part become my best just not always ovnr their four on top. I'd say
friends." 

years to help now that we've put Notre played about 20 Dame soecer Filippo Chillemi games or some­on thn national Irish mldflelder thing like that, 
map. Walk-on mid fielder Hoger Klatwr, from Granger, Ind., has helped thn six scholar­ship playnrs achieve that goal as wnll. 
"I would like to think it's a soeeer school at this point," Martin said. 
It's a strange possibility to consider -most people who hear the name Notre Dame think of football and not the European variety most call soe­cnr. llownver, Martin has a good point and the numbers are there to baek him up. 
In 2000, the Irish averaged H 10 speetators at their home games at Alumni Field. This ynar, Notre Damn has averaged an impressive 1,154 fans per game, a mark that eurrently places them 14th nationally in attnndanen. 
Notre Dame's 1-0 overtime vietory ovnr Indiana was attended by 2,131 fans, the larg•~st erowd this season and one of the largest in tlw school's histor·y. 
With thn help of seasoned coach Bobby Clark, who arrived in 200 I with an imprnssive resunw that induded an NCAA rumwr-up while at Stanford, Martin and tlw othor seniors have helped take Notrn Dame soccer to a whole new level. 
This year is the first year that the Irish have received a first­round bye in the NCAA Tournament as onn of the top 16 seeds. They are the No. 5 send and just missed having 
that we've defi­
nitely formed a good chemistry, and we feel like we're playing well at the right time. 
"Of course, what we do comes from the rest of these guys, sending in good crosses and nice lpassesl into the box." 
Prescod collected four assists this season to go along with his four goals -most of those assists to Detter -and was the team's leading scorer during the regular season with 26 points. He too credits being teammates so long with his for­ward partner as a reason for the duo's offensive suecess this year. 
"I think we've definitely got­ten to know each other better over the past three years," Prescod said. "Playing together up front has actually allowed us to spend even more time together because we've been rooming togother on road trips and things like that. 
''I'd say we're dnlinitnly at a point now whore we know eaeh otlwr the best we ever have through those four years." 
While Prescod and Detter have bonn the cornerstones of the Irish offense, Hiehards has been a consistent veteran pres­ence for Notre Dame's impres­sive defense, which gave up only 14 goals in 21 regular sea­son games. 
While the senior defender is known more for keeping the ball out of the net, he had per­haps one of the biggest goals of the year when he scored the Dame something that the Irish game-winning goal in Notre have never achieved -a Dame's 2-0 vietory over St. national championship in men's John's in the finals of the Big soceer. East championship. Hegardless of tho final out­

''I'd say my role is more in come of this year's tournament, just getting some of the younger it will still be diflicult for these guys to understand seven to leave. coach Clark's sys­They certainly
"/ would like to
tem and way of already have a lot playing," Hichards think it's a soccer to be proud of. said. "Thosn guys "I think that as
school at this 
have really far as on the field
point."

stepped up quiek we've really como and have allowed in and done what me to go forward a Greg Martin we said we'vn little and not Irish captain wanted to do, always have to and that's play in tl11~ hack, improve every which has helped me to not. year as a team," Chillemi said. have such a big responsibility "And I think that off the field as the only senior defenseman." we've become a very tight 
These seniors realize that group and I can honestly say their success in the regular sea­that these guys have become son is just ancient history now my best friends. as they head into the NCAA "It's going to very tough to tournament with a very good leave." chance to help bring Notre As for the date of these sen­
-
-
iors' final game, that is com­pletnly up to how they pnrform in the tournament. You can bot they would like to stay on the field as long as they possibly can. 
"Back in August of 2000, and especially in August 2003, we really set our sights on the national championship," Martin said. "Can this team win a national championship? I think a better answer to that is that this tnam can accomplish what­ever wn set our minds to, and I think that's the message wn want to lnavn as a lngacy to the next Notre Dame teams. 
"Wn want to show that first, Notrn Damn can play soccer, and second. that if a group of guys commit to a goal, they can achieve whutever they wnnt. "This year, we want to win a national championship." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, November 25, 2003 
Stingy defense has led the Irish all year long 
In 21 games, Irish have only allowed 14 goals and registered 13 shutouts 
above his head following a 2-0 above his shoulders.
By PAT LEONARD 
victory over St. John's, he High, a junior from 
Sports Writer 
knew it would have been more Camarillo, Calif. saw action in appropriate to have four sets four games during his sopho­Wisconsin-Milwaukee scored of hands helping him support more season after red-shirting four times against Western the award. They have sup­his freshman year. This sea­Michigan to earn a shot at ported each other all year son, however, with coach Notre Dame in the s_econd anyway. Bobby Clark shifting Luke round. It was silly of them. "The reason we've been able Boughen from stopper to mid­The Panthers should have to shut teams out so well is fielder midway through the saved two of those goals for simple," Sawyer season, High has Wednesday. said. "We have stepped up as a With Big East Goaltender of the best back "We have good rock on defense. the Year Chris Sawyer and four in the coun­defenders and a Stewart made the arguably the strongest back try. My back line All-Big East first
good goalkeeper, 
four in the nation composed of is unbelievable. team this season. Kevin Richards, Kevin And all of the but we also have a "Our two cen­Goldthwaite, Jack Stewart and credit really must good team tral defenders sophomore Christopher High, go to them." are very solid,"
mentality.,,
the Irish are consistently lim­Sawyer accepts Clark said. "They iting powerful offenses to few none of the credit counter every chances and even fewer goals. for his success, Bobby Clark aerial threat, 
At the rate the Irish are giv­though saves like Irish coach especially against ing up goals, Wisconsin­a diving grab in St. John's, who is Milwaukee is looking at a pos­the first half on a fairly direct sible goose egg in its goals St. John's Angel Rodriguez team. If you don't handle that column in the Thursday box prove his value to the number threat you're in trouble, and score. three team in the nation. these two boys have played 
It's a distinct possibility, "I see one or two shots a superbly well." since it's happened to 13 other game, maybe one where I Words like Clark's force teams this season. have to go to the ground," teams to try and take the ball 
Sawyer -only a junior -Sawyer said. "Other than that, around the outside of the has a 0.65 goals against aver­the defense just takes care of Notre Dame defense. The two age on the season, making 66 me. That save in the first half, Kevin's are waiting patiently. saves including I was just glad I Richards and Goldthwaite eight in three could do that for man the outside defender
"The reason we,ve
straight shutouts them when they spots, right and left, respec­on the way to a been able to shut save me so tively. Richards is an all-Big Big East confer­much." East third team selection and
teams out so well 
ence champi­The two men Goldthwaite is a second-team onship. is simple. We have in the middle member. Richards is a speed­

Not only have the best back four who save ster who can catch any the Irish been in the country.,, Sawyer often are streaking forward or midfield­shutting oppo­Stewart and er, while Goldthwaite relies on nents out, they High. The two technique and poise to lock have given up just Chris Sawyer juniors function down on team's strongest fourteen goals all Irish goalie as a two-headed threats. our losses to Rutgers [5-21 and games and conference tourna­season. Notre monster, split-Most important about the St. John's [3-0] and we've lost ments. And, if the Irish build Dame's total of 38 ting the gut of two outside backs, however -just six." on their 13 shutouts and goals is not a high season total . opponents' attacks. They win especially in the Irish system Offense wins games and maintain the flawless play on for any team, but the Irish still close battles at their feet and -is the ability of both players defense wins championships, defense, it could win them have twenty-four more tallies leaping battles in the air, par­to not only halt opponents' the cliche goes. much more. than their foes. ticularly Stewart, who has a rushes but to counter with In Notre Dame's case, 
When Sawyer raised the knack for getting his head on attacks of their own. Both defense is what wins. Period. Contact Pat Leonard at 
goaltender of the year trophy any ball within twenty feet players make runs to the side­It wins quarters, halves, pleonard@nd.edu line often as Notre Dame switches the ball across the field. 
Richards scored on such a run in the Big East Championship game against St. John's, his first goal in three years. Clark later assessed the qualities

-
Richards brings to the team. 
"Kevin Richards doesn't score a lot of goals, but he makes a lot of goals," Clark said, referring to his playmak­ing skills. 
Goldthwaite certainly does, as well. 
The junior from Sacramento, Calif. started nine games his freshman sea­son and has been invaluable particularly' due to his set up ability. Goldthwaite can put a crossing ball, corner kick or throw in into the box on offense. Counting the Big East Tournament, he leads the team in assists with nine. 
Richards, Goldthwaite and Stewart each have one goal, and the defense has often translated into offense this season for the Irish. Still, the Irish defense has been the reason the team needs only one or two great plays per game from attackers like Justin Detter, Devon Prescod and Greg Martin to secure a victory against anybody. 
"We have good defenders and a good goalkeeper, but we also have a good team mental­Defender Kevin Goldthwaite leaps over a West Virginia player ity," Clark said. "We've lost earlier this year at Alumni Field. fourteen goals, and take away 





r----------------------------~---------------­
THE ()BSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, November 25, 2003 
page 11 
DVD REVIEW 
'The Two Towers' comes to life 
By JONATHAN RETARTHA 
Scene Movie Critic 
Tolkien fans now have the oppor­tunity to get even more hobbit, elf and dwarf action as The Lord of the /lings: The Two Towers Extended Edition DVD gives viewers an entin~ly new film. The Two Towers is the second part of the Lord of the flings series of novels, written by .I.H.l!. Tolkien. 
Thr. series, directed on film by Peter .Jackson, tells the story of a hobbit, Frodo Baggins (Elijah Wood) who goes on a quest to destroy a ring that is the source of all evil in the world. The Two Towers picks up where the first part, The Fellowship of the Ring, leaves off. with Frodo's company of travelers dispersed. 
Frodo now travels with his friend Sam (Sean Astin, of Hudy fame) and a creature named Collum (Andy Serkis), while Aragorn (Viggo Mortensen), a friend of the hobbits. continues on his journey to take his ··ightful place as king of men in Middle Earth. 
The first two discs of the four-disc set eontain the actual motion pic­ture. While the theatrical DVD was released in August, featuring the version of the film shown in the­aters. along with a few extra fea­tures. the Extended Edition DVD features over 40 minutes of unseen footage. 

While the notion of providing deleted scenes in a DVD is not new, Peter Jackson takes this feature one step further by weaving the deleted scenes into the film, forming a "director's cut" that even features original music composed just for these deleted scenes by composer Howard Shore. 
Even though many "director's cut" DVDs seem long and drawn out with the deleted scenes woven in, The Two Towers actually seems shorter in the Extended Edition than in the thnatrical version. All of the deleted 
scenes are valuable additions to the 
film and satisfy many of the com­
plaints that several critics and 
Tolkien purists have had about the 
film. 
Some of the deleted scenes 
include a funny scene with Merry 
(Dominic Monaghan) and Pippin 
(Billy Boyd) experimenting with Ent 
Draft. Aragorn revealing his age to 
Eowyn (Miranda Otto). and the 
funeral of King Theoden 's son. In 
addition, a long scene describes a 
flashback of Boromir (Sean Bean) 
and Faramir (David Wenham) 
together. 
This scene is also important 
because it introduces the character 
of Denethor (John Noble). who plays 
a key role in the final chapt-er of the 
trilogy, ·The Return of the King, 
which opens in theaters Dec. 17. 
Finally, perhaps the largest addi­tion to the film is a sequence of scenes at the end of the f'ilm. which continue Legolas (Orlando Bloom) and Cimli's (John Hhys-Davies) head count and show the orcs fleeing from Helm's Deep into Fangorn Forest. The sequence also shows Merry and Pippin discovering a heap of food in the ruins of Isengard. 
At over three hours and 45 min­utes, Jackson successfully achieves his goal of making his films more like "histories" of middle earth, as if the events of the story actually took place. The film also can be 
watched with several 
audio commentaries, 
including one with 
almost every feature 
actor in the cast, one 
with Jackson and his 
writing team, and one 
with members of the 
design team. 
The other two discs 
are full of special fea­
tures that will keep 
fans entertained for 
hours on end. Disc 
three is full of pre­production material for the film. Even though the movies may seem dense with material, the books themselves are even denser. and the writing team was forced to make several cuts and changes to the original story in order to make it flow better on the screen. 
While many of these changes have angered Tolkien purists. one docu­mentary features Jackson explain­ing all of the cuts and changes and why they needed to be included or removed from the film. 
Other excellent documentaries on the third disc explore the world of Weta, the special effects and design company that worked on the films. It is simply amazing to watch how much effort was put into the hun­dreds of costumes and prosthetics, as well as into finding and con­structing the various locations in New Zealand where the three films were shot concurrently. 


Also featured on the third disc are 
hundreds of conceptual drawings 
for the various costumes and sets in 
the film. 

While all of the design documen­taries provide incredible insight into the filmmaking process, per­haps none is· more fascinating than the section on disc three devoted to the creation of the Collum charac­ter, the first ever dramatic perform­ance given by a computer-generated character. Never before has such a significant event in film history been so well documented. 
The documentaries even explore the controversy that erupted insid.e of Weta over whether to use Serkis as a model for Collum's perform­ance using revolutionary motion capture technology, or to simply use his voice and use the computer alone to generate the character's movement. 
The fourth disc documents the actual filming of the picture. One section of features describes the amazing collection of miniatures needed for certain parts of the film. Another goes into depth about digi­tal effects in the film. 
A third section is devoted com­
pletely to music and sound, with 
commentary from Shore about the 
different themes used for different 
locations in the movie. 
All of the special features make the Extended Edition the ultimate movie experience. Enough informa­tion and insight into the process is present in this DVD to make it its own lesson in filmmaking. 
-
Everything from ideas and drawings to editing and marketing make this a truly unique experience to own on DVD. 
While many thotrght that Jackson would run out of things to put in the DVD after loading the Fellowship of the Ring Extended Edition DVD with dozens of bonus features, he has actually topped himself with The Two Towers. 
All of the contributors to the interviews have been through the Extended Edition process before and are even more comfortable with answering questions and sharing their love of film. 
Even without the spectacular DVDs, the Lord of the Rings trilogy 
-
will leave an indelible mark on the world of filmmaking. The extended editions only serve as further proof of the passion and Jove every per­son involved has with bringing the novels to life. 
Contact Jonathan Retartha at jretarth@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy ot www.1mdb.com 
Photo courtesy ol dvd.ign.com 

Frodo Bagglns (Elijah Wood) and Sam Gamgee (Sean Astin) make their way The third and fourth discs of the Extended Edition DVD have over six hours of across the dangerous road to Mordor as they attempt to destroy the One Ring. special features, Including lots of Information about Gollum, a CGI creature. 
Tuesday, November 25, 2003 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NHL 

Mathieu Biron defeats older brother in a 2-1 victory 
Associated Press place. Patrick Roy is first with 551. 
SUNRISE, Fla. -Mathieu "To be with Glenn Hall is a Biron finally got the best of his great honor," Belfour said. ''I'd big brother. love to hear from him. I had a 
The Florida defenseman chance to talk to him quite a bit became the first NHL player in when I was in Chicago. He was 23 years to score against his always helpful." brother, beating Martin Biron in Hall played 19 seasons for the Panthers' 2-1 victory over Chicago, Detroit and St. Louis. the Buffalo Sabres on Monday Belfour is in his 16th season. night. "He's one of the best goalies 
Phil Esposito of the New York in the game," Toronto captain Rangers was the last player to Mats Sundin said. "It's great to accomplish the feat, scoring on have him back there. He cer­brother Tony of Chicago on Nov. tainly made it look easy tonight. 5, 1980. That's just the kind of guy he 
"The Esposito brothers proba­is." bly have been fighting for the Sundin and Gary Roberts last 23 years," Martin B~ron scored for the Maple Leafs, who joked. "We'll probably be fight­went winless in the first five ing for the next 23 years, my games of their West Coast road brother and I."' trip before winning in 
Mathieu Biron, who at 23 is Vancouver on Saturday night. three younger than Martin, Brendan Morrison had the gave Florida a 2-0 lead late in lone goal for the Canucks, who the first period when he joined haven't won on the road in five a two-on-one rush and tipped games since Nov. 5 at Nashville. Stephen Weiss' pass past his After Vancouver center Matt brother. Cooke turned the puck over, 

"I was happy," Mathieu Biron Sundin fired a slap shot past said. "I knew it was going to goalie Johan Hedberg at 2:08 of come sooner or later. I'm glad the third. but hit the left post at 8:10 of other Washington goal, and "When we have good starts he didn't put me on the ice right the period. Sergei Gonchar had two assists. like tonight, we win those after the goal. I didn't know Nashville 3, Colorado 2 Zidlicky extended Nashville's "Our guys do have the ability games," said Lang, who took what was going on. It's hard to Kimmo Timonen and Marek lead to 2-0 with a power-play to score," Capitals coach Bruce over the NHL points lead with explain." Zidlicky scored power-play goal at 5:09 of the second peri­Cassidy said. 28 on 12 goals and 16 assists. 
The Birons' parents, Celin~ goals to lead the Nashville od. Sauve stopped shots by With 14 points, Washington is "But a lot of times, we're com­and Rejean, were in the crowd. Predators to a 3-2 victory over Timonen and David Legwand, tied with the Pittsburgh ing out of the first period down 
"In the summer they were the Colorado Avalanche on but Zidlicky scored off a Penguins for last place overall a couple of goals. And in this nagging each other, with Monday night. -rebound. in the NHL. league, with the way teams play Mathieu saying that he would Timonen added an assist, Kris Draper scored for now, nobody's going to let you score on Martin," Celine Biron Rem Murray had a short-hand­Washington 4, Detroit 1 Detroit, which has lost two of its back into the game." said. "It was good that it was a ed goal, and Tomas Vokoun Rastislav Stana got all the last three games. nice goal. It wouldn't have been made 34 saves to improve to 5-help -and breaks -he need­The Capitals scored three Dallas 5, Phoenix 2 
-as nice if it was a cheap goal." 1-0 in his last six starts. ed to win in his first NHL start. times in the first period, with Mike Modano, Jason Arnott The goal was Mathieu Biron's Milan Hejduk and Joe Sakic Stana made 38 saves, and Jagr and Bondra getting goals and Jere Lehtinen scored first of the season and the sixth had third-period goals for Jaromir Jagr, Robert Lang and just 1:35 apart. power-play goals in the Dallas of his NHL career, which began Colorado, with Hejduk's goal Dainius Zubrus combined for Jagr scored on a one-timer Stars' 5-2 victory over the in 1999-00 with the New York ending the Avalanche's score­eight points to give the from in front after taking a pass Phoenix Coyotes on Monday Islanders. less streak at 124 minutes, 31 Washington Capitals a 4-1 victo­from Gonchar 6:57 into the night. Martin Biron finished with 22 seconds. Colorado was 0-for-5 ry over Detroit on Monday game. Bondra made it 2-0 when Steve Ott added his first goal saves. on the power play and has night. "I think I was having the he jammed the rebound of a of the season, Modano also had failed to score in its last 13 luck of the beginner," said shot by Zubrus past Curtis two assists, and Stu Barnes Toronto 2, Vancouver 1 chances. Stana, the first Slovak goalie to Joseph at 8:32. added an empty-net goal for the Ed Belfour solidified his place Timonen opened the scoring win an NHL game. "There were Lang then scored on a slumping Stars, who were 1-6-2 as one of the best goalies in 42 seconds into the game -some rebounds that I left, but rebound of a shot by Gonchar in their previous nine games. NHL history. and 21 seconds into a power the defense cleared them for with 8:59 left in the period. Cale Hulse's goal 31 seconds Belfour passed Glenn Hall for play -with a low blast that me." That chased Joseph, who only into the second period snapped fifth place on the career victory went between Philippe Sauve's "It would have been nice to faced nine shots. He was the Coyotes' shutout streak of list, stopping 24 shots in the pads. get the shutout, but I'm still replaced by Manny Legace. 141 minutes. 46 seconds. Toronto Maple Leafs' 2-1 victo­Vokonn kept Colorado score­happy with the win." Zubrus got a power-play goal Phoenix was coming off consec­ry over Vancouver on Monday less with saves on Sakic from Both Jagr and Lang had a at 3:25 of the second period utive shutouts against San Jose night. .the slot. He caught a break goal and two assists, and when his one-timer from the and Atlanta. Belfour has 408 victories, 15 when Alex Tanguay's shot drib­Zubrus had a goal and an slot converted a pass from Landon Wilson added his first -shy of Tony Esposito for fourth bled between Vokoun's pads, assist. Peter Bondra got the Lang. goal of the season for the 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
*"ACT NOW\ Book 11 people, get 12th trip tree. Group discounts for 6+ www.spring­breakdiscounts.com or 
800-838-8202. 
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in Acapulco now otters 3 destinations! Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get crazy in Cabo--with BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. Organize a group and travel tor FREE. 
Book now before its too late\ 
Call 800-875-4525 or www.bian­cirossi.com. 
READY TO MOVE IN TODAY\ 2­bedroom townhouse 10 minutes trom campus. Approx. 11 00 sq. ft. 
For more information call katrina at 252-4663 
WANTED 
Part time/Full time opportunity tor honest, motivated, success minded individual. Exciting \-Commerce internet based business. Contact: waynew54@ pronetglobal.com 
Granger household looking for part-time babysitter. Must be willing to help with toddlers laundry. Experience & references required. Fax letter or resume to: (574) 247­9253. 
SMC alumna needs a babysitter for 3 children in my home in Granger (near UP Mall), Thursdays and/or Fridays 10am-1pm. Must have own transp. 247-0690. 
Go Team Irish Communications has many positions available. Flexible hours, Great Pay! Owned & opera!­ed by NO alumni. Call 802-893-0558 or send your request for information to Go Teamlrish@myexcel.com 
FoR SALE 
LARGE, ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE ONE MILE TO NO. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED. 
FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu 
FoR RENT 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@AOLCOM 272-1525 
HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS­ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004­2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 614 S. ST.JOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS-214 S. ST PETER 4 BEDRROMS-718 E. WASHINGTON ST. 2 BEDROOMS. CALL KRAMER AT 234-2436 OR 315-5032 4 bedroom house. 1136 E Madison. Close to campus, ample parking, AC, huge yard. Contact Mike (216) 408-0780 or Matt (216) 408-0744 it interested 

Two story house completely remod­eled 2003. Ott street parking includes motion sensor light tor security. Four individually locked bedrooms, six blocks trom Notre Dame, bus stop in front ot house, surrounded by other student hous­ing, laundromat next door (dry cleaning also), basement available for storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc., new furnace and cen-Ira\ air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigerator, large living room tor TV or entertaining, tree trash removal. Call 289-4072. 
JAMISON (NEAR SOCCER FIELD) 1 BR, 1ST FLOOR, BASEMENT, AVAIL DEC 1, $695 (INCLUDES UTIL), CONTACT BOB 607-723­7373, EMAIL: rjhdds@pronetisp.net 
3 BEDROOM, 2 BATH HOME, MANY XTRAS. CLOSE TO ND AND MALL $1000/MO. 277-2176. 
BEAUTIFUL HOUSE FOR RENT: 1803 Corby, Wooded Estates, 5 blocks from campus, 3 large bed­rooms, 2 full bath, washer and dryer, home totally remodeled, new appliances, two car garage, tur­nished. Need 3-5 students ($400 ea.) tor January. Need 5 students ($400 ea.) for tall. 231-8823 evenings. 
TICKETS 
Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ Pay Top Dollar$$ 
1-866-808-0990 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. It you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call tor discounts: 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! 11 0% Best Prices\ Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida_ Book Now & Receive Free Meals & Parties Campus Reps Wanted! 1-800-234-7007 endlesssummer­tours. com 
•••• IRISH CROSSINGS-A NEW LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY .... Build your dream home next to Notre Dame. A limited num­ber ot home sites are available. For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com 
THIS IS THE LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER UNTIL TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2. HAPPY THANKSGIVING! 
Sober Six\ 
I'm really debating a Zebra cake 
I love you like a tat kid loves cake 

~-] 
Tuesday, November 25, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 13 
NBA 
Indiana extends Orlando's losing streak to 13 
Associ~1ed Press 
OHLANDO, Fla. -The hap­less Orlando Magic put up a surprisingly strong fight against the Indiana Pacers with star player Tracy McGrady sick at home with a 103-dcgree fever. 
Indiana's Jermaine O'Neal had 22 points and 19 rebounds, and the NBA-lead­ing Pacers handed Orlando its 13th straight loss, winning 89­78 on Monday night. 
The Magic stayed close with a scrappy, hustling effort that earned the respect of a crowd ready to roast them. 
It wasn't until midway through the fourth quarter, when O'Neal's three-point play put the Pacers up 77-63, that Orlando was down for the count. 
"The effort they put forth without McGrady was excep­tional." Pacers coach Rick Carlisle said. "They made the game the kind of game they had to make it to have a chance to win." 
Hon Artest added 17 points and reserve Austin Croshere scored 13 of his season-high 15 in the second quarter to help Indiana extend its win­ning streak to five games. 
Orlando is four losses short of tying its franchise-worst los­ing skid. That stretch was set in 1991-92, the season before the Magic drafted Shaquille 
O'Neal. 
"Certainly we were under­manned with T-Mac not play­ing, but I don't think our guys conceded to the Pacers all night," said Orlando coach Johnny Davis, who was mak­ing his home debut. He replaced Doc Rivers, who was fired a week ago in the middle of an 0-5 road trip. 
"If we continue to fight like that, and make some adjust­ments to what we're doing, I think we can get this situation turned around and begin to have some success." 
Knlcks 94, Celtlcs 88 
With or without their two top scorers. the New York Knicks know how to rally against the Boston Celtics. 
They did it Monday night with Allen Houston and Keith Van Horn sidelined, winning 94-88 after trailing by 10 points at halftime. One week earlier, the two stars played major roles as the Knicks beat the Celtics after trailing by 16 at intermission. 
The key, said New York for­ward Clarence Weatherspoon, is to shoot the ball when the opportunity is there. 
"When you're short-handed, you just have to feel confident enough to Jet it go," he said. "We did some things that led to easy baskets and put them on their heels." 
Shandon Anderson Jed the Knicks with a season-high 28 points. 
Dikembe Mutombo had four blocks, moving him into fifth place with a career total of 2,896. two more than former Knick Patrick Ewing, who pre­ceded him at Georgetown. 
"He'll be the first man I'll call," Mutombo said. "It's a nice commentary on my career." 
One week earlier, Houston 
and Van Horn combined for 47 points as the Knicks came back to beat the Celtics 89-86 in New York. Van Horn had 13 points in the third quarter when the Knicks trimmed a 54-38 halftime deficit to 72-66. 
But on Monday, Houston missed his second straight game with a sore lower back, and Van Horn, missed his fifth in a row with a sprained right ankle. 
The Celtics also blew a 51-42 halftime lead last Friday and lost in Philadelphia 87-85. 
"We go into the locker room saying we have to pick it up," Boston forward Yin Baker said, "and, behold, we come out in the third quarter and it slips away. It may be we're thinking too much about it." 
Pacers 89, Magic 78 
Chauncey Billups redeemed himself at the free-throw line by hitting four straight shots in the final 18.3 seconds to help the Detroit Pistons beat Atlanta 94-89 on Monday night. 
Billups missed two foul shots with seven seconds remaining Sunday in Detroit's 81-80 loss to New Orleans. He finished with a team-high 24 points despite shooting only 7 -for-23 from the floor. 
The Pistons, winning for the fifth time in six games. trailed Atlanta by 16 points following Shareef Abdur-Rahim's 12­footer with 5:46 left in the third quarter. 
Detroit answered with a 24-4 run, capped by Billups' 14­footer from the right wing with 
7:14 remaining. Of the 23 points Atlanta 

allowed off 21 turnovers, 15 came in the second half, the worst mistake coming on Stephen Jackson's inbound lob pass that went out of bounds. 
Abdur-Rahim led the Hawks, who have lost four of six, with 26 points and 14 rebounds. 
Tayshaun Prince added 22 

Mourning leaves NBA as kidney problems worsen 
Associa1ed Press 
EAST HUTIIEHFOHD. N.J. ­New Jersey Nets center Alonzo Mourning is leaving basketball again because the kidney dis­ease he's had for three years is worsening and he needs a transplant. 
The announcement Monday r.ame just a few months after Mourning, 33, signed a four­year contract with the Nets believed to be worth $22 mil­lion. 
The four-time All-Star sat out all of last season and large por­tions of two of the last three years because of the life· threatening kidney ailment, focal glomerulosclerosis. 
The team said Mourning, who was in his 12th NBA sea­son, needs a transplant "in the near future" and that a nation­wide search is under way for a prospective donor. 
"Alonzo is a true champion and a very courageous athlete who attempted to defy the odds with his comeback to the NBA," Nets president Hod Thorn said. "Unfortunately, his medical condition will not allow him to continue his bas­ketball career." 
Dr. Gerald Appel of Columbia University Medical Center said 


appy Thanksgiving! 
A perfect time to remember my Notre Dame family. You are all very special people. I wanted to let you know how very much you mean. Have a wonderful Holiday! 
Always Notre Dame, Amy Copy Center Hat Lady 

points for Detroit, and Ben Wallace had 15 rebounds. 
Billups took an inbound pass from Prince and drew a block­ing foul on Jacque Vaughn as he drove the left side of the baseline for the free throws that gave Detroit the lead for good. 
Mourning's kidney function has deteriorated rapidly in recent weeks. 
"It is no longer medically safe for him to play basketball," Appel said. "Although he still feels well, the chemical imbal­ances in his blood make it dan­gerous for him to play." 
Mourning played in 12 games for the Nets this season, aver­aging a disappointing 8 points and 2.3 rebounds in 17.9 min­utes. 
Ilis career averages were 
20.3 points and 9.8 rebounds per game coming into this sea­son. 
On Saturday, Mourning had a season-high 15 points in the Nets' 81-80 Joss to the Toronto Rap tors. 
1\vo days earlier, he got into a heated exchange with team­mate Kenyon Martin, who made light of Mourning's dis­ease. 

DUTPDST 
~ 
Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes from Campus 
Cal1259·1ooo for more details 


"I have overcome all I have overcome to come back and play this game for one reason, and that's to win," Mourning said afterward. 
Mourning previously played for the Charlotte Hornets and Miami Heat. 
The disease was detected in 2000, while Mourning was with the Heat. 
The diagnosis came shortly after the 6-foot-10 center helped the U.S. team win the gold medal at the Olympics. 
The disease attacks the tiny filters in the kidney that remove waste from the blood. 
That makes the kidney spill protein from blood into the urine. 
The resulting kidney damage can lead to kidney failure, which requires dialysis or a transplant. 
"It's a sad day in anyone's life when they can no longer do what they love, especially when they have no control over their situation," Ileat president Pat Hiley said in a statement. "Alonzo had been the corner­stone of the llcat organization for eight years and continues to be a role model in the Miami community." 


-

Tuesday, November 25, 2003 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 

Hall of Fame pitcher Warren Spahn dies at 82 
Associated Press 
BROKEN ARROW, Okla. ­
Warren Spahn, the Hall of Fame 
pitcher who won more games 
than any other left-hander in 
history, died Monday. He was 82. 
Spahn died at his home, family 
friend Gary Caruso said. 
Spahn was the mainstay of the 
Braves' pitching staff for two 
decades, first in Boston and then 
in Milwaukee. He pitched for 21 
seasons, winning 363 games and 
posting 20 or more victories 13 
times. 
The remarkable part was that 
he was 25 before he got his first 
major league win. 
"Warren Spahn was a fighter 
and a winner," said New York 
Yankees manager Joe Torre, a 
former teammate. "He made 
catching in the big leagues a lot 
easier for me because he took 
me under his wing along with 
Lew Burdette. One of my biggest 
thrills to this day was catching 
his 300th victory in 1961." 
Spahn started his baseball career in his hometown of Buffalo, playing first base while his father played third for the . Buffalo Lake City Athletic Club. He wanted to play first in high school but his team already had an all-city player at that position. 
So Spahn switched to pitching. 
He signed with the Braves in 
1940 for $80 a month and 
injured his arm twice in his first 
season of D-level ball. But he 
won 19 games the ne.xt season 
and was invited to spring train­
ing with the Braves. 
He started the 1942 season 
with the Braves but was sent 
down by manager Casey Stengel, 
who was angry because the left­
bander refused to brush back 
Pee Wee Reese in an exhibition 
game. Spahn went 17-12 with a 
1.96 ERA avet"age at Hartford that season while the Braves fin­ished in seventh place. Stengel called farming Spahn out the worst mistake he ever made. 
In 1943, Spahn went into the 
Army. He served in Europe, 
where he was wounded, deco­
rated for bravery with a Bronze 
Star and Purple Heart and was 
awarded a battlefield commis­
sion. He fought at the Battle of 
the Bulge and in the battle for 
the bridge at Remagen, 
Germany, where many men in 
his company were lost. 
Spahn returned to baseball in 
1946, and had an 8-5 record for 
the Braves. 
The next season, he emerged as one of baseball's best pitchers with a 21-10 record. He led the NL with a 2.33 ERA and became part of a pitching partnership with Johnny Sain that took Boston to the NL pennant the next year. Because of the Braves' thin staff, Boston's pitching was described as "Spahn and Sain and pray for rain." 
Starting in 194 7, Spahn won 20 or more games in 13 of the next 17 seasons. Only Christy Mathewso.n had as many 20-win seasons in the NL. Strangely, one of the years he missed that plateau was 1948, when he was 15-12 as the Braves won their frrst pennant since 1914. 
Equipped with a high-kicking delivery that baffled batters, Spahn became a dominant pitcher after that season, a con­sistent 20-game winner. Only once between 19 53 and 1961 did he fail to win 20 games. 
Spahn led the NL in victories eight times, including five in a row from 1957-61, and led the league in strikeouts from 1949­52. 
He once said, "When I'm pitching, I feel I'm down to the essentials -two men with one challenge between them." 
He usually won that challenge. Spahn led the league in com­plete games nine times, includ­ing seven in a row from 1957­
63. For his career, he completed 382 of 665 starts and had 2,583 strikeouts. 
He led the Braves to pennants with 21 wins in 1957 and 22 in 1958 -their frrst two seasons in Milwaukee -and then won 21 games in each of the next three seasons. 
He was 23-7 and led the league with a 2.10 ERA in 1953 at age 32 and then matched that a decade later when he was 42, going 23-7 again in 1963, this time with a 2.60 ERA. 
That was his last great season. A year later, he went 6-13 and then finished up in 1965, split­ting the season between the New York Mets and San Francisco Giants and winning seven games. He then pitched in Mexico and the minors before fmally retiring in 1967 at the age of46. 
When he was criticized for pitching that long, Spahn said, "I don't care what the public thinks. I'm pitching because I enjoy pitching." 
Cal1259·1.ooo for more details 
YA! 
No chance of speak­ing legibly tonight... t at least being 
21 pays for itself. 
\ 
Tommy D and the Chiefs 


Live Warren Spahn throws out the ceremonial first pitch before Game 1 of the World Series Oct. 23, 1999. Spahn won more games than any left-hander In Major League history . 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
Just in time for Thanksgiving break... 
We are extending our special to get this year's prices for nextyear. Applyby December 15, 2003 and take a.c1va11~age ofthe sayings! .Reserve your apartment today and quit worrying about whe:re to live tomorrow. 
. . 
You:r time is tu.tmirtg out, so don;t delay! Appiy at TC today!! 
1710 Turtle Cre<:;l<Pr.(fightby the turtles!) South Bend, IN 46637 www.tmtlecreeknd.com 

NO Men's Soccer 
Notre Dame vs. ,...I:tlfamoLis Round 1 Winner" 
7:00 PM @ Alumni Field 
Ticket .Prices 
Adult·f;7.oo 
Youth: ~3.00 
2 & LJnder: FREE 



·•FREEadmission l()first 100 St.,.<:tents (ND, SMC, HCC), ALL additional student$ must buy tickets 
•Fcu:ulty./5;tqffiD's9J1<:f,$(?c;~ers~o.son Posses ore NOT 


· · -­
•
:>·· 

. · ~ < ······ ..· ...... :~::: . 
Tuesday, November 25, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 1S 

NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish have one last chance 
Irish travel to No. 6 Stanford to improve their NCAA seeding 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writ~r 
They know what they have to do, now it is just a matter of execution. 
Coming off a loss to Pittsburgh (24-4) in the Big East Tournament Championship, No. 20 Notre Dame (23-5) looks to regroup when they travel to No. 6 Stanford Saturday. 
East tournament since joining the conference in 1995. The Irish are 2-3 in their Iast five matches. 
But Notre Dame is putting the loss behind them and moving on. They have a week of practice to prepare for Stanford (21-6). the last regu­lar season match of the year. 
"We can't go into Stanford and have a good match if we don't practice well this week," Irish head coach 
Opening Reception: Monday, December 1, 2003 5:00pm -700pm 
Debbie Brown said. "We have to get back into the gym and work out the details there." 
The Irish have been led all season by their nation-lead­ing blocking average, 3.73 
opponent for the Irish, as they outhit opponents last weekend .405 to .156. Both teams will be looking to improve their seeding chances going into the NCAA 
per game. "You don't allow Selection on Emily Loomis Sunday evening. 
yourself to get tired, 
leads the Irish Senior setter 
you don 't allow 
attack with Kristen Kinder 
3. 6 2 kills an d yourself to make will have to lead 
1.12 blocks per the Irish offense
excuses ... " 
game. She is back on track in joined by their efforts to Lauren beat the
Debbie Brown Brewster, who Irish head coach Cardinal for the 
is atop the nation with 
1.82 blocks per game. She also averages 3.54 kills per 
game. However, 

The Irish come "This is the time to off a loss that 
pull together ­

snapped their 61 
we're in the

game Big East winning streak postseason and it at home and was 
goes really short. " 

only the second loss the Irish have ever suf­Debbie Brown fered in the Big Irish head coach 
conference 
the Irish have struggled of late. losing to then No. 14 Northern Iowa, and then dropping two matches in one week to Pittsburgh. Those two losses gave Pittsburgh a share of the regular season title and last 
Sunday, the Big East Tournament Championship. 
"This is the time to pull together -we're in the post­season and it goes really short," Brown said. "You don't allow yourself to get tired, you don't allow yourself to make excuses, you just get after it everyday at practice. We just have to play well." 
Stanford will be a tough first time ever. 
Kinder, Brewster and Lauren Kelbley were all named to the Big East all conference team last week. Brown was named co­coach of the year, and Loomis earned second team honors. 
But for now, the Irish remain focused on the week of practice. 
"I think that for some rea­son we didn't play with the confidence we need to play with [against Pittsburgh]." Brown said. "I think the only way you get that pack is you get back into the practice gym. "So despite the setbacks of the last few weeks, the Irish remain focused on one thing-winning. 
"I still think this team can accomplish a lot," Brown said. "What we need to do is go after the match and be able to say 'that's all we had, they were just better."' 
Saturday's game is set to start at 1 p.m. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


Pasatiempos de La Frontera: Personal Pastimes from the El Paso/Juarez Border Artist: Chuv Benitez 
Pasatiempos is a photographic social documentary on life in the world's biggest border community and the traditions, culture, people and landmarks that have existed in this border community for decades. Chuy's project has also been made possible through a UROP grant from the Institute for Scholarship in the Libera! Arts 
Riley Hall ofArt 
2nd Floor Gallery On Display from Dec. 1-19, 2003 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Oklahonta leads BCS standings, USC rises 
Associated Press 
Southern California moved 
back into position to play for the 
national title -for now. 
The Trojans were once again 
in second place in the Bowl 
Championship Series standings 
Monday, moving up one spot 
after a loss by Ohio State. 
Oklahoma (12-0) remained the 
runaway leader in the standings 
that will determine which teams 
will play for the national title in 
the Sugar Bowl. The Sooners are 
a unanimous No. 1 in the polls 
and are the top team in all seven 
BCS computers. 
USC was second, nearly five 
points behind at 6.89, followed 
by LSU at 9.04, matching the 
order in both polls. The Trojans 
and Tigers are the only one-loss 
teams remaining from one of the 
six major conferences. 
USC has one game remaining 
Dec. 6 against Oregon State (7­
4). LSU plays Arkansas (8-3) on 
Friday, and if the Tigers win, 
they will play in the SEC title 
game. If LSU wins both those 
games they could get enough of 
a boost to move ahead of USC. 
"Sometimes when you start thinking about all that other stuff it is just kind of clutter that can affect your ability to prepare, focus, and have the kind of poise and discipline that you need," LSU coach Nick Saban said. "I think you can get distracted by :other things and it really comes down to performance. We have to play well in the game and 
preparation helps you do that." 
The Sooners have a 1.0 for poll average, 1.0 for computer-rank average, 0.40 for strength of schedule, zero for losses and 0.5 bonus points for beating sixth­place Texas for a 1.9. 
With all the focus on second place, Oklahoma has been able to avoid the usual BCS contro­versy. 
"It's hard for us to get on tele­vision or the newspaper," coach Bob Stoops said. "We just focus on what we can do. That always is our focus and what we pay attention to. What's been kind of nice about it is it has kind of deflected a lot of attention off of 
us." 
For now, the focus is on LSU, USC and all the teams they've played this year. 
USC is 22 spots ahead of LSU in strength of schedule this week. 
BCS expert Jerry Palm projecl'i that USC could end up anywhere from 15 spots ahead to 26 spots behind. 
There are seven games remaining that have a direct impact on that: Alabama at Hawaii, Florida State at Florida, Georgia at Georgia Tech, Hicc at Louisiana Tech and Arizona at Arizona State this weekend, and Notre Dame at Syracuse and Boise State at Hawaii next week­end. 
Saban said his preference would be to have the top two or four teams after the bowls meet in a mini-playoff. 

COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Connecticut remains first, top 17 hold 
Associat~d Press 
The opening of the regular season brought little change to the Top 25. 
After a week in which 14 ranked teams played their first games of the season, the only changes in The Associated Press' weekly poll Monday were a couple of posi­tion swaps. 
The first 17 teams held their spots from last week's poll and the only changes were Wake Forest and Cincinnati at 18 and 19 and Oklahoma State and North Carolina State at 24 and 25. 
Teams were allowed to play their first regular-season games last Friday. Before that, they were only allowed to play in exempt events such as Coaches vs. Cancer Classic. 
Connecticut, which opened the season this week with wins over Yale, Nevada and Sacred Heart, was again the runaway No.1. 
The Huskies received 69 first-place votes and 1, 797 points from the national media panel. 
Duke, which beat Detroit, was No. 1 on one ballot and had 1,666 points. Michigan State, a winner over Bucknell in its season opener, also had 
a first-place vote and was 
third. 
Arizona and Missouri were fourth and fifth, respectively, · while Kansas, the only other team with a No. 1 vote, was sixth. 
Syracuse, Florida, North Carolina and Kentucky round­ed out the Top 10. 
Texas was 11th followed by Illinois. Saint Joseph's, Oklahoma, Wisconsin, Gonzaga, Louisville, Wake Forest, Cincinnati and Stanford. 
The last five ranked teams were Notre Dame, Pittsburgh, Marquette, Oklahoma State and North Carolina State. 
There haven't been any changes in the rankings from the preseason Top 25. 
That could change this week with the last six of the ranked teams playing their first games: Arizona, Missouri. Syracuse, Florida, Louisville and Notre Dame. 
The season's first Top 10 matchups will be this week with No. 3 Michigan State at No. 6 Kansas on Tuesday night and No. 4 Arizona facing No. 8 Florida on Friday night in the Tipoff Classic in Springfield, Mass. 

r 
I 
I I 
i 
I 
OUND THE NATION 
page 16 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WHli SERVtCE$ Tuesday, November 25, 2003 


around the dial 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL North Texas at New Mexico St. 7 p.m., ESPN2 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Michigan State at Kansas 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
Bulls at Mavericks 8:30p.m., FOXCH 
NBA 


Associated Press 
CHICAGO -The Chicago Bulls are starting over. Again. 
Bill Cartwright became the latest casualty in the Bulls' seemingly endless rebuilding project, fired Monday after a 4-10 start. The team that began the season with such high expectations -maybe even the first playoff run since the dynasty days ­looks like so many· {)ther versions of the HorriBulls. 
"There's no question that this team has under­achieved, and probably for many reasons. Is it a coaching problem? I don't think so," interim coach Pete Myers said in Dallas, where Chicago plays the Mavericks on Tuesday night. 

"These kids got to tie up their shoestrings a little tighter," Myers said. "I told the guys today that it's time for you all to pull that mirror out now. We've changed coaches, now you guys are going to take the heat. Now you have to stand up." 
If they don't, more changes are likely. Trade rumors were already swirling around the team, with talk over the weekend of a deal with Toronto for Jalen Rose. 
While that trade hasn't happened, general manag­er John Paxson has made it clear he's not happy. 
"The team is underper­forming and we have to find ways to win, period~" Paxson said. "I am not sat­isfied with the team's start this season and changes have to be made. This rep­resents the first change, but not necessarily the last." 
Chicago has been abysmal since the Michael Jordan dynasty was blown to bits after winning its sixth NBA title in 1998. The Bulls have lost 292 games since, and have started and scrapped sev­era! rebuilding plans along the way. 
But this was supposed to be the year everything turned around. Chicago finished 30-52 last year, a nine-game improvement. Prep-to-pros projects Eddy Curry and Tyson Chandler were expected to build on the progress they made at the end of last season, and Scottie Pippen's return added veteran leadership. 
Instead, the Bulls lost three of their first four games by an average of 27 points, including back-to­hack 30-point blowouts. They share last place in the Central Division and have lost five straight. 
IN BRIEF 

McGrady misses game $18.75 million, three-year contract. million, three-year contract with against Pacers with flu Escobar was 13-9 with a 4.29 Seattle. 
ORLANDO, Fla. -Tracy McGrady ERA and four saves in 26 starts missed Orlando's game Monday and 15 relief appearances for Colts kicker breaks nose, night against the Indiana Pacers Toronto last season, moving into not expected to miss 
because of the flu, handing the the starting rotation May 18 after games struggling Magic another setback. 92 consecutive relief outings. He INDIANAPOLIS -Indianapolis 
He left the team's morning had one shutout, a four-hitter at kick returner Terrence Wilkins shootaround after five minutes and Cincinnati on June 8. broke his nose during Sunday's 17­did not return for the game. The Escobar, 27, was the Blue Jays' 14 victory at Buffalo but is not 
team said he had a temperature of closer in 2002, going 5-7 and a expected to miss this weekend's 
103. 4.27 ERA. He had 38 saves but tied game against New England. The McGrady is the league's third­for the AL lead with eight blown injury occurred in the first half, but 
leading scorer at 24.4 points a saves. Wilkins continued returning kicks game, but the guard's shot has fal­A native of Venezuela, Escobar throughout the game. tered during the Magic's 12-game signed with Toronto in July 1992. Colts coach Tony Dungy also said 
losing streak. He is shooting 43 After making $3.9 million last the team was waiting for the percent, far below last season season, he gets a $750,000 signing results of an MRI on tight end when he won the NBA scoring title. bonus and yearly salaries of $5.5 Dallas Clark's back. Clark had a 
Donnell Harvey replaced million, $6 million and $6.5 mil­strained muscle in his lower back, McGrady in the lineup. lion. Dungy said. Escobar was the lOth player to Dungy was hopeful four playersEscobar sjS!n~ three-year sign among the 210 who filed for -wide receivers Troy Walters and contract with Angels free agency and only the second to Brandon Stokley, fullback Detron ANAHEIM, Calif. -Right-hander receive a three-year contract. Smith and safety Cory Bird -could Kelvim Escobar and the Anaheim Outfielder Raul Ibanez left Kansas return from injuries this week. All Angels agreed Monday to an City last week, agreeing to a $13.25 four were inactive Sunday. 
Tuesday, November 25, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
CLUB SPORTS 
Wom.en' s volleyball club victorious 
Associated Press 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball club opene(j the sea­son in great form this weekend by capturing the Penn Invitational in Philadelphia. 
The Irish overwhelmed Richmond in the first round 14-2, as co-captain Allison Gienko spearheaded the attack with three goals. 
Penn State proved to be no more of a threat to the Irish in the second round, falling 14-3 as co-captain Brigctte Alge and freshman Jana Stewart continued their exceptional play in goal. 
Sophomore Katie Lancos led the diversified attack with four goals, while Gienko, Cimino and Bohling scored two goals apiece. 
In the semifinals, Colgate showed an explosive attack at times, but was still over­whelmed by the Irish in a 17-8 contest. 
Freshman Bridget O'Neill put on an offensive show as she netted seven goals, while Bohling added four of her own. 
A finals showdown with DC Metro, a Masters Club team, was the most challenging for the squad, but the Irish claimed the championship with an 11-6 victory. Tri-cap­tain Kimmy Moore and Lancos shared scoring honors with three goals each. 
Men's volleyball 
Notre Dame's men's volley­ball club hosted the Golden Dome Invitational this week­end at the Rolfs Sports Hccreation Center. The Irish were runner-up to Club Nowak by the narrowest of margins. 
The Irish kicked off the tour­nament by splitting games with Club Nowak 25-22, 27­
29. Building on this strong performance in their first match of the year, Notre Dame 1 dropped only lone game throughout the rest of pool play. 
The Irish then swept Indiana 25-22, 25-·20, before splitting two games with the Alumni team, 25-20, 18-25. The ND1 squad then defeated ND2 25­17, 25-19 and Northwestern 25-15, 25-19. 
Notre Dame 2 also had a very strong tournament, post­ing two convincing victories over Indiana University. 
Notre Dame 1, posting an 8­2 record, claimed the top seed heading into the playoffs. Carrying their momentum from four straight victories in pool play, the Irish dominated Northwestern in all aspects of the game. 
Mike Toomey provided key digs to setter Dan Zenker who strategically mixed up outside, middle and back sets to keep opponents on their toes. Ryan Goes and Mike Giampa record­ed key blocks down the stretch to help the Irish to victory. Notre Dame began the cham­pionship match against Club Nowak a little flat, finding themselves down 19-12. 
Although they did end up losing the first game. the Irish scored six of the last eight points in the game. Caring this momentum into the second game, Notre 
Dame coasted to a 25-20 win. In the third and final game Notre Dame fought 
valiantly, but came up short in a 26-28 loss. 
Women's Ice hockey 
In what has become a frus­trating season for the Irish, the women's ice hockey team dropped three games this weekend in CCWHA action. 
The Irish, minus their goalie and one of their two offensive stars, traveled to East Lansing Friday for a pair of games with Michigan State. The Spartans swept the two games in con­vincing fashion, 12-1 and 10-0. 
The lone bright spot for the Irish was the continued stellar play of Saint Mary's Megan Mattia, who scored the lone goal on an assist from Lizzy Coghill. 
Yet even this enthusiasm was tempered by an injury, which benched Mattia for the rest of the weekend. 
Julia LaPointe and Emmy Venechuk played aggressively throughout both games for the shorthanded squad, but were unable to stem the Spartan tide. 
On Sunday, the Irish hosted Western Michigan and dropped an 8-0 contest. 
Tori Blainey returned to the ice after missing the games at Michigan State and helped a swarming Irish attack keep the Mustangs bottled up at their end of the ice. Western Michigan was able to break free to score two goals at the end of the period to take the lead. 
It was more of the same in the next two periods as the Irish controlled most of the action but gave up multiple goals at the end of the periods. 
2004-2005 
RESIDENT ASSISTANT APPLICATIONS 
will be available in the Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building beginning Monday, November 17, 2003 through Friday, January 23, 2004 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
Applications will also be available for downloading and ·printing at 
http://www.nd.edu/-stdntaff/RAinfo.html 

Runners 
continued from page 20 
appointed." 
"You need five girls to have five great races," she said. "That didn't happen." 
Despite the team's disap­pointments, King had a stellar day, earning her third consec­utive All-America honor with her 28th place finish. 
She is the first female Irish cross-country harrier to do so. 
King reclaimed the position she had last season as the team's top runner as she sur­passed talented Irish sopho­more Molly Huddle by about 13 seconds. 
King said she has had some struggles this season, so earn­ing her third cross-country All-America honor was a proud moment. 
"That was a positive for me," she said. "I feel like I'm finally getting on the right path." While the Notre Dame men's team did not qualify for the national title race, senior Todd Mobley and sophomore Tim Moore ran individually. Mobley, competing in his last collegiate cross-country race, earned his second All­American honors with his 27th place finish. 
He completed the 10,000­meter course in 30 minutes, 
9.5 seconds. 
Mobley, who was of course disappointed that his team was not able to run Monday, was pleased with his final performance as an Irish cross-country runner, although in retrospect he saw improvements he could .have made throughout the season. 
"I don't think I had an exceptional race," he said. "Had the season gone slightly better, I think I could have done better [Monday]." 
As a sophomore, Mobley earned his first All-American sophomore year, he had taken that success for granted. 
"When I earned All­American honors sophomore year, I figured I would get them every year," he said. "Since my injury, I've become more appreciative of winning All-American honors. I now know what it takes." 
King also spoke of taking successes for granted. 
"I think we've been spoiled," she said. "We've taken some of the wins for granted. Finishi~g third last year was a dream. 
Despite disappointments with the 1Oth place finish ­which put Notre Dame behind foes it had already defeated this season, namely Michigan and Providence -King is still impressed with the overall season. 
"It was a fantastic season," she said. "We were Big East champions for the second con­secutive year. 
It's unfortunate that we can't show that at the national meet." 
She cautioned, though, that Notre Dame is not looking to settle in as the 1Oth best team in the country. 
"Once you feel that pain, that heartache. you don't want to feel that again," she said. "ND women's cross country and track is a force to be reckoned with." 
The men's team likely was experiencing more pain than 
the  Irish  women's  squad  
Monday.  
Both  Mobley  and  Moore  

believe that, had the Irish been awarded an at-large bid to the title race, they would have performed better than some of the other teams rac­ing Monday. 
"It kind of hurt to watch some teams run so poorly when we know we could have had a· good race," Mobley said. 
"We definitely could have 

honor -something that had done some damage," Moore 
been a goal of his for some said. 
time -but an injury prevent­
ed him from earning the cov­
eted award last season. Contact Joe Lindsley at 
Mobley admits that during his jlindsle@nd.edu 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------~
-

r 
I 
I 
I 
page 18 
Belles 
continued from page 20 

I 
l 
I range didn't help the Belles in their comeback effort. "It was a back and forth 
game, but it's going to be 

r 
I 
I tough for us to win in those 
I I 
situations if we can't shoot better," Bellina said. 
The Belles' shooting woes carried over into their next game. Franklin only shot 34 percent from the field but they also forced 18 turnovers. The Belles shot 30 percent, and freshman forward An:rie Hogan was the only player to score in 

I. 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish still have some groWing up to do 
Sometime in the future, Mike Brey should gather his team around a big-screen television, pop in a tape of the last 15 min­utes of Monday's Notre Dame­Northern Illinois tilt, look each player in the eye and say, "Gentlemen, that is NOT how you fm­ish a game." 
Then he should pause, dramatically, and open his 
mouth again. Sports Writer 
"Gentlemen, that is NOT how you finish a game." 
Let's review. With 14:47 left in the game, Torin Francis had just lofted a shot into the basket to give Notre Dame a 24-point lead over a Northern Illinois team expected to give the Irish much more of a fight. 
At that point, Francis might have shrugged his shoulders had he known that he would oply score one more basket in the game-a tip-dunk off a Torrian Jones missed layup. 
But Francis certainly couldn't have expected that that putback would have been Notre Dame's only field goal for the fmal14:47 of the game. 
No. that isn't a typo. Notre Dame scored just one basket the fmal quarter of the game. 
"We just got lazy," the soft-spo­ken sophomore said. 
While authorities sent out search parties for Notre Dame's normally prolific offense, Northern Illinois slowly clawed its way back from the brink of utter humiliation to actually make a 24-point game into one where Brey couldn't empty his. bench. The Huskies drew as close as six points with 40 seconds before Notre Dame put the game away with free-throw shooting. 
"We had to do things at the end, call a timeout and get the ball in against pressure, make some free throws, that's all good things," Brey said, leaving unspo­ken the fact that with a lead as big as the Irish had, they had no business facing game pressure in the flrst place. 
Of course, the Irish faced first­game jitters. Of course, Notre Dame's defense stepped up where its offense didn't to keep the Huskies at arm's length. Of course, it's tough to play with the same intensity when the score is 0-0 as it is when you're holding a lead the size of an NBA shot clock. Of course, the Irish still stumbled away with a win against a top mid-major program that's going to look very good on the resume in March. 
And of course, the Irish still 
have work to do. 
One can easily to attribute the 
erosion of Thursday's lead to sev-eral things, but frrst, remember that the Irish have three players -Jordan Cornette, Chris Quinn and Torrian Jones-who have only been role players in Notre Dame's past. Now, that trio is expected to become 30-minute figureheads each game. As part of their adjustment process, they'll have to get used to finding the hammer to nail a team in the coffm, or the Irish might start lose games they should otherwise 

win. 
Point to Thomas, too, started hoisting early shots instead of managing the game as the Irish started decomposing. He also struggled at times to bring the ball up the court against the Huskies' quick guards, and his teammates didn't help him out much when he did get across the half-court line, either. 
"When we were up 24, we just got complacent," Thomas said. "We took a good team for grant­ed by the way we were playing at the time." 
To get nit-picky at the second­half breakdown -as ugly as it was-ignores the solid frrst-half burst that helped give the Irish their monstrous lead in the frrst place and the stellar defense that helped them keep the lead until the fmal horn sounded. And in all fairness, Notre Dame was never in serious jeopardy of losing once they built their big lead. 
Aside from the offensive woes, Notre Dame showed it could con­sistently shut down a foe on the defensive side of the court, as they held the sharp shooting Huskies to just 23.5 percent. Francis controlled the boards despite receiving minimal help on the glass from his teammates. And constant defensive pressure in the first half led to three straight steals in the halfs fmal minute. 
The early-season games will be the time when Notre Dame can find its identity as a team and former role players can adjust to the spotlight. If anything, the game pressure might have been good for Cornette, Quinn and Jones, who had to -and turned back -a lengthy charge at the end of the game. Because every­one in the Joyce Center knows the Irish will have to do it again later this year. 
In time, Notre Dame's role players-turned-starters will learn to adjust, and it's a good thing they're learning to adjust against the Northern Illinois's on their schedule than the Indianas who loom much later. But in the wake of Monday's game, it's not hard to wonder if Brey drove away from the Joyce Center muttering one sentence over and over. 
"Gentlemen, that is NOT how you fmish a game." 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

Tuesday, November 25, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS 

double digits with 11 points. more shots last game, but our 
Despite their problems on defense has really stepped it offense, the team's overall up." improved defense has been a The Belles begin the· season source of optimism. 0-2, but the team is far from 
"We're setting high expecta­panicking. With a 6-20 record tions this year, and we still last year, they're eager to have a positive outlook on the improve wherever they can. season," Creachbaum said. "The freshmen on the team "We should've made some really played with heart and 
was my goal," Francis said. "I had to use the height mis­
Hoops 

match to my advantage. They continued from page 20 couldn't really hold me on 
defense and I just kept taking 
"We were close." it at them." 
Francis dominated down low, The Huskies out rebounded registering game-highs in the Irish 53-43 and had 25 points (24) and rebounds (19). offensive rebounds. Brey felt He was able to use his big his team had to guard the 3­height advantage over the point line and give up some Northern Illinois defenders things on the inside. For the and have a great game to open game, the Huskies only shot 4­the season. of-17 from behind the arc. 
"I just used the preseason to Chris Thomas and Chris come out strong in those Quinn, along with Francis, games to build up some were the only Notre Dame momentum for the actual sea­players to score in double dig­son and when it counted. That its. Thomas scored 17 while intensity this weekend, and the juniors have been there to keep the team together," Bellina said. "I think we have the ingredients to turn things around this season." 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 
Quinn had 18. 

Despite scoring only 17 points, 15 on free throws, in the game's last 14:47, the Irish feel Monday night was some­thing they can build on later in the season. 
"I think that's good for this team to get in game situations like that down the stretch, it puts hair on your chest," Jordan Cornette said. "The guys being able to perform under pressure like that is a great way to start the season." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


Irish guard Chris Thomas drives to the basket and attempts a lay-up between two Northern Illinois defenders In Notre Dame's 74-65 victory over the Huskies Monday night. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish face pair of tough road gallles 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
This Thanksgiving, the Irish will be on the road, facing two tough opponents. First, No. 17 Notre Dame (2-1) travels to Michigan State (2-0), to face the Spartans on Wednesday. 
Michigan State is coming off a 78-40 win over Temple to win the Spartan Oassic. 
After this game, the Irish travel to Tennessee on Sunday. 
The No. 3 Lady Volunteers (1-0) will be a tough opponent for Notre Dame. They return three starters, all seniors. This senior class has a record of 93-13 in their four years at Tennessee. 

Meanwhile, the Irish come off a dominating performance at home on Friday night. They beat Valparaiso 74-57, good enough to move them up three spots in this week's Associated Press women's basketball poll. 
So far this season, the Irish have been led by the trio of Jacqueline Batteast, Le'Tania Severe and Megan Duffy. Batteast averages 
18.3 points and 8.3 rebounds. She had the 21st double double of her career against the Crusaders, with 15 points and 10 rebounds. 
Severe, a senior guard, aver­ages 11 points a game to go along with five assists. She has been a spark plug as the senior leader of the team. 
The sophomore Duffy has been strong at point guard, averaging ten points through the first three games. Duffy has benefited from major improvements over the off­season. 
This road trip will be a chal­lenge for the Irish, who are 1-1 on the road this season. 
Michigan State has challenged to break into the top 25 in the. polls, and Tennessee is always a force to reckon with. The Lady Volunteers won 83-52 in their season-opener against Chattanooga. 
Wednesday's game tips off at 7 
p.m. and Sunday's game is set to start at 3 p.m. 
The Irish return home Dec. 4, when they face WiSconsin. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Tuesday, November 25, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
CLARE O'BRIEN 

SCHOOL DAZE 

FIVES 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 42 Designation for a sequel to a

1 W.'s political sequel
affiliation 4 Take a paddle to 
43 Lock, stock and barrel

9 Barely beats 44 Begs
14 "Gotcha!" 48 Puget Sound
15 Wore 
city16 Dickens's _ 
52 Language of the

Heep 
Eddas 17 Nothing at all 
55 _ Brockovich,18 Eyes 

Oscar role for 19 Elephant gone Julia Roberts amok 
56 "Dallas" spinoff 20 Mimic 
60 Aussie "bear" 23 Can't stomach 
63 Do penance 24 Got back into 
64 Wolfed down

business 65 Place to moor
28 Resistance to change 66 Arrive at 
32 Many a home 67 Salon goop 
purchase 68 Nick of "Cape 33 Putin's land Fear" 38 "Treasure 69 Krupp Works 
Island" inits. city 
37 Departure from 70 Windy City reality trains 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Abbr. 
lllllt..t-:+.::t 31 Italian wine center 34 Cyclotron bit 35 Siesta times: 

37 •_ 'er up!" ..-..-;.r~;+.,;~ -F+;+.=+i:+::;.+o;+:-ITI 38 Told a whopper 
"rl:-tm:i-i 39 Friend's opposite ....;..o.......o..-...~ 40 _snail's pace 


DOWN 1 India's 
Mohand as 2 Buckeye Stater 3 Gourmet's 
sense 4 "Hold it, horse!" 5 Take an ax to 6 Together, on a 
score 7 Like practically 
all TV's, now 8 Bowie's weapon 9 Part of the Ole! 
World 10 Pilotless planes 11 Jazz job 12 _Claire, Wis. 13 Sow, ewe or 
mare 21 Gibbs of 
country music 22 Part of F.V.I. 25 Bust maker 26_May 
Clampett of 60's TV 27 _ Plaines, 111. 29 Harbor workhorse 30 Relative of ·esque 

Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

41 Jotted down  50 Door frame  57 Builders'  
42 Nasdaq debut:  part  sites  
Abbr.  51 Marx  58 Stud fee?  
45 Short sock  collaborator  
48 Visit a  53 Wild West  59 Gas in signs  
bloodmobile,  vehicle  80 Family  
e.g. 47 B'way hit sign  54 Kefauver who won fame  61 Musical Yoko  
411"M*A*S*H"  investigating  62 The whole  
procedure  organized crime  shebang  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS . 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles. nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords . 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

JUMBLE 
OO~fiililfii ~~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TOABB 
rJ rJ
1 
C2003 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
t¥~rt)
tPLIDIM j
J rr 
WWW.Jumble.com 
INEARED± 
rJ r J 
A:''( I I I I I )'' 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: SAVOR 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

HE: BE:C.AME: A C.HAMPION RAC.E:R BY PUTTING HIS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon . 

(Answers tomorrow) 

UNWED DONKEY QUIVER Answer: What the neighbors did about the noisy par­rots-"SQUAWKED" 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
Celebrities born on this day: Christina Applegate, John F. Kennedy Jr., Bernie Kosar, Ricardo Montalban 
Happy Birthday: You have an exciting view of what's to come and your ability to tum your plans into a reality will enable you to lind the success that you're looking for. You are coming into a period of opportunity and abundance, so don't hesitate to take on the world. Your numbers: 7, 12, 26, 32, 38,47 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Opportunities for partnerships are present; however, you must get every detail in writing as empty promises and a lack of cash may put a damper on your plans. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Notoriety will be yours if you have been pursuing your goals. You may be disgruntled by the way situations are being handled in your personal life. It's time to intervene. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can accomplish the most if you travel for business purposes. You can get your point across and make valuable connections as long as you make the effort to get out and interact with others. 
***** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have a little more energy than you usually do. Don't hesitate to sign up for creative courses or physical fitness programs that interest you. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make or break your personal relationship today. Be careful not to show your temper when dealing with the hoss. You may lind that someone at work hasn't been trustworthy. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your high energy will enable you to enlist the help of those in a position to back you. You can make money if you put your mind to it. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Changes regarding your career direction will pay off handsomely. You must watch your tendency to spend whatever you make. Put some money away in case of an emergency. ***"* SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You need to make some serious changes in your life. If you start the ball rolling, you'll see how easy it is to turn any negatives that you face into positives. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can discuss your findings behind closed doors with your boss. Don't be afraid to lay your cards on the table. A change in position will be better than you thought. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your added discipline will help you complete the impossible at work. You will be offered opportunities that will result in a higher earning potential. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Travel for business purposes will bring the highest returns. Don't be too eager to dismiss someone who works under you. Females may put demands or added responsibilities on you. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can deal with large institutions or government agencies quite successfully today. Get all the red tape and the unwanted paperwork out of the way. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will surprise your friends and family quite often throughout your life. You have a resilience that allows you to bounce back from any set of circumstances that you get yourself into. You have a way of handling others that is sure to come in handy when you're pursuing a position of leadership. 
Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City ___________ State ______ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, November 25, 2003 
Page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

·­
Taking it for granted 
After opening a 24 point lead, Irish struggle to finish off Northern Illinois 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles lose tvvo close gam_es over vveekend 
deciding factor against the
By STEVE COYER Sports Writer  team in both games. Against· Hanover, the Belles shot 31.4  
percent while allowing their  
Disappointment may have  opponents. to shoot 4 7 per­ 
defined the start of the  cent in the first half. In the  
Belles' season, but improve­ second game, Franklin held  
ment and optimism can also  ·  the Belles to 30 percent  
be included in that definition.  shooting.  
The Belles opened the Tip­ "I don't know what hap­ 
Off Classic with a 68-65 loss  pened," junior center Emily  
to Hanover. In the tourna­ Creachbaum said. "Our shots  
ment's second game, the  were off all weekend, and we  
Belles fell 55-44 in a defen­ couldn't get it going."  
sive struggle against  Creachbaum had an  
Franklin. Both games were  impressive first game with 18  
significantly closer than  points and seven rebounds to  
those in previous years,  lead the team. Sophomore  
despite the losing outcome.  guard Bridget Boyce also  
"We were much closer this  contributed with 16 points  
year against Franklin and  and six rebounds.  
Hanover, but we're still dis­ The Belles came back from  
appointed," head coach  a 38-30 halftime deficit  
Suzanne Bellina said. "If we  against Hanover but couldn't  
had shot the ball better, we  close the gap fast enough.  
probably would've beat  Being 2-20 from three-point  
Hanover."  
Poor shooting was the  see BELLES/page 18  


"It's a good win for us of [a letdown], I don't know whyBy MATT LOZAR because we beat a very good because this is a heck of a bas­
Associate Sports Editor 

team tonight. I expected game ketball team. They are a tough pressure on us," Brey said. "I match-up," Brey said. ''I'm It wasn't how close it was at thought we defended really well pleased with what we did over­the end that surprised Notre for 40 minutes, which really all defensively. Offensively we Dame head coach Mike Brey helped us win the game." could have been a little more more Monday night, but his The Irish jumped out to an efficient in the second half and team's 57-33 early 10-0 advantage -a com­paid a little more attention to 
bination of a high defensive detail."
a d v a n t a g e See Also 

early in the intensity and poor shooting The Huskies methodically cut second half. "Irish still have from the Huskies. down on the Irish In the first half, lead, making bas­
" Q u i t e some learningfrankly, I was the Huskies only kets while the Irish shocked we to do" shot 27.5 percent "There may have could only connect were up as page 18 while the Irish been some of{a from the free big as we had seven steals throw line. But the 
letdown]."
were on them and five blocks. Irish connected on at times. I kept looking at the Early in the enough of their scoreboard twice because I did­second half, the Mike Brey free throws and n't think we would ever get that Irish looked to Irish head coach Northern Illinois much breathing room on put this game couldn't make them," Brey said. "I thought it away by scoring enough 3-pointers was going to be just like it was 13 of the half's to pull the upset. for the last seven minutes for first 18 points, building a 24 "Another couple of 3's might 40 minutes." point lead. have made a difference," 
Using an inspired defensive But then the Irish had a let­Northern Illinois coach Hob effort to build what appeared to down and stopped scoring. Over Judson said. "To come in here be comfortable margin for the the last 14 minutes, 4 7 seconds, and be successful against a first 25 minutes of the game, the Irish had one basket -a team like Notre Dame, you need the Irish held on Monday night Torin Francis slam-dunk off a to make 3's and keep them off against Northern Illinois and missed jumper by Torrian the free throw line. prevailed 74-65 in Notre Jones. Dame's season opener. "There may have been some see HOOPS/page 18 
CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish finish lOth at chatnpionships 
By JOE LINDSLEY Sports Writer 
It was bitterly cold Monday in Cedar Falls as the Iowa town played host to the NCAA Cross Country Championships. While two Irish runners had All-American days, the fourth­ranked Notre Dame women's team did not cap off the sea­son with the warm feeling of victory that it had become accustomed to in the past months. 
Just last week, the Irish commanded the field at the Great Lakes Regional with · their first place finish, and, propelled by that momentum they were hoping Monday to meet or better their third place performance in last year's national champi­onships. While they did not accomplish that goal, the Irish nevertheless finished in a respectable lOth place in the nation. 
"None of us ran what we 


en 
WOMEN'S HOOPS 
VOLLEYBAll 
1\!BA 

MlB
NHl 
NBA 
LLI
1-c.:» 
z 
The Irish will travel to 
The Irish will face a 

Mathieu Biron became 
Warren Spahn, the
Alonzo Mourning's 

The Pacers gave the
a: ::5 
No. 6 Sfanford in hopes 
= 
pair of difficult road 

winningest left-handed 
Magic their thirteenth
the first player to score
kidney ailment forces 
of improving their 

pitcher ever, died 
loss in a row. 
games this weekend. 

on his brother in over 23
him to retire from NBA. 

·~ 
cc 
NCAA Tournament 

Monday at the age of 82.
years.
standing. 
= r:a. !;: 
page 13 

page 12
page 18 
page 15 
page 14 

page 13
en 




