---~--------------------------------------­


THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Leaders mull changes lllsbudentgovernrnent 
but an additional vice-presidency 
By MAlT BRAMANTI 
would be added. 
N(ws Writer 
One vice president would chair the programming council, which Members of the Council of would facilitate coordination and 
Hepresentatives moved closer to communication among the Club 
changing the structure of the 
Coordination Council, the Student Student Union during their meet­Union Board and the class coun­
ing Monday. as student leaders cils. SUB itself would be restruc­
heard three proposals to reorgan­tured to include representativesize student government. 
from each residence hall on cam­
Members held informal round­
pus.
table discussions for the last two The other vice president would Sundays to discuss the details of chair the policy council, composed the proposals, which have been in of representatives from the Office the planning stages for several of the Student Body President and weeks. 
the Student Senate. The residen­
"We need to have some kind of tial council would include the 
framework to look at," student presidents of all 27 residence body president Pat Hallahan said. 
halls, in addition to off-campusThe plan that generated the presidents. Under the proposal,most support would split most stu­the South Bend area would be 
dent government organizations divided into several off-campusinto three councils: programming, regions, each led by a regionalpolicy and residential. The president.
Student Union would still be head­ed by the student body president, see COUNCIL/page 4 
'The Shirt' organizers look for new president 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18,2003 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Registration causes concerns 
English classes limited for spring semester 

300-level English courses previ­Fredman also attributed the 
By ClAIRE HEININGER ously available to sophomores narrow availability of higher-level 
N~sWriter were closed before sophomore courses to the departure of 17 fac­
registration began, said English ulty members next semester. "We 
While students across campus department chair Stephen have lots of faculty who will be struggle to compile schedules and Fredman. absent next semester for a variety balance classes for spring semes­"The practice of holding sepa­of reasons," he said, citing leaves ter, sophomore English majors rate slots for sophomores is actu­of absence, fellowships, retire­looking to get a head start on their ally a very recent development," ment and career changes as rea­electives are discovering that they Fredman said. 'There has been sons for the shortage. may have to wait until next year. an excess of openings in the last Matthew Benedict, undergradu­
Due to the combination of few years, but the figures fluctu­ate advisor for the English depart­increased upperclassman demand ate year to year and semester to ment, agreed that the faculty cir­for courses and an unusually high semester. .. . There is nothing that cumstances for next semester are faculty departure rate for spring would allow you to anticipate [the 2004, most 400-level and select increased interest]." see ENGLISH/page 6 
Malloy discusses teaching, research 
on the relationship between better suited to specialize in one By MATTHEW SMEDBERG teaching and research," Malloy area. News Writer said. According to Gaski, the 
In his time as University University should allow profes­
Notre Dame faculty and President, Malloy has signifi­sors to determine their own bal­University President Father cantly reduced faculty teaching ance of research and teaching Edward Malloy met Monday to loads in order to make the when they are initially hired. discuss the balance between University more competitive "It needn't even be perma­teaching and research expecta­with its peer nent," he said. tions for faculty at Notre Dame. institutions. As a "People change, 
About 60 professors met in result, research ':At different points in their needs McKenna Hall to participate in expectations for change. At differ­
a professor's career, he 
the discussion, sponsored by the faculty have ent points in a 
or she may be able to
Kaneb Institute and titled "The increased, but professor's Balance Between Research and Notre Dame still do more in one area or career, he or she Teaching at Notre Dame." attempts to may be able to
the other, and the 
As part of the debate, Malloy place a premium do more in one
University should 
talked about his own teaching on quality area or the other, experiences and changes in undergraduate provide its support to and the Notre Dame's academic charac­teaching. that." University should ter under former President Workshop par­provide its sup­Father Theodore Hesburgh and ticipants said port to that." himself. Notre Dame John Gaskl Engineering 
Malloy teaches an English used a "unitary marketing professor professor Steven seminar to first-year under­faculty" system. Skaar said he graduates while also serving as meaning that no supported the 
a theology professor. His open­faculty members are devoted idea of the unitary faculty but ing remarks principally focused solely to teaching or research. pointed out that. in such a sys­strategies individual professors Marketing professor John tem, just as professors are 
could use to balance research, Gaski questioned the wisdom of expected to stay current in their classroom teaching and service, a strictly unitary faculty. He said own fields of study with journal the primary areas considered in some professors might be well­articles and conferences, they the tenure process. suited to both research and 
"There is a special emphasis teaching, but others would be see MALLOYIpage 4 
By KATIE LAIRD 
News Writer 
As the 2003 football season draws to a close, Student Activities and "The Shirt" organizers arc beginning their search for a new project presi­dent and are continuing a con­test for original and creative designs that began earlier this month. 
Dave Brenner, president of the 2003 "The Shirt" project, was very pleased with this year's support of the shirt. 
"It was fantastic. It was awe­some to see the strong support from the students because the project is for them," Brenner said. 
Brenner, a Dillon junior, is looking for a president to replace him next year. Student Activities and Brenner are interviewing a dozen appli­cants, the highest number of applicants in the project's histo­ry. 
"There will be a strong presi­dent and hopefully a great shirt design when this contest is fin­ished.... When you have those two elements, it's easy to pro­duce a good shirt and have a successful season," Brenner said. 
The new president of the shirt will begin his or her term after the Thanksgiving holiday. 
see SHIRT/page 4 
Tuesday, November 18, 2003

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The rest of the story 
On Sunday afternoon, the. Siegfried Ramblers had every reason to play for themselves. The championship game ~ctory over Dillon marked the Ramblers' third straight stadium appearance and second straight 
Matt Mooney
championship. By interhall football standards, that is Sports Wire a dynasty. And Editor everyone knows most players involved in a dynasty begin asking for outrageously selfish perks like parietal exemptions and catered press box lunches. But yesterday afternoon, these men of Siegfried were not just playing for themselves. They were also playing for their Owner. 
Raymond Siegfried II attendedNotre Dame from 1961 to 1965. He graduat­ed with a bachelor's degree in busiliess administration and in 1969 founded a small business with his father called The Nordam Group. Since then, The Nordam Group has done slightly well, now grossing over $1 billion a year. 
Yeah, slightly well. Ray and his wife Milano also have five children, many of whom followed in his footsteps to Our Lady's University. Yet despite all his individual success, Ray still remains intimately affiliated with the University, sitting on the Board of Trustees and donating generous sums of money. One such donation resulted in the construction of a dorm just north of the library. You don't need to play 20 Questions to figure out which one. 
Sunday afternoon, the Ray Siegfried Ramblers played in the House that Rockne built with the sleeves of their maroon jerseys adorned with the ini­tials RHS. You see, last year Ray was diagnosed with Lou Gehrig's disease, or Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. For the uninformed, you can't cure this disease with flu shots in the library. You can't cure it with anything. ALS gradually kills off the nerve cells that control muscle function. During this process, the victim's mind remains sharp as a tack, only able to watch as one limb after another becomes use­less and limp. The disease is terminal. 
For the past two years, Ray has been a fixture on the Rambler sidelines, and the players affectionately dubbed him "The Owner." And this owner treats his players like kings. When the Ramblers clinched a Stadium berth in 2001 and 2002, Ray picked up the check after taking the entire team out to dinner. With the gratitude of escaping North Dining Hall, it's no wonder the team has only lost two games in the last three years. 
However, Ray began to make fewer sideline appearances. In about a year's time, ALS had forced him from walking the sidelines to breathing out of a tube. There was no dinner trip this year, but Ray's inspiring email to the team was just as motivational, though less tasty. 
It was all they would need. With "Ray" written on his taped wrists, cor­nerback John Lira helped the Siegfried team follow through with its mission for the season-to Repeat for Ray. With all due respect to the Gipper, this one was for the Owner. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd. edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Nov. 14 Scene article "Chamber Orchestra and Chorale open season' incorrectly mentioned "the seal of the Brothers of the Holy Cross." The sentence should have stated "the seal of the University ofNotre Dame." 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU THINK PROFESSORS SHOULD PUT MORE EMPHASIS ON RESEARCH? 

Matt Burke  James Lleto  Brendan Hughes  
junior Siegfried  sophomore Siegfried  senior off-campus  
"No, because I won't see any direct benefit that I would get from the research. "  "Ifthe research involves finding a way to give out more basketball tickets -yes. "  "They should start research on creating a campus monorail. "  

OFFBEAT 

Brltney tells BBC she's a role model 
LONDON -Britney Spears insists she is a role model for young girls despite recent revealing magazine covers and her new album with sexually explicit lyrics, the British Broadcasting Corp. said Sunday. 
In a radio interview to be broadcast Monday, the 21-year-old pop star said parents should not be worried if their children want to copy her. 
"I probably have more older fans than the younger ones, but I think the reason why everyone talks about the younger fans so much is because the parents are con­cerned," Spears was quot­ed as saying. "And in the end they shouldn't be concerned because they should' trust their kids and believe in their kids." 
Students compete for pillow fight record 
CORVALLIS, Oregon ­Knocking the stuffing out of each other may also set a record if Oregon State University students are recognized for what they hope was the largest pil­low fight in history. 
Unofficially, 766 people 
Susan l.ongabaker 
senior McGlinn 
"Research is important but not·the at the expense of teaching." 


showed up at Oregon State on Friday to take part in the jumbo pillow fight in hopes of topping the Guinness Book of Records mark set by 645 people who staged a mass pillow brawl in Garnett, Kan., last June. 
"It's awesome to see part of OSU's community come down and do this," said Lige Armstrong, a 21-year-old liberal studies major from Hawaii who organized the event as part of a class project. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Jason Laws 
freshman Fisher 
"If they start studying sleep deprivation research, I'd be the first to volunteer." 

Pepe Rodrulguez 
junior off-campus 
"I don't see how it would help, harm or make any difference at all." 
IN BRIEF 

New York Times columnist David Brooks will speak about "Extremism and the Defem~e of Politics: The Landscape for 2004" today from 7:30 to 8:30 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. The talk is spon­sored by the Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. 
Attend the Irish Inquisition in the South Dining Hall Oak Room, taking place tonight from 7 to 9 p.m. 
Steve Odland, the CEO of AutoZone, will present a lec­ture on "The Foundation of Corporate Governance" as part of the Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series, today from 7 to 8 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium. 
The Canadian-Inuit interna­tional film "Atanrjuat" will be showing today from 7 to 11 
p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre. 
Come play Indoor Soccer from 8:30 to 10:30 p.m. today at Rolfs Sports and Recreation Center. 
The Tennessee Williams play "The Glass Menagerie" opens Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets can be purchased at the LaFortune Information desk. 
Film, Television and Theatre professor Jill Godmillow will present "My Life as a Cat" as part of the Last Lecture Series, today from 8 to 9 p.m. in Siegfried Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH LOW 

55 40 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
0::: 
w
::c 
t( 

3: w 
..... 
cc 
(.) 



41 38 


47 38 

53 
43 
0 
HIGH 60
..1 
LOW 38 

Tuesday, November 18, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 3 

SMC students travel to Washington conference 
By ANGELA SAOUD News Writer 
Sixteen of Professor Claude Henshaw's students went to Washington D.C. last Wednesday for a five-day trip highlighted by the Annual Tax Conference and sponsored by the Tax Foundation. 
"The conference gave the stu­dents the opportunity to see how taxes work," Renshaw said. "It allowed them to see what we have learned in class put into action." 
The conference focused on pre­sentations from representatives in various branches of the govern­ment. and included Treasury Secretary John Snow. 
"It was really exciting to see the students getting into it," Renshaw said. "I think they got a lot out of it, and it was a reinforcement of applications I had talked about in class." 
Saint Mary's students has been invited previously to this confer­ence, but this trip marked the first time they were able to attend. 
Through funding from the Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership, Saint Mary's Board of Governance. the Tax Foundation and independent fundraisers, the trip cost each student less than $200. 
"When I estimated the original budget, it was supposed to be hun­dreds of dollars to attend," Henshaw said. "But this was a real­ly energetic group. They wrote up grants for BOG and CWIL them-

SOCIAL CONCERNS 

selves and set up the fundraisers on their own. I think that really said something about this group." 
In addition to attending the con­ference, the group also took tours of the U.S. Treasury building, the Capitol building and the White House and met with Saint Mary's alumnae who live in Washington, 
D.C. . 
"It was great to meet with the alumnae," said junior Michelle Cooper. "It was nice to be able to discuss with them what they are now doing with their Saint Mary's degrees." 
During free time, the students, along with Renshaw and his wife, Mary, went on a walking tour of the monuments and attended a play. 
To fundraise, students put up signs around campus to rent them­selves out as accountants. 
"For $10 professors or students could rent a student to do odd jobs like balance checkbooks or do yard work," junior Tricia Michalak said. "The fundraiser helped out in addi­tion to the grants we had already received." 
Overall, the students said the conference was beneficial to their futures. 
"I was able to learn more about politics. tax policy and procedures," junior Risa Zander said. "Tax poli­cies affect our lives more than we think. and now I feel like I know quite a bit more." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
verse that control stellar evo­lution, trigger supernova events, and lead to thermonu­clear explosions observed as novae, X-ray and Y-ray bursts. Research at JINA also will involve investigators from the University of California at Santa Cruz, the University of California-Santa Barbara and the University of Arizona to address the broad range of computational problems in realistic modeling of nucle­osynthesis in stars and stellar explosions. 
"Simulating nuclear process­es within supernovae and in the outer atmospheres of accreting neutron stars is com­plex and formidable," Wiescher said. "We will need the computational techniques presently being developed at the University of Chicago and Notre Dame to design models that will enable us to simulate realistically the nucleosynthe­sis in stars and stellar explo­sions such as supernovae." 
JINA researchers also will focus on exotic nuclear explo­sions that occur on the sur­faces of compact stellar objects, such as white dwarfs or even neutron stars, that col­lect matter from a nearby binary companion star. 
"We now have observatories in orbit that obtain detailed measurements of X-ray emis­sion from such compact objects, but we lack the knowl­edge of the underlying exotic nuclear physics necessary to effectively use these observa-


Volunteers & Tutors Needed 
flderly 
Crafters are needed to do arts and crafts with Alzheimer pa­tients at the Cardinal Nursing Center which is across from Lafayette Square. Contact Linda Dehayes at 287-6501. 
Ii1tors/ Mentors 
A male mentor for a 13 year old boy is needed. It would only require a few hours one or two times a month. Con­tact Debra Stump at 269-687­9754 (local call). 
Awoman who wants to take the GED is in need of tutors in math and spelling. She is available before I0:30am and after 7:45pm any day of the week at her house. Contact Cassandra Robinson at 251­0325 or 232-8808 between llam-7pm (press zero and ask for the kitchen). 

One Time Opportunities 
Students to help run Catho­lic prayer services at the South Bend Juvenile Correction Facility are needed. The services would be on Saturday mornings. Contact Fr. Tom McNally at 631-7431. 
Movers are needed to help a woman move her mother's furniture. She is available from Nov 22-Nov 30. Con­tact Denise LaPointe at work 1-800-621-0144 ext 3094 or pinkshadowdancer@yahoo.com. 
People to rake leaves are needed to help an elderly man with a large yard. He has the rakes and bags, and leaves could be raked either on a Wednesday or Friday. Contact Alex LaBanco at 256­9806. 
vide a narrative-based explora­tion of the vocational journey of prominent figures in the Catholic social tradition. 
Using the method ofser­vice-learning, this course will invite students to develop an . awareness of their social jus­tice commitments in light of 


University receives science grant 
Special to The Observer 

The National Science Foundation has awarded $10 million to Notre Dame, Michigan State University and the University of Chicago to establish a Physics Frontier Center for Nuclear Astrophysics. 
Known as JINA, the Joint Institute for Nuclear Astrophysics, the center is a collaborative effort of the three universities. Michael Wiescher, a Notre Dame nuclear astro­physicist and last year's win­ner of the prestigious Bethe Prize of the American Physical Society, will serve as JINA's first director. 
According to Wiescher, the five-year NSF grant is intended to foster an interdisciplinary approach to nuclear astro­physics that seeks to coordi­nate efforts between the astro­physics and nuclear physics communities, as well as those between experimentalists, the­orists and observers. The $10­million grant to JINA comes at a time when new generations of particle accelerators are being built or proposed that will recreate stellar nuclear processes in the laboratory and new earth-and space­based telescopes are leading to astronomical observations that trace past and present nucle­osynthesis processes in the cosmos. . 
The scientific goal of JINA is to study the broad range of nuclear processes in the uni-

Learn More about the Haiti Experiential Seminar 
An information session will be held to discuss the Haiti Experiencial Seminar. 
Tuesday, November 18 from 7:00 -8:00 p.m. 
118 DeBartolo Hall 
Open to undergraduates from all disciplines, this seminar involves a small group ofstudents working with the local population on the technical aspects of hand-pumps and drinking­water wells. The seminar goes well beyond the technical, however, by delving into the social, political and religious aspects oflife in Haiti. 
You will travel to Haiti for approximately 7-1 0 days over spring break and will work directly with the Haitien 
THEO 273 Vocation & Leadership in the Catholic 
Social Tradition Course Offered 
This three credit course will invite students to consider the meaning ofvocation in rela­tion to the social mission of the church. 
Beginning with a theo­logical understanding of the significance ofvocation and charisms, this course will pro-their own sense ofvocation. 

Students are required to be involved in weekly service in the community. To sign up, come to the Center for Social Concerns to fill out the appli­cation form. Direct questions to Andrea Smith Shappell at shappell.I @nd.edu. 
tions as unique laboratories for the study of the behavior of matter under extreme condi­tions," said Hendrik Schatz, a nuclear astrophysicist at Michigan State and head of one of JINA's main research components. 

The University of Chicago's James Truran, a JINA co­investigator, will lead these theoretical efforts to provide a better understanding of the astronomical environments ­massive stars, supernovae explosions, X-ray bursts and novae, in which the nuclear processes are understood to operate. 
"Multidimensional computer simulations of astrophysical explosions are now providing more realistic estimates of the extreme conditions of temper­ature and density under which heavy elements are formed in stars and supernovae," Truran said. 
The experimental simulation of nuclear processes at stellar conditions will be performed at accelerator facilities at Notre Dame, Michigan State and the Argonne National Laboratory. 
It requires new experimental techniques for accelerating radioactive isotopes for meas­uring processes that in nature take place only at the extreme conditions of supernovae explosions, or performing experiments thousands of feet underground to reduce the background noise of cosmic bombardment. 
population in repairing wells, guiding advanced training, and discussing new options for expansion of this program into new areas of Haiti. 
All expenses are paid through a generous gift of a local family. 
For more information, nd.edu/~silliman/ Development/haitil student.html 
Email: Dr. Stephen Silliman at silliman.l @nd.edu 


Events and Programs 
Summer Service Project Internship Information Session An information session will be held on November 20 from 6:30pm at the Center for Social Concerns. Two students who have participated in the program will tell about their experiences. 
This is an eight week summer volunteer program where room and board is provided free of charge. You will receive a $2,000 tuition scholarship and 3 elective credit in Theology. 
Community Development Presentations to be Held 
Join Patricia Watkins Murphy and James V. Cunningham for two upcoming presentation. 
"Organizing/or Community Controlled Development: Renewing Civil Society." A conversation with community citizens, leaders, and organizers 
Nov. 20 at 6:00 pm (Refreshments Served ,at the Robinson Community Learning Center, 921 North Eddy Street, South Bend 
"Organizingfor Economic Development at the Small Com­munity Level " 
When: Friday, Nov. 21 at Noon (Refreshments Served) 
Where: Center for Social Concerns 
-~-----------~--~---------~------. 
~---·-­
page4 Th( Observer + NEWS Tuesday, November 18,2003 


Council 
continued from page 1 
The Financial Management Board and the Judicial Council would remain autonomous units, reflecting their greater need for impartiality. CCC president Seth O'Donnell said that the CCC should also be a sepa­rate group, citing its duties to allocate student activities funds. "It's impor­tant that we keep CCC independent. It has a huge financial responsibility toward the clubs," he said. 
The Council of Representatives would be retained, though its mem­bership would change. Both vice presidents would have seats on the Council, along with the head of the residential council and representa­tives from the class councils, the CCC, the FMB and the Judicial Council. 
Sarah Keefer, co-chair of the Hall Presidents Council, said significant changes are necessary to allow for high-quality programming and effec­tive policymaking. 
"On the dorm level, there's not a lot of communication between the pro­gramming and policy sides," she said. 
Not all members were as optimistic about the new proposal, however. Student body vice president Jeremy Lao said the mix of elected and appointed officials might create con­flicts. "My main concern is that this is not a truly representative govern­ment," Lao said. 
In other Council of Representatives news: 
+ Hallahan drew names from a hat to select the Council's ethics commit­tee, which was established last week and will enforce attendance and ethics rules. James Leito, Seth O'Donnell, Sarah Blake, Jason Laws and Sarah Keefer were chosen. 
''[It's] something we hope we won't have to use, but it's something we need to have," Hallahan said. 
+ The Council unanimously rejected an appeal for funds from the Asian­American Association. The AAA requested money to help finance this weekend's Asian Allure event. The CCC recommended awarding no funding since the event is expected to be highly profitable. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
in the direction you care about." "I think the increased atten­He added that students who tion being paid to student litera­

English 

stray too far from the yearly cy and the intellectual side of 
continued from page 1 
exceptional. 
"It's just a strange situation with 17 people leaving," he said. "We're fortunate that we have what we have." 
Although most 400-level classes were closed after junior and senior registration, Fredman stressed that sopho­mores were in no danger of missing out on requirements. 
He said the English depart­ment structures their courses according to a yearly plan that puts all students on track to earn a degree. 
"The traditions courses, methods courses and surveys that are intended for sopho­mores are still completely open," he said. "[The unavail­ability of electives to sopho­mores] helps reinforce the design that's already there ... Our department is not rigid, and we don't force the prerequisite situation, but the whole purpose of a traditions course is to tell you what's out there -they are not intended to be roadblocks, but to be stepping stones to get you where you need to be before choosing your electives." 
Fredman said sophomores in the major who narrowed their choices to specific electives too quickly were not taking full advantage of the department's diversity. 
"The [elective] courses every­one thinks are most popular are the ones that everyone has heard about," he said. "The tra­ditions course exposes you to your own interest and leads you track often make fair instruc­tion more difficult for profes­sors. 
"It's frustrating for faculty to direct courses meant for sopho­mores when seniors [who took their electives before the required traditions and meth­ods classes] jump back in," he said. "The students get frustrat­ed, as well, because they're learning material that's not on a level they're excited about." 
English professor and Keough Institute director Christopher Fox said he sympathized with students who didn't expect to find certain classes closed so early, but added that the department was still making efforts to accommodate their needs. 
"I am very sorry to hear that students are having trouble," Fox said. "But I do think this is a temporary anomaly." 
Fox said that some of his col­leagues discussed offering class­es in future years strictly for sophomores, and that at least one 300-level class is currently available for first year students. 
Sophomore English majors expressed mixed reactions to registration difficulties. 
"It's not so much about fulfill­ing the requirements, but about taking classes that I'll actually enjoy," Valerie Ralph said. 
Laura MacLean said she was not worried about fitting in the necessary courses because she plans to study abroad but believed the increased competi­tion facing her peers was a result of the growing popularity of the major. 

academics has raised the desire to get into English," MacLean said. 
English is not the only major at the University that has seen a recent upswing. The Department of Anthropology has quadrupled in the past five years, said professor Karen Richman. 
"In a way, you're a victim of your own success," Richman said. "If you become a popular major, your classes will become larger and the quality goes down." 
Richman also said that, despite an expanding faculty, most upper-level courses in the Anthropology department were already closed after senior reg­istration. 
"We've added 17 people [in recent years]." she said. "We keep hiring more people, but we have just a tremendous demand for classes." 
While this demand does not seem likely to die down for either English or anthropology majors, Fredman said he felt confident that registration con­ditions did not pose a perma­nent problem for sophomores. 
"We have to react to the trends," he said. "But our first responsibility is to save slots for the seniors who need the elec­tives to graduate ... ln a way it's better for sophomores to be directed into these first [tradi­tions and methods] courses before wandering into elec­tives." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 





JPW2004 
Fel:)ruary 20, 21 and 22, 2004 
A.ntlthe Nominees Are ... 
JPW Invitations and Ticket ••·.AJ:lPUca1:10f1tS were mailed last week to the parents of the entire Class of 2005, and all Seniors who studied abroad last semester. 
Ifyour invited guests do not receive an invitation this week, 
you can download the ticketapplication from the JPW website: 
www.nd.edu/~jpw 
or stop by the Student Activities Office at 315 Lafortune to pick up an invitation and application! 



ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 18, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Italian coalition leader quits post 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -An Italian member of the U.S.-led coalition has resigned, accusing the Bush administration of inefficiency and failing to understand Iraq. In Tikrit, U.S. forces killed six alleged insurgents as they pressed their search Monday for a former Saddam deputy believed to be orchestrating attacks on Americans. 
Before quitting, Marco Calamai, a special counselor of the Coalition Provisional Authority in the southern province of Dhi Qar. criticized L. Paul Bremer's administra­tion for its handling of Iraq. 
Cops clash with Greek rioters 
ATIIENS, Greece -Riot squads fired tear gas to disperse groups of protesters throwing gasoline bombs and rocks at police guarding the U.S. Embassy as thousands marched Monday. 
Authorities said about 40 people were detained during the rally held to mark the anniversary of a student-led uprising in 1973. 
Clashes also broke out in the northern port city of Thessaloniki, where police used tear gas against protesters hurling gasoline bombs. 
Investigators probe Turkey blasts 
ISTANBUL, Turkey -A brief. blurry image of a pickup driver's face, taken before a security camera went dead. A bit of flesh stuck to a steering wheel. Apparent connec­tions between Turks and underground Islamic groups. 
Investigators scrutinized these and other clues Monday to determine if al-Qaida was behind the near-simultaneous suicide truck bombings at two Istanbul synagogues Saturday that killed 22 worshippers and passers-by and wounded more than 300. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
AARP endorses GOP drug bill 
WASHINGTON -Republicans consulted the politically potent AARP at key moments in negotiations over a Medicare prescription drug bill -and the group responded Monday with the endorsement the GOP and President Bush wanted to counter Democratic critics. 
There are 35 million reasons why the AAHP is a player in the maneuvering -the number of its members age 50 and above. 
AAHP chief executive William Novelli told The Associated Press in an interview that his organization would "pull out all the stops" to get the bill passed, including a three-day tel­evision campaign timed for the run-up to expected action on the legislation in the House and Senate at the end of the week. 


Britney gets star on Walk of Fame 
LOS ANGELES -Part of Hollywood Boulevard is now "In the Zone" of Britney Spears. 
The pop star received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame Monday before nearly 2,000 screaming fans. 
The event took place one day after her corset-jiggling appearance on the American Music Awards and a day before her latest album, "In the Zone," was set to arrive in stores. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Student dies in freak bus mishap 
INDIANAPOLIS -A 16-year-old student died Monday when he was apparently struck by a low-hanging tree limb as he stuck his head out a school bus window, police said. 
The student, whose name was not immedi­ately released by police, died about 7 a.m. while on the bus headed to Perry Meridian High School. 
Marion County sheriff's Lt. Phil Burton said the teen apparently was sticking his head out the window of the bus when he was struck by a tree limb while traveling on the city's south side. 

D.C. sniper convicted of murder 
Muhammad found guilty after six hours of deliberation, could face execution 
Associated Press 

VIRGINIA BEACH, Va. ­In a verdict that could cost him his life, a stone­faced John Allen Muhammad was convicted Monday of using a high­powered rifle, a beat-up car and a teenage side­kick to murder people at random and terrorize the Washington area during last year's sniper attacks. 
The jury immediately began hearing evidence on whether the 42-year­old Army veteran should get the death penalty or life in prison. The penalty phase is expected to last several days. 
"We reserve the death penalty for the worst of the worst," prosecutor Richard Conway told the jurors. "Folks, he still sits right in front of you with­out a shred of remorse." 
Muhammad stood impassively as the verdict was read, looking straight ahead with the same enig­matic look he had throughout the trial. Two jurors held hands, and two others wept. Family murder and use of a a plot to extort $10 mil­woman slumped over on a members of victims held firearm in a felony. lion from the government. bench, blood pouring from hands and wiped away The victim's brother Prosecutors say that dur­her head. The only child tears. Robert said he believes ing the sentencing phase, shot during the spree tes­
The jury deliberated for Muhammad deserves the they also plan to present tified: "I put my book bag 6 1/2 hours over two days death penalty: "I must say evidence of a killing in down and I got shot." before convicting that I can't think of too Washington state. Jurors also saw several Muhammad of two counts many more heinous The men's trials were stomach-turning crime­of capital murder. One crimes than this one." moved some 200 miles to scene photos, despite accused him of taking Fellow suspect Lee Boyd southeastern Virginia out protests by the defense part in multiple murders, Malvo, 18, is on trial sep­of concern that it would that the pictures were the othf)r -the result of a arately in nearby be too hard to find an gratuitous. post-Sept. 11 terrorism Chesapeake for the killing impartial jury close to the Ten people were killed law -alleged the killings of FBI analyst Linda nation's capital because in the region and three were designed to terrorize Franklin at a Home Depot the sniper attacks had were wounded in the the population. in Falls Church. He also terrorized so many peo­spree, many of them shot Muhammad is the first could get the death penal­ple. as they went about their person tried under the ty. Malvo's attorneys are The verdict came after daily tasks: shopping at a Virginia law. pursuing an insanity three weeks of testimony crafts store, buying gro­
Muhammad was found defense, arguing that the in which a series of vic­ceries, mowing the lawn, guilty of killing Dean young man had been tims and other witnesses going to school. Harold Meyers, a Vietnam "indoctrinated" by graphically -and often At the height of the veteran who was cut Muhammad. tearfully -recalled the killings, the area was so down by a single bullet Prosecutors presented horror that gripped the terrified that sports teams that hit him in the head evidence of 16 shootings, Washington area. were forced to practice on Oct. 9, 2002, as he including 10 deaths, in William Franklin indoors, people kept their filled his tank at a Maryland, Virginia, recalled being splattered heads down as they Manassas gas· station. He Alabama. Louisiana and with his wife's blood out­pumped gas. and teachers was also found guilty of the District of Columbia side a Home Depot. A drew the blinds on their conspiracy to commit that they said were part of retiree described seeing a classroom windows. 

ENGLAND 

Demonstrator climbs palace gate 
the march to go through London's million people. 
Associated Press 
main government district, prompt­Bush and his wife, Laura, will be 
LONDON -A woman scaled a ing accusations of pressure from the staying at Buckingham Palace as gate at Buckingham Palace Monday, U.S. and British governments. the guests of Queen Elizabeth II. On unfurling an upside-down American The protesters appear to have Monday a woman scaled the flag in protest, while Vietnam veter­support from a large section of the palace's main gate and unfurled an an Ron Kovic delivered an 85,000-British public, feeding on wide­American flag bearing the message signature petition asking Prime spread discontent with the war and "He's not welcome." The flag was Minister Tony Blair to call off its aftermath, and low regard for hung upside-down, a symbol of dis­President Bush's visit to Britain this the president. tress. week. Police "know how big this demo is Officers cordoned off the area and 
Meanwhile, organizers of a going to be and they knew how after about two hours the woman demonstration Thursday against the angry people were going to be if climbed down. She was arrested on war in Iraq scored an important vic­they weren't given this route," said charges including aggravated tres­tory when police said protesters Ghada Razuki of the Stop the War pass. Police did not release the could pass by the Houses of Coalition, the group that organized woman's name, but media reports Parliament and Blair's office. an anti-war rally in London in identified her as Lindis Percy, 61, a Earlier police had refused to allow February that drew more than 1 veteran protester. 
page 6 Tuesday, November 18, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS 
Shirt 
continued from page 1 
The deadlines for any ideas, designs or sketches for next year's shirt are due Nov. 26. The winner of the contest will receive a $200 prize, and the winning design will be revealed in the spring just before the Blue and Gold game. 
Brenner is optimistic about the design for The Shirt next year. 
"It's my hope to get a large number of designs and have a large set of ideas to choose from.... The record number of design applicants from last year are what made The Shirt so successful. We hope to see the same kind of response this year," Brenner said. 
As for the color of the shirt, it is up to the next president and 

Malloy 
continued from page 1 
should be expected to practice teaching methods and attend teaching conferences. 
Much of the discussion cen­tered around the costs of hiring faculty for the amount of teach­ing and research for a large university like Notre Dame. Some said the answer lies in having financial resources to pay teaching assistants for large lecture classes. Other dis­cussion participants proposed the creation of non-tenure­track fellowships so that widely Student Activities. However, Brenner said that "It's been really good to have a sea of green two years in a row." 

Support for The Shirt expanded as "more and more alumni realized that this is the shirt you wear on game day," Brenner said. This season, the project made roughly $400,000, selling more than 126,000 shirts. Half of the profits go to student-run clubs and organizations, while the other half is donated to a chari­ty fund to help students with their medical expenses. 
Brenner said the project is a great opportunity for the stu­dent body to get involved. 
"Any student can have a direct impact on The Shirt ... it's great to see all the interest that people have," he said. 
Contact Katie Laird at klaird@nd.edu 
known professors could spend a limited amount of time teach­ing undergraduates. 
All agreed, however, that any professor should be passionate about what he or she does to be successful. 
"All the great teachers I've had in my life were passionate [about their subject]." Malloy said. "They were excited about their subject, and they passed that excitement on to me." 
Mike Chambliss contributed to this report. 
Contact Matt Smedberg at msmedber@nd.edu 
U.S. to provide $2.4 billion to AIDS effort 
Associated Press 
WASHINTON -House­Senate bargainers agreed Monday to provide $2.4 bil­lion this year to combat AIDS and other deadly diseases in Africa and other poor regions. 
The amount is $400 million more than President Bush proposed last February. The administration had defended Bush's request, attacked as inadequate by advocates of an aggressive global fight against AIDS, as all that could be spent effectively now. 
"We see the Congress really defying the president on this by going higher, and that is a very positive trend," said David Bryden, spokesman for the Global AIDS Alliance, a Washington-based advocacy group. 
Congressional negotiators also agreed to provide $650 million for Bush's so-called Millennium Challenge Account, the president's plan to give foreign aid to coun­tries trying to make demo­cratic, economic and human rights reforms at home. 
That is half what Bush requested for one of his top foreign policy priorities. Lawmakers and aides, howev­er, said they would try provid­ing extra money later -per­haps in a massive end-of-ses­sion spending measure -to bring the challenge account's total to at least $900 million and perhaps $1 billion. 
Even so, the reduction 
underlines the budget pres­sures lawmakers face from mounting federal deficits, the weak economy and the cost of tax cuts as they try to com­plete overdue spending bills for the federal fiscal year that started Oct. 1. 
Last spring, Congress enact­ed a five-year, $15 billion plan for fighting AIDS and other diseases worldwide that Bush had proposed in his State of the Union address in January. That legislation set up the program, but left the provi­sion of money to future bills. 
The plan called for spending $3 billion a year for prevent­ing and treating AIDS, tuber­culosis and malaria in 14 African and Caribbean coun­tries, with the bulk of the funds to be aimed at AIDS. The effort was supposed to prevent 7 million new infec­tions, provide care for 10 mil­lion HIV-infected people ·and AIDS orphans, and provide therapy for 2 million others. It represents a near-tripling of previous U.S. efforts against AIDS. 
Lawmakers included $1.65 billion for the global AIDS effort in a $17.2 billion for­eign aid bill that House­Senate negotiators tentatively completed late Monday. They hoped to push it through Congress this week. 
An additional $754 million for battling AIDS abroad is to be included in a separate $138 billion measure for this year's health, education and labor programs. 
That health-education legis­lation is likely to be combined with several other unfinished spending measures into an enormous bill financing much of the government. Top law­makers hope that measure will be passed by Congress just before it adjourns for the year, perhaps by the end of this week. 
Bush proposed the Millennium Challenge Account in March 2002 as part of a long-term increase in the foreign assistance pro­gram. He called for $1.3 bil­lion for the account for fiscal 2004, which started Oct. 1, rising to $5 billion for 2006. 
Funds would go to countries meeting standards for good governance, health care, edu­cation and investment cli­mates. 
The bill also would block 
U.S. military and other assis­tance to Nigeria -but not humanitarian aid -unless it cooperates in the surrender of Charles Taylor, the deposed Liberian president who is wanted for trial on crimes against humanity charges. The administration opposes the sanctions, even though they could be suspended under certain conditions. 
The overall bill also has $731 million for combatting drugs in the Andean region of South America, matching Bush's request and about $1.5 million over last year's level. 

,----------~--------------------~----------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 







USINESS
Tuesday, November 18, 2003 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 9 710.83 -57.85
}ones ' 
·t ~. "';:t"""~ 
AMEX 1,071.48 -1~6.:L:]' NASDAQ 1,909.61 -20.65 NYSE 5,963.35 -47.38 S&PSOO 1,043.63 -6.72 NIKKfi(Tol<yo) 9,786.83 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,338.90 -58.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.37 -0.35 25.15 INTEL CORP (INTq -1.74 -0.57 32.23 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -0.49 -0.02 4.08 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.94 -0.21 22.05 APPliED MATL (AMAT) + 1.1 I +0.26 23.74 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND -0.47 -0.24 50.37 10-YEAR NOTE -1.06 -0.45 41.88 S-YEARNOTE -1.84 -0.59 31.42 3-MONTH BILL +0.11 +0.01 9.28 
Commodities 
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.5 I 31.27 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -6.50 391.50 PORK BEWES (cents/lb.) +0.725 87.65 
fxchan Rates YEN 109.1 EURO 0.8519 POUND 0.5915 CANADIAN$ 1.313 
IN BRIEF 
Inventories rise in Sept. 
WASHINGTON -America's businesses­which have been keeping supplies fairly lean -boosted their stockpiles of unsold goods in September for the first time in six months, a sign that companies may be feeling more con­fident about the economic recovery's staying power. 
The Commerce Department reported Monday that businesses' inventories rose by 
0.3 percent in September, a turnaround from the 0.4 percent drop reported in August. September's rise was the first since March, when businesses also increased their supplies at warehouses and backlots by 0.3 percent. Economists were expecting inventories to be flat in September. 
In another encouraging sign, the increase in inventories in September came even as busi­nesses' sales rose by a solid 0.6 percent, the biggest gain since July. 
Investors flee beleaguered Putnam 
BOSTON -Investors continue to pull money out of embattled Putnam Investments, with assets under management declining by $7 bil­lion in the past week and $21 billion overall since market timing allegations surfaced last month, the company said Monday. 
Putnam reported $256 billion in assets under management as of Friday. A week earli­er, it had $263 billion under management. At the end of October, the company had $277 bil­lion under management. A Putnam spokes­woman did not return a call seeking comment on the fund levels, which were reported in a filing by Marsh & McLennan Cos., Putnam's parent company, with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Morgan Stanley settles accusations 
NEW YORK-Morgan Stanley agreed to pay a $50 million fine to settle charges that it pushed investors toward certain mutual funds in order to gain millions more in commissions and did not disclose the incentives to clients. 
Morgan Stanley is the second major finan­cial company to settle with regulators in a widening mutual fund industry scandal that has stained a growing list of firms and dis­mayed many investors. 


Markets fall on terror worries 
Claims by al-Qaida stoke continued selloff in Asian, European, U.S. equities 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -New fears of terrorism sent stock mar­kets tumbling around the world Monday and extend­ed Wall Street's sellofT into a second week. 
U.S. investors reacted to market declines in Japan and Europe following reports that the al-Qaida terrorist network had claimed responsibility for weekend attacks in Turkey and named Japan and other U.S. allies as potential targets. But analysts said some of Wall Street's slide was due to normal profit taking. 
The Dow Jones industri­als fell more than 130 points before regaining ground late in the session. The declines came despite a better-than-expected report on business inventories and news that several compa­nies were in merger talks, which often gives the mar­ket a boost. 

"This market is vulnera­ble to good news, bad news or no news, so certainly the down 3.7 percent. growth, most analysts would combine with The St. news of terrorist activity European markets fol­expressed hopes for a rally Paul Cos. Inc. in a $16.5 bil­over the weekend and new lowed, with France's CAC-by the end of the year. lion stock deal that will cre­threats from al-Qaida will 40 losing 2.6 percent, A Commerce Department ate the nation's second­provoke a reaction," said Britain's FTSE 100 falling report showed America's largest insurer. St. Paul Alfred E. Goldman, chief 1.3 percent and Germany's businesses boosted their ended the day up 97 cents market strategist at A.G. DAX index declining 3.2 stockpiles of unsold goods at $37.74. Travelers' class Edwards & Sons Inc. "But I percent. in September for the first A shares were unchanged do not see a serious down­Some of Britain's market time in six months, a sign at $16.03, while class B side from here; there's too drop could be related to this that companies may be feel­shares fell 2 cents to much good going on." month's interest rates ing more confident about $16.04. 
The Dow ended the day hikes, said Francois the economic recovery. Also Monday, auto parts down 57.85, or 0.6 percent, Lemoine, a Paris-based Economists were expecting maker ArvinMeritor Inc. at 9,710.83, following a European stock strategist inventories to be flat in said it would increase its weekly decline of 0.4 per­for bank BNP Paribas. But September. hostile takeover bid for rival cent. there was little doubt that Financial services compa­Dana Corp. Dana said its 
The broader market many investors were nerv­nies were under pressure board will review the offer. indexes also fell. The ous about the terrorist related to the ongoing ArvinMeritor lost 12 cents Nasdaq composite index threats. investigation of mutual fund to close at $17.94, while closed down 20.65, or 1.1 "I don't really see what's trading practices. Morgan Dana dropped $1.41, or 8.5 percent, at 1,909.61, follow­driving markets down apart Stanley, which saw earlier percent, to close at $15.24. ing a weekly drop of 2.1 from the fact that there declines, gained 9 cents to And Sun Microsystems percent. The Standard & have been a number of close at $55.03 after federal Inc. announced it was plan­Poor's 500 index lost 6.72, attacks over the weekend," regulators said it had ning a partnership with or 0.6 percent, to close at Lemoine said, referring to agreed to change some chip maker Advanced Micro 1,043.63, after falling 0.3 the bombing of two syna­trading practices and pay a Devices Inc., an alliance percent last week. gogues in Turkey on $50 million penalty to settle that could help the two 
In Tokyo, government Saturday. "I hardly find charges. smaller companies better leaders shrugged ofT the lat­anything else to explain the Several companies were compete against larger pro­est terror threats, but the fall." in merger talks Monday, but ducers such as Intel Corp. Nikkei Stock Average Citing consistently good that did little to raise the Sun lost 2 cents to close at lurched to a three-month economic news, strong major indexes. $4.08, while AMD fell 50 low following the reports earnings and continued Travelers Property cents to $17.36; Intel shed about al-Qaida, closing improvement in jobs Casualty Corp. announced it 57 cents to close at $32.23. 


Travelers, St. Paul Cos. to merge 
Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS Travelers Property Casualty Corp. is combining with The St. Paul Companies Inc. in a $16 billion stock deal that will create one the nation's biggest business insurers, the companies announced Monday. 
The new company will be known as The St. Paul Travelers Companies and is expected to have total assets of $107 billion, the companies said. 
Company officials said the deal would create the nation's second largest commercial insurer behind American International Group, pro­viding policies for commercial liabili­ty, commercial property and workers' compensation. It should also expand the companies' geographic reach. 
The company will have its corpo­rate headquarters in St. Paul, Minn. But the commercial lines of the com­bined company will be consolidated under the Travelers brand and will be based in Hartford, Conn. 
St. Paul's chairman and chief exec­utive, Jay S. Fishman, will be the chief executive of the combined com­pany. Robert I. Lipp, chairman and chief executive of Travelers, will be the company's executive chairman until Jan. 1. 2006, when he is to become chairman and chief execu­tive, the company said. 
Travelers spokesman Keith Anderson said no layoffs are 
planned. The company, based in Hartford, was spun off from New York financial services giant Citigroup last year and employs 5,800 people in the greater Hartford area. 
"When we look at our total employ­ment base here in the Hartford area, we see that rising," Anderson said. 
Under the terms of the proposed agreement, Travelers shareholders would receive 0.4334 shares of St. Paul stock for each share of Travelers stock. That was worth about $15.94 at Friday's closing price of $36.77 for St. Paul stock. Travelers A shares closed at $16.03 a share on Friday and its B shares closed at $16.06 a share. 

THE OBSER\'ER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, November 18, 2003 
Isolation nation 

Whether from the puppets of mass media, the pages of elementary school textbooks or the White House press room, Americans have been and are being fed an outrageous lie: the myth of individ­ualism. This Kamaria Porter myth takes vari­ous forms and assumes many Breaking the guises, yet all its Habit manifestations converge to one desired result: the sustained power for the ruling classes. 
The myth of individualism runs rampant and undetected in popular culture as the seemingly innocuous story of the American dream. In movies, television shows and litera­ture, we find uplifting stories about how some poor wretch rose above his or her circumstances armed only with the tools of industry and persistence. 
Take the show "Biography" on A&E. It parades as a serious mini-docu­mentary-show when, actually, it uplifts the exceptional class -CEOs, movie stars and millionaires. Every night, Americans tune in to this and other programs and swallow huge portions of the "rags to riches" abstraction. 

Additionally, this myth demonizes the poor and unemployed as lazy handout-grubbers who are not pulling their weight in society. Indoctrinated with lies, the "haves" view the "have­nots" with hardened hearts and dis­dain, while they continue accumulat­ing wealth and possessions. 
Due to this pervading lie, people are also duped into believing class, race and gender issues are negligible. The ruling class gets away with containing people of color in hazardous urban areas filled with pollution, paying women Jess for their labor, and rewarding themselves with fiscal poli­cies to boost business and its leaders. 
From a young age, elitist historical biases indoctrinate Americans into false individualistic ideology. Not only are certain events and communities completely absent from history books, but writers distort and manipulate the past in order to perpetuate indi­vidualist themes. Important historical movements are whittled down to the experience of one or two people and diverse groups are presented as static and monolithic. Take any mainstream presentation of African-American or Asian-American history. If their tri­umphs and struggles receive any attention, it is minimal and showcases homogeneous images. 
Remember when George W. Bush and company marketed the Iraq war to us? It seemed as though, aside from the ambiguous evildoers lurking everywhere, Saddam Hussein was the only person in Iraq. This slimming down of an entire country to one tar­get seems to make bombing it not so bad. 
Politicians love the myth of individ­ualism. Their rhetoric continually plays off the American dream fabrica­tion to keep the working poor and financially destitute ignorant of the systemic causes ruining their lives, uses isolating language to make war sound benign and objectifies entire communities -global and local -to create and sustain blind support for the current U.S. regime. 
The worst consequence of this myth is that it discourages and marginal­izes the use of collective action to effect social change. The media and education sources hide and spin the injustices of our world; thus, appro­priate outrage is absent. 
People feel their only power exists in an isolated vacuum and refuse to collaborate or organize with like­minded folks enduring the same chal­lenges. 
Unions and worker groups have become suspect in the current American imagination. Plus, people who exercise their most important rights by protesting injustice created by the ruling classes get classified as traitors. · 

Basically, the masses feel organiz­ing is dead and useless. 
Yet we could not be more wrong. How do you suppose the wealthy and powerful maintain and increase their spheres of influence? By organizing. Remember the 2000 election when Bush relied on his friends and family to steal the presidency through the courts? Or how companies concen­trate power over the media in the hands of the few? 
I don't even need to mention the trade agreements NAFTA and FTAA, elite organizing at its finest. FTAA ­Free Trade Area of the Americas ­allows deregulation, environmental endangerment and loss of laborer rights to expand from three to 34 countries in the Western Hemisphere. Parading as a positive global initia­tive, the policy will increase economic disparities and make investors and business owners in participating nations richer. That's right; the ruling classes tell us that organizing will not improve our society-when it will ­while they perversely use collective tactics to keep each other in power. 
Look to the past or the present­organizing is the key. Individual action will not allow for change on a mass scale. See a problem, join or start a movement to raise awareness. Stop looking for another Gandhi or Dr. King. Beyond being advocates of justice and non-violence, these men -like most effective leaders -were master coalition-builders and organ­izers. Let's reclaim our traditions of mobilizing for change from the elite and rededicate organizing to the pur­suit of equity. 
Kamaria Porter, a sophomore histo­ry major, says, "What's cooler than cool, ice-cold Keifer?" Keep your head up, kid. Kamaria Porter's column appears every other Tuesday. Contact her at kporter@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Support cross country teams 
Big East Champions. Great Lakes Regional Champions. These are some of the accomplishments of the Notre Dame women's cross country team so far this year, as we go into the NCAA Championship meet next Monday. Where's the support? Where's the coverage for one of the highest-ranked teams on campus? 
On Oct.. 31, the Irish women won the Big East Championship meet for only the second time in the pro­gram's history, and the men finished second for the com­bined highest placing of the two teams ever. The following Monday, there was a two-page foldout on how badly the foot­ball team lost to Florida State, but only a small article on the Irish cross country teams, lost somewhere in the sports sec­tion. 
Why not show some support to the Irish teams that are representing this University like champions? Winning the Big East is a huge deal, as evidenced by yesterday's front-page coverage of the men's and women's soccer teams in their tournaments for the title. 
This past Saturday, Nov. 15, the women's cross country team won the Great Lakes Regional meet, again for only the second time in the program's history. We secured an auto­matic bid to the NCAA championship, one of only 31 out of the 214 Division I teams in the country to proceed to this level. Again, there was not even a picture in the paper. Interhall football was on the front page. 
I'm sorry, but that's bull. Show some support, let the cam­pus know, so they can be proud of their nationally ranked team. 
Kerry Meagher junior off-campus Nov. 17 

OBSERVER POLL  QUOTE. OF THE DAY  
Should Notre Dame football join a conference or remain independent?  "Nearly all men can stand c• 'versity, but ifyou want to test a man haracter, give him powe1  
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com  Abraham Lincoh U.S. President  


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 18, 2003 page 9 
Life at Oxford different but comparable 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Marshmallow policy excessively harsh 
I am writing in regard to the enforcement of the marshmal­low-throwing policy within the Stadium. During the BYU game, many students brought bags of marshmallows into the Stadium, which has been obvi­ously against the Stadium rules since the beginning of the sea­son, and a few of these smug­glers were ejected from the game-fine. 
Other students were ejected, and in some situations escorted out in handcuffs (obviously nec­essary), for throwing these same marshmallows. Yes, throwing things, even the delectably flavorful products from Jet-Puff, can be very dan­gerous -point taken. However, for the BYU game it seems that the policy abruptly became more serious. now calling for the ejection of any person seen in possession of even a single marshmallow. 
Unfortunately, just before half-time I was in possession of one of these fluffy treats for a few seconds too long after being pelted by one and remov­ing it from my jacket. Before I knew it, I was being given an ultimatum by Mr. Roberto Escobedo (usher #1 000) and his section 29 platoon: Either leave on your own, or be dragged out by police. 

First of all, when did posses­sion of a single marshmallow become an offense punishable by ejection from the game (not to mention the last home game that I will ever attend as a stu­dent)? Secondly, why is it appropriate for ushers to treat cooperative marshmallow-tot­ing students like hardened criminals? When did the policy change from punishing throw­ers of marshmallows to punish­ing those who are eating them or picking them off of their clothes? 
Yes, the season is over, but this issue goes beyond marsh­mallows at football games. How can Cappy Gagnon and his bat­talion of Stadium ushers claim that they are looking out for the best interests of student atten­dees if their policies are so vague and sporadically enforced? 
Mr. Gagnon, make your poli­cies clear and enforce them accordingly. 
Mr. Escobedo, if you stop treating students like convicted felons, then that respect will be reciprocated and all of our lives will be a lot less frustrating. 
Justin Brandon senwr Dillon Hall Nov. 15 

EDITORAL CARTOON 

Walking through the darkness of the University Parks, a curtained moon glooming over the path, an Oxford stu­dent and I were discussing what impact college will have on our lives. He was saying that the individual 
Geoff Johnston 
makes the college expe­rience, and I 
A Domer at 
was arguing 
Oxford
that the col­lege itself plays a larger role in one's education. 
No doubt both factors influence one's experience, so I wondered, "What would life have been like had I gone to Oxford, instead of Notre Dame?" Though I have been here only a month, allow me to shed some light on the question. 
Dorms; It's Gotta Be the Dorms: 
The most noticeable difference between the two Universities is the resi­dential atmosphere. Here, each student is allotted a single -no freshman "closet" triples or elaborate loft schemes. Also, students are more dis­persed, about 20 to a house. throughout the college campus. The benefits of this set-up are obvious: more living space, more privacy, one's own bathroom and shower. 
However, I believe that Notre Dame has something special in its dorm tradi­tions. Even though the rooms are cramped, and the halls smell, and the parietals are, well. parietals, I would never have met my future friends with­out being thrown together by random assignment, or luck, or grace. Life at Notre Dame revolves around the dorms: We party together, we study together, we eat, sleep and live together. Here at Oxford, life feels more insular, more isolated; even being a part of the foot­ball (soccer) team and a singer in the lay college choir does not begin to com­pare with the community fostered under the Dome. 

Ars Gratia Artis: 
One of the perks of an Oxford education is the availability of high cul­ture. Two weeks ago, the other Domers and I trekked to Stratford­upon-Avon to witness a performance of Richard III by the Royal Shakespeare Company. The per­formance was pol­ished and profes­sional, the sets and lighting were clever, the setting was orig­inal (late 19th centu­ry) and the actors convincingly dis­played a wide range of emotion, from Richard's morbid lust to Margaret's frenzied ranti­ng. We will definitely be returning. 
Also. New College is blessed to host one of the world's premier boy choirs, the aptly named New College Choir. Being the choral music junkie that I am, I attended their recent per­formance of Durufle's setting of the Requiem Mass. Listening to their pleas for mercy in Latin, the counter-tenors and boys reaching as high as any soprano while the basses growled underneath was a moving and powerful experience. I felt as if I, too, had lost a loved one, and were begging for the release of her soul. There are concerts and plays performed throughout Oxford every day; the lack of the arts at Notre Dame is certainly one of its most glar­
ing deficiencies (though the new Performing Arts center will no doubt help). 
Think, McFiy, Think: 
This is probably the first column in which I am actually qualified to make a subjective 
judgment about Oxford's academics. My verdict? 
Academics here at Oxford are compa­rable to those at Notre Dame (no better, no worse). I must be careful the 
tutorial system is not as well suited to mathematics as it is for, say, philosophy, and since I have been enrolled only in math courses, I shouldn't definitively judge the Oxford system. However, for undergraduate science, the 

two Universities are equivalent. For arts and letters, I believe that the work load here is slightly harder. but that the graders are slightly more lenient. (Though I will be able to give a better account once I start Jurisprudence next term.) 
Keepln' the Faith: 
I chose to attend Notre Dame for many reasons; one of the most impor­tant for me was a vibrant faith life. At Oxford, by and large, faith is not as 
central to students' lives. I read a 
recent article in the school newspaper explaining why, explaining how 
younger people have no need for faith, 
how we are more skeptical, etc. But there is also a greater faith diversity 
here than back at home. 
One example: A New College student and I were chatting after Hall, when the topic of faith came up. He happened to be a devout Anglican, and asked me why Catholics prayed the Hail Mary. So I recited the prayer to him in Latin (he's a Classics major) and we went over the prayer line by line, all under the watch­ful gaze of the Virgin Mary, whose stat­ue happened to be hanging over the quad. (New College was founded Catholic.) Wouldn't happen at Notre Dame, or at least, such a situation is more unlikely. I enjoy the diversity of opinions here; part of the study abroad experience is being exposed to people from different ideological backgrounds. 
So, how different would life be had I attended Oxford? A lot. But the experi­ence wouldn't be better or worse than that at Notre Dame, merely different. So Domers, enjoy what is great about Notre Dame. Enjoy its unique balance of academics, athletics, residence life and faith. I'll be here enjoying what's great about Oxford: its tutorials, its tra­dition, its sophistication. That, and the free drinks after football games. 
Geoff Johnston is a junior currently studying at Oxford University. His col­umn appears every other Tuesday. He can be reached at gjohnsto@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, November 18, 2003 
DVD REVIEW 
HBO delivers simplistic DVD set 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Scene Movie Critic 
Love it or hate it. Sex and the City is an undeniably popular and culturally influential show. Look at any trend in fashion, and you can trace its roots to Sex and the City, and the same is invariably true of trends in all forms of recreation. To put it in no vague terms, the show is a product-placement para­dise. The show's appeal has been somewhat narrowed due to the fact that it is on HBO and not network tele­vision. but with its release on DVD, the show will continue to grow in populari­ty and reach an even broader audi­ence. The newly-released Season Four will be the focus of this article. but Seasons One through Three are also available to be purchased on DVD. 
Sex and the City follows four single women through the relationship rat race in New York City, each with a very different personality but none immune to bad dates or emotional ups-and­downs. Carrie Bradshaw (Sarah Jessica Parker). a shoe-obsessed sex columnist. anchors the show's action, but the show gives equal time to her three best friends -Charlotte. Miranda and Samantha -as well. Charlotte (Kristin Davis) is an art gallery manager who is a misty-eyed romantic at heart; Miranda (Cynthia Nixon) is a lawyer who tries to recon­cile her need for independence with the dependency called for in relation­ships; Samantha (Kim Cattrall) is a man-eating sensualist who eschews the idea of marriage and embraces a very liberal view of sex. 

In the fourth season, the four women encounter imposing and challenging issues, but, as is the show's trademark, they are handled with the utmost comic grace and emotional sensitivity. Carrie must come to terms with attempting to move in with her boyfriend, Aidan, while still holding onto her independence, while Charlotte must grapple with getting back togeth­er with her husband and coming to terms with how much having a baby means to her. Samantha, the steadfast single, falls in love and wrestles with what love can do to a person. Miranda 
deals with losing her mother, and she must cope with getting unex­pectedly pregnant and raising a child as a sin­gle parent while main­taining a career. 
The DVD set is com­posed of three discs, each with six episodes. The set is very simple and easy to navigate, but simplicity is also one of the weaker points of the set. Aside from three episodes on the third disc with director commentary and a list of episodes and awards, the set has no extras. There is a link to the HBO website, and it has some extras but nothing out of the ordinary, though the trivia game is fun. There is no "play all" feature, so one has to press play to watch each indi­vidual episode. A description pops up when "play" is hit, so "play" has to be hit once more, which gets a bit mad­dening after a few episodes. Another annoyance is the fact that the opening credits cannot be skipped. 

The discs are played in Dolby 2.0 sound, and the dialogue-heavy episodes benefit from the clear audio quality. The color on all of the discs is bright and clear -a definite benefit for watching the vibrant and extrava­gant wardrobe of the show's women. 
Overall, the DVD adds little to Sex and the City, and it really leaves view­ers wanting more. It's great to be able to watch the show without subscribing to HBO, but it would add to the viewing experience if some extras. such as interviews with writers or cast mem­bers, were included. The DVD adds so little to the show that. if you've seen the show already. there's nothing to be gained by actually buying the season on DVD. The show has such a massive following and such a huge impact on popular culture that it really is too bad that nothing is added to this season's DVD release. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
Tony Award-winning play returns home 
Special to the Observer Blast! is coming back home to musical spectacle; it is music in brought together in a unique explo­Indiana Nov. 18-23, 2003 at the motion. Blast! evolved from the sion of music and theatre. The cast Morris Performing Arts Center. drum corps Star of Indiana, which ranges in size from 18 to 31 mem­
Ireland gave us Riverdance. Born on athletic fields across the was founded in 1984 in bers and collectively play 64 differ­England produced Stomp. Now come nation, Blast! is a novel art form Bloomington, Ind.. by businessman ent instruments featuring classical. the Americans with Blast! Following evolved from the showmanship of Bill Cook to benefit young people in blues, jazz. rock-n-roll and techno­triumphant successes in London, outdoor pageantry. A unique experi­music education. pop musical styles.Boston. Chicago, Detroit, ence, Blast! explodes the genre with The artistic director, James Kevin Glickman of the LansingWashington D.C. and on Broadway, the artistry of the theatre. Blast! is Mason, is a lifelong veteran of drum State Journal claims, "Blast! is 
and bugle corps and other musical filled with color, spectacle, youthful activities. In its initial year. Star of energy and the sound of great brass Indiana became the first rookie and percussion playing. Visually, corps ever to place among the top the show is stunning." ten corps at the prestigious Drum Blast! is a family show suited for Corps International all age groups. Single World Championships. tickets are available at 
Star of Indiana the Morris Performing
"Blast! is filled 
improved each year Arts Center Box Office until it became the with color, at (574) 235-9190. World Champion in spectacle, youthful Excellent student dis­1991. Competing against counts are still avail­
energy and the
other organizations from able.
sound ofgreat bass 
the United States, Group tickets for 20 Japan. Canada and and percussion or more people can be Europe, Star's perform­purchased by calling
playing."
ances revolutionized the Group Sales at world of drum corps, Broadway Theatre bringing an evermore Kevin Glickman League at (574) 234­sophisticated sense of Lanslng State Journal 4044. musicianship, exciting Call now to reserve showmanship and your seat for the best dynamic choreography show in town because to this wonderful genre. Blast! is here for one week only. 
Since 1993, this group has For further information on Blast!. evolved into a theatrical show please visit their official website at which brings the power, passion www.BlastThe Show.com. and precision of outdoor pageantry For more information on upcom­to the stage in a musical perform­ing Broadway shows, please visit 
Photo courtesy of Jennifer Kuzdas 
ance now known as Blast! the Broadway Theatre League web­Blast! is comprised of 54 brass, site at www.broadwaytheatre­percussion and visual performers· league.com. 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, November 18, 2003 
page 11 
DVD REVIEW 
Pixar reels in the big fish 
'Nemo' surfaces, sells 8 million copies 
Photo courtesy of www.1mdb.com Gill, a battle-scarred angel fish, takes Nemo under his wing while they try to find freedom together. The 'Nemo' DVD sold 8 million copies on Its first day. 
comment on the negotiations with BVHE, industry sources say that home video results for Nemo could sway the decision regarding a renewal with Disney. 
BVHE is under a great deal of pres­sure to have Nemo become the best-sell­ing DVD of all time, meaning that the two-disc collector's edition would have to top the likes of DreamWorks' Shrek, Warner Home Video's Harry Potter films and New Line Home Entertainment's Lord ofthe Rings series. 
"Finding Nemo has generated a great deal of interest, and the volume of bonus material on the second disc, I believe, will make this the best-selling title of the year on DVD," BVHE presi­dent Robert Chapek said. 
Pixar's partnership with Disney has always attracted top talent to its proj­ects, such as Tom Hanks in Toy Story, John Goodman and Billy Crystal in Monsters, Inc. and now Albert Brooks and Ellen DeGeneres in Nemo. 
"I don't know anything about the poli­tics between Disney and Pixar or DVD and VHS," Brooks said. "All I know is what I've always known: It's always about the movie. It's all whether the movie is good or not. And in this case, I believe that the creators did an excep­tional job from beginning to end, and the extras on the DVD are actually spe­cial. They made a real effort to give the viewer more. 
"I have never been much for putting together a whole lot of extra material on a DVD," he said. "I look at a movie as 
By AMANDA SUSKO Scene Movie Criric 
Heartfelt sorrow, uncontrollable laughter. genuine surprise and utter joy. The quest to find the adorable clownfish Nemo guarantees to invoke u rollercoaster ride of emotions in viewers of' all ages. 
Within the opening minutes, Pixar's spectacular underwater animation assures yet another blockbuster hit for Disney. Moreover, it is virtually impos­sible not to fall in love with the ener­getic and determined Nemo, hindered by his impaired tiny fin. 
As if the high-quality animation and delightful main character are not enough, the marine life voices further intensify Finding Nemo's appeal. Nine­year-old Alexander Gould effortlessly portrays the boyish voice of Nemo himself. Albert Brooks articulates Marlin, Nemo's overprotective and worrisome father, with ease. A hilari­ous addition to the cast is Ellen DeGeneres, who flawlessly depicts the extremely forgetful Dory, a blue tang. 
Additional sea creatures include an intimidating great white shark named 

A...ociared Press 
Finding Nemo is the catch of the day at video stores. 
The animated tale sold a record 8 mil­lion DVD and VHS copies in its first day Tuesday, breaking the previous high of 7 million set last year by Spider-Man, according to Finding Nemo partners Disney and Pixar Animation. 
"The studio shipped 25 million copies but already has ordered more, figuring some stores might run out as early as this weekend," said Bob Chapek, presi­dent of Disney home entertainment. 
"We saw stores yesterday almost going through their inventory on day one alone," Chapek said. 
DVDs accounted for about 90 percent of sales. Total sales for Finding Nemo could rival the 32 million VHS copies that Disney's The Lion King sold in its initial video release in the 1990s, Chapek said. 
The numbers will be a key to whether Pixar decides to renew its distribution contract with the Walt Disney Co.'s Buena Vista Home Entertainment, which comes to term in 2005. 
The five movies Pixar has produced for Disney since the mid-'90s -Toy Story, Toy Story 2, A Bug's Life, Monsters. Inc. and Nemo -have com­bined to gross about $1.2 billion at the domestic box ollice alone. 
As their deal nears expiration, Pixar has had discussions with several other major studios. While Jobs has refused to Bruce (Barry Humphries), Nigel the helpful pelican (Geoffrey Rush), the surfer turtle Crush (Andrew Stanton), the battle-scared Gill (Willem Dafoe). and Bloat the blowfish (Brad Garrett). Overall. Disney's animation team hand-selected a brilliant cast who generated authentic life within the characters of Finding Nemo. 
Quirky comments and hilarious scenes abound in this Disney/Pixar creation. Topping my list of favorites include two unforgettable moments involving three looming sharks and a mirage of sea turtles. 
Just as it seems imminent that Marlin and Dory are doomed to become the next shark snack, the great white Bruce surprisingly wel­comes the pair into a type of hidden fortress. There, a spin on an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting ensues. Bruce approaches the stand and proudly confesses, "It has been three weeks since my last fish." Within this scene, the shark three­some repeats the following mantra: "Fish are friends, not food." A fright­ening incident soon follows in which Marlin and Dory escape from the blood-hungry Bruce and continue 
towards their destina­tion of Sydney to find Nemo. 
After escaping from the sharks and bound­ing through a swarm of jellyfish, Marlin and Dory find themselves riding the East Atlantic Current with a multi­tude of laid-back sea turtles. Marlin is quick­ly greeted by one sea turtle, in particular, 
courtesy www.lmdb.com Crush, a mellow sea turtle, guides Marlin, an overprotective clown fish, and Dory, a forgetful blue tang, along their Journey to find Marlin's lost son, Nemo. 
who tranquilly proclaims, "Dude, Mr. Turtle is my father; the name's Crush." In this scene, the sea turtles, young and old alike, add surfer humor with repeated phrases such as "sweet," "totally rocked," "righteous" and "coo coo ca choo." 
The box office tallies further indi­cate the success of Finding Nemo. To date, the film remains unsurpassable as the top movie released in 2003. During its debut weekend in May, Finding Nemo grossed over $70 mil­lion. If that is not impressive enough, its worldwide box office total current­ly amounts to close to half a billion dollars. 
And wait ... there's more. Among the top movies of 2003, Finding Nemo rises above such smash hits as Pirates of the Caribbean, Matrix Reloaded, Bruce Almighty and X2 to round out the top five. 
The DVD bonus features make Finding Nemo a must-see spectacle. These features include a documentary on the making of the movie, virtual commentary, design galleries and vir­tual aquariums. Particularly, the docu­mentary piece is quite fascinating. This section provides behind-the­scene footage about the collaborative process among writers, editors, direc­tors, designers, sculptors and anima­tors to create the final version of 
Finding Nemo. 
The enjoyable characters, remark­able animation and astronomical box office totals are promises that viewers of any age will fall in love with Finding Nemo. All in all, I highly rec­ommend Disney's uplifting tale of fish life in the crystal blue ocean depths. 
Contact Amanda Susko at asusko@nd.edu 

kind of a magic trick, and so I never liked revealing how everything was done. I used to say that you take every­thing from the cutting room floor and throw it together as 'extras' and then you've got a DVD. But these guys really made a special effort to bring something more to the DVD, the Jean-Michael Cousteau documentary about the Great Barrier Reef, for example, is a whole work in and of itself." 
Nemo writer-director Andrew Stanton. who has played major roles in all five Disney-Pixar titles, said he wanted to create a narrative using the main char­acters voiced by Brooks and DeGeneres to guide viewers through the bonus materials and, especially, the Cousteau short film. 
"I wanted to make viewing the extras on the DVD an extension of viewing the movie itself," Stanton said. 
,­
page 12 Tuesday, November 18, 2003 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 


Nowitzki leads 3rd quarter rally in Mavs' win 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -Dirk Nowitzki overcame a slow start to ener­gize a third-quarter rally, and Steve Nash had his first career triple-double to lead the Dallas Mavericks past the Portland Trail Blazers 105-98. 
Nowitzki, who made his first two shots and then went more than 27 minutes without scoring again, had 20 points and eight rebounds. Nash had 14 points, 12 assists and a career-high 10 rebounds, the final one coming in the closing seconds and drawing a loud roar from fans. 
Rasheed Wallace scored 31 points and eight rebounds, and Zach Randolph had 26 points, 19 rebounds and six assists, but it wasn't enough to keep Portland from falling to 0-4 on the road. 
The fin~t meeting between the Mavericks and Blazers since their seesaw playoff series last spring rekindled some of the same emotions and drama, even if both teams have changed front-line players since then. 
Dallas won the first three games of the postseason, then lost the next three. In jeopardy of becoming the first team to lose a seven-game series after being up 3-0, the Mavs won Game 7 and went on to reach the Western Conference finals. 
This time, Dallas was in con­trol early, then Portland opened the second half by hitting six of seven shots to go ahead 67-53 midway through the third. Nowitzki was on the bench, hav­ing missed six straighl shots since making his first two and looking out of sync. 

Three straight 3-pointers ­two by Nash, one by Michael Finley -got the Mavs and the crowd going. Then Nowitzki returned, giving Dallas its five best scorers on the court togeth­er, and he scored right away. 
The Mavs' all-offense lineup tied the game at 71 and finished the quarter up by three. The Blazers got a 3-pointer from Matt Carroll and a three-point play from Wallace to go up by three, but Dallas answered with an 8-0 run to go ahead for good. Nowitzki ended that spurt with a jumper and two free throws. 
Knlcks 89, Celtlcs 86 
Michael Doleac scored the Knicks' final four points and grabbed eight of his nine rebounds while playing the entire fourth quarter, helping New York defeat the Boston Celtics 89-86. 
Doleac, subbing for starting center Dikembe Mutombo, made up for his two turnovers and a missed open jumper earlier in the fourth by hitting the Knicks' final shot from the field with 
1:55 left. Doleac's two free throws with 
5.4 seconds remaining provided the final margin. Paul Pierce missed an off-balance 3-pointer on Boston's last possession. 
The win was only the third of the season for the Knicks, who got 26 points from Allan Houston and 21 from Keith Van Horn -13 in the third quarter when the Knicks made up most of a big deficit. 
Kurt Thomas added 12 points and 17 rebounds, and Howard Eisley had nine assists. New York snapped its eight-game los­ing streak to the Celtics. 
Vin Baker led Boston with 20 points, and Pierce and Eric Williams added 17 each. 
After trailing by as many as 17 in the first half, the Knicks came back and finally took their first lead since the first quarter, 85-84, on a 3-pointer and a turnaround by Houston with 3:46left. 
After a timeout, the Celtics went for a quick 3-pointer off the inbounds pass but Pierce's attempt rolled around and out. 
Boston had to foul twice to send the Knicks to the line, and there were only 5.4 seconds remaining when Doleac went to the line and calmly sank both shots. 
Wizards 106, Hawks 97 
Jarvis Hayes keyed a fourth­quarter run with a go-ahead 3­pointer and the Washington Wizards snapped a four-game losing streak with a 106-97 vic­tory over the Atlanta Hawks. 
Larry Hughes led the Wizards with 26 points, and Gilbert Arenas added 23. Washington outscored the Hawks 30-19 down the stretch, started by the 3 from Hayes. 
Hayes, who played for two years at Georgia, rebounded from a shaky start to finish with 16 points. He has started every game in place of Jerry Stackhouse, who's out indefi­nitely after having knee surgery before the season. 
Jason Terry had 25 for Atlanta, which lost for the third time in four games, including two in a row at home. Shareef Abdur-Rahim scored 20. 
A jumper by Jacque Vaughn gave the Hawks their last lead at 78-76 midway through the fourth quarter, but they went on a three-minute dry spell. 
After Jared Jeffries made a free throw to cut the margin to one, Hayes nailed a jumper from behind the arc, giving the Wizards the lead for good. 
Arenas later boosted the lead to eight with a layup, and he was fouled on the play. He missed the free throw, but Etan Thomas grabbed the carom and laid it in for a 10-point advan­tage. 
Hayes had a rough time in the first quarter, finishing 1-for-8. He got his shot blocked by Theo Ratliff just 38 seconds in -one of six blocks for Ratliff -and also made one turnover. 

Rockets 74, 76ers 66 

Cuttino Mobley scored 19 points, and Yao Ming and Jim Jackson each added 12 to lead the Houston Rockets to a 7 4-66 win over the Philadelphia 76ers. 
The Rockets, who won for the seventh time in nine games, took a lead late in the first quar­ter and never trailed again. They led by as many as 15 in the fourth. 
The Rockets shot only 33 per­cent, but the Sixers were even worse at 32 percent. Houston went 9-for-28 from 3-point range, while the Sixers missed all nine attempts. 
Both teams were awful in the third quarter, when the Sixers went 2-for-18 from the floor and Houston 5-for-24. 
The fans who come out from the crowd to shoot during those silly timeout promotions were more on target than anyone paid to play. 
Allen Iverson scored 15 points and Marc Jackson had 12 for the Sixers, who had their lowest point total of the season. 
Last season, Houston limited Iverson to 9.5 points per game, his lowest total against any opponent. Iverson didn't fare any better this time, with a 4­for-19 effort for his lowest point total of the season. 
Iverson went nearly 19 min­utes between baskets, including an 0-for-4 effort in the third quarter. He grabbed a loose ball rebound and sank a fadeaway jumper to make it 62-53, fol­lowed by a basket by Willie Green. as the Sixers cut it to seven midway through the fourth. 
NHL 



Sabres get back-to-back goals to nip Senators 
Associated Press scoreless tie, and Patrick including a team-record five second in a row. Ottawa is 2-edge of the crease. added his third of the season Thursday night against 5-2 since collecting 11 of 14 Sabres center Daniel Briere at 2:06. Columbus. points while winning five of its set up Dumont's goal early in
OTTAWA-J.P. Dumont and 

James Patrick scored 14 sec­Ottawa defenseman Wade Buffalo ended a three-game first seven games. the third. Briere moved from onds apart early in the third Redden scored for the third winless streak with the victo­Biron came up with a big behind the net and passed and Martin Biron made 23 straight game, pulling the ry. The Sabres have won just stop on former teammate from the right side of the net saves in the Buffalo Sabres' 2-Senators within one with a twice in their last seven games Vaclav Varada's chance early to Dumont, who beat Senators 1 victory over Ottawa. power-play goal at 4:10. (2-2-2-1). in the second, and made a pad backup Martin Prusek through Dumont scored from the slot Ottawa's last eight goals have The Senators, who fell to 0-6 save moments later on Daniel the legs for his fourth of the 
1:52 into the third to break a come with the man advantage, in one-goal games, lost their Alfredsson's shot from the season. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Part time, energetic experienced nanny needed to help care for chil-NOTICES dren in our Granger home M-W 
3pm-8pm; Th 2pm-8pm. Mom has •••ACT NOW!Book 11 people, get chronic health problems, so 12th trip free. reliability is cr~ical. Love for kids & Group discounts for 6+ own transp req. Call360-1198 & lv 
msg. www.springbreakdiscounts.com or 800-838-8202. 
Vector/Cutco 

WANTED 
workforstudents.com/57 4-282-2357 Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO Doglegleftnews.com exper. required. All looks and ages. Earn $1 00-$500 a day. 'Putting the Pathetic in Apathetic' 1-888-820-0167, ext. U187 
LARGE, ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. 
NEWLY REMODELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. 
email: Williamson.1 @ nd.edu 
2001 Mercury Sable LS, 34,000 miles, antilock brakes, alarm sys-tern, CD, $12,000. Call287-1147. 

FOR RENT 

2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO 
4 bedroom house. 1136 E Madison. Close to campus, ample parking, AC, huge yard. 
Contact Mike (216) 408-0780 or Matt (216) 408-0744 if interested 
2 bdrm home, walk to ND 315-8730 
Two story house completely remod­eled 2003. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student housing, laundromat next door (drycleaning also), basement avail-
A 'Reality' Spring Break 2004s Hottest prices Book now.. Free TICKETS Trips, Meals & Parties 
sunsplashtours.com or Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ 1800-426-771 0 Pay Top Dollar$$ 1-866-808-0990 
•••• IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW ••LOOKING FOR FOOTBALL Tlx•• LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY •••• ND@Cuse Need at least 2. Will pay Build your dream home BIG $$$$to get next to Notre Dame. A limited num­these. Call212.723.6585 or ber of home sites are available. For 917.846.8865 if U have tix to sell. more info go to: 
www.lrishCrossings.com 

I need ND/UK & NDIIU b-ball tix. 
273-9938 She was a home economics major. 
And that drunk 16-year old was all about you.


PERSONAL
CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM able for storage of bicycles, lug-Brought to you by ND Students and Part time/Full time opportunity for MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM gage, trunks, etc., new furnace and So was her sister. Alumni honest, motivated, success minded central air, new kitchen including UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 
individual. Exciting !-Commerce 272-1525 new stove and refrigerator, large liv-not go it alone. If you or someone And your mom. #1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in internet based business. Contact: ing room for TV or entertaining, you love needs confidential support Acapulco now offers 3 destinations! waynew54@pronetglobal.com HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS free trash removal. or assistance, please call Sr. Mary How does Wallaby Creek taste? Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS-Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For Vallarta, or get crazy in Cabo -with ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004-Call 289-4072. more information, see our bi-weekly Not too good. BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. 2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 614 S. ad in The Observer.
FOR SALE ST.JOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS-214 S. JAMISON (NEAR SOCCER FIELD) Would you like to Dimpysize that for Organize a group and travel for ST PETER 4 BEDRROMS-718 E. 1 BR, 1ST FLOOR, BASEMENT, Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America 25 cents extra? Come on, it's only a FREE. Book now before its too late! 99 Chevy Lumina LTZ. WASHINGTON ST. 2 BEDROOMS. AVAIL. DEC 1, $695 s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring quarter. Call 800-875-4525 or 4dr,leather,power,cruise,CD,3.8-Iitre (INCLUDES UTIL.), CONTACT campus reps. 
V6 w/115k. 20/26mpg. $5500. CALL KRAMER AT 234-2436 OR BOB 607-723-7373, EMAIL: Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or How about I punchasize your www.bianci-rossi.com. 283-0708. 315-5032 rjhdds @pronetisp.net www.ststravel.com face...for free? 
~-----,
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------~-~--~ 
Tuesday, November 18, 2003 

NFL Owens shines in 49ers' Monday night victory 
Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO -His catches were beautiful. His blocking was gritty. Terrell Owens thrived in the spot­light again -and he even kept his pens in his socks. 
Owens had a 61-yard touchdown catch among his eight receptions for 155 yards, and Tim Rattay went 21-of-27 for 254 yards in the 49ers' 30-14 victory over the Pittsburgh Steelers on Monday night. 
llclped by two downfield blocks by Owens, Kevan Barlow rushed for a 78-yard scorn in the third quarter to break open San Francisco's fourth straight home victory. 
Fullback Fred Beasley also caught a 28-yard touchdown pass from Hattay, who added more spice to the 49ers' quarterback controversy with a second straight near-flaw­less performance in place of injured Pro Bowler Jeff Garcia. Former Steelers kick­er Todd Peterson also made three field goals. 
In the teams' first meeting since a rain-soaked game at Candlestick in 1999, San Francisco (5-5) dominated the matchup of defending division champions who have struggled so far this season. 
Tommy Maddox was 25-of­44 for 327 yards for Pittsburgh (3-7). which lost its sixth in seven games thanks to key defensive errors and Antwaan Randle El's fumble on a kickoff return, which allowed San Francisco to score two touch­downs in 14 seconds. 
The Observer + SPORTS page 13 

Drug claims upset Raiders 
Associated Press backer Bill Romanowski and 
defensive tackle Chris Cooper 

Oakland Raiders coach Bill tested positive for THG, or Callahan has heard the reports tetrahydrogestrinone, and of steroid use by four of his could each face four-game sus­players, and he acknowledges pensions. it's hurt the team's mood. "I haven't had any confirma­
But until there's proof one of tion on that from the league his guys used such banned office. Normally when a player drugs, he's standing by them. does get suspended, the day 
"No one's been proven guilty that they get suspended is the at this point so we'll just see day that I'm informed. So at how this turns out," the coach this point I haven't heard from said Monday at the team's the league yet," Callahan said. practice facility in Alameda, NFL officials again Monday Calif., responding to repeated refused to comment on the questions from the media. report. However, they noted "They've been indicted but no that if players test positive, one's been found guilty yet." additional samples would still 
Callahan said he knew noth­have to be tested and any sus­ing about any Raiders testing pensions would be subject to positive for the newly discov­appeals that could delay pun­ered steroid THG or facing ishment for at least several subsequent suspensions. weeks. 
His comments came a day Such suspensions would after CBS reported that defen­mark the first time THG has sive tackle Dana Stubblefield, been linked directly to any center Barret Robbins, line-sport outside track and field, which already has had at least five athletes test positive for the steroid. 
The NFL isn't the only pro league taking a fresh look at steroid use since THG was first detected this summer. Baseball, which will begin punishing players for steroid use next season, recently added THG to its list of banned substances. 
None of Oakland's players was available Monday. The Raiders got their first Monday off of the season, following a 28-18 win over the Minnesota Vikings, and reporters were barred from the locker room. 
Callahan said the day off was purely a reward for the victo­ry, and not related to the steroid reports. He acknowl­edged the reports of steroid use and possible suspensions had hurt the mood of the team. 
"I don't think it's affected us 
positively," he said. "We're all 
hurt by the reports that are 
out." 
Stubblefield, Cooper, running back Tyrone Wheatley and fullback Chris Hetherington appeared last week before a federal grand jury probing a nutritional supplements lab ­Bay Area Laboratory Co­Operative, or BALCO. 
Those four Raiders became the first non-track and field athletes to appear. Dozens of other athletes have been sub­poenaed to testify, ranging from baseball's Barry Bonds to boxer Shane Mosley. 
An attorney for BALCO founder Victor Conte has said his client is a target of the -grand jury probe, which is believed to be looking into tax and drug issues. 
Conte has been accused by a 
U.S. Anti-Doping Agency offi­cial of supplying athletes with THG, but has denied that. 
On Monday, an attorney for Greg Anderson, a personal trainer for Bonds and other professional athletes, con­firmed his client also is a tar­get of the grand jury probe. Attorney Bill Rapoport said he does not know the nature of the accusations against Anderson. 
Internal Hevenue Service agents and other law enforce­ment officials raided Anderson's home on Sept. 5, two days after a raid on BALCO. Hapoport said items were taken from Anderson's home but he wouldn't elabo­rate. 
Hapoport said Anderson's only connection to Conte is as a customer, purchasing vita­mins to give or sell to the ath­letes he trained. 
Bonds is scheduled to appear Dec. 4 before the grand jury. His attorney, Mike Hains, has said he has been told Bonds is not a target of the probe. 

Cal1259·1ooo for more details 

r 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 18, 2003 

Kasten 
•
restgns as Atlanta's president 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Stan Kasten left his job Monday as president of Atlanta's Braves, Hawks and Thrashers amid the decision by corporate owner Time Warner to sell the teams. 
·Kasten said he might offer to return to management of the Hawks and Thrashers once a pending deal was approved. He said he decided to leave now because of major changes going on within the teams' organizations, including likely payroll cuts by the Braves. 
"It was the whole package of things all at once. I just felt this was a real convenient time for me to make this move," he said. 
A group led by Boston busi­nessman Steve Belkin reached a deal in September to pur­chase the Hawks, Thrashers and Philips Arena for $250 million. The deal is expected to be approved within the next month. 
Meanwhile, the sale of the Braves has been put on the backburner by Time Warner. 
Belkin said he welcomed Kasten's availability. 
"Clearly he would be a seri­ous candidate because of his experience and knowledge. This frees us up to at least talk about it," Belkin said Monday. 
Kasten, 51, was perhaps the most powerful figure in Atlanta sports, the man who oversaw three of the city's four major sports teams. 
It all grew out of a chance meeting with former Braves owner Ted Turner at a base­ball game in St. Louis in 1976. 
Shortly after his graduation from law school, Kasten was appointed legal counsel of the Braves and Hawks. One year later, he was named assistant general manager of the Hawks. 
In 1979, Kasten became the youngest general manager in NBA history at 27. 
Additional duties came in 1986 when Turner named Kasten as president of the Braves and Hawks. 
Kasten surrendered the GM 
position with the Hawks in 
1990, hiring Pete Babcock. But 
he became involved with the 
company's third sports team in 
1999, taking over as president 
of the Thrashers when Harvey 
Schiller left. 
By that time, Turner was los­
ing his grip on the teams. His 
role lessened when TBS 
merged with Time Warner, and 
he was forced out altogether 
after a merger with AOL. 




Pataiionia 
excltiSively
at -----.~ 
Sminute~ 
{rom CUTPCST 
Campus s ors 
Cold We•ther Experts 
Cal1259·2ooo for more details 
NCAA BASKETBALL 




Huskies overcome 1st half deficit in win 
Associated Press 
STORRS. Conn. Connecticut needed 20 minutes to start looking like the No. 1 team in the country. 
The Huskies rallied from a three-point halftime deficit to beat Yale 70-60 Monday night in the opening round of the Preseason NIT. 
It was better than the last time Connecticut was a presea­son No. 1. The Huskies opened the 1999-00 season with a 70­68 loss to Iowa in the Coaches vs. Cancer Classic. 

The undermanned Bulldogs used a patient offense to spread the floor and keep the Huskies from getting out on the break. 
That changed in the second half as the Huskies used a 14-2 run to take a 48-37 lead and they went on to lead by as many as 17 before struggling at the free-throw line over the final4 112 minutes. 
Emeka Okafor, the AP's pre­season player of the year, had 21 points and 13 rebounds to lead Connecticut, which will host the winner of the first­round game between Vermont and Nevada in the second round on Wednesday night. 
Denham Brown had 15 points and Ben Gordon added 13 and six assists for the Huskies. who took the lead for good at 36-35 with 17:13 left on a fast-break dunk by freshman Josh Boone. In addition to getting on the break, Connecticut turned up the pressure defense as well. 
Yale, which was playing a No. 1 team for the first time in school history, committed just three turnovers in taking the 31-28 halftime lead. They com­mitted six turnovers in the opening five minutes of the sec­ond half and the Huskies were turning most of those into easy baskets. 
Dominick Martin and Edwin Draughn each had 14 points for Yale, which lost its 12th straight season opener. 




On our team, 
your brightest ideas get noticed. 
. . 

H~re, it's merit We turn to. We're not interested in how old · youare or where you're from. If your idea is good, it's good. That's why we'U put you alongside teammates with the experience and knowledge to spot it. It's your time to shine. 
In Everything We Do 

Tuesday, November 18, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Seniors eager to leave their tnark at Purdue 
Associated Press 
WEST lAFAYETTE, Ind. -It was a long, intense offseason for the Purdue Boilermakers. 
Exhaustive conditioning drills. Pressure-packed scrimmages. Gut-busting weight training. 
Through it all, there was one constant-seniors Shereka Wright, Erika Valek, Lindsey I licks and Beth Jones. 
Junior Hannah Anderson knows why. 
"Everyday we come down the tunnel [at Mackey Arena], look up and see that 1999 national championship banner," she said. "That's what our seniors have been working for. That's why coach brought them in." 
The four seniors comprise one of the most successful classes in school history. In three years, they have amassed an 85-19 record, two Big Ten titles and three NCAA tournament appearances, including a run-· ncr-up finish in 2000-01. This year, they've carried Purdue to a No. 5 ranking. 
Alas, none of them were here in 1999, the last and only time the Boilermakers won the national title. 
They came to West Lafayette as a highly touted recruiting class. Oh, how time flies. 
Now, those seniors are down to their last chance. 
"It's weird looking at it because it feels like I was just a freshman," Wright said. "Now you're in that position where you're leading a team back where you need to be, and where you want to be. It's excit­ing, but it's also scary because you realize you don't get anoth­er chance." 
The seniors say a national title would be the perfect punc­tuation to a stellar four years. They also know that if they don't make it back to the Final Four, many of their achieve­ments will be forgotten. 
"You are remembered by how you leave," Hicks said. "That's very true. That's how people will remember us. That's our ultimate goal: to go to the Final Four." 
Coach Kristy Curry says the sense of urgency has embold­ened her seniors. 
"I see great leadership," Curry said. ''I'm trying to get my senior class to be more verbal and not to be just action lead­ers. I like what they stand for. They're trying to make sure that they excel at everything they're doing." 
They all excelled Sunday against No. 7 Kansas State in the Women's Tip-Off Classic at Mackey Arena. 
In a 79-69 win, Wright and Valek each scored 16 points, Jones was 4-of-4 from 3-point range and Hicks had eight points and six rebounds. 
And it's not just the seniors who are feeling the pressure. The younger players are deter­mined to make sure they send their teammates out on a high note. 
"They came in as the No. 1 recruiting class and we want to send them out as the No. 1 class," sopho.more Carol Duncan said. 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -John Navarre's name is secure in Michigan's record book. 
His legacy in Wolverines lore is not. 
Navarre holds a slew of Michigan passing records, but those accomplishments are marred by an 0-2 record against Ohio State. 
Some believe the senior has to lead the fifth-ranked Wolverines to a win against the No. 4 Buckeyes to be remembered as one of the best quarterbacks to wear a winged helmet. 
"You have to block that out because that's just part of the hype," Navarre said Monday. "You can't focus on that when you're preparing for this game. 
"But obviously, how you do against Ohio State is a big part of any career here." 
Navarre has one last chance to succeed in this rivalry when the Wolverines (9-2, 6-1 Big Ten) host Ohio State (10-1, 6-1) on Saturday. The outright Big Ten title and an automatic Bowl Championship Series bid are at stake. 
Michigan coach Lloyd Carr doesn't think one game should define the career of any player. 
"What defines you is your character," Carr said. 
However, teammate Grant Bowman, who grew up in Columbus, Ohio, understands why Navarre's legacy hinges on the outcome of the Ohio State game. 
"It's probably unfair, but there's a lot of things in life that are unfair," Bowman said. "In big games like this, the oppor­tunities are bigger and the 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Big game important to Navarre 


Gay in a Straight World 
Gay, Bi, and Straight A Retreat Open to A II 
The GLB Retreat is an annual 24-hour event for gay undergraduate stude_nts and their friends and supporters. The retreat begins at 7pm on Fnday, November 21, 2003 and ends after dinner on Saturday night. Applications are available in the Retreats Office in 114 Coleman-Morse by the elevator. Applications are due by 
Wednesday, Nov. 19th. 

If you have further questions, you can reach Fr. J. Steele, CSC af1...,8144 or at 


jsteele1 @nd.edu. · 
C-M 
Campw; Ministry 
chance for loss [is] bigger. That's what you've got to love about it as a competitor. If you don't love that, you probably shouldn't be in the game." 
Navarre, a candidate for two national quarterback awards, is finishing his much-maligned career with a flourish. 
The native of Cudahy, Wis., has thrown a Big Ten-best 21 touchdown passes, with only eight interceptions. 
He needs 218 yards to 


~r.~! 

onlyats ~& 
Sminute ~ {!om CU'Ti=ICS'T 
Campus :J•z.Jii: 
Cold Weather Experts 
Call259·1ooo for more details 


become the first Michigan quar­terback to throw for 3,000 yards in a season, and he's two TDs short of Elvis Grbac's career mark of 71. He has com­pleted 67. 9 percent of his fourth-quarter passes for eight TDs and only one interception. 
But those numbers will pale in comparison to Navarre's record against Ohio State if the Wolverines don't win Saturday, especially because of his two previous performances in the series. 
In a 14-9 loss last season, he was 23-of-46 for 247 yards with two turnovers. He fumbled with 
2:02 left, then threw a game­ending interception just short of the end zone. 
"You want to focus on those plays, and not repeat them," he said. 
Navarre threw for 206 yards with two touchdowns, four interceptions and a fumble in a 26-20 loss two years ago. 
Directed by Siiri Scott 
Playing 
Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats Senior Citizens All Students 



OUND THE NATION 
page 16 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERvtcEs Tuesday, November 18, 2003 
MLB 



around the dial 
INSIDE NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 8 p.m., FOXCH 22 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Louisiana (Lafayette) at Georgia Tech 7 p.m., ESPN Davidson at Texas Tech 9 p.m., ESPN 
l -
NHL Mighty Ducks at Avalanche 8 p.m., ESPN2 Blackhawks at Oilers 9 p.m., FOXCH 22 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Alex Rodriguez became the sec­ond player from a last­place team to win a Most Valuable Player award, then confirmed that the Texas Rangers have talked to him about a possible trade. 
"Management has approached me with a situ­ation and some choices, and I'm just going to keep my doors open right now," Rodriguez said Monday from Mexico during a con­ference call. 
Rodriguez received 242 points for the American League award in voting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. Toronto first baseman Carlos Delgado was second with 213 points, followed by New York Yankees catcher Jorge Posada with 194. 
Showing the split among the writers, 10 players received first-place votes, one short of the record set in the 1947 NL vote and matched in the 1977 AL vote. 
Last year, Rodriguez fin­ished second in MVP voting to Oakland shortstop Miguel Tejada and in 1996 he finished three points behind the Rangers' Juan Gonzalez. 
IN BRIEF 

NB~ approves plan for 
realignment 

NEW YORK -The NBA's board of governors approved a realignment plan Monday that creates three divi­sions of five teams each in the Eastern and Western conferences. 
The expansion Charlotte Bobcats, the NBA's 30th team, were placed in the Eastern Conference and the New Orleans Hornets were moved to the Western Conference. The Hornets previously played in Charlotte before moving to New Orleans two seasons ago. 
Joining the new Charlotte fran­chise in the Southeast Division of the Eastern Conference will be Atlanta, Miami, Orlando and Washington. The Central Division will have Chicago, Cleveland, Detroit, Indiana and Milwaukee. Atlantic Division teams will be Boston, New Jersey, New York, Philadelphia and Toronto. 
New Orleans will play in the Southwest Division of the Western Conference with Dallas, Houston, 
"It means the world to me," Rodriguez said. ''I'm so proud. It really is a vali­dation to all the hard work and dedication." 
Rodriguez has completed three seasons of a $252 million, 10-year contract, the richest in baseball his­tory. He has been paid $56 million and gets another $1 million on Dec. 1. He also is owed $12 million plus interest in deferred pay­ments from the contract's first three seasons. 
Rodriguez said he thought there had been talks about a possible trade with "three of four teams" but didn't elaborate. 
"I did not approach man­
agement, management approached me," Rodriguez said. ''I'm just going to leave the door open." 
Texas general manager John Hart said last week he wasn't looking to deal his star. 
"We're not having any conversations with any team about Alex Rodriguez," Hart said. "If anybody were to call. of course we'd listen." 
While Rodriguez praised Texas owner Tom Hicks, he refused comment several times when asked about his relationship with Hart and manager Buck Showalter. 
Memphis and San Antonio. The Northwest Division will have Denver, Minnesota, Portland, Seattle and Utah. The Pacific Division teams are Golden State, the Los Angeles Lakers, Los Angeles Clippers, Phoenix and Sacramento. 
Teams will play divisional oppo­nents twice at home and twice on the road. They will play conference opponents outside their division three or four times, and teams from the other conference twice -at home and away. 
Divisional winners each earn a playoff berth. The remaining five playoff berths for each conference will be based on regular-season records with no regard to divisional alignment. 

Ohio State moves into sec­
ond place in BCS 
Ohio State moved past USC into second place in the BCS standings Monday. Even so, the Buckeyes might need more than a win at Michigan to defend their champi­onship. 

The Buckeyes edged ahead of Southern California by 0.19 points following their 16-13 overtime win over Purdue. The Trojans lost ground in the computers and strength of schedule after winning 45-0 at Arizona (2-9). 
"That's great, I guess, but it doesn't really mean anything until we go up and play Michigan," Ohio State defensive end Will Smith said. 
Oklahoma (10-0) remained the runaway leader in the standings that will determine which two teams will play for the national championship in the Sugar Bowl. 
The Sooners have a 1.0 for poll average, 1.0 for computer-rank aver­age, 0.40 for strength of schedule, zero for losses and 0.6 bonus points for beating fifth-place Texas for a 1.8. 
Ohio State was second with 7.52 points, followed by USC at 7.71 and LSU at 12.21. 
Tuesday, November 18, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Ranking 
continued from page 20 
ner of Wisconsin-Milwaukee (15-5-1) and Western Michigan (12-6-2) on Nov. 26 at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field. Michigan (13-6), the 12th seed, will host the win­ncr of St. Peter's (17 -4-2) and Brown (10-3-3) on the other side of the bracket. 
The Irish arc riding high com­ing off their second Big East Championship (and first since 1996) over the weekend, defeat­ing No. 4 St. John's 2-0 in the final game. 
The depth and talent in the Big East was shown Monday as well. when the league landed six teams in the NCAA Championship field (Notre Dame, St. John's, Virginia Tech. Seton Hall, Connecticut, Rutgers). Notre Dame is ranked third in the latest release of the NSCANadidas top 25, matching 

Special to The Observer 

The Notre Dame women's boxing club will hold its Charity Bouts this Thursday. beginning at 7 p.m. in Gym 1 of the Joyce Center. Twenty bouts consisting of three 90­second rounds are scheduled for the evening. a culmination of hard and dedicated practice 
Irish forward Justin Detter dribbles the ball up the field In a since the beginning of the 
match against Georgetown Sept. 28. The senior recorded two school year. Entrance to the 
game-winning goals In the Big East Tournament. event will be through Gate 8. 
RECSPORTS 

Women boxers to hold Charity Bouts 
its highest in-season ranking from earlier this fall. 
In addition to the positive 
Pacific Coast Concerts 
Proudly Presents in Elkhart Classic Rock 97.7 WZOW Welcomcn 
Spoclal guest: Guitarist of the legendary MC 5 WfiYttE KRAMER 6 Introducing Damnwells 
TttURSDAY. ttOVEMDER 20. 2003 • 7:00 p.m. Elco Performing Arts Center • Elkhart. Indiana 
nCKETS OH SlUE HOWl 
i 

vi El<v Bvx Office. dlvr!l• by phone (574) 191-4469 and vii TlcbtHGit"' Ticket Cenlefl lnci<Miifl!l: s.u..., S0<.1nd1 (Elkhart), Hethod Hask (Goshen), Orbit Hu1lc no-& Country qnd­,..,.,.,., Wellern five.-Soctth Bend) Gnd KGrmG (Plymouth & W..flaw) or olt'llnc at tkketmcaster.com or tkkdrn<uler :zn-7979 


players for the Irish include
2004 SUMMER 
Brian Michalek and Dan 
Parziale. The squad will 
square off with defending
RESIDENCE HALL STA.FF 
ECDC ANNUAL BOOK FAIR
The Office of Residence Life and Housing is.. ·· currently accepting applications for the 
Wh~n:November 17 •24, 2003 Where: ECDC-ND and ECDC·SMC
following positions: 
(ECDC-ND is located on Bulla Road across from 
O'Hare Grace Residences, ECDC-SMC is located in Havican Hall on the Saint Mary's Campus) 
• 
Hall Manager 


• 
Assistant Hall Director/Manager 


What: Scholastic Book Fair with awide selection
• Desk Clerk 

of quality children's books for preschoolers through upper elementary grades, including chapter
The application and position descriptions hooks.
are available in the Office of Residence Life 
How: Come and check out the wide selection of
and Housing or on-line at: 
quality books available. Pay by cash~ check or credit card.
orlh.nd.edu/e1Uploy111.ent 
Why: SUPPORT ECDCI Great holiday gifts. All 
funds raised will go towards the purchase of 
educational materials

Application deadline is February 13, 2004. 
OFFICI OF RESIDINCI LIFIE AND HOUSING Phone; 631·5171 I·Malh s._...-staff®llld.•dM
ofl&fi 


champion Club Nowak at 9 
a.m.. play Indiana at 11 a.m.. the Notre Dame Alumni at noon and Northwestern at 4 
p.m. The semifinals will be played at 6 p.m., with the Finals held an hour later. 
Women's Water Polo 
Also swinging into action for the first time this season is the women's water polo club. With starting goalie Brigette Alge anchoring the defense and vet­eran Kim Moore leading the attack, the Irish open their usual tough schedule at the Penn Invitational in Philadelphia. 
The season will again fea­ture an extended trip to California to play both inter­collegiate varsity and club squads, as well as to compete in tournament play against the top teams from the Midwest and East. 
Figure Skating 
The Notre Dame figure skat­ing club will compete in its first event of the season this weekend at the Kick-Off Classic in Kalamazoo, Mich. Led by Monica Hritz and Saint Mary's Bridget Purcell, the Irish hope to contend for national honors and another top 10 ranking this year. 
Ultimate Frisbee 
The Ultimate club will travel to Knoxville, Tenn.. this week­end for the Dave Baldwin Invitational. This tournament traditionally draws a large field, including highly-ranked teams from across the country. 
Field Hockey 
The Notre Dame field hockey invitational with Michigan, Chicago and Michigan State was postponed this weekend and will be rescheduled at a later date. 
news hom the NCAA Championship and national rankings, senior forward Justin Detter was named to the College Soccer News National Team of the Week Monday. 
Detter scored two game-win­ning goals during the Big East Championship last weekend and was named the tournament's most outstanding offensive play­er. His header against Providence in the semifinals proved to be the only scoring in the game. This season, Detter has 11 goals and four assists for a team-high 26 points. 
CUTPCST 
~ 
Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes from Campus Call259·1ooo for more details 

Admission is free although donations will be accepted at the gate. All proceeds from the event will benefit the Sports Camp for Girls in Siguatepeque. Honduras, a charity selected through the Center for Social Concerns. 
Women's Ice Hockey 

Tori Blainey. Becca Fridgy and Saint Mary's Megan Mattia will lead the Irish this weekend in a very challenging schedule. The club will travel to East Lansing, Mich .. on Friday to play Michigan State at 10:45 p.m. and again Saturday at 5:30 p.m. before returning home. The Irish will then host Western Michigan Sunday. at 9 a.m. at the Joyce Center ice rink. Mattia and Blainey. with strong support from Jaky Kehler and Lizzy Coghill will try to get the potentially potent offense in gear for these key CCWHA games. 
Men's Volleyball 

The men's volleyball club will open its season this Saturday at the Rolfs Sports and Recreational Center as it hosts the Notre Dame Golden Dome Annual Invitational. Top 
Tuesday, November 18, 2003

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS 

BUG DAVISSON!The Observer Irish quarterback Brady Quinn sits In the pocket against the Cougars. Notre Dame allowed only two sacks Saturday. 
Line 
continued from page 20 
closer," Morton said. "On the field and off the field, you real­ly develop a trust among each other. It's a really good situa­tion." 
Quarterback Brady Quinn has seen his sack numbers decrease in the last few games, and he said the line's play has enabled the entire offense to make great strides. 
"Anytime I see [the offensive line] come together, and the running game is picking up, it gives me confidence in the passing game," Quinn said. 
After a slow start, Jones has seen his numbers improve, 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
Maureen Palchak took a pair of events, winning both the 50­yard and 100-yard freestyle races. Senior Megan Ramsey also won two races. taking first place in the 1 00-yard but­terfly and 200-yard freestyle. Other top races for the Belles included sophomore Kelly Nelis, who won the 500-yard freestyle, and freshman Caitlin Fitzpatrick, who won the 100­yard backstroke and took sec­ond in the 40-yard individual medley. 
"They were ready for us," Petcoff said. "[Albion] did not want to Jose three years in a row." 
Saint Mary's now faces the 

enor1-r-1ous 
FLEECE 
Selecti:?• 
~ 
fiom DUTPDST 
Campus J•z.Jif: 
Cold Weather Experts 


Call259-~ooo for more details 
and some of that credit should go to the offensive line. Since the USC game, and excluding the Boston College contest, Jones has had solid rushing statistics in every game ­averaging 135.5 yards in those four contests. He agrees that line has come together more, and he believes they will improve even more during the rest of the season and into 2004. 
"They are going to be out­standing," Jones said. "They are young this year -a lot of them have never played before -but they got a lot of experi­ence this year, and they have done pretty well. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
challenge of maintaining focus during an extended break as the Belles will not compete until the first weekend of December at the Gene Davis Invitational, where they will be competing against several Division III programs at Lawrence University in Wisconsin. 
"We are going to be looking for season-best times across the board," Petcoff said. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

leers 
continued from page 20 
Pearce. 
After scoring in the final minute of the first, the Irish came back to score in the first minute of the second as defenseman Brett Lebda took a cross-ice feed from forward Matt Amado and took advantage of a defensive breakdown to slip it past Pearce. 
Brown, while still picking up the shutout, may have gotten a little lucky in the second period. Following a turnover in the neu­tral zone, the Under-18 team came in on a two-on-one, fore­ing Brown to move to his right to guard the shooter. 
The Under-18 team's Jack Johnson received a cross from his teammate and had a wide open net, but hit the post as he tried to slip it in. Brown was able to get back in time to keep Johnson from getting another chance at the puck. 
Notre Dame added goals from Tim Wallace and Mike Walsh later in the game to put it away, and outshot the Under-18 team by a-count of 39-28. 
Notre Dame returns to regular season action next weekend at home when the Irish play host to Lake Superior at the Joyce Center. Game time on Friday is 7:35p.m. 
NOTRE DAME 4, U.S. UNDER-18 TEAM 0 at JOYCE CENTER 
1st  2nd 3rd Total  
NOTRE DAME  1  2  1  4  
U.S. UNDER-18  0  0  0  0  

Scoring Summary ND-Tom Galvin. 1st. 19:09. (Michael Bartlett, Rob Globke) ND-Brett Lebda. 2nd. 00:41, (Matt 
Amado, Globke) 
ND-Tim Wallace, 2nd, 9:55. (Lebda) 
ND-Matt Walsh, 3rd, 12:25, (Noah Babin, Aaron Gill) 
Notre Dame -Saves 28 (Dave Brown 28), Shots 39 (Tom Galvin. T.J. Mathieson, Josh Sciba 5), Penalties 10 
U.S. Under-18-Saves 35 (Jordan Pearce 35). Shots 28 (Matt Auffrey 4), Penalties 9 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


Everyday on this campus, someone is made to feel that he or she doesn't belong. It may even be obvious to anyone except the person that is hurt. When I walk across South 
"'u'"'L I don't see anyone with at-shirt that ways "White Anglo-Saxon Males Rule!" But I 
see it in the attitudes of people and in the comments that I hear. "That's so gay," when someone disagrees with what a friend says. And I hear the embarrassment and desire in someone's voice when all her friends are going to shop at the mall, again, because there's nothing better to do on a Tuesday afternoon, when she can't afford a $250 shopping spree 
at Abercrombie & Fitch just for the heck of it! 

'mon-the guys are just using a common expression, it's not like they really said it to homosexuals. And the girls are just having a good time; it's not their fault that parents make a ton of money! 
And these arguments may be true. The guys might not really hate homosexuals and the salaries of their parents are not in the control of the girls. But everyone is capable of sen­tivity to others. 
of the worst things about discrimination on our campus is that the majority of stu­don't even realize that it is here! It's not aimed at the straight white upper-middle class Catholic population. For every blatantly hurtful action, there are hundreds of every-actions and comments that make certain groups of students feel unsure about them­. All of these little things combine to form a subtle yet unwelcoming environment discourages diversity, respect and acceptance of all on campus. 
y, Thesday, November 18th at 7 p.m., ADAPT (Advanced Diversity Action & Planning Team), a new group sponsored by the Office of Student Affairs, is hosting "Let's talk about it," an interactive event that will push the Notre Dame community to face the problems surrounding 
issues of diversity and sensitivity on campus. 
Sometimes "Just having fun" isn't 



. Th ..rua·.· ·.· · fMultic~..u....-al Afl .. s
e Vf.UU OL.. . .....···· . \Duo· . . 8U .. 
Presents 

·· D~te~ wi«lesaay November•l9th 
.. >.·····················~~!;7pm.•····
·venue:1anoliui!1omilfsail1tlal1e college· 

Greyhouncl has 
Indiana covered for the holidays. Greyhound makes It easy to travel throughout Indiana or across the country during the holidays with everyday low fares and convenient departures. Save even more when you ship your holiday packages anywhere In the U.S. with Greyhound Package Express. 
South Bend: 4671 Terminal Drive 57 4-287-6542 
<::;;;;:&----0 
J"~ 
GREYHOUND 

Tuesday, November 18, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
CLARE O'BRIEN
ScHOOL DAZE 


HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
I'm not paying 

-
LULET 
j 
1 

ri t)
tRITHEM j 
51-bDDV WORK WIU­00 THIS TO A
J rI 
TAIL-OR.'S SAL-£:5.
www.jumble.com

tNACTAV t Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, asJ I I I) suggested by the above cartoon. ~= rI I I I I I J ( I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: TITLE BOWER RABBIT BEAUTY Answer: He took blackjack lessons to become -A BETTER BETTOR 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Editor's overruling 
s Oddball 10 Antilur org. 14 "St. Elmo's Fire· 
singer John 15 Admit 16 North Carolina 
school 17 Pac-10 team 18 Played 
charades 19 Vessel that's poled . 20 Is like a stumped puzzle 
solver? 23 Golf unit 24 Eyeshadow 
shade 25 Voluble 28 Morning cupful, 
slangily 30 Lennon's lady 33 Green beans 
34 Disney's ·-& Stitch" 35 Cowboy boot attachment 36 Like a stumped puzzle solver? 39 Cologne scent 40 Parisian hangout 41 Old enough 
42 Second letter addendum: Abbr. 
43 Compassion 
44 "Psycho" figure 
45 Headmaster's 
title 46 Hatchling's sound 47 Where a stumped puzzle solver goes? 55 Feel sympathy (for) 56 Produce hurriedly, with "out" 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

57 Scott in a noted court case 58 Picnic dish 59 Halt 60 Piedmont province 61 Brewski 62 Less predictable 63 Leave behind 
DOWN 1 Starchy veggie 2 Edible shell 3_Stanley 
Gardner 4 Insults and such 
from athletes 5 Point-blank 6 Milk for un bebe 7"_boy!" 8 City on the 
Dneiper 
9 Undertaking 10 Vantage point 11 Airline launched 
In 1948 12 Meat substitute 13 Kitty starter 21 "Wrong!" 22 Simile words 25 Jumper cable's 
end 26 Touch for funds 27 Build up 281nstant 29 Bum remedy 30 Colleague of Dr. 
Phil 31 Prod gently 32 Canadian 
skater Brian 
WILLSHORTZ 

34 Future J.D.'s  44 Less kind  50 Outbuilding  
hurdle 35 Play down, as an issue 37 Volkswagen named lor a desert wind 38 Gentleman  45 Depicts distortedly 46 Race winnings 47 McCartney's instrument 48 Bill of Rights defender: Abbr.  51 Campus hangout 52 Roughly 53 Butterfly catchers' needs  
caller, e.g.  49 Neighbor of  54 Falco of "The  
43 Fruit center  Niger  Sopranos"  

For answers, call 1·900-420-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1·800·814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available lor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888·7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leaminl)'xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Linda Evans, Elizabeth Perkins, Kevin Nealon, 
Brenda Vaccaro, Margaret Atwood 

Happy Birthday: You'll be empathetic when dealing with others this year, 
which will bring you loyalty and help in return. You can tum some of your 
ideas into a tangible commodity. The more you get involved in, the better your 
chances will be to achieve the success you want. Take a chance and follow 
your dreams. Your numbers: 6, 19, 22, 25, 34,40 
ARIES (March 21·Apri119): You're in the mood to party. Make arrangements to meet friends at your local hangout. You are likely to meet an interesting 
individual you'll want to get to know a lot better. ••• TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You need to drop all those jobs that have been keeping you busy and take some time out to enjoy friends and lovers. Organize a get-together that will help start off the festive season. •••• GEMINI (May 21-June 20): This will be an adventure-filled day if you are prepared to cast your fate to the wind. You need to cut loose and have some fun. New relationships may develop. •• CANCER (June 21-July 22): Social events will encourage romantic encounters, but deception within relationships is evident. Don't let yourself be taken in by someone who isn't trustworthy. •**•• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Romantic opportunities will develop through organizational activities. You can make financial gains through group ventures. Time spent with children will be rewarding and insightful. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You must channel your energy wisely. Do things that will help you better yourself. Physical activities will lead to greater self-esteem. You can complete hobbies if you put your mind to it. ••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will be upset with someone you live with. You may want to take some time to decide how you feel about the relationship you're in and your partner's way of treating you. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Find ways to cut your costs when it comes to gifts, entertainment and the whole festive season. If you use your ingenuity, you can come up with ideas that will impress everyone. ••••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be in trouble if you have been evading issues regarding your personal intentions. It is best to sit down and open up to the one in question. You will have to be precise. •• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Emotional difficulties will surface if you haven't been completely honest with yourself or your partner. Go over some of the past occurrences before making a decision. •••• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Keep your personal secrets to yourself. New love interests will unfold ifyou join groups or clubs. Your high energy will lead you down new and exciting avenues. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take it easy; you need rest and relaxation. Your nerves are frazzled, and it's probably been a long time since your last vacation. Spend some time with your mate. ••• 
Birthday Baby: Your need to do things your way will be met with opposition. Your surefire way of taking charge and doing can lead to success as long as yov learn to take heed of the advice given by others along the way. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q ­Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ________ State _____ Zip,_______ 
-------~ 
THE OBSER\'ER 



PORTS
Tuesday, November 18, 2003 
Page 20 
fOOTBALL 

Push 'em back 
Irish offensive line coming together after rough start 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Edicor 
They took much of the blame when Notre Dame's offense struggled this season, but after Saturday's win over BYU, they deservedly took much of the credit. 
The Irish offensive line has battled through injury and inexperience to become a bet­ter unit as the season has pro­gressed, and the results have been clear in the last few games. 
"The line has really matured throughout the season," tackle Jim Molinaro said. "We've had our tough times, but we're really coming together as a unit." 

-
The group did not allow a sack against Florida State, 
Boston College and Navy, before giving up two against BYU. They have blocked well for Julius Jones in his two 200-yard rushing performanc­es, as well as the tailback's 

161-yard game versus the Cougars. 
After losing four players to the NFL draft at the end of the 2002 season, this year's offen­sive line was a concern from the beginning of spring prac­tice. The only returning starter, guard Sean Milligan, was injured early in the sea­son and hasn't played since the Michigan game Sept. 13. Centers Bobby Morton and Zachary Giles have switched in and out of their position throughout the season, and tackle/guard Dan Stevenson hasn't played in two games because of an injury. 
That's left a thin offensive line even thinner. But the Irish have persevered and made great strides in the last several weeks. 
"I think anytime you put five guys -in our case nine -into the heat of battle, over a ten or 11-week span, you grow 
see LINE/page 18 


MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish grab No.5 seed in NCAA Tourney 
Special to The Observer 
Good news continues to roll in for the Notre Dame men's soc­cer team (15-3-3). The 2003 Big East champions found out where they stand in the NCAA Championship, were ranked third in the nation and landed a team member on the College Soccer News Team of the Week. 
The NCAA Men's Soccer Committee announced the field of 48 for the 2003 champi­onship Monday. Notre Dame received the fifth seed in the tournament, the highest in school history, and will have a bye in the first round of action -a first for the program. The Irish were seeded fifth behind No. 1 UCLA, No. 2 Maryland, No. 3 Wake Forest and No. 4 North Carolina. 
Notre Dame will face the win-
see RANKING/page 17 
SMC SWIMMING 


Lack of divers hurts Belles against Albion 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's faced a 29"point deficit before the Belles hit the water during their dual meet against Albion Coll"ege last Saturday. The Belles needed to overcome the chal­

55.9 second time for the 200­yard medley two weekends ago, Saint Mary's swam a· time of 1:57.29. This two-second difference, however, still proved to be detrimental for Saint Mary's as Albion finished four seconds better than their best time this season to edge 
out the Belles 

lenge of not having by only .8 sec­
"We were a little
a diving team but onds with a came up short as off, and Albion was time of 1:56.45. they lost to Albion Saint Mary's
able to take 
128-106. also unexpect­
advantage. '' 
Despite the loss, edly did not do Saint Mary's still well in the remained domi­Gregg Petcoff 1,650-yard nant in the swim­freestyle, as
Belles coach 
-
ming events as the Belles claimed first place in six of the nine events, including the 50-, 100-, 200­and 500-yard freestyle events, as well as the 100-yard back­stroke and 100-yard butterfly. 
But Albion took full advan­
tage of every moment Saint Mary's did not compete with its best times. After swimming a record-breaking 1 minute, 

Albion captured the top three times in the race. 
"We were a little off. and Albion was able to take advan­tage," Saint Mary's coach Gregg Petcoff said. 
But despite the team set­backs and a nagging shoulder injury, Saint Mary's senior 
see BELLES/page 18 

HOCKEY 
Irish handle Under-18 team 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Although the jerseys were something new, the stellar goal­tending was not. 
Sporting a new gold third jer­sey, Notre Dame used 28 saves from freshman goaltender David Brown and goals from four dif­ferent players to take care of the 
U.S. National Team Development Program's Under­18 team in an exhibition match Friday by a score of 4-0. 
The Under-18 team, based in Ann Arbor, Mich., features the top under-18 prospects in the nation and has helped supply eight current Notre Dame play­ers. 
Notwithstanding the fact the results of the exhibition do not count toward their final season record, the Irish still came out hard and aggressive against the younger U.S. team. 
"This would have been an off week for us," Irish head coach Dave Poulin said, "but instead it was a chance for us to play a pretty talented team and try out some players in different roles." 
Despite the large number of youngsters on the ice for both teams, Poulin said it was senior forward Rob Globke -who assisted on the first goal of the game -who really helped keep the team focused. 

"I thought that Rob played outstanding tonight," Poulin said. "He really set the tone for the game and played it simple and smart. I was pleased with the way he set the tempo early." 
The Irish took the early lead with less than a minute left in the first period when Globke sent a crisp pass to forward Michael Bartlett, but Bartlett was unable to handle it. The deflection off Barlett's stick went right to forward Tom Galvin, who put a shot past the Under­18 team netminder Jordan 
see ICERS/page 18 

...... 
NCAA FOOTBAlL 
NCAA BASKETBAll 

NCAA BASKETBALl 
NFL 
NBA
en 

Michigan quarterback 
Purdue seniors 

Raiders coach Bill 
Wrapups from

Connecticut 70, 
49ers 30, 

1--" w 

z John Navarre's name is 
Shereka Wright, Erika 

Callahan is upset that 
Monday's action around 

Yale 60 
Steelers 14 

already atop the 
Valek, Lindsey Hicks and 

the circulating accusa­
the National Basketball

The top-ranked 
Wide receiver Terrell 

a: ::5 

Wolverine record books, 
Beth Jones hope this is 

tions that four of his 
Association.

Huskies overcame a 
Owens had eight catch-
c.::l 

but a win over Ohio 
the year they capture the 

players have been using 
three-point halftime 
es for 155 yards in San 
c:c 

State Saturday could 
title they were brought to 

illegal steroids could be 
deficit to beat the 
Francisco's victory over 
= 
make him a legend. 
Purdue to win. 

hurting the team. 
Bulldogs by 10. 
Oakland.

D. !;: 

en 
page 12
page 15 
page 15 
page 13

page 14 
page 13 









