
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
NY Times columnist Brooks speaks at ND 
Best-selling author discusses polarization ofAmerican politics through five influential books 
By DOLORES DIAZ 
News Writer 
David Brooks, a New York Times columnist and a best­selling author, traced the polar­ization of American politics through the last 50 years in a talk given Tuesday in Carey Auditorium. 
Brooks is best known for the book "Bobos in Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There" and his work as a political analyst on "The News Hour with Jim Lehrer." 
In his talk. Brooks said that the American public had become isolated within its indi­vidual groups and that govern­ment, the only common ground that these sectors had to inter­act, had become increasingly divided. 
"We're segmenting off into different cultural zones and what I think happens is that every place becomes more like itself," Brooks said. "You have less and less in common with other people 30 miles down the road." 
Brooks presented his Five white shirts," he said. Book Theory that traced the Brooks said tradition then polarization of politics through tumbled with the Vietnam War five influential books of the past and the release of David 50 years. The books began rep­Halberstam's "The Best and resenting a The Brightest." Carl traditional Bernstein and Bob politic that "It could be that Woodward's "All the altered President's Men,"
American people 

through the saw the Nixon years Vietnam War are just sick of and the infamous and various scandals. From Watergate scandal in scandals and which President
now on maybe

resulted in the Richard Nixon was
scandal mongering 
polarization of implicated in the American gov­won't have such a involvement of the ernment. 1972 break in and
big effect. Maybe

The first electronic bugging of
that's the way

b 0 0 k • the Democratic Theodore H. out ofit." National committee. White's "The "The politics of Making of the scandal began to
David Brooks

President, overtake," Brooks
columnist

1960," was said. representative New York Times In his opinion, "The of traditional Real Anita Hill" by American poli-David Brock was "the tics. said Brooks. politics of scandal turned into 
"The message of that book blood-sport" and gave birth to was white men in power; when the age of Clinton in which you read that book you get a scandal became deeply sense of how Washington was in the 1960's -white men, see BROOKS/page 4 

Sayers' fund received warmly 
Faculty, staff react positively to minority scholarship initiative 
By MATTHEW SMEDBERG 
News Writer 
Faculty and staff have responded positively to the Friday announcement made by Valerie Sayers detailing a scholarship fund for minori­ty students, to be supported by faculty 
~~~ through contribu­tions from payroll deduc­tions. 
Sayers, who made t h e announce-Sayers ment in her acceptance speech for the Sheedy Award for Excellence in Teaching, is a professor in the English department. 
"(Sayers') initiative is an interesting approach," said John Affleck-Graves, University vice president and associate provost. "It is important that we all work hard to achieve [a diverse campus] both in our student body and in the faculty." 
Iris Outlaw, director of Multicultural Student Programs and Services, agreed. She said she also hopes to see faculty initia­tives aimed at supporting diversity among their own ranks. 
"I admire the faculty in creating this scholarship. I also believe that they should consider establishing sup­port programs for their col­leagues of color," she said. "Per my perspective, if stu­dents see diversity in the faculty ranks, they [will] think that the University is attempting to meet the chal­lenge of diversifying all areas of the Notre Dame community." 
Sayers said she was donating the monetary part of the Sheedy Award to the new fund to help it get started. It is unclear how many faculty are likely to contribute, but Mark Roche, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, is one of sever­al to pledge support. 
"Those of us who con­tribute to such an initiative with our own personal funds will benefit not only from the quality and kind of student we attract, but also from the stronger emotional connections we will gain to Notre Dame in the process," Hoche said. "Contributing to such an initiative allows us to commit to the University's highest ideals in a way that transcends and complements our intel­lectual contributions." 
Affleck-Graves also said that "[We] have a very gen­erous faculty who con­tribute to a multitude of important causes from United Way to the missions in Uganda and Bangladesh, so my presumption is that there will be support for this proposal." 
Carol Mooney, also a vice president and associate provost, applauded the measure while noting that it cannot stand alone. Efforts to build diversity, she said, "are built piece by piece, like a mosaic; when enough pieces are in place, a clear and coherent picture emerges." 
"This particular piece is especially powerful because it is built on the commit­ment of individual members of the community." 
Other pieces of this mosa­ic should include "programs for underrepresented stu­dents which encourage them to pursue termin_al degrees," said Outlaw, as well as measures to help ensure "that we see more than the Western and European ideology. There· have been significant con­tributions from members of other ethnic backgrounds." 
Contact Matthew Smedberg at smedberg.l@nd.edu 


Saint Mary's to host Showcase of Careers 
By ANNIE BASINSKI 
News Writer 

Representatives from 59 local and national organiza­tions will recruit students for employment and internship positions at the Saint Mary's annual Showcase of Careers event Thursday. 
Jeff Roberts, associate direc­tor of career opportunities, Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) will be among the organizations that will be rep­resented. The number of organizations represented in this year's Showcase is a sig­nificant increase from the 38 present during last year's career fair. 
"It's exciting, because repre­sentatives from these organi­zations will bring hundreds of new opportuni­ties for our stu­
said Showcase of "It's a wonderful dents to 
Careers is the explore,"
networking
"premiere event" Roberts said. 
opportunity. " 
that the A resume drop Counseling and will also be C a r e e r available for
Jeff Roberts 
Development those organiza­
associate director of
Center sponsors. tions that are 
career opportunities
"It's a wonder­unable to send 
ful networking opportunity -a great way of developing con­tacts and connections and a way for students to explore a wide range of job possibilities in a time efficient manner," Roberts said. 
Organizations slated to appear include businesses, graduate schools, volunteer organizations and government service programs. AFLAC, Army ROTC, Indiana University School of Public and Environmental Affairs, Camp Tecumseh YMCA, Kaplan Educational Services and the 
representatives 
to attend the fair. 

Before attending the fair. Roberts suggests that students review the C&CDC Web site, which provides a link called "Making the Most of a Career Fair" that contains informa­tion about the organizations scheduled to appear and offers tips for ways to approach an employer or graduate school representative. The site also provides students with sugges­tions for appropriate questions to ask representatives. 
see CAREERS/page 4 

Wednesday, November 19, 2003 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The great divide 

There's an obvious divide between Notre Dame coaches. There are the greats. There are the goods. And there are the merely lamentable. 
Rockne. Leahy. Parseghian. The greats. Nine con­sensus champi­Kate Gales onships between them, scores of All-Americans 

Wire Editor
and a place in the history books for all. 

Devine. Holtz. The goods. A cham­pionship ring apiece. Two men of sheer determination, perhaps with­out the genius of Rockne, but who ultimately got the job done. Devine sometimes struggled through his seasons, but with a quarterback like Joe Montana, who could be denied a championship? 
Holtz started his first season 6-5. However, he led the Irish to a national championship in 1988 ­our most recent win. His all-time winning record over 11 seasons was 100-30-2. 
Then there are the coaches that are forgotten in the eyes of our Irish history. Gerry Faust, Bob Davie, Terry Brennan, Joe Kuharich. No titles. No memorials. My dad, who entered school the year after the 1977 championship team, is still bit­ter about watching Faust painfully weaken the football program. 
It's a funny thing about those titles, though. They set the good coaches apart from those who have been forgotten by the casual follow­er. In all of Notre Dame football his­tory -and a more storied history has perhaps never existed -a coach has won a title in his third year. 
If he doesn't have a national championship in the third year of coaching, he's out. 
And the Willingham era is soon approaching that great divide. 

Ty is already in the record books as the first-year coach with the most wins and the first African-American head coach at Notre Dame. 
However, his 10-2 first season could almost cause him more prob­lems than glory. The rebuilding stage crucial to any program, espe­cially one in transition from the complicated West Coast style of offense, will take time -time that fans are loath to give. Davie, Ty's highly criticized predecessor on the gridiron, in fact left a standout defense that was sorely missed this year. 
It remains to be seen whether Ty will be remembered as a good, as a great, or hardly at all. His second year seems to be ending on an upward swing. With a few more wins and possible bowl bid, perhaps the Irish will gain confidence in themselves. The third-year divide may not bring a title to the land of Rockne, but hopefully it will see a program on its way to living up to the shadows of the past that perme­ate the campus of Notre Dame. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd. edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CLARIFICATION 

In the Nov. 18 edition ofThe Observer, a lerrer to the editor written by Justin Brandon said some students were escorted out of the Stadium in handcuffs after throwing marshmallows during the BYU game. Saturday. Cappy Gagnon, the coordinator of Stadium personnel, said no students were handcuffed by NDSP officers. Gagnon also said ushers do nor carry handcuffS. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WILL HAPPEN BEFORE NOTRE DAME GETS CD-ED DORMS?. 



fly. " 
IN BRIEF 

Daniel Frank. director of Judaic Studies Program at University of Kentucky, will pres­ent "Friendship and the Possibility of Charity" today from 4:30 to 5:45 p.m. in DeBartolo room 119. 
Gather a group of friends and play drop-in volleyball tonight from 7 to 11 p.m. at Rolfs court 4. 
The Tennessee Williams play "The Glass Menagerie" opens Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets can be purchased at the LaFortune Information desk. 
Come for food, fellowship and fun at Theology on Tap at Legends tonight from 10 p.m. to midnight. 
The last part of a 4-part series entitled "The Gospel According to Bono" will be held tonight from 10 to 11 p.m. in Coleman Morse Lounge. Practice solidarity with Africa and pray for justice and an end to poverty and AIDS. 
SUB presents the movie "Pirates of the Carribean" Thursday beginning at 10 p.m. in DeBartolo room 101. 
Fr. Dave Schlaver will speak in the O'Neill Hall Chapel about Mother Teresa of Calcutta and the Call to Service Thursday at 9 
p.m.. Using the life of Mother Teresa as a model of Christian charity, Fr. Schlaver will speak about how Christians may come to appreciate and act upon a call to service in their lives. Mass and free food will follow Fr. Schlaver's presentation. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer; e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

59 40 


HIGH LOW 

Megan Lloyd Junior Off-Campus  Alanna Lungren Senior Off-Campus  Christa Moen Senior OffCampus  Martla Murphy Senior Welsh Family  Katie Szewczuk Senior Off-Campus  Carrie Peters Senior Off-Campus  
'The devil on  "When  "Co-ed is not in  'They'd have to  "It won't. "  "When pigs can  

ice skates ... feminism isn't the vocabulary start listening that's why I live considered a ofthe adminis-to students ­offcampus. " dirty word. " tration." which will never happen." 

CHIP MARKS/The Observer Students In the senior section sing "Notre Dame Our Mother" at the final home football game Saturday against BYU. The Irish defeated BYU 33-14. 
OFFBEAT 
Russian School Tries Out Pay Toilets 
MOSCOW -Pay toilets are not unusual, but in school? 
For a short time, students at a high school in the southern Russian city of Taganrog had to do more than raise their hands and ask for permission to use the bathroom -they had to fork over cash, NTV tele­vision reported Tuesday. 
School officials instituted a plan to charge pupils for toilet trips in order to pay for repairs that were need­ed after students vandal­ized bathroom fixtures, NTV said. City education authorities quickly halted the practice, NTV reported, without saying how much they had to pay. 
Man's Finger Stuck In Pay Phone for Hours 
EAST ST. LOUIS, Ill. -A man and a pay phone were rushed to a hospital after he got his finger stuck in the coin return slot while trying to retrieve his 50 cents. 
Emergency room doctors gave Emanuel Fleming a painkiller Monday and pried his middle finger loose using a wooden device and lubricant, end­
"The bone in my finger felt like it was going to break. My finger was numb. It was very painful," said Fleming, an elemen­tary school janitor. 
Fleming had tried to call his wife, but the line was busy. Two passers-by tried to help. When they failed to free him, Fleming used his other hand to dial 911. 
Emergency crews and a representative of the com­pany that owns the phone were sent to the scene. But they were also unable to free Fleming. 
Information compiled 
ing the three-hour ordeal. from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0::: 
LLI 
:::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..J
c:c 
(,) 



40 
35 

55 36 


55 37 
0 
HIGH 54

-I 
LOW 48 

Wednesday, November 19, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Young adults split
Hungaria honors Fr. Gabriel 
• 

Professor emeritus awarded honorary degree in native country 

on gay marriages 
Special 10 !he Observer 
Abbot Astrik L. Gabriel, director and professor emeri­tus in the University's Medieval Institute and director of the Frank M. Folsom Ambrosiana Microfilm and Photographic Collection, received an hon­orary degree Monday from Pazmany Peter Catholic University of Budapest. 
Father Dr. Gyorgy Fodor, rec­tor of the Hungarian universi­ty, traveled to Notre Dame with several colleagues to confer the degree during a private reception and dinner on cam­pus. 
A Hungarian native, Dr. Gabriel, 95, has been a mem­ber of the Notre Dame faculty since 1948. He is a correspon­ding member of the French, Bavarian and Hungarian Academies of Sciences; has been decorated by the govern­ments of France (officer in the Palmes Academiques and knight and officer in the Legion d'Honneur) and Italy (Commander of the Order of Merit); and in 1976 received the Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice from the Holy See. The French academy awarded its Thorlet and Dourlans Prizes for his books, "History of Ave Maria 
Paris." As director of the Medieval 
Associa1ed Press 

Institute from 1953-74, Dr. Gabriel oversaw the microfilm WASHINGTON -Younger
reproduction of the manu­
adults are evenly split over
scripts and drawings of the 
gay marriages. but older
Biblioteca Ambrosiana in 
Americans are opposed by aMilan. The University named 
4-1 margin, according to a
its Collection on the History of 
poll examining attitudes
Universities in his honor. Dr. 
about homosexuality. 

Gabriel also has served as a The poll. released Tuesdayvisiting professor at Harvard by the Pew Research Center
University and twice as a 
for the People & the Press,
member of the Institute for 
found that opposition to gayAdvanced Study at Princeton marriage increased the olderUniversity. 
people became. While younger people in general were more apt to 
approve of gay marriage ­
those between ages 20 and 
30 were about evenly split on 
favoring or opposing -the

Thunderstorms hit Deep South 
poll found that among those 
Auocialcd Press 
ACKSON, Miss. -A line of 

the Deep South on Tuesday unleashed an apparent tornado in Mississippi and roared into Alabama with enough wind to topple trees and knock out power to 50,000 customers. 
At least 54 people were injured from Texas to Alabama. 
Most of the Alabama power outages were between Birmingham and Tuscaloosa, where winds up to 50 mph knocked out car windows and blew down a billboard at a Tuscaloosa convenience store around lunchtime. 
Police in Tuscaloosa said one 
in their 60s and 70s, oppo­
person was hurt as flying debris 
nents outnumbered support­
and stiff winds knocked out win­
ers by more than four to one. 
dows in several cars and a 
Opposition to gay marriage
school bus. Shingles were peeled 
has grown since midsummer,
off the roof of a drug store. 
with 32 percent favoring it 
Earlier, in Louisiana, about 
and 59 percent opposing it. In 
40,000 customers were without 
July, 53 percent said they 
power for a time west of New 
opposed gay marriage, and 
Orleans. Waterspouts forced 
38 percent approved.

temporary closure of the 24-mile 
Political attitudes sharply 
causeway spanning Lake 
affected beliefs about gay
Pontchartrain, and rain swept 
marriage. Four in five of 
across metropolitan New 
those who say they would 
Orleans. . 
vote to re-elect President 
Power was restored quickly to 
Bush oppose gay marriage,
most customers in both 
while those who prefer that a 
Louisiana and Alabama. 
Democrat win the presidency 
College" and "Chartularium Auctarii of the University of 
Older Americans oppos~d by 4-1 margin 
are evenly split on the ques­tion. 
Massachusetts' highest court ruled Tuesday that the state constitution gives same­sex couples the right to marry but stopped short of allowing marriage licenses to be issued to couples who challenged a ban on gay mar­riage. The Supreme Judicial Court's 4-3 ruling ordered the state Legislature to come up with a solution within 180 days. 
The Pew poll showed the public to be evenly divided on whether gays and lesbians can alter their sexual orienta­tion, with white Evangelicals are the most likely to think homosexuals can become heterosexual, the poll said. 
"Evangelicals are far more likely to say homosexuals can change, Catholics and main­line Protestants fall in the middle and more secular peo­ple are most likely to say they cannot change," said Scott Keeter, a pollster with the center. 
The survey reinforced the finding that religious atti­tudes sharply affect feelings on gays and homosexual behavior. Those with a high level of religious commitment oppose gay marriage by 80 percent to 12 percent. 




JPW2004 
February 20, 21 and 22, 2004 
And the Nominees Are ... 
Lottery for guaranteed rooms at the Morris Inn will take place Friday, December 5th. ' · Pick up lottery applications at the front desk of the Morris Inn 
JPW Invitations and Ticket 
Applications were mailed last 
week to the parents of the 
entire Class of 2005, and all 
Seniors who studied abroad 
last semester. 
Ifyour invited guests do not receive an invitation this week, 
you can download the ticket application from the JPW website: 

www.nd.edu/-jpw 
or stop by the Student Activities Office at 315 Lafortune to pick up an invitation and application! 
Wednesday, November 19,2003
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 

Michael Jackson's CA ranch searched 
Associated Press 
LOS OLIVOS, Calif. Officers conducting a criminal investigation searched Michael Jackson's Neverland Ranch on Tuesday. The purpose of the raid was not disclosed. 
Court TV cited unidentified sources as saying the search warrant was tied to sexual­abuse allegations brought by a 12-or 13-year-old boy. Sheriff's officials and the district attor­ney's office refused comment. 
Jackson spokesman Stuart Backerman also refused to comment on any allegations and said neither he nor Jackson knew the details of the investigation. 
Sixty to 70 investigators from the Santa Barbara County sher­iff's and district attorney's offices served a warrant as part of an "ongoing criminal investi­gation," Sgt. Chris Pappas said. No immediate arrests were made. 
Backerman said Jackson and his three young children were not at the ranch at the time and have been in Las Vegas, where Jackson is making a video. 
Jackson denounced media coverage of the search in a statement released by Backerman to The Associated Press. 
"I've seen lawyers who don't represent me and spokespeople who do not know me speaking for me. These characters always seem to surface with dreadful allegations just as another project, an album, a video is being released," the Jackson statement said. 

The 45-year-old singer who had international hits with the albums "Thriller" (1982), "Bad" (1987) and "Dangerous" (1991) saw his career begin to collapse in 1993 amid allegations he molested a boy. Jackson has maintained his innocence, and charges were never filed. He reportedly paid a multimillion­dollar settlement. 
Jackson is also connected to Hollywood private eye Anthony Pellicano, who began serving federal prison time Monday for possessing illegal explosives. Pellicano is under investigation on suspicion he secretly taped conversations of celebrities and their lawyers. 
Pellicano, 59, worked for Jackson as a spokesman and security consultant during the abuse investigation. 
The search came on the same day Epic Records released "Number Ones," a greatest hits collection featuring Jackson's new single, "One More Chance." On Nov. 26, CBS is scheduled to air a Jackson spe­cial consisting mainly of old concert footage. 


w···h··.····.·,·.· .·o ·c·.·.ore~ · " 
•local 
&. Long Oiston<:e ~··Boxes &Pockin~f Supplies. 

• 
loading &Unloading of Rental Trucks Available 


Notre Damt'11ntel'flational Study Prog~m in ~ko 
Ate you teqQy yetl 
PueblaToday 



"M· ·overs ··· 
• 
Residential 

•
Comrnerciol 

• 
Packing ServiCe 

• 
Insured & Bonded 




(574l675·9'70Q·t,\:.'(·:. 
www.twom•nondotruck.com · 
Visit Out Box Storel 
11590 McKinley, Suife D •Osceola, IN 46561 

Brooks 
continued from page 1 
entrenched in the political sys­tem. 

"During that period what happened was the machinery of scandal became institution­alized [and] became politics itself," Brooks said. "One of the things I discovered was that scandal could destroy leg­islation." 
The final book of the theory described the complete polar­ization of American politics. 
"You've got a monopoly on virtue ....The other side is wrong, but not only are they wrong, they're illegitimate. It's 

Careers 
continued from page 1 
The C&CDC Web site also has a link to the Saint Mary's Career Workbook which has a chapter called "Job Search Fundamentals" that further outlines the job search process. 

Another way for students to prepare for the Showcase is to attend a workshop that will expand on the topic of job search essentials. Workshops will be in the West Wing of The Noble Family Dining Hall from 
12:30 to 1 p.m. and 5:30 to 6 
p.m. today. 
Roberts advises juniors and seniors who plan to utilize a team sport -your team ver­sus our team," Brooks said. 
However, he also pointed to the education system as a pos­sible factor in this polariza­tion, citing that the educated are more likely to vote straight ticke, and may be partly responsible for the dis­appearance of the middle voter that now makes up a mere eight percent of the vote as opposed to the previous 17 percent. 
"It could be that as you get more educated, you get more partisan, which would be iron­ic." 
Brooks concluded with a hope that the American public may be the one to break the cycle of scandal politics. He 
the career fair to make con­nections with potential employers to bring copies of their resumes and to dress in formal business attire. Underclassmen who will use the fair as a way to learn more about future career opportunities should be pre­pared to ask questions about ways they can begin to take steps to become more quali­fied job applicants. Roberts said these students should dress in business casual attire. 
In addition to learning more about career and graduate school possibilities, students can meet and make connec­tions with Saint Mary's alum­nae, who will represent at least ten of the organizations. 
"In tight economic times, cited the October election of Arnold Schwarzenegger to the California governorship despite scandal as a possibility that the public could rise above the "us-and-them" mentality. 

"It could be that American people are just sick of scan­dals. From now on maybe scandal mongering won't have such a big effect. Maybe that's the way out of it," Brooks said. 
Brooks visited Notre Dame as journalist-in-residence, sponsored by the University's John W. Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. 
Contact Dolores Diaz at ddiaz@nd.edu 
networking is one of the keys for success in the job search," Roberts said. 
The C&CDC invites all Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and Holy Cross students who wish to seek information about post­graduate opportunities to attend the career fair. 
Saint Mary's senior Michelle Biersmith, who plans to attend the fair said, "It's a good opportunity to see what's out there, to make connections with alumnae and to get a feel for what job opportunities are available." 
The career fair will take place from 3 to 5 p.m. in LeMans Hall. 
Contact Annie Basinski at basi0223@saintmarys.edu 


~'The rates are competitive­· ·r' h · ·
but 1 s t e custom.er servJce that will bring ·me back to Notre Dmne Federal Credit 
Union.~~ 

0 
:NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You con bcJ nk on us 
to be better 
57.4/.K .., 1 v·2"1··., · · ., ·., · ~ .-lf' · 
_ "MJ:~ ·~-, .,......, • www.nu cu.org 
.---------------------------------­




ORLD &NATION 
Wednesday, November 19, 2003 CoMPILED FROM T1·1E OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Colombian grenade attacks U.S. 
BOGOTA -American citizens were the intended targets of weekend grenade attacks on two bars in a trendy section of Bogota, the U.S. Embassy said in a statement Tuesday. 
Distributed to U.S. citizens in the Colombian capital. the embassy statement said tlw thn~at against Americans continues. It warned U.S. citizens to avoid trendy ven­ues and commercial centers. 
"Colombian authorities have informed the Embassy that the grenade attack ... in Bogota's Zona Hosa on Nov. 15 was appar­ently intended to kill or injure American citi­zens," the statement said. 
A man, identified by police as a member of the Hevolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FAHC, threw hand grenades into two bars Saturday night, killing one per­son and injuring 72 others, including at least one American. 

Sharon, Qureia to discuss peace 
RAMALLAII. West Bank -Israeli and Palestinian premiers will meet soon, Israel's prime minister said Monday, opening prospects for talks to end more than three years of conflict as a top Egyptian official came to the West Bank to promote a cease­fire. 
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said he would meet his Palestinian ctJUnterpart, Ahmed Qureia, "in the coming days." It would he their first summit since Qureia took office more than a month ago. 
Heacling, a Palestinian official said no date had been set, and careful preparations had to be made before a summit meeting. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
I! 
Peterson will stand trial 

MODESTO, Calif. -Scott Peterson will stand trial on murder charges that could bring the death penalty in the slaying of his pregnant wife, Laci, and her unborn son, a judge ruled Tuesday. 
Superior Court judge AI Girolami said pros­ecutors presented enough evidence over 11 days of testimony to show probable cause that Peterson killed his wife and dumped her body in San Francisco Bay. 

Prosecutors presented a web of circum­stantial evidence that pointed toward Peterson from the moment he phoned his in­laws after returning home from what he said was a fishing trip on Christmas Eve last year. 
The remains of his wife and son washed ashore in April about three miles from where Scott Peterson said he was fishing. 


Jackson ranch searched by police 
LOS OLIVOS, Calif. -Officers conducting a criminal investigation searched Michael Jackson's Neverland Hanch on Tuesday. The purpose of the raid was not disclosed. 
Court TV cited unidentified sources as say­ing the search warrant was tied to sexual abuse allegations brought by a 12-or 13­year-old boy. Sheriff's officials and the dis­trict attorney's office refused comment. 
Jackson spokesman Stuart Backerman also refused to comment on any allegations and said neither he nor Jackson knew the details of the investigation. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Remy sues for patent violations 
INDIANAPOLIS Delco Hemy International has filed a lawsuit accusing three companies that make auto parts for the aftermarket of violating its patents. 
The suit filed Monday in U.S. District Court in Indianapolis alleges the companies copied the Anderson-based manufacturer's automo­tive starter and alternator designs. 
Named in the lawsuit were Unipoint Electric Manufacturing Ltd. of Taiwan; NSA Corp. of Sterling, Va.; and Unit Parts Corp. of Oklahoma City. 


Bush visits London amid protest 
Demonstrations ensue as Bush meets with top British officials on state visit 
Associated Press 

LONDON -As police 
braced for massive 
demonstrations against 
the war in Iraq, President 
Bush opened a state visit 
with America's staunchest · ally Tuesday, arguing that the use of force sometimes is the only way to defend 
important values. 
Bush's three-day state 
visit comes at a time of 
mounting death tolls 
among coalition troops, 
fresh terror threats and 
widespread unhappiness 
among the British and 
other Europeans over 
Prime Minister Tony 
Blair's close support for 
Bush's Iraq policies. 
The president and his 
wife, Laura, were greeted 
Tuesday evening at 
Heathrow Airport by 
Prince Charles. The 
Bushes then flew on a U.S. 
Marine helicopter to 
Buckingham Palace, 
where they were spending 
three nights as the guests 
of Queen Elizabeth II. 
The relative quiet of the 
airport greeting provided 
a contrast to expected 
noisy anti-war and anti­
Bush protests in other 
parts of the city. 

Hundreds turned out for 
the first of a number of 
planned protests on 
Tuesday, and London 
police prepared for larger 
demonstrations over the war. 
next few days, including a He also is expected to 
march on Thursday past renew his call for coun­
Parliament that organizers tries across the globe, par­
said could draw 100,000 ticularly in the Middle 
demonstrators. East, to embrace democra­
In a speech on cy. 
Wednesday, Bush will The president will 
argue that war is some­acknowledge that the Iraq 
times necessary as a last war and occupation are 
choice, said a senior unpopular, the official said 
administration official "It has been a difficult 
traveling with him on Air time, when the alliance 
Force One. has been asked to do diffi­
"History has shown that cult things," the president 
there are times when will suggest, said the offi­
countries must use force cial, speaking on the con­
to defend the peace and to dition of anonymity. 
defend values," Bush was Bush also will praise the 
to say. British for overcoming 
But Bush did not plan to adversity in the past in 
elaborate further on when defending freedom and 
it is necessary to go to democratic values. 

Both British and U.S. officials sought to put the best face on a visit that seemed likely to be remembered more for anti-war street demon­strations than for the cele­bration of the Anglo­American alliance that had been intended by both governments. 
Recent polls indicate the British public holds Bush in generally low regard and views Blair's stalwart support for him as a liabil­ity. 
Prince Charles greeted the Bushes as they descended, hand in hand, the steps of Air Force One. Also greeting them was Will Farish, the U.S. 
ambassador to Britain and a longtime Bush family friend and GOP fundraiser. 
The group then walked along a red carpet between troops and met for a few minutes in an airport reception building. 
A larger arrival ceremo­ny was planned for Wednesday at Buckingham Palace. After his speech on the trans-Atlantic alliance, Bush was to meet with British families who lost loved ones in the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and attend a banquet at the palace. 
On Thursday, Bush was to tour London and meet with British soldiers who fought in Afghanistan and Iraq. 
Al-Qaida linked to Turkey bombing 
Associated Press 

ISTANBUL -Turkish authorities concluded Tuesday that two deadly synagogue bombings were carried out by Turkish militants inspired by -and perhaps working for -the al-Qaida terror network. The finding fuels growing suspicions that Osama bin Laden's reach extends to NATO's sole Muslim member. 
As the government wrapped up DNA tests on the remains of the two suicide bombers, hundreds of Jewish and Muslim mourners buried the six Jews who died in Saturday's blasts, which also killed 17 Muslims and wounded more than 300 people. 
Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul told The Associated Press that the bombers, who detonated their explo­sives-laden trucks outside Istanbul's main synagogue and a second one three miles away, were Turks and that they had Turkish accomplices in planning the attack. 
"It will be determined whether these people worked directly with al-Qaida or are just sympathizers," Gul said by telephone from Stockholm, Sweden. 
"The first impression is that these people seemed to have the same mindset of al-Qaida, they have the same concept, they are from the same school," he said. 
Bin Laden's terror network 
claimed responsibility for the bomb­ings Sunday in messages to two Arabic-language newspapers. It was not possible to authenticate those claims. 
An al-Qaida link would make Turkey, a predominantly Muslim but secular nation, into a new front on the U.S.-led war on terror. That could bring Turkey, already a key 
U.S. ally, even closer to Washington after months when the relationship has been rattled by differences over the war in Iraq. 
The role of local militants in the attack could alstJ embarrass the gov­ernment of Prime Minister Hecep Tayyip Erdogan, which has its roots in an Islamic fundamentalist party. 


page 6 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, November 19,2003 
Tickets are available in advance at the LaFortune Student CenterTicket Office. MasterCardNisa orders call S 7 4-63 I -8 I28. 

GOP fundraisers strike back 
Group plans to rival Democratic effort by billionaire George Soros 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -One of President Bush's lawyers dur­ing the 2000 Florida recount is creating a group to spend millions advocating Bush's re­election, hoping to counter efforts by billionaire George Soros and others to help Democrats capture the White House. 
Attorney George Terwilliger and Republican political con­sultants Frank Donatelli and Craig Shirley are asking the Federal Election 
"Every day that goes 
Commission for advice on whether by·we're getting their plan is legal 
further and further
under the new 
behind."
campaign finance 
law, according to a 
copy of the letter. Frank Donatelli The law bars the 
Republican political 
use of so-called 


consultant
soft money -cor­porate, union and unlimited contri­butions -in connection with federal elections. National party committees and federal candidates are banned from collecting soft money for any purpose. 
Outside groups can still take the big checks, however. 
Several Democratic-leaning groups have sprung up in -the months since the law took effect last November. includ­ing many who say they plan to raise tens of millions of dol­lars for voter registration and other activities aimed at defeating Bush next year. Their leaders, who include former AFL-CIO political director Steve Rosenthal. have said the groups are nee-
Dinner starting at $6.45 222 Dixieway S., S.B. 574•272..7376 
essary to counter record­breaking fund raising by the GOP and Bush. The president is expected to raise more than $170 million for next year's primaries with no Republican rival. 

Depending how they regis­ter with the Internal Revenue Service, such groups may not have to disclose details of their donations or spending. 
Republican National Committee Chairman Ed Gillespie has complained 
the FEC and has left open the possibility that pro-Bush groups may form if opposition organizations face no punish­ment for their activities. 
Terwilliger, Donatelli and Shirley have decided not to wait. They are starting a group called "Americans for a Better Country" to raise both soft money and limited "hard money" contributions for vari­ous activities. aiming to match the Democratic-leaning groups dollar for dollar. 
"Every day that goes by we're getting further and fur­ther behind. We're under a year before the election right now and we're already play­ing catch-up," Donatelli said 

Directed 
by 
Siiri Scott 
Playing 
Washington 


Hall 
Reserved Seats Senior Citizens All Students 
repeatedly about the anti-Bush groups, say­ing he does­n't under­stand how they can be allowed under the new law. He has so far declined to file a com­plaint with Tuesday, referring to the out­side groups. Bush has out­raised all his rivals combined, with more than $106 million. 
Rosenthal said his efforts are aimed at bringing more people into politics. He is head of the Partnership for America's Families, focused on voter outreach in presi­dential swing states, and a founder of America Coming Together, which has collected millions from Soros and oth­ers for efforts to defeat Bush. 
"This administration has spent the last three years writing and rewriting laws and regulations to benefit their contributors," Rosenthal said. "There's no news in Republicans setting up fly-by­night groups to raise unlimit­ed funds from undisclosed sources." 
Donatelli said his group has several prospective donors lined up, and is waiting for advice from the FEC before it goes ahead with its plans full­scale. It will register with the IRS and FEC as a political organization and will have to disclose its donors and spend­ing. 
"For both fund-raising and political purposes, ABC wish­es to state in a press release announcing its launch that its purpose is to re-elect President Bush and defeat the Democratic nominee," the group's letter to the FEC says, asking whether that and other activities are allowed under the law. 
"The Commission owes a duty to the regulated commu­nity to set parameters and rules in this area," they wrote. 


DO YOU LIKE ANY OF mESE BOOKS? 

CAUSE mERE ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE... 
ME. 




who do notl 

Dick 
COME HEAR mE BOOKS YOU LOVE 

THAT AT TIMES IN THIS COUNTRY 



Schwarzenegger calls 
for $15 million bond 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger pro­posed Tuesday that California borrow up to $15 billion to keep the state running until its huge budget deficit can be brought under control. 
Schwarzenegger offered bare details of his plans for closing the looming budget gap -which he has estimated at more than $24 billion ­even as he called the Legislature back into session to take up his proposal. 
In his first news conference since taking office Monday, Schwarzenegger called on lawmakers to place the bond measure before California voters in March. He also wants the Legislature to put a state spending cap on the same ballot that would "never again ... allow politicians to overspend." 
A more immediate challenge to Schwarzenegger and legis­lators is closing a $7.2 billion gap-$3.2 billion for the cur­rent year and $4 billion for next year -created Monday when the new governor elimi­nated an unpopular tripling of the car tax. 
Although Schwarzenegger said Tuesday he expects law­makers to replace the lost revenue from the car tax, he gave little insight into where the money might be found. Cities and counties rely on the car tax money to pay for many services, including law enforcement and public safe­ty. 
Schwarzenegger did say lawmakers could find $11 bil­lion in savings in the workers' compensation system. 
"We are instructing the Legislature to act," Schwarzenegger said in a brief interview following his press conference. "I will have them act quickly. They [local governments] will never be out of money because it is very important that we sup­port local government." 
Many Democratic leaders have said they're not pre­pared to impose spending cuts to make up the lost car tax money. 
Senate President John Burton has said he believes that paying for the car tax reduction is the governor's problem, and he won't sup­port eliminating health and social services. 
Assemblywoman Jenny Oropeza also said Schwarzenegger cannot sim­ply push the problem into the Legislature's lap. "It is now up to our new governor to show us how local government can be made whole, which he promised to do." 

Schwarzenegger also told reporters Tuesday he would follow through with layoff plans negotiated by Davis with state workers but that no employees would lose their jobs until after Christmas. 
The bond money would replace about $12 billion in borrowing already in the existing budget. Schwarzenegger has not said how many years it would take to pay off the bonds. 
The Legislature would have to act before Dec. 5 to get either proposal on the ballot. 



YOU COULDN'T READ 
BANNED BOOKS READING 
Cole~nan-MorselounWJ



November 19th, 1:30 
brought to you by the student union board. http:/ /www.nd .edu/-sub/ 
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Wednesday, November 19, 2003 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 9 624.16 -86.67 
}ones ' 
~-Same: Oowp: Composite Volume; 1356 182 • 1,313,707,008 
AMEX 1,072.58 +1.10 NASDAQ 1,881.75 -27.86 NYSE 5,939.05 -24.30 S&PSOO 1,034.15 -9.48 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 9,897.05 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,354. 70 +15.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 0.00 0.00 25.15 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) + 1.96 +.08 4.16 
INTEL CORP (INTQ -1.21 -0.39 31.84 JDS UNIPHASE ODSU) -2.52 -0.08 3.13 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.45 -0.32 21.73 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND -0.42 -0.21 50.16 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.50 -0.21 41.67 5-YEARNOTE -0.22 -0.07 31.35 3-MONTH BILL +0.86 +0.08 9.36 
Commodities 
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.43 31.70 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +6.1 0 397.60 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -0.625 87.025 
Exchan Rates 
YEN I 08.1 EURO 0.8358 POUND 0.587S CANADIAN$ 1.301 
IN BRIEF 
Trade tensions increase with China 
WASHINGTON -The Bush administration increased trade tensions with China on Tuesday by announcing it will limit clothing imports to protect struggling U.S. companies, even as it searched for a compromise to end a bitter trade dispute with Europe over steel. 
Commerce Secretary Don Evans said the administration was granting an industry request to impose quotas on Chinese imports of knit fabric, dressing gowns and robes and bras in an action that Evans said "demon­strates our commitment to our trade rules and America's workers." 
The action was the latest response by the administration to America's soaring trade deficit with China, which hit a record $103 bil­lion last year, and which American manufac­turers believe is largely to blame for the hem­orrhaging of U.S. factory jobs over the past three years. 
"Clearly, the enormous surges we have seen in Chinese imports in these categories, and the damage they have caused to our industry, workers and communities warranted such action," said Cass Johnson, head of the American Textile Manufacturers Institute. 
NYSE approves new boarde 
NEW YORK -The New York Stock Exchange's members voted to install a new independent board aimed at minimizing con­flicts of interest and potential investor abuses, according to preliminary results. Federal reg­ulators still must approve the measure. 
The NYSE's 1,366 members, made up large­ly of securities and trading firms, approved interim chairman John Reed's package of reforms, the exchange said Tuesday. 
Heed's plan eliminates the current 27 -mem­ber board in favor of six to 12 directors who will oversee regulation and compensation. A separate executive panel of the securities industry will handle operations, such as listing standards. 
The reforms follow public outrage over the lavish $188 million compensation package of former chairman Dick Grasso, which forced his ouster Sept. 17. 
The exchange said a new board of eight directors will be installed immediately. 


U.S. and EU argue steel trade 
Titjor-tat trade war policy could lead to new tariffs, affect industry worldwide 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Florida 
citrus growers could soon 
be squeezed, Louisiana 
rice farmers boiled, 
California nut producers 
shelled and North Carolina 
pajama-makers fleeced. 
They would be just a few of the victims caught in the crossfire of an increasingly bitter trade fight between the European Union and the United States over steel. Free-traders fear the biggest victim of all could be America's half-century of support for expanding global commerce. 
"In this situation you could trigger a perfect storm of unintended but very serious conse­quences," says Fred Bergsten, head of the Institute for International Economics, a Washington think tank. 
The prospect of a tit-for­tat trade war has increased with the decision by a World Trade Organization appeals panel that the Bush administration violated global trade rules by imposing tariffs of up to 30 percent on various types of foreign steel imports in March 2002. 
If the administration does not remove the steel 
tariffs by mid-December to target products from a facturing states as North lar industries targeted, the when the WTO ruling number of states that will and South Carolina, impact could be significant becomes final, the EU says be in play in the 2004 Georgia and Alabama, a in terms of lost sales given it will retaliate by impos­presidential race," said wide array of clothing has that this country's global ing tariffs of up to 30 per­Brink Lindsey, a trade spe­been targeted, including competitors will not face cent on $2.2 billion of cialist at the Cato Institute underwear, overcoats and the higher tariffs. American exports to think tank. pajamas. "This won't reverse the Europe. The target list runs the The EU list is eclectic, economic recovery, but 
The 15-nation EU care­gamut from citrus prod­with other targeted items there will be a lot of U.S. 
ucts, aimed at Florida ranging from toilet paper industries that are hurt,"
fully chose its target list to inflict significant political orange juice and Texas to writing paper and from said economist Gary 
pain in key battleground grapefruit, to rice, which fire engines and hay balers Hufbauer at the Institute states in next year's presi­would hit states such as to yachts and canoes. A for International Eco­
dential election. It put Louis.iana and Arkansas. large number of U.S.-made nomics. President Bush in the Farmers in California, steel products were includ­Stephen Lamar, senior uncomfortable position of the biggest electoral prize ed to strike at the industry vice president of the either withdrawing the of all, would feel the sting that generated the trade American Apparel and tariffs and angering steel of the EU tariffs on such fight in the first place. Footwear Association, said producers such as West products as nuts, dates, By the EU's accounting, that just the threat of the Virginia, Pennsylvania, figs, avocados and grapes. the products targeted total tariffs was already having Ohio and Indiana or Other foods targeted for $2.2 billion in annual U.S. a disruptive impact on U.S. offending a host of states tariffs are various types of exports to the European clothing manufacturers, whose industries will be apples, pears, apricots, trading bloc, less than 2 forcing some to ship early hit by the Europeans' cherries and frozen and percent of the $143.7 bil­and pay expensive ware­penalty tariffs. dried vegetables. lion in American goods house costs in an effort to 
"The EU drew up its list In a strike at such big shipped there last year. beat imposition of the with diabolical cleverness textile and apparel manu-Hnwever, for the particu-higher duties. 

SEC targets mutual funds abuses 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Senators urged the head of the Securities and Exchange Commission on Tuesday to end a turf war with state regula­tors and go after mutual fund abus­es. 
At the same time, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and Treasury Secretary John Snow cau­tioned Congress against passing mutual fund reforms that could cost investors more in fees and dimin­ished returns. 
It was the first public statement by Greenspan and Snow on proposed legislation to deal with mutual fund abuses. Several senators and House members of both parties are propos­ing measures to overhaul the way the $7 trillion industry operates. 
SEC Chairman William Donaldson, coping with the worst crisis of his 10-month tenure, faced tough ques­tioning and admonitions at a hear­ing. Some 90 million people have money in U.S. stock mutual funds. Half of all American households invest in them, and they often are a principal vehicle for retirement sav­ings and college funds. Before the recent scandal, they were regarded as safe investments. · 
"There's a real urgency here," Sen. Richard Shelby, R-Ala., chair­man of the Senate Banking Committee, told Donaldson. 
State regulators in Massachusetts and New York have sharply criti­cized the SEC's handling of trade 
. abuses and its recent partial settle­ment of civil fraud charges with Putnam Investments, a major mutu­al fund company. New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer first raised the charge that preferential trad,ing deals for big­money customers of many fund companies could be siphoning bil­lions of dollars from ordinary investors. He denounced the SEC after the Putnam settlement last Thursday. 
Wednesday, November 19, 2003 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
NASA struggling to develop repair kit 
Inspection tools still needed for shuttle 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL -NASA is still struggling to develop a tool for inspecting the outside of the space shuttle and a repair kit for gashed wings ­hurdles that could prolong the grounding of the fleet since the Columbia disaster. 
Shuttle program manager Bill Parsons said Tuesday the space agency remains on track for a launch as early as next September or October. 
"We have all the confidence in the world we can get there," Parsons said. But he cautioned: "There are a number of areas out there that could create bumps in the road for us and we're going to have to keep a close eye on things." 
Atlantis is in line to fly next, on a trip to the international space station that would be used to test various shuttle­repair methods. 
Since the February disaster, NASA has made considerable progress in devising a tech­nique to fix holes in the silica glass fiber tiles that cover much of each shuttle. Spacewalking astronauts would use a caulking gun to inject a salmon-colored, puttylike material into a gap. 
It is proving much more diffi­cult, however, to develop a repair kit for the reinforced carbon panels that protect the leading edges of the shuttle wings from the searing heat of re-entry. 
A hole in the edge of Columbia's left wing led to its destruction over Texas; a piece of fuel-tank foam insulation gashed it there during liftoff. 
Engineers also are having trouble putting together an extension boom with cameras and laser sensors that could be used by astronauts to inspect the outside of their orbiting ships for damage. 
James Halsell, a shuttle com­mander who is leading the return-to-flight effort, stressed that safety -and not a sched­ule -will determine when the 
"We're trying to launch when we can safely, and if that means we launch in September, fine. If it means we don't launch a flight, any flights, in 2004, that's fine, too. It will be when it happens," Halsell said. 
Although Columbia accident investigators said the seven astronauts might have survived if their cabin had been stronger and better protected, NASA is not considering a redesign, at least for now, Parsons said. 
"There are a number of ways to look at crew survivability, and the best way we can is to make sure that there's a safe launch and a safe on-orbit and a safe return back to Earth," he said. 
Shuttle mission managers, meanwhile, are holding drills to improve their communica­tion and decision-making. The Columbia Accident Investigation Board blamed the space agency's broken safety culture, in large part, for the tragedy. 
This week, NASA is giving employees time at work to read and discuss the board's report, which was released in August. Copies were distributed widely throughout the space agency. 
Also on Tuesday, NASA named a new Aerospace Safety Advisory Panel and said it would provide stronger, more focused oversight. The entire panel resigned in September after being criticized by Columbia investigators and members of Congress for being ineffective. 


next shuttle takes ofT...,.___......__ 
Come Learn About 


Mother Theresa 
And the Call to Senriee 
. . ··~hi
Th. a N 2·o·"..
ursay, ........ o;v~ <<·•.···· ·•· ... . 
A'· 
9pm O'Nei~IHali CJ;tapel·· 
I 
I 
Fr. Dave Schlavet: C~S.C. Holy Cross Mis~ion Center 
/ 
II 
Mass lOpm Free Food Afterwards! 
Sponsored by O'Neill Hall 



Mass. court approves gay unions 
Ban on gay marriage ruled unconstitutional 
Associated Press 

BOSTON -In the nation's most far-reaching decision of its kind, Massachusetts' high­est court declared Tuesday that the state constitution guarantees gay couples the right to marry -a ruling cel­ebrated with a popping of champagne corks and the planning of spring weddings. 
"Without a doubt, this is the happiest day of our lives," said Gloria Bailey, who with her partner of 32 years was among the seven gay couples who had sued the state in 2001 for refusing to issue them marriage licenses. 
In its 4-3 deci­sion, the Supreme Judicial Court gave the Legislature six months to rewrite the state's marriage 

laws for the benefit of gay couples. 
Although courts in other states have issued similar rulings, some legal experts said this one goes further in its emphatic language and appears to suggest that gay couples should be offered nothing less than marriage itself -and not a lesser alternative such as civil unions, which are available in Vermont. 
ing but said there is little the state could do beyond pursu­ing a constitutional amend­ment. 
"I agree with 3,000 years of recorded history. I disagree with the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts," he said. "Marriage is an institu­tion between a man and a woman ... and our constitu­tion and laws should reflect that." 
But the soonest a constitu­tional amendment could be put on the ballot is 2006, potentially opening a window of a few years in which gay marriage licenses could be granted. 
Vermont's high court issued a similar decision in 1999 but told the Legislature that it could allow gay couples to marry or create a similar institution that confers all the rights and benefits of mar­riage. Lawmakers chose the second route; leading to the approval of civil unions in that state. 
The Massachusetts decision makes no mention of such an alternative, and instead points to a recent decision in Canada that changed the common-law definition of marriage to include same-sex couples and led to marriage licenses being issued there. 
The state "has failed to identify any constitutionally adequate reason for denying civil marriage to same-sex couples," the court wrote, adding that denying gays the right to marry deprives them· "of membership in one of our community's most rewarding and cherished institutions." 
The ruling was another milestone in a year that has seen a significant expansion of gay rights around the world, including a U.S. Supreme Court decision in June striking a Texas ban on gay sex. Canadian courts also legalized gay marriage over the summer. 
"We declare that barring an individual from the pro­
"We declare that barring an individualfrom the protections, benefits and obligations of civil marriage solely because that person would marry a person of the same sex violates the Massachusetts Constitution. " 
Margaret Marshall Chief Justice 
tections, bene­fits and obli­gations of civil marriage sole­ly because that person would marry a person of the same sex vio­lates the Massachusetts Constitution," Chief Justice Margaret Marshall wrote. 
The dissent­ing justices argued that the court was treading on lawmakers' territory. "Today, the 
court has transformed its role as protector of rights into the role of creator of rights, and I respectfully dis­sent," Justice Francis Spina wrote. 
The decision prompted complex legal questions about the next step and about when the nation's first gay marriage licenses will be issued, if ever. 
Republican Gov. Mitt Romney denounced the rul-

Gay in. a Straight World 
Gay, Bi, and Straight A Retreat Open to AII 
The. GLB Retree1t is an annual 24..;ho.ur event for gay undergraduate stu(je.nts.. an~.itf?~1~.,t·1!-f.)~r'ds.an~.... supp.o... rter.s. The ~etreat begins at 7pm 
on Frtday, Na.vetdl:)er 21, 2003 an¢. ends after dmner on Saturday .r3!9ht. Applications are available in tne Retreats Office in 114 
· Coleman-Morse.bythe elevator. Applications are due by Wednesday, Nov. 19th_ 
lfyou have further questions, you can reach Fr. J. Steele, CSC at 1~8144 or at 


isteele1 @nd.edu. 
C-M 

Campus Ministr)' 

Wednesday, November 19, 2003 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

THE OBSERVER 

Page 10 
IEWPOINT Wednesday, November 19, 2003 



Since 1990, when she suffered a car­diac arrest, Theresa Marie (Terri) Schiavo has been in what a Florida court found to be a "persistent vegeta­tive state." Other experts claim she is not PVS and can be rehabilitated. Terri's husband, Michael, obtained a court order to remove her feeding tube on the ground that Terri, before 1990, Charles Rice had orally said to Michael, his broth­er and his brother's 
Right or 

wife that she would 
Wrong?

not want "tubes" to keep her alive. Terri's parents deny that Terri would want to be starved to death. Six days after the tube was withdrawn, the Florida legislature authorized Governor Jeb Bush to pre­vent the withholding of nutrition and hydration "from such a patient." The Governor did so. Terri is receiving nutrition and hydration while the courts consider the case. 
The court granted Michael's request to end Terri's life despite a clear conflict of interest. In 1993 Michael recovered $1.1 million from doctors whose misdi­agnosis resulted in Terri's PVS. An undisclosed part of that award has been used for Michael's legal fees in seeking to end Terri's life. "This fund remains sufficient to care for Theresa for many years." said the Florida Court of Appeal in 2001. "If she were to die today, her husband would inherit the money .... If Michael ... divorced Theresa ... the fund remaining at the end of Theresa's life would ... go to her parents." Financially, Michael has much to gain from Terri's death. Also, Michael has been living for the past seven years with Jodi Centonze; they have one child and she is pregnant with another. Michael has stated that he plans to marry Jodi after Terri's death. 
The law allows a competent adult to starve himself to death, which is a form of suicide. Because Terri is incompe­tent, the decision was made for her by others that she would want to be starved and dehydrated to death. In this light the event has the character not of suicide but of homicide. Which leads to a point that tends to be overlooked here. 
The only reason anyone has heard about this case is because Michael and Terri's parents disagree. He wants to kill her. They want to keep her alive. What Michael proposes happens every day without publicity in cases where the relatives or other care-givers are in agreement that it is time for the patient to die. 
In 1990. the Supreme Court of the United States allowed the starvation of Nancy Cruzan at the request of her family on "clear and convincing evi­
Terri Schiavo is not 
dence" that Nancy fuss over Terri Schiavo? would want that. In dying. She has an Every day uncounted, the 1997 case of but surely numerous, 
indefinite life expectency, 
Vacco v. Quill, the people like Terri are
she is not in pain and her
Court upheld New murdered, in the moral York's prohibition bodily life is sustained by sense of that term, of assisted suicide the feeding tube. because their relatives 
but gave the green light to "palliative care" including sedation which results in the unintend­ed death of the patient. 
Except in a most unusual case, how can you tell that the doctor's intent in sedating the patient was to kill rather than to relieve pain? Euthanasia by withdrawal of feeding or by sedation, where the family or other care-givers are in agreement, is moving beyond the practical reach of the law. As the Florida Supreme Court said in the 1990 Browning case, the family or guardian can starve a patient to death "without prior judicial approval" if the patient, when competent, made "oral declara­tions" showing a desire to forego feed­ing. 
Under Catholic teaching a feeding tube may be withdrawn if it is intolera­bly painful, if it no longer sustains bodi­ly life because the patient can no longer absorb the nutrients, or if the patient is in the closing hours or minutes of the dying process when nature can be allowed to take its course and the with­drawal of feeding will not be a cause of death. It is immoral, howe.ver. to remove the tube or to do anything else with the intent to kill the patient. In the objective moral sense, that is murder. 
Terri Schiavo is not dying. She has an indefinite life expectancy, she is not in pain and her bodily life is sustained by the feeding tube (the role of that tube is not to cure her PVS but merely to sus­tain her bodily life). The purpose of removing Terri's feeding may have been to end a life considered burdensome to herself or others, but the specific intent was to achieve that purpose by an intrinsically evil act, i.e .. the intentional 
killing of the innocent. 
But what's the big 
or care-givers are unit­
ed in deciding to do to 

them what Michael Schiavo wants to do to Terri. And nobody notices. The lawyers and judges provide us an excuse to ignore in such cases the corporal works of mercy: Feed the hungry. Give drink to the thirsty. But another Lawgiver takes those works more seriously: "Depart from me ... for I was hungry, and you did not give me to eat; I was thirsty and you gave me no drink ... as long as you did not do it for one of these least ones, you did not do it for me," Matthew 25:41-46. 
That Lawgiver, incidentally, seems to have a habit of holding nations as well as individuals to account. 
Jtof Emeritus Charles Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be con­tacted at plawecki.l @nd. edu. 
The view expressed tn this column are those ofthe author and not neccessarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Should Notre Dame football join a conference 
"The real problem is what we do with the 
or remain independent? 
problem-solvers after the problems are solved." 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
Gay Talese 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
writer 

THE ()BSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, November 19, 2003 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Reassesing British-U.S. relations 
President Bush travels to London this evening for the first full-scale state visit by an American president to the United Kingdom. The headlines in both countries are filled with photos and statistics of the numbers of pro­testers who arc mobilizing to denounce the President and his war. It has been convention­al wisdom since before the war ended, per­haps since before the war began, that the British had joined the rest of Europe and become anti-U.S. or at least anti-Bush. We have been told Labour is howling mad over Blair's support for Bush. A majority of Britons oppose the war. The crowds of London are all the evidence we need of the hatred which President Bush's policies have evoked. 
Right? 
Think again -what has not made front page news in the United States is a poll con­ducted by the liberal British broadsheet, the Guardian. The poll was released today, free online for those who seek it out, and shows that support for the United States, the President's visit, Blair, and the war itself have been increasingly dramatically. The numbers speak for themselves. Sixty-two percent of Britons view the United States highly favor­ably, while only 15 percent view us highly unfavorably. As the insurgents in Iraq have stepped up their attacks, the British seem to have found their stomach: Support for the war has increased nine points to 47 percent, while opposition has decreased 12 points to 41 per­cent-and a majority of voters say they think the United States and Britain should stay in until the job is done. Blair's approval ratings have increased significantly in the past month. A plurality of people polled look favor­ably on the President's visit. 

The United States has not in fact become the pariah of international relations which some members of the media, the European foreign policy establishment and the Democratic pres­idential aspirants would have us believe. There is a majority of voters in the strongest of aU European countries -an resurgent majority -who believe the United States is right to confront those people who would slaughter Americans, Europeans and Middle Eastern Muslims indiscriminately to suit their twisted ends. 
Padraic McDermott 
senior 
off-campus Nov. 18 

Questioning poster ca111paign 
The Saint Mary's Student Environmental Action Coalition is spreading the word about having a vegetarian/vegan celebration of Thanksgiving through flyers in the bathroom stalls. I lind this information repungent. They state that reducing the amount of animals raised, slaughtered and prepared for food will reduce the use of fossil fuel as well. 
According to the SEAC, if everyone cuts out all meat intake on this joyous holiday, there should be a substantial impact on the use of fossil fuels. Would it not work better if people cut meat out of their everyday diet? I do not get it. Maybe I am overly sensitive ­Thanksgiving is my favorite holiday. It is a time for family, a sense of gratefulness, foot­ball and best of all, a good dinner. 
Not having meat is going completely against the American convention. "Dear Lord, thank you for the tofu?" just does not work. I under­stand people have moral issues with eating meat, but that is what makes this country so great. I can have turkey, and others can have buckwheat soup, and we can be thankful for whatever we have. 

Another erroneous item on this bulletin states that people who do not eat meat are healthier than those who do. I do understand that too much meat is bad for cholesterol. Eating no meat is not good for you either­we need the protein and the oils in meat. If we do not eat it, our hair and nails get dry and brittle, not to mention the fact that protein turns into the energy needed to fuel our bod­ies. Meat is just as important as vegetables. Either way, one day without meat out of the year is not totally unhealthy. I cannot believe· that some people are so ignorant, but in keep­ing with the Thanksgiving theme, I am glad this "fact sheet" was put up. It gave me some­thing to respond to instead of doing my home­work, and it helped me realize just how great I have it. When I go home next week, I am going to dive into that turkey. God bless America, and Happy Thanksgiving. 
Anna Brenner sophmore Le Mans Hall Nov. 18 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The real Reverend Robinson 
In his inaugural sermon as the Episcopal Church's first openly gay bishop, the Rev. Eugene Robinson told his congregation in Petersborough, N.H., he wants the church to speak out on moral issues against the Bush Administration. This is ironic, considering a strong majority in the Episcopal Church tried to speak out against a moral issue in opposing Robinson's election as bishop, but their voices went unheard. You probably think I am going to write that the Joe Licandro Episcopal Church should never have appoint­ed a gay bishop because being gay is immoral. But because it is not my place to 
The Licandro 

judge, and I do not particularly care about 
Non-Factor 

Robinson's sexual orientation. What I am 
going to write is that the Episcopal Church 
should not have appointed a man who left his 
wife and children to live in a relationship with another man. 
The fact that Robinson happens to be gay is completely irrelevant 
because it has absolutely no bearing whatsoever on his job perform­
ance. But as bishop, Robinson is expected to set the moral standard 
for his congregation. Leaving your wife and kids, whether for a 
woman or a man, should be grounds to disqualify you from taking a 
position of moral authority within the Episcopal Church. 
Ifl were sitting in Robinson's church on Nov. 9 when he told his congregation "Think of all the kinds of blindness right outside this door; not seeing the people in need, or turning the other way when we do," I would have stood up from my seat and headed straight for the nearest exit. Maybe it is just me, but I would have a difficult time listening to a man tell me how to live a moral life when he "turned the other way" from his family. This is not to say Robinson does not deserve forgiveness. Nor is this to say that he could not be a vital contributor to the Episcopal Church in a different capacity. After all, no one is perfect. Every single one of us has made mis­takes and will continue to make them. But this being said, forgive­ness is one thing. Being allowed to serve as bishop and to instruct others how to live a moral life is another. 
While I am not a Protestant, I am still a Christian whose core val­
ues are aligned with the Episcopal Church. So for the same reason I 
am completely disgusted that certain members of the Catholic hier­
archy allowed known pedophiles to serve as priests, Episcopalians 
hold every right to be appalled that their leaders elected Robinson 
as bishop. 
Believe it or not, being gay actually helped Robinson become bish­op. If he had been straight and left his wife for another woman, it is doubtful that he ever would have been appointed. By spinning his appointment as a gay rights issue, Robinson put his church in a very difficult situation. Out of fear of being labeled as anti-gay and close­minded, certain members of the Episcopalian hierarchy buckled under the pressure of political correctness. Sadly, this damage con­trol may have caused an irreparable schism not only among Episcopalians in the United States, but the entire worldwide Anglican community of 77 million strong. Despite the bleak outlook, I believe the Anglican Church can survive this crisis. It would be a shame if they allowed one man to tear them apart. 
As if leaving his wife and kids were not reason enough, I have another problem with Robinson's election-his insufferable arro­gance. I did not think this was possible, but Robinson might be more selfish than Kobe Bryant. If the Reverend truly cared about the greater good of his church community, he would put aside his own self-interests and step down immediately. Given his selfish track record though, do not count on it any time soon. As he has already proven in the past, Robinson does not practice what he preaches. 
Joe Licandro is a senior political science major. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted at jlicandr@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neccessarily those of The Observer. • 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, November 19, 2003 



Above, Laura (junior Molly Topper) shows Amanda (senior Katy Kertez) her high school crush in her yearbook. At the left, Laura plays with her collection ofglass figurines. Below, Tom (senior Tom Conner) in an argument with Amanda.
•
Photos by 

C. SPENCER BEGGS 

the 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS Scene Theatre Critic 
Watching any Tennessee Williams play can be like pulling teeth. Williams' plays are marked by his characteristic long-winded, unnatural and obtuse dialogue that, when performed poorly, can send even the most enthusiastic and academic audience into a boredom-induced coma minutes into a performance. Fortunately, Notre Dame's Department of Film Television and Theatre's produc­tion of Williams' The Glass Menagerie does a wonderful job of keeping Williams' text lively and captivating on stage. 
The Glass Menagerie is a psy­chological portrait of a displaced Southern family living in 1930s St. Louis. The show is a self-dubbed "memory play" narrated by Tom Wingfield, the family's youngest son, who alternates between nar­rating, participating in the drama and watching his memory unfold before him. 
With his father having aban­doned his family to fend for itself, Tom works long hours in a shoe warehouse for meager pay to sup­port his overbearing and critical mother, Amanda, and his exceed­ingly shy and crippled older sister, Laura, who spends her days tend­ing to her collection of glass ani­mal figurines or withdrawn into her own private world. Dissatisfied with his mind-numbing job and emotionally taxing home life, Tom finds his solace in writing poetry, smoking cigarettes on the balcony, going to the movies and spending as much time out of the house as he can. 
Amanda also lives in a fantasy world, immersing herself in work for the Daughters of the American Revolution and trying to urge Laura to find something other to do than play with her glass menagerie. The self-deluding Amanda remembers her youth as a Southern belle beset with suitors and in high society and tries to maintain the fantasy of her past and future aristocracy for her chil­dren, whom she wants see to suc­ceed in life. Amanda becomes obsessed with the idea of finding a "gentleman caller" who will whisk Laura away and marry her. 
The Glass Menagerie has its roots in Williams' own family life, but the FTT production also bor­rows some inspiration from its director, Siiri Scoot. Scott focuses on the memory play aspect of the show and based the design of the set on her memories of her own family. She culled the faded, brown look of the Wingfield's home from a photo album of her grandmother's childhood that she and her grandmother pieced together when Scott was 11. The Glass Menagerie was also the play that made Scott decide she wanted to do professional theatre when she was 14. 
"I think it's very accessible to young people, because I think we all know what it's like to live at 
Senior Tom Conner as Tom In the 
ductlon of The Glass Menagerie, which 
home with a parent," Scott said. "We all think our parents were overbearing at some point. Whether they were or not remains to be seen." 
The show also takes a minimal approach The Glass staging and props. Scott kept the number of props down to the essentials and has her cast pantomime the rest. 
"If it's not truly inte­gral, we are not using it so that we take this idea that in memories, there are thing that are real to us, but there are other things that may be fuzzy," Scott said. 
The effect is pleasing and keeps the audience focused on the actors and their interactions with each other. The stage is designed similarly in a plain style with no more than a couch, table and record player for the actors to 


r---------------~~~~~~------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
----, 
• ~ 
~ ~ 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, November 19, 2003 page 13 
• 

enagerze 


C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer 

tent of Film, Television and Theatre's pro­IS tonight In Washington Hall. 
interact with. 
Senior Katy Kertez leads the cast with her energetic and charming portrayal of Amanda. Kertez skill-

Menagerie 
~·--·· 
t of Film, nd Theatre 
eWilliams Tom Conner, Molly r 
rday at 7:30p.m. 
1. in Washington Hall. 
n. $9 senior citizens students. 
brings a 
fully navigates the bal­ance of Amanda's roles as an overbearing but loving mother and a disappointed woman with a refreshing poise and grace that explores the depths of Williams' psychologi­cal portraits of his characters. With an amiable southern twang, Kertez sets the pace for the rest on the cast and com­mands the spotlight every second she is on stage. Kertez, a Notre Dame theatre veteran, lot or experience to the 
stage and the rest of the cast plays up to her level. 
Senior Tom Connor, also a veter­an actor at Notre Dame, is also an asset to the performance and manages to make Williams' chal­lenging text plain and accessible to the audience. Juniors Molly Topper and Bryce Cooper fill out the cast and each turn in respectable performances as well. 

For all of its strengths, there are some aspects of Williams' text that that this production does not bring out as strongly as it could, espe­cially in the motivations of the characters. The Glass Menagerie is not a plot-focused show, but one that makes the plot subservient to the unfolding of each character's past experiences, thoughts and feelings. 
Tom's "going to the movies" is often interpreted as a subterfuge for his exploration of his homosex­uality and involvement in the city's gay culture -an interpretation the FTT show strives for as well. Conner occasionally hints at this with his body language, but it never develops further than that. Many of the double meanings in Tom's lines are glossed over, mak­ing Conners portrayal of Tom a bit shallower than it could have been and his character less sympathetic in the e·nd. 
Cooper's Gentleman Caller also seems a tad bit underdeveloped. Though Cooper does a good job of acting, his brash behavior in the second act of the show is some­what unaccounted for in his good­guy portrayal or, perhaps, in his interactions with Topper. It's hard to put a finger on exactly what is missing, but the audience will probably leave the show unsure of why minimal plot climax of the story is given the gravity it is by the cast. 
One of the benefits of perform­ing a Williams play is that there is so much material to work with and interpret, making the success of a production dependent upon bringing out many aspects of the text instead of just one or two. The character shortcomings of the FTT production are defiantly out­weighed by its successes, and cer­tainly do not derail or spoil the production completely. They do. however, point to important areas that should have been fleshed out better. 
FT'f's production of The Glass Menagerie brings Williams' diffi­cult script a lot of life and is a good introduction to one of America's most celebrated play­wrights ... and much more enjoy­able than a visit to the dentist. 
The Glass Menagerie opens tonight in Washington Hall and run through Saturday at 7:30p.m. The will be a Sunday matinee at 2:30p.m. Admission is $10, $9 for senior citizens and $7 for stu­dents. Tickers are available at the LaFortune Student Center box office or by calling (574) 631­8128. Audience members with asthma or allergies should be aware that the actors smoke ciga­rettes on stage. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu. 

Above, the Gentleman Caller (junior Bryce Cooper) entertains Laura (junior Molly Topper). At the right, Amanda (senior Katy Kertez) dresses Laura. Below, Amanda demands that the shrinking violet Laura answer the door.
•

Photos by 
C. SPENCER BEGGS 


-
Wednesday, November 19, 2003 
page 14 The Observer+ CLASSIFIEDS 
-, 
NBA 

Billups and depth help Pistons beat Lakers 
tage of O'Neal's fouls. 
Associated Press 
Cavaliers 103, Clippers 95
Detroit's depth beat the star Ricky Davis has a strange

power of the Los Angeles 

way of controlling his temper. 
Lakers. 

The volatile Cleveland guard
Chauncey Billups had 24 

kicked the ball into the standspoints and eight assists to lead 
after a hard foul by Coreya balanced attack for the 
Maggette while the Los
Pistons in a 106-96 win over Angeles Clippers were makingLos Angeles on Tuesday night. 

a third-quarter rtin Tuesday
Six Detroit players scored in night.
double figures and its bench "Just trying to stay calm,"

outscored Los Angeles' 
Davis explained. 
reserves 45-14. 

Davis and the Cavaliers"They've got some of the 
stayed cool enough to hold offgreatest players in the history 
the Clippers and end Los
of the game, but I like our by­

Angeles' four-game winning
committee approach," Billups said. "We can play with any­streak. body. We've got so many play­LeBron James shot poorly 
ers that could be playing 30 from the outside but finished minutes a night on most teams with 14 points, seven 
and we've got the best bench rebounds and eight assists as in the league." the Cavaliers won their fourth 
Ben Wallace had 12 points straight home game. and 15 rebounds -despite Maggette downplayed his bruising his shoulder and back foul on Davis, who had 27 during the game -for the points and four steals. Pistons, and Richard Hamilton "I didn't mean anything per­
scored 14. Detroit reserves sonal. I just tried to stop him 
Corliss Williamson scored 14, from scoring and then held Mehmet Okur had 13 and Bob him up so nobody got hurt," Sura scored a season-high 10 Maggette said. 
points. Maggette fouled Davis on a 
"They had a lot of players fastbreak, wrapping his arms that really helped them off the around him with Davis landing Orleans Hornets to their third with 6:53 to play. the Spurs took control with a bench," Lakers coach Phil on Maggette's lap up against straight win over the New After each team failed on 20-6 run midway through the Jackson said. "That was a the post. Davis was called for Jersey Nets on Tuesday night. three consecutive possessions, fourth quarter. He and key." a technical for booting the Baron Davis added 25 Wesley hit the first of his big Ginobili combined for six of 
The Lakers have been ball. points, 12 assists, nine 3-pointers from the left wing San Antonio's 10 3-pointers in unbeatable at home, with a 5-After Maggette made a free rebounds and a clutch three­to give the Hornets an 82-81 all. 0 record, and average on the throw and Davis made his two point play, and George Lynch lead with 5:01 to go. Erick Dampier led the road, where they fell to 3-3 shots, Davis stole the ball from had a season-high 17 It took more than two min­Warriors with 17 points and with their third straight road Maggette and slammed it rebounds for the Hornets. utes for the next basket, with 11 rebounds for his fourth loss. home. New Orleans guard Darrell Davis driving the Jane for a straight double-double and 
"We're not playing the way Chris Mihm added a career­Armstrong helped make it three-point play with 2:48 to ninth of the season in 10 we should," Jackson said. high 21 points for Cleveland. interesting at the end by miss­go for an 85-81 lead. games. Clifford Robinson "We're giving up too many He shot 10-for-14 with nine ing two free throws with 14 added 14 points, and Nick Van points on the road." rebounds in 36 minutes while seconds to go, but Kerry Spurs 94, Golden State 81 Exel 12. 
In 31 foul-plagued minutes, filling in for Carlos Boozer, Kittles and Richard Jefferson Once Tony Parker and Manu The Spurs hit 10 of 17 3­Shaquille O'Neal had 20 who left after spraining his missed game-tying 3-point Ginobili started hitting 3-pointers, including three that points, 10 rebounds and five right ankle late in the first attempts for the Nets, who pointers, there was little just beat the shot clock. assists. Karl Malone scored quarter. made only one of their last 13 Golden State could do to stop Hedo Turkoglu, acquired in 20, and Gary Payton added 15 "Not just tonight, but for the shots. them. the offseason for his shooting points and five assists. last couple of weeks he has. Jefferson had 16 points and Tim Duncan had 21 points range, was 3-of-3 from outside 
Kobe Bryant scored 19, but been playing great and giving Kittles 14 in a game that New and 10 rebounds, and Parker the arc and Ginobili was 3-of­was 4-of-14 from the field. us the support off the bench Jersey will remember for the and Ginobili each added 19 4. "He didn't have a good that we need to win games," contributions from its bench. points to lift the San Antonio Still, Spurs coach Gregg night," Jackson said. James said. Brian Scalabrine had 14 Spurs over the Warriors Popovich was hesitant to say 
Bryant left the locker room Predrag Drobnjak had a sea­points, Brandon Armstrong Tuesday night. his team had found the outside quickly after the game and did son-high 20 points and a added 10 and Zoran Planinic "We weren't shooting great touch. not respond to questions career-high 13 rebounds to nine, while Alonzo Mourning percentages in previous Before Tuesday, the Spurs before boarding the team bus. lead the Clippers. provided a late defen&ive pres­games, so today was really were hitting just 30 percent of 
Detroit .won a game with 20 ence in the middle, making good for us," Ginobili said. their 3-pointers.
-
lead changes and nine ties Hornets 88, Nets 85 two big blocks to keep the "Some games you get those "It's just one game," because it made 57 percent of David Wesley hit two late 3-Nets ahead. good shots and you start feel­Popovich said. "We'll have to its shots, outrebounded the pointers to cap a 20-point per­Scalabrine put the Nets up ing more confident." wait and see. We're not heat­Lakers 4 7-26 and took advan-formance that led the New 81-79 with two free throws Parker hit two 3-pointers as ing things up yet." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Doglegleftnews.com "Putting the Pathetic in Apathetic" Brought to you by ND Students and Alumni 
***ACT NOW! Book 11 people, get 12th trip free. Group discounts for 6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com or 800-838-8202. 
WANTED 
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in Movie Extras/Models Needed. 

FOR SALE 
LARGE, ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD· ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu 
HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUSES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 614 S. ST.JOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS 214 S. STPETER 4 BEDRROMS­718 E. WASHINGTON ST. 2 BEDROOMS. CALL KRAMER AT 234-2436 OR 315·5032 
JAMISON (NEAR SOCCER FIELD) 1 BR, 1ST FLOOR, BASEMENT, AVAIL DEC 1,$695 {INCLUDES UTIL), CONTACT BOB 607-723-7373, EMAIL: rjhdds@ pronetisp.net 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@AOLCOM 272· 1525 
PERSONALS 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at 1·7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Acapulco now offers 3 destinations! Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get crazy in Cabo-­with BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. Organize a group and travel for FREE. Book now before its too latel Call 800·875-4525 or www.bianci-rossi.com. 
Part time, energetic experienced nanny needed to help care for chil­dren in our Granger home M-W 3pm-8pm; Th 2pm-8pm. Mom has chronic health problems, so reliability is critical. Love for kids & own transp req. Call 360-1198 & lv msg. 
NO exper. required. 

All looks and ages. 2001 Mercury Sable LS, 34,000 
Earn $100·$500 a day. miles, antilock brakes, alarm sys­
1-888-820-0167, ext. U187 tern, CD, $12,000. Call 287-1147. 
Part time/Full time opportunity for 
honest, motivated, success minded 
individual. Exciting 1-Cominerce 

internet based business. FoR RENT 
1136 E Madison. 
Close to campus, ample parking, 
· AC, huge yard. 
Contact Mike (216) 408-0780 
or Malt {216) 408-0744 if interested 
2 bdrm home, walk to ND 315-8730 
• • • • • • • • • ll 

Two story house completely remodeled 2003. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student housing, laundromat next door (drycleaning also), basement available for storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc. new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigerator, large living room for TV or entertaining, free trash removal. Call 289·4072. 
TICKETS 
Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ Pay Top Dollar$$ 1-866-808-0990 
**LOOKING FOR FOOTBALL TIX'* ND@Cuse. Need at least 2. Will pay BIG $$$$ to get these. Call 212.723.6585 or 917.846.8865 if U have tix to sell. 
I need ND/UK & ND/IU b-ball tix. 273-9938 
. . ... .. ..,. . 
Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
A 'Reality' Spring Break 2004s Hottest prices Book now.. Free Trips, Meals & Parties sunsplashtours.com or 1800-426-771 0 
•••• IRISH CROSSINGS ·A NEW 
LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY •••• Build your dream home next to Notre Dame. Limited number available. www.lrishCrossings.com 
• 4 •. .. 
Granger household looking for part-time babysitter. Must be willing to help with toddlers laundry. Experience & references required. Fax letter or resume to: (574)247·9253. 

Contact: waynew54@pronetglobal.com 4 bedroom house. 
Wednesday, November 19, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB 

Bonds wins sixth NL MVP, third in a row 
Associated Pres•  just move on." Bonds defended his withdraw­ 
al  from  the  Major  League  
NEW YOHK - This one was  Baseball Players Association's  
for Dad.  licensing program starting next  
Barry Bonds  won  a  record  season, meaning the union can  
sixth  National  League  MVP  no longer make deals to use his  
award Tuesday, becoming the  image on souvenirs.  
first player to capture the honor  Bonds wants to control his  
for three consecutive years.  likeness as he approaches Hank  
llis  thoughts immediately  Aaron's career home-run record  
turned  to  Bobby Bonds, his  of 755. Bonds is fourth with 658,  
three-time All-Star father who  also trailing Babe Ruth (714)  
died in August.  and Willie Mays (660). Bonds'  
"This award is more special to  godfather.  
me  than any award I've ever  By going on his  own.  Bonds  
received because it's dedicated  said he will be able to give back  
to  my father," said the San  to the community and fund proj­ 
Francisco outfielder, who has  ects.  
won  twice  as  many of these  "I felt I've really been misrep­ 
awards as any other player.  resented throughout my career  
"I le has been my hitting coach  as  a  bad guy,  bad person,"  
my entire life, ever since I was a  Bonds said. "This gives the  
little kid. I miss him dearly. It's a  licensees an opportunity to real­ 
really emotional time for  me  ly know me."  
right now."  Bonds, the only player to win  
And a controversial time, too.  more than three MVPs, hit .341  
Bonds and other athletes have  with 45 homers arid 90 RBis,  
been subpoenaed to testify by a  leading the major leagues in  
federal grand jury investigating  slugging percentage (.749), on­ 
the Bay Area Laboratory Co­ base percentage (.529) and  
Operative, a nutritional supple­ walks.  AJ Wire  
ments lab. On Monday, a lawyer  The 12-time All-Star received  Bonds takes a swing during the NLDS against the Marlins.  Bonds was named the NL MVP for the  
for Bonds' personal trainer,  28 of 32 first-place votes and  sixth time In his career Tuesday.  It Is his third consecutive year receiving the award.  
Greg Anderson, confirmed his  426 points in balloting by the  
client is a target of the probe.  Baseball Writers' Association of  this award six times, there's no  At 39 years, 3 1/2 months,  ''I'm looking very much for­ 
Bonds declined comment on  America.  words for it," Bonds said.  Bonds became the second-oldest  ward to next season," he said. "I  
BALCO,  citing  his  lawyer's  St. Louis outfielder Albert  If he maintains his home-run  MVP, trailing Pittsburgh's Willie  started training just two weeks  
advice. But he did welcome the  Pujols was second with three  pace,  Bonds  would  reach  Stargell, who was about 4 1/2  after the season.  I'm training  
start of steroid testing with  first-place votes and 303 points.  Aaron's record in 2005 or 2006.  months older when he tied for  even harder this year than I did  
penalties in baseball next sea­ Atlanta outtielder Gary Sheffield  "I  feel  that Hank Aaron's  the award in 1979.  last year. I really want to see if I  
SOIL  The testing was triggered  got the other first-place vote  record is the greatest single  "I feel 29 right now," Bonds  can put things together without  
when  more than 5 percent of  and was third with 247 points.  record in all of sports," Bonds  said. "But during the season, I  my father for the first time."  
tests this year came back posi­ Among the four major North  said. "It's going to be a very dif­ feel 49. That day in-and-day-out  Bonds gets a $500,000 bonus  
tive in an anonymous survey.  American professional sports,  ficult task to do. I'm prepared  grind is very difficult."  for  winning  the  award.  
"I am glad there is going to be  only the NHL's Wayne Gretzky  for the challenge. I just don't  Bonds, who has set records  Sheffield, who became a free  
testing," he said. "I am glad  has more MVP awards, with  know if it's reachable."  for walks and intentional walks,  agent after the season, earned  
that, hopefully, hopefully, it will  nine. The NBA's Kareem Abdul­ Bonds has reached 45 homers  hopes the Giants add another  $75,000 for finishing third.  
diminish a  lot of everyone's  Jabbar also won six MVPs.  in four straight seasons, hitting  slugger to support him in the  Florida's  Juan  Pierre  gets  
speculation, and everyone can  "To be able to say you've won  a record 73 in 2001.  lineup.  $200,000 for finishing 10th.  


Morrissey Manor Presents: 
11Death and Election of the Pope'' 


Wednesday 11/19 
Morrissey Chapel 
7:00 

Presented by: Rev. John Coughlin, OFM Professor of Canon Law Notre Dame Law School 

technic a knowledge while co 
-
to join a growing organization with expert nurses, who are commit· ted to the health of our community, then call now! Nursing Hotline: 609-748-4055 Email: careers@atlanticare.org 
!!9nqs.9.~
www.atlanticare.org 
A division of AtlantiCare fOE, M!F!DN 
Tt~king Ytm Wei/Into Tile Future. 
page 16 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, November 19, 2003 Wednesday, November 19, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Boilertnakers look to solidify bovvl bid 


USC is ranked No. 2 in the polls, with Ohio State at No. 4. 
The Trojans are more con­cerned with winning the city championship than a national title this week because they play crosstown rival UCLA. 
"We are pumped up about our situation and our chance to do something special this season. It won't happen without a big ball game this Saturday in the Coliseum against UCLA," Carroll said. 
Although he was more inter­ested in talking about the upcoming game against the Bruins than the BCS, Carroll did say he would like a different for­mat. 
"No one has ever asked me to change the system, but if they did, I have some viewpoints on 
e11ormous 
FLEECE 
Seledif:• 
~ 
{rom DUTPDin" 

Campus ·1•z.Jii: 
Cold WINither Expert• 
Coll259·1ooo for more details 
that, not the system itself but the format at the end of the sea­son," he said. "If this isn't the right system and there is a bet­ter one, then someone should endeavor to figure that out. Right now, this is the system and I'm not complaining about it." 
Asked what he might change, Carroll said he preferred the old setup, like the Hose Bowl's agreement matching the Pac-10 and Big Ten champions each year. 
Then, he said, a championship game could follow. 
Carroll said such a plan could be managed in a couple of weeks. 
"I have no idea how to do that, but that's not my job to figure it out," he said. "I would like the best team to win. That's not illogical, but it's not happening right now so I'm not going to worry about it." 
Cornerback Will Poole, like his coach, said there's nothing the Trojans can do about the BCS rankings, so they're only wor­ried about beating UCLA. 
"All we can do is to go hard in practice and get ready to play our game," he said. "Anyway, if we had taken care of business against Cal, we wouldn't be in this position." 
-
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. ­The Purdue Boilermakers aren't thinking about a Big Ten championship any more. 
They just want to solidify their bowl qualifications. 
On Tuesday. the Boilermakers hardly men­tioned Saturday's gut-wrench­ing loss to Ohio State and instead were more intent on keeping the Old Oaken Bucket in West Lafayette for the sixth time in 
seven years 
"We have to refocus
_and earn­(8-3, 5-2) ing a New ourselves on Indiana. have resigned Year's Day What happened Saturday, themselves to bowl bid. thinking
there's nothing we can go
"I think about win­the coaches back and do about it" o i n g are pushing Saturday's that pretty Bucket game. 
Kevin Nesfleld
hard," quar­A week ago, 
Boilennaker defensive end
terback Kyle Orton said. "We were all pretty devastated after the last game. So the coaches are pushing us to accomplish the goals we still can." 
For now, the equation appears relatively simple: Beat Indiana and Purdue will still have a shot at its first 1 0-win season since 1979. 
Win and it would become more difficult for bowl officials to choose another conference team over Purdue. 
But after losing 16-13 in overtime at Ohio State, on an errant 36-yard field goal, it was evident the stinging blow still lingered. 
Orton acknowledged it was a tough weekend and that play­ing an in-state rival would help keep the team focused. 
And although defensive end Kevin Nesfield said all the right things, his body language and sometimes short answers seemed to suggest that the loss still hurt. 
"We have to refocus our­selves on Indiana," Nesfield said. "What happened Saturday, there's nothing we can go back and do about it." 
So the 
Boilermakers 
Purdue coach 
Joe Tiller said nobody within the team had been talking about bowl possi­bilities_ only of a Big Ten title. 
The discussion changed over the weekend. 
At the moment, Purdue is the only Big Ten school with just two conference losses, and the Boilermakers have already beaten two of the four teams (Wisconsin and Iowa) with three losses. The loser of this weekend's Ohio State-Michigan game would share second place with Purdue _ if the Boilermakers defeat Indiana. 
Tiller thinks those factors would play into Purdue's favor. 

"'Speaker: Chandra Johnson ....Topic: One Church,,One Christ, manl:J Cultures· 

-Lesend.s of Notre Dame (club side) -Doors @ 9:30, prosra.mmin8 from lOpm .., 11:30pm "' Cash bar 

Carroll content w-ith BCS ranking 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-Southern California coach Pete Carroll has no complaint about his team's BCS ranking, although he would prefer a different system to determine college football's national champion. 
Despite beating Arizona 45-0 last weekend, the Trojans dropped to third in the BCS rankings and, for the moment, out of the national title picture. Ohio State, which defeated Purdue 16-13 in overtime, vault­ed over USC and into the second spot behind Oklahoma. 
Carroll said Tuesday his feel­ings about the BCS rankings haven't changed. 
"This is a system that will come into play at the end of the year. It's really fun and topical for everyone to talk about, and there's some drama with it," he said. "This is the system that we live with. It is what it is. We know all the conversations will come, but we also realize it doesn't have anything to do with what we are doing on the foot­ball field. 
"The best thing we can do to give ourselves the best chance is obviously to play real well." 
USC (9-1) has scored 43 or more points in each of its last five games, all lopsided victories. The Buckeyes (1 0-1) have won three times without scoring an offensive touchdown, including their victory over Purdue. Five of Ohio State's wins were by a touchdown or less. 
The Trojans' lone defeat was a 34-31 triple-overtime loss at California on Sept. 27. The Buckeyes lost 17-10 at Wisconsin on Oct. 11. 
CM 


Wait a second,,. 
So a good GPA, Extra Curricular Activities, Social Service and countless friends is not enough to get that great job or grad school? 
NO, you need a recommendation letter too! Juniors here is a chance to know a professor at a personal level. 
Come hang out with Prof Paul McDowell (French Prof) TODAY at 7:30 at Legends. 
Appetizers will be served along with drinks. 
Email phuon@ nd.edu if interested. 
page 18 Wednesday, November 19, 2003 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Wednesday, November 19, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NBA 

Rivers becomes first coaching casualty of NBA season 
Associated Preas 
PHOENIX -The worst start in the 15-year history of the Orlando Magic cost Doc Rivers his job, the first coaching casu­alty of an NBA season that has barely begun. 
Only a few hours after Rivers talked to reporters about how management has stuck behind him, he was fired and replaced by assistant coach Johnny Davis. 
"We need to start making some progress," Orlando's chief operating officer, John Weisbrod, said before the team's workout Tuesday in Phoenix. "We don't have a team that should be lapping the field or leading the East, but we certain­ly feel we have a group that is better than 1-10, and we need to get more out of our guys." 
General manager John Gabriel delivered the news late Monday night in a meeting at 
\ 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
UNIVERSITY SEEKS COMMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION PROCESS 
The University of Notre Dame is seeking comments from students, faculty, staff, alumni and the public in preportion for its periodic evaluation by the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools. 
The University will undergo a comprehen­sive evaluation visit March 22-24, 2004. The team will renew the institution's ongo­ing ability to meet the Commission's criteria for accreditation and General Institutional Requirements. 
Comments should address substitive mat­ters related to the quality of the institution or its academic programs. Comments must be in writing and signed; comments are not treated as confidential. 
Comments should be submitted by Feb. 20 to: Public Comment on the University of Notre Dame Accreditation, Commission on Institutions of Higher Education, North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, 30 N. LaSalle St., Suite 2400, Chicago, IL. 60602. 
The Commission does not accept confiden­tial or unsigned comments. 
the team's hotel in Salt Lake City following the Magic's 90-88 loss to Utah. Assistant coach Dave Wohl also was fired. 
Rivers flew home to Florida, and the Magic traveled to Phoenix, where they will play the Suns on Thursday. 
"It is part of sports," Rivers said. "I thought I had a good run here. Things just didn't work out in the end. Maybe the players need to hear another voice." 
The Magic won their season opener but then lost 10 straight games, the NBA's worst record this season. 
"I pretty much had an idea that it was going to go down, I just didn't know when," Orlando star Tracy McGrady said. "For the most part, it's a pretty sad day for me because over the years I've grown close to Doc. He came in and did a tremendous job of helping me become the player that I am, the person that I am." 
Still, McGrady indicated the team needs the changes that Davis will bring. 
"J.D. is a laid-back coach. He teaches the game from an indi­vidual standpoint, one-on-one," McGrady said. "If you make a mistake, he's real calm about it. He's not the kind of guy that really yells and screams at the top of his lungs. 
"He's been around awhile. He's been around longer than Doc, so we're happy with the decision." 
Juwan Howard had been one of Rivers' most vocal supporters on the team. 
"Of course it hurts me person­ally because he was a big rea­son I came here," Howard said. "The coaches will always be the ones who have to go first. We're the ones who are out there per­forming. We didn't get the job done. I feel we let him down." 
Rivers was named NBA coach of the year in his first season after directing a team that had four non-drafted starters to a 42­42 record. The Magic reached the playoffs in the last three of Rivers' four seasons but were knocked out in the frrst round. 


"I have no ax to grind," Rivers said. "I thought the manage­ment and team were both great. I couldn't ask for anything more." 
Adu signs with MLS, to join D.C. United 
Philadelphia of major league best young soccer player in the 
Associated Press 

baseball in 1887. world," commissioner Don 
MLS will take full advantage of Garber said Tuesday. "And we 
WASHINGTON -Spurning its signing coup by formally believe that playing in his home overtures from some of the introducing Adu at New York's country, in MLS, will further world's greatest clubs, 14-year­Madison Square Garden on develop him as a player and, old American soccer phenom Wednesday. The player whose most importantly, as a person." Freddy Adu signed a six-year talents have brought compar­Adu was courted extensively deal with MLS. He will join D.C. isons with Pele -and who just courtship by Manchester United United next season. might be the player who puts pro and other blue chip European 
Adu is expected to become the soccer in the popular main­teams. He chose to remain near youngest player for a top U.S. stream in the United States -his home in Potomac, Md., where professional team in more than will then appear on the "Late he and his family have lived 100 years -since 14-year-old Show With David Letterman." since immigrating from Ghana in Fred Chapman debuted for "He is widely considered the 1997. 
On the occasion of International Education Week (November 17-21, 2003), the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures and the Office of International Studies salute our students in languages and literatures, our participants in international study programs, and all of our applicants for international fellowships. 
"We are all students of the world we live in, and today, our world is more interdependent than ever before. The challenges we face in areas such as security, democratic development, economics, and health cannot be addressed by any country 
-
acting alone. International education-learning about other cultures and languages through study, living overseas, and interacting with people of other countries-promotes the free exchange of ideas, allows us to seek joint solutions to problems, and helps create lasting partnerships to meet our shared concerns." Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. 
"Since the inception of International Education Week in November 2000, Americans have experienced several world events that should leave us with little doubt that we are living in an interconnected world. The need for understanding other cultures, languages, and global issues has become increasingly more significant. We should do our very best to give our students the skills they need to be successful global citizens." 
··­Secretary of Education Rod Paige. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--~ 
~-~e20 
Wednesday, November 19, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~ COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
~ 
~ ~ ~ 
~ 
~ Washington disciplines staffers for gambling
~ 
~ ~ 
other violations are minimal," administrators is against its equipment manager. enforcement committee Dec. 15.
Futher investigation

t athletic director Barbara rules. Additionally, the school The conference then will either ~ was prompted by Hedges said. Washington officials agreed acknowledged a minor recruit­accept Washington's corrective 
~ 
t Neuheisel won as much as with a Pac-1 0 finding that ing violation for undercharging actions or recommend others. t $12,000 in basketball pools over
~ Neuheisel case Richardson made an erroneous 13 football recruits for a boat The conference should conclude ~ 
~ the past two years. However, he interpretation of NCAA rules in trip to Neuheisel's Lake its portion of the investigation 
f 
~ Associated Press refused to characterize it as her memo about off-campus Washington home. The boat was sometime in March, then turn it 
.f 
gambling to NCAA investigators, pools, but they argued one mis­captained by a booster, another over to the NCAA. 
SEATTLE -The University of saying he took part in an auc­take does not constitute a fail­minor violation. Earlier in the day, Neuheisel Washington announced discipli­tion and donated some winnings ure to educate staff about gam­As a corrective action, the launched a pre-emptive strike at nary action Tuesday against 12 to charity. bling rules. recruits in question repaid $10 his former employer, claiming athletic department employees, Neuheisel claims he didn't They also announced several each. The money was donated he was wrongfully terminated. including football coach Keith know it was against NCAA rules corrective actions in addition to to Children's Hospital in Seattle. Neuheisel is suing the NCAA and Gilbertson and compliance offi­to gamble in neighborhood Neuheisel's firing last summer: The university is reducing the the university over his firing. cer Dana Richardson, for partic­pools. He has cited a memo + A letter of rep.rimand, the number of official campus visits Neuheisel's lawyer released a ipation in gambling pools on col­from Richardson, which author­most serious of three levels of by recruits for the 2004-05 sea­38-page statement and an 1 1/2 lege basketball. ized such pools for athletic disciplinary letters, sent earlier son by eight, from 56 to 48. The -inch stack of supporting docu­
The disciplinary actions were department personnel, as the this month to Richardson for her football program also will not be ments. included in the university's key piece of evidence in his participation in three basketball allowed to use any boat as Lawyer Robert Sulkin argued response to an investigation by case. pools. "In her place as compli­transportation for that season. that the university failed to the Pac-1 0 Conference regard­Gilbertson and other assis­ance officer, she should be held Washington officials will go properly educate its staff ing gambling by athletic depart­tants acknowledged participat­to a higher standard," Hedges before a Pac-10 compliance regarding NCAA rules. 
ment employees. The investiga­ing in $5 basketball pools in said. tion was launched after allega­1999. Investigators couldn't ver­+ Letters of admonishment to tions of gambling by fired foot­ify reports by a rormer graduate Gilbertson, four assistant coach­ball coach Rick Neuheisel first assistant of pools in subsequent es, two women who worked in became known. years. the football office and three 
"Other than gambling by the The NCAA has said all gam­trainers. head coach, we believe the bling by athletes, coaches and + A letter of caution to an 
NHL 
Capitals baffled by ineptitude 
Associated Press 
ODENTON, Md. -The Washington Capitals are at the bottom of the NHL standings, a start so embarrassing that coaches and players are re­examining how they look at the season. 
"We've never been this low," center Jeff Halpern said Tuesday. "At this point, it's become so bad you just start playing really for your self­pride and the pride of your teammates. We're seven games under right now. Nothing's · going to happen overnight -if

-it happens." Sentiments such as those type are usually uttered in March by a team that's been mathematically eliminated from the playoffs. The Capitals (5-12-1) can only hope their coach is right about bad begin­nings. "It becomes more short-term than long-term when you start slow," coach Bruce Cassidy said. "You start thinking about how are we going to win the next game, the next game. You sort of lose your big picture p'lan because everything becomes more immediate." What's so amazing is that such talk is coming from a team that has won two of its last three games. 

Call259·2ooo for more details 

Pacific Coast Concerts Proudly Presents in Elkhart Classic Rock 97.7 WZOW Welcomes 

Special guest: Guitarist of the legendary MC 5 WfiYHE ~AMEll & Introducing Damnwells 
THURSDAY. HOVEMBER 20. 2003 • 7:00 p.m. Elco Performing flrts Center • Elkhart. Indiana 
••<•;•••,;;¢..••••••'•'•'• at Eko Box~~~?...~ :!!!!~~) 193-4469 ~ 
· Gnd all TkketHasm Ticket C..nt.,. lndodlnt: ~ Saper Soands (Elkhart). "-lhod l'tosk (Gash<m). Orbit l'tosk (Town & Coantry and ""'"''" -•m Ave. • South Boind) and Karm<1 & Wanaw) or art-line at lklnrtmastes.com or zn-7979 

NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick ~eece coat is perfect 
for winter. Askanyyak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into ashell for wet-weather protection. 
~ 


DUTPDST Houts: 
Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo am -9:00pm
~ 

Sat: 1o:oo am-B:oo pm
Cold Weather Experts 

Sun.: 12:oo pm -6:oopm 

Mon. Tues. Thurs. Fri. Sat. SUn. 
2046 South Bend Ave 272-1766 Great Food -Great Fun Open daily at 11:00 
Monday night football bucket specials . "DJ" night and 2 for 4 specials 
32 oz specials 
Live music with Jason Sapen 9­12 Your college football headquar­ters NFL Ticket and all you can eat buffet at 5:00 for $5.95 
!CDC ANNUAL BOOK FAIR 
When: November 17-24,2003 Where: ECDC-ND and ECDC-SMC (EC[)C.,ND is locatedon Bulla Road across. from ()iHt:lre Gra(;e .Residence~iECDC~SMC is located in Havican Hall on theSatnt Mary's C<lmpus) What: Scholastic Book Fair with awide selection of quality children's books for preschoolers through upper elementary grades, including chapter books. How: Come and checkollt the wide selection of quallty books available. Pay by cash, check or credit card. Why: SUPPORT.ECDCI Great holiday gifts. All rund$ raised will go towards the purchase of educational materials 



OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, November 19, 2003 CoMPtLED fROM Tt--n: OBSERVER'S WIRE sERVICEs page 21 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Nevada vs. Connecticut 7 p.m., ESPN Minnesota vs. Utah 10:30 p.m., ESPN2 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL Marshall at Central Florida 
7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 
Detroit at Memphis 9 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press The Bucs said they would and stay in shape and look Gruden's offense and had deactivate Johnson for the forward to playing some­been dropping not-so-sub­
TAMPA, Fla. 
remaining six games. He where else next year," he tle hints he did not wish toKeyshawn Johnson will get 
his wish to leave Tampa will be paid his full salary said. remain in Tampa Bay Bay once the season is and was not fined, general Johnson is the Bucs' beyond 2003. over. manager Rich McKay said. third-leading receiver this "We've worked hard to 
Meantime, he won't even Reached in Miami by the season with 45 catches for try to get him the football. get to play. St. Petersburg Times, the 600 yards and three touch­We want our players to be 
The Buccaneers shelved two-time Pro Bowl selec­downs. happy. But unfortunately, it their disgruntled star tion said he was shocked McKay said he spoke has festered for a while. I receiver for the rest of the by the move. with Johnson's agent, believe it has affected him. year Tuesday, saying he "I really don't know what Jerome Stanley, and "we Certainly we hate to see had become disruptive to say. Basically, they are agreed that it will not be him go, but that's just part during a disappointing 4-6 shutting me down for the necessary for him to be of football sometimes," start for the defending rest of the season. I don't present at our facility for Gruden said. Super Bowl champions. understand it," Johnson the remainder of the year." McKay said Johnson 
"For whatever reason he told the newspaper. Johnson is midway approached him and didn't want to be here. He "I gave them everything I through an eight-year, $56 Gruden four or five weeks let me know that some had between the white million contract that ago and was emphatic time after one of our early lines. I did everything they included a $13 million about his desire to leave games," coach Jon Gruden asked me to do. But it's OK, signing bonus. He has been Tampa Bay at the end of said. I'll continue to work out unhappy with his role in this season. 
IN BRIEF 

Blazers' Wells suspended Philadelphia. Wells apologized, say­Lilly went 12-10 with a 4.34 ERA for two games ing, "I'm not going to be 100 percent and 147 strikeouts as the Athletics' PORTLAND, Ore -Trail Blazers perfect I'm going to have a 10 per­fourth starter last season. 
Lilly was 6-1 with a 2.06 ERA incent lapse sometimes." 
guard Bonzi Wells was suspended for his final seven starts of the regular
Wells was suspended by the NBA
two games without pay by the team season while emerging as the most
for a game last November after spit­
Tuesday for cursing his coach after consistent starter in Oakland's pow­
ting on San Antonio forward Danny
being taken out of a game. 
erful rotation during the team's drive 
Ferry during a game. The next
Wells, a former star at Indiana's to the AL West title. 
month, he drew a two-game league
Muncie Central High School and Ball Kielty hit .244 with 13 homers and
suspension for his role in a postgame
State, also was stripped of his co­57 RBis last season with Toronto and 
brawl with the Golden State
captain's title for his behavior during Minnesota. The 1\vins traded him to
Warriors.

Monday night's 105-98 loss at Dallas. the Blue Jays on July 16 for Shannon 
Last March, Wells was suspended
"It just gets old. I'm sick of it," Stewart.
for one game by Cheeks for "conduct
coach Maurice Cheeks said. ''I'm sick Kielty has 27 home runs, 117 RB!s
considered detrimental to the team." 
and a .367 on-base percentage inof always saying he didn't mean it 
Details of the matter were not 
three major league seasons.
and all that. Players have to be 
released. 

He has long been a favorite of A'saccountable for what they do and general manager Billy Beane, whowhat they say." 
swung the deal with Toronto GM J.P.
Well was not available to comment. A's, Blue Jays swap Lilly, Ricciardi his close friend and formerCheeks said Tuesday that Wells Kielty assistant.
cursed him after being removed from 
OAKLAND, Calif. -The Oakland Kielty could provide pop to one of the game in the third quarter. Wells Athletics traded left-bander Ted Lilly baseball's weakest-hitting outfields. did not play the rest of the way. to the Toronto Blue Jays on Tuesday Though they've made the playoffs 
Earlier this month, Wells was fined for outfielder Bobby Kielty. four straight times, the Athletics' run for making an obscene gesture The A's also got cash or a player to production has declined in each of toward a fan during a loss to be named. the last three seasons. 
Wednesday, November 19, 2003 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Brown 
continued from page 24 
following day on the road against that same Bowling Green team. He made 40 saves in a 3-0 shutout of the Falcons. The following weekend, he made 27 saves in an upset of then-No. 1 Boston College, beating the Golden Eagles in their home opener before a crowd of 7,884 spectators. 
"We thought that would be a good opportunity for us to show what we could do," Brown said. "We thought it would be a good way to get the season off to a good start and just kind of estab­lish our name throughout the league." 
In his next start, Oct. 31 at home against Nebraska-Omaha, Brown had another shutout ­breaking Cey's previous Notre Dame streak of two consecutive shutouts -making 22 saves in the 2-0 win over the Mavericks. 
He also broke Cey's previous consecutive minutes streak of 
147: 19 in that game. 
Brown's streak would continue until Michigan State's Jim Slater finally scored against him in a 3­
VBall 
continued from page 24 
have seen their share of tough losses; however, there is not a more capable team in the Big East than the Irish. 
They are an outstanding blocking and passing team. Their serve receive has been as consistent as one could ask for, and their defense is outstanding. 
If the Irish do these two things like they have all year, there's one thing left-hitting. 
"When we've played well offensively, we've done well," Brown said. "Everyone has to do their job, so if one or two players are off, it makes a difference. I think distribution is key -if we're really good and everyone's on, they can't key on one per­son." 
So the Irish need top-notch performances from the likes of sophomores Lauren Brewster and Lauren Kelbley, junior Emily Loomis and senior Katie Neff. And the Irish defense must give senior setter Kristen Kinder the passes she needs to make the good set. 
"We have a ton of talent," Brown said. "It's just a matter of getting everyone in the right frame of mind." 
Notre Dame has won 22 games this year, but it doesn't matter this weekend. All that matters is Miami at 3:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
If the Irish play up to their immense potential, they will be a force to reckon with not only this weekend, but in the NCAA Tournament as well. 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd. edu. 
PataQonia
excltiSively 
at-·~
Sminute~ 
~vm CUTPCST 
Campus s or s 
Cold Weather Expert• 
Col1259·1.ooo for more details 

3 tie Nov. 8. Brown's streak ended at an incredible 193:27. 
The freshman's incredible string of scoreless minutes earned him his first national honor as well, as he was named National Rookie of the Month for October. He was also named the CCHA Rookie of the Week for the weeks ending Oct. 19 and Nov. 2. 
"Being National Rookie of the Month was more than I ever could have imagined," the soft­spoken Brown said. "Having that many accolades and getting that much recognition is just an unbelievable honor." 
It shouldn't be surprising that Brown has been able to set records right away, considering who he admires· most as a pro­fessional goalie. 
That would be none other than Patrick Roy, the winningest goal­tender in NHL history. 
"When I was younger I started out in hockey school and I actu­ally stopped playing for a year," Brown said. "But then I went and I met Patrick Roy down in Toronto, and I was there with my dad and one day I turned to my dad and said, 'I want to do what Patrick Roy does.' 
I ended up being pretty good at it and just stuck with it for the remainder of my career." 
Brown said that he models his style of goaltending after Roy and other Quebec netminders with similar styles, like Anaheim's Jean-Sebastian Giguere and New Jersey's Martin Brodeur. 
Unlike some of those profes­sional goaltenders, who have become infamous for strange superstitions (Roy would rou­tinely talk to his goal pipes dur­ing stoppages of play), Brown said he just tries to keep things simple. 

"I used to [have superstitions] but not anymore, I've kind of tried to shake it off," he said. "The main thing I do before every game is I just become really quiet, don't really talk to anyone, listen to my head­phones. 
"I always tape my sticks every game, but I do have to pay attention to that, I try to make that perfect." 
Considering his near-flawless play so far in his career, it prob­ably shouldn't be a shock to find out Brown is a perfectionist. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

Loss 
. continued from page 24 
that. Still, winning 20 games is pretty successful." 
The feat was especially impressive considering the struggles of the team a year ago. The Irish this season had to fuse together a group of returning veterans with a large group of talented freshmen. Waldrum was especially pleased with the way this year's team came together. 
"With where we came from with last year, we've made huge strides," said Waldrum. "The team chemistry has never been better, and we real­ly took care of some leadership issues this year and did well with a lot of things in the pro­gram other than just playing." 
The Irish and Waldrum will lose four seniors. 
Amanda Guertin will leave the Irish having been one of the most clutch goal scorers in Irish history, while Vanessa Pruzinsky will leave the mark of being one of only three stu­dents in Notre Dame history to achieve a cumulative 4.0 GPA by majoring in Chemical Engineering, not to mention her status as one of Notre Dame's best all-time defend­ers. 
Kim Carpenter will leave the legacy of a walk-on player who not only got to fulfill her dream of playing for the Irish, but made the most of it by playing a key role in her last two sea­sons and by becoming a team leader from her midfield posi­tion. Finally, Amy Warner's stellar play made her one of only six players in Big East his­tory to earn All-Big East desig­nation all four years, while also becoming a Hermann Trophy semifmalist as a senior. Warner and Pruzinsky were also rare two-year captains for the last two Irish teams. 
With the exception of those four players, the Irish return the rest of a team that is sure to be near top of the polls starting next season. Add a recruiting class and the women's soccer team undoubt­edly will start next season with the same high expectations that every year brings. 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 


Wednesday, November 19, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
SCHOOL DAZE 


FIVES 


CLARE O'BRIEN 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
. " hu~ ,i,\ we ...~~c. ..fe~o~i"l"t. proJv~. \-low •rc: we 6•'~ -to +to..at-~ "'~" wi~ .U.oic~ 
' 

"'"'31& with WING.'b! 

Fru llanth 
~­


WILLSHORTZ 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NAPAG 
j
rJ r I I 
02003 Tribuna Media Setvtcea, Inc. All AlghtJJ Aasarved. 
WIHSS 
j
rJ r I I 
CILTIE 
rJ (]
1 
www.Junmle.com 
I Jumbles: BARGEYesterday's 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 


THE KIND OF HEADACHE A DIVORCE CAN CAUSE. 

-· 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

TULLE HERMIT VACANT 
Answer: 
Shoddy work will do this to a tailor's sales ­UNRAVEL THEM 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
Sharing this birthday: Ted Turner, Jodie Foster, Meg Ryan. Larry King, Dick Cavett, Ahmad Rashad Happy Birthday: Pace yourself, and you will do well. Set your goals and stick to them. The less time you waste pondering what you want to do, the better. Set your own stage and play your own game. As long as you take control of your life and your direction, you are likely to do well this year. If you become sidetracked, you will fall short of your aspirations. Your numbers: 12, 21. 27. 32, 40. 44 ARIES (March 21-April19): Your emotional life may not be running too smoothly. You should fix faulty household products. You may want to put in overtime if it will keep your mind off your personal problems. ••• TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You should get involved in some form of entertainment. Children may need your help. You can enhance your reputation if you express your true feelings on important issues. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Family members will put demands on you. Tell them frankly that you just don't ha-ve the time. Emotional problems with women are apparent. •• CANCER (June 21-July 22): Short trips to visit good friends or relatives will be informative and fun. You may meet someone special if you attend groups involved in environmental issues. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone you've relied on in the past may not be eager to help you. Don't put demands on others or sulk if they don't agree with your intentions. It's best to do things alone. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Resistance will lead to discord. You will find it hard to tum your emotional situation around if you have used emotional blackmail to get your own way. Think of your partner for a change. ** LmRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Upsetting news about your lover may not be true. Ask questions and check out the source before you decide to get into a heated argument. It's possible the story is false. • • • SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Get out and mingle with friends if you wish to meet new romantic partners. You can invite friends over for a visit. Don't let someone you live with stop you from enjoying yourself. ••• SAGIITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Emotional blackmail is apparent if you haven't given your partner enough of your time. Try to be understanding, but don't allow him or her to take advantage of you. You can confide in close 
friends.** ­
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Travel, entertainment and physical activity will be highlighted. Your interest in other people will bring you popularity as well as lift your self-esteem. Don't be so hard on yourself. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Visit a friend who hasn't been feeling well. You may need to help rearrange his or her financial books. You should look into investment opportunities for yourself. '"** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may find it hard to contain your feelings. Passionate encounters with your mate should be on your mind. Children may be an important factor in your relationship. Talk about your future plans. ••• Birthday Baby: You are practical, precise and patient. You will always be devoted to causes you believe in and to the people you care most about. Your loyalty will bring you respect and admiration throughout your life. 
Need advice? Try Euge11ia's Web site at www.euge11ialast.com 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Wager in Russian roulette? 
6 Swindle 
10 Pie perch 
14 First name in TV talk 
15 Secretary of Labor Elaine 16 Plum or gum 17 Face the judge 19 Hindu deity 20 Kind of welder 21 Like ·o· 22 Door pounder's demand 24 Hirsute llbetans 
26 Nitpick 
28 Diner music players, in brief 
30 Corner piece 
31 Revolutionary figure? 
33 Budge 34 Up to, informally 37 Hardly classy 
38 One side of an issue 
39 "Forget it!" 
41 "Shoot!" 
42 Hammerlock, e.g. 
44 Dilates 45 Actress Skye 46 Confine 47 Contract, as in 
pain 
51 Emperor's rebuke 
54 Delhi expenditure 
55 It may be bleeped 
57 Longing 
58 The U.N.'s Kofi Annan 
59 Beat it 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

~~.:;+:..:+;;..JI!!I ~.;.+;;+:;.f.!!~~.;,+::::+;~ 

62 Gift tag word 
63 Hurler Hershiser 
64 Common thing? 65 1111 stack 66 Scale deduction 67 Beef on the 
hoof 
DOWN 1 Mention again 
2 Extremist 
3 Theme of this puzzle 
4 Football Hall-of· Famer Ford 
5 Prefix with skeleton 
6 Fide's fare, maybe 
7 "Cool it!" 8 Jump-offering org. 9 cocktail 
10 Ripken's record, e.g. 
11 Oom resident 
12 Ring-tailed primate 
13 Abrupt transitions 
18 Sports bar fixture 23 Suns' spot 25 Done for 27 Pressing need 29 Peeper's place 
31 School grp. 
32_Cruces 


33 Like the Who, in the 60's 34 Theme of this puzzle 35 Actor McKellen 36 Fleur-de-_ 38 1963 role for Liz 40 Garfield's pal 
43 Nonrecurring 50 Person in a booth, maybe
44 Value 52 Flirt
45 Steel supports 53 In a trance 
46 John or Paul 
56 Shell competitor 47 Object of a 
60 "Science1960's protest 
Friday" host 48 Bizarre Flatow 
49 Author Sinclair 61 On Soc. Sec. 

For answers, call 1-900-420-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1·800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.comlcrosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.comlleaminglxwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _________________________________________ 
Address ________________________________ 
City __________ State _____ Zip______ 

THE OBSERVER 
-
PORTS
Wednesday, November 19, 2003 
HOCKEY 

King David 
Freshman goaltender is rewriting the Irish record books 

By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish came into the 2003­04 season with an early ques­tion mark in goal, with last year's starter Morgan Cey still trying to recover from an off­season surgery. 
David Brown turned that question mark into an exclama­tion point. 
All the Ontario native has done since coming to Notre Dame is break Cey's consecutive shutout minutes streak, set a record for most consecutive shutouts, help the Irish to an upset of the No. 1 team in the nation and earn a selection as the Hockey Commissioner's Association's National Rookie of the Month. 
And all this before his first final exams. 
"Coming in as a freshman and having Morgan here as the starter for the last two years, you just want to come in and show what you can do to the best of your abilities and coach gave me the shot to go in there and I've been really grateful for the opportunity to get in there and show what I'm able to do," Brown said. 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Team sees success despite weak finish 

By ANDY TROEGER-Sports Writer 
On Sunday afternoon, Irish coach Randy Waldrum was forced to do what he and many other coaches feel might be the toughest part of his job in talk­ing to his team after a loss to Michigan ended their season. It was a tough loss to digest for an Irish program that was look­ing to return to the Final Four for the first time since 2000. 
'The hardest thing to do as a coach is to walk in the locker room after a loss [in the NCAA Tournament)." said Waldrum. "It's fmal. Only one coach gets to leave happy. Whether it hap­pened now or later in the tour­nament, the hurt really isn't any different. You have to fmd the words to ease the pain." 
en 
1-u LLI 
a: z ~ 

.., c:s
c 
A. =: cc 
en 
NCAA 
Washingtondisciplines 12 
The university's ath­letic department disci­plined 12 employees for gambling. 
page 20 

TIM KACMAR!The Observer Freshman goaltender Dave Brown makes a save In an upset over No. 1 seed Boston College. Brown's scoreless streak of 193:27 earned him National Rookie of the Month honors In October. 
It took a while for Brown to get going, though. After his first start Oct. 11 in a 3-1 road loss to Ohio State in which Brown made 36 saves, Brown appeared in Notre Dame's home 
Despite the late losses in the NCAA and Big East Tournaments, it would be hard to call the overall season any­thing less than a success. The team won 20 games for the frrst time since 2000 and won 18 of their first 19 while earning the No. 2 ranking in the country for most of the season. They set a new standard for defense, shut­ting out all nine Big East oppo­nents during the regular season and 10 foes in a row at one point, a team record. 
"It may be hard to look back at the season being a success now," Waldrum said. "I think later on, we'll see what we accomplished. The bar is set so high that anything short of the Final Four is a disappointment. There's nothing wrong with 
see LOSS/page 22 
NBA 
Rivers out in Orlando 

The Magic fired Doc Rivers Tuesday after a 1-10 start. 
page 19 FOOTBALL 
Two wins could give Irish bowl 
Notre Dame would be bowl­
eligible if it wins its last two 
games -if there are enough 
bowls left. 

The NCAA notified the school 
on Tuesday that the Irish (4-6) 
would be eligible at 6-6 if there 
aren't enough Big East teams 
with seven or more wins to fill 
the league's five bowl berths, 
said Lisa Mushett, associate 
sports information director. 

NCAA rules allow a team that plays 12 games and wins six to play in a bowl if it is member of a conference that has agree­ments with bowls. Notre Dame . is an independent, but is part of 
the Big East bowl alignment. 

The Irish still need help to get 
to a bowl, though. That's 
because three Big East teams 
already have at least seven 
wins-Miami (8-2), Pittsburgh 
(7-3) and Virginia Tech (8-2) ­leaving two bowl spots. 

West Virginia (6-4) has two games left, at Syracuse (5-4) and at Temple (1-9). Boston College (6-5) is at Virginia Tech (8-2). Syracuse plays West Virginia, Rutgers (4-6) the Irish. 
If two of those three teams win a seventh game, Notre Dame is out. If not, Notre Dame must win at Stanford (4-5) and at Syracuse to have a chance at a bowl. 
The first place Big East team gets a Bowl Championship Series berth. The other bowls in the Big East alignment are the Gator Bowl in Jacksonville, Fla., on Jan. 1, the Insight Bowl at Phoenix on Dec. 26, the Continental Tire Bowl in Charlotte, N.C., on Dec. 27 and the San Francisco Bowl Dec. 31. 
MLS 

COllEGE FOOTBAll 
Adu to play for 

USC focused as 
D.C. Umte(J 

BCS shifts 
Fourteen-year-old 

Trojans' coach Pete 
phenom Freddy Adu 

Carroll has his team 
signed a six-year deal 

intent on beating UCLA 
with MLS. 

this weekend. 
page 19 

page 17 
Purdue looking to ~lay on New ear's Day 
A tough loss to Ohio State does not end Purdue's chances. 
page 17 
Page 24 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish 111ust beco111e consistent 
They've had a good season. Now is the time to make it a great season. The No. 17 Irish face what is perhaps their biggest test thus far -the Big East Tournament. 
But there is only one thing stopping the Irish from winning two games this weekend Heather Van and taking Hoegarden home the crown­
Sports Writer 
themselves. 
All year long, the Irish have shot them­selves in the foot, sputtering on offense late in games and giving up early leads. 
This happened last Sunday in their first Big East loss to Pittsburgh. That match saw the Irish hit .000 in the third game and .632 in the fourth. only to give up a 7-4 lead and lose 15­13 This resulted in a tie between the Irish and the Panthers for first place for the regular season Big East title. 
This trend has haunted the Irish all season long. Against then No. 14 Northern Iowa, the Irish hit a mere .185 to lose the match in four games. 
It happened against South Carolina in the beginning of the year during the Shamrock Invitational. when the Irish hit only .165 in another four-game loss. 
But then again, there have been matches-such as the one against Miami -when they hit .326 to beat the Hurricanes in three games. 
The Irish are a better team than what those losses show. 
"We haven't played to the top of our game yet in a single match," senior Jessica Kinder said after the loss at Northern Iowa. 
Coach Debbie Brown agreed. She realizes her team is full of potential. 
"We've struggled to have one match where everyone plays well," Brown said. "And that is your ultimate goal." 
But the key for the Irish is time. After this weekend, the Irish travel to Palo Alto to face No. 7 Stanford, and then NCAA Regionals start. By that time, the loser goes home. 
If the Irish want to make a run in the tournament, let alone win the Big East tournament. they need to fmd some consistency. 
In a season of highs and lows, the Irish have not had a Jekyll and Hyde personality, but they opener Oct. 17 against Bowling Green as a replacement for sophomore Rory Walsh. 

Brown did not play particu­larly well, giving up two goals on nine shots in the 5-3 loss. 
"I need better play from my goalies," Irish head coach Dave Poulin said after the game. 
Brown receiv{)d the start the 
see BROWN/page 22 see VBALUpage 22 
MlB 
Bonds wins MVP 
The Giant's Barry Bonds is the first player to win the National League MVP award three straight years. 
page 15 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­






