
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 65 MONDAY. DECEMBER 8, 2003 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Executives' salaries rise 
Yet Malloy's pay remains comparatively low 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Writer 
Despite a nationwide trend ol' t1St~alaling salaries for university prosident.s and exncu­tivns that h a s llnivorsity of' Michigan prnsidenl. Mary SuP Malloy ( :olt>man and snvt>ral oth­Prs pushing t.hP $1 mil­

C:t
lion mark, rat.Ps for l'omparahln Not.rP l>anw 
o l'f' i ,. i a Is r P rna in P d rt>latiwly low Malpass in 2001-02. 

Arrording to a Chronicle of' llighnr l·:ducalion rnport rPioasnd Nov. 14. University l'rns i d t•nl. Fa llwr Ed ward Malloy's salary grew from $:~I :i,OOO in 2001 to $362,1{(,0 in 2002 -an inerease of' almost $48,000. llowevnr, those statistics are somewhat misln;uling, as tlw vast majori­ty of' Malloy's annual earnings an1 given to the Congregation of' the lloly Cross. 
"lin livns on a modest stipnnd ... [but] Notre Dame dons dwosn. interestingly, to 
list his salary," University spokesman Matt Sturin said. "A few Catholic universities list zero for thnir presidents, and of' course that's [Malloy ]'s net 
[income]. But we do feel that it's good busi­ness prae­tiee to report pay­ment for services ren­dered." 
Hatch S t o r i n added that a eom pnnsation committee that 
reevaluates payment issues for Malloy and others on a regular basis determined the $48,000 increase. 
"The trustees do decide on routine increases," Storin said. "But I Malloy! doesn't keep it." 
On a national level. even Malloy's reported salary ranks far below that of some of his private university peers. Led by Shirley Ann Jackson, presi­dent of' Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, four private-institu­tion presidents earned over $800,000 in 2001-2002, thren of who topped $1 million with additional eorporate pay. 
see SALARIES/page 4 
Thp Salariesof University Presidents  
1. Mary Sue Coleman, Univ~~it)l of Michlg;ln  $677,500  
2. Shirley Annjuck!lon, Rt~n:,.~ln~'l' P~)lytl'l.:hnic lnstltuttt  $490,000  
3. Lawrence Summers, l·ltlrv.uu Uniwr~lty  $450,110  
e Edward rvtalloy, Univt~ly uf Notn~ Dlllllt'  ~~860 *  

'Sdlftt')IL• polld tu t!wC<ll'\jltt'll;;'tl;""'7iii""' Hnly C:nHI 
Other1hp Salaried Not:re Oilllle Executives 
e &.·ott Malpass, VP; chid invt~tmt~nl oflkvr $757,992 
e Nathan Hatch, pn:wc.l.Gt $411,507 
Source: Chromcle of H1gher Education MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graphic 
Based solely on salary, Mary Sue Coleman is the highest paid college president for 2001.{)2. When benefits and pay for serving on corpo­rate boards In included, Shirley Ann Jackson is the highest paid. 
Professors publish report on terrorism 
By LAURA VILIM 
News Writer 
A recent report written by Kroc Institute fellows George Lopez and David Cortwright urges tlw Unitfld States to rennw i"ts com m i tmnnt to intnrna­tional alliances and wnapon non-prolifnr­a t i o n tmatins as a means of prot nc t i n g Lopez its citizens and other nations from tnrror­

ism. 
Thn roport, titled "Toward a More Sneure America: (;rounding U.S. l'oliey in Global Hnalities," takos issue with the Bush administration over nwthods used to combat terror­ism. Bas<HI on two years of rPsnarch and input from 22 international policy advisors, thn n1port arguos for a collabo­rative seeurity ell'ort within the international community. 
The authors were asked to write the report based on their beliefs and findings regarding the war on Iraq after develop­ments in Iraq. 
"A numbor of high level for­mer officials were familiar with our work on sanctions, espe­cially in regard to Iraq," said Lopez. 
When it turned out by May that the Lopez [and co-author] Cortwright team were correct, that is, that the sanctions and inspections had actually worked to deprive Iraq of the ability to produce weapons sys­toms, "our stoek and credibility went up and a numbm of folks suggestnd we enter the wider fornign poliey fray." 
The report's main argument says that "Through eoopnrative engagement with other coun­tries, multilateral disarma­mnnt. the strengthening of intomational institutions, and carrots and sticks diplomacy, the United States can protect itsolf against terrorism and 
see REPORTIpage 4 
Fans disappointed at season-ending loss 

By KATHERINE GALES 
News Wrirer 
Michigan. USC. Florida State. And now Syracuse. 
Few would consider the Orangemen to play a caliber of football similar to thosn schools, who will all appear in major BCS bowls this year. Ilowever, their 38­12 victory over Notre Dame Saturday was reminiscent of other tough losses this season. 
The football team finished the season 5-7, its third losing season in the past live years. Fans said the season-ending loss to unranked Syracuse leaves a bad taste heading into next y~1ar's sea­son. 
"The coaching staff has the team heading in the right direc­tion, but you can't help but be dis­couragnd alter not bPing compPti­tivn in almost hall' the games this year," said l'mshrnan Mike llealy. 
llowever, fans said lhny would eontinun to support tho football team and look to see a strong sea­son next year. 
"It's obviously disappointing," said sophomore Danny McElroy. "It would have bntm nice to haw some momentum going into next season. The cool thing with NotrP Damn football is that everyone will still be into it next ynar." 
Some dted Notrn Damn's young team as a rnason for problnms this year. 
"After Brady Quinn became starting quartnrback, it bncame a mbuilding season," said freshman Marin llinzpeter. "llopefully, it will lead to winning seasons to eome." 
see FOOTBALL/page 4 


Library reorganizations continue 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
The transfer of material from portions of the 1-Iesburgh Library's tower to the newly renovated lower level has occurred faster than expected, according to library personnel. 
According to Marcie Simons, stacks supervisor, the move of materials from sections of flour 13 and the whole of floors 4 and 5 to the lower level's mov­able storage space is six months ahead of schedule. Only resources from the fourth floor remain to be moved. 
"I have very good people making the move," Simons said. "The people that we ended up hiring have done a phenomenal job." 
Simons said that the transfer of resources would provide space for seven to 10 years of resource growth. Although plans for the newly created shelf space have not complete­ly been determined, it is prob­able that material from other portions of the tower-as well as othnr library branches including Chemistry-Physics ­will be transferred to create a marks located al refmnnee and circulation desks and signs near the first-floor nlevators, exist to inform users of the move's progress, no signs cur­rently exist on the lower levnl to provide a detailed lo('ation uf resourcns. Library of'licials 

see LIBRARY/page 4 

more even allocation of resources. 
Nigel Butterwick, associate director for user serviens, said that the move would probably be completed by next February or March. 
Although numerous resources, including updates to the library Web site, book­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Christn1as is finally here 
Nowadays the Christmas season officially begins the day after Thanksgiving. Retailers throw open their doors to inspired shoppers at 6 a.m. Friday morning. Neighbors smother their homes in lights 
Megan O'Neil
in an attempt to outdo one anoth­er and fir trees News Wlre become the most Editor popular car accessory around town. 
I promise this is not yet another column on the importance of remembering the true spirit of the season that have become all too cliche. 
I will say however, that I prefer a softer approach to Christmas. I like to let my turkey digest a little, if you will, before I am willing to entirely submerge myself in the spirit of things. 
The first step towards seasonal bliss for me is the annual Dec. 1 swapping of cool cotton sheets for warm flannel ones. Every night as I climb into bed thereafter the flan­nel sheets contrast nicely with the crisp cold of winter and hint at the coming holiday. 
Over the next week a trickle of cards fill my mailbox giving me updates on family and friends who I may not have seen for some time. They are always accompanied by a photo where everyone is perfectly color coordinated in green or red. The children look truly angelic, but I always smile wondering what bribes their parents made in order to get them to sit still long enough for the photographer to do his job. 
Next comes the music. I usually warm up by listening to Mariah Carey's Christmas album, followed by *NSYNC and Amy Grant. Much to my enjoyment the Notre Dame Glee Club has continued the tradi­tion of coming to Saint Mary's to sing an array of playful carols. 
Because I'm a sap for the tradi­tional stuff, I always make a point to go to a performance of the Messiah. The Hallelujah finale never disappoints. As singing is not one of my many talents I generally keep my voice to a low hum while in mass. Not in the month of December, however. I belt out songs such as Hark the Herald and Joy to the World as if I was on cen­ter stage of Carnegie Hall. Those in the pews in front of me might wish that I would contain my vocal enthusiasm, but 'tis the season after all. 
What always seals the deal for me however, is a nighttime trip to downtown Chicago with friends. We ball ourselves up in scarves, hats, and gloves and ice skate with 50 storied buildings towering over us. We peer in the lavish windows of Marshall Fields. We joke, laugh and dream. 
Christmas has finally arrived. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publi­cation and strives for rhe highest standards ofjour­nalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, December 8, 2003 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOUR PREDICTIONS FOR NEXT YEAR'S SEASON? 

Sarah Vatterott  Aaron Thomas  Clay Shumway  Drew Donovan  Mike Trela  Karen Lotta  
senior  junior  graduate  senior  senior  junior  
of! campus  Knott  student  Knott  Stanford  Walsh  
"Undefeated, if  "I2-0,  ,"8-4.  'This seaon has  "Three words:  "Hopefully way  
Brady Quinn's  undefeated  led me to the  Quinn to  better than this  
arms stay  national  conclusion that  McKnight."  year.  





sexy. champs." we will go I 2-o 
Riot in Sierra Leone over midget no-show 
FREETOWN, Sierra Leone -Thousands of fans rioted at Sierra Leone's national stadium Saturday when authorities substituted two local dwarf comedians for a widely anticipated out-of-town midget duo. Police arrested 30 people, amid damage and dozens of injuries. 
Daylong radio ads had whipped up excitement and ticket sales for Friday night's scheduled perform­ance by the two Nigerian entertainers, Aki and Paw Paw. 
The Nigerian performers 
TODAY 
D:: LLI 
::1: 
!;( 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
<( 
(.) 

0 
HIGH
..... 42 
LOW 38 
and win the national championship. " 


CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer 

An University employee helps decorate a Christmas tree in the Main Building Thursday. Christmas trees and other decorations have been appearing across cam­pus over the past week. 
OFFBEAT 
child abuse and death, was named Sunday as winner of the Turner Prize for con­temporary British art. 
Grayson Perry, 43, col­lected the $34,000 prize at a ceremony at the Tate Britain art gallery in London, dressed as his alter ego Claire, a charac­ter that appears in some of his works. 
The Turner Prize is regu­larly derided for relying on shock value at the expense of traditional forms of art. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

failed to show by early morning. Organizers put the two local dwarf come­dians on the stage instead. 
Fans rioted, throwing projectiles and smashing windows, light fixtures and hundreds of chairs. 
Witnesses said police fired tear gas. Authorities said 30 people were arrest­ed, including eight who allegedly had tried to steal the stadium's seats. 
Transvestite Potter wins 
Turner Prize  
LONDON  - A  cross­ 
dressing  ceramic  artist  
whose  vases  are  drawn  

with images of sex acts, 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 




38 HIGH HIGH 
36 . LOW LOW 


IN BRIEF 
The Class of 2004 is spon­soring a Rosary Night for seniors from 6:45 to 7:45p.m. tonight at the Grotto. 
The Notre Dame Concert Band, Concert Winds and Brass Ensemble performs seasonal works at Washington Hall from 7:30 to 9 p.m. tonight. Admisssion is free. The groups are directed by Ken Dye, Sam Sanchez, Lane Weaver and Larry Dwyer. 
Legends will host a Monday Night Football Game Watch from 9 p.m. to midnight tonight. 
Attend the information ses­sion for the Summer Service Project Inernship on Tuesday night from 5 to 6 p.m. in the social space in Welsh Family Hall. Projects offers students to opportunity to earn $2,000 toward tuition and three Theology credits for eight weeks of direct service. 
Students can attend the South Bend City planning meeting today at 5:30 p.m. in Bond Hall Room 104 to share their thoughts about South Bend. 
View the international film "Pauline at Paulette" Tuesday at 7 p.m. and 11 p.m. in the LaFortune Montgomery Theater. 
The Glee Club will present two Christmas concerts Saturday at 6 p.m. and 8:30 
p.m. in the Stephan Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 


33 33 20 17 

Atlanta 58 I 35 Boston 34 I 19 Chicago 46 I 42 Denver 39 I 21 Houston 74 I 62 Los Angeles 66 I 45 Minneapolis 39 1 29 New York 37 I 25 Philadelphia 38 I 24 Phoenix 66 I 42 Seattle 46 I 38 St. Louis 49 I 45 Tampa 73 I 53 Washington 42 I 28 
Monday December 8, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 3 


Wilson discusses child advocacy at SMC 

By MICHELLE EGGERS 
News Wrircr 
Increased resources and a stronger military presence will be needed in Afghanistan to ensure peace and stability for the country's people, said Leslie Wilson from the child advocacy program Save the Children. 
Wilson. who has been based in Afghanistan for the past nine months, discussed the country's present social climate Friday in her talk "Update on Afghanistan: Women, Education and Development" at Saint Mary's. 
"We are there for the long haul," Wilson said. "We arc continually working to build an environment where more peo­ple can be educated, more chil­dn~n can receive basic health care, where girls can go to school and where a culture of not violence can take hold." 
Save the Children works with wonwn of age 15-45 and chil­dren under 5 years old to ensure the rights to hcalthcarc, literacy and security, Wilson said. 
"Security is really the key issue we all need to be con­cerned about in Afghanistan right now." she said. "If security continues to deteriorate as it has. then there isn't much hope for the future of Afghanistan." 
Wilson described the lack of educational infrastructure and the conflict surrounding it. 
"The Ministry of Education sees education as school -as buildings, books and desks," she said. "Save the Children views education as students and a tnachcr, as conversation and ideas." 
To help solve this problem, Save the Children brings in the 
STEPHANIE GRAMMEUS!The Observer 

Leslie Wilson, deputy director of the organization Save the Children, discussed children's 
Issues In Afghanistan at a talk held Friday at Saint Mary's. 
resources to build buildings. Then they work with communi­ties to establish a form of edu­cation, Wilson said. 
"Nine times out of 10, what that means is they want a build­ing for their boys to go to school," Wilson said. 
But in every community, two or three families want their daughters to be educated and "Save the Children" then lob­bies for women's rights. 
"We want to ensure girls get whatever boys get," Wilson said. 
The organization also advo­cates against the marriage of young girls, Wilson said. 
Wilson also described the dif-

Open Study Hours: 
Dec 11  lOpm to 3:00am Midnight Sna~:I{s!  
Dec 12  lOpm to 3:00am MidniglttSri~cl4f  
Dec 13  Sam to 3:00am  MidnightSnacks!  
Dec 14  Sam to 3:00am  MidnightS11acks!  

Finals Week Dec 15-18 Sam to 3:00am *Dec 19 DeUartolo closes 30 minutes after last scheduled exam through the Registrar's Office. 36 Non-technology rooms, first come/ first serve 
See Building Support Perso11 ifyou have specific needs: Room 103, 104. 
Coleman-Morse: 1~t Floor Lounge 7:00am-4am daily. Same dates as listed above. Always-Free Snacks! 
O'Shaughnessey: Sunday 1:00pm to 3:00am. Monday-Thursday 5:00pm:.:3:00am. Rooms: 108, 109,204, 206, 207, 20S, 209. Same dates as listed above. 
Snacks duriltg Suuty .Days courtesy of: Business Operations Campus Ministry . Stude1rt U1t/ou Board 
***Good Luck with Finals*** Happy Holidays 
ficult relationship between the military and nongovernmental organizations, such as "Save the Children." The military has to be in Afghanistan to secure the organization's position, Wilson said. However, the military needs to be in more places than they are. 
'There is no question the mili­tary needs to be there," Wilson said. "But they need to be there bigger and they need to plan to be there for a long time. That's the truth." 
Overall, the Afghan people want the guns to go away and want peace and calm, Wilson said. 
"They know what progress 


is," Wilson said. "Even if it is just that my child got the three shots that she needed to survive or my child went to school today. that's progress. If you do that one hundred thousand times over, you can't image they will let it slide." 
Saint Mary's Alumnae Relations Office, the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership and the Justice Education department spon­sored Wilson's presentation as part of the program "16 Days of Activism Against Gender Violence." 
Contact Michelle Eggers at egge2272@saintmacys.edu 

Mass to be held for Moore 
Special to the Observer 
A Mass of Christian Burial will be held in the Basilica of the Sacred lleart on Monday at 9.30 a.m. for Dennis Moore, associate vice presi­dent for public affairs and communication at the University of Notre Dame, who died on Dec. 3 at age 55. 
Interment will follow in Cedar Grove Cemetery adja­cent to the Notre Dame cam­pus. 
Visitation was Sunday in South Bend. A prayer service was led by Father Michael Baxter. 
Donations may be made to the Catholic Worker !Iouse. 
P.O. Box 971, Notre Dame, 
IN, 46556  or  the Salvation  
Army.  
Moore.  a  beloved figure  at  

the University where he had worked for 15 years, died at St. Vincent's Hospital in New York City. lie had battled prostate cancer for the past year. 
"We have lost a dear friend and beloved colleague." said University President Father Edward Malloy. "Denny was an extraordinary writer and editor who understood the Notre Dame ethos like few ever have." 
A member of Notre Dame's Class of 1970, Moore served on the founding staff of' the The Observer. 
He went on to work for some 20 years in journalism and corporate relations. 

The Morris Inn 
"On The Campus" Notre Dame, IN (574) 631-2000 

Returning to campus early after Christmas break? The Morris Inn will be offering a special rate for returning students on Saturday, January to $59.00 / single or double occupancy. Please call to reserve a room with us. 
.....­
/~he
L:.!,inceton


Review 
BtUtrSc:oru, 8et11r .'ichoo/1. 
I 

Hypel·leal'Iling MCAT 
• 
Expert instructors. 

• 
10 pt. score improvement-better than any competitor. 

• 
Over 4,000 pages of materials & 30 MCAT's worth of practice-all yours to keep. 


Classes statt in January. Space is limited. 800-2Review 
www.Princ~etouReview.com 



~=p=ag=e=-4=============================================T.=h=e=O=b=se=rv=e=r=·==~==E=~==S========_=_==_=_=_==_~~=_=_==_==_=_====_=_=_~M=o=n=d=ay=,=D=e=c=em==be=r=8=,=2=00==3--­
ment, which "had a huge climbing executive compensa­increase during that period," tion inappropriate at a time of

[ Salaries 
I Storin said. campus-wide cost cutting. 
I continued from page 1 Notre Dame Chief Investment Unlike at Harvard. Notre Officer Scott Malpass saw the Dame's endowment is managed Increased competition among benefits of that increase, col­within the University, but its 
r 

' universities to lure a small lecting a total of $7 57,992 in fluctuations similarly impact number of qualified candidates, 2002, up from $408,800 in yearly salary increases. the changing responsibilities of 2001. Although average yearly the presidential lifestyle and While this jump was substan-· increases for University staff trustees who fear losing poten­tial, Storin pointed out that are in the "area of 4 percent," tial presidents to the private Malpass' contract indicated that Storin said, "they were less this sector have all been cited as certain incentives and delayed past year" because of endow­factors contributing to the boom performance bonuses should be ment concerns. in executive compensation, paid during the 2002 fiscal year. The delay in the Chronicle of which persists despite the cur­He also noted that other univer­Higher Education's report also rent economic recession. sities have taken the further contributed to uncertainty in Public university presidents step of creating separate corpo­evaluating executive compensa­are increasingly keeping pace, rations to manage their endow­tion on a yearly basis, he said. with Coleman, who is slated to ment -and paying the leaders Storin pointed to University make $677,500 in 2003-04, top­of these corporations like pri­provost Nathan Hatch as an ping the list. Eleven other public vate executives, a move that has example of the radical changes presidents earned more than resulted in controversy on the can that occur from one year to $500,000 in 2001-02, in many Harvard campus. the next. The Chronicle report­cases stretching tax dollars that "Harvard has a private com­ed Hatch's 2001-02 compensa­had previously been used for pany," Storin said. "Malpass tion as $411,507. However, that academic programs and raises could make much more in the number included a significant for faculty and staff members. private sectpr ... what you have amount of deferred compensa­Tuition increases have also here is a much more modest tion that Hatch opted to receive been used to keep up with the version." in that particular year, Storin executive compensation contest, The senior vice president of said. resulting in backlash among Harvard Management Company, "We'll just have to see next many students and parents. David Mittelman, earned $17.5 year's figures," he said. "That Compared to these hikes, million in 2001-02, causing stu­figure in no way represents his Notre Dame's executive com­dents and alumni to question annual salary." pensation increases in 2001-02 the University's priorities. While were fairly minor, although they the company is a non-profit did represent an exceptional organization, many affiliated 
Contact Claire Heininger at 
year for the University's endow-with the university deemed its 
cheining@nd.edu 
act violently out ability to win the war on ter­
The report also received sup­ror," he said. port from the Fourth Freedom Lopez also said that some of continued from page 1 Forum, an institution that pro­the officials involved with the 
motes the effective use of eco­report will be speaking on cam­weapons of mass destruction nomic incentives-carrots-and pus about the issues in the near and realize a more secure sanctions-sticks-to free humans future and that the report will future." around the world from the fear possibly be used in some classes 


Report 
The authors believe that the of war. next semester. way the United States imple­The report also includes two mented its invasion of Iraq hurt other co-authors from the 
Contact Laura Vilim at
the war on terror because it Fourth Freedom Forum, vice­
lvilim@nd.edu
detracted from any real debate president Alistair Millar and about how best to combat terror­research director Linda Gerber. ism. They caution against allow­David Cartwright serves as ing the media's hype of the war president of the Forum. Lopez on terror and the "axis of evil" to and Cartwright have worked mask the mounting problems in together since 1992 and have American foreign policy. written and published over 20 
Instead of focusing on Iraq, articles and five books. according to the report, One of the main purposes of American government officials writing the report is to encour­
should focus on cooperating with age people to think about the 


Library 
continued from page 1 
said these signs will be available soon. 
"We wanted to get feed­back as to what ... people are looking for," Butterwick said. "We have had a design­er in and quotations for sig­nage ... should be progress­ing fairly soon." 
Butterwick 
Younger said that the most pressing renovation will occur to the library's first floor, in order to provide better use of concourse space, greater ease of traffic flow and emphasis on user services as well as perks like a possible adjacent cyber­cafe and reading area. 
A renovation to the Chemistry-Physics Library is also in the works, pending funding and discussions with 
science fac­

also said that ulty as to he and other "The Provost's Office their desires library officials for the
recognized the dire 
have been newly reno­
shape we are in and
pleased with vated space. the popularity is looking to provide Due to and quietness lean budgets
additional funds. 
of the lower and the
{However] ... the
level, which rapid growth contains whole University is of periodical numerous loca­very lean on costs, tions for stu­resource
budget issues"
dents to study cuts for the individually or 2003-2004 in groups. Jennifer Younger year have 
"The most director of University been com­striking thing is pleted.
libraries
although we Younger haven't desig-said, howev­nated it [the lower level] as er, that because the library a quiet zone, that's in effect remains fully budgeted, the what it has become," he budget will need additional said. funding in order to avoid 
The renovation of the more cuts for the 2004-2005 Hesburgh Library basement year. Younger said that is only part of an entire pro­library officials are busy posed renovation of the putting together various sce­building. Although funding narios to explore their range has been proposed and the of options. renovation is part of Notre "The Provost's Office rec­Dame's Capital Campaign, ognizes the dire shape we Jennifer Younger, director of are in and is looking to pro­University libraries, said vide additional funds," she that she remains uncertain said. "[However, we] are not when funding will be avail­at all clear what will be pos­able for further renovation. sible ... the whole University 
"[We have] no sense of is very lean on budget when any funding would issues. come through," she said. "It could be one year, it could Contact Joe Trombello at be five." jtrombel@nd.edu 
international institutions and military strategies the United other countries to improve coun­States has employed in the war terterrorism intelligence. against terror and to discuss Finally, Lopez and Cartwright their impact, according to Lopez. contend that terrorism cannot "It is meant to spark more simply be fought militarily, but intense debate about the trade­




~=~~~c:~r:~~1;:;:nd
efforts are needed to reduce the offs that have been made that root causes that drive people to we believe have compromised 
··:·.··:.;;:.:.. 
things difficult, as well as a lack of the leadership we had last year." 

Football 
The three-game winning streak of wins over Navy, BYU and
continued from page 1 Stanford had built confidence 
Healy said Notre Dame's inde­among fans heading into their pendent status may have con­final game. tributed to its troubles. "I was excited to see us building 
"This season is [partly because] more momentum towards the end of independent football not being of the year," Healy said, "because as powerful as it once was," said I thought we'd start next season in Healy. the same manner. Obviously, we 
Since 1988, previously inde­lost to Syracuse pretty badly, but pendent teams like Boston hopefully we can forget abut it College, Miami, Florida State and and move into next season with Penn State have moved towards an aggressive attitude." joining conferences and found Despite another difficult loss this success. weekend, students said they still 
"There has been a shift towards enjoyed being a part of the foot­conferences having power in col­ball tradition. lege football, as opposed to inde­"Notre Dame football is just one 
. .. .

pendent teams. Notre Dame being of those things that we, as stu­. .· . .· independent makes their schedule dents, don't have the ability to Cour$et<.iJJ:#i$/1 Cuftt/te~ Ui~t!Jry; Ctlrrtmtls~ues 
change," said senior Maureen

more difficult," Healy said. PftJgriitn inCludes Figld Trips and One ~eek in Belfast 
Other students said factors the Carney. "We have a choice: to Irish couldn't control contributed enjoy it as a good part of Notre Dame, or to complain about it."' 

to a difficult season. anra 
JliiJrot'Jnjation On-Line at www.nd.edu/-lntlstud
"I think we had to deal with a 
Ytf'lfJlte·n<tatiqt;iq[,SJ~t4Y l'rvi!l~anfs QfjiJ:e iiJ ·JS2Jiurley
lot of injuries," said sophomore 
...· •.• 20()4
Hunter Craig, a Knott sophomore. Contact Katherine Gales at "An inexperienced line made kgales@nd.edu 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Palestine fails to reach truce 
CAIHO. Egypt-Palestinians failed to agree on a truce offer to Israel on Sunday after three days of talks. setting back the Palestinian prime minister's hopes for a halt in violence to jump start the stalled U.S.­baeked "road map" peace plan. 
Ilamas and Islamic Jihad, which have car­rind out most suicide attacks against Israel, resisted intense pressure from Prime Ministr.r Ahmed Qureia and the top Egyptian mediator and refused a full cease-fire. 
The two groups would agree only to a limit­

r.d truce, ending attacks on civilians in Israel but not on .Jewish settlers or Israeli soldiers in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
Israel said it would accept only a compre­hensive halt. "There's no half-way cease­fire." said Haanan Gissin, a spokesman for Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. He said Israel is willing to stop shooting if there was a total Palestinian truce. 
Putin leads Russian election 
MOSCOW -The main pro-Kremlin party led by a large margin in Hussia's parliamen­tary elections Sunday, according to partial official results. putting President Vladimir Putin on the path to the solid majority he seeks to increase his hold on the country. 
Greater might in the State Duma, Russia's lownr parliament house, would make it easi­er for Putin to push through the sometimes unpopular market-oriented economic reforms he has promised and cut the bureau­craey that stil1es Hussian growth. It may also let him pass constitutional ehanges giving him a third term in office. 
Hut Kremlin critics and opposition party leaders warned too much power for Putin would fuel a drift toward authoritarianism 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Cops probe Ohio shootings 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Authorities closed nearly half of the beltway around the city for two hours after dusk Saturday as federal agents investigating 14 shootings there used lasers to take ballistic measurements. 
Agents from the Bureau of Alcohol. Tobacco and Firearms walked in the west­bound lane of Interstate 270 as a sedan crept along in the eastbound lane. The car appeared to be similar to the one 62-year-old Gail Knisley was riding in when she was fatally shot on Nov. 25. 
A red laser shone between the driver's side door and agents working along the opposite side of the highway. The car stopped often and occasionally reversed as investigators with llashlights searched wooded areas and brush along the road. 
U.S. remembers Pearl Harbor 
PEAHL IIAHBOR, Hawaii -With a giant Ameriean nag waving at half-staff under a cloudy sky, an aging and dwindling group of Pearl I!arbor survivors gathered Sunday to commemorate the Japanese attack that launched the United States into World War II 62 years ago. 
The generations that have passed since Dec. 7. 1941 have softened the pain but not eroded memories, the survivors said in a service at the USS Arizona Memorial. 
''I'm getting too old to have feelings," said Leo Fitzek. 91. who was a radio operator on Ford Island. next to the harbor's Battleship How. 

LOCAL NEWS 
Business lighting restricted 
C:LAHKSVILLE. Ind. -At night. Paul Underhill's backyard is bathed in so much light from a nearby service station he feels like he lives in Alaska. where the summer sun never sets. 
"You don't want your house lit up like it was Alaska. 24 hours of light a day," he said. "It's ridieulous." 
lie and other Clarksville residents are hop­ing their town becomes the latest southern Indiana community to approve lighting restrictions for businesses that produce irri­tating glares. 





ORLD &NATION 
Monday, December 8, 2003 CotvH'ILED FROM "fHE 0HSERVER'S WIRE SHlY!CES page 5 
U.S. kills nine Afghan children 
Anger and confusion abound after U.S. warplanes misfire on Afghan village 
Associated Press 

IIUTALA, Afghanistan ­Hats and shoes littered a blood-stained field in this desolate Afghan village Sunday, a day after U.S. warplanes -targeting a terror suspect-mistaken­ly killed nine children. 
American officials offered their regrets Sunday and said they were "deeply saddened" by the deaths. The United Nations called for an investigation. And th.e Afghan govern­ment urged the U.S.-led coalition hunting Taliban and al-Qaida fighters to make sure such an acci­dent is never repeated. 
In Hutala on Sunday, a line of fresh graves marked the tragedy, and village men stood quietly by a stream in a dusty field where the children had been playing. They seemed as bewildered as they were angry. 
"First they fire their rockets. Then they say it was a mistake," llaji Amir Mohammed told The Associated Press, as dozens of American sol­diers sent to investigate the incident offered condo­lences or lay in the warm­ing winter sun. "How can we forgive them?" 
Villagers said the young victims had been playing cent Afghan c)tizens," killed was not Wazir, and gunship in Uruzgan with marbles in a dusty including aid groups and that the former district province, which borders field beside mud homes in Afghans working on the commander under the Ghazni province. this impoverished valley, Kabul-Kandahar road. a Taliban had left the village On April 9, a U.S. war­some 150 miles southwest site of frequent violence. some days before the plane mistakenly bombed of Kabul, when the A-1 0 Lt. Col. Bryan Hilferty. a attack. a home in the eastern town ground attack aircraft spokesman for the coali­"There are no terrorists, of Shkin, killing 11 civil­homed in. tion, told the AP in Hutala no Taliban or al-Qaida ians. Another air strike in 
Military officials said that it had appeared to the here," said Abdul Majid Nuristan province in east­Sunday they had no idea pilot of the aircraft that Farooqi. "Just poor peo­ern Afghanistan on Oct. 31 children were in the area "just that person that we ple." reportedly killed at least when they decided to wanted, that terrorist, was The 11,500 U.S.-led eight civilians in a house. attack. U.S. Ambassador in the field. So we fired on troops hunting Taliban and "This incident, which fol­Zalmay Khalilzad said the him." al-Qaida remnants in south lows similar incidents, suspect targeted and killed Troops discovered the and east Afghanistan often adds to a sense of insecuri­was a former Taliban com­children's bodies after are supported by air ty and fear in the country," mander named Mullah rushing to the scene to power, and there have Lakhdar Brahimi, the U.N. Wazir, adding that he was verify that they had got been a string of military Special Heprescntative to "deeply saddened" by the Wazir. U.S. officers new in mishaps. Afghanistan. said in Kabul. "tragic loss of innocent Sunday to apologize to vil­The worst occurred in The Afghan government life." lage elders, Hilferty said. July 2002, when Afghan said it fully supported 
Khalilzad said the former But residents were officials said 48 civilians at fighting terrorism but commander "had bragged adamant that the military a wedding party were urged the U .S.-led coalition of his personal involve­had acted on bogus intelli­killed and 117 wounded by to "be very careful not to ment in attacks on inno-gence. Many said the man a U.S. Air Force AC-130 repeat such tragedies." 
Roadside bomb kills U.S. soldier 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Guerrillas killed a U.S. soldier with a road­side bomb in northern Iraq on Sunday, and a U.S. military com­mander said insurgent attacks might not abate even if American troops kill or capture Saddam Hussein. 
A soldier from the U.S. Army's 101 st Airborne Division died and two others in his unit were wounded when rebels detonated a bomb as a their convoy drove through .the center of Mosul at midday, Master Sgt. Kelly Tyler said. 
"I heard an explosion and came running toward the site of the attack and saw three soldiers, one of them covered with blood." said Bahaa Hussein, a student. Mosul is 250 miles north of Baghdad. 
The top commander in Iraq, Lt. Gen. Ricardo Sanchez. said attacks could surge ahead of a July 1 deadline for a transfer of authority from the U.S.-led coalition to a transitional Iraqi government. 
"We expect to see an increase in violence as we move forward toward sovereignty at the errd of June," Sanchez said. 
"The killing or capturing of Saddam Hussein will have an impact on the level of violence, but it will not end it," he said. "It won't be the end-all solution." 
"It's a needle in a haystack," he 
said of the hunt for the ousted Iraqi leader. "Clearly we haven't found the right haystack ... We arc moving under the assumption that he is still in the country. that he is still operating." 
After a daylong trip to Iraq on Saturday, U.S. Defense Secretary Donald II. Humsfeld said he wants senior commanders in Iraq to con­sider whether the Pen tag on underestimated how many U.S.­trained Iraqi security forces would be needed before a sovereign Iraqi government takes over next sum­mer. 
He said he worried that the cur­rent goal of 220,000 Iraqi security forces may not be able to be increased later if need be. 


~<~ge 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday December 8, 2003 

MCOB adopts 'Worthy' brand 
Report answers questions about business school's worth 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
The Mendoza College of Business' award-winning branding campaign has continued with Dean Carolyn Woo's latest report, entitled "Worthy." In the report, Woo answers the question, "What makes a business college worthy?" 
The report, which covers 2001 to 2003, continues the college's efforts to reflect Notre Dame's overall busi­ness brand image. The pre­vious report, called "Bursting," discussed the expressive nature of busi­ness scholarship. The report before that, entitled "Impact," put forward. a theme of the college's responsibility in the broad­er environment. 
Though the report won a Gold Award for design excellence from the League of American Communications Professionals, Woo is pleased with the report for other reasons. 
"One faculty member told me he left it on the coffee table for his guests because he's proud of what the col­lege stands for," Woo said. "That means ten times more to me than the 

fact that it won "We have one-third c a l an award." resources,
ofthe students and 

Woo, now in and bless­
one-eighth ofthe

her seventh ings," Woo year as dean, faculty. That said. said the report imbalance needs to She also· 
aims to cap­proposals to
be addressed. " 

ture the spirit limit the size of Mendoza's of the col­involvement in Carolyn Woo fege, saying the University. Dean of business the college's 
"It's not just what we do, but about life happening through our work," she said. "We have a sense of mission and contri­bution to what's impor­tant." 
The report uses illustrat­ed examples of undergrad­uates, graduate students and alumni to demonstrate the "worth" of the Mendoza College, which comprises nearly a third of the under­graduate population of Notre Dame. 
One of those examples is Kristen Rodriguez, a senior marketing major from San Antonio. Rodriguez, a life­long cheerleading enthusi­ast, created Revolution in the Hood, an organization dedicated to organizing inner-city cheerleading squad. 
The report praises her "worthy passion" and pays tribute to Rodriguez's efforts to "give even more disadvantaged youths something to cheer about." Rodriguez said she was happy to be included in the report. 
"I think it fits really well with how the university is attempting to brand the 

leadership suggested the move in its 
strategic plan. 
"We have one-third of the students and one-eighth of the faculty," she said. "That imbalance needs to be addressed." 
Woo said that limiting the size of the college might continue to improve the quality of students' educa­tion. 
"Faculty play a major role not only as not only as teachers, but as mentors and elders," she said. "It's not only what happens in the classroom ... that really 
allows  relationships  to  
develop."  
She  also  responded  to  

criticism that business edu­cation should not be a major focus at a Catholic university. 
"Notre Dame isn't a liber­al arts college. Notre Dame is a Catholic research University," she said. "The liberal arts as well as the other disciplines and pro­fessions all play important roles." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
college of business," she said. "[Companies] are seeking undergraduates and MBA students with a strong sense of purpose." 
The report also highlights several quantitative improvements in the busi­ness school's performance. For example, the trade publication · Public Accounting Report ranked the undergraduate account­ing program fourth nation­ally. 
The college's graduate­level efforts improved as well, as MBA applications have more than doubled from 1998 to 2003, while MBA students' mean grade point average rose from 
3.15 to 3.36 over the same period. 
"When we commit to do something, we're commit­ted to do it very well," Woo said. 
The college has jumped in national prominence since receiving a $35 million con­tribution in 2000 from Tom and Kathy Mendoza, who run Network Appliance, a California-based technology firm. At the time, the gift was the largest single con­tribution in Notre Dame history. 
"We've had tremendous resources in terms of tal­ents, finan­
• 
Danielle Boucree, entrepreneur 

• 
Sara Martinez Tucker, Hispanic Scholarship Fund 

• 
Zein Nakash, SuperCiubs International 

• 
Muffett McGraw, Notre Dame Women's Basketball 


in. :I-Iistory:!>' B-u.sin.ess, Social Work 

For further information contact: 


Monday, December 8, 2003 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 9 862.68 -68.14
Jones ' 
Composite Volume:


;t; ~:: 
I ,217,298,048 
AMEX 1,118.5!? .::::,::::,::fl~!'8 .) .... NASDAQ 1 937.82 -30.98 NYSE 6,122:~~.,.•,•.:•• :::.:'·'fl~~;q~ :•::::~ 
s&PSOO 1,061.50 -8.22 
NIKKEI(Tokyo) 10,3Z$~,p·::':')]'jlj:[['())QQ, '~' 
FTSE IOO(l.ondon) 4,367.00 -11.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 

MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.84 -0.22 25.98 INTEL CORP (INTC) -4.29 -1.-14 32.10 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -3.28 -0.15 4.39 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.96 -0.23 23.75 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -1.92 -0.25 12.7-1 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -2.13 -1.10 50.47 I0-YEAR NOTE -3.52 -1.54 42.15 5-YEARNOTE ·-5.58 -1.89 32.01 3-MONTH BILL -0.67 -0.06 8.95 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.53 30.73 GOLD ($ffroy oz.) +3.10 407.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.70 86.85 
Exchon Rates 

YEN 107.6 EURO 0.822 POUND 0.5787 CANADIAN$ 1.306 
IN BRIEF 
Syron new Freddie Mac CEO 
McLEAN, Va.-The mortgage giant Freddie Mac named a former American Stock Exchange chief as its new chairman and chief executive ofliccr Sunday, making him the com­pany's third CEO since accounting troubles emerged at the company in June. 
Hichard F. Syron will succeed Gregory Parseghian. who was ousted in August after being implicated in accounting irregularities at the home 11nancing company. Parseghian replaced Leland Brendsel, who was dismissed in June. 
McLean, Va.-based Freddie Mac is the sec­ond-largest U.S. buyer of home mortgages, a publicly traded corporation with $40 billion revenue a year. It is under criminal investiga­tion by the Justice Department and a civil inquiry by the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
The company has disclosed that accounting errors and manipulations of internal accounts had resulted in misstated earnings by $1.5 bil­lion to $4.5 billion in the 2000-2002 period. 
Mayor's son wins city lease 
EAST CIIICAGO, Ind. -A company owned by longtime Mayor Robert A. Pastrick's youngest son has been awarded a lease agree­ment to store city records and other materials -a deal the mayor's opponents call highly questionable, the Post-Tribune of Merrillville reported Sunday. 
For the next four years, the city will pay Cardinal llarbor LLC, an East Chicago compa­ny headed by Kevin Pastrick, $86,400 annual­ly to lease a building for storage. 
Since then, city crews have been remodeling the inside of the building and transferring records there. Under the agreement, the city must pay for the building's remodeling. 
The lease's approval in July by the city's Board of Public Works came as several local municipalities are passing or considering ethics ordinances that frown upon such arrangements with persons related to elected officials. 
No law now prohibits younger Pastrick from doing business with the city, but the deal has given opponents of his father's administration something to criticize. 

THE ()BSERVER 



USINESS 
page 7 
Trade tensions high for Bush 
China is likely to become the next target as pressure for trade barriers builds 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -There is no sign of a quick easing of pressure on President Bush to provide trade protection for besieged U.S. industries, especially with his re-elec­tion race ahead and manu­facturing employment still in free-fall. 
Experts say, however, that the Bush administration's hasty turnabout over steel may foreshadow more care­ful picking of future trade battles. 
As for steel. they said Bush wanted to honor a 2000 campaign pledge to the domestic industry, and the tariiTs were imposed despite overwhelming evidence they could not survive a challenge from the World Trade Organization. 
Trade analysts also said Bush leveraged the trade penalties on steel into con­gressional passage of legisla­tion that gave the president power to negotiate new trade agreements, including one that would create a hemisphere-wide free trade zone. 
Bush has resorted to selected protectionism while espousing allegiance to free trade. In doing so, he is using the same tactics as many of his predecessors, seeking to win votes for free trade by offering measured doses of protecting industry. 
"The whole history of free trade is littered with squalid little side deals that provide favored industries with pro­tectionism," said Brink Lindsey, a trade economist at Cato Institute, a Washington think tank. "But I don't think this administration realized the black eye it was going to receive over the steel issue." 
The steel case put a variety of U.S. producers, from cit­rus farmers in Florida to nut growers in California, at risk of retaliatory tariffs from Europe. 
A top Bush aide said the potential trade penalties from abroad were "minus­cule" in the context of the overall U.S. economy. Explaining the president's decision, chief of staff Andrew Card also told "Fox News Sunday" that it took into account "the restructur­ing that had to take place and did take place in the steel industry." 


Bush will face a political backlash from the steel industry, a critical force in Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Ohio, even though the decision appeases a larger collection of states upset by the tariifs. 
Mark Glyptis, president of the Independent Steelworkers in Weirton, W.Va., backed Bush last month when he signed a $401 billion defense spend­ing bill. Glyptis belongs to the Workforce Coalition, a group that lobbies for defense spending. But now, Glyptis is angry at Bush's recent deci­sion to end tariiTs. 
"I can promise you this: Our union will now work very hard to make sure George W. Bush joins the ranks of the unemployed next year," Glyptis told The Charleston Gazette for Sunday's edition. 
The Democratic presiden­tial candidates seized on the flip-flop as yet another example of flawed Bush eco­nomic policies. 
Rep. Dick Gephardt, D­Mo., said Bush's withdrawal of the steel tariffs demon­strated a "callous disregard for the workers and the com­munities whose jobs and livelihoods have been deci­mated by unfair competi­tion." 
Because of attacks like that and Bush's vulnerabilities on jobs, analysts believe the administration will continue sounding a tough line on trade at least through the November election. 
The government announced Friday that even though the overall unem­ployment rate dropped to 5.9 percent in November, manu­facturers suffered a 40th consecutive month of job losses. 
During the past three years, 2.8 million factory jobs -one in six -have disappeared. That ha...<; raised fears that many of those jobs may be lost forever to over­seas factories where labor costs much less. 
The administration insists the economy finally is turn­ing around but also L'> trying to show through its trade policy that it is doing every­thing possible to bolster job growth. 

Talks seek internet globalization 
Associated Press 

GENEVA -Negotiators from 192 countries have narrowed difTerences on setting the global ground rules for expanding use of the Internet, but remain undecided on whether rich nations should help their poor coun­terparts pay for the increase. 
Two days of closed-door talks, which continued into the early hours Sunday, have resolved most of the key issues to be tackled at a U.N. summit on information technology which starts Wednesday, said Marc Furrer, the Swiss official who bro­kered the discussions. 
"Unfortunately, we didn't settle everything, but one has to be realis­tic. We're probably at 98 percent," said Furrer, director of Switzerland's Federal Office of Communications. Negotiators will meet again Tuesday, on the eve of the three-day World Summit on the Information Society, he told reporters. 
The negotiators, meeting for the fifth round of talks already this year, have been trying to draft documents for the nearly 60 heads of state or government expected in Geneva. 
French Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin and Cuban President Fidel Castro are among some of the lead­ers who plan to attend. Many of the leaders will be coming from develop­ing countries. 
The key stumbling block remains whether and how richer nations should subsidize growth of the Internet in poorer countries. 
African countries support the cre­ation of a special "digital solidarity fund" to pay for extending the Internet into remote villages, but European nations, the United States and Japan have been wary, saying existing development aid money could be used instead. 
"Some countries want to set this up now, others say they don't want to have anything to do with it," said Furrer, without identifying them. "It's clear we need resources, but we should first check whether there are already resources, because some exist but are not used." 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Page 8 Monday, December 8, 2003 
The modem Christmas story 

Once upon a time a man named Joseph was traveling to Bethlehem to be counted for the census; he was with his betrothed, Mary, who was with child. He was also with his don­key, who bayed with every step, 
Mike Marchand 
for holiday travel is always a pain in 
the ass. 
Undistinguished
And as they 
Alumnus
went, the cities were filled with light. Some were of many colors and blinking; others were attached to metal frames in the shape of animals, which moved their heads electronically. There were candy canes and men in red suits and giant balloons in the shapes of snow­men and Homer Simpson. 
When Joseph and Mary arrived at the inn, they found that the price to stay was higher than on all other nights, and they were not pleased. Just then, the time came for the child to be born. So the innkeeper took them to the barn, where she delivered a boy, who was to be named Jesus. She wrapped him in a plaid fleece jacket by Baby Gap, on sale for $22.99, and placed him in a manger. 
Now in this region there were many shepherds who lived in the fields and tended their flocks by night. An angel appeared to them, wearing the latest line from the Victoria's Secret Angels Collection. The shepherds were very frightened, and the angel said, "Do not be afraid, for I bring joyful news for all the people: with a receipt, you can return merchandise tomorrow and get store credit or cash. Oh, and also. some kid was born who's like, the Messiah or something. He's away in a manger down there." 
And also at this time, some men were traveling from the East, who were either kings or wise men, and their names were Gaspar, Melchior and Bob. They were following a star that preceded them, and it stopped over the place where the Christ child was. They entered and presented gifts. 
The first magi, Gaspar, presented the child with gold, to crown the one who was the newborn King Of The Jews. . The second magi, Melchior, pre­sented the child with a gift certifi­cate for frankin­cense, for he was not sure which scent the child would prefer and did not want to get one He wouldn't like. 
The third magi, Bob, pre­sented the child with a Chia Pet from Walgreens because it said "Makes a great gift!" on the side and because he waited until the last minute to purchase his gift. 

And thus was the story of the birth of Jesus, the Son of God. 
None of the above was meant to be blasphemous in any way. Have a sense of humor, for crying out loud. Apologies to Charles Schulz, Edgar Cayce, gospel writers Matthew and Luke, and anyone else whose beauti­ful Christmas narratives I've butchered. 
I'm not nearly as heartless about the rampant cheap-ifying of the Christmas season as this small para­
ble lets on. Christmas is meant to be a time of joy and celebra­tion. While I· might be more of a traditionalist in this area, preferring "0 Holy Night" to "Rudolph the Red­Nosed Reindeer," however one chooses to cele­
brate is fine -as long as everyone keeps in mind 
that the true meaning of Christmas lies beyond what you'll find under the tree, be it real, pine-scent­
ed plastic or one of those colored­light curly­designed things. May Christ's peace be with all of you this holiday sea­son. 
Mike Marchand, class of 2001. spent most ofthe week in the Twin Cities area, 
and will therefore never complain about South Bend weather again. His e-mail address is Marchand.J@alum­ni.nd.edu. "Undistinguished Alumnus" will return next semester. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Clarifying 'Monologues' 
As campus organizer for last year's, and this year's, VDAY events, as well as director of The Vagina Monologues, I would like to thank Kamaria Porter and John Sikorski for accomplishing one of many of VDAY's goals-continuing a dialogue that increases awareness in order to stop the violence. However, the best dialogue is an informed one. I'm writing to address some of Sikorski's comments, and to provide the facts. 
The Vagina Monologues is a theatrical piece, comprised of a collection of monologues from women's experiences all over the world. It is not a one-woman show. as evi­denced by the 60-plus people involved in last year's event. 
The script is not accessible online because, as with all theatrical productions, the performers must be given rights to use the script. If you want to read it, you can pur­chase it in the bookstore or online, or you can contact me to borrow a copy. 
The website to the organization is not blocked on the Notre Dame server. It is www.vday.org. 
The Vagina Monologues does not promote any one par­ticular lifestyle except one that does not include violence. It does not advocate homosexuality or masturbation or speaking any sort of inappropriate language. Rather. it empowers women to live their lives without violence. 
Our Lady had a vagina. too. It provided us with the life of Christ. That monologue is called the Gospel. 
VDAY functions worldwide, from both "top-down" and grassroots levels, to stop the violence against women and girls. The Vagina Monologues is taken in conjunction with this movement. To condemn this collection of stories is to condemn these women and the truth of their lives, and, as Christians, we are taught to love one another. I ask that as members of a Catholic university, we all examine how closely we live up to that standard. 
Last year we raised about $6,000 for the YWCA, SOS and the Polaris Project (an international organization that works against the trafficking of women). Our proceeds do not benefit abortion clinics. We protect women and girls. 
I encourage everyone to see the show on Feb. 14, the original VDAY. Moreover, I challenge you to live up to the motto of Eve Ensler, author of The Vagina Monologues and founder of VDAY: Create the world you wanted for your­self. Stop the violence. 
Lindsey Horvath 
sentor 
off-campus 
Dec. 7 
OBSERVER POLL 
Have you ever been in a final that has been interrupted by a prank? 
Vote at ndsmcobserver.com by 5 p.m. Thursday. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When I tell the truth, it is not for the sake of convincing those who do not know it, but for the sake ofdefending those that do." 
William Blake artist 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Monday, December 8, 2003 
page 9 
Bush's imperial theology 
Since President George W. Bush took ol'tice, he has availed himself of the Almighty in more than a few speeches. Some lind this sincere, even stirring. Others lind it disingenuous and politically expedient. BJ Strew Hegardless, it is clear that Bush's overly religious Straight.rhetoric bodes ill 
No Chaser 

for America in both the short and long term. 
Writing for The Nation, the Costa lUcan pastor Juan Stam cuts his beef with Bush's rhetoric into three slices: Manichaeism, Messianism and Manipulation of Prayer. The black­and-white vision of Manichaeism has found expression in many of Bush's speeches. For example, after Sept. 11, Bush said, "This will be a monumen­tal struggle of good versus evil, but good will prevail." Few have likely forgotten the "axis of evil." Then there's Bush's perception of his (and America's) messianic role. Bush had been "called" to run for president; America must "confound the designs of evil men," because "our calling, as a blessed country, is to make the world better." Add to this Bush's many photos of him at prayer, or the ten minutes of isolation from his advisers he asked for, before giving Saddam Hussein the ultimatum. 
It would of course be na'ive to expect in the near future to see religion divested from politics, as Harvard profes­sor Samuel Huntington has noted. But religion's role must be limited. Barry Lynn, executive director of Americans 
I~] I~
United, which pro­motes the 
1'~ !..\ 

separation 
• 

of church and state, reminds us that the pres­idency is a secular job. He is "not to be our pastor or preach­er or a prophet, 
but a person who uses both the Constitution and the sec­ular principles of the country to make decisions." Bush intertwines religion and politics far too closely. 
When Bush declared victory in Iraq from the aircraft carrier, he said: "Wherever you go, you carry a mes­sage of hope -a message that is ancient and ever new. In the words of the prophet Isaiah, "To the captives, 'come out,' and to those in darkness, 'be free."' 
In this year's State of the Union address, President Bush said "Americans should be placing our confidence in the loving God behind all of life, and all of history. May He guide us now." With Bush's foreign policy, he seems to view our country as half exorcist, half evangelist. 
On his desk, Bush has a picture of former president Theodore Roosevelt -a reminder of a long line of brazenly Christian presidents. Doug Underwood, professor of communica­tions at the University of Washington, said they were both very religious 
men and were not afraid to mix reli­gion and politics. 
Rudyard Kipling wrote the poem "The White Man's Burden" in 1899, which suggested that it was the responsibility of white Christians to educate and convert the lower class­es. Underwood said that the lirst per­son to whom Kipling sent this was Roosevelt and that this strengthens the link between the two presidents' foreign policies. 
When asked, "Should we expect our president to use faith to guide him in foreign policy?" on CNN's program "Market Call,'' Deborah Caldwell, sen­ior producer of Beliefnet, a multi-faith religious Web site conceded that many, if not all, presidents are at least in part guided by their faith, but that "what discomforts a lot of people about President Bush is that he seems to be using his faith, in a more public way, to guide his policy and has seemed to use the idea of good and evil"-Manichaeism again-"as a principle on which he bases his deci­sion to attack Iraq." 
In 1648, the Treaty of Westphalia, however uneasily, ended the era of religious warfare, by giving the sover­eign the right to determine the oflicial religion of each country in Europe. We've come a long way since then: 
the United States was the first nation 
to make religious tolerance and 
state neutrality the national 
creed. Looking at Bush's 
rhetoric, state neutrali­ty seems to him either 
an alien or simply 
untoward notion. 
The Progressive has offered a phrase to char­acterize Bush's 
approach to 
politics: mes­
sianic mili­
tarism. "Bush 
seems to 
believe he is carrying out God's will by waging war," 
the magazine remarks. Bush is quoted 
as saying there exists "a human condition that we must worry about in 
times of war. There is a value system that 

cannot be compromised -God-given values. These 
aren't United States-created 
values." 
What is unsettling is that Bush doesn't merely yoke religion and poli­tics, but religion and militarism, specifically. A dark irony apparently lost on Bush is that this phenomenon is mirrored precisely in the perverse fundamentalism of Al-Qaeda terror­ists. 
Bush's imperial theology is a throw­back to an unsavory period in world history. He may have expressed regret for using the term "crusade" after Sept. 11, but the echoes of the term persist in both Bush's words and his actions. 
BJ Strew is a junior English major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be contacted at wstrew@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily ofThe Observer. 



POW treatment is hypocritical 
In 1949, nations around the world agreed to the Geneva Accords, a series of protocols that were designed to deline ethical rules during a time of war. For example, prisoners of war can only be questioned via cer­tain modes, cannot Greg Parnell be tortured, must be granted their basic life needs and 
Ideas, Issues 

retain their due 
and Ideologues

process rights. One of the many reasons that the United States decided to overthrow Saddam Hussein was because of Iraq's repeated violation of this agreement. However. infringements of international law do not occur solely in oppressive tyrannies. For, over the past two years, the United States has knowingly broken these same Geneva Accords. 
The most egregious breach of the agreement thus far is the condition of the "enemy combatants" currently held in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The govern­ment has called them by this term inten­tionally, because if they are not "prison­ers of war,'' then they are not protected by the Geneva Accords. Such slight of hand is a tactic one would usually expect from a despotic government. 
Most Americans know that enemies of our nation are currently being held there, but very few actually know what is going on within the base. What we do know is that the Red Cross was allowed a visit to the base to check in on the detainees. 
Red Cross team representative Christopher Girod reported that the principal concern for most of the detainees was not about the conditions themselves, but about how long they were going to be held. "It's always the number one question," he said. "They don't know about the future." Red Cross oflicials concluded from their interviews that holding enemy combatants in such limbo is dangerous to their mental health. "One cannot keep these detainees in this pattern, this situation, indefinitely," Girod said. 
The government takes the position that the detainees not only hold vital knowledge about terrorist networks, but that they now have learned lessons about the American system that could reveal important information to the ter­rorists, if they were to be released. Therefore, they feel that it is necessary to hold these prisoners for the duration of the hostilities. Clearly, this is the 
course of action that is in the best inter­
ests of our nation. 

However, the war on terrorism is a war that could conceivably never end. Does this mean, then, that we should hold these men indefinitely, when they have not received a trial of any sort? Critics argue that since they are not Americans, they do not have due process rights. Our soldiers arc the ones risking their lives around the world, so the least we can do is take measures to protect their security as much as possi­ble. Better our enemies and attackers suffer than our soldiers or even civil­ians. 
Clearly, there must be some middle ground. Setting a precedent of placing one's opposition into prison camps with­out any form of due process and no indi­cation of how long they would be held must be prevented. Yes, we must protect ourselves, but we must lind ways to do it without surrendering the things that make us different from our enemies. If the only way the United States can remain secure is through this abuse, how are we any better than the corrupt regimes that we devote billions of dol­lars into toppling? 
Thankfully, the Supreme Court has decided to make a ruling on the case. A decision as to whether the detainees have due process rights, whether they can be held without trial and what form of a trial would ensure is expected in July. 
This decision will be a very influential one. Hopefully, the judges will rule in favor of the prisoners, demonstrating to the world that the United States is not a place where hypocrisy is tolerated. Their status as prisoners of war will be reinstated, their protection under the Geneva Accords granted and their cases heard by a fair judge or jury. 
We must do everything we can to keep the United States safe. That includes keeping us safe from within, by protect­ing those freedoms and rights that make us a country to emulate, even when it would be easier to revoke them. When we say that America is different, let us be true to our word. 
Greg Parnell is a sophomore political science and economics major. Contact him at gparnell@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

__J 


page 10 

These bikers think they own the roads 
As I was walking back from class the other day and approaching the home stretch on the way back to my dorm, I turned the corner and came head on with a 
Tom Raaf

biker who 
was tearing 
up campus 
Scene

on his 
Columnist

brand new 
Mt. Fury. I 
darted left 
and he bailed into a bush, com­
ing inches from drilling me at 
Lance Armstrong speeds. When 
he got up, he looked around 
nervously, made sure he hadn't 
lost the connection on his cell 
phone call, and continued on 
his way, most likely to the jerk 
store. 
I witnessed another similar 

instance just a few weeks 
before in which two bikers 
crashed behind Alumni Hall. 
James Bent, the innocent party, 
had this to say about the inci­
dent, "This kid was out of con­
trol! He looked at me, hit his 
brakes momentarily, then con­
tinued to accelerate into my 
brand new Schwinn. There's no 
way this kid's parents enrolled 
him in safety town as a child." 
In case you aren't able to think of any particular biker misbehavior off hand, I figured I'd lie out a few of the common violations for you. 
First, there's the kid who thinks it's cool to weave in and out of groups of walkers like a crazy psycho. He also enjoys speeding down South Quad and tearing across the grass, which I remind you, is 100 percent in violation of du Lac, or as I call it, the Cup of Life. Typically, this kid also uses the word "awe­some" and can't stop raving about "how bad the south quad wind tunnel is." 
Junior Mark Crnich had this to say about the speed racer type: "Some of these kids treat that path to O'Shaughnessy like the friggin' X-games. I think I actually saw a kid do an endo [brake hard on the front brakes to pop the back tire up -the ultimate in middle school biking tricks] last week too. Redonkulous I say, redonku­lous." 
Another popular trend among the bikers is to bike at one mile an hour so they can talk with a friend who is walking. Many do not realize that it is nearly impossible to operate a bike this slowly without wavering all over the sidewalk. Simply get­ting off the bike and walking with it while talking to a walk­ing friend just must be an absurd concept to these unfor­tunate violators of biking eti­
quette. Although I do not feel 
that these people are as bad as 
the 60 m.p.h. Tour de France 
members, they still are guaran­
teed to clip my heel once a 
week. 

In light of these problems that have plagued the Notre Dame population, I propose that we walkers impose a general rule of biker regulation that I call the 2X rule. Under this regula­tion, walkers would be permit­ted to stick out their arms and clothesline any biker who pass­es them within arms length if the biker were traveling at more than twice the walker's speed. Some may respond to this regulation saying that it sounds a bit harsh, but I think that the bikers will think twice about racing by after getting a mouth full of hairy forearm and a love tap from the concrete in front of a senior citizen tour group. 
I hit the hard streets of the Notre Dame campus to gauge student reaction to my new pol­icy. Junior Ryan MacDonald said "Although I'd really like your policy to have something involving animal sacrifice and puppeteering, I feel that it will suffice in showing these bikers how to behave. Go, Irish, GO!" 
Senior Dan Guerin was sur-· prisingly angry when I asked him for a reaction, throwing a tantrum and stating "My mom said these bikers make baby Jesus cry. I hate them and their insatiable need for speed." He then began to play patty-cake on his lap and sing campfire songs. 
What I am trying to say here by featuring these mildly enter­taining stories is that the bikers on campus have gotten way out of line. In these dark times of biking danger, I believe that we need a model citizen on whose example we can rely to show us the right way in which to oper­ate our bikes. After two and a half years of observing people on campus, I've decided that none other than Carlyle Holiday is the model biker for Notre Dame. Always riding at an acceptable speed and watching out for pedestrians such as myself, Carlyle never makes the walking population fearful or bitter with inappropriate tom­foolery ... except sometimes I get a little nervous when he rides with one hand. I was never actually able to get a hold of Carlyle, so I hope he doesn't mind that I am granting him this role. 
Tom Raaf doesn't ride a bike, but he was often seen on a motorized cart ofhis friend. Contact him at traaj@nd. edu. 

THE 0BSER\'ER 


CENE 
Monday, December 8, 2003 
500 greate 
Rolling Stone magazine releases the ultimate rock and roll library in their recent special collector's issue 
By SARAH VABULAS 
Scene Editor 
Rolling Stone Magazine released a special collector's issue for the week of Dec. 11 where they picked the 500 greatest albums of all time. This ulti­mate rock & More than 2,400 albums were nominated. Ballots were counted using a weighted point system developed by the accounting firm of Ernst & Young under the supervision of Rolling Stone editors. 
Because an album made 
Family on Anthology of American Folk Music; the Bee Gees on the soundtrack to Saturday Night Fever; the Righteous Brothers on the Phil Spector collection Back to Mono. 
The final tally is a celebra­tion of the most exciting and 
v i t a I 
albums 
roll record e v e r library was recorded, determined from the by a five­shellac 78s star elec­made by torate of bluesman experts and Robert true fans: Johnson in the singers, a San label execu­Antonio, tives, artist Texas, managers, hotel room historians -finally and critics, compiled among oth­on an LP ers. These nearly 30 albums rep­years after resent the his death finest in -to the popular catalytic music, hip-hop selected by artistry of the best in Eminem the busi­and the ness. garage­
Rolling rock futur­Stone's top ism of the 500 project W h i t e began six Stripes. 
months ago, when the editors of RS polled a blue ribbon body of rock & roll stars and authorities, asking them to pick their top 50 albums, in order of prefer­ence. 
The 273 voters spanned every decade and genre of popular music, from the 1950s to the present, includ­ing Beck, U2 guitarist the Edge, Ray Manzarek and John Densmore of the Doors, Fats Domino, Jackson Browne, Art Garfunkel, Flea and John Frusciante of the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Britney Spears, Metallica's James Hetfield and Lars Ulrich, Missy Elliott and folk patri­arch Pete Seegar. 
Voters were free to be true to the own loves and music selections, while choosing not only albums that they considered the best, but those that meant the most to them in their personal lives as well as professional lives. 

Alone, the 
Beatles, Bob Dylan, the Rolling Stones, the Who and Bruce Springsteen account for nearly ten percent of the RS 500 -a tribute not only to their epochal records but to their explosive growth and pioneer spirit as artists. Yet each of these 500 records. in some way, has been cru­cial to the history of rock & roll: honoring its past, ignit­ing the present. determining the future. 
The RS 500 is also a con­tinuing testament to the way popular music touches and moves us. These records changed not only rock & roll but the people who live for it. The RS 500 is conclusive proof that rock & roll will never die -because the music here is so full of life. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 

the RS 500 list does not nec­essarily mean that it reflects the sales of the album or even chart positions. The best selling album of all time Eagles: Their Greatest Hits, 1971-1975, at 80 million copies sold, did not place in the poll, while both Hotel California (No. 37, 16 million) and The Eagles (No. 374, 1.9 Million) did. The top album, the Beatles' Sgt. Pepper Lonely Hearts Club Band, ranks fiftieth on the list of best­selling albums, at 11.7 mil­lion. 
Some of the greatest single artists -from Fats Domino and the Four Tops to Dion and Donna Summer -are absent; the voters did not reach a consensus on any of the hit compilations of their work on the market. Also, many important performers are recognized by the RS 500 as part of crucial multi­artist collections: the Carter 
I . 
---------~----~---------------------~ 




NSIDER 
OTHE 

Monday, December 8, 2003 BSERVER Syracuse 38, Notre Dame 12 

Upstaged in upstate 
Orangemen beat Irish to a pulp as Notre Dame falls to Syracuse 38-12 
By PAT LEONARD 
Spnm Writer 
SYHACUSE, N.Y. -A player hrokn his school's rushing n~conl on tlw turf of a sold out Carrinr Donw Saturday after­noon, but that player was not Notre Damn's .I uti us .Jorws. 
Syracusn junior running baek Wallnr Heyns seored five toudl­downs and sot a sehool record for eanwr touchdowns and points in a ganw as the Orangnmnn snapped a three­garnn Irish win streak and their own three-game losing streak with a 3H-12 victory. 
Hnyns now has 3H earner touchdowns. thron morn than Llw previous record holder, Floyd Little, who played for the Orangnrnen from I 964-6(>. 
With tho loss, Notre Dame falls to !'i-7, while Syracuse fin­islws its season at 6-6. 
Despite ~~arly turnovers, Notrn Damn stayed in the game and drew to within 24-12 on a !'i-yard touehdown pass to tight mHI Anthony Fasano with 28 sneonds remaining in the third quartnr. But Hoyos broke a 71­yard touchdown run -his fourth of the game -on the first play of the following Syraeusn drive to take the wind out of Notre Dame's sails for good. 
"We wern able to draw close in tho second half," Irish coaeh Tyrone Willingham said, "but Wll eould not eonvort them to touchdowns and lwe could) not rush the football. That kept the dnfensn on thn field. I think that made the diiTernnen." 
Tlw Notre Damfl players wnre passes for 199 yards and a tired and Heyes found the holes. some tackles, and when you're the SU 35-yard line, creating visibly frustratnd. touchdown. lie was sacked "Heyes is definitely a feisty going against a great baek, he yet another turnover. 
"We didn't play the kind of three times. back," cornerback Dwight makes good plays and capital­The Orangemen got a 43-yard ball we eame hero to play," een­Excluding two separate 20-Elliek said. "I think he's proba­izes on your miscues." field goal from Collin Barber to tnr Bob Morton said. "We didn't yard gains by Jones and junior bly the fastest we faced this Notre Dame intercepted increase their lead to 10-0. play as physieal or as tenacious running back Hyan Grant, Notre year. He sees the seam, and he Syracuse quarterback H..J. Using the indoor conditions to as we wantnd to play. It's n~al Dame could not establish its hits it quiek. That's just what he Anderson twice and sacked him his advantage, Irish kicker IU. tough to swallow right now." running game. The Irish fin­did in the second half." three times. Anderson finished Fitzpatriek nailed a snason and 
Syraeusn seornd 24 points off ished with 62 Heyes had with 209 yards passing, most of career-high 50-yard field goal of' l'our turnovers in a game rushing yards just 33 which came in the second half, on the following Notre Damn
"We didn't play the kind 
Notre Dame needed to win to com pared to yards rush­aftor the Orangemen were able drive. finish a rocky season with a 247 for ofball we came here to ing and a to establish a running game. The rest of the half was a bat­.500 record. Syracuse. The touchdown Syracuse still was able to hop tle of' defenses, however, and
play."
Two Brady Quinn intercep­Orangnmen con­on nine car­on Notre Dame early. despite Quentin Burrell and tions and fumbles by Quinn and tained the rush­ries at half­Syraeuse free safety Anthony Vontez Dull' intorceptions in the .Iones -his first since the sna­ing attack, hit­Bob Morton time. lie Smith picked off a third-down second half, the Irish wore not son opener against Washington ting Jones six Irish center blew up in Brady Quinn pass intended for able to keep up with Syracuse Statn-spoilnd drives on which times for zero or the second Omar Jenkins on the first drive on oiTense or defense. the Irish wnrn able to execute negative yards. half for four of the game and returned it to "It was just a bad day for us," big plays. Jones finished with 54 yards on more touchdowns and 161 the Irish 24-yard line. Jones said. "We didn't eonw out 
"Any time that you turn the 20 carries. additional yards. Five plays and three Heyes the way wo were capable of." hall ovor it's very eostly," Irish Diedrick adjusted by calling A few Irish players could not touches later, the Orangemen ofTonsivn coordinator Bill play actions and deep throws to explain the second half debacle. had an early 7-0 lead. I>iodriek said, "and anytime you sophomore Mauriee Stovall and "It's hard to say," defensive The Notre Damn backfield of turn it over in the rnd zone it's junior Matt Shelton, but lineman Darrell Campbell said. .Jones and Grant gained 41 extrmnoly lcostlyl. because it turnovers negated the drives. It "It probably comes down to fun­yards on the ensuing drive, but takes points oil' the board." was only a matter of time damentals that the coaehes are the Syracuse defense held Contact Pat Leonard at 
Quinn completed 1 H-of-:H before the Notre Dame defense going to mention. We missed Notre Dame on a 4th and 1 at pleonard@nd.edu 

player of the game 

Walter Reyes 

The Syracuse running back rushed for floe touchdowns and 189 yards on 1 9 carries. 
stat of the game 
241 

number ofyards rushing allowed by the Irish in Saturday's game. They had allowed 3 I I yards total in their previous three wins. 
play of the game 
Reyes' 71-yard touchdown run late In the third quarter 
Syracuse answered Notre Dame's only touchdown and took away any positive Irish momentum. 
quote of the game 

"We didn't come out and play like we're capable ofand it showed everywhere -offense and defense. " 
Julius Jones Irish running back 
~--------­

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, December 8, 2003 

report card 
quarterbacks: Quinn overthrew wide 
receivers throughout the game and 
threw the interception that led to 
Syracuse's first touchdown. He did 
throw a touchdown to Fasano. 
0-
running backs: Jones' fumble inside the red zone was a dagger in any hopes of an Irish comeback. Grant's poor block 
near the end of the game led to a sack 
and was just one of many mistakes. 
receivers: Notre Dame's only touch­
8-
down came through the air, and numerous players had catches. The 
receivers usually did a good job of catching the ball if they could get to it. 
offensive line: The line allowed 
0-
Syracuse to sack Quinn three times and make 12 tackles for a loss. The 
unit also had difficulty making holes for the Irish running backs. 
defensive line: The line had three 
C-
sacks and helped pressure Anderson 
into three interceptions. They 
allowed the Syracuse offensive line to push them around and create holes for Reyes, however. 
C-
linebackers: Watson was the game's leading tackler and had an interception, 
but any time a team puts 200 yards rushing against you, the linebackers did not do their job. 
defensive backs: The Irish defensive back<> 
had two interceptions but allowed Reyes 
C+to break away for big runs. 
8-
special teams: Fitzpatrick kicked a career­high 50-yard field goal and had his high­est punting average of the season. A 
poor line drive kickoff helped lead to a Syracuse touchdown, however .. 
coaching: The Irish couldn't seem to
F 
score points without a successful running game and couldn't figure 
out how to stop Syracuse's running game. The result? A big loss. 
overall: The Irish played per­haps their worst game of the season. Losing big to top­
1.48 

ranked USC is one thing. Losing big to Syracuse is another. 

adding up the numbers 
yards of D.J. Fitzpatrick's first field goal. The 50-yarder was the longest for the Irish this 
50

season, and acareer high for Fitzpatrick. 
54 number of yards rushing Saturday for Julius Jones, after three straight 100-yard games. 
the last year a player scored five or more touchdowns against the Irish. 
1972
Anthony Davis had six for USC. 

24 number of points Syracuse scored off Notre Dame turnovers 
number of plays it took Syracuse to score a touch­
1 

down to answer Notre Dame's only touchdown of the game. It came on a 71-yard Reyes run. 
average yards rushing per play by Reyes. The Irish defense allowed only 2.9 yards per
9.9 

rush in its first 11 games. 
number of losing seasons in Notre Dame's 
12 
116-year history, counting 2003 

3 
number of losing seasons for the Irish in the past five years-the first time in history Notre Dame 
has had three losing seasons in five years. 

SYRACUSE, N.Y.-Just where does the Notre Dame football pro­gram stand? 
The Irish lost to a mediocre .500 team in Syracuse -a team that North Carolina 
took to three overtimes. 
They lost to a team who lost a 24-7 decision to lowly Rutgers the weekend before. 
Just when 


Notre Dame seemed to be  Pat Leonard  
salvaging some  
respect with  
three straight wins following  Sports Writer  
a 57-7 whoop­ 
ing of Stanford,  

the Irish ended their season on Saturday with an embarrassing 26-point loss to a team that is not exactly a storied program. 
Sure, the Orangemen have sent the likes of Donovan McNabb and Marvin Harrison to the NFL, but this is a team that could not even halfway fill Rutgers Stadium last weekend when the Irish sold out that same venue three years ago in a 45-17 Notre Dame win. 
So why can't Notre Dame, a perennial contender for top recruits and one of the winningest programs in college football histo­ry, beat Syracuse? 
Maybe that question is unfair. Teams are allowed to lose games. 
Then here's another one: Why did the Irish let it turn into a blowout-again? 
Like it or not, a 28-21 loss to USC would have looked a lot bet­ter than the reality, a 45-14 deba­cle. 
And any way you look at it, the Irish suffered a tough loss to Florida State in Notre Dame Stadium. But to not score one point? 
Improvement needs to happen "across the board," Irish offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said in a low tone after the loss. 
That will come down to recruit­ing this January. But depending on incoming freshmen to make -a surprise impact on struggling teams is not enough to improve in the off-season. The players could have ended this season on a good note. 
"We felt that this game could have been a good springboard into the off-season," head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "Heading into the off-season, this could be a very difficult loss." 
Notre Dame turned the ball over four times -turnovers the Orangemen converted into 24 points, and the defense watched Walter Reyes run to numerous records on the Astroturf. 
It was embarrassing. 
Willingham acknowledged there are many problem areas on the squad. And he even gave credit to a solid Syracuse performance in his post-game press conference. 
"First of all, congratulations to Syracuse, both the coaches and the players," Willingham began his press conference in a cold hallway at the bottom of the Dome. 
More often than not, however, Notre Dame players and coaches emphasize they are beating them­selves and not admitting that the other team flat out beat and out­played them. 
The humility serves the Irish well in being polite sportsmen, but it is frustrating. 
They say they didn't play the way they were capable of playing. They didn't bring their A-game. And the worst, they just don't know what happened. 
"There is no place you can say we're very pleased with what we're doing," Willingham said. 
The off-season should provide time for promising freshmen like quarterback Brady Quinn and defensive end Victor Abiamiri to make improvements. 
But you hope the entire team, even the young guys, realizes the significance of this 5-7 season and, especially, this loss. 
"When you're young and not playing much, you don't complete­ly understand your role on the team," senior linebacker Courtney Watson said. 
Watson won't have another go at righting this wrong, but he hopes those who do will take advantage next season. 
"This program is built on win­ning," Willingham said. 
The program was built on win­ning and it could suffer severe consequences if it keeps losing. 
No one wants to say it, because this is not the case yet. But the fate of the program now is in the hands of those who let a late game, and some pride, slip away. 
The coaches and players have to ask themselves what they want Notre Dame football to be. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd. edu. 

Monday, December 8, 2003 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 

Losing the rushing battle hurts Irish 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
A'"'.:i~te Sports Editor 
SYIV\CUSE, N.Y.-In a eol­lngn lilOtball world lillod with livn-rncnivnr snts, play-action roll-outs and sprnad oll'l>nses, NotrP Damn's game against Syracusn Saturday canw down to one simpiP fad. 
Thn Irish couldn't run against the Orangnnwn, and tlwy couldn't stop Syracusn 's run, Pillwr. 
"ISyrarusn running hack Waltnrl Hnyns is a wry good hack." Irish coarh Tyrone Willingham said. "Wn knnw tlu>y run tlw ball wtdl. If you don't put a hat on him. he's not going down." 
Tlw Irish would lmvn need­ml a halwrdaslwry worth of hats to stop Hnyns Saturday. howevnr. Tlw spnndy Syracuse bark ruslwd for nvn touch­downs and IXIJ yards against an Irish dnfnnsn that camn into llw Carrinr l>onw allow­ing an averagn of only 116.3 yards on the ground a game. 
Although Heyes has talent -lw bl tlw nation in rushing for snvnral W<H>ks oarlinr in tho s<mson -Syracuse's sue­cnss running thn ball was just as much a product of poor execution hy t.lw Irish dnlimse. 
"I Hnyns is I prntty good," snnior lirwbaeknr Courtney Watson said. "lie shownd up today and we didn't make it too hard on him. lin had some big holes and nobody was tlwrn to get in his way. 
"Wn could have stepped up at kny times and wn didn't. That's a mierocosm of our tmtirn snason." 
Not only could Notrn Dame not stop Heyes, but they couldn't get their own talent­ed rushnr to punish the Syracuse defense, nither. Hunning back Julius Jones, who canw into Saturday with hOO yards rushing in Notre Damn's previous three wins, was held to just 54 yards on 20 carries. 
"That's not the way you want to go out," Jones said. "It was just a bad day for us, didn't come out the way we wnrn capable of." 
Thn Orangemen simply dominated in the trenches, routinely pushing Irish offen­sivn linemen snvnral yards 
Injuries befall Irish in last game of year 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER As.<ociare Sports Editor 
SYHACUSE. N.Y. -Season sack leader and starting defen­sive nnd Justin Tuck injured himself on Syracuse's second oll'nnsive series Saturday and had to be helped oil' the linld. 
Backup offensive guard Jamie Ryan was injured late in the lirst quarter aftnr Notre Damn kicked its first linld goal and also had to be carrind ofl'. 
Irish coach Tyrone Willingham dodined to corn­mont on nithnr player's injury. 
Burrell picks It up 
Junior defnnsivn back Qtwntin Burrnll has pi<~knd up his individual ganw down the strntd1 this ynar, collncting one intt>n~nption in nach of Notre Damn's last thrnn garnns­including onn Saturday against Syracuse. 
into the backfield to leave Jones and the other Irish backs nowhere to run. 
"It really doesn't surprise me that !Notre Darnel wasn't abln to run the ball eonsistent­ly-not with the kids we've 
got  on  the  front  line,"  
Syracuse  coach  Paul  
Pasqualoni said.  

Syracuse defensive tackle Christian Fnrrara was a thorn in Notre Dame's side all day long, breaking into the back­field and blowing up running plays before they had a chance to develop. Ferrara alone had live tackles result­ing in a loss, and the Orangemen collectively had 12 such tackles. 
Without a dominating ground game, the Irish offense rnturnnd to its anemic performances of earlier in the season, totaling only 261 yards of total oll'ense and just 
Burrell, who saw his playing time increase dramatically after an injury to Glenn Earl in the USC game, ended up the team leader with four inter­ceptions in the season. 
Despite his improved play, Burrell realizes 
that he and  "It was a tough way to go  saw Jones  
the rest of  out for the seniors  -not a  return  
the team have many improve­ good way to go out for anybody."  from aca­demic probation  
rnnnts  to  to become  
makn in the corning ollsnason.  Julius Jones Irish running back  the first Irish run­ning back  

"I think thn main thing for me is just to get more eonsisttmt." Burrnll said. "I rwed to get back in the 111m room and pick up on those lit­tin things that could help me out." 
"Things like reading plays to try and get morn picks." 
12 points. Notre Dame could only collect 62 yards on the ground, the fourth time this season the Irish failed to rush for 100 yards or more as a team. 
Those previous three times were all losses. 
"They were very aggressive on defense and just wouldn't let us get a running game going," Willingham said. "The fact that we couldn't run the ball didn't allow us to have much of a passing game and we couldn't get anything going [oll'ensively]." 
Even without a rushing game, the Irish could have still perhaps remained com­petitive had they been able to stop Syracuse's Heyes, who keys an attack similar to the offense used by the Irish ­run as much as you can and pass only when needed. Syracuse quarterback H.J. 
Jones ties for fourth 
Senior running back Julius Jones collected only 54 yards against Syracuse Saturday, giv­ing him a total of 1,268 yards this season. 
It was a disappointing finish for a sea­son that 
to have t h r e e 200-yard games in a season. 
"It was a tough way to go out for tho seniors," Jones said. "Not a good way to go out fi>r anybody." 
Jones' performance this year tied him with Autry Denson in 1997 for the fourth-highest Anderson struggled when he had to throw, making three interceptions and missing sev­eral open receivers. 
Anderson's miscues ulti­mately did not matter though, because of Heyes' dominance. Nowhere was this more evi­dent than in ){eyes' 71-yard run just 11 seconds after a Notre Dame touchdown. He squirted through the line, shifted past the linebackers, and then outran safety Quinton Burrell to the end zone. 
"He was probably the fastest back we've seen all year," Irish cornerback Dwight Ellick said. "Not the strongest back and not a power back, just more of an out-run-you type of back. He sees the seam and hits it quick." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
single-season total in Irish his­tory. 
Dome sweet dome? Not quite 
Notre Dame's loss to Syracuse Saturday drops the team's record in domed stadi­ums to 1-3. 
The last time the Irish played in a domed stadium was Jan. 1, 1992 when Notre Dame defeated Florida 39-28 in the 1992 Sugar Bowl at the Louisiana Superdome in New Orleans, La. 
Gameday captains 
Game captains for Notre Dame against Syracuse were running back Julius Jones, offensive lineman Jim Molinaro. defensive tackle Darrell Campbell and line­backer Courtney Watson. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
•
scoring 

summary 
1st 2nd :{rd 4th Total 

Notre Dame  3  0  9  0  12  
Syracuse  10  D  21  7  38  
First quarter  

SyraeusP 7. Notn• Danw 0 
Walter Reyes 2-yard run with 11:55 remaining (Colin Barber kick) Drive: 5 plays, 24 yards, 2:07 elapsed 
Syraeuse I0, Notre Damn 0 Barber 43-yard FG with 4:28 remaining Drive: 7 plays, 38 yards, 2:16 elapsed 
Notre Damn :~. Syraeusn I 0 
D.J. Fitzpatrick 50-yard FG with 1:09 remaining Drive: 8 plays, 42 yards, 3:19 elapsed 
Second quartm· No searing 
Third quarter 
Notrn Damn (,, Syrm~usn I 0 
Fitzpatrick 40-yard FG with 12:44 remaining Drive: 4 plays, 8 yards, 0:52 elapsed 
Syraeuse 17, Notre Damn b 
Reyes 3-yard run (Barber kick) with 8:09 remaining Drive: 9plays, 59 yards, 4:35 elapsed 
Syracuse 24, Notrn Dame (J 
Reyes 15-yard run (Barber kick) with 6:34 remaining Drive: 2plays, 36 yards, 0:36 elapsed 
Notrn Dame 12, Syraeuse 24 
Anthony Fasano 5-yard reception from Brady Quinn (Quinn pass failed) with 0:28 remaining Drive: 5 plays, 23 yards, 2:36 elapsed 
Syracuse 31, Notre Dame 12 
Reyes 71-yard run (Barber kick) with 0:11 remaining Drive: 1play, 71 yards, 0:17 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Syracuse 38, Notrn Dame 12 
Reyes 3-yard run (Barber kick) with 10:27 remaining Drive: 9plays, 85 yards, 3:14 elapsed 
statistics 

total yards 

rushing yards 
I. ·.. 62 
passing yards 

return yards time of possession 


ja 

36-62  rushes-yards  45-247  
18-34-2  eornp-att-int  17-27-3  
5-40.2  punts-yards  3-36.0  
2-2  fumbles-lost  1-1  
2-10  pnnnlties-yards  4-25  
14  first downs  21  

passing 

Quinn 18-34-2 Anderson 17-27-3 

rushing  
Jones Grant Quinn  20-54 Reyes 10-32 Washington 5--23 Belton Kennedy Ridore  19-189 15-53 2-10 2-8 1-4  

receiving 

McKnight  4-41  Morant  6-103  
Schmidt  3-34  Bellon  3-26  
Fasano  3-21  Reyes  3-24  
Stovall  2-60  Cusumano  2-41  

tackling page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, December 8, 2003 

Watson  10  Gachelln  9  
Burrell  9  Scanlon  8  
Hoyle Bible  8 6  Pruitt Ferri  7 7  
Curry Richardson  5 5  Ferrara Whitfield  6 5  
Pauly Abiamiri  5 4  Thomas Wyche  5 4  

r 
A trip north made the season go south for the Irish as Syracuse handed the team its seventh loss of the season-dealing Notre Dame its third losing season in five years. Syracuse running back Walter Reyes rushed for 189 yards and five touchdowns, and 
the Irish killed drives with turnovers and the lack of a power running game which had served them so well in their previous three wins. 
DOME·INATED 

ANDY KENNA and CHIP MARKS/The Observer Kick returner Matt Shelton gets tripped up by a lone Syracuse defender before he could break through the hole for a big gain (top left). Irish quarterback Brady Quinn scram­bles away from Syracuse defenders. (center left). Irish running back Ryan Grant is wrapped up by the Syracuse defense (top right). Irish defensive lineman Travis Leitko puts pressure on Syracuse quarterback R.J. Anderson (bottom left). Wide receiver Carlyle Holiday tries to catch a Quinn pass as a Syracuse player defends (bottom right). 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, December 8, 2003 
Page 11 
t albums of all time 
THE TOP 100 


1. 
Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, The Beatles 



2. Pet Sounds, The Beach Boys 

3. 
Revolver, The Beatles 


4. Highway 61 Revisited, Bob Dylan 
5. 
Rubber Soul, The Beatles 


6. 
What's Going On, Marvin Gaye 

7. 
Exile on Main Street The Rolling Stones 




-· 

8. 
London Calling, The Clash 

9. 
Blonde on Blonde, Bob Dylan 


10. 
The Beatles ("The White Album"), The Beatles 



1. 
Sgt. Pepper's Lonely I learl'i Club Band, The Beatles 

2. 
Pet Sounds, The Beach Boys 

3. 
Hcvolvcr, The Beatles 


4. Highway 61 Hevisited, Bob Dylan 
5. 
Hubber Soul, The Beatles 

6. 
What's Going On, Marvin Gaye 

7. 
Exile on Main Street, The Holling Stones 

8. 
London Calling, The Clash 

9. 
Blonde on Blonde, Bob Dylan 

10. 
The Beatlcs ("The White Album"), The Beatles 


II. The Sun Sessions. Elvis Presley 
12. 
Kind of Blue, Miles Davis 

13. 
Velvet Underground and Nico, The Velvet Underground 

14. 
Abbey Hoad, The Beatles 

15. 
Arc You Experienced?, The Jimi 



Beatles 
60. 
Greatest Hits, Sly and the Family Stone 

61. 
Appetite for Destruction, Guns n' Hoses 

62. 
Achtung Baby, U2 

63. 
Sticky Fingers, The Holling Stones 

64. 
Phil Spector, Back to Mono (1958 ­1969), Various Artists 

65. 
Moondance, Van Morrison 

66. 
Led Zeppelin IV, Led Zeppelin 

6
7. The Stranger, Billy Joel 



68. 
Off the Wall, Michael Jackson 

69. 
Superlly, Curtis Mayfield 

70. 
Physical Graffiti, Led Zeppelin 

71. 
After the Gold Rush, Neil Young 

72. 
Purple Hain, Prince 

73. 
Back in Black, ACIDC 


74. Otis Blue, 

40. 
Forever Changes, Love 

41. 
Never Mind the Bollocks, Here's the Sex Pistols, The Sex Pistols 

42. 
The Doors. The Doors 

43. 
The Dark Side of the Moon, Pink Floyd 

44. 
Horses, Patti Smith 45.TheBand,TheBand 


46. Legend, Bob Marley and 
Hendrix Otis Redding Experience 75. Led 
16. Blood on Zeppelin II, Led the Tracks, Zeppelin Bob Dylan 76. Imagine, 
1 7 John Lennon Nevermind, 77. The Clash, Nirvana The Clash 
18. 
Born to 78. Harvest, Hun, Bruce Neil Young Springsteen 79. Star Time, 

19. 
Astral James Brown Weeks, Van 80. Odessey Morrison and Oracle, The 

20. 
Thriller, Zombies Michael 81. Graceland, Jackson Paul Simon 

21. 
The 82. Axis: Bold Great '1\venty­as Love, The Jimi Eight, Chuck Hendrix Berry Experience 

22. 
Plastic 83. I Neve'r Ono Band, Loved a Man the .John Lennon Way I Love You, 


2 3 Aretha Franklin lnnervisions, 84. Lady Soul, 

Stevie Wonder 
24. 
Live at the Apollo (1963), James Brown 

25. 
Humours, Fleetwood Mae 

26. 
The .Joshua Tree, U2 

27. 
King of the Delta Blues Singers, Vol. 1, Hobert Johnson 

28. 
Who's Next, The Who 

29. 
Led Zeppelin, Led Zeppelin 

30. 
Blue, Joni Mitchell 

31. 
Bringing It All Back !lome, Bob Dylan 

32. 
Let It Bleed, The Holling Stones 

33. 
Hamones, Hamones 

34. 
Music From Big Pink, The Band 

35. 
The Hise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders From Mars, David Bowie 

36. 
Tapestry, Carole King 

37. 
Hotel California, The Eagles 

38. 
The Anthology, 1947­1972, Muddy Waters 

39. 
Please Please Me, The Beatles 


the Wailers 
47. 
A Love Supreme, John Coltrane 

48. 
It Takes a Nation of Millions to Hold Us Back, Public Enemy 

49. 
At Fillmore East, The Allman Brothers Band 

50. 
Here's Little Hichard, Little Richard 

51. 
Bridge Over Troubled Waters, Simon and Garfunkel 

52. 
Greatest Hits, AI Green 

53. 
The Birth of Soul: The Complete Atlantic Hhythm and Blues Hecordings, 1952 ­1959, Hay Charles 

54. 
Electric Ladyland, The Jimi Hendrix Experience 

55. 
Elvis Presley, Elvis Presley 

56. 
Songs in the Key of Life, Stevie Wonder 

57. 
Beggars Banquet, The Holling Stones 

58. 
Trout Mask Heplica, Captain Beefheart and His Magic Band 

59. 
Meet the Beatles, The 


Aretha Franklin 

85. 
Born in the U.S.A.;Bruce Springsteen 

86. 
Let It Be, The Beatles 

87. 
The Wall, Pink Floyd 

88. 
At Folsom Prison, Johnny Cash 

89. 
Dusty in Memphis, Dusty Springfield 

90. 
Talking Book, Stevie Wonder 

91. 
Goodbye Yellow Brick Road, Elton John 

92. 
20 Golden Greats, Buddy Holly 

93. 
Sign 'o' the Times, Prince 

94. 
Bitches Brew, Miles Davis 

95. 
Green Hiver, Creedence Clearwater Revival 

96. 
Tommy, The Who 

97. 
The Freewheelin' Bob Dylan, Bob Dylan 

98. 
This Year's Model, Elvis Costello 

99. 
There's a Hiot Goin' On. Sly and the Family Stone 

100. 
In the Wee Small Hours, Frank Sinatra 


I ­
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, December 8, 2003 
NFL 

Colts take control of AFC South with victory 
Associated Press threw two touchdown passes in a career-high 169 yards and a the final 9:24 and even ran for a touchdown, carrying the Buffalo 2-point conversion. Bills to a victory over the New 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. McNair finished 22-of-38 for York Jets. Becoming road warriors may 235 yards. Drew Bledsoe had an efficient have helped the Indianapolis performance, finishing 9-of-15
Broncos 45, Chiefs 27

Colts find their way home -at for 72 yards and a 6-yard touch­
Clinton Portis is getting better
least once -for the playoffs. down pass to Josh Reed. And
every week, keeping the Denver
Edgerrin James ran for two the defense, led by Sam Adams' 
Broncos in the playoff hunt. 

touchdowns and Mike two sacks, limiting the Jets to
Portis had 218 yards and a
Vanderjagt kicked five field two field goals -the first time
team-record five touchdowns,
goals Sunday as the Colts beat in Chad Pennington's 18 career
leading Denver to a wild victory
Tennessee 29-27 to sweep the starts that New York has failed
over the Kansas City Chiefs that
defending division champion to score a touchdown.
kept the Broncos within reach of 
Titans, taking control of the AFC The victory kept Buffalo (6-7)
their first playoff appearance in
South with three games remain­on the fringes of the playoff hunt 
three years. 

ing. while the loss all but mathemat­
Portis impressed teammates
The Colts (10-3) improved to ically eliminated the Jets (5-8),
with a 34-carry, 170-yard game
6-1 on the road, putting them on who failed to build off the
in the rain last week against
track for their first division title momentum of last Monday's 24­
Oakland, but was even better
since winning the AFC East in 17 upset win over Tennessee. 
this time. 

1999, and the chance to host at After the Bills took a 7-3 lead
He had touchdown runs of 11
least a wild-card game. into halftime, Henry helped seal 
and 1 yards in the first half.
They did it by scoring 19 the victory with a 4-yard scam­
then added scores of 59, 28 and
straight points and forcing four per, putting Buffalo up 14-3
53 yards in the second to turn
fumbles, which they turned into midway through the third quar­
the game into a rout. Portis had
nine points. They also held the ter. Henry keyed the drive with
188 yards after halftime and fin­
ball for nearly 34 minutes. eight carries for 52 yards.
ished with his fifth consecutive
"We had to win this game to The Jets had no response.
100-yard game -third straight
have control of the division," With 4:10 remaining,
with at least 160 yards. 

Colts coach Tony Dungy said. Pennington threw an incomplete
Portis' effort helped Denver
"Now we do. Now we don't have pass intended for Anthony Becht 
(8-5) tie Miami for the final AFC
to rely on any help from anyone on fourth-and-1 at the New York
playoff spot and prevented
else. If we win our games, we'll 33. Then, following a Henry the third-highest total by a over the middle. Mathis stepped 
Kansas City (11-2) from winning 
be in good shape." fumble (his only miscue). Bills quarterback in NFL history -in front of the intended receiver, 
its first division title since the
In this game featuring would­rookie cornerback Terrence before Mathis scored on a 32-picked off the ball and headed
1997 season.

be MVP quarterbacks Peyton McGee intercepted a pass from yard interception return in over­the other way.
Trent Green threw for 397
Manning and Steve McNair, Pennington with 2:20 remain­time to lead the Atlanta Falcons Delhomme attempted to knock
yards and Priest Holmes scored
Manning easily outplayed ing. past the Carolina Panthers. Mathis out of bounds at the 1,
two touchdowns, but the Chiefs
McNair, even using his legs to Pennington finished 15-of-29 "We've only won three games, but Mathis dived for the pylon.
struggled after a big first half to
scramble for a couple of first for 155 yards and an intercep­but this is the biggest," Vick After calling off the Falcons' cel­
lose for the second time in four
downs. He ran for 20 yards and tion. Doug Brien accounted for said. ebration to review the play, ref­
weeks after a 9-0 start. 

was 22-of-34 for 228 yards in the Jets' scoring with field goals After Deon Grant picked off eree Bill Carollo ruled Mathis setting a club record with his Bills 17, Jets 6 of 17 and 40 yards. Brien also Vick's pass at the Carolina 2 to had scored. 93rd consecutive start. Pain couldn't stop Travis was short from 50 yards. deny the Falcons (3-10) a The Falcons -and Vick -got 
McNair sprained his left ankle Henry. Neither could the New Falcons 20, Panthers 14 chance to win in regulation, the to celebrate again, having won in the second quarter and York Jets. Michael Vick handled things in Panthers (8-5) got the ball first their first home game of the sea­aggravated his already sore Continuing to play with a bro­regulation. Kevin Mathis took in overtime. son and denying Carolina a right calf, but he still nearly ral­ken bone in his right leg and care of overtime. On third down, Jake chance to clinch the NFC South lied the Titans (9-4) to a tie. He torn rib cartilage, Henry ran for Vick rushed for 141 yards -Delhomme attempted a pass championship. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

3 BEDROOM, 2 BATH HOME,  Two story house completely remod·  Spring Break 2004 w/STS,  
NOTICES  LOST & FOUND  FoR SALE  MANY XTRAS. CLOSE TO NO AND MALL.  eled 2003. Ready for 2nd semester and 2004·05 school year. Off street  America's #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps.  
parking includes motion sensor light  
$1000/MO.  for security. Four individually locked  Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or  
...ACT NOW!Book 11 people, get  FOUND: Two gift cards from local  COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES!  bedrooms, six blocks from Notre  www.ststravel.com  
12th trip free. Group discounts for  department store. Call1-7471 or  Search 24 bookstores with 1 click!  277-2176.  Dame, bus stop in front of house,  
6+  stop in The Observer office in the  S&H calculated.  surrounded by other student hous­ •••• IRISH CROSSINGS ·A NEW  
www.springbreakdiscounts.com or  basement of SOH.  www.bookhq.com  BEAUTIFUL HOUSE FOR RENT:  ing, laundromat next door  LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY ••••  
800·838·8202.  (drycleaning also), basement avail·  Build your dream home next to  
JUDAY LAKE HOME.ON  1803 Corby, Wooded Estates, 5  able for storage of bicycles, lug- Notre Dame.  
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in  WANTED  LAKE.WALK TO CAMPUS.GILUS REALTY 272-6306  blocks from campus, 3 large bed· rooms, 2 full bath, washer and  gage, trunks, etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen  A limited number of home sites are  
Acapulco now offers 3 destinations!  dryer, home totally remodeled, new  including new stove and refrigera·  available. For more info go to:  
Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in  Part time/Full time opportunity for  2000 FORD ESCORT, white, 2  appliances, two car garage, fur- tor, large living room for TV or  www.lrishCrossings.com  
Vallarta, or get crazy in Cabo -with  honest, motivated, success minded  doors, stick shift, excellent condi­ nished. Need 3·5 students  entertaining, free trash removal.  
BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS.  individual. Exciting !-Commerce  lion, 60 000 miles wgeist@nd.edu  LSU in the national title game.  
internet based business. Contact:  ($400 ea.) for January.  Call 289-4071.  
,­ Organize a group and travel for  waynew54@pronetglobal.com  Queen bed, desk, TV, DVD player,  How mad am I?  
FREE. Book now before its too latel  table, dresser, kitchen stuff, car, &  Need 5 students ($400 ea.) for fall.  MOVING TO CHICAGO? Live  
FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED.  more. 6218818 or ddyer1 @nd.edu  where your friends live! We ve got  Well...! almost like it.  
Call 800-875-4525 or  Grad pref. Share great condo.  
 231-8823 evenings.  3,000 apartments in Chicago's  
www.bianci-rossi.com.  Furnished, own bdlbth, huge closet.  1996 Land Rover Discovery. Fun  hottest neighborhoods: LAKE·  No, I take that back. 1think I  
Study, fireplace, prkg, walk to NO!  car. $3500, or best offer. 621 8818  Large 5-6 bdrm home @ NO Ave &  VIEW/GOLD COAST/ LINCOLN  actually like it.  
READY TO MOVE IN TODAY! 2·  $525 inc. utili 238·2368  or ddyer1 @nd.edu  SB Ave(908 SB Ave).  PARK Studios $695/  
bedroom townhouse 1 0 minutes  mo. 1 BR from $895/mo. 2 BR from  LSU can have my respect when its  
from campus. Approx. 11 00  ROOMMATE WANTED-share spa·  Walk to campus. Off street parking.  $1420/mo. Planned Property  non-conference schedule doesn't  
sq. ft.  cious turn. 2bd house w/female grad stud. Master bdlbth avail. 2 mi  FoR RENT  Recently updated. Washer/Dryer.  Management: 1-866-4GREAT PADS  include Lousiana-Monroe, Western Illinois, Louisiana Tech and Arizona.  
For more information call katrina at  from campus on Ironwood. Rent  Lots of living space to spread out.  www.plannedproperty.com Mention  
 
252·4663  $300 + uti!. 251-1802  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  this ad, and your processing  Play a real team.  
CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM  Call Joe Crimmins: cell-574·514­ will be waived!  
Two story house completely remod­eled 2003. Ready for 2nd semester  AWESOME SUMMER CAMP JOBSI-Residential camp located in  MMMRENTALS@ AOL. COM 272-1525  0643 or home-574-273-0002  3-6 BDRM HOMES $165/PERSON  If that's how you win a national title these days, I think Notre Dame  
and 2004-05 school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security.  Brown County, Indiana. Operated by the Catholic Youth Organization since 1946. Serving campers aged  HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS·  Clean 3 bdrm home near Corbys Bar-East Bank District (327 Hill St).Available June 2004.  MO.,FURN.272·6306 BULLARD HOME.$650.MO.  should schedule Indiana, Northwestern, Louisiana-Monroe, Louisiana-Lafayette, Louisiana  
Four individually locked bedrooms, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student housing, laundro­ 7 to 17 in various programs. Inclusive of persons with disabili­ties. Positions available for General, Specialty, and Health staff. Extensive training provided starting  ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004­2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 614 S. ST.JOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS-214 S. STPETER 4 BEDRROMS· 718 E. WASHINGTON ST. 2 BEDROOMS.  Basement w/washer-dryer. Convenient to downtown fun. Walk or ride to campus. On bus route.  272-6306 PERSONAL  Tech, IUPU-FW, Bethel, University of Phoenix, Ivy Tech, Vassar, Moeller High School and Sneaky Bobo Community College.  
mat next door (drycleaning also), basement available for storage of bicycles, lugage, trunks, etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigera­tor, large living room for TV or entertaining, free trash removal. Call 289-4071.  late May. Welcoming staff commu­nity. For application and more information contact: Angi Sullivan, CYO Camp Rancho Framasa, CYOCamp@aol.com or toll free 888.988.2839, ext. 25. Online at www.campranchofra­masa.org  CALL KRAMER AT 234·2436 OR 315-5032 JAMISON (NEAR SOCCER FIELD) 1 BR,1ST FLOOR, BASEMENT, AVAIL. DEC 1, $695 (INCLUDES UTIL.), CONTACT BOB 607-723·7373, EMAIL: rjhdds@ pronetisp.net  Contact Joe Crimmins@ cell-574­514-0643 or home-574·273-0002 4 Bedroom house. 1136 E Madison. Close to campus, ample parking, AC, huge yard. Contact Mike (216) 408·0780 or Matt (216) 408-0744 if interested  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi· weekly ad in The Observer.  This will be the hap-hap-happiest Christmas sing Bing Crosby tap danced with Danny Kaye. Are you serious, Clark? Why does Notre Dame belong in a bowl over Navy??? Oh wait, they don't.  

-

Monday, December 8, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 13 
MLB 
Braves cut ties lVith Maddux, Sheffield 
Associ•ted Press 
ATlANTA-Greg Maddux's long run with the Atlanta Braves is over. 
As expected, the Braves did­n't oll"er arbitration to the four­time Cy Young Award winner lJy the midnight Sunday dead­line, essentially ending his career in Atlanta. 
The Braves also cut ties with Gary Sheflield and Javy Lopez, two sluggers whose salary demands were beyond the range of the payroll-cutting team. 
Julio Franco was the only Atlanta free agent to be offered arbitration. The Braves would like to bring back the 45-year­old first baseman to platoon with rookie Adam LaHoche nnxt s1mson. 
Players not offered arbitra­tion can't re-sign with their old clubs until May 1. Maddux went 16-11 with a 3.96 EHA last season -his 16th straight year with at least 15 wins ­but likely will have to take a significant pay cut in 2004. 
Last season, Maddux made $14.75 million on a one-year deal with the Braves after accepting arbitration. 
The right-hander spent 11 seasons with the Braves, win­ning the NL Cy Young Award his first three years in Atlanta. lie began a streak of four in a row with the Chicago Cubs in 1992. 
Scott Boras, Maddux's agent, said Sunday there were no negotiations over the weekend with the Braves, who are expected to cut their payroll by at least $20 million this season. 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Phil Jackson wanted a timeout, and tried to inform his players. Fortunately, Devean George didn't hear his coach. 
George made a 3-pointer with 

24.3 seconds remaining Sunday night, lifting the Los Angeles Lakers to a 94-92 victory over the Utah Jazz. 
George connected after the Jazz, who trailed by 21 points in the third quarter. went ahead for the second time in the last minute on a jumper by Mo Williams. 
After George's game-winning shot, Williams and Raja Bell missed outside jumpers that could have forged a tie. Shaquille O'Neal rebounded Bell's miss and dribbled out the clock. 
"That was Rob -call me Rob, a young Hob," George said, referring to former teammate 

APPLICATIONS ARE 
NBA 
Late 3-pointer lifts Lakers 
ACCEPTED FOR THE PRESIDENT OF THE 
STUDENT CAMPUS 
ORIENTATION COMMITTEE 
Responsibilities of the SCOC President indude: 
*To help promote ND's orientation ministry among the hall orientation commissioners, campus orientation commissioners and hall orientation committee members. 
*To role model University expectations for orientation commissioners and hall orientation committee members. To assist with the hall and campus orientation committees. 
*To serve as peer educators to hall orientation commissioners and committee members. *To plan campus-wide orientation events for students and parents. *To assist in facilitating the hall orientation programs (i.e., ice breakers 
at mixers) during the fall semester. Ifyou arc interested in applying as SCOC President, please st?P by the Student Activities Office at 315 LaFortune Student Center to ptck up an application. The application deadline is December 8th. Interviews will 
be held later in the week. 
Hobert Horry, known for his 
last-second heroics. 
George hoisted his game-win­ner from the right corner -not far from the Lakers' bench. But with the crowd screaming, he didn't hear Jackson's plea. 
"I didn't see what I wanted to 
have happen on that last play," 
Jackson said in explaining why 
he wanted to call time. "At least 
I didn't think it was going to 
happen. 
"I told him, 'Call timeout,' but he didn't hear me. The shot went in anyway. So it was a good timeout that I ca:lled." 
O'Neal had 19 points, 15 rebounds and eight assists and Kobe Bryant also had 19 points for the Lakers although he shot just 4-of-17. George added 16 points and Slava Medvedenko and Gary Payton each scored 15. 
Kings 91, Pacers 88 
Hundreds of fans waited inside Arco Arena for Brad Miller to return to the court for his postgame radio interview. They cheered him madly, and he acknowledged the greeting with a single fist pump. 
Sacramento's faithful don't stand for losing, and Miller played a big part in getting the Kings back on track on their home floor. 
Miller had 18 points, 15 rebounds and 10 assists in his first game against his former team, and the Kings overcame a season-high mark of 21 turnovers for a victory over the Indiana Pacers. 
Peja Stojakovic had 27 points and five rebounds and Mike Bibby added 14 points for the Kings, who led by 16 in the third quarter of the emotional game that saw many players challenge the inconsistent ofliciating. 
"All I know is that they hate . Sacramento," Kings guard Bobby Jackson said of the refer­ees. "That's East Coast basket­ball -grab and hold. They let the East Coast beat the West Coast up." 
Indiana forward Hon Artest was ejected late in the second quarter for arguing an offensive foul call. 
Official Anthony Jordan whis­tied Artest for a charge 3:31 before halrtime and Artest became angry and received a technical for questioning the foul. The Pacers called timeout before Bibby shot the first tech­nical shot. 
During the timeout, Artest approached Jordan to give him another earful and official Bob Delaney called the second tech­nical that led to Artest being tossed. 
"It was clear to me that the first technical was deserved," Pacers coach Hick Carlisle said. "But the second one was unwar­ranted, particularly on how well he's conducted himsnlf this sea­son. I thought it was ridiculous to eject a guy who is just want­ing an explanation. Because it was a questionable call to say the least that led to the whole situation." 
Artest, the Pacers' second­leading scorer at 18.3 points per game, had nine points, an assist and no rebounds. 
Celtlcs 116, Nuggets 111 
Paul Pierce had 33 points and 10 assists and Eric Williams added a season-high tally or 21 points to lead the Boston Celtics to victory over the Denver Nuggets. 
Pierce was 12-of-22 from the field and had seven rebounds to help Boston end a four-game losing streak. 
The Celtics didn't arrive in Denver until five hours before the game because of a snow­storm in Boston. 
Heserve Hodney White had 23 points and Voshon Lenard added 20 points for the Nuggets, who 
-
had won six straight. 
Boston seemed to have the game in hand when Pierce sank two free throws to make it 111­102, but Hodney White hit two 3-pointers to get the Nuggets to 113-111 with 28 seconds left. 
Mike James and Pierce sealed the win with two free throws each. 
Carmelo Anthony. who had only eight points for three quar­ters. brought the Nuggets back with six points in the first four minutes of the final period. llis free throw after a driving layup tied it at 94. 

,_ 


OUND THE NATION 
page 14 COJ\1PILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WHU: SERVlCES Monday, December 8, 2003 
-

around the dial 
COLLEGE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL Notre Dame at Washington (replay) 
1 p.m., FOX Sports 
NFL 

St. Louis at Cleveland 9 p.m., ABC 
_., 
NBA 

San Antonio at Chicago 8:30p.m., FOX Sports 
BCS 


Associated Press matically captures the title game without playoffs. Nebraska beat Colorado by coaches' title under Bowl When the BCS contract 0.05 in 2001. 
College football fans. get 
Championship Series for­expires after the 2005 sea­The Trojans got 79 of the 
ready to crown not just 
mat. son, a one-game champi­128 first-place votes in the 
one, but possibly two 
USC, which finished onship might be instituted polls but finished third innational champions. 
third in the BCS rankings, after the bowls. That five computers because ofThat's because the com­could win The Associated would be too late to fix this a weak Pac-1 0 schedule. 
puter rankings had 
Oklahoma as the country's Press championship by year's mess. LSU was second in the top team Sunday while the beating No. 4 Michigan in In the final BCS stand­polls and six computers the Rose Bowl. with a split ings, Oklahoma was first and edged out USC based
human poll voters picked 
Southern California. national title certain to with 5.11 points based on on a tougher schedule. 
Despite getting walloped leave more people calling its top spot in five of the LSU and USC were each by Kansas State 35-7 on for a playoff. seven computers, the 11th­picked first in one comput­Saturday night, Oklahoma The No. 1 team in the AP toughest schedule and a er. 
will take its 12-1 record to poll has never dropped quality win over Texas. The Tigers' spot in the the Sugar Bowl against after winning its bowl The Sooners were third in title game wasn't assured LSU. which won the game. The USA both polls. until Boise State beat Southeastern Conference Today/ESPN coaches' poll LSU (12-1) was second Hawaii at 3 a.m. EST championship by beating must give its championship with 5.99, edging out USC Sunday. The Trojans' Georgia 34-13. to the Sugar Bowl winner. (11-1) by 0.16 in the sec­strength of schedule was 
The winner in New The BCS was started in ond closest finish in the hurt because they beat Orleans on Jan. 4 auto-1998 to create a national six-year history of the BCS. Hawaii in September. 
IN BRIEF 
Bruce Smith claims all-time Pro Bowls during 15 years with His new deal calls for a $1.5 mil­Buffalo before joining the Redskins lion salary next year and gives the
NFL sack record 
in 2000. He has just four sacks this Giants a $2 million option for 2005
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.-Bruce 
season. including just one in an with a $250,000 buyout. The optionSmith became the NFL's career sacks eight-game stretch, making for an would become guaranteed if he hasleader when he tackled Jesse Palmer excruciating climb toward the 450 plate appearances next season.
for a 7 -yard loss in the fourth quarter 
record. He hit .273 with eight homers andof the Washington Redskins' game 51 RBis and was thrown out at homeagainst the New York Giants on 
Giants re-sign Snow, Tucker plate for the final out of the Giants'Sunday. 
SAN FRANCISCO -The San 
season in Game 4 of the first-roundThe 40-year-old defensive end put 
Francisco Giants brought back first playoff series against the eventual an inside power move on tackle Ian baseman J.T. Snow on Sunday and 
World Series champion Florida
Allen, grabbed Palmer around the left added outfielder Michael Tucker. 
Marlins.
ankle and pulled him down for his Snow agreed to a one-year contract Tucker, a nine-year major league199th sack. with a team option for 2005 that guar­veteran, played at least 20 games inSmith passed Reggie White, who 
antees him $1.75 million, while every outfield position last season for
had 198 sacks in a 15-year career Tucker agreed to a $3.5 million, two­the Kansas City Royals and would be
with Philadelphia, Green Bay and year deal. 
a likely fit in right field, where a spotCarolina from 1985-2000. The sack The 35-year-old Snow is a six-time was left vacant when the Giants became an official NFL statistic in Gold Glove winner who has spent declined their $4 million option on 
1982. seven seasons with the Giants. He Jose Cruz Jr. in October. "I know that I'm not second place hoped to stay with the club, but was Tucker played 4 7 games in right any longer," Smith said. "When they also realistic it might not happen field last season, 30 in center and 21 
print up the football cards, they won't because San Francisco intends to cut in left. He hit .262 with 13 home runs say sacked second to such and such or about $8 million in payroll for 2004. and 55 RBis in 104 games in 2003. so and so. It was a special day." The Giants declined his $6.5 million but had his season cut short because 
Smith had 171 sacks and made 11 after the season. of a broken bone in his right leg. Monday, December 8, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 


Christ the King Lutheran Church 17195 Cleveland Road .. South Bend 
(574) 272-4306 


Sunday Worship and Communion 8:30AM ll:OOAM 6:00PM •. Free Light Supper Afterwards 
Free TI1U1SPortation for ND/St Mary's students. 'Call Church 272-4306 or Call Checker Cal:> 288-7777 pn:fetably by Sarutday nnd at least one hour before pick up. 
Thursday, December 11 
12:00-1:30 p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to an informal lunch and study break at the Co-Mo. 

Everyone fs welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
"'Lunch will be served* 

:oMMI't"tlt~ OH 
..y A.HO L.a••14N 
ITUDtH'Y NC£0S 

Shutout 
continued from page 20 
went on a 10-1 run to put them 
up four points. 
But the Irish never quit, as 

they came out of a timeout to 
score five straight points of 
their own to take a 28-27 lead. 
But Louisville proved to be too 
much, pulling away with the 
32-30 win. 
Game two looked promising, as the Irish jumped out to a 6­1 lead before Louisville tied the match at 10, and took the lead for good 12-11. As the nation's leading blocking team, Notre Dame failed to register a block in the second game, and the Irish hit only .140 as a team, compared to the Cardinals' .500 hitting percentage. 
"When our blocking breaks down and our defense breaks down, we don't score points very well," Brown said. "When we weren't scoring points like we needed to, that's going to result in a loss, and it did." 
Louisville dominated game three, jumping out to a 14-7 lead and never looking back as the Irish hit a mere .117 on the game and .152 on the match. Louisville dominated the Irish at the net, hitting .302 on the match and registering 10.5 blocks to the Irish's eight. 
The Cardinals went on to lose to No. 18 Illinois Saturday. 
"Louisville played very well," Brown said. "But, I think we were in a pretty good place coming into the match." 
However, coming into the NCAA tournament, the Irish had lost four of their last six matches, including six straight games. But they weren't focused on the past; they were focused on the task at hand. 
"We weren't dwelling on the fact that we lost six games in a row or two matches in a row," Brown said. "We thought that with another week of practice we would be in a good place." 

However, the Irish were 
unable to get it done in their 
last match of the season. 

Sophomore middle blocker Lauren Brewster led the hit­ters with 16 kills on 52 attempts -the most attempts this season by an Irish hitter. She also had seven digs. Lauren Kelblcy added 11 kills and four blocks. 
For seniors Katie Neff and Kristen and Jessica Kinder, it was their last start in a Notre Dame uniform. Neff had eight kills and three blocks. Kristen Kinder had 35 assists for the Irish, and Jessica added 10 digs. Senior Kim Fletcher did not sec action in the end for what seemed to be an under­achieving team, who lost five of their last seven matches. 
But the seniors will be remembered for more than just the nine game losing streak they finished with. 
"You can never replace the people that are leaving," Brown said. "We'll miss them for sure, and the team will be different. They were a huge part of our team." 
LOUISVILLE 3, 
NOTRE DAME 0 
at CHAMPAIGN, ILL 
LOUISVILLE 32 30 :Jo -3 
NOTHEDAME 30 21 21 -0 

NOTHE flAME -Kills 42 (Laurnn Brewster 16). A~sisL~ 36 (KrL~tnn Kindllr 35), Digs 57 (Meg llenican 17), Blocks 8 (Emily LoomL~. l.aurnn K(>lbh•y 4). Hitting pere(ontagB .152 (Katie Neff .208). M.ns :l (Brewster 2) 
Loulwille-KilL~ 63 (Lena Ustymm1kn, Sonja Pl'rcan 16), Assists 56 (.l(•nnifnr Craven 23), Digs 77 (l'err.an 20), Blocks 
10.5 (BPnny Flynn 7). Hitting pem•ntago .302 (Anastasia Yartseva .583), Aens 4 (Sonja P€'rcan 3 J 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
-~­

r---­
r page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, December 8, 2003 
I ========================================================================================================== 
I 
I I I 
I NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
I 
I I 
I Huskies too strong at home in 85-74 victory 
ByJOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 

Washington showed Notre Dame why they haven't lost at home since March of 2002. 
Husky freshman· Cameo Hicks scored a career-high 24 points while teammate Giuliana Mendiola added 27 points, eight rebounds and seven assists to help Washington (5-0) stay unde­feated with an 85-74 victory over Notre Dame (3-4) Sunday after­noon in Seattle. The loss dropped Notre Dame's road record to 1-4 for the season, with all five road opponents receiving votes in the polls when the game began. 
The Huskies out-rebounded the Irish 43-33 for the game and outscored Notre Dame 24-10 in second-chance points. 
Washington coach June Daugherty was pleased with her team's performance, especially rebounding, in winning their 17th straight home victory. 
"It was a good win. We knew Notre Dame was coming in here with an enormous amount of tal­ent," Daugherty said. "Obviously our rebounding was a big differ­ence and helped us get into our running game and get some easy things." 
The Irish were paced by for­ward Jacqueline Batteast and guard Megan Duffy. Batteast had 19 points, five rebounds, five assists and four blocks. Duffy continued her solid play by adding 17 points, knocking down 3-of-5 3-pointers and dishing out a career-high nine assists. Duffy did have four of Notre Dame's 11 turnovers. 
Irish forward Courtney LaVere struggled for much of the game, making only 3-of-13 shots and finishing with nine points, but she led the team with nine rebounds. 
Washington jumped out to a 13-7 lead with 14:16 left in the first half when Mendiola drained a jumper. The Huskies led by as many as eight points before Notre Dame overtook them, 33­32, on a Teresa Borton field goal with 2:16left in the half. 
But Washington scored seven of the last nine points before halftime to lead 39-35 at inter­mission. 
Hicks nailed a jumper with 
14:22 left in the game to give Washington its biggest lead up to that point at 54-44. The team's exchanged baskets for the next seven minutes as the Husky lead 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles split a pair in Roundball Tourney 
By STEVE COYER 

Sports Writer 
As hosts of this weekend's Roundball Tournament, the Belles expected to play confi­dently and face some difficult competition. Both predictions proved accurate. 
After an 82-67 victory over Illinois College in the first round, the Belles met Washington University in the championship game. The Belles (3-4) put up a strong fight but fell 68-45 against ninth-ranked Washington (6-1). 
The Belles looked strong in their first game right from the beginning. Their offense came alive and by halftime they had put Illinois behind 45-25. 
"The starters got us off to a great beginning, which really set the tone for the rest of the team," Belles coach Suzanne Bellina said. "It was one of those nights that we were able to distribute the ball very well." 
The momentum from the first game carried over to the cham­pionship as the Belles opened a quick lead against Washington. 
"I was really proud of the way our women came ready for the game," Bellina said. "We scored first and also had a series of great defensive stops to start the game." 
In response to momentarily trailing, Washington put togeth­er a 14-0 scoring drive on their way to a 34-24 halftime lead and the victory. Despite this, the Belles still played with confi­dence the entire game. 
"We really hung tough 
through their runs in the first 

. half," Bellina said. "By keeping it close in the first half, we were able to come out with confi­dence in the second half." The Belles came out hitting their shots against Illinois and finished the game at 57 percent from the field and 46 percent from three point range. Forward Maureen Bush fin­ished the game with 14 points on 6-for-7 shooting. Washington put the lid on the Belles' hot shooting and limited them to only 30 percent for the game. Forward Emily Creachbaum led the Belles against Washington and managed to finish with 15 points on 6-for­12 shooting. No other player reached double figures for the Belles. Against Illinois, the Belles were able to put together a true team effort as 14 players got in the game, with seven players seeing more than 17 minutes on the court. Although not content with the outcome, the Belles are not overly disappointed about not winning the tournament. "Obviously, you want to win your own tournament, so we were. not satisfied with the end result," Bellina said. "We still feel good about what this week­end did to help us prepare for the upcoming conference sea­son." The Belles will continue at home this Wednesday against Albion College. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 
fluctuated from six to 10 points. 

But Mendiola drilled a 3-point­er with 4:54 left in the second half to extend the Washington lead to 78-63. The Huskies would lead by as many as 16 before the game ended. 
"I thought our whole team showed a lot of poise," Daugherty said. "Everyone knew this was a big game, it's been cir­cled on my calendar since the summer. These are games you work hard in the offseason for." 
Notre Dame has now lost three of four games as they prepare for Dayton at the Joyce Center next Saturday. 
Contact Joe Hettler at Notre Dame guard Megan Duffy drives with the ball against jhettler@nd.edu Wisconsin. The Irish lost to Washington Sunday 85-74. 

Holy Cross College could make your wish come true. 
If you have a rel~!ive or friend who would like to be closerto·you.Mext year, tellth£Hn about Hbly cross Cq{lege-. We~refightnexfdoor to Notre [)arne. Th~Y could co~plete ourAssociate ofArts curriculum, ·trahsterl9r: P4rsu~ ot1fBacheloWOf Arts irfCiberal studies degree. 
Give us acall at239;;.8400 or e.;.rnail admissions@hcc-nd.edu. Freshmen and transfer applicants are currently being accepted tor Spring and Fall admission. 

~-------------------------------------------~·----~--------­
Monday, December 8, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
====================================================================== 
HOCKEY 
Brown, Irish allow 14 goals in pair of losses 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associale Spor!s Edi1or 
The Notre Dame hockey team's strengths became its weaknesses this weekend as the Irish dropped a pair of games on the road to Western Michigan. 
The Irish, who came into the weekend with the third-best defense in the entire nation, gave up a combined 14 goals in the two games. 
"These were the worst two games that we've played this season," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "Why they happened this weekend, I couldn't tell you." 
Freshman goaltender David Brown, who had been nearly unbeatable earlier in the season during a three-game shutout streak. gave up a combined 12 goals in the 8-6 and 6-4 losses. lie made only 51 saves, for an abysmal .801 save percentage on the weekend 
"David just wasn't sharp tonight," Poulin said after Friday's loss. "lie had some trouble with rebounds. They were dropping down in front, usually he snaps them up." 
It was a call back to earth for the Irish. who entered the week­end ranked first in the CCHA for the first time ever this far into a season. 
Notre Dame also saw its five­game unbeaten streak (3-0-2) snapped after Friday's loss. Jeremy Cheyne and Dana Brown lost two games in a row Lattery to collect three goals to for the first time this season. give the Broncos another three­
An unusual offense showed up goal lead going into the final in Kalamazoo, Mich., for the period. usually defensively-stout Irish, Rory Walsh took over for as the team scored 10 goals in Brown in the third and gave up 
two games, but that  another goal to  
normally-solid  Cheyne, but the  
defense failed both nights. "We didn't do the little things that  "We didn't do the little things that we've done so well  Irish came back to answer with goals from Gill and Sciba to  
we've done so well this season," Poulin  this season. "  make Ryan  it 7-5. Mahrle  
said. "Like clearing our zone, dumping  Dave Poulin  scored for Broncos  the and  
the puck to  areas  Irish coach  McLean scored  

we can get to it, fin­ishing checks. We played one good period of hock­ey this weekend and that was the third period of tonight's game." 
In Friday's loss, the Irish got goals from six different players -Matt Amado, Aaron Gill, Brett Lebda, Jason Paige, Josh Sciba and Cory McLean. 
Western Michigan jumped out to an early lead as Jeff Campbell scored twice and Pat Dwyer col­lected a goal of his own to give the Broncos a 3-0 lead after the first period. 
The Irish came back to tie it at the start of the second period in just one minute, 23 seconds at 3-3 on goals by Amado, Lebda and Paige. 
Brown then played shakily, allowing Vince Bellissimo, 
for the Irish late in the third for an 8-6 final. 
"When we tied the game at 3­3 early in the second period, I thought we were in good shape," Poulin said. "But then we had two major breakdowns that ended up in the net, and it became a shootout." 
Saturday, Notre Dame scored first with a goal from Michael Bartlett, but the Broncos came back to answer with a Campbell tally. 
Forward Mike Walsh scored to make it 2-1 in favor of the Irish, but that lead lasted only 47 sec­onds as Campbell came right back to tie it once more. 
The Broncos then scored twice to take a 4-2 lead, and they would not relinquish that lead for the rest of the game. 



·;.~'1~;\:~!J 
., -., 

2004-2005 Assistant Rector Applications 
for 

University Residence Halls are now available 
Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building 
For More Information call the Office of Student Affairs at 631-5550 
or go to 

www.nd.edu/-stdntaff/AsstRector.html for eligibility requirements and to download the application 
Completed Applications must be submitted by February 6, 2004 
Bartlett would score again for the Irish, and McLean would also score to close out the Irish offensive output. 
Notre Dame managed to cut the lead to 5-4, but Brent Walton scored into an empty net to win it for the Broncos. 
The Irish now break for the Christmas holidays and return to action Dec. 27 as they travel to Estero, Fla., to face Cornell in the first round of the Everblades Collegiate Holiday Classic. 
Notes: 
Notre Dame extended its string of games with a power play goal to nine with Bartlett's goal in the second period Saturday. Gill's goal Friday was also on the power play. 
Former Irish star Ben Simon scored his first NHL goal Saturday in the Atlanta Thrashers' 4-3 overtime win over the Florida Panthers. 
Simon scored Atlanta's tying goal that sent the game into overtime. He was a member of the Notre Dame hockey team from 1996 to 2000. 
WESTERN MICHIGAN 8, NOTRE DAME 6 at the LAWSON ARENA, Friday 

1st 2nd 3rd Total ~JmNMJ(]DG\N 3 3 2 8 NOTRE DAME 0 3 3 6 
Scoring Summary Flrst period-WMU: JeiT Campbell (Vmce Bellissimo. Brent Walton). 6:30; WMU: Pat Dwyer (Reid Yantzil. 7:52; WMU: Campb111l (Bellissimo. Mat Ponto). 
14:27. 

Second period -ND: Matt Amado (Tim Wallace. Mike Bartlett). 3:17; ND: Brett Lebda (unassisted). 3:58; ND: Jason Paige (T.J. Jindra). 4:30; WMU: Bellissimo (Ryan Mahrle). 7:55; WMU: Jeremy Cheyne (Mike Jarmuth). 17 :36; WMU: Dana Lattery (Walton. Jarmuth), 18:38. 
Third period-WMU: Cheyne (unas­sisted), 2:10; ND: Aaron Gill (Bartlett, Neil Komadoskil. 4:08; ND: Josh Sciba (Cory McLean. Wes O'Neill, 5:04; WMU: Mahrle (Bellssimo, Walton), 9:10; ND: McLean (Mike Wal~h. O'Neill), 16:16. 
WESTERN MICHIGAN 6, NOTRE DAME 4 at the LAWSON ARENA, Saturday 
1st 2nd 3rd Total 

~'lrnNMKliK~  2  3  1  6  
NOTRE DAME  2  2  0  4  
Scoring Summary  

Flrst period -ND: Mike Bartlett (Matt Amado, Tom Galvin), 9:02; WMU: JeiT Campbell (Pat Dwyer, Brent Walton), 9:34; ND: Mike Wal~h (Tim Wallace, Aaron Gill), 15:49; WMU: Campbell (Brett John). 16:36. 
Second period-WMU: Paul Szczechura (Walton, Dana Lattt•ry), 2:01; WMU: Jeremy Cheyne (Kyle Bushee. Szczechura). 3:55; ND: Bartlett (Rob Globke, Neil Komadoski). 6:24; \>\IMU: Lattery {Lucas Drake. Reid Yantzi), 11 :44; ND: Cory McLmm (Wes O'Neill, Glubke), 16:22. 
Thlrd period-WMU: Walton 7 (Lattery. Drake), 19:51 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
..
medley) and senior Lisa Garcia (1 00-yard butterfly) as well as
Sweep 
an event victory by the 800-yard continued from page 20 freestyle relay team of Carroll, 
Garcia, freshman Ann Barton onds in the process. Minutes and junior Georgia Healey later, junior David Moisan broke Friday to claw its way into sec­yet another record, winning the ond place and set the scene for 400-yard individual medley a comeback victory on the invi­
(3:57.62) and setting both an tational's final day. event and pool best. After spending most of the 
The 800-yard meet looking up, freestyle relay team the Irish were (freshmen Brian "We knew we could finally able to 
Freeman and Ted surpass the
do it, it was just a
Brown, junior Matt Falcons with an Bertke and senior matter ofifwe impressive 1-2-3 Matt Obringer) really wanted to finish by Carroll, chipped in with a Garcia and junior 
and if we had the
first-place finish to Brooke Taylor,
heart to do it. " 
conclude Friday's respectively, in events. the 200-yard but­While sophomore terfly.
Katie Carroll 
Tyler Grenda (200-Perry-Eaton
Irish swimmer 
yard breaststroke) supplied the only Irish event victory Saturday, Notre Dame had little difficulty in securing the meet. 
Despite employing a limited team this weekend due to illness and academic obligations, the Irish demonstrated tremendous heart in rallying to take the meet. 
"The first two days our whole team didn't swim, so coming into the meet on Saturday we knew that we were behind and that we had to rise up to the challenge," freshman Katie Carroll said. "We knew we could do it, it was just a matter of if we really wanted to and if we had the heart to do it." 
After senior Meghan Perry­Eaton's event victory in three­meter diving helped land Notre Dame in third place behind Bowling Green and West Virginia, respectively, at the end of Thursday's action, the Irish used a pair of first-place finishes by Carroll (400-yard individual 
took the one-

meter board to preserve her undefeated mark in the diving events this year, and Barton (200-yard back­stroke), freshman Ellen Johnson (100-yard freestyle), Carroll (200-yard butterfly) and the 400-yard freestyle relay team (Carroll, Johnson, freshman Kristina Archer and junior Katie Eckholt) all contributed with first-place finishes. 
"It was nice to come in first and second in some events, but the points also mattered when people came in third and fourth," Carroll said. "We couldn't afford to get touched out, and that's what we worked on, and it showed." 
The men return to action on Jan. 9 in Mission Viejo, Calif .. for holiday competition, whereas the women jump back in the pool Jan. 5 to challenge Army in San Juan, Puerto Hico. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, December 8, 2003 
Shock 
continued from page 20 
"Then it goes in, and you lose all feeling in your body." 
The loss, Notre Dame's sec­ond straight, came with seniors Torrian Jones and Tom Timmermans sidelined with injuries. And although fresh­man Colin Falls scored 11 points in his first collegiate start, shorthanded Notre Dame clearly missed the seniors' presence. 
In fact, Notre Dame, after taking a 2-0 lead, trailed for most of the game. The Irish didn't recapture the lead until Chris Thomas banked in a 15­foot jumper with 2:05 remain­ing to give Notre Dame a 60-59 advantage. Notre Dame added two more points a minute later on Chris Quinn free throws, and, when Thomas hit a 14­foot floater with 29.1 seconds left, the Irish held a five-point lead. 
"Most teams," Irish coach Mike Brey said, "get down five in this atmosphere here and don't get it." ' 
But 10 seconds later, Kevin Nelson drained a 3-pointer to keep the Irish within two, and Quinn only made one of two free-throws with 18.7 seconds on the clock. Cornette fouled Tony Bowne while the guard was hoisting a 3-pointer, and the Chippewa made two free­throws to make the score 65­64. 
With 8.3 seconds left, Thomas made two free-throws to give the Irish a 3-point lead and then intentionally fouled Carr with 5.0 seconds left. Carr hit both free throws, but 1.2 seconds later, Cornette made only one of two free-throw 
Epic 
continued from page 20 
rallied on the men's side as well, but this time it was a freshman saving the day for Notre Dame. First-year fencer Aaron Adjemian won his epee bout 5-2 in a winner-take-all final bout. 
This rapidly maturing crop of freshmen has proven to be one of the biggest reasons for the Irish success this season. In addition to Adjemian's clutch vic­tory, freshman saber Valerie Providenza paved the way for the rookies with a 3-0 record on the day. But she had plenty of support behind her as well. Frankie Bontempo, Patrick Ghattas, Matthew Stearns and Angela Vincent all posted 2-1 records. 
Both teams relish the win, but the men had a little more on the line. With the one-bout victory, the men also managed to contin­ue their dual match-winning streak. Now at 87. the streak stands as the third longest in school history. 
Saturday's classic bout added just another chapter to a rivalry that extends back almost a decade. In Penn State, the Irish faced one of their most difficult foes. Over the last eight years, both Notre Dame and the Nittany Uons have always placed among the top three finishers at the NCAA Championships. 
Notre Dame had struggled, however, to overcome that final hurdle and bring home a nation­al championship. Every year from 1996-2000, the Irish fencers had to watch the title trophy stay in Happy Valley. 

attempts, setting the stage for Carr's last-second heroics. 
"His foot was on the line," maintained Thomas, who fin­ished with a game-high 24 points. But the referees called the shot a 3-pointer, and Notre Dame fell to 2-2. 
The Irish had problems all night finding their offense against a tough Central Michigan defense. Notre Dame made only 6-of-22 3-point attempts and shot 36 percent from the field. Central Michigan, meanwhile, lit up the Irish in the first half by shoot­ing 59 percent from the floor. 
For Notre Dame, Torin Francis took just five shots ­he made only one -and fin­ished with 10 points and 12 rebounds. Quinn added 13, and all five Irish starters played more than 30 minutes. 
"We've got some guys that are banged up, two of our sen­iors, but we try to play through that," Francis said. "We didn't come out hard, and you see a lack of that leadership on the floor." 
As much as Notre Dame struggled early in the game, key mistakes down the stretch contributed to the Irish loss. Cornette said the Irish missed too many chances to grab rebounds or loose balls that would have put the game away. And Cornette and Quinn both missed free throws in the final 30 seconds that would have iced the game for the Irish. 
"It's the fourth game of the season, and our guys are dev­astated," Brey said. "Their heads are down, and we have to play 30 more games here. They have to get their heads up." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 


After third place finishes in 2001 and 2002, the Irish were finally able to light up the No. 1 sign on Grace Hall with a championship last season. 
While Bednarski was happy for a win, he also envisioned Saturday as a team-building experience, especially for the freshmen. 
"If you never win as a team, you don't connect," Bednarski said. "The kids who never win through this process get frustrat­
ed. Being part of a team ­ that's  
what  college fencing  is  all  
about."  

Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 


Seniors 
continued from page 20 

including one NBA lottery pick. They wanted to stun a Sweet 16 from a year ago on its home court. 
The Irish weren't ready for that type of challenge. 

The Irish let the Chippewas control just about the entire game. It might not show up in the stats, but Central Michigan outhustled the Irish all night. 
Down two key players in his rotation, Brey had to call on freshman Colin Falls to make his first collegiate start and play 33 minutes. Fellow freshman Russell Carter gave Brey seven minutes after playing for only a combined six minutes in Notre Dame's first three games. 
While those two freshmen held their own, without the senior leaders, Brey needed his star players to step up. 
Yes, the Irish made 75 percent of their free throws in the sec­ond half, but two of those miss­es, one from Chris Quinn and Jordan Cornette, came in the last 15 seconds when the Irish could have iced this one. 
Chris Thomas had the match­up on 5-foot-6 Joe Carr on the last play. Carr pump-faked Thomas, who is at least half a foot taller than Carr and got an open look at the bucket. Regardless that Carr might have had a toe on the line, Thomas was out of position. 
The Chippewas did a good job of denying Torin Francis the ball and forcing him outside the key. Brey doesn't want Francis catch­ing the ball out there. He needs the sophomore down low bang­ing around to get good post posi­tion. 
Brey is looking to all four of those players, two of them cap­tains, to show leadership on the floor in a difficult situation like Saturday night. 

Central Michigan was a dan­gerous opponent for Notre Dame. The Irish were coming off a 13-point loss at Marquette and have Indiana on the schedule Wednesday. It made perfect sense as to why the Irish would overlook this team. All the signs were there for the upset. 
It came one year after one of the greatest weeks in Notre Dame basketball history when the Irish beat three top 10 teams in the country and vaulted into the top 10 itself. 
But even without Jones and Timmermans, even with playing uninspired basketball for most of the game, the Irish had a very realistic chance to close this one out at the end. 
All night the leadership wasn't there. 
For Brey to avoid having the Irish below .500 for th!l first time since he took over in South Bend, that leadership needs to be there Wednesday night against the Hoosiers, a team Notre Dame hasn't defeated since 1994. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily The Observer. Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd. edu. 

t I


l.On 
ND Literary Festival student reader auditions: 
6:30-7:30 by appt. 
7:30-B:OO open to anyone 
Wednesd(Jy, Dec. 1Oth 114 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
email mike subialka at msubialk@nd.edu 


.ortng:SI'tlinutes of original material 
. . . 
Clndunywtitten.work you wish to submit 


~nsorflll Jty SU.-' HI)Lf lformerly tka Sophomore Literary fMtiwl] 
Monday, December 8, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY 
CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI
FIVES 
Due to the recent struggles that the popular university sports have faced, the ND athletic department diverts funds to sports that it knows the students can excel at... 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Has_(is 56 Galoot connected)
1 Pay 57 Want 32 Machine wedge 
9 Poohs 59 One in training? 34 Wave, for one
15 Acquire 61 Cause to be 36 Darned, in absorbed
16 Slanted Dover 62 It's used to171nterest 
38 Schoolyard avoid listing 18 First name in challenge 
63 Pool parties60's pop 
39 More husky 19 Letter series 
64 Something to 
40 Foreign trio 

shoot 20 Brewpub member? offering 
41 Abbr. in many 22 Year In the group names DOWN reign of Ivan the 
42 Ready to go 1 Ancient· Terrible 
off·line? religious symbol 23 Like _on a 
44 Balance 2 Begins quickly 
string 48 What two dots 3 Forum buyer? 
25 Coin with the 
may mean

image of a 4 "Malcolm X" springbok 49 Breakfast director acronym
26 "That's _. 
5 One might be 51 It has a code 
chronic

27 Damaging insects 52 Old Japanese 
6 Kind of child coin30 Part of a capt's 7 Sheer 
order 53 Mints, e.g. 8 "What a shame" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Unrealistic notions
p 
I E
0 
I L 'R' H EO

[C E L L 0 H A L L F 
I 

L M 10 Suffix with old AM A I N A B I D AIC L U 
11 Skimmer, e.g.
MONKIZlDWITH STAS 
ENDEAR.rerrfl"ROUT. 

12 Turquoise component
-LA-ARES 
WAVJYiiMET STEAL 

13 Symbol of success
ABA·~r~~l S.l SA
ROLL SUN"'ITEM 

14 Having no
P L E A S E D AM N-
symmetry, in a

• INTENSE.LACASA 
way
A S T I ii"f 0 D L lr'l I lei H T 

21 Stumper
C H I N E 0 G E~O A T 
R E N[O S LA V T E R R A 

24 Ultimatum 0 0 E S H E R 0 A I R words 
WILLSHORTZ 

26 Infielder's failure 37 Sorting criterion 50 Murdoch 
University site 28 Fraternity letters 
39 Shags, say 
53 "Don't take _29 Beans and fries, 
43 "Sure" seriously"
e.g. 54 Dash
33 Aromatic resins 45 Tailor, at times 
35 Game with 55 Throw off 
46 Not going trump cards 
anywhere 58 Actor Silver 36 Most overbearing 47 Regarded to be 60 W. W. II zone 
For answers, call 1·900·285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800·814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
page 19 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. RIBAN ± C2003 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. OCTEM I I I TOO NIL [IJ []www.jumble.com TENCIE Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon.rxJ I I Answer here: rIIIIIIIIJ (Answers Monday) I Jumbles: ALBUM JEWEL KILLER MEMOIRYesterday's Answer: How Dad felt about fixing the water heater­LUKEWARM  ..  
EUGENIA LAST HOROSCOPE Sharing this birthday: Kim Basinger, Sinead O'Connor, Gregg Allman, Flip Wilson, Maximilian Schell Happy Birthday: Your motto will be think big or go home this year. You may be templed lo lake on too much, leaving yourself in a position that could com promise your work. Keep in mind that it isn't how much you do; it's how well you do it. Sound financial advice will be necessary if you don't want to lose ground. Your numbers: 6, 17, 25. 32, 39,44 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Opportunities for advancement will develop through hard work or colleagues who believe in your abilities. Present your ideas or consider getting into your own small business in the new year. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't underestimate one of your competitors. You will have to do some technological research if you don't want to fall behind in your field. It's lime to do a personal update as well. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your partner won't he happy if you're too busy to help out around the house. You should find ways to increase the value of your premises or consider the possibility of making a residential move. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Shopping should be on your agenda. It's time you made an effort to change your look. Passionate encounters can be made if you get out with friends. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't tell others what you have discovered. It is best to hold your cards close to your chest if you want to get to the bollom of the situation. Your discretion will lead to a better position. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Pleasure trips will result in new love relationships. You can make lucrative investments if you are willing to put your cash on the line. Much knowledge can be obtained if you're willing to listen. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You should consider making changes to your living quarters. Get the whole family to pitch in and help. You can pick up some valuable knowledge if you listen to those with experience. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Contribute your time, not your cash, to a worthwhile cause. You will not do well with investments or purchases. Lock your money up in a safe place. This is not the time to he extravagant ••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Tie up loose ends at work even if it does mean missing your lunch or staying a little late. It is best to stick to yourself and avoid confrontations or debates of any kind with your loved ones. ••• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): You can make changes that will enhance your personality as well as your appearance. Don't let others bully you into agreeing with them or backing one of their ideas. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Investments will not be as solid as they appear. You must read the fine print before you decide to go ahead and sign your life away. Unusual circumstances will arise, causing financial concerns. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You mustn't let your mate get you going. You are likely to argue about everything. Changes in your home will be unavoidable . Acceptance will be necessary. ** Birthday Baby: You have a way with words that will make your requests hard to turn down: You have a strong will and the type of personality that invites popularity. You're entertaining, gifted and always on the go. Need advice? Try Eugenia's Weh sire at www.eugenialast.com  - 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on peo­ple and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _________ State _____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, December 8, 2003 
Page 20 
fENCING 

Still setting the bar 
Irish record a pair of epic 14-13 victories over rival Nittany Lions 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 

Before Saturday's fencing meet at the Penn State Duals, Irish coach Janusz Bednarski down­played the matchup with peren­nial rival Penn State. In Princeton, Rutgers and North Carolina, he said, the Irish were bouting with four teams who are on top of the nation. 
Mother Nature, however, had other plans. With blizzard-like conditions plaguing the East Coast, only Notre Dame could make the journey to Happy Valley. 

Last year's top two teams were left to face each other head-to­head, and, once again, the Irish and Nittany Lions produced an epic duel. 
Utilizing their combination of youth and experience, both the Irish men's and women's squads held on to sweep the weekend 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

..... 
Chippewas stun Irish at final buzzer 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 

The silence in the Notre Dame locker room spoke vol­umes -just as the silence in the Joyce Center was deafen­ing only minutes earlier. 
With Notre Dame leading a surprisingly resilient Central Michigan team by two points with 3.8 seconds on the clock, Chippewas guard Joe Carr grabbed the inbounds pass, dribbled the length of the floor and drilled a 3-pointer from the top of the key as time expired. The stunned Irish ­and the rest of the Notre Dame fans in the Joyce Center ­could only watch as Central Michigan pranced around the court celebrating their 69-68 win. 
"You feel your whole body slump," Jordan Cornette said softly, his voice sounding like a jet taking off in a locker room otherwise devoid of sound. "There's no other way to explain it. You see the shot go up, you got this feeling like, 'This ball cannot go in. This ball cannot go in.' 
see SHOCK/page 18 

NO SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Familiar waters prove friendly for Irish 
-
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 

What a weekend for Irish swimming and diving. 
The men's squad (2,259.5) dominated the 12-team field at the Notre Dame Invitational, finishing 710 points ahead of second-place Harvard (1,549.5), while the No. 19 women (1,284) took five of Saturday's seven events to rally from a 162-point deficit to overtake Bowling Green (1,187.5) and win the 15-school meet. 
The invitational victory marked the third consecutive year that the men have won the annual event, as well as the sixth time in the last nine years. 
The Irish got off to a quick start Thursday, winning the 200-yard freestyle relay -with freshmen Tim Kegelman and Louis Cavadini, sophomore Tim Randolph and junior Frank Krakowski in the event -and jumping out to a 256-point advantage by day's end. 

In addition to the 200-yard freestyle relay team, sopho­more Jaime Lutkus also took home a first-place finish in the 200-yard individual medley. 
On Friday, a relay team once again set the tone for the Irish, as the 200-yard medley squad (Kegelman, Randolph, sopho­more Doug Bauman and Krakowski) not only won the night's opening event, but also recorded a meet record with a time of one minute, 32.62 sec-
see SWEEPIpage 17 


With seniors on the bench, the Irish struggle Saturday 
Two senior captains could only watch from the bench as a young Notre Dame team let a five-point lead slip away. 
With Torrian Jones and Tom Tirnmermans in street clothes, Irish coach Mike Brey had no seniors on the floor Saturday night, and five of his seven players were sopho­mores or freshmen. 
It showed all night. 
The MAC champion Chippewas came into a lethargic Joyce Center and were poised to upset the Irish. They didn't care that the Irish were their sixth opponent in 13 days. They didn't care about starting the year 1-4 and the loss of three starters, 

Matt Lozar 
Associate Sports Editor 
see SENIORS/page 18 
matches by scores of 14-13. 

The women's squad led 13-9 before senior epeeist Kerry Walton fmally slammed the door with a 5-1 decision. Penn State 
see EPIC/page 18 
ND VOLLEYBALL 


TIM KACMAR!The Observer 
Irish senior Jessica Kinder attempts a dig in Notre Dame's last regular season game against Stanford. 
Irish fall tn opentng round of NCAA's 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 

They walked in with a swag­ger, a confidence in their abili­ty to play well after two straight losses, but it wasn't enough. No. 19 Louisville ended Notre Dame's season Friday in three straight games, 3-0 (32-30, 30-21' 30-21). 
"I don't know that I really know [what happened]," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. 
Sonja Percan (16 kills, 20 digs) and Lena Ustymenko (16 kills, 15 digs) led the Cardinals. 
No. 21 Notre Dame (23-7) came out firing in the first game, jumping out to a 10-4 lead to eventually lead 22-17. However, the Cardinals (25-6) 
see SHUTOUT/page 15 
HOCKEY 
SMC BASKETBALl
ND WOMEN'S BBALl 
NBA 
FOOTBALL

MLB
en 
LU 

The Atlanta Braves 
A wrapup of Sunday's 
Washington 85, 
Syracuse 38,

1--(.) Westem Michigan 8, 
Saint Marrs 82 

failed to offer contracts 
action from around the
z Notre Dame 
Notre Dame 7 4 
Illinois Co lege S7 
Notre Dame 12 

or salary arbitration to 
National Basketball
The Irish unable to 

Walter Reyes scored
~ 

pitcher Greg Maddux 
Association.
top the Huskies on the 

all five touchdowns for
westem Michirn 6, 
Washi~on 68
c:s 

and big hitters Gary
Saint ary's 4S

..__ 
Notre Dame 
road. Washington has 

Syracuse Saturday as
c:c: 

Sheffield or Javy Lopez 
not lost at home since 
The Belles split a pair of 

The Irish drop a pair 
the Orangemen rolled
!i 
Sunday.
in CCHA play. 
March 2002. 
games over the weekend. 
over the Irish. 
page 15 

page 18
en 
page 17 
page 16 
page 16 

Irish Insider 



