
New student representatives transition into office 
SMC students' families, friends affected by war in Iraq 
By EMILY BRAMMER  his family of his unit's deploy­ment. Pernotto and her family  very real to me." Pernotto said she has since  ed everyone is to finally be doing what they've been train­ that will make my job all the worthwhile. I'll be alright until  
News Writer  sensed  that  come to terms  ing for. So that's comforting."  I tell you otherwise."  
Luke would be  with  Luke's  Luke continues to write let­ Saint Mary's junior Dawn  
Some Saint Mary's students with friends and family in the military have strong connec­tions lo Operation Iraqi  sent overseas at any time though. A let­ter from Iraq  "Over time, I've become so proud that [my brother isl over there, and that  involvement in the war. His willing­ness and  ters to his friends and family. In a recent letter to Pernotto, Luke sincerely expressed his profound and selfless love· for  Tuel has a friend who is also involved in the war. 20-year­old Jeff Harris serves as a Petty Officer in the U.S. Navy, and his  
Freedom. which can make communication difficult and leave loved ones in anxiety.  confirmed their fears. "The first  he has the opportunity to fight for our country. "  pride in his unit are com­forting, she  America. He shows conviction of mind and bravery of spirit, and his only requests are for  ship is currently stationed in the Persian Gulf. Tuel said that since Ilarris  
Saint  Mary's  sophomore  Jetter  that  I  said.  cookies and prayers, Pernotto  left for the Gulf, their home•  
Emily Pernotto has  a  24-year­ received  was  Emlly Pemotto  "Over time,  said.  town in Maryland has shown  
old brother who has been sta­tioned outside of' Iraq for six  really hard," said Pernotto.  student  I've become so proud that  "Don't worry about me I'm doing fine,'' he wrote. "Again,  great support. Last month students from  
weeks. lier brother J,.uke is  a  "I  had  never  he's  over  like the first letter I would like  Harris'  grade  school  alma  
2nd Lieutenant infantry Marine  heard the things that he was  there. and that he has the  a candle lit for me at your grot­ mater, Saints Peter and Paul  
and graduate of tho Virginia  saying, like that they each got  opportunity to fight for  our  to. Remember I want to be here  ~lementary, participated in tho  
Military Institute. Prior to Luke's departure for  90 rounds of ammunition step­ping off the plane. What he was  country," she said. "And he's been talking about how proud  and I am happy that I have the chance to be here. Enjoy what  USS Anzio Valentine Project by  
Iraq, he was unable to inform  going through suddenly became  he is of his unit, and how excit­ you arc doing in America and  see IRAQ/page 4  

Tuesday, April 1, 2003
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and SaintMary's 
VOL.XXXVII NO. 121 
By HELENA PAYNE 
Senior Staff Wnter 
Though it is April Fool's llay, tlw chang-e of guard that will occur today on the 'Sec­ond rloor of' l.aFortune is not a joke. 
As outgoing Student Body President Libby Bishop and Vice Prc•sidcnt Trip Foley end their terms in office, incom­ing Student Body President Pat llallahan and Vice l'rnsident Jemmy Lao are all about business. 
"We're very confident we're going to havr a successful y1•nr. but we realize it's going to take ,i lot of work on our parl," llallahan said. 
The new student govern­
ment heads have met with administrators and students to seek out the best ways to serve Notre Dame students. 
"Our No. 1 goal for the whole year is to increase the intellectual life on campfis.'' 11 allahun said. 
To realize that goal, the two plan to provide "better" speakers, publish teacher course evaluations and encourage more dialogue on diversity and other issues. llallahan and Lao also plan to address in-hall dances. 
The duo said the cure to campus apathy is to prove that students have a voice by giving them what they want. But to find out exactly what that is, Hallahan said he and Lao will have to emerge from 
their new Lafortune offices. 
"I do·n•t think we can just stick to our platform strictly. We need to open up and hear from the whole student body and from there we can move forward," Hallahan said. 
Foley. who has helped. Hallahan and Lao ease into their new positions, is confi­dent that the two can give students a more powerful voice. 
"I think Pat and Jeremy know how to work the sys­tem.•· Folev said. 
Foley knows about the challenges of "the system." 
As a newly elected student body vice president, he and Bishop were caught off guard 
see LEADERS/page 4 




AR'suru:)t:RU,i'
-~~~::~:··~~/il~;·~~~--~;;~;j~!.:s:;{·:;;~(:

-~tf£m1?,!7~:f,~ 

HTTP;//OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
April 
Fool's Day 
•

issue Inside 

ASIAN AWARENESS WEEK 

Ryan Leung hands out fortune cookies Monday with messages designed to raise Asian aware­ness and to celebrate Asian Awareness Week. 
EXECUTIVE COUNCIL 



Exec Cab announces CCC reorganization 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Executive cabinet members met Monday evening at the Creek House, an off-campus house purchased by the University last year. Members dined on homemade fajitas and learned about the Club 
.Coordination Council's new strategic plan. 
The seven-page plan, present­ed by CCC coordinator Amy O'Connor, outlined a reorganiza­tion of the CCC, which oversees all student clubs at Notre Dame. The proposal adds a new per­forming arts division to the coun­cil, to include the growing num­ber of arts-related student clubs. It also adds a vice president posi­tion, which will help the council run more smoothly. The vice president will serve as liaison to the Student Senate, and "will facilitate communication with clubs," O'Connor said. 
The plan also calls for more strict enforcement of CCC regula­tions. Clubs will be required to hold one fundraiser a year, in order to supplement their fund­ing allocation, which comes from student activities fees. 
The plan will also require club leaders to send monthly updates regarding their activities to CCC representatives. The idea is to ensure that funds are allocated fairly. 
O'Connor added that since club funding can be hard to come by. the CCC is seeking to reward active organizations. 
"For every two or three good clubs, you'll see one club who doesn't do anything but take money away from those good 
see EXEC CAB/page 4 


Tuesday, April 1, 2003
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 

INSIDE COLUMN WHAT'S INSIDE 


Go Horns 
The Texas Longhorns are my new favorite basketball team, at least until after Monday night. 
Let me explain myself, the reason is quite simple and many of you out there can relate to my logic. 
In order to win the NCAA Tournament pool I am in, I need Texas to win the whole thing. If any other team cuts down the nets Monday night, then I am out of it. If Texas wins. I win not only a decent chunk of change, 

, but bragging rights over my buddies for an entire year. That definitely means more than the cash. These NCM bracket prediction pools are what make the three weeks of "madness" great. People around the country till out their brackets. watch the games and see their brackets get effectively busted. When their favorite team gets elimi­nated. they have a team or teams to root on as the Final Four approach­es. While watching SportsCenter or that little box in the upper left hand corner of the screen during the games on CBS, fans actually care about who wins the St. Joseph's­Auburn game for reasons 0th.er than the fact M_att Carroll's brother plays for St. Joseph's. Since I started filling out brackets for pools in the eighth grade, I usu­ally went back and forth on my Final Four teams and who would win it all. This year I used a different strategy. After reading some articles online and talking to others, I finally came to accept that it's not skill that determines who wins the pool. It's luck. The key is to fill out your bracket quickly and not put too much thought into it. From Selection Sunday up until the first day of the tournament, I was extremely busy with schoolwork and other responsibilities. Therefore, the only time I found to make my predictions was in class. With my high-quality results so far this year, I may keep that policy next year as well. Many people can't stand people from Texas since Texans are known to think Texas is the greatest place created by God (this is a subject I'm not even going to touch). My limited experience with Texans is the one who lives two doors down from me. His name is, for all intents and pur­poses, "Texan," and I just learned he is the only other person on this planet who has gas-permeable con­tacts besides myself. But this weekend, I'll be cheering on the Texas basketball team in New Orleans to win their first national championship in basketball. The only thing left to say is ... hook 'em Horns. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and nol necessarily those ofThe .Observer. 
Contact Matt Loiar at rnlozar@nd.edu. 

CORRECTIONS 
In Monday's Observer Charlie Ebersol and Kim Zigich's names were mis.spelled in the anick "Ebersol intends to redirect Student Board." 
The Observer regrets the error. 

CAMPUS  WORLD&  
NEWS  NATION  
New SMC  At least 7  

Iraqi civilians to meet feminist group killed at a checkpoint 
The Women's 
U.S. troops shot Studies Department 
and killed at least will link with a new 
seven Iraqi civil­ians -some of

student club to pro-­them children -in
vi de a forum for 
a van at checkpoint

feminist issues at Monday.
the College. 
page 6 page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Fettuccine with fen­nel, classique tomato sauce, al prosciut­to pizza, Betsy Flannigan chicken breast, boulangere potatoes, cherry crisp, orzo with portobello and cream. broccoli quiche, scrambled eggs with cheese, breakfast ham, raisin bread french toast, BBQ beef sandwich, Szechuan beef and vegetables. lone­star rice, chicken and cheese chimichanga 
Today's Dinner: Honey-glazed ham, baked beans, whipped potatoes. vegeta­bles rabat. couscous, baked potato. French toast sticks. lyonnaise potatoes. fried potato skins. Oriental shrimp with noodles · 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a:: 
BUSINESS NEWS 
American Airlines reaches new deal 

American Airlines took a huge step toward preventing bank­ruptcy Monday when it reached a 
tentative cost-cut­ting agreement with key union representatives. 
page 7 
. Bookstore Basketball Captain's Meeting 
5:30 to 6:15 p.m. at 101 DeBartolo llalf 
. 
Showing of "The Three Caballeros" 7 to 9 p.m. at the llesburgh Center Auditorium 

. 
Coffee and Conversation for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Questioning Students 


7:30 to 8:30 p.m. at 316 Coleman-Morse 
WHAT'S HAPPENING@ SMC 
. Lenten Lecture Series 
12:15 p.m. at LeMans Hall -Stapleton Lounge 
. Contemporary Drama Reading 
4:30 p.m. at the Dining Hall -President's Dining Room 
. Sophomore Board Class Dinner 
4:30 p.m. at Dining Hall -North Wedge Room 
VIEWPOINT 
Becoming 'relationship girl' 
Columnist Amy Schill discusses her 
unexpected  luck  
with  love  tn  
"Dazed  and  
Amused."  

SCENE 
Guster blows away the Windy City 
Ryan Rafferty review's Custer's show in Chicago and interviews the band's percussion­ist about their new 
album. 

page 8 
page 11 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
South Dining l:fall 
Today's Lunch: Chicken mozzarella. chicken fajita pizza, toasted pretzel sticks. mushroom stroganoff, sauteed zucchini and yellow squash. meatloaf. Mississi_ppi fried catfish, baked glazed ham, whipped potatoes, gyro, fried potato skins, onion ri_ngs, sweet and sour pork, chili crispitos, name-roasted fiesta corn and black beans 
Today.'s Dinner: Chicken breast Vesuvio, cacciatore sauce. chicken faji­ta pizza, toasted pretzel sticks, rice with black olives, veal parmigiana. steamed spinach. beef stew. roast pork loin, roasted poupon potatoes, hot chunky applesauce, whipped potatoes. chicken strips 
WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
I.LI 
::c 
~ 
I.LI 
==..., 
ct 
(.) 

0 

...I HIGH 64 HIGH 59 HIGH 67 HIGH 70 LOW 51 LOW 45 LOW 50 tow 50 
SPORTS 
Irish greet season with confidence 

The Notre Dame football. team prac­ticed Monday for the first time since January. 
page 20 
Suspicious person reported in Manor 
A student reported a suspicious person in Morrissey Manor Thursday at roughly 10 p.m. The case is pending. 
Shot put cage damaged 
A University employee reported vandalism to th<' shot put cage at Eck Baseball Stadium Friday. There are currently no suspects. but the case is pending. 
2 Vehicles nearly towed 
NDSP attempted to tow two University employ­ees' vehicles last weekend. but both employees arrived while the towing was in process and paid the necessary towing fees. One car was parked at the Hammes Bookstore Friday, the other was at the campus post office Sunday. 
Intoxicated student taken from NDH 
NDSP responded to a report of an intoxicated student at North Dining Hall Saturday. The stu­dent was transported by ambulance to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment. The case is being referred for administrative review. 
Magazines sold illegally 
NDSP responded to a report of a person selling magazine subscriptions illegally at Fischer Graduatp Residences Saturday. The person was stopped. identified. issued a non-contractual inter­est form and released. 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Szechuan vegetables with Jasmine rice. herbed pasta, harvest flat bread sandwich. chickpea salad. turkey snow pea stir fry, soup bar with bread bowls, macaroni and cheese, Italian loafer, egg salad, sliced prosciut­to, sliced smoked turkey. olive hummus. spritz cookies, chocolate brownies. toast­ed barley soup, chicken rice soup, three bean salad 
Today's Dinner: Herb pasta, spicy stir fried tofu, garden burger, grilled yellow squash, chicken and vegetable fajitas. grilled hamburger or chicken, grilled cheese sandwich. fries. twice cooked pork, wild rice, parsley buttered potato, pineapple upside down cake 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


~ 
HIGH 58 HIGH 50 LOW 39 LOW 37 
Atlanta 66 / 50 Boston 43 / 35 Chicago 64 I 44 Denver 74 / 42 Houston 80 / 56 Los Angeles 71 / 47 Minneapolis 60 / 40 New York 47 / 40 Philadelphia 51 / 44 Phoenix 90 / 58 Seattle 48 / 38 St. Louis 76 / 54 Tampa 70 / 50 Washington 56 / 49 
Tuesday, April I, 2003 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
adidas representative hosts anti-sweatshop forum 

By CHRISTINA CAPERO 
News Writer 
The University's Task Force on Anti-Sweatshop Initiatives held a public forum Monday featuring Gregg Nebel, the head of Social and Environmental Affairs at adi­das Salomon Americas. 
Nebel discussed the process that adidas, a licensing partner of Notre Dame, takes to ensure that its products are manufactured under acceptable labor condi­tions. 
adidas· labor compliance pro­gram officially began in 1997 with two people and has now grown to a 30-person group made up of former factory workers and supervisors, labor lawyers, envi­ronmental engineers, chemical engineers and health safety experts. 
The Social and Environmental Affairs unit audits over 1,000 fac­tories that adidas contracts to pro­duce all its brands' footwear and apparel products in 165 countries. 
According to Nebel, the audit methodology has folll"' main phas­es: 
. 
Its internal monitors interview the factory's managers to deter­mine how its management system works. 

. 
The team conducts a review of the factory's documentation, including employee guidelines, payroll records, employment con­



tracts and disciplinary policies. 
. 
The internal team carries out the sensory part of the process in which it walks through the factory and physically inspects it. 

. 
The monitors talk with the fac­tory's workers about their experi­ences and compare them with management's responses, encour­aging communication among them to effect change. The team works with local organizations to foster a relationship with workers. The team identifies contradic­


tions among I.he four phases of 
action, holds a summary visit with 
management, develops· a remedi­
ation plan, and conducts follow-up 
visits to judge the progress of the 
factory. 

The Social and Environmental 
Affairs division holds the factories 
to its standards of engagement, 
which include nine standards for 
labor compliance and 16 for 
health and environmental compli­
ance. 

Nebel said, the team also pro­vides its factories with reference manuals that contain internation­al and national legal precedents. case studies and recommenda­. tions regarding employee guide­lines, health and safety proce­dures and environmental regula­
tions. 

Nebel highlighted his unit's main challenge by saying, ''How do we implement a sustainable process for compliance?" Because policing factories is not a sustain­able way of ensuring labor com­pliance, the Social and Environmental Affairs division sought to build capacity in facto­ries through training and educat­ing managers and workers. 
Nebel said, "By internalizing. factories build a management sys­tem that keeps them in compli­ance." 
Thus. this business model should make the compliance sys­tem sustainable and more effi­cient in the long term. 
Before adidas contracts a facto­ry, it must meet its audit evalua­tions of product, sourcing, and social and environmental issues, as well as its basic standards of engagement.. 
adidas' Social and Environmental Affairs releases tracking worksheets to the public and collaborates with the Fair Labor A.'isociation and competi­tors in working toward labor com­pliance in its supply chain. 
Formerly a factory worker for 25 years, Nebel became the first person dedicated to labor compli­ance issues at adidas in 1995 as the company was receiving nega­tive publicity about a Pakistan soccer ball factory's use of child labor, which has been effectively eliminated. 
About 40 students, faculty, and staff attended the forum. 
Contact Christina Capero at cepero. l@nd.edu 

NBC fires journalist Peter Arnett after interview with Iraqi TV 
he had given an unauthorized Arnett apologized for his "mis­investigating whether Fox News 
Associated Press 
interview with state-run Iraqi TV judgment," but added, "I said Channel reporter Geraldo Rivera NEW YORK saying the American-led war over the weekend what we all endangered troops by revealing NBC fired journalist Peter effort initially failed because of know about this war." the plans of a military unit in Iraq 
/\rnett on Monday, angered that Iraq's resistance. Meanwhile, the Pentagon was in advance. Rivera denied reports that he had been expelled from the country. Arnett, who won a Pulitzer Prize reporting in Vietnam for The Associated Press, gained much of his prominence from 


covering the 1991 Gulf War for CNN. One of the few American
THE NANOVIC INSTITUTE 
television reporters left in Baghdad. his reports were fre­
FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES 
quently aired on NBC and its 
cable sisters, MSNBC and CNBC. NBC was angered because 
Arnett gave the interview Sunday 
without permission and present­ed opinion as fact. The network initially backed him, but reversed field after watching a tape of his remarks. 
The network said it got "thou­sands" of e-mails and phone calls protesting Arnett's remarks -a thousand e-mails to MSNBC President Erik Sorenson alone. 
"When I heard he had given an interview to Iraqi TV, I immedi­ately thought it was about as bad a judgment that a reporter in the field could make," Sorenson said. "J held out hope initially that maybe he had given the interview at gunpoint or there was some extenuating circumstance." 

There will be an Informational Meeting on the European Studies Minor 
TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 4:30-5:30 PM 
300 Brownson Hall 
(Behina the Basilica, through the wrought iron gate at the Brownson courtyara entrance~ amt straight back 
'1~ CBnwienil~ of J'fme CDame Cb-ale ~ Cbmlwr 0rche,lra 
through the courtyara to the far entrance. 
.9'llaanJ.. <ala.lJ'f, Jirtclor 

Go up the stairs to the thira floor.) 
S...I.ot M,i.,. -J.."""Jiwrln Jine O....atis -J-{.inz \¼rner bnmffl11(UV\ C.,...,.,10 ~ ,JJI_. V.Jim -C.or~ <Pl..dipp 'tlemann fi Cnpp-1111 lllff..( ,oorlu
Information on the minor can also be found at 
Wednesday, April 2, 2003 
www.nd.edu/~nanovic/programs, 
8:00 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
or call 631-5253. 
Free :and open to the public Call 1~74) 631-6201 for information 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 1, 2003 
Iraq 
continued from page 1 
making more than 1,000 Valentines for the ship's crew. They also decorated a cloth banner that read, "God Bless USS Anzio." About 25 mothers and grandmothers, who all know Harris personally, baked over 1,600 cookies and made a Hershey kiss goody bag with a personal message included for each member of the crew. 
They wanted to support the crew and remind them that they are being prayed for and thought of constantly. 
"It's hard for me because I know all of his family and friends, and I know what they're going through," said Tuel. "But I'm so proud of 
h. .,
un. 

Tuel corre­lows the pro­
"Light a candle in the

sponds with gression of
grotto for me and the rest 
Harris by e-the war, mail. She ofthe Marines over praying and said she's hoping for
here."

worried his safe about Harris' return. unease, but Luke Pernotto "I don't 
finds some United States Marine Corps think that 
comfort in knowing that the crewmates offer each other strong support. 
"He seems scared and anx­ious to come home," said Tuel. "And he's definitely tired of being on the ship. But he makes it through because all of his shipmates feel the same way. They're all so close." 
Tuel also hopes that Americans will support Harris and our armed forces. She said that the protests are dis­paraging for those fighting. 
"I don't believe that current protests against the war have any positive effect," she said. "People were protesting before the war even started, and if it would have been effective, we wouldn't be at war right now. We need to redirect our focus on support­ing our friends and family over there." 
Saint Mary's sophomore Katie Harthen has a boyfriend who is involved in the war. 21­year-old Kyle Miller is a Petty Officer aboard the USS Harry 
S. Truman, presently sta­tioned in the Mediterranean Sea. He works on the boat's nuclear reactors. 
Harthen and Miller have 
Exec Cab 
continued from page 1 
clubs," O'Connor said. 
The strategic plan also renames O'Connor's position to that of president. 
Other improvements to the CCC include the use of an online bud­geting system, which will "reduce paper waste and maintain an electronic record of club's expenses and budget requests," according to the plan. 
Clubs will be redistributed among the various divisions, which now include academic, athletic, cultural, performing arts, social service and special inter­ests divic;ions. O'Connor said the reorganization will allow CCC representatives to foster colJabo­ration among diverse but related student groups. 
The cabinet also welcomed Seth O'Donnell 115 incoming CCC president. O'Donnell said he WB.5 optimistic that the new plan will help promote active student orga­nizations. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 

been involved in their relation­ship for almost three years, but his commitment to the Navy has separated them for all but three months. 
During this time they've been corresponding by e-mail. However, due to newly imple­mented security measures, Miller can only receive e-mails now. He is no longer allowed to send them. 
In his last e-mail to Harthen, Miller wrote, "This is the last e-mail for awhile, so just know that I've been thinking about you all the time, and I can't wait to hear from you again and see you when I get back [whenever that will be]. Let's pray that it's going to be on time. Give my love to everyone and take care of yourself." 
The dangers that Miller faces worry Barthen. She con­stantly fol­
I've ever kept 
up with the news like this before," she said. "I never thought that anything like this would hap­pen while he was in the Navy." 
Harthen has mixed feelings about supporting the war. supporting the troops, oppos­ing the war and protesting. 
"I feel that people have a right to protest, but we're already at war, and so people should focus on supporting the troops now," she said. "I'm very against the protesters, but I would probably be against the war if I didn't know someone who was fight­ing in it." 
With opinions of the war aside, the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community can support all of its friends and family involved in the war by praying and letting its troops know that they are thought of constantly. 
And all can respond to Luke Pernotto's simple and most frequent request -"Light a candle in the grotto for me and the rest of the Marines over here." 
Contact Emily Brammer at bram3S01@saintmarys.edu 
Leaders 
continued from page 1 
by the announcement of a new alcohol policy as then­student body president Brooke Norton and vice pres­ident Brian Moscona were phasing out of office. 
"At that point, student leaders and student govern­ment didn't trust the admin­istration because they felt that their input was not val­ued," Bishop said. 
Entering office with a weighty issue before them, Bishop and Foley had diffi­

culty accomplishing their original plan to expand Flex Point meal options. 
Another challenge that Bishop and past student body presidents have often faced is the inability to see the instant implementation of their plans. 
"Change is slow to hap­pen," Bishop said. 
Student government only recently released the under­thedome calendar Web site, which was an idea from the Norton-Moscona administra­tion. 
"I think a lot of the fruits of our labor aren't going to be seen until next year because it takes so long to 
effect change here," Foley said. 
With a project-oriented staff of slightly under 40 and five divisions (academic: diversity; service, spirituali­ty, social concerns; student life; University and alumni relations), Hallahan and Lao want more immediate results. 
"As long as we're making headways somewhere, we're making headway in general," Lao said. "We really want to see that student life gets bet­ter whether or not we can take credit for it." 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 

University of Notre Dame International 
Study Programs  
Dublin  Summer  Program  
June  19  through August  7,  2003  
Meeting with  
Special Guest  
Seona  IMacReamoinn  
Irish Summer  Studies Director  in  Ireland  

Thursday, April 3 
5:00 p.m. 215 DeBartolo 
All undergraduates welcome 

WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, April 1, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
At least seven Iraqi civilians killed at checkpoint 
AS5ocia1cd Press 
DOHA 

U.S troops shot and killed at l!1ast seven Iraqi civilians ­some of them children -in a van at checkpoint Monday in southern Iraq when the driver did not stop as ordered, U.S. Central Command said. 
The soldiers were from the 3rd lnfirntry Division, which lost !'our soldiers Saturday at another clwckpoint when an Iraqi soldier dr1iss1>d as a civilian detonated a car bomb in a suicide attack. 
Tlw Ct\!ltral Command said ini­tial n•ports from Monday's·con­frontation indicated the soldiers l'ollowcd the rules of engagement to protect themsclvrs. 
"In light of recent terrorist atlacks by the Iraqi regime. the soldiers exercised considerable restraint lo avoid the unneces­sary loss of life," the statement said. 
llowever, Monday's deadly shooting near the southern Iraqi city of Najaf is likely to stoke opposition to the U.S.-led inva­sion among Iraqis in the Shiite Muslim region, where Washington had hoped for a popular uprising against President Saddam Hussein. 
Instead, U.S. forces have faced stubborn resistance by Saddam's forces in Najaf and other cities in southern Shiite strongholds. 
According to an account by the Central Command, the van approached the U.S. Army checkpoint Monday afternoon. Soldiers motioned for the driver to stop but were ignored. They then !ired warning shots but the vehicle continued moving toward the checkpoint. Troops then shot into its engine. As a last resort, the mrlitary said, soldiers fired into the passenger compartment. 
Two other civilians were wounded at the checkpoint on a highway near Karbala, accord­ing to a Pentagon official and Central Command. The military is investigating. 
'They tried to warn the vehicle to stop, it did not stop," Marine Corps Gen. Peter Pace said on PBS-TV's "The News Hour with Jim Leherer." "And it was unusual that that vehicle would be full of ouly women and that the driver was a woman. So we need to find out why it was that they were acting the way they did." 
The military statement said 13 women and children were in the van. But The Washington Post, whose reporter is embedded with the 3rd Infantry, said 15 people were in the vehicle and 10 were killed, including five children who appeared to be younger than age 5. One of the wounded was a man not expect­ed to live, the Post reported on its Web site. 

The newspaper described the Division captain as saying the fire a warning shot first and then vehicle as a four-wheel-drive checkpoint crew did not fire shoot a 7.62 mm machine-gun Toyota crammed with the Iraqis' warning shots quickly enough. round into the vehicle's radiator. personal belongings. In its The Post describes the captain When the vehicle kept coming, description of the shooting, the watching through binoculars and the captain ordered the soldiers Post quoted a 3rd Infantry ordering the soldiers by radio to to "stop him!" 
IRAQ 
Huge series of explosions resounds through Baghdad 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD 

Six explosions in rapid succession shook central Baghdad late Monday, sending smoke billowing from the Old Palace presidential compound and bathing the sky in a soft orange glow. 
Across the Tigris River, on its east bank, another target was hit in the city center less than a mile from the Palestine llotel. The foundation of the 18-story hotel, where foreign journalists are staying, shook as if it had been struck by a powerful earthquake. 
The blasts were some of the strongest since the U.S.-led air war began March 20, and a steady rumbling of explosions continued south of the capital early Tuesday -likely against Republican Guard positions. 
Monday night, Saddam Hussein and his sons Odai and Qusai appeared on Iraqi television, with the station showing video footage of a meeting of top military com­manders. There was no way of determin­ing when the video was shot. 
Saddam decorated commanders and troops of army units in Urnm Qasr, the Faw peninsula and Nasiriyah for their "heroic" defense of the areas, state tele­vision said. 
A communique read on Iraqi Satellite Television said members of the 11th Division, which fought in Nasiriyah, would receive medals and their families would immediately receive 2 million dinars -about $670 at the exchange rate on the eve of the war.· 
Saddam was last shown on Iraqi televi­sion on Saturday night. Odai had not been seen on Iraqi TV since the war began, according to Al-Arabiya televi­sion. 
U.S. attempts to silence Iraqi TV and radio through aerial attacks have failed, with Information Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf insisting the broadcasts were unaffected. 
Despite repeated bombings of the Iraqi Information Ministry and Iraqi transmit­ters, the local media operation was "as good as it was before" the attacks, al­Sahhaf said. 
He said he and several colleagues helped put out the flames in the ministry, which was struck for the second time in two days, while technicians repaired damaged transmitters. The Americans had hoped to cut off television and radio transmissions to halt Iraqi propaganda. 
Iraqi television was off for about three hours Monday morning before broad­casts resumed. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Landslide buries Bolivian mining homes: 
/\ landslide roared through a gold-mining town in Bolivia's tropical lowlands early Monday, killing at !liast four people, injuring three and burying dozens of homes. Villagers of Chima spent the afternoon digging through a mountain of mud, rock and muck to reach survivors. Others waited hours for emcr­gPncy crews to arrive from La Paz. There are no landing strips in the remote mountainous area. 
Truck crash appears to be suicide attack: 
/\ pickup truck loaded with extra fuel crashed into the perimeter wall of the British Embassy on Monday night, exploding in flames in what one wit­ness said appeared to be a suicide attack. Police ini­tially said the crash appeared to be an accident, in which th!' truck driver was killed but no one else was hurt. But later the city's security chief said the back of the vehicle was loaded with gallons of extra fuel. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Street 'fighting 50 miles from Baghdad: 
American forces battled Iraqi defenders in fierce street fighting 50 miles south of Baghdad on Monday, pointing toward a drive on the capi­tal. Army guards shot seven Iraqi women and children to death when their van refused orders to stop at a checkpoint, officials said. U.S. troops and tanks encountered rocket-propelled grenades and small arms fire in a dawn raid against Republican Guard defenders of Hindiyah, a key city astride the Euphrates River. Other units fought to isolate Najaf to the south and prevent attacks on U.S. supply lines. "There are maneuvers going [on] to try to destroy those divisions that stand in our way" of Baghdad, Maj. Gen. Stanley McChrystal said at the Pentagon. He added that more than 3,000 preci­sion-guided bombs have been dropped on Iraq in the past few days, out of 8,000 in the entire war. 
Gunman kills man during church service: 
A man stood up during a church service and shot another man to death in what a prosecutor said was the third killing in a years-long feud stemming from a rape. At least seven people suffered minor injuries trying to tlee St. Paul's Albanian Church on Sunday, some by leaping out windows, authorities said. Most of the injuries were cuts and bruises. Oakland County sheriff's Capt. Michael McCabe identified the man in custody Monday as Gjon Pepaj, 38, of Rochester Hills. Charges might not be filed until Tuesday because of the number of witnesses investi­gators planned to interview, McCabe said. Witness Luigi Gjokaj said the gunman stood up and yelled "Yes, I am here," then shot Gjek Sufaj, 38, in the back of the head. He shot Sufaj several more times, then fired into the air and yelled "I done what l was supposed to do," Gjokaj said. Authorities and wit­nesses said the shooting was the result of a six-year vendetta. 


------· -----------­
Tuesday, April 1, 2003
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

.•,;'.:a:~¥$ii.H&.•·•I 
-·-. -.l:~:#~fti\t ..: 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

'03-'04 BOG holds first tneeting of term 
By MEGAN O'NEIL News Writer 
New Board of Governance officers began their first meeting since taking office by reviewing basic procedures Monday. Items such as co­sponsorship grants, wherein the Board helps sponsor stu­dent activities, were explained and discussed. 
"It is not an all or nothing situation." said Student Body President Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl in reference to the grants. "We can give them any amount we want." 
Jablonski-Diehl also reviewed the format for the weekly meetings and outlined such procedures as how to make, and second, a motion. 
To increase efficiency and communication. the new Board will implement a few changes. 
Officers will now receive financial sponsorship request forms a week prior to discus­sion and voting. Board mem­bers hope this will result in better informed decisions. 
In Other BOG News 
. After much discussion BOG granted $660 to the Saint Mary's Speech Pathology Club. The money will enable six club members to attend the annual three-day Indiana Speech and Hearing Associations convention in Indianapolis. 

. BOG agreed to provide $325 for materials to build a boat to be entered into the annual Fisher Regatta. While Saint Mary's has always been invited to participate, this will be the first time the College submits an entry. The effort is being organized by Amanda Garno, who hopes to make Saint Mary's participa­tion an annual event. 
Board members were excit­ed that Saint Mary's students would be represented, although they hoped that fund:r.aising would pay for the costs in the future. 
. 
Student Academic Council has organized a school-wide mass for Palm Sunday on April 13. Organizers plan to have a palm procession into the Church of Loretto. 

. 
Residence Hall Association is currently in the pr.ocess of electing new hall councils. Campaigning will begin April 15 and the elections will take place April 24. 


Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
New SMC feminist group to 111eet 
. Women's Studies links with new student club 
By LAUREN O'BRIEN 
News Writer 
A new feminist student group will meet for the first time tonight at Saint Mary's. Phyllis Kaminski, the former coordinator for the College's Women's Studies program and current chair of the Religious Studies Department, first suggested a new and more comprehen­sive feminist group three years ago. 
She proposed the idea to Heather Engstrom, now a senior at Saint Mary's and the Student Academic Council representative for Women's Studies. 
"I feel it is very necessary because there is a need to address feminist issues on campus," Engstrom said. 
The new group, Feminists United, plans to include committees that concentrate on specific feminist issues. The focus of the group as a who_le is student activism. 
Officially, Feminists United does not yet have the approval of Saint Mary's. The group is hoping to gain support next year after com­piling a member list and fil­ing the necessary paper­work. 
"I have had a lot of posi­tive feedback for Feminists United so far." Engstrom said. 

Astrid Henry, the coordi-. nator of the Women's Studies program. is the fac­ulty advisor for Feminists United. 
She sees the connection between Feminists United and the Women's Studies program as a vital asset because of the continuity that the association will provide. 
"One of our goals is just to get women more involved and interested in women's issues on campus, in the community and internation­ally," Henry said. 
Feminists United hopes to connect with other groups on campus that address women's issues. 
The group's first meeting will be held tonight at 8:30 
p.m. in the Women's Center in the basement of LeMans Hall. 
Contact Lauren O'Brien at obril 648@saintmarys.edu 


1.>]~ 
!~~, 
I Tl;te pr;q 

.,._.___ -----­
l-Vhat Does It II.ave To l)o With Ivie?: 
Perspecti'oes on 1'Var in fraq 

Come join otht•r students, faculty ,md staff in e.xp'!oring issues o( \N ar and. peace 
AStudent Dialogue on Wa.r with Iraq April 9th, 7:00 PM, Coleman Morse Lounge With per:•;;t>ctiuf.~:.;/rum ROTC Ancc A.ctkJn Groups and othas 
"Inq,Hoititms intd Afornfity of ti Prf<f:mptive }Var'' Aptii 10th, 7:30 Pl\·i, Cn!eman 1vforse Lounge A .fa.ik by :Fr. Bryan Hehir 
The rosary v.m. be. said in difforent ret,iikncc halh 
Prc::.idmt mid CEO, Catholic Charitier; U.S,A_,; Fonner Chtdr of the Extcuiirx: Committee 1Jt lfar·Mrd Diuinity Sdwo1 
''Tlu Prophetic Voit'e ,~f Pea.re'' 

Apd! 24th, 7:00 -8:30 PM PrcsentMi.on and Qtwstii->ns., Debartofo 141 
8:30 PM Pnx:('ssion to Grntto for condu.ding prayt:•r for peace A Talk by Fr. John Dear S.J. 11:00p.m. every weeknight
1 

Peace Actiufa/-mid author/editor ,if'20 hook:.~ (m pt1lce cl _jr.afitt\ Former Executice Director i..if' the Fellowship af.Renmciliation 
I 
;::~:::i~t:::.:::::::::~}:. I 
_·-·:=~;r::~=~~r:iri~1~'.;~;'._1:•;,• ~1:~il~)l~~l::~:::!~•···. ·.•.)·•· ·••··•.·._•1 
...•. ---.,,?+\•···· .. I 
. •::L···i•;:.···•·< ...., ,,, .. ·; 

...roor¢;1 i~tltiuia6t.iut.~pJyfog. . b> I
....•;;;•~'u;;•·;;;.;•··;....•·.·;;;··;;;,-;;;;•·;.:·';;;;;.·..;,iJ•'·;;.·'·~ J 
Current Volqnteer Opportunities 
Tutoring A tutnt is needed m help a small family learn convemitirnrn1 Spanish one h{)ur a w~ek. Tlw fomi!y lives ;.1bout 10 minutes away .in Niles, Ml. 
Contact: Jenny Sergi<, at 269~683<~886. 
A. n.Hw i~, w,mted to help art adult womi.ln !mm the hades of co1nput0r:~ at her home only l or 2 fr1ne'.\ c rnontb. She li i.es about ten mhmres fr.;_1m ,:,tmpus in Niks, ML 
·Contact: Jenny Sergio at 269-68JNJ8%. 

Tuesday, April I, 2003 COMPILED PROM TUE OBSERVER WlilE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP lVlarket Watch March 31 
DowJones 
7,992.13 -153.64 
.NASDAQ
• 
1,341.17 -28.43 
S&P500
• 
848.18 . -15.32 
AMfX
• 
827.26 -0.70 
NYSE
• 
4,730.21 -78.89 
•
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SIRIUS SATELLIT (SIRI) +8.96 +0.06 0. 73 
NASDAQ* 100 INDEX<QQQ)·:,',i~s~:::i1ff#~I11a1:1,1i'ii 
.. , .-.•.. _-.-,, ..•.· ...-•. -·····.·:· ·:::,·-::::::·:::::>,·.;:;;:::,::::• 

MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -1. 86 -0. 46 ~4. 21 INTEL coRP .(rnrc1·••••· :!t.iiii~i~ti .i•~~4t~1~:!ta 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.82-0.2412.98 
IN BRIEF 
US Airways survives Chapter 11 
US Airways emerged from Chapter 11 bank­ruptcy Monday, wrapping up a swift eight­month return to financial accountability just as the war with Iraq threatens to devastate the airline industry. 
Airline spokesman David Castelveter said thu company has cut annual costs by $1.9 bil­lion a year. mostly through wage and benefit concessions from its workers. The airline also has developed a plan to turn a profit as early as 2004. 
llowcver, Castclveter said excitement at the airline was tempered by concern over how the war would affect its restructuring. Bookings were down 20 percent the first week after the war began. 
Kmart annonces further job cuts 
Kmart Corp. is eliminating 660 more jobs as part or the bankrupt retailer's efforts to cut costs and reduce the size of its operations. 
Some 400 jobs will be cut at headquarters. 123 corporate positions will be cut around the country and another 137 vacant positions will be eliminated. the company announced Monday. 
Julian Day, Kmart president and chief exec­utive, told a news conference that the 400 headquarters jobs are mostly middle manage­mc nt. The company has about 170,000 employees overall, including 2,900 at its headquarters in suburban Troy, officials said. 
HealthSouth fires third in scandal 
llualthSouth Corp. fired Richard Scrushy as chairman and chief executive. severing ties with its founder as a third executive pleaded guilty Monday in a mushrooming accounting scandal. The company said Scrushy, who built I lrialthSouth into a leading health care chain and was previously suspended as chief execu­tive. also was asked to quit the board. In a further bid to wipe clean its slate, HealthSouth said it would fire longtime out­side auditor Ernst & Young. 
Airline reaches new agreement 
. American Airlines avoids bankruptcy 
Anociated Press 
NEW YORK 

American Airlines took a huge step toward pre­venting bankruptcy Monday by reaching ten­tative cost-cutting agree­m ents with key unions representing pilots, flight attendants and mechan­
ics. 
While the company appeared to secure the $1.8 billion in concessions needed to avert Chapter 
11. the agreements still must be voted on by union members. The ratification process will begin Tuesday, union officials said. 
The news lifted shares of American by 33 per­cent as investors consid­ered a bankruptcy filing much less likely. 
Company chairman Don Carty praised union lead­ers, saying they "have enabled us to avoid an· immediate filing with the bankruptcy court." 
Despite the tentative deals. the carrier is not 
REUTERS

guaranteed a smooth 
A service agent for American Airlines checks In passengers Monday at O'Hare
ride. The industry is still 
Airport in Chicago. AA reached two cost-cutting agreements to prevent bankruptcy. 
battling its worst down­turn ever, precipitated by focus their minds," said began, carriers laid off Attendants and the fears of terrorism, an ail­Peter Cappelli, a profes-thousands of employees, Transport Workers Union ing economy and now the sor of management at the cut flights and reduced reached separate deals war in Iraq. University of the frequency of others. throughout the day 
"If the war lasts for Pennsylvania's Wharton But even with the new Monday. many months or if there's School of Business. labor contracts, analysts AMR has lost nearly another act of terrorism, United, which is say major carriers still $5.3 billion the past two then even these cost sav­restructuring under need to cut capacity fur-years and has faced ings could prove insuffi­Chapter 11 protection, ther, which would likely increasing competition cient," said Philip has said deep cuts were allow them to raise ticket from low-fare carriers. Baggaley, Standard & needed to avoid liquida-prices. Also Monday, Carty, the Poor's airline analyst. tion. American, mean-During the weekend, chairman, said he would 
Even if employees ratify while, had indicated it American reached tenta-cut his base salary by a the agreements, analysts would file for bankruptcy live agreements with third, decline a bonus for said it will still be critical protection soon unless it 2,500 ground workers. the third straight year for parent company AMR reached tentative agree-The company previously and ask the board of AMR Corp. to secure additional ments with its major reached a tentative deal to reduce the compensa­financing from lenders as labor groups Monday. with 16,300 baggage han-tion of other senior offi­well as better deals from Other major airlines dlers. However, there cers. Carty had a base suppliers and lessors. also are pushing employ-were still no deals with salary of $585,813 in 
Experts said the talks ees to accept wage and the three most important 2001. He took a pay were probably affected by benefit cuts as the indus-labor groups in its work freeze late in 2001 and in last week's agreement try suffers huge losses. force of 99,000. 2002. between United Airlines and analysts said the The Allied Pilots Shares of American and its pilots' union on momentum at United and Association, the rose 52 cents to $2.10 on $1.1 billion in cuts. American could spread. Association of the New York Stock 
"I think that has helped After the war in Iraq Professional Flight Exchange. 

Crude oil futures show slight rise 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

May crude futures broke through key resistance of $31.05 a barrel to trade as high as $31.30 on Monday, but they didn't hold the rally. 
While crude prices deflated just before the closing, they still reversed Friday's losses, BNP Paribas analyst Tom Bentz said. 
There was little fresh news on the I.rag war front, but the ongoing cut­back In Nigerian oil supplies contin­ued to boost crude and May gaso­line Monday, analysts said. 
At the New York Mercantile Exchange, nearby May crude futures closed at $31.04 a barrel, 
up 88 cents on the day. The con­tract fell 21 cents Friday. 
At London's International 
Petroleum Exchange. North Sea 
Brent blend futures for May deliv­
ery rose 83 cents to $27.18 a bar­
rel. 

April gasoline futures closed 95 ·cents lower at 94.44 cents a gallon. while May gasoline closed 1. 35 cent shigher to settle at 95. 70. 
April gasoline and heating oil contracts expired Monday, leading to wide price vacillations in the nearby contract and the heavy liq­uid ati on of long positions just before the Nymex closed. 
"April heating oil got pounded with positions getting liquidated," Bentz said. "The same thing hap­pened with April gasoline; the longs were just bailing out all day." 
April heating oil futures fell 40 cents to 79.24 cents a gallon. as market participants rolled their positions into May. May heating oil closed up 1.38 cents at 77 .08 cents a gallon. 
While April gasoline took a hit on rollovers to May, the new front month contract posted solid gains. 
Bullish factors for the contract include the effect of Monday's con­tract rollovers, the drop in Nigerian oil and the summer driving season ahead. 
Natural gas for May delivery foll 
8.6 cents to settle at $5.060. 
fil[ 
OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, April 1, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 Somh Dining Halj, Not« Dame, IN 4G556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Scott Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NhWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes 
Vu:WPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm 
SPORTS EDITOR: Joe Hettler 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smirh 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford 
AoVliR·nsINC MANAGER• Maura C..enedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Cn:ek 
CONTROLLER: Michad Flanagan 
SYSTEMS MANAGER: Ted Bangert 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO.........631-7471 
FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVl:RTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................631-4543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.. .....................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAfly's ............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
l'HOT0........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................63 !-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http:llobserver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in prior and online by the students of the 
University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's 
Colleg~. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither 
institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse ·advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unstgned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofrhe Edimr in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the view. ofthe authors and not nec­essarily chose ofTbe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and muse include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefAndrew So11kup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
rh,·O~rv,:r (U'.IJI\ )<J<J !4UI U ruhli,hn! Mund.i.y th111ugh l·riJ.i.y .:xa:pr tiunng <-X,un ,mJ ~M.:~non. r,:rioJ!>. A ~uh,-..;ripn[)n m Tiu· Oh'l.l:rv,:r i~ '1(10 toro1u,: ...:a,.kmi~ yo:;u: 'li~5 lur on,: M"ITl~">rcr. 
I'h1. OhM'fH.'f I) }'uhh~h«.l ,w l'OSTMASTER 02-. ''.'mu,h l>i111ri11, Ha.ll W11d dJ.dn.-,,t uJri«lJ01u ro: Norrt· llam<-. IN 46)5(~ U1eOhw.1"VC1 
r.o. Bo.Q l',-r11a<l1~~ r"n~..: p:i.iJ .. r Nurr~· IJ;iirM.· N11tn: Ll.mi.:, IN 4G~'H1·0~J .u1J ,.JJui,111~! 1T1J1li11g offi.:, ,. 
rhi: Ohw.'l'Vl'r ii~ nwmlwr nf rhr A~~11.:i:l1e<.! l'F'U. All ri..-pmJm:uon rigbrs Ml' 
fl,.'M:°[¥~..J. 

Becoming 'relationship girl' 
We live in a forever changing world. Things that I never thought would happen have occurred this year. The economy that thrived in my adoles­cence is struggling. My generation is at war. I have a boyfriend. It's Amy Schill okay to be . shocked, everyone else thought I was 
Dazed and 

a lesbian too. 
Amused 

I haven't been very lucky in love here at Notre Dame, because well, no one wanted me. My wit and charm worked great for awhile, but when the guy sensed that it was all a mask for my self­loathing, he always had to make an unexpected trip to China. 
However, l have been pretty good at attracting nerdy guys, which is to be expected if you've ever read my col­umn before. Maybe my standards are way too high for what I have to offer. but these guys always were just too dorky for me. Apparently, if dating me were a class, it would be cross-listed with Dungeons and Dragons studies. These guys were sweet and every­thing, but I just wasn't all about the Princess Leia hair. 
Well, I don't know what happened, but I recently decided to accept my latest dorky suitor. I'm pretty sµre it's because he has a car. Having a boyfriend and being a girlfriend are definitely not things I'm used to; my relationships have been few and far between. Honestly, I rather enjoyed the single life. l could go where I wanted when I wanted, hang out with my friends all the time and get hit on by the caliber of guys who hit on me (okay, l don't want to talk about Ayn Rand ever, much less at Corby's ... go away). 
All right, perhaps the dating life isn't so bad. I mPan I don't remember the last time l paid for food, and I never thought I could exert this much power over another human being. If I knew having a boyfriend meant unlim­ited trips to the airport, a portable ATM and an ever-faithful servant, I would have started acting slutty long ago. 
Of course. there are some draw­backs. One superficial one is that my boyfriend is not yet 21, and my last boyfriend actually was a bar. So nowadays, when my friends go out to bars on the weekends, the boyfriend and I usually stay in and play Yahtzce. I can't complain though -at least it's not D & D. 
The other downside to the dating life is much more significant than my recovering liver. Being part of a cou­ple, I realize that I'm slowly becoming someone I'd thought I'd never be: relationship girl. 
I'm used to being on my own, paying for everything I receive. But after only a few short weeks. I've caught myself expecting meals to be paid for, doors to be· opened. To combat this, I ran­domly demand to pay for things or simply throw money at my boyfriend. proclaiming "I am a subject with agency! I will pay for Boat Trip tick­ets!" 
I've also become that girl who can get her boyfriend to go to Mass and, being proud of my own independence, I hate to think of restricting the inde­pendence of another. Finally, and worst of all, I think I'm actualizing the negative stereotypes guys have about girls. When I was single, and I said "fine," it meant "Everything's going well, Trixie!" When I say "fine" to my boyfriend, however, it usually means "I will have you decapitated within the half hour." 
So I'm fearing a little bit that despite my best efforts, I'm finally becoming a girl, and a whiny one at that. Much worse, I worry that my identity as an individual will fade into an insepara­ble "couple identity" like "Bob and Susie" or "Whipped and llose Beast." All in all though, the benefits far out­weigh the costs, and I'm happier than I've been in awhile. Anyway, I think I'm going to go see him now. I need to go to the store. 
Amy Schill is a senior English major and Catholic Social Tradition minor. She's curious to find out if anyone would be interested in a collection of her columns from the past three years. She can be reached al aschill@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
GUEST COLUMN 
You can't be pro-troop and anti-war 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. were reinstated, you could experience first-hand exactly 
l have been the daughter of an Army officer for 21 what it is that you are protesting. You should also be years, and I know about the reality of war. My father was thankful that you live in the United States of America,, injured in a past war, and many of our friends and neigh­because if you lived in another country, you might not be bors have now been put in harm's way for the sole pur­afforded this freedom. I would certainly be angry if I pose of defending you, our country, were putting my life on the line for a bunch of protestPrs our rights and our freedoms. who feel they are doing their civic duty.
Kiley Winston 
We should never be grateful for In closing, I will not refute your right as an American war, although because of it, you have citizen to protest. I would however like to say, "Thank the freedom to stand on the side of God ,!·or our military and the sacrifices they make every the street and protest. The purpose The Crimson day. for war is to protect our rights and White Let me leave you with the following quote from Father the rights of others. Our soldiers go to Dennis Edward O'Brieri, sergeant, United States Marine war when it is necessary, when all Corp, "It is the soldier, not the reporter, who has given us other means of compromise have been exhausted. the freedom of press. It is the soldier, not the poet, who 
You say that you are not "anti-soldier" or "anti­has given us the freedom of speech. It is the soldier, not America," but I think that sounds like a lame justifica­the campus organizer, who gives us the freedom to tion. Our soldiers are overseas because they believe in demonstrate. It is the soldier, who salutes the f1ag, who democracy. They believe in our freedom, and they train serves beneath the flag, and whose coffin is draped by for war to protect America. You say that you are just the flag, who allows the protester to burn the f1ag." "anti-war;" in my opinion it is all the same. As an Army child, you offend me, and as an American 
You are definitely not supporting our troops when you citizen, you embarrass me. I have never seen such a stand in the street with your anti-war signs. How would waste of time or a display of ignorance. you like to be in Iraq right now, putting your life on the line, and turn on the television to see that you do not This column first appeared in the March 2 7 issue of The have the support of your friends and loved ones back Crimson White, the campus newspaper al the University home? ofAlabama. it is reprinted here courtesy of U-Wl/lE. 
One recommendation that I would make to President The views expressed in this column are those of the Bush would be to reinstate the draft. Maybe if the draft author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Kate Nagengast Maureen Reynolds Claire Heininger 
Viewpoint 
Dolores Diaz 
Graphics 
Chris Naidus 
Sports Katie McVoy Lauren Dasso 
Matt Lozar 
Scene 
Julie Bender 
Lab Tech 
Claire Kelley 

NOTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you think that the incoming student body presidents will be able to fulfill their campaign promises? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Sexuality is primarily a means of communicating with other people. a way of talking to them, ofexpressing our feelings about ourselves and them. " 
Robert C. Solomon 

U.S. philosopher, educator 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
Tue~day, April I, 2003 page 9 
'Catholic' education has failed Catholicism 
/\ new study by the Higher Education Hcscarch Institutc at UCLA raises the issue of whether, in terms of "Catholic characLOr," the pricey education at Catholic colleges is worth it. The study tracked attitudes of students in 38 Catholic colleges and universities, including Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. In 1997. HEHi surveynd 7,197 incoming freshmen, including 5,199 Catholics and 1,998 nun-Catholics. In 2001. it surveyed those same students. 
The percentage or sludPnts who agreed with the following statements changed as follows from 1997 to 2001: "1'bortion should be legal.·• Catholic, 37 pc>rcenl Lo 51 percent; non-Catholic, 62 pPrcnnt to 71 percent. 
"If two people really like each other, it's all right for them to have sex even if they've known each other for only a very short time." Catholic, 27 percent to 48 percent; non-Catholic, 36 percent to 53 percent. 
"Sarne-sex couples should have the right to legal marital status." Catholic, 52 percent to 69 percent; non-Catholic, 60 percent to 73 percent. 
Of' students who described them­selves as "Roman Catholic" as fresh-


men, 91 percent did so at graduation, while 11 percent of the non-Catholics became Catholic. As freshmen. 2 per­cent of the Catholics said they attended a religious service "not at all," com­pared to 12 percent four years later. Fifteen percent of the Catholics said their religious beliefs became "much stronger" over the four years. As fresh­men, 14 percent of the Catholics spent no time at all in prayer or meditation, compared to 25 percent four years later. The study docs not claim to be representative of the 223 Catholic col­leges and universities. It had no uni­form standards for selection of the sur­veyed students. It released only aggre­gate data and not results for the stu­dents at each institution. Therefore one cannot draw conclusions about a specific school from the study. 
Despite its limits, the HERi study is instructive but no surprise. The prob­lem is not merely a failure of colleges. Rather. an apostasy overtook the Catholic educational system, from kindergarten to university, over the past few decades. The Catholic intellec­tual tradition, including Augustine, Aquinas, Bonaventure, Newman and others is a mine of wisdom. integrating faith with reason. The Catholic system transmitted and enriched that tradition until the 20th century. Regrettably, the teachings of Vatican II became some­thing else at the hands of "The Church of Where It's At." "[M]ore than in any other historical period," said John Paul II last year, "there is a breakdown in 
the process of handing on moral and 
religious values between generations." Several generations of Catholic grade and high e"chool students wasted their religion classes making collages or mouthing politicized slogans. The Catholic universities did not cause that failure, but they do little to remedy it. In many cases they compound it. 
Ex Corde Ecclesiae, the 1990 consti­tution on Catholic universities, requires "adherence" by the university "to the teaching authority of the church in matters of faith and morals." "Catholic students," said the Bishops' Application of Ex Corde to the United States, "have a right to receive from a university instruction in authentic Catholic doc­trine and practice. Courses in Catholic doctrine and practice should be made available to all students." 
Notre Dame has a Catholic presence and offers abundant spiritual resources to students who want them. But no one can rationally claim that Notre Dame conforms to the Ex Corde require­ments. As one Notre Dame sophomore was quoted in a news report on the HERI study, "The required theology classes for all students don't necessari­ly cover Catholic teachings. Everyone has to take a Scripture class, but mine was taught by a Protestant graduate student who knew nothing about Catholic teaching. The second theology requirement can be completed by any of a wide variety of classes that don't normally pertain to Church teaching specifically." The system is hit-or-miss and often hostile to Catholic teaching on morality and sex. The leaders of Notre Dame and other "Catholic" uni­versities reject the definition of that term by the Vicar of Christ who is the only person with ultimate authority to define it. Yet they are as obedient as serfs to decrees of the NCM and a host of government and private regulators. 
The leaders of the "Catholic" univer­sities act in what they see as the best interests of their institutions. They will not accept any enforcement of the norms of Ex Corde. The point here is not to urge such enforcement. Hather, the HERI study reminds us that the pal­adins of "Catholic" education, especial­ly at the higher levels, have practiced a form of consumer fraud for several decades. If they were selling hamburg­ers instead of education, their bait­and-switch could put them in need of a defense lawyer. The HERI study should prompt Catholic families to ask whether the "Catholic" colleges and universities are worth the monetary and other costs. Maybe it will even prompt those institutions to reflect on the moral imperative of truth-in-label­ing; but don't hold your breath waiting for that. 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Tuesday. lie can be reached at Plawecki. J@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
OutreachND could provide more with club status 
This Saturday there is going to be a dance. It is one or the most important dances of the year for over 40 Notre Dame students; and yet you probably won't hear about it anywhere. The dance, known as April Follies, is sponsored by a gay and lesbian student organization called OutreachND. The dance is a 
Richard 

combination of an end of the 
Friedman 

ynar celebration and social support geared towards mem­br1rs or the club. their friends A Skewed and their allies. It is just like Perspective many ()ther student organiza­tions' end of the year events, but it is also different in many ways due to the differ­ences between OutreachND and most student groups. 
In addition to being a time of celebration, April Follies is the transition time for the board members. Five students who have given up countless hours working to support and improve the conditions of gay and lesbian students will hand over their posi­tions to new board members who will do the same next year. And, while being a board member for any club is a time consuming task, it is even more so for a club that is not recognized by the University. In addition to all of the normal issues that a club lead­ership role encompasses, the executive board of OutreachND also has to deal with being part of a University that refuses to recognize it or its signifi­cance. 
For the past several years, OutreachND has been Lrying to get itself recognized by the Office of Student Affairs as an official club. Three times now, the board has gone to the necessary meetings. filled out the necessary forms and turned them in on the regu­lar days. Three times they have received a denial of official status. Worst of all, the reasons for this denial have been vague and unsalisfactory. 
For the members of OutreachND, this denial has been a continuous offense. Their weekly meetings offer support and social activities for students who are having a difficult time coming to terms with their sexuality. all of which are an unquestionable service to the community. Discussions center on topics relat­ing to sexuality, how it relates to campus and in life beyond Notre Dame, giving students the chance to have an honest and open discussion about his or her sexuality in an environment where it is well under­stood -an environment that consists of fellow gay or lesbian students who have all been through it themselves. By refusing to recognize the importance of these activities and services, the University is making a difficult thing even more difficult. Instead of being able to work on constantly improving the club, board members often must work on things other clubs take for granted. For example, official status would allow OutreachND to have an official meeting place, a University mailing address, use of Notre Dame Web space, qualify for University fund­ing for events, be allowed to sponsor speakers on campus and have a booth at activities night. It would also allow the board members free­dom from dealing with such things as fundraising. IRS tax exemption filings, Indiana non-profit orga­nization status and year­ly re-incorporation. 
Instead of these bene­fits, OutreachND deals with posters that advertise meet­ings being taken down within a few days, having to walk around wearing T-shirts to adver­tise on activities night and spending hundreds of extra dollars paying for things such as Web domain hosting and off-campus adver­tising rates. OutrcachND cannot even get T-shirts printed that have the club's legal name on them because South Bend area printers will not print them without Student Affair's permission due to the "ND". 
My point is not to say that the University is doing nothing, because there are a few groups out there; it is just that they do not offer everything that gay and lesbian students need. Campus Ministry provides a good location for faith-based questions, and the Counseling Center does a great job with individual professional counseling-type issues, but those in and of themselves arc not sufficient. And, while the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs sponsors campus-wide educational events and some gay and lesbian social events, the difference between these and OutreachND is that they are University initiatives. 
While students are involved and help run the com­mittee, it is not a student-based, student-run, social and support group. Students who are able to run 
their own meetings that provide support and social activities for others who are going through the same issues they've 
experienced are a unique and nec­essary part of a well-developed homosexual community, and 
that is what Notre Dame is missing. 
So, whatever you arc doing this Saturday night, give a quick thought to 
your fellow gay and les­bian students. Remember all the problems and issues that many gay and lesbian students have to 
deal with in terms of com­
ing out, family relations, roommate problems, dat­ing, religious issues and a not always very welcoming society; and think about how 

the University is falling short on helping these students by not allowing them one of their most valu­able resources. The numerous students 
here who have been through it all before want to help, but they instead must spend time doing other things that the University could make much easier if it would just recognize OutreachND. However, all this is not going to stop them from hav­ing a good time this weekend. so if you know any gay or lesbian students here on campus wish them a good time at Follies. 
Richard Friedman is a senior double majoring in architecture and psychology. His column normally runs every other week. and he welcomes your com­ments or suggestions at rfriedma@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 


page 10 Tuesday, April 1, 2003 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Deana Carter, more than a girl 
with its sing-a-long lyrics and catchy acoustic refrain played by Carter herself, it pales somewhat compared to the more original tracks offered. She has more to offer her fans than ordinary tunes, and while her voice is less powerful than Martina McBride or Faith Hill, she has just as much ability to convey genuine emo­tions in her singing, whether with poignant ballads or buoyant tunes. 
One of the best songs on the album is the gentle and sweet "You and Tequila." Just like on her best-known single, "Strawberry Wine," her innocent and youthful voice glides longingly over flowing guitar waves to make her heartbreak believable. "You and tequila make me crazy / You run like poison in my blood / One more night might kill me, baby / One is one too many, and one more is never enough." 
Amazingly, she sings her yearning 
melodies without sounding spiteful or angry. On her wonderful duet with Dwight Yoakam, "Waiting," the acoustic twang and shuffling 
drums  soar  
and  fade  
behind  the  

two singers. Carter's lovely voice is com­plemented 


By CHRISTIE BOLSEN Assistam Scene Editor 
With the release of I'm Just a Girl. Deana Carter proves she can indeed sparkle in her native Nashville that is already full of female country stars with immense talent. Her honeyed vocals, infused \.Vith a charm­ing dose of thick Southern twang, captured hearts in 1996 when she sold 4 million copies of her debut album, Did I Shave My Legs For This'' 
Unfortunately, Carter has been missing on the scene after a relatively disappoint­ing sophomore album and conflicts with her former record label, Capitol Records. 
But after being released from her Capitol contract and finding a new label in Arista Records, Carter's new single. "There's No Limit," is already climbing the Billboard charts. While the song is radio-friendly 
By BJ STREW 
Scene Music Critic 
Lester Bangs said rock is dead. Dick Rorty said philosophy is dead. Harvard's Walt Gilbert said molecular biology is dead. Others have sounded the death knell of neoclassical economics, of tragedy and soon, maybe, relativity. And that's all well and good because, thanks to the white knights of pop, mediocrity is here to stay ­its fate is sealed. 
But Chris Yanek cares little for fate and, God bless him. less for mediocrity. It was out of the ashes of his A-ha cover band from whence this matchless artist cobbled together perhaps the most brilliant assem­blage of former K-mart employees/musi­cians the world has ever seen. It was allegedly on a peyote-driven "spirit quest" that Yanek and ex-member Jay Mohr decided on the name "The Blouse Puppies," an allusion to a campy, John Tesh B-side. 
From their refreshingly post-feminist moniker to their curious, esoteric instru­mentation to their bulbous Thin Lizzy­meets-Phil Collins sound, it is clear the Blouse Puppies have staked their claim as rock's newest standard-bearers. Some have described the Blouse Puppies sound as the Beatles, Jesus and Dolly Parton all rolled into one. so skilled they are in the nuances of music theory, in technique, in Celtic folklore, in groundwater hydrology and so on. Clearly, few have yet success­fully described the band's unique sound. 

The band's offi­cial debut album, Derelicte My What, Capitan?, with its release delayed by Apple Corps Records until March 31 after Internet bootlegging. fea­tures most of the Blouse Puppies' founding mem­bers; ex-Merry Prankster Bones Walker on the stand-up bass, Ben Ferguson blowing a mean sqinn flute. Nick Martin on electric piano and the 
imperturbably cool contralto of lead gui­tarist and vocalist Yanek. Veteran percus­sionist Lund Driftwood pounds sweet thun­der with the meticulous authority of Art Blakey. 
both by the addition of Yoakam and the sin­cerity of the lyrics. "Waiting for the thought to cross your mind that two hearts might / Be inclined to commit an act that's bold / Or even just be looking for a chance to take advantage of/ One glance and live inside it one more time." 
Carter doesn't spend all her time wishing and hoping though; she cuts loose like a slightly wild Southern belle on several of the fun tracks. On "Eddie," even the steel guitar sounds carefree. Bouncing along the highway of heartbreak, "Liar" provides thera­py with whimsical insults scattered over an assortment of horns, giving a distinct circus feeling at one point in the song. "Girls' Night" sets off at top speed to end the album with breakneck guitar tempos and lyrics that mix the fun of girlie girls, Miller Lite and lumberjacks. 'Tm going downtown, I'm gonna look real nice / I'll be sportin' my stilettos; I'm gonna cause a few fights / I'm gonna find my friends/ 'Cause it's girls' night," she sings. 

Listening to this album, the listener can almost hear the champagne glasses in the background toasting the success of a standout country girl and her most recent musical accomplishment. 
Contact Christie Boisen at bolsen.l@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Masterful debut from Blouse Puppies 
Taking a page from techno group Prodigy's playbook, the 
Derelicte Mv What, 
Capitan? 

Blouse Puppies feature the solo salsa dancer, Jason Cardella, tumbling and frolicking in front of the group like some Chihuahua on PCP. 
And the world ought to thank producer Mike Panzica. Because then, after everyone thought the band had peaked, the big­
Apple Corps. Records 
wig Sicilian pro­



ducer, in due course, had the whole band rocking dirty­
blonde perms. 
Maybe a little over-the-top, perhaps a bit too retro, but believe it -the gleaming, coiled 'dos are heartrending in concert, as those 23 high­schoolers lucky enough to witness the Blouse Puppies last week in the basement of a Motel 6 in Minster, Ohio can confirm. 
The title track opens with Yanek ululat­ing like a Moroccan widower, accompanied by Bones' novel harmonics and Driftwood's sonorous rumble, questioning the existence not of God, but of bad easy-listening. Many of the songs, such as "Prince Albert's 
Revenge" and "But It Ain't Grey Poupon," have a bouncy bass line firmly undergirding the minor-chord melodies. The album ends with "The Rack," a tribute to Janet Reno and her contributions not only to the country, but to country music. 
An avant-garde confluence of' country (Appalachian, not Nashville), free jazz, Brazilian tropicalia, klezmer and of course, classic rock, their influences range from Ornette Coleman to Bob Dylan to John Tesh. Vicious parody? Maybe. Genius? Undoubtedly. 
The lyrics' content span a variety of top­ics, including Yanek's Icelandic boyhood, the pitfalls of sobriety, Dadaism and whale liberation. It is difficult to say where the irony ends and the earnestness begins, so cagily Byzantine is Yanck's verse. What is easy to say, on the other hand, is that no one would have predicted it would take a mixture of sqinn flutes and golden perms to upend the Lester Bangs Weltanschauung and finally have a shot at redeeming a music world in decline. 
Contact BJ Strew at strew. l@nd.edu 


The Ficticious Account ofApril Fool's Day News aiNotre Danie and Saint Mary's 
Bush ousts ND Administration 
resolution Thursday that declared the con­junior Hoe Jettler said. "Now we can drink Monday morning. 
. President declares du 
tents of du Lac. the University handbook. on campus and visit girls' dorms after Miraculously. there were no injuriesLac 'oppressive, harsh' illegal. midnight! In my book, that's 'Touchdown reported, NDSP spokesperson Iman E. "We reviewed the rules in du Lac, and Browns!"' Diot said, primarily because the entire found that the restrictions the administra­Members of the College Democrats have force was occupied with "a disturbance
By KEITH MYATH 
tion has imposed on the loudly voiced their involving multiple illegally-parked cars in
Beauty School Dropout 
students are excessively opposition to the presi­the D2 North parking lot."
"I tried banning him from 

oppressive and harsh," dent. However, multiple student witnesses 
President George W. Bush forcefully 
Bush said. campus, but that didn't "Yourcan's rules place members of the campus police force 
removed University Vice President father 
The resolution was sucked, but at least he's outside Finnegan's at the time of the
really work so well.

Park Yourcnn from his perch atop the 
passed unanimously not from Texas," said explosion.
Office of Sludent Affairs Monday in an Lettuce, onions, tomato?"
after Bush did away with Aaron VanRutf, a mem­"They were carrying directories and 
effort the White llouse has dubbed 
the Campus Ufc Council, ber of th College checking !D's," senior Ami llott-Noway
Operation Uvcr Freedom. 
the Student Senate, and Democrats. said. "It was a really intimidating situation 
Father Park Yourcan

"When (National Security Advisor) 
all other lawmaking When reached for until they got back on their bikes and rode
sa_ndwich artist

Condoleezza Hice told me about the 
bodies within the comment early Friday to campus." 
changes to the alcohol policy at her alma 
University. evening, Notre Dame Upon securing the Dome, Bush celebrat­
maWr, I realized Yourcan had gone too 
"I don't like bodies that vote," the presi­Security/Police called the takeover "a huge ed his military victory with a trip to Meijcr.
far." Bush said, then continued to polished 
dent said. "Did anyone ever consider mov­mistake which will have serious repercus­The president was last seen screaming.
his pewter flask engraved with the phrase, 
ing the Goldent Dome to Florida? I'll call sions for the University, the entire Notre ''yahoo" while riding the penny pony. 
"No One is the Boss of Me." 
Jeb." Dame community and surrounding areas." 
"i\mericans have a right to booze," he 
The president's presence on. campus In a related story. the charred remains 
addnd. 
was met with mixed reaction by the of the Security building are being tested 
Bush. whose past is full of his own mis­Contact Keith Myath at 
administration and students. for bomb-making materials after a myste­
takes with alcohol, passed a unanimous yourmom@college.edu
"It's awesome to have 'W' around," rious explosion leveled the facility early 
Econ votes to divide Socially Awkward, Poor Dressers 
~ 
lack of social skills, will like­but many industry insiders
By A. R. REJECT 
ly head the Department of have hinted that having a
Seriously, l Can'c Gee Hired Anywhere 
Socially Awkward. He and separate department for fellow professors are p]an­Poor Dressers will likely
In a move likely to send n in g a fall symposium, double demand for function­
shock waves through the "S.taring, Conversatio·nal al, multicolored, striped
academic community, the 
Distance, and Personal burlap outerwear. 
Department of Economics 
Space: How to Totally Freak Too dull and unattractive 
has formally announced its Out People When You Talk to hang out with the popularsplil into two departments: 
To Them." majors in the Mendoza tlrn Department of the The Poor Dressers were College of Business, the 
Socially Awkward and the 
equally elated when news of Department of Economics Department of Poor 
the split was announced. has long been relegated to Dressers. 
"I pinch-rolled my tightest the College of Arts and 
"The D!ipartment was in 
acid-washed jeans when I Letters, though many hopechaos," said departmen~ 
heard the news." said Students are largely
head Dieter Kowlaszewski. 
Andrew Teasdale, a Poor unaware that the Economics 
"llow can you effectively 
Dresser. "Finally -a place was even offered as a major
Leach a made-up subject 
for serious scholarship. effi­at Notre Dame. 
with Socially Awkward pro­
cient decision-making, and "We look out on this cam­
fessors sharing offices with 
God-willing, monocDlor pus and see a gold mine of 

the Poor Dressers." 
walking sneakers as far as socially awkward bad 
Dieter Kowlaszewskl (left) and Andrew Teasdale {right) are expected
Kowlaszewki, known the eye can see." dressers," said department
widely in the Economics to head the Department of Socially Awkward and the Department of
Calls to the Ugly Sweater 
world for his total and utter Poor Dressers, respectively.
Factory were not returned, 
see WHO CARES?/page 6 


Peace groups hold pro-war protesters hostage in tunnels 
McDougal said. 
. Pro-peace groups attempt 
The senior then traced the trail of chalkdustto muzzle pro-war voice on and began to see that students had been tied up. campus Freshman Shaun Richards, the mastermind 
behind the kidnapping, was arrested Monday along with eight others. Richards, known for his
By JONAH BIRKENSTOCK 
refusal to wear any foot covering but flipflops,
Offaml Campus Libml 
was dragged out of bed at 6 a.m. from his Knott Hall room by a group from the Indiana State
Five thousand pro-war protesters were found · Excise Police. 
in the underground tunnels of 
"Richards was initiallv unco­

the Notre Dame campus during 
operative, yelling, 'How ~an you

Lhe Class of 2003's tour of the 'The pro-war voice on 
arrest me for breaking the law 

passageways. 
campus was really when three of you cops are
In an effort to rid the campus 
getting too vocal. They breaking du Lac by being
of promoters of the war in Iraq, 
women in a niale dorm?"' said

several peace groups on cam­had to be stopped" 
Officer Sara Romero. 

pus collaborated in order to 
Since the arrest of Richards,

squolch the voice of campus 
Shaun Richards the pro-war voice has been
hawks. 
more vocal on campus, calling

The protesters were discov­kidnapping mastennind 
for the nation to unite in a time

er~d by senior Katie McDougal of military conflict.
heard noises and went to inves­"Now, I can truly say that I know what it feels tigate. 
like to suffer for my country," said Nick Benny,
"I smelled chalk. I recognized the sceut 
one of the rescued pro-war students. "I love the
because I used to eat chalk in kindergarten," 
U.S.A." 


---------------------------------------------------------, 
Tuesday, April l, 2003

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Jigga what? 
As if anyone really cared what Observer staffers thought about life. 

Ronald McDonald 
Master ofthe Universe 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact no one reads this at no one reads this. com 
CORRECTIONS 

Yesterday's photograph of Saint Mary's Vice President of student affairs Linda Timm was mislabeled as Snoop Dog. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­cion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can 
correct our error. 

WHAT'S INSIDE 
; 

CAMPUS WORLD& BUSINESS VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTSNEWS NATlON NEWS 
Fan attends government 
NoneStudentThe LibraryStudent Bush chooses womensresponds tosuffers finan­"Bombs over 
Due to the fact 
rowing eventnew alcoholcial distressannouces new Baghdad" as 

that Notre Dame 
policywhen football new nationalanti-gossip 

has no campus scene, the Scene 
In an unexpected
team travelspolicy anthem 

turn of events, asection of The

"I need a beer." 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Intcrhall greased pig catching 12 p.m. North Quad 

. 
Pole dancing lessons 7 p.m. at the Hock 

. 
Lecture with lloward Stern 4 p.m. at anywhere but Notre Dame 


WHAT'S HAPPENING@ SMC 
. 
Multicultural board celebrates the history of Irish Jehova's Witnesses in information technology business 2 p.m. at LcMans llall 

. 
Dining Hall hosts "Children's Birthday Party" night 


4:30 p.m. at Noble Family Dining Hall 
fan attended a womens rowing meet. When asked about it, the coach said, "We didn't know we had fans." 

Absurder is empty. 
page 18
page 11

page 10 
WHAT's GOING DOWN 
Sulky finishes service hours post bust 
University administrator Father Sulky completed his service hour following being busted for drink­ing hard alchohol in a Notre Dame dorm. 
Employee hits stuff 
An employee of the Lafortune Subway was reported to campus security after hitting the soda machine after a customer insulted Subway spokesman Jared Fogel. · 
Visitor reports missing bike 
A prospective student visiting the univeristy for the first time reported his bicycle missing from outside South Dining Hall. Notre Dame Security 
. Police reported not caring. 
Football team reports finding bike 
No other information provided. 
2 men disrupt class 
Two unidentified male students entered room 201 DeBartolo five minutes late. The teaching assistant, who was attempting to conduct a lecture 
-on the importance of being international, reported the two men to police for throwing him off his lec­ture due to their lack of clothing. 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
President Lippy Pushup told Senate Tuesday she was frickin' tired of people saying they saw her at Boat Club. 
page 3 
U.S President George W. Bush decided to boost the morale of troops in Iraq by choosing a popular song as the American national anthem. 
page 4 
The local bar, The Library, only made $15 off of under­agers drinking on Thursday when the football team was away. 
page 5 


Qualifications: Don't draw ljke this. 

• 
AJHE
J-\tiSURDER 

POINTLESS 
Tuesday, April I, 2003 page 3 
How tO ·Lose a Guy in 10 seconds 
LETTERS TO THAT COLUMNIST WHO ONLY WRITES ABOUT ABORTION, HOMOSEXUALS AND BOXING 
Priest attempts new recruitment technique, Jo sho mos·def 
Yo yo. I be wrizziting to you today. da dudes of da Skoo, to tell you to check yo selfs. It be time to dizvote your life to God. This is an invitation to the priesthood at Old College here at Notre Dame. Er, Holla atcha. 
Fo shizzle. It's the rizzle dizzle, baby bizzle. Git on up in herrc. Chill over in OC with the true OG, his son Jesu Chrizzle and Holy G to the hizzle o-s-to the tizzle. Don't be wastin' time makin' Benjamins for some whack trick just trying to get hers. llnw they gonna act like your neck don't bling when you rockin' the big T. Pimpin' wit' threads better than some beat Wes Unsel. hoes be ravin' when you savin' dem from shizzle. You want old school? Throw back 2K, when it was 3 A.D. Droppin' grace givin' bombs every Sunday, you ,be getting more lovin' that P-Diddy. And you won't get shot for it. Ain't nobody gonna be gunnin' down no priest, 'cause dey roll tight in the Big Man's posse. You his peoples. He gots yo' back, yo. I be speakin' the truth. So go out, pick up the Bible bizzle, pray under the crucifizzle and get yo self over to the OC. Big ups to Teddy Hes. True dat. 
Funk Mollizzle Da man wir da hook-up at da Dome 
Without parietals, students would be damned to Hell 
I am writing in response to the University's recent decision to move pari­etals from 10 am to· 9 am. As a practicing Catholic, I am outraged! 
How can a university tiilat claims to be built upon Catholic teachings allow such sin-breeding habits amongst its students? For those of you who are so naYve as to think that young men and women who are in college can control themselves, let me enlighten you as to what happens in a dormitory room between two young peo­ple. But, if there are children around, please stop them from reading this. 
As soon as men and women are allowed to spend private time alone, they begin to fraternize, they form friendships, And then, one morning -at 9 a.m. -they begin holding hands, and we know where that leads them -right to Hell. 
There is nothing natural about men and women spending time together when they cannot be chaperoned by a parent or a clergyman. You need someone with the high moral standards of the priesthood to oversee these youngsters. 

In addition, it is a well documented fact that young people who spend time togeth­er in college before marriage are more likely to get divorced. 
Therefore, as a concerned member of this university (and, I might mention, someone who will only give money for a new building specifically for the funda­mental study of the Bible) I propose new visitation hours from 12:15 p.m. until 12:22. 
Any God-fearing institution should be concerned, first and foremost, with the souls of its students, and those long min­utes may even be too much, but I do understand times are changing so I can make a small allowance. 
To the administrators at the University of Notre Dame -hold your ground and save your students souls! 
Sister Perpetua Chastity 
Rectre9S of all things good and holy 

It's the moment every girl dreams of. You're 11lling up your solo cup with the finest beer $40 can buy and you look across the room and see the man of your dreams. You lock 
cyos and he walks toward you, tells you he's pre-med and the starting forward on the Notre Dame bas­ketball team. Ilc's tall. dark and handsome -and 


he decides instant-Scarlett O'Hara ly that you're the one. Then, reality sets StaffSocialite 
in. You realize that no, this guy is not pre-med, on the basketball team or 
even good looking. lle's a pasty, sc111inty-cyed sophomore who foll out of the ugly tree and hit every single branch on the way down. lle's shaped like the keg you're currently pump­ing, which is fitting because he has about half of the keg's content's run­ning through his blood stream. 
J\s he sloppily puts his arm around you and drools a little while he's tr.lling you that you fell from heaven, you're lel'l wondering: What's a girl to do? 
What f'ollows are the six surefire ways to lose a guy, not in 10 days, but in a mere 10 seconds. Read on. 
1. 
Just walk away. Quickly, quietly and preferably to another party. 

2. 
Tell him about his connection to the previously mentioned ugly tree. Make sure you include the part about the branches. 


3. Find the closest better­
looking guy 
and begin to 
make out with 
him. This will 
divert the for­mer guy's attention to a) anothe·r girl b) the keg or c) the fact that there is drool running down his face. 
4. 
Mention, a la Janie Bueller, your scorching case of her­pes. 

5. 
Tell him you love him and that you think he's the one. There's no better way to get a guy to 


run like he's training for the 100 meter dash than uttering these three little words of weaponry. 
6. If things turn des­perate and you just can't seem to get the kid off of you, take your newly filled solo cup and throw the golden 
liquid in his face. No words necessary here. 
If using just one of these tactics doesn't get the guy to· leave you alone, it's per­fectly accept­able to use two 
or even three of them in any combination that 
fits the situation. In doing so. the guy will be gone in 10 seconds flat and 
you can get back to the party. · Guaranteed. 
• 
We know this is a black box. 

This is also a DAILY publication. 
TODAY'S STAFF HoTORN0T.COM/ABSURDER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
A.H. Reject Little McV 
What is your number one
Krizonk-dawg Scarlett O'Hara 
news source? 

"Your mom is hot. ;,
Nagger Bringin' da 
K Mac Payne 

Bridget O'Flannagan sophomore 
Swltn-Velt0. 
*Poll 1s based on the responses of four Dillon Hall residents. 

PORTS 
Tuesday, April 1, 2003 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belle ballers win championship 
The best-ranked Midwestern Liberal Arts All-female Institution Located Along Rt. 31 defeats field trip-depletedAlbion Middle School squad 
By FAT HOSER 
Sports Idiot 
MIDDLE OF NOWHERE, Mich. 

Using a combination of strong defense, pinpoint shooting accuracy, and a game-long 5-on-3 advantage, the Saint Mary's basketball team defeated Albion Middle School Saturday, 8-7, to win the NCAA championship. • 
"Despite our inability to score many points, I was still very pleased with the team's performance today," head coach Susan Blahblah said. 
The Belles took advantage of an Albion squad depleted due to a class trip to the MIM Hall of Fame, locat­ed in some guy's garage in western Michigan. 
In addition, two players who were able to make the journey to the game for Albion were not at 100 

IRISH GUARD REPLACED 
percent, according to Albion head coach Petey "Coach P" Przyzkowski. 
"Je011y [Juralewicz] had the snif­fles and Annie [Adelson] had a boo­boo," Przyzkowski said. 
The game was a back-and-forth affair, V\-ith each team holding a one­point advantage for very long stretches of time. A free throw by Albion put the Belles behind 1-0 with 8:30 to go in the first half. 
However, the Belles exploded for two straight points on a layup by sophomore Katie Katie Bobatie­Bananafanafofatie, who averages 3.14159 points per game, to give the Belles a commanding 2-1 lead with under 2 minutes to go in the half 
"It was really hard to drive to the hoop today," Bobatie­Bananafanafofatie said. "Their three defenders just stood there with their arms in the air, and I couldn't see the basket. It was frustrating." 
Albion responded in the second half, scoring four unanswered points in a span of7:20 to pull ahead 5-2. 
"I started getting slightly con­cerned when they scored those four points," Blahblah said. "But I still was pleased with the way we were playing at that point." 
But the Belles responded, hitting an astonishing three straight shots, including two by junior forward Katie McKatie, to put the game away for the Belles. . 
"l was impressed with Katie's per­formance this afternoon," Blahblah said. "I don't know if we could have made it this far without Katie's hard work and dedication to the team." 
A school-record two Belles fans camped out for tickets to the game One of those fans was Katie's mom. 
Don't even bother contacting Fat Boser. 

MENS BASKETBALL 
Crowd shocked as Chris passes ball 

By AMANDA HUGANDKISS Token Female 
In a rare offensive display Monday, Notre Dame guard Tom Chris passed the ball to a team­mate during the Notre Dame game against Morehead State, astonishing all onlookers in atten­dance at the Joyce Center. 
"All of a sudden, I stopped look­ing at the ball and saw that Man 
[Diller] was wide open on the wing." Chris said. 
Chris' pass to Diller led to a 3-pointer which gave the Irish a 97-22 lead. 
The  assist  
was  Chris'  
first  of  his  

career 

see what I think I saw?' and he was like·, 'Yep,"' sophomore Mike Bwertywertywerty said. 
The purported pass came after the Irish had dominated Morehead State for the first 39 minutes and 41 seconds of the game. 
"I knew that even if l made a bad pass, we would be alright, · since we were already ahead by so much," Chris said. "So I decid­ed to let go and see what hap­
pened." 

T h e
"I turned to the guy 
Absurder
standing next to me and I intended to 
asked him, 'Did I see present photo­graphic evi­
what I think I saw?' and 
dence of this
he was like, Tep. ,,, infrequent occurrence, however the
Mike Bwertywertywerty 
event took
shocked onlooker 
IN BRIEF 
Fencing? 
An Irish team finally won a national championship. Unfortunately . students were unaware that Notre Dame had a fencing team, or worse. 
"What is fencing?" one stu­dent asked upon hearing the news. 
Wllllngham sainted 
After returning the Notre Dame football team to some­
thign better than a national joke. rris h coach Tyrone Willingham was sainted on Thursday. 
The pope, a long-time Irish fan despite his polish heritage, was just as grateful as the rest of Notre Dame fans and knew it must have been a miracle to make the team that played under Bob Davie not only win, but beat Michigan State. 
God status was considered, but rejected after the loss to Boston College. 
Yatar supsended 
The very verbal captain of the Notre Dame womens basketball team, Moesha Yatar, was sus­pended from play after giving a reporter a usable quote follow­ing her team's latest game. The vocal leader was reprimanded for her brashness. 

junior high, high school and col­lege combined. 
"I was as surprised as anyone else th.at I got the ball after Tom took it down the lane," Diller said. 
Meanwhile, fans in attendance resorted to gasps and pointed fin­gers to confirm the pass. 
"I turned to the guy standing next to me and asked him. 'Did I place too sud­denly for our photographer 
to capture the moment. 

"I had already aimed my lens at the basket, since every other time [Chris] made that move, he let off an ugly shot," Absurder photographer Jim Markac said. 
The Absurder apologizes for the mistake. 
see STORY/page# 

VOU.EYBALL 

HOCKEY 
SMC VOU.EYBAU 
HOOKING UP

SMC FOOTBALL 
oummrcn 
Irish give up 

Notre Dame 23 
LeMans 999
Hope 219 

Saint Mary's 42 
Notre Dame 90 
clothes for Lent, 

Michigan 10 
Samt Mary's 4 

Calvin 17 
Slytherin 30 
Cavanaugh 3 
sell out JACC 
"Those damn uni­

The Irish played the 
"I was pleased with 

Katie O'Katie scored a
With the win, the Irish 
Quarterback Ka tfe 
forms were just confin­

entire third period with 
our team's performance 

Katieson throws for 
claim the-Gryffindor 
record 36 hookups for 
ing our freedom," said a 

a monkey in goal. It 
tonight," said coach 

the LeMans team last
four touchdowns. 
Cup title from the 
senior setter. 

made 12 saves. 
Julie Two-Lastnames. 
weekend.

Cardinal. 
page 69 

page 1234 
page 0
last Tuesday 

page . 51 
page-34 
THE 
OBSERVER 


,. 
Tuesday, April l, 2003 page 11 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Guster blows away the Windy City 
By RYAN RAFFERTY 
Scene Music Critic 
Guster stumbled onto the music scene in 1994 when members Ryan Miller, Adam Gardner and Brian Rosenworcel met ut Tufts University and recorded their first album. Parachute. Over the next several years Guster became increasingly popular through relentless touring. Then in late 2001 they "entered a cave," as percussionist Brian Hos,mworcel said in a recent interview witl1 Tho Observer. 
When they emerged earlier this year they 


the night came during the encore, howev­er, when percussionist Rosenworcel stepped out front to sing Simon and Garfunkel's "Bridge Over Troubled Water." 
The rest of the concert was filled with Guster clas­
now." When asked about his departure from playing drums with his hands, Rosenworcel said, 'Tm getting old. It's kinda like how I used to be able to dunk, but now I can barely do a lay-up. I enjoy playing with my hands, but it's a 
brought with them a "Notre Dame was our Saturday, and the brand new album and a band was joined by
biggest surprise. We 
surprise spring tour guest guitarist Joe
didn't expect such a
before the album's Pisapia. Miller's bass rdcasc in June. Always great crowd there. " is very melodic and known for their fun and carries the melody in exciting live shows, several new songs
Brian Rosenworcel
Guster did not disap­like "Homecoming
drummer

point Saturday night at King" and 
bongos to play five songs on the drum kit. One in particular, "Mona Lisa," has always been played with congas before, but Hosenworcel's drum kit gave the old classic a fresher sound. Several other songs have been revamped to sound a little different. "I Spy," for instance, added a completely new outro Lhat was played so beautifully it sent chills up the audience's back. "Happier" also has an entirely new intro in which guitarists Ryan Miller and Adam Gardner's guitars sound like sitars. 
Rosenworcel isn't the only member of Guster to take up a new instrument. 
Miller played bass on 
several new songs 

the Hivicra Theater in Chicago. Playing to a sold-out crowd in a show that was recorded for a local radio station did not pbasc Guster at all -they still played th,iir hearts out. 
Guster took the stage after opening act Blue Merle's surprisingly outstanding performance and opened up with a revamped version of "I Spy" which dis­played their fresher sound perfectly. Commenting on the band's new sound, Rosenworcel said, "We're much more mature after recording the new album." The main change in Guster's sound is the switch Rosenworcel makes from playing a conga set with his hands, to playing a conventional drum kit with sticks. "I look forward to playing the drum kit live because it gives my hands a break. I real­ly look forward to playing the new songs live," Rosenworcel said. 
On Saturday night, Rosenworcel came out from behind his circle of congas and "Amsterdam." Adam 
Gardner also straved from his guitar when he played piano during a cover of Ben Fold's "Not the Same," that rivaled the actual version. 
Guster has always been known for doing different and outrageous things during their live shows, and Saturday night was no different. Other than the fact that the entire show was recorded for a special concert on a local Chicago radio station, nothing seemed out of the ordinary. 
That all changed when Miller invited the violin player from opening act Blue Merle on the stage to play a song. A screen then lowered from the ceiling as Miller read an e-mail from a fan wonder­ing if they could show the fabled video the band recorded on Navy Pier for their song "Window." 
Without hesitation, Guster began to play along with the 8-year-old video play­ing above them. The greatest surprise of "All the Way Up To Heaven," "Parachute" and "FaFa." Some of the best songs were a power­ful rendition of "Two Points For Honesty" and "Demons," in which the band sandwiched a cover of [ake's "Jolene." New songs like "Keep It Together," "Ramona" and "Homecoming King" were perfect additions to an already amazing concert. 

During his interview with The Observer, Rosenworcel talked about Guster's newest album, which will be released in June. Amidst talk about Virtua Tennis, Bonnie Raitt dreams and UPS drivers, he did find time to com­ment on the new sound of their album, Keep It Together. 
"It's definitely a departure for 
Photo courtesy of rollingstone.com 

us," he said. "We've changed
Years of relentless touring have provided Guster with a devoted fan base, which was 
formats. We're much more
obvious by the sold-out crowd for their show Saturday at Chicago's Riviera Theater. 
interested in the musical side 
From left, Ryan MIiier, Brian Rosenworcel and Adam Gardner. 
sics like "Airport Song," in nice break to play
"[On our new album]
which Rosenworcel played with sticks. I've an amazing conga we've changed formats ... into a wall with so 
solo while strobe  We're much more  many songs, it's  
lights flashed behind him. The band never  interested in the music side now."  refreshing to play the new songs on drum kit."  
missed  a  step  Rosenworcel still  
playing crowd favorites like "Barrel of a Gun,"  Brian Rosenworcel drummer  remembered their concert at Notre Dame in the fall of  

2000. "Notre 

Dame was our biggest surprise," he said of the show, when the band played at the Stepan Center. "We didn't expect such a great crowd there. That was a great show, I mean playing inside a golf ball is always exciting." 
Guster's show in Chicago on Saturday was lilied with surprises and the crowd was very energetic. The show was lilied with some of Custer's most well-known and accessible songs but with a slightly fresher sound. Every song Guster played Saturday night was filled with energy and the crowd sang along all night. The addi­tion of the new songs gave fans the opportunity to hear the slightly newer sound of Guster. 
Let's just hope they decide to make another stop at the big golf ball in the near future. 
Contact Ryan Rafferty at rafferty.3@nd.edu 
Tuesday, April I, 2003

page 12 The Oburver . SPORTS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Cubs slaughter Mets 15-2 in season opener 
Expos 10, Braves 2 succession Monday. and the
• Glavine booed 
Baseball's road warriors start­Pittsburgh Pirates ruined theoff the mound in ed with a win, appropriately, on Reds' first game at Great his 1st Mets game the road. American Ball Park with a victo­
The Montreal Expos sent Greg ry. 
Maddux to his lirst opening-day Ken Griffey Jr. got the lirst hit, Associaccd Press loss. behind Jeff Liefer's four a double that inspired hopes of a RBIs and Orlando Cabrera's two­shining new era in the long­NEWYORK run double. awaited park. Every other 
The thrill of the Tom Glavine Tony Armas Jr., in his first moment belonged to the Pirates. era lasted all of one pitch for opening-day start, allowed one The crowd of 42,343 waved Mets fans. After that, Corey runs and five hits in six innings flags during a patriotic pregame Patterson and the Chicago Cubs to get the win for the vagabond program. then bundled together flattened them. Expos. on a 53-degree afternoon and 
Glavine started the season Montreal, owned by the other watched the NL's worst offense with a called strike, then com­29 franchises. will play 22 of its · last season have its way with the pletely fell apart. Booed off the "home" games in San Juan, Cincinnati pitching staff. mound in the fourth inning, he Puerto Rico, in an effort to Sanders, a member of the was long gone by the time increase revenue. The Expos will Reds' 1995 playoff team, hit a Patterson finished with two play just 59 times at Olympic two-run homer off Jimmy home runs and seven RBIs in a Stadium in what could be their Haynes that started a second­15-2 romp over the embarrassed final season in Montreal. inning rally. Haynes walked New Yorkers. Maddux, 6-0 with a 1.66 ERA counterpart Kris Benson before 
Sammy Sosa stayed stuck at in seven previous opening-day giving up a three-homer homer 500 career home runs, hitting an starts, gave up four runs in the to Lofton, followed by Kendall's RBI single and drawing three first inning. The four-time NL Cy shut five pitches later. walks before leaving early. Young Award winner lasted By then, the park was filled Everything else went right for seven innings, giving up five with catcalls and the home team the Cubs in their highest-scoring runs -four earned -and nine was headed for its third straight opener since 1884. hits. loss in the new place. The Reds 
New manager Dusty Baker Atlanta, seeking its 12th have been outscored 19-3 while saw ace Kerry Wood win with straight division title, will losing two exhibitions to five effective innings on a cold, depend heavily on Maddux fol­Cleveland and the regular-sea­blustery afternoon and watched lowing the departure of Tom son opener. Juan Cruz tie a team record by Glavine, who signed with the Benson gave up three hits and striking out six straight batters New York Mets, and injuries that three walks in 6 1/3 innings to in relief. put Mike Hampton and Paul win his first opening-day start. 
For new Mets manager Art Byrd on the disabled list. Pokey Reese's error at second Howe, his debut was an utter A crowd of 40,248, about helped the Reds load the bases disaster. Glavine struggled, and 10,000 short of capacity, was at in the third, and Benson walked New York's defense -which led Turner Field on a sunny, chilly Austin Kearns to force in the majors in errors last year in afternoon. The gametime tem­Cincinnati's lone run 
Al Wire

a last-place finish -looked even perature was 50, with a 10-15 unearned, at that. 
Chicago Cub Corey Patterson slams a home run In the Cub's
worse. Mets pitchers walked 12 mph wind. Losing lopsided inaugural and gave up 16 hits. Country singer Jo Dee Messina games is becoming tradition in highest-scoring opener since 1884. 
The sold-out stands at sang the national anthem, and Cincinnati. The Reds also lost spruced-up Shea Stadium were many fans wore red-white-and­their first game at Riverfront run and three RBIs as the lenge, such a great pitcher, a half-full by the middle innings, blue clothing in a show of sup­Stadium in 1970, 8-2 to the Dodgers handed Johnson his Hall of Farner. You know you've with fans sitting through a port of American troops in the Atlanta Braves. Hank Aaron hit first opening-day loss, beating got to be ready for him all the gametime temperature of 39 Middle East. Four fighter jets the first homer in that one. the Arizona Diamondbacks. way." degrees with winds at 20 mph. staged a flyover before the The Reds made it to the World "You couldn't have scripted a Nomo, 14-1 in his last 26 starts Yet that didn't stop the bundled­game. Series in their first year at the better opening day for us," said last season, struck out seven and up crowd from jeering when the Armas was 0-4 against Atlanta old place before losing to the Dodgers' Paul Lo Duca, who walked one in his eighth career Mets couldn't even throw the last year and had lost six Baltimore. With their current had a two-run single against shutout, his first since 2001. ball around the infield without a straight decisions to the Braves rotation, the Reds seem to have Johnson in the seventh inning. "I made a couple of bad pitch­mistake. since Sept. 22, 2000, dropping little chance of repeating that "We played very, very well. We es, but I don't think the story is 
By the late innings, it had his record against them to 4-6. feat. got great pitching, timely hitting. on this side of the field," Johnson become a nonstop boo-fest. The Montreal, which won its third Haynes gave up six runs and We played great defense. If we said. "I think it's over on the lone break came when fans straight opener, was without its three homers in four innings. can just repeat that the next 161 other side. Hideo Nomo pitched chanted "Lenny! Lenny!" as for­top hitter, Vladimir Guerrero. He Fans grabbed their miniature games, we'll be fine." extremely well. He's pitched well mer Mets pinch-hitter came to was suspended for the first two American flags, grumbled one He was joking a little with that against us in the past, so that bat for the Cubs. games for his involvement in a last time and headed for the last line. but there's no doubt the shouldn't come as any surprise. 
Overall, the Mets set a team March 10 spring-training brawl, exits when Barry Larkin ground­Dodgers, injury-free at last, are He picked up where he left off at record for runs allowed in an but the Expos didn't need him ed into a double play that ended loaded with confidence. the end of last year." opener. Not a good omen for and outhit the Braves 14-11. the Reds' seventh. "For the first time in the past Jordan, 20 pounds slimmer them, considering they started Endy Chavez opened with a three seasons, we're starting out than last year and coming off the afternoon with the best win­triple and scored on a sacrifice Dodgers 8, Diamondbacks 0 with a full deck," manager Jim knee surgery, had a two-out RBI ning percentage on opening day fly by Jose Hideo Nomo and Brian Jordan Tracy said. "We have all our single off Johnson in the first -.634 -in major league histo­picked up where they left off last pieces in place." inning, and a two-out, two-run ry. Pirates 10, Reds 1 September. and Los Angeles Jordan improved his career homer on his first pitch from the 
Wood was the only Cubs play­They forgot to build a home­beat Randy Johnson. average against Johnson to .333. Big Unit in the sixth. er in short sleeves. He didn't field advantage into the The Dodgers could not have "He's one of those guys you get "He led me off with another want any reminders that it was a Cincinnati Reds' new ballpark. hoped for a better opener. up for," said Jordan, who hit slider, which he did the previous tough day to pitch, as hot-dog Reggie Sanders, Kenny Lofton Nomo pitched a four-hitter and .347 with 30 RBIs last two at bats," Jordan said, "so I wrappers kept blowing past him. and Jason Kendall homered in Jordan went 2-for-3 with a home September. "He's such a chal-was looking for it." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ac the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid.
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR-WELL MAIN­TAINE . HOUSES NEAR CAM­PUS· STUDENT NEIGHBOR· HOODS· SECURITY SYSTEMS· MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL­WASHERS/DRYERS CALL TODAY-HOUSES GOING FAST!!! -CONTACT KRAMER (547) 315­5032 OR (574) 234-2436 -ALSO LEASING FOR 2004-2005 VISIT OUR WEBSITES @ DOMUSKRAMER.COM 
STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE 3-4 OR 5 PERSON 2 STORY. 8 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW EVERYTHING. WIRED FOR COM• PUTERS ECT. AVAIL. SUMMER OR FALL 235-3655 
FOR SALE 

Ranch home, 3 bdrm. 1 5 bath. fire­place, full bsmt, 2 car att garage, fenced yard, 1 mile from ND. 288-2001 
Two speakers, 18 inch Bass Vins for P.A. $75. 631-5195 Laptop Computer $250, Dell Computer (with man, kb, mouse, Win98) $150. 229-3333 
FOR RENT 
HOUSE AVAILABLE furn. 4b2ba, walk to campus. jo5225@aol.com 
1-Bdrm apts 1f2 mile from ND. $500/mo. 283-0325 
Summer Sub-lease 1 bedroom apartment-fully furnished-cable t.v.­5 minutes from campus/good neigh­borhood. $350 a month. Call 229-1691 
Very nice 3 bdrm home. Avail. June 1st tor summer or fall. East Race dist.near Corbys Pub & St. Joe Church. Incl. alarm syst, washer/dryer. Can email picts. Call Joe Crimmins @ 273-0002(h)or 514-0643(cell)or JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com. $650/rn negotiable. 
3-4 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR RENT: CALL Anlan Properties, LLC 532-1896 
LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES· TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF ND 2773097 
2 Rms(l furn),Lg house.nice area. Spa. tanning bed 229-3333 
Summer sublease -2 bedroom Turtle Creek townhouse. Call (217)417-4223 
Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus. mmmrentals@aol.com 272­1525 www.mmmrentals.com 
PERSONAL 
Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE Are you pregnant and dent know what to do? Loving, open-hearted. finan­cially stable woman woulo like to consider adopting a baby. Free counseling, living expenses and medical expenses. This can be a good thing for you and your baby Discreet and legal. Call 904-824·7006. 
Don't get ridiculous! 
Ya like that Reds lead, Rob? ;) 
It's so rich! If it was an alcoholic substance it would send you into a drunken stupor! 
Sweatin' to the oldies! 

--7 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
Tuesday, April I, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 1.:; 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Royals beat Sox with first ever opening-day shutout 
Asso<;iued Preu 
KANSAS CITY Kansas City's youth movement got off to a solid start. 
Hunelvys Hernandez allowed two hil'> in six innings and rookie Angel Berroa drove in the go­ahnad run as the Royals beat the Chicago White Sox -Kansas City's first opening-day win in five years. 
Ilernandoz combined with two relievers on a three-hitter -and llm lirst opening-day shutout in Hoyals' history. 
Kansas City's rotation began the season with 21 major league wins. and Ilcrnandez beat out Jeremy Aifoldt in a coin Hip that determined who started the open­nr. 
llcrnaridm: struck out live and walked one, getting the win. .Jason Grimsley relieved to start the seventh. rookie Mike MacDoug,t! pitched thn ninth for his first career save. 
A sellout crowd of 40,302 was at Kuuffman Stadium, and the l!lmp<irature was 73 at gamctime. A stealth bomber flew over the stadium aflcr the national anthmn. 
Mark Buehrle, 19-12 last year, became the first left-hander to make consecutive opening-day starts for the White Sox since Wilbur Wood from 1972 to 1976. Buehrle gave up two runs and six hits in seven innings. 
Chicago, expected to contend for the AL Central title, opened on the road for the 13th consecutive season. 
Kansas City, coming olT a 62­100 season. went ahead in the second. Brandon Berger, given the st.art in right field because half his eight career homers have come off Buehrle, walked and took third on a double by rookie Ken Harvey. 
Berroa singled and Brent Mayne followed with an RBI dou­ble -with Berroa out at the plate on a strong relay throw from sec­ond baseman D'Angelo Jimenez. 
Mike Sweeney doubled in the eighth, took third on a passed ball and scornd on Tom Gordon's wild pitch. 
Three runners were thrown out at I.he plate, two of them Royals. Harvey was cut down in the sixth by third baseman Joe Crede, and Chicago's Frank Thomas was out in the seventh on a throw by third baseman Joe Randa. 
Twins 3, Tigers 1 
Dustan Mohr used to hate Comerica Park. Now, he loves it. 
Mohr hit a two-run homer over the ballpark's shortened left-field fence as the Minnesota Twins and Brad Radke shut down the Tigers in Alan Trammell's debut as Detroit's manager. 
"That's the fifth or sixth ball I've hit out there, and the first time I've gotten a homer out of it," Mohr said. "When I hit it, l thought it was going to happen again, so I just started running as fast as I could. I didn't slow down until I saw the umpire giving the signal." 
During spring training, Trammell said he would keep his first lineup card as a keepsake. 
lie changed his mind. 
'Tm going to keep it when we win," said the former star short­stop, who led the Tigers to the 1984 World Series and 1987 AL East titles. "I hope I forget about this one real quick." 
Radke got 19 consecutive outs after Gene Kingsale's leadoff bunt single. Radke got the win, striking out three and walking one over 6 2-3 innings in his fifth consecutive the AL Central last year. 

While the Twins went to the playoffs last year for the first time since 1991, losing to World Series champion Anaheim in the AL championship series, Detroit tied Tampa Bay fur the worst record in baseball at 55-106. The Tigers, who lost their third straight open­er, are baseball's losingest team over the past decade and haven't had a winning season since 1993. 
Maroth gave up two runs and five hits in seven innings with no walks and three strikeouts. 
A.J. Pierzynski homered off Jamie Walker in the eighth. 
Detroit scored in the seventh. With runners at first and second, Palmer beat a throw from third baseman Denny Hocking on a soft grounder, and Infante came around. Palmer's previous hit was on June 24, 2001, also against the Twins. He was limited to just 12 at-bats last season due to neck and shoulder injuries. 
J.C. Romero allowed one hit in 1 1/3 innings, and Eddie Guardado pitched a perfect ninth for the save, completing the four­hitter. 
Orioles 6, Indians 5 
It was a strange opening day at outs in the 13th inning, giving Baltimore a victory over the Cleveland Indians. 
Prior to the first pitch, a video tribute and a moment of silence were held for former Orioles pitcher Dave McNally, who died over the winter, and pitching prospect Steve Bechler, who died of heatstroke at spring training in February. 
Cleveland scored three runs in the third inning with the aid of a routine fly ball that got lost between the huge snowflakes that swirled around the stadium. 
After a 13-minute delay in which the snow gave way to sunny skies, Karim Garcia hit a sacrifice fly to make it 3-1. 
Hours later, with the bases loaded in the 13th, Matthews hit a liner off loser Jake Westbrook that soared over the head of Milton Bradley, who appeared to misjudge the ball. 
Winner B.J. Ryan worked the 13th for the Orioles, who trailed 4-1 in the sixth before coming back. 
Garcia, a former Oriole, added a solo homer in the sixth for the rebuilt Indians. who have a new manager, 35-year-old Eric Wedge, and only eight players 

opening-day start, his seventh Camden Yards, even before the remaining from the team that
Thinking ofa career in 

overall for Minnesota. Dean fly ball hit by Ellis Burks vanished started the 2002 season. 
Palmer chased Radke with a two­from view. But all turned out well Both teams scored one run in out RBI single. for the Orioles on a frigid after­the 12th. Omar Vizquel hit an RBI It was the third straight opening noon better suited for snowballs single for the Indians, and 
l1calthcare? 
Consider Physical Therapy. 

win for the Twins, who survived than fastballs. Baltimore tied it when Matthews Physical Therar1~ts work in a variety of 
baseball's attempt to fold them Gary Matthews Jr. singled hit a leadoff single and scored on after the 2001 season and won home the winning run with two a passed ball by Josh Bard. 
senmg which include hospitals, clinics. schools. worksite programs, sports medicine, women's hcailh, pediatrics and more. 
Consider tlie Doctor of 
Physical Therapy at VIC. The DPT at UIC offers an exciting new program 

NORTHWESTERN 
designed for state of the art practice in the 21" Cenntry. The program fearures: 

UNIVERSITY 
an accredited three year program to 

summer session 2003
prepare you for clinical practice 

advance 
your studies 
explore 
nevv interests 
•

experience 
summer at NU
nearly one year of clinical internship in the best Chicago area hospitals and clinics 
the academic program is closely 

REQUEST A CATALOG TODAY!
affiliated with the University of Illinois Hospital Physical Therapy 

REGISTRATION flEGU\IS APH.IL 14 
Dt:partment 

CLASSES BEGIN -..PUNE 23 
For prerequisite information and an application visit our web site at \\'\\'\\'.t11,· ::du nht2 rt and click on "Admissions.'' 

Or contact, Demetra John. Professional Program Admissions Coordinator. by e-mail at demerra@uic.edu 
UIC Lni\'m1ty ofllhnois Department of Physical Thuopy 


al Cluc~g.o 191\J \\'.Taylor• Chicago, IL 60611 
NORTI-IWESTERN
phone 312-996· 7765 

UNIVERSITY 
847.49'1.5250 wvvw.northwest:ern.edu/summernu 
page 14 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISET\1ENT Tuesday, April 1, 2003 
==================================== 

.' 
• ,1 • 

Nicholas Boyle, University of Cambridge 
Author of Goethe: the Poet and the Age, Vol. 1: The Poetry ofDesire (1749-1790) Vol. 2: Revolution and Renunciation (1790-1803) 
Co-Editor of Goethe and the English-Speaking World: Essays from the Cambridge Symposium for his 250th Anniversary 
Co-editor ofRealism in European Literature: Essays in Honour off P. Stern 
Author of Who Are I.Vt! Now?: Christian Humanism and the Global Market from Hegel to Heaney 
Winner of the Goethe Medal in 2000 Fellow of the British Academy 
The Third Annual Notre Dame Erasmus Lectures 
. ,, .• ·. l 
; •. -: ·• J .
. r..' 
~ ' . . : (,'·, 
... 


; .•,.. . : .·. . . . : ,. .... '•• 
•'•' 
.. . ·-.-·: ;·· ....··. ·-_ 
.... 
. . . ·.. --:.:. 
·. ,-·.. 




Sacred and Secular Scriptures: a catholic approach to literature 
Literature as Bible 

April 1, 2003  Sacred and Secular  
April 3, 2003  Wagers  
AprH 8, 2003  Faces*  
April 10, 2003  Rewards and Fairies  

Scheduled on consecutive Tuesdays and Thursdays, the lectures will begin at 4:00 p. m. and are expected to be two hours in length (with a refreshment break). They will be held in the auditorium ofthe Hesburgh Center for International Studies *exceptfor the April 8 lecture that will take place in Room C 103 ofthe Hesburgh Center far International Studies. 

Funding for the Erasmus Institute comes from the generosity of our donors, The Pew Charitable Trusts, the William J. Garey Endowment, and the University of Notre Dame. 
Tuesday, April 1, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
Georgetown University 2003 Summer Sessions 

Pre-Session: First Session: Second Session: 

May 19-June 13 June 2-July 3 July 7-August 8 
lf,f/jfjt Georgeto'1vn ~1:1iver~ity
!,i... School for Summer &Continuing Education
1':ri 

'\.~ website: www.georgetown.edu/ssce/summer 11 ~. • : 89 email: summer@georgetown.edu 
Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Institution 
Irish legend dies 
Speci.J to Tbc Observer 
Former Notre Dame football great George Connor -a two­time consensus All-American tackle and 1946 recipient of the Outland Trophy -died today at the age of 78. D.etails of his death, including memorial and funeral information, will be forthcoming. 
Connor enjoyed arguably the most combined success on the college and professional level of any player in Notre Dame's sto• ried history (he was a Hall of Fame inductee on both levels), after continuing as a two-way star and five-time all-NFL selec­tion with his hometown Chicago Bears. 
Notre Dame fans recently had the chance to pay tribute to Connor during the 2000 season opener versus Texas A&M. A spe­cial ceremony that day includ1id Connor being presented with an Outland Trophy ~mblematic of the nation's top interior lineman -in recognition of an award that he had received 54 years earlier. Permanent trophies were not presented to the Outland win­ners until 1989, with a series of trophy presentations to former winners then beginning in 1999. 
A 1963 inductee into the College Football Hall of Fame. Connor helped Notre Dame post undefeated national champi­onship seasons in 1946 (8-0-1) and 1947 (9-0-0), the start of a four-year span that many recog­nize as one of the most dominat­ing stretches in college football history. 



WHEN: TUESDAY APRIL 1ST (TODAY) TIME: 5:30 PM WHERE: ROOM 101 DBRT 
FOR ADDITIONAL BRACKET INFO AND TOURNEY RULES PLEASE VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT 
WWW.ND. EDU/,..., B KS TR. 

AROUND THE NATION 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, April 1, 2003
page 16 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
around the dial 
WOMENS NCAA TOURNAMENT Connecticut vs. Purdue 7 p.m., ESPN LSU vs. Texas 9 p.m., ESPN 
NIT SEMIFINALS 
Minnesota vs. Georgetown 7 p.m., ESPN2 Texas Tech vs. St. John's 9:30 p. m. ESPN2 

Associated Press 
Former President George Bush threw the ceremonial first pitch -a strike that left him delighted as the Cincinnati Reds dedicated their new ballpark to a patriotic theme. 
The Reds invited current President Bush to open Great American Ball Park, but he declined without explanation, allowing his father to fill in. 
The pregame cere­monies were wrapped in a patriotic theme. Reds owner Carl Lindner began by paying tribute to U.S. troops in the Persian Gulf, and fans waved 6-by-9­inch flags placed on each of the 42,263 seats. 
A trainer from the Cincinnati Zoo brought a bald Eagle onto the field before Daniel Rodriguez ­the "Singing Policeman" from New York City ­sang "The Star-Spangled Banner." Dozens of red­white-and-blue streamers were shot from the roof and swirled in the wind as the crowd chanted "U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A!" 
Two transport planes from an Ohio military base flew overhead before for­jacket to throw the cere­monial first pitch. 
mer  President  Bush  
walked  onto  the  field  
wearing  a  black  Reds  

Bush, a left-handed first baseman at Yale, stood on the grass in front of the mound and threw a strike to Reds shortstop Barry Larkin, crouched behind the plate. Bush waved his arms in delight at the on­target throw as the crowd roared. 
Bush then walked to a microphone behind home plate and told the crowd that it was an honor "to be off the· bench substituting for another guy you know, the president of the United States of America." 
As vice president, Bush threw a ceremonial pitch before the All-Star game at Riverfront Stadium in Cincinnati in 1988. He planned to throw a pitch before Game 2 of the 1990 World Series in Cincinnati, when troops were prepar­ing for the first Gulf War, but backed out and was replaced by first lady Barbara Bush. 
The ballpark mood quickly changed when Reggie Sanders, Kenny Lofton and Jason Kendall all homered for Pittsburgh in the second inning, putting the Pirates up 6-0. 
Cincinnati's Ken Griffey Jr. got the first hit in the ballpark, a first-inning double. 
IN BRIEF 
Monfort new Rockies owner 
Charles Monfort became chairman and chief executive officer of the Colorado Rockies on Monday, replac­ing Jerry McMorris as the team's controlling owner. 
Monfort, 42, served as its vice chairman since 1992, a year before the team started play. McMorris becomes vice chairman and remains as one of the managing general part­ners along with Charles and Dick Monfort, who are brothers. 
"I admire the work that has been accomplished in our first decade as a franchise and look forward to taking on the numerous challenges and responsibilities in which Jerry has served so effectively and with such diligence," Charles Monfort said. 
The Monforts and McMorris acquired control of the Hockies on Sept. 2, 1992. McMorris became the club's chairman, CEO and president in 1993, but was replaced as presi­dent by Keli McGregor in October 2001. 
No minor league baseball 
stadium in Evansville 
The mayor of Evansville, Ind. dropped plans for a downtown minor­league baseball stadium, saying he was worried about possible cost over­runs and funding difficulties. 
Mayor Russell Lloyd Jr. decided that the 6,000-seat stadium could not be built for the budgeted $25.5 million and said he did not want to use property tax money to make up the difference. 
The plan, however, had attracted much public opposition, and state legislators have taken no action on an effort to finance half the stadi­um's cost with a new tax on rental cars in Vanderburgh County. 
Lloyd said he could not justify mov­ing ahead with the stadium project with the budget restrictions on the city and the Evansville-Vanderburgh School Corp. seeking a special tax increase. 
"As a community, we have these and other important priorities to address," he said. "At this time, a downtown baseball stadium is not one of them. The project is dead." 
Evansville native Don Mattingly and Cal Ripken Jr. announced in January that they would be part of an ownership group that expected to move a Class A minor-league team from Albany, Ga.. into the stadium in 2004. Williams says she needs to get it shape 
Now that Serena Williams is off to a 17-0 start this year, she has decid­ed to buckle down and shape up. 
A victory over Jennifer Capriati in the final of the Nasdaq-100 Open made it three titles in as many tour­naments this year for Williams. She wore down Capriati in a two-hour slugf'cst. 
"I haven't been to the gym in about four weeks," Williams con­fessed with a sheepish laugh. "l think my trainer's upset about that. And I had a Snickers the other day." don't know how I stay so fit." 
Tuesday, April 1, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NCAA WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Pregnancy doesn't stop Curry from coaching 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 

Purdue coach Kristy Curry sometimes feels nauseous watching the Boilermakers play. She starts pacing and gets fid­gety. Sitting. Standing. Crouching. They're all uncom­fortable. 
It isn't the Boilermakers mak­ing Curry restless, though. 
It's the baby kicking inside. 
Curry is expecting her second 
r-------. 
I 
$15 I 
I Mens Cut 1 

.. ______ .I 
ATRIA SALON 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. Corner of Edison 289-5080 
child, a girl, in early June with Boilermakers face defending Currys haven't decided. Odds are husband and assistant coach, champion and top-seeded it will start with a K. Kelly. The Currys already have a Connecticut (34-1) for a spot in "That way we don't have to daughter Kelsey, who turned two the Final Four on Tuesday night. change any of the monogram­in August. At times, Curry said, she feels ming," Kelly Curry said with a 
Handling the grueling like she's been "run over by a laugh. demands of coaching is tough. So truck" The unnamed baby already is a normal pregnancy. Thanks to various volunteers, has brought good fortune. linked Together, they've turned Curry. it's more like a small pickup than to Purdue's Big Ten tournament 36, into one worn out mother as a Mack. championship she tries to deliver a child and a Besides her earlier this national championship. husband, and "/wouldn't trade it for month. Curry 
Purdue (29-5) beat Notre a team of also was preg­
anything. To have the
Dame 66-47 Sunday in the East babysitters. nant the last Regional semifinals. The t h e opportunity to coach and time Purdue Boilermakers to be a mother is the best won the title in 
consider them­

experience in the world." 2000, prompt-
selves part of ing some fans the familv. to suggest an Kelsey, ·a Kristy Curry easy good-luck blonde bundle charm for
Purdue coach 


of energy, is a fixture at games and practices. and has recently started cheering her older "sisters" from the sideline. 
"Her big thing now is, 'I want to go the office and see the big girls.' She says that all the time," Curry said. "I think as she gets older it will be a little easier." 
The Boilermakers, though, have their limits with the little one. 
Shoot hoops? Sure. Scoop poop? No way. 
"They're very involved until it's time to change diapers or she becomes tired," Kelly Curry said. "They're good, but they're still kids." 
They've also suggested names for the new baby, though the 


·------.. ·------., ·------.. ·------.. 
I I I I
$69 
I I I I ~ $69
$26 $69 
I I Color, Cut & I I I 
Highlights,

Cut & Style I I Style I I Perm, Cut & Style I Cut & Style
.. ______ .I I One Process I .I _____ _..I .. __ ,___ .....
·------· 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence a11d patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY ­
-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must be presented to Receptionist Before Services Are Performed 
Melissa-Sergi' -Kristin-Jennifer ATRIA SALON 2 
Not,;tlidlonplmlf",m;, Lmgort,n,,dhabadd$IO Noothc~di>a>.Iltsapply. Opensome,wn~. ATRL'. Martin's Shopping Center Sa!on ~l'Vl'Slh.· [Wll to fl'fUSC'SL'Mre Lo any client whcx!P haircooditm is untroatab!c. Next to Spr:ni 
2'/1-8804

OFFER EXPIRES 4-15-03 
Less than l mile fr<>m c&mpas 

future tourney success. Curry warns not to get used to those automatic births. "I tell them to look at it a dif­ferent way," she said. 
Curry's pregnancy has been without complications. although she was advised by her doctors to relax more, sit down during games and get rest. 
That's easier said than done for a coach with an intense nature. 
"She tries to get as much rest as possible, but it's tough," Kelly Curry said. "Even at 100 per­cent, without a child, the season wears on you. Fatigue's an issue. The stress, the tension. gets to you pretty good." 
She's worn out more after long trips. A day after winning the Big Ten title in Indianapolis, she was off to Utah and then Texas recruiting future Boilermakers. 
"Nothing's really changed," she said. "I try to do everything the same way." 
Maybe too much, according to her players, who have had some fun at the expense of their bas­ketball-bellied coach. 
"She's still trying to wear the clothes we wear," forward Shereka Wright said with a laugh. "We're trying to tell her 
she has to dress appropriately to be a mother." Curry warned Wright not to laugh too much. 
"You're going to call me up one day and say, 'You're right. I hate maternity wear .... Curry said. "I just went up a size or two." 
Guard Erika Valek said Curry's mood swings have been more noticeable. 
"Sometimes the baby kicks a little hard and that's when you hear the voice change a little bit," she said, "We're ready, like I'm sure she is, to have the baby come out." 
The reluctance to drop the clothes fit for her normally petite frame have made her physical changes more noticeable. 
"I had someone call me and leave me a message that they thought I needed Jenny Craig until they found out I was preg­nant," Curry said. "It really doesn't bother me. We'll get back to our old selves." 
To prepare for the season, Curry talked to coaches with similar experiences, such as Arizona State's Charli Turner Thorne, who two years ago coached an NCAA tournament game days after giving birth. 
"She was telling me it's twice as much a blessing, but twice as hard to get ready," Curry said. 
Curry's managed just fine. She hasn't missed a game or prac­tice, nor has she cut hack on any of her responsibilities -as a mother or a coach. 
"I've tried to continue to do my job the best I could," Curry said. "I just want to be good at both." 
Curry was told to stay off her feet for about six weeks follow­ing the early June birth. though that's not likely. Curry said she'll be ready for her summer basket­ball camps later that month. 
"I wouldn't trade it for any­thing," she said. "To have the opportunity to coach and be a mother is the best experience in the world." 

..., 

ROOM PICKS? NAH! 
Pick your room at TURTLE CREEK APARTl\ilENTS! 
Pick your room the day you apply; GUARENTEED UNITS AVAILABLE! Still 'hearting' TURTLE CREEK has 4 person Th's for as low as $280/MO PER PERSON. 

Finnigan's on Thursdays, forties on Fridays and ND football on Saturdays! 
Happy Birthday! 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
Love, 

Call for details: 272-8124 I Kate, Emily, Rachel, Anne Marie and Katy
~===:=:::=V~i=si~tu=s=a:=t:;;;:W:;;;:W=W:;;;:.T:;;;:U=R=T=L=EC=RE=E:;;;:KN=:;;::;;;:D=.C:;;;:'O=:M:==::..=-=~=~dJ 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tues-day, April 1, 2003 
SOFTBALL 
Weather-plagued Irish face Boilers 
• Notre Dame has been forced to reschedule last 4 games due to poor weather 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Spom Writer 
The Irish are hoping for a bit of help from the weather when they face intrastate rival Purdue in a double header in West Lafayette, Tuesday. 
The Irish (10-11) were scheduled to play a double­header in Pittsburgh on Saturday to open Big East play, but those games were rained out. 
Notre Dame was then sched­uled to travel to Blacksburg to face confer­ence foe Leadoff Classic in Columbus, Ga., the Irish held a 12-0 lead over Rhode Island in the fourth inning, but that game was can­celled due to a downpour of rain and time constraints. An almost certain Irish victory was wiped off the books. 
Two games were also lost at the Kia Klassic in Fullerton, Calif.. due to heavy rain on March 15. 
Finally. the loss of the two doubleheaders the past week­end has resulted in an Irish team that simply has not been on the field in game situations as much as they would like. 
Luckily for the Irish, they are not the only team being washed out. Their opponent in Tuesday's doubleheader, Purdue, was rained out of their two-game series against Ohio State on Sunday. 
T h e 
Boilermakers 
Virginia Tech (22-13) are
"Most teams have more

in a Sunday led offensive-
games played than we

afternoon 1y by a pair double head­do. but we can't let that of big bats in er, but a sophomore
affect us.,, 

strong snow­Andrea storm moved Hillsey and into the area Steffany Stengleln freshman that resulted Irish pitcher Tricia Lilley. 
in the post­poning of that matchup as well. 
So far this season, the Irish have lost a total of seven games to rain or snow . 
"It's difficult because you don't get those extra games under your belt," said Irish sophomore pitcher Steffany Stenglein. "Most teams have more games played than we do, but we can't let that affect us." 
On Feb. 22, in the champi­onship game of the NFCA 
Football 
continued from page 20 
on the same page as each other and executing and being consis­tent. Coach wants us to work on the fundamentals and that's going to help us get to where we want to be." 
The Irish will practice the rest of the week, except for Wednesday. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Millsey leads 
all starters with a .473 batting average, while Lilley leads the team in home runs with eight. 
Starting pitchers Diana LaRiva and Leighann Burke have nearly identical stats, with ERAs of 2.19 and 2.20, respectively. As a team, the Boilermakers hold their oppo­nents to just a .233 batting average. 
Purdue's last game against Penn State, a 6-5 loss for the Boilermakers, broke a then-12­
BuyorSellyourHomewith aGrad from the Dome Call Maria Cardle 
360-3334 CRESSY and EVERETT/GMAC Realty Office 233-6141 
game winning streak. The all­time series between Purdue and Notre Dame is tied at 6-6, but the Irish have a four-game winning streak against their intrastate rivals. 
"They're a pretty good team," Stenglein said. "They've played and beaten some good teams. We need to go in there and get these wins to help out our season." 
Contact Justin Schuvec at jschuver@Jnd.edu 



LOOKING QU:T, LOOKING IN FILM SERIES LATINO AND LATIN AMERICAN 
PERSPECTIVES 
HE THREE CABALLEROS 
USA, 1945) 
UESDAY, APRIL 1ST, 2003 
:00 P.M. 

ESBURGH INSTITUTE AUDITORIUM 
Students at Notre Dame 


Tues<lay, April I, 2003 The Observer . TO DAY page 19 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 

JACK MONAHAN


• 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRlON 

~m~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
ILLSE 

j
I tx 

02002 Tribune Media Servicea, Inc. AH R1yhts Reserved, 
THERB 


t 

I NYGERT± 
A. GOOD THING To E.:Xf:RCISf: WHEN YOU'RE PUTTING 
-
ON Wl=IGHT. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I [J 
suggested by the above canoon 
M~r here: 

l I I I I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday' I Jumbles PUTTY KNACK TINGLE ARCADE 
s Answer: When the gray hair appeared, she fell like ­"DYE-ING" 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERU.:S NO. 27 • To order, Mtnd ~our name, addreaa Ind S5.S5 and make check payable to Tribune Media Sl!lrvlcea, P.O. Box 4330, Chlctigo, IL 00880-4330. 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 

Edited by Will Shortz No. 0218 
ACROSS 41 Cost lo cross 68 Play for time 1 Like a tack 42 Abundant 69 Bolt to unite 6 Cape Cod town 43 Place to graze 
11 Mercedes rival 44 Have a gut DOWN 14 Fencing sword 
feeling 
1 Fliers from De 15 Tore down Gaulle
45 What to latch onto, with "the"
16 Sculler's need 2 "Good Joke!" 
17 What to 49 Kobe currency 3 Help in a heist 
accentuate, to 
Bing Crosby 50 _ ridgeback 4 Adjust, as a (hunting dog) brooch
19 Get mellower 52 Unable to sit still 5 Proportionately
20 Swift works 55 Pre-cable need 6 See 32-Down
21 Gown material 59 Halloweon word 7 Squealer 
23 Neal dresser's quality 60 Whom not to B Israeli weapon mess with
27 Some radios 9 Ministerial 64 Play for a sap nickname
JO What to eliminate 65 Really spooky 10 Ukrainian port 34 Terra 66 Lake_, 
11 Ferry or wherryseparating36 Malaga Mrs. 
12 Creche trio 37 River lo the 
Switzerland and 
France 13 Small songbirdCaspian 67 Mack who 18 Genesis son

38 Home o! the Puulo by Holdon Baker
emceed TV's 
Jaz.z 22 Shrewd

"The Original 35 Not ours 47 Sanford of "The 56 Verne skipper 39 Rocker John Amateur Hour" 24 Administer the JeHersons" oath of office to 39 Patron saint of 57 Kind of tide 
48 Kudzu, for one

sailors
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 25 "I, Claudius" 58_Boleyn, 
..,...,.,,,...,..~ role queen to
51 Staircase 

40 Heavy metal support Henry Viii "::'+i~+i::-1 26 Alaska's first 
L o governor 44 Space Needle 52 Border on 
61 Emeritus: Abbr.

site 
53 Cyrano's protrusion 
A S ..,,-t-:+.;:+.-:-..,__._. 27 lntegra maker 

62 Nest egg letters S A ri,,i;::+.,+,;-,'!!!'l"!"P!"I 28 Recurring 46 Rapper's improvisations 54 Pigeon-_ 63 Nada
G R theme 
-,:-t.,=-t-::1-rl 29 Shepherd's P handful For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
31 0. Henry Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundayspecialty 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. --+-4-R+-0-4 32 With 6-Down, 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000Sibelius work 
past puules, nytirnes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). -,,+,.+,,+.,,.+-,,-1 33 Popular 90's Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, sitcom nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two _campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

• CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ali MacGraw, Debbie Reynolds, Annette O'Toole, Phillip Schofield 
Happy Birthday: You are likely to hit a stumbling block if you don't take the time to iron out any tedious little problems along the way. Take aggressive action and be honest and diplomatic in your approach. Your ability to pick yourself up and continue along the path you've chosen will be your saving grace. Yournumbers are 13, 22, 16, 31, 38, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Someone may try 10 derail your sense of confidence. Refuse to give in 10 comments made by this person.' Use other people's venom to spark your enthusiasm and sheer will to succeed. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your involvement m something secretive may come back to haunt you. Don't expect someone who has made you a promise 
to live up to his or her pan of the bargain. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Times are changing and choices must be made. 
Listen to what experienced individuals have to offer before you make your 
move. Be thorough in your research. **** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Put your effon into gelling ahead in business. Be careful not 10 come across as a know-it-all or the very people you expect to 
buy mto your idea will back away. *** ,
LEO (July B-Aug. 22): Your attentive audience will be able to offer you what you need to boost your morale as well as help you to progress with your plans. A business project will turn into a worthwhile venture. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Focus on your health, wealth and future direction. If you aren't happy, stan to make the necessary ·adjustments. There is nothing 
you can't accomplish ifyou put your mind to it. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 2.l-Oct. 22): There will be lots of action in the romance 
department_ if you interact with others. Relationships and panncrships can 
flourish. The connections you make today will be wonhwhile in the future. **** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): The way you treat colleagues will determine 
how well you will do today. Lend a hand, refrain from criticizing and you can 
build avery s1rong alliance with your colleagues. *** 
..
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Look into some form of entenainment. 
Consider setting up a competitive game of racquetball with one of your friends. 
The challenge will satisfy your needs. ***** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't expect everything to run smoothly. You may be interested in making some changes at home, bu! if you proceed, things aren't likely to pan out. This is no time to add more stress IO your life. ** AQUARU:S (Jan. 20-Fch. 18): Your unique ideas and genuine concerns will spark enthusiasm in those you encounter today. Your help will be valued and lasting friendships can be made. **** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your work ethics will be s1rong and your ability to accomplish will put you ahead of any competition you face. Make changes regarding your professional direction today. *** • 
Birthday Baby: You will always prefer to be where the action 1s. You will be steadfast and detcnnined to make your own choices and follow your own dreams. 
Check out Eugcrna's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugcniabst.com, wnetwork.com 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and maHto: P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D ·Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name Address City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
l 
I j
11 lr,4..i •.I, .......... l &..I ~ • • I 1.a.a .. I & &..I.JI• • a ¦ • .. • • .a ~,. • • • • • • • • • • -----.... -----------------.J 
• 
PORTS 
Tuesday, April 1, 2003 
FOOTBALL 

Irish greet season with confidence 

By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 

Darrell Campbell Bashed a big smile after Notre Dame's first spring practice Monday. After seeing the returning defensive starters out on the field for the first time since January, the senior has every reason to be happy. 
"We have a great sense of con­fidence and a great sense of urgency because of the s.implc fact you know the guys know what to do," Campbi>ll said. "We're just going to be out there having fun because everybody knows the plays and nothing's changed for us. So we can just go out there and play our game." 
Unlike last year, when newly­named coach Tyrone Willingham began implementing his pro-style offense for the first time, the Irish are already familiar with the coaches,_ plays and schemes. 
"It was predictably unpre­dictable for a first day," Willingham said with a half­smile. "I think it was your classic opening. The group came out with great enthusiasm and was kind of feeling their way as they got started again." 
Practice was kept simple for the first day, and Willingham said the focus of practice will be more on individuals and not so much the team -until players practice with pads later this spring. 
"Our focus was not as much team-orientation today as it was individual orientation of just try­ing to start establishing funda­mentals," Willingham said. "I think last year it was important to get our scheme across. Hopefully, now this year, you can almost go back focling they haVl' a certain understanding of scheme and really emphasis thP f'undamcn tals and tech niq ucs that arc necessary." 
Notre Dame has several con­cerns heading into the season, specifically the dcpth at th11 olfonsivc line position. Tho Irish return only one starter, Scan Milligan, f'rom last year's olfon­sive line. 
"It's going to take a little whil1\ to get us cohesive again as a unit because we're missing four guys that arc going to the NFL," Milligan said. "We think we're on the right track and we have some good guys in there." 
Those guys include rising fifth­year senior Jim Molinaro, rising juniors Zach Giles, Dan Stevenson, JelT Thompson. Darin Mitchell and Mark LeVoir and rising sophomores Bob Morton, Scott Raridon and .lames Bonelli. 
While the lineman ran through drills, Carlyle Holiday and thP rest of the Irish quarterbacks.worked on throws, footwork and handoffs during the early part of practice. Holiday said he feels good head­ing into camp. 
"It was good just to get out and throw the ball around," Holiday said. "We need to work on being 
see FOOTBALL/page 18 
BASEBALL 

Eck Stadium provides winning atmosphere 
opened their home schedule with On the flipside of this game, On a roster already depleted the two combining for 13 of the 
. Irish look to win 

five straight victories, and will however, the Titans enter on the with injuries, the team needs team's 31 RBIs in the three­
6th straight home look to make it six with a game losing side of the battle with some solid innings from the core game series. Sollmann also 
game against the Titans of the Mother Nature, having had five ofits pitching staff. raised his team-leading batting 
University of Detroit at 5 p.m. of its last nine games postponed "We're a little thin right now average to .396, while Ec!wards today. due to weather. The Titans are with our bullpen, and once you improved to .341. 
By BRYAN KRONK 

"We have a lot of confidence 3-11 on the season. start playing these mid.-week "I think Edwards is a legiti­Senior Staff Writer 
playing at home," Mainieri said At this early stage in the sea­games, and then have the week­mate Division 1 middle of thci
• 
Saturday after winning his 700th son, the Irish and Titans already end series, coupled with the loss order hitter," Mainieri said. "lie Notre Dame coach Paul game as head coach. "We'd been have a common opponent in of Grant Johnson for the year struggled a little bit with Mainieri knows the success past looking forward to [last] week." Purdue. The Irish defeated the and Pete 0gilvie's sore shoulder Villanova and earlier in the Irish baseball squads have had Returning to the schizophrenic Boilermakers last Wednesday, 8-... it's really thinned out our week, but that boy is going to hit playing in the confines of Frank weather of South Bend seems to 5, while the Titans got crushed staff," Mainieri said. for us. With Sollmann in the one Eck Stadium. have been at least part of the in their meeting with the Big Ten Another important factor in and Edwards in the three. I l'cll "We just feel so confident play­cure for whatever was ailing the opponent, 14-3, March 1. the match will be the return of like we solidified two very key ing in Frank Eck Stadium Irish at the beginning of the sea­The key for the Irish in today's I.he hitting ofjunior captain Steve spots that were vacated by through the years," Mainieri son. After starting out with a 3-4 match will be the effort put forth Sollmann and sophomore Matt [Steve] Stanley and [Brian! said. "It's been one of those record after the first two week­by starting pitcher Tom Edwards, the leadoff and third Stavisky." Lhings that's passed down. If you ends of play, the Irish now stand Thornton, who will be pitching in hitters in the Irish lineup. After go back and look at our record in at 16-6 overall and 5-1 in the Big a limited role in today's game in getting off to a slow start this this stadium through the years,, East. just behind undefeated preparation for the upcoming season. both Sollmann and it's phenomenal." Connecticut (5-0) ·and St. John's weekend series at Boston College Edwards had breakout week­Contact Bryan Kronk at 
This year, the Irish have (2-0). and St. John's. ends against Georgetown. with bkronk@nd.edu 
...:. 

FOOTBALL
VJ LLI
I-
GCsc., 

Weather-plagued Notre Dame gets ready to face Purdue after having to 
Football great George Connor died at the age of 78 Monday. Connor was a 
reschedule its last four games due lo inclimate weather. The Irish have lost a 
two-till}e All American tackle and was the 1946 recipient of the Outland 
total of seven games to rain or snow this season. Purdue also had games 
Trophy. He was also inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame in 1963. 
rained out last week.
C,: 

a. ti page 18 
page 15
VJ 





