
VOL. XXXVII NO. 95 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Autopsy: No foul play in Sharon's death 
. Police say Sharon death due to drowning 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Assistant News Editor 
Afier reviewing the results of the autopsy conducted today on Chad Sharon's body, police said Sharon died from drowning and that foul play was likely not involved. 
"The cause of death is consis­tent with drowning." said Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security Police. "There was no indication of foul play or other trauma to the body." 
Sharon's body was discovered by construction workers yester­day floating in about two feet of water underneath the Angela bridge. Police made a tentative identification yesterday based on the Notre Dame medal Sharon was wearing and identi­fication found in a wallet on his 
Voters choose Hallahan 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
Associate New, Editor 
Students decided Thursday they wanted experience. 
Pat I lallahan and Jeremy Lao won the student body presi­dential election Thursday, gar­nering 51 percent of the vote compared to the 40 percent Charlie Ebersol and Lauren Meagher earned. Nine percent abstained. 
3,713 students voted in Thursday's election -342 less than the number who voted Monday. 
Hallahan was excited with the victory and the margin of victory. "We are relieved that it is over and know we can focus on our ideas," said Hallahan. 
Hallahan said he and Lao will be taking the weekend off to recuperate from the cam­paign and to enjoy Junior Parents Weekend. 
"Timewise, it was just like any other campaign but we had to stay on focus and keep­ing our endurance and stamina was the toughest part. Once we got into the run-off, we ran on energy and it was a short two days," Lao said. 
This year's campaign season included seven candidate tick­ets for the top two student gov­ernment positions. IJallahan, who said the campaign was not easy, resigned as chief of staff for incumbent student body president Libby Bishop in the last week of the campaign. 
Hallahan intends to "put stu­dents first," as his campaign slogan stated, and start work­ing for students immediately by following up with contacts to initiate some of their plans as they transition before they take office on April 1. 
The Flex 10 meal plan and TCE publication project are ideas from this year's adminis­tration that Hallahan intends to implement during his term. 
Hallahan wants to be present in the Office of the Student Body President and lead by example. He envisions a small­er and more efficient staff for the Office of the Student Body President. 
Hallahan commended the other candidates and said, "We hope that a lot [of the candi­dates} will stay involved and help in some capacity because there ·were some great things on almost all of the tickets that could be incorporated to make things better for students." 
Hallahan said he has already talked with presidential candi­date Joe Muto about working together and intends to talk with Ebersol about his plat­form. 
Ebersol wished Hallahan and 
see ELECTION/page JO 
body. Sharon was first reported 12. Madison Center Hospital on 
as missing by Fisher 
Hall staff on Dec. 12 when he did not return from an off­camp us party on Corby Street. Sharon had told friends he would return to campus on his own. 

Sharon
A Madison Center 

employee later 
reported speaking with Sharon Niles Avenue is located further southeast from Notre Dame than the Corby Street party Sharon attended before he disappeared. The Angela bridge where Sharon's body was located is almost directly west of the University and slightly northwest of the 
early on the morning of Dec. see SHARON/page 6 

Pat Hallahan and Jeremy Lao celebrate their victory over Charlie Ebersol and Lauren Meagher in Thursday's student gov­ernment run-off election as Jim Ryan looks on. 

Juniors welcome parents 
By JULIA MILLER-LEMON 
News Writer 
Beginning today, the Junior Parents Weekend Executive Committee welcomes the fam­ilies of the of the Class of 2004 as they arrive from around the country to share in their chil­dren's academic and social lives at Notre Dame. 
Carrying the theme "Wherever We Go ... God. Country, Notre Dame," the weekend joins First Year Student Orientation and Commencement as the three times when parents are hon­ored guests on campus and are able to experience the Notre Dame community first­hand. 
The weekend will include a number of different activities designed to expose parents to their student's life both inside and outside of the classroom. Festivities kick off tonight with the "Bright Lights of the Big Oty" Gala at the Joyce Center, a celebration for juniors and their families that will include music, dancing and hors d'oeuvres. 
Saturday begins with acade­mic workshops sponsored by the colleges of Arts and Letters, Engineering, Science and the Mendoza College of Business. 
These workshops will offer an opportunity for parents to learn more about what goes on in the classrooms of Notre Dame. 
Following the academic workshops, each hall will be hosting a luncheon for both in­hall residents and those for­mer residents who have since moved off-campus. This is a chance for parents to meet 
see JPW/page 10 


Students boycott Heartland due to alleged discrilllination 
including Rosario, as well as oth­
By CAITLIN F.ARLY 
ers who were present on the NewsWrir~r 
night of the incident. gathered informally for the first time in In response to alleged discrim­LaFortune to formalize the boy­inatory marks directed al senior cott and to discuss other possible 
Kristine  courses of action  
Hosurio out­sido of llcartland on Jan. 30, a  "The boycott against Heartland will continue until an apology is  against Heartland. "Wednesday's meeting was an  
group of stu­ made."  attempt to come  
de nLs  has  together  as  a  
organized a boycott to  Kristine Rosario  group and to try and consolidate  
protest  the  senior  ideas  that  we  
popular  had been previ­ 
dance club,  ously  passing  

located in downtown South about through word of mouth," Bend. said senior Shamus Rohn, a stu­\\,•dnesday night. the group, dent involved with the boycott. consisting of about 14 students, As a result of the meeting, the group was able to run signs throughout campus informing students about the boycott at Heartland on Thursdays when the club has its college night. 
"I am seeking a formal, public apology from the management at Heartland." said Rosario. "The boycott against Heartland will continue until an apology is made." 
The group has also agreed to wril.e an open letter to Heartland outlining their reasons and objectives for tho boycott. 
While the main thrust of the boycott is to obtain a formal apology from Heartland, the group is also discussing other forms of action. Some of the 
see HEARTLAND/page 4 


Friday, February 14, 2003 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Welcome 


parents 
Juniors: Your parents have been pay­ing for your schooling long enough without knowing where their money goes, and by junior year, it's time to show them how their money is spent. This weekend, a 
Justin Krlvlckas
flood of parents will descend upon campus to spend Assistant time with their son 
News Editor 
or daughter for Junior Parents Weekend and experience life at Notre Dame, a tradition that goes back 50 years. 
Junior Parents Weekend will give your parents a better insight into the happenings at Notre Dame during the winter while class is in session. The next few days will be packed with spe­cial events to enlighten your folks and it's your job as ajunior to make sure your parents have an enjoyable experi­ence or else they might stop paying the bills. 
There are several events scheduled for the next. few days to highlight I.he many aspects of campus life. The weekend will commence with a gala in the Joyce Center. The evening will include music, dancing and desserts and this event is heralded as one ofthe best experiences you can have with your parents while in college. 
On Saturday, workshops will be held to give your parents a glimpse as to what your academic life is like. Each college will gear their presentations to show the rigors and advantages of their respective programs. 
Also in the afternoon, I.he residence halls will each host a luncheon. This will be a great opportunity for parents to meet your dorm friends and the hall staff. Later in the evening mass will be held in the Joyce Center, with University President Father Edward Malloy conducting the services. 
After mass, dinner will be provided in I.he Joyce Center, so its important you go to church to be near the food. The event will include speeches by Malloy and Junior Class President Meghan O'Donnell. Also, live entertainment will be provided for the occasion. 
Unfortunately, your parents will have to leave eventually, so Sunday will have to be spent in a state of continual hug­ging. To conclude the embracing, head over to the Joyce Center and enjoy "Home Sweet Dome" brunch that will be served. Irish basketball coach Mike Brey will be a special speaker at the event, and after beating Syracuse on Saturday, he'll have an interesting anecdote or two to share with your parents. 
Once the brunch ends at 11:30 or so, JPW is officially over, but that doesn't mean your parents have to leave. Head into town and see the College Football Hall ofFame. After you've shown your parents that you can be attentive to them, they will want to leave soon enough and you'll be all alone as it should be, and ifyour parents have a good time, hopefully they will continue to pay your tuition. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivick@nd.edu 


CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publica­tion an.d strives for chc highesr srandards of journal­ism ac all times. We do, howC'Ycr, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please conract us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS NEWS  WORLD& NATION  BUSINESS NEWS  VIEWPOINT  SCENE  SPORTS  
Seniors face promising long-term job market  D.C. on high alert and fears of terrorist strikes  Retail sales side in January  Reading the Valentine card from Osama bin Laden  The barnyard comes alive  Squeezing the orange  
Jobs can still be easily procured by graduating seniors in a slumped econ­omy by relying more on network­ing and by having multiple career goals.  The nation's capi­tal has seen a heightened military presence in response to report­ed al-Qaida threats.  Auto sales fell in January despite sales increases in other sectors.  Bin Laden is call­ing for Iraq to use suicide attacks and urban warfare against the U.S. to inflict heavy casu­alties.  Twenty dancers at Saint Mary's have been prepar­ing for a semester and now are ready to unveil "Designs for Dance 2003."  The Irish will travel to No. 17 Syracuse for a matchup of Big East West division leaders.  
page9  page 5  page 7  page 13  page 15  page 26  

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Lecture: "Goldsmith, lrnland and Empire," 3 p.m. in room 424 or Flanner I Iall. 

. 
Women's Tennis vs. Virginia Tech, 4 p.m. in the Eck ' Pavilion. 

. 
:\lass for Peace and Justice, 5 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
HA Interview, 10 a.m. in the Stapleton Lounge. 

. 
Designs on Danci~ Performance, 7:30 p.m. in the O'Laughlin Lobby. 

. 
Little Sibs Weekend, 3 p.m. in the Berezny Game Hoom. 




WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Buffalo chicken lasagna, meatball with sauce, Hawaiian pizza, pretzel sticks, roast top round, champagne rice pilaf, brown sauce, turkey gravy, whipped potatoes, corn, cherry crisp, baked cajun pollock, cheese and vegetable pie and broccoli. 
Today's Dinner: Buffalo chicken lasagna, provencal sauce Hawaiian pizza, pretzel sticks, garlic bread, roast­ed turkey breast, bread stutTmg, brown sauce, turkey gravy, whipped potatoes, peas, cherry crisp, baked sweet, pota­toes, tuna casserole, corn sugar-snap peas, stewed tomatoes, wilted spinach and steamed vegetable plate. 
TODAY TONIGHT 
cc 
LLI
:c 
~ 
LLI 
== 
..I <
(,) 

South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Pasta shells primav­era, fettuccine, gorgonzola sauce, french bread pizza, collard greens, turkey turnovers, London broil with wine marinade, cheddar-baked pol-lock, shrimp creole, potatoes au gratin, grilled turkey sandwich and fries. 
Today's Dinner: Chicken caccia­tore, fettuccine, gorgonzola sauce, french bread pizza, roast top round, oven-fried chicken, grilled polish sausage, rotini with vegetables, pol­ish-style kluski noodles and cabbage 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


*··*** ..*
** ,,

.s HIGH 33 HIGH 24 HIGH 29 HIGH 23 LOW 15 LOW 12 LOW 16 LOW 16 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Wallet lost in DeBartolo 
A student reported losing her wal­let in DeBartolo Ball on Wednesday. 

Thief strikes at Joyce Center 
A University employee reported the theft of her purse on Tuesday. There are no suspects. 

NDSP transports student 
On Tuesday NDSP transported a student from the Joyce Center to the University Health Center for treat­ment of a sports injury. 

Student attacked by Carroll 
A student reported being assaulted while walking on the path on the east side of Carroll Hall on Tuesday at about 1:30 a.m. The case is being investigated further. 
-Compiled from the NDSP crime blotter. 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
No data provided 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


HIGH 25 HIGH 35 LOW 22 LOW 20 
Atlanta 56 / 51 Boston 17 / 6 Chicago 32 / 22 Denver 47 / 28 Houston 72 / 59 Los Angeles 62 / 48 Minneapolis 24 / 10 New York 28 / 18 Philadelphia 30 / 20 Phoenix 65 I 49 Seattle 50 I 40 St. Louis 4 7 / 36 Tampa 76 / 63 Washington 34 / 24 


Friday, February 14, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Friends, dormmates mourn loss of Chad Sharon 
. Fisher Hall residents gather in memorial Mass 
By TERESA FRALISH Assistant News Ediror 
After learning that someone they knew so well would not be returning to Notre Dame, those who knew Chad Sharon best reflected on his life and Lime at Notre Dame. 
"lie was a high achiever but very down to earth. He was just a wonderful person. Nothing ever really got him down," said Danita AlU'illisch, a Notre Danrn sophomore who attended Merrill High School in Wisconsin with Sharon. "He was class president. He was voted most likely to succeed." 
J\ltfillisch, who worked on many student government pro­jects with Sharon, noted that he always went tho extra mile in everything he undertook. "He was very unselfish. He was willing to help others even if it made his life more diffi­cult." 
Altfillisch remembered one instance in particular where the state of Wisconsin was considering budget cuts that could affect their high school and she and Sharon worked to prevent those cuts from being approved. "He put together lhis really ornate Power Point presentation. He put so much time into it." 
After disappearing Dec. 12, Sharon's body was discovered Wednesday in the St. Joseph Hiver. 
Sharon, who attended Notre Dame on a full-ride scholar­ship, earned the same Leonard 
N. Anson Memorial 
Scholarship that Altfillisch received. The scholarship rec­ognizes an outstanding student from Merrill High School who chooses to attend Notre Dame, Altfillisch said. After she was named as the scholarship's recipient, Alifillisch remem­bers talking with Sharon about his hope to attend Notre Dame and encouraging him to apply for the Anson scholarship. "I remember when he got it," Altfilisch said. "He called me at school." 
Altfillisch said she hadn't yet come to terms with the recent events. "[Chad] was just one of those people that you hate to have these things happen to,' she said. 
Tom Gorman, a sophomore at the University, lived across the hall from him in Fisher. Gorman and his roommate Peter Nebel were close friends of Sharon's. ''1-le's just going to be missed," Gorman said. "He was always smiling." 
Gorman said that Sharon placed a high priority on his studies and enjoyed working with computers. Like Altfillisch, Gorman noted that Sharon always thought of his section mates before himself. "He was always looking out for other people," said Gorman. Though Gorman said Wednesday's announcement provided some closure to the uncertainty of the past two months, he said he had com­pletely accepted the recent news. 
Father Robert Moss, rector of Fisher Hall, said Sharon brought a cheerful smile and caring attitude to the Fisher Hall community and loved being a student at the University. "He was just thrilled about being at Notre 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
"How to Listen to Schumann's 

Fantasy for Piano, Op. 17'' 


A Lecture/Recital by 

Ethan Raimo 
Professor of Music University of Notre Dame 
2:00 pm, Sunday, February 16, 2003 Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library 
Free and open to the public. For more information, call 631-6201 or visit www.nd.edu/-congoers. 
HE SEASON OFLOVE 

TIM KACMAR/fhe Observer 

Fisher Hall residents gather In Mass Wednesday to mourn the death of fellow resident Chad Sharon. Sharon's body was found Wednesday In nearby St. Joseph's River. 
Dame." 
Moss also recalled the spe­cial friendship that Sharon had with Ellie, the Fisher pet dog. "She would spot him about halfway down the corri­dor and her tail would start wagging," Moss said. 
Sister Kathleen Cannon, associate dean of the College of Science and theology pro­fessor at Notre Dame, taught Sharon in her introductory theology class. "He was really a fine student," said Cannon. "He was a very thoughtful and sensitive young man." 
Cannon noted that Sharon took a very serious attitude toward his studies yet truly enjoyed the opportunity to 

attend Notre Dame. "[On] the last day of classes he sent me an email to thank me," she said. 
Sharon was receiving an A in the theology class, Cannon said, and put dedicated effort into every aspect of her class. "I offered options for extra credit and [Chad} didn't need them but he did them so thor­oughly," Cannon recalled. 
Cannon also remembered a Web site that Sharon created about the Gospel of Mark for a major assignment in the theol­ogy class. "I had talked with him on the last day of classes about how we could keep the theology project open on his website so I could use it for 
·------· ·------· r------..
I I I I I 
$69
I $15 I I I I I
$26
I I I I I Color, Cut & I I Mens Cuc I I Cut & Style I I Style I 
I _____ I .. _______.
.... .. I I I One Process I






·------· 
other classes," Cannon said. 
Though he did not know Sharon personally, Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for student affairs, was closely involved with the effort to offer every support possible to Sharon's family. Kirk main­tained close contact with Steve and Jane Sharon throughout the past two months and talked with the Sharons every day. "They've become friends," Kirk said. "They've been in my thoughts and prayers an awful lot." 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 

·------.. ·------..
I I I I 
I I I $69 I
$69

I I I I
Highlights,

I Perm, Cut & Scylc I I I
.. ______. Cuc & Style
I I I I


·------· 

Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we pmvide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY ­
-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must be presented to Receptionist Be/ore Services Are Performed 
Melissa-Connie-Scrge'-Kristin-Jennifer-Elaine -Michele -Efena -Jennifer 
ATRIA SALON 2

ATRIA SALON 
Notv.alidfor']'U'.alperm,. Longorrinredh>ir2'ld$JO. Noodierdkmun~.ipply. Opcnsomeevcning,. ATRIA Martin's Shopping Center 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 
S,lon r=the right ID ren<« ,,.,.,..,, [O "1)'dicntWM!rh.,i, cundirion is unrre:u,hlc Neu to Sprint
Corner of Edison 
271-8804
289-5080 

OFFER EXPIRES 2-25-03 
Less than I mile from campus 


page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 14, 2003 
Students plan Iraq war protest in New York City 


Heartland 
continued from page I 
proposed ideas include having Heartland send the bouncer involved with the alleged inci­dent to local diversity training and possibly asking Heartland to make a donation to La Casa de Amistad, a Hispanic service organization. 
The management at Heartland has contacted Chandra Johnson, assistant director of cross-cul­tural ministry. A meeting between Rosario and the Heartland management is expected to take place at some point next week. 
"What is the most upsetting to me is that it took this long for Heartland to respond," said Rosario. 
Mike Holt, who is in charge of customer service at Heartland, said the accused bouncer denied that he made the discriminatory remark. Holt, who trained the accused bouncer, said he belived 
him. 
"He's the most mild person in here, but he's the strictest at the door," Holt said, adding that the bouncer is one of four men who handles the door on College Night and that he has worked at Heartland for three years. 
Holt added that The Observer Viewpoint letters to the editor, where the alleged situation was first presented, have created a "he said, she said" conflict between Rosario and the the bouncer. 
"The only two people that really know in my opinion were those two," he said. 

Although he has not seen the surveillance tape, Holt said employees that have question whether other witnesses could have heard a remark. 
Holt said he would review the tape Sunday. For now. the accused bo1,1ncer is discussing legal action and Holt said Heartland management is will­ing to meet with Rosario. 
The first Viewpoint letter appeared Feb. 5. Holt said Feb. 6, which was college night, showed a decline in numbers, which Holt attributed to the renewed loyalty to The Boat Oub after Us bust. 
The response from students concerning the boycott has been mixed. 
One senior, Katie Stolz, noted that while some students are choosing to boycott Heartland because of the incident with Rosario, others are simply opt­ing to hang out at other estab­lishments. 
"Lower attendance at Heartland is due to a number of factors, including the presence of places like Rum Runners and Fiddler's Hearth," said Stolz. 
Other students stated that the boycott was not publicized well enough for it to be effective. 
"While I will never go to Heartland again, my hope is that the boycott will make people more aware of what happened," Rosario said. 
Helena Payne also contributed to this report. 
Contact Caitlin Early at cearly@nd.edu 

Heartland general manager Scott Rieder shows the number of false Identifications that he said 
have been confiscated from college students. A Puerto Rican ID was at the crux of an alleged discrimination Incident that occurred at the bar. 
ND~ 



Vi>.(E:N~iNE: 
(22kiE: 
2Yi).~jNf 
e decorate and 
enjoy some cookies for this very special dayJ----..... 
9PM-IIPM in the Dooley Room of LaFortune 
Brought to you by Student Activities Office 
By KRISTEN KLEIN 
News Writer 
Students are taking to the streets of New York this Saturday to protest the building tensions between the United States and Iraq. The organiza­tion, United for Peace and Justice, organized the Anti-War protest in New York City, which will be held outside the United Nations building. 
Once in New York City the students will attend the rally at noon on Saturday and that evening attend a student rally at Columbia University. They will then stay at Columbia with students from the Columbia University Anti-War Coalition. 

Peter Quaranto, freshman, organized the group of approxi­mately 35 Notre Dame students who will take part in the rally. 
"I heard about this rally, and said that if there is going to be a group of people protesting injustice and killing, Notre Dame should be represented there," Quaranto said about his reason for organizing the group. 
Many different organizations from all over the United States will be present at the rally, some include the Campus Anti­War Network, Voices in the Wilderness, NAACP, Catholic Worker, and the September 11 Victim's Families for a Better Tomorrow. 
There are a variety of rea­sons people are heading to the rally to protest but Quaranto believes the main reason for students is the desire to act on their beliefs. 
"I think the one thing that unites us is that we have dedd­ed that we need to do more than just sit back and preach about our beliefs; we have to act on our beliefs," said Quaranto. 
Quaranto worked with the Center for Social Concerns to organize and fund the trip. The students had to pay a $30 fee 
for  participation  with  the  
money  going  toward  van  
rentals, gas and tolls.  

Rachel Tomas Morgan. helped Quaranto plan the trip and said of his idea and other groups, "The Center is happy to help support any student or student group wishing to exer­cise their faith in service and action for justice that resound with our Catholic social tradi­tion." 
"Ultimately. we feel that we are old enough to have a voice in the way our country and world works," said Quaranto. "This weekend, we are going to exercise that voice." 
More information about the Anti-War protest can be found at www.unitedforpeace.org. 
Contact Kristen Klein at kklein@nd.edu 






WORLD & NATION 
Friday, February 14, 2003 COMPILE]) FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
D.C. on high alert amid fears of terrorist strikes 
As•ociated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Police carrying semiautomat­ic rifles patrolled the grounds of the Capitol on Thursday, and the government warned key industries and utilities to beware of employees who might have been planted by al­Qaida or other terrorist groups. 
The security measures were Lhe latest to emerge since the nation went on high alert for possible terrorist altacks last week. The orange level is the second-highest in a five-point, color-coded scale that would be topped only by a red alert that meant an attack was imminent or under way. 
There are no plans to raise the threat level, Justice Department offir.ials said. U.S. counterierrorism officials said they are continuing to gather intelligence but have no specif­ic information as to targets or methods for a terrorist strike. 
Authorities have said they are worried about attacks timed to coincide with the haij, a Muslim holy period that ended Thursday, or the begin­ning of a war with Iraq. 
Tension in the capital has risen, underscored by the offi­cers carrying rifles in the Capitol complex and the deployment of antiaircraft mis­sile batteries around the city. 
Other steps were being taken outside public notice. "They will be seen, they will not be seen. Some will never be known, but took place," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said. 
Members of Congress wore told to gather a "go bag" of supplies, sensitive documents and a laminated list of key phone numbers in case of an attack, while staff members were given training this week on how to handle "escape hoods" that protect against bio­logical or chemical substances. Hep. Bob Ney, R-Ohio, said lawmakers were also instruct­ed to keep a low profile, remov­ing vanity license plates from vehicles and varying their rou­tines. 
"Everyone in this structure has remained calm but cau­tious," said Ney, chairman of the House Administration Committee. "There is not a panic situation here." 
The FBI and the National 
Infrastructure  Protection  
Center  issued  a  bulletin  
Wednesday  to  companies  

involved in such industries as telecommunications, energy, and banking and finance, as well as operators of water sys­tems and electric utilities, law enforcement agencies and emergency services. 
Officials believe al-Qaida 

KAT 

With the Washington Monument looming behind them, U.S. Army troops patrol Washington, D.C., Thursday, accompanied by a Humvee with mounted antiaircraft missiles. The nation's cap­ital has seen a heightened military presence in response to reported al-Qaida threats. 
could target these entities with national economy. Industry officials should chemical, biological or radio­Of particular concern is the check out their employees in an logical attacks. Such an attack, "dirty bomb," a crude, easy-to­effort to root out any terrorists officials say, could prompt ter­make device that would spew who may have been working ror and mass casualties and radioactive material over a there for years, waiting for the also disrupt the regional or wide area. signal to strike. 
NORTH KOREA 

U.S. w-ill not pursue sanctions against North Korea 
Associated Press 
NEWYORK 
The United States said Thursday that it would not call for punishing U.N. sanc­tions against North Korea over its nuclear program, a move Pyongyang had said would be an act of war. U.S. Deputy Ambassador Richard Williamson said President Bush's administration wants to pursue a diplomatic solution for the time being. 
The board of the International Atomic Energy Agency voted Wednesday to refer the North Korea nuclear issue to the Security Council, setting in motion a process that could lead to sanctions against the North. 
Williamson said the United States was waiting for the IAEA resolution to be referred to the council, which should hap­pen soon. 
"We'll deal with it in a systematic man­ner, and diplomatically, and we're pleased the IAEA acted, and we look for­ward to discussing and working the issue diplomatically here as the U.S. has been doing in the region for many weeks now," Williamson said. 
Asked whether sanctions were a possi­bility in the near future, he replied, "It's not an issue right now." 
Williamson said the United States would be discussing with the other 14 council 
members when to take up the North Korean issue. China's U.N. Ambassador Wang Yingfan welcomed Williamson's announcement. 
"I don't see any point to talk about ­even think about sanctions," he told The Associated Press. "It will not work. It will only make the situation worse." 
"It could only be settled through direct contact, through dialogue," Wang said. "We hope still, with the efforts of every­one, some way could be found so that we can see the start of the dialogue." 
The standoff began in October when 
U.S. officials said North Korea admitted it had a clandestine nuclear program. Washington suspended fuel shipments, and the North retaliated by expelling U.N. nuclear monitors, taking steps to restart frozen nuclear facilities and withdrawing from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. 
The U.N. nuclear agency's 35-nation board declared North Korea in violation of its obligations under the treaty and other accords. Because the North has expelled 
U.N. inspectors, the agency "remains unable to verify that there has been no diversion of nuclear material" for weapons use, it said. 
The board's decision came as U.S. intel­ligence officials warned Wednesday that Pyongyang has an untested ballistic mis­sile capable of reaching the western United States. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
NATO cancels emergency Iraq meeting: 
NATO canceled an emergency meeting to discuss its bitter split over Iraq on Thursday, after Germany insisted any breakthrough would have to wait until a key session of the United Nations on Friday. German Defense Minister Peter Struck suggested his country would be prepared Saturday to drop its opposition to NATO's starting plans to help defend Turkey in case of war with Iraq. 
Bolivian rioters kill 16, torch offices: 
Looters ransacked shops and buildings and skir­mished with soldiers in the Bolivian capital's business and government district Thursday after protests the day before degenerated into bloody riots, _killing 16 people and leaving government olTiccs torched. Sirens wailed and small groups of looters ran loose through chaotic central La Paz, where tanks and 400 heavily armed soldiers were deployed near the presidential palace, besieged by protesters the day before. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 


Columbia crew's remains identified: 
The remains of all seven Columbia crew members have been positively identified, NASA officials said Thursday. The identifications were made at the mil­itary mortuary at Dover Air Force Base, where the remains were taken after the space shuttle disinte­grated during re-entry Feb. 1. "We are comforted by the knowledge we have brought our seven friends home," said Bob Cabana, director of Flight Crew Operations at the Johnson Space Center. 
Jury recesses in Va. espionage case: 
The jury in the trial of spy suspect Brian Patrick Hegan finished a second day of deliberations Thursday and recessed for the weekend without reaching a verdict. The jury is to return Tuesday, after the President's Day holiday. Regan. 40, of Bowie, Md., is accused of attempt­ed espionage for Iraq, Libya and China. lie has pleaded innocent. 

Relatives ofjailed teens mad at verdict: 
Relatives of two teenage brothers who admitted killing their sleeping father with a baseball bat are angry the man they believe influenced the boys was acquitted of molestation. Ricky Chavis, 41, was found innocent Wednesday of charges he kidnapped and molested the younger brother, Alex King, in the months before the slaying of 40-year-old Terry King. Chavis was convicted of the lesser offense of' false imprisonment and was sentenced later Wednesday to the maximum of five years in prison. 

Arizona lake driest in three decades: 
Lake Powell is at its lowest level in 30 years, the result of scant snow melt and hr.avy dr.mand from three Western states that look to il for drinking water. Lake Powell, a 252-square-mile artificial lake created by the construction of the Glen Canyon Dam on the Arizona-Utah border, is down 87 feet from its highest level. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 14, 2003 
Bishop non1inates nevV chief of staff 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES Associate Ncws Ediror 
Student Body President Libby Bishop nominated Henry Scott to replace Pat Hallahan as her new chief of staff at Wednesday's Student Senate meeting. 
Scott previously served as her assistant chief of staff. 
"I have been thoroughly impressed with his dedica­tion, enthusiasm and man­agement skills," Bishop said. 
Senate will vote on whether to approve Scott Wednesday. 
Hallahan, who was elected student body president Thursday, resigned last weekend due to a conflict of interests with Bishop, specif­ically on the hall dance poli­cy. 
Sarah Bates, Pasquerilla West Hall senator, announced a resolution to bestow an emeritus title on Hallahan for his service and dedication while serving as chief of staff. 
"We all worked with Pat and we all know his dedica­tion and it's to show appreci­ation to him," Bates said. 
Lewis Senator Gail Thompson's tongue-in-cheek proposal to amend the reso­lution to include a statue of Hallahan in his honor was defeated. Thompson later said in the meeting she did not think the other senators understood the spirit of her amendment. 
"Given Pat did a really good job, I am not discount­ing what Pat did, but is the resolution necessary?" said Thompson. 
Ricky Sadowski, Student Union parliamentarian, dis­couraged senators from adopting this amendment and said Hallahan took his job seriously and left the Senate on good terms. 
The Senate decided to post­pone the resolution until next week after Jesse Norman, O'Neill senator, said passing this resolution the day before the student body presidential election, in which Hallahan was a candidate, could be seen as a political ploy by the friends of Hallahan. 
In other Senate news: 
. 
Danielle Ledesma, Judicial Council president, said peti­tions for class councils were due Wednesday. She did not receive any petitions for junior class council and the deadline was extended. 

. 
When asked about his con­tribution to the Board of Trustees report, Scott said he contributed to it and was among a panel of people who worked on it. 


"The report reflected stu­dent opinion and tried to encompass many areas," he said. "The wording of Lhe report and conclusion could have been stronger and were stronger in previous drafts. But by and large, it was an accurate representation." 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 


Sharon 
continued from page 1 
Madison Center. 
Though NDSP. in conjunction with state and local authori­ties, conducted a thorough search of the St. Joseph River in the days following Sharon's Dec. 12 disappearance, Rakow said it was possible that those searches may have missed sec­tions of the river. "My feeling is that he probably was hflld underneath by debris," Rakow said. "We had those high winds [Tuesday] and I'm think­ing the wind and the water might have freed him." 
In their searches of the river and its vicinity, police used search boats, helicopters and dogs and drove by the river daily, Rakow said. 
While Rakow believed foul play was not involved, he said several questions remained for police to investigate. "We don't know how he got there," said Rakow. "There could be sever­al scenarios that place him in the river." 
Rakow said NDSP, who has had primary jurisdiction in the missing person case so far, will work with the County Metro Homicide police to investigate the remaining details. 
"County Metro Homicide will be looking at the results and the issue of how he got in the river," said Rakow. "We will assist them. It will be coopera­tive." 
Sharon's parents, Steve and Jane Sharon, arrived on cam­pus Thursday to meet with police and expressed their thanks to evervone who knew their son and ·worked on the missing person investigation. 
"I'd like to thank everyone in the Notre Dame community," said Steve Sharon. "Most of all our gratitude goes to Chad's friends in Fisher. The entire Notre Dame family helped us through with their kind words and encouragement," he said. 
Though the news of their son's death wasn't what the Sharons had hoped to hear, Steve Sharon said the recent events did bring closure to the uncertainty he and his wife have lived with for the past two months. 
Steve Sharon also reflected on his only child's feelings about being a student at Notre 
WHAT ARE YOU CALLED TO DO? 
CAREERS AS VOCATIONS: ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE 
Sunday, February 16, 4 -6:00 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns Pizza will be served. 
A panel presentation with: 
Adam Alessio '98, High school teacher, Graduate student in Electrical Engineering 
Maureen Neville '00, Habitat for Humanity in Puerto Rico, Environmental Engineer -CDM 
Leroy Troyer '71, President and Founder ofthe Troyer Group, Architect 





ndvi 
NOTRE DAME VOCATION INITIATIVE 
G:~
FOR~rtfoi SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Dame. 

"Chad loved Notre Dame and it will always be a special place. We will be back because Notre Dame means a lot to us." Steve and Jane Sharon returned to their home in Pelican Lake. Wis. late Thursday. 
The funeral for Chad Sharon will be held next weekend in his hometown. A memorial mass at Notre Dame will take place shortly after the funeral. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 


Friday, February 14, 2003 COMPILED I-IROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES .page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch February 13 
Dow Jones  
7,749.87  •  -8.30  
N4SDAQ  
1,277.44  •  -1.53  
S&P500  
817.37  
 -1.30  
808.18  AMEX•LJ  +2.33  
NYSE  
4,653.25  ~  +3.54  

TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDE (QQQ) +0.50 +0.12 23.94 
SPDR ±~~-Bt&~~5:~1::;~~1x~;:11:;::i11;11:;:1~:1"~1~:111i:::1::;11~1 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +2.51+0.3815.53 CIsco sY$J'gt-1s {¢S.OQ) )IJB:1es.:::lfe181!1w::i1a.:i:a1 
::•·-:-::::-:-::-:-·:··:-:-: ·:·:·:-.. -:•:•:-:-:.:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-,,:-:-:.;.:.;.;-:-:-;.x-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:.:-:-:..•: 
LUCENT TECH INC (LU) -2.96 -0.05 1.64 
IN BRIEF 

Petroleum inventories plummet: 
U.S. crude oil stocks have fallen to the low­est level since 1975 -below what the indus­try considers essential for smooth operation. But government and industry officials say refiners have enough oil, and that if war in Iraq should disrupt the supply, the United States and other industrial countries are ready to draw on g·overnment reserves. While inventories are low, "it doesn't neces­sarily mean there will be shortages.... Refineries arc still running," said Ron Planting, an economist for the American Petroleum Institute, the trade group of the major oil companies. 

IMF to send mission to Argentina: 
The International Monetary Fund announced Thursday that it was dispatching a joint IMF-World Bank team to Argentina next week to discuss the politically sensitive issue of utility rates. IMF spokesman Thomas Dawson told reporters that the joint mission with officials from both agencies was tenta­tively scheduled to arrive in Buenos Aires next Monday, but he said that date might be delayed slightly. lie said the mission "will be discussing a number of issues related to the utility pricing issue. It is not a negotiating mission about Irate] increases." 

Japan slams wro farm tariff plan: 
Japan rejected a draft proposal for reduc­ing agricultural tariffs that is set to be dis­cussed at a World Trade Organization trade ministers' meeting in Tokyo th.is week. Japanese Agriculture Minister Tadamori Oshima criticized the document on Thursday as "unacceptable overall." It was prepared by former Hong Kong Ambassador Stuart llarbinson. who chairs the WTO agriculture negoliations. The drafl. obtained by The Associated Press Wednesday, calls for the World Trade Organization's 145 member states to lower tariffs to as low as 25 percent on some products over flve years. 

Retail sales slide in January 
. Slip in auto sales hurt over­all numbers 
Associated Press 
WASlllNGTON 
A big drop in automobile sales swamped gains reg­istered by other mer­chants, causing overall sales at the nation's retail­ers to fall in January. 
While consumers -the main force keeping the economy going -stayed away from car dealer showrooms last month, they hit other stores. That made economists hopeful shoppers will keep their pocketbooks and wallets sufficiently open in the months ahead to prevent the economy from falling into a new recession. 
"If you park auto sales off to the side, retail sales remain on a healthy trend," said Bill Cheney, chief economist at John Hancock Financial Services. 
Even as economists expressed such optimism, they were mindful of risks that could upset that sce­nario: Worries about a possible war with Iraq and fresh warnings that ter­rorists could strike the United States again could make consumers clam up, The decline in sales despite weaker confi­a 1.2 percent decline. weakening the fragile came even though incen­dence," said Maury At department and other recovery. tives remained generous Harris, chief economist at general merchandise 
"It could be choppy," in January, said Paul UBS Warburg. stores, sales rose 0.6 per­said Carl Tannenbaum. Taylor. chief economist at "Households may be cent, up from a 0.4 per­chief economist at LaSalle the National Automobile detecting a slightly better cent increase. Health and Bank. Dealers Association. job market." beauty stores sales went 
Retail sales dropped by "People are making In another report, new up 1.1 percent after 
0.9 percent in January, a more conservative deci­claims for unemployment decreasing 0.2 percent in turnaround from the 2 sions in the car that they benefits last week dropped December. percent gain posted in buy," Taylor said. Cold by 18,000 to 377,000, a Sales of sporting goods, December and the worst weather in many parts of four-week low, the Labor books and music rose 0.3 showing in four months, the country last month Department said. That percent in January, a the Commerce also slowed traffic to suggested the pace of lay­turnaround from the 0.9 Department reported showrooms, he added. offs is stabilizing, welcome percent drop the month Thursday. But excluding automo­news for workers worried before. 
But much of January's bile sales, which can about keeping their jobs. Food and beverage weakness reflected a swing widely from month But on Wall Street, stores saw sales rise 2.6 sharp 7 .5 percent decline to month, sales at other stocks sagged on war wor­percent last month, fol­in automobile sales, the retailers actually rose by ries. The Dow Jones lowing a 1.3 percent largest drop since 1.3 percent in January, industrial average closed decline. At bars and November 2001. the biggest gain since down 8.30 points at restaurants, sales rose 1.1 Consumers took a September 2000. 7,749.87. percent, down from a 2 breather after a buying "The solid gain in core In the retail report, sales percent advance. binge in December, when sales does suggest that at building and garden Sales at clothing stores auto sales jumped 7.9 per­consumers continue to supply stores rose 2.9 per­edged up 0.3 percent, cent. underpin the economy, cent in January, following after a 0.8 percent rise. 

Bethlehem buyout to ax 4,000 jobs 
Anociaced Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Bethlehem Ste·e1 Corp. said Thursday that as many as 4,000 people will lose their jobs as a result of Internationa.l Steel Group's buyout of the company. 
Robert S. Miller, Bethlehem's CEO and chairman, told employees Wednesday that 3,000 to 4,000 jobs will be cut. The higher figure amounts to 36 percent of Bethlehem's current work force of 11,000. 
Miller made the estimate on an employee hotline designed to update the company's employees on the pending sale, company spokesman Bette Kovach said. 
Miller told Bethlehem Steel employees that the bankrupt com­pany would work with ISG and union officials to determine the exact number of jobs to be cut. 
It is believed to be the first esti­mate on job cuts that Miller has given to employees. 
Bethlehem Steel's board voted Saturday to accept Cleveland-based International Steel Group's $1.5 bil­lion offer. The Bethlehem, Pa.­based company had filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in October 2001. 
ISG chairman Wilbur L. Ross ­
who specializes in buying distressed businesses -has said ISG would set aside $100 million for buyout offers to salaried and hourly employees. 
Miller did not indicate how many jobs might be cut at specific plants. 
Adding Bethlehem Steel's plants would make ISG the largest U.S. steel maker with an annual produc­tion capacity of 16 million tons. 
The deal would keep Bethlehem Steel's Burns Harbor Division in northwest Indiana, Sparrows Point Division near Ballimore and small­er plants in Lackawanna, N.Y., and Coatesville and Conshohocken, Pa., operating. 
Friday, February 14, 2003 
page8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
V-Day to increase awareness of violence against women 
By MELANIE BECKER News Wri1cr 
One out of three females will, or has experienced violence in her life, according to the V-Day Web site. Today, Feb. 14 is the official V-Day, "V" standing for victory, valentine and vagina. 
V-Day is a global movement founded to increase awareness of violence against women and girls and end it. 
V-Dav was created in 1998 as a reaction from the perfor­mance of Eve Ensler's "The Vagina Monologues," which is rnmposed of the stories of hun­dreds of women who have experienced violence as a result of their gender. The V-Day organization particularly addresses rape, battery, incest, female genital mutilation and sexual slavery. 
V-Day, a non-profit organiza­tion, promotes the performance of "The Vagina Monologues" on college and university campus­es to f'undraise and increase awareness of global violence towards women. Its mission is to end violence against women throughout the world and calm Feb. 14 as Victory over Violence Day. 
The movement has grown rapidly over the last five years. This year there will be 2,000 celebrations, which are sched­uled to take place at over 1,000 places in the world on or around V-Day. 
Controversy over performing "The Vagina Monologues" at Saint Mary's began in late January 2001 when the college announced the cancellation of the show, only a year after it had had two sell-out perfor­mances in Carroll Auditorium a year before. After receiving dis­approval from the Parents Council, alumnae and the Board of Trustees, Marilou Eldred, president of the College, announced that it was not in the best interest of Saint Mary's to have "The Monologues" per­formed on campus. The student body was informed over e-mail that the show did not fit within the "Catholic character" of the College. Not only was the endorsement of Ensler's perfor­mance withdrawn but also the performance of it on campus was banned. 
Students demonstrated their anger by passing around a peti­tion, having a sit-in outside of Eldred's office and performing the show in the Regina North Lounge. In response to the per­formance, the College took dis­ciplinary action on the students involved in the preparation of' the performance. In contrast to the events of 2001, a perfor­mance of the Monologues was held last year and the college had no response. 
The V-Day Web site lists Saint Mary's as a performance site of the Vagina Monologues and senior Susan Almeda as the organizer and contact person. No specific performance date or time is listed and Almeda had no comment for The Observer. 
According to Susan Dampeer, 
SAY... 

COFFEE, BAKERY&: CONFECTIONS Proudly Serve Cheesecakefrom The Cheesecake Factory Seattle Best's Coffee: &The: Republic ofTea Joseph Schmidt's Chocolate from San Francisco Mon-Fri 7am·l0prn/Sat 10am-10pm 213 North Main Street, Downtown South Bend 233,~fi­
aieei i;t (!iaj,f 
.)(e.-ut -V~t€.-'f\.J.N'l'-e.'4 ti,;t~ 
\) 

T HA I RESTAURANT 
\\'e are looking forw,rrd to creating a wonderful evening and a romantic experience for you and your special guest this Valentine's clay. 
(Pb.tsc: mJkc J n:scrv;;tion in advance if rou rlan to s1xnd >°'rn1· rom..intk: even mg with us") 
Lunch: \Ion-Fri l1'1m,2p1n Dinner: \[,,n-Sut 5pm·9prn 

232-4445 
assistant to the president, the official stance of the College is that it will not endorse a pre­sentation or "The Vagina Monologues" this year through funding or facilities. The Saint Mary's administration was not aware of any specific perfor­mances at Saint Mary's and believed that the V-Day Web site had not been recently updated. 
Students, faculty and staff are, however, free to gather together informally for a read­ing or performance on Saint Mary's campus without reper­cussion from the College. Students organizing their own performance will have to go through Residence Life if they want to advertise. Information on student performances, in the past two years. has spread by word of mouth. 
"Organizers and participants describe the mission of the per­formance as an effort to raise awareness about sexual offens­es against women. Saint Mary's feels that addressing this issue is an important duty of all col­leges and universities. Saint Mary's has developed new pro­grams and activities that appear to have been effective," Dampeer said. 
Since the spring of 2001, Saint Mary's has acted by bringing self-defense classes to campus, holding security forums, creating a crime map and sponsoring the play "Sex Signals." The administration currently has no intention of bringing "The Vagina Monologues" back to campus as an officially sponsored activity. 
"The Monologues" was held at Notre Dame last year and is scheduled to take place on March 4-5 at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Lindsey Horvath is listed on the V-Day site as the organizer. 
For further information on the V-Day organization or per­formances of "The Vagina Monologues," see the organiza­tion's Web site at www.vday.org. 
Contact Melanie Becker at beck093 l @saintmarys.edu 



Friday, February 14, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 



Seniors face promising long-term job market 
By COLLEEN GANEY 
News Writer 
Graduating seniors tackle elusive employment prospects and competitive graduate school admissions due to an enduring economic slump and looming international conflict, but the worst conditions are probably over, according to Loe Svctc, director of the Notre Dame Career Center. 
The job market is "sporadic, unpredictable. and late," Svete said. Companies aren't recruit­ing eight months in advance as they did up until 2000. instead choosing lo recruit when immediate help is needed. 
"There's a wait-and-see atti­tude famong employers] in a market that was going to be just in time anyway." Svete said. 
The 2003 Notre Dame Winter Career Fair showcased 13& companies, up from 90 in 2002, but rnpresentatives mostly offered indefinite possi­bilities. 
This kind of vagueness gen­crates mixed perceptions among graduating seniors. 
"The job market isn't as good as it has been in the past," said senior finance and computer applications major Chrissy Costantino. She added that she feels confident that job-seeking seniors are finding jobs. 
Others are less optimistic. Senior finance and political science major Mike Hewett said, "A lot of very qualified people who should've gotten jobs by now haven't." 
Hewett said he lucky to have secured a position at Proctor and Gamble even after he interned there last summer. 
Svete notes that summer internships before senior year and alumni networking have become more critical. Fortunately, the Career Center is more connected to alums than ever before, he said. 
"A Notre Dame education is going to pay off for you, and it used to pay off much earlier in a good economy," Svete said. 
Companies lack funds for new hires because top-level executives delayed retirement last year after plummeting stock market prices chopped retirement funds in half. 
The economy seemed to be recovering last fall from the September 11 terrorist attacks and tech bubble bust, but world crisis with Iraq has delayed a substantial rebound. 
A swift war with Iraq should boost economic growth, bui drawn-out conflict could drive up manufacturing costs and threaten financial confidence because of inflated oil prices. 
In the meantime, job­searchers simply need to know where to look. 
"Jobs are at companies that produce real products like Rubbermaid, Proctor and Gamble, and General Mills," Svete said. "Financial services and consulting services have hit rock bottom." 
Government jobs are plenti­ful. because a decades-long recruiting draught left them short of needed manpower after Sept. 11. A GPA of 3.5 or more automatically secures a government interview. Pharmaceutical and civil engi­nee ring industries are also actively recruiting. 
Svete said early participa­tion, multiple career paths, competitive GPAs and multiple extra-curricular activities are keys to finding a job. 
Seniors arc also following last year's trends and pursuing advanced degrees in the face of unemployment. Last year's record-breaking graduate school application numbers continue to climb. 
"When the economy is bad, applications numbers go up. When the economy is hot, application numbers go down or level off," said John Robinson, associate dean of the Notre Dame Law School. 
In 2002, law schools applica­tions increased nationwide by 
15.4 percent over the previous year. with Notre Dame Law School's numbers climbing from 1,900 to 2,900. 
Robinson estimates that the Law School has already received 3,100 applications and expects around 3,500 by Apr. 1. Yet he maintains that getting into law school isn't necessarily tougher now than two years ago. 
"A larger applicant pool should be irrelevant to whether students apply and 
where they apply," Robinson said. 
This year's application increases reflect how people have applied to more schools, not simply that more people are applying, said Terrence Akai. associate dean of admis­sions at the Notre Dame Graduate School. 
Because graduate schools attract international students, Akai clarifies that the real issue is the increase in U.S. applicants. 
From 2000 to 2002. the number of U.S. applicants to the Graduate School rose by 50 percent from 1,400 to 2,100. This year's numbers are ahead of that pace. and tho admissions season is still open. 
The Graduate School's com­puter science and engineering have increase by 75 percent, chemistry has doubled and English and history programs have seen dramatic increases. 
Service is another viable option after graduation, but that choice is usually made independent of economic con­ditions. 
Notre Dame's ACE program received a record high number of applicants during 2001 and 2002. but John Staud. director of ACE, attributes that increase to ACE's new website that allows applicants to apply on-line. ACE now fields appli­cations from 125 different uni­versities and live continents. 
"Numbers have gone up a bit this year," Staud said, "but that's not clearly a result from a job market spike." 
Senior governmeni and the­ology major Jeanine Valles explains that the poor econo­my didn't sway her decision to pursue service after gradua­tion. She says it was some­thing she always wanted to do. 
Slaud is interested to see what seniors will choose when deciding between ACE and job offers. ACE returns accep­tances just after spring break and requests confirmations a week later. 
"Job offers may be more appealing in a tough econo­my," Staud said. 
Jobs may be even more attractive when baby boomers finally retire and leave high­level positions vacant. 
"Students graduating after 2000 will become vice presi­dents and managers earlier in their careers that in past years," Svetc said. 
This year seniors can rely on new Career Center features like virtual career fairs, alum­ni mentoring, and virtual city tours. 
Svete added, "If you gradu­ate without a job, you can stay in touch with us and we'll work hard for you all summer long." 
If seniors have yet to start job searching, Svete said, "It's never too late. Just realize that you need to put some time in to play some catch up." 
Contact Colleen Ganey at mganey@nd.edu 

Close to campus! (Behind Dairy Queen on S.R. 23) 

Special Event Friendly!!
.,/ Student Atmosphere!! 
Campus View Apartments 1801 Irish Way 
(574)272-1441 Fax# (574) 272-1461 

Friday, February 14, 2003 
page .10 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Election 
continued from page 1 
Lao luck. adding that he hopes they will remain true to their promises. "What it came down to is their government experi­ence seemingly outweighed our desire to implement our campaign platform," said 
Ebersol. 
Ebersol said he s t i I 1 believes in his cam­paign plat­form and intends to work to bring the two top-40 bands and Saturday Night Live comedians 
to campus. Ebersol. who high­lighted programming ideas in his campaign, doubts that he will run for any positions on the Student Union Board. a programming organization, but does intend to work closely with SUB. Club Coordination's Council and Legends. 
Ebersol intends to meet with Brian Coughlin, director of Student Activities, and Mark Poorman, vice president of Student Affairs in the upcom­ing week to discuss the feasi­bility of implementing some of his ideas. 
"I hope Pat and Jeremy have the foresight and desire to use TDR because it is my firm 

"l'Vhat it came down to is their government experience seemingly ouweighed our desire to implement our campaign platform." 
Charlie Ebersol student body presidental candidate 
belief that SYRs will take years to bring back. Fighting the administration and making Board of Trustees reports will not bring about immediate 
change and TD R w i11," Ebersol said. 
Ebersol said 
he has not ruled out the possi­bility of running for student body president next year. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
JPW 
continued from page l 
or daughter's dorm friends and hall staff. A special mass follows at 
5:30 p.m. with an address by University President Father Edward Malloy. Saturday ends with the "Star Spangled" Dinner in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse, an event that will include live entertainment and an address by Malloy, the guest of honor. 
The weekend comes to a close on Sunday with the "Home Sweet Dome" Brunch, held in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
Highlights will include a special guest speaker and entertainment provided by members of the Class of 2004 
and other University groups. 
Meghan O'Donnell. junior class president and a fea­tured keynote speaker at Saturday's "Star Spangled" Dinner, said that she's "really looking forward to spending time with her friend's parents and learning more about the environments they came from." 
"The weekend should prove to be a wonderful time for juniors to share a bit of their Notre Dame experience with their families," O'Donnell said. 
"Our parents only come· to campus a few times, so this is a great opportunity to show them the lives that we've built here for ourselves," she said. 
Contact Ju.lia Miller-Lemon at jmillerl@nd.edu 




PHARMACY DEPARTMENT 
Now Open 24 HOURS 

CVS/pharmacy® 
2210 E. Edison Road South Bend 574-472-3233 

Write for Observer News. Call Helena at 631-5323. 
funny mood? 
,rOOUJJifil@ ~/ll~ ll@ ~ml wrnn ~/nL'fi ® ® n@~@@ ~ml @£1r ~,n~ ® ® n@~@@ ~ml 
IIDOOill'rr ll~~ 11 ®~ 

scary mood? 

Thurs 2./1"3 10 pl\\ Fri 2/1¥ s ~ 10:-:;o pf.'I Sat 2/15 8 ~ 10:'30 p~ 
l)BR'f 101, $'3 
Friday, February 14, 2003 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
House approves stricter rules 
Associated Preu 
WASHINGTON 
The !louse approved a Hcpublican welfare reform bill Thursday that would require more single mothers to work and provide hundreds of millions of dollars to pro• mote marriage. 
Nearly identical to a plan put forth by President Bush, the GOP legislation passed by a 230-192 vole, largely along party lines. It would renew a 1996 welfare overhaul that allowed states to impose tough new rules and helped spark a massive reduction in welfare rolls. 
Members of both parties declared the 1996 overhaul a success, even as they differed sharply on what steps are needed to further help the poorest Americans. 
The bill puts strict limits on tho amount of time most wel­fare recipients can spend in education and training pro­grams, requires states to put more of its welfare recipients to work and requires that each person work more hours. 
It limits people to five years of benefits over their lifetimes and continues to ban legal immigrants from aid pro­grams. It provides $16.5 bil­lion a year for states to run their programs and offers a modest increase in child care spending. 
"A check in the mail every month won't teach responsi­bility. It won't build confi­dence," said Rep. Deborah Pryce, R-Ohio. 
Studies find that most peo­ple who have left welfare are working, earning more than they got from the government but not enough to escape poverty. 
Democrats said simply get­ting someone off welfare is not good enough and argued that education, training and access to child care are key to helping people earn a decent wage. 
"Too many people are drowning in a sea of poverty," said Rep. Louise Slaughter, D­
N.Y. "Welfare-to-work should not merely toss the poorest Americans a life preserver to help them 11oat along." 

The House bill includes up to $300 million per year for experiments promoting mar­riage. It also extends a $50 million program promoting abstinence from sex until marriage, which bans any dis­cussion of contraception. 
Both programs have attract­ed strong opposition, with opponents saying neither has been proven effective. Some worry the marriage program could push people into bad marriages. 
But House Democrats voiced few complaints about them Thursday, focusing instead on the central issues of welfare. 
Since peaking in 1994, the number of families receiving monthly welfare checks has fallen by nearly 60 percent, thanks in large part to the roaring economy. The Bush administration said Thursday that the national total contin­ued to fall through September. albeit by a tiny amount. 
At the same time, the rolls are rising in more than half the states. And data released this week found that after sev­eral years on the rise, the portion of poor children with working parents fell in 2001. 
The GOP bill was nearly identical to the welfare bill approved by the House last year. The Senate failed to pass a welfare bill last year. 
The matter now moves to the Senate again. Even though Democrats no longer control the chamber, rules there give them more power than the House minority enjoys, and the Senate welfare bill is expected to differ in signifi­cant ways. 
The 1996 law expired last fall and has been extended several times to give Congress more time to act. 





¥¥¥JPW¥¥¥ 
Bring your parent(s)/guardian(s) in to see 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
this weekend and get your housing worries for next year taken care of...on the spot!! 
**Guaranteed 
TOWNHOUSES AND 2-BEDROOMS 
available for 2003-2004** 


Office hours are: Friday February 14: 9am-6pm Saturday February 15: 10am-5pm Sunday February 16: av APPOINTMENT ONLY 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
STUDENTS' #I CHOICE IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING 

CALL US@ 272-8124 OR VISIT US AT W\\'W.TURTLECREEKND.COM 


NASA: Shuttle's cover breached 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The space shuttle Columbia almost certainly suffered a devastating breach of its skin. allowing superheated air inside the left wing and possibly the wheel compart­ment during its fiery descent, investigators said Thursday. 
In its first significant deter­mination, the accident inves­tigation board announced that heat damage from a missing tile would not be suf­ficient to cause the unusual temperature increases detected inside Columbia minutes before it disintegrat­ed. Sensors noticed an unusual heat buildup of about 30 degrees inside the wheel well before the acci­dent. 
Instead, the board deter­mined those increases were caused by the presence inside Columbia of plasma, or superheated air with temper­atures of roughly 2,000 degrees. It said investigators were studying where a breach might have occurred to allow plasma to seep inside the wheel compart­ment or elsewhere in Columbia's left wing. 
The board did not specify whether such a breach could be the result of a structural tear in Columbia's aluminum frame or a hole from debris striking the spacecraft. The board also did not indicate when the breach occurred during the shuttle's 16-day mission. 
Officials have previously focused on an unusually large chunk of foam that broke off Columbia's external fuel tank on liftoff. Video footage showed it struck part of the shuttle's left wing, including its toughened lead­ing edge and the thermal tiles covering the landing gear. 
The announcement focused renewed attention on possi­ble catastrophic failures inside the wheel compart­ment that may have con­
tributed to the Feb. 1 
breakup that killed seven 
astronauts. 
Officials are not sure where a breach might have opened in Columbia's skin, NASA spokesman James Hartsfield said. But he said the leading edge or elsewhere on the left wing. the fuselage or the left landing gear door were prime candidates. 
"Any of those could be potential causes for the tem­perature change we saw," Hartsfield said. "They do not and have not pinpointed any general location as to where that plasma flow would have to originate." 
In an unusual plea for assistance, NASA urged Americans on Thursday to share with them any pho­tographs or videotapes of Columbia's descent from California to eastern Texas. Some members of the public have already handed over images, "but more material will help the investigation of the Columbia accident," the agency said. 
The board's announcement didn't surprise those experts who have long believed that a mysterious failure of sensors within Columbia's left wing indicated that super-hot plas­ma had penetrated the shut­tle. 
"I think there was a sub­stantial hole in the wing," said Steven Schneider, an associate professor at Purdue University's Aerospace Sciences Laboratory. "That would not be at all surpris­ing. All the sensors in the wing failed or gave bad read­ings" by the time ground con­trollers lost contact with Columbia, he said. 
The board dismissed sug­gestions Columbia's left landing gear was improperly lowered as it raced through Earth's atmosphere at more than 12,000 miles per hour. NASA disclosed earlier Thursday that a sensor indi­cated the gear was down just 26 seconds before Columbia's destruction. 
2002-03 Season 
Notre aame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

Thursday, February 20... 7:30 p.m. Saturday, February 22... 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $1 6 Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-81 28. 
The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
O
TI-IE 
BSERVER 




IEWPOINT 
page 12 Friday, February 14, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sou<h Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Ja.son McFarlcy 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Lori Lewalski  
AssT, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Krisrin Ycmm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hertler, Mau Lozar 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kacie McKenna 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR, Scott Brodfuehrer 
CON'l"ROL.l.ER: Michael Flanagan 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO........•....631-7471 FAX. ............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIF.F........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-454I BUSINESS OFFICF. ........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VtEWPOJNT................................................. 631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631--4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCF.NF..........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYs.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0............................,...........................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obrerver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as weU as ca.croons and reviews. 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNorre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent che opinion of che majority ofthe Ediror in Chief, Managing Editor, Assisrant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, leuers and columns present the views ofrhe authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters co the Editor musr be signed and must include contact information. 
Quntion; rtgarding Observll' policies should be direct­ed to Edimr in ChiefJason McFarky. 

POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The OhSC1Ya (USPS 599 240} ii publiwd Monda.y through Friday cxc.epr duri11g cum and vacation periods. AsuhKripDOn tc-TheOIKcrvcr is SJOO foroneacadcmk year: $)5 fot Ont scrnc:stcr. 
The omc.rva lt publuhcd •t POSTMASTER 0l4 South Dio~ Holl Send addrcn comcti.om to: Nat:re Dame, lN 46!1)6. The Obtcrvct 
P.O.BoxQ rcrioWca.i pouagc pa.id ill N~ Daint Nocrc D..um:. IN 46556--077') a11d addition~l mliliri, offl«~­
The Obst-l'VU" is ll rncmb-ct ofth~ Assoch,cd Presi. AU repr04uctirin rig.ho a,,c 
ll:WIYffl, 
We'll never forget Chad 
In the worst-case scenario. Notre Dame is the best body pulled from the river as the Sharons' only son. place to be. Just ask Chad Sharon's family. "Everyone really cared." 
Sharon's body was found Wednesday in the SL Joseph From the beginning, Notre Dame has cared. river, two months to the date after friends last saw him School leaders have stayed in daily contact with the at an off-campus house party. The dis-Sharons since their son disappeared. covery put to rest the Notre Dame and During the investigation. friends and South Bend communities' longstanding Fisher Hall residents cooperated with question of whether Sharon would OJhe police to remember any details about return to the family, friends and school oserver Sharon on the night he vanished. And the that he loved. University offered a $25,000 reward ­
Word of the freshman's passing was that later doubled to $50,000 -to bring
Editorial
for Notre Dame stu­to light any information that might have
upsetting news ­dents, for Sharon's former Fisher Hall dorm mates but most of all for his par­ents, Jane and Steve Sharon. 
Still, in the midst of heartbreaking news of their son's death, the Sharons spoke to the University's unique abili­ty to comfort its own when tragedy strikes. The dis­traught parents praised students, faculty and administra­tors for their support over the 63 days that 18-year-old Sharon was missing. 
"They'll never know how much we appreciate il." Steve Sharon said in an emotional interview with The Observer Wednesday night, only hours after officials identified the 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Economics plan sacrifices department's vision 
Thomas Gresik's Feb. 11 letter about the Economics Department seri­ously mischaracterizes what attracts students to Notre Dame. As a sec­ond generation domer, I am confident that students do not come to Notre Dame to strive for mediocrity. Mediocrity, however, is exactly the target of the current plans to "improve" the Department of Economics. 
I agree with Gresik that our department needs more and better neo­classical economic theorists and econometricians. The department also needs to make its unique contributions better heard in mainstream eco­nomic dialogue and make a larger impact on important issues of public policy, which, as Gresik observes, the economics profession often addresses. 
The plan the provost's office is currently pursuing, however, will be a step backward and is a terrible way to make the department both be and be perceived as an excellent department of economics. I have reason to believe that several Nobel-prize-winning mainstream economists would agree with this statement. 
The goal of the plan is to make the Department of Economics more mainstream. This means that the target for which we are aiming is the middle of the pack. If everything goes as hoped, we will become just about like everyone else. If we stand out in any way, it will be in spite of, and not because of, these reforms. 
The Department of Economics does need improvement. In many cir­cles, it is not currently perceived as great. It is, however, perceived as both distinct and having a vision. That alone does not constitute great­ness, but is a prerequisite for greatness. A plan to systematically remove any distinctness, anything that would make our department stand out from the mainstream, can never lead to more than becoming like the middle of the pack and usually leads to falling well behind it. 
So, what attracted you to Notre Dame? Striving for mediocrity? Or tak­ing a vision of greatness and building on it to return to glory? We need to continue the process of building the department we have, not split it and try to stamp out anything that differs from the middle of the pack. 
Daniel Lawson 
graduate smdent in economic. Feb. 12 
led to Sharon's safe return. Now, with a painful end to the months­long mystery, Notre Dame will keep on caring. 
We'll celebrate Sharon's life and memory in our faith­based community. We'll search for answers to why and how he made his way from tho party Dec. 12 into shallow water under the Angela Boulevard bridge two awful months later. And we'll keep Sharon's friends and family in our thoughts and prayers. 
Just where they've been since one of our own disap­peared into the night. 


Voice opposition to 'Monologues' 
"The Vagina Monologues" are coming back March 3-4. All members of the Notre Dame family do not agree that the University should sponsor "The Vagina Monologues." Even Bishop John D'Arcy of the the Fort-Wayne-South Bend diocese is "strenuously against the performance of this play." 
Our Lady's image stands atop the Dome, and she needs us to be her advocates. Please join us by writing to Father Edward Malloy voicing your concerns and by writ­ing to the Bishop asking him to publicly proclaim this play unsuitable for any Catholic institution. For instructions, visit www.MarysAdvocates.com. 
Terry McMannus 
Feb. 10 
WAR IN IRAQ 
What's your viewpoint? To contribute to the "Viewpoint: Iraq" series, contact viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Justin Krivickas Joe Trombello Matt Bramanti 
Viewpoint 
Teresa Fralish Kristin Yemm 
Graphics 
Chris Naidus 


Sports 
Matt Lozar Chris Federico Pat Leonard 
Scene 
Sarah Vabulas 
Lab Tech 
Melissa Flores 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
What do you consider most in voting for Student Body President? 
*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 241 responses. 
¦ Student Government Experience: 7% \,, Creative Platform Ideas: 23% '.'11 Feasibility of Platform: 38% ml Attitude Toward Administrators: 16% ¦ Other: 16% 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A soldier firm and sound ofheart. " 
William Shakespeare English playwright 
O
THE 
BSERVER 




VIEWPOINT 
Friday, February 14, 2003 page 13 
Reading the Valentine card from Osama bin Laden 
This week a new audio recording attrib­uted to Osama bin Laden popped up as unexpectedly as a Valentine's Day card from a divorced spouse. The message is a major source of concern for President Bush and the American public since the voice on the tape instructs bin Laden ·s followers to help Saddam Hussein stage suicide attacks. It asks followers to lure American troops into bloody urban bat­tles to inflict "big casualties." The resurgence of bin Laden at this time fur­ther weakens the president's standing with those who presently oppose Bush throughout the nation and world. 
Opponents argue that the president has left his war on terror unfinished as he marches toward a war with Iraq. Many say that the president's preoccupation with prioritizing action against Saddam Hussein exposes flaws in foreign policy priorities. especially in light of North Korea's unpre­dictable actions oflate. Others blame the failing U.S. economy on the president's tunnel vision focused on Iraq. 
Anxiety within the United States and around the world could have been sub-stantiaUy assuaged had the Bush team pushed for an Israeli-Palestinian agree­ment immediately upon taking office in early 2001. With a free, democratic Palestinian state as a model for the Arab world, the president's intentions, noble as they are in disarming Saddam. would be more credible to both friends and foes who distrust American motives. 

By ending the dialogue with North Korea at the beginning of the Bush administra­tion and lumping North Korea into the "Axis of Evil" in the 2002 State of the Union Message, the president has also cre­ated a crisis. What began as a rhetorically self-serving pep talk to rally the American public has awakened the unpredictable Asian monster. 
Our nation will survive the upcoming war with Iraq but is far from capturing the hearts of those who oppose our actions. The speaker on the so-called bin Laden tape said Iraq was governed by socialist "infidels, including Saddam," but said it was acceptable for Muslims to fight for Iraq because their interests "intersect in fighting against the Crusaders" -usually interpreted as Christians. 
In his most recent message, Osama bin Laden predicts that he will die in a final act of terrorism as a martyr this year during an attack against his enemies. The speaker on the tape also calls for individual attacks against "Americans and Jews" around the world along with larger acts of terrorism. 
He v.ishes for his demise to be in the "eagle's belly," which experts believe is a reference to the United States. 
How can our nation end the hatred of those who are devoted to bin Laden? A recent visit to Internet bulletin board chat rooms entitled, "America sucks" and "It's my country so get out" sheds some light. The messages in each area contained sev­eral nasty and personal remarks favoring as well as opposing a war with Iraq. 
One person said that a soldier never prays for peace; he prays for victory. The next reply noted that the writer was an American but was more afraid of intoler­ant Americans than "any nuts out there, who don't have a clue about what freedom means. Our freedoms and differences are what make us Americans." 
One interesting yet typical chat partici­pant wanted to deport all Muslims back to their respective Arab countries. This par­ticipant ended with, "Get out of my coun­try. A true American stands behind its country and God. Thank God, I am a True American." 
A respondent wrote, "Your country, who do you think you are? This is the United States, where people from every country in the world have come to try and make a better life for themselves and their fami­lies." 
We are naive ifwe believe that merely exposing Iraq to our free way of life will convert them to loving allies indebted to their U.S. liberators. If France, a true democracy that has been the brunt of a nasty rhetorical barrage from supporters of the president, cannot stand uncondition­ally with the United States, how can we expect a nation like Iraq, which has only known the last thirty years of Saddam Hussein's dictatorship, to willingly follow? 
Oftentimes the president has painted too simplistic a picture of the matter at hand while rhetorically embellishing our actions and intentions. 
Immediately following the September attacks, he pledged to find bin Laden and eliminate all terrorists. Initially, the presi­dent vowed to act alone to remove Saddam, but after low public opinion forced him to act through the United Nations, he now speaks of ''disarming" Saddam. 
The leader of the free world could do well to ease tensions and anxieties throughout the world while educating those who are intolerant. While President Bush is fond of proclaiming, "God Bless America," it would do much if his Valentine's card contained the inclusive Christian greeting, "God Bless Everyone." 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame class of1973, served in President Clinton's administra­tion as a Congressional and public affairs director. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at Hottline@aol.com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
After Saddam is gone, what's next for Iraq? 
Editor's note: The following is the first of biological weapons of mass destruction as part ofa two-part piece considering the its "endstate." This will all require a sub­role the U.S. military will play in a post­stantial commitment ofthe total U.S. mili­war Iraq. The conclusion will appear on tary force -including the post-conflict Monday. capabilities ofspecial operations forces, 
As President Bush and his national secu­civil affairs and psychological operations rity team assemble 
teams and the substantial mobilization their final plans for a of the nation's National Guard and possible military Reserve Component support personnel. operation against Given both the international Iraq, all estimates reluctance to participate in call for a post-con­any military coalition flict administration against Iraq and the of Iraq that will magnitude of the post­include a heavy conflict reconstruc­
American military MaJor Gary Masapollo tion tasks as envi­
presence in that country for an indefinite period. The post­
conflict stakes within Iraq are very high. 
If the U.S. forces do not take the lead role in leading a post-Hussein Iraq, the country could potentially fall apart or descend into chaos and violence. If American forces are perceived by the Iraqi people and/or the international community of being in there for any longer than an interim period, they run the risk of being accused of becoming a new imperial and occupying power. 
While many of the specific elemenlS of the post-conflict military plans are still classified, the final decision on what role the U.S. military will play in the region after Saddam llussein is out of power will be initially predicated on how the transi­tion to the post-Hussein period occurs. Under most of the possible scenarios, the major task for the U.S. military following the transition of power will be in "shaping and supporting the security environment." 
Any plan utilizing U.S. military forces has to include provisions for countering factional instability, restoring basic Iraqi government services, transitioning power to the civil authorities. the possible appre­hension of Iraqi war criminals, the seizing ofstate-owned oil fields and the disassem­bling of the clandestine Iraqi intelligence service; all while U.S. military forces con­tinue their search for Iraqi chemical and 
sioned by most mil­itary strategists, the 
U.S. military must be prepared to govern Iraq for an indefinite period in the future. This task is not that unfamiliar to the current U.S. military leadership. In recent times, U.S. military leaders have partici­pated in various aspects of the civil gov­erning environment, namely in Somalia (1992-93), Haiti (1994­96), Bosnia (1995-present) and within Kosovo (1999-pre­sent). 
The past missions in Somalia, Haiti. Bosnia and Kosovo were all in con­junction with the United Nations. The cur­rent post-conflict plan has not guaranteed such participation by the United Nations or other international agencies. In a coun­try of over 24 million persons, any post­conflict plans appear on the surface to be the most ambitious American military effort to administer a country since the occupations ofJapan and Germany at the end of World War II. Without international participation, the U.S. military should plan for a long and protracted role in managing the reconstruction of the country. At a minimum, in order to be successful, the 
U.S. military must be able to effectively counter facilitate stability, transition power to the civil authorities and engage the international community. 
The immediate aftermath will find American troops trying to stabilize a post­Hussein environment that could involve 
U.S. troops directly confronting those elements wishing to seek "anarchy, revenge and score­settling" in a post-Hussein Iraq. One of the biggest problems facing U.S. military planners in the postwar period 
will be in the disarm­ing of the over 150 Iraqi tribal groups. While factional tribes played a major part of the 
U.S. military suc­cess in Afghanistan, most of the Iraqi 
tribes have been directly supported by Hussein in the past and could remain loyal to him and form into insurgent forces. Another problem facing 
U.S. military planners is the prospect that the various tribal groups will form into factional 
armies and began fighting each other, similar to what occurred between rival groups in postwar Afghanistan. Such an unstable and fragmented environment will create a particular security concern that the post-conflict Iraq is unsuitable for any reconstruction and international relief presence as it has in Afghanistan. 
U.S. military commanders on the ground must be vigilant of rival ethnic parties wishing to partition or fragment Iraq in the post-hostilities period. Potential threats range from the Kurdish-dominated north to the Shiite Muslim-dominated south, as well as from a variety of Iraqi exile groups located outside of Iraq. Ironically, when Congress passed the Iraqi Liberation Act in 1998, it officially recog­nized six different Iraqi exile groups as possible alternatives to Saddam Hussein's ruling Baath party. Now, any one of them could legitimately attempt to assert control in a post-conflict Iraq. 
Possible military actions by our NATO ally, Turkey is of equal concern to U.S. military planners. Turkey may view the instability along its border by the Kurdish­controlled north as a way of guaranteeing a say in shaping post-war Iraq, namely in preventing any emergence of a Kurdish state in northern Iraq. Turkish officials have long been concerned of any efforts that incite the Kurdish community to seek independence. Without any substantial 
U.S. military monitoring along the Turkish-Iraq borders, this condition could be left unchecked and erupt into a severe international crisis quickly. The United States has expressed its concern. Turkish officials and both groups have recently met and discussed these issues with the leading Kurdish officials. 
Author's Note: On behalf of the Army, Air Force and Navy HOTC staffs, we would like to personally acknowledge the person­al sacrifice and selfless dedication of those faculty, staff and students who have been called to active duty over the past few months. You truly reflect the meaning of the phrase. "God, Country, Notre Dame." 
Major Gary Masapollo is a current member ofthe Notre Dame Military Science Department (ROTC) faculty and is a Civil Affairs officer with the U.S. Army. Prior to being assigned to Notre Dame in 2000, he participated in U.S. Army civil­military operations in post-war Kosovo. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE 
OBSERVER 

Friday, February 14, 2003 
The Barnyard co111es to life 
Barnyard clad dancers open this year's dance workshop at Saint Mary's 
By CHRISTINE ROCHEL Scene Writer 
This weekend Saint Mary's presents "Designs of Dance 200'.L" The first act intermingles a recitation of Elizabeth Winthrop's children's book "Dumpy La Rue" with ballet dancing sheep, a break dancing pig and a salsa-dancing mule. The first act entitled "The Barnyard Ballet of Dumpy La Rue" takes a trip into the playful imagina­tion of a child's mind. The second act is an interesting compilation of classi­cal ballet and various styles of modern dance. 
The workshop opens with a surpris­ing tribute to childhood. As a country mother recites a children's book to her daughter, dancers act out the scenes. The dancers vividly depict barn ani­mals through their movements and attire. Keep an eye out for the talented ballet dancing sister pig. This first act mixes various forms of dance with dancers of varied levels of technique. The childlike appeal of the first act has left some dancers with mixed senti­ments such as Therese Cullen who comments "sometimes I feel like we should be performing to three year olds." The originality of this ballet is noteworthy; for the music, lighting, and costumes have all been specifically designed for the piece. 
After two auditions and a semester of practice, the backstage atmosphere is filled with various emotions. The cho­reographer of one of the two student pieces, junior Caitlin Gillen, comment­ed on her extreme nervousness and then stated that this is "a great opportu­nity, and I wish we could do it more often." Gillen's piece, honoring the choreographer Bob Fosse, adds an interesting splash of jazz to the domi­nantly modern dance of the second act. This jazz piece also contains the only two Notre Dame student dancers who are also the only two male dancers in the workshop. In addi­tion the second act features a classical ballet, a Japanese dance interpreta­tion, and numerous slower modern dances. Contrasting with the lightheart­ed tone of the first act is the mellow, 
artistic tone of the second act. 
The dance work­shop held in the 0 ' L a u g h I i n Auditorium runs about an hour and a half and has a total of eight dances. The performances are scheduled for tonight and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. and for Sunday at 2:30 p.m. Tickets can be purchased at the door. The cost for students is $4.50 and proceeds will go 


to Saint Mary's general budget. The workshop has been under the direc­tion of Indi Dieckgrafe since she came to the college in 1985. Saint Mary's does not offer a dance major for any of the Saint Mary's students perform­ing in this show. Another dance teacher at Saint Mary's, Laurie Lowry, has enthusiastic reviews about the progress of their dance program. The school has currently added the major Student Design in Movement Studies for students interested in pur­suing dance mixed with mathematics. 
The team backstage is working dili­gently to fix any glitches before the workshop opens in two days. With dancers of diverse backgrounds, cho­re ographer Lowry comments "the struggle is to make them all cohe­sive." Since the 20 dancers in the show come from individual dancing backgrounds, many of them could benefit from some more dance tech­nique training. While dance prepara­tions are being finalized, the lighting and sound crew headed by Thomas 
H. Boelman has been fixing some minor microphone problems and adjusting the lighting sequence. Remarking on the show senior Nicole Pliske, with eagerness for the upcom­ing performance, said, "I think there is a great variety. It will give the audi­ence an array of dance style." Visit the Moreau Center for the Arts this weekend to be entertained by tap dancing rats and to view an engaging dance workshop. 
Contact Christine Rochel at crochel@nd.edu 

THE 
OBSERVER 

Friday, February 14, 2003 
A sip of soul 
Poetry, song and style headline the 2003 Blak Koffeehouse 
By HELENA PAYNE 
Scene Writer 
The event is called Blak Koffeehouse, but that's just a catchy name tu describe the ambiance. 
Thert''s rarely ever coffee. although "there will be hot chocolate and snacks," according to Veronica Berger, president of lhe Black Cultural Arts Council. which is sponsoring the event tonight at 7 p.m. in the Lafortune Ballroom. 
This year, the BCAC is offering some­thing arguably even better than a bev­erage. It wishes to share "A Taste of the Soul." The event chairmarr; -­Jourdan Sorrell, said the theme pays homage to the African-American artists of the Harlem Renaissance. During the 1920s and 1930s, writers such as James Baldwin, Langston Hughes and Zora Neale Hurston, as well as musical artists such as Louis Armstrong and Billie Holiday were part of the burgeoning African­American artistir: and intellectual movement that dominated the social scene of the predominantly black Harlem borough of New York City. These artists inspired many to discov­er their own talents. influenced American culture in very upscale artistic event that displayed the member of Mahogany Soul and a final­
"We [African-Americans] have been profound ways and at the University of talents of students with an emphasis on ist for talent search show American characterized as a very soulful people," Notre Dame we continue to highlight it's the African-American culture. Since Idol, said she is looking forward to her Sorrell said. importance in American society by pro­then, Blak Koffeehouse has been every last Blak Koffeehouse. 
As the signature event of Black ducing an artistic event that incorpo­Friday on Junior Parents Weekend. It's "This is one of the events on campus History Month, Sorrell said Blak rates music, poetry and style," said often standing-room only. that means a lot to me," Tern said, Koffeehouse allows members of the Chandra Johnson, assistant to the presi­As part of the many events of JPW, adding that the event allows her to Notre Dame community to see an dent of the University. Blak Koffeehouse turns the LaFortune "showcase the talent that God has updated version of the Harlem Blak Koffeehouse began in 1993 when Ballroom into an intimate cafe. given" to her. Henaissance 's soul legacy. a graduate student in peace studies, Students of BCAC -in conjunction with Tern will perform a gospel medley 
"African-American fine arts have Karsonia Wise, saw a need for an other campus groups -speak to the along with other Mahogany Soul mem­audience through verse and rhythm. bers, senior Yogeld Andre and juniors 
In past years, the event has had two Terrica Bentley and Jenna McCullins. co-hosts, but this year, sophomore Under the presidency of senior Daly Jelani McEwen-Torrence will be the Barnes, the Voices of Faith gospel choir sole host. will sing two selections. 
"He has the ability to carry a whole Members of the South Bend communi­audience for a night," Sorrell said. ty have also been invited to come to the 
McEwen-Torrence has been active in event. the Notre Dame literary community as As musicians from the Voices of Faith a member of the Sophomore Literary set the tone with a prelude, Sorrell said Festival committee. During the festival, he hopes people feel an "opening and he hosted the talk of poet activist Nikki welcoming atmosphere." Giovianni and co-hosted an open-mic While Blak Koffeehouse showcases poetry night, where he read some of much African-American talent, Sorrell his own works. and Berger said the evening should be 
"Poetry, for me, has always been shared with the entire Notre Dame what I've been into. It just comes natu­community. rally and I want to share that with peo­"It's important to showcase multicul­ple," McEwen-Torrence said. tural talent across campus," Berger 
Acts in the show include performanc­said. es by Voices of Faith gospel choir, Later this semester, BCAC plans to co­singing quartet Mahogany Soul and sponsor events with other organizations Shades of Ebony, a women's group that on campus. They have also been plan­promotes the empowerment of African­ning their popularly attended Fashion American. Show, which is in late March. 
Shades of Ebony, which is performing As for now, BCAC promises that their the Maya Angelou poem "Phenomenal taste of soul will be worth much more Woman," plans to illustrate the diversi­than the value of $3 that they have to ty of the African-American women. pay to attend. 
"You're going to see a mother, a busi­"Nothing can touch people like ness woman, a neo-soul woman.... The words," said freshman Chris Adams, black woman is so complex," said who is performing a poem titled sophomore Shawtina Ferguson, presi­"Perfection." "You feel better if you can dent of Shades of Ebony. express yourself." 
In addition to womanhood, poems will focus on racial identity, love and other topics. Contact Helena Payne at 
Saint Mary's senior Hene Tern, a payne.30@nd.edu 



OB~ERVER 
<. 

page 17 Friday, February 14, 2003 
When We Speak 
Stu!ents' Poems from tfie 'B(ak 'Kojfee i-fouse 
Shanida Sharp 
I amwomyn 
Hear me roar. 
I will stand aside no more. 
Men watch out 
You will see 
A girl who has 
The power to live her dream. 
1amwomyn Hear me shout As I proclaim What it's all about. World watch out You will see me March on the path to equality. 
I amwomyn 
Hear me scream 
Don't stand 
In the way of my dream. 
All watch out and 
You will see 
A person who is born to lead. 
I amwomyn 
Hear me exclaim. 
Look into my eyes and see my 
pain. 
Men watch out 
Just wait and see .-The day when women 
Can be what they want to be. 
Jemar Tisby 
lam 
I am black I am not a problem I am not a project 1 am not an issue I am not a number I am so much more I am a Christian 1 am a Son I am a brother I am a leader I am a roommate I am a friend I am a fighter I am a scholar I am a poet 1 am a person I am and always be ME. 
Excerpts taken from When We Speak: Voices from an Afrocentric Perspective 


']-[avv ':Notre 'Dame y_ref!ssors met their pouses andfe(( in (ove 
We met in the faff ef 1984 at the 'lnter-'llniversity 'Proa,ram for Chinese Lan,qua13e Stuaie; ("StEnora Center") in 'Thi12ei, T'aiwan. Lione( was a Plt.rr> candi4J:lte om the 'llniversitlf o'f Ca(ifornia, 'Be:kefey, and Susan was _rinis inB an 'M.~. at ti-re 'tlnivetsity of 
'Michiean. 
~ romtJJ1,Ce of heart and mind'and ofrare intjnsih{ was made, over 
(on,q. walk}, 6us riaes, {avisfi fiote( 6runches, eLeaant :Japanese meafs 
ana thf best Cfiines1 fool in tfie war(£ We syo'fe for hours on end' 
q6out life in general, tfiina, academics, Cove and' man'\[. other tfiin,qs,
b{is~fo.J[~ mincffess of the imyeratives of time. We ,mew we were 
meant for each other, stf{( it took us severa{ years to work out the 
detaifs 'of how to 6e in the same p(ace, 6ut we were married in fJ>eJroit 
in .1unl 1988 and moved to Stiffwater, Okia., where we tau3ht at 
Okfafioma State 'llniversitlf. 
Since then we have had two chi(dren, 'Hannah ;ma:E(ena, finished' 
~}? 'Ph:Ds, written or edited' six Gooks (one of them tot1ether, China 
OJ], Center: 'Mappine tfie 'Mar14ins of the 'Micfd(e 'XinBaom, pu6fisfiei
in Octo6er 2ocf2), tau,qfit at ttie 'llniversitlf. ofOk(afioma, 'tlniversjty
of Coforaao at rr>enver, 'llniversity 6'f to(oraao at 'Bou(der, 
iJ.niversit11,..of rr>enver, and' the 'llnivers'ity of Pennsy(vania. We 
moved'to 'R.pfre 'Dame in 2000, andarey(e9sefto s,tJ# movi1;J,,q!
Our cfii(dren are now in e(ementar)I schoo( and unior hiBh· We 
continue to share our vas;ions for Cnina and' tfie ife ef the mind, 
aCon,q :,vitfi fove of fami1~!J-_F.ientfs, and300a food. 'lt's -6een_Jl (o1¥1 and 
~mehmes 6um_fy roai vut our Cove and risyect fiave ailowed"'us to 1ace the diaffen8es and feey (au3fiin8 to3ether. 
Lionel M. Jensen and Susan Blum 
itflue. 

rJ-(ere's liow "it a{( rea({y ficy,yenea ... 11 
'M.11 wjfe and' iJ a{ways joke tfiat we had an arranged marriaae. 
1T'ha"t1s /fecause our mothers met (one 6ef9re we did, dunne a sliop~m.e 
tr~ at 'Best andComyany (6ack in our hometown o_t. C(eve(and, dhioJ,. 
at tfie scoutine de_partment, and each fiaa a ereatfirst inpression of 
tfie ,other. 
'However, their meetinJ,l. occurred'when we were 12 and 10 respective­{'\J., a;u{we didn't actuatty meet tacfi other unti( severa( years tater, in fhe yont fia{( of'.Eifeen'sJunior h{gfi scfioo[ '1 was attendin,q tfie SprinB ,q(ee cfu6 concert witfi _rrienls, and' slie was sineine in r'lie "'Beauty 'ShlJ) Qyartet". 'T'fie rest, as they say, is fiistory. 
Harvey and Eileen Bender 
~ 

Sfiort{y afte,r arrivin;;J jl,t 1fotre rr>ame, '1 was invited',to a (uncfieo;tfor new-'faculhf fiostea btf tfie Provost's· qffice. Wlii(e there '1 catj,qht siglit, at a aistance, of another new yrof~sor/i and' somethinB avout liim attractedm11, attention. 'Hcrwever, tfie Cunc eon ended' 6ifore 'l liaa 
a chance to r1Jeed1.im. 
'lmmeaiatety a~er the (uncfieon, 11 wa(fed over to tfie O'Sfiauf1finess,1f Copy Cent~r a1;d; ft,S {uck (destiny? providence?) wo~(J' ~ve it, rfi~re I-re was standi:1-in line. 1fot one to ret an opportunity sl9; 6y, '1 mtro­iucei myse 6y sayinB, "Weren't you jusfat tfie (uncfiJor new facu{­t:J,? So was !" 
We s9on [earned' that we shared a common yassion: Wj were 6otfi 'Phi(adefpfiia Pfii({ies fans. '1 fiad'just moved from Pfiifaiet,iliia 6ut1t:. Jut happe,Jled to liq,ve lived thfre ;itiat critica( mo~ent df a boy's (i e wnen he becomes interested' m base aff and' had SJnCJ rftovea aw f 
S)lcfi jicfefihf ro a11; historica{(y me iocre team C01fld b~ ta~en as evi­
denJe oJ irrattonafihf, Gut str),l.ck me as a rea,ssunn,q J1.J1n in a yoten­
tial Jyouse. WJ_ werl married that 'May and wi{{ ceteffrate our 20th 
anniversary this year. 
JoAnn DellaNeva and Thomas Flint 
Friday, February 14, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NHL 
Lalime stops 24 for 2nd consecutive shutout 
Tim Connolly and Denis 
Associated Press 
Hamel got the Sabres' goals. Fedorov, who broke a seven­
OTTAWA 
game goal drought, scoredPatrick Lalime stopped 24 
twice in the first 4:22 of the
shots for his second consecutive second period to give Detroit ashutout and league-leading Sf'V­3-0 lead.
enth of the season as tho 
His first came 53 seconds into 
Ottawa Senators beat the 
the period, when he fired in aEdmonton Oilers 2-0. 
one-time slap shot from the
Lalime shut out Pittsburgh 3­slot. And 3:29 later. Fedorov's0 tlrn previous night. 
slap shot from just inside theMarian Hossa scored his third blue line went through Buffalo
goal in as many games and his 
goaltender Ryan Miller's pads. 
36th this season, and Magnus 
It was also Fedorov's first
Arvedson added his ninth. 
goals at Joe Louis Arena andThe Senators extended their first two-goal game since Dec.
undefeated streak to five games 14. He has 22 goals this season.
(4-0-1) and hold a three-point The Sabres got going just 40lead over New Jersey for first seconds later when Connolly
place in the Eastern 
beat Joseph high to the stick
Conference. 
side from the inside edge of theA supportive crowd of 18,115 left circle. 
was on hand for the Senators' Larionov added a power-playfirst home game since owner goal 3:11 into the third period,Hod Bryden and his principal and Hamel scored for Buffalo atcreditors came to a conditional 5:47. 
agreement on Bryden's repur­Detroit took a 1-0 lead in thechase of the Senators. 
first period when Woolley, a
Neither team created any 
former Sabre. scored a power­great chances in the first period 
play goal. He put in the
and both goaltenders came up 
rebound of Brett Hull's shot
with big saves early in the sec­from the bottom of the left cir­ond. 
cle.
Tommy Salo, who faced 26 Woolley played with theshots, robbed Daniel Alfredsson Sabres for six seasons before with a sprawling save. Minutes being traded to the Red Wings
later, Lalime was equally 
earlier this season. 
impressive in making a glove 
Blue Jackets 2, Canadlens 1 
save on Jason Chimera. 
Jaroslav Spacek, Columbus'Hossa solved Salo midway 
buried Koivu's return pass into roughing. shots in the third period totop-scoring defenseman, got the
through the second with a 
winning goal just 28 seconds an open right side before Blue The Blue Jackets passed the force overtime. Handzus beatpower-play goal, beating him Jackets goalie Marc Denis could puck around quickly on the Brent Johnson for his 16th goalinto overtime, lifting the Bluewith a one-timer through traf­get across. ensuing power-play and soon as the Flyers outshot the Blues
Jackets past the Montreal
fic. 
The goal ended a 121 :54 found themselves with two 3-2 in the extra period, with
Canadiens.
Arvedson scored his first goal shutout streak for Denis, who players alone in front of Johnsson assisting on the play.
Spacek, who assisted on Geoff
in 10 games at 6:36 of the 
made 38 saves the night before Theodore when Montreal's Alexander Khavanov had a
Sanderson's power-play goalthird. He took a pass off the 
late in the second period, in a 1-0 win over San Jose. Andreas Dackell left his posi­goal and an assist for the Blues,
sideboards and fired a shot 
scored on a power play after Jose Theodore made 24 saves tion to chase the puck. whose six-game unbeatenfrom the blue line that beat Montreal's Yanic Perreault was for Montreal, which remained Ray Whitney found Spacek streak (4-0-2) ended.
Salo. 
penalized with 55 seconds left undefeated in regulation in its alone with Sanderson. Spacek The Flyers, blanked in four of Red Wings 4, Sabres 2 in the third period. last three (2-0-0-1) following a slid the puck across to their previous eight games, 
Sergei Fedorov scored twice Columbus, which had lost five four-game losing streak. Sanderson, who put the shot ended a goal drought of 167 as the Detroit Red Wings beat straight on the road, has lost The Canadiens outshot the past Theodore for his 23rd of minutes, 9 seconds when the Buffalo Sabres, the first just once in its last seven games Blue Jackets 39-26 overall, the season. Magnus Ragnarsson scored in time Detroit has won two (4-1-2). including 16-5 during a score­Flyers 4, Blues 3 the second period. Roenick cut games in a row since Dec. 28. Trailing 1-0, Montreal less and listless first period. Michal Handzus scored on a the gap to one at 10:48 of the 
Slumping Buffalo is winless in defenseman Andrei Markov Sanderson opened the scoring rebound at 3:02 of overtime as third and Johnsson scored his eight games (0-6-0-2). drew the Canadiens even 8:04 on a 4-on-3 advantage with the Philadelphia Flyers, shut fourth of the season from the 
Jason Woolley and Igor into the third period as he fin­1:39 left in the second. out the previous two games by side of the net at 12:53 to tie it. l.arionov scored the Red Wings' ished off a give-and-go play Montreal right wing Richard the Wild, rallied from a three­Mark Recchi assisted on the other goals, Brendan Shanahan with Saku Koivu. Markov car­Zednik was called for hooking goal deficit to beat the St. Louis first three Flyers goals. Roman and Nicklas Lidstrom each had ried the puck into Columbus' just 21 seconds after Columbus' Blues. Cechmanek allowed three goals two assists, and Curtis Joseph zone before passing to Koivu. Jody Shelley and the Canadiens' Jeremy Roenick and Kim on the first eight shots he faced, made 31 saves. Markov drove to the net and Randy McKay were sent off for Johnsson scored on consecutive and none on the last 13. 

The Obsc:,rvcr accrpB dassifi<:ds ~business day Ii-om 8 a.m. to 3 r-m. at the Notre Dame officr, 02-'I South Dining Hall. Dcadline for nae-day classifi<:ds is 3 p.m. A1 classifieds musr be: prepaid. 
The charge i.s 3 crnts pa: character pa: day, including all spaces. The Obsaver rcsc:m:s the right to edir all classifieds foe content wiihout issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANT $10,0CIO? NEED AN INTERNSHIP?  OOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004  Happy Valentine's Day trom an Observer AME to an Observer  
NOTICES  Earn a $10,000 scholarship towards  SCHOOL YEAR  FOR SALE  PERSONAL  ANE.  
Acapulco s 11 Spring Break ~oy, Biandli-Aossi Tours, is 'Going Looo' with a 'l..ut Qwance to Oaooe• Special! Boal( now and get $100 oft our already low price' YOlll seat is available now, but may be gone klmon'ow! Cal now 000­875--4525. www.breaknow.com SPRING BREAK on Soutt1 Padre Island. ranked 13 S.B. deslrlalioo by the Travel Ghamel. Soulh Padre Resof1 Rentals has the best 1,2&3 bedroom rondos. Great location and amenities, dose., Mexico. cau  next year s tuition and have one of the best summef jobs in America. Looking tor ar; industrious sell­s1arter with a stroog W0fK ethic and amiable personality, who is fflSPOO· sible, impeccably well-groomed and has excellent :service skills. The job entails house and property ~at a private beach estalein East Hamp.ton.NY. Only lreshman allti sophomores ID apply. Room, boa«I, and weekly spending money is provided. WOik from mid-May to mid-Aug.  WB.L MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS· SECURITY SYSTEMS-MAINTE­NANCE STAFF ON CALL-WASH­ERS/DRYERS CALL TODAY-HOUSES GOING FAST!!'­(X)NTACT KRAMER (547) 315­503200 (574) 234-2436­ALSO LEASING FOR 2004-2005 VISIT OUR WEBSITES 0  Two liekets for CATS appearing on Marcil 22 at the Moms Performing Arts Ceo1er. Good seats on main floor $45 each. Please call 271-9539. FOR RENT 3"6 BDRM HOMES. 03'04 YR SEC SYS WASHER/D 272-6306  Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it alone It VOi.i or someone you IOve needli coofidenlial support Of assis­tance. please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC. at 1-7819. For more intoonation. see our bi­weekly ad in The ObselVM. VALENTINES happy valentines day sohoesl  Happy Valentines day tram the oldef former Spons Editor to my two ANE's. Make lolle, not war girls. Happy Valentine·s Day to Jadt. Jim. Jose, Johnny and all my other boys that have been kicked off ca~s. Thanks Thaddeus. Linda and Soott. You guys are the best' I found out whats going down at two o'clock. HAHAHA! Ok. so I oon·t know what's going down at two o'clock.  ..­ 
800·944-6818 Visit gosouthpadreis­land oom Dalas bound? Will pay for transport of baby bassinette. ND alum 2145590068 dct)Oaol.c:om # I Spring Break Vacations! Canam. Jamaica, Bahamas. & Aorida! Best Parties. Bes! Hole!s, Best Prices! Space is l...irnitecl'I! 1­800-234·7007 www.eodlesssum­memurs.com  II ilterested, please send a one page Jette< on 'A'hy you think you should get the job and your resume to P\an.,tonsjob030hotmaU.oom. Will stop taking applications on Wednesday, Feb 1!11h, oot you are encouraged to send before this date. happy valentines to my Belle  DOMUSKRAAIEACOM WANTED Softball Officials Wanted. Apply wlRecSports by Feb. 201h. New NO officials earn $8. More into email hadams@na.edu  LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF ND. 3-5 PEOPLE 2n3097 Rooms tor rent $250 mooth inciudes utilities. 272-1525 mmmrentals@aol.com Walk 10 School. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus. mmrmentalsOaol com 272-1525 www.mmmreotals.com  Kristifla Barrios, y01.11'$ are the sweetest eyes I ve ever seen. 32516 + 32156 ~, Luke. youre my best. Andrea, Barb, Beth, and Kelly -you all have a piece ol my heart. Happy Valentines Day! Love, KG  can you 1e11 me??? Happy Birthday Mom! Hi Matt's mom! Bui I iovanl a regular banana later, so... yeah. WeloOme to Notre Dame all Junior Parents. Enjoy your stay. And I'm spent.  

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 14, 2003 

NCAA 
Neuheisel confirms rumors 
lowed has raised the question
As•ociatcd Press 
about who I am. It has ques­
tioned something more impor­
SEATTLE tant, my credibility, and that 
Washington Huskies head isn't worth it. 
coach Rick Neuheisel has "I want to correct the situation acknowledged that he was and apologize for not being interviewed for the San more candid. I will work hard at Francisco 49ers coaching job, repairing those relationships I 
saying his initial denial was have damaged." based on a promise of confiden-Neuheisel, 33-16 in four years tiality. at Washington and 66-30 in 
Neuheisel told the Seattle seven years as a college head Post-Intelligencer and The coach, would not say whether Seattle Times on Wednesday he was interested in or had night he decided to give the real been offered the 49ers job, story out of concern for his which went to Oregon State credibility. coach Dennis Erickson. 
"My knee-jerk reaction was to P-1 columnist John Levesque protect an agreement of confi-overheard Neuheisel on Sunday dentially I had with the 49ers," at the San Francisco airport Neuheisel told The Times, "but while the coach was talking by the life of the story that has fol-telephone with his narents
•.•.•••.•••••.••...............••.•••..••••••.•.•.......•.•••.••.•.... 
Gail Motter from Wolf Park in Battle Grouna, IN will present slides on the park's activities involving the stuay of wolf behavior 
Time: 2:00PM on Saturday, Feb 19h Place: Galvin Auditorium 
Everyone is welcome! 
Sponsored by the Pre-Vet Club 
about the 49ers job. 
To Levesque and in interviews Monday with The Times and KJR Radio, as wen as in a news release, Neuheisel said he flew to California only to play golf and discuss a business deal in the Napa Valley. 
.. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Cone returns with m.inor league contract 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK David Cone decided to give it one more trv. 
Out of baseball last year, the 40-year-old pitcher will attempt a comeback with the New York Mets, signing a minor league contract. 
The right-hander last pitched in 2001, going 9-7 with a 4.31 ERA in 25 starts for Boston. Cone worked as an analyst for the New York Yankees' YES network last season and had been expect­ed to do so again. 
"My gut feeling is that I'll probably retire at this point," Cone said in late January while visiting the Yankees' minor league complex in Tampa, Fla. 
But after a lot of lobbying from Mets lefty Al Leiter ­and the possibility of winning a spot as the No. 5 starter ­Cone chose to give it a shot. 
Cone, who rose to promi­nence with the Mets in the late 1980s, was expected to join pitchers and catchers Friday at spring training in Port St. Lucie, Fla. 
"\\Then you talk to a guy who's pitched as long as David and talk about getting hitters out, competing and working on a major league mound, you certainly saw his enthusiasm for wanting to give it another shot," Leiter said. 
"I just told him the same thing I told him last year. I told him it would be a good thing and that a lot of his success was here," he said. "He's good, he's a good club­house guy, he's smart, a vet­eran player who knows how to win. Absolutely he can help." 
Leiter, Tom Glavine, Pedro Astacio and Steve Trachsel hold down the first four spots in the rotation. Cone will compete with Mike Bacsik, Jason Middlebrook and Aaron Heilman for the fifth slot. 
"It's hard to know what David has left," Mets general manager Steve Phillips said. "There's no risk. It gives us a free look." 
"We're not looking at David exclusively as a starting pitcher," he added. 
Cone is 193-123 lifetime with a 3.44 ERA. A five-time All-Star, Cone ranks 17th in major league history with 2,655 strikeouts. 
Cone pitched for the Mets from 1987-92, going a career-best 20-3 in 1988. 
He won the 1994 Cy Young Award with Kansas City and threw a perfect game in 1999 for the Yankees. He won four World Series championship rings with the Yankees, and also won one with Toronto in 1992. 
Cone has enjoyed his rela­tionship with the Yankees, and wanted to make sure his deal with the Mets wouldn't cause any hard feelings. 
Cone told Yankees manager Joe Torre on Wednesday he intended to sign with the Mets. Torre wished him luck 

Got any plans for the night after Valentines? 
If not, come on over to the 24 hour space at the La Fortune Basement for some live music! Free of charge! 

He is a live guitar player and singer who plays a wide variety of music at request. 
Date: Saturday, February 
15 
Time: starts at 10pm 
Place: La Fortune 24 Hour Lounge in the Basement 
Juniors1 feel free to bring your parents along! 

Check FlipsideEvents on your IM 
Questions? Call Geremy at 4-1582 
for details on the weekend's events 
,--u-p----...J 

UND SMC HCC 
. .
.•..•..••..••..••.••......•..••..........•.............•.......•.....•. 

PORTS 
Friday; February 14, 2003 
I 
I 
I MENS BASKETBALL 
I' 
I 
! I 
I 
! Squeezing the Orange 
I I 
I i Irish travel to No. 17 Syracuse for a matchup ofBig East West Division leaders
i 
I I I 
have had the benefit this week of 
I 
' By CHR1S FEDERICO not having to play a mid-week
I 
Sports Writer 
game. The break came at a good
I 
time for players to get a restI After beating No. 4 Pittsburgh from game action before the I 66-64 last Sunday, the road tough trip to Syracuse. 
I 
I should only get easier for the "[The break] really helps theI Irish. legs get back into it," Carroll I But only a week after one of said. "A couple of days off let us
I 
-the biggest victories in the histo­refresh a little bit, especiaJly this 
ry of its program, No. 10 Notre time of year, and we should be t Dame (19-4. 7-2 in the Big East) fresh for the game on Saturday." I must travel to No. 17 Syracuse The long week also gives the 
Saturday for a matchup with the Irish extra time to prepare for a only other Big East team to beat talented foe in the Orangemen. the Panthers this year. "I think it's always good to 
"It's tough, but this is the Big have a week off in terms of get­East, and that's how the sched­ting in the practice facilities and ule is," said Notre Dame guard working on some things to kind Matt Carroll, who leads the Irish of tune up for your next game," in scoring this season with 20.6 Irish forward Jordan Cornette 
points a game. "But we're look­said. "With such a talented team ing forward to it. It's crunch with so many weapons like time of the year, and we're Syracuse, it's good to have a full excited to go take on a big chal­week of practice to kind of focus lenge up in the Carrier Dome." in on specific things that make 
With the trip to Syracuse, the them tick and make them go, Irish will have to prove they can and kind of shut that down when handle hostile environments, we get there on Saturday." something they have struggled Even with the tough back-to­with this season. While unde­back matchups, several Irish feated at home, Notre Dame is 2-players see the game as a 3 in opponents' arenas, with chance to prove themselves as losses coming at Pittsburgh, leaders in the conference. Kentucky and Seton Hall. "I think it's a good run for this 
Following the physically and team. I think it's going to test us mentally testing win over Pittsburgh last week, the Irish see ORANGE/page 24 
I 

FENCING 
Irish claim top spot in poll 
ByMAITLOZAR 
Sports Editor 
Light up Grace Hall, there's a new No. 1 team at Notre Dame. 
After defeating No. 4 Ohio State 16-11 Jan. 25, former No. 1 Penn State 15-12 Feb. 1 and former No. 6 Stanford 19-8 last weekend, the Irish were in line for the top spot in the country. When the national rankings compiled by the United States Coaches Fencing Association were published Thursday, that claim came true. 
"We are very happy. We worked hard during the whole year so we are satis­fied." Notre Dame coach Janusz Bednarski said. "It doesn't warrant anything 
more than fame at the moment. It is good to have it, but we will continue to work hard." 
During the past two sea­sons, the mens team has ascended to the top spot in the country heading into the national championships in March. Each year, the Irish have failed to win the nation­al title, finishing third each year. 
"I know we are fencing very well and at nationals, it makes our position even harder. It is different than throughout the year," Bednarski said. "At nationals, teams go to less fencers. It makes it harder and less pre­dictable and more random results. This position is get­ting us extra motivation to work harder and keep fight­ing." 
With a 19-0 record this sea­son, the Notre Dame mens team has won 78 consecutive matches dating back to its last loss on Jan. 23, 2000. Notre Dame's streak is third­longest in school history behind the 98 match streak set from 1984-88 and the school-record 122-match streak set from 1975-1980. 
The womens team dropped from second to third in the latest poll after losing dual matches to No. 1 Penn State and No. 4 Ohio State. 
Both the mens and womens team close out the regular season at next weekend's Michigan State duals. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
ND WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Irish hope for -win on road before break 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 

Notre Dame has a reward awaiting them after their road game against Providence Sunday -a week off from any games. 
"We really could use a break and I think a couple days off is really what we need right now," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "We'll take some time off at the beginning of the week and rriaybe then put some new wrin­kles in. We don't have any time between our last game and the Big East tournament so this will be a great time for us to make some changes." 
But for Notre Dame to truly enjoy their game-free week, the Irish need to gain an important road win against the Friars. Providence is 9-13 on the season and 3-8 in Big East play. 
Sophomore guard Michal Epstein, who averages 15.3 points and 3.4 rebounds per game, leads the Friars. She hasn't gotten much help though, as no one else on Providence's team averages double figures in scoring. The Friars also use a four-guard offensive set, which could potentially cause problems for a bigger, but slower Notre Dame team. 
McGraw wants her team more focused on playing well, then trying to stop Providence. 
''We really need to (play our game]," McGraw said. "We're 
sec FRIARS/page 24 
v., SMC SWIMMING 
HOCKEY
SMC BASKETBALL NO SOFTBALL NCAA BASKETBALLND WOMENS TENNIS 
LU
1--u Saint Mary's at Notre Dame at 
Wake Forest 94, MIAA Tournament 
Calvin at Saint 
Notre Dame at 
Virginia Tech at Mary's 
Bowling Green 
No re Dame South Florida Duke 80 
The Demon Deacons
ccs 
Friday, 7 p.m. 
break a 14-game losing The Belles are in last 
Saturday, 1 p.m. 
Friday, 4 p.m. 
Saturday, noonFriday, all day 
streak to Duke with
The Belles look to gar-
The Irish look to get 
The Irish begin theirThe Irish return to play 
-c: 
ner some pride with a 
back on the winning 
their victory Thursdayafter nearly two weeks season at the USF/Wilsonplace after one day of 
track with a pair of wins. 
night.

a. ti competition. 
win over the Knights. 
off from competition. 
Tournament. 

page 21page 26 page 25
page 26 page 24 
page 23
v., 

Friday, February 14, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 27 

CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN 
JACK MONAHAN 
JUMBLE 
J~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BREEL 

02003 Tnbuno Media Services, Inc,All Right,, Rese,ved 
GURPE 

j 
tEXTORV I
I 
www.'umble.com 
YAFFOL 


Answer here: rI I I ) [ I I I ) 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' 
Jumbles: CURVE HOARD OUTBID ECZEMA 
-
s Answer: What the computer operators considered the office lounge -A CHAT ROOM 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 


'7HE:. SAID THE "PASS" FROM 
THE RICH GUY 
WAS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
57 " Heartache" (#1country hit for Janie Fricke) 
58 Special qualities i.--+--+---+­
59 Rounded end 
60 One of the Waltons 61 Sleep on ii 62 "It so· 63 Successor of 
Mao 
DOWN 
1 Loud bursts 2 "Matter of Facr columnist 3 Bonnie and 
Clyde, e.g. 4 Cast off 5 Pick from a 
deck 6 Billet-doux writer 7 Remote-sensing 
orbiter 8 Fight site: Abbr. 9 They may come 
off a shelf 
10 b~~:~ trand 
11 Hanged pirate 12 Modern pentathlete's need 13 Former union mems. 19 Action that may produce a reaction 21 Return addressee? 25 Baseball great Buck 28 Radio wave reflector 
30 Bean of "The Lord of the Rings" 
31 "Stat" 
32 Pro 34 Cottonwood's cousin 36 Things you want 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best ol Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
WILLSHORTZ 
40 Legendary 50 • Jabberwocky" capital of King starter Agamemnon 
51 "No way" 41 Mature insects 
52 Member of la 42 On-line? 
famille 
54 Mass exodus 45 Balzac's •­preceder?
Double Famille" 
56N.Y.
48 Biological stain 
engineering 49 String sound sch. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name Address------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ ­
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIlS DAY: Gregory Hines, Dave Dravocky, Jack Benny, MegTtlly 
Happy Birtlxlay: Think before you act this year ifyou want things to run siroOthly. You will make soire positive changes if you focus on what's important Put your efforts into self-improveirent and the changes that will bring you greater self-ronfidence and more popularity. You11 get the results you are looking for. Yournumbeis are 8, 13, 22, 35, 40, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't let the people around you confuse you today. You may not be too happy about the changes going on armmd you, but bide your time and let things Wlfold as they may. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): It's time to answer some of your mail you've been ignoring. You may discover something interesting that you didn't notice before. It's time to take stock ofyour life, both eIIDtionally and financially. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Temptation may get the better of you today if you are given a financial propositioo that sollllds too good to be true. Be careful and relll!mber to keep everything in moderation today. *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may be feeling sentimental, especially if you don't have any plans for Valentine's Day. Don't let anyone goad you into a debate or frustrate yo11 You need your peace and quiet *** LEO (July 2.1-Aug. 22): Do som:thing special for the one you love. The effcxt will be appreciated and you will feel energized. Take on whatever comes your way. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): The more you can do to help others, the better you will feel about yowself. Your ability to pay close attention to small but important details will be valued. H** LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct 22): Don't let anyone talk you into doing soirething that doesn't feel right. Please yourself for a change. Follow only your own beliefs. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 2.1-Nov. 21): Your attitude is changing, which will enable you to grow in a positive direction. Your awareness is growing and your IIDtives are becoming much clearer. Follow a new direction. ***** 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't be daunted by a few setbacks. Your knowledge and experience will be more valuable than you think, and you can offset many ofthe setbacks you have experienced in the past. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): Arguing will be a waste oftiJre and could result in a loss offriendship or trust Be very cautious how you handle your business today. Don't let your etrolions take over. ** AQUARRJS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): It's time to take a look at your future and what your options are. You need to use your ingenuity ifyou want to get ahead Put your ideas into play and believe in your abilities. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will be a sentimental fool today, especially with Valentine's Day foreioost on your mind. Ifs tiJre to let that special soireone know how much you care. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You will be caring, nwturing and always willing to lend a helping hand. You will be energetic and will always think big when it com::s to what it is you want to do. You will participate rather than stand by watching. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, wnetworlc.com. 
COPYRIGHT2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICA1E 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Stationer's stock 5 Not choppy 9 F.D.R.'s Interior 
secretary 14 Robert_ Prewitt ("From Here to Eternity" 
soldier) 15 Latin trio part 16 Banned blocks 17 Like some 
D.A.'s 18 Spark plug, so 
to speak 20 Not straight 22 Brooks 23 Game stickers? 24 Unlit? 26 Show respect, 
in a way 27 Some barometers 31 _Sea {Amu 
Darya's outlet) 33 Surgeon's wear 35 Down 
36 Guitarist Montgomery 
37 VCR speed measure: Abbr. 
38 Actress Vardalos of "My Big Fat Greek Wedding" 
39 Chain reaction facilitator 
42 Chop order 
43 Way to get one's message across 
44 Wishes undone 
46 Best dishes, perhaps 
47 Peeved 
50 _ National Battlefield in Mississippi 
53 Where someone may get a buzz 
55 Elliptical comment on local customs 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 14, 2003 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles look to play through injuries 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Spam Writer 
Although it is impossible for Saint Mary's (5-17, 1-10 in the MIM) to win the MIAA confer­ence title, pride is still at stake for the Belles coming into Saturday's home contest. 
Saint Mary's enters Saturday's game against Calvin with some uncertainty. as leading scorer Emily Creachbaum (12.6 points, 
6.0 rebounds per game) is still questionable with an ankle injury. Looking to pick up the scoring slack has been Bridget Boyce (7. 3 points per game). Anne Hogan (7 .3 points) and Emily Pernotto (5.6 points per game). 
Meanwhile, Calvin will counter with a well-balanced attack in which no players average double figures. Junior forward Kim Wolthuis leads the way for the Knights, averaging 9.5 points per game on 47 percent shoot­ing. Senior guard Tricia Dyk (9.2 points, 2.5 assists. 2.7 steals per game). senior center Emily Beard (9.2 points. 8.4 rebounds per game) and sophomore guard Kristen McDonald (9 points. 2.1 assists per game) all contribute as well for Calvin (13-9, 4-7}. 
The last time these two teams met, the Knights outshone the Belles, winning 64-50 despite 21 turnovers. Beard and McDonald led the Knights, scoring 12 and 10 points, respectively. As a team, Calvin shot 53.3 percent from the field, dominating Saint Mary's, as the Belles have learned that it is tough to win in the MIM shooting under 40 per­cent from the field. 
Regardless, in the midst of a ten game losing streak that dates back to Jan. 8, the Belles are ready for a win on Saturday. 
"Since Calvin doesn't just have one good player, we have to focus on defense," Boyce said. "If we concentrate on defense, then our offense will come naturally, and we will be fine." 
Saint Mary's has something to build on after Wednesday's game. Despite the loss, the Belles played well, as they were led by Pernotto's nine points. Even though the Belles shot only 
Reckers hosts Brey radio show 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame mens basketball coach Mike Brey will broadcast his weekly radio show live from Reckers Sunday. Brey usually broadcasts the Mike Brey Show from Logan's Roadhouse but wants to have a show on cam­pus enabling student atten­dance. 
Brey leads the 10th ranked mens basketball team into the Carrier Dome this weekend to face Syracuse for a Big East west division battle. 
Brey's radio show will be broadcast live at 7 p.m. 
32 percent from the field, they rebounded well, pulling down 41 boards as a team. 
"We have been getting good shots," Boyce said. "They just haven't been falling." 
Saturday's game is the perfect opportunity for the Belles to sal­vage their season, as the Knights are a beatable team, despite the fact that they are tied for fifth in the MIAA. They come off an 88­72 loss to Hope, extending their losing streak to two games. 
The Belles are eager to play Saturday, as they are ready for a win. 
"We just need to keep shooting and looking inside," Boyce said. "We will be fine." 
Saint Mary's and Calvin square off at 3 p.m. Saturday in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles in last after 1st day 
By ERIK POWERS 
Spocts Writer 
Saint Mary's began the first of three grueling days and nights of heats, trials and finals at the MIAA Championships from which a champion will eventually be crowned. 
But this year's incarnation of the Belles is off to a more challenging start. The squad is stuck in last place after the first day of competition. The Belles have 47 points and are in a deep hole behind first place Calvin (181) and Hope (17 4). While moving all the way up will be difficult, Saint Mary's has a chance to over­take Kalamazoo (90). Alma 
(75) and Albion (70). 
Junior Megan Ramsey and freshman Kelly Neils finished third and sixth respectively in the 500-meter freestyle yes­terday. 
Entering the tournament, host Hope (6-0) and Calvin (5-1) were the favorites to win the conference champi­onship. The Belles were look­ing to pull the upset after los­ing to Hope by only 16 points earlier this season. 
In their favor, the Belles had some momentum head­ing into the championships coming off a split finish ver­sus Alma and Albion Jan. 18, a meet where Saint Mary's fought back from a deficit in order to pull out a late victo­ry. 
The Belles also have had tournament success this year, taking second at the Palm Beach Winter College Classic. 
Saint Mary entered the meet behind the majority of the conference, hoping to duplicate the success of last year's squad. Those Belles began the championships 3-4 in conference, yet were in contention for thirrl place for most of the meet before a late slide to fifth place. 
Saint Mary's is led by expe­rience, most notably by juniors Ramsey and Maureen Palchak and senior captains Lauren Smith and Lane Herrington. 
The Belles must ensure that they have added endurance for longer distances and will be able to parlay their suc­cess in their butterfly and short-distance freestyle events to victory. 
The Belles also should ben­efit from the upcoming tour­nament schedule, which emphasizes their strengths: the butterfly and individual medley. 
Competition continues today and Saturday with the preliminaries starting at 10 
a.m. and the finals at 6 p.m. 
Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 


The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
The Olin Distinguished Lecture Series 
"Justified Belief" 
Upcoming Lectures 
William Galston April 3 
Joseph Raz 
April 1O 
John Finnis April 11 
Christopher Tollefsen 
Philosophy Department University of South Carolina Monday, February 17, 2003 4 p.m. Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
Friday, February 14, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
HOCKEY 
Irish look to break slide 1 game at a time 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER Sports Writer 
For the Irish to get back on the winning track, two things will have to happen this week­end in Bowling Green. 
They have to win Friday. 
They have to win Saturday. 
"It's a very similar scenario to last year," Notre Dame coach Dave Poulin said. "We have to look after business Friday and then use that Lo get going on a confident roll." 
Last season, the Irish went on a tear in the months of February and March, going 5­3-0 and using that momentum to engineer a first-round upset of Nebraska-Omaha in the CCHA playoffs. 
A key to last season's finish was the stellar play of then­freshman goaltender Morgan Cey in net. The Irish netminder has been in a bit of a sopho­more slump lately. going 1-5-4 in his last 10 starts. 
To be fair, Cey hasn't been given much support, with the Irish offense scoring just 26 goals in those 10 contests. 
"The break couldn't have come at a better time," Poulin said about his team's recent off weekend. "It helped us to work on some things." 
The Falcons (7-17-2, 4-14-2 in the CCHA) should be the kind of opponent the Irish (9-13-6, 7-10-3) can use to start a win­ning streak, but the team isn't taking anything for granted _,A right now. 
Despite dominating Bowling Green twice at home in early December by scores of 6-3 and 5-2, the Irish can't afford to look past the Falcons, who are 
a .500 team in their home arena. 
Bowling Green is led offen­sively by forward Mark Wires, with 11 goals and 10 assists. Forward Steve Brudzewski and defenseman Kevin Bieksa keep pace with 19 points each. 
In goal, the Falcons are led by sophomore Jordan Sigalet. who holds an impressive .910 save percentage despite anchoring one of the worst defenses in the CCHA and fac­ing whopping 39.3 shots a game. 
The Irish have eight confer­ence games remaining, all against teams who are on the lower end of the CCHA stand­ings. They have a chance to improve upon their current standing of 10th place and per­haps make a late-season run at achieving home ice for the first round of the playoffs. 
"This schedule is very favor­able right now," Poulin said. "We just have to win our games. Our standing is a little misleading, but you have to look at it one way and that's to go up." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


Friday, February 14, 2003 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 

Friars 
continued from page 28 
making great strides. We want to continue working on funda­mentals at practice and work on rebounding and passing and defense. Then if you do those things well, it doesn't matter so much what they do. 
"If you're taking care of your business. and doing what you're supposed to do, then you don't need to worry as much." 
Tho Irish improved in all those areas Wednesday night during their 76-48 victory over St. John's. Notre Dame out­rebounded St. John's 33-29 and held the Red Storm under 35 percent shooting for the game. That marked the fifth time in their last six games the Irish have accomplished such a feat. Notre Dame also kept an oppo­nent below the 60-point barrier for the fourth time in their last six contests. 
The defensive improvement can be attributed to a new 
Orange 
continued from page 28 
a lot so we can see what we're made of really." Cornette said. "It gives us the chance to prove to the Big East that the begin­ning of the year wasn't a fluke and that we're here for real." 
As many previous Big East games have done this year, Saturday's matchup with the Orangemen should provide another test for the Notre Dame interior players such as Cornette, Torin Francis and Tom Timmermans. Syracuse is led in scoring and rebounds by a pair of 6-foot-8 forwards in Carmelo Anthony and Hakim Warrick, who have combined for over 37 points and 18 rebounds a game this year. 
"A lot of games this year the big guys have been tested, and scheme. McGraw changed the defensive set from a 2-3 to a 1-3­
1. McGraw said the team saw the change as a new challenge and they've quickly adapted to running it in games. 
"I think the 1-3-1 is just some­thing different," McGraw said. "When you go through the whole year, you just get tired of the same old thing, so I think it was good for them because it was a new challenge. For our oppo­nents. it was something they hadn't seen before so it was a lit­tle tougher for them. Then we had success with it and that led to confidence." 
After the Providence game, Notre Dame won't play again until Feb. 23, when they face No. 1 Connecticut. The Huskies won their 62nd straight game Wednesday night and beat the Irish at the Joyce Center on Jan. 20, 72-53. 
Sunday's tipoff is scheduled for 2 p.m. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
that me. Tom and Torin are really looking forward to." 
The Orangemen have com­piled a 16-3 record this season and are 7-3 in the Big East, just a half game behind Notre Dame for first place in the West Division standings. 
"Ifyou look at it, whoever wins this game is going to be in first place," Carroll said. "It's between us, Syracuse and Pitt. We got Pitt and now we've got to get Syracuse, or they're going to move ahead of us, so this is a big game for both of us." 
Syracuse handed Pittsburgh its only other conference loss on Feb. 1 in the Carrier Dome, but the Orangemen are coming off a lopsided 75-61 loss on the road against Connecticut. 
"To be a special team, you've got to win special games," Cornette said. "You go to win the big ones. To put together a week of beating Pitt and then going to 
ND WOMENS TENNIS 
Irish battle Big East teams 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Spons Writer 
After a 12-day layoff, the Irish will face two opponents at home this weekend. Notre Dame (2-2) will face Virginia Tech today and Boston College Sunday. Both the Hokies and the Eagles are undefeated. 
The No. 21 Irish have had over a week to assess their pre­vious two matches, each of which resulted in a loss to a top­20 team. 
The losses to rivals North Carolina and Northwestern were naturally\ disappointing for Notre Dame, but the team is 
Living the Spirit 
Between Two Worlds 

6: 30pm Fri. February 21 to 8: 00pm Sat. February 22 
Building Community. Making Friends. Finding our place within the Notre Dame Family and the Church; a retreat for gay, lesbian, and bisexual undergraduate students and their friends and supporters. 
Applications available at the Retreat Office 114 CoMo -across main hall from the popcorn room. Cost: $20 

Signup Deadline Wed. February 19 

young and seems to have much potential. 
Thanks to a strong lineup that secured the doubles point. the lrish nearly upset the Tar Heels Feb. 1. In the end, the Irish, having lost 7-0 two days earlier to the Wildcats, were defeated 5-2. While the Hokies have not yet lost this spring in nine matches, they have yet to play either a match on the road or a ranked team. Friday will be a day of firsts for Virginia Tech in at least those two categories, and the Irish are hoping for a another season first for the Hokies -a loss. 
The Irish have easily defeated the Hokies 7-0 each of the nast two years, but Friday may not be so easy against a confident and successful Virginia Tech squad. 
The season story for the Eagles is similar to that of the Hokies. 
In their three matches this spring they have gone undefeat­ed, but the contest with Notre Dame will be Boston College's first road test. Although Notre Dame has not lost to either in team in 10 combined meetings, this weekend may be a little more of a challenge than in years past for the Irish. 
Cont::.ct Joe !..iac!.sley at jlindsle@nd.edu 

this is just another one of those Syracuse and beating them at games," Cornette said. "We're their place would be nice for this the big guys who are going to be team." tested against some talented inside guys, and I think ifs going Contact Chris Federico at to be another ~reat challenge cfederic@nd.edu 

THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON 
GAY AND LESBIAN 
STUDl!:NT NEEDS 

Friday, February 14, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
ND SOFTBALL 
No. 17 Irish open season in temperate Tampa 

ByMATTLOZAR 
Spores Editor 
Coach Deanna Gumpf just wants to see her team play on dirt. 
In this weekend's USF/Wilson season opening tournament, the 17th-ranked Irish will get a chance to play games on dirt ­outside. 
"I just want experience get on dirt. We want groundballs, air and to be outside," Gurnpf said. "Just to get the experience of being outside and playing in a real game. We are going to find out our weaknesses real quick­ly. Once we find out our weak­nesses. we can work on fixing them." 
One place Gumpf doesn't expect to have weaknesses is on the infield. With third base­man Andrea Loman, shortstop Andria Bledsoe and second baseman Alexis Madrid return­ing for their fourth year as starters for the Irish, consisten­cy should not be a problem. 
"It has made a huge differ­ence this year with the five seniors. Those three are our captains," Gumpf said. "The leadership they have added this year is a huge bonus. They are strong leaders and are very passionate." 
Loman, who earned third­team All-American status last season, led the Irish with a .377 batting average. As one of the top third baseman in the country, Loman plays solid defense and ranks in the top five in Notre Dame history for fielding percentage. 
Bledsoe hit .315 last year and tagged a career-best seven homeruns. Madrid didn't have her best season at the plate hit­ting .225, but she was lO•of-12 in steal attempts. 
First baseman Lisa Mattison rounds out the infield for the Irish. The senior from Granger, Ind., hit .325 last year and drove in 27. 
On the mound, Gumpf can breathe a little easier this sea­son with sophomores Steffany Stenglein and Carrie Wisen having a year of experience under their belts. 
"I think it is crucial to have that. They were thrown into the fire this year," Gumpf said. "They responded very well and did a great job last year. They know what to expect." 
Stenglein finished the 2002 season with a 27-12 record and a 1.93 ERA. Wisen was used primarily in relief and had 116 strikeouts to go along with a 
2.00 ERA. Senior Jessica Sharron and freshman Heather Booth will also pitch for the Irish this year. 
Despite losing only two starters to graduation last year, Gumpf lost two big-time players on the field in catcher Jarrah Myers and centerfielder Jenny Kriech. Myers was an All­American and Big East Player of the Year while Kriech led off for the Irish and batted .335. 
"Every year I can't replace anybody we use," Gurnpf said. 'Tm hoping their leadership carries on and we get better leaders. Both were All­Americans and arcn't replace­able." 
In the outfield, Gumpf will work on finding the right com­bination of her four outfielders. 
Sophomore Megan Ciolli moves up to hat leadoff for the Irish after hitting .345 in the second spot in the lineup last year. 
Ciolli will be one of the start­
ing outfielders playing with a 
combination of junior Nicole 
deFau, sophomore Liz 
Hartmann and freshman Kellie 
Middleton. Hartmann hit seven 
home runs for the Irish in 
2002, a rookie record, and bat­
tled injuries throughout most of 
the season. deFau was used 
mainly as a pinch-hitter last 
season. 
Junior Chantal DeAlcuaz and 
freshman Mallorie Lenn will 
both catch for the Irish this 
year. DeA!cuaz has seen limited 
playing time in her two previ­
ous seasons while Lenn was a 
member of the U.S. Junior 
National team in the fall. 
This weekend, the Irish will 
play South Florida, Kent State, 
Jacksonville, Hofstra and 
Rhode Island. Last year. Notre 
Dame defeated South Florida 5­
3 in the season's first weekend. 
After compiling a 44-17 record last year, which includ­ed an upset of No. 4 Nebraska, 

BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer 

lrlsh pitcher Steffany Stengleln pitches In a game last year against Connecticut. The Irish begin their season Saturday. 
Big East regular season and expect," Gumpf said. "You have postseason titles and being one to prepare the team the best step away from the College you can and roll with the World Series. Gumpf is taking a punches." fresh outlook into her second year at the helm of the Irish. 
"Every year is a brand new Contact Matt Lozar at year, you never know what to mlozar@nd.edu 
Large Pizza 
Cheese & 1 Topping 


~~_;;;y 
Carryout & FREE Delive 
~Piuas Crust Styles 
• DELUXE Cheese, pepperom. mushrooms, green peppers, • Original Classic Crust• Crispy Thin • Pan Styleonions, Italian sausage & extra cheese • TACO Cheese, seasoned gwuod beef. olack olives, omons, Party Size It..• 
tomatoes & Glledda1 cheese (siue of sou, cream) 2nd Pizza ot Equal or Lesser Size & Toppings Only... 
• ALL MEAT Cheese, pepperoni, mushrooms, green peppe1s, ouious, ltaliau sausage, 11am, bacou & e>.tra cheese 
Small 10" $4.99 Medium 12" $5.99 
• GAIIDEN Cl1eese, mushrooms, black olives, onions, sliced Large 14" $1.99 XLarge 16" $8.99 tomatoes & Feta cheese 
• HAWAIIAN Cheese, ext,a ham. bacon, pineapple & extra cheese Toppings 
• 
CHICKEN CLUB Cheese. seasoned chicken, bacon, onions, • Pepperoni • Ham •Italian Sausage • Ground Beef tomatoes & Cheddar cheese • Black Olives • Pineapple • Anchovies • Fresh Tomatoes 

• 
WHITE CHEEZY Butter garlic sauce with 3 blended cheeses, • Mushrooms • Green Pllppers • Fresh Onions • Bacon bacon. onions. tomatoes & Feta cheese • seasonM Chicken • Banana Peppers • Feta Cheese 


FREE DELIVERY. $7.00 Minimum For Delivery. Not Valid With Any Other Offer. Limited Time Only. 
El I@ I[d ACCEPTED HERE M-2 Must proi;de credit card information when ordering 101 delivery. 
~ ~Subs$4.69 
• 
ITALIA/i SUB Salami, ham, cheese. onions, tomatoes, banana peppefs & Italian dressing 

• 
SlcAK & CHEfSE SUB Steak, ct1eese, mushrooms & mayo dressing 

• 
HAM & CHEESE SUB Extra ham, cheese & mayo dressing

•
CHICKEN CLUB SUB Chicken breast strips, cheese, tomatoes, bacon & mayo dressing 

• 
VEGGIE SUB Mushrooms, green peppers, onions. black olives, ChMdar cheese, tomatoes & Italian dressing 


Sides 
• Garlic Bulter Oippmg Sauce • Ban.ina Peppers• Ranch Dipping Sauce 
11I side witti Pizza FREE. Addilional sides 251 each. FREE Pizza Crust To11uers 
• Roma • Butter Garlic • ,,.-a,mesan &heese 
theei B,esd 
-•Jc'

~-Yd'
Fresh-baked bread  
strips with 3 kinds of cheeses &  , . lt · ,,  ·, ~  -""' · >-,~  
garlic butte  
topped with  
Parmesan  
& Roma  
Seasoning.  
Served with  
aside of Pizza  
& Ranch Dippi  
Fresh baked and  
buttery-topped with  
cinnamon sugar  
Complete with  
aside of  
vanilla  
topping.  

52750 IN 933 
326 N. Ironwood 
574-143-1111 574-143-1111
Sb«e 1971
Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's Corner of Ironwood & McKinley 

AROUND THE NATION 
page 22 COMPILED FROM THE OBSEHVER WIRE SERVICES Friday, February 14, 2003 
::;::ri1~~~1:~;11r,~!~~l*i;f11i1t ... ··· ··· NBA 
1~1,~::111¦1 
5,.··••Flor•d•··•·•·i···· . ..m,·tn/}t/HIM 
·· ~:·: :;tiJ;~'h 
f.:.ouke .... . ·• 9 NOfflE Q~ME 
10\Kall£8S·}· 11 Marquett, · ·· •··•··· 
1:2 crefghtoil 
·13 Hlintlli 14 Oklahomistllte> 111 :.-iaty1a11_a :: 
16 Kavi.r ..........·· . 11 Watcit Forest ·· 
111 Syt#uJe.· 19 Cooneclicut •· 20 ·fl1ISSIS$ippi ~I. 
21 MlntilirL .. < . 
:i!··•···••i:ri~a::..... ::•.•::: .;iII~ 1iII11i!!i:iflim•j:ii~)Il•::;:i
w···•·:P11n1u1.•·..•·.·.·,••.:• ••·•·· ¥,•:tMii•••i~•{•io",ttit\~tt:·••r·. 
: · ::: ·:::_:::=:=.::-.::=::::;::ft#!Nfit1idi:i{i{~:~!l~ll;~;:;r:;:Ifl}#:II1:~tti)==il­

~i11r.11 
iiifi,;-~ 
if:=: r::·~p~p8S_t_-­
Villall'!
stJo··. re:. slit······ 
::~::::::::;: M1affl·· 
:i:i::::::.:VJii)11·
?fi\(_=-·· '. 
around the dial 
FRIDAY 
NBA 
Magic at Sixers 8 p.m., ESPN Spurs at Lakers 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
SATURDAY COLLEGE BASKETBALL NOTRE DAME at SYRACUSE 1 p.m., ESPN Connecticut at Villanova 12 p.m., NBC Indiana at Wisconsin 1 p.m. CBS Ohio State at Michigan 3 p.m., ESPN St. Joseph's at Dayton 3 p.m., ESPN2 Louisville at Marquette 3:30 p.m., ABC Cincinnati at Charlotte 7 p.m., ESPN Duke at Virginia 9 p.m., ESPN 
SUNDAY 
NBA 
Sixers at Nets 1 p.m., ABC Spurs at Kings 3:30 p.m., ABC 
NHL 
Sharks at Stars 8:30 p.m., ESPN 
LA Times Photo The Lakers' Kobe Bryant drives by Nuggets forward Juwan Howard in a Los Angeles victory Tuesday night. Bryant says he is Interested in playing for the 2004 USA Olympic mens team but has not yet signed a contract. 
Bryant yet to collllllit to Olym.pic tean1 
committee added that he  at last summer's world  four  or  five  other NBA  
A..sociated Press COLORADO SPRINGS Ray Allen, Tim Duncan, Jason Kidd and Tracy McGrady were the first four players chosen Thursday for the 2004 U.S. Ojympic men's basketball team, with Kobe Bryant conspicuously absent -for now. The long-awaited announcement was made in Colorado Springs, Colo., by USA Basketball, which . said Bryant could be added to the team at a later date once a contractual issue is cleared up. Bryant is "very interest­ed" in playing on the team, the national team organiz­ing committee said. The  has been asked to play on the team but has yet to sign the organization's standard player contract. "USA Basketball remains hopeful that he will be added to the roster at a future date," the statement said. Bryant said last month he plans to play on the team, which will compete in the Americas zone qual­ifying tournament in San Juan, Puerto Rico, in late August. If the Americans finish among the top three at the qualifier. they will earn a trip to Athens for the 2004 Olympics. The NBA players are looking to atone for their sixth-place showing  championships in Indiana­polis. "I thought the team put together to represent us was good enough to win the gold medal, but obvi­ously it wasn't," McGrady said. "It's motivation for us to show everybody that we still have the best players in the world." Allen, of the Milwaukee Bucks, and Kidd, of the New Jersey Nets, were members of the Olympic gold medal team in 2000. Duncan was last season's MVP with the San Antonio Spurs, and McGrady of the Orlando Magic is this sea­son's leading scorer. They will be joined by  players when the remain­der of the qualifying team roster is announced in the spring. The remainder of American team is expected to include two or three players currently playing overseas or collegiately. Larry Brown of the Philadelphia 76ers will be the coach. "It is great for our coun­try, USA Basketball and our league that these four pl{Lyers have made the commitment to play," Brown said. "We're fortu­nate to have them on this team, as representatives of our country and the NBA. It will be an honor to coach them."  

IN BRIEF 
Woods struggles early at was arrested on a misdemeanor that have significant costs to those Buick Open complaint of possession of marijuana who violate our standards." 
with intent to distribute within 1,000
The gallery crammed around the first tee and stood elbow-to-elbow on feet of a park. Sanders leads College a clubhouse balcony to get a glimpse Lt. Glenn Dobry said a Norman Football Hall of Fame voting 
police special operations unit made lleisman Trophy winners Barry
of Tiger Woods, playing in his first tournament Thursday since knee the arrest Tuesday morning during Sanders and Andre Ware lead a list surgery two months ago. an undercover operation. of 83 candidates for the College Woods hit only two fairways on the Everage and passenger drove up to Football Hall of Fame. front nine and was 1 under par the house where the officers were There arc 77 players and six through nine holes at the Buick 
working, Dobry said. He said coaches on the ballot, which will be Invitational when the first round. Everage was asked for identification distributed this week to more than already delayed by fog, was sus­and was escorted hack to his vehicle. 11,000 members of the National pended by rain. When Everage opened the door, Football Foundation and College I Iall 
Aaron Oberholser was at 6 under officers smelled burnt marijuana and of Fame. The 2003 Hall of Fame par through 16 holes, although none found a small amount of the drug, class will be announced in March of the players completed the round. Dobry said. and inducted at the Foundation's 
Woods had to wait two months to 
He was booked into the Cleveland awards dinner Dec. 9. return to competition, then another County jail and released a short time To be eligible for the ballot, play­four hours as a soupy fog covered later. ers must have been chosen a first Torrey Pines and made it impossible Coach Bob Stoops said his philoso­team All-American and played their 
to see the green on a couple of par phy is to handle matters like these last college game at least 10 years 3s along the Pacific Ocean. internally. ago. Coaches must be out of the pro­
"The bottom line is that I take this fession for at least three years, Oklahoma safety arrested issue very seriously," Stoops said in coached a minimum of 10 years and for drug possession a statement released Wednesday 100 games and won at least 60 per­
Oklahoma safety Brandon Everage evening. "We have systems in place cent of their games. 
Friday, February 14, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Wake beats Duke in 2 overtimes 
Associated Press 
WINSTON-SALEM. N.C. 
Vytas Danclius scored 20 points and matched a career high with 14 rebounds as Wake Forest (No. 17 ESPN/USA Today, No. 15 AP) snapped a 14-game losing slrcak to Duke with a 94-80 win in double overtime. 
The victory kept the Demon Deacons (17-3, 7-2) in first place in the Atlantic Coast Conference, a half-game ahead of Maryland. 
The eighth-ranked Blue Devils (16-4, 6-4) lost their fourth straight ACC road game for the first time since 1996, shooting 31.5 percent. 
Danelius scored all five of Wake Forest's points in the first overtime and four in the second extra session to help the Demon Deacons beat Duke for the first time since January 1997 -when Tim Duncan was a senior. 
Eight players fouled out in a game that saw 64 fouls called. Trent Strickland, one of the freshest players left on the court, scored 10 points in the second overtime, while Jamaal Levy added 15 points and 13 rebounds. 
Chris Duhon led Duke with a career-high 23 points, but the point guard missed his first six shots of the second overtime as Wake Forest outscored the Blue Devils 20-6. 
Dahntay Jones. Duke's lead­ing scorer, was O-for-12 from the field and finished with 10 points in 45 minutes. The Blue Devils only had four assists. 
Neither team led by more than three over the final 8:38 of regulation -and each club had a sh.ot to win it in the final seconds. 
Duhon missed a 3-pointer with 12.6 seconds left and Justin Gray, who scored 18 points in his first game back from a broken jaw, also missed a shot behind the arc seven seconds later as the game went 

Happy Birthday Punjab! 
We're proud of you! 
Love, 
Mom and Dad 
into overtime tied at 69. 
Wake Forest failed to close out Duke in the first extra peri­od despite three chances in the final 4.8 seconds. Strickland missed his shot in the lane and a follow, and Levy's final follow with 0.8 seconds left fell off the rim. 
But after Jones' free throw gave Duke its only lead in the second overtime, Strickland put Wake Forest up for good with a shot in the lane. Levy then added a follow, Danelius two free throws and Taron Downey a fast-break layup for an 82-75 lead. 
The ACC's best free-throw shooting team closed it out at the line, making eight straight down the stretch. 
Duke, which had five players foul out, made just five baskets over the final 23 minutes and was outrebounded 50-37. 
Duke missed 14 of its first 20 shots to fall into a 10-point hole 11 minutes in. 
Gray, out since breaking his jaw at Cameron Indoor Stadium a month ago, saw his first action 5:17 in, receiving a standing ovation from the sell­out crowd at Joel Coliseum. 
The guard wore a face mask to help protect his face, but it didn't seem to bother him as Gray sank his first two shots and finished the half with eight points. 
Jones and Duhon -Duke's two leaders -were a com­bined 1-of-10 in the opening 20 minutes as the Blue Devils shot just 34 percent. 
However, the Demon Deacons committed 13 fouls, sending Duke to the foul line 16 times to keep the game close. 
Unlock aWealth 01 Possibilities, With a PRIMEquitv line-of-Credit loan! 


.25'¾,APR' 
l8w R1g111ar Ratl 
With a PRIMEquity Line-of-Credit Loon, you con remodel your home, take a vocation, pay off higher-rate debts -anything you choose! 


--~ 
.;,c;;, ~ -..lit, 
; _
...:~.... 
For information, or to apply: 800/567-6328 • www.ndfcu.org 
r,,fA NOTRE DAME
u• 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You con bonk on us to be better 
GOLF 

Sorenstalll 'thrilled' to play on PGA Tour 
Associated Press 
NEWYORK 

Annika Sorenstam's grand experiment on the PGA Tour may not end at the Colonial. 
Sorenstam left open the pos­sibility of further forays into men's golf if she can do what no woman has done in nearly six decades and compete suc­cessfully in a PGA Tour event. 
"Right now I'm just going to leave it at one and see what happens," Sorenstam said, before adding: ''I'm not ruling anything out now." 
Sorenstam's future options may be limited, even though she is the dominant player in 
. women's golf and believes she can hit it far enough to com­pete on the 7,080-yard Colonial course in May. Sorenstam admitted as much in echoing a complaint that many PGA Tour pros have ­that most of today's courses are set up to favor long hitters. "There's 90 percent of cours­es on the PGA Tour where I wouldn't have a chance," Sorenstam said. "It would be ridiculous to try." Sorenstam obviously believes that isn't the case at the Colonial, a shotmaker's course that favors straight hitters like herself and where many long hitters will be using irons or fairway woods off the tees. With Sorenstam hitting her drives 270 yards or so, that takes away some of the advan­tage the men might have over the most dominant player in women's golf. "I hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens. That's my strength," she said. "If I'm hit­ting a lot of shots out of the rough or chipping that's not really my strength. I want to be a smart player there and put it in the middle of the fairway and on the greens." One of golfs greatest players ever gives Sorenstam a shot. "The biggest problem she is going to have is the hard greens, which she doesn't see a 
lot on the women's tour," Jack Nicklaus said. "But she's a very good player. If she plays very well, would she finish in the top 20 or something? Could she win? Probably not. She's certainly capable of making the cut. She's a very good player." 
In a conference call held in the wake of the Colonial's deci­sion Wednesday to give Sorenstam a sponsor's exemp­tion into the field, the winner of 11 LPGA tour events last season was clearly excited about her historic opportunity. 
She said she plans to begin playing the back tees with men players near her Florida home in the next few weeks as she prepares for the opening of the LPGA Tour season with more than the normal sense of antic­ipation. 
"I love challenges. I'm not afraid to go out there and try to perform my best no matter what the situation," Sorenstam said. 'This is a lifetime experi­ence to me. I want to enjoy this moment." 
Still, Sorenstam claims to have no idea how she'll do when she actually tees it up in Texas. 
She does know how she'll feel -nervous but not scared. 
'Tm not afraid to face this at all," Sorenstam said. 'Tm going to enjoy the journey to Colonial." 
Billie Jean King, who was part of another historic event when she played Bobby Riggs in a tennis match nearly three decades ago, said the biggest problem Sorenstam v.ill have is the uncertainty leading into the tournament. 
"Annika has never been able to rehearse for this. It's extremely difficult to go through something unre­hearsed," King said. "Realistically, for you to play your best when you've had no rehearsal is going to be a tough challenge. 
"However, because of how Annika is as an athlete, I think she will do very well. 

CARDINAL CHARTERS 
IF QUALITY COUNTS... ~ 0# ~I 

•Since 
1923 •Group Services •Professional Drivers 

•
Luxury Buses •Competitive Rates •Wheelchair Accessible OIALTOLL FREE 


1-800-348-7487 
1"""""'-1-"Annuol Pe,ccnloge Roto. P,ope,ty m,u,once ;, ,equ;cod Not ,al;d wah ony otho, olfo,. ~o>e, o,e '"bj«! to thonga. Consult 0 la, od,;sar cegord;ng doduchM"Y of ;nte,est.~ A bolloon "'oymenl wiU re.soil at ffl'olu<1ty. After the-s.1x-month introductory ,Hmod, t,i.e role will r~vert tc, the prime lending role on the lost clay of lhe previous (!UIH!er Mir1imum www.cardinalbuses.com LE.NOER i, S!i,000; maximum is $100,00Ct l11deper11dent of !he Univeuity. 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 14, 2003 
NCAA 
Esherick receiving blame for Hoyas' woes 
Associaw:I Press 
WASHINGTON 
The once mighty Georgetown Boyas are a last-place team, in danger of not even making their own conference tournament. 
They've lost six straight and have developed an uncanny knack of falling apart at the end of close games. Some fans are chanting for the coach to be fired, and they are easily heard at an arena that is usually less than half full. 
The athletic director is under fire for saying it's "unreason­able" to expect to be in the NCAA Tournament every year. The starting center has taken a mysterious leave of absence. 
In other words. the season has said forward and All-American candidate Mike Sweetney, whose own outstanding season -22 points and 10 rebounds per game -is rapidly going to waste. "We don't know what we have to do, but we have to stop this." 
How did it come to this? Although Esherick catches must of the flak, the decline actually began in the final seasons of Hall of Fame coach John Thompson's 27-year career. 
Thompson made 17 NCAA Tournaments in 18 seasons and won the 1984 title, but a series of early departures, transfers and underperforming recruits left the Hovas on an NIT level when he suddenly resigned for personal reasons on Jan. 8, 1999. Thompson's record in his last 135 games (87-48) isn't much better than Esherick's cur­rent mark (81-54). 
Esherick appeared to have the program going in the right direc­tion with a 25-8 record and Sweet 16 appearance two years ago, but that has been his only trip to the NCAAs. He turned down an NIT bid last vear because the Hoyas were going to have to play their games on the road, ending a streak of 27 con­secutive postseason appear­ances. 
This season, Georgetown seemed a surefire NCAA team, with a solid frontcourt of Sweetney, Gerald Riley and Wesley Wilson. They've instead generated attention f'or all the wrong reasons. 
Esherick unleashed a trem­bling tirade against officials for their season-long treatment of Sweetney following an overtime victory over West Virginia. The coach escaped suspension from the Big East because it was his first offense, but his team is 1-8 since. 
Also last month. athletic din:ic­tor Joe Lang shocked many at the school by telling The Washington Post that a yearly NCAA trip was an "unreasonable expectation." He cleared up the matter only slightly in a meeting with campus newspapers, explaining that there was a dif­ference between "expectations" and "goals." 
Meanwhile, the school hasn't explained what happened to Wilson, who suddenly disap­peared two games ago. The om­cial line is that he has taken "a leave of absence from the uni­versity," with no word on when or if he'll return. 

Then there arc all the close losses, with endings that leave Esherick's strategies under question. The Hoyas failed to get off a shot after a timeout with 15 seconds remaining against Notre 
Dame. 

They blew a 16-point lead in the final seven minutes against St. John's. They didn't notice when Seton I !all had six men on the court when the Pirates scored in their final possession in regulation: Seton Hall won in overtime. 
turned into a bad soap opera at a school once synonymous with basketball excellence. 
"But for the fact this is how I 
ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY 
feed my family, it would be funny," coach Craig Esherick said. "But it's not. It's not funny." 
Monday night's 66-59 loss to 
Presentation and Information Session 
Hutgers, a game that was tied with less than three minutes to 
Monday, February 17, 2003 
play, left the Hoyas at 10-10 
6:30 -8:00 p.m. ~ 
overall and 2-7 in the Big East's West Division. The last-place 
Alumni Room in the Morris Inn team in each division doesn't go to the Big East tournament, an 
All students interested in learning more about
embarrassment hardly befitting 
Allstate.
a team that started 7 -0 and flirt­
the actuarial profession are welcome to attend. 
ed with the Top 25 in late 
You're in good hands. 
Refreshments will be served. 
December. "We have a pretty good team," 

Friday, February 14, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Jeter responds to Steinbrenner's comments 
Associated Press 
TAl\lPA, Fla. 
No matter where he traveled, Derck Jeter couldn't avoid the question. 
"I went out to the Super Bowl -I got people on the street asking me the same thing: 'What's the deal with the Boss and the Boss' comments?'" the star shortstop said at the Yankees' minor league com­plex. 
"This story is not just New York. This story has developed into a national story," he said. 
George Steinbrenner ques­tioned the focus of the five-time All-Star in December, and the owner's comments have fes­tered like an open wound on Jeter over the past 7 1/2 weeks. 
The Yankees were still talking about it as they took the field for the first time since October's first-round failure against Anaheim. 
Jeter is bothered 
Steinbrenner questioned his focus and intends to address the issue further on Monday, the day before full-squad work­outs begin. 
Jeter, who has helped New York to four World Series titles in seven full seasons, alreadv spoke with Steinbrenner. · 
"In my mind, it's over," Jeter said. 
But the Yankees attract inter­national attention these days, and with no games to play, any hint of controversy sparks blar-
Join The 
Notre Dame Chess Club 
The Notre Dame Chess Club is looking for individuals of all playing strength to 
JOln. 
Some activities the ND Chess Club participates in are: 
• 
Weekly gatherings of Social playing; with all levels of play represented. 

• 
Chances to win many prizes in various tournaments and other competitions; and with groups sorted by strength, anyone can win! 

• 
Volunteer chances with the RCLC 

• 
Chances to play many different variants of Chess too! 


Interested? If so: email ndchess@nd.edu for more information! 
THE BEST KEPT SECRET ... 
ing headlines, such as the "PARTY ON" blared on the back page of the Daily News in New York when Jeter said he didn't intend to change. 
"We'll talk," Yankees manag­er Joe Torre said. "Obviously, there have been things going on, and you want to make sure his head is in the right place." 
Jeter, of course, wasn't Steinbrenner's only target fol­lowing the 3-1 loss to the Angels, which ended a run of four straight AL pennants. The owner said Torre and his staff must do better. too. 
"At least I'm not going down myself," Jeter joked. 
To him. this is his first contro­versy since he became a starter in 1996. 
"My eighth year -not bad," Jeter said. 
General manager Brian Cashman called Jeter's focus "excellent." 
And while Torre has many former greats in spring training to give guidance on how to han­dle Steinbrenner. he doesn't intend to unleash them on Jeter, a player he adores. 
"I think Jeter would really be offended if I felt he needed spe­cial attention to have somebody talk to him," Torre said. 
As if on cue, Reggie Jackson arrived at camp on Thursday. What better person than Mr. October to opine on Steinbrenner, the Yankees, celebrity and controversy? 
"It's tough to handle," Jackson said. "It's not easy when you're a target. This guy is a big guy, Jeter, a big target. He's in a class of the great ath­letes of our day -Ronaldo, A­Rod, Michael Jordan, Tiger .... 
"This guy is pretty conscien­tious. He's basically the unnamed captain, the voice of the club. If you want to target someone for not having a good season last year, and this is what you want to do, then he's the guy.'' 
NCAA 
....,J
Michigan to undergo hearing before NCAA 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

What started with a rollover accident on Feb. 17, 1996, has led the University of Michigan to a hearing with the NCAA committee on infractions. 
"We're looking forward to putting this behind us," Marvin Krislov, the university's general counsel, said Thursday while aboard a plane headed for the hearing in Florida. 
The school will appear before the eight-member NCAA com­mittee on Friday in Coral Gables. It will take six-to-eight weeks for the NCAA to announce whether Michigan's self-imposed sanctions were enough. 
PARK JEFFERSON APARTMENTS · 
I Bedroom starting at $466.00  
2 Bedrooms starting at $544.00  
NOW RENTING FOR THE 2003 SCHOOL YEA.R  
9MONTH  
SHORT TERM SUMMER AND MONTH TO MONTH LEASES  
LOCATED 2.1 MILES FROM NOTRE DAME  
ON BUS LINE  
LAUNDRY FACILITIES, INDOOR HEATED POOL,  
FITNESS & EXERCISE ROOMS, BILLIARDS  
SPACIOUS 1 & 2 BEDROOMS, SOME WITH DENS  
FREE MEMBERSHIP TO CASTLE POINT HEALTH CLUB  
VIEW OUR MODEL DAILY  
MON-FRl 9:00AM -6:00PM  300 I EAST JEFFERSON BLVD SOUTH BEND, IN 46615  
SATURDAY 10:00AM -6:00PM  574-232-3333  
SUNDAY 10:00AM ­4:00PM  www.parkjefferson.com  

Mauice Taylor's car crashed during Mateen Cleaves' official recruiting visit while they were returning from a party in Detroit. When Michigan learned the recruiting visit included a visit to Ed Martin's house, the school began to investigate his ties to the bas­ketball program. 
After the firing of two basket­ball coaches (Steve Fisher and Brian Ellerbe). two internal investigations that didn't reveal much and the hiring of a new athletic director. Martin finally shed light on the scandal in May when he pleaded guilty to conspiracy to launder money. 
Martin told the federal gov­ernment he took gambling money, combined it with other funds, and lent $616,000 to Chris Webber, Robert Traylor, Louis Bullock and Taylor. 
The Wolverines became one of college basketball's most successful programs during the "Fab Five" days of the 1990s. But in November, it endured what school president Mary Sue Coleman called a "day of great shame" when she announced self-imposed sanc­tions. 
Michigan banned itself from postseason play this season ­a true sanction because the Wolverines are 14-9 -forfeit­ed 112 regular-season and tournament victories from five seasons, plus its victory in the 1992 NCAA semifinal. 
Media guides and programs no longer will mention the names of the four former play­ers. Banners were taken down from the rafters at Crisler Arena from the 1992 and 1993 Final Fours, the 1997 NIT title and the 1998 Big Ten tourna­ment title. 
Michigan also returned to the NCAA $450,000 -money it earned for appearing in the postseason -and put itself on probation for two years. 





