
VOL. XXXVII NO. 127 
Pilot takes off at ND 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
Nc:Ws Wmcr 
Fulure military pilots at Notre Dame -and some would-bti civilian fliers ­will soon have an uppor­Lunity to learn lhe basics of flight, thanks to a new course being offered next fall by thtl Department of Acrospar.e Studies. 
Tlw thrce-credil course, called "Introduction to Aeronautics," will deliver a broad look al the basic principles of contempo­rary aviulion. 
Tho class will continue a tradition of flight educa­tion at Notre Dame. During World War II, Navy programs trained many pilots who would go on to fly combat missions 
sec PILOT/page 4 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 

Brought back for the second year by popular demand, Dr. Paul Howard, co­director of St. Joseph Regional Medical Ccnkr's Cardiac Care Unit, discussed preventative means of reducing car­diovascular disease in a Tuesday night lecture titled "I!cart Health: Advice from a Cardiologist." The presentation was the fourth in the Mini-Medical School Lecture Series, 
lloward focused on the benefits of prcvcnwlivc care in reducing the risk of hypertension or high blood pres­sure, diabetes and hypcrlidipcmia or 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
Nc:ws Writer 
Janet Reno, former attorney general under President Clinton, addressed over 400 students and members of the public Tuesday night in Stepan Center. 
The nation's former top law enforcement officer praised Notre Dame's "sense of public service" as she discussed issues ranging from Elian Gonzalez to the war in Iraq. She emphasized her experi­ence in public service, which she characterized as "the greatest calling l have ever undertaken." 
Reno, whose hands were trembling from Parkinson's disease. spoke about her mod­est upbringing in South Florida. Her family was out­growing their small frame house, she said, and her moth­er decided to build a new home. 
"She dug the f~lllndation with her own hands," Reno said. She recalled when Hurricane Andrew barreled across Florida in 1992. 
"The world outside looked 

like a World War I battlefield, 
but the house had only lost 
one shingle," she said. Reno 
used the story as a metaphor 
for preparedness in life. 
"It's important to build a solid foundation," she said. 
Reno discussed her accom­plishments in public service, beginning with her tenure as a prosecutor in Dade County. Fla., where she helped to establish the Miami Drug Court at a time when the crim­inal justice system was bogged down by small drug cases aris­ing from the 1980s' crack epi~ demic. 
The new court helped con­victs find rehabilitation and job training in exchange for agreeing to drug testing. The program proved successful. and hundreds of jurisdictions created their own similar courts. 
"Recidivism was cut dramat­ic ally by the drug court process," Reno said. 
She also spoke about the 1993 Branch Davidian standoff in Waco, Texas. Federal agents entered the cult's com­pound to arrest cult leader 
Cardiologist lectures on keeping a healthy heart 
devated blood cho­"We 're slowly "bad" types of cho­lesterol and triglyc­understanding what good lesterol. 
(' ridn levels. The He said the key to
nutrition is." 
cardiologist also cholesterol manage­criticized the United ment is a healthy States' approach to Dr. Paul Howard diet and helped treating cardiovas­audience members
cardiologist
cular diseases, one that he said relies heavily on technolo­gy but underem­phasizes preventative care. 
"We gel so much better results in mc,dicine when we can prevent prob­loms before they occur," he said. "Yes, technology is good, but we shouldn't just sit back and assume [it) will bail us oul when we have a problem." 
I toward encouraged those present to check their blood pressure regularly and begin monitoring cholesterol lev­els early, ll's nev&r too soon to start, he said: coronary disease begins Lo evolve in patients as young as age seven. 
Howard also dismissed the notion 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.FDU 



Janet Reno addresses public service 
that there is an ideal blood pressure. 
"The best blood pressure to have is one lower than you have," he said, adding that long-term elevated blood pressure leads to heart failure, strokes, coronary heart disease and renal fail­ure. 
Maintaining a low blood pressure involves avoiding abuses, according to Howard. 
"Be judicious with your use of salt," he said. "I think some people live for the taste of salt rather than the other spices in the cabinet." The cardiologist focused on cholesterol management and distinguished between high-densi­ty lipoproteins (HDI.s) and low-density lipoproteins (LOI.s), the "good" and 
sort through con­
stantly changing 
opinions of what is 
healthy and what is not. 
"We're slowly understanding what good nutrition is," Howard said. "Recommendations have changed over time because we're understanding more about our body's biochemistry." 
He encouraged people to eat less fat, especially saturated fats and said that only polyunsaturated fats found in cer­tain vegetable oils, nuts and so-called "fishy fish" like tuna, salmon, sardines and herring are beneficial. 
Cutting the fat in your diet is a solid 
see HEART/page 6 

PIG rUHi: ul::;K PHOTOS 
Former Attorney General Janet Reno spoke yesterday at Notre Dame, hlghllghtlng publlc service In her remarks. 
David Koresh on weapons armored vehicles. A raging charges. Cult members shot 20 fire ensued, killing nearly 80 ATF agents, killing four and members of the Branch prompting a 51-day standoff. Davidian sect. 
The siege ended when Reno Reno called that day "the ordered agents to storm the compound with tear gas and sec RENO/page 4 

STUDENT SENATE 


Referendum to be held 

By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
News Writer 
The Student Senate will be conducting a referen­dum, beginning today, to survey 
student opinion on the topic of in-hall dances. The ref­ere n ­du m, 

which Lao will be open for voting until Friday, is the latest development in the Senate's year-long work on in-hall dances. 
Last year's Senate passed a resolution calling for in­hall dances to be reinstated for a probationary period of one year. The Campus Life Council will debate this issue in their meeting Monday and will vote on the resolution. 
Kevin Conley, Stanford Hall Senator for the 2002­03 term, worked on the ref­erendum and the resolution while snrving as Chair of the Senate's ResLife Committee. Conley said he believes the referendum is a good tool for the Senate to use in gauging student opinion. 
"We know what [the Senate] thinks about it," Conley said, "but we want to know how the students 
feel about it. We're not try­ing to serve ourselves; we're trying to serve our con­stituents." 
The referendum is com­prised of five questions: 
. 
How do you feel about a dance policy requiring dances to be held on cam­pus but outside the resi­dence halls? 

. 
How do you feel about a dance policy requiring dances to be held off cam­pus? 

. 
How do you feel about a dance policy allowing dances to be held in the res­idence halls? 

. 
If dances are held in the residence halls, how do you feel about a policy requiring you to: 


a) 
leave your room at a specific time to go down to the dance and 

b) 
stay at the dance for a specific period of time before being allowed to go back to your room? 


Conley said the most important thing for students to learn from this referen­dum is that even if dances return to the residence halls, they will not be the same as they were in the past. 
"We want students to understand that if they do come back that they're not going to be the same as before," Conley said. The purpose of the referendum. he said. is to see how stu­dents would feel about the proposed regulations. 
Jeremy Lao, Student Body Vice President, com­mented on the importance of student response to this referendum. 
"We hope to get enough students to respond [so that we have] a definitive answer on how students feel. We want to have good evidence to show what stu­dents want," Lao said. "I would encourage everyone to respond to the survey and give their true feelings on a new in-hall dance poli­cy. The more people vote, the more information we have to back our policy ... If the results strongly indicate that students want dances back, that will support our resolution at the meeting." 
He also said that the Senate will probably spon­sor a letter to the CLC in support of their resolution this week. 
"I expect a letter to be coming from one of the Senate's committees this week," Lao said. 
Students were notified of the referendum through c­mail Tuesday night and were provided a link through which to vote. Lao also said that three $50 Domer Dollar gift certifi­cates will be raffled off to students who participate in the voting, 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 

Wednesday, April 9, 2003
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 

INSIDE COLUMN 

A siinple
Inessage 
In a time when emotions and fears are at a critical high, it seems that it is human nature to become consumed by feelings of vengeance. America is at war because the evil enemy must be found and killed, no matter what the cost. 
As a result. those who oppose the war express their outrage at civilian causalities. In turn, there is indigna­tion toward these protestors who are deemed "unpatriotic." 
All of those who feel strongly about this war have become "shocked Claire Kelley and awed" with feelings of con­tempt and disgust Lab Tech for the actions of others. 
But as Sister Helen Prejean argued on Monday night, those vengeful feelings are taught and encouraged by a society that can lead to misguided action in matters of life and death. 
An example is the governmental authorization of the death penalty. As author of the book "Dead Man Walking," in which she describes her experience as a spiritual adviser for death row inmates, Prejean ques­tioned the notion that families of vic­tims of violent crimes deserve the "closure" of watching the perpetrator being executed. 
Instead she says the experience of witnessing an execution only leads to moce.psychologi.cal distress and does. _. not alleviate the pain from the death of a loved one. 
Killing people who kill will never bring real healing 
Like Prejean, I believe that acts of violence are not justified by appeals to deterrence, retribution or even patriotism and freedom. The true challenge is to maintain an open mind and an objective clarity. 
Every time we renounce reason and patience in order to solve a conflict with violence. we further the effects of the social problems we are attempting to solve. 
Martin Luther King Jr. once said, "Hate begets hate; violence begets violence," and that certainly seems to be happening now. Violent terrorist acts have resulted in a violent war and a world that hates us. 
In the aftermath of violence will we be able to restore peace and establish democracy in a country where the people have been subjected to bomb­ing, destruction and death? 
In our world and even in our own country, can we resolve the anger we feel toward each other and break the cycle of vengeance? 
We can, with a steadfast commit­
ment to life, to peace and to love. 
When she signed my copy of her book, Sister Prejean's message was simple: Choose life. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Claire Kelley at ckelley2@nd.edu. 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism ac all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make misiakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, ple,ise contact us at 631-454 I so we can c.orrecr our errur. 

WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS NEWS  WORLD& NATION  BUSINESS NEWS  VIEWPOINT  SCENE  SPORTS  
ND/SMC women's lacrosse takes off  British troops attempt to stop looting of Basra  Hook-Up fulfills gifting needs  Relationships: hold 'em or fold 'em?  Twelfth Night  Back to work  
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Women's Lacrosse Club gains official recognition as they play their first season.  British troops who stormed the city of Basra earli­er in the week encountered loot­ing and disruption throughout the town.  A student busi­ness continues its services as Notre Dame's on-cam­pus SYR gift provider.  Seniors are playing the rela­tionship game one last time as the semester quickly closes in, says Observer colum­nist Jacqueline Browder.  The Department of Film, Television and Theater pre­s e n t s Shakespeare's classic masquer­ade this week in Washington Hall.  Freshman quar­terback Chris Olsen is trying to move up the depth charts dur­ing spring prac­tice.  

page 7
page 5
page 6 


J 

WHAT'S HAPPENING@ SMC 
. 
Irish Dance lessons 

5:30 p.m. at 231NE Madclcva llall 

. 
Hoom selections 

6:30 p.m. at Hcinbcaux Lounge, LeMans Hall 

. 
Adult Children of Alcoholics meeting 7 p.m. at 317N Madelcva Hall 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Shrimp spaghetti, southwestern pasta sauce, tomato pizza, apple turnover, pretzel sticks, chicken breast with walnut plum sauce, cherry crisp, cheddar-crumbed scrod, vegetable rice casserole, baked potato, whipped potatoes, Polish sausage sand­wich, sauerkraut, crinkle fries, beef and pepper stir-fry, sunshine French toast 
Today's Dinner: Roast turkey breast, bread stuffing, cherry crisp, broccoli quiche, asparagus cuts and tips, veg­etable ratatouille, hickory-smoke pork chops, applesauce, cornbread, tater tots, seafood medley stir-fry, tomato pizza, pretzel sticks, apple turnover, shrimp spaghetti, brown sauce, corn 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Linguine with vegeta­bles, Puerto Rican pasta sauce, basil­garlic linguine, sausage calzone, scal­loped corn casserole, honey-garlic pork chops, pollock with herbs, rotisserie chicken, boulangere potatoes. wild rice pilaf with pine nuts, tangy grilled chick­en sandwich, steakhouse fries, soft pretzel, vegan Szechuan noodles, BBQ Caribbean chicken wings · 
Today's Dinner: Amatriciana, Puerto Rican pasta sauce, basil-garlic linguine, sausage calzone. Jamaican jerk pork loin, grilled ham steak, beef potato pie, lemon-baked perch, parslied potatoes, rice Valencienne, BBQ chicken sand­wich, beef and pepper casserole 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

a: 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 
~ 

t)

... 
<
(.) 


-3 HIGH 46 HIGH 42 HIGH 54 HIGH 59 LOW 31 LOW 28 LOW 33 LOW 37 
page 24
page 12
page 10 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 



Accident occurs on Juniper 
Two cars collided on Juniper Road Monday. No injuries were sustained, but at least one car sus­tained damage. 


Student loses Kontrol Kard 

A student lost his Kontrol. Kard at an off-campus location Monday. 

Student's bike stolen 

A student reported the theft of her locked bike from the D02 student parking lot between 11 p.m. Friday and 1 a.m. Saturday. There are no sus­pects. 
13 Sttid.ent'~ vehicfo' 'towe1d 1 1 ,, I,; J 1 ~ J J 1' , ' 
A student's vehicle was towed from Main Circle Monday for a parking violation. 

~complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Grilled hummus baguette, herb pasta, couscous salad. broiled tomato, sizzling chicken caesar salad, broiled hamburger, corn dogs, Monte Carlo sandwich, extreme French fries, grilled roast beef wrap, herb rice pilaf, cauliflower, tuna salad, sliced honey ham, cauliflower, vegetable pizza, cheese calzones, bread sticks, BLT loafer. cream of broccoli soup, coleslaw, chicken and rice soup, Jell-0 
Today's Dinner: Vegetarian panini, herb pasta, garden tomato sauce, baked potatoes, roasted root vegetable. pancake and waffle bar, hash browns, tacos and burrito bar, Spanish rice pilaf, refried beans, grilled pizza bread 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


Atlanta 58/ 38 Boston 45 I 34 Chicago 48 / 30 Denver 70 I 41 Houston 67 / 42 Los Angeles 83 / 54 Minneapolis 56 / 34 New York 42 / 38 Philadelphia 42 / 35 Phoenix 90 I 61 Seattle 56 / 42 St. Louis 53 / 37 Tampa 75 / 61 Washington 57 / 38 

Wednesday, April 9, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


WANT TD DRAW ACOMIC? Do you open up the back page of the Observer and say, "I can do better than this!" ? 
Well, you'd be surprised how hard agood crossword puzzle is to make, believe me. But if you know you'd like to do acomic for next year's Observer, here's what to do: 

Submit § example strips and adescription of your comic to editor Andrew Soukup no later than TUESDAY, APRIL 15th. 
SMC freshman to walk for cancer 
Hy ANGELA SAOUD 
New, Writer 
Saint Mary's freshman Jill Funn11ll will participate in Cinicinnatti's 40-milc Avon Walk for Breast Cancer May 17-18. 
Funnell first became interest­ed in this walk when her friend pointc\d out an article about the walk in a magazine. Her great­aunt had broast cancer, but there is a largnr reason for her walking. 
"This is something that affects one out of eight women," Funnell said. uAttending an all-women's col­lege makes me want to be active with women's health issues." 
Funnell said she has been training for the two-day event by running and walking a few miles daily. 
By signing up for the Cincinnatti walk, one of eight around the country, Funnell also promised to raise $1,750. 
The money that Funnell rais­es will support breast cancer rnsearch. education and early detection programs and clinical care and support services for women with lhe disease. 
"I was intimidated when I first thought about1the fig\Ire, but it's turned out to be a lot easier than I thought it was going to be," Funnell said. "Saint Mary's ha'i been so won­derful in supporting me. I've 
been inspired by all the support 
everyone has given to me." 
Funnell began her fundrais­ing campaign by giving presen­tations to all major boards at Saint Mary's. Since then, vari­ous organizations have spon­sored her with such fundraisers as a bake sale and a penny war race. 
Hccently she was informed that a charity softball game will be held to assist her fundrais­i ng. and several R.A.'s in McCandless Hall have volun­teered to participate in a pie-in­the-face game. Funnell has aL'io been selling pink breast cancer awareness ribbons. 
..I only have a couple hundred ofdollars left to raise," she said. "I would estimate that I have close to $1,500. My family and friends have also been helping me in this cause. Between all these resources, l know it will all come together." 
Although this is Avon Walk for Breast Cancer's inaugural year, the Avon Foundation has been helping to improve the lives of women and their fami­lies for nearly 50 years. 
If it becomes an annual event, Funnell said she plans to partic­ipate again in the future. 
''I'll crawl to the end if l have to. I'll do whatever ,it takesi't, she said. 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
Group raising literacy levels 
By JULIA MILLER-LEMON 
Ne.,11s Wriccr 
Teamwork for Tomorrow, a non-profit group run by volun­teers from the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community, is dedicated to raising the literacy level of children who live in South Bend's public housing projects and attend the local public schools. 
Founded in July 1998 by a small group of Notre Dame stu­dents, its mission was to com­bine literacy, athletics and men­toring into an extra-curricular educational program that would brighten the futures of local chi!­drcn. 
"The program was started basically because people were frustrated with the accountabili­ty of both the Notre Dame volun­tcers and the kids coming to the program," said Mary Murphy, Teamwork for Tomorrow presi­dent. "People would decide not to come one day because they had a test the next morning, or a kid would just not show up. All of the tutors and the kids have to sign a contract promising to come every day and be fully involved." 
The 75 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's volunteers meet with the same child twice a week for two hours, and have all made a pledge to aid in the achievement of the five goals of the organiza­
11 iif>Pt 1 11 • 11 11 • , 1 r 1 , 1J 1111 1 11 t Ae{9~~ ~u,t,tp"'99«;1 ~\ands out. The primary goal of the group l've gotten a lot more person-is to improve its participants' al with my kid," Mcconville said. reading skills. Based on a cur-''I've really taken on the role of a riculum set up by Elementary mentor. You start to feel respon-
Education majors at Saint Mary's and advisors from the University of Notre Dame's Institute for Educational Initiatives, each tutoring session emphasizes oral and silent reading and vocabu­lary development. 
Sports are given a particular amount of attention, as children spend half of each two-hour ses­sion working on athletic skills that are intended to serve as an incentive to learn. foster growth in sportsmanship and emphasize the importance of teamwork in their daily lives. 
The group also aims to improve the health and nutrition of each child by providing a healthy daily snack. 
Sophomore Frank Mcconville said that he has worked for other tutoring organizations 
sible for improving the reading level of the child you are working with. You get to the point where you are fostering a very personal relationship with your kid, and you don't want to let them down." 
Murphy said Teamwork encourages tutors to see their kids off-site. 
A significant role of the Teamwork volunteer is his or her commitment to foster a posi­tive relationship with the child that they work with. 
Recently. the group took 70 participants to a Notre Dame women's basketball game, and last Sunday they organized the second annual "Kids These Days" talent show, hosting over 40 children, their parents and tutors, and members of the South Bend and Notre Dame communities. 
Contact Julia Miller-Lemon at jmillerl@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 9, 2003 

Pilot 
continued from page I 
over Europe and the Pacific. 
The Air Force ROTC also sponsored a similar course for 24 years. That class was open to the entire student body, though the new course will be primarily targeted at Navy and Air Force ROTC cadets who are interested in flying. 
ROTC students and licensed pilots Joseph Friel, Jeff Newcamp and Bryan McCarthy will instruct the class under the direction of Lt. Cmdr. Dan Walsh. who teaches naval science courses to Notre Dame midshipmen. 
The class will cover naviga­tion, airplane systems and safety, though no actual flight time will be offered, Newcamp said. 
The previous incarnation of the class allowed students to fly, but that practice was ended due to liability con­cerns. 
Reno 
continued from page 1 
hardest day of my life," but she defended her decision. "I accepted the responsibility for what happened. The buck stops here," she said. 
Reno was more regretful when she began to discuss her failed bid in the 2002 Florida gubernatorial race. 
She was defeated in the Democratic primary by Tampa attorney Bill McBride in a close race characterized by massive fundraising. Reno raised about $2.6 million in the campaign, compared to McBride's $4.2 million. 
"I regret that it was not more of a grassroots campaign at the outset," she said, and went on to call for reforms ­including free airtime for can­didates -to reduce the neces­sity of high-dollar campaigns. 
"We do not have to accept the fact that money controls elections," she said. 
Reno went on to propose broad changes in government social programs and policies, criticizing what she called the 
Walsh, who was a naval aviator for 18 years after graduating from Notre Dame, emphasized that the class will not teach students how to fly. "We want to create an interest in people," Walsh said. "This is purely academ­ic and preparatory for the ground school completion course." 
The course can be applied 
toward  credits needed  to  
receive  an  FAA  pilot's  
license.  

The aim of the class is "teaching the science of aeronautics, inspiring the art of flight, and producing avia­tion candidates for the mili­tary and civilian communi­ties," said promotional mate­rials. The class, number AS 
313. is offered by the aero­space studies department in conjunction with the Notre Dame Pilot Initiative. Information on the course can be found at www.nd.edu/-ndpi. 
Contact Matt Bra.manti at mbramant@nd.edu 
"cookie cutter education sys­tem," calling for schools that focus on students' "aptitudes and interests." 
She also proposed wider use of affirmative action policies. "Why do we wait until the law school or university level? Why don't we have affirmative action for all our children?" Reno asked. 
The talk was not all serious, however. Reno joked about her appearance on Saturday Night Live. 
"I walked into NBC and there was Will Ferrell, in my blue suit," she said. She praised the actor as "one of the most versatile people I've ever met," but then added softly, "It was a ghastly imper­sonation." 
Kim Zigich, the Student Union Board's Director of Programming, invited Reno while she was serving as SUB's programmer of the Ideas and Issues committee. She praised Reno's speech, calling her "someone who could bring different ideas and viewpoints to the campus." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
Tolstoy, Dostoevsky,. Akhmatova, Tchaikovsky, Stravinsky, Prokofiev, Chagall, Pavlov, Baryshnikov ... 
N.A.S.A. Payload Specialist, 
U.S. Arms Control Liaison, World Bank Investment Adviser ... 
WHAT DO THEY HAVE IN COMMON? 
RUSSIAN 
RUSSIAN 101, FALL 2003 NO PREREQUISITE 
http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ~grl 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
(Located be,weer, Fr<111cms & Eddy Streets) 

He'd fit comfortably I 
With 1,860 square feet ofliving space. Lafayette Square Townhomes can accommodate you and your roommates. There are FIVE 5­bedroom townhomes available, all fully applianced kitchens with dishwasher, disposal, stove and fridge. Washer/ dryer too ! 
Ifyou think all ofthese advantage carry alot ofweight, just call ore­
1 1111
mail us·ana seejusthbw1c'6:rnfortablyyou1'd1fiH1, ,LJ l ~ ' 
IJl I' Jl.c' 
574..234-9923 Tclark@cbresb.com 
(1,000 square feet apartments available at Notre Dame Apartments) 
The Third Annual Notre Dame Erasmus Lectures 
Nicholas Boyle, University ofCambridge 
Sacred and Secular Scriptures: a catholic approach to literature 
"Literature as Bible" 
April IO, 2003 Rewards and Fairies: The Idea ofEngland and 
The Lord ofthe Rings 
The lecture will begin at 4 p.m. and is expected to be two hours in length (with a refreshment break). It will be held on Tuesday in the auditorium ofthe Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 

WORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 9, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
British troops attempt to stop looting of Basra 
A,socia1cd Pres, 
BASRA 

Brazen looters plundered gov­,1rnmcnl buildings, universities and even hospitals in Basra on Ttmsday despite Lhe presence of British Lroops in Iraq's second­largest city, roaming the streets to grab whattwer they could ­ceiling fans. mattresses, car snalc;, furniture, slabs of wood. 
British troops had claimed Basra the day before, but round law and order hard to impose. Troops rolling through the city in tanks and on foot did little to quell the looting. other than to issue warnings over loudspeak­ers. 
A Hed Cross representative said the looting could delay relief c!Torls in the city of 1.3 million. /\nd many Basra residents said they were angry and fearful Lhat the troops wnrc failing to control Lhe lawlnssness. 
"It's a bad situation. What will happen in the future? There is IHI civil life left. I am very afraid.'' said Hussein Kudur, a port worker who watched fellow rcsjdcnts plundering a badly damaged Sheraton Hotel along the river. 
/\ir Marshal Brian Burridge, commander of British forces in the Persian Gulf, predicted British forces would soon be able to restore law and order. 


"There was a release of pent­up annoyance, hatred against the Baath party and the Baathist regime -once that safety valve has blown, then we tend to be in a position to engender a sense of responsibilHy," Burridge sald. "So the business of protecting property starts to get a bit easi­er." 
Col. Chris Vernon, spokesman for the British forces, said the troops would use local police as much as possible. The British already have put a local sheik in power and asked him to set up an administrative committee for the region, Vernon said. 
British military officials said their main goal Tuesday was to assess hospitals, government buildings and schools, Maj. Norrie Robertson said British forces would move to secure public facilities in the next few days because "we're turning the focus from fighting to helping the community." 
British officials sent out 10 water tankers, carrying 5,200 gallons of water each, which were promptly mobbed by hun­Zuma 
dreds of thirsty residents. Troops A British sold~er walks past a monument to Saddam Hussien during a patrol of the tri~ to impf)~e tlOHllidtM"lf distrit . • ,s,t~~et~. C?' 1!,~ S second larg,st city, Basra. The prce~e~ce. ?' British tro,OP,S 'r t~~ q~lty1 1, 
bution of water but were soon  has failed to end a continuous wave of plundering iind lawlessness.  
overwhelmed by crowds of peo­ to stop looters from carting away  road, where British troops forced  Outside the Sheraton Hotel.  
ple carrying plastic bottles, veg- aid supplies ransacked from a  drivers to unload the looted  managing director Riyadh al­ 
etable tins and plastic jugs.  Red Crescent distribution center.  goods. Approving residents dri- Amar expressed frustrated that  
The Scots Dragoon Guards set  Hundreds of burlap and nylon  ving by gave soldiers the thumbs  British forces  were not fully  
up a checkpoint on the main  sacks of sugar, tea and rice were  up and shouted "Ali Baba,"  policing the city from lawless  
southern highway exiting the city  piled high on the side of the  which means "thief."  hoodlums.  

Medicare adtninistrators face collusion allegations 
Associated Prc,;s 
WASHINGTON 

Members of Congress are looking into allegations that the federal Medicare administrator improperly shut the Gallup Organization and other polling firms out of a chance to develop a new survey of patient satisfaction, which is used in evaluating hr5pital perfor­mance. L. 
Gallup sued Medicaid chief Thomas Scully and five unnamed co-workers at the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services on Tuesday. The lawsuit alleged Scully tried to bully a Gallup official who was looking into alleged collusion over the patient satis­faction surveys between the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and the small Nebraska survey firm, National Research Corp.-Picker. 
The suit cites a March 5 e-mail mes­sage Scully sent to Bob Nielsen, man­aging partner for Gallup, calling him an "idiot," "jerk" and "weasel" for try­ing to get the new survey's financing stopped until an investigation was con­ducted. 
Earlier that day, Nielsen had sent an e-mail message to Office of Management and Budget official Brenda Aquilar, asking that funding for a pilot study be halted pending an investigation. 
Scully also threatened to stop speak­ing with Aquilar if she met with Nielsen on the matter. According to the suit, he wrote: "Brenda, if you meet with this guy it will be the last time I ever speak to you about CMS issues. I would like to investigate this idiot ­I'm the most open person in Washington and this JERK has never called me." 
Rep. Billy Tauzin, R-La., chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, has written to Scully asking about the allegations that he favored NRC-Picker. Tauzin noted that ques­tions have been raised about whether proper contracting requirements were followed and whether "development of a survey instrument was tainted by the involvement of government employees with conflicts of interest." 
He asked that his committee be given the information by Friday. Earlier, Rep. Lee Terry, R-Neb., 
wrote to 0MB Director Mitch Daniels asking that financing for the pilot sur­vey be halted until the matter is resolved. 
Scully's agency and the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality developed the survey, which is designed to help evaluate hospital per­formance by comparing patients' expe­riences. 
"This lawsuit is the result of a long and sorry road of deception and collu­sion at CMS, and was filed to protect Gallup's reputation," said James Clifton, Gallup chairman and CEO. The suit sought unspecified damages and a court order barring Scully and his col­leagues from favoring NHC-Picker. 
A call to Scully was not immediately returned. 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
European war opponents meet in Russia: 
The lnadl'rs of France, Hussia and Germany -chief European opponents of the U.S.-led war in Iraq -will b<~ in St. Pet1,rsburg this weekend for meetings on Iraq's reconstruction. French President Jacques Chirac will be in St. Petersburg on Friday and Saturday, the Kremlin said. German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder was already slated to meet with President Vladimir Putin in the former imperial capital on those days. The schedule of meetings, or whether all three leaders would meet at once, wasn't clear. 
Iran's president may receive more power: 
Iran's reformist-dominated parliament on Tuesday approved a bill that would enable the president to override some decisions by the country's hard-line leaders. However, members of' the hard-lint' Guardian Council, which must approve legislation before it becomes law, have indicated that the bill will be rejected. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Compromise possible in Philip Morru1 suit 
A judge who had ordered Philip Moms to pay $12 billion in a class-action lawsuit over "light" cigarettes said Tuesday that a compromise may be reached in a dispute over the tobacco company's payment of the claim. "I sec some possibilities for resolving this mat­ter," Madison County Judge Nicholas Byron said before closing his courtroom. "What will be reached will be reached on a consensual basis." Both sides were scheduled to return to talks in Byron's courtroom on Thursday, plaintiff's attorney Stephen Tillery said. 
Visa, Mastercard must refund $800M: 
A judge on Tuesday ordered credit card giants Visa and MasterCard to refund an esti­mated $800 million to U.S. customers who paid a hidden fee on purchases made in foreign countries. Judge Ronald Sabraw's decision finalized a tentative ruling that had been under court seal since February. 
Pakistani terrorist suspects released on bail: 
Two Pakistani men charged with immigration viola­tions but also suspected by the FBI of having ties to terrorist groups were ordered released on bail Tuesday. U.S. District Judge Lewis Babcock said the government failed to prove that Sa.ijad Nasser or lrfan Kamran were a threat to the community. Federal prosecutors. who had appealed a federal magistrate's decision to grant the men bail last week. said Tuesday they may appeal Babcock's order as well, 
Retarded man beaten to death by teens: 
A 39-year-old retarded man who liked to dress up like Batman and tell neighbors he was a crime-fighter was beaten to death in the lobby of an apartment building in Hartford, Conn., where he had been placed by statn otli­cials. Ricky Whistnant died at the scene Saturday. Ile fell and hit his head on a radiator after three teens pelt­ed him with bottles of soda he had just bought, authori­ties who viewed a security video of the attack said. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 9, 2003 
Women's lacrosse club starts season 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
News Writer 
After spending a year as an unofficial group, the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame Women's Lacrosse Club has begun its first season as an officially recognized. student-run group. 
"Coming to college and not having this huge aspect of my life was really difficult," Saint Mary's sophomore and club president Kate Weiss said. "I decided that lacrosse was something there was enough interest in just walking around campus. I knew the demand was there, and I wanted to allow other people to play." 
In order to fill that void, Weiss spoke with Saint Mary's Sports Information Director Gregg Petcoff, who later became the team's adviser, and representatives from USLacrosse, the governing body of the sport in the United States, about the possibility of beginning a team last year. 

She spent the summer of Saint Mary's, half from each 2002 enrolling the club in school. Last week, the club USLacrosse and the Women's attracted new recruits at Saint 
College L a c r o s s e League under the Women's Division Intercollegiate Associates. 
The Saint Mary's/Notre Dame Lacrosse Club joined the WCLL's fourth division, join­ing five other teams from Indiana and 
'The girls are thrilled about the club, trying to get it on campus and trying to advertise it, because we need Saint Mary's women." 
Gregg Petcoff team adviser 

the surrounding area. 
"We had to go through and apply for club status in the fall," Weiss said. "Through a generous contribution from [Board of Governance}, we were able to cover team start­up cost. Without that. we wouldn't have been able to start as a club. They were very supportive of our idea." 
The 20 team members hail from both Notre Dame and 
Mary's Accepted Students Day. 
" T h e girls are thrilled about the club, try­ing to get it on cam­pus and trying to advertise i t ' 
because 
we need Saint Mary's women," Petcoff said. 
The team is assisted by Petcoff and volunteer coach Christy Yarnell, who played on the national Under-19 USA Lacrosse team and served as assistant coach for Notre Dame's varsity women's team for two years. 
"Everything you do," Petcoff said, "sometimes you need to fall into a little bit of luck. 
Ours was Christy." 
Weiss agreed. 
"She basically fell into our lap," she said. "She is an incredible asset to our team. We owe a lot of our success to her." 
The team holds a 3·2 record, is ranked third in its division, and sixteenth overall in the league. It recently played teams from Miami University of Ohio, Indiana University, Ball State University, Hope College and Taylor University. 
They will travel to Purdue Friday for their sixth game out of seven before qualifying for the regional tournament April 26-27. 
"I've been so impressed with the way our team has come together so far. and we've done better than I ever imag­ined we could," Weiss said. "My initial goal was to just get things going." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@sa.intmarys.edu 

For more information on becoming an Observer comic, call Andrew at 631-4542. 
Heart 
continued from page l 

bet toward reducing cholesterol. Howard said. He added that tea extracts and soy isuflavor may also have affects on cholesterol levels but that studies indicate antioxidants vitamins and garlic are not particularly helpful in reducing cholesterol. 
The ideal diet, according to Howard, is the Mediterranean one, but not because of the prevalence of olive oil as original­ly thought. Rather, he said, it's due to the high quantity of nuts and fish consumed that contain polyunsaturated fats. 
The American diet and its emphasis on processed food, Howard said, is not only respon­sible for higher levels of choles· terol but also an increased inci· dence of Type II Diabetes. 
Prior to 1933 and the advent of processed foods, the American diabetes prevalence rate was less than one percent, he said. In 1998, it jumped to nearly eight percent. Today, it is estimated that 5.4 million people have undi­agnosed Type II Diabetes in the United States. 
The Mini·Medical School Lecture Series is presented by the South Bend Center for Medical Education, Indiana University School of Medicine and spon• sored by the Medical Education Foundation. Next Tuesday, Col. Charles Holt will deliver a lecture on bioterrorism. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 

An American Studies Hoot 
Featuring 

The Where Art Thou Boys 
Doug Rice on Acoustic Guitar Jumpin' Gene Halton on Harmonica Fiddlin' Dean Rauch on Fiddle 
Sor7gs of Protest 
Atnerican Folk Music -l 930s-1960s & then som.e... 
Thursday, Apr/ I 70th 

HesbL1r9h Center Auditorium (Heshu r-qh Inte,,,...nationa I Center-) 
7.00 PA/I. 

Sponsored by the Department ofAmerican Studies 
.-------------------------------------------------------­
Bus0iNESS 
Wednesday, April 9, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch AJJril 8 
DowJones 
8,298.92 -1.49 
N4SDAQ
• 
1,382.94 -6.57
•
S&P500 
878.29 ' -1.64
•
AM.EX 
825.15 +2.92 
NYSE
• 

4,917.60 . -5.67
~ 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +1.62 +0.41 25. 58 
1NTEL CORP"TffM!!illi.ll!l.!!ll!l~l:lll!!t;':,;:,:?c'',:::,;11111 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.03-0.1413.43 
suN MicROsrsr~~alill:llliil:11J;1111i1Hl!lill 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -1.79 -0.2111.50 
IN BRIEF 
War, virus prompt layoffs at Qantas 
Australian flag carrier Qantas said Wednesday it will lay off 1,000 employees before the end of June in response to the twin troubles of war in Iraq and the deadly SARS virus. Qantas chief executive Geoff Dixon said the cuts were part of an ongoing restructur­ing program in response to changes in the aviation market. "We regret the need for this action," Dixon said in a statement to the Australian Stock Exchange. "However, it is vital we move quickly to protect our position in a very difficult and competitive industry." The carrier employs about 37,000. 
life Savers moves to Canadian factory 
After a 36-year run, the last Life Savers to be made in the United States are rolling out of Michigan. The lone U.S. factory that makes the candy will close Friday as Kraft Foods Inc. consolidates its entire Life Savers pro­duction at a Canada factory. Former employ­ee Joyce Van Dam says the sweet scents and memories gradually have diminished during the months since Kraft announced its deci­sion to close the plant. "It's kind of an empty feeling whenever you pass there," she told The Holland Sentinel. Kraft's decision to move Life Savers operations to a 900,000 square-foot facility in Mount Royal, Quebec, means the loss of 600 jobs and Holland's third-largest taxpayer. 
Network hopes to compete with MfV 
Tho television network MuchMusic USA, seeking to distinguish itself in a market domi­natc,d by MTV and its related networks, will take Lhc name Fuse. It also has built u $12 million studio with windows open to the street across from Madison Square Garden, about a dozen blocks south of" MTV's Times Square studios. "Thero was really only one compa­ny's voice in popular music and culture, and we thought there should be another," said Josh Sapan. president of Fuse's parent com­pany, Huinbow Media. 
The Hook-Up corners niche 
. Affordable, unique SYR gifts a reliable sell 
By HELENA PAYNE 
Se11ior Sra/f Writer 
Since its debut in March, the campus gift shop The Hook-Up has had an average of 80 to 100 sales each week and racked up over 140 sales last week, said store managers Steve Dick and Mike Iselin . 
"It's been a huge suc­cess like I would never imagine," said Dick. who opened the store with fel­low sophomore lselin. 
The Hook-Up mainly sells gifts under $10 for dorm dances, although Dick said people can still find small items for birth­days and anniversaries. 
"What I have in mind is when people think of SYRs [Screw Your Roommate dorm dances]. they think of The Hook­Up," Dick said. 
Sophomore Jessica Freeman, who went to the store Friday to buy a gift for the Lewis Crush dance, said the LaFortune store was con­
ANDY KENNA/The Observer 
venient to have on cam­
Sophomore Steve Dick entices potential customers with a toy sword at The Hook-Up.

pus. "lt's something that the Dick and his partner Mike lselln operate the SYR gift shop In LaFortune every frlday University needed .... and beach balls. Senior include childhood memo-'Tm definitely pleased Everyone needs gifts for Dave Cantos, who attend-rabilia like Mr. Potato with how we're doing," SYRs," she said. ed the dance with his Head, Teenage Mutant lselin said. With a niche market in girlfriend, said he went Ninja Turtles and bub-At the end of the year, mind, the two members to the store Friday to buy hies, as well as interac-Dick said he and lselin of the Notre Dame Play-Doh. tive toys like Nerf dart plan to donate the money Entrepreneurs Club are "I ended up making guns, water guns and to the Minnesota-based brainstorming ways to dolphins out of it," balls. Newhill Music expand and improve their Cantos said. "We want to keep gifts Foundation. If the business, including offer­The store is open every unique," Dick said. "We Entrepreneurs Club and ing more items. The Friday from 4 to 8 p.m. in don't want people all Student Activities allows Hook-Up has tripled its LaFortune's Dooley around campus getting The Hook-Up to open inventory and has carried Room, but Dick and lselin the same gifts." again next year, Dick over 170 products since also take orders online, He added that the store said he is interested in its opening, Dick and and with permission from wasn't able to carry some donating to other chari­Iselin said. rectors, have delivered items that could be popu-ties, including the South The store has also some items to residence lar because of their price. Bend Center for the focused on selling items halls. Dick said they were One example is the Homeless. related to dance themes. also considering opening Dancing Hamsters. "We're still holding On Friday, six dorms the store on Saturdays, "We were pretty tempt-strong with the non-profit were having dances, as well as making it pos-ed to sell those bad aspect of everything," including Breen-Phillips sible for students' par-boys," Dick said. Dick said. Hall's Beach Party. In ents to order gifts for So far, The Hook-Up response, The Hook-Up birthdays. has made over $800, ContactHclenaPayneat sold inflatable palm trees Customer favorites according to Iselin. Payne.30@nd.edu. 


GM abandons electric-powered cars 
ing instead on low-polluting hybrids pollution by 2005, but even that is 

Associated Press 
and other technology. on hold for now. 
SACRAMENTO GM spokesman Dave Barthmuss Carmakers, who have fought the 

When General Motors charged up said the company is taking back the rules. say the market should dictate its first electric-powered vehicle in remaining 375 of its 1,000 pioneer­what they build, not state regula­the late 1980s, it was heralded as ing EV1s as their leases expire tors. the "car of the future." because it can't supply parts to To the drivers who embraced the 
California officials saw it as salva­repair them. Some will end up in technology, the loss of the EV1 is a tion for their smog-choked cities museums or research labs. Others heartbreaking prelude to the end of and quickly made the new technolo­will be used for spare parts. battery-powered vehicles. gy the centerpiece of their toughest­It's a long way from a program "They've gone from being regula­in-the-nation emissions rules. once touted as GM's clean air solu­tors to just asking politely, 'Gee, 
But now, more than a decade tion, and it comes as California industry, would you do this?"' said later, the state is retreating from again rewrites its once-ambitious Greg Hanssen. of the Production those strict pollution policies, and zero emissions vehicle rules. The Electric Vehicle Drivers Coalition, dozens of GM's electric EVls are plan launched in 1990 would have which has lobbied for more battery­lined up behind a chain-link fence in required 10 percent of cars for sale powered cars. "To us driving bat­Van Nuys. The Big Three automak­in the state this year be non-pollut­tery electric vehicles, we're saying, ers have all abandoned their elec­ing. Today, state regulators are ask­'Hey, you've left us hanging out to tric-battery vehicles and are focus-ing that 10 percent be at least low-dry."' 
Expect the World' nytimes.com 

~~~~~¼~:Rt3M£J·mE~~~ ~ .. 




Learning 1s all about discovering new meaning in the world around us. Enrich your learning experience by using the nation's most honored newspaper and The New York Times Knowledge Network. At nyt1mes.com/college, students have free access to our online archive-which dates back three years-and can receive e-mail alerts based on specific areas of interest. Also, advance your job search through links to JObmarket com. For more information, and to order asubscription to The Times at student rates, visit nytimes.com/college or call 1-888-698-2655 

Wednesday, April 9, 2003 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Social service agency votes to take money 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

A Homan Catholic social services agency has voted to accept $35,000 from a lay reform group that has been critical of the church over the abuse scandal, saying its responsibility to the poor out­weighs an edict from the head of the archdiocese. 
"Wo have a fiduciary obliga­lion to the poor people of the greater Boston area," Catholic Ch,1rities President Dr. Joseph Doolin said after the board of trustees' vote Tuesday. 
Last week, Bishop Richard Lennon, the interim successor to Cardinal Bernard Law, directed the agency not to take the money from the Voice of tho Faithful. 
Trustees said they met with Lennon last week to explain why the agency would likely accept the donation, which will be used to fund food pantries. 
"This was a painful deci­sion," said board chairman Neil Finnegan. "It did not feel like defying the bishop -it felt like we were put in a tough spot and made a deci­sion that the vast majority of the board felt more comfort­able with." 
In a statement, Lennon said he was "disappointed" by the vote, but would not take any artion in resoonse. addinl? 
that one of his chief aims is to "work toward ending division and fostering unity within the Archdiocese of Boston." 
A church spokesman, the Rev. Christopher Coyne, has said the reform group's fund­raising is hurting the church's own efforts to raise money. Coyne also said the archdio­cese expected Catholic Charities to refuse the money because its bylaws require it to follow church policies. 
Members of Voice of the Faithful. which claims 30,000 members in the U.S., gathered in Wellesley Tuesday night to attend a Lenten prayer ser­vice officiated by Lennon. The bishop did not mention the issue during the service. 
"At the end of the day, they decided the needs of the peo­ple took precedence over the needs of the power struc­ture." said Steve Krueger, the group's executive director. 
Last December, Catholic Charities accepted $56,000 from the reform group. The archdiocese didn't specifically tell the agency not to take that donation, which occurred during Law's chaotic last days before his resignation. 
Voice of the Faithful was established last year as the clergy sex abuse crisis erupt­ed in Boston, with its revela­tions that church leaders reassigned alleged molesters to oarish work. 
Lawmakers debate budget 
Associated Pre•• 
WASHINGTON 
House and Senate Republicans moved Tuesday toward striking a deal that would let the two chambers pass a compromise 2004 budget this week but settle their differences over the size of a tax cut later, aides said. 
Under the proposal ­which still needed sign-offs from many lawmakers and on which some final deci­sions remained -the bud­get would let the more con­servative House write a tax bill later this year with a deeper tax cut than the more moderate Senate has approved. The two cham­bers would then have to agree to a common figure before the tax bill could be sent to President Bush for his signature. 
The plan was, in effect, a decision to postpone resolv­ing the simmering House­Senate dispute over the size of the tax cut until many weeks from now. It was described by aides from both Republican-run cham­bers who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
It also provided hope to Bush that the 10-year, $726 billion tax cut he has pro­posed to energize the econo­my would not be cut in half, as the Senate voted to do last month. Bush's tax pack­age -which would elimi­
nate individuals' taxes on corporate dividends and accelerate some income-tax cuts -is one of the corner­stones of his domestic agen­da this year. 
Congress' budget sets rev­enue and expenditure totals for the year, and does not need the president's signa­ture. Subsequent tax and spending bills make actual changes in law. 
Passage of a budget has been crucial to GOP tax-cut­ting plans because the mea­
sure  can  protect  a  tax  
reduction  from  Senate  
delays.  or  filibusters, that  

take 60 of the chamber's 100 votes to halt. Republicans have badly wanted to give Bush's tax cuts that procedural protec­tion from the Senate's 48 Democrats, who mostly oppose even a $350 billion reduction, citing massive federal deficits. 
The House included a $726 billion tax reduction in the budget it approved last month. 
The Senate budget, how­ever, endorsed a $350 bil­lion tax package. The cham­ber included that lower fig­ure in its budget after mod­erates from both parties demanded a limit on tax reductions because of soar­ing federal deficits and the costs of war with Iraq. 
Aides cautioned that under the proposed compro­mise, each chamber's tax­cutting number would not 
necessarily be the figure it approved in its initial bud­get. 
The unusual agreement, if completed, means the House and Senate would probably be able to approve a $2.2 trillion budget for 2004 by late this week. when law­makers plan to begin a two­week recess. 
"We're going to do it before the break," Senate Budget Committee Chairman Don Nickles, R-Okla., said. 
Leaders hope to begin writing actual tax-cutting legislation after the recess. 
The proposal emerged after a day of meetings in which congressional leaders sought the votes to make the final budget's tax reduction as large as possible. 
Until Tuesday evening, GOP House and Senate bar­gainers had been stymied in efforts to craft a budget compromise, with moder­ates refusing to support a reduction bigger than $350 billion but conservatives threatening to oppose one that small. 
Senate Republicans hold a 51-48 edge over Democrats, plus a Democratic-leaning independent. Sen. Zell Miller, D-Ga., supports Bush's full $ 7 26 billion plan, but four moderate senators have refused to back anything bigger than $350 billion, leaving the GOP two votes short of being able to increase the tax cut's size. 


THURSDAY APRIL 10TH LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 9.00AM -6.00PM 
* Registering includes only asimple blood test. 
** Even if you do not qualify to donate blood, you are still able to register and donate bone marrow. *** Once registered, ynu will remain on the Registry until age 60. No need to register again. 
ADW@RKS 
OTHE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, April 9, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHI.EF Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Scott Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR• Meghanne Downes 
VIF.WPOINT EDITOR, Kristin Yemm 
SPORTS EDITOR• Joe Herder 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smirh 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAl'HICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins SAINT MAJ\y's EDITOR, Anneliese Woolford 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedclb 
AD DESIGN MANAGER, Tom H:ught 
WEB ADMINIS'fRATOR: Jason Creek 
CONTROLLER• Michael Flanagan 
SYSTEMS MANAGER: Ted Bangert 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0........., ....631-7471 FAX.................................................. ........ 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORiAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu V!EWPOJNT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 

SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.................................................... ....631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................. 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at brtp:llobsm,u.nd.edu for d:uly updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, d:uly newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, induding advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is av:ulable to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners co the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qurstions regarding Obm-vupo/icier should be direct­ed ro Ediror in ChiefAndrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ome-ner (USPS '599' 240J If publi,brd Monday duuugh Friday occcrt during own and vacation periods. A uJucriprion 10 The Ob:srrv~ is S!00 far one aadernic ¥"'; S5S for ~ne1.ttn~f~•r. 
The Obk::.-vcr is publi,hcd -u: l'O~TMASTER 014 So-uth Oir1i"l H.JI '.Sa1.d adJ.TI:ii conu.iiom to; 
Norn, Dame, IN 46556. Tk06~~r 
r.o.&,Q l'n-iodic1:I pa,~ p.aid a, Nout" Dam~ No~ Dune, IN 46'556-0779 ~d ~idonal ma.iii ng off'iu:s. 
~ ObiCtVH" i1 a tnc:Mhet t>f rhc A•oc.ia~ fl.--. All n,,ro<!uctiur, 1'1gh11 arc <t>C<Val. 
Relationships: hold 'em or fold 'em? 
Relationships have always been thought of as a game and a gamble. We play our hands as best we can and hope that we come out a winner, or at least ahead of the competition. We win some, we lose some and yet we Jacqueline continually up the 
Browder 

ante. However, in 
the end, when it's time to put all of Happily Ever our cards on the After table, there's no room for bluffing. And for seniors, with only a few weeks left until we receive our diplo­mas, it's time to show our cards. 
That said, when it comes to our relationships post-graduation, will we hold 'em or fold 'em? 
For many couples, it's time to make that very important. often permanent decision. No longer do we have the luxury and consistency of returning to Notre Dame at the end of summer. For us, life is changing and we often are pulled in different directions by jobs, graduate school or service work. Like in any decent game of poker, these changes raise the stakes. Not only are we putting our cards on the table, but we must make the choice to keep our hand or draw for another. 
After all, we start relationships for the same reason we gamble. We're all hoping to strike the jackpot -or at least get lucky. However, although we know that the house always comes out ahead in casinos, can the same be said for dating? Can we ever really win? 
Eventually we all want to rake in the chips. We want that proverbial straight flush. However, when we play cards, we never know what hand will be our best of the night and we can never be too sure what the rest of the table is holding. If we fold too early, that hand is gone forever and we don't know what cards we'll be dealt in the next round. It's a gamble, for sure. 
[n many ways, the same can be said for our relationships. For some of us, we're ready to cash in our chips. We're happy with what we've got. We oblige to the proverbial Notre Dame "ring by spring" myth and are ready to get out of the game while we're ahead. These couples aren't so much play­ing for fun as playing for keeps. In this case, the winning hand usually contains at least one diamond. second card from the left. 
For some, the game isn't quite as easy. Couples who we never thought would make it are now registering at Bed, Bath and Beyond and choosing various shades of sherbet for their bridesmaids' gowns, while some cou­ples who seemed altar bound from the start are now going their separate ways. It just goes to show us all that we never know what's in the cards. Whether couples are breaking up in hopes of getting a different, better hand or simply tired of the game, it's time to call the game. 
However, when a couple folds earli­er in the game than anticipated, we're often left wondering why. Maybe time has changed us all. Maybe we've all worked too hard these four years to sacrifice our dreams and career options. Maybe we're scared that someone will call our bluff. Or maybe we're just ready 
to give up this hand, save our luck and move on to the next 
game. When we do fold our hands at this point in 
the game. the 
stakes are certain­ly higher. But if it still feels like a 
gamble, maybe the best thing for us is a few 
new cards. After all, we never know when that per­
fect hand will come our way. Like gambling, dating is a game of chance, luck and possibility. Sometimes it's with clubs and spades. other times it's with hearts. Some take a chance with dia­monds. 
Think of it as the eternal game of five card draw. We may sacrifice our best hand and lose a few rounds, or we could win big -by sheer luck or by simply playing out the hand we've been dealt. For seniors, it's time to make that decision. We may have the winning hand, or we may take a chance at a new hand. We just have to decide whether to hold our cards -or fold 'em. 
Jacqueline Browder is a senior American studies major and journal­ism minor. You may contact her at jbrowder@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

Club's alienation is hypocritical 
As a fellow Asian-American, I feel obligated to respond to Edward Song's letter Monday about his feelings of alienation as an Asian-American. 
When I came to this campus four years ago as a freshman, it was the Asian-American group who gave me feelings of alienation and not the "peo­ple in the Midwest." Upon my arrival at Notre Dame, I received numerous invi­tations from the on-campus multicultur­al groups and decided to attend some meetings. After participating in some events, I decided to stop going because the activities of the group were not of my interest. 
However. I did not realize that discon­tinuing my membership to the club would affect the way my fellow Asian-Americans viewed me. I was continually harassed by club members to attend club events because "all the other Asian's were doing it." Furthermore, club members could not understand why I wasn't "into the Asian thing." Eventually, when the club finally real­ized that I would not attend any more events, 1was shunned for doing so. 
The hypocrisy of the situation was overwhelming: A minority group which constantly whines that they are not accepted for who they are was rejecting someone for not conforming to their beliefs. This hypocrisy almost led me to leave after my freshman year. I decided to stay, however, because I found acceptance in the "people in the Midwest." 
While many might believe that this is an isolated incident, it is not. Several other members of minorities have felt the same way about their respective ethnic clubs. These people, like me, are expected to join their minority clubs because they are a member of a specific ethnic group. They are further alienat­ed when they do not do the ethnic thing. 
I only hope that this hypocrisy can eventually be overcome, because if it is not, then minorities are no better then the "people in the Midwest" who do not accept Asians for who they are. 
Ramon Ymalay 
senior 
Keenan Hall 
April 7 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Meghan Martin Willy Puckett Mike Chambliss 
Viewpoint 
Claire Kelley 
Graphics 

Katie McKenna 
Sports Chris Federico Pat Leonard Lisa Reijula Scene Maria Smith 
Lab Tech 
Brian Pucevich 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you think that women are sufficiently represented in the University's administration and faculty? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"To die for an idea: it is unquestionably noble. But how much nobler it would be if men died for ideas that were true. ,, 
H.L Mencken American Journalist 

-.-------------------------,-.,-----------------------­
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, April 9, 2003 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Defending Thursday's pro-America rally 
Defining anti-Americanism and an invitation to debate 
I'm writing in response lo yesterday's letter on the pro-America rally. As some­one intimately involved in the planning and organization of this rally, I do not appreciate being branded as someone who is hiding my arrogance behind a flag. i\s vice-president of the College Republicans, I would like to defend the legitima­cy of my club and our motives. 
First. let's answer your question of what would be anti-American. It is not simply being in respectful disagreement of our administration_ It's poking fun at our head of state, it's talking lightly of this conflict as if it is a game and it's assuming people that are pro-peace cannot be pro­troop. It is choosing to sit back and mock the actions of our coun­try and stand by with the rest of the world, whose strategy was to do nothing other than ineffective inspections to hurry along lifting sanctions for their own economic benefit. 
These malicious and cynical ideals are not in the American spirit of debate. They are political potshots by Democrats and quasi-socialists aimed at betting a risky move by the administration intended in the interests of freedom. 
Why are we doing this rally? It's because it's okay to say supporting the troops is supporting America, and I don't feel arrogant when I see Iraqis being liberated from a mass-murderer. 
Did you notice we chose to have the rally at Stonehenge? llow quickly we forget the blood of Americans that have died under that flag fighting for this country for our right to speech. They did that for us. This is a rally to support the men and women who are the heroes of our generation dying under that flag again. They are over there in the hot sun getting shot at, and we come together to thank them for their bravery. I will not let petty jealousy of world opinion dull my pride in my countrymen. 
In the future, please do not twist our words. Supporting the troops is inherently pro-American, and we only want to show our gratitude for the armed forces on Thursday. We welcome people of all sides to the rally. If you want to debate policy, then we'll debate policy. It is my desire to involve our club in debates. I am looking forward to hearing from all of you. We support the flag, but by no means hide behind it, if debate is what you want bring it on, because I am well prepared to support our stance. I want to see all of you on Thursday, regardless of views, to come together in support for our brave men and women. God, Country, Notre Dame. 
Tom Rippinger 
sophomore Saint Edward's Hall April8 
Rally will support troops and ideals behind flag 
As I was entering the restroom in Dillon on Sunday evening, I too was greeted by large blue signs; however, unlike Justin Brandon, I was glad that I saw them. In fact, my own roommate put up all the signs in Dillon concern­ing the so-called Pro-America Rally. Not only do I know about the rally, but I 
also wholeheartedly support it. I should -it was my idea. It is true that beyond the original concept. I had very little to do with it. The College Republicans took care of all the practical aspects of organizing this rally. However. I would like to explain why I came up with this idea and why I dis­agree with the words of Justin Brandon in yester­day's letter. 
First and foremost, what is inherently wrong with a rally supporting America? This is not a pro-war rally. This is a rally in sup­
port of our troops and the ideals represent­ed by the American nag. Even Eddie Vedder qualified his recent Bush-bashing 
by saying that he and the other members of Pearl Jam support the U.S. troops in Iraq. 
That flag represents the people of the United States of America. There is more liberty (freedom from governmental inter­vention in the lives of citizens) in America 
than in any other nation. Just as the First Amendment guarantees the rights of anti­war protesters, it allows for others to demon­
strate in favor of their government and its actions. What better time than uow is there to wave flags in support of American troops who are shedding their blood for the freedom of people in a foreign land? Let us try to preserve liberty in our own land. I loathe everything I have seen in anti-war demonstrations because 
those demonstrations take aim at the fabric of our country. However, I would never question their right to demonstrate or to burn the American flag. I encourage those demonstrators and supporters of their cause to extend the same courtesy to the vast majority of Americans who support the current policies of the government. God bless America. 
Brendan Magee 
junior Dillon Hall April 8 

Unjust athletic programs hurt African-Americans 
The pinnacle of the college basket­ball season culminated last evening with the National Championship game, bringing an exciting end to an other­wise scandal-plagued season. 
Jim 1-larrick, coach of the University of Georgia, resigned after he and his son (an assistant coach) gave academic credit to three players who did not attend their "Basketball Strategy" class. The Bulldogs were forced to for­feit the remainder of its season and wcro prohibited from participating in any post-season tournaments. 
Unfortunately, controversy is not exclusive to public schools. The Saint Bonaventure men's program was forced to forfeit its season after using an ineligible player. The coach, athlet­ic director and even the university's president have come under intense scrutiny for its "lack of leadership." These are just a few examples of the disturbing trends in big-time college athletics in recent years. 
Even more alarming than the numer­ous scandals are the graduation rates tor lack thereoO of college athletes, especially African-American athletes. According to ESPN.com, of the mem­bers of the "Sweet Sixteen," only three -Butler, Duke and Kansas -gradu­ated at least two-thirds of their black basketball players, while just those and two others -Marquette and Notre Dame -graduated at least two-thirds of all basketball players. Only six schools graduated at least 50 percent of all basketball players, while only seven graduated at least half of their black players. 
Men's basketball, which is comprised of 57 percent blacks, has the worst graduation rates of all college sports, with 58 of the 328 Division I teams failing to graduate a single black play­er in six years, including perennial powerhouses like Oklahoma, Louisville, Cincinnati. Memphis and, yes, National Champion Syracuse. 
"Win at any cost" seems to be the slogan of many college athletic pro­grams today. While their schools and coaches. who are predominantly white, rake in millions of dollars off their tal­ent, the athletes are left out to dry after their eligibility is terminated. Would it be an exaggeration to call the present state of college athletics a type of modern-day slavery? It certainly would be politically incorrect to do so. 
I will be the first to admit that the perks of a free college education are remarkable, but isn't the primary objective of a scholarship to pursue and eventually obtain a degree? Certainly a portion of the responsibility lies with the student-athletes to hold up their end of the bargain. Yet many of these programs will bend over back­wards for athletes until their eligibility runs out, at which point they cast aside the athletes like pieces of expired meat. 
The complete lack of outrage by national black leaders troubles me deeply. Where are Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton in the midst of this grave exploitation of black people? Both "reverends" are too busy getting their names in the newspapers and news weeklies for "pivotal roles" ensuring the humane treatment of POWs. 
In addition, Mr. Sharpton is busy running for president on a New Deal­type platform, insisting that the key to economic stimulus is public works pro­jects. If either of' these men truly cared about black people, the top item on their agenda would be the exploitation 
of African-American athletes. Where does this lack of outrage orig­inate? 
The answer is simple: the "rev­erends" realize that any voice of out­rage regarding this issue would not be politically advantageous. The limelight simply does not exist with this issue because college athletics have become so engrained within our culture that any opposition would be a major faux pas. So instead, the "reverends" are satisfied with the exploitation of young black men and women by convincing themselves that college sports demon­strate the athletic superiority of African-Americans. 
Until the day comes when black lead­ers stand up and fight against the injustice of this 21st century form of slavery, the NCAA will continue to look the other way while it is swallowed up by the almighty dollar, and schools will look at their athletic programs as busi­ness ventures -and nothing more. 
Michael Derocher sophomore Holy Cross College April 8 


THE 
OBSERVER 


page 12 Wednesday, April 9, 2003 

By KRISTIN CORDOVA 
Scerre Writer 
"Twelfth Night" is a tale of twins, trickery and Time, written, of course, by William Shakespeare. This main stage production of the play by the University of Notre Dame's Department of Film, Television and Theatre opens tonight at Washington Hall. 
This comedy toys with mis­taken identity and makes fun of all its characters, whether they realize it or not. It begins with the shipwreck of two twins, a young lady and gen­tleman of noble birth. Separated in the wreck, they think each other dead. Viola, played by Cheryl Turski, cuts her hair to mas­
Above, Malvolio (Steve querade as the ser­
vant boy Cesario.Hoeplinger) meditates while This causes great confusion among the
Maria (Erin Porvaznik, right), Sir other characters when her brother
Toby (T.J. McNally) and Sir 
Sebastian, played byAndrew (Jeff Eyerman) look on. J.J. Marler, finally 
shows up in town. As
To the right, Feste (Thomas you can guess, the rest of the play
Conner), Sir Toby and Sir 
relates the capers Andrew revel. Below, Olivia each experiences 
before happily-ever­
(Rose Lindgren) talks to the afte r works out in the final act.
disguised Viola (Cheryl Turski). 
This performance really gets rocking
. 
when Sir Toby (T.J.
Photos by McNally), Sir Andrew (Jeff Eyerman) and
SOFIA BALLON and TOM 
Maria (ErinBARKES Porvaznik) take the stage. As the drunk uncle, T.J. McNally is excellent, funny and seems like he might just have some experience. He and Erin, or Sir Toby and 



Maria. convincingly ease into their affection for one another, as the only believable romance Shakespeare gives in the comedy. Eyerman is perfect as the dumb and dumber Sir Andrew. Their scenes provoked outright laugher. Their chemistry is so good that it carries the performance through some of its slower moments. 
It is obvious the actors worked extremely hard to master the lan­guage, but sometimes it lacks punch. Their timing is good and well-rehearsed, but occasionally their speeches seem to need a deep­er interpretation of the character or a deeper understanding of themes in the text. 
For example, at the end of Act 2 Scene 2, Viola resigns herself to fate and allows Time to work out the mess her disguise created, a significant thematic moment in the 


work. It does not get the proper 
emphasis it 
deserves. Early 
on, Malvolio 
(Steve 
Hoeplinger) is 
stern, rude and 
harsh, even 
when address­
ing his mistress, 
Olivia. Although 
Malvolio could 
have more 
depth earlier in 
the play, 


Hoeplinger Starring: Cheryl Turski, J. 
redeems this Scott Wagner, Rose Lindgre 
one-sided con­Porvaznik, Steve Hoeplinger 
ception in a 

striking scene Wednesday through Saturda 
with Feste, the at 2:30 p.m. in Washington 
fool {Thomas $9 for seniors and $7 tor st 
THE OBSERVER 


Wednesday, April 9, 2003 page 13 





Conner). lie stands broken, wrapped in tatters, and the lone butt of a 
which would have been nice to sec more of in the perform­ance. 
Shakespeare originally set his play in Jllyria. This per­formance changes the tempo­ral setting to the 1890. The twins waltz about in black top hats for the majority of the play with long suit jackets top­ping off pinstriped trousers. Sir Toby looks like a reveling Irishman or a golfer out of "The Legend of Bagger Vance," with a plaid jacket and match­ing trousers that tuck into his brown side-button boots. 
While all the costumes are elaborate, impressive and beautiful, they do not add any­thing particularly intriguing to the play or provide a deeper insight to its seemingly light-heart­ecf plot. If the 1890s does have some signifi­cance for the-content of the play, this is not Above, Sir Toby, Sir Andrew evident. The selection 
ol' this tim·e period and Maria, lady-in-waiting to seems arbitrary to its 
Olivia, discuss what they have 

message. Donnelly, who designed the cos­learned. To the right, Orsino 
tumes and set, is to be 
complimented for his (Mike Federico) discusses his detailed and beautiful 
situation with disguised Viola

work, but its relevance remains in question. disguised as Cesario. Below,
The scenery changes 
were also too many Orsino ponders his love for and too frequent. 
Olivia.

"Twelfth Night" has many scene changes in the beginning, but 
• 

changing props after Photos by each scene was exces-
SOFIA BALLON 

sive and slowed down the action of the plot, which is important, especially in a comedy. It dragged down the quick comedic flow that Shakespeare intended. The play works to illustrate 
confused identities and relation­ships that arise because no one really slows down long enough to set things right. This performance could learn from the play. 
Overall, the performance is defi­nitely worth seeing. All the actors should be congratulated, along with first-time Notre Dame director, visit­ing assistant professor Ann Marie Stewart. It is evident from the per­formanGe that many hours of labor went into this performance. The words of the Fool in Lhe first scene of Act 5 aptly describe the perform• ers when they say, "A great while ago the world begun, / Hey, ho, the wind and the rain;/ But that's all one, our play is done, / And we'll strive to please you every day." 
Contact Kristin Cordova at kcordova@nd.edu 



h Night" 
dents. 
cruel joke while the well-played fool banters with him. As Feste leaves. Malvolio repeats the word "mad­man" from Feste 's song -a creepy, quavering murmur shocking the silent end of the scene. It starts to delve into the depths of Malvolio, 
Wednesday, April 9, 2003 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NIBA 
Iverson scores 37 points in 76ers win 
an excuse. If you give up 52 Washington's hopes. 
As,;ociated Press 
points in the paint, you're not And as any Cleveland fan can going to win. It's as simple as attest, Jordan never gave the
PHIi.ADELPHIA 

that." Cavs anything other than
Allen lverson's knee is doing Iverson, who hasn't missed a heartache.
jusL fine. 
game this season, was a game­In 1989, Jordan hit a game­[verson, playing despite left time decision. He said after winning jumper over Craig Ehloknee bursitis, had 37 points and Sunday's loss to Sacramento that in the final seconds of Game 7 of 
eight assists, leading the 
he might have to sit out down the Eastern Conference finals. APhiladelphia 76ers to a 91-74 the stretch. However, Iverson year later, Jordan scored avictory over the Detroit Pistons was still on the court with the career-high 69 points against the on Tuesday night. 
Sixers leading by 20 and less Cavs, and just last season, he"It's not getting any better, but than five minutes left. beat them with a buzzer-beater.
it's not getting any worse," 
"I was just playing basketball," "I have some great memoriesIverson said. 'Tm feeling the Iverson said. "I had the same here. and I'd like to leave here same. It keeps getting bigger. 
energy. It didn't feel any differ­on a good note -with a win,"
They talked about draining it 
ent. I was just able to make Jordan said following the morn­today, but l didn't let it happen." 
things happen." ing shootaround, "Obviously, no
Kenny Thomas added 16 
Iverson was 13-for-23 from the one likes to be beaten by one
points and 15 rebounds for 
field and 11-for-13 from the foul person so many ti.mes.
Philadelphia, which snapped a line. He shot just six free throws Unfortunately, Cleveland hasWm-game losing skid and moved combined in his last two games been that." 
within two games of Atl¥tic 
because his injury didn't allow Jordan's last game inDivision-leading New Jersey, the him to drive to the basket much Cleveland brought out a sellout
No. 1 seed in the Eastern 
and draw fouls. crowd of 20,562. 
Conference. 
The Sixers put the game away Jordan got a loud, standingClifford Robinson had 16 with an 8-0 run early in the ovation during pregame intro­points and Richard Hamilton fourth. Iverson started it with a ductions and Gund Arena wasadded 14 for Detroit, which lost 
driving layup and 16-footer. illuminated by camera Dash­
its fourth straight game. 
Derrick Coleman hit a 14-footer bulbs as he drained his first shot, The Central Division-leading and Thomas nailed another a 20-foot fadeaway jumper. 
Pistons entered the night 11/2 jumper to make it 83-60. Jordan didn't disappoint withgames ahead of Indiana. They 
an array of spins. head fakes and 

trail the Nets by one game. 
jumpers. He ended the third

"They did a great job penetrat­Wizards 100, Cavaliers 91 
quarter with a long 3-pointer to

ing the defense," Robinson said. Michael Jordan bid the 
give the Wizards a 76-71 lead.

"We couldn't keep Iverson in Cleveland Cavaliers a final, fit. 
He opened the fourth with

front of us and that hurt." ting farewell on Tuesday night. 
another jumper for his 24th

Philadelphia broke open a one­Jordan, who tormented the 
point, and when the Wizards

point game with a 9-0 run in the Cavs perhaps more than any Clippers Wednesday. 2:54 in an 89-83 victory Tuesday 
bu;lt an 11-point advantage,

second quarter. Iverson had two other team during his career, Theo Ratliff grabbed 16 night.
Jordan spent the rest of the

driving layups during the spurt scored . 26 points as the rebounds and blocked three The game was tied at 83 with
game directing his young team­

and capped it with a crisp Washington Wizards kept their shots and Jason Terry scored 27 just under three minutes left, but mates.
bounce pass to Aaron McKie for playoff hopes alive with a 100-91 points for the Hawks. including a neither team scored again until
With 7 seconds left,

an easy layup that gave the win. pair of free throws with 1 :58 left Anthony Carter's driving layup 
Washington coach Doug Collins, 

Sixers a 41-31 lead. Jerry Stackhouse added 18 that cut the Knicks lead to 91-88. gave the Heat a two-point lead
Chicago's coach in 1989 when

A 3-pointer by Eric Snow right points as the Wizards moved With Terry guarding him, with 33 seconds left. 
Jordan made "The Shot" over

before the buzzer made it 54-43 within 11/2 games of idle though, Houston dribbled twice
Ehlo, called a 20-second timeout Alvin Williams missed an openat halftime, and the Sixers led by Milwaukee for the eighth and to get Jordan out of the game. and swished a jumper. and jumper that would have tied thedouble digits the entire second final playoff spot in the Eastern Latrell Sprewell hit two 3-point­game. and Caron Butler knocked 

As he walked to the sideline

half. Conference. 
ers in the final 1 :06 to lift the
the Cleveland crowd stood and down two free throws with 21"We got a chance to get home­Zydrunas Ilgauskas had 23 Knicks.

showed their respect for Jordan, seconds left to give Miami an 87­court advantage. This was a big points and Ricky Davis had 18 Down 14 to start the fourth

who waved back in appreciation. 83 lead. 

step," Sixers coach Larry Brown points, 11 assists and nine quarter, the Hawks were down Butler scored 12 points. and
said. rebounds for the Cavs, who 
96-92 with 33.6 seconds left. 
Rasual Butler added 11 for thelt was the Detroit's first game dropped to an NBA-worst 15-62. Knlcks 99, Hawks 95 Atlanta, which had won two Heat, who won for only the sec­without All-Star forward Ben The Wizards (36-41) have five Allan Houston scored 29 points 

straight, committed 18 
ond time in their last 10 games.

Wallace, who sprained his left regular-season games remaining as the New York Knicks kept turnovers, though, and missed 
The Raptors dropped theirmedial collateral ligament on in what Jordan has promised their slim playoff hopes alive 

several opportunities to overtake third straight game. 

Sunday. will be his final season, and the with a 99-95 win over the a lackadaisical New York team 
Alvin Williams scored 16

The Sixers again were without NBA great doesn't want it to end Atlanta Hawks on Tuesday night. 
in the fourth, including a pair of

Keith Van Horn, who sat out his without another playoff appear­The Knicks led by as many as points for Toronto, Chris
missed open layups by Dion

second straight with a strained ance. 16 points, but had to hold off Jefferies had 15, and Jelani 
Glover.

left foot. One more loss, and Atlanta's late charge to stay in McCoy and Jerome Williams 
"We just weren't able to keep Washington's postseason the playoff hunt. New York must Heat 89, Raptors 83 each added 13. them out of the paint," Pistons chances could be over. win its next four games and Brian Grant scored 16 points Miami put together a strong coach Rick Carlisle said. ''I'd like Jordan wasn't about to let the Milwaukee must lose its final five and added 10 rebounds, and the third quarter, rallying from a 52­to say it was because Ben wasn't Cavs have the satisfaction of for the Knicks to qualify. Miami Heat held the Toronto 45 halftime deficit for a 72-70 in there, but we can't use that as being the team to end Milwaukee hosts the Los Angeles Raptors scoreless for the final lead. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
3-6 BDRM HOMES. $196.PP/MO. JUDAY LAKE HOME ON LAKE. DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 Student Rental House 3-4 or 5 per-Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it 272-6306 WALK TO ND. HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 son 2 story. 8 blocks from campus. alone. If you or someone you love GILLIS REALTY SCHOOL YEAR. New everything. Wired for comput-needs confidential support or assis-
WANTED 
Leaving town? We II buy your car. 272-6306 WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES ers etc. Avail. Summer or Fall lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise 
574-243-0000. NEAR CAMPUS-STUDENT 235-3655 Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more Spend a great summer in NY. ND Dealmaker Auto Sales 52081 933 Oakhill Condo. Bdrm down/loft up. NEIGHBORHOODS-SECURITY information, see our bi-weekly ad in alums in Westchester County look-No. So. Bend, IN 2 baths. SYSTEMS-MAINTENANCE LIVE IN A GAEAT NOT QUES-The Observer. ing tor live-in help this summer to Asking $88,500. STAFF ON CALL-TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH help with the care of their children Babysitter, May-Aug., 3 kids ages Mike@ 330-393-1584. WAHSERS/DRYERS, OF ND 2773097 inc:luding their autistic daughter. 2, 6, 8. 10-12 hrs./wk, 2 morn. 1 CALL TODAY· HOUSES GOING Mexico/Caribbean only $125 each Person will be trained in the princi-eve. $7,hr. Robyn @ 271-3646. FAST!II way all taxes included! If you can pies of applied behavior analysis. CONTACT KRAMER (574) beat these prices start your own Job will include ABA therapy & FOR RENT 315-2436-ALSO LEASING FOR PERSONAL damn airline! Book on line childcare responsibilities. 2004-2005 www.airtech.com or (212)219­
FOR SALE

Weekends tree. Private room. Walk to School. VISIT OUR WEBSITE @ ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE. 7000. 
Call 914-241-9238. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM Are you pregnant and dent know Ranch home, 3 bdrm, 1.5 bath, fire-campus. what to do? THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF place. full bsmt, 2 car alt garage, mmrnrentals@aol.com 2 BDRM House, A/C, close to cam-Loving, open-hearted, financially THE OBSERVER IS WEDNES· fenced yard, 1 mile from ND. 272-1525 pus. stable woman would like to consid-DAY, APRIL 30.
NIOTICE 
288-2001 www.mmmrentals.com 269-699-5841 er adopting a baby. 
Free counseling, living expenses Love Paul Schreck Stl1dy Abroad with CEA. England, Oak Hill Condo. 574-243-2621 HOUSE AVAILABLE furn. 1 bdrm apt. summer sublease at and medical expenses. Italy, Spain, France. Australia. 4b2ba. Turtle Creek. This can be a good thing for you Yeah, uh... must have back. Request a Free Catalog New Schwinn w/lock $100 walk to campus. Fully furnished, price negotiable. and your baby. Discreet and legal. www.GoWithCEA.com Call Mark@ 4-2061 jo5225@aol.com dboudon@nd.edu Call 904-824-7006. What about da badonkadonk... 

Wednesday, April 9, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
White Sox spoil home opener for Indians 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 

Jose Valentin took one look at Bartolo Colon wearing short sleeves and shook his head. The rest of his body already was 
shaking. 
"lle's nuts," Valentin said. "I was freezing. I put on every­thing I conld tind to stay warm. and believe me, I was not warm." 
Valentin heated up with a titibrcaking Hl3l single in Chicago's two-run 10th inning as tlrn White Sox won the Cleveland Indians' chilly home opener 5-3 Tuesday. 
The 10th home opener in .Jacobs Field history was rescheduled f'rom Monday because of' rain and cold weath­c r. and Tuesday's conditions were better suited for a Bears­Browns matchup than baseball. 
Fog shrouded the ballpark and the chill made it feel like it was 22 degrees when Indians starter Hicardo Hodriguez threw out the first pitch. Only about 10,000 fans braved the frigid clements until the final out. 
"It wasn't Kissimmee, Florida," Indians catcher Josh Bard said. "But the White Sox had to deal with it, too." 
Billy Koch (1-0} pitched two innings as the White Sox won their fourth straight. 
With the scored tied 3-3. Sandy Alomar Jr. singled -his third hit -to open the 10th off Chad Paronto (0-1) and was replaced by pinch-runner Miguel Olivo. 
D'Angelo Jimenez walked on four pitches and Valentin failed to get down a sacrifice bunt, before hitting his RBI single. 
"I got lucky we cashed in," Valentin said. "We can't afford to make mistakes. If I hit into a double play, not too many peo­ple in this room arc going to be happy with me." 
Thomas then lifted a fly ball, scoring Jimenez to make it 5-3. 
Cubs 6, Expos 1 
Dusty Baker felt the cold wind on his face and saw the snow on the winter-brown ivy at Wrigley Field . 
His Chicago debut as manager of the Cubs didn't seem like a home opener, not on a 32­degree day with thousands of empty seats at one of baseball's most popular parks. 
What warmed Baker up Tuesday was the way his new team responded to the elements and overcame them in a 6-1 win over the Montreal Expos. 
"It was very cold, the coldest I've ever been on a baseball field, but you've got to eliminate those thoughts," said Baker, who came to the Cubs after tak­ing the San Francisco Giants to the World Series six months ago. 
"You got to try to put those elements out of your mind, 
especially when people come and see you. Imagine how cold they are. 
"They probably have the advantage of having a flask or two. I saw a lot of people [reach] into their coats and J was like, 'They're not going for pop­corn."' 
The Cubs dealt with the condi­tions better than the Expos. 
Matt Clement, whose back tightened up in his first start last week, allowed three hits in 7 1/3 innings. Moises Alou drove in three runs, Alex Gonzalez had three hits to continue his early­season tear and the Cubs turned three double plays. 
The game, played in a biting 14 mph wind that was blowing in. was a makeup of Monday's snowout. 
"I felt like singing 'Jingle Bells.' It felt like it was Christmas," Baker said before the game. "That's the truth, it's what I did. I started signing to my son. Kids love it. They don't have to play in it like we do." 
The announced attendance was 29,138, and some in the crowd booed the Canadian national anthem when it was sung before the game. 
Yankees 7, Twins 3 
The crowd roared as Hideki Matsui rounded the bases after hitting his first major league home run. Just one game into his Yankee Stadium career, he made team history. 
Matsui became the first Yankee to hit a grand slam in his first game at baseball's most storied stadium, leading New York to a 7-3 victory over the Minnesota Twins on Tuesday. 
"I never dreamed of it," Matsui said. "Certainly I feel a little relief." 
Andy Pettittc improved to 3-0 in home openers and Robin Ventura homered as the Yankees won on a chilly 35­degrne day. The opener was snowed out Monday but the grounds crew worked all night to get the field in shape. 
Matsui made it worthwhile. with a dazzling play in the field and his home run. 
"That was a very special moment," teammate Bernie Williams said. 'Tm sure a lot of people in Japan were jumping up and down. They had to enjoy 
it." 
After Williams was intention­ally walked to load the bases with one out in the fifth, Matsui worked the count full against Joe Mays (1-1) as fans chanted "Mat-su-i! Mat-su-i!" 
Matsui then hit a drive into the right-field bleachers, draw­ing a thunderous ovation from the crowd of 33,109, which included his parents and broth­er. 
After Jason Giambi took weeks to win over the Yankee Stadium crowd last season. Matsui did it in one game. 
"Right now. I can't really sense that," Matsui said through an interpreter. KMaybc later in the season I can look back and say that was the moment. when I hit the home run, that I was a Yankee." 
Phlllles 4, Braves 3 
Tomas Perez's two-out RBI single in the 10th inning gave the Philadelphia Phillies a 4-3 victory over the Atlanta Braves on Tuesday night. 
Pat Burrell opened the 10th with a single ofT reliever Kevin Gryboski (0-1) and moved to second on a sacrifice by pitcher Brett Myers. who was pinch-hit­ting. 
After Mike Lieberthal was intentionally walked, Marlon Byrd hit into a fielder's choice, sending Burrell to third. Perez then singled up the middle past diving shortstop Rafael Furcal. 
Jose Mesa (1-0) pitched 1 1-3 hitless innings for the win. 
Atlanta's Gary Sheffield and manager Bobby Cox were eject­ed by plate umpire Kerwin Danley after Sheffield was called out on strikes in the fifth inning. 
Phillies manager Larry Bowa was also absent, serving a one­game suspension for inciting the benches to clear during a spring training game against Toronto. 
The gametime temperature of 37 degrees helped lead to 16 walks, including four to Lieberthal, two wild pitches and a passed ball. 

Sex...You never knew it was so good. 
"This is the body -a witness to creation as a fundamental gift, and so a witness to Love as the source from which this same giving springs. Masculinity and femininity -namely, sex -is the original sign of a creative donation and an awareness on the part of man. male­fcmale. ofa gift lived in an original way." 
'·Contincnce for the sake of the kingdom of heaven, the choice of Yirginity or celibacy for one's whole life. has become in the c:xpcricncc of Christ's disciples and followers the act or a particular response of love for the divine Spouse. Therefore il has acquired the significance ofan act of nuptii!l lovc, that is. a nuptial giving of oncsel f for the purpose of redprocating in a particular way the nuptial lo\'C of lhc Redeemer. His a giving ofoneself understood as 
rcrnmciution, but ma<le above all out 
of' love.'' 
"By its nature, human life is 'coeducative.' Its dignity and balance depend, at every moment ofhistory and at every point of geographical longitude and latitudet on who woman will be for man and who man will be for woman.'' 
0J''Y·:.· "Uniting with each other (in the 
, 
Pope John Paul II on the human person, the body and sexuality: 
Notre Dame Right to Life presents 
"It is necessary to rediscover continually in what is erotic the nuptial meaning of the body and the true dignity of the gift. This is the role ofthe human spirit, a role ofan ethical nature. If it does not assume this role, the attraction of the senses and the passion ofthe body may stop at mere lust devoid of ethical value. Then man, male an<l female, does not experience that fullness ofcros, which means the aspiration ofthe human spirit toward what is true, 
good, and beautiful. so that what is erotic also becomes true. good, and beautiful." 
conjugal act) so closely as to become "one flesh,•· man and woman rediscover, so to speak, every time and in a special way, the mystery ofcreation. They return in this way to that union in humanity which allows them to recognize each other and call each other by name. This means reliving. in a sense, the original virginal value of man, which emerges from the 
mystery ofhis solitude before God 
and in the midst of the world." 

A WEEKEND WITH CHRISTOPHER WEST 
expert on Pope John Paul J°rs Theology of the Body Evening Talks (open to all!): Friday April 25th 7:30pm 141 DeBartolo Hall Building a Culture q/'l(fe Saturday April 26th 7:30pm 141 DeBartolo Hall A4arriage and Celibacy for the Kingdom Day of Prayer*: Saturday April 26th 9am-5pm CoMo Lounge A Crash Course ;n the Theology ofthe Body 
*Due to limited space, please register for the Day of Prayer. For registration details, email mcokeley@nd.edu, or see posters around campus. 
Wednesday, April 9, 2003
page 16 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

f 
_, ~'2"~iW£l~t?~-­
~~41.b. 

JK.._~ ~~~,i_~ 1~L~ arit 
y~~~--.. 
\'}t ~~ ) 
, 
'Ii 

1
\~--A~-~~~•A\j~~
~ ,, ~ \ \ ~ ~ ~ 
.

:Ii,. . ~..~ ~( 
• __J ,, . ~~I -,: 
. 

~ ~&~ ~~~~v 
----~ ~--.-,-------·
~ ~· ~ ~ ..,,,,,.,.,, 
The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 

LAW'S MORAL FOUNDATIONS: HAS IT ANY? 
KEYNOTE ADDRESS 
Thursday, April 10, 2003 
4:00 p.m. 
NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM 

ABOUT MORALITY AND THE -· NATURE OF LAW 
JOSEPH RAZ UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD AND FELLOW OF BALLIOL COLLEGE 


Friday, April 11, 2003 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
ROOM 100-104 

9 a.m. TOWARDS A JURISPRUDENCE OPEN TO 
(ANTHROPOLOGICAL) REALITY 
Jude Chua Soo Meng National University of Singapore University of Notre Dame 
10:15 a.m. 

THE REASON OF THE LAW 
Timothy Endicott . Balliol College University of Oxford 
11 :30 p.m. 

ON MORALITY AS A NECESSARY OR · SUFFICIENT CONDITION FOR LEGALITY 
M. H. Kramer University of Cambridge 
2:15 p.m 
BEYOND THE HART/DWORKIN DEBATE: THE METHODOLOGY PROBELM IN JURISPRUDENCE ·· . 
Brian Leiter University ofTexas 
. t: ,,,:· 
4:00p.m. 
ANNUAL NATURAL,.LAW LECTURE 
LAW AND WHAT I TRULY SHOULD 
DECIDE 
JOHN FINNIS NOTRE'DAME LAW SCHOOL UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD 

Co-sponsored by the Olin Foundation 
Wednesday, April 9, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
----==-=====--=..:=-=-=-==-=-=--======================================================================================== 
NCAA WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Taurasi, Huskies capture 2nd stra,ight title 

Associated Press 
ATIANTA 
Diana Taurasi tormented Tennessee again, and Connecticut proved it could rebuild -and still repeat. 
Leading a young team that had four new starters, Taurasi ignored the sore back and bum ankle that have bothered her for several weeks and carried Connecticut to a 73-68 victory over Tennessee on Tuesday night for its second straight national championship. 
Taurasi, who averaged 22 points in her first five games against Tennessee, scored 28 in this one with a variety of the flashy moves that made her the national player of the year. 
The Huskies (37-1) won this third title game between the nation's two premier programs, and it was mostly because of Taurasi, who became the leader on a team that lost four starters. 
She made 8-of-15 shots. including four 3-pointers. She scored on a floater in the lane, a backdoor cut and even threw in a shot left-handed. 
Still, Tennessee (33-5) closed with a rush after trailing by 13. When Brittany Jackson pump faked and then made a 3-point­er as she fell forward, the lead was down to 70-66 with 1 :01 left. 
Gwen Jackson's layup drew Tennessee to 71-68 with 21 sec­onds remaining. But Ann Strother, one of two freshmen who start for Connecticut, sank two free throws, and freshman Ashley Battle intercepted Tennessee's inbounds pass. 
The Huskies moved the ball so quickly that Tennessee could not foul, and fittingly, Taurasi ended up with the ball. She nung it into the stands at the buzzer and Connecticut began yet another victory celebration. 
If any more evidence was needed that Connecticut has supplanted Tennessee as the nation's top program in women's hoops, this was it. 
The title was the fourth over­all for the Huskies, who also beat Tennessee in the 1995 and 2000 championship games and now have beaten the Lady Vols four straight times. 
Connecticut denied Tennessee and coach Pat Summitt a sev­enth title and delivered further insult to a program UConn head coach Geno Auriemma had dubbed the "Evil Empire." 
Taurasi and Co. made sure it did not strike back. 
Strother finished with 17 points, and the other freshman starter, Barbara Turner, came up with 10 points on five tough baskets inside. 
Maria Conlon, the spunky 5­foot-9 guard who looks so out of place among the other sleek athletes on the floor, con­tributed 11 points, six assists and four rebounds for the Huskies. 


$6.99  $6.99  
Cheesy Bread  Bread Stix  
&  CinniStix &  
Domino's Dots  One 2 Liter Of Coke  
$6.99  $6.99  
Campus Deliveries Only.  Not Valid With Any Other Offer  

Out For AWalk Pick Up AMedium Cheese Pizza For $3.99 
Carry Out Only 
Not Va.lid With Any Other Offer 
271-0300 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 9, 2003 
MENS TENNIS 
Hopes abound for a rebound after two straight losses 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Spores Writer 
Returning to their home courts after two tough road losses, the Irish are hoping to start up a winning trend as the season nears a close. When No. 61 Ball State travels to Notre Dame today, the Cardinals will be anxious for an upset, and the Irish will be ready for a win. 
After Notre Dame suffered a rough 6-1 loss to Miami March 30, the Irish were keenly set on rebounding against Southern Methodist in Dallas last Sunday. Unfortunately for Notre Dame, the Mustangs survived a very close match to edge the Irish 4­3. 
"I can't lie." junior trica_ptain Matt Scott said. "It was a heart breaker." 
The Irish had some promising moments in Sunday's match, including junior tricaptain Luis Haddock's upset of No. 55 Johan Brunstrom and Brent D'Amico's straight-set victory over No. 52 Gwinyai Chingoka. 
Scott. who was disappointed 
FOOTBALL 
Irish and Willingham hire personnel coach 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame football coach Tyrone Willingham announced Tuesday the hiring of Jimmy Gonzales as the Director of Personnel Development for the Irish football program. Gonzales, who will work with recruiting and player develop­ment among other things, will begin his duties immediately in South B"end. 
Gonzales comes to Notre Dame after serving as the director of football operations and recruiting coordinator at Atmy since 1999. In that role, Gonzales handled the adminis­trative operations of the foot­ball program, aided in recruit­ing weekends and team travel and assisted in community service projects and communi­ty events. 
A lifelong football adminis­trator and coach during his career, Gonzales was the assistant athletic director for football operations under head coach John Mackovic at the University of Texas from 1996-98 before leaving for Army. 
While at Texas, the Longhorns finished first in the Big 12 South. defeated Nebraska in the Big 12 Championship game and advanced to the Fiesta Bowl during the 1996 season. Gonzales also served as the administrative assistant for recruiting at Oklahoma (1992­
93) during his career. 
Prior to assuming adminis­trative duties at Texas, Gonzales served as a coach for close to 15 years. He was the defensive backfield and ends coach at Duke from 1994-95, and coached defensive backs at Northwestern (1990-92). He served in a similar capacity ai with his own play in his loss to Lukasz Senzyszyn, praised some of his teammates for their strong performances that kept the Irish in contention through­out the match. 
"The guys, they fought their heart[s] out," Scott said. 
The close match with the Mustangs was the latest in a trend of tight competitions for the Irish this season. 
"I think we probably have more 4-3's than most teams in the country," Scott said. "Coach says we've been in the fire, and we can draw on those experi­ences. Every time you're in those 4-3 matches you just get tougher. We just hope we can use it to our advantage in the end of the year." 
Having passed through the fire posed by many of the nation's top teams, the Irish are looking for a win against Ball State to boost their confidence as they embark upon the last part of the season and prepare for the Big East Championship. Next Sunday, Notre Dame will travel to No. 13 Kentucky. 
"[The SMU loss] really hurt," Scott said. "I think that feeling 
Wisconsin where he was the defensive backs coach and co­d irecto r of summer camps from 1986-89. He also was the defensive line coach and recruiting coordinator at Tulsa from 1985-86, the defensive coordinator at Texas Lutheran in 1985 and was a graduate assistant at both TCU (1983-84) and Southwest Texas State (1982). At Southwest Texas, that team posted a perfect 14-0 record and captured the NCAA Division II national champi­onship. 
Magna Cum Laptop 
You don't need to be valedictorian to get a hot deal on a cool laptop 

Gateway 450EB 
1.3 GHz Pentium M 
'256MB DDR SDRAM 30GB Hard Drive DVD/CD-RW Drive 
$1679* 
Visit the Solutions Center, 112 IT Center Bldg. or order online at http://solution.nd.edu 


~ofufioh~ C'6ht&r 
Phone orders also accepted Call (574) 631-7477 or (877) 561-7477 
has been in our stomach for the last three days. We're really looking to kind of bounce back from that. Ball State is going to be our rebound win." 
Like the Irish, Ball State has had a formidable schedule. All six of the Cardinals' losses came to ranked teams -No.I Illinois, No. 28 Indiana, No. 47 Northwestern, No. 51 Louisville, No. 67 Indiana Slate and No. 68 Michigan. 
Doanus 
PROPERTIES 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSES FOR RENT 
FOR 
2003-2004 
2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT www.domuskra01er.co111 
OR CALL 574-315-5032 OR 574-234-2436 ASK FOR KRAMER 
Ball State returns 10 letter­men from the 2002 squad that lost to Notre Dame 4-3 in the last regular season match for the Irish. 
'Tm sure it would make a career moment for a lot of them to beat Notre Dame," Scott said. "They'll fight hard. They're a scrappy team. They have some good players in the lineup." 
A win against Ball State would be important for the 
iBook 
800GHz G3 
256MB SDRAM 
30GB Hard Drive 
DVD/CD-RW Drive 
$1686* 
Irish, but in order to signifi­cantly progress in the rankings, a win against Kentucky on Sunday is critical for Notre Dame in terms of qualifying for the NCAA Tournament. 
"We're going to close out the season hopefully with three wins," Scott said. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlind­sle@nd.edu 

Wednesday, April 9, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
INTERESTED IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, 
AND ETHICAL QUESTIONS? 
Ethical issues involving technology assessment, bioethics, human genetics, environmental management, computer technology, engineering, and architectural design constantly raise new and difficult dilemmas for society. 
To explore these issues in depth, investigate the unique Notre Dame Science, Technology, and Values Program (STV). This is an academic Minor requiring-.15 credit hours that may be taken in conjunction with any major. Within the STV Program, you can develop specific emphases on STV issues in relation to Business; Environmental Studies; Biomedical Ethics; Philosophy and Theology; History and Philosophy of Science; and Government and Public Policy. 
Adescription of course offerings for FALL 2003 can be obtained at 346 O'Shaughnessy, or visit our website at http://www.nd.edu/~stv. Call 631-5015 for apersonal appointment. 
BASEBALL 
Weather forces Irish to reschedule games 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Senior Spom Writer 
The quest for Notre Dame's 12th consecutive win will have to wait a day. 
Miserable weather conditions in South Bend postponed Tuesday's match between the Irish (20-6) and Bowling Green (8-11) at Eck Stadium, marking the third weather-related dis­ruption in Notre Dame's last five games. 
Hope your schedule was filled out in pencil. 
Tuesday's game will now be played Thursday as the second half of a doubleheader at the Eck, following Notre Dame's originally-scheduled Thursday match against Chicago State (2­19), which has been pushed up from 5:05 p.m. to 4:05 p.m., allowing the second match to begin at approximately 6:30 p.m. 
Both matches on Thursday will be 7-inning affairs. 
In addition to the postpone­ment of Tuesday's game, the Irish added two home games as a result of the cancellation of Friday's doubleheader against Boston College. 
The first make-up will involve the Irish taking on Central Michigan (currently 8-14) on Monday, while the Irish added IPFW (11-13-1) as an opponent April 24. 
Both make-up matches will be played at Eck Stadium at 
5:05 p.m. 
The starting rotation has shifted slightly as well. as sophomore John Axford will start today against Western Michigan. and Martin Vergara and Tom Thornton will throw Thursday against Chicago State and Bowling Green, respective­ly. 
Notes: 
Due to an east coast snow­storm Monday night. Notre Dame was hardly alone in post­poning their match Tuesday. At least six Big East teams had their Tuesday matches either cancelled or postponed, as Connecticut, Villanova, Virginia Tech, Rutgers and Seton llall all called off their matches due to weather as well. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 


Another technological 
innovation brought to you by 
Notre Dame Federal Credit Union ... 


Save time, save money. Get your check images online, free! Just log on to our home banking web site. 
'§.. 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
www.ndfcu.org 
Independent of lhe University 
Edwards named Big East Player-of-Week 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame infielder Matt Edwards received Big East Player of the Week honors after leading the Irish baseball team to a 4-0 record in last week's action. Edwards -who has started at first and third base in recent weeks -led Notre Dame in hits and batting average (9­for-14, .643), RBIs (10) home runs (3), total bases (21) and slugging percentage (1.500). The sophomore also had seven runs scored, two walks, a triple, double, stolen base and just one strikeout from his key No. 3 spot in the batting order. He hit 6-for-9 in the doubleheader sweep at St. John's, with five RBI and a pair of booming home runs to dead-center field. 
Edwards -who missed most of the 2002 season with a bro­ken leg -heads into this week's action with a .385 sea­son batting average and an eight-game hitting streak, plus 32 RBI in 25 games played. He 
,;:::::========,i is batting .436 (l 7-for-39) in 
Buy or Sell yourHome with aGrad from the Dome Call Maria Cardle 360-3334 CRESSY and EVERETT/GMAC Realty Office 233-6141 
Notre Dame's current 11-garne 
winnfog streak, with 19 RBI and 
an .821 slugging percentage in 
that stretch. 
Edwards ranks eighth among Big East players in batting aver­age (.385) and is second among conference players in RBI (32) and slugging percentage (.615). Junior second baseman Steve Sollmann also remains among I the league leaders in several 
categories. 



-. --· 
-·-----------------------------------------------, 
AROUND THE NATION 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, April 9, 2003 

page 20 

around the dial 
STANLEY CUP PLAYOFFS 
Maple Leafs at Flyers 6 p.m" ESPN Bruins at Devils 6 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 
Angels at Mariners 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 

Timberwolves at Sonics 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Cavaliers. "It's unfortunate playoff spot in the Eastern six titles in the 1990s.
Associated Press 
about Jerry. Obviously, his Conference. But while the pair CLEVELAND health is the most impor­"Personally, I haven't shared a desire to be the Michael Jordan helped tant thing." thought about Chicago," he best. Jordan and Krause build the Chicago Bulls Jordan plans to retire at said. "I know people have didn't always see eye-to­into NBA champions once the end of this season. and asked in the past. 'What eye while they were before. He doesn't seem to has indicated he will if?' I told them at the time together in Chicago from 
be in any hurry to try to do return to the Wizards' that my focus has been 
1985-99. it again. front office. here and will be here. 
Krause's personality
Jordan said Tuesday that However, he is not con­"I haven't talked to any­
clashed with many play­
he has no interest now in tractually bound to one on that staff. You guys 
ers, and he and Jordan
replacing Jerry Krause, Washington, and the GM are more or less getting ended on bad terms whenwho unexpectedly resigned opening in Chicago has led things rolling. My focus is 
the superstar retired
as Chicago's general man­to more speculation right now trying to get this before the lockout-short­ager because of health Jordan will return to the team in the playoffs, and ened season of 1999.
problems. Bulls. His family still lives secondly, making sure this After Jordan left, Krause"Washington is where I in Chicago. franchise is moving in the 
started and where I want Jordan, though, says his right direction." dismantled the Bulls, who to finish" as an executive, mind is squarely on the With Jordan leading the haven't been back to the Jordan said at a morning Wizards, who entered way on the floor, and playoffs since. shootaround before the Tuesday two games behind Krause making the off­"We had good things Wizards' game at the Milwaukee for the last court moves, the Bulls won there," Jordan said. 
IN BRIEF 
Darryl ~trawberry released 
frompnson 
Darryl Strawberry smiled. hugged his wife, thanked a guard and drove away from prison Tuesday, begin­ning what his lawyer hopes will be a drug-free life. 
The eight-time All-Star was released from Gainesville Correctional Institution after serving 11 months of an 18-month prison sentence for violating probation on cocaine possession charges. 
After saying "Thank you" to a guard, he and his wife got into a sil­ver Lincoln Navigator, which was driven by another man, and drove off, getting only about a half-mile away before they had to turn back ­Strawberry had forgotten his person­al belongings. A guard handed him a plastic bag and he was off again. 
Strawberry also accepted the $100 check the state gives inmates upon their release. but declined a suit of clothes, prison officials said. Strawberry refused to talk to reporters. 
According to Florida Department of Corrections records, Strawberry is moving back in with his wife. Charisse, and his three children at a gated community in Lutz. 
"He's doing well," lawyer Darryl Rouson said before Strawberry's release. "He's been clean for a very long time, longer than ever before." 
"I just wish Darryl the best," Yankees manager Joe Torre said. "I don't know what the next step is for him. I'm certainly happy he's out early and can get his life on the right path." 
Canadian anthem booed at 
Wrigley 
Some fans at Wrigley Field booed Tuesday when the Canadian national anthem was played before the Chicago Cubs' home opener against the Montreal Expos. 
The smattering of boos was notice­able among the crowd of 29,138, a backlash from last month when "The Star-Spangled Banner" was booed before an Islanders-Canadiens hock­ey game in Montreal -a response to the war in Iraq. 
"Two stupid reactions don't make it right, I think," Expos manager Frank Robinson said. 
"Whatever happened in Canada was uncalled for. but that doesn't mean that people in the States have to turn to idiotic acts by booing the Canadian national anthem," he said. "I think both anthems should be respected by whomever." 
Expos first baseman Jeff Liefer, who played last season with the Chicago White Sox, said he w.ould rather fans not boo during the anthems. 
"This is a free country, they can do whatever they want," he said. "I wouldn't do it out of respect for Canada. I know they did it to our anthem. That's what's great about this country. It's free and you can do whatever you want. That's what they did." 

Wednesday, April 9, 2003 The Obseroer . SPORTS page 21 
running drills to prepare, and ing that game had to fear for Lucky for Case Race, their late Syracuse's match-up zone when the engineers of Our their campus housing next team just wasn't a good defense, kept their heads away
Hickory 
"Indexes"... showed up, the year. match-up, and Beat Us ... took from cakes and bridesmaid continued from page 24 battle began. them 21-16, despite a good dresses for the 21-9 victory. 
Although Our "Indexes"... Beat Us -Go to Resllfe 21, second half attempt. down to the wire in an hour led l 1-8 at halftime, the ladies Case Race 16 As for future games, Beat Us Pack of Brutal Knaves, and a half monster game. of Cavanaugh came back and When Case Race took on ... plans to continue using fear Featuring the Olsen Twins 21, 
"It was an up and down bat• were leading Beat Us as a win tactic. Little Bunny Fel-Fel 8 tie," unofficial "coach" Brady 19-18. The -Go to "Fear of Bill Kirk should In other bookstore news. Peoples said. He also added two teams, ResLife, help us win some games down after much debate over what 
that he was very proud of his who had "It's pretty serious. I'm not the three the stretch," Linster said. their team name actually was, Iloosiers. drawn quite going to lie to you. Fear ofBill assistant Pack of Brutal Knaves featur­
Ave Jamonles 21, Team 530 9

a crowd of rectors ing Mary Kate and Ashley
Kirk should help us win some While Linster and his team
Our "Indexes" Exceed Matrix onlookers in on Beat Olsen decided that they did 
were worrying about their res•

Dimensions 23, Tortugas Con their final games down the stretch." Us know their team name. which 
idents, another team was look­

Queso 21 struggle. m a d e was good for them, as they
ing at another kind of living

Hickory High and Pumpkin swapped sure to will have at least one more
Jason Llnster 
arrangement. Five Jamonies,

in a Patch were not the only points back let peo­game to play. Despite its long 
teams that battled it out down and forth DIiion Hall AR ple know whose unofficial name is Four duration, the 21-8 victory to the wire. Our "Indexes" until. finally, that the Bachelors and Prill (who will against Little Bunny Fei-Fei Exceed Matrix Dimensions and the engi-threat be getting married soon), had will advance them into the Tortugas Con Queso also neers of Our was seri­to stay focused on the court next round. fought to the end. The "Indexes"... ous. instead of wedding plans as Cavanaugh women that had enough and computed a "It's pretty serious," Dillon they took on their opponents. formed Tortugas Con Queso 23-21 victory. Hall AR Jason Linster said. Luckily, the four Bachelors Contact Katie McVoy at were out on the court early However, neither team play-'Tm not going to lie to you." and Prill, who claimed to emu-mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
-'Greyhound has Indiana covered. 
Greyhound. makes ,t easy to travel across Indiana, to Chicago, or across the country. Our fares are always affordable and you never 
need to plan ahead to get a good deal. Plus, students can save even more with special travel and shipping discounts with your Student Advantage Card. 


South Bend Bus Terminal located at: 
South Bend Regional Airport 4671 Progress Drive 574-287-6542 
Olsen 
continued from page 24 
said he's worked hard to improve during the off-sea­son, and he is better pre­pared than a year ago. 
"In the off-season, I worked out, learned the offense and just became better acquainted with everything -the reads, the other teams' defenses and things like that," Olsen said. 
"I think my progress has been a lot better than it was last year, even at the end of the season. Right now, I think 
I'm a few steps above where I was." 
Olsen's goal for spring prac­tice, summer workouts and next season is to place himself in the top two at the quarter­back position. Diedrick point­ed to backup Pat Dillingham's performance last season when starting quarterback Carlyle Holiday went down as an example of how important 
"In the off-season, I worked out, learned the offense and just became better acquainted 
with everything. " 
Chris Olsen quarterback 
-I ' 
Olsen's role would be as the number two guy. 
"When we come out of spring ball, he has to position himself at number two or backup role," Diedrick said. "And when you say play in a backup role, you're just one play away. You may be one play away, but you have to be prepared to play as starter.'' 
With Holiday returning, Olsen understands that he likely will not start. but that hasn't kept him from doing all he can to make himself and as his team• mates better. 
"My goal is just to get into the top two and work a lot harder and just push every• 
,body.~ Olsen. saict.;;Tbere's three of us getting the same amount of reps, and we're 
all pushing each other. and it's all making each of us that much better." 
very, very close to number two Contact Joe Hettler at and expect him to play in a jhettlcr@nd.edu. 

THE RECRUIT 

Location: 101 DeBartolo Admission: $3 Time: 
Thursday 1OPM;
Date: April 10th, 11th, and 12th 
Friday and Saturday: 8 and 10:30 PM 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 9, 2003 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish to face Pitt in doubleheader 
Dame has 26 games remaining  
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER  this month, or 13 scheduled dou- 
Spom Wricer  bleheaders.  
"We don't think it really mat- 
Through no fault of its own,  ters when we play," Gumpfsaid.  
defending Big East champion  "Our goal is to win the Big East  
Notre Dame finds itself dead last  Championship."  
in the latest conference stand- Wednesday, the Irish hope to  
ings.  finally get a chance to face off  
Of course, that's because the  against a conference foe when  
Irish have yet to play a Big East  they travel to Pittsburgh to play  
game.  a doubleheader against the  
Either rain or snow has forced  Panthers (17-18, 3-3 Big East).  
the postponement of Notre  The Irish (14-11, 0-0) come  
Dame's first six Big East match- into the series on an offensive  
ups this season. which leaves the  tear. Last week's doubleheader  
Irish tied for last in the league  sweeps at Purdue and at home  
with a 0-0 conference record.  against Loyola-Chicago helped  
"It's been pretty tough," Irish  the Irish to increase their team  
coach Deanna Gumpf said. "The  batting average to .279, which  
great thing about it is that the  leads the Big East.  
girls have been handling it pretty  Notre Dame outscored their  
well and have been taking it in  opponents 24-5 in the four  
stride. I couldn't ask them to do  games. Individually, senior  
anything else."  Andrea Loman currently sits at  
These early season ratµouts  sixth in the league in both hitting  
could come back to haunt the  (.370) and slugging percentage  
Irish. This year, the Big East  (.603).  
adopted a new scoring system  "We just played really well  
that gives two points for a win,  together as a team," Gumpfsaid.  
one point for a tie and zero  "You talk about the three things  
points for a loss.  -hitting, pitching, and defense.  
Winning percentage no longer  We weren't consistent with all  
has any bearing on the final  three things early on, but we've  
standings. and only the top four  been putting it together lately  
teams by points get invited to the  and really showing what this  
Big East Championship. Current  team is capable of doing."  
conference leaders Seton Hall  The Panthers have been a bit  
and St. John's sit in first with ten  of a Jekyll-and-Hyde team this  
points already, each with five  season. They come into the  
wins.  series on a slight slump, having  

Fair or not\ the 'Irish 'will have I .J lost five of their last' six after ah a pressure-filled month this 11-game winning streak earlier April as they try to play enough in the season. games to get back into the thick In their last Big East double­of things in the Big East. Notre header, the Panthers defeated 


RecSports has openings for this summerand the 2003-2004 academic year in the following positions: 
~tudent ~upervi~or~ 
front De~k ~uperviM>r~ 
filne~~ Room ~upervi~or~ 
•~~ue Room ~upervi~or~ Lifeguard~ 
Any one who is interested In applying for these positions should stop by the RecSports office and fill out an application. Office hours are 6:00-12:00 & l :00-5:00. First consideration will be given to those who apply before April 10, 2003. 
Free Golf Clinic 
Open to Juniors, Seniors and &rad Students Tuesday, April 15 5:30 PM 

Warren 6olf Course 
Learn the proper6olf Etiquettefor use in the Business World 

Questions? Call AecSports 1-6100 
Big East co-leader Seton Hall in the first game in an exciting 4-1 final that went to 10 innings. Seton Hall came back to win the second game, by a score of 9-2. 
Freshman standout Francesca DeMaria leads the Pittsburgh regular starters with a .381 bat• ting average through 36 games. DeMaria also leads the teams in walks drawn with 20, resulting in an impressive .479 on-base percentage. 
The Panthers' ace is senior Nikki Gasti. who owns a 12-9 record with a solid 2.97 ERA, while also holding opponents to 
a.239 batting against average. 


CLAIRE KELLEY/ The Observer Contact Justin Schuver at Senior pitcher Jessica Sharron winds up In a game earlier this sea­jschnve@nd.edu son. The Irish play their first Big East game at Pittsburgh today. 
I 'tttllllll 
-fluo LIMITW ro flRST 16 TEW.S -TUMS MUST wr f GUY SI &11~L -OPEN Pl~KTK.t BE6-INS ~ 
·NO oor~y FU. 
Sl&N VP NOW AJ NO EXP1~£ss! SPDNSORED 'o'f mt: STUDENT Acnvmt:s DFFKL 
ALCOHOL: 
where do Yo 


u draw the line'? 
FREE Alcohol Screenings 
Thursday, April I0, 2003 LaFortune Student Center 
3 I I LaFortune 
Walk-in times: 
2:30 p.m. to 4 p.m. 
No appointment necessary. All information is confidential. 
To learn more, call Madison Center at (574) 283-1 130. 
a cooperative effort between: 
The Notre Dame Office of
• MADISON CENTER 
Alcohol and Drug Education 

Wednesday, April 9, 2003 The Observer . TODAY CLARE O'BRIEN 
SCHOOL DAZE 

JACK MONAHAN

HAPPY TOWN 
This program was brought to you by the makers of 
FRI~
N¥t~kFf 

~f:i<""'·::·· 
they're "'<ie.licious..• because they're 
endangered.I 


JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words 
I IXAMM 
j
I I t 
C2003 Trlbuno Media Servicn, Inc, All Right• Reserved. 
YAFLE 
t J I b 
I ·uFrLE I 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: 
page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
I'm not wen. I'm
going home 
WHE=N THE= ME:CH­
AN IC Gar '51CK, Hl5 l:'>055 WAS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 
AMITY HANDY BECAME DOUBLE Answer: What the hairdresser did when the rack of dresses went on sale -"COMBED" THEM 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Hugh Hefner, Dennis Quaid, Paulina Porizkova, Keshia Knight Pulliam 
Happy Birthday: Stop letting your emotions move up and down like a yo-yo and you will resolve most of your problems. It's time to speak your mmd and clear~ rair..T.ake con1IQI ~.yQur life,!1111111JJ:,sit14ali911S.)!Ojl f~q. I~Si upJo you to make the changes and this is the year to do so. Your numbers arc 9, 13. 17. 26,34,38 ARIES (March 21-April 19): You need to be more tolerant of others if you expect to get through the issues surrounding you unscathed. Not everyone will do things the same way you do. Give others the benefit of the doubt. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You'll be feeling restless and in need of a change. Do something that will pique your interest or teach you something nm You'll meet new friends if you engage in something you believe in.**** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Financial opportunities are apparent and you don't want to miss out. Invest in yourself and move full-tilt ahead and you will get the satisfaction you are looking for. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Be careful how you treat others today. Don't let your negative attitude force the ones you love out of your life. Attend a motivational seminar that will give you a positive outlook and boost your morale.** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't let conjecture get to you. Find out what's really going on. Guessing will only lead to mistakes and regrets. Don't overreact. 
*** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Social events will lead to romance or at least a worthwhile friendship. Your practical approach to life will attract people who are solid and looking for the same things that you arc. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Personal dilemmas may appear to be unfixable. but if you are rational you will find a solution. Get help 1fyou need n and lake your time if you have to make an important decision. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can make your point known by being creative in your approach. Although not everyone will agree with what you are trying to do, the ones who count will be supportive. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take time out and relax today. You need time to rejuvenate and rethink your strategy. Enjoy the comfort of your home and the company ofthe ones you love. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will regret the comments you make today if you are too quick to fonn an opin1qi:i. Be kind and compassionate. It's your choice how things will tum out. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Use your imagination and don't be afraid to start your own small business. Get advice from someone who has experience and move forward with force. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll be channing and witty, attracting friends and lovers. Get out and socialize. Fund-raisers will be an ideal setting to make new connections. ***** Birthday Baby: You will have the ability to put others at ease. You will listen and assess situations and people very well throughout your life. You will have common sense and will always try to follow the right path. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites al aslroadvice.com, eugenialas1.com . wnetwork..com. 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Composer whose music is often heard at graduations 
1' 6 Word on some diplomas 
11 TV sked abbr. 
14 Take for a while 
15 When the Boston Marathon is held 
16 It comes with a charge 
17 Nondefensive military move 
19 Shine, in product names 
20 High dudgeon 
21 Baby's ring 
23 There are six of these in the middle of 1 7 • and 56-Across • and 11· and 25-Down 
28 Razor brand 29 Hand or foot 30 "Well, well!" 31 Reassuring 
wards 32 High muck-a­
mucks 34 Of the flock 35 Ending of the 
Bible 36 Medium settings? 38 Punishment, 
metaphorically 41 Base tune 43 Garage figure 45 Old-hat 47 Santa _ (hot 
winds) 48 "Paradise Lost," 
e.g. 49 Roguish 50 Jam producer 52 Scam artist 

E E P  
1 VS I  ES  
E  c T  
C R E E  G E T  E A L  
H A R E  N  Y  S  E R  R V  


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
54 1995 court V.I.P. 55 Eastern way 56 "Just do it," e.g. 62 Lennon's lady 63 $unValley 
locale 64 Mirage sight 65 Theologian's 

subj. 66 Dot in the ocean 67 On the dot 
DOWN 1 Tiny toymaker 2 Hula hoop? 3 long-snouted 
fish 4 Basketball stat 5 Back in? 6 Place for a pin 7 Financing abbr. 8 Like sandpaper 9 "Just do it" 
shoes 
10 :~~y from th

e 
11 Fix 
12 "lCY" music 13 Eskimo garb 18 Tour for 
Nicklaus 22 "Mon Oncle" 
star 23 1, 8 or 27 24 "Step_!" 25 Some adult 
education 26 Dog star? 27 Emerging 
WTTT T ~HORTZ 

Puzzle by G'8g Sl.lplH  
31 Capital of old Moldavia  42 Conriors contemporary  53 Early 12th· century date  
33 Crosby partner  44 Hanukkah item  57 Leader in a  
34 Reveal  45 Flock leader  beret  
accidentally  46 like federal tax  58 On a roll  
37 Future J.D.'s hurdle  laws 47 From the heart?  59  rule  
39 Auricular  50 Sweat units  60 lady's man  
40 Knock flat  51 Group values  61 Unproven ability  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-?-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nyt1mes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, 
nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name -------------------------­
Address City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 



PORTS 
Wednesday, April 9, 2003 

FOOTBALL 
Back to work 

Quarterback Chris Olsen is looking to climb up the Irish depth chart 

ByJOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
College football is vastly dif­ferent from high school foot­ball. Quarterback Chris Olsen knows this fact first-hand. 
Last season, the highly­recruited Olsen didn't get a chance to run Notre Dame coach Tyrone Willingham's West Coast offense with his new teammates until summer camps. By then, he had a lot of catching up to do and a lot to learn about college football. 
"I think that like most kids when they come in as a true freshmen, they feel they can walk on and play right away," Irish offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said. "Even given a playbook in the early spring and having three or four months to study it [is not enough]. Then after the [com­petitions] begin they realize they have a lot to learn, not only from the mental part of it and learning the intricacies of the offense, but how to handle themselves with the protec­tion, with the checks and with everything else." 
During his senior year at Wayne Hills High School in Wayne, N.J., Olsen threw for 

1,864 yards and 24 touch­downs and was a first-team all-state pick by the Newark­Star Ledger. He was 31-4 as a starter and played in the U.S. Army All-American Bowl his senior year, 
But despite the prep success, Olsen still needed to learn the Irish playbook better when he arrived on campus last fall. Once he became accustomed to the plays, he still needed to play in games. at game speed, to become truly familiar with the college quarterback posi­tion. Since Olsen didn't get to play last year, he still has much to learn. 
"I think he's made a tremen­dous amount of improvement since the end of the season last year until this week," Diedrick said...... But every­thing happens at such a fast pace and high speed that [young quarterbacks) almost get mesmerized by the college game ... But that's what going to school as a quarterback is all about." 
Olsen has taken the football knowledge he learned watch­ing from the sidelines his freshman year into his first spring practices this year. He 
see OLSEN/page 21 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXII 
Hickory High keeps Hoosier dream alive 
. Nostalgic team of barnyard ballers wins a thriller in throwback jerseys 
By KATIE McVOY Senior Staff Writer 
The bookstore courts were business as usual Tuesday. Most teams stayed focused on playing basketball, but one team was focused on the rebirth of a legend. 
Well after seven, well after all the other teams had left for the evening, two teams still struggled. One was struggling to fulfill a dream. In the state of Hoosiers, Hickory High was looking to bring just one more 
championship home, or at least to win its first round bookstore game. But Pumpkin in a Patch was trying to deprive these Hoosiers of their dream. 
With the score at 23-22 and Hickory High needing to win by two, that big play hap­pened. 
"When it got to 23-22, we decided to run the picket fence," Rob Stalter said. "And that was what sealed the win." 
Hickory High was victorious 24-22. Complete in l 980's-era gold shorts and maroon Hickory jerseys -sent from home by senior Brian Meyer's mother -Hickory High played a Pumpkin in a Patch team 
see HICKORY/page 21 


NO SOFTBALL  BASEBALL  MENS TENNIS  
Notre Dame at Pittsburgh  Bowling Green at Notre Dame  Ball State at Notre Dame  
The Irish have yet to play a conference game this season. A doubleheader against the Panthers today marks the opening of Big East play.  postponed The team will play two games Thursday. Awards Infielder Matt Edwards was named Big East player-of-the-week  Today, 3:30 p.m. The Irish come home after two tough road losses lo host the Cardinals.  
page 22  page 19  page 18  






