
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND Stadium suits settled out of court 
University finalizes settlement against expansion contractors 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Writ<r 
Six years, 17 law firms and three feet of paperwork later, lawsuits arising from faulty construction work on the 1997 expansion to Notre Dame Stadium were !1nally resolved last Thursday without a trial. 
The settlement -the terms of which were kept confiden­tial -sought financial com­pensation for damages sus­tained during the $50 million, 20,000-seat expansion's debut. Serious flaws in con­struction and engineering caused water and sewage to flood the stadium on Sept. 6, 1997. These flaws and others that appeared later required more than $4 million in repairs, including the installa­tion of waterproof joint seals and the destruction and rt•building of cracknd concrete slabs on the stadium's upper concourses. ramps and stair landings. 
Notre Dame filed suit to cover these expenses in 1999 against Ellerbe Becket Inc., the expansion plan's project architect, and Casteel Construction Corp. of South Bend, the plan's general con­tractor and construction man­agement firm. 
In response, the two compa­nies sued over a dozen sub­contracting firms involved in the stadium renovations. Ellerbe Becket also filed a separate suit against the insurance carriers of these various companies. 
More than four years of complex deliberations later, a $1 0,000-a-day mediator from Boston helped over 30 attor­neys piece together a deal this past June. After a summer of deliberating about details, checks were distributed in early September, as the attor­neys signed the necessary documents to put an end to the cases. 
St. Joseph Circuit Court Judge Terry Crone then made the dismissals official Thursday, when he signed the briefs "with prejudice," which means they cannot be refiled in any court of law. 
A trial addressing the 11 separate files of litigation could have taken several more months, Crone said. 
"We're pleased that the mat­ter has been resolved," said University spokesman 
see STADIUM/page 4 



Author discusses Latino awareness 

By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Author Maria Melendez spoke Monday at Saint Mary's College in the first in a series of events scheduled by the College throughout October in honor of Hispanic Heritage Month. 
Several Saint Mary's organi­zations scheduled the events to recognize the College's Latina population and height­en cultural awareness on cam­pus 
Melendez, visiting writer and Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership fel­low, discussed aspects of her Chicana background in her presentation, titled "Chicana Falsa: Rebellion Against Tradition in Contemporary Chicana Poetry." The lecture was sponsored by La Fuerza, the College's Latina student organization. 

According to Terri Johnson, director of the Office of Multicultural Affairs, Hispanic Heritage Month is celebrated annually at Saint Mary's. In past years, Johnson has noticed an increase in the number of Latina students 
see SPEAKER/page 4 

Wang speaks about Catholics in China 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
The Catholic Church's first Asian-American bishop, 
Ignatius  Wang,  spoke  
Monday  about  relations  
between  Eastern  and  

Western cultur.e and tradi­tional religion in the Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business. 
The Beijing-born bishop discussed the history of Catholicism in China and in his own family. Wang repre­sents the 13th generation of Catholics in his family, and Western missionaries con­verted his ancestor, an emperor of China, to Catholicism. 
However, controversy soon arose in the Chinese church, said Wang, as the Vatican condemned ancestor venera­tion. which was widely prac­ticed among Chinese Buddhists and Christians at the time. This prohibition lasted for 300 years, until Pope Pius XII declared the rituals secular and not in conflict with Catholic doc· trine. 
In 1974 Wang arrived in the Archdiocese of San Francisco, becoming the first Chinese-American pastor in that diocese. In December of last year, Pope John Paul II appointed Wang auxiliary bishop of San Francisco. 
Wang instituted celebra­tions for the Chinese New Year that blended Catholic liturgy with traditional ancestor veneration for the Chinese Catholic community in San Francisco. These cel­ebrations provoked an unex­pected backlash among Chinese clergy and laity in the diocese, prompting Wang to rethink the relationship between Eastern and Western Catholics. 
"We have to tell people that Catholicism is for the whole universe," he said. 
Wang said he began an approach of "enculturation," encouraging the Church and Chinese culture to adapt to each other. 
He also addressed the modern Christian movement in mainland China. The Patriotic Church, which is 
see BISHOP/page 4 

-----------~------------------­
r 
r page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN


'f The problematic PSA 
I've got a beef with the Progressive Student Alliance and its propagan­dists. While normally they stay below my radar, their latest mouthpiece (BJ Strew) has really got my gander up Tom Haight by insulting me. 
I've listened to 
Ad Design

the PSA moan 
Manager

about the Univers1ty'Sabuse of campus workers for years now, but this is truly obscene. To claim that Notre Dame is an institution that puts profit above people is absolutely off base. Maybe I'm not as informed as they are, but I don't recall ever hearing about the University paying out dividends. Or selling stock. Or offering lucrative retirement deals to its former Board of Directors and CEO. 
Maybe that's because we don't pay our board of directors so much as they pay the University through con­tributions. And as for Father Edward Malloy? First, I'm pretty sure that the assertion that he is paid 20 times the salary of campus workers (which would put him at close to a half-mil­lion annually) is hot air. I might not get out enough, because I'm still under the impression that Malloy lives in the smallest chambers occu­pied by a priest on campus. I guess it's possible that the PSA has photos of him driving his new Porche to his off campus mansion, but somehow I doubt it. 
The Congregation of the Holy Cross is a world-wide congregation doing works of charity and supporting mis­sions on six continents. Is the University trying to make money? Yes. Is it doing so at the expense of people? No. Take off your blinders, PSA. 
You're probably wondering why I'm annoyed about all of this. It's quite simple actually: I'm the son of some ofthose "disfranchised work­ers" they always tell you about. My parents combined income was barely above the "living wage" mark they claim is all-important for one parent to make. That's a novel concept, ]sn't it? That both parents have to work to make a "living wage?" 
Heaven forbid that those without college educations have to do the same. Before you start trying to tell me of my other advantages, take into account that the cost of living was the same where I grew up as it is here (trust me, I live off campus) and I went to public schools, yet some­how I'm here at Notre Dame, despite PSA's refusal to admit it can happen. 
What really irks me about it is that when I come to Notre Dame, I have to listen to PSA tell me how it's impossible for workers who make below a "living wage" or their chil­dren to ever amount to anything. It's a lie. I'm living evidence, and I'm tired of hearing PSA tell me that people of my parents' status need their help. We don't. In closing, I'll say that I'm glad that there are igno­rant, starry-eyed idealists out there, because it makes me appreciate that I'm not one of them. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 30, 2003 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: How LONG UNTIL IT SNOWS IN SOUTH BEND? 




Alex Garrlpoll Michael Dewan Laura Sonn 
sophomore freshman freshman Regina Hall Sorin Hall PW Hall 
"A month." "Before we get "526 hours, our second minutes, 24 win." seconds." 




Andrea Oliverio  Ryan Adams, Joe O'Connell  Michael Toomey  
freshman Lewis Hall  freshmen Sorin Hall  freshman Sorin Hall  
''I'm ready for snow now."  "When da Bears bring da lrlnce Lombardi trophy back to the city ofda Big Shoulders."  "I'm disappointed it hasn't already. "  


OFFBEAT 
CNN's Tucker Carlson angry over phone flap 

WASHINGTON­Conservative CNN com­mentator Tucker Carlson's snide humor backfired on him-and his wife. While defending telemarketers during a segment on "Crossfire" last week, the bow-tied co-host was asked for his home phone number. Carlson gave out a number, but it was for the Washington bureau of Fox News, CNN's bitter rival. 
The bureau was deluged with calls. To get back at him, Fox posted Carlson's unlisted home number on its Web site. After his wife was inundated with obscene calls, Carlson went to the Fox News bureau to complain. He was told the number would be taken off the Web site if he apologized on the air. He did, but that didn't end the anger. 
In an interview with The Washington Post, Carlson called Fox News "a mean, sick group of people." 
Fox spokeswoman Irena Briganti said Carlson got what he deserved. "CNN threw the first punch here. Correcting this mistake was good journalism." 

State Department Issues mouse alert 
WASHINGTON -As if the State Department didn't have enough to worry about with Iran, Iraq and the French: the onset of cooler weather in the capital has prompted a mouse alarm. 
The department issued a warning Monday in its main building, saying that "increasing num­bers of mice and their larger cousins" were set to launch their annual search for warm lodging and food. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
IX 
w
::c !c 
w 
~ 
_, 
<
CJ 





0 
...J 

LOW 35 LOW LOW LOW 
55 
40 
38 35 

48 
35 
IN BRIEF 
Watch the Irish women's soccer team take on Indiana State at 7 p.m. today at Alumni Field. 
Come cheer on the Belles as the Saint Mary's volleyball team takes on Manchester College today at 7 p.m. Pizza will be provided for fans by the Student Activities Board. 
Watch the movie "24-Hour Party People" in the Montgomery Theater at LaFortune Student today at 7 
p.m. The showing is part of the International Film Series, sponsored by International Students Services and Activities. 
Learn about post-graduate service opportunities at the Holy Cross Associates Information Session, taking place today from 4-5 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Listen to the CEO of Ethan Allen, Inc., Farook Kathwari, speak on "Leadership Principles" today from 7:30-8 
p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium. The talk is spon­sored by the Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series in Business Ethics. 
Learn about "The Changing Face of Leishmania," a lecture tak­ing place today from 4-5 p.m. in the Galvin Life Sciences Building Room 283. The talk will be presented by Biological Sciences Professor Mary Ann McDowell. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 



HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
Atlanta 72 I 52 Boston 66 I 50 Chicago 56 I 40 Denver 58 I 39 Houston 84 I 60 Los Angeles 89 I 60 Minneapolis 52 I 34 New York 64 I 55 Philadelphia 67 I 50 Phoenix 101 I 76 Seattle 70 I 50 St. Louis 62 I 46 Tampa 83 I 72 Washington 67 I 50 
Tuesday, September 30, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group debates food plans 
By MEGAN O'NEIL News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance members discussed the new Noble Family Dining Hall and various meal plan options at Monday's meeting. 
Campus Food Services Commissioner Mary Holland said concerns about the new dining hall are being addressed. 
"The kinks are being worked out," Holland said. "The lines for food are not so bad anymore. We got the deli bar back and the sun­dae bar is on its way." 
The l<'ood Services Commissioner position was creat­ed in conjunction with the new dining hall. llolland meets weekly with dining hall director Barry Bowles and relays student opin­ions to Sodexho Marriott, Saint Mary's food service provider. 
Board members expressed con­cern about a new meal plan option offered this year that allows students up to eight meals per week and $150 in Munch Money. According to some Board members, the plan is more expensive per meal than other options. 
"The breakdown of meals and prices is very confusing," Holland said. "But the dining hall has to cover its costs. It is run as a busi­
need for an increase in meal plan options and clarification on the finances of each meal plan, dis­cussing a possible presentation by Food Services on the meal plans. 
"I think the best thing to do is to hear the presentation," said Student Body President Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl. "Then we can decide how to best present this to the student body." 
In other BOG news: 

+ 
The Board welcomed recent­ly-elected freshman class presi­dent Claudia Toth at Monday's meeting. With the help of Elections Commissioner Nicole Haeberle, Toth and her fellow officers will organize the first­year class board in the coming weeks. 

+ 
BOG voted unanimously to provide $150 in sponsorship money for students participating in the breast cancer awareness event Race for the Cure. The group will run the 5k race Oct. 4 in Chicago. 

+ 
Members also voted to donate $150 to the Women's Care Center, which has several locations in South Bend and serves as a crisis center for struggling young women, offering services such as pregnancy counseling. 


ness." Contact Megan O'Neil at Board members said they saw a onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

Silent Watch helps stop crime 
By ANNA GELHAUS 
News Writer 
Suspicious activity on campus can be reported anonymously through Silent Watch, an online tip program located on the Notre Dame Security Police website. 
Phil Johnson, NDSP assistant director, calls it the "electronic version of the tip-line." Phone tip­lines have been in use for a long time, Johnson said. 
"With students, it makes more sense to have it online," he said. 
The form asks for infor­mation about the incident such as the location, time. details of the event and descriptions of individuals involved. All the informa­tion is kept completely confidential. 

Johnson said NDSP hopes that students will report any suspicious activity they witness, even if they were not personally involved with the incident. 
"Maybe a student saw someone take a piece of furniture from one of the buildings on campus and relocate it somewhere else. We want to get that back," Johnson said. 
Information on assault, fraud, drugs, harassment, theft, vandalism and any other criminal actions can be reported on the web­site, at www.nd.edu/-ndspd. 
"We want to welcome any information to help make our community safe," Johnson said. 
However, Johnson said students do not often use Silent Watch, although NDSP still attempts to evaluate each report. 
"If we can follow up on it, we will do an investiga­tion," Johnson said. Officers also may be able to pair the tip with infor­mation they already have to further an investigation, he said. 
Many campuses across the country offer similar online tip sites, Johnson said. 
Contact Anna Gelhaus at agelhaus@nd.edu 

Comedian to speak on campus 
Special to The Observer Comedian David Spade, star of the recent hit film "Dickie Roberts: Former Child Star," will present a live performance at Notre Dame at 7:30p.m. Oct. 4 in the Joyce Center arena. Doors will open through Gate 10 one hour before the perform­ance. Admission for the event is 

$35 for the general public and $20 for Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross College students, and tickets will be available in advance beginning today at the LaFortune Student Center or by calling 574-631-8128. 
Best known for his roles in the fibn "Tommy Boy," NBC's "Just Shoot Me," and as a writer and actor on NBC's "Saturday Night Uve," Spade has been honored with numerous Emmy and Golden Globe nominations. 
Spade's performance is sponsored by the Notre Dame Student Union Board, the student-run program­ming body that provides the University's student commu­nity with campus-wide events. 

CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Sites Seeking Volunteers 

A 14-year-old boy with cerebral palsy needs a mentor. The commitment is one or two times a month. 
Contact Sandy Krowsky at 237-7863. 
An after school enrichment program is looking for tutors for children grades 1-4, Mondays-Thursdays from 3-5pm. Contact Martha Allen-Shabazz at 288-8418 or 234­9071 after 3pm. 
Green Intermediate is looking for tutors for grades 5-8 on Tuesday and Wednesday from 3-4:45pm. Contact Kevin Krause at 574-679-4954 or 574-283-7891. Ifyou would like to get on the CSC Individual Tutoring list please email cscvols@nd.edu. 

Disabled Woman Needs Companion 
A companion and helper is needed for a woman who is physically and slightly mentally disabled. Contact Rose Anne at 287-3891 or 277-4341. 



Jen Chapin to Give Conf~r': & Lecture 
Ifyou like your folk music blend­ on her own Purple Chair Music  Crump, captures the jazz and folk  
ed with social activism, don't miss  label. This album of 10 original  tinged soulfulness of]en's songs.  
Jen Chapin's lecture and concert,  songs, recorded with Stephan  

October 2-3. 

On October 3 at 7:30 p.m., the New York singer/songwriter and her husband, Stephan Crump, will give a concert at the Little Theatre on the campus ofSaint Mary's College. 
As a special treat, Chapin, who is chair ofWorld Hunger Year, will give a lecture on the "Hows and 
WHYs of Hunger" on Oct. 2 at 
7:30 p.m. at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium on Notre Dame's campus. 
Though she is less well known 
than her father, Harry Chapin, Jen has been making a name for herself on the folk scene. 
In 2000, she won the "battle-of­the-bands" on Oxygen Network, which earned her a deal with V2 records. In 2001, she won various prizes from The USA Songwrit­ing Competition, where her song "Indispensable," won First Prize in the lyrics category and Third Prize overall among over 30,000 entries. 
In 2002, Jen released Open Wide 
Events ofInterest 
Border Issues Seminar (winter break, January 2-8, 2004). This seminar examines immigration and related issues that surface between US and Mexico on El Paso, TX/Cd. Juarez border. Applications are now available at the CSC. The deadline is October 8, 2003. 
Holy Cross Mission in Education (winter break 2004). This Seminar focuses on educational and outreach endeavors ofSt. John Vianney Catholic Parish in Goodyear, Arizona. Applications now available at the CSC. The deadline is October 8, 2003. 
Holy Cross AssociateS Information Sessions: 
Former Holy Cross Associates will speak and staff will be available for questions at this information session. 
• 
Tuesday September 30th: 4-5pm CSC Coffee House (Chile Program). 

•Wednesday 
October 1st: 6:30-7:30 CSC Seminar Room (Domestic Program) 


International Summer Service Learning Program Learn more about the Center's eight week service-learning program in 12 developing countries. Wednesday, October 1, from 6:30-7:30 pm@ CSC Applications available at the CSC. Due November 1. 
Walkers are needed for the annual Walk for Hospice on Sunday, October 12 starting at 1 pm (noon is registration) at Potawatomi Park. Contact Vonda Marrow at 243-3119. 
r-

page 4 


StadiuiD 
continued from page 1 
Matthew Storin. "It did take a while to come to a mutual agreement, but we're glad it's over." Storin would not com­ment on the actual settlement of the lawsuits. 
The bitter aftermath of the lawsuits caused a falling out in Notre Dame's relationship with Ellerbe Becket, who had designed most new buildings at the University since the 1950's. Since the suit was filed, the firm has not done any design work for the University. 
Stuart Smith, a spokesman 


Bishop 
continued from page 1 
approved and monitored by the Communist government, officially does not answer to the pope in Rome, while "underground" churches operate without government approval. Wang downplayed this conflict, noting that Patriotic churches and bish­ops have frequently received secret approval and instruc­tions from the Holy See. 
for Ellerbe Becket, said the company hopes the suits' rec­onciliation will lead to future work at Notre Dame. "We have a wonderful legacy on that campus," he said. 
Vern Casteel, owner of Casteel Construction, agreed with Smith. 
"Casteel's people are well known throughout the con­struction business," Casteel said. "We have built over 25 buildings on campus and still have a tremendous history with the University ... we are glad to finally be able to mend fences and put the past behind us." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
The bishop expressed hope that such divisions, as well as other problems facing the church 1 would disappear with the cooperation and prayers of the faithful. "We must work to eliminate whatever in contrary to Christ's teaching," he said. 
The Office of Campus Ministry and the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism jointly sponsored Wang's address. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 



Secretary kicks off anti-obesity campaign 
Assodatcd Press 
WASHINGTON -Health and Human Services employees caught passes from NFL Hall of Farner Lynn Swann and kicked soccer balls with Olympic gold medalist Amanda Cromwell on Monday to kick off a challenge from their boss to get physically fit. 
The event was sponsored by the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports, which Swann chairs. Also participating was council vice chair Dot Anderson, who won an Olympic gold medal in softball, and Denise Austin, who has written books on physi­cal fitness. 
"We can't go out and start talk­ing to other people about being physically fit if we're overweight ... that's sort of being very hypo­critical," said HHS Secretary Tommy Thompson, who issued the fitness challenge to depart­ment employees. 
He has asked those in his 
department who are overweight 
to go on a diet and to challenge colleagues to exercise more often. He included himself in the chal­lenge, which began Sept. 22 and ends Oct. 31. 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that 64 percent of adult Americans and 13 percent of children are over­weight. 
About 25 percent of the 3,000 employees targeted by the pilot program have agreed to exercise 30 minutes a day, five days a week. Thompson said he hoped to eventually expand the program to all of HHS, as well as other gov­ernment agencies. On Monday, about 40 department employees took part in the "Fitness Fling" on the National Mall. 
Employees can monitor them­selves and others by logging on to an interactive Web site main­tained by the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports. 
"We all bring our sneakers to work," participant Wendy Riemann said. At lunchtime, "we kick off the heels and put on our sneakers and go for a walk on the Mall." 


Drivers end walkout 
Assodatcd Press 
HONOLULU -Striking bus drivers on Hawaii's most pop­ulous island went back to work Monday after a month­long walkout, offering free rides for the rest of the week in hopes of winning back cus­tomers. 
The strike forced people on Oahu to hitchhike, walk, bicy­cle or form carpools to get them through the shutdown that began Aug. 26, when 1,300 drivers. mechanics and clerks deadlocked on a new contract with the company 
that operates the city buses. 
An agreement on a five-year contract was reached Thursday and ratified over­whelmingly Saturday, days after the City Council raised fares 25 cents to $2 to avoid cutbacks and driver layoffs. 

The free fares Monday through Friday are the city's way of trying to ward off a drop in ridership from the strike and the fare increase. 
Candace Kelsey, a legislative researcher, said her bus filled up quickly during the 22-mile ride from Ewa Beach to the Capitol in downtown Honolulu. 
Tuesday, September 30, 2003

The Observer + NEWS 
focuses her writing on Chicana issues and on environmental issues pertinent to larger soci­ety. She hopes that, someday, the ethnic perspectives of Hispanics and other minority groups will find their way into mainstream academia. 
"The first step is reminding people that we're here, here in substantial numbers, and that we have a tremendous amount of cultural richness within our own traditions," she said. 
The Hispanic Heritage Month event at Saint Mary's will be a lecture presented by author Stella Pope Duarte next Tuesday at 7 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. 
The Hispanic Heritage Month closure is slated to take place Oct. 14 from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. A bilingual Mass will be held Oct. 15 at 9 p.m. in LeMans Hall Chapel. At the Mass, a statue of Our Lady of Guadalupe will be blessed before its final placement in the chapel. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 
Speaker 
continued from page 1 
enrolled at the College. She said the number now appears to have stabilized. 
Lety Verduczo, president of La Fuerza, said Melendez was was not alone in my efforts to integrate a bi-cultural child­hood into a mature adult iden­tity," Melendez said. 
Becoming exposed to a vari­ety of Chicano authors led Melendez to discover a com­mon bond with other American-born individuals of Mexican descent. 
chosen to speak pri­marily because of her credible experience and literary work. 
"We knew she was doing a lot w i t h Chicana lit­erature," Verduczo said. 
"I've been a fan of Chicano "The first step is literature ever since and have
reminding people that 
noticed, as

we're here ... and that we 
both a reader 

have a tremendous amount and a writer, that Chicana
ofcultural 
writers in par­

richness within our own 
ticular remain 

traditions. " underrepre­sented in all levels of
Marla Melendez 
American lit­
author 
erary publish­ing," she said. 

Melendez, who was raised by a Mexican-American father and Anglo mother, first learned of the term "Chicano" while pursuing an undergrad­uate degree at Colorado State. 
"I was grateful for the guid­ance of other Chicano students and professors in helping me to feel, as a young adult, that I 
A component of her discus­sion Monday included various perspectives on modern Chicana poetry, informing the audience with an understand­ing of their position -one she faced not long ago herself. 
Gaining inspiration from other authors and her cultural identity, Melendez said she 






ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 30, 2003 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICEs Page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Russia wants "realistic" Iraq timeline 
UNITED NATIONS -Signaling room for compromise with the United States, Hussia said Monday it wants a "realistic but short" timeline for handing over power in Iraq and is prepared to accept a stage-by-stage transi­tion provided the United Nations receives a major political role. 
But old rifts between supporters and oppo­nents of the U.S.-Ied war kept the European Union from forging a united position on when the United States should cede power. 
The EU divisions also highlighted the diffi­culties ahead for the United States in trying to reach agreement on a new U.N. resolution that President Bush hopes will bring more troops and money into Iraq. 
As U.S. officials worked on a revised reso­lution, there was a general welcome for Secretary of State Colin Powell's proposal last Thursday for Iraqis to adopt a constitu­tion in six months and hold elections perhaps in a little more than a year. 
Powell made clear in weekend interviews, however·, that the United States will not relin­quish power until a democratically elected Iraqi government is in place -a view sup­ported by Britain. which joined Washington in the war. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Cuban truck refugees denied visas 
IIAVANA -The Cubans who converted a 1951 Chevy pickup truck into a boat and tried to sail to Florida said Monday their attempts to emigrate legally to the United States failed. 
So far, 10 of the 12 people in the group that made the unusual and well-publicized attempt to reach American soil have received letters rejecting their requests for U.S. visas. 
"We are really disappointed," said Eduardo l>erez, a truck-boat passenger. 
Isadora Hernandez, wife of Luis Grass, owner of the floating green pickup, told The Associated Press that the letters began arriv­ing last week. 
llernandez said her husband and another man in the group, Ariel Diego, were the only two of the dozen who had not received let­ters as of Monday. 

Two shot at Minnesota courthouse 
MINNEAPOLIS -A woman believed to be involved in a dispute over her father's estate opened fire Monday at a county government building, killing the estate conservator and wounding an attorney, authorities said. 
The shooting took place on the 17th floor of the llennepin County Government Center in an area of housing court commonly called "harassment court," where people represent themselves in attempts to settle disputes. 
Susan Berkovitz, 52, of the St. Paul area, was arrested by a sheriff's deputy without incident moments after the attack. She was in the county jail, held on probable cause for murder. 
Authorities would not officially confirm the identities of the two victims. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Factory fire attributed to homeless 
SOUTII BEND -A fire that heavily dam­aged a building at the abandoned Studebaker Corp. complex may have been set by vagrants burning paper to stay warm, investigators said. 
Sunday's fire at the complex's former stamping plant remains under investigation, but arson investigator Capt. Steve Weiger said it is frequented by homeless people. 
"This place is notorious for having vagrants stay here. It's not secure," he said. 

White House denies CIA leak by Rove 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The White House denied on Monday that President Bush's top political adviser leaked a CIA agent's iden­tity to retaliate against an opponent of the adminis­tration's Iraq policy. Prodded by Democrats, the Justice Department said it was looking into whether a full investiga­tion was warranted -a step rarely taken. 
Two months after the CIA complained that the identity of an undercover agent had been exposed in apparent violation of the law, the Justice Department's counterespi­onage section is still con­ducting a preliminary probe, officials said. The White House was cool toward Democrats' argu­ment that a special coun­sel should be appointed to guarantee an impartial investigation. 
The disclosure of the intelligence officer's iden­tity by syndicated colum­nist Robert Novak came shortly after her husband, former Ambassador Joseph Wilson, under­mined Bush's claim that Iraq had tried to buy ura­nium in Africa. In what turned out to be a major embarrassment, Bush was eventually forced to acknowledge he could not back up his statement. 
The controversy over leaking was the latest Iraq-related problem for Bush, along with the administration's failure to find Saddam Hussein or the weapons of mass destruction that Bush cited as justification for waging war in Iraq. 
The White House said that leaking classified information was a serious matter that should be "pursued to the fullest extent" by the Justice Department. "There's been nothing, absolutely nothing brought to our attention to suggest any White House involvement, and that includes the vice president's office as well," presidential spokesman Scott McClellan said. 


In particular, McClellan said it was "ridiculous" to suggest that Karl Rove, Bush's top political opera­tive, was involved, as once alleged by Wilson. "He wasn't involved," McClellan said of Rove. "The president knows he wasn't involved .... It's simply not true." 
Four Senate Democrats, including Minority Leader Tom Daschle, urged Attorney General John Ashcroft to appoint a spe­cial counsel, a person of "unquestioned independ­ence and impartiality." 
"We do not believe that this investigation of senior Bush administration offi­cials ... can be conducted by the Justice Department because of the obvious and inherent conflicts of interests involved," said the letter, also signed by Sens. Carl Levin, D-Mich., Joseph Biden, D-Del. and Jay Rockefeller, D-W.Va. 
The Justice Department receives about 50 CIA referrals a year seeking a preliminary investigation into leaks of classified information, a senior administration official said. Very few ever get beyond the preliminary investigation. 
Investigators have to answer a number of ques­tions before deciding whether to begin a full­blown criminal investiga­tion, the official said. Among the most difficult to determine is how many people in the government might have been privy to the classified information. Other key questions are how much damage was done by disclosure, whether the leaker was aware the information was classified and whether that person had intended to violate the law. 

The Justice Department is operating under no deadline for action, the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
White House officials, at their senior staff meeting, were urged to contact Justice if they had rele­vant information, officials said. 
ISRAEL 


Demonstrator's parents demand inquiry 
Associated Press 
JEHUSALEM -Parents of an American activist killed earlier this year in Gaza by an Israeli army bull­dozer called Monday for an inde­pendent U.S. investigation of her death. 
Rachel Corrie, 23, from Olympia, Wash., was crushed to death March 16 while trying to block a huge army bulldozer destroying a row of Palestinian homes in a refugee camp near the Gaza-Egypt border. ' 
The Israeli military conducted an internal investigation and said the bulldozer driver could not see Corrie because of the size of the bulldozer and its limited view due to heavy armor plating. Peace activists have disputed that. 
Corrie belonged to a pro­Palestinian group called International Solidarity Movement, whose members often place them­selves between Israeli forces and Palestinians to try to block Israeli military activity. 
At a news conference in Jerusalem, Corrie's parents said they were not satisfied with the Israeli explanation. 
"Having read the report, we still have a lot of questions," said Cindy Corrie, Hachel's mother. 
Nearly 50 U.S. Representatives 
have signed a bill calling for an independent investigation, she said. 
"I need to know if Rachel's death was intentional or accidental," she said, her voice breaking. "I just want to know the truth." 
Two other International Solidarity volunteers were shot shortly after Corrie was killed. 
On April 5, Brian Avery, 24, of Albuquerque, N.M., was shot in the face during fighting in the West Bank town of Jenin. 
On April 11, Thomas Hurndall, 21, of Britain, was shot in the head by Israeli troops as he helped children to safety in the Gaza Strip. lie remains brain dead in England. 
luesday, .':leptember JU, 2UUJ
page b The Observer + NEW.S 
FCC will enforce do-not-call list 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The bewil­dering fight between the gov­ernment and telemarketers over the national do-not-call list took another turn Monday when a second federal agency said it would enforce the program, promising that consumers would soon see some reduction in telephone sales pitches. 
The Federal Communications Commission said it would seek fines of up to $120,000 against telemarketers each time they 
· call people on the registry. The FCC got involved because the Federal Trade Commission, which is compiling the list and planned to enforce it, has been blocked by a federal judge. The list of more than 50 mil­lion telephone numbers regis­tered by people who don't want to hear from telemarketers is scheduled to go into effect Wednesday. The public is being encouraged to continue signing up for the service and many telemarketers plan to respect the wishes of those on the list even while legal questions remain. "One of the things we all need to do is take a deep breath," FCC Chairman Michael Powell said. "What you've got is virtual­ly everyone in federal govern­ment here working to leave no avenue unexhausted to make sure the list works as fully as legally possible." Prompted by two court rulings last week favoring telemar­keters, seemingly every elected official in Washington has 

sought to show their commit­ment to the do-not-call list. Republicans and Democrats in Congress joined forces to pass a bill in near-record speed last week and President Bush signed it Monday. 
The measure gives explicit authority to the FTC to set up and operate the do-not-call list, a distinction made moot by a court order that came down after Congress acted. Bush did not mention that. 
"The public is understandably losing patience with these unwanted phone calls, unwant­ed intrusions," he said at a White House ceremony. "Given a choice, Americans prefer not to receive random sales pitches at all hours of the day. The American people should be free to restrict these calls." 
The legislation came after U.S. District Judge Lee West in Oklahoma City ruled last week that the FTC lacked authority to run the registry. 
At about the same time that Congress passed the bill Thursday, U.S. District Judge Edward Nottingham in Denver ruled the do-not-call list uncon­stitutional on free-speech grounds because it applied to calls from businesses but not charities. That decision blocked the FTC from enforcing the list. 
Late Monday, Nottingham denied an FTC request to sus­pend his decision while the agency appeals. 
Another court decision left the FCC free to act. A three-judge panel of the Denver-based lOth 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Friday denied a request from telemarketers to block the FCC's role in the registry. 
On Monday, Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer refused to block that decision, but tele­marketers could renew their request with another justice. If the Supreme Court grants the request to temporarily suspend the FCC's rules, both agencies would be blocked from enforc­ing the list. 
The FTC says people can still sign up for the list and file com­plaints about telemarketer vio­lations at www.donotcall.gov or by calling 1-888-382-1222. 
FCC officials said complaints will be forwarded to their agency for enforcement. Consumers can also file com­plaints directly with the FCC by calling 1-888-225-5322. 
The list was originally intend­ed to block about 80 percent of telemarketing calls. Exemptions included calls from charities, pollsters and on behalf of politi­cians. 
The largest telemarketer asso­ciation, the Direct Marketing Association, has encouraged its members to comply with the list even while it fights it in court. Nearly 200 of the association's largest members have agreed. 
The do-not-call list works by requiring telemarketers to pay for a copy of the list so they can know who to avoid calling. Many telemarketers have the list, but some do not and cannot obtain it since the FTC shut down that aspect of the program on Sunday in response to the court rulings. 
Major airlines offer discounts to troops 
Associated Press 
Major airlines are offering discounts to soldiers on vaca­tion from the campaign in Iraq, after the miltary's rest and relaxation program was criti­cized because the last leg of sol­diers' travel in the United States is not paid for. 
Under the first major R&R program since Vietnam, the government pays for flights from Iraq to Germany, and then the United States, at which point the troops must pick up the tab for any domestic travel. 
Before Delta Air Lines and Southwest Airlines this week­end began offering the troops special fares requiring no advance purchase, soldiers on vacation with little notice were faced with buying expensive last-minute fares. 
"What family can afford to pay $2,000 or more for a same­day plane ticket?" said Sherry Billups of Blackduck, Minn., whose husband Steven Baazard is a 15-year veteran of the National Guard. 
Under the terms of discounts offered by Delta and Southwest, no advance purchase or mini­mum stay is required and fares are refundable. American Airlines, which had been offer­ing soldiers discounts on three­day advance purchase tickets since May, updated its policy Monday to match its competi­tors. 
Northwest Airlines on Monday said it matched the three-day advance purchase deals offered by American. 

The carriers' discounts are good for travel between Baltimore-Washington International Airport, where troops have been arriving since last week, and anywhere else in the United States. 
All the carriers are offering roundtrip fares in the continen­tal United States to soldiers and their dependents that cost less than $200. 
Southwest's offer is valid through Jan. 7, while American's and Delta's offers are good through Sept. 15, 2004. 
Aware of the minor stir caused among soldiers facing high-priced, last-minute fares, the Army said it could have done a better job informing car­riers before the R&R program went into effect. 
"One thing the Army might not have done well was coordi­nate with commercial airlin­ers," Army spokesman Joe Burlas said Monday. "We're glad they're getting the word now and offering these dis­counts." 
Burlas said more than 700 soldiers a day would be flying in and out of the country under the home leave program. He said that, in addition to Baltimore, the government will eventually begin flying soldiers to Atlanta, Dallas-Fort Worth and Los Angeles. 




LONDON SUMMER PROG.RAMME 
IN:FORMATION SESSION FOR 2004 & 2005 
FOR THOSE INTERESTED IN APPLYING 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2003 DROP IN BETWEEN 5:00-6:30 P.M. 136 DEBARTOLO HALL 
LONDON SUMMER PROGRAMME R .. UNS FROM MID--.MAY TO MID-JUNE 

THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Tuesday, September 30, 2003 
Page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 9,380.24 +67.16 
Jones~ 
, Up: • Same: ~ Composite Vohone 2.264 184 .. 
JJ(}ti,J98,016 

NASDAQ  1,824.56  +32.49  
NYSE  5,685.35  +41.21  
AMEX  988.93  +2.66  
S&P500  1,006.58  +9.73  
NIKKEI(I'okyo)  10,229.57  0.00  
FISEJOO{London) 4,142.70  -14.40  

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN IPRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +4.03% +1.1 0 28.37 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +2.27% +0.64 28.83 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +1.20% +0.24 20.20 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +0.52% +0.02 3.86 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +2.02% +0.23 11.64 
IN BRIEF 
Millions lost health insurance last year 
WASHINGTON -The ranks of the unin­
sured swelled by 2.4 million last year as 
insurance costs kept rising and more 
Americans lost their jobs and health care cov­
nrage. 
The number of people without health insur­ance the entire year rose to 43.6 million, a jump of almost 6 percent from 2001 and the second consecutive annual increase, the Census Bureau said in a report being released Tuesday. The percentage of Americans with­out health coverage rose from 14.6 to 15.2. 
The bureau reported a survey last week that found more people fell into poverty and median income declined in 2002, even though the recession officially ended in November 2001. 
Hellecting the broad scope of the recession and its aftermath, significant increases in uninsured rates occurred among whites, blacks, people 18-to-64 and middle-and high­er-income earners. Hates increased in all regions of the country except the West. 
Air France set to acquire KLM 
PARIS-Air France's board approved plans Monday to acquire Dutch airline KLM, a board member said. The union would create one of the world's largest aviation partner­ships. 
"The board has approved a letter of intent" covering the acquisition plan, board member Yvon Touil said after an Air France meeting that lasted over three hours. 
Touil. a union official who sits on the French carrier's board, gave few other details. 
But another union leader who met earlier with Air France managers said the proposals call for Europe's second-and fourth-largest carriers to unite beneath the same corporate umbrella but stop short of a complete merger. 
EPA rules ease access to wilderness 
WASIIINGTON -New guidelines issued Monday by the Bush administration could allow oil and gas companies and off-road vehicles on federal lands that had been off­limits to protect their natural qualities. 
The policy directives were sent to BLM state offices to implement an agreement Interior Secretary Gale Norton struck with Utah Gov. Mike Leavitt in April to resolve a lawsuit the state filed against the department. 
The settlement rescinded protection for 3 million acres in Utah and millions of addition­al acres across the West. 
Leavitt has since been nominated by President Bush to head the Environmental Protection Agency. The backroom deal has been questioned by Democrats challenging his fitness to lead the agency. 
ITALY 


Citizens seek answers after outage 
Associated Press  
ROME -Italians were  
told that a blackout like the  
one that darkened North  
America last month could  
never happen to them. A  
day after power went out  
on the entire peninsula,  
anger mounted Monday  
over the country's depend­ 
ence on imported energy  
and resistance to building  
new power plants.  
Local politicians, con­ 
sumer advocates and oth­ 
ers called on the national  
government to take action  
against whoever is respon­ 
sible for the outage that cut  
power to some 55 million  
people -5 million more  
than were affected by the  
Aug. 14 U.S. blackout.  
Nearly everyone in Italy  
lost power, and electricity  
wasn't restored fully until 9  
p.m. Sunday, 18 hours after  
the blackout began. Four  
deaths were blamed on the  
blackout, including that of a  
92-year-old woman in  
Puglia whose clothes  
caught fire from a candle  
name.  
"We'll ask for the heads  
of all those responsible,"  
Salvatore Cuffaro, the head  
of Sicily's regional govern­ 
ment said. Getty  
Sicily was the last to have Passengers are left stranded at Rome's Termini train station during a nationwide black­ 
all its power, which particu­out Sunday. Italy had declared its power grid more secure than that of the United States.  
larly irked Cuffaro because  
the island supplies the  the Swiss high tension net­ The head of France's grid  more modern and reliable  
country with half its energy.  work, said in a statement  operator RTE, in an inter­ than the system shared by  
A consumer advocacy  that just a few minutes  view in Monday's  parts of Canada and the  
group, Adisconsum, joined  after the tree fell, the per­ Liberation, a French daily,  United States.  
the critics, demanding  son who coordinates with  called Italy's dependence  Bollino, in an interview  
prosecutors help ascertain  the Italian network called  on imported energy  Monday in the Turin daily  
responsibility, "so we know  his Italian counterparts to  "unusual."  La Stampa, acknowledged  
to whom we should present  tell them to increase pro­ "We must build other  he was wrong.  
the bill."  duction.  interconnection lines  "Our system is more  
Industry Minister Antonio  "According to the infor­ between Italy and the rest  secure than the American  
Marzano ordered an  mation we have, the Italian  of Europe," said RTE's  one, but it is also more vul­ 
inquiry, but said an investi­ reaction was much too  Andre Merlin.  nerable," because of its  
gation had yet to determine  slow, to such an extent that  The head of Italy's GRTN  reliance on imported ener­ 
the precise trigger of the  from 3:30 a.m. the lines  electrical network, Carlo  gy, Bollino said.  
outage.  from France, Switzerland,  Andrea Bollino. warned  Italy imports nearly 17  
The Swiss power compa­ Austria and Slovenia were  people to avoid elevators  percent of its power; the  
ny Ate! said that an old fir  overloaded and disconnect­ Monday because of a series  European average is 2 per­ 
tree had toppled onto a  ed one after anothe~"  of localized blackouts  cent.  
power line, setting off the  Etrans said.  planned throughout the day  Because of anti-monopoly  
problem. But an Ate!  Nearly immediately after  while lines are tested.  regulations, Italy's largest  
spokesman, Rolf Schmid,  power failed, Italian  The advice was galling to  electricity supplier, Encl.  
insisted that a connection  authorities blamed the cut  those recalling Bollino's  can no longer build more  
error by an Italian grid  on France, which provides  assurances soon after the  plants. Newer, smaller  
operator caused the cas­ Italy with a major source of  North American blackout  power companies will have  
cading power loss through­ electricity and a backup  that Italy wouldn't go dark.  to pick up the slack, but  
out Italy.  line. France claimed Italy  Back then, Bollino boast­ local opposition has dis­ 
Etrans, the coordinator of  was at fault.  ed that Italy's network was  couraged construction.  

Filesharers settle for $2,500-$10,000 
ing, require Internet users to destroy Internet," RIAA President Cary
Associated Press 

copies of illegally downloaded songs Sherman said in a statement. "In the 
WASHINGTON -The recording and agree to "not make any public end it will be decided not in the industry on Monday announced set­statements that are inconsistent" courtrooms, but at kitchen tables tlements with 52 of the 261 Internet with the agreement. across the country." users it sued over allegations of ille­The RIAA, the trade group for the Just three weeks ago, the RIAA gally permitting others to download largest labels, said one dozen other filed 261 lawsuits against what it music from their computers using Internet users also agreed to pay described as "major offenders" ille­popular file-sharing software. unspecified amounts after they gally distributing on average more 
The Recording Industry learned they might be sued. They than 1,000 copyrighted music files Association of America, which plans had previously been notified by their each. Lawyers and activists said to file hundreds more lawsuits in Internet providers that music more settlements were inevitable. October, did not specify how much it lawyers were seeking their names to "We don't know how many addi­collected. Defense lawyers familiar sue and agr.eed to pay to avoid a law­tional people are negotiating," said with some cases said payments suit. Fred von Lohmann, a lawyer for the ranged from $2,500 to $7,500 each, "The music community's efforts San Francisco-based Electronic with at least one settlement for as have triggered a national conversa­Frontier Foundation. "There could much as $10,000. tion, especially between parents and well be a large number of people 
The settlements, which do not kids, about what's legal and illegal deciding whether to write the check Include any admission of wrongdo-when it comes to music on the or not." 
. ·;-g [If . ~00~ .I)-f.-<d(!'I:JN J/. '{&h?c' ,'· 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 30, 2003 
Senators push rene-wable fuel 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Fifty-three senators, including eight Republicans, urged on Monday that a compromise energy bill require electric utilities to produce a minimum amount of their power from renewable fuels such as solar panels or wind turbines. 
In a letter, the senators protest­ed a decision by House and Senate Republicans involved in the energy negotiations to leave the renewable fuels requirement out of a final energy package. 
The senators said a strong renewable fuels standard for utili­ties would reduce U.S. depend­ence on natural gas by promoting fuel diversity, would help utilities avoid price spikes and would help promote development of renew­able fuels markets around the country. 
The letter noted that the Senate has approved twice in the last two years a requirement that utilities produce at least 10 percent of their electricity by using nonhydro renewable fuels. The House rejected both mandates. 
Senate Republicans, who already have completed much of the energy bill in negotiations with the House majority, have given no indication they were ready to put the renewable fuels standard back into the energy leg­islation. 
Electric utilities have lobbied hard against such a requirement. They contend that in some regions of the country, where renewable fuels would be harder to obtain, electricity prices might be forced up unnecessarily. They contend mandates on fuel use should be left to the states. At least 12 states already have on the books minimum requirements on renewables. 
Sen. Pete Domenici, R-N.M., chairman of the energy talks, has said repeatedly that he's not inter­ested in "a renewable fuels portfo­lio" for electric utilities, although the Senate approved such a requirement as part of its energy bill. The legislation passed by the House last April did not include it. 
In a letter to Domenici and Rep. Billy Tauzin, R-La., who is leading the House negotiating team, the senators said "the inclusion of a strong renewable fuels portfolio standard" is needed to help devel­op regional renewable energy markets and to help utilities meet future clean air requirements. 
They discounted claims that it would force up electricity prices in some parts of the country. Instead, the senators argued, a use of renewable fuels "will promote fuel diversity and reduction of our substantial dependence on natu­ral gas ... (and) ease shortages and price spikes in our natural gas supplies." 
Among those signing the letter were Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D.; Sen. Jeff Bingaman, D-N.M., the leading Democrat involved in the energy talks; Sen. Jim Jeffords, 1-Vt.; and Republican Sens. Susan Collins and Olympia Snowe, both of Maine; Uncoln Chafee of Rhode Island; Judd Gregg of New Hampshire; Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania; John Ensign of Nevada; Norm Coleman of Minnesota; and Gordon Smith of Oregon. 

The letter cited no specific requirement but noted the Senate-passed bill contained a measure that would require utili­ties to produce 10 percent of their electricity from sources such as solar power, wind turbines, bio­mass or geothermal energy. It also called for a credit trading mecha­nism that would allow utilities to buy renewable fuels credits if they don't have required fuels avail­able at certain plants. 
Meanwhile, energy negotiations continue over a provision that would double the use of corn­based ethanol as a gasoline addi­tive. The ethanol proposal has been hung up over a disagree­ment about the future of another gas additive, petroleum-based MTBE, which has been found to contaminate groundwater. 
The Senate wants MTBE banned nationwide, to be phased out over four years, and is against giving manufacturers of MTBE waivers to protect against future liability involving water contami­nation. House Republicans, espe­cially Majority Leader Tom DeLay, R-Texas, and Tauzin have opposed the MTBE ban and want the waiver. 
Many senators, especially from states where there has been MTBE contamination, fear a waiver would let the MTBE mak­ers off the hook in future lawsuits involving contaminated water­ways. The industry argues that the waivers would be limited, would cover only defects in the product itself and would not pro­tect against misuse of the product such as allowing leakage into waterways. 
Valpo leaders "repent" for interfaith service 
Associated Press INDIANAPOLIS -The president and pastor of Valparaiso University have "repented" to members of the Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod for hosting an interfaith service in which Muslim and Jewish leaders offered prayers. The independent Lutheran uni­versity in northwestern Indiana hosted the service last year on the 
first anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. It came under scrutiny by leaders of the 
theologically conservative Missouri Synod because clergy who do not believe in the Holy Trinity led prayers in a Lutheran chapel. 
The Rev. Alan Harre, the presi­dent of the university, and the Rev. Joseph Cunningham, pastor of the Chapel of the Resurrection on the campus, received letters Monday clarifying the resolution of the dis­pute by the synod's Praesidium, university spokesman Reggie Syrcle said. 
The Praesidium took up the mat­ter on appeal after the former pres­ident of the Indiana district, the Rev. Timothy Sims, had cleared Harre, Cunningham and three other Lutheran clergyman of any wrongs earlier this year. The Praesidium directed Sims to investigate the matter further. 
'"The defendants expressed sin­cere repentance for the wrong that they did in authorizing and con­ducting the service," said the letter signed by the Praesidium's secre­tary, Paul Maier. 
David Strand, a spokesman at the synod's headquarters in St. 




Life at Lilly 

real people doing extraordinary things 
Eli Lilly and Company Information Session 
CAREERS IN FINANCE -All Majors Welcome Tuesday, September 30, 2003 Room 210, Center for Continuing Education 
6:00PM: Talk with Notre Dame and St. Mary's alumni who work in finance at Lilly 
6:30 PM: Presentation by Craig Hartman, Manager of Investor Relations, NO MBA '94 
Eli Lilly and Company: creating and delivering innovative medicines that enable people to live longer, healthier and more active lives. 
Position information available on 'Go Irish' 

~ 
Answers That Matter. 
Louis, said the dispute shows "the synod takes its doctrine and its clear public proclamation of the gospel of Jesus Christ very serious­!y." 
"At the same time, it shows that the synod, like other Christian church bodies, is trying to discern its proper role in an increasingly pluralistic society while staying true to its doctrines and practices," Strand said. 
Sims, who has since retired as Indiana District president, apolo­gized for not keeping his superiors within the synod fully informed on the matter, Strand said. 
The Rev. Frederick E. Davison of Kokomo attended the interfaith service because he was concerned it could pose theological problems for a university wh<ise links to the Missouri Synod date to 1925. Later, he became spokesman for synod clergy in eight states who lodged a formal complaint. 
Jews and Muslims worship the same God that Christians regard, in simplest terms, as God the father. However, both faiths deny the divin­ity of Jesus Christ. Muslims regard Jesus as a prophet who delivered a great message from God as Abraham and Moses had before him, but not the son of God. 
'We do not worship in a way to minimize the differences between us. We cannot worship in such a way that we indicate it's OK to believe differently," said Davison, pastor of Zion Evangelical Lutheran Church, a 50-member Missouri Synod congregation in rural Howard County. 

Tuesday, September 30, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
HoNG KoNG 
Remote island villages fear proposed 18-mile bridge 
Associated Press two dozen l'amilies who live in have agreed to build a $2 bil­
an isolated corner of Hong lion bridge to link Hong Kong 

HONG KONG -For most Kong -the remote village of with the gambling enclave of Hong Kongers, shopping for San Shek Wan on the north­Macau and the mainland indus­groceries means taking the ole-western shore of outlying trial city of Zhuhai, and the valor down to the lobby and Lantau Island. route could run right over San walking a few blocks to a Younger people have all left Shek Wan. supermarket. for the better-known sprawl of That would spell the end of 
Chui Kam-kee, 71, has to hike urban Hong Kong, and the one of the few remaining pock­through the mountains for 45 sleepy village looks likely to die ets of a simple, quiet lifestyle minutes, then ride a ferry for off as soon as its inhabitants reminiscent of the small fishing 15 minutes to town. Then it's do. community that Hong Kong was back on the boat, and then But the end could come even before the British arrived in the trudge with heavy bags up and sooner, the villagers fear. 19th century. down the slopes. Hong Kong and neighboring The Chuis have no air condi­
Chui and his wife arc among Guangdong province's leaders tioning so they sleep under 



JESSICA WEINER 

-Appearances on CNN, Ml'l, "The View" and "Good Morning, America'­-Author, speaker, performer and actionist whose eating disorder nearly ruined her life before self discovery and recovery inspired her to reach out to others-
PRESENTING 
UDO I LOOK FAT IN THIS?" 
acreative, dramatic program combining storytelling, video dips and personal experiences on the important issues of eating disorders, body loathing and self esteem, providing tools of empowerment to help yourself and others. 



WED., OCT. 1 
7:00 P.M. 
LAFORTUNE CENTER BALLROOM SPONSORS: 
University Health Services • University Counseling Center • A Life Uncommon UBWEll2 • Hommes Notre Dome Bookstore 



INFORMATION-574.631.4364 



mosquito nets, and they burn The government is studying wood to heat the bath water. San Shek Wan and nearby But it's the only home they've areas of Lantau's northwestern known for decades and it has coast as a landing point for the its charms. 18-mile bridge that is the terri­
"The air is fresh. It's very tory's biggest infrastructure comfortable when the sea project in recent years. breeze blows on my face," said Officials envision the bridge Chui, who grows papayas and to China's booming Pearl River herbs outside the stone hut he Delta region as a way to revital­built more than 50 years ago ize the territory's struggling after fleeing mainland China. economy through better inte­
Chui found work in a tung­gration with the region's manu­sten mine that has long since facturing areas. closed, then he turned to farm­Although the government ing and raising pigs. says it has yet to decide the 
exact spot for the bridgehead on Lantau Island, the villagers fear they are in the way and are trying to figure out how badly it might disrupt what's left of their rural lives. 
The tranquility of San Shek Wan and a nearby village, Sha Lo Wan, already is being dis­rupted by the roar of jetliners that began flying past when Hong Kong opened Chek Lap Kok airport on Lantau five years ago. 
"I can hardly sleep at night when the northern winds bring the smell of aircraft fuel into our house," said a resident of Sha Lo Wan who identified her­self only as Mrs. Fung. "My bed will shake if a cargo plane takes ofT." 
Fung and others say the air­port has done great damage to life in Sha Lo Wan, where some villagers still farm and fish. 
"Of course I don't want the government to build a big bridge ncar us," Fung said. "But who am I to speak up?" 
Modern amenities arc mostly out of reach for the poor elderly villagers of San Shek Wan, who scrape out livings by selling homegrown produce or relying on their children for support. 
Unmistakably Italian ~ ~ Unbelievably Good :·b 
·? Enjoy generous portions of contemporary <a Italian entrees and pastas like Salmone alia Griglia & Papa's signature Sizzlelini.~ 
. ~-·.

r FamilyNStyle Take Out meals are perfect for ~ ' any large gathering. All portions serve 8-10 people. 
From Pee•'• KJtchcon to \burs 
-• • • • t •••• 
t I ' • • •. • • 


NOTRE DAME TICKETS 
Buy •SELL • TRADE ALL GAMES • ALL LOCATIONS 
PREFERRED TICKETS 234-5650 

page 10 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS Tuesday? September 30 2003 
Old favorites left out in new-season
Dido tries to follow 
Associated Press 
up success of debut 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-No one, including her music producer brother, paid much attention to Dido when she made her first album. 
TWelve million copies later, the British singer-songwriter has replaced obscurity with the pres­sure of proving that she's more than a one-time sensation who owes her success to an Eminem sample. 
Her followup 
album, "Life For "No Angel" was 

people who tuned into televi­
"I just want to 
Rent," is out en route to modest 

sion's most popular show,
make a great,
Tuesday. It's an success in the 

"CSI: Crime Scene 
important day for classic pop song. " United States, and 

Investigation," represented a 
Dido and her hadn't even been 

drop of 12 percent from last 
record company, released in Europe, 

year's premiere, according to
Dido
Arista, which is when Dido 

Nielsen Media Research. 

singer-songwriter
eager for a big sell­received an unex-

Despite that, the broadcast 
er over the holidays in a year of slump­ing music sales. 
Dido's boss ratchets up the pres­sure even more. 
"We firmly believe we have maybe the best lyric writer in the business today," said Antonio "LA" Reid, Arista president and a top songwriter himself in the 1980s. "I would challenge anybody to write as well as her in modem music." 
Dido Armstrong, the 31-year-old daughter of a poet and a publisher who uses her first name profes­sionally, returned to the same British studio to make the new album. She worked again with her brother, Rollo, a member of the group Faithless. 
"It took a lot of the paranoia out Magna Global. 

"These shows are aging," said Marc Berman, an analyst for Media Week Online. "People are getting tired of them. And they're not finding new shows that are intriguing them." 
NBC entertainment presi­dent Jeff Zucker said he was "thrilled" by the week since his network will win among viewers aged 18-to-49 -the only demographic it cares about -by its biggest margin in four years. 
"All of our returning shows had fantastic weeks," Zucker said. "The West Wing," for example, had a bigger audi­ence last week than at any point last season. 
There are mitigating cir­cumstances for some of the declines. "Friends" had a compelling cliffhanger going into last season -Joey's pro­posal to Rachel -and nothing as dramatic this season. 
"CSI: Miami" had the curios­ity factor of a series premiere last year. "NYPD Blue" is fac­ing tougher competition in its Tuesday time slot from "Law & Order: SVU" and "Judging Amy," and "Frasier" must convince fans it can make a creative comeback from an off year. 
ABC's viewership was up 8 percent over last year, accord­ing to preliminary Nielsen Media Research figures. 
Partly that was due to the curiosity factor following John Ritter's death that brought a big audience to "8 Simple Rules for Dating My Teenage Daughter" last week. And partly it was because ABC did so poorly last year it was hard to get much worse, analysts say. 
But there were bright spots: "Hope & Faith," the new sit­com starring Kelly Ripa and Faith Ford, had a strong start as viewers seemed to wel­come the return of ABC's fam­ily-oriented Friday night line­up. 
CBS has a potential hit with the Friday spiritual drama, "Joan of Arcadia," and also did well with another foren­sics drama on Sunday, "Cold Case." 
NBC's "Whoopi" has faded after a strong preseason start. NBC's "Coupling," CBS' "The Brotherhood of Poland, N.H." and ABC's "Threat Matrix" are new series that could be in trouble. 
Sternberg said competition from cable networks is hurt­ing the networks more than ever before. Over just the past two years, the number of channels available in an aver­age home has jumped by more than two dozen to more than 100, he said. 
"That is finally starting to have an impact where it had­n't over the past few years," he said. 
Somewhat surprisingly, FX's critically praised series, "Nip/Tuck," scored its best ratings ever last Tuesday when competing against the season premieres of three broadcast dramas. 
of it, really," she said. "Obviously, I put a lot of pressure on myself because I wanted to make it great and not disappoint people." 
"I just want to make a great, classic pop song." 
Her first album, "No Angel," was recorded between 1996 and 1998. Dido sneaked into the studio, often late at night, when her brother wasn't working on his own materi­
al or the studio 
wasn't booked. 

NEW YORK -Television viewers didn't exactly rush to their sets to catch up on old favorites during the first week of the new season. 
The audience for NBC's "Friends" season premiere was down by 28 percent from last year's season opener. For CBS' "CSI: Miami," it was down 25 percent. "Frasier": down 31 percent. "NYPD Blue": down 22 percent. "ER": down 13 percent. 
Even the nearly 27 million 
pected package in 
the mail. 
It was from Eminem. One of the rap star's friends had heard Dido's song "Thank You" in the movie "Sliding Doors." Eminem sampled a portion of the song for the cho­rus of "Stan," his own epic story of a suicidal fan. He wanted Dido's permission to use it. 
Dido was thrilled. She figured it would make her hip among her friends. She had no problem giving the OK, and even acted in the "Stan" video as Eminem's preg­nant girlfriend. 
No one could have anticipated that music fans -millions ofthem -would be so intrigued by the six lines of "Thank You" in Eminem's song that they would buy Dido's own disc. 

networks rallied over the weekend to salvage an open­ing week that had begun omi­nously. 
Overall, viewership for ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox was down 3 percent from opening week last year, down 7 percent among the prized 18-to-49­year-old demographic. Much of the decline can be tied to Fox, which has held off most of its premieres until after baseball season. 
Making judgments after one week of viewing is dangerous, but if the trend for some of the most popular shows con­tinues, it would be a cause for concern with the networks, said Steve Sternberg, a televi­sion analyst for the ad firm 



Student International Business Council 



It's Not Too Late!!! 
Interested in joini,n,g· tile SIBC but ll'ere Ullltble to uttend -t· . ·~ I ' l . . . ' 
tIJ,e 1f.rst nleetJ.n,g.. t s not too ,(tte to JOJn.. 
ALL MAJORS ARE WELCOME! 


•

*Hands on real life experience *Establish contacts with alumni *Gain valuable leadership skills *Summer internships and teaching positions around the globe 
Contact A Division Leader For More lnfor111ation 
• 
Accounting-Bill Coffey • Marketing-Melanie Lauck wcoffey@nd.edu mlauck@nd.edu 

• 
Business Consulting-Bob Goedert Finance-Jake Roffman


• 

rgoedert@nd. edu jroffman@nd.edu 
• 
Global Development-John Boots • Human Resources-Courtney Zeph jboots@nd.edu czeph@nd. edu 

• 
Internships-Dan Silva and Pedro Bollman • Information Technology-Michael Flyrm dsilva@nd.edu and pbollman@nd.edu mflyrm3 @nd.edu 




Tuesday, September 30, 2003 The Observer+ COLLEGE NEWS page ll 
U-WIRE 

Students protest prohibition of flag display 
By ELlSABETH THEODORE 
Harvard Crimson 
More than 100 students at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government are protest­Ing a decision that prohibited a classmate from carrying the l'alestlnlan flag at the school's 25th anniversary celr.bration on S(1pt. 19. 
In a pr.titlon presented to KSG Dean .Joseph S. Nye and Senior Associate Dean Joseph J. McCarthy on Thursday, 112 stu­dents said permitting the flag would symbolize the school's broad diversity and its commit­ment to peace In the Middle East. 
The luncheon of the daylong anniversary event featured a pro­cession by dozens of KSG students holding their home countries' flag. 
School officials said they did not permit thA Palestinian student, lssa .1. Kassissieh, to carry hlr; flag b!'cause Palestine is not on the 
U.S. State Department's list of lndepm1dent states. 
"Since Palestine Is not recog­nized by the U.S. government, we are unable to offer you the oppor­tunity to march," wrote David O'Brion, the Interim deputy direc­tor of the K..'IG's Alumni Programs Office, In an e-mail to Kassissieh. 
K..'IG spokesperson Doug Gavel said the school was following a llarvard-wlde policy established by the Harvard University Marshal's Office. The Marshal's office could not be reached for comment. 
Ka.c;slc;sleh, a Palestinian official from Jerusalem participating in the KSG's Mid-Career Masters In Public Administration program, said he thought rejecting the flag was unnecessarily exclusive. 
"I thought that If there would have been a will, there would havA been an opportunity," he said. ''I'm here with my Israeli colleagues. It would have been great if the two flags could have been together." 
After receiving the message from O'Brien, Kassissieh wrote to the KSG's student open e-mail list to object to the decision. 
That prompted several other students to circulate a petition in support of Kassissieh, which they presented to McCarthy. 
"We think both the Israeli and the Palestinian flags neAd to be represented at the school," said Erin C. Rogers, an MC'JMPA stu­dent who is one of the original drafters of the petition. 
"The Kennedy School should take the lead In promoting peace by displaying both flags, despite what the State Department wants to dictate," she said. 
McCarthy was unavailable for comment Friday but said through a spokesperson that he plans to respond to the studentr;' lettAr. 
Kassissieh is a fellow in the Edward Mason Program, which brings leaders from developing countries to study at the KSG. He said he thought the university had made a move toward the inclu­sion of Palestinians In bringing Wm to Harvard, but that the deci­sion on the flag matter represent­ed a step backwards. 
"By respecting my aspirations and my symbols, they would respect the Palestinian nation," said Kassissleh, who was a policy analyst in the Palestinian Liberation Organization's Negotiation Affairs Department before coming to Harvard. 
Other students said they thought the decision was not a rejection of support for Palestinian students but rather a matter of having a standard poli­cy. 
Guang He, a student in the MPA-International Development program, said that while he sup­ported Palestinian statehood, he thought the school had made the correct choice in excluding the flag. 
"The action Lwould] destroy the present policy of KSG, which may lead to many, many requests for raising all kinds of flags," he wrote in an e-mail. 
Pedro Cerdan, an MPA· International Development stu­dent, said that because "Israel was created artificially," he sup­ported the Inclusion of a Palestinian flag in the procession. But Cerdan, who carried the Spanish flag at the Sept. 19 cere­mony, said If a student represent­ing a Spanish opposition group like the Basque nationalists had wanted to carry that flag, he would oppose it. 
Stephen E. Boucher, an MC/MPA student who signed the petition, said he recognized the "danger of getting into that kind of debate as to what is a country." 
But Boucher said that in gener­al, "If a student is considered [by the KSG] as from a certain coun­try, that should be recognized." 
Boucher and Kassissieh added that although the U.S. govern­ment does not recognize a Palestinian nation, it has Included the flag at various diplomatic events. 
"So If there is a strong request from a particular body of stu­dents, I think we could show the same level of flexibility," Boucher said. 
According to the petition, the United Nations and 124 other nations recognize Palestine. 
Rogers said the students who organized the petition would walt for a response from McCarthy and Nye before taking further action. 
-· 





ROME PBOGBAII 
1NfORMA:T10N MS6TIN'i 


W6J)Ne5J)Ay, 0Cr0~6R.1, 2003 
5:00PM 


12J ttAyes-tteAL6Y 

U-WIRE 

Future econonty will need Hispanic success 
By MARIA ALANIS 
The Daily Cougar 
Although Hispanics make up nearly 18 percent of University of Houston student<;, the burgeon­ing problem of Hlr;panic dropout<; could hurt the national economy unless It's fixed, say experts and Houston Independent School District officials. 
If Hispanic college graduation rates do not increa.r;e, the nation will experience a shortage In the number of people qualified to flll professional and leadership roles, said Tatcho Mindiola, asso­ciate professor of sociology and director of the UH Center for Mexican American Studies. 
"The aging Anglo population, or baby boomers, that make up the majority of the professional labor market will retire within the next 10 to 20 years," Mindlola said. "The African­American population has stabi­lized and begun to decrease, while the Hispanic population is skyrocketing." 
These two trends demand a "dramatic increase in lllspanlcs completing high school and col­lege If the country's economy is to remain competitive," Mindlola said. 
Mindiola added that the overall state of education is not Impres­sive -only 26 percent of the total population has college degrees, he said. 
At UH, Mlndiola said the num­ber of Hispanic graduates has steadily Increased since CMAS introduced College Career Day and other support programs. 
"In the fall of 1984, Hispanic student enrollment was 1,906, or 6 percent of the total popula­tion," he said. "In the fall of 2002 that number had increased to 6,115, or 18 percent." 
HISD officials face a special problem In educating tomorrow's workforce because the dropout definition and data collection methods may be misleading. 
"The way the state requires us to report dropouts [by combining middle and Wgh school numbers] does not reveal a true picture," 
,----­
said Jaime de Ia Isla, IIISD's assistant superintendent for the Office of Student Engagement and Charter School Initiatives. 
"You don't have as many stu­dents leaving at middle school as you do in high school," de Ia Isla said, which makes the average seem unrealistically low. 
Census reports, however, make the number seem larger. 
"Census reports track 16-to 24-year-olds who have not com­pleted high school, including Immigrants who've come to the United States with little or no schooling and who never enroll in high school," de Ia Isla said. 
On the recommendation of HISD's Peer Examination, Evaluation and Redesign Committee, which Is comprised of community leaders and school administrators, the district Is pushing to adopt the National Center for Education Statistics' definition for dropout and com­pletion rates. 
'.'It will make for a more accu­rate tracking system," de Ia Isla said. 
Of HISD's total student popula­tion of 212,000, about 57 percent are Hlc;panlc. De Ia Isla said that is the largest number of Hispanic students enrolled In any school district In Texas. 
Of those students, about 29 percent are Immigrant student<; limited In their English proficien­cy, de Ia Isla said. 
HISD's latest Academic Indicator Report reveals a gradu­ation rate of 72 percent, a GED rate of 10 percent and a dropout rate of 13 percent, de Ia Isla said. 
Hispanics account for 55 per­cent of HISD dropouts, he said. 
HISD has more than 100 pro­grams designed to help students stay In school. De Ia Isla said the most promising of those Is the district's systematic reform Initia­tive. Its goal Is to restructure schools physically and philosoph­Ically to provide more individual­ized attention. The district's goal is to raise the graduation to 85 percent by 2007. 
"I hope with every fiber of my body that they succeed," Mlndlola said. 



THE 0BSER\'ER 





IEWPOINT
page 12 Tuesday, September 30, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O; Box Q; N~rrc Dame, iN .<!f:i~~6 024 South.Dining Hall. Notre. Dairi~;IN465% 
N 
:~·:=:::.:.:-:-·. 
EOJTOl!. IN CHIEF 

Andrew Soukup ·.. . .· / \:.: MANAGiNG Eotmt. Btl~ ~A<:iltt/ \ Scott Brodfuelu-et LOii LeiYiMi:i 1\,\ 
ASsT. MANAGING EmTOa Sheila Flynn 
NEWS Emro.R:·Meghaniie Dowries· V!EWI'OINT EDITOR: Tere.;ll Fraliiih SPORTS EOITOR: Joe Hettler SCitNll Ennbll.: SatahVab\11~> 
.. . . . ·. ,. 

SAINT MA!t~s EritiOR: Artriellese·Woolf&d Piiom Erirtoa~ Tirn I<acin.M ?.·. · GRAPHICS EDITORt Mike fiai:kitls >... ADVERTISING MANAG!l& Maura C#i~d~llli • AD DMJGN MANA®.R< Tom Hligl)f •• S¥STllMS AoMJNJSTMTOl!.• Ted Biihged < ··.·· WERADMJN!STRAIDR; jasonC~iik><>····.. CoNTROlLER: Mike flafl~~··· 
CONTACT Us.··· . 
OFFlCE MANAGER &GENEililtliif(j (574) 6}l~747l········
FAX . .. 
{574) 631,.6927 
AnvcRSTISIN\l 
(574}(131~6900 oh~ervad(ilWhdil \ ••· ·· 
. .. . . EDITOR IH CHIEF ·..·.·. 
{574) ():H•4542 ... ····• •·• 
MANAGING Eo1T0R &•AssisTANT MIINAGtMG.EDIToli 
(574) 6JI+454f ·. ()bsrne@n(J;eda ·•• . 
. . BUSIII£SS OfFICE ··..·. 
{574) 63h53t:f .•.• / <•······· NE'ivs DESK >: ·••• ·: ··•··••• ·•·· (5(4).631,5323 ob$news~l((fM~ti(lt,t . V!EWPOIIIT DESK < < ... 
(574)..6Jl~53t>38~~i's7e$~l71l~;~~~ >. · (514) 6~14543 ~pi>it8;l~iid;~;d#.•··········· 
. SCEHE DESK ·•• . ..... 
(574) 
6~ 1-4540 scene.! @nd.~dil. ··· SAINT MARY'S DESK 

(574) 
63 H3:Z4 s¢c.1~nd.edu •••·· ··• ·•.• •. . . PHOTO DESK .••·· ••·• •··•·•·•. •·• > (574)631~&7$7' horo®nd.ed4·•······· ........ 


SYSTEMS &Wtil ADMIHISTRAT\lllS ·. (574)631-8839' 

01StRVERONLlN~····· 
www.• ndsmcobserver.tllrn .•·•····· 
POLICIES 


TheObserver is tht: inifepenclerit; #J1Y ~p~pei. >··• published in print an~onljne~Y#i~~ti,!il#\t8P.Uht: < University ofNwe.oame du> wandS:iht{J\4<tty'~ 
College: Edirorial cotm!iit, indtH:Iing adYI!f~nts; is 

not governed by policies ofthe admlniscrati()li ofeither insciu~tion. The Observer·~~ the dgbfto:feftlli~ ···•··•·····•· adverti~cment$ based'on <;onrcnr; .. / <••.. i •······•····• ••·• ••·• • 
The l:lews ii; ~epon~a ai ilCc\if.iidy ~4 6bjecti\<ely ~ · possible. Unsigned editorials represent t~ i>Pffiion of · the ~i¢rhy of the Ediw U. Cbie£ M.g!Uiror, •·•··· ·.·.·. Assistatn Managing Ed~rorand ifepartiiietlr c:diroti ····• •·• • Commentaries, letters aiid column$ presciu the Vim ofthe auth<i~sand nofn@s:jj;ifythdii~ 9£1)# ....... . 
Ob$erv~. ·· ··. ····. · · · 
Viewpoint space is ;~.Vailable tt\ all readers~ The free expression ofall opinions througbktu:# iS m~ourage<L Leitei'S t4 me Edi(()r mUst. be slg®d an#: m..m irichi4e .·. · contaCt infatrt'mtion: ··· 
· 
~ions regarding Obsmm~p(Jiidfs.i~ld br. directd to Ediittr In cJii4'f{'ii1rN! S®/tup. 
·.POST OFFICE INFORMATION <•·• 

TODAY'S STAFF< 
News 
··•···· ..·.··•·•••·.Grapbics.
Teresa Fralish ·. Grabatii EhetScli Michael Sports 
Chambliss Joe Hettler Amanda JustinSchuver Michaels Scene 
Viewpoint Rama 
Lauren Beck Gottumukkala Illustrator Katie Knont.·.··· 





Taking Notre Dame with you 
Lest the title mislead you, this col­umn was written in the States. This is the last column to be written here (I leave Oct. 4 for England). and so in a spirit of farewells and goodbyes, I wanted to reflect on two years at 
Geoff Johnston
Notre Dame and determine what lessons to bring 
A Domer at
with me to 
Oxford
England. (I hope that I'll be able to find a spot for them in my luggage.) 

I'd like to begin, as I often do, with a story. Last weekend I returned to Notre Dame to wish my friends a happy and successful year. I passed through the Library on my way; I had checked out a book over the summer and I wanted to avoid a year of late fees. 
Then I returned to the hallowed and beer-stained halls of Zahm to enjoy a few moments with my brothers, espe­cially the seniors. Yelling at the TV during the Purdue game capped the visit; let's hope the Irish offensive line stops being so. well. offensive. 
Yet there were more people I still had to visit. and none of them lived in dorms or apartments. I went to the chapel, remembered the sweet smell of incense. sat in a pew and admired the paintings, and talked to God. We chatted for a while. I begged for some help. He smiled and said something but I wasn't paying attention. 
Then I went to the Grotto, lit a can­dle and tried to imprint the image of the place onto my mental canvas (maybe you will be reading about a visit to Lourdes later in the year). 
A lesson for this parable, you say? Well, sure, if you insist. First. let's look at the chronology of my visit: Library, Zahm, Grotto/chapel. I believe that my last two years at Notre Dame were. or should have been, analogous to this visit. 


OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Prejudices, it is well known, are most
How much has the University's landscaping 
difficult to eradicate from the heart whose 
declined in the last four years? 
soil has never been loosened or fertilized by education; they grow there, firm as weeds among stones."
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Charlotte Bronte writer 
The Library represents studies. aca­demics, "book-learnin'." Zahm repre­sents friendship, brotherhood. "koinonia." The Grotto and chapel represent (drum-roll please) religion. Divinity. God. 
The order is important as well. Studies are least important; people are more so; God is all-important. Seems simple. right? 
This truth is less obvious than it seems (or at least it wasn't obvious to me). The Library also represents sue­
. cess. and I put a huge premium on success. especially doing well in class­es. So the Library seemed at times to be the most important object; after all. I can always meet people and make friends, but ifl don't study now, what will happen to me in the future? Will I be 

able to find a job? Will I "Life makes sense only accused of spouting be accepted to a good off obvious and sen­
ifordered toward God,
graduate school? How timental truths
otherwise we work for
can I compete with (among other graduates from the Ivy nothing, for a bit ofdust things), but these League. from Stanford are the truths that I
that is here today and 
or Duke? need most of all to
tomorrow gone."
Every single one of us take with me to 
is haunted by these doubts, these bogeys streaming in from the depths of our weakness. And so we worry, and worry, and freak out, and the Library seems more important, success seems to be the goal of our Notre Dame career. 
But, thankfully, we have God to rely upon: "Are not two sparrows sold for a small coin? Yet not one of them falls to the ground without your Father's knowledge. Even all the hairs of your head are counted. So do not be afraid; you are worth more than many spar­rows."-Mt 10:29-31. God brings us back to what is important, reminds us that selfless action for others is our goal in life. 
That is the lesson that I wanted to bring with me from Notre Dame; that is the hope that I wanted to hold onto. 
Oxford. What about 
the integration tables, what about the topological the­orems. what about Hume and Kant? Those will all serve me well. but they are empty verbiage without the prop­er context. 
So bring on Oxford. I'm ready. I'm ready because I have saved a part of Notre Dame. bottled it up and stashed it where no one can steal it. I'm ready to learn. to meet new people. to dis­cuss new ideas. to listen and to pray. 
Poll question: The first "bop" or party at New College is cartoon­themed. What cartoon character should I dress up as? Email responses to gjohnsto@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
In Oxford, I won't have such true and honest friends (at least at first); I won't be constantly reminded of the importance of God for true, human dignity. 
In fact, rather the opposite: I will be tempted toward that which I am already tempted. the idea that success is the goal of college. I'm tired of blaming society for this weakness; after all, what did I expect? That soci­ety would lead me down a golden path toward enlightenment and fulfill­ment? No, only continuous struggle through doubt, worry and anxiety offers the promise of happiness. Life makes sense only if ordered toward God, otherwise we work for nothing. for a bit of dust that is here today and 
tomorrow gone. 
I may justly be 


., ' ... 
I 


THE ()BSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 30, 2003 page 13 
Boycotts benefit farm workers 
An integrated existence -where thought, word and especially deed all point towards the good -is perhaps the most challenging goal an individual or community can undertake wholeheartedly. As Am1~ricans, we interact with the world the most through our activities 
as various entities in the global marketplace. 
Hecognizing this, it is imperative that we contemplate the amount of responsibility con­sumers. firms and other institutions possess in relation to workers, at every stage of produc­tion, experiencing unfair labor conditions. Also. when the culpability of a certain entity is evident, what is the duty of other social parties in encouraging a resolution to problems? 
In the fields of south Florida, tomato pickers 
Kamaria Porter 
Breaking the Habit 

receive 40 to 50 cents per 32-pound bucket they generate. This mea­
ger unit rate has not changed since 1978. Denied the right to partici­
pate in unions, farmworkers have no way to better their situation. A 
far cry from the abstraction of the "self-made person," conditions 
established by tomato suppliers forbid pickers from gaining any 
power over their lives. 
In an effort to demand better treatment, farmworkers organized the Coalition of Immokalee Workers. Led by the farmworkers and based in Immokalee, Fla., the CIW asks Taco Bell-a major buyer of south Florida tomatoes-to enter a dialogue with representatives from CIW and the tomato suppliers, develop a Code of Conduct which would establish mandatory labor standards for suppliers to follow, and bolster farmworker wages by increasing their unit expenditure of tomatoes by one·penny per pound. Such an increase would double farmworker earnings, which now average annually to $7,500. 
Taco Bell claims since the farmworkers are not direct employees of the company, they have no responsibility concerning CIW and their demands. I believe Taco Bell not only has the greatest ability to improve the lives of tomato pickers but also a moral obligation to ensure workers at every rung of their production chain receive ade­quate wages, have a voice in their work environment and can pro­duce without fear of intimidation. 
In their attempts to shirk accountability, Taco Bell calls the CIW's concentration on their company an arbitrary ploy. This argument car­ries absolutely no weight because, as a major consumer of southern Florida tomatoes picked by struggling farmworkers, the company holds the greatest leverage over possible increases in farmworker income and livelihood. If Taco Bell paid more for tomatoes and estab­lished a code of conduct as CIW requests, Florida suppliers, wanting to maintain their business relationships, would have no choice but to comply. Since Taco Bell has the most power to rectify this injustice and refuses to act, they oppress farmworkers as much as suppliers. 
Taco Bell and their parent company, YUM Brands, exhibit perverse self-contradictions in denying the pleas of CIW. Due to agitation from animal rights groups, YUM Brands-which also owns Pizza Hut and KFC-insisted the animals used in their food products receive fair treatment even though YUM does not directly employ the animal han­dlers. It amazes me that the company would assume such altruistic accountability towards animals yet allow Taco Bell to refuse the same concessions for farmworkers crucial to their production process. 
Since CIW implores consumers nationwide to boycott Taco Bell while their requests are ignored, I would attribute additional respon­sibility for this infringement of justice to institutions affiliated with Taco Bell and consumers. Currently, through a local franchisee, Taco Bell sponsors the Notre Dame Football Postgame Show on WNDU. Being familiar with the issues, the Progressive Student Alliance saw this business interaction as inconsistent with our University's ostensi­ble ideals. Notre Dame has, through its commitment against sweat­shop conditions in its apparel production, established an image as an institution seeking to conduct its economic dealings with companies engaged in fair labor practices. Taco Bell definitely does not fit that description. 
Last week, three representatives from PSA met with Notre Dame's General Counsel Carol Kaesebier to discuss these concerns. Understanding the University cannot terminate their current contract without serious financial repercussions, PSA maintains that even though Notre Dame's commercial agreement is with a local franchise of Taco Bell, it is still a part of the whole. Any future affiliation with Taco Bell is inappropriate in regards to the University's anti-sweat­shop efforts. Also, I feel by allowing Taco Bell to push its products on our name and reputation, the University inflicts further injury on the tomato pickers. 
Lastly, as college students, Taco Bell's target market, we too have the potential to aid farmworkers. Student groups all over the country have committed to work in solidarity with CIW to eject Taco Bell from their campuses and spread the word about the boycott. Locally, PSA organizes weekly protests at a Taco Bell location and is planning a myriad of events around this and related issues. If you are not the activist type, I ask you to consider the consequences of your patron­age of Taco Bell restaurants on Florida farm workers and to get your meal elsewhere. This is one small way we can all walk the path of moral integration. 
Kamaria Porter is a sophomore history major. Contact her at kporter@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Ignorance breeds prejudice 
In his defense of radical Christianity and racist dogmatism in his Sept. 26 letter, Dan Martin once again proves that ignorance is the biggest ally of racism and fundamen­talism, and is not limited to the uneducat­ed but can exist even at a place like Notre Dame. 
Aside from the KKK rhetoric (though this time the target is not people of color but the Muslims), unfortunately there is not much offered by the letter. The only exam­ple I can think of for comparison is those Nazi journals labeling the Jews for terror­ist plots against the Aryans. 
Instead, let's do a little bit of brain exer­cise, which Martin dismisses as intellectual garbage. Think of yourself as an African American student at Notre Dame who knows that 30 to 60 million Africans were killed (slaughtered?) by the Westerners (who were predominantly Christian) in the slave trade within less than 300 years. In his 1992 book "American Holocaust," David Stannard estimates a 75 to 80 per­cent overall mortality rate among Africans in transit. 
Then, put yourself in the place of a Native American who had to go through a near-extermination during the same peri­od. Stannard estimates the total cost of this as 100 million lives. 
Then go back a bit earlier than that, and remember that in 1099, Crusaders massa­cred 70,000 Muslim inhabitants of Jerusalem. Also, don't forget Richard the Lionhearted, who executed 3,000 Muslim Prisoners of War in his "holiday trip" to the Middle East. 
If this is too much, let us forget about what the Westerners (under the name of Christianity and/or civilization) did to the people of other religions and look at the Western world itself. Bethancourt, in "The Killings of Witches," estimates that between 20,000 and 500,000 people were killed because of suspicion of witchcraft as of December 2000. We need to add to this figure those 32,000 people killed by the Inquisition as well. 
But then you will say these are in the past and we are in a civilized society now. All right, then think of yourself as a Japanese student here at Notre Dame. Do you think you would have forgotten that more than 200,000 "civilians" were killed in Hiroshima and Nagasaki with the nuclear attack of the U.S.? 
Then an Algerian student will tell you that his grandfather was killed during the French occupation of Algeria by a French soldier (who was probably a Christian). 
Another student here from India, she wants to help Dan Martin remember that the last time fundamentalist Hindus killed innocent people was on March 5, 2002, where more than 500 Muslims, one of them a British citizen, who was on holiday in India, were killed in the western state of Gujarat. 
There I see the hand of my friend Vitali from Istanbul who reminds me that his Jewish ancestors from Spain were perse­cuted together with Muslims, witches and other "heretics" and were expelled from England in 1290, from France in 1394 and from Spain in 1492. The history books give their total number around 200,000. Who do you think welcomed those "heretics" at that time? The Ottoman Empire, whose official religion was Islam. He also stated that some of his ancestors were not so lucky. In 1348, Jews were accused of caus­ing the plague in Europe by poisoning wells. Six thousand Jews were massacred in Mainz, and in Strasbourg, 2,000 Jews were burned to death on a wooden scaffold built over a huge pit. The Nazis repeated the same in the 20th century. 
The final saying goes to a student from occupied Iraq. She asks Dan Martin if he knows thousands of (mostly Muslim) civil­ians are being killed every week in Iraq (averaging 1,000 a week according to jour­nalist R. Fisk) at a rate much higher than the first British occupation following WWI. 
All of the above students can easily say, "Needless to say, not all Christians are ter­rorists, but most terrorists are Christians," as Dan Martin did about Muslims, but the question here is more complicated than that and two minuses do not make one plus. 
What we see around the world today is not a clash of religions but a clash of igno­rance and fundamentalism under whatever religion or ideology they label themselves. Being an intellectual does not mean sitting in an arena lauding a religion but having knowledge before having an ideology. Ignorance does not justify either racism or religious fundamentalism, even if someone is a freshman student at Notre Dame. The reason why we had Inquisitions, witch hunts, Crusades or slavery was not because of "intellectual discussions" but because of those "ignorant riffraff." 
Firat Demir graduate student Sept. 29 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 14. 
Tuesday, September 30(40.Q3 
"Young and Hopeless" tour jumping 
Energetic performances headlined by Good Charlotte in latest concert 

Mest band members Matt Lovato, Tony Lovato, Nick Glgel and Jeremiah Rangel share a celebratory toast of their punk rock music success. 
By MAUREEN BUSH 
Scene Wrirer 

The word of the night was "jump" as the "Young and Hopeless Tour" shook the f1oor of Chicago's elegant concert venue, the Aragon Ballroom, on Sept. 23 and 24. It seems that every pre-teen in Chicago, with a parent in tow, came out to watch Mest, Something Corporate and headliner Good Charlotte. The nearly sold-out crowds did not leave disappointed on either night. 
The first band of the night was Chicago-based pop punk band Mest. As the lights dimmed and the band came onto the stage, the crowd erupted. Front man Tony Lovato and his band ripped through their nine-song set in half an hour. The majority of their music was· fast. punchy and filled with profanity, which made the kids cheer and their parents cringe. It was an R­rated performance at a PG concert. 
As the lights dimmed a second time. Something Corporate, an up and com­ing band out of Orange County, took the stage. All eyes were glued to the inex­haustible front man, Andrew McMahon, as he pounded away on the brand new upright piano setup at center stage. The band was rounded out by Brian Ireland on drums, William Tell on guitar and backup vocals, Josh Partington on gui­tar and the legendary Clutch on bass. This piano rock act looked like the odd man out, as they were the only band of the night whose members had neither mohawks nor excessive amounts of tat­toos. But they kept the crowd jumping just as much as the other two acts did. Playing different nine-song sets each night, the band entertained the crowd with both old-time classics and new unreleased songs from their upcoming album. North. due out Oct. 21. 
Something Corporate began each night with some of their fan favorite songs, such as "I Woke Up In A Car," "Hurricane," and their European single, "Punk Rock Princess." Towards the middle of their sets each night, Something Corporate debuted new songs of their impending release, play­ing "Only Ashes" the first night, "Me and the Moon" the second night and their musically solid first single off North, "Space," both nights. These songs prove that this young band has taken a step forward in the depth and maturity of their material from the fast and furious piano breakdown of "Only Ashes" to the slower and more melodic brand of music found in ~'Me and the Moon." 
After a taste of the new songs came a full plate of their old favorites, as the lights went pitch black except for one lone spotlight illuminating McMahon and his instrument. Shivers went down my spine as he played the opening notes to the 10-minute long ballad, "Konstantine." This cult favorite is dripping with emotion and it was obvi­ous that McMahon meant every word as he closed his eyes and moved to the music, hardly able to stay on his seat. On the second night, in the middle of "Konstantine," he gave this song, which he never sings the same, a particular unique touch by looking out at a fan and saying, "This is for you. This whole thing is just for you." 
They finished up their set the first night by singing what is in my opinion their strongest song, "Hurricane," which they opened with the next night. Their single, "iF yoU C Jordan," received radio play in the U.S. and the largest crowd reaction of the night as McMahon took out his frustration with a high school bully by penning this anthem song which has made them famous. It seemed like the sweetest revenge as he beat the daylights out of his piano by sprinting across the stage and leaping up onto the keys, jumping up and down to the amusement of the crowd. 
Something Corporate put on a fantas­tic show, proving that they are a class act band, whether they are playing before 50 people or 10,000. These boys are on the rise and will reach great heights in the near future. 
And then came the moment the droves of adolescents were waiting for. As the lights dimmed for the last time, pop punk sensation Good Charlotte took the stage to the delight of their thou­sands of adoring and predominantly female fans, whose (larsplitting shrieks combined with their instrumental intro and spectacular lighting forecasted how exciting these shows would be. 
As the intro ended, this fivesome out of the Washington D.C. area ripped into their radio hit, "Anthem" which pro­claims, "You! Don't wanna be just like you." This statement is obviously true, since the members of Good Charlotte aren't like most pop bands and aren't 
courtesey mestcrapp.com 

liked by most punk bands, as they remarked later in the show. The mem­bers of the band don't look like typical musical stars either. They all wore black from head to toe, were covered in tattoos, and two members wore more eye makeup than most of the females in the audience (at least those who didn't try to mimic the eyeliner tears made famous by guitarist and backup vocalist Benji Madden, who was also sporting a mohawk with leopard print on the rest of his head). 
Benji's twin brother, Joel, also sports a twin Mohawk and claims .the other half of the spotlight as the lead singer. This dynamic duo is joined on stage by the remaining members of Good Charlotte -guitarist Billy Martin, bassist Paul Thomas and the newest addition to the band, drummer Chris Wilson, who made a point of coming out to sign autographs each night more than once. 
As hardcore punk as they look, Good Charlotte plays a special brand of pop punk and put on a show that parents would be happy to have their children attend. They played for almost two hours both nights despite Joel's warn­ings each night that he was sick. His ill­ness didn't seem to affect his energy level, which was huge all night long. 
It was a near-perfect mix of songs with only one noticeable flaw -the lack of fan favorite, "East Coast Anthem," which seems like a minute loss seeing as how they played a 20­song set well and "almost every song we can still remember," Joel said. They noted while playing "Movin' On" that they would be going away for a while to record a new album. "We're moving on [in our music]. Are you coming with us?" asked Benji. He received a resounding "yes." 
Sound and lighting effects of thunder and lightning signaled the opening of "Hold On," a more serious song about dealing with suicide. The highlight of their set was when they decided to slow down for a moment and pull out the acoustic guitars. They mentioned that they were happy that they got to play songs they didn't usually get to play and they then started into "Emotionaless," a song that is written like a letter to the Madden twins' father, who abandoned them, their mother and sister when they were growing up. This was a very powerful moment in the show and there were several audience members brought to tears. 
After the slowdown, things were brought right back up to speed again 

~----------------------------------------------~------------------------­
with a few quick songs, with the band ending the set with more jumping and screaming, "Lets break this f1oor!" as they transitioned into "Waldorf Worldwide," dubbed "Chicago Worldwide," for geographic purposes those nights. The floor pounded to the beat of the music as thousands of peo­ple jumped right up until the last note. 
The band left the stage but returned for their three-song encore no more than a minute later, breaking into the title track for their latest release and the name of the tour, "The Young and the Hopeless." They then played one of their oldest, but still most popular songs, "The Little Things," which chronicles the twins' growing up expe­rience and the "little things" that would bring them down. The band finished up the night by playing their biggest hit up until this point, "Lifestyles of the Rich and the Famous," which received the best crowd reaction. 
Good Charlotte put on an excellent show. They know who their audience is and they play to and for that audience. They are wildly entertaining and excel­lent performers to which kids can relate through their songs about the difficulty of growing up. It is certain that these fans will be "movin' on" with this band and they are bound to pick up more on the way. 
Contact Maureen Bush at bush3328@saintmarys.edu 

MAUREEN BUSH/The Observer Guitarist Josh Partington of the band Something Corporate rocks on~ 

r-------­
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Tuesday;·Se}jtember 30, 2003 
page 15 
Acousticafe: Jammin' with Irish Spirit 
Varied performances one of many positives in latest music show 
string acoustic. Playing with senior keyboardist Mike By MICHAEL BARRETT deep emotion, he sounded Maimone and newcomer Scene Writer like a cross of Eagle Eye sophomore bassist Bobby 
Cherry and Jack Johnson. He Seus -has been together for 
The lights dim. A student said he liked the "storytelling three years. However, this l'lcxns his ringers and prac­aspect of songs," exemplified current lineup had been tices scales and chords when he depicted a certain together just a few weeks behind the curtain. The stu­inspirational scene at the and had not played a show dents in the conversing Grotto where he thought yet this year. crowd eagerly wait for one about someone he loved. Despite this, they did not their classmates to take the Nava thinks that sound rusty in the least bit, stage. lie walks on, starts Acousticafe's "better setup pulling off an exhilarating set playing and the music soon attracts more talent, [which of originals and covers. raises the spirits of everyone creates! a type of hierarchy." Selecting from a rather large present. This is Acousticafe. Freshman rapper Jeff "The collection of songs, they 
On the evening of Natural" Stephens was up played originals like Thursday, Sept. 25, Legends next, and he definitely "Breaker, Breaker" and hosted Acousticafe for its impressed the crowd. lie says "Rebel Children." Showing inaugural show featuring that he's "trying to take [his their obvious reggae roots, some of the best talent on career) to the next level" by they pulled off great versions campus. Hanging from hip­developing a "strong stage of Sublime's "5446" and "Bad hop and H&B to reggae and presence." Sounding similar Fish," with Santiago sound­rock, this night was filled to H. Kelly and Jay-Z, ing eerily similar to the late with music Stephens showed Brad Nowell. guaranteed to off his skills by Perhaps the most memo­please anyone. freestyling and rable moment of the night 
Acousticafe is Ranging from hip­rhyming about came with Station One's ren­sponsored by hop and R&B to such things as dition of 50 Cent's "In Da the Student living a hard life Club," causing many to get
reggae and rock,
Union Board, and unity. Senior up and dance. Santiago and its student this night was Jenna McCullins rapped impressively and director is jun­filled with music joined him on two threw in reggae flavor in his ior Jelani songs, providing vocals. and he also asked for
guaranteed to
McEwen­a soft balancing "any MC's in the house" to Torrence, who please anyone. voice similar to come up on stage. At this, also works at that of Mary J. Jelani McEwin-Torrence and Legends. Blige. Stephens two friends ran up on stage Jonathan Jorissen ('02), pro­says he has "no other passion and took turns freestyling gramming director of like music;" this passion like professionals. Jelani Legends, explains, "SUB and shone throughout his per­explains that "hip-hop is Legends have planned this formance, to which the heav­meant to be [played] with a (partnership] for a long ily applauding crowd could live band," thus giving props time." They hope that this attest. to Station One. ences of bands/singers like recorded two years ago. He will become an increasingly Station One, fronted by After "In Da Club" itself 311, Sublime, Outkast and has been writing songs since popular attraction for stu­senior Lawrence Santiago, was over, the band did not Bob Marley, the band's mom­he was 14 and is now record­dents throughout the year. showed reason why they won stop; Santiago asked the hers disclosed their love for ing a second album, Indeed, close to 200 came the 2002 NAZZ Battle of the audience to give him a thing everything from Phish and "Undefined." which should be out at sometime to watch this Bands. Delivering a powerful to rap about. Taking a Nirvana to Coldplay and finished by springtime. first show. some of them mixture of reggae, rock and screamed request, he pro-Radiohead. The first "Best of dancing and singing with the hip-hop, they injected energy ceeded to freestyle about After such a great perform­Acousticafe" show at Legends music. into the whole club. Santiago bassist Bobby Seus. They ance, one may wonder, was largely successful, show­
James Ford, a first-year opened on his own. playing then continued with the beat '1 "where can I buy a Station ing potential for great popu­graduate student, opened the an acoustic and singing a on a cover of Justin One album?" Currently, they larity throughout the year. show with some freestyle couple of songs, including Timberlake's "Senorita," fur-are pursuing a full length Jelani says that these special rapping, and he impressed Blues Traveler's "Run ther showing Santiago's vocal album and record deal. As of shows will take place at everyone present. The next Around." The band -con­range and the band's gift for now, their Web site Legends on the last Thursday act was sophomore Joe Nava, sisting of Santiago, senior playing in good coordination (www.nd.edu/-lsantiag) has a of every month, while all reg­­who sang originals with the twins Pete Miller on drums with one another. plethora of information, ular Acousticafes will take accompaniment of his 12-and Dave Miller on guitar, Besides the obvious influ-including some place the first 
free song down-three Thursdays 


loads, which of every month
There is musical 
they recorded in the basement from Santiago's talent all over of LaFortune room studio. from 9 p.m. to
campus, and
Station One has midnight.
Acousticafe has 
several shows In order to coming up soon, developed into the perform at the including Oct. 3 "Best of," a stu­
best way for 
at Reekers and dent must dis­
students to display
Oct. 16 in their play creativity, return to these skills. stage presence Legends. and most 
To close the importantly ­night, senior Brian "B­get a big crowd response. Shags" Shaughnessy put on a Jelani says the best way to solid set of old school rap. do this is just to "bring a big Sporting a Dirk Nowitzki group of supporters and basketball jersey and a friends" in order to ensure a chain, B-Shags definitely shot at playing Legends. looked like his influences, There is musical talent all who include Eminem. Jay-Z over campus. and and Notorious B.J.G. A Acousticafe has developed Stanford RA, he had a legion into the best way for students of Griffins -who themselves to display these skills. wore such things as head­Legends has, in turn, raised bands -show up for sup­the bar for venues, and its port. He often had the audi­partnership with Acousticafe ence singing along to such only sweetens the deal. things as, "I ain't no super­star, I'm just little ole' Shag." Shags has an album called 
Contact Michad Barrett at
"Stream of Conscience," 
Michad.P.Barrett.56@nd.edu
which has'-'15 tracks that he 

TV1RMR2IT5!.1VGA 01!'·51+·\''n'm~o '\~\\ rons .Of-' rstlf\~fq'> .vr.bnnT 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, Spetember 30, 2003 
MLB PLAYOFFS 


Cubs look to take first step towards World Series 
Associated Press that off. Then the Cubs were familiar baseball adage -good quickly swept aside by the pitching beats good hitting ­Braves in the opening round, holds up in this series. The Cubs 
ATLANTA -On one side, it's 

losing three straight games. ranked third in the NL with athe Chicago Cubs -those lov­"This year, it's different," said 3.83 ERA.
able losers. heroes to the down­Kerry Wood, the Cubs' Game 1 "One thing is for sure: goodtrodden. 

starter. "We won our division hitting really beats bad pitch­
On the other side, it's the 

and we're coming in here with ing," he said, grinning. "If youAtlanta Braves -those push­the expectation of winning a limp out there with bad pitching button winners, keepers of con­series. I think in '98, we were against those Braves, they'll beat sistent excellence, a team that more surprised to be in the post­you to death."
comes to spring training already season than we are this year. It's But Baker is old enough tolooking ahead to fall. 

just a whole different feeling." remember the New York Mets ­The Cubs open a best-of-five Besides the contrasting per­featuring Tom Seaver, Jerrydivision series against the ceptions of each franchise, this Koosman and Nolan Ryan­Braves on Tuesday, insisting that should be an intriguing matchup winning it all in 1969 by shuttingChicago's sorry history won't on another level. down two powerful offenses. 
have any impact this year. 
The Braves have changedHaven't won a postseason 

course from past playoff sea­
road game since 1945? Who New York vs. Minnesota
sons, cruising to the NL East title 
cares. Haven't won a World NEW YORK-All the numbers 
with an overpowering offense. 
Series since 1908? That's say the same thing: .The
For the first time in franchise

ancient history. Minnesota Twins are simply
history. four players reached
"If you start thinking about overmatched against Mike
100 RBis. Six players slugged at
that stuff, you dwell in the past," Mussina and the New York
least 20 homers, only the second 
Cubs reliever Mark Guthrie said. Yankees.
time that's happened in the
"That does you no good now." The Twins are 0-13 against
National League. Atlanta led the
The Braves don't mind gloat­New York the last two years ­
league in every major hittinging about their past. After all, 
the first time ever the Yankees
category: average (.284), homers they've won 12 straight division 
have swept consecutive season
(a franchise-record 235) andtitles -three more than any 
series from an opponent.
runs (907, another club mark). 
team in any of the four major solidified its pitching staff by Santana made a pair of relief 
Mussina, who will start Game
"There are no easy outs in our

sports. moving young left-bander Johan appearances against the
1 of the best-of-five· division
lineup," manager Bobby Cox
"I've got to believe it give us a Santana from the bullpen to the Yankees this season, striking out
series Tuesday afternoon at
said. "All of them can hit the ball top of the rotation. 10 in 5 2-3 scoreless innings. 
little edge just because everyone 

Yankee Stadium, is an incredible
out. It's an explosive lineup." 
here is used to the whole envi­"We haven't seen them in so "We haven't seen a whole lot
20-2 with a 2. 90 ERA in 24
ronment of the playoffs," said The Cubs won the Central on long," Yankees manager Joe of him. We've got film, tapes, but 
career starts against Minnesota. 
21-game winner Russ Ortiz, who the strength of a dynamic young Torre said. "They are basically until you face him for the first
"I don't care what happened in 

rotation, led by Wood (14-11,
will start the opener for the not the same team that we time you never really know," 
Braves. 3.20 ERA). Mark Prior (18-6, the past." Twins star Torii played." said Yankees slugger Jason Cubs manager Dusty Baker, 2.43), Carlos Zambrano (13-11, Hunter said. "This is the post­The 24-year-old Santana (12-Giambi, who will be the DH and 
season, this is a different feeling. 
who guided San Francisco to the 3.11) and Matt Clement (14-12, 3) will start the playoff opener, bat cleanup Tuesday. "He's got a 
4.11). I'm ready to play. I come here to
World Series a year ago, made it only his second appearance at great, live arm. I know he's been 
win."
clear on the first day of spring In many ways. Chicago resem­Yankee Stadium. Featuring a red hot the second half of the 
Hunter and his teammates

training that he didn't want to bles the Braves teams of the fastball in the low 90s mph and season. Everybody in this room 
early '90s, who began winning have plenty of reasons to believe knows what kind of pitcher this
hear anything about his new an outstanding changeup, he --team's pitiful resume. division titles with a brilliant they can, despite their recent went 8-0 in his final 12 starts of kid is." 
"Cubs history is Cubs history," young rotation that included history against the AL East the season. Gardenhire and several Twins Baker told the players. "We're Tom Glavine, John Smoltz and champions. Despite Santana's age and lim­players spoke of Santana's going to make some new histo­Steve Avery. Although the Yankees ited experience -he struggled uncommon poise and compo­ry." "It's just a terrific young pitch­outscored Minnesota 49-13 this in six relief outings for the AL sure. He'll need to control his 
That they did, winning their ing club," Cox said, referring to season, all seven games were in Central champions last postsea­emotions Tuesday, but he said first division title since 198 9 and the Cubs. "If you're ever going to April. New York was en route to son -Twins mana.ger Ron he wasn't nervous. making the playoffs for the first have sort of a dynasty, I think an 18-3 start, while the Twins Gardenhire never hesitated in "No, I'm excited about it. This time in five years. that's a pretty good way to go stumbled out of the gate 9-12. giving him the ball in Game 1. is cool," Santana said. "Against 
Chicago's last appearance was about it, with that type of pitch­Since then, Minnesota juiced "That tells you all Santana is the Yankees, one of the best as wild-card team in 1998, and ing." up its offense by adding leadoff one nasty sucker, boy," Hunter teams in baseball, it's going to it took a one-game playoff to pull Baker is eager to see if that hitter Shannon Stewart and said. be a lot of excitement out there." 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
- 
-~  NOTICES I NEED GA TIXS.2726306 GUITAR LESSONS harmonica, banjo &mandolin. Hoosierdads Music 4609 Grape Ad Mish, IN 2775038 #1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in Acapulco is now offering 3 destina­lions! Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get Crazy in Cabo-all with BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. Book by Oct 31-get FREEMEALSI Organize a group and travel for FREE. Call for details. 800-875-4525 or www.bianchi-rossi.com. LOST AND FOUND Found on Edison Pkwy near Main St. &Meijers. lntro to 3E Business Book w/ CD, Lt. blue hard drive case w/ green/navy trim, IBM hard drive labeled Homework, lntro to Computers Book. Call 255-2952.  WANTED SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for a few good men and women who wish to work in a FUN and fast pace environment. A new store will be opening up in early October. We have aggressive pay. Hrs from 11am to 3am. In-shoppers, drivers and mgmt available. Call Andy a\574-277­0850 for interview. Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO exper. required. All looks &ages. Earn $100-$300 a day. 1-888-820-0167, ext. U187. A SPRING BREAKER NEEDED 2004 Hottest Destinations &Parties 2 free trps high commission sunsplashtours.com 1800-426-771 0 TUTOR: Sixth grader. Homework. Transportation necessary. 231-1127 FoR SALE LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED, FULLY EQUIPPED. $94,500. Email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu  Two BR, 2 bath condo. One mile to ND. Clubhouse, pool, 2 car garage. $107,000. (574) 273-1666 IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW LUX­URY VILLA COMMUNITY. Build your dream home next to Notre Dame. A limited number of home sites are available. For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com TOPSFIELD CONDO FOR SALE. NICELY DECORATED 2 BED­ROOM. ALL MAJOR APPLIANCES. 10 MINS FROM CAMPUS. $69,900 299-7078 Beautiful 3 bedroom, 1-1/2 bath ranch with 1800 sq.ft. Great Oakmont Park subdivision, close to ND. Corner of Cleveland and Juniper. 53122 Oakmont Central, $123,685. For more info, call Peggy Weissert, Cressy & Everett, GMAC, at 574-235-4039. 1990 VW Jetta 127K Good condi­lion $1675. 287-7928 FoR RENT 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272­1525  That Pretty Place, Bed &Breakfast has space available for footbaiVpar­ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, full hot breakfast, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487. B&B NEAR CAMPUS FOR IRISH HOME GAMES. CALL (574)288­5377. DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 7 HOUSES AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR. WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS 2,4,6,8 & 10 BEDROOM HOUSES-STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS-SECURITY SYSTEMS-MAINTENANCE STAFF 24 HOURS-WASHERS/DRYERS CALL TODAY-HOUSES ARE GOING FAST CONTACT KRAMER 574-315-5032 or 574-234-2434 ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR 2005"2006 SCHOOL YEAR 3 bdrm home w!fenced yd, hrdwd floors. Very elean, quaint. Appl. incl. last mo. 10-mo lease. 417 Napoleon. 1/2 mil. fromND. Call 299-9428 Graduate students, faculty or staff. Rent one of the best 5 bedroom homes left for 2004/5. Rent a 4-bedroom house and get the 3 bedroom house next door for free. ANLAN PROPERTIES 532-1896  TICKETS -ND FOOTBALL-BUY &SELL. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR TOLL FREE 877-773-3911. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378 PM 288-2726 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288­2726 WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232­0964. FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570. JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT­BALL GAME. PLEASE CALL 674-6593. Just Between You And Me, ADire Fan in NEED of 2 or 4 USC GAs ONLY PLEASE PH:277-1659 SMC grad needs USC lix. Email Colleen: Eumachia13@aol.com Wanted, 2 USC Tickets, Gen Admin okay, Contact Roger (310) 766­0990 Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ Pay Top Dollar $$ 1-866-808-0990  BUY?SELL ND FOOTBALL TICK­ETS> CASH PAID> 574-289-8048 Alumni family needs USC tickets for reunion. Call Pat, 574-289-8048 ND ALUM NEEDS 4 USC TICKETS FOR FAMILY. CALL 800 701 9109. ASK FOR CHRS. PERSONALS UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. Spring Break 2004 with StudentCity.com and Maxim Magazine I Get hooked up with Free Trips, Cash and VIP status as a Campus Rep! Choose from 15 of the hottest destinations. Book early for FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS and 150% Lowest PriceGuarantee! To reserve online or view our Photo Gallery, visit www.studentcity.com or Call 1-888-SPRINGBREAK! Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps.Call for discour1ts: 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com A "Reality' Spring Break 2004s Hottest prices Book now.. Free Trips, Meals &Parties sunsplashtours.com or 1800-426-7710  

Tuesday, September 30, 2003 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 



--------------------------. 
page 18  The Observer + SPORTS  Tuesday, September 30, 2003  
MLB  
Hargrove axed by Orioles  White Sox fire manager Manuel  



I I I I I 
Star of london's Phantom ofth• O~ra,O/Ivtr/and 
Lts Mlserablts I 
prayer 
brotherhood
: '1'111~ 
I 




I ~~·.. ·.··· ···•··········1's··.~
••I I J.f: 1.\N ~· 


i I l\71ll~lli~NI)
..................
··.·· .•·.·. 

Oct. 10-12 
. .. ,·· . .. 

www~·nd...edu/~kfusseau
www.turtlecreekfla.com.. 
C-M 



after another losing season 
Associated Press 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE-Mike Hargrove was fired Monday as manager of the Baltimore Orioles, one day after the team finished its fourth consecutive losing season under his direction and sixth straight overall. 
Hargrove told The Associated Press in a telephone interview that he met Monday with team officials and was told of his dis­missal. 
"They said they weren't going to offer me another contract," Hargrove said. "I guess they wanted a different personality." 
Hargrove, 53, 

went 275-372 with "I guess they November 1999, 
said Monday. 

the Orioles. includ­wanted a different Hargrove won 
"It's very difficult at this 
ing 71-91 this five division titles 
time to sit here, knowing the
personality."
year. His depar­with the 
type of talent we had and 
ture did not come Cleveland Indians 
what possibly could have 
as a complete sur-Mike Hargrove and twice took 
happened If we would have 
just gotten into the dance,"
prise, given that former Orioles manager the long-suffering 
his contract ran through this sea­son and the team never talked about an extension. 
Jim Beattie and Mike Flanagan. the vice presidents who oversee the team's baseball operations, are expected to quickly start the search for a new manager. 
"On behalf of the Orioles organization. we want to thank Mike for his contributions to the ballclub and for the professional manner in which he handled the team," Beattie said in a state­ment. 
Before learning his fate, Hargrove wondered aloud if the duo would find someone with better credentials. 
"I understand if they want to bring their own people in," Hargrove said. "And if they want to go In another direction, I understand that. But I'm not 
Musical Theatre Vocal Workshop 
Series ends in late October. All of Manuel's coaching staff will be retained except for Bruce Kimm, the third-base coach. 
"Jerry's a solid man, every­body knows that," pitching coach Don Cooper said. "Sometimes tough things happen to good people. You see it every day in the real world. Nobody's happy about this." 
Manuel's dismissal was hardly a surprise. Though he never confirmed it, he said his goodbyes over the last week and spoke openly about 
I I I I 
his desire to manage again. 
"It was a tough summer for me personally, but I wouldn't trade it," he said after Sunday's season finalfl in Kansas City. "I came here to be a servant, not a celebrity. Obviously, that changed, but I don't have any regrets." 
Reached at his home Monday, Manuel declined to comment. 
While his players said Manuel wasn't responsible for their shortcomings, it was clear someone was going to take the blame for this team not making the playoffs. 

sure they can bring anyone in that can do a better job than what we do, or do a better job than we did this year." 
The Orioles were 57-59 on Aug. 10, but faded after Sidney Ponson was traded and the injuries began to mount. Opening day starters David Segui, Marty Cordova, B.J. Surhoff and Jerry Hairston all played in fewer than 100 games, as did Melvin Mora, Baltimore's lone representative in the All­Star game. 
It all added up to a sixth straight fourth-place finish in the AL East. 
Before being 
hired by 
Baltimore in 

CHICAGO -Frustrated that yet another talent-laden team fell short of the postseason, the Chicago White Sox decid­ed it was time to change directions. 
And manager Jerry Manuel was the first to be left behind. 
Manuel was fired Monday, a day the White Sox originally hoped to spend getting ready for the playoffs. But after tak­ing a two-game lead in the AL Central on Sept. 9, the White Sox collapsed in stun­ning fashion, losing 10 of their next 15 to finish four games behind Minnesota at 86-76. 
"This wasn't a case of not having enough talent," gener­al manager Kenny Williams 
franchise to the 
World Series. 

He was signed by the Orioles to guide an aging team with designs of making a run at the playoffs. But by July 2000, the team was deemed too old, and management embarked on a youth movement that remains an ongoing project. 
Despite the losing, several players under 30 had good years, such as Jay Gibbons, Larry Bigbie and Luis Matos, and the team has stockpiled pitching at the minor league level. 
Hargrove's managerial record stands at 996-963. It appears much of his staff will remain with the team. 
"We will recommend to the person selected as manager that all of the members of the current coaching staff return, subject to Input from the person selected as manager," Beattie said. 
he said. "To sit here and have to go through this is very dif­ficult. But you have to start looking at yourself in the mir­ror." 
While he refused to criticize Manuel, Williams said the team needed to change its "voice and direction." 
There will be changes on the field, too, though Williams said he hopes to keep his pitching staff intact and has made re-signing Bartolo Colon a priority. 
The search for a new man­ager begins immediately, and Williams hopes to choose someone after the World Tuesday, September 30, 2003 


The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 


Boston apologizes for bad behavior last week 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO-David Boston stood in front of reporters Monday and apologized for the behavior that got him suspend­ed for a game by San Diego Chargers coach Marty Schottenheimcr. 
Boston did not deliver the same message to his winless team as a whole. 
The wide receiver, whose $4 7 million contract is the largest in team history, made a 37-scc­ond statement following prac­tice. With the consent of the organization, he refused to takn questions. 
"I'm hero just to make a statement," Boston said. "First of all, I want to apologize to my tPammates, the organization and the fans for not boing able to participate in this Sunday's game. I'm anxious to get out on the football field this week. I know I've made a lot of mis­takes in the past and I've llwrncd from them and I'm moving on. 
"It was funny, I was watching the game and I ordered some food and I couldn't even cat because I was too very dis­turbed. And I let my teammates down and I want to get back out there and play. So that's what I'm here to do." 
Boston then walked away from the podium, ignored a question and found the door back into the building locked. A PH assistant let him in. 

Boston returned a day after the Chargers (0-4) lost 34-31 in overtime at Oakland after blowing a 14-point lead with less than five minutes left in regulation. 
"He didn't stand up in front of the team and apologize or anything like that, but I've seen him talking with several guys," quarterback Drew Brees said. ''I'm not quite sure what he's talking about, but I assume that that's kind of part of it. 
"I chatted with him a little bit, just kind of saying he's ready to go," Brees added. 
Boston was sent home before practice last Wednesday, then was suspended Thursday for repeatedly breaking team rules. 
Boston had a run-in with strength coach Dave Redding on Tuesday and was involved in a shouting match with injured wide receiver Heche Caldwell in the locker room before a home loss to Baltimore on Sept. 
21. Boston also missed or was late to mandatory team activi­ties. 
It's not unheard of for a play­er returning from a suspension to get up in front of his team­mates and apologize. Even Hyan Leaf did it. 
Schottenheimer said he didn't feel Boston needed to apologize to his teammates as a group. 


Colts already stellar on offense 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -Tony Dungy figured the Indianapolis Colts' offense was about ready to get going. 
He never dreamed it would come with six touchdowns on the road. 
The morning after the Colts' record-setting performance Sunday at New Orleans, Dungy reviewed the tape and decided the offense wasn't perfect. but it was close. 
"It was one of those days where our offense probably played about as well as we could," Dungy said Monday, the day after the 55-21 victory improved the Colts to 4-0. 
The offensive outburst was 
not totally unexpected. 

Unhappy with a three-field goal performance in the Sept. 6 opener and a mediocre offensive game against Tennessee in the second game, Dungy predicted the Colts offense would be in sync within two to three weeks. 
Sunday's game marked the 
two-week deadline, and the 
result made Dungy look like 
Miss Cleo. 

"We've just been practicing 
well and our running game had 
been making strides," Dungy 
said. "We've been able to stay 
away from penalties and 
turnovers and we've got a lot of 
guys who can make plays." 

While critics may contend the 
Colts' best offensive game of the 
season came against one of the 
league's worst defenses, which 
also played without five starters, 

.. 
The three-pronged rushing attack of Ricky Williams, Dominic Hhodes and James Mungro ran 25 times for 100 yards in place of injured Edgerrin James (back). Williams and Hhodes each caught TD passes. 
Tight end Marcus Pollard re­emerged with four catches for 63 yards after almost vanishing for two weeks, and Heggie Wayne, who had the best game of his career a week earlier. 
the reality is the Colts suddenly seem to have everything click­ing. 
Peyton Manning produced his first perfect passer rating, 158.3, since Nov. 10, 2002 and the third of his career. His six touchdown passes were a fran­chise record and one short of tying the NFL record. 
Wide receiver Marvin Harrison burned the Saints with six receptions for 158 yards and three touchdowns. 




TURTLE CRE.EK APARTMENTS 
We are now taking applications for the 2004-2005 school year! Apply early to get the best prices locked in and the best locations. 
Why live at Turtle Creek Apartments? +So close to campus, it is just like being on campus! +You can request to live next to friends; you can even request an ENTIRE BUILDING! +We have a pool that we open before Memorial Day and KEEP open after Labor Day 
+24 hour lock out services...trust me, it'll come in handy! +Everyone that moved into Turtle Creek this year got a FREE pizza! 
+On-site...all the time ... management staff. 
I could go on but I'm sure you have your own reasons for wanting to live here with us. Stop by and see us we'll answer any ofyour questions, or you can visit us on the web at: 

WWW.TURTLECREEKND.COM 
*Apply before October 31st to lock in 03-04 rents. After November 1st rents for 04-05 will be established.* 


,. 




OUND THE NATION 
Page 20 CoMPILED rROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, September 30, 2003 

around the dial 
MLB-DIVISION SERIES Twins at Yankees 1 :06 p.m., ESPN Marlins at Giants 4:06 p.m., ESPN Cubs at Braves 8:18p.m., FOX 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Houston at Eastern Carolina 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
WOMENS BILLARDS Classic Tour Semifinals 8 a.m., ESPN2 Classic Tour Finals noon, ESPN2 
NFL 


Associated Press Bears to 19-4 and has now yard scoring pass in the Walker alone in the corner CHICAGO -New Soldier directed 10 straight road first half and now has 47 of the end zone. Field or old Soldier Field, it wins against Chicago. He career TD passes against Green Bay put it away 
makes little difference. also reached another mile­the Bears -his most with a seven-play, 54-yard Ahman Green, Brett Favre stone, jumping ahead of against any team. drive capped when Franks and the rest of the Green Dan Fouts to No. 5 on the The Bears, booed in their -wide open, as Packers Bay Packers just love to career passing yards list new-look stadium that is receivers were all night ­play the Chicago Bears. with a total of 43,089. part of a $606 million lake­made the TD catch that 
Green ran for 176 yards Favre completed 21 of 30 front beautification project, made the score 38-16. on 19 carries, and Favre passes for 179 yards. Green appeared to get back in the Bears quarterback threw three touchdown ran for two TDs -one an game with 12:36 left when Kardell Stewart, who was passes, leading the Packers early 60-yarder. Anthony Thomas broke off sacked five times, scored on 
past the Bears 38-23 When the Bears got with­a 67-yard TD run to make it a 1-yard run with 1:28 Monday night. in eight points in the final 24-16. remaining. By that time, 
The Packers (2-2) won for quarter, Favre put it away But then the Packers most of the crowd of 58,937 the 17th time in the last 19 with a pair of TD passes, a responded, moving 64 had gone home. · meetings between the NFL's 9-yarder to Javon Walker yards in seven plays. The Bears invited many oldest rivals, building a 24-with 8:51 remaining and a Green's 32-yard run of their former stars ­6 halftime lead against the 1-yarder to Bubba Franks through the porous Chicago including Dick Butkus -to winless Bears (0-3). with 4:2lleft. defense move the ball to the line the field as the current 
Favre improved his Favre also connected with 13. Minutes later, Favre team charged out for intro­career record against the William Henderson on a 14-rolled right and found ductions. 
IN BRIEF 

U.S. women preJ!~re to of the tournament. And if they and March amid accusations of improper face Norway in World Cup their teammates are not at peak effi­payments to players and academic 
FOXBORO, Mass. -Versatility and ciency, there might not be any more fraud. depth got the U.S. women this far. to the tournament for them. That scandal, which led Georgia to Now, they'll probably need the old "They're a tremendous team," said pull out of postseason play, was the 
standbys to advance further in the Hamm, who sat out the 3-0 victory latest in a series that followed World Cup. over North Korea on Sunday. Harrick on nearly every step of his The Americans face their nemesis, "They're a team that with one serv­23-year career as a college coach. Norway, in the quarterfinals ice forward can put the ball in the "We are thrilled to add Coach 
Wednesday. With no room for error, back of the net. We understand that Harrick to our staff," Nuggets gener­the United States winds up with a and we respect that. al manager Kiki Vandeweghe said. match against the only nation that "No matter how you feel about pos­"He possesses a remarkable basket­owns a winning record against it: 18-session in the game, Norway can ball mind and will be a great asset to 16-2. The U.S. team is ranked first in change it, like I said, with one long us." the world and Norway is second. ball, one flick. The Nuggets also added Scott 
But because Norway finished "They have players that can get Brooks, Adrian Dantley and Chip behind Brazil in its opening-round behind your defense, players that are Engelland as assistant coaches. group, the crossover schedule puts world-class finishers in the air." In an on-court move, the team re­the Norwegians directly in the signed reserve forward Chris Americans' path. Norway won the Andersen, who averaged 5.2 points 1995 World Cup after beating the Nuggets hire Harrick and 4.6 rebounds last season. United States in the semifinals, then DENVER -Jim Harrick is back in At Georgia, Harrick's son was it defeated the Americans to win the basketball, hired Monday by the accused of paying some bills for a 2000 Olympics. Denver Nuggets as a scout and player and teaching a bogus class on 
Such U.S. veterans as Mia Hamm, coaching consultant. coaching. Harrick said he had no Kristine Lilly and Julie Foudy can't Harrick was forced to resign as knowledge of any wrongdoing. expect any more time off for the rest Georgia's head basketball coach in He was fired from UCLA in 1996. 
Tuesday, September 30, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
INTERHALL WRAPS 
Lyons defense picks off three passes, keys win over PE 

By MIKE GILLON, KATIE 
WAGNER, STEVE COYER and 
MIKE PUGLISI 
Sports Writers 
Lyons used three interceptions and strong quarterback play from Hoxy Trevino to defeat Pasquerilla East 13-6 at Stepan Fields. This was a much-needed win for the Lions after being shut out 6-0 by Lewis on Thursday night. 
The Lions' first interception of the game set their offense up nicely. The ball was picked off with about four minutes remain­ing in the first half and returned all the way to the Pasquerilla East 2-yard line. 1\vo plays later, Lion quarterback Hoxy Trevino connected for a touchdown and the ensuing one point conversion to make the score 7-0. 
PE didn't even have to try too hard on their next possession to get across midfield. Lyons com­mitted personal foul penalties on two consecutive plays, which gave PE great field position. Freshman quarterback Laura Adams took advantage of the Lions' mistakes right away with passes of 10 and 25 yards to put the Pyros at the Lion 10-yard line. 
With just one minute left in the half. Adams tossed her first and only touchdown of the game. The Pyros couldn't convert on the cru­cial one point conversion attempt and the score stayed 7-6 as the teams went in for halftime. 
Things looked bright at the start of the second half for PE. After forcing Lyons to punt on their opening possession, the Pyros used a return to set up their offense on their own 35. The Pyros seemed primed to make a comeback. 


However, the Lyons defense had other ideas. After an incom­pletion, Adams had her pass intercepted and returned to the Lions 38-yard line. Trevino led her squad out on the field and wasted no time in moving the football. She completed passes of 10 and five yards right away. On third-and-2 from the PE 35-yard line, Trevino completed yet another pass to keep the drive alive. Just seconds later, she fired a rocket into the arms of Lyons receiver Meghan Regan. Though they couldn't convert the one point try, the damage had been done and the score was now 13-6 Lyons. 
After the two teams exchanged possessions, Lyons took over on their own 30-yard line with nine minutes left looking to add to their lead. But on their first play the ball was intercepted by the Pyros and returned to the Lyons 35-yard line. 
Unfortunately for PE. a false start penalty and a few incom­plete passes halted their momen­tum and they turned the football over to the Lions with six minutes left. Lyons couldn't do anything with the ball either and were forced to punt. 
Pasquerilla East took over on their own 20 with two minutes remaining and used some razzle­dazzle to attempt a comeback. Adams threw a pass to a PE wideout who caught it, turned around and flipped a lateral to a teammate who flew past her and most of the Lyons defense for a 15-yard gain. A 20-yard pass by Adams two plays later put the Pyros deep in the Lions' territory. The momentum was burning brightly on the Pyros' side of the field as a touchdown seemed imminent. But Lyons defensive back Becky Wynne put a stop to that as she intercepted a tipped pass to seal the victory for her team. 
Badin 33, Howard 6 
While many of us were seeking shelter from the downpour last Sunday evening, the Badin foot­ball team was scoring touch­downs. Badin's 33-6 slaughter of Howard marked the beginning of their two-game winning streak and added another loss to Howard's losing record. 
Badin's win truly was a team effort, with four different players scoring the five touchdowns against Howard. 
"Four different people scoring touchdowns is a sign of a healthy offense with multiple threats," Badin senior captain Jenn Carter said. 
In the first half, quarterback Erin Zachry was the first to put six points on the board for Badin. Meg Charlebois and Ashley O'Keefe added thirteen more points to Badin's lead. O'Keefe scored a second touchdown in the second half, but this time left the one point conversion to Badin's other quarterback Steph Heath. Molly Donnelly also scored a touchdown and one point con­version for Badin in this half. 
Despite the disappointment that the Howard team had to have felt about their loss, they at least had to be happy about scoring their first touchdown of this fall. The Ducks' two interceptions of Badin's passes also were signs of their improvement. 
The Bullfrogs also played good defense and intercepted two of the Ducks' passes. 
"Defense was solid as always. It's great to be so strong on both sides of the ball," Carter said. 
Badin's victory over Howard (0­
3) has put them at a very high spot in the gold division's rank­ings. Badin (3-1) plays McGlinn (3-1) Thursday for a chance at second place, if Lewis defeats Pasquerilla East. Carter dis­cussed her team's match up against McGlinn. 
Cavanaugh 24, Walsh 0 
This Sunday the Cavanaugh Chaos came prepared to make a statement. With an overpowering defense and strong offense they did just that and won decisively 24-0 over the Wild Women of Walsh. 
The Chaos defense played as close to a perfect game as there is in football, by shutting out Walsh and giving up only one first down on the day. 
Cavanaugh's defense also closed the game out when Maureen Carney returned an interception for a touchdown to make the score 24-0. 
Walsh's defense, led by Karla Bell, helped keep the score at 12­0 until the last quarter of the game. The play that clinched it for the Chaos came when fresh­man Julia LaPointe caught a touchdown pass with six minutes left to play. She credited her teammates for their consistent play. 
"Today the defense was very strong, and the offense really clicked," LaPointe said. 
A major reason the Chaos defense was so dominant had to do with the play of their line. Lauren Manning anchored the line all day and had a key inter­ception. 
Cavanaugh quarterback Lisa Huffer confidently ran the offense and had three touchdowns on the day, including an impressive 50­yard rushing touchdown. 
Cavanaugh co-captain Bridget Cerne said she was very pleased with the all-around strong play of her team. 
"We were really prepared on defense all day and the offense was able to deliver," she said. 
Pasquerllla West 13, Farley 13 
As any football player, coach or fan knows, penalties have the potential to devastate a team, erasing hours of hard work with one simple mistake. Pasquerilla West committed a pair of costly penalties that sustained a last­ditch Farley effort on Sunday as the Finest were able to take advantage of the mistakes and produce a last-second score to salvage a 13-13 tie. 
"We got off to a slow start, but we picked it up and scored a cou­ple of touchdowns," Purple Weasel captain Leslie Schmidt said. "Our defense made some huge stops, but at the end, things just quit going our way." 
Trailing 13-7 with just over two minutes remaining, the Finest took over at its own 22-yard line. After a defensive pass interfer­ence penalty, a couple of short gains and an incompletion, Farley faced a do-or-die fourth down at the Purple Weasel 30­yard line. 
Dropping back to pass, sopho­more quarterback Katie Popik fired and was picked off, seem­ingly ending Farley's desperation drive and securing the Purple Weasels their second victory. However, a late hit on Popik resulted in a roughing the passer call that gave the Finest an auto­matic first down just outside the Pasquerilla West 20-yard line with 48 seconds to play. 
Following three straight incom­pletions, including a ball that should have been intercepted by a Purple Weasel defender, Popik kept Farley's hopes alive as she converted another crucial fourth down with a 5-yard keeper. 
The penalty bug bit Pasquerilla West again on the next play as an illegal bull-rush moved Farley inside the 10-yard line with nine seconds on the clock. 
"(Not committing} penalties can be a huge strength," Farley cap­tain Angelina Zehrbach said. "We thought they were good calls and we'll defmitely take them." 
After her first attempt fell incomplete, Popik threw to the right corner of the end zone and found senior receiver Lizzy Coghill, who bobbled the low throw, yet somehow managed to hang on for the equalizing score. 
"They told me to run a fade into the end zone," Coghill said. "I just tried to do whatever I could to get open." 
Contact Mike GiUoon at mgilloon@nd.edu, Katie Wagner at kwagner@nd.edu, Steve coyer at scoyer@nd.edu and Mike Puglisis at mpuglisi@nd.edu
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
INFORMATION MEETI1VG 
Wednesday, Oct. 1, 2003 6:30-8:00 pm 101 DeBartolo 
With Claudia Kselman, Associate Dh·ector International Study Programs Student Returnees 
Please note the date and the time change! 
Application Deadline: December 1 For Fall 2004 -Spring 2005 A Y 2004-2005 
NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, September 30, 2003 
MEN'S INTERHALL WRAPS 
Morrissey blanks Alumni, Knott shuts out Zahm 
forcing Alumni to switch to their  "Although we're  we hate everyone else," said Zahm  
passing game. " B r i a n Dinsmore and Jason Wise have  friends of!the field, on the field, everyone hates  captain Mike Maimone. Knott took the reins early on,  
done a phenome­ Zahm and we hate  scoring its first  
nal job all year. They have been  everyone else."  touchdown and successful extra  
the key to our defense this year ... we have yet to  Mike Maimone Zahm captain  point less than ten minutes into the game and  
allow  another  never really let  
team to score a  go.  

touchd.own," said Morrissey "Talent-wise I think we are captain Aaron Ronsheim. improved in many areas over 
Despite the loss, the Big last year's team. It [was] just a Dawgs showed strength in their matter of us putting it together defense early in the first half, as during a game," said Knott cap­the Manorites were unable to tain Drew Donovan. convert great field position into Zahm continuously tried for points. downs with their running plays, 
The Big Dawgs' momentum the highlight of the team's did wane as the first half came strengths. Freshman quarter­to a close. back Mitch Knapke brought a 
The Big Dawgs intercepted the rare speed onto the interhall ball late in the frrst half at the 1-field to lead the Zahmbie lines. yard line which resulted in a However, despite several 
safety for the Manorites when impressive drives in the opening the Big Dawgs couldn't stand up half, the rest of Knapke's line to the defensive pressure as couldn't give him enough con­
quarterback Chris Cottingham secutive chances to get out of was sacked. the pocket to score. 
The Manorites took a 2-0 lead Knott then passed down the at halftime despite their early field for another strong play offensive struggles. checked just short of the 35­
The Manorites' energy contin­yard line, but the subsequent ued as the offense began the incomplete pass prevented a third quarter with a 25-yard first down. completion to Ronsheim for the As Zahm again gained posses­
touchdown. The Manorites also sion, the coaches tried for better completed the filed goal to make success through their passing the score 9-0. game to disappointing results. 
To begin the fourth quarter, The half closed on the third the Big Dawgs' offensive strug­incomplete in a row. gles continued as Cottingham "[We] just didn't come out threw an interception. focused in the first half and ... 
The interception was caught ran out of time," Maimone said. by Dinsmore and turned out to The second half proved to be be the key for the Manorities to much like the first, but with the continue the momentum until Knott team playing in fast-for­the end of the game with the ward, raking in twice their first shutout. half point total. 
"We did not perform up to our Zahm's various handoffs and potential ... we need to come runs were subject to inconsis­out and execute next Sunday," tent execution. The team moved said Alumni captain Larry nearly in reach of their goal line Rooney. during their first offensive 
Despite Alumni's disappoint­stance of the half, only to fumble ment, Morrissey felt that the Big and lose control of the ball. In Dawgs were a great competitor. their next possession, the 
"Alumni is a really good team Zahmbies gained hardly five 
The Four:ih A1ntual Notre Dame Erasmus Lectures 
Th.e Honorable John T. Noonan,.Jr., 1ud¥e ofthe UnitedStates Court ofAppeals for the Ninth Circuit, distinguished historian of the 
law and Christianity ·· 
·DEEP£NING Tll}i DOCTRINE: Eight Lectures on the Development ofCatholic Moral Teaching 

yards while allowing sacks of their quarterback twice in a row. 
Entering the fourth quarter, Knott took hold of the ball for a rapid succession of plays to score. An offense led by John Bisanz and Jason Creek orches­trated a pass to the 35-yard line and then another to just beyond the 25. The Juggs followed a first down sack by the steadfast, if unequally matched, Zahm defense with the second touch­down and extra point of the afternoon. 
"[Our] offense has talent but is inexperienced running full speed against a full defense," Maimone said. 
In Zahm's final turn with the football, Knapke's speed shone through again, but without effective team coordination, no points could be scored. 
With seemingly unstoppable momentum, the uniform Jugg front passed their way to the concluding score of the game, despite a first down fumble. Knott's kicker Eric Wooldridge dealt the final blow with his third powerful and precise extra point of the afternoon. 
Dillon 14, Keough 3 
In their opening game of the season Sunday afternoon, the Dillon football team hoped to make a statement about their return to dominance. 
By controlling the football and forcing turnovers, the Big Red showed they are well on their way, defeating the Keough Kangaroos 14-3. 
"It was great for our team to get out there and get one under our belt," Dillon halfback/cor­nerback Ben Butwin said. "You never know how a team will perform until you get out there." 
Dillon was successful on their opening drive when quarterback Michael Johnson, after working the ball down the field, scored on a quarterback sneak from the one yard-line. 
Robert McBride proceeded to make the extra point, putting Dillon up 7-0. 
James Waechter's 40-yard field goal put Keough on the board and the halftime score was 7-3. 
Solid defense on both sides prevented any more scoring until Butwin broke through the Kangaroos' defense midway through the second half. Butwin received the handoff from Johnson and, thanks to several key blocks by Dillon's offensive line, was able to make a 45-yard run into the end zone. 
"I was glad I was there to make the big nm," said Butwin, who also had a fumble recovery earlier in the game. "It kind of was the nail in the coffin, a big morale booster for our team." 
In a battle of turnovers late in the game, Dillon's Justin Hubbard stripped the ball out of Keough quarterback Brian Kusper's arms. 
Keough's Patrick Hayes coun­tered with a fumble recovery of his own, but Dominic Eck of Dillon intercepted it on the next play. 
"The game's so short; it's all about time of possession and turnovers," Butwin said. "We were able to capitalize on some of Keough's mistakes and it gave us a lot of momentum." 
"We really need to cut down on the turnovers. That's really killed us these past two games," Keough linebacker Kyle LeClere said. 
Butwin credits Sunday's win to his team's intensity and the experience of many returning players. 
"The offensive line really stepped up and our defense played well," he said. "Our quarterback Michael Johnson really showed good leadership out there, too. We just have a lot of good athletes who can work together well." 
Keough is hoping to pull it all together in time to make the playoffs, but said they know it will be an "uphill battle." 
"We made a lot of improve­ments. It's a step in the right direction," LeClere said. 
He specifically emphasized the play-making ability of freshman Chaz Arnold who made signifi­cant contributions on both sides of the football. 
"We're looking for him to have another big week for us," LeClere said. 
Dillon is now looking to gain some revenge in their next game against arch-rival Alumni. Their win over Keough gave them confidence in their defense and play-calling ability, but the Big Red know they have to step up their level of play for the next game. 
"We need to work on our play execution and the mental parts of the game. Our defense just needs to stay tough," Butwin said. ''I'm looking forward to making it back to the stadium." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu, Rachel Schiros at rschiros@nd.edu and Anne Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu 
By DAN TAPETILLO, 
RACHEL SCHIROS and ANNE 
RUSKY 
Sports Writers 

The Morrissey Manorites defeated the Alumni Big Dawgs with a 9-0 victory Sunday. 
The Big Dawgs were unable to stand up to the Manorites' defensive pressure as they became the second consecutive team Morrissey has shutout. 
The defense forced three turnovers and stopped the Big Dawgs' runs, 
and they will be in the playoffs. They played a tough game," said Ronsheim. 
Knott 21, Zahm 0 
The Knott team held true to their moniker; in the face of the juggernaut, the uneven Zahm lines quickly fell back and were unable to rise to stop a 21 -0 Jugg victory. The contest was a rivalry tiebreaker, as each team had achieved one shutout over the other in the past two years. 
"Although we're friends off the field, on the field, everyone hates Zahm and 
Tuesday September30 
Thursday October 2 

A Girl Named Zita and Other Commodities 
The Obstinate Hill Climbed 
I ' 
with Eclat . 

'f'.he lec~res will begfh,at5 p.m. in the Law School Courtroom. The $eties continues each Tuesday and thursday, concluding October 16. · 
Tuesday, Seprember 30, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 23 


Interhall 

continued from page 28 
at pro-style offense to a four­wide spread for this game. a change that captain Collin O'Keefe believes shows promise, and should prove more effective with continued practice. 
"If we work on pass coverage, throwing the ball a little better and put in a few running plays, I think we'll be really be a tough team to beat," he said. 
Near the close of the half, Siegfried was a few yards short of the first down on Sorin 's 17­yard line. They lined up for a field goal, but faked with Nate Haschke connecting to Jon Kaup for the first down. 
Quarterback Bill Bingle threw again to Kaup for the touch­down, putting Siegfried up by 14 points. Haschke intercepted a Sorin pass soon after, ending the half. 
Sarin was again unable to score early in the second half and allowed the Siegfried offense another touchdown. Bingle connected with Marques Bolden, who then ran half the length of the field into the end zone. 
At this point. the Sorin offense showed signs of revitalization. They passed down the field, end­ing the drive with Pat Flaherty putting up six for the Otters, fol­lowed by the extra point. 
Siegfried Captain Vince Siciliano stated that they were upset at giving up any points in the game, and would practice this week on "defense, all around; to stop the run and stop the pass." Their special teams played very well, especially kick­er Jon Nowak. who didn't miss a point. 
Sorin, missing a few starters due to injury, played the game with only 18 men up against a full Siegfried squad. Although they didn't come through with return to midfield, but on first the win, O'Keefe was pleased down, Tiberio threw an inter­with his team's performance. ception over the middle. 
"[! was) happy with the effort Stanford gave the ball right we gave today," he said. "This back when Whitney's pass was game proved to us that we're a tipped at the line, popped up and good team; we would have been intercepted by O'Neill near mid­right there if we hadn't made a field. The Angry Mob threatened few mistakes." again and got the ball to the 
The teams continue their sea­Stanford 15-yard line after two sons next Sunday, with Siegfried passes by Tiberio. But the O'Neill taking on Fisher at 1 p.m., while quarterback was intercepted in Sorin plays Zahm at 2 p.m. the end zone to end the half. 
O'Neill and Stanford both had O'Neill 6, Stanford 0 promising drives in the third 
In the battle of two defensive­quarter with some good runs. minded teams, the O'Neill Angry O'Neill held Stanford near mid­Mob preserved an early touch­field and the Griffins forced the down and shut out the Stanford Angry Mob to punt after a sack. Griffins 6-0. The center snapped the ball low 
The game started a little shaky to the punter, who kneeled and on offense for both teams. was called down soon as he O'Neill went three-and-out on caught he ball. This huge mis­their first possession. After the take left Stanford with the ball in punt, Stanford was pinned inside O'Neill territory. their own 7-yard line. Stanford got down to the 17­Quarterback Rich Whitney yard line after Whitney threw a optioned to halfback Mark deep out pass. However, the McNamee for a 28-yard gain. offense could not move the ball However, two plays later, O'Neill any farther, and they went for it captain John Enterline intercept­on fourth down. Whitney threw ed Whitney and returned it 26 the ball in the end zone, and the yards to the Stanford 10-yard referee made a questionable no-line. This set up call as the players quarterback Tommy were battling for Tiberio for a touch-position and the down run. The pass fell incom­
"It was great to
extra point was plete. O'Neill blocked, but the come out with a made a big stand Angry Mob led 6-0. win today." and got the ball 
Stanford was back with little forced to punt on time left, collect­
John Enterline
their next posses­ed a crucial first 
O'Neill captain 
sion after a 10-yard down and was loss on a sack. The able to kneel to Angry Mob then run the clock out. drove down the "It was great to field to the Stanford 14-yard line come out with a win today," with a mix of passes from Enterline said. Tiberio and solid running by This was the Angry Mob's first Enterline. However, O'Neill was win in two seasons. forced to attempt a field goal. "The offensive line was much and they missed wide right. improved from last week. The 
With the ball, Stanford made key to this game was that we one first down to give itself some played a physical game and cut room, but had to eventually down on mistakes," he punt. O'Neill made a decent explained. "I think we can keep this going into next week." 

Stanford quarterback Rich Whitney sighed and said, "We just did not execute today." He said that his team still needs a lot of work, and he believes improved results will come from a better dedication from every­one and a higher intensity at practice. St. Edward's 6, Carroll 0 
In a game that involved a lot of power football, St. Ed's escaped with a 6-0 win over Carroll in what can only described as a hard fought, intense battle. Both teams played fierce defense in a game that was not by any means pretty. 
Late in the first half, St. Ed's took the lead with a 12-yard Chris Wagner quarterback scramble, capping off a 45-yard scoring drive. This proved to be the only touchdown in this tough defensive showdown. 
St. Ed's relied heavily on their running game, moving the ball between the tackles, picking up but in their first play from scrim­mage, St. Ed's intercepted Carroll's pass to virtually seal the win. 1\vo runs and a kneel­down later, St. Ed's had officially come out with the victory. 
"We're very happy right now. This is our first win in years. We're real excited," remarked coach Kevin McNamara. "Carroll is a great football team and we executed just enough to come out with a win." 
The St. Ed's defense came up big all day, creating two fumbles, intercepting a pass and forcing Carroll to go three and out on three separate occasions. 
"Our defense did a great job today. They work hard and it really showed today in shutting them out," Wagner said. "We are a well coached group, and we did the little things such as play­ing tough defense today to get the win." 
With the loss, Carroll drops to 1-1 while St. Ed's moves to 1-0. St. Ed's is looking to continue 
yards in small packages. They this solid play into the upcoming ran the ball a total of 22 times, games, while Carroll hopes to gaining 84 yards on the ground. return to the level of play that It was this fired-up running allowed them to win their season attack that exhausted an other­opener. wise solid Carroll defense. 
"We definitely ran better as the game went on. We wore them down, and when they got tired, we took advantage of it," Contact Lauren Osterhus at said Wagner. losterhu@nd.edu, Chris Sinutko 
Late in the game, Carroll had at csinutko@nd.edu and Bobby one last chance at a comeback Griffien at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

We to Motldays Like No flace Else! 
Enjoy a double order of chicken, sieak or combo fajifas (enough for two) for juri tll!* 

MIS. IIAWA1tA
. 

4810 Gra~ Rd, 514271*1330 

Get The Observer in your Inbox 
Register now on our website and automatically receive an Email Edition of the paper with every new issue. 
Headline News • College Sports • Campus Calendar Local Weather • Dally Horoscope 
It's the best way to stay informed ••. and it's free. 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 30, 2003 
HocKEY 
Blue defeats Gold 4-3 to win first scrimmage 


Goalie Walsh named MVP with 26 saves 
Special to The Observer 
Sophomore goaltender Rory Walsh made 26 saves, including three on penalty shots, and the Blue team got goals from Matt Amado, Mike Walsh, Matt Williams-Kovacs and Rob Globke in their 4-3 win over the Gold squad in Notre Dame's annual Blue-Gold Intrasquad Scrimmage. 
The game, played to benefit the Hockey Coaches' Foundation for cancer research, drew over 1,000 fans to the Joyce Center. 
Each Notre Dame player played the game in honor of a family member or friend stricken with cancer. 
Senior team captain Aaron Gill picked up three assists for the Blue in the victory. Amado got the scoring started at 8:53 of the first half (the game featured two 20-minute halves) when he scored off a Gill set up in front. 
The Blue lead would go to 2-0 just 32 seconds later when Walsh whipped a shot from the slot past Gold goaltender David Brown. 
A pair of freshmen got the Gold on the scoreboard at 9:35 as Jason Paige one-timed a shot from the slot past Rory Walsh. 
T.J. Jindra set up the play with a feed from behind the Blue Gold as the first half ended with the score 2-1 in favor of the Blue. 
In the second half, the Blue extended its lead to 3-1 as Williams-Kovacs teamed with Josh Sciba on a slick passing play to the left of Brown. Williams-Kovacs tucked the rebound of Sciba's shot under the fallen goaltender just 30 sec­onds into the half. 
Strong forechecking by Brad Wanchulak cut the Blue lead to 3-2 at 1 :09 as the junior left wing intercepted a pass inside the left wing circle and fired one over Walsh to make it a one-goal game. 
The Blue would get the eventu­al game-winning goal at 8:29 of the half when Globke took a ceo-
N D WOMEN'5 GOLF 
Irish survive to win Notre Dame Invite 
ByJOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
Notre Dame women's golf coach Debby King didn't expect the field at the Notre Dame Invitational to challenge her Irish team. 
She was wrong. 
After two of her top golfers shot two poor rounds, King found her team down four strokes to Northern Iowa heading into Sunday. But the Irish fired a 312 on the last day to pull ahead and win by one stroke. It was the third straight year Notre Dame won its own meet. 
"It was much closer than we thought it would be," King said of the Irish second first­place finish in the last two weeks. 
Notre Dame also won the 
Cougar Invitational Sept. 16. 
Freshman Noriko Nakazaki 
shot a solid opening round 
with a 7 5 but then struggled 
to fire an 81-81 finish. She fin­
ished tied for ninth. Katie 
Brophy tied for fifth with a 80­
79-7 4 tournament. 
The big story for Notre Dame, and probably the dif­ference in the tournament, was the play of Sarah Bassett, who took third place after a career tournament in which she fired scores of 75-79-74. It was Bassett's best career fin­ish. 
Suzy Brown and Suzie Hayes each finished in the top 30, with scores of 79-82-83 and 77-88-80, respectively. 
King said the close finish of the tournament could be con­tributed to several reasons. The team had two players shoot sub-par tournaments and there were recruits in for the weekend, which made everyone's schedule more hec­tic. 
In preparation for their next tournament, the Irish will look at the scoring stats, figure out where they need to improve and then fix those problems during this week of practice. 
Notre Dame next plays at 
the Shootout at the Legends in 
Franklin, Ind. Oct. 6-7. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

KEOUGH INSTITUTE FOR IRISH STUDIES 

tering pass from Gill between the Walsh finished the night with circles and fired the puck over 26 saves and received the Brown's glove to make it 4-2. George Komadoski Most 
Defenseman Brett Lebda made Valuable Player Trophy. Brown it 4-3 at 13:50 when his blue line stopped 15 shots for the Gold blast from the center point beat team. Walsh low to his stick side for the The Irish return to action on game's final goal. Friday, Oct. 3 when they play host to Western Ontario in a 7:35 
p.m. preseason game at the Joyce Center. 
Notre Dame opens the regular season on the road when the Irish travel to Columbus, Ohio on Oct. 10-11 to face the Ohio State Buckeyes. 
Study Abroad Fair 
Austria Australia Ecuador Europe France Greece Honduras
Haiti Italy
Ireland Mexico
Jamaica Spain
Semester Around the World 

at SaintMary's College Ptesented by the Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership, Office ofInternational and Intercultural Learning 
Today!!!! In the West Wing ofthe Noble Family Dining Hall from 4:00-6:00 p.m. 
Learn·about any and every abroad program currently offered at Saint Mary's College, including new progrmns. Additionally, speak to students who have previously studied abroad and listen to their exciting stories. 
Financial Aidwill be available to answer questions regarding how to make the dream of studying abroad a reality! 
:BOth Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students are welcome, especially the Class of 20.06 & 2007. 

NORTHERN IRELAND AND THE NORMALIZATION OF THE IRISH-BRITISH RELATIONSHIP 
GARRET FITZGERALD TAOISEACH (PRIMEMINISTER) (1981-82;. 1982-87) OF 
:·· 
•··~ 

THE REPUBLIC OF IRELAND TUESDAY, 30 SEPTEMBER 2003 
4:30 PM HESBURGH CENTER AUDITORIUM 
Tuesday, Sc::ptember 30, 2003 

The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
INTERHALL PREVIEWS 

Struggling Pangborn looks to gain first win 

By KEVIN O'NEILL, CHRIS 
SINUTKO and DAN 
li\PETILLO 
Spons Writers 
Tho contest between Pangborn and Walsh Tuesday night wlll pit two teams together that have been going in opposile directions. The winless Phoxes will be look­Ing to post their first win at the expense of the Wild Women, who are hoping to build on recent successes and establish their team as a firm contender in the Blue League. 
Pangborn, a team that Is 90 percent freshmen, will look to continue the rebuilding process, according to captain Katie Murray. 
"We have great athletes In the freshman class, but most of them have never played football before," she said. "They just need to get used to football, but we're seeing progress every day In practice." . 
The Phoxes are led by one of those freshmen, quarterback Christina Dunn, who Murray says Is getting used to making the calls and growing as a player each day in practice. Dunn will look to throw to receiver Trlsh Conneely, who has scored all but one of the Phoxes' touchdowns this season. Hunning back/receiv­er Katie Mooney, the owner of that touchdown, also looks to be a factor against the Wild Women. 

Murray cited last week's hard fought game with Cavanaugh as a possible positive sign of things to come. 
"We stayed with them for the entire first half and even scored first," Murray said. "They're one of the best teams in our league, so we definitely see that as a confidence booster. We're expecting the next two games to be wins." 
The Wild Women will be look­Ing to build on last week's con­vincing 18-7 victory over the Pasquerilla West Purple Weasels. They will be led by a solid defense featuring Amanda Borys, a key contributor on both sides of the ball, and defensive lineman Karla Bell. 
The defense will look to contin­ue the trend of putting their offense In good position to score by forcing turnovers. Offensively, Walsh will feature an ommse led by quarterback Carrie Campbell, equally adept as a runner and thrower. 

The offense, which has Improved with each game, will certainly pose a challenge to the Pangborn defense, which has struggled a bit this year. 
The game will take place at 7 

p.m. on the Riehle West Athletic Fields. 
Breen-Phllllps vs. Welsh Family 
Tonight's game between Breen-Philllps and Welsh Family will be a battle of two great teams. 
Both have consistent offenses and strong defenses. Welsh Family is coming off a decisive win against Farley last week. 
CHIP MARKS/The Observer
"We're progressively getting 

Cavanaugh quarterback Lisa Ruffer fires a pass In the team's
better each game," said Jamie 
win over Walsh. The Chaos look to beat Farley Tuesday night. 
McEldowney, one of Welsh's five captains. "This game is no dif­ferent than any other one. We points in three games. prepare for every game in the The Babes are coming off a same way, and we practice to disappointing and ugly tie work on the little things which 
against Pasquerilla West. In that will make us better." game, they were held to just six 
Welsh should take special points, and they threw three notice, however, of BP's explosive interceptions. Despite that poor offense. They have scored 65 
performance, the fact remains that they are still undefeated. Welsh is no slouch when it 
comes to scoring points, either.
thehaircolorXperts.com 
They have scored 59 points In 
Now offering the following promotions 
four games, and they have won three straight after their season· opening loss. Quarterback 
Certain restrictions apply • Must present ad. 
A2sALON 
Melissa Sands, who teammates
WOMENWOMEN 

say throws "perfect" passes,
271.8804 
Haircut & HighlightsHaircut & Style 

leads them on offense. Welsh is a 
$69.00
$24.00 

very young team, and they don't
2039 South Bend Ave. Inside the 
have any real star players, but 
Martin's Shopping Plaza next 
--·----------J r····--··--·-·--···-·-·-·-..·-·-·--·-·..·-·-·-·-· 
there always seems to be one or
WOMEN MEN 
two girls who step up from dif­
door to Sprint -Corner of 
ferent positions and make big
Ironwood DR. and Ironwood 
plays.
---·---~.:i~~~o~ut ----_____;;~Q~---·-----· 
The question this week Is which of the Whirlwinds will rise up and lead them to victory
Fight the Battle ••• Prostate Cancer 
against mighty Breen-Phillips. Look for this game to be exclt· ing right from the start, as BP Is
Run the Race ••• Domer Run 
eager to show they have the best offense In the league, and Welsh
Eat the Meal ••• Pancake Breakfast 
will "come out from the begin· ning with intensity and do our best," McEldowney said. 
Cavanaugh vs. Farley 
The undefeated Cavanaugh Chaos, who have begun the sea­son with three wins, are set to play Farley's Finest, who have just come off a tie against PW last Sunday. 
"Experience has been the dlf· ference," said Chaos team cap· tain Jessica Leibowitz. "We have a lot of veterans. It is natural to play with intensity." 
Experience has proven to be the difference for the Chaos this season. 
The Cavanaugh Chaos defeated the strong Wild Women of Walsh with an impressive 24-0 shutout last Sunday. 
Team captain Megan Land attributes the win to both sides of 
Saturday, October 4, 2003 11:00 a.m. 

3-and 6-Mile Runs, 2-Mile Fun Walk 
Pancake Breakfast Immediately Following Race 

Irish 
continued from page 28 
RUQI!.1~ •Ji AO\'lOCf:-.,n flulh '!pOrtS lh~Cioa1i»n Ctu.tqf f Sh:fl<, 10 A-)1 ftn!shr:rs. 
with Boland for the team scor­
~b U1 A<Jv~'ft,;(: ~II:) '$if VUl!l c.;J RMC: AwllY<'I'$ t<.: 'u~~ S·I~Ct$ i'mi~ll~f:; IU 1l Ll!VI~to~>~lS O·>ad1uW" (m Advdtt;..•> fCU{Jt".. Uc!tiun t:;, '!\tt.d<••'t •!ntf :\t.;dt f-"tvco;,u,n:-:r 
ing lead with 19 points. 
').llO p m , fud;:y, C'!ctN:;.P.r :1 T !\h .. u P..;.nM~n hy tl".~ Nf.> t\lwr.m A~~t>l'>;)fH>n 
Guertin closely follows that duo with 16 points, while
For more information, call 631~6100, or visit recsports.ncLedu 
Thoriakson has 11 and Schefter 10. 

The Irish will be looking for more of that same production against Indiana State, which comes into the contest with a 
. t . ---·-. 
.. :--• ' • • • • ., • "' • 1111 • • • • • • • • !., ' · •·•-. • • • •· ••• 'l "" • r ., ..... • • ...._ ... • .., I ~ .. _ ..... ·-,..,..·~~~-........ ,-.-... -..~J' .. ~_-_
......................"'·······' 
I 
the field. 
"We played strong offensively and defensively, and we have a lot of depth," Land said. 

Despite all the team's talent, quarterback Lisa Ruffer has emerged as a leader early this season and has proven to be an essential part of the team. 
"[Ruffer] has great poise with running and throwing the ball and has shown great leader­ship," Leibowitz said. 
In preparation for today's game, the team is planning to go through their usual routine and warm-up an hour before the game. The Chaos are not taking the Finest lightly. 
After last Sunday's 13-13 tie with the Purple Weasels, the Finest are trying to build from the intensity. 
"We want to carry the momen­tum from last game. We are doing a lot of the right things offensively, and the defense is very solid," said team captain Angelina Zehrbach. 
Despite the energy coming Into today's game, the Finest are aware of Cavanaugh's strength. 
"We know Cavanaugh will be a lot faster and quicker than last week's game," Zehrbach said. 
However, the Finest are sure to put up a battle with veterans such as Lizzy Coghill. 
"[Coghill] Is amazing. She has made some all-star catches," Zehrbach said. 
Coghill Is a part of an offense that Is believed to be one of the team's strengths. Zchrbach feels that their running game and hav­Ing the ability to throw the ball deep will prove to be a factor in today's game. 
"We need to be aggressive," Zehrbach said. 
Contact Kevin O'Neill at koneill4@nd.edu, Chris Sinutkio at csinukto@nd.edu and Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

record of 5-2-2 after knocking off IUPUl 4-0 on Sunday. 
"We don't really know a lot about Indiana State other than seeing their results," said coach Handy Waldrum. "It will be the first time we've played them, so I think we'll just work on what we do best and see how the game goes from there." 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
·' . 


Tuesday, September 30, 2003 

page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS 
CLUB SPORTS 

Equestrian club takes second in first show-of season 
Special to The Observer Katy Ryan swept first through and were unable to match the averages were closely bunched. Freshman of the Year, Lizzie 
fourth respectively in novice flat. speed of the Wildcats in a 12-5 Van Koppersmith's 245 high Shiel, and also the play of senior 
The NDSMC equestrian club Marta Acsadi, Lauren Croall, loss. game helped him to a 196.8 Jill Scarborough. The women opened its season by hosting the Laura Ricci, Cecilia Hopkins all Playing their third game of the average, Raver rolled a 243 en lost in the semi-finals to a year's first IHSA Show at Take A competed in the walk, trot, can­day, the Irish came out strong route to a 193.6 average, with Madison club team, 2 Days Slow. Jump Farm in Bristol, Ind. The ter competition, with Elena against the host Redhawks and Jim Talamo contributing a 221 Co-captain Naomi Cordell club finished second among Bartzen bringing home third beat Miami 11-7 behind the high game 192.3 average. Vance summed up the weekend on a seven competing schools, to earn place. tremendous defense of goalies McClenton, 221 high game, positive note. "We saw outstand­
Reserve High Point honors. The event was moved indoors Devlin McCormick and Scott Daniel Martin, 220; and Matt ing play from everyone on the 
Many riders contributed to the due to inclement weather, but Tagwerker. On Sunday, the club Nieves, 165 completed the men's roster. Newcomers Caitlin Evansteam's strong finish. Andrea the new riding arena proved to wrapped up the tournament with team scoring. 
and Mo Coughlin played
Oliverio earned Reserve High be an excellent venue. The club a down to the wire 10-9 win over The women's squad placed extremely well in their first tour­Point Rider honors with 12 will next compete October 10-12 Ohio State. Freshman Steve third behind Kent and Grand nament."
points, just two behind Leslie at Saint Mary's of the Woods Sheppard sealed the victory for Valley State. Saint Mary's Kim The ultimate men's team wasMaradik of Purdue. College. the Irish as he found the back of Lagivne's 153 average topped the 
one of 32 to compete at
Katie Baron took second in Water Polo the net in the closing seconds of team scoring. 
Hucktoberfest. Playing a conser­open jump, with Claire Freeman The Notre Dame men's water play. The club will play next Ultimate 
vative style dictated by the
finishing fourth, while in open polo club saw its first action of week at Toledo. The ultimate club's women's weather, the club found itselfflat, Freeman garnered second the season in the Pat McGarrity Bowling squad fmished 4-3 this weekend, down four points in every game. 
and Baron fifth. Co-captain Liz Classic at Miami Ohio. The Irish Notre Dame's bowling club good for a third place finish at However, the team revealed itsBell earned fifth in intermediate opened the tournament with a participated in the inaugural the Whitewater, Wis. 
character in coming back to win
jump and fourth in intermediate physical game against Michigan tournament of the American Hucktoberfest Invitational. Co­three of the five matches facingflat, as co-captain Julia Burke State. Despite two goals apiece Heartland Bowling Conference captain Jill Dougherty was those deficits. 
took third and Chelsea Brown from John Penilla and sopho­this weekend in Lorain, Ohio. pleased with the performance. 
The Irish opened with a 16-14

fifth in the event. Coach Kathryn more Mike Silhasek, the team Captain Jason Raver's men's "It was a tough weekend with victory over Wisconsin­Well's team displayed depth in all failed to capitalize on several team finished 17th in a strong seven games, almost no subs, Whitewater, and a 15-13 wincategories as Andrea Oliverio, scoring opportunities and lost, 9-field, headed by Saginaw Valley, and strong winds. Everyone over St. Olaf, before dropping a
Lauren Ball, Audra Valaitis and 5. In their second game, the a perennial top five team in the really stepped up their play in Catherine Linn (both third), and Irish faced third ranked Arizona country. The Irish individual spite of the difficult conditions." 15-13 decision to Western 



#2 women's Soccer 
VS.IIIIillll IIIII 

Afraid ofwhat others will think? 

Deacons Dan Parrish, C.S.C. and Michael Wurtz, C.S.C. to be ordained in April 2004. 

Live your own life. 
www.nd.eitul-vocation 
Be Not Afraid! 

SMC CRoss CouNTRY 
Belles finish sixth in MIAA Jamboree 
ran injured," coach Dave 
By PAT LEONARD Barstis said. "Both Sara and 
Sports Writer 
Katie ran extremely well despite having painful foot injuries."
The Saint Mary's cross coun­Otto sat out last weekend'stry team finished sixth overall 

race, the National Catholicat the MIAA Jamboree this 

Invitational, in preparation for

Saturday, despite two of its 
top five runners competing the first conference meet of the season. Otto, Bauters and
with minor injuries. 
White have finished in the topCalvin College's Jessie Lair three for Saint Mary's in everywas the overall winner in the race this season.

5,000 meter race at Adrian Reinserting the freshman
College with a time of 18:15. 
into the rotation this weekendThe Belles had three run­
at the Jamboree gave the

ners place in the top 50 and Belles a huge boost.
the team finished with 145 
"We were only 15 points outtotal points. Saint Mary's sen­of fifth place and 18 points

ior Jackie Bauters led the 
from fourth," Barstis said. 

Belles with a 27th place finish Alma College finished in fifth and a time of 20:11. Freshmen 
with a score of 130, and

Sara Otto and Katie White fin­Albion upped Alma by just
ished back-to-hack at 48th three points at 127. Calvin,and 49th at the 20:54 and 
Hope and Kalamazoo Colleges20:56 marks, respectively. 

finished in first, second andBoth rookie runners compet­third place, respectively. 

ed despite ailments. "We ran a fantastic race Contact Pat Leonard at considering two of the top five pleonard@nd.edu 
The Irish opened with a 15-3 thumping of Macalester, and fol­lowed that with their first shutout of the year, over St. Thomas. 
The club was paced by last year's Great Lakes Region lllinois. 
Sailing 
The Notre Dame sailing club's competition at Iowa this week­end was cancelled. The club will return to action next weekend in the Cedar Fest at Michigan State. 


Tuesday, September 30, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI
FIVES 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Have on one's shoulder 6 Sumptuous 10 At a distance 
14 Sprocket projections 
15 Ready to eat 16 Dear, to 
Donizetti 11 Muse of poetry 18 Hipbones 19 Red "Sesame 
Street" character 20 39-Across component 23 Denver clock setting: Abbr. 24 Suffix with social 25 Drive·thru bank feature, for short 26 Baby carrier? 29 Some beach toys 
31 Question for a brown cow? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
...,.-.;;.t..;::~~,;,~ ~;+;:;+:,:.~.;. 
..;...+..,....;,;.~-;~ ..:+.:+-::+;.~ 
..;..a..;;;.L.::.&..;:;., 

Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
33 Early baby word 36 Place 38 Two-time U.S. 
Open winner Fraser 39 Way to fitness 42 Reluctant 
43 Shorebird 44 Radiation measures 45 In the unique case that 47 Common 
mistakes, say 49 Concorde 50 Form of ID: 
Abbr. 52 Wish undone 53 Flapper 
accessory 56 39-Across 
component 60 Iota 62 1997 Peter 
Fonda role 63 Milk: Prefix 

64 "And_ bed" 
65 Baseballers Guidry and Swoboda 66 Old-fashioned theater 67 Name of more than 20 popes 
68 Scared sounds 
69 Diaper, in Britain 
DOWN 

1 Special Forces unit 
2 Asteroid first sighted in 1801 
3 It's strengthened by 20-Across 
4 "Tell the judge" 5 You may have one for spiders 6 Sales brochure feature 
7 Perfume ingredients 
8 Star in Virgo 
91tcanbe improved by 39-Across 
10 Air force heroes 
11 Alias 
12 Offshoot 
13 Milne marsupial 
21 Formal reply to "Who's there?" 
22 Surrounded by 
27 Automaton 28 Actress Verdon and others 
29 Socialists, e.g. 
30 Knight's need 
32 River dams 
WILLSHORTZ 


55 Intense suffering 39-Across
34 Certain 57 Harrow rival transmitters 48 Pan films? 
58 Lengthy 35 Took care of footrace
51 Ravel's 
"DaP,hnis et 37 Perfect 59 "And here lt is!" 
40 Texas cook-off 53 It's strengthened 60 Dow Jones dish by 56-Across paper, lor short 
41 Boredom 54 Leading 61 _-ha 
For answers, call 1-900·285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1·800·814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.cornlcrosswords ($34.95 a year) . Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address ____________________________________ City _____________ State ____ Zip__________ 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HACCO 

riJ 
C2003 Tribune Media SeNicea, Inc. All Rlghla Reserved. 
IMPORTANT TO DO WHeN YOU MARRY TWICE:. 


-
www.jurOOfe.oom 
LEEPPO 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
[ I ) [ ) 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

~= rI I I I I I JrI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

NUTTY FRIAR BUSHEL KINDLY
Yesterday's I Jumbles: Answer: The cameraman captured the winning basket-IN A"FLASH" 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Marty Stuart, Deborah Kerr, Angie Dickinson, Fran Drescher, Johnny Mathis 
Happy Birthday: This will be a year to remember. Your strong desire to get ahead will take over, and you aren't likely to bend to other people's demands. You will have a vision that will help you see your objective more clearly, and once you latch on to what it is you really want to do, the rest will come easy. Your numbers: 5, 19, 23, 35, 39, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): The changes you make at home will have an emotional effect on you. Don't be content to sit and watch others make money. Join in and invest if the deal appears to be solid. Financial gains can he yours. 
**** 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): If you mix your wit and creative talents, you will have a lot to offer groups that interest you. Don't join to become one of the crowd; your intent should be a leadership position. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your energetic approach to life will bring you popularity. P.JI your creative talent to work for you. You should be joining a drama club or some kind of intellectual support group. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let the people you live with put a damper on your day or your plans. You need to get out and have some fun socializing with close friends or lovers. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Financial limitations may stand in the way of your social plans, but if you are willing to open your doors and invite friends over, you will find that everything will work out just fine. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You and your mate should be trying to get away. You need to spend time expressing your love for one another. It's time to start doing the things you used to enjoy doing together. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may find yourself putting in some extra hours. Don't be upset; take this opportunity to get to know your boss or colleagues a little better. You can tum some of these connections into friendships. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Social activities and travel will enhance your love life. Take a long, hard look at your personal papers and any pending legal problems that could stand in your way. It's time to tie up loose ends. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take care of the needs of older family members, but be sure not to load yourself down with responsibilities you just can't handle by yourself. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Get together with friends who inspire you. Run your ideas by those who may be interested in backing you financially. Conversations will lead to all sorts of new opportunities. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Work on one of your inventions or innovative concepts. You've been doing a good job for others. Now do the same for 
yourself. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Arguments may break out between you and your mate if you didn't resolve some of the past problems you've had. Try not to overreact or bring things to a head in front of friends or family members.** 
Birthday Baby: You were born with charm, grace and elegance. You know how to work a crowd and what will bring you the highest returns. Diplomatic, versatile and extremely resourceful are three of your characteristics that will help you achieve your dreams. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
-'
.... 
• " -: ' ; ~ Ill 'I ~ ,.: I 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, September 30, 2003 
Page 28 
WoMEN's SoccER. 

What a difference a year makes 
No.2 Irish are undefeated heading into Indiana State game 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 
A year ago the women's soc­

-
cer team stood at 6-4, includ­ing a 2-2 record in the Big East, partially due to an injury-depleted roster that left the Irish very little depth. 
That depth has returned this season, and along with it has come the wins that had become customary for former Irish teams. For the ninth time in the program's history, the Irish are undefeated after nine games. and they look to remain undefeated tonight as they face Indiana State at Alumni Field. 
The Irish depth has been impressive in all parts of the field. The Irish rank among the nation's leaders in both offensive and defensive statis­tics, having outscored their first nine opponents 37-5. 
For the defense, the turn­around has been especially impressive after they lost most of the unit to injury last year. Melissa Tancredi, who has become a fixture in the central defense for the Irish after starting her career as a for­ward, has welcomed back sen­ior Vanessa Pruzinsky to pro­vide the experience for the defense. 
Combined with goalkeeper Erika Bohn and freshmen Kim Lorenzen, Christie Shaner and Lizzie Reed, the defenders have been up to the challenge, having not allowed more than one goal in any game this year. This depth is even more remarkable considering that another defensive fixture, Candace Chapman, is lost for the season, and Gudrun Gunnarsdottir has seen limited playing time due to a broken arm. 
In addition to only allowing five goals. in nine games, the Irish have also been frugal in allowing shots on goal. The last six Notre Dame oppo­nents, including powers Stanford and Santa Clara, have not mustered more than two shots on goal against the Irish, with three of those teams only managing one shot. 
Tancredi also provided a boost to an already strong Notre Dame offense this past week by scoring her first two goals of the year. She became the seventh different Notre Dame player to register multi­ple goals in a game, with jun­ior Mary Boland accomplishing the feat twice. In addition to Tancredi and Boland, senior Amanda Guertin, sophomores Annie Schefter, Katie Thorlakson and Maggie Manning and freshman Jen Buczkowski have had multiple goal games this season. 
Notably absent from that list is senior Amy Warner, whose constant production is tied 
see IRISH/page 25 



INTERHALL WRAPS 

Siegfried continues dominance 
By LAUREN OSTERHUS, 
CHRIS SINUTKO and BOBBY 
GRIFFIN 
Sports Writers 

Siegfried continued their long­standing undefeated streak on Sunday, convincingly defeating Sorin by a score of 21-7 at Riehle Fields. The Ramblers came out strong with Pat Manning, the only freshman on the team, scoring a touchdown on their first drive down the field. 
Although their defense had an interception, Sorin was unable to make anything happen on offense for: the next few drives. They switched from a tradition-
see INTERHALL/page 23 
SMC GOLF 

Belles pound Hope, take first in MIAA 

By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 

So much for not beating Hope. 
The Saint Mary's golf team, after losing to Hope's Flying Dutch in three straight tourna­ments, blew them and every­one else out by taking first place at an MIAA competition at Adrian College Saturday. 
Defending D-Ill national champion Stefanie Simmerman fired an impres­sive 81 to win the individual title, while teammates Julie Adams and Megan Mattia shot 83 and 84 respectively to fin­ish second and third overall and help push the Belles to a final shot total of 340, 12 ahead of the second-place fin­isher Hope. 
The first-place finish is Saint Mary's first of the fall season and gives them the lead in the MIAA Standings. 
Coach Mark Hamilton could not be reached for comment because the Belles played at the DePauw Invitational Sunday and Monday. After the first day of that tournament, Saint Mary's was in first place, with Simmerman leading all competitors. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu

A Siegfried ballcarrier looks for a hole against Sorln Sunday. 
en 
HD WOMEN'S GOLF
INTERHALL WRAPS 
SMCXC

INTERHALL WRAPS 
INTERHALL WRAPS 

iHTERHAll PREVIEWS 
First-place, Notre 
Belles finish
Morrissey 9 
O'Neill 6 
I-C.)LLI 
~o3s14 

Dame Invitational 
sixth at MIAA
Alumni 0 
Stanford 0 

The women's interhall 
teams prepare for Tuesday
a:~ 
Badin 33
Knott 21 
St. Edward's 6 

== 
Saint Mary's takes
The Irish come back to
night's games. 
Carroll 0 
Howard 6 
ZahmO 

sixth at an important
win by one stroke over 
Northern Iowa. 
MIAA competition.
a.~ 
page 21
page 23 
page 25

en page 22 
page 26
page 24 

--,J 



