
VOL. XXXVII NO. 114 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
ND, SMC students react to Iraq conflict 
By ANDREW THAGARD News Writer 
Just a day after the United States began preliminary air strikes in Iraq, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students had mixed reactions about military action in the Middle East nation. 
On Wednesday. hours after President Bush's 48-hour ulti­matum to Iraqi President Saddam Hussein expired, the United States launched air strikes. By Thursday, Iraqi sol­diers set oil fields ablaze and British and American forces began moving across the border from Kuwait in preparation for a out into the open," said Melody large-scale coalition invasion. Gonzalez, a sophomore political 
Since Wednesday, students science major and member of have been making trips to the the Peace Coalition and Grotto to pray, and people gath­Progressive Student Alliance. "I ered around televi­don't understand this sions and computers See Also war. I don't understand in search of the lat­the reasons for it." 
"Demonstration

est information on Other students, howev­"Operation Iraqi staged at Saint er, expressed more sup­Freedom," on both Mary's" port for the military's campuses. actions. 
Few students were page6 "I'd have to say it's nec­surprised by the tim­essary just to get Saddam ing or the type of attack out of power," said Joe Hagan, a launched, though many ques­junior accounting major. "It tioned the basis for such actions. would have been nice to have 
"This is something that Bush the United Nations' backing, but had planned and it finally came we needed to take action. I don't think we could wait." 
Lynn Busse, a Saint Mary's junior and education major, agreed. 
"My brother's in the Marines so I really don't like it, but they have to do what they have to do," she said. 
Many students said that hav­ing family and friends in the armed forces and knowing that many people their age were sta­tioned in the Middle East has helped to shape their perspec­tive on the conflict. 
"There are many young peo­ple over there my age and you see them on TV," said Notre Dame freshman Erin Costanzo. 
"It's one of the biggest things that makes me upset. I know people in the military and they're going over there." 
Many others know students who could be called to action if the conflict persists, due to Notre Dame's high participation in Air Force, Army and Navy ROTC programs. 
"One of my best friends is in ROTC," said Hagan. "It definitely gives a different perspective when you have friends who could very easily get involved." 
Since tensions began mount­ing between the United States 
see WAR/page 6 


Officials discuss alcohol planning 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Editor 
Following a year of protests, petitions, resolutions, dia­logues and reports, some stu­dent government leaders and the Student Affairs Office con­tinue to differ about what course of action should be taken regarding the alcohol policy introduced last March. 
Student government leaders and administrators both said they would welcome further discussion on the policy. This is where they stop agreeing as some stu-See Also dent leaders 
"Campus

want to see 
leaders debate

revisions in the policy policy"and adminis­
page3

trators insist the changes with be upheld. 
"I will be honest: we are not going to revisit the changes," Father Mark Poorman, vice president of Student Affairs, said. "We did not decide the policy changes lightly. It was a two year process where we consulted widely and the changes were unanimously approved by both the University officers and trustees." 
Poorman added that the Board of Trustees in February confirmed the new policy and hoped positive steps would be taken by Student Affairs and student government. He said he welcomed the discussions he has had with students and is willing to entertain sugges­tions for improvements within the framework of the existing policy. 
The Board of Trustees' February resolution has already made such modifica­tions, including an instruction that the Student Affairs Office continue funding hall dances. 
Poorman said his office is 
happy to provide each resi~ 
dence hall with additional 
funding of up to $1,000 for an 
additional year as a part of the 
transitional process. 
The Board also suggested 
that additional funding for hall 
dances he provided for dorms 
that demonstrate fiscal 
responsibility with their hall 
tax money. Poorman wel­
comed these audits, and said 
that halls must he held 
accountable for their finances. 
Some student government leaders do not find these modi­fications to be significant enough and are calling for the return of hall dances for a pro­bationary period. In February, the Office of the President and the Student Senate were divid­ed on how Student Body President Libby Bishop should address the alcohol policy in her report to the Board of Trustees. This division also led to the resignation of Bishop's chief of staff, Pat Hallahan. 
Bishop chose to inform the trustees of the current social climate and hall dance situa­tion. Though Bishop said she was pleased with the decision. the Senate and Hallahan, stu­dent body president-elect, con­curred that further change was necessary. 
Hallahan, who campaigned on a platform to bring back in­hall dances, said he wants to see options and programming that would keep students on campus, and would like to see the return of dances to cam­pus, if only for a probationary period. 
"It's good that there is dis­cussion but there needs to be more -there needs to be a joint effort with regard to the policy and to providing alter­natives to abusive drinking," Hallahan said. 
see ALCOHOUpage 4 
IRISH MARCHING ON 


By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
News Writer 
An excise police comman­der said Thursday that his officers raided a St. Patrick's Day party at the College Park apartment complex after receiving information from a private citizen the previous week that a large party would take place. 
Lt. Greg Deitchley, Commander of the Michigan City office of the Indiana State Excise Police, said that his officers tried to con­firm last week that there would be a large party, but were unsuccessful because no students were on campus due to spring break. He said his office did not have any contact with the University until after the party, when they provided officials with a list of students who were arrested or cited for under­age drinking. 
Deitchley said that excise police officers, including an unspecified number of 

undercover officers, attend­your home and are having a ed the party to follow up on party with invited guests," the tip. Captain William said Deitchley. Thompson, commander of Police arrested one female the afternoon shift for the student for selling alcohol 
S  a  i  n  t  without  a  
Joseph  permit  and  
County Police, s a i d  "We didn 't go to bust the party. Once we got there.  Deitchley said it was unusual for  
Tuesday that two undercov­ we had no choice. We had to restore some  someone to be arrested for this vio­ 
er officers  control."  lation  at  a  
were  at  party.  
the party. " W e didn't go  Lt. Greg Deltchley Indiana State Excise Police  According to Rex Rakow, director of  

to bust the party. Once we got there, we had no choice. We had to restore some control." said Deitchley. 
He said the party violated an Indiana statute regard­ing the sale of alcohol. 
"The best way to explain it is that there is a statute that covers the sale of alcohol and any time you sell, dis­pense or give away alcohol, you must have a permit ... the exception is if you are in 
Notre Dame 
Security/Police. police arrested three additional students and cited three Notre Dame students and one Saint Mary's student. Twenty.five kegs of beer and approximately seven taps were confiscated. A student fell from the bal­cony of an apartment during the party, but was not seri­ously injured. 
see BUST/page 4 


Friday, March 21, 2003

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Let's play
Taboo 
I'm not really sure how to write a sup­posedly funny column that doesn't use the words "war," "Iraq," "bombing," "Bush," or "seven-foot gorilla." Then again, I'm not really sure how to 
write anything at all without these price­1ess staples of American comedy. 
That said, I've still got a whole lot of column left to write, and I can't fill it all whining about what­


ever it is I usually WIii Puckett whine atxmt. 
So, has anyone else noticed that Production there is absolutely no news about any­thing happening anywhere else in the world than That Place Over There? If you wat.ch CNN, FOX, CBS, NBC, ABC, MSNBC, PBS. BBC America or just about any other news channel, you might be led to believe that absolutely nothing is happening worldwide, while every human being on the planet hangs breathlessly on every word of the late-late newscasters. 
Obviously, this is the height ofAmerican arrogance and stupidity -oh, wait, I've been listening to those ultra-liberal ex-hip­pie protesters too much again. Not to say I think all protesters are this way, just the ultra-liberal ex-hippie ones. I suspect you have to be one to make any sense out of that sentence. actually. 
At any rate, never fear, The Observer is here (at least, one staffer) to remedy this grave issue. Recently in Rome, an unlucky "traveling missionary" (a.k.a. spring­breaking student) decided to ignore the big red circle and dash blaring DO NOT ENTER in 38 different languages, none of which was apparently English, and pro­ceeded to race up an escalator going down. 
Atop the escalator, the hapless student was fortunate enough to literally crawl off, hands on the platform and legs madly try­ing to join the hands. Of course, this attracted the attention of a nearby Big Mean Italian Guy, who proceeded to berate the student in 45 different lan­guages, apparently failing to recognize the big red shirt she was wearing saying "I AM AMERICAN," and so also failing to include English. By this time, the poor girl broke down in tears and asked ifshe couldn't just wrestle one of those really large hairy ani­mals that I'm not supposed to talk about. 
Now, you may ask what the moral ofthis story is, but really, it doesn't have one. Pore over it all you like and try to find the anti-w -oops, almost slipped -anti-con­flict logic that must surely be somewhere. let me know if you find any, since I'm too busy counting my oil company stock shares. 
But I digress. If I hadn't put all my money down on the NCAA Tournament, I'd bet you that no other newspaper in the world carried this story today. So, I'm your only source for the refreshing news that's oh-so-devoid of any and all comment about any and all conflicts that may or may not be going on in the world. 
It's a good thing everyone reads the paper at lunch, because those knives may be needed to cut yourself off a steaming pile of sarcasm. Hey, it sure beats Blazin' Sea Nuggets! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Will Puckett at wpuckett@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS  WORLD&  BUSINESS  
NEWS  NATION  NEWS  

SMC students protest U.S. military action 
Saint Mary's Peacemakers social action group staged an anti-war demonstration on campus before par­ticipating in a com-munity-wide protest. 
page3 Allied troops invade Iraq after artillery volleys 
American and British coalition forces crossed into southern Iraq Thursday in the first infantry attacks in the Iraqi war. 
page 5 Oil sabotage fears on the rise 
Rumors that an Iraqi scorched-earth campaign could burn nearly 1700 wells contain­ing millions of gal­lons of oil run ram­pant through the 
industry. 
page 7 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. Last dav for course discontinuance All clay" 
I .. 
. LPctun• with Irish author Catha! 0 SParcah 3 1un. at 42-1-Flanner llall 
. \\'onwn's' h1 1111is match 3::·H) p.m. at Eck Pa,ilion / Courtm1 y Courts 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
"\V" Program 12 noon at 303 Ilaggar College CPnlPr 

. 
Ldghton FPstival of Music, FlPur dP Lys 


7:30 p.m. at \Velsh Parlor, Haggar College Center 
. '.\1idnight Madnnss Doors lock at 9:50 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility 

VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTS 
Irish beat

Humor Artists
Taking the 
Panthers

painfully funny
French out of 
our fries 
The men's basket-

Notre Dame
With the advent 

Humor Artists, or ball team beat the
of war in Iraq, the 

"HA," presents an University of 
United States has 

original play, Wisconsin-
begun to react to 

"Black Beard, For Milwaukee 70-69 in
the strained rela-

Instance" this the last few sec­
tionship between 

weekend. onds of their first-
America and the 
round in the March 
rest of the world. 
Madness tourney. 

page 13 page 14 page 28 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Student vehicle towed 
A student's vehicle displaying an altered parking pass was towed from Cavanaugh Drive Wednesday. The case is being referred for admin­istrative review. 
Student loses wallet 
A student reported losing her wallet in South Dining Hall on Wednesday. 

Medical condition addressed 
Notre Dame Fire Department cared for a sick student in Pasquerilla East residence hall Wednesday. 

Pedestrian struck by car 
Notre Dame Security and Police Department reported responding to a traffic accident involving a pedestrian and a vehicle Wednesday. The pedes­trian was transported to Memorial Hospital for the treatment of minor injuries. 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Fried cheese ravioli, spinach fettuccine. four-cheese pizza, cheese French bread pizza, winter veg­etable stew, cherry crisp, haddock with herbs, cream of wheat, cheesy hash browns, salmon and crabmeat burgers, breaded mushrooms, spicy battered fried pickle, crinkle fries, onion rings, vegetable stir-fry, Spanish rice 
Today's Dinner: Fried cheese ravioli. spinach fettuccine, bianco pizza, spinach and cheese turnover, savory beets, baked redfish, seasoned lemon­mint couscous, baked potato, cut corn, wilted spinach, fried shrimp poppers, scallop and vegetable stir-fry 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Stuffed shells, mush­room marinara, French bread cheese pizza, tomato pizza, chili macaroni and cheese, cauliflower, baked cod, mush­room stroganotr. fried buffalo shrimp,fishwich, grilled vegetable plate, battered wedge fries, soft pretzel, Oriental shrimp with noodles, mini egg rolls, broccoli quesadilla 
Today's Dinner: Vegetable lasagna, black olive marinara, mushroom mari­nara, eggplant parmesan, shrimp spaghetti, baking powder biscuits, Caribbean shrimp and scallops, red seminole snapper, fried shrimp poppers, blaz'n hot and spicy sea nuggets 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
0:: 
LI.I
:c 
!( 
LI.I 
== 
...I ct 
(,) 


...I 0 HIGH 48 HIGH 50 HIGH 40 HIGH 40 LOW 27 LOW 33 LOW 32 LOW 27 

-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Garden veggie burger, herbed orzo, jicama chayote slaw, pasta, marinara, Thai shrimp salad bowl, nacho bar, couscous, broiled fish fillet, pilaf, grilled vegetable medley, cheese pizza, veggie pizza, breadsticks, Philly portobello loafer, spicy hummus, chewy blond brownies, mushroom barley soup, egg drop soup, Italian pasta salad, Greek salad 
Today's Dinner: Tuscan veggie wrap, vegetable fajitas, roasted vegetables, pasta, marinara, pierogie bar, maple BBQ salmon, confetti rice, broccoli cuts, eggplant stromboli, cheese pizza, bread­sticks, stuffed vegan cabbage-casserole, apple spice cake, Jell-0 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 52 HIGH 53 LOW 37 LOW 36 


Atlanta 72 / 53 Bost.on 52 / 41 Chicago 52 I _38 Denver 41 / 28 Houston 72 / 48 Los Angeles 68 / 52 Minneapolis 42 / 30 New York 58 I 45 Philadelphia 64 / 46 Phoenix 70 / 53 Seattle 54 I 44 St. Louis 58 / 40 Tampa 82 / 69 Washington 68 / 51 

Friday, March 21, 2003 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
Campus leaders debate policy IRAQ 
By HELENA PAYNE 
Senior Staff Writer 
After the March 18, 2002 announcement that the administration had instituted a new alcohol policy, many students derided the decision, charg­ing that it would negatively alter residential hall life in a drastic way. 
Today, current and future resident assistants see the alcohol policy as "just another rule." 
In Dillon Hall, second-year RA Yogeld Andre said he has noticed fewer parties and a general willing­ness among residents to obey the new rules. 
"I thought I was going to have more trouble," Andre said, describing his original thoughts about enforcing the policy, which restricted tailgating, eliminated hard alcohol in the dorms and moved hall dances to outside venues. "It has caused us to be more alert, more vigilant and we have enforced it. But has it been hectic? Not really." 
Junior Kristin Steckbeck, who will be an RA in Howard Hall 


sula -Iraq's access point to 
next year, said students have "I think it's encouraging worried because they drink too 
the Persian Gulf and the site of 
found ways to get around the to know that students see much," Prange said. 
major oil facilities. British mili­
policy. Yet, more recently, Prange 
tary officials said they hoped 
a real value to living on
"I think it has become less of a said students have tried to cover
.. 

to seize the key port of Umm 
burning issue but in two ways: campus. up their trips to ER. Instead of 
Qasr before the day's end. 

some students have just ~om­RAs or rectors bringing intoxi­
Through the night and as
plied and dealt with it, and some cated students from hall dances
BIii Kirk 
the sun rose, artillery barrages 
students have just decided to to ER, she said most students 
targeted Iraqi positions in al­
Assistant Vice President of
ignore it," Steck beck said. "I come from off-campus locations. 
Faw, and witnesses in north­
Residene Life
know a lot of people who say, "I think a lot of them are afraid 
'Let's just stick the bottle of rum 
further in the dresser and not 
worry about it."' 
Despite some predictions that there would be a 
mass exodus by students to local apartment com­plexes, the Office of Residence Life and Housing showed a 1.7 percent increase in housing con­'tracts this year, indicating that many students plan 
to remain on campus. 
In addition, Residence Life received more RA 
applications than last year, up 12 percent at 320 
applications compared with last year's 286. 
"I think it's encouraging to know that students 
see a real value to living on campus," said assis­
tant vice president of Residence Life Bill Kirk."I 
don't think there's that much cause and effect with 
the housing numbers because of the alcohol poli­
cy," Kirk said. 
As for the roughly 20 percent of students that 
live off campus, Kirk said the University antici­
pates that percentage each year. 
"We need students to [move off campus]. We 
don't have enough housing on campus," Kfrk said. 



Iraqis surrender as
While the reliance of students living off campus each year has been a convenient way for ResLlfe to accommodate the many students who want to stay on campus, the off-campus scene has allowed 


troops advance 
some students to take advantage of the less strin­
gent rules. Junior Drew Donovan, who will be an RA in 

Associated Press 
Knott Hall next year, said he has also noticed fewer parties in his dorm, as many students have ·opted to socialize off-campus. 

SOUTHERN IRAQ
"I don't think it's had a drastic change on dorm 

U.S. troops advanced
life," he said. 

through the deserts of south­
The popularity of off-campus parties has been 

ern Iraq in armored convoys
noticed by South Bend's Memorial Hospital, where 

Friday after launching the
patient care assistant Nancy Prange said the 

· war's ground assault, meeting 
majority of alcohol-related emergency room trips 

resistance from Iraqi forces in
for Notre Dame students occur after they are 

some areas and soldiers sur­
taken from an off-campus party. 
rendering in others. 
Prange, who has worked at Memorial for 15 

As the U.S. Marines and 
years. estimates at least two Notre Dame students 

Army drove deeper into south­
go to the emergency room each week. 

ern Iraq. British troops moved
"There's always somebody 

on the strategic al-Faw penin­
that's falling or their friends got 

ern Kuwait side said they
that they are going to get in trou­could hear thunderous explo­ble," she said, adding, "It used to 

sions from the Umm Qasr
be acceptable to party .... Now it is worrisome." 
area.
The director of Notre Dame Security/Police, Rex Further west along the bor­Rakow, said it is still too early to see the effects of der, some 200 Iraqi soldiersthe alcohol policy. 

surrendered to the U.S. 15th"A lot of students go off campus every year and Marine Expeditionary Unit juststudents make sometimes good choices and some­over an hour after it crossedtimes bad choices," he said. 
the border into Iraq from
In general. many feel that the alcohol buzz that northern Kuwait. 
generated protest and scorn last year from vocal 

One group of 40 Iraqis
students is over. 

marched in formation down a"The public outcry is one thing, but when push 
two-lane road toward the 
comes to shove, [students] make decisions like they Americans and gave up. Theyshould," Kirk said. 

were told to lie face down onRAs like senior Meg Anderson of Howard say the ground and were searchedthat dorm life is about community more than poli­by the Marines. At the samecies. 
time. Marines cleared
"We aren't here to enforce rules. We're here to bunkers, emerging from one support our residents," she said. 

with two Iraqis with bound wrists. One had a dark gray uniform, the other was bare­
Contact Helena Payne at hrayam@nd.edu. 

foot. Abandoned weapons 

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE DEPARTMENT of COMMUNICATION STUDIES, DANCE & THEATRE 
presents 

Euripides' classic tale of betrayal, revenge, and murder. 
March 27 -28 at 8:00 p.m. • March 29 at 2:30 & 8:00 p.m. March 30 at 2:30 p.m. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium Stage 
s.;n, M•,y', Call•1•~ 

Limited to 120 seats per performance. 

~M8af,f'~/
Advanced purchase of tickets is FOR rHE ARTS suggested. HOTII• DAIIE., '"'
IES 

For ticket information cont.act the Saint Mary's Box Office at 
574/284 4616 

mortars were spread over a large area. 
Elsewhere, U.S. troops met resistance from Iraqi units. The 7th Marine Infantry's 3rd Batallion apparently had to delay its foray into Iraq after -according to military radios -a large number of previous­ly unknown tanks was sighted on the Iraqi side of the border. 
The unit took small arms and artillery fire Thursday 

night, and at one point a U.S. 
Cobra helicopter accidentally 
fired a missile at a U.S. Ml 
Abrams tank, injuring one sol­
dier and forcing abandonment 
of the smoldering tank. Friday 
morning, the unit opened a 
massive artillery barrage 
across the border. 
In Iraq, Marines in the 1st 
Division opened fire with 
machine guns on an Iraqi T-55 
tank and destroyed it with a 
Javelin, a portable anti-tank 
missile. Troops from the 
Army's 3rd Infantry Division 
came into contact with several 
Iraqi armored personnel carri­
ers. destroying at least three of 
them, front line troops report­
ed by radio. 
There were no reports of 
U.S. casualties in the engage­ments. In northern Kuwait, a helicopter crashed Thursday, killing the four American crewmembers and 12 British troops on board. 
By taking southern Iraq, the allies would command access to the Gulf and set the stage for the first major conquest on the way to Baghdad -Basra, Iraq's second largest city, just 20 miles from the Kuwait bor­der. 
The move on the area between Basra and the Persian Gulf suggested that the allied strategy on the ground calls for a two-pronged attack -one to clear Iraqi resistance in the southern oil region while the other charges north toward Baghdad. 
The start of the advance into Iraq was signalled Thursday night by a thunderous artillery barrage by allied forces in northern Kuwait across the border. Infantrymen on the move, their weeks of waiting at an end, cheered as shells screamed overhead. 
The armored vehicles of the 1st Marine Division rolled across the border at around 9 
p.m. local time (1 p.m. EST). As they moved through the desert, burning oil wells were visible, spewing black smoke into skies lit by a nearly full moon . 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 21, 2003 

Bust 
continued from page I 
Deitchley said that his office would have been liable if it had not responded to the tip about the party and a stu­dent was injured. 
"If we wouldn't have responded and a student had been hurt, we would have had a responsibility ... it is not that we are trying to bust a legitimate and legal party. That party was nowhere close to being legal. More people could have gotten hurt," Deitchley said. 
Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for Residence Life at the University, said that his office did not contact Excise Police before the party, but would be contact­ing students arrested and cited at the party and others involved in planning the party. 
"When parties come to our attention as obviously and publicly as someone falling off a balcony or a party with 7 5 kegs [we will respond]." said Kirk. 
Kirk said that when his office hears rumors of such a large party, its first step is to contact students organizing the party, rather than police. 
"We try to contact students and tell them of the signifi­cant liability they have with such a large party. When we hear a rumor of a party with 75 kegs, it is appropriate to respond," Kirk said. 
Deitchley said his office is still investigating the party and more arrests could be made. 
"If there is anyone else involved that needs to be charged, we will pursue them," he said. Deitchley encouraged students plan­ning to host such a party in the future to obtain the nec­essary permits through the Alcohol and Tobacco Commission. 
"In the future, it would be better for everyone involved, if there are going to be par­ties. that organizers take steps to ensure that they are legal. My office is glad to assist anyone with getting the right information," Deitchley said. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 
Fed up -with the news? Write it yourself! Call 1-5323 today! 
student government, the Student Union Board and stu­



Alcohol 
dent clubs should work together to rejuvenate the

continued from page I 
campus social culture. 

Hallahan hopes to represent "We can't just accept the student's concerns when current situation but we must meeting with Poorman and look at it and ask, 'how can other administrators and then we make it better?"' Hallahan discuss why the policy is not said. working. He said the policy Implementing these funding simply shifted the problems and programming changes off campus, bringing to light could be complicated by the 
several safety concerns. Board of Trustees February 
"Simple policy changes are budget cut, which decreased not going to provide the · the student life budget by 5 changes that they desire and percent. Poorman ensured there needs to be other that despite the cuts to his options and education so that department's budget, the students don't drink abusive­additional hall dance funding ly," Hallahan said. "The poli­would be provided. cy is a two-sided commitment Hallahan said the return of -one that needs Student SYRs would boost campus Affairs to provide resources social life and should be and opportunities as alterna­offered on a probationary tives to drinking and not just period. He believes that a commitment to changing dances could be controlled policy." within the halls due to the 
Hallahan suggested that ban on hard alcohol and funding be increased for edu­stricter dorm rules. cating students about the Poorman maintained tha'.t local community as well as the policy regarding hall alcohol use, and encouraged dances would not be revised programming to keep stu­and said the dances could not dents on campus. He added be safely held within the that the Office of the space constrictions, saying Pre~ident, other 'divisions of the focus of dances had shift­ed to drinking. He added that the traditions of the residence halls have not been compro­mised. 
"I think that students who were looking for an alcohol­driven party have been disap­pointed by the changes in the dances," Poorman said. "Those who have been look­ing for a general dance have been encouraged by the changes." 
Hall senators said flaws still existed in the policy and have been communicating with rectors on the Campus Life Council in order to draft a resolution to bring back in­hall dances. Kevin Conley. chair of the Residence Life committee, said he expects the group to present an open letter addressed to the CLC dealing with students' con­cerns with the policy. 
"Our job is to represent our constituent and an over­whelming majority of us feel this is the besi way to do it," Conley said. 
Jeremy Lao, student body vice president-elect, said he will discuss the policy with the new Senate leaders and steering committees when the new Senate takes over on April 1. He will refrain from addressing his concerns in open Senate meetings. 
Hallahan said he and Lao want to work through campus channels to bring about their changes. but ultimately will bring their concerns to the Board of Trustees should their concerns not be addressed. 
"We aren't going to be over­ly patient because these prob­lems are real, and in addition, people's safety is important," Hallahan said. "We will make it known to the Board if nec­essary." 
Matt Storin, University spokesman, said following the Board of Trustees' February meetings that its resolutions were somewhat unprecedent­ed. Although the Board over­sees University operations. allocates funds and appoints officers, the Board entrusts the University officers to han­dle on-campus affairs. 
Poorman said a time frame of three to five years would be necessary in order to fully access the changes and -to review the policy. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 


"The Attorney as Gatekeeper: Toward Definition and Implementation of the Securities Lawyer's Role" 
by Professor John Coffee Adolf A. Berle Professor of Law Columbia Universiry 
Friday. March 21, 2003* 
2:00 pm 120 Law School 
All are invited to attend. 

*Please note that Prof. Coffee's visit has been moved up one week from the original!,y announced date of March 28. 

.. 
Friday, March 21, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
U.S. chopper crashes on invasion day, 16 killed 
Associated Press 
SOUTHERN IRAQ 

American and British combat units rumbled across the desert into Iraq from the south Thursday and bombed limited targets in Baghdad. But military commanders withheld the mas­sive onslaught that would signal all-out war as U.S. officials tried to talk the Iraqi regime into giv­ing up. 
Coalition forces suffered their first casualties in a helicopter crash that left 12 Britons and four Americans dead. 
"The days of the Saddam Hussein regime are numbered," Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld predicted, although he also said there was "no need for a broader conflict" if Iraqi leaders surrender. 
On the second day of Operation Iraqi Freedom, American officials held out the tantalizing possibility that Saddam had been killed in the initial Wednesday night bomb­ing of Baghdad. 
State-run Iraqi television said Saddam survived, and met with his top aides to counter the U.S.-led attack. 
"We are resolved to teach the criminal invaders hard lessons and make them taste painful punishment," declared the Iraqi military. 
The onset of war sparked anti-war demonstrations across the country -more than 1,000 were arrested in San Francisco -and at U.S. embassies around the world. The State Department warned U.S. citi­zens abroad of an increased danger of terrorism. 
Rumsfeld hinted that talks with Iraqi military elements, including some in the elite Republican Guard, may have been behind a delayed start to a planned massive aerial assault. 
"We still hope" the Iraqi lead­ership can be replaced "without the full force and fury of a war," Rumsfeld said after meet­ing with lawmakers on Capitol Hill. 
Rep. Robert Andrews, D-N.J., said following a House briefing with Rumsfeld that "the behavior of those who've not surrendered would suggest that they might." 
In southern Iraq, white light glowed in the desert sky, and the sound of explosions could be heard from across the Kuwait-Iraq frontier as the 3rd Infantry Division unleashed an artillery barrage. Troops eager to cross the border into Iraq cheered -and units were soon on their way. 
The 101st Airborne Division rumbled across the desert in a vast convoy -trucks, tankers, humvees and more rolling along under a round white moon. some of their own oil wells. 

Iraq sent missiles toward Protecting the oil-rich Basra Kuwait in retaliation for the region was one of the American pre-dawn attack against military's goals as Marines and Saddam, and American officials Army special forces headed into said the Iraqis had set fire to Iraq. 
The Iraqi missiles landed harmlessly in the Kuwaiti desert. Officials said none of the Iraqi missiles caused injuries, and one was intercepted by a Patriot missile. 
Hundreds arrested in rowdy anti-war demonstrations 
Associated Press 
Galvanized by the American attack on Iraq, anti-war activists around the coun­try set off their own barrage of street protests. chaining themselves together, blocking workers and traffic, walking out of classes and parading in mock chemical suits. Hundreds were arrested from San Francisco to Washington. D.C. 
But the anti-war groundswell brought out thousands of counterdemonstrators. One in Mississippi carried a sign saying, "Support the U.S. or keep your mouth shut." 
Thursday was one of the heaviest days of anti-government protesting in years. "This is no ordinary day," said Jason 
Mark, a San Francisco activist. "America is different today: We've just launched an unprovoked, unjust war." 
One protester in a rope and harness committed suicide by letting himself fall from Golden Gate Bridge as police tried to coax him to safety. 
San Francisco had some of the largest anti-war activity, hobbling the morning commute. Thousands in roving bands temporarily took control of some down­town streets and closed several exits from the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge. Smaller splinter groups broke windows, heaved debris into streets and occasionally scuffied with police. Some protesters hurled rocks at trains, briefly halting service at a station in nearby Oakland. 
Police wearing helmets and carrying nightsticks made more than 500 arrests. 
"We don't want to alienate people. I hope people realize that political murder merits action that inconveniences them," said protester Quinn Miller, who took the day off from his job for a bank­ing company. 
Los Angeles County Sheriff Lee Baca encouraged protesters to forgo civil dis­obedience, saying it might sap police resources needed to keep watch for ter­rorism. 
In Washington, dozens of activists temporarily shut down inbound lanes of a Potomac River crossing, holding up the morning commute. Outside the White House, about 50 stood in chilly rain and shouted, "No blood for oil!" 

About 300 protesters rallied in the evening. 
Anti-war activists in Philadelphia. blocked entrances to the downtown fed­eral building, forcing police to detour motorists away from the area. 
Police arrested 107 protesters. 
In New York, about 350 rallied at Union Square and 300 later at Times Square under a steady drizzle. 
About a dozen students lay down in black garbage bags. "We're expressing how the Iraqis are being killed for no reason," said Rachel Klepner, 14, who left class at Beacon High School for the protest. 
In Massachusetts, students and profes­sors walked out of college classes around the state in protest of war. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEF 
Crash causes first U.S.-British casualties 
A U.S. Marine helicopter crashed in Kuwait Thursday, killing all 16 American and British soldiers aboard, military officials said. 
The crash of the CH-46 Sea Knight helicopter kiUed 12 British and four U.S. soldiers, officials said. The helicopter was assigned to the 1st Marine Expeditionary Force. 
The helicopter crashed at 7:37 p.m. EST -Friday morning in Kuwait -about nine miles away from the border with Iraq, military officials said. The cause of the crash is under investigation, the officials said, adding that hostile fire had not been reported in the area. 
The Marines use the Sea Knight, a bus-like heli­copter with two large rotors, to fly troops from ships at sea or base camps to forward positions. 
The Navy and Marines grounded all 291 CH-46 heli­copters in August after an inspection of one helicopter in North Carolina found a crack in a rotor assembly. 
A Marine Corps CH-46 crashed in 2001, killing three Marines and injuring two. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Twisters rip through rural Ga., 6 dead 
Tornadoes killed six people and injured about 200 Thursday in rural southwestern Georgia, destroying dozens of homes. overturning farm equipment and ripping out trees like grass. 
"It looked like a big lawnmower went through there," said Sheriff Freddie Tompkins of Worth County, where a twister cut a 10-mile-long, 300­foot-wide swath. 
Officer recommends no courts-martial 
A military hearing officer Thursday recom­mended against court-martialing two U.S. pilots who killed four Canadian soldiers in Afghanistan last year in a friendly-fire bombing one of the men blamed on the "fog of war." 
Although Col. Patrick Rosenow said there was enough evidence to court-martial both pilots, he said "non-judicial or administrative punishment" would maintain "the interests of good order and discipline." 

Lawmakers condemn "under God" ban 
The House voted Thursday to condemn a federal appeals court's rulings that reciting the Pledge of Allegiance in public schools is unconstitutional because of its reference to God. 
The nonbinding resolution, passed 400-7 with 15 members voting present, states that the phrase "one nation under God" in the pledge reflects the reli­gious faith central to the founding of the nation and that its recitation is a patriotic act, not a statement of religious faith. 
Former NRA lawyer to testify for NAACP 
A former gun lobbyist has agreed to testify for the NAACP in a lawsuit alleging negligent marketing practices by gun manufacturers and distributors fuels street violence that victimizes minorities. 
It will be the first time Robert Ricker, who once worked as an attorney for the National Rifle Association, has testified for gun opponents since he switched allegiance. 

page 6 Friday, March 21, 2003 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Demonstration staged at Saint Mary's 
An emergency meeting was a number of ways. locations such as the Morris By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD called Wednesday night fol­Nine students from the Performing Arts Center and Saint Mary's Editor 
lowing the U.S. attack on Iraq group participated in St. Margaret's House. when members decided to put Thursday's "Not in Our Jensby, like other students, 
In an effort to voice their the demonstration into effect Names" march through said it was the biggest march opposition to the war in Iraq, as soon as possible. downtown South Bend. The she has ever attended. Saint Mary's Peacemakers "The orga-m a r c h "It was the first time we've held a demonstration outside nization as a attracted been to an after-war march," of the Noble Family Dining w h o l e "We decided this would activists she said. "It was kind of Hall Thursday afternoon. doesn't be the most visible and from over heartbreaking since we'd 
Peacemakers members agree with thirteen been fighting against war; it
effective way to get 

posted signs and cut white T­Bush's posi­Michiana had a different feel. At the shirts to make and distribute tion," said student attention.·· churches, same time, it's a reason to armbands advocating peace. Welsh. "We religious celebrate -all of us being 
"We decided this would be just don't communi­out there together."
Emlly Welsh

the most visible and effective believe in a ties and Following the march, mem­
student

way to get student attention," unilateral organiza-bers of Peacemakers attended said junior Emily Welsh. "It's attack on tions. a prayer service held at Saint a sign of solidarity among Iraq." "There Mary's Regina Hall chapel. students. It's a non confronta­Peacemakers is a social jus­was a huge representation of "Too many people are hid­tional way if people want to tice organization unaffiliated Saint Mary's students and ing what they believe in and participate and they don't with any political party. It has even faculty and staff," said are afraid to take a stand," know what to do." existed on Saint Mary's cam­junior Amy Jensby. Jensby said. "We need sup­
The group learned of the pus for approximately 10 The march, organized by port to keep going." idea at a student anti-war years. community representatives Peacemakers meets weekly conference held at the "It comes and goes depend­including the Sisters of the on Thursdays at 6:30 p.m. in University of Chicago over ing on how active students Holy Cross, was one of over the Peace Action Resource Valentine's Day weekend. are," said Welsh. 100 protests planned in the Center located in Haggar Those involved also attended Although the group has no United States following the College Center. a meeting at Notre Dame future demonstrations or initiation of war on Iraq. before spring break where protests yet planned, they will Protesters sang and prayed Contact Anneliese Woolford at the idea was again discussed. continue to support peace in as they made their way to wool8338@saintmarys.edu 
WHAT ARE YOU CALLED TO DO? 
CAREERS AS VOCATIONS: LAY MINISTRY 
Sunday, March 23, 4 -6:00 p.,n. at the Center for Social Concerns Pizza will be served. 
A panel presentation with: 

Rob Ercoline, MA '89, High School Teacher, Pastoral Associate at Little Flower Parish, Spiritual Director, currently with Retreats International 
Sheila Provencher, MDiv '01, Jesuit Volunteer Corps, Assistant Director ofNDVI, currently a writer and activist 
Kathy Schneider, '78, MDiv 184, Holy Cross Sisters service program in Brazil, Pastoral Associate in New York parishes, currently Director, St. Margaret's House 
~:~
F O R~T(J(,,, SOCIAL CONCERNS 
War 
continued from page I 
and Iraq over allegations of pos­session of weapons of mass destruction, many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have taken a proactive stance on the issue. Students attended lec­tures and panel discussions held on both campuses over the past few weeks and others organized protests against military action. 
The University announced Thursday a special prayer ser­vice and rosary that will take place Friday at 9 p.m. in the Basilica with Notre Dame President Edward Malloy pre­siding. Each Friday at 5:15 p.m. a Mass for peace will be hosted at the Basilica, and as long as the military action continues, a prayer service and rosary will be held in a different dorm each weekday. 
Many students could be seen wearing white armbands meant to symbolize their opinion against military action Thursday. The arm bands are available at the Center for Social Concerns under a project orga­nized by freshman Pete Quaranto and the Peace Coalition. Many of the students wearing the bands had decorat­ed them with peace signs or other messages. Gonzalez was wearing a band with the phrase "paz y justicia" -"peace and justice" in Spanish -inscribed on it. 
Despite differences in opinion, many students said that it was important to be supportive of the U.S. armed forces. 
"I definitely think our troops still need our support and our prayers," Gonzalez said. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
MEZZONl'S 
Ital/an Eatery, UC 
251-0007 , 
Delivery or Carry Out, Open 7 Days 
2720 Mishawaka Avenue 
South Bend, IN 46615 

,._Th 1&.30om-11c00prn /~/,,,
\.~.:-:t,y·'l

Fri & Sal 10:30-1am )\\.\{ .•>).~~···•·.. ~.:~ 
Sun Noon-9pm ,:§~'::':::'.'.filt~;:<,:1 

Don't worry. Get a massage. 

Be happy. 

In my office ­1/2 hr. $35; 1hr. $60 (on-site & outcalls available) 
Pennie Christie, CMT 
574-247-0661 

E-mail: Toucbright@aol.com 
Ask about meditation classes 
Cl( wellness parties. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, March 21, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch March 20 
DowJones  
8,286.60  ~ NASDAQ  +21.15  
1,402.77  *S&P500  +5.70  
875.84  ~  +1.81  
.AMFX  
823.74  ~  +1.70  
4,856.44  NYSE  +11.07 
than 700 wellheads and 


~ 

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BOOTS & COOTS (WEL) -33.33 -0.70 1.40 
~-~i~~~i:::i:~i:!i~ii~i:l11t1ii:ii!ii:ii~H:i~!:![i:!~!~:i~!:
SIRIUS SATELLIT (SIRI)+ll.32 +0.06 0.59 
w!illlllllllai!ii;Jwlt~::::::;::::i::Irll~ili!l!llltl:!lil]l!!i11tl 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -0.27 -0.07 26.25 
IN BRIEF 
Japan stocks fall, greenback firms 
Tokyo stocks climbed Thursday on hopes 
the U.S.-led campaign to disarm Iraq by force 
will be quick and successful. The U.S. dollar 
rose against the yen. 
The benchmark 225-issue Nikkei Stock 
Average rose 144.01 points, or 1.79 percent, 
to close at 8,195.05. The Nikkei rose 96.58 
points, or 1.21 percent, on Wednesday. 
The dollar was trading at 119.88 yen at 5 
p.m. (3 :00 a.m. EST). up 1.12 yen from 
118.76 late Wednesday but below the 120.45 yen it bought later in New York trading. 
European bank ready to intervene 
The European Central Bank said Thursday it was prepared to intervene to support European financial markets if war in Iraq threatens stability, hinting at a possible rate cut or money infusion into the banking sys­tem. 
The bank ..stands ready to act if neces­sary," according to a three-paragraph state­ment issued after a meeting of its governing council in Frankfurt. 
"Financial markets can rely on the provi­sion of sufficient liquidity even under excep­tional circumstances, as was demonstrated in the past," the statement said. 
Insurers to cancel Mideast policies 
As they seek financial shelter from war in Iraq, insurers are expected to cancel their riskiest policies in the Middle East shortly after the bombing begins. 
By taking that step, insurers will be able to limit their exposure to losses caused by the war's destruction. In other instances, the cancellations open the door for insurers to offer customers a new policy at a significantly higher price to reflect the perils posed by the war. 
"High-risk policies like this have to be indi­vidually negotiated," said Craig Berrington, general counsel for the American Insurance Association, a major trade group represent­ing property and casualty carriers. 
Oil sabotage fears on the rise 
• Iraqi forces could blow some 1,700 wells 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
Iraqi troops needed just a 
few days and some plastic 
explosives to destroy more 
turn Kuwait's oil fields into 
a desert inferno. 
Fears are growing that 
Saddam Hussein might 
have organized a much 
more meticulous sabotage 
of Iraq's own oil fields, in a 
scorched-earth tactic that 
could cripple Iraqi produc­
tion. 

The oil industry has buzzed with rumors in recent weeks that Iraqis are rigging their wells with explosives in the hope of slowing a U.S.-led attack and making the country's oil wealth worthless for any new government. A loss of oil from Iraq -home to Those assets belong to the force of the explosions for homemade vehicle they the world's second-largest Iraqi people, and as much maximum effect. called "Big Wind" -to oil reserves -could crimp as possible we'd like to The result was Dante­blast flame-retardant foam. supplies for importing keep them intact," she said. esque geysers of burning It took Kuwait more than countries, including the Already, those fears may crude at 603 wells and two years and $50 billion United States, which have become reality. serious damage at more to restore its oil output to depends on Iraq for 2 per­Defense Secretary Donald than 100 others. Teams of pre-Gulf War levels. Iraq, if cent of its imported crude. Rumsfeld said Thursday firefighters from the United it sabotaged its oil fields, 
Oil exports are also a that three or four Iraqi oil States, Canada and eight could take longer and cost major source of the money wells may already have other countries worked much more. that would be needed to been set afire in southern from April until November Iraq's fields and pipelines pay for Iraq's reconstruc­Iraq. Witnesses in Kuwait of that year to douse the are badly run-down after tion after a war. Due to heard explosions and saw last flames. 12 years of U.N. economic their strategic importance, orange flames in the sky Most of the teams used sanctions. Its fields are also the U.S. Defense across the border. seawater pumped through much farther from the Department says it would Conventional explosives Kuwait's empty oil ocean than those in try to secure Iraq's oil attached to wellheads and pipelines to battle the fires. Kuwait, so firefighters fields quickly to prevent other vital facilities could The heat was so intense, at might be unable to pump forces loyal to the Iraqi halt production at any of more than 2,000 degrees seawater to tackle burning president from damaging Iraq's 1,685 wells. With Fahrenheit, that water wells there. them. more than twice as many sometimes continued bub­Destruction could be 
"We can confirm reports oil wells as Kuwait, Iraq bling on the ground for two especially bad if Iraqis set that [Saddam] has taken could suffer an even days afterward, said Mark off explosives underground, measures to booby trap oil greater economic and envi­Badick of Safety Boss, Inc. deep within the well shafts wells by wiring the wells so ronmental disaster. "We've had fire helmets themselves. If that hap­that one person can blow When Iraqi troops melt on our heads," said pened, firefighters would them up," said Defense retreated from Kuwait in Badick, whose Calgary­have to drill a new "relief Department spokeswoman February 1991, they based firm put out 180 of well" and pump a mixture Megan Fox. attached plastic explosives the Kuwaiti well fires. of sand, gel and mud into 
"If the worst happens to wellheads -clusters of Firefighters from each damaged shaft to try and he does detonate pipes and valves protrud­Hungary had a different to plug it up and stop the something that causes the ing from underground technique, using two jet blowout. oil wells to catch fire, we'll wells -and piled sandbags engines mounted horizon­"It's a long, arduous do everything we can. against them to direct the tally on a tank chassis -a process," Badick said. 

War promptsflight cancellations 
war. or asking to postpone them because of
Associated Press 

The carrier is known for recording the war. CAIRO high profits since it was set up 30 years Airlines from India, Pakistan and 
Airlines responded to the start of war ago -even after the Sept. 11 terror Egypt sent special or additional planes in Iraq by canceling flights Thursday, attacks. to Kuwait to evacuate nationals who while others sent special planes to ferry Still, Singapore Airlines canceled had left Iraq ahead of the U.S.-led their citizens home. flights to the capitals of Belgium and attack. officials said. 
The German carrier Lufthansa can­Spain and rerouted flights to London More than 1 million Indian and celed all flights to Tel Aviv, Israel; and Istanbul, Turkey, to avoid flying 60,000 Pakistani workers are in the Amman, Jordan; Beirut, Lebanon; over Iraq. Flights to Dubai in the United region. Kuwait and Saudi Arabia for Thursday Arab Emirates were scaled back earli­Evacuations are voluntary, but both and Friday. er. India and Pakistan have announced 
Air France suspended flights to Tel The international body overseeing emergency plans in case the situation Aviv until Monday. British Airways, aviation prepared to reroute commer­worsens. which suspended service to Tel Aviv cial flights around Iraq. Flights will be Azerbaijan State Airlines offered the and Kuwait earlier, canceled diverted to the north or south, depend­nation's main airport so civilian aircraft Thursday's flight to Beirut, as did sever­ing on the area of conflict, the that usually refuel in Persian Gulf states al other airlines, airport officials said. International Air Transport Association would instead be able refuel in the 
Singapore Airlines said it was sus­said. Azerbaijani capital of Baku. pending 65 weekly flights -including Other airlines, including Air New Meanwhile, other airlines worldwide service to Las Vegas and Chicago-due Zealand and Air Canada, reported pas­announced they were canceling or to "softening demand" as a result of the sengers were canceling their own flights scaling back Mideast flights. 



page 8 Friday, March 21, 2003
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

English professor publishes first book 
sion." By SARAH NESTOR Yanez spent Spring Break Senior Staff Writer in western Texas, visiting 
schools and bookstores, and 
Saint Mary's English profes­introducing his book, which is sor and Center for based on an actual place in El Intercultural Leadership Paso, to the local community. Fellow Richard Yanez official­Yanez has not lived in El ly introduced his first book to Paso for the last eight years, the campus yesterday. The but noted how little the com­book, "El Paso del Notre: munity had changed since he Stories on the last visited. Border" is a He also collections of said that
"It's a book about place ... 
short fiction he writes stories about the real and very almost people living exclusively
imaginative."
in El Paso, about El Texas, where Paso. Yanez grew' Richard Yanez "It's my up. Saint Mary's Engtish professor effort as a 
"It's a book writer to about place... give face to the real and m o n u ­very imagina-ments that tive," Yanez said. exist in El Paso, [monuments] 
Yanez has been writing for that have nothing to do with ten years and his work was government or officials," previously published in "Our Yanez said. Working Lives: Short Stories Currently, Yanez is working of People and Work" and in on a biography on Chicano the Chicano Chapbook Series poet Ricardo Sanchez and a edited by Gary Soto. novel, "Cross Over Water," 
This newest endeavor is both of which have tentative Yanez's first solo publishing release dates set for 2004. project. He said that it took two years to complete and Contact Sarah Nestor at was a "constant act of revi-nest9877@saintmarys.edu 

Enjoy contemporary Italian appetizers and entrees from our 
Seafood Celebration 
menu such as: Salmone alla Griglia, .,· I Capellini and Crabmeat and Shrimp Sizzlelini8 

Unmistakably Italian,\Unbelievably Good. 
Reservations Accepted 
Hours: Sunday• Thursday 11 a.m.-10 p.m. Friday• Saturday 11 a.m.-11 p.m. 5110 Edison Lakes Parkway, Mishawaka 
57 4-271-1692 
Saint Mary's holds spirit event 
Saint Mary's students, have combo and a free airline 
By NATALIE BAILEY been fundraising and plan­ticket to anywhere in the 
News Writer ning for the event since the continental United States. 
fall semes-All event 
Orange freshmen, red ter. attendees sophomores, purple juniors Besides "It is really exciting to have the and blue seniors will con­traditional chance to
bring everyone together 
gregate in the Angela class spirit win the Athletic Facility tonight competitions -not only students but grand­from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. for and winter faculty and staffas well. prize trip Saint Mary's fourth annual intramural t 0
It will be a great night for 
college-wide "Midnight champi­Chicago, Madness" spirit event. onship Saint Mary's College and w h i C h Lynn Kachmarik instituted games, sev­class pride. " includes Midnight Madness four eral new round-trip years ago, during her first activities trans­year as the College's have been Lynn Kachmarlk portation. Director of Athletics. planned to director of athletics a n 
"When I first got here, I involve as overnight remember this overwhelm­many stu-stay at the ing feeling of everything dents as R i t z ­being about Notre Dame," possible. There will be a Carlton, dinner in the John Kachmarik' said. "Our trivia game that requires Hancock Signature Room women were going across crowd involvement, several and a $1,000 shopping the street, balloon spree. looking for bursts, Cathi DeCleene, director a social life. "When I.first got here, I musical of Health and Wellness, and I was glad chairs, an Patrick White, interim vice
remember this 

Notre Dame obstacle president for Academic
overwhelming feeling of

was across course and Affairs, accepted the job of the street, everything being about a new emceeing the event and but I want­g a m e keeping the crowd spirited.
Notre Dame." 

ed to make called "It is really exciting to life at "Steal the bring everyone together ­school Lynn Kachmarlk Bell." not only students but faculty about Saint director of athletics Prizes and staff as well," Mary's. I include a Kachmarik said. "It will be wanted the digital a great night for Saint women to camera, a Mary's College and class be excited television, pride." about Saint Mary's." up to $100 cash, Saint 
Kachmarik and the Mary's apparel, blankets Midnight Madness and towels, restaurant gift Contact Natalie Bailey at Committee, comprised of certificates, a DVD/VCR bail I 407@saintmarys.edu 

Personalized 
Notre Dame Graduation 


University
Announcements 
of 

Notre Dame 

urNa 
urDe 
Phone, mail or fax orders: 
Jostens 1401 Union Street 
Shelbyville, TN 37160 1-800-353-5299 

fax: 1-931-685-6473 Place orders in person on: Tuesday and Wednesday, March 25 and 26 Lafortune Student Center Sorin Room 9:00 a.m. -4:30 p.m. 
Friday, March 21, 2003 page 9
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

ALCove holds open house for students 
By NICOIA BUNICK News Writer 
The AL.Cove, the College of Arts and Letters' experimental gather­ing place for students and faculty in 0'Shaughnessy Hall, held an open house Thursday in an attempt to familiarize more students with its services. 
The lounge provides space for students to study or meet with fac­ulty in an informal setting. Assistant Professor of Psychology and Arts and Letters Undergraduate Adviser Kathleen Kolberg, whose office is located in the ALCove, described the facility as "an experiment." 
"It's a temporary use of space where students can sit down and do work. There is also space for [teaching assistants or professors] to hold discussion sections, review sessions and office hours," she said. 
The AL.Cove also provides many resource materials to undergradu­ate students such as GRE, LSAT and MCAT study guides. 
"Now there is space for students to actually spread out and look at these materials," Kolberg said. "We also plan to use the ALCove to highlight the Arts and Letters expe­rience." 
The center is currently displaying student artwork and posters applauding the achievements of the University's Pre-Law mock trial team. 
The idea of providing a space such as the ALCove was originally suggested by Assistant Dean Jennifer Nemecek. 
"There is a lack ofspace on cam­pus for people to just be." Nemececk said. 
The rooms of 102 and 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall, where the ALCove is now located, originally housed the college's Office of Undergraduate Studies, which moved to a renovated space early in the semester. Although the ALCove officially opened in January, students have only recently begun to utilize the facility. 
"It has been sparsely used, but in the last few weeks [use] has picked up," said Kolberg. Students who know about the ALCove are gener­ally enthusiastic about the facility. But it appears that many are unaware that it exists. 
"Now that I know about it, I would consider using it," freshman Gena Robinson said. 
Robinson had seen advertise­ments for the ALCove, but until Thursday did not realize its pur­pose. 
Thursday's open house was part of the Department of Arts and Letters' attempt to make students more aware that ALCove is there for their use. Both Nemecek and Kolberg said that the department advertised on campus with posters and newspaper ads in hopes that more students and faculty will make use ofthe new space. 
Contact Nicola Bunick at nbunick@nd.edu 
\ 
\ 

52750 IN 933 
574-143-1111 
Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's 

326 N. Ironwood 
574 ¦143-1111 
Comer of Ironwood & McKinley 
FREE DELIVERY. $7.00 Minimum For Delivery. Not Valid With Any Other Offer. Limited Time Only. 

Visit us on the Web at www.marcos.com 02002 Marcos. Inc. 2870-1202 
Chamber music festival at SMC 
By lAUREN O'BRIEN 
News Writer 
The Department of Music at Saint Mary's College will host its inaugural Leighton Festival of Chamber music this weekend, featuring per­formances by two local and one international chamber ensembles, '­
The local ensembles, Fleur de Lys and the South Bend Chamber Singers, will join the Cavani String Quartet from the Cleveland Institute of Music to round out the fes­tival schedule. 
The world-renowned Quartet, which was awarded the prestigious Naumburg Chamber Music Award in 1989 and has performed at venues such as Carnegie Hall, will be in residence at the College from March 21 through March 2 5, during which time they will rehearse and present a concert with Saint Mary's music students. 
"This level of exposure to such gifted and experienced performers raises the bar," said Nancy Menk, chair of the College's Department of Music, in a press release. "It illustrates how far you can go with potential and hard work, and offers a model of professionalism at its best." 
Festival organizers said that they hope that the resi­dency of a chamber music ensemble will provide a unique opportunity for stu­dents and faculty in Saint Mary's music department, 

which traditionally concen­The festival will open trates on the study of piano tonight with a performance and voice. by Fleur de Lys entitled 
"This is very rare," Jeffrey "Music of Eighteenth Century Jacob, professor of music at Italy." The concert will be 
t  h  e  held in Haggar  
College  College  
and festi­val orga­nizer, ,s a i d .  ..This is very rare. Only a handful ofschools in the country reguarly do  Center's Welsh parlor. The Cavani String Quartet  
"Only a handful  something like this ... "  will perform Saturday at  
0  f  Little Theatre  
schools  Jeffrey Jacob  in the Moreau  
in  the  Saint Mary's music professor  Center for the  

country regularly do something like this, where professional musicians rehearse and perform with undergraduates." 
Freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors will all be represented in Tuesday's concert with the Cavani Quartet, which will also include student VQcal perfor­mances and two string quar­tet pieces written by senior 
music  majors  Shannon  
Nelson  and  Meghann  
Robinson.  _  

Chamber music, which can include two to six musicians in an ensemble, is distinctive in comparison to performing solo or in an orchestra. The intimacy of such a small group allows each musician to hear everything immedi­ately. as opposed to musi­cians in an orchestra. 
"It is a very intimate expe­rience," Jacob said. "[Each musician] brings something very important to the musical process." 
Arts. Prior to 
its work at Saint Mary's, the quartet toured throughout the United States and Europe. 
Sunday, the South Bend Chamber Singers will per­form "Music for a Sacred Space" in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto Sunday at 7 
p.m.. 
The Leighton Festival will conclude Tuesday at 7 p.m. in Little Theatre with a col­laboration concert between the Cavani Quartet and Saint Mary's music students. 
The music department plans to hold the Leighton Festival every other year, focusing on a different genre of music for each festival. 

"Saint Mary's students should really take advantage of such an unusual opportu­nity," Menk said. "I hope students will come out to show their support." 
Contact Lauren O'Brien at obri1648@saintma.rys.edu 
Observer NeWs: It may not be Cancun, but it's still hot! Call 1-5323 for info. 
' 


' 
Friday, March 21, 2003 

page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

·with the outbrealc of ~ar, please join us in a 

J 

in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
@ 9:00 p.m. 

Fr. Edward Malloy, c.s.c., presider 
Friday, March 21, 200 3 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
300th execution carried out in Texas 
Associated Press 
HUNTSVILLE, Texas 

An apologetic killer 
Thursday became the 300th 
inmate put to death in Texas 
since the state resumed the 
death penalty 20 years ago. 
Keith Clay, 35, who gunned 
down a convenience store 
clerk during a 1994 robbery, 
prayed softly to himself as he 
was executed by injection. He 
was pronounced dead at 6:23 
p.m. 
Clay asked for forgiveness 
from three members of his 
victim's family, who watched 
through a nearby window. 
"I know you have suffered a great loss and I am truly, truly sorry," he told the fami­ly of Melathethil Tom Varughese. 
Clay also asked God to "for­give me of every single soli­tary sin I have committed." 
Turning to his mother, he said, "Let everyone know that I love them. This is not good­bye. I will see you later." 
Cynthia Smith smiled and flashed two thumbs up to him. 
Clay was the 11th inmate executed this year in Texas, which is on a pace to surpass the record 40 lethal injec­tions it carried out in 2000. Another execution is sched­uled for next week. 
It took nearly 13 years for Texas to reach 100 exP.r.11­
tions, four years to get to No. 
200 and now just over three 
to reach the 300th. 
The state accounts for more 
than one-third of the 838 
executions in the United 
States since 1976, when the 
death penalty resumed under 
a Supreme Court ruling. 
Virginia is second with 87. 
Clay was convicted of 
killing Varughese during a 
robbery in Baytown. near 
Houston. Varughese had 
come to the United States 
from India a year earlier. 
Clay had said he was out­
side the store in a car when 
Varughese was killed, but a 
witness identified Clay as the 
gunman and evidence showed 
his gun was one of the two 
used in the shooting. 
'Tm not happy to see some­one put to death, but I know that the trial was a fair trial," said Marie Munier, who pros­ecuted Clay. "I think it's jus­tice." 
Prosecutors also linked Clay to the fatal shootings of three people, including two chil­dren, on Christmas Eve in 1993. He denied any role in the killings and was not tried, but a companion was sent to death row for the crime. 
The Supreme Court refused to review Clay's case last week. The Texas Board of Pardons and Paroles refused to consider a clemency request because it was filed late. 

Security increases nationwide 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Federal agencies 
increased inspections at 
borders and of the food sup­
ply, put nuclear plants on 
heightened alert and 
stepped up the search for 
possible Iraqi terrorist 
"sleeper cells" in a move to 
war footing Thursday. 
As the U.S. assault on Iraq 
intensified, Homeland 
Security Secretary Tom 
Ridge told members of 
Congress that there had 
been no incidents in the 
United States in retaliation. 
He said the "code orange" 
alert status imposed this 
week would stay in effect. 
FBI agents, in an attempt 
to head off possible retalia­
tion for the war, began fan­
ning out across the country 
to interview thousands of 
people born in Iraq, the 
agency said. The FBI also 
said it also wanted to try to 
prevent hate crimes against 
people of Iraqi heritage. 
The FBI's 56 bureaus 
were put on around-the­
clock operation. 
"We are running down 
every lead, responding to 
every threat," Director 
Robert Mueller said. 
Federal meat and poultry inspectors, in their routine inspections, began testing for chemical or biological agents that terrorists might use, said Jesse Majkowksi, head of the Agriculture Department's food security office. 
The Food and Drug Administration increased testing for such potential agents in products it ana­lyzes, agency officials said. The CentfHS for DisP.asP. 

Control was keeping a look­specific threat involving the 
out in case doctors notice northern border crossings. any unusual outbreak of Inspectors are doing more diseases or symptoms asso­searches of vehicles and 
ciated with those agents. cargo and asking travelers 
On Capitol Hill, some con­more questions at the 300 gressional hearings were border-crossing points, air­canceled or their agendas ports and seaports, said 
abbreviated as lawmakers Robert Bonner, commission­
focused on the war. Tours er of the Bureau of Customs of the Capitol were suspend­and Border Protection. ed effective Friday but visi­More than a half-dozen tors can still get into the states have moved National House or Senate galleries Guard troops to nuclear with a p o w e r 
pass from plants, a lawmak­"We are running down according to 
er's office. ind ustry
an

every lead, responding to 
At one survey.
hearing, every threat ... Additional senators security were told measures
Robert Mueller
that the were imple­
FBI director
govern­ment had stepped up its inspec­tions of cargo vessels com­ing into the United States because of continued wor­ries terrorists might use them to bring in a radioac­tive "dirty bomb" or other explosive. · 
But Asa Hutchinson, Homeland Security's under­secretary for border and transportation security, acknowledged that the country remains vulnerable because more than 6 million cargo containers arrive in America every year and not all of them can be checked. 
U.S. officials want to improve cooperation with major foreign ports to more clearly pin down what is being shipped. · 
An additional 125 border 
guards  were  sent to  the  
Canadian  border  to  
strengthen security  and  

help traffic flow, although officials said thP.v harl no 
mented at 
reactor sites 
when the 
national 

threat level was raised to 
code orange late Monday. 
An intelligence report that 

terrorists might have target­
ed the Palo Verde nuclear 
power plant in Arizona led 
that state's governor to dis­
patch the National Guard to 
the 4,000-acre complex 50 
miles west of downtown 
Phoenix. 
Congressional and admin­istration sources, speaking on condition of anonymity. said the initial concern about Palo Verde although significant enough to warrant the warning -is now being largely discount­ed. 
Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham told a Senate hearing, when asked about the Palo Verde alert, that "actions are being taken by all the appropriate agencies to address the concerns that 
h VP. hP.P.n r:1i'-Pn " 
Save some green during March Madness!! 
Save some green when you visit a participating Jackson Hewitt location during March Madness: you'll SAVE $20.00 on the cost of tax preparation! 
c ') ' Our tax experts know all the latest 
f
( \\ . / tax law changes. 


We find the hard-to-find deductions Accurate, computerized tax returns. FREE electronic filing with paid tax 
preparation. 

: .•. , ••HEWll'I® 
, ...... ;•·· :::::t::'''''M'm'lffi.i.L. · TAX SER.,_ 
Call 888-800-1040 for a location near you! 
·---------------------------------------~ 
1 Present this coupon to SAVE $20.00 on I
sAVE 

1 your income tax preparation. I I Present this coupon at a participating Jackson-Hewitt Tax 1 I Service location. . . . . :
$ 

I 20¦ 0 0 Coupon valid through March 31, 2003, Valid only al part1c1p~tmg locations, 
I and may not be combined with other offer. Most offices are independently I 
•
Since 1923 •Group Services •Professional Drivers 

•
Luxury Buses •Competitive Rates •Wheelchair Accessible 


. DIAL TOLL FREE 

1-800-348•7487 
www.cardinalbuses.com 
owned and operated3ed. Coupon Code: 4300 Promo Code JH0B 
I --------•
·------------------------------­

rJ,_HE
vnSERVER 


Friday, March 21, 2003 
page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Scon Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Henler 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim K.acmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins SAJNT MARV'S EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Ceneddla 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek CONTROllER: Michael Flanagan 
SYSTEMS MANAGER: Ted Bangert 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFo.............. 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING................................ .....63 l-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME.................... 63I-454I 
BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 observer.obsnews. I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................63I-4543 observer.sports. I@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................63 I-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................ .631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qw:stiom regarding Obmverpolicirs should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefAndrt'W Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obw,rm !USPS 599 240) is publi,hcd Monday through Friday '"'°'P' during cum and v«.arion pmod,. A ,ubscriprion w Tht Ob~rvcr LI SIOO fur one-.:adcrnk: 
f<'&I, SS5 fur OP<""""'"'·  
The Obw,rver i, pubh,hed .,,  l'OSTMA!.TER  
024 South Dining H.U  Smd addrn:. corn:crioru to:  
None D>m<. IN ~556  Th< Ob.crvcr  
P.O. Bo, Q  
Pnlodical poH&ge paid at None Dame­ Noue Dame, IN 4655(..()rn  

and addlrionai mailing office.. 
The Ob"'"'"' i, • lllffllM nf th, A=ciatcd Prcu. All r<producrion righu are rcscn<d. 

Alcohol policy demands more education 
Notre Dame's year-old alcohol policy has undeniably how to avoid the dangerous areas of South Bend and the 
changed campus life. While hall staff members have seen importance of never traveling off campus or back to campus fewer alcohol related problems in their dorms this year, the alone. issue of alcohol use and abuse has not necessarily disap­Instead of basking in the glory of fewer alcohol problems in peared from the campus culture. The lack of music blasting the dorms, administrators must realize that Notre Dame's from dorm rooms and the steady stream of cabs and stu­drinking culture remains mostly unchanged and act to pre­dents leaving campus each weekend show that vent more problems in addition to punishing students haven't changed their drinking habits 0 The students who get in trouble. Busts of underage -just their drinking location. Now. instead of bserver students at bars and parties may keep a few partying in a place where help from hall staff •a1 students from drinking for a while, but better is only a minute away, students are drinking educating students leaving the protective shad-
EditJon

off-campus where they may not receive help if ow of the Dome to party will help keep serious they need it. harm from coming to them and leave a more 
The new alcohol policy is here to stay -and so is the cul­lasting impression. And while the final responsibility to drink ture of drinking it was designed to curb. At the one-year safely lies with students, the administration should do every­mark since its implementation, it is clear that the new policy thing in its power to give students the knowledge they need continues to demand changes of and place responsibilities to act responsibly. upon both students and administrators. Students must recognize that regardless of University poli­
Administrators can help students by educating them about cy, they must make smart decisions when partying on or off the dangers they face off-campus. The new policy has campus. If the on campus culture does not meet their social pushed more students beyond the watchful eyes of hall staff needs, then they must take extra precautions and be members, making it imperative that the average student now informed to ensure the personal safety of themselves and be able to recognize who has had too much to drink and who their friends. Information the University provides cannot be needs help. Administrators should also do their part to bet­overlooked and students should not jeopardize their security ter educate students about common-sense principles like and well-being in the interest of a more exciting social life. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Appreciate the military's sacrifice 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Meghan Martin Chris Federico Bill Puckett Joe Lindsley ' Claire Heininger Matt Bramanti
t/, 
J Viewpoint . Scene 
Teresa Fralish Sarah Vabulas 
Graphics Lab Tech 
Chris Naidus Matt Lovell 
NOTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
What effect do you think the change in the alcohol policy has had on campus life? 
¦ Worsened 80% 
¦ No change 11% ®. Improved 9% 
*PoH appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 162 responses. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
..Never in the field ofhuman conflict was so much owed by so many to so few ... 
Sir Winston Churchill British prime minister 
I am writing in response to Joe Muto's Wednesday column. As we all know by now, the war in Iraq has begun, and we are now in a time of heightened tension both abroad and on our own soil. In his column Muto states that should the draft be reinstated, he would be "in 
draft dodger." 
He then goes on to say that he expresses con­cern for his friends in ROTC and equates going to the Boat Oub and female donns to being on the front lines. Personally, I am appalled at his comparisons, even if he meant it to be taken as a joke. I am currently a senior in ROTC, and ifI were to do it all over again, I would sign up without question. In taking my ROTC scholarship, my goal was not merely to get a "free education" as he said, but to attend an outstanding university and then have the privilege ofserving my country upon grad­uation. 
The tuition payments and stipends came as an added benefit for me and were not the sole motivating factors, as many think. I joined the military out ofa love for my country, a sense ofduty to upholding the values on which it was established and so that others who do not want to fight do not have to. Muto will be happy to know that he will probably not have to dodge the draft because there are many people will­ing to make the supreme sacrifice. 
Our volunteer military is strong enough to be able to combat many different cir­cumstances without the need to reinstitute the draft. He might also be pleased to know that ifthere were a draft, he would 
probably not be drafted since 18­
one else. I am sure he is sigh­ing in relief upon reading this. Yet while he is get­ting dollar bills pulled from his open fly, there 
will be many 18-year­old kids on the front­lines. 
The conditions in which they live in are something he cannot even fathom. Their 
lives are void ofshow­
ers and plush accom­modations. They have rations that many of us 
would consider to be far worse than anything we 
on a daily basis, most ofus would not do to our household pets. These are kids, some of whom have to live on food stamps because they get paid less and work more than anyone you probably know. 
Some ofthese kids don't even have a high school education; yet they are willing to make the supreme sacrifice in defense oftheir country and its values. 
Don't get me \\Tong -I personally wel­come any and all criticisms. The freedom of speech and assembly guarantee that Americans can express their beliefs, and I fully support anyone to do so whatever it may be. However, do not presume, even in jest, to begin to understand what it is like 

to be one of those kids on the frontlines. I personally have never experienced it myself, but many who have served have managed to give me the smallest idea of what it is like. To question the bravery of those who are there at this present time is utterly appalling. 
Those brave Iraqi troops Muto talked about are surrendering left and right at this moment, and the last sight of the vaunted Iraqi Republican Guard by our troops was when they were running away from American forces in the first GulfWar. Feel free to criticize the decisions to go to war and the way in which leaders conduct the war as it is your right to do, but do not insult those men and women who are cur­rently staring down a situation which you will never even come close to experienc­ing. 
The sacrifice they make on a daily basis is more than you may ever make in your life. So when you see your ROTC friends next, tell them that you are praying for them and their families, and give them support that they probably need right now. At this point, I am going to listen to my Commander-in-Chief address the nation. I am prepared to follow the decision that he and the leadership he represents make in regards to my role in the conflict. I ask that we all pray for everyone involved and pray for a swift conclusion in order to minimize the cost to everyone involved. 
John Dues senior off-campus March 20 

..------------------------"!------------------------------------------------··----, 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, March 21, 2003 page 13 
Taking the "French'' out ·of our fries 
Diplomacy has had its day, at least for now. As this column is being written in the early hours of the morning, Saddam Hussein is speaking live in response to the United States' opening strike against him, one of the "targets of opportunity." What has happened to our diplomatic efforts at the United Nations which have spawned some conservative 
U.S. congressmen to change the name of French toast and French fries to "Freedom·~ toast and fries? 
The globalization of economies and communications may have shrunk the Earth, but the nations of the world are as divergent as the political divide in the United States. Our nation is composed of two ways of life, best evident as the blue and red states depicted during the 2000 presidential elec­tion. In general, the east and west coasts, along with several traditionally industrial states believe that diplomacy should con­tinue. The heartland and south believe that the Bush doctrine of preemptive action is one that justifies war with Iraq. 
Internationally, most of the larger nations of the world, especially those located closer to Iraq, fall in the diplomacy column. Follo\\>ing the United States attack on Iraq, several criticized the president's actions. German Chancellor Gerhard 

Gary Caruso 
Capitol Comments 

Schroeder said that the U.N. Security 
Council has not failed to act. that U.N. 
Resolution 1441, passed unanimously last fall, did not specifically authorize military action and that a war with Iraq is illegal. 
French President Jacques Chirac said that France has unfairly been singled out as the cause of a U.S. failure to muster a majority of votes to pass a second U.N. res­olution authorizing military action, espe­cially in light of Russia and China's opposi­tion. Russia and China both strongly con­demned the U.S. strikes on Iraq. 
Some contend that a full scale military assault on Iraq is not necessary, especially in light of the "target of opportunity" preci­sion during the first U.S. attack. They say that the president could have zeroed in on Hussein during the past few months and removed him without much collateral damage in a surgical manner made famous by the Israelis. They also believe that an impatient, diplomatically uninter­ested president became frustrated at the United Nations and simply took his ball and went home. 
European-bashing in the United States has focused on France more than other nations who also \-\ield veto power in the 
U.N. Security Council. Americans remind the French that the United States saved them twice in two world wars and that the French should be appreciative. American conservative commentators belittle France by saying that the French can only feel important by using their veto power because they are no longer a major power in the world. 
The diplomatic stalemate at the United Nations arose because President George 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Hope for a fresh 
start for the 
Iraqi people 
The day has finally arrived that the debate has ended and war in Iraq is upon us. I am not a sup­porter of war, but at the same time I support deci­sive action by President George W. Bush. I am not happy what this may do to our international rela­tions, and I do not rejoice in violence. 
However, since the debate about the war is over, I believe the issue now lies with our responsibility to rebuild this country. Although the clouds of war seem to encompass almost everything at this time, we must look to the future of what can be done. A few weeks of bombing will be nothing compared to 12 years of sanctions the Iraqis have lived through under the current regime. Yes, war is never a cake walk, but imagine the fresh start Iraq will gain from this war. 
France and Germany would not be able to com­plain about the freedoms they enjoy today without 
U.S. aid and military influence. Just imagine the potential this new regime would be able to offer its people having the second largest oil reserves in the world. They will not have to worry about a regime that would rather play games with the international community than benefit its people. Once a broadly representative government of the people is estab­lished with U.S. assistance, there will be hope for future generations of Iraqis whether they be Kurd, Shiite or Sunni. 
Tom Rip pinger sophomore 
St. Edward's Hall 
March 19 
Bush and the international community play by two diametrically opposed styles of politics. Bush is a self-described "instinct player." He decides on a course of action, moves forward without vacillation, dis­misses those who oppose him and feels obliged to enforce his decisions. He views changes in policy as a sign of weakness and is not interested in what he calls ..small talk in big rooms." As a result, he is labeled a "cowboy." The reference is not only a play on his Texas roots but symbolic of the way he will confront his political adversaries with "high noon" drama. 
Rather than use traditional diplomatic protocol procedures to work out disputes with France, Germany, China and Russia behind closed doors at the United Nations, Bush challenged them publicly. Then Bush challenged the United Nations to prove its relevance by endorsing an Iraqi war, but in the final week before abandoning his efforts he attempted to use diplomatic pro­tocol. Bush also made public the terms of many of his foreign aid offers, Turkey most notably. which caused that govern­ment much domestic embarrassment. 
Ronald Reagan stood firm on his tax reduction proposal of the early '80s, but appeared larger than life when he admit­ted two years later that he needed to "adjust" them to achieve his goals. Richard Nixon, the fiercest American opponent of Communism, displayed diplomatic finesse when he opened Communist China to western markets and the international community. 
To the international community, Bush seems to be unwilling to engage in issues of interest to others while demanding adherence to his agenda. During Bush's 

first year in office, he irritated nations 
around the world when he withdrew from 
the Kyoto Protocol agreement to slow 
global warming, abandoned the Anti­
Ballistic Missile nuclear test ban treaty, 
walked away from involvement in the 
Israeli-Palestinian talks and refused to at 
least acknowledge matters of great rele­
vance to other nations . 
American isolation has been slowly self­inflicted. German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer complained that alliance partners are not satellites of the United States. He explained that allies should not be viewed as an option, "being with us or against us," but should be nurtured through dialogue. Had the president found time for such small talk in the large U .N. Security room, even the most difficult of countries like France, which was willing to compromise on a final 30-day benchmark process for inspectors, may have abstained rather than vetoed his propos­als. 
It is anyone's guess how U.S. military power will be received overseas. But for the record, French toast is an American invention from upstate New York by a man named French. Maybe his middle name was Freedom. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame class of1973, served in President Clinton's administra­tion as a Congressional and public a.ff airs director. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
War 'protects U.S. oil interests 
As Operation Persian Gulf War II becomes official, I am becoming more and more disturbed by the speed at which those misguided individuals in sup­port of this war are labeling those in protest against it "unpatriotic." This country was founded on the principles of freedom of expression, opinion and thought. I find upholding my First Amendment rights as an American citizen to be decidedly patri­otic. 
The Bush Administration has further destroyed foreign relations by ignoring our allies in the United Nations. This reckless disregard is only going to strengthen the world's view of the United States as a tyrant country eager for power -sentiments that played heavily in the tragic attacks on Sept. 11. I have no desire to have my name used in any con­junction with this battle based upon oil, money and greed and therefore vocally protest it because I want to let it be known that I in no way support this war. 
I cried along with every other American citizen on Sept. 11; however it is the nature of terrorists to be without country. Though few Iraqis shed tears the day the World Trade Center and the Pentagon were brutally attacked by a handful of vicious cowards. this does not change the fact that Iraq as a country cannot be held directly responsible. This war is not about getting justice. And it is most certainly not about liberating the Iraqi people, as the Bush Administration continues to claim. 
With war, poverty, death and destruction rampant worldwide, it seems an unusual coincidence that Bush has suddenly turned his attentions to the suf­ferings of those living in oil-rich Iraq. Why there­fore, is he intent on liberating people who have no wish to be liberated? As bombs rain down on the five million people living in Baghdad, it seems unlikely that the innocent civilians caught in the crossfire are dying praising the United States for its help. No, this war is about boosting flagging popu­larity and hiding a struggling economy while finish­ing off the hunt for oil that George H. W. Bush start­ed a decade ago. And I am interested to see how Bush will pay the billions of dollars this war will and has already cost, especially in light of his inten­tions to further cut taxes for all his rich friends. 

No one has attempted to deny that Saddam Hussein is an evil dictator, but Bush has yet to make any worthwhile claim as to why it is imperative to the American people that he be removed from power. The United States has more nuclear weapons than any other country in the world. Hussein has been in power long enough to realize that any direct attack he makes on the United States or our allies would be tantamount to suicide. Furthermore, not being able to prove that Iraq does not have weapons of mass destruction is not proof that it does. 
Bush and the media hide behind terms such as "collateral damage" and "friendly fire," relying on the American people's ignorance to hide the truth of war. Though I do not support this war I most cer­tainly support the men and women who are fighting it. These are people years younger than I am, in a strange land far away from home, clutching assault rifles and gas masks as they prepare to battle for a president sitting thousands of miles away from the battlefields. 
War is about blood and sweat and pain and mis­ery, and we as Americans wave our flags and beam with pride as we sing the Star Spangled Banner. completely oblivious to what is happening outside of our tightly constructed bubbles. Yet we continue to drive our SUVs to our climate-controlled homes, where we sit down in front of big screen TVs and watch this war unfold, scoffing at the foolishness of those who still believe in peace. 
You may call me un-American, but I stand firm to my belief that peace is more patriotic than blind submission to an inept president. Bush goes on national television and mispropounces Baghdad while people who could not find Iraq on a map to save their lives mumble about killing them all and letting God do the counting. Get a smaller car ­maybe then we can stop killing Middle Easterners for their oil. 
Jessica Needles 
senior Le Mans Hall March 18 

!
l'· 
l 
); 
i 
• I 
I,I,
1: 
•1,I 
/. 
By KC KENNEY Scene Writer 

The Humor Artists, or HA, are known for their stand-up comedy and improv. So when they put on a show, you know that you're going to be leaving with a stomach sore from laughing so hard. An independent play, written by Molly McShane and Mike Davin, is called "Black beard, For Instance," but Molly is afraid that title could be misleading. 
"I worry people will think its about pirates when it's clearly not," she says with a huge smile on her face. 
It may not be about pirates, but the show is able to take a number of every­day things and add a sense of comedy and craziness to it that just lets you find everything funny. 
The show opens as three couples and two guys who are "just friends" prepare at their respective homes to get ready for a dinner party. Immediately the audience is able to pick up on the quirks and foibles that make each character larger than life and drenched in laugh potential. The characters develop almost like a stand-up comedians routine, each presenting themes and ideas, like a mortal wound inflicted by a contact lens. With an engagement to celebrate and a friend's dead dog to hide under the excuse that it was "dog-napped". it makes the dinner conversation a little strained as the guests begin to realize that their host's new fiance has some­thing to hide. One suggestion for solving the dog-napping case? A re-enactment of the whole thing, complete with props, villains, the dog played by one of the guests and theme music provided by another. Because the dog was killed and not dog-napped, the whole thing doesn't yield much answers, but it is ridiculous to watch as they trip over themselves trying to figure out what happened to the dog. 
THE 
OBSERVER 


us 
page 14 Friday, March 21, 2003 
Humor Artists painfully funny 
The Notre Dame Humor Artists perform an original play, "Black beard, For Instance" 

It does come to light that the dog was accidentally killed, and subsequently stored in the freezer, and the engage­ment is broken with the fiance ostra­cized by the rest of the group. Prior to intermission, the fiance seems to be the only island in an ocean of craziness and the audience is able to appreciate his standpoint as an outsider looking in on a group of pretty zany characters. He, too, dives in to the madness after intermis­sion as he writes his own re-enactment of the dinner that night and tries to express himself to the rest of the guests. The show isn't more than an hour and a half, but that time is filled vyith more laughs per minute than any sitcom or stand-up act. 
The comedic themes in the show are broad and diverse, with a sample of top­ics from many different realms. Just a few of the ideas brought to light are online dating, the peril of wearing con­tact lenses, a real live ambiguously gay duo, the horrors of marriage and more. At times it is almost like watching a comedian like Jerry Seinfeld comment­ing on a slew of different things that are really funny if you think about them. But this show takes it a step further. Rather than just tell you why these ideas are funny, they blow them up, distort them and put them in the spotlight you can see an up close and personal look at how funny life really is. Truly, this show is able to show a really complete idea of what a classic comedy is, not dwelling on any one f pisode or problem, but a number of different ones for each char­acter, allowing there to never be a dull moment. 
How do you cast a show that imple­ments so many methods of approaching comedy? Simple. Get some of the best and the brightest performers on campus that are able to boast excellent comedic timing and a sense of character develop­ment that makes you wonder if this is how these people act in real life. The 
comedic archetypes are standard, but developed and displayed with a fresh air that makes the jokes and lines funny and new. As one character comments during the show, "Everyone is a little crazy." Watching these performers, one has to wonder if they got more than their share. Trish Gilbert and Mike Frederico play a married couple, Jacqueline and Richard, brought togeth­er by a mix-up between mistaken preg­nancy and gastrointestinal problems. Frederico's classic style makes him seem refined and developed as an actor, but putting a drink in his hand and letting him constantly bash his wife offers a contrast that is at times more one liners than character development but it's always fun to see what rude comment he'll make next. Gilbert seems to jump back and forth between socialite and resident at an asylum, but does so com­fortably enough that both seem natural­ly a part of the same character. Michael Bradt and Mary Beth Assumen are also married, though their relationship is not as focused as Frederico and Gilbert. Their parts, Michael and Allison respec­tively, are much more focused on the whereabouts of their dog and getting some "who-ha." Michael is a great meathead; with his dim attitude and love of the gym, he adds an element of awkwardness that is entertaining to watch. One of the running gags is the unclear relationship between Tim and Jim, played by Tom Conner and Jeff Eyerman, who don't seem to know their own sexual orientation better than any­one else. But with physical humor and emotional responses to accusations, they are the perfect odd couple. Cheryl Turski is very emotional as the hostess of the party, but her enthusiasm for her fiance and putting on a good dinner party gives her lots of opportunity to make the crowd laugh -an opportunity she likes to take advantage of. Rick Herbst, as the fiance, gives the audience a character to relate to, but when he sinks into the insanity himself later in the show, it is almost disappointing that 

we didn't get to see him have the chance to be just as zany before. He holds noth­ing back and is hilarious to watch. 
The show is well written, full of the best kind of situational humor and one­liners. \'\Then not killing someone's dog is a compliment, you know that you're in for something pretty off the wall. Add a cast with comedic timing that rivals Must See TV and you know you're in for a night of fun and, above all, laughing until it hurts. 
The Humor Artists will perform "Black beard, For Instance," an independent play written by Molly McShane and Mike Davin, Saturday night at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Tickets are $5 at the door. 
Contact KG Kenney at kkenney@nd.edu 


KG KENNEY/The Observer The guests at the party Imitate ninjas as they attempt to reenact for Stephen, played by Rich Herbst, what happened to the family dog. 
Friday, March 21, 2003 page 15 
THE OBSERVER 

Award. Those interested in attending a master class given by the group should stop by the Band Building this Saturday, at 3:30 pm. 
Ma, of the Shanghai Traditional Chinese Music Orchestra, is considered one of the finest erhu performers in the world. She has showcased her pure and sweet tone, technical virtuosity and nuanced playing in the United States, Canada, Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong, Macao and elsewhere. Her prolific output includes appearances on over 30 CD's, and somehow she has still managed to give over a hundred recitals, while even making time for the occasional lecture concert. Alongside famed cellist Yo-yo Ma, she was also featured in the score for the romantic comedy and martial arts film Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. 
But what, in the name of all that is good and sacred, is an erhu? The erhu is a stringed instrument evolved from the huqin family of fiddle-like instruments, and dates back to 11th-century China, during the Sung dynasty. Since the early 20th century, thanks largely to Liu Tanhua, the erhu has seen much innova­tion: its silk strings swapped for steel, its one-and-a-half octave range nearly dou­bled. 
So by now it should be supremely clear both shows promise a novel, colorful and rewarding musical experience. I)) other words, there had better be more than Crowley regulars filling seats. The first show, Ma's recital, will be held Saturday at 6 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium. Tickets will be sold at the entrance: $3 for students, $4 for adults, and $6 for families. NEXUS will hold their concert Sunday at 2 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium. Tickets are already available at the LaFortune Box Office, priced between $3 and $10. 


Contact BJ Strew at wstrew@nd.edu 
Musical acts brighten weekend 
Ma Xiahui and NEXUS to perform world-renowned compositions 
By BJ STREW 
Scene Writer 
Spring break, along with its shenani­gans, is behind us and tense times for the United States lies ahead. Yes, it is high time to buoy spirits, and through what better way than music? 
Luckily, this weekend boasts two 
unique performances: Saturday, world­
renowned erhu musician Ma Xiaohui and 
Sunday, the internationally acclaimed 
percussion ensemble NEXUS. Now don't 
fret if these names aren't ringing bells ­
keep reading. NEXUS is a five-man set of Canadians 
comprising "the high priests of the per­cussion world." Their eclectic repertoire runs the gamut, rang­ing from ragtime and world music to contemporary pieces, along with group improv and their own composi­tions. Perhaps more eclectic is their choice of instruments, which includes not only xylo­phones, marim­bas, and, of course, drums, but also com­mon household items. They've toured the world, played with several orchestras, appeared on TV and garnered a bevy of awards, including the Toronto Arts 

Taildaters under the Dorne 
NMCP sponsors an interracial dating forum at Notre Dame 
By CHRISTIE BOLSEN 
Assistant Scene Editor 
As magical as Notre Dame is, there are two big thorns in the side of Our Lady. One of them is the prickly problem of diversity, or lack thereof, and how to address the homogenous appearance of campus. The second pervasive issue and source of many students' lamentations is gender relations. or lack thereof, and how to force healthy relationships on the two sexes. 
These issues spark discussion on touchy subjects such as affirmative action, parietals and coed housing, but one look around campus shows that none of these solutions, right or wrong, will solve the two problems. 
I lowever, an experiment in interracial dating has fun with what can be strained interactions between races or sexes on campus. Sponsored by the NAACP, which sponsors a dating forum every year, this year's organizers set up participants on dates and then moni­
i..Jor~d them a la reality shows such as Blind Date. The daters were paired up based on information provided in ques­tionnaires, responses in interviews, whether they had been on an interracial date before and then on race. 
"When talking about diversity in the world it seems like interracial dating is still extremely taboo in some places," Charee Holloway, one of the organizers of the event, said. ''\,Ve wanted to do something to spark some discussion among students about the issue of inter­racial dating." 
While those behind the event were unsure how much interest would be generated for the forum, the response was excellent. About 80 applicants filled out surveys to participate, and the reac­tion was very positive. 
After people were given dates, they were informed of where they were going. Most of the lucky couples went on classic first dates like dinner or a movie, with the not as conventional addition of a camera capturing their date on film. The participants were taped before, during and after their dates, and it is this footage that will be viewed by the daters and the audience at the Forum. 
"Hopefully, we'll have a good audience and we can have a really great discus­sion about issues related to interracial dating on campus and elsewhere," Holloway said. 
Last year's forum focused on a per­spective all students identified with ­the effects of music on relationships. This year's president, Teresa \Vyatt, wanted to keep with the tradition of finding a familiar topic to bring students together, but had an idea for a new twist. 
"I wanted to challenge the Notre Dame student body to break out of their com­fort zones and scrutinize their own social and familial relationships. My desire is for students to walk away from this event and learn something valu­able," Wyatt said. 
While there are plenty of complaints about gender relations or lack of diversi­ty, as well as speculation on the most appropriate and effective cures for these problems. Wyatt thinks this is. a unique approach because it exposes students to an opportunity to actually experience the topics of discussion. 

"The philosophy of learning which I subscribe to is Haggard's approach. He says learning is a change in behavior as a result of experience. What better way to learn about another race, ethnicity or culture than to share the experience of dating?" Wyatt said. 
While those who attend the forum will be entertained in the way that only real­ity television can entertain, there is a deeper message in this than in "Joe Millionaire" or "The Bachelorette." It is not only fun, but serves a more educa­tional purpose as well. 
"I hope that those involved and who attend this forum realize that discrimi­nation does not solely harm one group, but inadvertently, it affects all of us,'' Wyatt said. "Starting with each one of us, a great change can occur on this campus, as well as the world." 
Contact Christie Boisen at cbolsen@nd.edu 

Friday, March 21, 2003 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Holy Cross doesn't go quietly as Marquette advances 
a 3-pointer with 3. 9 seconds Ronny Turiaf had 22 points,
Associated Press 
left in overtime Thursday, including a school record-tying sending the Golden Bears to a 16 free throws, and 10
INDIANAPOLIS 

76-74 win over North Carolina rebounds as ninth-seeded
Travis Diener was 

State in the first round of the Gonzaga held off late-charging 
Marquette's third scoring 
East Regional. Cincinnati 74-69 Thursday inoption throughout the regular The \,\Tolfpack had just taken the West Regional. 
season. 
a 74-73 lead on a Scooter "We have a flare for the dra­That all changed Thursday. 
Sherrill's 3-pointer with 12.8 matic," _Gonzaga coach MarkDiener scored a career-high seconds left when Midgley took Few said. "They made a run at29 points and Dwyane Wade a pass from Joe Shipp. With us and we were lucky to hangadded 15 points and 11 assists the calm of a soccer forward in on."
as the Golden Eagles beat Holy a World Cup shootout, Midgley His Bulldogs like being
Cross 72-68 in the Midwest 
buried the shot in the net. underdogs at the NCAAs, evenRegional to advance to the sec­"Guys used to pick on me [in if this time they were playing a
ond round of the NCAA 
England] because I played bas­team slotted just one seedTournament for the first time 
ketball, not soccer," said higher.
in seven years. 
Midgley, who played two years Gonzaga -which made runs"I got a few looks and I took of high school basketball in from low seedings to the roundthem," Diener said. "It's not California. "But I picked the of eight in 1999 and round oflike I was looking to take bad right sport, I guess." 16 the next two years -hasshots. They just came." 
Ninth-seeded North Carolina one first-round loss in the past
Holy Cross, seeded 14th, 

State had a chance to win the five tournaments. That came
hasn't won an NCAA game 
game, but Sherrill missed from last year, when Gonzaga wassince 1953, but for the third the top-of the key as time seeded sixth and was bouncedstraight year it almost pulled expired. by No. 11 Wyoming.
off an upset of a higher-ranked California (22-8), a No. 8 The Bulldogs next face top­
team. The Crusaders lost to 
seed, advanced to the second seeded Arizona in the second
Kentucky in 2001 Ly four 
round for the second straight round Saturday. 
points anq. to Kansas last year year and will play No. 1 seed Huggins, meanwhile, wasn'tby 11. 
Oklahoma on Saturday. at courtside for Thursday's"Our problem is we can't get Midgley could have been close finish. 
over that first-game hump," 
remembered for two potential "Coach is everything to us,"
Holy Cross coach Ralph 
game-winning layups that said Taron Barker, whose 16
Willard said. "I thought we were blocked in the final points led the Bearcats. "That
could be a dangerous team 
minute of regulation, when he motivated us, but it hurt us,after the first round." 
dared drive the lane. too, because he would haveThird-seeded Marquette (24­"If I'm wide open, I'm confi­fired us up."
5) won an opening-round 
dent I'm going to hit my shot," 
game for the first time since said Midgley, who finished
1996. Connecticut 58, BYU 53
with 11 points. "I wasn't wor­
Diener, a 6-foot-1 guard who BYU was rallying when
ried about what happened ear­
scored 17 points in the first Emeka Okafor swatted Rafael
lier in the game."
half. gave Marquette the lead Araujo's shot away. 
Neither was Shipp, who led
for good when he made a 3-Okafor made sure the
California with a game-high 24 
pointer with 4:30 remaining. Cougars won't bust up any­
points but turned to Midgley
Diener spent most of the sea­one's brackets -they're going
when the game was on the
son behind leading scorers home early instead. 
line.

Wade and Robert Jackson, Okafor controlled both ends
Shipp, who scored Midwest. drive and hit one of two free
who only scored four points. of the court, scoring 20 points
California's first four points in UConn (22-9) made it moot throws with 4.1 seconds left
! Diener said he was bothered and blocking seven shots to
overtime, drew two Wolfpack and now will play the winner and as the sixth-seeded Tigers
I by shin splints, though it lead fifth-seeded Connecticut 
I defenders with a move inside of the San Diego-Stanford survived an upset scare
wasn't noticeable on the floor. to a 58-53 victory Thursday
before kicking it back out to game in Saturday's second Thursday with a 72-71 victory
"I had a couple of days of over No. 12 BYU in the first
[: Midgley. round. over Southern Illinois in the
rest and it felt good last night," round of the South Regional. 
"He'll get a lot of attention Ben Gordon added 14 points Midwest Regional. 
Diener said. "I think the rest "He was magnificent,"
for all the points he scored but for the Huskies, who are 11-0 Kent Williams' potential
was the best thing for it." Huskies coach Jim Calhoun He bested his previous high there's something about trust­said. "He's the best defensive in first-round games under game-winner from the left 
Calhoun. wing glanced off the side of the
of 21 and went 6-for-7 from ing your teammates," player in the country. He alters the 3-point line. California coach Ben Braun games. He alters everything." Travis Hansen scored 21 rim at the buzzer. said. "He certainly trusted the The loss by BYU (2 3-9) points and Mark Bigelow The 11th-seeded Salukis (24­, freshman." avoids a potentially embar­added 12 for BYU. But they 7) used almost the same script
Callfornla 76, N.C. State 74 
"I tried to create and go to rassing situation for the NCAA, didn't get much help -no they did a year ago when theyWhen an Englishman makes the basket," Shipp said. "I which mistakenly put the other Cougar made a basket reached the round of 16. They 
a big shot, it's usually on the 
looked up and Richard was Cougars in the South, where for nearly 20 minutes span­stayed close throughout and 
soccer field, not the basketball ning the first and second half. 
wide open and made the play." the Mormon-owned school waited for a chance to win. 
courts of the NCAA 
would have had to play the The Salukis tied it at 71 on
Missouri 72, S. llllnols 71

Tournament. 
fourth round on a Sunday. Missouri's Rickey Paulding Jermaine Dearman's layup
Consider California freshman Gonzaga 7 4, Cincinnati 69 Because BYU does not play with 25.2 seconds left. But
drove the lane for a chance toRichard Midgley a hoops pio­Bob Huggins was sent pack­on Sundays, the NCAA would hit a game-winning shot. He Dearman was called for a neer. ing, as was his team. Gonzaga, have reshuffieii the brackets if did, but not the way he blocking foul on Paulding, a 
Midgley, who grew up in meanwhile, is back to its ol' the Cougars won their first two planned. call the Salukis believed was Burgess Hill, England, swished tricks at tourney time. games, sending them to the Paulding was fouled on the questionable. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
3-4 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR  Lakeview Ashland/Belmont two  ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE.  
NOTICES  STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE 3-4 OR 5 PERSON 2 STORY.  FOR RENT  RENT: CALL Anlan Properties, LLC 532-1896  good-sized bedrooms, nice closets, Hardwood  Are you pregnant and dont know what to do? Loving, open­ 
8 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS.  Floors, bright apartment, near el,  hearted, financially stable woman  
NEW EVERYTHING.  Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom  LEASE TO OWN 3 Bedroom,  heat included! May/1, $1100/mo or  would like to consider adopting a  
DOMUS PROPERTIES­ WIRED FOR COMPUTERS ETC.  homes 1/2 mile from campus.  $1,500 down, minor fixer, owner will  1340  baby. Free  
HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003­ AVAIL. SUMMER OR FALL.  mmmrentals@aol.com 272­ carry,easy  (rehabbed) 773/472-7775  counseling, living expenses and  
2004 SCHOOL YEAR  235-3655  1525 www.mmmrentals.com  qualifying. 574-876-0690  medical expenses. This can be a  
WELL MAINTAINED  good thing for  
HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS­STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS- Happy Birthday WOOGA to the true gangstas Kevan and Brendan!!  B&B for ND grad close ND 4 Rooms Best area 287-4545.  1-Bdrm apts 1/2 mile from ND. $500/mo. 283-0325  PERSONAL  you and your baby. Discreet and legal. Call 904-824-7006.  
SECURITY SYSTEMS  Vall are SO  
MAINTENANCE STAFF  SCHWANK!!!  HOUSE AVAILABLE  Summer Sublease-Great House 4  Unplanned pregnancy?  Taking a Kaplan Test Prep Class?  
ON CALL-WASHERS/DRYERS  furn. 4b2ba, walk to campus.  Bedroom 3 Bath A/C Garage Gall  Don t go it alone.  Enroll before March 31st and get  
CALL TODAY  jo5225@aol.com  243-9753  $100 back! 1-800-KAP-TEST  
HOUSES GOING FAST!!!  FOR SALE  Summer Sub-lease 1 bedroom  LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES- If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance,  Woohoo Nancy• Go 'Field!  
CONTACT KRAMER (547)  apartment-fully furnished- TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH  please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,  
315-5032 OR (574) 234-2436  Laptop Computer $250, Dell  cable t.v.-5 minutes from  OF ND 2773097  CSC, at 1-7819.  You shouldn't wave at someone  
ALSO LEASING FOR 2004-2005  Computer (with mon, kb, mouse,  campus/good neighborhood.  you don't know. What if they don't  
VISIT OUR WEBSITES @  Win98) $150.  $350 a month.  2 Rms(1 furn),Lg house.nice area.  For more information, see our bi- have a hand? They'll think you're  
OOMUSKRAMERCOM  229-3333  Call 229-1691  Spa.tanning bed 229-3333.  weekly ad in The Observer.  cocky .  
•  

page 17 Friday, March 21, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS 

NHL 
Roy gets 4th shutout of season as Avs defeat Sharks 
said Kiprusoff "sprained his
Associated Press 
right knee at some point in the third period, and he couldn'tDENVER stand. Nabokov practiced thisEven without his usual prac­morning and is ready to cometice, Patrick Roy was perfect. 
back. We'll play all threeRoy made 29 saves in his 
goalies in the three games."
fourth shutout of the season, 
and 65th of his career, as the Colorado Avalanche beat the Blue Jackets 4, Maple Leafs 3 San Jose Sharks 2-0 Thursday Tyler Wright will never win a night in a game postponed 24 h?ckey skills competition, nor hours because of a heavy "':Ill he ever win style points for snowstorm. his grace on the ice. About all 
"We didn't skate he does is get things done. Wright scored his third goal
[~ednesd~y] .~nd then nothing this mornmg, Roy said. "I just of the game off a give-and-go wanted to have a good warmup from Ray Whitney with 43.8 and make sure I was ready for seconds left in overtime as the 
the start of the game. Making a Columbus BlueJackets beat the few good saves at the begin­Toronto Maple Leafs 4-3 on 
Thursday night.
ning of the game put me in a groove." "There's really nothing pretty 
Bates Battaglia and Adam to my game," Wright said after Foote scored for the Avalanche, his third career hat trick and who snapped a two-game los­second of the season. "I just go 
ing streak -their longest since to the net and shoot the puck." 
mid-January. Wright, who hadn't scored in "It was a big two points for 18 games, has a career-high 
us," Foote said. "Having this 18goals this season. Rick Nash delay, we were kind of worried also scored for Columbus. how we would start. We hung Mats Sundin, Owen Nolan in there, and Patty made some and Aki Berg had goals for 
big saves for us." Toronto, which is 2-0-2-2 in its Avalanche coach Tony last six. Granato said his team "lost a Much of the Maple Leafs' 
couple of games over the week­problems stemmed from their end, and we wanted to get 13 penalties resulting in nine back on the ice as fast as we Columbus power plays. 
"We had a two-goal lead
could to get back in the win 
tonight and we gave it up
column. The bottom line is our because of penalty situations.
goalie played well for us like he We can't continue to have thathas night after night, and we 
happen," Toronto coach Pat
were able to capitalize on the Quinn said. 
power play and find a way to 
get two points." Pressed on what he thought about the officiating, Quinn
The game was postponed 
grew angry.
from Wednesday because of a "All I can do is get myself in 30-inch snowstorm that para­
trouble if I answer the way Ilyzed the Denver area and 
feel. I don't intend to pay a finemuch of Colorado. 
again," he said. 
The Sharks agreed to the \ 1\lright carried the puck over
postponement even though it 
meant they'll play three games the blue line until defenseman in three nights. They have Robert Svehla confronted him. home games Friday and Wright dropped a pass for Saturday against Boston and Whitney, who split two defend­Anaheim. ers and fed Wright who was 
Miikka Kiprusoff, starting in swooping in from the left cor­goal because Evgeni Nabokov ner. Wright used his skate to missed his third straight game steady the puck and then beat with a back injury, had 18 Trevor Kidd to the glove side saves and allowed both goals inside the far post. before being replaced by Vesa "How good was Tyler Toskala late in the game. Wright?" Columbus interim 
Sharks coach Ron Wilson coach Doug Maclean said. "If 
NEED A JOB FOR THE 2003-2004 
ACADEMIC YEAR? 
~o\)'­
tO~ 
,~<::>
0~ 
\,0 

~~~t. 
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE IS NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR ALL POSITIONS: 
24 Hour Lounge Monitors Ballroom Monitors Building Set Up Crew Information Desk Attendants LaFortune Building Managers ND Coke Service ND Express Attendants Program Assistants Sound Technicians Stepan Center Managers Student Activities Office Assistants 
Applications available outside the Student Activities Office, 31 S Lafortune or on-line at www.nd.edu/-soo/office/jobs. 
APPLICATIONS DUE MARCH 28. 

Tyler wouldn't have scored a  Jason Blake also scored and  Philadelphia Flyers beat the  
goal, he still would have had a  Garth Snow made 32 saves for  Pittsburgh Penguins 4-2 on  
great game. He battled and  New York, which got its 78th  Thursday night and moved into  
made tremendous plays."  point to tie Boston for seventh  a first-place tie in the Atlantic  
The Leafs forced overtime  in the East.  Division.  
when Nolan tipped in Sundin's shot with 1:12 left in regula­ Donald Audette, Andreas Dackell and Jason Ward scored  Eric Desjardins and Tony Amonte also scored and Mark  
tion. Nolan, acquired from San  for Montreal, which lost its  Recchi had three assists for  
Jose on March 5, has scored six goals and has two assists in six games with the Leafs. Toronto was making its first appearance ever in Columbus. Islanders 6, Canadlens 3 Alexei Yashin's biggest game of the season firmed up the New York Islanders' drive to the playoffs -and all but ended Montreal's. Yashin scored twice and tied a career high with his fifth career five-point game to lead New York to a 6-3 victory over the Canadiens on Thursday night. After getting just eight points in his previous 22 games, Yashin set up goals by Arron Asham and Oleg Kvasha before scoring his 17th and 18th goals of the season in the second. He set up Dave Scatchard's empty­net goal for his third assist of the game. "I feel very good about it, but most importantly we got the win," Yashin said. 'Tm more happy about that than scoring five points. It's not something I haven't done before. "It's always nice to score some goals and make some plays, but the best thing is to  third straight and is winless in its last seven home games. The Canadiens recognized that their playoff hopes all but disappeared with the loss as they fell eight points behind the Islanders with seven games -one less than New York ­left. "It's not impossible, but in a way it is," Canadiens captain Saku Koivu said. A significant portion of the sold-out Bell Centre crowd of 21,273 booed throughout the singing of the Star Spangled Banner before the game. "I'm sure there are a lot of people against the war, but some things people can't con­trol," the Russian-born Yashin said. "They were probably showing what they feel about it... His American teammates had a much more emotional reac­tion to the anti-war display. "Obviously, it's rather upset­ting," said forward Mark Parrish, a native of Bloomington, Minn. "I came to the game pretty pumped up but once I heard that, that really got me going so I guess I can maybe thank them a little bit for getting me pumped up."  Philadelphia, which is tied with New Jersey with 93 points. Mathias Johansson had a goal and an assist and Rico Fata also scored for the Penguins, who blew a 2-0 lead and fell to 0-13-1 in their last 14. It is Pittsburgh's longest winless streak since its fran­chise-record 0-17-1 slump in the 1982-83 season. LeClair broke a 2-2 tie at 7:36 of the third period when he fought off a check and one• timed the puck over Sebastien Caron. Amonte made it 4•2 when he scored on a deflection with 2:40 left. Fata scored on the Penguins' first shot, 13 seconds·in, when he beat Robert Esche with a wrist shot. Esche survived a shaky start to make 21 saves. Johansson, who assisted on Fata's goal, made it 2-0 at 4:06, scoring on a power play in a wild scramble in front of the net. Desjardins got the Flyers back to within one goal at 9:43 of the period with a one-timer from the right circle after Recchi threaded a pass from the back boards.  
get these two points and hope­ Flyers 4, Penglns 2  LeClair tied it at 12:01 of the  
fully  we  can  eliminate the  John Leclair scored twice,  second, on a shot from the side  
Montreal Canadiens from fight-. ing for a playoff spot."  including the go-ahead goal in the third period, as the  that slid through the legs of Caron, who faced 32 shots.  


TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
THE STUDENTS, #1 CHOICE IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING 
NOW LEASING FOR 2003-04 2-BEDROOMS AND TOWNHOMES AVAILABLE 
VISIT US AT WWW.TURTLECREEKND.COM OR CALL 272-8124 
page 18 
MLB 

Washington, Portland attempt to lure Expos 
Associated Press Capitol. 
Portland's David Kahn, PHOENIX leader of the Oregon Stadium Washington offered to pay Campaign, said his group 
between 50 and 80 percent presented details of about of the cost of a new ballpark seven ballpark sites and dis-
for the Montreal Expos, and cussed financing. Portland said government "I think we all understand financing would cover $300 they have to be somewhat 
million for a stadium if the noncommittal about it," team moves to Oregon. Kahn said. 
The District of Columbia David Logsdon, Portland's and Portland made their pre­spectator facilities manager, 1 · sentations Thursday to base­presented a draft financing
1. ball's committee on the plan for a $350 million ball-future of the Expos, who park that would be built with were bought before the 2002 $150 million from the state season by the other 29 clubs. and $150 million from the Northern Virginia is to city. which would raise its address the committee money through a hotel and 
,I 
Friday. ticket tax and a charter seat ( All of the top government program. i officials originally scheduled "No public votes would be
I 
I to attend canceled their trav­required," Logsdon said. 
Friday, March 21, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS 
FENCING 

Opinions on delays differ 
competed on Thursday and forced half of the Irish squad
ByMATTLOZAR 

Friday, we would have known into some interesting travel 
Associate Sports Editor 

where we stood. Now we will plans. 
just be in a gray area all day The mens team left South 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. and it could throw off some Bend Tuesday afternoon and 
It turned out the first oppo-girls. flew into St. Louis. Their flight nent for Notre Dame wasn't "It will add pressure because into Colorado Springs was can­defending national champion you don't know how hard you celled, forcing the Irish to spendPenn State or regional rival Ohio have to fence." the night in the Gateway City. To State, but Old Man Winter. The original schedule called get into Colorado Springs, the 
When the Irish did get to for the mens competition to take Irish flew to Dallas Wednesday Colorado Springs, Colo., place Thursday and Friday with to get a connecting flight. Wednesday, they found the the women to follow Saturday Meanwhile, the womens team 2003 NCAA Championships and Sunday. With the reschedul-left Wednesday, flew into St. pushed back to the weekend. ing, the competition has been Louis and had no problems fly­
And that could be a good squeezed into two days. ing into Colorado Springs. thing, or a bad thing, depending The first four rounds of both Notre Dame and Ohio State on whom you ask. the mens and womens bouts will are the only schools to qualify 
"I think it's a good thing be Saturday with the last three 12 fencers for the NCAA because the coaches believe it rounds, individual champi-Championships. Defending will relieve some stress for the onships and crowning of the champion Penn State qualified girls," senior foil captain Ozren national champion Sunday. 11. Debic said. "It will take some A blizzard, called the worst to If the Irish win the title, it will pressure off them to wrap it up hit the area since 1913, dumped be their first championship since after the first two days." up to five feet of snow on the 1994. 
'Tm not happy with it at all," area Monday and Tuesday and junior sabre Maggie Jordan shut down the Air Force Contact Matt Lozar at said. "After the guys would have Academy and Denver Airport. It mlozar@nd.edu 
!'l-,,.W/~.#~Al'W'l4'/6Al'Y.#"'~_.,,,,-..,,.,y.,..,,-4"YA"AIIIY~...,.A'Y~,.-W"~Al""/O"~Air',6fFA!'l""....-,#~/•.&111Y•~~~.A'Y~/...,,,,...,.~#~~/~~/~l/~~/~~~/-~~/.,.../.,c,'k..,./4...4"/.N"/.-_.rl'.~~...,..~....fll'/A"/...~...,.,...,/..,,.,,..l'""/,,Y/.("'/,,.-/l",9..t.,...~/,Af!,'.1;,Y•[/,._-q¥"-"Yr-P".V-' ~ ~~~ •Y• ;, ,, •'-':. :.>• ',, -y .;,tr.¾•? ..,~
el plans, citing the war in! Iraq. But Washington Mayor II • ~
I ~
Anthony Williams and D.C. Council chairman Linda 

I Are you considering majoring in Political Science? i 
Cropp addressed the commit­iI ,j •; tee by video teleconference. 
I ~ 
Bob DuPuy, baseball's No. i ~ 2 official, said the committee I Then don't miss the ~ kept to its schedule "to get it 
f A
done as rapidly as we can." 

I ~ 
DuPuy declined to discuss details of the presentations, 

i MEET YOUR MAJOR MEETING ~ 
citing the arrival of the ~ a Northern Virginia delegation 
Friday. I on ~ 
I i
"Both groups were thor­I .-­ough and very well pre­
i MONDAY, MARCH 24, 2003 ~,
pared," DuPuy said, adding 
that the committee will 
review the presentations and 

i ~ 4:00 TO 5:00 P.M.
consult with baseball com­missioner Bud Selig. 

Eric Price, Washington's Ii t ~ 204 O'SHAUGHNESSY 
deputy mayor for economic 
I
development, and City 

r www.nd.edu/~govemme
Councilman Harold Brazil led 
I
their delegation at Bank One f Ballpark. Price said legisla­' tors would attempt to enact I legislation to fund a ballpark iI
I
by July, baseball's target for i making a decision on the i
I
future on the Expos. The I
i
District also would need i 

I ~ ~ ~
Congressional approval for funding, which would include ~ " 
j , ... . ,. , ,w,,n,.r-/,,..-/P.1-IT,9V"/,.../l/r.;:,o,....,...,&"'/..N/4':"/l/#4"P'.•~••vA,.,..M-~.::r.w:-?"H4.Vn/&//W~•V.:.Y.i~"'.:,t,·.,.:>A·,;~"':4""17.' ¼':-¼· :,,.::1
if,,/I..W,-W"/~/,._,.,_.-_,,,..,.-,.,.,.,r,-;11e,>,M;.W/,ot,'/I/A'"/6.·R/.~,:';#hr'/h/-4'"/A'/-8/.,,..,Ailr/.D./l/,r,_./Jr/4'f/l'Y.l/#/Jllr/,.,,,_.,/.,,.,:,/l.,.-/""/.l'/MY-'/,1/T'/..tfl'/A"/l?M'/,#tt-'l,,,_,,,,,J¥1YAIV..,,.,t#;_,.At'/H/8h'f'4ilVtf'/'.F/O -,r•••4/1',l',P'/4" ...-W"~."'l. -· · 
a tax on the salaries of play­
ers. 
"We walked through a leg­islative process for them," Price said. "They did ask about that and we told them what it would be." 
Washington officials pre­sented research that a team in the nation's capital would not hurt the Baltimore Orioles, who play at Camden Yards, about 40 miles away. They also discussed potential attendance and sales, and they stressed the draw of the capital's cultural and nightlife, and its extensive transportation system. 
"We think we showed there is a minimum impact on the Orioles, both from a fan base and a corporate base," Price said. 
Bobby Goldwater, chair­man of the D.C. Sports and Entertainment Commission, said after the 2 1/2-hour pre­sentation that Washington officials hoped the committee would tour five potential sites for the ballpark. Washington hopes to build a $400 million stadium. and two of the potential sites are within blocks of the U.S. 


The perfect home: That's been your dream. 
Now, with annual percentage rates as low as they are, you can live your dream. Notre Dame Federal Credit Union can help. We'll design a fixed or adjustable-rate mortgage around your specific needs. Plus, you can finance up to 100% of your home. And, we'll do it for you quickly, with no hassles. We even offer first mortgages nationwide! Still dreaming of your perfect home? Notre Dame Federal Credit Union will help make it a reality. 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us 
to be better 
Indiana and Michigan 

574/239-6611 • 800/522-6611 
Outside Indiana and Michigan 
800/400-4 540 You can also stop by your nearest branch or visit our web site at www.ndfcu.org. 

G} 
IQUAl IOUSINC 
LENDER 

Independent of the University 
page 19 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 21, 2003 
MENS LACROSSE 
No. 11 Irish hit the road 
Special to The Observer 
The mens lacrosse team will look to snap a two-game losing streak with two games this weekend in Hempstead, 
N.Y. The Irish, currently 3-2 on the season, are ranked 11th in both the USILA and Warrior/Inside Lacrosse polls this week. 
Notre Dame will be facing its sixth straight ranked opponent when the Irish meet the Pride Friday. Notre Dame has played one of the nation's toughest schedules as the Irish have played five ranked opponents to date. 
Hofstra enters Friday's contest with a 2-2 record and is ranked, while Harford is 2-1. Both the Pride and Hawks are members of the America East Conference. 
After starting the season 3-0, Notre Dame has dropped its last two contests. Notre Dame;s most recent setback was a 9-8 loss at home to Loyola. Notre Dame has posted two road wins this season -at Penn State 10-9 and at North Carolina 10-8. 
The Irish are led in scoring by junior Matt Howell's 11 goals and 11 assists. Howell has become an offensive threat for Notre Dame every time he handles the ball. He played in just three games last season because of an injury. Freshman Patrick Walsh stands second in the scoring colum with seven goals and seven assists, while last season's top scorer, junior Dan Berger has scored 11 goals. 
Another rookie, Matt Karweck is also among the team's scoring leaders with six goals and one assist. 
Notre Dame's defensive unit has been solid this season with a 9.00 goals against average. The Irish boast great experience with two-year starter Eric Simon and Mickey Blum. 
Stewart Crosland has started all five games in goal for the Irish. He has played all but two of a possible 300 minutes and owns a 9.06 goals against average and .609 save percentage. 
Hostra is 2-2 on the season and is coming off of an 18-5 loss to Princeton. The Pride is tied for 15th in this week's USILA poll and is ranked 14th in the Warrior/Inside Lacrosse ranking. Hofstra opened up the season with a 10-4 loss against Loyola in the season opener and then came back to post wins over Binghamton 15-5 and Cornell 13-5. 

Hartford owns a 2-1 record following its most recent outing as it posted a 15­9 victory over Holy Cross. The Hawks earned a 6-5 win against Marist in their season opener and dropped a 9-3 deci­sion on the road at Harvard. 
The Irish will face off against the Pride Friday at 7:30 p.m. and then will meet the Hartford Hawks on Sunday at noon. 
This Weekend in the Department ofMusic Thursday/Friday March 20-21: Notre Dame Glee Club Daniel Stowe, director 
8:00 pm, Washington Hall Thursday's concert free, Friday's concert $3 
Saturday, March 22, 2003 A Student Recital Mary Catherine Levri,organ 
8:00 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart Free and open to the public 
Sunday, March 23, 2003 NEXUS Percussion Ensemble 
2:00 pm, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art Tickets ($3-1 0) available, LaFortune Box Office, 1-8128 
Monday, March 24, 2003 A Graduate Degree Recital Ivana Sabanosova 
8:00 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart Free and Open to the Public 
Call 631-6201 or visit www.nd.edu/~congoers for more info! 


JACC GtJ.te; 2 
$5 perttdet I (Limiteatcimotmt) 
• 
I 
• Gamet
I 
I 
• 

I GlrltlW.OIG~
• 
I 
• Tidetl'wuJ.;at La; fortufletB®office; Monday·rhur!£W1 ! (SMfflfodtWRolL-karaot.R;~ ! ~ 6pm; RWUr)
L-~•-•-•-•-•-·-•-•-•-•~•-•~ 
WOMENS SWIMMING AND DIVING 

Irish send competitors to NCAA Championships 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame womens swim­ming and diving team began compe­tition at the 2003 NCAA Championship meet in Auburn, Ala.. Thursday afternoon. 
Competing in preliminary races were juniors Lisa Garcia and Marie Labosky in the 200 individual medley and junior Danielle Hulick in the 50­meter freestyle. 
Garcia and Labosky were compet­ing for the second year in a row in the NCAA Championships in the 200­meter individual medley. 
Garcia bested her finish in last year's meet of a time of 2:02.21, fin­ishing in a time of 2:01.58 and plac­ing 22nd. Labosky finished in a time of 2:03.23 and finished in 39th place. Hulick, finished 40th in the 50-meter freestyle and finished in a time of 23.35. 

Friday, Labosky will hit the pool again in the 400-meter individual medley, while Garcia will compete in the 100-meter butterfly. 
In addition, Friday will also see Hulick swim in the 100-meter back­stroke and junior Meghan Perry­Eaton on the three-meter board. 
On the last day of competition, Saturday, Hulick and Labo sky will swim in the 200-meter backstroke and Garcia will compete in the 200­meter butterfly. 

BBQ chickeV\ pizza 


page 20 

i 
I 
ii 
i! 
'
i: 


,J 
,: 'I 
/, 
!·, 1, 
') .,.
: l 
I)
:! 
i 1, 
',
' 
'.1 
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Opening Round NCAA Tournament Kentucky vs. IUPUI 12:30 p.m., CBS LSU vs.Purdue 2:50 p.m., CBS MSU vs. Colorado 7:10 p.m., CBS Indiana vs. Alabama 9:30 p.m., CBS 
NBA 

Timberwolves at Spurs 8 p.m., ESPN Wizards at Suns 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Friday, March 21, 2003 
NFL 


announced it would not Conway caught 57 pass­Pennington becomes the
Associated Press 

match the $13 million es for 852 yards for San ninth quarterback for 
HEMPSTEAD. N.Y. signing bonus and $35 mil­Diego last season, but was Conway in 11 seasons. He 
The New York Jets want lion con tract Coles got released by the Chargers spent seven years with Curtis Conway simply to be Chicago after being the
from the Washington last month after they
himself. He doesn't have to Bears' No. 1 draft choice
Redskins. signed David Boston. The
replace Laveranues Coles. in 1993. Then he moved to
Conway came consider­Jets became a perfect fit
"I like tough guys," Jets the Chargers for three
ably cheaper, a three-year for him after Coles was
coach Herman Edwards years.
deal that could pay as swept away by the
said as he introduced the "It's routine," Conway
much as $7.5 million with Redskins.

wide receiver Thursday. said. "I never had the 
a signing bonus of $1.2 Quarterback Chad
"You can't be a sissy. same quarterback twice.
million. Pennington was at the
You've got to be a tough Over the years, I'm used to
"I'm going to be me," press conference announc­
guy to do the things we it. You've still got to go out
Conway said. "I came in to ing Conway's contract and
require our receivers to and make plays. It doesn't 
do. He'll do a lot of good do my job. I'm going to hugged his new teammate. matter who's throwing the things for us." give you 100 percent of "I wanted to come here," football." The timing of the signing Curtis Conway. We all Conway said. "They have a That revolving door fig­made it difficult not to know this is a business. great quarterback and a 
ures to end with the Jets, view Conway as the Jets' I'm blessed to be here in a great coaching staff. I like who are committed to replacement for Coles. It great situation with a play­Chad's attitude and poise Pennington as their long came a day after the team off team." on the field." term quarterback. 
IN BRIEF 
Artest suspended again for 
flagrant foul 
Another flagrant foul, another sus­pension for Ron Artest. 
The Indiana Pacers' swingman was banned for two games Thursday, raising the total of games he's missed because of NBA punishment this season to 10. 
This time, the league upheld a fla­grant foul call on Artest just five sec­onds into Wednesday night's game against Boston, calling for an auto­matic two-game suspension for exceeding the limit on flagrant-foul points. 
Boston's Paul Pierce went up for a layup after the opening tip and was slapped hard on the head from behind by Artest. As the referees sig­naled a flagrant foul, Artest stood impassively with his arm raised above his head. 
It was the eighth flagrant foul called against Artest this season. He has been suspended twice already for exceeding the five-point limit on flagrant-foul points. Artest will be suspended two games for every fla­grant foul for the rest of the season. 
He also was suspended by the Pacers for one game this season for smashing a framed picture of himself after a home loss. 
Artest loses about $21,000 in salary every game he's forced to sit out. 
In early January, Artest was sus­pended for three games without pay and fined $35,000 for hurling a tele­vision monitor and smashing a cam­era after a loss in New York. 
Later that month, he was suspend­ed for four games without pay for a run-in with Heat coach Pat Riley and for flashing an obscene gesture toward the crowd in Miami. 
One of the league's best defenders, and averaging 15.2 points and 2.17 steals, Artest is testing the patience of his teammates with his suspen­sions. 

Defendents sentenced in 
betting scandal 
The mastermind behind the betting scam that nearly produced a $3 mil­lion payoff at the Breeders' Cup ended up with the least amount of jail time possible -a year and a day. 
Computer programmer Chris Harn, who worked for a company that processes horse racing bets, could have received more than seven years in prison if he had not helped authorities, Judge Charles Brieant said. 
Co-defendant Glen DaSilva was sentenced to two years in prison and Derrick Davis received three years. 
The former fraternity brothers tried to pull off the Pick Six betting coup during the Breeders' Cup last October. The three men, all 29, have been out on bail since pleading guilty. They were members of the Tau Kappa Epsilon fraternity at Drexel in Philadelphia in the 1990s. 
-

Friday, March 21, 2003 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 

WOMENS ROWING 
Ann Arbor lake conditions move races to South Bend 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame womens row­ing team will continue the spring season Saturday at home against Michigan. The races will take place in South Bend on the St. Joseph's River instead of at the University of Michigan as origi­nally scheduled due to poor lake conditions in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
Irish head coach Martin Stone is still working on his crews for Saturday as they will be race­time decisions. 
Notre Dame is looking to build upon its success during the 2002 season in which the varsity eight qualified for the NCAA Championships, hoping the whole team will be invited to the 2003 regatta. 
Notre Dame took advantage of the fall season by trying some new boating combinations and getting the younger rowers some experience in preparation for the spring season. 
The Irish opened the fall sea­son by taking two of the top four positions in the varsity eight race at the Milwaukee River Challenge in Milwaukee, Wis. 
Notre Dame then returned 

home for a two-day regatta ver­sus Kansas where the Irish took two of the top three positions in the varsity four race and finished 1-2-3 in the varsity eight. The Irish continued their successful fall season at the Head of the Ohio as they won two races, including the open four and the club four. The Irish also were fourth in the open eight and took third through sixth places in the pairs race. 
The Irish varsity team closed out its fall season by taking third, fifth and seventh in the open eight race, while the fours were first and third at the Head of the Rock Regatta in Rockford, Ill. 
The next week, Notre Dame's varsity four and varsity pair placed third, while the novice eight was fourth at the Head of the Grand in East Lansing, Mich. 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish enter second half of season, prepare for Big East 

. Western Michigan hosts Notre Dame in doubleheader 
Special to the Observer 

The Irish softball team returns to the Midwest this weekend to begin the second part of its season. The Irish have completed their presea­son tournament schedule with an 8-9 record and will now focus on regional matchups and the Big East Conference schedule. Notre Dame will take on Western Michigan Sunday in Kalamazoo with a doubleheader at noon and 2 p.m. 
Notre Dame and Western Michigan will be meeting for the 16th and 17th time on Sunday. The Irish lead the all­time series 11-4 and have won four in a row over the Broncos. The last meeting occurred in 2001, an 8-0 vic­tory by the Irish at Ivy Field. 
Western Michigan is also 8­9 this season and boasts wins over Illinois and Virginia Tech. The Broncos are hitting a solid .302 as a team, led by Kelly Barnett's .413 average and Mario McCarthy's .320 average and 13 RBIs. The Broncos' pitching staff is led by Leah Seffernick who owns a 6-2 record and 2.58 ERA, but five different pitchers have seen action this season. 
The Irish are hoping to fol­low the pattern of play estab­lished last season. Notre Dame returned from Spring Break last year with an 8-12 record, but rebounded to win 36 of its final 41 games and finish one game away from the Womens College World Series. 
The Irish also won 14 games in a row after coming back to the Midwest after break in 2002. 
This season, Notre Dame brings an 8-9 record into the second part of its season. 
The Irish begin Big East Conference competition on Saturday, March 29, against Pittsburgh. 
Not only did the weather play havoc with last week­end's Kia Klassic, cancelling the last two days of competi­tion, but the team was struck by a strep throat virus last week as well. 
At one time, six Irish play­ers were affected by the ill­ness, forcing first-team all-Big East honorees Andrea Loman, Steffany Stenglein and Megan Ciolli out of the line up at dif­ferent times. 
The cancellation of the Kia Klassic tournament games allowed the team to get back early from the West Coast and get in a full week of rest before taking on Western Michigan this Sunday: 
The Irish square off with the Broncos for a twin bill Sunday starting at noon at Western Michigan's Fran Ebert Field in Kalamazoo, Mich. 
THE BEST KEPT SECRET ... 
PARK·JEFFERSON APARTMENTS .. 
I Bedroom starting at $466.00 2 Bedrooms starting at $544.00 
NOW RENfING FOR THE 2003 SCHOOL YEAR 9MONTH SHORT TERM SUMMER AND MONTH TO MONTH LEASES LOCATED 2.1 MILES FROM NOTRE DAME ON BUS LINE LAUNDRY FACILITIES, INDOOR HEATED POOL, FITNESS & EXERCISE ROOMS, BILLIARDS SPACIOUS 1 & 2 BEDROOMS, SOME WITH DENS FREE MEMBERSHIP TO CASTLE POINT HEALTH CLUB VIEW OUR MODEL DAILY 
JOO I EAST JEFFERSON BLVD 

MON-FRI 9:00AM -6:00PM 
SOUTH BEND, IN 46615 SATURDAY 10:00AM -6:00PM 57 4-23 2-llll www.parkjefferson.com
SUNDAY 10:00AM -4:00PM 
/ 
~~ 
;/ 
~ 
1­


~--~ --------~ 
--------~-~--------------...-.. 
f ,_ \\ ~ ~ 1 i e server .n. ·v .c:, 4
11\• ==J:_ag~_:__2~-~-~-~-~~-~-~-~-~-~~-~-~-~-~-.,..'h~_Q_~~-~-P~'"l~~___,~-:\TC'~~~-l~~~~~~~~~~~-~-~-~-~-~-~~~·da.r_~M-~r_ch~2_:_~2-0~03 
... 

{ 
" 

i 
t,, 
! 
i 
' 
r:·:
I., 
l '/
' ~­
·~
;~-­
111 
i)l 
1': 
'' 
'' 
I 
' 
' 
'{~ 
I 
"i 1,
-.1:; 
\ 
-, 
\ 
:M 
}.? \­
t­
~ 
... 
-' 
~ I ~~ 
r :· ' 
r: 
11i: 
~i 
' 
11
11; 
~ 
111' 
t!1 ~ 
;l!j
1•r ­
:::! 
.l ~ 
1/'l \ 
r: ' 
}( 
t 
11 
l 
l 
I 
I 
I}
I· 
1:)
,,1 
'i\ 
Ii) 
Iii 
l)fI J 
:1 
>I 
' 
I 

, 
I 
,' (' 
•'I 
11 
p
,-, I; 
,1 
,, 
,i 
; 
Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns, in conjunction with the Residence Halls, encourage all to join us in a traveling 




Beginning Monday in the Sorin Hall chapel at 9:00 p.m. 
to be continued around campus each weeknight @ 9:00 p.m. until the end of the war in Iraq. 
Next Week's schedule: Tuesday: Walsh Hall Wednesday: Badin Hall Thursday: Howard Hall Friday: Morrissey Hall 

For more info or to help with the Rosary for Peace, contact Kelly Rich @ 1-3390. 
_, 

Friday, March 21, 2003 page 23
The Observer . SPORTS 

ND WOMENS TENNIS 
Irish commence 4-match homestand as season nears end 

By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
With the end of the regular season approaching, the Irish begin a four-match homestand today that is full of tough compe­tition. 
Today's match against Iowa will likely be the easiest of the next four for the Irish, but Notre Dame, 5-2, will then host No. 13 William & Mary Sunday. No. 28 Michigan Tuesday and No. 54 Purdue Wednesday. 
After their spring break loss to No. 7 Arizona State in their first outdoor match of the season, the Irish dropped from 15th to 27th in the rankings. The Irish began the week with a 4-3 win over No. 49 Brigham Young. 
Notre Dame is the next stop on a tough schedule for Iowa. The Hawkeyes have already seen a good amount of tough competi­tion -competition that it has not been able to handle. 
Currently 3-7 on the season and 1-2 in the Big Ten, the Hawkeyes have seen defeat at the hands of No. 11 Vanderbilt, No. 15 South Alabama, No. 19 Illinois and No. 26 Georgia Tech. Iowa's three wins have come against non-ranked teams Purdue, Marquette and most recently, New Orleans last Sunday. 

Sunday's competition is likely to be more formidable for the Irish as they face William & Mary, 12-4 overall and undefeat­ed in the Colonial Athletic Conference. Before meeting the Irish, the Tribe will face off against the Hawkeyes Saturday. 
While Notre Dame's schedule has not been easy. William & Mary's has been even more chal­lenging. 
Each of William & Mary's loss­es came to teams ranked among the top eight nationally: No. 2 Stanford, No. 3 California, No. 7 Arizona State and No. 8 North Carolina. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 

CAMP COUNSELOR FOR CHILDREN WITH DISABILITIES 
Must have strong work ethic and be interested in mak­ing a difference in the life of a child 
$7_$ 11 hr,  S sites in Summit County, near Akron, OH.  
35 hr/wk,  Must enjoy outdoor activities.  
summer only  Call 800-CYO CAMP for an application  

·----------
.. 
I I AUTHENTIC SUBS SINCE 1950 I
I I A FREE SUB !!! I 
f'UllCJL\U MTpa. oaGIANT 8UII WITH A :p oz.FOU)ffAJM DlUNJ(. AND CET AN'-Of..ii.£&ill'lli'a StJII. OF
I I 
EQUAL oaYH1B VALULzflP 
THS COUPON NOT VAUO WITH.QTl:E)i:Pf'F!:RS. Y~ 15~ STU)Ef,[f_/F~Q,ll T'(DISCOUNT Q!tW!Il:!
I I 
DElJYERY QRDERS. ~Qti_AE!?Jt .1~~£()03 IN 111811AWASA-AT.-,U N.KA.IN ff,ACllOU DOIi Min~ IN IOUTll aam-TDCGU.SGE .-oon.u.LILU.LOFFAIII! _......._AND
I I 
ATTUINTD8SCTIONGa ¦a9U•A"1'1ZNa~
.. ________ _..._ .. 
Hey Pardner, 
Herd it's your birth­day, so ti re up the ole brandon iron and mark the occasion! 

Happy 21st Birthday, ,:,::::::::,:::::::::::::::::, Justin! 
Love, Dad, Mom & Rachel 


Friday, March 21, 2003 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
Irish 
continued from page 28 

team," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "A few times, we were back on our heels, but we stepped up and made big plays." 
Irish center Torin Francis had a phe­nomenal game by scoring a career-high 23 points on 7-for-11 shooting and pul­ing down 14 rebounds. He also hit 9-of­10 free throws for the Irish. 
But it was Thomas, who played high school at Pike in Indianapolis that made the biggest plays when his Irish needed it the most. The 6-foot-1 guard became the floor general for the Irish against the Panthers, especially after Carroll went down with a turned ankle. 
"Fortunately, for us I had a good game and I made some good plays down there near the end and put us in a position to win," Thomas said. "I felt that the leadership needed to be picked up, and I was out there talking to guys, and that's what it took for us to win the game." 
After the game, Brey was very pleased with his point guard's play, especially his aggressiveness. 
"That was a great example, in the second 

"Thank God we don't
half, of riding a player," ing and 69 points, Brey said. "If you take play tomorrow so we nearly 10 under away his dangerousness their average. 
have a chance to get
and aggressiveness, The Irish will now
[Matt Carroll] ready ... 
we're not· as good of a face the Big Ten basketball team." Tournament The Irish win was Mike Brey Champion Illini, plagued by turnovers and perhaps, without
Irish head coach
foul trouble. Notre Dame had 20 turnovers against the Panther's press, and the teams also combined for 44 fouls in the game. 
The Panthers jumped out to a 12-7 lead before the Irish tied it at 12-12 at the 9:26 mark of the first half. Notre Dame began to distance themselves from Wisconsin-Milwaukee by taking a 29-22 lead on a Thomas jumper with 
1:00 remaining in the half. 

But the Panthers' tied the game at half when Page hit a jumper, Ronnie Jones knocked down a 3-pointer and Justin Lettenberger made a layup at the buzzer to make the score 29-29. 
The lead changed several times in the 
I 
I, first eight minutes of the second half before the Irish took a 48-40 lead when Thomas nailed a jumper. But Wisconsin-Milwaukee wouldn't go 
away, using a 10-0 run to take a 50-48 lead with 10:07 left in the game. 
Notre Dame then went on their own 7-0 run, aided by a Thomas 3-pointer, and regained a 55-50 edge. 
Irish forward Dan Miller hit a jumper with 4:48 remaining to give Notre Dame a 64-61 lead. Jones came back with a layup to cut the lead to one, before Notre Dame's Jordan Cornette knocked down a clutch 3-pointer from the left corner to give the Irish a 67-63 lead with 3:31 left. 
With the Pathers down two, guard Jason Federick drilled a 3-pointer to give Wisconsin-Milwaukee a 69-68 lead. 
The Panthers had a chance to put Notre Dame away late, but Page missed a jumper with two minutes left and a 1­foot layup a minute later. 
Notre Dame made the Panthers pay when Francis put back a Cornette miss to give Notre Dame a 70-69 lead with 33 seconds to play. 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee had one last chance when Clay Tucker drove to the basket, drew a triple team then dished the ball to Page who couldn't convert the lay-up. 
The Irish, who had struggled with their defense late in the season, held the Panthers to only 
34.4 percent shoot­
their star Carroll. 

His ankle sprain leaves him questionable for Saturday's game. 
"He was just running off a screen offensively. but he just rolled his ankle pretty good," Brey said. "Thank God we don't play tomorrow so we have a chance to get him ready. We're work­ing around the clock to get him ready for Saturday." 
For now, Brey just wanted to focus on his teams play, especially down the stretch. 
"We did things and believed we were going to find a way to get it done and that's what our team has been most of the year," Brey said. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Co-stars 
continued from page 28 
the court in jubilation, and the Irish kept danc­ing in March. 
Forget about dodging a bullet. The Irish escaped the whole clip. 
They did so because, when their star was sad­dled first by foul trouble and then by an injury, every other Irish player elevated their game. 
Forward Jordan Cornette drilled a key 3­pointer -just his sixth of the season -at a cru­cial juncture in the sec­ond half. Thomas virtu­ally carried the Irish in latter stages of the game by burying unbelievable shots. Dan under the glare of a tournament spotlight, while the freshman took over early. 

So Francis started the game by scoring his team's first seven points. He finished it by ripping the ball out of Cornette's hands and scoring the game-winning layup with 33 seconds left. 
"I didn't do it inten­tionally, I was just going after the ball" the soft­spoken freshman grinned, adding later. "Sometimes things just happen. I just wanted to win." 
In between his first three baskets and his season-saving final one, Francis played 37 min­utes. grabbed 14 rebounds, made 9-of-10 
free throws 
and had 
Miller "Since we got away two blocks. 
turned His per­
from the Big East, we

in formance 
another have a new mindset. left sensa­Wisconsin­
It·s a new season. ·• 

tional Milwaukee defen­coach sive Chris Thomas 
Bruce perfor­sophomore guard Pearl shak­
mance. Torrian Jones helped shut down the Panthers despite playing most of the second half with four fouls. 
"When you do that without your star," Thomas said, "it says a lot about the guys on your team." 
As good as everyone else on Notre Dame's team played, the Irish wouldn't be playing Saturday were it not for the efforts of Torin Francis. 
Normally, freshmen enter their first NCAA Tournament game with a deer-in-the-headlights look. Instead it was the rest of the Irish who appeared to wither early ing his 

head in the 
post-game interview room, thinking back to what he told his team before the game. 
"I told the team before the game he was the key, and we did not do a good job guarding him," Pearl said. "He was a huge factor in their vic­tory." 
Normally, opposing coaches walk into inter­view rooms saying Carroll or Thomas made the difference, not Notre Dame's relatively raw freshman. 
But with long-range shots not falling and his team needing him the most, .Francis stepped up his game to make sure the Irish kept stepping through the tournament. 
The ironic thing was that the Irish entered the game saying they needed to focus playing the same way they had all season. Against the Panthers, the Irish couldn't have played any more different. 
Carroll spent what could have been the final game of his career on the bench. The Irish held an opponent to under 30 points in the first half for the first time since the Ice Age. Notre Dame's victory was truly a team victory. 
"It wasn't our stereo­typical win," Jones said. ·Tm not going to argue 
tnd break it down because we won the game. Guys had the desire and will to win the game." 
Then again, maybe the signs of Notre Dame's success were obvious when the team walked on the court. The players had their heads shaved. they wore brand-new sneakers, and they wore gold uniforms for the first time all season. 
"Everybody said we couldn't win because everything was so new, we should stick to what we were doing," Thomas said. "But since we got away from the Big East. we have a new mindset. It's a new season." 
Thanks to Notre Dame's heroics without Carroll, that season con­tinues. 
The opinions ofthis column are those ofthe author and not necessar­ily The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Soukap at asoukup@nd.edu. 
POST PERIMETER 

COACHING STYLE OF PLAY BENCH INTANGIBLESPLAYERS PLAYERS 
LIJ 
:e 
ct 
C 
LIJ 
a: 
l­
o 
z 
f/)
-
0 
z 
::J 
....
-


A Brey-coached Notre Dame team has never made it to the second weekend of the tournament, but that isn't necessarily a knock on the third­year Irish coach who has lots of tourney experience. ::::::::::::::::::::::: :In three years with the Illini, Bill Self has led his teams to a 77­23 record, including an Elite Eight and Sweet Sixteen appear­ance. He also led Tulsa to the Elite Eight in 2000. ~==================== ::::::::.:.:.:.:.-:.-:.-:.-:.---------= The two coaches, both close friends, are coaching equals. Both 1I::~:~!.~t,;f;:::;~1~~.i:•hn, -rehftiV~ly,,.,, shori periods of time. Self has had more success only because he start­ed with more.  All season long, the perimeter has carried Notre Dame, and there's no reason that won't continue. But the Irish have had a lot of problems on defense -problem_s they solved in the first-round game. :::::::::::::::::::= ::::::::::::::::::::::Illinois plays a suffo­cating defense that hampers driving guards while beating opponents on the offensive end with their big men. They rely on multiple com­plicated offensive sets to generate points. On paper, the Illini appe~u:::·tq···h·ave an advaq!,a.g~ _g,yer the Irisb"'tb]Jij\~,;,tq,_Jheir ~:tt:l:!!tf,t~fu~ ~; eX pO ~e'd the 'JII ini'S we a k);umJL,...,.Q.n the perimeter, something the Irish could exploit.  Francis picked a good time of the year to start playing his best basketball. He had two solid games in the Big East Tournament and Thursday night and. is quickly establishing himself as Notre Dame's most reliable post player. : Cook, the Big Ten Player of the Year, is a force to be reckoned with in the paint. He averages 20.1 points and 7 .2 rebounds a game and is often the Illini's first scoring option. Powell is also reliable inside.  Carroll and Thomas form arguably one of the best backcourts in the nation. If he's healthy, Carroll plays his best basketball in the postseason. Miller gives the Irish a reli­able defensive pres­ence.  The Irish simply lack the depth they've had in previous seasons, but that doesn't mean they don't have options. Jones and Quinn have been reli­able all season long, and the Irish will badly need them come Saturday.  Nobody on the Irish save Miller has advanced to the Sweet Sixteen. and the Irish are eager to snap that streak. Also, the Irish haven't gotten much respect, and that's made them a little unhappy.  
Brown, the fresh­man point guard, has unbelievable quick­ness that helped earn him second-team All­Big Ten honors. Harrington is the team's best 3-point shooter.  One of the deepest teams the Irish have faced all year, the Illini have 10 people who started at one time or the other dur­ing the year. They can generate points, too.  The Illini start two freshmen and two sophomores, but the team has a horde of reliable veterans off the bench. And if Thursday night is any indication, Illinois might have more fans than the Irish.  
Notre Dame, who has had trouble get­ting r~lfiif.il~>produc­tion fromth~-post all season.::-wo.n.a,Juhable. to hibdlilthi{,&lfteran Cod1t:""''Frlifi:tl's'''''''''\vhi le he ha~·potJittial, is too raw to....h~ind.le the powerful senior for­ward.  Both team's defens­es will have trouble containing the other's /off:en5e. Notr'e'''' Dam a.,r;:1/PJ;rl~Illini have the quick­ness to penetrate the Irish defense.  Wheu..Notre..Dame· s subs dome Jrito the game, it's'oft.ep··to give the '\iiftJiiitiJ ]iickbre fk,·=· J,,'!t6/''.ll~lin i mea~ii'~li'.I(tJ::?taii" r u ~ bodies ia.t th.e Irish all afterndon:'·:.........,.:,,..:...,  Notre Dame is good enough to hang with ,,!JutJlµni. Jµ§:t,f~)V ,peo-,,~,j~~:1~~!second weekend. The neutral court will be just that ­neutral.  


Friday, March 21, 2003 page 25
The Observer . SPORTS 

ND WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Battle-tested Irish feel prepared as tournament begins 
"We've definitely faced a lot of season, including a game in nament game. State. If that's true, the Irish
By JOE HETTLER 
adversity this year, and we've Knoxville, Tenn. They've been Notre Dame's toughness and have a good shot to surprise the 
Sports Editor 
definitely come through it well," there before and know what to experience in road games Wildcats. Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. expect this season. against Tennessee and The Irish enter this year's
They won their first four Nothing that happens in "We all have two NCCA Connecticut will also help them tournament in a different posi­games before getting blown out Kansas this weekend should Tournament games under our if they face Kansas State in the tion than they're used to. by DePaul. shake the Irish. Besides fresh­belts," McGraw said. second round. The Wildcats, They're not expected to get past They reeled off three more men Meghan Duffy and ..Everybody's been in that situa-who are hosting the four-team the first round. let alone win a victories until Tennessee drilled Courtney tion. We've regional. are a perfect 18-0 at national title. They're not feared 
them by 16. 
LaVere, been in some home this season. by opponents like they were a
"We ·ve been in some tough

Then there was the month of everyone tough envi­"I think (our tough season and couple years ago. 
January where they lost all four else has environments in big games. I ronments in experience] could help us in the With all that's happened this games at home. experi­think we're battle-tested, and I big games. I tournament," Irish center season, the Irish certainly have Nothing's been easy for Notre ence in don ·t expect us to play any think we're Teresa Borton said. "We strug­no business making any type of 
Dame this season. From having the tour­battle-tested, gled and came back and won tourney run -especially as a 
a player quit the team to win­differently in this situation . .,
nament. and I don't some games after that struggle. No. 11 seed. ning eight of their last 11 Alicia expect us to If we've learned from that, But Notre Dame is actually in 
games, the Irish have had their Ratay, play any dif­when we're down, we can be good shape for this tournament.
Muffet McGraw

fair share of highs and lows. Karen ferently in like, 'We can come back from Nothing's going to jitter them.
Irish head coach

But that's exactly why the Swanson .this situa­this because we [struggled] in They're the underdog and Irish may be a dangerous team a n d tion." January and came back."' they've got nothing to lose. in the NCAA Tournament. La'Tania Arizona, Another factor in Notre The experiences of an up-and­... 
When you've handled as much Severe know what it's like to Notre Dame's first opponent, Dame's corner is being the down season should help the difficulty as Notre Dame this win a national championship. isn't a perennial tournament underdog. Notre Dame isn't Irish atjust the right time. season, you become tougher. All three were on the 2001 Irish team. They don't have as much supposed to upset Arizona And the tournament is all about team that won the national title. experience as the Irish, and Sunday. The Wildcats could be being mentally and physically The five sophomores played their best player, Shawntinice looking ahead to a potential Contact Joe Hettler at tough. two games in the tourney last Polk, has never played in a tour-match up with 28-4 Kansas jhettler@nd.edu 
ket," the subdued Ratay says. Teresa Borton said. "That's aside and keep her mind on the need it as well. If there's any­From then on, Ratay how she gets our attention." game at hand will come in one on the team they will turn
Ratay 
returned to being the go-to Ratay, who has twice been a especially handy with the to in a moment when they most continued from page 28 player when the Irish needed pre-season All-American candi­nerves that come with an need a miracle, they will turn her. Successions of clutch 3-date, leads the NCAA tour-to Ratay. were winning while she wasn't pointers and solid shooting Irish with 44 3-nament. "It's so strange because she 
..It's so strange because 

scoring, so it wasn't something inside the arc returned to p o inters this "She's so doesn't look intense," sopho­we focused on yet." haunt opposition. season and an she doesn 't look intense. poised," more forward Katy Flecky said. But when the Irish started to After those early season 88.4 percent But she is in her mind McGraw "But she is in her mind and she struggle, things changed. games, Ratay returned to her free throw said. "Under will make the clutch shot. If I 
and she will make the 

"When we were losing we old form and took the leader­average. That pressure I had anyone [to take the clutch went back to saying we have to ship role McGraw needed her free-throw per­clutch shot. " think the shot] I'd give it to her, of any­get Alicia more shots," McGraw to. She didn't lead by calling centage also. team just one on the whole team." said. out the plays to her younger leads the Big wants to get On Sunday, as the Irish take
Katy Flecky 

Ratay herself is hesitant to teammates. She didn't lead by East. the ball to on Arizona, Ratay will have one
sophomore forward

talk about it. All that matters is offering inspirational speeches She also leads her, and last shot on making round two 
that mid-season, she felt a in the locker room before the with a very that really of the NCAA Tournament. She spark, she got more looks and games. calm, focused helps them will look to do it the same way all of the sudden she was back She led by example. attitude. McGraw claims that relax because she's come she always has -through to helping lead the Irish scor­"She's consistent in scoring the poise Ratay brings with her through in the clutch for us so silence and accuracy. ers. and just staying in the game on the court is an invaluable many times. 
"I got more touches, I think, mentally and being prepared asset to the rest of her players. Her teammates can count on Contact Katie McVoy at and got better looks at the bas-mentally," sophomore guard Her ability to put her emotions that calm attitude when they mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
COACHING 

McGraw is one of the L&J top womens coaches in ~ the country, and she 
<C 
also has experience

C 
with taking her teams L&J to the tournament. Her 
0:: 
challenge will be to get

.... 
0 her team to finally z reach its potential in the NCAA tournament. 
Joan Bonvicini is the winningest coach in < 
Arizona womens bas­

z 
ketball history.

0 
Bonvicini knows what

N
-
it's like to be in the

0:: 
tourney and should have her team pre­pared. 

<C 
STYLE OF PLAY 
The Irish will rely on their inside game of Borton, LaVere and Flecky to keep them in the game, while hop­ing Ratay can knock down some 3-pointers from the outside. If they get down early, the Irish may have trouble coming back. 
Arizona can score from the inside and from the perimeter. which will pose prob­lems for Notre Dame. The Wildcats cart find ways to score when they struggle offen­sively. while the Irish have not been able to. 
POST PLAYERS  PERIMETER PLAYERS  BENCH  
The Irish need great defensive efforts out of Borton, Lavere and Flecky. Batteast will also need to provide some help inside when Polk gets the ball. The Irish need their best games from their big­ger players to win.  The Irish need Ratay to find ways to get open and take more shots. If she can knock down some 3-pointers, Notre Dame will have a decent chance of winning. Notre Dame's guard play has been suspect at times this season.  Notre Dame is eight-deep and relies on all eight for scoring and contributions. The Irish should be able to keep fresh legs the whole game, while Arizona may not. This could be an advantage in a close game.  

INTANGIBLES 
Notre Dame has nothing to lose against Arizona, and the Wildcats could be looking ahead to a matchup with Kansas State in the second round. The Irish are battle-tested from a difficult regular sea­son. 

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::= 
Polk ripped apart the PAC-10 this sea­son, and she will give the Irish all they can handle. If Polk can control the paint and boards, the Irish will be in trouble. Look for Arizona to feed her the ball all day. 
Dee-Dee Walker can score, pass and play defense for the Wildcats and presents some serious prob­lems for the Irish. Notre Dame's biggest weakness on offense has been its guard play. ~ 

The Wildcats like to play their main six Arizona is supposedplayers, so their bench to win and could bedoesn't factor as much 
looking ahead. It'sinto their gameplan. 

hard to stay focused

That could hurt 
on a team like NotreArizona as the game Dame, because it has 

goes on, although 
struggled for much of

they've had success 
the season.

without much bench support all season. 
~==================:: ::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::= ==:::::::::::::::::=: 
Both coaches will 


If Ratay can't get
have their teams 


Notre Dame,shoµld ready, and both have 
be fresher Iliat:=the
~~e:;;1,ffrTfii~\to:;i~~

U) 
Sevefelalifo "ii!eds to look fw fu6refihots if 

U)­
~ 
theft.I ,:iva.Ui&.le and

<C 
i:l~!J!~

z 
Notre Dame and not 

11111
le( 
than>people think.
look ahead to a poten­rest::of.the Wiidiits as

~i!:~~a?if:
tial matchup with 
the gafflJ goes dfL season.
Kansas State Tuesday. 



:'.1 page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 21, 2003 
: : ! ; lJ 
. I 
! I BASEBALL 
t 
. ' 
19th-ranked Irish travel to Villanova for Big East opener 
'. '\ 
I l l l 
"· like No. 3 Arizona State. No. 13
JI By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Wake Forest and No. 15 
Sports Writer 

Nebraska, the Irish played to a 6­
11'
'ti; 1 record over break. Mainieri
After a spring break trip' to noticed his team's improvementFlorida that saw the Irish ·win six throughout the weak. 

out of seven games over an eight­"I just felt that our team got aday period, the Irish hope to lot better as the week went on," carry over that momentum to 


Mainieri said. "By the time we their Big East Conference opener played Navy the second time [last this weekend at Villanova. 
Friday], I thought that was our "We're primed and ready to get 
best game of the year. We 
the Big East season off and run­pitched well, we played goodning," Irish coach Paul Mainieri defense, we swung the bat well,said. "These first 14 games of the we hit with two strikes and we 

season I think we've learned an executed some things. Then we awful lot about our team, and I followed that up on Saturdayfeel really good about our ball against Creighton with another 

club right now." solid game." The 19th-ranked Irish {9-5) got Several Irish hitters were able in a bit of a groove in Florida to use the long span of games ­with the opportunity to play at one point during the break the 
nearly every day over break, and Irish played on six consecutive they hope to use that confidence days -to find a groove at the in their three-game series with plate.the Wildcats (4-8), starting with a Notre Dame's top hitter, second doubleheader Saturday and end­baseman Steve Sollmann. 
,! ing with the third game on improved his season average to Sunday. .429 by going 11-for-23 over the 
"Baseball is the kind of sport seven game span with six RBIs that you need to be playing a lot and seven runs scored. in order to get your timing down Other Irish hitters that had a and your instincts and reactions," solid week at the plate were Mainieri said. "When you play senior outfielder Kris Billmaier seven games in eight days like we who also went 1l-for-23 to did, it really gives you a chance improve his average on the sea­impressive .307, while the Notre ule." er Danny Poydenis, who has to learn how to play the game, son to .361, sophomore infielder Dame pitching staff held oppo­The main threat at the plate for started all 12 games for the and it gives you a lot of confi­Matt Edwards who improved to nents to a .185 average and post­the Wildcats will be centerfielder Wildcats and is batting .405 for dence because you realize that . 392 on the year with his 11-for-ed a 2.37 staff ERA. Chris Graziano. The senior is bat­the season. every at bat and every play is not 28 performance over break with "I feel like we're jelling now," ting .382 on the season and was The three-game series between the season. There will be another nine RBIs and junior catcher Mainieri said. "Guys are getting named Big East Player of the Notre Dame and Villanova begins 
opportunity coming up just Javy Sanchez who boosted his an opportunity to play and to Week this week along with Notre at noon Saturday.around the comer." average to .333 by hitting 11-for-make some moves up, and now I Dame's Sollmann. After a sluggish start in which 27 during the break. feel like we're ready to go and hit The leading hitter for Villanova Contact Chris Federico at 
the Irish went 3-4 against teams As a team, the Irish batted an the Big East Conference sched-so far this season is junior infield-cfederic@nd.edu 
,_. I 






Friday, March 21, 2003 page 27
The Observer . TODAY 

SCHOOL DAZE 



CLARE O'BRIEN 
.....
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKEARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
., 
BYNAD 
rJ 
I 

C2002 Tri>une Media Servieea, Inc. All F\ighta Reserved. 
KHYAS 
j 
1 
rx 
VERYUP 

I rJ 
wwwj...-rt>le.com
tTHROYP I

J I I t J 
Answerllere: A [
rn I I I I I ] 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: FELON THINK ZODIAC LOUNGE Answer: What the phone solicitor considered his job ­A "CALLING" 

. HOW SHE: WON 
THE:5£:WING 
C.ONTf:ST. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 30 • To order, Hnd your name, addren and $5.45 and maka ctwck payable to Tribune Media S.rvicN, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL tl0e80-4330. 
i, 


CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

1 Old-fashioned outburst 33 Like some 54 Suffix with notebook paper electro•
5 • ... to your beauteous 55 Buds
34_James,
blessings_ 
who sang "Your 
curse": Shak. 
Cheatin' Heart" 

DOWN
9 SouVpop singer 
35_diet

Bryson 1 Spanish38 Debtor's woe pronoun
14 Admonition to a noisy child 37 Grabber 2 Word with crazy or guide
17 Big bang 38 Like belly-creator dancing 3 "That's _!" 
18 Places for seals 4 Strippers
40 Disconcerting 19 Mar, in a way 5 Temporary
41 Book before 20 It may be Neh. 6 Clear ala the spoiled Pied Piper
42 1970's-BO's 

21 1988 sitcom guy, with 7 MRunaround Wimbledon "the" Sue" singer champ 
43 Time piece? 8 Winemaking 
24 Record holders region
51 Its characters

29 Arena 9 Dirty
are drawn 
arrangement 

10 Chemist's
52 W.W. II hero30 Country name who later had a extracting Puzzlt by Michael Shteymanfrom 1971-97 solvent
successful 28 Kind of 37 Hindu belief 45 "Face/Ofr31 Elimination career in politics 11 Mideast port operation actress Gershon 39 Gobs
12 Distort 30 Language 46 Dickens orphan
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

related to Xhosa 40 Go hunting
13 Mint stack 47 Draining effect? 33 1942 Abbott and 42 Side 
48 It may be

oxidizers Costello film 
decaffeinated
43 Flashy car

16" Park" 
34 •Give this some accessories 49 Hang out

(2001 whodunit) 
flair!" 
44 Without_ 50 Hydrocarbon

21 Character 
36 Codger (daringly) suffixes 

22 ·Cheers· role 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute: or, with a 24 Diamond stat credit card, 1-800·814-5554 . Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
25 ls positioned 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000

contaminator 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year) . Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network. end nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA Li\ST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Rosie O'Donnell, Matthew Bnxlerick, Gary Oldman, Cynthia Geary 
Happy Birthday: You will be highly creative, and should put this ability to good use. Your plans will be masterful, so take a strong position when dealing with others. Focus on what will benefit you the most and be sensitive toward others. Your numbers are 7, 14, 25, 33, 38, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): This is a great day to do something special for yourself, especially if you have been working too hard. Investments can be made, but don't be too hasty. Time is on your side. *** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may be a little emotional today. Be cautious in how you approach sensitive issues. Professional and personal duties may interfere with one another. ** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It may be nearing the end of the week, but that doesn't mean that you can shy away from your responsibilities. Remember your reputation is at stake. *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Make plans to do something really special for yourself or with friends. 'This could tum out to be a great day. Trust in yourself and you will make important new connections. ***** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't push your luck or force your will on those around you. Lay low and let someone else take the spotlight today. There is evidence that you will face problems at home. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Have some fun with your friends. You will learn something new if you take part in new activities or develop a new friendship or partnership. Be prepared to talk about your future plans. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Focus on your work even if you are preoccupied with the upcoming weekend. You will feel less stressed if you get projects finished. You can get ahead if you just put in a little extra effort. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will be sensitive, intuitive and in an awkward position when it comes to your personal life today. Don't lose your cool in the process; stay calm and compromise. *** . SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): If things haven't been working according to your plans, you must do whatever is needed to tum things around. Financial gains can be made if you look into an investment you hear about today. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): If you put others first, you will discover that .. you will receive far more in return. The more aware you are of what everyone around you is up to, the further you will go. Be smart and accommodating. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): If you are too forthcoming with information, someone will take advantage of your generoshy and take credit for your ideas. Focus on finishing what you start. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You should be in the mood for love, romance and good times. You will meet new people if you take part in a community or social event. Others will find you extremely interesting. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You will be astute, critical and hard on yourself as well as others. You will strive to be the best, do the best and accomplish the most. You ... will need to learn to be more forgiving with yourself and others. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payabl~ to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name _______________________ Address ____________________ City _______ State ___Zip_____ 


Friday, March 21, 2003 
MENS BASKETBALL 

Staying alive, hanging tough 
. Thomas takes team on shoulders as Irish eek out first-round win 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
INDIANAPOLIS 
With senior guard Matt Carroll on the bench for most of the game with a sore ankle and foul trouble, Irish point guard Chris Thomas carried Notre Dame on his shoulders and made key plays all game against Wisconsin-Milwaukee. 
A little luck didn't hurt him or the Irish, either. 
Playing in his hometown for the first time in his college career, Thomas scored 27 points. grabbed eight rebounds and added three assists. 
With the game on the line, Wisconsin-Milwaukee's Dylan Page missed a layup with two seconds remaining to help the Irish hang on to a 70-69 victory in the first round of the NCM Tournament Thursday night. The fifth-seeded Irish face four seed Illinois in the second round of the tournament Saturday. The Illini defeated Western Kentucky earlier in the day. 
"We're thrilled to come away with a heartfelt win over a very good team. I'm proud of our 
see IRISH/page 25 


. Irish co-stars shine with Carroll on the bench 

INDIANAPOLIS 
All Matt Carroll could do was watch from the bench as his teammates decided his col­lege career on the court. 
He sat quietly with a bag of ice on his sprained ankle, hav­ing played 
just 14 minutes 
and accu­mulating more fouls (four) than points (two}. 
From his spot on the 


bench, Carroll  Andrew Soukup  
saw his  
teammates  
make the  Sports Writer  
single  
biggest  
defensive  

stop of the season as they forced Panther star Clay Tucker to dish to Dylan Page. Notre Dame's Chris Thomas then soared into the air and. in his words, "either hit the ball or fouled him," somehow helping a one-foot layup roll off the rim. 
Carroll stood to celebrate, his teammates danced down 
see CO-STARS/page 25 
ND WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Quiet Ratay lets her shooting do the talking 

By KATIE McVOY Senior Staff Wrirer 
A basketball makes very little sound as it is released into the air. It makes almost no noise as it swishes through the net. But any athlete can tell you the importance that nearly noise­less ball can make if it hits its mark. It can spell victory or it can spell defeat. 
That kind of silence is not only found on a basketball court. 
Sometimes it's found in the players. 
One of Notre Dame's most potent weapons makes very lit­tle noise when she steps on the court. She has little use for words before or after the 


ND WOMENS BBALL

BASEBALL 
: ! 
Notre Dame at 
Notre Dame at 
·Villanova 
NCAA Tournament 

Saturday, noon 
Sunday, 7 p.m.
The Irish take on 

The 19th-ranked Irish 
begin Big East play against 
Arizona in the first 
the Wildcats. 
round of the NCAAs. 

page 26 
page 25 

game. 
But on the basketball court, Notre Dame guard Alicia Ratay's shot does all the talk­ing for her. 
"She's just the best shooter in the country," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "She's the best pure shooter out there, and she's somebody teams have to focus on." 
Ratay, who leads the Irish in 3-point shots and is in the top five all-time scorers at Notre Dame, has one final chance to make those silent statements on the court. 
"[I'm] really excited," Ratay said. "We think of the NCAA Tournament as a new season -a time to make a fresh start -and we want to come out strong and with a lot of confi­dence." 
The end of Ratay's final regu­lar season should give her the confidence she needs to make a mark in the final games of her college career. 
With Notre Dame's newly instituted triangle offense, Ratay didn't get as many looks as she had in years past this season. The focus on getting the ball inside the paint to the post players did not highlight Ratay's strength -the trey ­and she struggled early on in the season. 
"We had some young guards and we just weren't as good getting her the ball," McGraw said. "I think it was a combina­tion of a lot of things, but we 
see RATAY/page 25 
ND SOFTBALL 
Notre Dame at Western Michigan 
Sunday, noon 
The Irish return to the midwest for a double­header with the Broncos. 
page 21 


WOMENS ROWING 
Michigan at Notrel>ame 

Saturday, all day 
Michigan opens its spring season against the Irish. 
page 21 
FENCING 

Notre Dame at NCAA Championships 
Saturday, all day 

Competition was pushed back until the weekend due to snow storms in Colorado. 
page 18 


The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 21, 2003 
Mens Preview 
A squad-by-squad breakdown of the top three contenders. The mens competition Is today and Friday. 
Epee 
LIJ 
::E 
< 
LIJ
a: 
l­
o 
z 






LIJ 
I­
""0 ~ 
-
:c 
0 
Jones 

I.LI 
NO 

I­
SECOND QUALIFIER
"" ~ z 
z 
I.LI 
a. 


Foil 
I.LI 
::E 
<
C 
I.LI
a: 
l­
o 
z 
I.LI 
I­
""0 ~ 
-
:c 
0 
I.LI 
I­
""z ~ 
z 
I.LI 
a. 












I.LI 
::E 
<
C 
I.LI
a: 
l­
o 
z 
I.LI 
I­
""0 ~ 
:c 
0 
I.LI 
~ 
t­
en 
z 
z 
I.LI 
a. 






Viviani has never finished lower than fifth and the three-time All­American is more driven than ever. Sobieraj started horribly in 2002 but recovered to earn All-American honors. Bednarski has said Sobieraj can win the national title but he needs to be totally focused. 
Gross finished 15th last year and Jones was 16th. The Buckeyes epee squad defeated the Irish squad at the conference championships in what turned out to be the deciding match for the conference title. Ohio State has the confidence, but the Irish, especially Viviani, take it to another level at NCAAs. 
Wiercioch finished fourth at the NCAA Championships last year as a sophomore and second as a fresh­man. A Poland teammate of Sobieraj, Wiercioch will challenge Viviani and possibly Sobieraj for a first-team All­American spot. Ethan Muri didn't qualify for the national champi­onships and is the field alternate. 
The Irish had the top three finishers at the regionals, but Forest Walton is the team alternate. Debic is a three­time All-American and will finish very high. Snyder recovered from ill­ness to finish seventh last year and he is in better health than in 2002. This weapon is where Notre Dame separates itself from Ohio State. 
If the Buckeyes want a chance of winning the title, they need a good performance from their weakest weapon. Weir finished 15th as a sophomore last year and Carbone is a freshman who came in with very few accolades. The Irish are highly superior and should have no prob­lem with these two. 
Panchan surprisingly claimed the individual title as a sophomore. He didn't fence with Penn State until the spring semester as he trained to earn a spot with the Thailand Olympic team. Panchan won the Mid-Atlantic regional title. Miller is 10th on the U.S. Junior rankings and finished fifth at regionals. 
Szelle returns to the NCAAs after not competing as a junior apd sitting out last season. He finished second as a freshman and first as a sophomore. Fabricant had a rough NCAA Championships debut as a junior la..'it year. St. John's Ivan Lee is ranked No. 1 in the world and will be tough even for Szelle to beat. 
Crompton, who won the regional title, is the younger brother of for­mer Notre Dame All-American Andre Crompton. Rogers was a first-team All-American as a fresh­man in 2002. Crompton is first in the U.S. junior rankings and Rogers is third. This weapon is easily Ohio State's strongest. 
Weber is a junior from Germany and was a first-time All-American as a sophomore. He has been a part of the German national team that won bronze medals at the 2000 Olympics and 2003 World Championships. Zagunis is 10th in the U.S. Junior rankings. 

The numbers ar, 
The Irish are one oftwo teams to qualify the 1 biggest challenge will come from defending cht 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
The numbers say the race for the national title should be between Notre Dame and Ohio State, but the Irish know who their real competition is. 
"I don't think Ohio State is going to be a problem. They are not as strong all around," senior foilist Ozren Debic said. "Penn State has 11 top guys. It will be an advantage for us, but we need to do well." 
At this weekend's NCAA Fencing Championships, Notre Dame and Ohio State are the only schools in the country to qualify the maximum 12 fencers. Defending national champion Penn State qualified one less with 11. From past experience, however, it's the quality and not necessarily the quantity that matters. 
"It is definitely an advantage, but Penn State has a solid group of 11. All of their 11 fencers are going to win a good number of bouts," senior epee captain Jan Viviani said. "They always manage to over­achieve, that is something we are going to 
achieve.  They  are  stronger  all-around.  
Having the 12 doesn't  mean  anything if  
the 12 aren't strong."  

"It's helpful mentally, but they do have 11 fencers. Usually the weakest link can break down meaning with 12 fencers on the field, only 11 are giving points," Notre Dame coach Janusz Bednarski added. "There team, despite having three different mem­bers, has zero first-time fencers. That experience factor can do nothing but help. 

"In my opinion, it helps when you have competed already. This is a very unusual competition -two days, 24 bouts, huge round-robin," Bednarski said. "It is fenc­ing 10 hours, so your mental side is under a huge stress. Sometimes, excellent fencers can't fence well for a long time. 
"It is so emotional, it is hard to control." 
Along with the leadership of the five sen­iors, the talent level of the underclassmen gives the Irish a good combination. 
"I think we have a really good makeup of quality and experience," Debic said. "If everything goes right, and we stay healthy, then we should be ready. Everybody is ready to win it." 
A key to having a shot at the title is tak­ing control early. Last year, the Irish held the lead after the womens competition, but the mens team wasn't able to take advantage, and the Irish finished third. Coming in with 12 fencers, grabbing the first day lead and taking control of the competition is a key to battling Penn State for the title. 
"Ifwe are going to have a chance to win, we need to be controlling things the entire time from the beginning to the end," Viviani said. "The first day, they have more bouts than the second day, so it is harder to make things up the second." 
Something 
Bednarski has 

are four teams who will attempted to build 
..We are strong. We
compete for the gold medal this year is a from the beginning." will make a charge. greater sense of The four teams Bednarski We will fight as strong team chemistry. feels will contend for the From the team hud­
as they will ...
national title with Notre dle prior to the dual Dame are Penn State, Ohio match against then­State and St. John's. Janusz Bednarski No. 1 Penn State to "St. John's has a lot of the team meeting
Irish coach 
stars. They qualified only 10, so it will be really hard for them to make it, but they have excellent fencers," Bednarski said. "Penn State is the [defendingl nation­al champion with many names including the bronze medallist Alex Weber in sabre. Ohio State is very strong since they quali­fied 12." 
At last year's NCAA Championships, Penn State reclaimed the title from St. John's after winning the title from 1995 to 2000. The Red Storm has had previous success fencing with fewer people. They took second place last year with only 11 fencers while the Irish finished third with 12. 
With last year's Notre Dame team hav­ing six first-time participants, inexperi­ence was an issue. However, this year's Monday afternoon, 
Place  Team  
1  Penn State  
2  St. John's  
3  NOTRE DAME  
4  Ohio State  

Bednarski is trying 

to bring his team together in such an individual sport. 
"The team is working more as a group this year than last year," Debic said. "I think Janusz has been trying hard to get some camaraderie going from the first day of practice. It is much better than last year." 
"I think he has done a good job of trying to keep us working hard the whole year and keeping us focused on our final goal," Viviani said. 
Some personal honors at stake this year include Viviani and Debic's attempts to become four-time All-Americans, sopho­more foilists Alicja Kryczalo and Andrea Ament goals of repeating their top two fin­ish from last year and junior epeeist Kerry 
2002 NCAA 
Top 13  
Mens  Mens  
Sabre  Foil  
37  35  
38  17  
27  33  
33  10  

5  Columbia-Barnard  26  20  
6  Stanford  10  33  
(tie)  Yale  17  5  
8  Princeton  8  6  
9  Pennsylvania  4  24  
10  Rutgers  8  12  
11  New York University  0  25  
12  Northwestern  0  0  
(tie)  Wayne State  19  0  

' , & 
I I ; • I ; • 


Friday, March 21, 2003 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 


~ in their favor 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Foilists Andrea Ament, left, and Alicja Kryczalo fence In the championship match of the 2002 NCAA Championships. Kryczalo defeated Ament 15-6 as the duo won all their matches in their first national championships. 
Walton effort to defend her national title. 
Notre Dame's seniors, who finished second one and third twice in their col­lege careers, are determined to go out on top. 
"I think every year is a little differ­ent. For a lot of seniors, we have learned something about this competi­tion every year," Viviani said. "It's a little easier to go into this with a better attitude, with a 'we need to win' atti­tude. This is your last chance to win." 
Bednarski has his troops motivated to win it.'i first national title since 1994 and sixth overall. 
"We arc strong. We will make a charge. We will fight as strong as they will," Bednarski said. "Ifwe have good bouting, good luck, good intelligence, then we wilJ have good results. We are going to fight." 
The mens and womsn fencing com­petition will begin Saturday and con­tinue to Sunday when the national champion will be crowned. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
Championships  
Teams  
Mens  Womens  Womens  Womens  Total  
Epee  Sabre  Foil  Epee  Points  
29  29  26  39  195  
35  35  31  34  190  
29  20  45  32  186  
18  28  36  15  140  
11  0  24  15  96  
16  16  17  0  92  
5  34  21  10  92  
28  9  0  30  81  
17  6  10  7  68  
15  12  0  13  60  
24  9  0  0  58  
0  15  24  17  56  
8  0  18  11  56  


& Dame'sRetuming ;.::>, ····All-Americans 
.Epeet>,,,> · n Viviani (28~~ggc>2) ichal SobieraJ(~O()A) . t,i,. Meagan Call (2000-2001) Kerry Walton (2002) 
Foil 

Alicja Kryczalo (2002) 
..·bic,;(~ y 
snlg:.> 
SabrEt~~~~\!:'iM,.,. 

Gabor Szelle (1999..2000) 
ational Chameions
''";rry·. Walton t•··•·· ·•····"•1
,~,r~-;;f!' 
I.LI 
:e 
c( 
C 
I.LI 
0:: 
l­
o 
z 
I.LI 
f;i: 
t­
U) 
0 ::c 0 
I.LI 
f;i:
t-
U) 
z 
z 
I.LI 
0. 
I.LI 
:E 
c( 
C 
I.LI
a: 
l­
o 
z 
I.LI 
f;i: 
t­
U) 0
-
::c 0 
I.LI 
f;i: 
t-
U) 
z 
z 
LLI 
0. 
LLI 
~ 
c( 
C 
LLI
a: 
l­
o 
z 
LLI 
~ 
t-
U) 0
-
::c 0 
LLI 
f;i: 
t-
U) 
z 
z 
I.LI 
0. 

Womens Preview 
A squad-by-squad breakdown of the top three contenders. 
The womens competition is Saturday and Sunday. 
Epee 



















-. 
Walton won the national title last year in her first NCAA Championships. She knows how to improve her fencing when the com­petition is tough. Call surprisingly earned the second berth by winning the regional title. She didn't compete at nationals last year but finished fifth as a sophomore. 
Gearhart and Shklar finished fourth and fifth at the regionals. Shklar was eighth last year at the national championships and seems to be able to defeat the lesser­skilled fencers but has a problem with world-class fencers like Walton. Gearhart is a freshman from San Antonio. 
Burke finished a disappointing fifth after winning the national title as a freshman. She will be on a mission to reclaim her title after 2002's per­formance. Trzopek is a freshman but won the 2001 World Cup at the junior level. Her international expe­rience may have her ready for the national championships. 
The "A-Team" dominated the com­petition at last year's NCAA Championships in winning every bout possible. Kryczalo didn't lose to anybody and defeated Ament in the championship match 15-6. Last year's results will be extremely diffi­cult to repeat with the top eight fencers returning. 
The talented Thompson twins took home All-American honors as freshmen. Hannah lost to Kryczalo in the semifinals 15-5, while Metta finished fifth. Hoth are ranked in the top 10 in the U.S. junior rank­ings and give Ohio State's its best weapon on the womens side. 
As a freshman, Chin finished 12th after winning the 2002 regional title. This year, Chin was fourth at regionals while Donath was sec­ond. Donath is a freshman from Germany. With the depth of the foil field, the Nittany Lions seem to be at a disadvantage and need these two to step up. 
Bednarski admits this weapon is his "biggest area of concern." Milo has not fenced well in her previous . two appearances, finishing 17th and 18th. Jordan used to fence foil and competed at the national championships at that weapon as a freshman. She made the transition to sabre in a time of need. 
Bond-Williams won the national title as a freshman and will probably dominate the competition. The England native won the conference and regional titles as well this year. Plekhanov is a freshman and is another one of those fencers the Irish feel has qualified, but really won't be a major contributor. ­
Last year, Brosnan finished as a second-team All-American for the second straight year. She really doesn't have a lot of international experience and has fenced mainly out of her club in Oregon. O'Neill was redshirted last year with her only All-American coming as a sophomore. 


page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 21, 2003 
Hoping fourth titne's a chartn 
Senior captains Ozren Debic andJan Viviani strive to become four-time All-Americans even as they search for their first national title 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Associate Spores Editor 
On the strip, seniors Ozren Debic and Jan Viviani fence in different styles. 
Debic is likely to charge his opponent and try to score a point, while jumping in the air to surprise his opponent or reaching behind his head for the strike with a counterat­tack. 
Viviani patiently waits for an opening, bouncing on his calves and conventionally attacking with a straight-on strike. 
But what drives these third­year captains and three-time All-Americans is something very basic -winning. 
Getting it done 
Since Debic and Viviani fence different weapons -foil and epee -naturally, their styles will vary. Despite the differences in style and weapon, the results are simi­lar. 
"They are different and they are very similar," Notre Dame coach Janusz Bednarski said. "The similarity is their ambi­tion to win. They aren't happy when they are losing." 
The way Debic and Viviani win is different as well. 
"The difference is in the style. Jan needs to think. He likes danger. He performs bet­ter in the situation when he is losing," Bednarski said. "Then he is getting a shot of adrena­line, which helps him to fence with better reaction. He likes to be at the end of the strip where one more step costs you a point. He is able to fence in a very stressful situation. 
"Ozren is like poetry. He wants to win from the begin­ning and not create the danger try to keep a happy tone all the and win immediately." way, sometimes it's music or 

At the Midwest Fencing goofing around." Conference Championships, Whether it's the seriousness Viviani found himself in such a of Viviani or animation or dangerous position. Facing Debic, one thing is for sure. Wojciech Dudek of Wayne They win -a lot. State in the individual epee championships, Viviani was Accolades galore down 11-9 with one minute After four extremely suc­remaining. cessful seasons, Debic and 
Viviani got within one with Viviani have left their impres­
42 seconds left. As time was sions all over the fencing about to expire, Viviani record books of the storied patiently waited for his open­Notre Dame program. ing. He kept pressuring Dudek Debic is first in career win­and forced him off the strip, ning percentage at foil and 
w h i C h third overall, resulted in a 10th in point for "They are different and career wins 
Viviani. they are very similar. The among all 
Seven sec­weapons and
similarity is their 

o n d s second in foil remained ambition to win . ... The and owns when Viviani four of the
difference is in the style.,, 

tied the top eight foil match. seasons in "I think Janusz Bednarski winning per­one of the Irish coach centage. 
reasons for that. is that when you run into those situations, you don't have a choice, but you have to be aggressive," Viviani said. "It forces me to be more aggressive and that helps me be successful." 
Meanwhile, Debic doesn't have a flair for the dramatic, but a flair for liveliness. He'll talk to himself in his native Croatian tongue, use uncon­ventional tactics and let the judges know when he isn't sat­isfied with their decision. 
But it's all in good fun. 
"I try to keep a happy mood all the time. On the strip, it can get really crazy and stressful with hard opponents and bad directors," Debic said. ''I have had some problems with injuries which adds stress. I 

• Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Senior epee captain Jan Viviani competes at the Notre Dame Duals Feb. 1. Viviani can become a four-time All-American this weekend at the Air Force Academy. 
Aside from 
the stat book, Debic is the only fencer in Notre Dame history to win four Midwest Conference Championships. 
Viviani is first in career win­ning percentage at epee, third on the epee career wins list and eighth on the all-time wins list. He owns three of the top 10 epee campaigns in winning percentage. Viviani won an individual conference title as a junior. 
All of the success can be attributed to a mastery of technique, and a little talent. 
"Both are excellent techni­cally. It is a pleasure from someone who can observe them," Bednarski said. "Their actions are technical, correct and quick. Both are very tal­ented." 
Viviani and Debic have placed in the top five at the NCAA Championships in each of their first three seasons. However, the one thing neither of them has been able to do is win a national title -either individually or as a team. 
Unfinished business 
At the NCAA Championships, the team with the most points claims the overall title. A school earns a point from a win by individual fencers. In essence, a fencer is alone on the strip but is really compet­ing for the team. 
"It's something you need to experience and go through to learn how to approach it. It's kind of hard when you aren't fencing well, and then every­one's like, 'You gotta do it for the team.' Then you lose again, you think, 'I [let down] the team, I [let down] every­body,'" Debic said. "It's a very stressful tournament because your results affect the team's results." 
"That's the reason why, and I bet everyone agrees, this is one of the most stressful com­petitions they have competed in," Viviani said. "We have all competed in world events, but this is different." 
Around the world in other competitions, fencers general­ly go for individual awards first and team results second . 


Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Senior foil captain Ozren Debic Jumps In his attack against a Penn State fencer at the Notre Dame Duals Feb. 1. Deblc looks to become a four-time All-American this weekend. 
Coming from the Croatian National Team, Debic under• stood the importance of put­ting the team when he became a captain as a sophomore. 
"As a fencer, I had to learn how to compet~ as a part of the team. At home, it is basi­cally three guys on the foil national team. We were mostly going for individual results. The team thing wasn't as important," Debic said. "Being captain made me more aware of the input everyone has on the team, even the walk-ons." 
Debic and Viviani are three­time All-Americans and look to become the 10th and 11th fencers in Notre Dame history to win that honor for the fourth time. In each of their three years, the Irish have come in as a favorite and have yet to win the team title. 
But the talented duo will use their unique styles in trying to win their first individual title, and more importantly, their first team title. 
"I want to win it. I have wanted to win it every year,'' Debic said. "This year I am going for it again. It is going to be really hard, because there is a certain level which all the guys are at above other years. We are going to have to work at it to reach the top four." 
"It definitely would be nice to have both. It is something I have been working for this year, trying to focus on," Viviani said. "I think it would be nice to win as a team final­ly. That could mean some­thing." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

+Leszek Nowosielski 
Sabre! 1988-1991 

.· ..·Jeremy Siek 
:/!t~Mw-:. Foit1 1994-1997 
Myriah Brown 
Foil. 1996-1999 
Luke LaVelle 

.. 








