.r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 28 THURSDAY. OCTOBER 2, 2003 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ND battles eating disorders 

Survivor's story encourages students 

off with a cone of chocolate soft­By CLAIRE HEININGER serve to go. News Writer 
From one extreme to the other, a large number of Notre Dame students have a problem with 
Deep in the bowels of the eating -and it is becoming
R o c k n e Memorial, three girls exchange evil glances as they all eye the same treadmill, their sneak­ered feet tap­ping impa­tiently as they await the 
"An eating disorder is just a symptom of a bigger confidence problem.·· 
Kelly Shaffer A Life Uncommon student leader 
apparent that a smaller but far scarier number have let their fears spiral out of con­trol into full­fledged eating dis­orders. 
The number of female students on college campuses across the country who have an offi­
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Writer 
For a sickness as personal and painful as an eating disorder, often the only people who can offer real help are those who have been there before. Jessica Weiner has been there before ­and before and before as she slipped in and out of her anorex­ia and bulimia -and proved on Wednesday that she was ready to help. 
Weiner, the author of "A Very Hungry Girl: How I Filled Up on Ufe ... and How You Can, Too!," gave a presentation about her own struggles with self-loathing and self-starvation, offering insight, strategies and a tri­wnphant outlook to sufferers of eating disorders. 
Coining the label "actionist," she described herself as someone who "looks at what we tangibly have in front of us today-not five pounds from now, not five years from now -I aim to take back the power that each individ­ual day can hold." 
Roughly 200 students packed the LaFortune Ballroom to attend Weiner's presentation, which was titled "Do I Look Fat in This?" Beginning with the first diet that her mom imposed on her at the age of 11, Weiner chronicled her fight against a negative body image. 
"For the first time, I saw my body as something I had to fix, to starve, to change," Weiner said. "It became a cycle of pain, of shame, of blame, of punishment and of restriction." 
Despite years of dieting, Weiner said that she still didn't believe she had a problem because she didn't match the size zeroes around her. 
"I was an in-between girl," she 
said. "I was never 5'10" and 89 
pounds. But that doesn't mean I 
wasn't sick." 
In addition to discrediting the hollow-cheeked, model-thin stereotype of an eating disorder victim, she also refuted the com­mon misconception that eating disorders only affect "snobby rich white girls who want to be skinny and pretty." Instead, she said we should replace that image with "someone from any race, gender or socioeconomic background ­just somebody in pain who does­n't know how to express it," she said. 
The low point of her own pain hit during her freshman year at Penn State University, when Weiner added drug and alcohol abuse to a harsh cycle of anorex­ia, diuretic bulimia and compul­sive eating. 
"I woke up every morning thinking, 'what am I going to do to destroy myself today?'" Weiner said. "I was suicidal. I had zero self worth." 
Her first major breakthrough, she said, came when she decided to throw up for the first time. 
"I remember seeing a sign hanging in the bathroom that said, 'Eating Disorders Can Kill,"' she said. "And underneath it a woman had written, 'Screw you I'm already dead."' 
Weiner said that it was at that moment she realized that eating disorders needed to be talked about. After joining a support group and hearing fellow women with eating disorders tell their painful stories of family trawna, abuse, poverty, divorce, self­mutilation and other "tortured secrets," she realized the release and empowerment that came from discussion and mutual sup-
see EATING/page 6 
Student reports rape 

SMC student claims rape after possible drugging 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
News Writer 
The St. Joseph County Family Violence and Special Victims unit is investigating a 21-year-old Saint Mary's student's claim that she was raped early Sunday morn­ing. 
The woman told police she suspected that a man placed a drug in her drink at the Linebacker Lounge on Saturday night or early Sunday morning, said South Bend Police Captain John Williams. 
Williams said he could not release a copy of the police report to The Observer, but confirmed details of the alleged incident. 
The woman said she went to the bar on Saturday night with a male friend and met his roommate there. While at the bar, she said the roommate bought and gave her drinks. 

The woman left the bar at 3 a.m. with her friend and his roommate and returned to their apartment, where she said they continued to drink before she was later given a pillow and a blanket to sleep on the couch. 
The next morning, the 
see RAPE /page 4 
prized chance for a workout. 
Across campus at North Dining Hall, wide-eyed freshmen pile pasta and chicken fingers high on their trays and top it all cially reported medical eating disorder stands at a conservative 15 percent; however, a more 
see BATTLE/page 4 



Haynes showcases DeBartolo Center for Performing Arts 
atre, concert hall, 11IX-certi­said. ''This is truly a profes­completion and reassembled
By ANDREW THAGARD 
fied cinema and organ and sional stage. This is going to inside the building in 
Assistant News Editor 
chorale hall combines the be the greatest place to see a February or March. 
fmest aspects of performing play that you've ever been to The facility will house the 
John Haynes, Director of the arts innovations in a building in your life." University's Department of Performing Arts and that maintains the collegiate The Regis Philbin Studio Film, Television and Theatre, Executive Director of the Gothic architectural style that Theatre, also located in the but also setve all Notre Dame DeBartolo Center for the characterizes Notre Dame's complex, will host smaller students and act as a bridge to Performing Arts at Notre campus. acts. The state-of-the art the­the community. Dame, highlighted the The building also reflects ater features a floor built on "It would be a dreadful mis­University's new performing Notre Dame's commitment to movable platforms that allows take to think that something arts facility Wednesday, and the arts, Haynes said. the room to be rearranged as like this is only for theatre explained the role of culture "I wanted the arts to be as needed. majors. It will be a gateway and arts in determining the pervasive at Notre Dame as The Browing Family THX for the community," Haynes success of a community dur­athletics are," he said. "This is Cinema confonns to the moo said. "We want this to be a ing the 16th annual a 150,000 square foot class­rigorous set of standards campus where the arts aren't President's Luncheon for room. This is, in fact, primarily available for displaying 35-only available, but unavoid­Michiana Business Leaders. a teaching space." mm film. It is the fourth TIIX­able." 
Building the DeBartolo The building, Haynes said, is certified theatre in Indiana, Citing concepts from Performing Arts Center, constructed on seven different and the first outside of Richard Florida's book "The Haynes said, represents a foundations to ensure acoustic Indianapolis, Haynes said. Rise of The Creative Class," milestone both for Notre integrity from one stage to The Center's organ concert Haynes also explained that Dame and the South Bend another. The main stage, the hall is three stories tall and performing and cultural arts community. The 150,000 Patricia George Decio Theatre, will seat 100. The room will can enrich a community. square foot building is set to will accommodate profession­feature a $1 million handcraft­Haynes described the rise of be completed on June 1 at a al performances. ed pipe organ, cw-rently being the "creative class," made up cost of $62.6 million. "I don't think that there is a constructed by Master Organ of the 38 million people 
The facility, which features space in this building that is a Builder Paul Fritts in Tacoma, nationwide, including entre­seven venues, including a higher upgrade for students Wash. The organ will be main stage theatre, studio the-than this [theatre]," Haynes shipped to South Bend at its see ARTS/page 6 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, October 2, 2003 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Attention sports fans 
Have a student ID? Love sports? You say you do? Then I have an opportunity for you. 
It's a chance to watch the most successful program at Notre 
Dame over the  
past ten yearscompete in a  Andy Troeger  
clash of titans at  
Alumni Field  Sports Writer  
when No. 5 West  
Virginia comes  

to town to battle the undefeated No. 2 Fighting Irish. 
It is an opportunity to come out and watch at Alumni Field on Friday night at 7 p.m. when the Irish will look to avenge last year's loss in Morgantown that assured the ending of their reign as Big East Champions. 
For students, entrance into the game is free. Even for everyone else. how often can you watch two teams near the top of their sport compete in your own back­yard for only a few dollars? 
Until last year, the Irish had never lost to West Virginia. It was the first time in team history that the Irish had not won the Big East Tournament Championship, let alone make the tournament. 
But this has been a new year for the Irish. 
Bolstered by a tremendous freshman class and returning starters coming back from injury, this team has dominated its first ten opponents to the tune of nine wins and one tie through ten games. 
The wins have come against strong opponents, including a scoring advantage of 40-5 that includes wins over such ranked teams as Wake Forest, Arizona State and Santa Clara. 
The game against West Virginia is also huge for the eventual NCAA selections. A win against West Virginia means the Irish will have the inside track toward gaining one of the top four seeds in the NCAA Tournament. 
What's important about the top four. you ask? It means home games all the way until the College Cup Final Four in North Carolina. 
Irish soccer has a tradition of excellence, having advanced to the National Semifinals six times since 1994, including one National Championship in 1995. 
Four times the Irish have played in the Championship game, with the most recent trip being 1999. With the No. 2 ranking in the country. this Irish team is looking to return to the heights of its predecessors, but they need your help. 
Cheer on the Irish this Friday night at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field. Help the Irish protect their 43­game home winning streak against Big East opponents by avenging their only loss to the Mountaineers in program history. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: AFTER PARIETALS, WHICH DO YOU PREFER: LEGENDS OR RECKERS? 







John Critser Julie Taylor Roz Byrne Brlgld Kelly Deirdre Mangan 
Senior Junior Junior Junior Junior Off-campus Holy Cross Hall Holy Cross Hall Holy Cross Hall LeMans Hall 
"Reekers; who "Lepends? "Neither. "Legends, "Legends, 
doesn't like What s that?, because I don't because ofthe because it takes 
Sean Kennedy 
Senior St. Edward's Hall 
"My mom likes Legends. ·· 

beingovercharged for lowJuality
foo ?'' have Flex P.SeUdO-.J.azz me back to Points and I'm bands they middle school not a prese,nt for ,, dances.·· 

freshman. ·· entertaznment. 
IN BRIEF 
The ND Right to Life club will host a prayer service at the 
Grotto tonight from 7:30  -8:30  
p.m.  
Singer-songwriter  Jen  

Chapin, daughter of the late Harry Chapin, will conduct a free public workshop tonight at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium entitled "The Hows and WHYS of Hunger," a ses­sion dedicated to understand­ing and combating hunger worldwide. The event. which is free and open to the public, will begin at 7:30p.m. 
Badin and Alumni Halls will sponsor "Dawgs and Frogs." a campus-wide bonfire, tonight. on Holy Cross Hill from 9 to 11 
p.m. The event, which is free, will feature a live band. s'mores and hot dogs. 
The film "Russian Ark" will be presented today as a part of the International Film Series in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. The screen­ing is free and will begin at 7 p.m. 
Multicultural Students' Programs and Services will present a lunch event in the LaFortune Ballroom from noon -1:30 p.m. Friday. The lunch is free to all students. 
Morrissey Manor will host its annual Manor Unplugged acoustic concert Friday. The event. which will be held on South Quad. will run from 4 -6 p.m. 
La Alianza will present its Fiesta del Sol. a free event with Hispanic music and food, Friday from 7 p.m. to midnight on the Fieldhouse Mall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 


OFFBEAT 
Chinese companies can't stop employers' marriages 
BEIJING -Marriage in China used to be a mat­ter for a man, a woman -and the couple's employers. No longer. 
On Wednesday. China eliminated a much­resented requirement for couples to obtain their bosses' approval before tying the knot, prompting thousands of couples to wed in what, for some, was also a celebration of the retreat of outside interference in their pri­vate lives. 
Couples lined up as early as 5 a.m. outside marriage registration offices. Restaurants and hotel banquet halls were booked solid in major cities, and Beijing's 
streets were clogged with flower-bedecked motor­cades. 
"Employers in work units used to have a lot of power over people, but now there's no need." said newlywed Wen Ying, who was having a late­night snack with her new husband and friends at a small restaurant near the Forbidden City, Beijing's ancient imperial palace. 
"We're really glad that this rule was canceled because it was a real hassle. It makes getting married feel even bet­ter," said Wen's husband, Liu Ping. Liu said the couple had planned to throw a formal banquet for their families, but were forced to postpone because restaurants were all reserved by oth­ers. 
Women beat the system, give birth In Michigan 
LANSING, Mich. Nearly two dozen women from the Middle East are accused of making brief trips to the United States to give birth, then defrauding Medicaid to cover the medical costs. 
Michigan Attorney General Mike Cox said Wednesday the 23 women flew to the Detroit area to deliver their babies and get emergency Medicaid benefits to pay for them. Within a few months, the women returned to their native countries of Lebanon, Syria and Yemen. he said. 
The Medicaid costs totaled $150,000. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Contact Andy Troeger at TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 
atroeger@nd. edu. 

0::
The views expressed in the Inside 

L&.l 
Column are those of the author and ::J: not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
~ 
L&.l 
3: 
..... 
c:s:
CORRECTIONS (J 


HIGH LOW 


54 45 

45 
37 

42 36 

51 39 
0 

HIGH 51
.....
The Observer regards icsdf as a professional publica­

LOW 40
tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, 

Atlanta 69 1 45 Boston 62 /9 42 Chicago 53/ 43 Denver 70 I 47 Houston 79 I 57 Los Angeles 75/60 Minneapolis 52 I 49 
please contact us at 631-4541 so we can 

New York 62 1 43 Philadelphia 61 1 40 Phoenix 101 I 77 Seattle 70 I 49 St. Louis 60 I 40 Tampa 82 /69 Washington 61 /43
correct our error. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------·---------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, October 2, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Moore, Santoni kick off Theology on Tap 
By ANDREW THAGARD Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame alumni Colleen Moore and Frank Santoni tackled the intri­cacies of the campus dating scene in the first installment of 'Theology on Tap" at Legends Wednesday evening. 
"Ever since Legends opened up it seemed like a great opportunity to bring people together," said Father J. Steele, who co-hosts the program with Father Kevin Russeau. 
Addressing a crowded room of about 100 students, Moore and Santoni focused on the two extremes of relationships at Notre Dame­random hookups and the "ring by spring" phenomenon, and said that there isn't much in between. 
'The only thing that is in the mid­dle is us wondering why nothing is happening," Santoni said. 
The two noted that not much has changed in this regard since their time as undergraduates at the University. 
"It's scary," Moore said. 'We grad­uated six years ago complaining about the [dating] scene. Really, noth­ing has changed." 
According to Moore, students are attracted to the extremes of relation­ships because they are well defined and focused on the individual. 
"Neither of the [extreme relation­ships] really leaves a lot of room for the other person and their needs," she said. 
The two offered a four-fold path to achieving healthier relationships. First, Moore and Santoni urged stu­dents to be "others" centered. 
'To do dating well is not going to be about you," Santoni said. "It's going to be about being in a relation­ship with someone else. God designs us with a need to connect deeply and authentically with other people." 
He also said that it's important to be open to exploring yourself, others and God and to be "present" minded. 
'Too often we're too caught up in our internal dialogue to pay attention to the date," Moore said. 
Finally, the two emphasized that successful dating is a mutual invest-. ment that requires self-knowledge. 
"Tilis whole 'dating in the middle' isn't an easy thing but it's very possi­ble," Moore said. "It's kind of in your hands." 
'Theology on Tap" is organized by Campus Ministry and takes place Wednesday evenings at Legends. The event was inspired by a similar concept in the Archdiocese of Chicago. Participants were provided with free snacks and non-alcoholic beverages. Students of age could purchase alcoholic beverages, but few chme to do so. 
"It's been in the works for a long time," said Courtney Schuster, a stu­dent coordinator. "It's a really awe­some way to bring people together in an informal setting to talk about real stuff." 
Next week's "Theology on Tap" will feature Bill Mattison and a dis­cussion on "How Far is Too Far?: Catholic Sexual Ethics." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
SENATE 

Group plans RA training investigation 
processes.
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
The resolution states that 
Associate News Editor 

"there is a high expectation level for Resident Assistants to fulfill The Student Senate passed a their responsibilities and duties resolution Wednesday calling for as resource people, activity coor­the Campus Life Council to form dinators and peer counselors," a committee to investigate the and further says that "a conflict process of Resident Assistant with Resident Assistant training training. This resolution includes does not necessarily mean that a questionnaire for current RAs the student has a lack of com­that senators would like the CLC mitment to their residence hall." to use in its process of gathering If and when a committee is information. formed within the CLC, the ques-
This resolution tionnaire that the calls for the CLC Senate formed
"These people [RAsJ 
to look into the would be passed training process were chosen out to all current for RAs to because they were RAs and used to attempt to avoid gather data on
the most qualified.,
situations in their experiences which the RAs with RA training. must be fired Brln Anderson Senators also from their jobs began discussion
Howard Hall Senator 
because they had a conflict with the training. Currently, the only two reasons an RA may miss any part of training are personal ill­nesses or a death in the family. 
Several RAs were not permit­ted to fulfill their duties this year, as they had conflicts with the training schedule. 
Howard Hall Senator Brin Anderson said, "These people were chosen because they were the most qualified. To have someone else fill their shoes affects dorm life as a whole." 
The resolution will go before the CLC, and senators say they hope that it will incite the CLC to form a committee and recom­mend changes to the RA training 
Wednesday on a 

process to change the way the budget is approved within Student Government. 
Through the current process, the Senate approves the budget a few weeks after elections in the spring. This means that sen­ators who have only been involved with the Student Government process a few weeks have the responsibility of first understanding and approv­ing the budget. 
Student Body Vice President Jeremy Lao said that the reason behind the discussion to change the budget approval is to "take care of the inefficiencies of Student Government." He con­tinued that the problem was when the current Senate was new last spring, they "tried to make amendments to the budg­et. The [Financial Management Board] felt that they had appro­priated money in the most effi­cient way, and when the Senate suggested changes, the FMB was upset and felt the new Senate didn't understand the process." 
Within the next few weeks, senators will draft a resolution to give the responsibility of approving the budget to the Executive Cabinet. They said it is their belief that the Executive Cabinet has more experience in dealing with money appropria­tions, and that they better understand the issues involved in granting money to organiza­tions. 
The issue was taken up in the Executive Cabinet meeting held Monday. They are also in discus­sion, and in all likelihood will be drafting a resolution to accept budget-approving responsibili­ties within the next few weeks, after the anticipated Senate res­olution passes. 
In other Senate news: 
+ Senators approved Jan Vijayaraghavan as head con­troller of the Student Union Board. Nominated by board manager Charlie Ebersol, Vijayaraghavan served as a con­troller for the board last year. She fills a vacancy left in the head controller position. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 



Student International Business Council 
It's Not Too Late!!! 
In.terestecl itl joi.n-i11g· tl1,e SJB(7 b11.t ll'er(! ,,_,-,able to lttfeJJ.(/ .. . ? I ' . l t . . ' 
t 1f.. e 1lrst ll'leetl.n.g·.. t s n.ot too .rtte .o Jor.n.• 
ALL MAJORS ARE WELCOME! 

• 

*Hands on real life experience *Establish contacts with alumni *Gain valuable leadership skills *Summer internships and teaching positions around the globe 
Contact A Division Leader For More lnforinatio11 
Accounting-Bill Coffey Marketing-Melanie Lauck wcoffey@nd.edu mlauck@nd.edu 
• Business Consulting-Bob Goedert • Financ~Jake Roffman rgoedert@nd.edu jroffman@ndedu 


Global Development-Jolm Boots • Human Resources-Courtney Zeph
• 

jboots@nd.edu czeph@nd.edu 
• Internships-Dan Silva and Pedro Bollman • Information Technology-Michael Flym dsilva@nd.edu and pbollman@nd.edu mflyrm3@nd.edu 



page 4 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, October 2, 2003 
Battle 
continued from page 1 
dangerous statistic reflects those who have attempted to control their weight through dieting, says Valerie Staples, eating disorder specialist at the University Counseling Center. "Dieting is the number-one risk factor for devel­opment of an eating disorder, and depending on the survey you examine, the percentage of col­lege-age women who try to diet can be as high as 91 percent,n she said. 
In an atmosphere as competitive as 

Notre Dame's, the "It's all about identity, from five number of students self-confidence, years to five who feel the pres­weeks -to
empowerment. ·•

sure of perfection­see a physi­ism can be even cian, their higher. Single-sex Valerie Staples focus is more dorms, a largely eating disorder specialist g e a r e d 
homogenous popu­lation and the high percentage of ex-varsity high school athletes on campus have also been named as factors that can push even a slightly body­conscious Notre Dame student over the edge, Staples said. 
While hesitant to label Notre Dame's environment as more conducive to abusive dieting and exercising than that of any other campus, Staples said that the stresses of university life can lead to many different Wlderlying self­esteem issues that are then mani­fested in a student's body image. 
"It's all about identity, self-con­fidence, empowerment," Staples said. "An eating disorder is some­thing much more comprehensive than just the food aspect." 
Kelly Shaffer, one of seven stu­dent leaders of the eating disor­ders student support group A llie Uncommon, agreed. 

"An eating disorder is just a symptom of a bigger confidence problem," she said. "It's really a reaction to societal pressures forcing us to strive for bodily per­fection." 
Following this philosophy, both Health Services and A Life Uncommon have designed strate­gies that incorporate more than just better nutrition into their programs for students who suffer from eating disorders. Although Health Services does ask every student -no matter how far the disorder has progressed, 
toward men­

tal therapy, both for individuals and for groups, Staples said. 
"Our group approach tries to give the student an accurate mir­ror ofthe outside world. We want to help them realize all of the quality characteristics about themselves that have nothing to do with their bodies," she said. "It is a very difficult step to take when an individual first comes forward, but these things are treatable. Talking in groups to people who are at other stages of recovery helps them to see the light at the end of the tunnel." 
Shaffer said that A Life Uncommon does not claim to be a professionally trained counsel­ing group, but that it also promis­es to offer this type of nonthreat­ening community healing. 
"When we're all honest with each other, we start to under­stand that it's not just about fixing the behaviors ... a healthy physi­cal pattern doesn't ensure that those feelings won't come back," she said. 
Kristi Peterson, another of the group's student leaders, empha­sized the spiritual side of the meetings. "You don't even neces­sarily have to have an eating dis­order to come," she said. "We just want girls on campus to see that they're not alone -there are people supporting you. We try to promote girls being united in their opinions of their bodies instead of going against each other in such a competitive way." 
While usually associated with female competition, eating disor­ders' effects on men should not be overlooked, Staples pointed out. 
"We need to do a better job of talking about this as an inclusive problem," she said. "Men's body issues can exist in a totally differ­ent way -the pressure to use supplements and exercise to beef up their appearance. Ifmales are brave enough to begin the dia­logue, we should be sensitive to their concerns as well." 
Staples said she was encour­aged by recent steps toward increasing awareness and more open discussion of eating disor­ders at Notre Dame. "This is why we're bringing Jessica Weiner in," she said. "Let's talk about it. You're not going to get judged or kicked out of school. We will wel­come people because there is hope." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
Rape 
continued from page 1 
woman said she woke up naked next to the roommate in his bed. 
Brent Hemmerlein, com­mander of the Family Violence and Special Victims unit, declined to state whether the accused is a Notre Dame student. 
"Right now I can't release that information. It is an active investigation ... it is an acquaintance situation, someone known to the vic­tim," Hemmerlein said. 
The woman told police she had never blacked out before 

and said she thought it was possible that the roommate drugged her drink. 
The alleged victim went to St. Joseph Regional Medical Center on Monday for a rape exam and to see whether she had been drugged. Hemmerlein said that the hospital provided some exam results to the victim, who gave them to his department. 
The police must obtain a consent form from the victim to obtain the results of the exam. How the investigation will progress depends on the victim's wishes, Hemmerlein said. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 


HURRY! Ends October 14th! 
D 




Call us crazy, but we're giving away FREE FOOD from 
BRUNo·s PIZZA 
ill~[ID 

GOLDEN DRAGON 
Get something HOT delivered today! 
Visit www.campusfood.com for details 

campusfood.com· 

Thursday, October 2, 2003 

Colv\PilED FROM ·rl-IE OBsERVER vvtRE SERVICES 
Page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Rwanda retains coalition government 
KIGALI, Rwanda -The ruling party of President Paul Kagame won nearly three­fourths of the vote in Rwanda's first multi­party legislative elections since its independ­ence from Belgium in 1962, election officials said Wednesday. 

With all votes counted from Tuesday's elec­tion, the head of the electoral commission, Chrysologue Karangwa, said the five-party coalition headed by the Rwandan Patriotic Front won 73.78 percent of the vote, ensur­ing a majority of the 53 elected seats in the 80-seat lower house or Chamber of Deputies. 
Seats are apportioned to parties and inde­pendent candidates according to the percent­age of votes they receive, and the electoral commission on Friday will announce the number of seats for the RPF coaJition and two opposition parties that qualified for rep­resentation in the Chamber of Deputies. 
Vendors' protest sparks violence 
GUATEMALA CITY -Gunmen wounded seven street vendors who blocked a main thoroughfare in Guatemala City Wednesday to protest changes in bus stop locations they said hurt their business. 
The wounded, who including five women and a teenage boy, were treated at local hos­pitals. There was no immedia.te information on their condition. 
Four men aboard two motorcycles opened fire on them after the demonstrators refused to allow them through the roadblock, said Eddy Fernandez, a government human rights official who witnessed the incident. Police later apprehended one suspect. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Girl lives two weeks without mother 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -A 2-year-old girl left home alone for 2 1/2 weeks while her mother was in jail has been released from the hospital after being treated for malnutri­tion and dehydration, officials said Wednesday. 
The child, who survived by eating ketchup, mustard and dried pasta, was released late Tuesday from Wolfson Children's Hospital to the custody of the state Department of Children & Families. The agency granted temporary custody to her father, Ogden Lee, who is separated from the girl's mother and was not informed that she had been jailed. 
The little girl had been left alone since her mother, Dakeysha Telita Lee, was jailed Sept. 10 on charges of aggravated assault and petty theft, police said. The mother was charged Monday with child abuse and was being held Wednesday on $170,006 bond. 
CBS journalist cited for trespass 
PIITSBURGH -CBS correspondent Steve Kroft was among three newspeople ticketed for trespassing at a chemical plant last week, a plant official said Wednesday. 
The reporter earlier this year wrote a series of stories for the Pittsburgh Tribune­Review on the dangers posed by lax security at chemical plants. The cameraman is a longtime contributor to "60 Minutes." 
LOCAL NEWS 
Foundation saves historic brewery 
VINCENNES, Ind. -Preservationists are nearing their fund-raising goal to save a his­toric southern Indiana brewery. 
The Vincennes-Knox County Preservation Foundation has raised all but about $5,000 of the $265,000 needed to abide by an agree­ment with Vincennes University to preserve the former Eagle Brewery. Foundation offi­cials expect the remaining money to arrive in time for the Oct. 4 deadline. 
"The community has just been very sup­portive of our efforts, and we really thank them for that support," said Jim Corridan, a foundation board member. 
UNITED NATIONS 
U.S. calls for U.N. role in Iraq 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -A 
new U.S. resolution calls 
for a strengthened U.N. 
role in rebuilding Iraq, 
but provides no timetable 
for a handover of authori­
ty to Iraqis, according to a 
draft of the document 
obtained Wednesday by 
The Associated Press. 
The new measure, cir­
culated by U.S. officials, 
underscores that the 
American-led occupation 
is temporary and urges 
Iraqis to determine a date 
for a transfer of power. 
"The day when Iraqis gov­
ern themselves must 
come quickly," it says. 
The United States wast­
ed no time after it took 
over the presidency of the 
U.N. Security Council on Wednesday in calling a meeting to distribute the revised text to the other four veto-wielding council nations -Russia, China, France and Britain. 
"As far as time is con­cerned, we would like to move expeditiously on it," 
U.S. Ambassador John Negroponte said. "We'd also like to see the resolu­tion in place, if possible, well in advance of the upcoming donors confer­ence in Madrid on Oct. 24" for Iraq. Iraqi interim government tion was in the right occupation force, of the 
The United States' and other key institutions. direction. coalition force," assumption of the presi­It reiterates the call to France and Germany Pakistan's U.N. dency was a stroke of the 191 U.N. member have called for a quick Ambassador Munir Akram good timing as states to contribute mili­transfer of sovereignty to said. Washington campaigns tary forces and to Iraqis. Paris says it should Secretary of State Colin for approval of the new increase financial aid. It be possible by the end of Powell discussed the new resolution, aimed at get­makes a similar appeal to the year. Many countries resolution Wednesday by ting more countries to international financial have also asked for an telephone with British for­contribute troops and institutions. expanded U.N. role in eign secretary Jack Straw money to Iraq. The U.S. decision to give overseeing Iraq's political and foreign ministers Ana 
The new draft -like the United Nations a larg­transformation to a Palacio of Spain, Joschka the previous one -would er role in Iraq's recon­democracy, including Fischer of Germany, Igor transform the U.S.-led struction, and to make elections. Ivanov of Russia and coalition force into a clear that the United Some potential troop Dominique de Villepin of multinational force. The States had no intention of contributors have refused France. United States, as leader of a long-term occupation, to commit soldiers unless The resolution reiterat­the force, would report to was designed to attract a multinational force is ed the U.S. call for the the Security Council at the support of France, deployed under a U.N. Iraqi Governing Council to least every six months. Germany, Russia and umbrella. cooperate with the U.S.­
The new draft spells out other skeptical countries Pakistan, which is led Coalition Provisional that the force will ensure in the Security Council. viewed as a possible troop Authority and the United "necessary conditions" for There was no immedi­contributor, would like the Nations in drawing up a adopting a constitution ate reaction, though one multinational force to timetable and program and holding elections as council diplomat said the have "an identity which for drafting a new consti­well as protect U.N. sense was that Russia and does not make ii seem to tution and holding demo­offices, the U.S.-apointed China thought the resolu-be an extension of the cratic elections. 

Former bodyguard leading al-Qaida 
previously planned operations Abu Hazim appears to be taking
Associated Press 
through to fruition," according to the place of Abd al-Rahim al­
WASHINGTON -U.S. officials one U.S. intelligence report. Nashiri, a key organizer of the USS believe they have identified a young Abu Hazim is just one of the top Cole bombing and the 1998 East former bodyguard of Osama bin al-Qaida leaders now at large, Africa embassy bombings, officials Laden as al-Qaida's new chief of ter­according to officials from U.S. say. Al-Nashiri was detained in the ror operations in the Persian Gulf. counterterrorism agencies, who dis­United Arab Emirates in late 2002. 
Abu Hazim al-Sha'ir, a 29-year-old cussed intelligence on the terror net­Abu Hazim is on Saudi Arabia's list Yemeni now believed to be living in work on the condition of anonymity. of 19 most-wanted al-Qaida opera­Saudi Arabia, is one of a new crop of Officials acknowledge there may tives, listed under his real name of al-Qaida operatives who are trying be other emerging leaders they don't Khalid Ali Bin Ali Al-Hajj. He is to fill the roles of senior bin Laden know about or leaders participating believed to have trained in al­lieutenants who have been captured in terrorist planning they are Qaida's Afghan camps in 1999 and or killed since Sept. 11, according to unaware of. The CIA and FBI, for later to have served in bin Laden's 
U.S. officials. example, did not learn that Khalid bodyguard. Before Sept. 11, he trav­
"Capable replacements appear to Shaikh Mohammed was the master­eled frequently to the Arabian be emerging, many of whom have mind of the Sept. 11 attacks until peninsula, to southeast Asia and to demonstrated their ability to see well after they took place. Afghanistan. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, October 2, 2003 
Eating 
continued from page 1 
port. She read a passage of her book called 'Group Insanity" to demonstrate the excruciating but constructive events of these sessions. 
Now a healthy weight, Weiner said that an eating dis­order is not something that can be overcome overnight. "I'm a human being in the recovery process, not a product. I'm def­initely still ~erable, but I'm not in secret anymore." 
She encouraged listeners to stop wasting time and energy on the "language of fat" and to replace it with "the real stuff. Get rid of the judgment, banter and criticism and tell the truth." 
Weiner has been working as an activist since her gradua­tion from Penn State eight years ago. 
In addition to her nationally known programs on eating dis­orders, she has also counseled parents, teachers and children about alcohol and drug abuse as well as school violence and hate crimes. She has her own website, at www.jessicawein­er.com, and has been labeled the "next Oprah," as a nation­ally syndicated talk show with a major television network is also in the works. 
"Do I Look Fat in This?" was sponsored by the University Health Center, UBWell2, the Bookstore and A Life Uncommon. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
Arts 

continued from page 1 
preneurs, architects and actors, who are paid to be creative. 
"Simply put, the creative class doesn't migrate to a place character­ized by strip malls and chain outlets. They migrate to cities that are more exciting and diverse," he said. "Access to this critical mass of cre­ative thinkers is driving economic growth today." 
Haynes said the University's DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, along with increased support of the arts within South Bend, will encour­age members of the creative class to move to South Bend and fuel eco­nomic growth ofthe region. 
The University's long-term plan, in fact, envisions developing areas sur­rounding the facility, including mixed-use retail space on Eddy Street and new housing in surround­ing neighborhoods. 

Haynes joins the University after serving as the chief executive of the California Center for the Arts. He was also president and chief execu­tive officer of a computer service company for eight years and has spent twelve years as a television and production executive with CBS and Viacorn. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at 
athagard@nd.edu 




FRANCIS CARDINAL GEORGE Archbishop ofChicago 
i(THE LEGACY OF POPE JOHN PAUL II'' 
Tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the McKenna Hall Auditorium, with reception to follow. 
Cardinal George's keynote address will open "Formation and Renewal," a three-day conference exploring sources ofmoral and spiritual renewal, reform, and formation in a culture marked by the loss of meaning and direction. The conference, which features 25 invited speakers and over 100 contributed papers, is open to the public, and registration is free for ND students and faculty. Meals are provided at no charge to registered participants. For more information, please visit our website at www.nd.edu/~ ndethics. 
SPONSORED BY THE NOTRE DAM.E CENTER FOR ETHICS & CULTURE 


Ill 
Thursday, October 2, 2003 

Page7 



MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 9 469.20 
1 +194.14
Jones 
Composite Volume:
~~,, 1,494,425,984 
.... ·~·· ···~···· . •·•······ 

~Q.·· >··<>h$~®~2$': :: ±4.5<31..:.::.: NYSE 5,768.32 +124.29 
~···.··········· .,.. ...... :; ~-~~.§~:J.:.•·:•::::•::::::::ffi:i~·g~QQ :: 
S&P500 1,018.22 +22.25 
~~-J::::::::::-~-~~~:~:!:·~~~:::::::::::::::il:lil!l::::::::;:;Q,~~:::.::::::.:::l:: 
FISEJOO{London) 4,169.20 +77.90 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN IPRICE 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -1.81%  -0.06  3.25  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  +4.03%  +1.11  28.63  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +2.59%  +0.72  28.52  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  +3.11%  +0.61  20.20  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  +3.91%  +0.44  11.69  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.04%  +0.02  48.86  
10-YEAR NOTE  -0.13%  -0.05  39.32  
5-YEARNOTE  -0.39%  -0.11  28.12  
3-MONTH BILL  -1.73%  -0.16  9.10  
Commodities  
UGKfCRUDE  +0.19  29.39  
GOLD  -1.10  385.00  
PORKBEWES  +0.65  87.00  
Exchange Rates  
YEN  111 .1  
EURO  0.854  
POUND  0.600  
CANADIAN$  1.346  

IN BRIEF 
Judge OK's suit against Enron 
HOUSTON -Current and former Enron 

Corp. employees will be allowed to proceed 
with a lawsuit that contends the bankrupt 
energy trader didn't meet its duties in admin­
istering the company's pension plan. 
In a 329-page order released Wednesday, 

U.S. District Judge Melinda Harmon denied motions by Enron and its former chief execu­tive, Kenneth Lay, requesting the claims against them be dismissed. 
However, Harmon did dismiss claims that cited the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act against a number of other Enron officials, including former chief executive Jeff Skilling and former chief financial officer Andrew Fastow. 
Move to regulate tobacco fails 
WASHINGTON-Talks in Congress to regu­late the tobacco industry broke down along partisan lines Wednesday, making it highly unlikely new restrictions would be imposed on the cigarette industry anytime soon. 
Democrats and Republicans on the Senate health committee have been trying for months to negotiate a deal that would give the Food and Drug Administration oversight of ciga­rettes. Late Wednesday, Sen. Judd Gregg, R­N.H., the chairman of the committee, sent Democrats a draft of what he said was his final legislative proposal. Democrats rejected the offer, saying it didn't go far enough. 
Class action denied against Monsanto 
ST. LOUIS -A federal judge has ruled against granting class-action status to a law­suit accusing Monsanto Co. and some of its seed-marketing rivals of plotting to control prices of genetically modified corn and soy­beans. 
U.S. District Judge Rodney Sippel's ruling, released Wednesday, thwarts a bid by attor­neys suing the companies to expand the 1999 lawsuit to include more than 100,000 farm­ers, not just the handful of farmers in the original lawsuit. 
Students organize charity tournament 
By ANDREW THAGARD Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame juniors 
Steve Dick, Aaron Medlock 
and Dave McGowan are 
looking for basketball and 
volleyball players to drib­
ble, shoot and spike for 
charity. 

The three business 
majors are organizing two 
tournaments, scheduled 
for today and Sunday, to 
raise money for a new sec­
tor of Habitat for Humanity 
as part of a project for 
their management course 
"Introduction to 
Entrepreneurship," taught 
by business professor 
David Hayes. 

The assignment requires students to turn a $200 profit each off of a $20 loan. Dick, Medlock and McGowan have decided to donate their profits to a Habitat for Humanity proj­ect that builds wheelchair ramps at the homes of dis­advantaged handicapped people in South Bend. Medlock, who volunteers with Habitat, inspired the three to donate their returns to the organiza­tion. 
"The new sector builds ramps for people so they can go into their house as they please ... without receive an autographed the events have generated given, which presents chal­needing someone else to game ball. positive responses among lenges in advertising and help," Dick said. The three students are students. event planning, Dick said. 
The volleyball tourna­confident that turnout for ''People have been really Dick, Medlock and ment takes place today at the events will be high, interested," Dick said. "I McGowan plan to organize the Stepan Volleyball despite the unseasonably think people are getting other events throughout Courts. Students in groups cold weather. The group is their teams together. This the semester to generate of three had the opportuni­also working on an indoor is a thing we really want to between $600 to $1,000 ty to register for the tour­location in the event of see get ofT the ground and for Habitat for Humanity. nament through rain. we're willing to make a lot Dick estimates such profits Wednesday evening. The "We're hoping for about of sacrifices." can build one to two cost of registration is $15 ten teams for each sport," The group advertised for ramps. At the end of the per team and the winning Dick said. "That would be the events by placing flyers semester, they also intend team will receive the auto­a really good start for the in dorms and table tents in to volunteer their time to graphed game ball. ramps. I think for the sake both dining halls. So far, construct the ramps. 
The basketball tourna­of charity, people will come they have spent $10 of ment is scheduled to take despite the chill." their allocation. Rules set place on Sunday at the The tournaments can up for the course prohibit McGlinn Courts at 2 p.m. accommodate a maximum them from spending more Contact Andrew Thagard at The winning team will also of sixteen teams each, and than the amount they were athagard@nd.edu 

Fight over do-not-call list has many confused 
become so complicated," said Adam legal problems will be solved. 
Associated Press 
Goldberg, a policy analyst with Telemarketers and government offi­
WASHINGTON -The national do­Consumers Union, publisher of cials say it could be days before it is not-call list went into effect Wednesday, Consumer Reports magazine. known how effective the list is at pre­but a complex legal fight has made it "Consumers need to just hang in there. venting unwanted calls. impossible for the government to judge This is eventually going to work." Companies could face thousands of its ability to stop unwanted calls from The FCC said it received about 250 dollars in fines each time they call a telemarketers. complaints about telemarketers by registered number. 
Reacting to court decisions that Wednesday afternoon, most of them The FTC was blocked from operating threatened to derail the free service, the from people registered with the do-not­and enforcing the list last week by U.S. government scrambled to rework the call list who said they were still being District Judge Edward Nottingham in system a day before it went into effect, called. The list contains more than 50 Denver, who said the program violates turning the public away from a dedicat­million home and cell phone numbers. the free speech rights of telemarketers. ed do-not-call Web site and phone num­The agency received nearly five times The FTC asked the Denver-based 10th ber that had been promoted for months. as many inquiries from people who U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Instead, officials directed people to file wanted to sign up for the list even Tuesday to suspend Nottingham's ruling complaints with the Federal though it is the Federal Trade while the agency appeals. Communications Commission. Commission, not the FCC, that registers Attorneys for several telemarketer 
On Wednesday, the largest telemar­phone numbers. And the FTC is shut­groups on VVednesday asked the keting association, which said many of ting down registration. appeals court to reject that request, its members would abide by the list "The worst part is that consumers saying that the court should not allow despite the legal uncertainty, launched don't understand what on earth is going that agency to enforce the list even its own Web site and phone number to on," FCC Chairman Michael Powell said though "the FTC may feel a great deal take complaints. at a news conference. He said his of political pressure after hyping the 
"This is one silly situation. It's a real agency is prepared for a large volume registry then botching its implementa­shame for consumers that this has of complaints and he is confident the tion." 
. --··· ...... ---------. -·-.. 


THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Sox Q, Notre Dame. IN46~56 ..... . 024 South Pininz lt~; Notli: Datrie, IN46>5(i' • ·, 
EDIToR IN CHlEf 
~drewS()ukup > .· > .,. MANAGING EDITOR ; BOSlNl!SS M.\NAGt~ .. 



POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students ofthe 
University ofNoue Dame du Lac and s.iim Mary's.·· 
College. Editorial content,includingadveitisemerii$; is 
not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither 
institution; The. Obs&ver n:sel:Ves the right to .refuSe · · 
advertisemen~ b~ on cohteQt; >.·· .· ...·••. '· > •.•.> 
·The news 15. reported ~ accurately and pbjectivHy.as .•. 
possible. Urlsigned edlt9riakiepft:SeJlt ~ opihlOlj c:)L . · 
rhe majority Oftile Ediwr ih Chief; M~g E4i~~t/ > •.·· .. 
Assistant Miiliagirig; Editor and d.epart:ment editors. > ·. · Commenwks, letters :md columns present the vi~ •,·• 
of the autho~ and not n~ily tho,se ofThe-'·· ..... 
Observtr. ···, •·••· ·• •· .•. > ··.. •·.·.· ,.. •,· .·.·•· ·. ··•· ··· ··•.· ·'•···.•·.·· ....•.·•. ·, .' · 
V1eWpolrll: space 1~ available to all niaders; The free •,•.······· .expression ofall optnlQOs thrc!llgh lettef5 is encOt.tragh:L ) • letters [() the Edit<){ mustbe $ign¢dand triu$t iridwe< • 
cont:acrinformarion/ . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 

POST OFFICE INFORMATION··· 
'11><! ~ctlSI'$m k~ll$ )'<II>I~W ~!l<l<y<J>oqup ~ri<!.r~ 4~ring •.·. <lUll\ onJ ,........,.. ~A~rip<H>n"' '1M Ol>Ut""di 1100.f'w.,;;c; ~r.: y<a<:SS5for...U:~.·· ·.· · · · · 
Tho~.. ;. p,.l,~;J..4~, . · I'OSTw.sTER .···.•...·.· · · · .·. lnH•Mh p.,;RI tt.ll · · · · s.ti4 :.<t<lm.mrO<ol<>~• W. · N<!utllarn<. ~ 465~ 1:11.-~~ •. l'tti<x6c:al J">ff'. poi~~ Nottt D.-. 1~. Bo~ Q "'~ ...ldfacu..J mili~liJ ofllo.u. 62Hooilo Diniit& H.JI 
No<r< U.....,IN 46S%,6]79 
n., ~·is • ,_.t...Df <beA.<o<,j=J l"'= ,\ll ~;lon rill>".,.r<ocT.al. . 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics Meghan Martin Mike Harkins Joe Trombello Sports Matt Smedberg Joe Hettler 
Viewpoint· .·•···· < >Megan Hawley. Erin Fox ·· > <·> Dan Tapetillo .·. lliustrator Scene . Katie Knorr .· KC Kenney 

Support students, not Boat Club 
The Boat Oub is back. After several months of sharply decreased for such litigation, The Boat Club choose to appeal those suits and attendance, students are again turning the bar into a popular attempted to force all other students to agree to continuances until weekend hangout. April 2004, a delay of an additional seven months. 
However, that same bar has filed $600,000 worth of lawsuits Because of its decision to appeal some of the lawsuits, The Boat against fellow students, claiming it didn't know that the large Oub has retained a second attorney to handle the appeals and majority of its patrons were underage. must pay expensive court costs to file the suits in the Indiana Court 
As a result of the 200 students cited for underage drinking in the ofAppeals. The bar has already invested a significant amount of police raid on the South Bend bar last January, the money in these lawsuits, paying $73 of court costs for Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission offered each case plus attorney fees for South Bend lawyer 
O
Jhe 
two options to the bar, that are both financially userver Mitch Heppenheimer since last spring. harmful to the bar's owners: Either pay a fine and Because of increased student support this semester, sell its liquor license to a new owner or close alto­the bar will more readily be able to afford these legal 
Editorial
gether. fees and could consider the possibility of paying for 
In an attempt to recoup some of the losses the further appeals. bar faces from ATC prosecution, The Boat Oub filed suit against the Students must show support for those involved in the lawsuits by 200 underage patrons cited in the Jan. 24 raid, requesting $300 per not going to The Boat Club. Those cited in the raid have already case. paid a price -through fines and community service-and should­
For the students involved in these lawsuits, the legal process has n't be subject to fwi.her legal action. been long, frustrating, expensive and confusing. Now, student support ofThe Boat Oub amounts to support for 
Students could opt to pay a South Bend attorney $500 to help the lawsuits against fellow Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. them navigate through the court system or attempt to sort through By financially backing the bar, patrons make it possible for The the lawsuits by themselves ifthey could not afford attorney fees. Boat Club to pay for the legal fees and attorney costs necessary to 
In addition, students who thought the lawsuit would be resolved drag out and appeal the lawsuits. Finding another place to party within a few months discovered they were mistaken. After a South will send a clear message that suing students isn't an acceptable Bend judge dismissed about 40 suits, citing a lack oflegal precedent way to recover from the bust. 
A diamond in the mud 
It's easy to get depressed about the state of Television. You only have to watch some. Year after year the programs get cruder, dumber, more unabashed in their exploitation. And while it seems impossi­ble that the ero­sion of taste could 
Peter Wicks 

continue forever, it also seems impossible that it 
Englishman

could ever stop. 
Abroad

Sometimes I think that there is a conspiracy amongst the networks to pre-empt the possibility of satire by producing pro­gramming so morally grotesque as to defy caricature. Jerry Springer hosts a moral freak show, but you cannot satirize his show effectively because the satire would be indistinguishable from a regular episode. And what is the point of com­plaining that Jackass is stupid when the show wears its stupidity like an inane grin? 
Yes, it's easy to get depressed about the state ofTelevision. But things aren't as bad as they first appear. In fact, ifyou ignore the countless shows that aim to keep us watching by producing the ethical equivalent of a highway pile-up every week -and that's all you can do, ignore them-you might conclude, as I have, that we are currently enjoying a golden age of Television. For while some shows seek to attract viewers by pushing the boundaries of taste and ethics, some net­works have adopted a more innovative approach, commissioning programs which stand out because they are really very good. 
The lesson they finally seem to have learned is that they may not be able to compete with the film studios when it comes to explosions and special effects, but if they produce shows which are suffi­ciently well-written to reward second or even third viewings then they can earn their advertising revenues several times over before going on to clean up with video sales. 
So, while the average programs are in steady decline towards the lowest com­mon denominator -I'll defer to the math majors as to whether that's a mixed metaphor -the best programs have never been better. And if you don't have enough time to watch much television anyway, that works outjust fme. 
At the risk of incurring the wrath of fans ofThe Sopranos or Six Feet Under, I think the best show to appear in recent years is The West Wing, and I was delighted last week when President Jed Bartlett, Notre Dame's most accomplished fictional alumnus, made his much antici­pated return to America's screens after a lengthy summer recess. 
For four years the show has been writ­ten by Aaron Sorkin, who is also its cre­ator. Sorkin is an undisguised I.Q. fetishist, and everyone who works in the Bartlett Administration is not only intel­lectually brilliant, but endlessly witty and politically savvy to an almost telepathic degree. 
Bartlett himself holds a Nobel Prize in economics, has an encyclopedic knowl­edge of literature and can speak extempo­raneously in Latin when the mood takes him. It must have taken considerable restraint on Sorkin's part not to give him X-ray vision and the power of flight. 
The West Wing is sometimes criticized for its liberal bias, which is unmistakable. Sorkin's own liberal commitments are well known and doubtless influence his presentation of issues, but even if Sorkin's politics were more centrist I suspect that the show would have been pulled to the left by the demands of dramatic narrative. 
llberalism tends towards the heroic view of politics, the belief that the govern­ment could transform the world for the better if only the people in charge were clever enough, brave enough, good enough. Ilberals often complain about political corruption and ineptitude -and rightly so -but they are usually reluctant to view the failures of government as inevitable. Of course conservatives believe that leaders make a difference too, but they tend to be more pessimistic about what the state can achieve regardless of who is in charge. . 
The argument between liberalism and conservatism is partly a matter of history and partly a matter of faith. It would be foolish to pronounce on the political mer­its of the two creeds here, but there is no question which view makes for better sto­ries. llberalism is simply more inspiring. This explains, I believe, the longstanding paradox that the market-driven enter­tainment industry consistently produces drama well to the left of American popu­lar opinion. 
Even those who complain that Sorkin puts his thumb on the scales when deal­ing with most issues usually admit to being fans. In a climate in which a sneer­ing and reflexive cynicism often passes for sophisticated political opinion, there is something refreshing about seeing politi­cal ideas and idealism presented in such an intelligent, informed and articulate way. The quality of the dialogue allows the show to transcend any narrow politi­cal ideology. Sorkin's fictional president was never more clearly expressing the writer's own hopes than when he declares his ambitions for his presidency: 
"We're going to raise the level of public debate in this country, and let that be our legacy." 
Amen. 
Peter Hticks is a graduate student in philosophy.. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at pwicks@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe writer and not necessarily those ofThe Observer 

OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"What the mass media offers is not popular

How much has the University's landscaping 
art, but entertainment which is intended to

declined in the last four years? 
be consumed like food, forgotten and replaced by a new dish."

Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
W.H. Alden writer 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Questioning value of foreign study 
Can we stop the madness? Please? I've been at Notre Dame for six years now and have seen and heard all this before. I get it-you lived in some place different, didn't study, saw some people of a different culture-London, how exotic, especially with those quaint names they have for everything-hung out with college students from the United States in a new and sexually liberal environment and ate great food. 
Let me guess, it's bittersweet coming back to Notre Dame, but you ma~e memories that will last a lifetime. Did I forget to add the ktcker? The whole, "I gained a perspective that there is more out there than just Reekers, dorm parties and football." 
But what e~se is out there, and why can't you get it here? 
The commodification of the "study abroad experience" only serves to cheapen and streamline a supposedly exotic and eye-opening experience into something you apply for, enlist in, sign up for and then purchase, consume and use later. 
Ralph Waldo Emerson reminds us that traveling in this way-gathering up experiences, scenes and various treas­ures-is not only not fulfilling, but ultimately hollow. I encourage those that want to boost their GPAs to study abroad; I encourage those that want to drink deeply from life's cup to pray, ponder, read, ask and wonder. If you want gelato, grab some yo-cream and add water. It works every­time. 
Will McDonald graduate student Sept. 30 
Support basic human rights 
I was both disturbed and dis­appointed by Katy Kemnetz's Oct. 1 letter. Specifically, Kemnetz seems to be promot­ing cultural relativism, which is basically the idea that there is no single "truth," and that the relevance of one's moral stan­dards completely depends on the society in which one is liv­ing. She fails to recognize the dangers inherent in such a the­ory. 
Evidence it should outrage the ethical conscience of people world­wide. And Kemnetz's depiction of so-called "cutting" is a flow­ery allusion to the despicable practice of female genital muti­lation. I am unwilling to accept such a gross violation of human rights on the grounds that I don't understand Tanzanian society. 

I am repelled by the idea of a 
mono-cultur­
al world, and 
of why her I agree that
I am unwilling to accept

position is we would be 
such a gross violation of

problematic mistaken in abounds in human rights on the thinking that 
Kemnetz's grounds that I don't all societies 
letter. She should adopt 
understand Tanzanian

describes the American ''civilization­society. perspective 
a! differ­
ences" as 
the reason why Westerners 
object to Hindu women (sup­
posedly) committing suicide 
after being widowed or why 
"the Maasi tribes ... cut their women so that they feel no 
pleasure during sex." By por­traying these situations as merely a failure to see eye-to­eye, she regrettably under­mines the great injustices that they entail. 
If a Hindu woman does not throw herself onto her deceased husband's funeral pyre willingly, in many places she will be forced into the flames. This isn't a cute cultural discrepancy; this is murder, and 
on all issues. 
However, there are still basic principles of human rights that must tran­scend all nations. The intrinsic dignity of humankind cannot be denied simply because different parts of the globe chose to express their artistic, culinary, or religious sentiments in vary­ing ways. This is the universal "natural law" of which Locke spoke, which we are obliged to support, not only as Catholics but also as morally decent fel­low human beings. 
Kristen Nugent junior off-campus Sept. 30 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Responding to workplace, social justice issues 
As a past president and current member of the Progressive Student Alliance, I read Tom Haight's Sept. 29 Inside Column "The Problematic PSA" with considerable interest. While I appreciated the opportunity to learn about Haight's perspec­tive as the son of campus employees, I must take exception to several of his characterizations of our organization. 
Haight seems intent on portraying PSA as group engaged in a propaganda effort aimed at demo­nizing the University as an employer. 
Although he is 
·· · ..P..·· · 
certainly correct 
\1 

in noting that we have been very critical of particu­lar elements of Notre Dame's employment policies, PSA has also repeated­ly acknowledged the many positives associated with working on this campus. 
For evidence of this one need look no further than the current edi­tion of Scholastic in which Kate Maich com­mends the University for offering several fan­tastic benefits and maintaining a generally good work environment. Indeed, having spent considerable time interacting with employees, members of PSA would be the first to agree that many workers on campus are highly sat­isfied with their jobs. 
Haight accuses PSA of being blind to the charitable work performed by the University and the Congregation of the Holy Cross. I would suggest, however, that it is he who is blind to the possibility that injustice and sig­nificant room for improvement can exist with­in an institution that is otherwise a leading 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
force for good. His own experience notwith­standing, there are men and women working on this campus who struggle to make ends meet on what the University pays them. 
Furthermore, as B.J. Strew argues, Notre Dame's position on neu­trality and voluntary recogni­tion falls short of what we believe should be demanded of Catholic universities. These are issues that should concern us all. 
Particularly baf­fling was Haight's claim that PSA 
considers those in low-income situa­tions to be inca­pable of amount­ing to anything. I can assure him 
that nothing is far­ther from the truth and I would ask that he point me to 
anything that indi­cates otherwise. As an organization 
with several members from backgrounds similar to Haight's own, PSA is itself evidence of the equal capabilities 
of individuals from all walks of life. I am deeply insulted that Haight would perceive my involvement in PSA as being motivated by the belief that working men and women are inept and somehow in need of my help. On the contrary, I believe I speak for all of PSA when I say we are driven by the knowledge that an injustice to one is an injustice to all and that we are all called to fight injustice whenever and wherever it occurs. 
Christian McNamara semor Morrissey Hall Sept. 30 



-


page 10 Thursday, October 2, 2003 

SUB sponsors 'former child star' David Spade, who shows off hi 
shows, he said, "it was just
By SARAH VABULAS 

two 35-year-old guys and me." 
Scene Edi ror 

Spade then appeared on HO for one of their amateur 
He is the co-star of possibly comedian shows and officials one of the most quotable from NC noticed him. They movies ever made. He has pursued him and asked him to been on Saturday Night Live. be on the hit show, "Saturday He worked and starred on a Night Live." hit, prime time TV show. He Spade found much success has made thousands of people on SNL and really made a laugh with his stand-up rou­place for himself. He met tines. So who is this comedi­other comedians, developed an? His name is David Spade. relationships with them and 
This 39-year-old actor has made a life out of comedy. been entertaining audiences One of his most known proj­for years with his sarcastic ects is the 1995 movie humor and jokes. Spade has "Tommy Boy," where he and become a household name Chris Farley starred as and his career will continue to Richard Hayden and Thomas be a success for years to 'Tommy' Callahan III respec­come. tively on a quest to save 
In an interview with The Tommy's father's company, Observer, Spade said he never Callahan Auto, following the considered entering the enter­death of 'Big Tom' Callahan. tainment and comedic indus­"Chris Farley was one of the try until after high school. [comedians] I really, really Some of his friends encour­liked," Spade said when asked aged him to pursue a career about what it was like to work 
after realizing his talents with with Chris Farley. "He was a In "Joe Dirt," one of Spade's favorite movies, he played opposite names like Christopher Walken comedy and improv. "It never funny and crazy guy. He was and Kid Rock (seen above) as he and his mullet search for his long lost parents. crossed my mind until after always being candid and hav­high school," Spade said. "I ing fun. He would make up could deturd these things" in and projects. One of his first spoiled prince who was turned was kinda good, but I was whatever is funny." reference to the shrimp scene popular movies was the into a llama by his evil court 
never Joe Ha-ha. I think I Spade admitted that his from the restaurant in "Coneheads," 1993 film sorceress, Yzma, who
a was 

thought it was fun, but really, favorite parts from the movie "Tommy Boy," and "Chris where he playedreally hard. I didn't think I were the parts that most peo­added the clip on tie scene." INS Agent Eli could get close to being good ple quote. "I really like the When asked about the scene Turnbull and at it. I just do it because it's 'Housekeeping' scene. I also when Farley pulverized the appeared with Dan fun to do." like 'Spank-tro-vision,' 'The roll from the basket on the Aykroyd, Jane 
He started out by doing Deer,' and 'Fat guy in a little table in the restaurant, Spade Curtin, Michelle stand-up routines at comedy coat."' said, "Chris just launched into Burke, Sinbad and clubs and just working the "Chris and I added a lot of that. We had 27 cups of cap­Chris Farley,comedy scene. At his stand-up things to the script. I asked if I puccino that day." among other big 
"I think my named actors. He most successful was searching for projects were Aykroyd and his "Tommy Boy," family who were "Joe Dirt" and aliens who came "Dickie Roberts." to earth. Some [of my proj­1996 brought ects] I should around another have skipped. film, "Black Saturday Night Sheep," starring Live was great the Spade and and I just got a Farley duo. Spade star on the Walk plays Steve Dodd, of Fame on the a friend of a politi­Friday that cian, AI Donnelly, "Dickie" opened. who is asked to That was really watch his little cool." brother, Mike 
"Filming 'Dickie Donnelly, during Roberts' was Al's campaign for great and lots of governor in fun. There were Washington state. fun people. I liked Farley and Spade the idea and got paired to create to goof off around another funny, with kids," Spade creative and said. "I never get quotable film. to joke around In 1997, his TV with kids. The series "Just Shoot secret to the Me!" began its six­movie was having season run where all the kids there. Spade played I had to watch my Dennis Quimby language with all Finch, a scheem­the kids around. I ing, sarcastic had a swear jar assistant to the for each time I editor of Blush cussed. It was Magazine, a popu­over 20 to 30 lar fashion maga­bucks by the time zine. the filming was Spade then finished." moved to the ani­
Spade has mated screen, many other suc­where he was the Spade's sarcastic and in-your-face humor earn cessful movies voice of Kuzco, a 
specials, where he was seen by NBC and purs1 




Thursday, October 2, 2003 Page 11 

is own brand of stand-up this Saturday at the Joyce Center Arena 

ly hangs out with Kid Rock, it." Chris Rock and Adam Sandler. Ebersol is unsure whether "I was hanging out with Chris or not Spade will pull any ... and Adam [MondayJ in Las other stunts while shaving his Vegas. We were talking about head. ''I'm always worried the show. I went out with that David will do something Chris Rock and traded materi­else," Ebersol said. "He is al," Spade said. "Whenever very much a comedian we hang out, we all try to through and through. This make each other laugh. will prove to be interesting Everyone is trying to out do and prove to be humorous." each other. We change our "I'm more worried about jokes and write better ones." David shaving my head into a 
There is another reason, mullet," Ebersol said. "David however, to come to the show really likes mullets. He has other than the experience of agreed to purchase me a hat." listening to David Spades For those of you who are jokes. Spade will be shaving aspiring comedians, Spade the head of Charlie Ebersol, has some advice for you: "You Board Director of the Student kinda have it or you don't. Union Board, at some point Take comedy classes. It's hard during the show. There is a to keep at it. Talk people into catch, though. In order for thinking you're good. Try it. this to happen, SUB needs to Give it your best. You won't have 3,500 tickets sold. make any money for a long 
But why would Ebersol do time. But it is fun." this? "I want to see my event succeed," Ebersol said. "Most Spade will be performing people don't think I take many Saturday night at the Joyce things seriously. Most people's Center Arena. The event is biggest complaint is that I'm sponsored by SUB. Tickets are overly vain. A great deal of $20 for Notre Dame. Saint 
For those of you out there people on campus either like Mary's and Holy Cross stu­who enjoyed "Joe Dirt," Spade me or don't like me. This pro­dents and $35 for the general has some good news. "I might vides an opportunity for peo­public. They can be purchased do a 'Joe Dirt' sequel," said ple to either laugh with me or at the LaFortune Box Office or Spade. "I really liked that laugh at me." by calling 631-8128. Doors movie. It was fun to shoot. As "This is a good-natured will open at Gate 10 at 6:30 long as you get to kiss Britney stunt," Ebersol said. "I know p.m. and the show starts at Daniel, anything is fun." David from his proximity to 7:30p.m. 
Some comedians, like Adam Saturday Night Live. The Sandler, have released CDs thought of it was a funny idea Contact Sarah Vabulas at with their comedic routines on and David was all about doing vabu4547@saintmarys.edu them. Spade, however, has no plans to do such a project. "I've talked about it, but it's hard to sell a CD of me just talking. It is a lot of work," Spade said. "I did stuff on Adam Sandler's first album and that was fun. He sings, though, so his COs are differ­ent." 
"When I'm cruising, stand-up is fun. It can be the best," Spade said. "I can goof around with the crowd. I get my material from everyday stuff. My life. What has happened to me. It's tricky to come up with a stand­up act." 
Spade is per­forming at Notre Dame on Saturday night at the Joyce Center Arena. He is doing a 7 5­minute stand-up routine and he admits that this is "longer than any­one has asked me 
to do." He is pre­Photo courtesy of disney.cor pared, however. Spade spent a brief time as a llama while filming the movie "The Emperor's Spade frequent-New Groove." It Is one of Disney's funniest animated films. 

voiced by Eartha Kitt. John film exploring what it means Goodman, Pacha, was also to respect other people. included in this epic Disney His next big acting appear-

led him fame on the stand-up circuit and in HBO ued for "Saturday Night Live." 
ance was in "Joe 
Dirt," the adven­
tures of a man 
with a mullet, on a 
mission to find his 
long-lost parents. 
He meets many 
different people 
along the way, and 
learns a lot about 
himself in the 
process. 
In 2005, Spade has another film hitting the silver screen, joined with an all-star cast including such names as Whoopi Goldberg, Steve Harvey, Dustin Hoffman, Joshua Jackson, Mandy Moore, Michael Rosenbaum and Patrick Stewart. The movie is called "Racing Stripes," an ani­mated story about a horse who over­comes prejudice and self-doubt to pursue his dream of running with thoroughbreds. 
Spade's plans for the future include more movies, stand-up and per­haps even a TV show. "I will prob­ably try to put a TV show together because I liked it," Spade said. "It was fun. I do one move about every two years. Movies are just tough. They're a lot of work. A TV show is just the right amount of work." 
page 12 The Observer+ CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 2, 2003 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL PREVIEWS 

McGlinn, Badin ready for playoff tuneup 
nel as its principle strength. for us," said PE captain Laura
By MATT PUGLISI, LAUREN 

"Our players and coaches are Wolohan.
OSTERHUS and KATHERINE 

fabulous," Carter said. "If one of The Pyros have struggled in
GALES 

the girls is having a bad day, putting together an efficient run­
Sports Writers 

another will step up." ning offense, and have relied on Meanwhile, McGlinn tailback their defense to stay competitive. A pair of likely playoff-bound Raquel Ferrer feels the team's "We're just trying to get our powerhouses square off this effectiveness on both sides of the offense together. The defense evening when McGlinn (3-1) ball will only continue to improve has been doing a pretty good job, locks horns with Badin (3-1) at 7 as the season progresses. but they've given up a few key 
p.m. at Riehle West. "I think everyone on offense is plays, and that's all it takes. We 
Trailing only undefeated Lewis getting more comfortable with haven't been making big plays (4-0) in the Gold League, the the plays and we're able to read when we need to, that's why Shamrocks and Bullfrogs realize each other better," Ferrer said. we're 1-3," Wolohan said. the significance of tonight's "The defense came up big last Lewis, however, remains unde­match-up-not only can the vic­game with a couple of intercep­feated through the first four tor virtually secure the second tions and hopefully they can games of the season. Led by sen­seed, but it can also set the tone come out and do it again." ior Lynne McChrystal, the Chicks for a successful playoff run. Although the fast-approaching have proven strong on both sides 
"Neither of us want to give up playoffs lurk as a potential dis­of the ball. that second place spot," Badin traction, Ferrer and the "We always look for our senior captain Jenn Carter said. Shamrocks are focused solely on defense to be solid, and our "It's going to be a good, tough the task at hand. defense is the jump start for our game." "For the most part, we haven't offense," said junior linebacker struggling defending champion Defensively, the Lions plan to 
Both squads warmed up for thought about the playoffs yet," Sheila Dawes. Pasquerilla East has led to a stay tight in their typical man-to­the showdown by pounding on Ferrer said. "We're just looking Their low scoring game last boost in team confidence. man formation. On the other side winless Howard (0-4). to get in the right mental state week could have partly resulted "Catching the ball on Sunday of the ball, they hope to get more 
The Shamrocks shutout the and come out hard against from the players' lack of experi­-that was a key thing," said plays together, varying the pass­Ducks last Thursday as they rode Badin." ence handling the ball in low captain Lauren White. "We ing and running game to keep a quick start and a pair of touch­Pasquerllla East vs. Lewis temperatures. Dawes said that played together as a team, and scoring. down tosses by sophomore Last year's champs take on one practices this week have been the offense really stepped it up." "We'd really like to make it [to 
Bridget Meacham to a 13-0 vic­of this year's strongest teams for "keeping fresh and trying to The Lyons defense has been the playoffs)," White said. tory. when Pasquerilla East and Lewis get ready for cold weather impressive so far this season. Howard is. looking for its first 
Badin made quick work of meet this evening at 8 p.m. games." Although their offense has strug­win of the season after a disap­Howard on Sunday, blowing out The Chicks are coming off a The Pyros hope to stay strong gled to put points on the board, pointing 33-6 loss to the the Ducks 33-6. Four different strong shutout victory over the on defense throughout the game, the defense has managed to hold Bullfrogs of Badin. The Ducks girls recorded touchdowns and Lions last Thursday, defeating while putting together some most opponents to relatively few are in the midst of a difficult 
the defense chipped in with a them by a touchdown. PE played offense drives to get on the points per game. rebuilding season, but are look­couple of interceptions in the Lyons three days later but came scoreboard. Although off to a "Our defense had four or five ing to improve under captain route. up short, losing 13-6. rocky start, PE hopes to set the key interceptions against PE," Shannon Trevino's guidance. 
With the playoffs looming PE, although the defending Chicks ablaze tonight and begin White said. The cold weather may play a around the corner, Carter said champions, has posted a losing a successful turnaround in their They also held Lewis' powerful role in this evening's game, with she believes the Bulldogs are record coming into tonight's season. The Chicks, however, offense to a mere six points ear­the forecast dropping to the low peaking at the right time. game. They lost last year's quar­plan on coming out strong and lier in the season. forties. The game will take place 
"This is the best that we've terback and offensive line to continuing their undefeated The duo to watch will be quar­at Riehle West at 9 p.m. ever looked," Carter said. "We're graduation, as well as a great streak into the playoffs. terback Roxy Travino and receiv­executing on offense and just cornerback. Lyons vs. Howard er Meghan Regan. who have getting all the little things done." "Most of our key losses were Lyons (1-3) looks for their sec­been a threat to score every Contact Matt Puglisi at 
Although the offense is starting on offense. Our [quarterback] ond consecutive win of the 2003 game. mpuglis@nd.edu, Lauren to click and the defense has been and line are all freshman; season against Howard (0-4) "They do a good job working Osterhus at losterhu@nd.edu stingy all season. Carter points to they're very talented, but lack Thursday night. together and getting the job and Katherine Gales at the senior-laden squad's person-experience. It's a rebuilding year The Lions' 13-6 victory over done," said White. kgales@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. Al dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306 
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski &Beach Trips on sale now! www.sunchase.com or call 1-800-SUNCHASE today! 
GUITAR LESSONS harmonica, banjo & mandolin. Hoosierdads Music 4609 Grape Rd Mish, IN 2775038 
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in Acapulco is now offering 3 destina· lions! Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get Crazy in Cabo·all with BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. Book by Oct 31-get FREE MEALS! Organize a group and travel for FREE. Call for details. 800-875­4525 or www.bianchi-rossi.com. 
...ACT NOW!Book 11 people, get 12th trip tree. Group discounts for 6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com 
or 800-838-8202. 
WANTED 
SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for a few good men and women who wish to work in a FUN and fast pace environment. A new store will be opening up in early October. We have aggressive pay. Hrs from 11 am to 3am. In-shoppers, drivers and mgmt available. Call Andy at 574·277-0850 for interview. 

Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO exper. required. All looks & ages. Earn $100-$300 a day. 1-888·820.0167, ext. U187. 
A SPRING BREAKER NEEDED 2004 Hottest Destinations & Parties 2 free trps high commission sunsplashtours.com 1800-426-7710 
TUTOR: Sixth grader. Homework. Transportation necessary. 231-1127 
Responsible Harter Heights teenag­er needed to walk 2 affectionate, medium-size dogs in afternoons. References required. 287 ·3054. 
FoR SALE 

Two BR, 2 bath condo. One mile to NO. Clubhouse, pool, 2 car garage. $107,000. (574) 273-1666 
IRISH CROSSINGS· A NEW LUX­URY VILLA COMMUNITY. Build your dream home next to Notre Dame. 
A limited number of home sites are available. For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com 
TOPSFIELD CONDO FOR SALE. NICELY DECORATED 2 BED­ROOM. ALL MAJOR APPLIANCES. 10 MINS FROM CAMPUS. $69,900 299-7078 
1 990 VW Jetta 1 27K Good condi­lion $1675. 287-7928 
Fully electric hospital bed, new mat­tress $350. Power Lift Lazy boy $250. Over bed tables $25. Student desks $25. Pews $45. Call evenings. 631·4969. 
FoR RENT 
2·6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272· 1525 
That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast has space available for footbaiVpar­ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, full hot breakfast, $80·$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1·800-418-9487. 
FREEDOM! Rent the best furnished houses, prime locations, sec. sys-terns, sand V-ball, wash/dry call Greg 233-9947 
DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 7 HOUSES AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR. WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS 2,4,6,8 & 10 BEDROOM HOUSES-STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS-SECURITY SYSTEMS-MAINTENANCE STAFF 24 HOURS-WASHERS/DRYERS CALL TODAY-HOUSES ARE GOING FAST CONTACT KRAMER 574-315-5032 or 574-234·2434 ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR 2005­2006 SCHOOL YEAR 
3 bdrm home w/fenced yd, hrdwd floors. Very clean, quaint. Appl. incl. last mo. 10·mo lease. 417 Napoleon. 1/2 mil. from NO. Call 299-9428 Graduate students, faculty or staff. 
Rent one of the best 5 bedroom homes left for 2004/5. Rent a 4-bed­room house and get the 3 bedroom house next door for free. ANLAN PROPERTIES 532­1896 
TICKETS 

ND FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL. CHECK MY PRICES. 273·3911 OR TOLL FREE 877-773·3911. 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM·232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR 
SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288­
2726 

WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232­
0964. 

FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. 
LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570. 
JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT­BALL GAME. PLEASE CALL 674·6593. 
Just Between You And Me, ADire 
Fan in NEED of 2 or 4 USC GAs 
ONLY PLEASE 
PH:2n-1659 SMC grad needs USC tix. Email Colleen: Eumachia13@aol.com 
Wanted, 2 USC Tickets, Gen Admin okay, Contact Roger (31 0) 766­0990 
Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ Pay Top Dollar $$ 1-866-808-0990 
BUY?SELL ND FOOTBALL TICK­ETS> CASH PAID> 574-289·8048 
Alumni family needs USC tickets for reunion. Call Pat, 574-289-8048 
2 ALUMS NEED 2-4 USC GAME GAs TO TAKE 6-yr OLD SON TO GAME. dventrelle@yahoo.com or 925·457-1 057. 
PERSONALS 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Spring Break 2004 with StudentCity.com and Maxim Magazine! Get hooked up with Free Trips, Cash and VIP status as a Campus Rep! Choose from 1 5 of the hottest destinations. Book early for FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS and 150% Lowest Price Guarantee! To reserve online or view our Photo Gallery, visit www.studentcity.com or Call1·888­SPRINGBREAKI Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel. com 
A 'Reality' Spring Break 2004s Hottest prices Book now.. Free Trips, Meals & Parties sunsplashtours.com or 1 800-426· 771 0 
You're all growns up and you're all growns up 
Guys that go on trips will own news 
I love my ATL girls! 
Party at GTC's this Friday? 
Mike, you're a real zero 
If anyone wants steroids, just ask my two roommates because they buy theirs at GNC 
Two hot, sexy Wild Women looking for a date to the Frolic. Call our pimp at 4-2626 
G'lrish 
I got hit by a car at the Michigan game. 
Thanks for the cookies Meghanne 
Who's the big winner tonight? Mikey's the big winner. 
It's harder to win when you play by 
the rules -Mr. T 
Touchdown Browns! 


Thursday, October 2, 2003 page 13
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



Thursday, October 2, 2003

page 14 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Campus Ministry 
siqn uo now
-
Get involved, go on a retreat 
More info & applications in Room114 and online at campusministry. nd.edu 

Freshman 
-

Retreat #49 
October 10-11 
Sign up deadline: Monday, October 6 
j 
thursday_ 10.2 
Confirmation MHkshake Mass 
10:30 p.m. OiUon HaU Chapel 
friday ro.J 

Learning to Talk About Race Retreat for Student ,, Leaders 
' 
' Friday and Saturday Fatima Retreat Center 
Liturgical Choir Retreat 

·, 
I Friday and Saturdayi Bair Lake Bible Camp
' 
I 
,, • Jones. Michigan 
Sophomore Road Trip 
Destination: Unknown Friday through Sunday 
sunda'!t 10.~ _ .. ~ 
RCIA-Session 
1o:oo a.m. • 11:30 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse 

Coleman~Morse Center 631~7800 ministry.l@nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu 
CM 

5 TAR TIN G
The Man's ,..._ 
Freshman
Weekend Retreat #so
October 10-11 

Sign up deadtine: December s~6 Tuesday, October 7 Sign up deadline: November 28 
N EX T WEEK 
Notre Dame Encounter #78 
~ 


tuesdajJ___.LQ.~? ...._ 
Catechist Formation Class 
s:oo p.m. 
330 Coleman-Morse 
Campus Bible Study 
7:oo p.m. · 8;oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. 
St. Edward's Hall 
wednesday to,s 
Graduate Student· Christian .. Fellowship 
8;oo p.m. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
to:oo p.m. 
Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Theology on Tap 
to:oo p.m. · 11:30 p~m. 
Legends 
theology on tap 

"Were you there last night?" 
Where? 

"Legends. For Theology on Tap" 
No. Were you? 
"Yeah, it was awesome. Very laid back and interestin.g." 
I thought about going.... 
"Well, they're doing it again next Wednesday. Legends. 10 p.m." 
I'm there. 
mass schedule 

considerations... 
Celebrating 25 years of a Remarkable Man 
by Rev. Richard Warner, c.s.c. 
.Director, Office of Campus Ministry 
On October 16, 1978, the election of the first non-Italian Pope in over 450 years rook place in Rome with the eighth ballot election of the Cardinal Archbishop of 
Krakow as Pope John Paul II. While this event took place years before any of the under­graduates at Notre Dame were. born, his papacy has marked their lives as surely as it has hundreds of millions of people. 
During these years, the Holy Father has written more than SO major documents, and has.spoken the truth about matters related to Catholic teaching and discipline during an era ofdramatic advances in medicine and technology, The Catechism of the Catholic Church was approved and promulgated by the Holy Father with the prayer that "Catechesis will find in (this work) a genuine, systematic presentation of the faith and of Catholic doctrine (in) a totally reliable way..." 
At the same rime, he has spoken often on the need for richer narions to come to the aid ofthose who are poor among them and the poor throughout the world. He has traveled more than 700,000 miles in missionary journeys to just about every corner of d1e world. · 
People who know him describe him as a very sensitive and intelligent man with a pen~trating gaze and a knack for making people around him feel at ease. I had the extraordinary privilege ofcelebrating Mass with Pope John Paul II on several occasions in his private chapel. As I entered the chapel before the Mass began, he was seated in the front, deeply engaged in prayer as he had been for the previous hour. It was dear that all of us were in the presence of a holy priest. 
He has called, elected and appointed bishops from around the world to Rome for synods or discussions on topics ofspecial pastor.al importance. In recent yearsJ synod themes have been dedicated to the challenges and opportunities of the Church on the various continents. The Holy Father himself has promulgated rhese proceedings in special visits to significant places where he mer with leaders and members of rhe Church. 
PopeJohn Paul II will be remembered for the role he played in bringing about the downfall ofCommunism in the countries ofthe former Soviet Union and in Eastern European countries. He has been a strong advocate for peace and against war, including the recent war in Iraq. He has frequently called on the peoples of the Holy Land to find a way ro live in peace with one another. 
He has presided over the Catholic Church during a time of great gro·wrh in Asia and Mrica. The Chmch's social and economic activities around the world have increased dramatically. 
Young people will probably remember his rapporr with them, especially on the occasions ofWorld Youth Day celebrations. He always derives screngrh and vitality from his contacts with young people. 
Many years will pass before complete analyses of the papacy ofPope John Paul II will become available. But it is clear that he has marked the papacy as few others have done before him. 
On October 16, at 5:15p.m., a special Mass will be celebrated at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart to mark this anniversary. Ir will be a unique opportunity for us to thank God for r.he life and ministry ofrhis remarkable man, and to ask God to continue to 
''grant sucess to the work of his hands.» 
27th Sunday in Ordinary Time 
basilica of the sacred heart 
Saturday Vigil Mass Sunday 

5!00 p.m. 1o:oo a.m. 
Rev. Joseph E. Weiss, s.j. Rev. Joseph E. Weiss, s.j. 
11:45 p.m. 
Rev. John Conley, c.s.c. 
around campus (every Sunday) 
1:30 p.m. s:oo p.m. 
Spanish Mass Law School Mass 
St. Edward~s HiJit Chapel Law School Chapel 
7:oo p.m. 
MBA Mass 
Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 



Thursday, October 2, 2003 Co.t.,..tPlLED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Page 15 

around the dial 
MLB-DIVISION SERIES Red Sox at Athletics 4 p.m., ESPN Twins at Yankees 8:15p.m. FOX 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL West Virginia at Miami (Fla.) 7:30p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press away from home in the much support. After those game, but we were able to ATLANTA The postseason since 1945. first five batters reached, push across a run there." Chicago Cubs jumped on "Obviously, you'd like to Chicago struck out 10 "It's not like it was in the Atlanta lefty Mike be up 2-0, especially after times and got only four dirt, but it wasn't a hang­Hampton early, then ral­winning the first game," hits the rest of the way. er by any stretch," Veres 
lied to tie it against closer Chicago first baseman After Hampton gave up said. "If he doesn't hit it, it 
John Smoltz. Eric Karros said. "I still the two runs in the first, 
looked like it might have 

Still. it wasn't enough. feel like we've got as good he struck out six straight 
bounced ofT the plate. But 

The Cubs got only two a chance as they do. We're -setting a division series 
I guess it wasn't good

hits in the final six innings in as good a situation as record. 
enough."

and lost to the Braves 5-3 we could be in." The six straight strike­
Hampton didn't give up

on Wednesday night, Carlos Zambrano, who outs tied the postseason 
many hits, but he walked

evening the best-of-five lost two of his final three record, which had been 
five to help the Cubs put

division series at one game starts in the regular sea­done three times. The 
runners in scoring posi­

apiece. son, didn't make it out of most recent was St. Louis' 
tion. But they ruined those

Still, Chicago heads back the sixth. He allowed Todd Worrell in the 1985 
chances by hitting into

to Wrigley Field for the three runs on 11 hits in 5 World Series against 
three double plays, includ­

next two games with a 2-3 innings, including a Kansas City. chance to reach the NLCS pinch-hit single by Marcus "If we can take a posi­ing one on Goodwin's sac­for the first time since Giles that gave the Braves tive out of his game, it's rifice fly, when Simon got 1989. The Cubs' victory in the lead. that," Karros said. "We caught trying to go to sec­Game 1 was their first But Zambrano didn't get had our chances the whole ond. 
IN BRIEF 

Marlins defeat Giants in San led a 15-hit effort, a day after Florida that he had resigned from the show. Francisco was held to just three. In fact, the conservative commen­
SAN FRANCISCO -The Florida Carl Pavano, the winning pitcher tator said he must have been right; Marlins got the split they so desper­when Florida clinched the wild card, otherwise, the comments would not ately needed at Pacific Bell Park and earned another important victory by have sparked such outrage. did it by getting away from the small getting two outs. Before MeNabb led the Eagles to a ball that sent them on this improba­
23-13 victory over the Buffalo Bills ble playoff journey. UIJ!baugh accused of on Sunday, Limbaugh said on ESPN's

Juan Encarnacion homered and racism pregame show that he didn't think
Juan Pierre wound up with a bases­PHILADELPHIA Donovan 
loaded double on a misplay by Jose McNabb doesn't mind criticism of his McNabb was as good as perceived 
from the start.

Cruz Jr. in a decisive three-run sixth performance. He's upset that Rush as the Marlins defeated the sloppy Limbaugh made his race an issue. The NFL disclaimed any responsi­San Francisco Giants 9-5 in Game 2 And the Philadelphia Eagles' quar­bility from Limbaugh's remarks. 
Wednesday. terback says it's too late for an apol­MeNabb said someone on the show After an energized Barry_ Bonds ogy from the conservative commen­should have taken on Limbaugh. helped the Giants take a 4-1 lead, tator. who said the media has over­Among the other panelists are for­Sidney Ponson couldn't hold it. _ rated McNabb because they want to mer players Michael Irvin and Tom 
Pierre had four hits as the Marlins see a black quarterback succeed. 
Jackson, both of whom are black.

rallied to send the best-of-five series "It's somewhat shocking to hear Limbaugh was scheduled to be inback Florida at one apiece. that on national TV from him," Philadelphia on Thursday to speak atGame 3 is Friday in Miami. Kirk McNabb said Wednesday. "It's not a broadcast convention. McNabb said Rueter pitches for San Francisco something that I can sit here and say 
he wouldn't be welcome at the

against Mark Redman. won't bother me." 
Pierre said before this series start­Limbaugh insisted Wednesday he Eagles' practice. ed that the Giants hadn't yet seen the had "no racist intent whatsoever," "I really don't want to see him," wild-card Marlins at their best. He but ESPN reported Wednesday night McNabb said. 

I; 
I' 
Decision 
continued from page 20 
football. The Irish would then play a limited football schedule against ACC teams (instead of the Big East teams Notre Dame 
currently plays) while it consid­ers full football membership. 
But Heisler and ACC com­missioner John Swofford quick­ly denied the rumors that said Notre 
Dame  was  on  
the  brink  of  
reaching  an  
agreement.  

"The thing 
you have to understand," he 
said, "is that Kevin [White] 
spends a great deal of time with 
all of these commissioners. Who 
knows what they all talk about." 
The ACC is looking to add a 
12th member because then it 
can host a lucrative conference 
championship game, which can 
generate over $10 million in rev­
enue. Their appeal to host a 
championship game, even 
though the league will only have 
11 members in 2004, was 
denied by the NCAA. 
Saturday, the prospects of 
Notre Dame joining the ACC took 
a huge hit after the league's nine 
current presidents decided that 
any school that joined the con­
ference must join in all sports. 
But while the topic of inviting 
Notre Dame to join the league 
never arose, one of the ACC 
presidents said that no new 
member would get preferential 
treatment. 
"What we talked about was 
the importance of affirming the 
principles on which this confer­
ence has been built, which are 
equity and full participation," 
said North Carolina State chan­
cellor Marye Ann Fox, who is 
also a member of Notre Dame's · 
Board of Trustees. "We affirmed 
that equal participation would 
be necessary." 
But if joining a conference 
means the Irish have to lose 
their football independence, 
Notre Dame will have none of it. 
Notre Dame has a $8.5 million 
television contract with NBC 
(which expires in 2005) and sells 
out virtually every home game, 
which Heisler said are both rea­
sons why the Irish are unlikely 
to consider giving up that inde­
pendence. 
"That's historically been important to the institution. That's been important to the institutional identity," Heisler said. "I don't sense that there's any sort of suggestion that we're prepared to do an about-face." 
Staying In the Big East 
Because of its eight-year affili­ation with the Big East, Heisler said Notre Dame is waiting to see what the conference's next move is. The league's school presidents -and its commis­sioner, Mike Tranghese -have stayed relatively quiet since they blasted the ACC for poaching Miami and Virginia Tech from the league. 

But last week, the Boston Globe reported that league pres­idents had settled on expanding to a massive 16-team conference by inviting Conference USA schools Louisville and Cincinnati for all sports and Marquette and DePaul for all sports except foot­ball. Assuming Notre Dame stays in the league, that would give the Big East eight football schools and eight non-football playing schools by 2005. 
That's not the only option, either. In early September, 

page 16 

The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, October 2, 2003 
The future 
White probably won't comment 
GOING HOME EARLY 
on Notre Dame's future confer­ence plans until the Irish make a final decision on their future. 
for Fall Break?
And Heisler said he hasn't been involved in any discussions, and he doesn't know exactly what White has said to Big East offi­
Donate your USC ticket to the 
cials -or officials from any other conference, for that matter. In the meantime, the confer­
LOGAN Center! 
. ··...:.:
ence realignment rolls right along. Tranghese said the Big 

Give a person with a disability the chance to enjoy one East, if it decides to expand, will 
Notre Dame Football Gan1e on October 18th! 
keep the process open so other conferences can plan for their 

futures. And the ACC isn't neces­sarily done adding schools -the Atlanta Journal-Constitution said the league was re-considering inviting Boston College, which the league originally declined to invite back in June. 
"This is not a simple thing that gets tied up in a tidy little knot in a few days," Heisler said. "There is some urgency, but it is a 
process that everybody has to work their way through." 
Deadli11eforticket donation is Monday, October 6th. To donate your student ticket, email Marissa at · rnari~$!~r@Jogancenter.org or cal1289-4831 x.1043
Contact Andrew Soukup at 
asoukup@nd.edu 

Tranghese hinted that the Big East's football members may split from its non-football mem­bers. 
Either way, Tranghese said in September that the Big East hoped to decide on its realign­ment plans by November. 
So where does this leave Notre 
Dame? The Irish won't join the con­ference in
..There is some urgency. 

football. but
but it is a process that 

have so far everybody has to ·work indicated a willingness to
their way through. " 

explore options in the 
John Heisler 

redefined Big associate athletic director East. for media relations "Our pref­
erence would 
have been 
that the sta­tus quo would have stayed the same," Heisler said. "As you've seen in recent years, we've established a relatively comfort­able level with the Big East. 
"But the league has been thrown into a little bit of turmoil with losing Virginia Tech and Miami. The question is, where do you go now?" 
. NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVlSION, AND THEATRE PRESENT$ 
TARTU 
BY MOLIERE 
Adapted and Dlr~aed by 
frederic Sybur9 
528 f:. Colfax 1tve., Suite #2 
* 
Sou.th 'Bend, 1'1{46617 574/231-1822 
312 W. Cfeve(and'Rd. §ranaer, iJrJ.f46530 · 574/177-6693 




Thursday, October 2, 2003 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, October 2, 2003 


Soccer 
continued from page 20 
Big East foe Georgetown. Its only loss came against St. John's, who opened the home stand with a 3­0 shutout ofthe Irish. 
Since the St. John's game, Notre Dame has built a six-game unbeaten streak and allowed just two goals. 
The shot totals tell the story of the Irish season. Notre Dame has out shot its opponents by almost a 2:1 ratio, with 138 shots to opponents' 79. 
The offense deserves credit for pressuring opposing defenses. Senior forward Justin Detter received some of that credit this Monday, being named Big East co-offensive player of the week. Detter scored one goal in each of the victories over Bradley and Georgetown. 
The offense, however, feeds off the midfield and defense. Notre Dame's defense has been superb up to the season's midway point. 
Just as left defender Kevin Goldthwaite heard praise last week, right defender Kevin Richards is being recognized for his efforts. Richards was named conference defensive player of the week on Monday. He plays on a defense that has allowed only six goals all season -three in one game -and that has a goals-against average of 0.61, ranking thirteenth in the nation. 
Now, the Irish will face a Syracuse team (2-5-2, 0-2-1) they have had great success against. Notre Dame leads the all-time series 6-2-0. The Irish and Orangemen did not meet last sea­son, but Notre Dame won the last meeting with the Orangemen by a score of 2-1 at Alumni Field in 2001. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


CHIP MARKS/The Observer Notre Dame's Greg Martin keeps the ball away from an Akron defender In Notre Dame's 0-0 tie with the Zips Sept. 14. The Irish travel to Syracuse Thursday and Pittsburgh Saturday In Its first road games In over a month. 
At~~ 
~ Ann-nces the futlowing ;ntroductoO'Y otfe,. of••• 
•----••---•r----••----~r----• 
I $l8 I I $ZG I I $69 I I I I $79 I
$79

I I I I I Color, Cut & I I I I Highlighrs, I Mens Cur I 1cur & Style I I Style I I Perm, Cut & Style I I Cut & Style 1
I 

One Process 
~----·~---·~----·~----··----· 
Please use thiS spec1al savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must be presented to Receptionist BefOre Services Are Performed 
Jennifer-KJ -Kefly-Elena 
Noc v..!KIIor spir.al rx:rms. l.ong or nnted luir add $10 No olhcr dis­ATRIA SALON ruunu apply. Open some evenmgs: ArRlA Silin ~£he nghr ro 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 
n:fu.sc SCI'V1U: co any dJCOt whose hair mndioon u untteU".lbk 
Corner of Edison OFFER EXPIRES 12-31-03 289-5080 


.··  The College of Arts and Letters Invites Faculty and Staff Nominations for the Second Annual Arts and Letters Award of Appreciation The College of Arts and Letters announces the second annual Award of Appreciation, to be conferred on an outstanding faculty or staffme1uber from outside the College. We are looking for a faculty or staff employee whose work elsewhere in the University contributes immeasurably to the College of Arts and Letters and enriches its life. A certificate and honorarium acco1npany this award. Please send a brief letter to the Committee describing the outstanding contributions your nominee has made to the life of the Co11ege of Arts and Letters. Arts and Letters Award of Appreciation Con1mittee c/o Kathy Cunneen 100 O'Shaughnessy Hall kcunneen@nd.edu Deadline Friday, October 17, 2003  

~;}~=='=cirmenl><erfl auditorium tnitenu.tseumofart 
dc.k•ts: 
$10 I}CttCJ'(Ir/Gdmlnion $8NDJSMC f(JICu/ty srfllf $IS unlwdtiHns $Ufridmfs =·=~mfttiNolhli>rlrfl••boJt olflcJr. (S74) 4Jf-8121 
plano mClft.nlcuS 
~oct«-4.2D03 
2:tWpm,-•n1HrgouJ/f:Wium trdmlssion is frH; tb•pui!Uc;. lnvit.d 

Thursday, October 2, 2003 page 19
The Observer+ TODAY 

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 
FIVES 







-.... 
··­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

J I I 
Ans\o.er here: 
rI I I JHIM rI I·I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 
-
Jumbles: PUPPY JOINT LUNACY AMOEBAYesterday's 
I 
Answer: What the politician offered the poor fruit peddler ­A"PLUM"JOB 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
SHARING THIS BIRTHDAY: Donna Karan, Sting, Don McLean, Lorraine Bracco, Rex Reed 
Happy Birthday: Don't waste time. Focus on your goals and be relentless. If you lose that defeatist attitude and start believing, you can form partnerships and make money. Your numbers: 9, 13, 22, 25, 28, 33 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Keep busy today as too much idle time will lead to trouble. No one, including you, has the foggiest idea what you'll do next. Control and direction will be a must. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Slow down; nothing could be that imponant. You'll make a false impression if you seem jumpy and erratic. Study your finances to determine whether adjustments are needed. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take a stance for a cause you believe in. Your intellect and thirst for knowledge will lead in many new directions. Interesting friendships can develop. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can make professional changes today. Set up interviews or talk to your boss about your career intentions. You may want to check out an interesting business partnership. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You've got everything figured out. You're a born leader in any group. Initiating new projects and sparking others' enthusiasm is a gift and will be an asset. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your financial situation can improve if you make a worthwhile investment. Complete those home-improvement projects you started long ago so you can move on to other, more interesting hobbies. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): What a great day for love. You're ready to make a romantic commitment again. If you are single, you can meet someone new. Spend time with a loved one and let it be known how much you care. You can never reassure a lover often enough. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You'll be fun-loving and entenaining. After­work activities will allow you to know your colleagues better. Your mysterious and enticing comments will captivate others.*** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Nothing can hold you down. You need to play hard at challenging, competitive activities and feel that you've conquered the world. You'll enjoy winning. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): There is money to be made, so get moving. If you form a partnership, be sure you both understand your responsibilities beforehand.** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Socialize with friends who know how to have fun. Shopping can be entenaining and lead to good buys. Romance strikes in the strangest places, so don't hesitate to meet an intriguing person. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can make headway at work. Extra effort is a good way to earn a raise. It may even lead to a better position with more responsibility and satisfying challenges. *** 
Birthday Baby: You have what it takes to be great. You are intuitive, bright and care deeply about others. Your ability to see both sides of an 1ssue will be an asset throughout life. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 

CROSSWORD 
Note: Twelve answers in this puzzle are to be entered in an unusual way, for you to discover. 
ACROSS  37 Stalled  65 Not go straight  
1 E.R. amts.  construction  66 Rabble  
4 Geographical  38 For some time  67 Phone button  
name that means roughly "great land" 10 "An Essay on Criticism" essayist 14 Leftover bit 15 Reading of 98.6°, e.g.  40 Peter Cottontail's pace 42 Ella Fitzgerald classic 43 Station rating 44 Speaker in the outfield 45 Shropshire female  68 Hosp. readout 69 Cards traded for Musials, maybe 70 Burly 71 Blue hue DOWN 1 White vestment  
16 Casual footwear 17 First-rate  46 Some Joe Frazier wins  2 Traverse back and forth  
18 Singles' world 20 Pre-Red head 22 Tiny complaints 23 Oklahoma tribe 24 Moving 26 Tries 28 Lap dog  47 Irons 50 Orang's partner 51 Yellow parts 55 Cause for a blessing? 59 Hike 61 A millionth of a  3 Annual parade honoree, briefly 4 Clause joiner 5 Museum deal 6 Craftsmanship 7 Lovestruck 8 Part of the Louisiana  
30 Kind of radio  milli- Purchase  
34 Alphabet trio  62 Nickel-nursers  9 H.S. subj.  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  10 Sgt.'s charges  
11 Olive genus  
12 Rec room  
activity  
13 It involves a  
wave of the  
hand  
19 Terse radio  
message  
25 Six-Day War  
figure  
27 "Out!"  
29 Trendy  
30 Spa sounds  
31 Stand-up's prop  


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

deliveries

accompaniment 58 Galoots50 Pacifier36 Capable of 60 Scaler's goal39 Spineless 52 Lolls 63 Yearbook sect. 
41 de deux 53 Trinket 42 Perfumed 54 Damp 64 Wily 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.comlcrosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
-------------------------------------------·------------------------------­
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ __ Address _______________________________________ City ___________ State ____ Zip________ 


~~--------------------------------------------------------~--~~.--~-~--~--7---~------------------~------~--~~----~------------~----~., 


THE OBSERVER 

p
Thursday, October 2, 2003 Page 20 
fOOTBALL 



Wooing the Green 
In midst of conference turmoil, Notre Dame adopts a wait-and-see approach 

either now or in the immediate
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
future -and it wants to wait 
Spores Writer 

and see what the Big East ­which has vowed to rebuild The speculation is making itself-will do before making a Notre Dame officials laugh. decision on its future. One day, the University is stay­Beyond that. everything else ing in the Big East. The next remains up in the air. But since 
day, they're going  Miami  and  
to the ACC. One  Virginia Tech  
day, Notre Dame's football  "Every day there's  left, Notre Dame athletic  
program is fmally  another  director Kevin  
going to join a conference. The next day, it's not.  speculative story written. And even if the  White has publicly stayed silent  
"Every day there's another speculative story written," Notre  story's true, there remain a million things to work  on the issue. So have most Notre Dame coaches.  
Dame associate  out."  But  while  
athletic director  Notre  Dame  
for media rela­tions John  John Heisler  waits, the rest of the colle­ 
Heisler  said.  assoclate athletic director  giate athletic  
"And  even  if a  for media relations  world contin­ 
story  is  true,  ues to spin.  
there remain a  ACC rumors?  

million things to work out." A week ago, The Charlotte 
At least a few things are clear Observer published a report from Notre Dame's perspective saying ACC officials had dis­after Miami and Virginia Tech cussed with Notre Dame the decided to leave the Big East for possibility of the Irish joining the the ACC in June, Heisler said. conference in all sports except The school has no desire to lose its football independence -see DECISION/pagel6 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles pound Kalamazoo 4-0 
Observer Staff Report 
The Saint Mary's soccer team had little trouble dispos­ing of MIAA rival Kalamazoo Wednesday afternoon, win­ning 4-0. 
Four different Belles scored, while goalkeeper Laura Heline had four saves for Saint Mary's, who now stands at 6­1-1 and 3-1-1 in the confer­ence. 
"We had some very good scoring opportunities from numerous players on the field," Belles coach Peter Haring said. "We were able to develop some nice attacks and get more people involved dur­ing the strikes towards goal." 
Jennifer Concannon was assisted by Carrie Orr on a 30 yard shot just outside the right box to put the Belles ahead early 1-0. In the second half, Concannon assisted the Belles next score, by finding Stephanie Artnak, who drilled home the second goal from 35 yards out. 

"Today [we] played a very consistent brand of soccer," Haring said. "The team was able to dictate the pace of the game and control the posses­sion of the ball throughout the majority of the match." 
The Belles put the game away for good when Ashley Hinton's shot from the left side of the goal, about 30 yards away. went through the net. 
Victoria Necroto finished off Kalamazoo with a header goal from Katie Noble. 
Saint Mary's battles Albion Saturday at 4 p.m. 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish travel for Big East games 
Thursday is Notre 
Dame's first road 
game in 32 days 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team travels to the East Coast Thursday to play its first road game in 32 days. 
The Irish, ranked No. 4 in the most recent Soccer America poll. will play Big East opponents Syracuse and Pittsburgh on Thursday and Sunday, respec­tively. 
Notre Dame (6-1-2, 2-1-0) is coming off an impressive seven­game home stand in which it went 5-1-1 versus opponents at Alumni Field. 
The Irish defeated Fresno State, No. 18 Indiana, West Virginia, Bradley and physical 
see SOCCER/ page 18 


en 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL
LLI 

Atlanta 5 Cubs 3 Today, 7 p.m. at Riehle 
t-u McGlinn v. Badin 

Lyons v. Howard
Pasquerilla East v. Lewis 
Today, 9 p.m. at Riehle
a:S 

Today, 8 p.m. at Riehle West 
The Braves even up their series with
West
a: West 

Last year's champs hope to improve 
Chicago by scoring late runs off the Cubs 

Both teams look for much needed 
The two 3-1 teams meet in a 

on a losing record when they face the 
bullpen. possible playoff tuneup. 
wins in tonight's matchup. 
Chicks tonight. 
en 
page 12 
page 15 
"-= page 12 
page 12 

!I
I j' ; 

