
VOL XXXVII NO. 130 , HTTP://OHSERVER.ND.EDU 
'Real World' cast member's visit to campus postponed 
By SARAH NESTOR 
s~nior SraffWritcr 

Saint Mary's scheduled visit by former MTV's Heal World cnst member David "Puck" Hainey was postponed due lo concerns hy the Office of Studcnl Activities about Hainey's background. Hainey was scheduled to make a pre­sontation at Saint Mary's on April 16 at 7 p.m. in ()'Laughlin Auditorium, and ticknls were going to be available today. 
flainey appeared on the "The Real World: San Francisco" in 1994 and became well-known for his b r a s h behavior. He has also appeared in numerous comm er­
. cials and on MTV's Cribs and Battle of' the Sexes. 
Cast members from the Real World are often invited to speak at colleges and uni­versities. 
The Student Activities Board (SAB) organized Rainey's visit after learning about the opportunity from their advisor, Assistant Director of Student Activities 
J.B. Bailey. 

"We all agreed that what [Rainey] was going to speak about was pertinent," SAH president Adrienne Dorbish said. 
Dorbish added that the SAB 
did not have any reservations about bringing Rainey to campus and that the Board had "looked at other colleges he had spoken at and got positive feedback" from those colleges. 
However, when it began to be advertised a little over a month ago that Rainey was coming to campus not all stu­dents were supportive of this decision. 
According to Dorbish SAB received numerous e-mails, both for and against H.ainey's visit. but also did "get a lot of 
positive feedback." 

Dorbish said she spoke with several students who expressed their reservations about Rainey's visit and explained why it was applica­ble to bring him to campus. 
"[Most students] were not informed about what he was going to be speaking about.'' Dorbish said, adding that sho personally did not think that people would have so many reservations about the visit. 
It was not until April 11 
see PUCK / page 4 



State senate passes resolution to improve US 31 
fie load much larger than it can Such support is significant,
By MEGHAN MARTIN 
realistically handle, Zakas said. Zakas said, because it shows the Nc:ws Writer 
"There's a strong feeling in state's federal representatives ­
Saint Joseph County and Elkhart Congressmen, senators and 
A concurrent resolution to rec­County that this project is long Governor Frank O'Bannon ­ommend federal funding for a overdue." Zakas said, citing the that the proposed improvements proposal that a corridor of U.S. fact that the road provides the to U.S. 31 are a top priority Houte 31 be revamped and primary link between the state's among state legislators and the upgraded to expressway status two largest economic markets. citizens they represent. passed unanimously through the The roadway in its current "There's a lot of competition Indiana state legislature March condition, Zakas said, is notori­for road-building dollars," he 
26. ous for its inefliciency and traffic said. 
The resolution, authored by problems. Plans for improve­In an Indiana Department of Hcpublican state senator and ment include modeling it into a Transportation study conducted Notre Dame alum Joe Zakas limited-access, interstate-quality on the impact of the U.S. 31 pro­from Granger. proposes that the highway, a proposal that he said posal, it was projected that an Indiana state legislature urge has garnered a great deal of improved roadway would create 
the state's Congressional delega­support. an economic boom along its cor­tion to request federal funding "The main thing about this ridor and create new job oppor­for U.S. 31 from TEA-21, an resolution is that it was intended tunities for the community. upcoming package of bills that to show Congress that there's a "The economic impact of a U.S. distributes funding to highway lot of support in the state of 31 freeway has been projected projects around the nation. Indiana," he said. . .. to create over 5000 jobs, save 
U.S. 31 runs directly through Twelve state senators, repre­billions of dollars in travel time 
the cities of South Bend and senting each of the districts reductions and return $3.20 in along the corridor is growing at the release stated. nearby Niles, Mich., and pro­along the proposed corridor, co­benefits for each $1.00 spent to a rate that is 50 percent higher Dennis Faulkenberg, executive vides a direct link between authored Zakas' resolution, build it," the resolution says. than that of the rest of the state. director of the U.S. 31 Coalition, northern Indiana and which was then sponsored by A March 25 news release "Travel on U.S. 31 is projected Inc., a lobbying group composedIndianapolis, the state capital. At Speaker Pat Bauer, from South announcing the passage of to increase by 59 percent in 20 of business owners, agricultural 
present, it is little more than a Bend, in the state's House of Zakas' resolution in the state years, with traffic in some seg­four-lane road that hears a traf-Representatives. senate said that the population ments growing by 100 percent," see US 31 / page 4 


Nor ALL DUCKS CAN SWIM 
Indian mythology and culture revered 
what the festival was about, By HIMANSHU KOTHARI and through this we helped News Wricer promote a lot of awareness of 
festivals in India and how 

Loud music, bright colors Indians celebrate, maintain and an Indian flag signified their cultural identity abroad' the celebration of Holi by the said Kriti Kohli, former presi­Indian Association of Notre dent of the Indian Association Dame. Holi, deemed the festi­of Notre Dame (!AND). val of colors. celebrates a The Indian club has orga­sacrifice made in Indian nized similar activities to pro­mythology. mote South Asian festivals on 
Amidst chilly winds, Indian campus. Another festival that 
and American students cele­was celebrated by the club 
brated the festival by throw­was Diwali, the festival of 
ing colored dyes on each lights. Sophomore Swuti 
other while listening to Malik, a member of the club. Indian pop music on South took some of her American Quad. friends to participate in the "Initially most Americans event. seemed surprised because a "l met a lot of surprise from
SOFIA BALLON/The Observer 

lot of them have had no intro the Americans who pnrtici-
Residents of Howard hall, Laura Ferell, Renee Alessi, Callle Whelen, Amy Waclawlk and Molly 
to such events so a lot of stu­

Kelly capsize their boat during the Fisher Regatta Saturday. 
dents were curious as to see INDIAN I page 4 
Monday, April 14, 2003 

page2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Riding in the fast lane 
A blue 1989 Buick and three younger cars pulled out of campus in a caravan to Ball State University for the Indiana Collegiate Press Association 
Conference Natalie Balley
Friday afternoon. Myself and three other Saint Saint Mary's 
Mary's women News Editor filled the Buick 
and Domers 
drove the other three cars. With the four drivers playing yo-yo on the 
two-lane road, the caravan did not last long. Soon on the road alone, we kept in contact through cell phone calls: 
"Ummm we're on 69. Where are you?" 
Pause. 
"Ah, ok, well we had to stop for gas," the driver explained, as she raised her eyebrows and accelerat­ed to catch up. 
Entering Muncie, we were corning in second, until a shiny black car passed us on our right, three boys waving their hands in delight at their accomplishment. 
The two-lane road merged into one and we were stuck in a no pass­ing zone. As soon as the solid yellow line became dotted, my driver pulled into the oncoming lane and passed the shiny black car, going 30 over the speed limit. We waved our hands in celebration. 
Strapped into the backseat, my mother's words, "Make sure the person you ride with drives safely," went through my head. 
As the road became two lanes again and a light stopped us, the three Domers pulled along side our car; we shot them intimidating glances and revved up the engine. The light turned green and the Buick picked up, leaving the shiny black car putt-putting behind. 
Zooming through the green light, we crossed more than a white line, we crossed into the territory of the age old relationship boys have with cars and driving and it did not serve us well. 
That night we went out to eat and I got directions to the restaurant from the hotel clerk. I told the lead driver, "Turn left at the first stop light and then right at the next and it should be about two miles down the road." 
This time the 1989 Buick was bringing up the rear of the caravan. Following the cars ahead, we did not turn at the first stoplight and turned right at a light several miles down the road. I think they thought they could find a better way than what I had told them. 
We ended up lost and having to turn around. As the two cars in front turned left onto a road to drive down and turn around, the Buick pulled a U-turn and we sped away, pulling into the restaurant's lot first. 
Not only were we hard to keep up with, we were not any good at fol­lowing either. Saint Mary's women are fast -or is it that Domers are just slow? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Natalie Bailey at bail1407@.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highest srandards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS  WORLD&  BUSINESS  
NEWS  NATION  NEWS  

U.S. may have
Bush warns
Saint Mary's 
alumnae share 
Syria about 
to cut deals 
experiences 
giving aid to 
to restore 
after leaving 
Iraq 

Iraq's oil 
college 
Political disputes, 
The Political 
President Bush 
legal issues and the
Science department 
warned Syria on 
need for billions of 
hoted four visiting 
Sunday not to har­
dollars in invest­
alumnae at "Power 
bor Iraqi leaders 
ments are among
L u n c h " o n 
and charged that 
the hurdles Iraq
Saturday, where 
Syria has chemical 
must pass before
the women shared 
weapons. 
restoring crude
their career experi­
ences. 
output levels. 
page 7
page 3 
page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Lecture with Klaus Leisinger "Social B.esponsibility in a Multinational Corporation" :1 p.rn. at Jordan Auditorium 

. 
Lecture with Andres Duany "The Post-Suburban Hcgion"" 


4:30 p.m. at Bond Ilall, room 104 
. Documentary screening with director Des Bell "The Last Storyteller" 7 p.m. at DeBartolo Hall, room 119 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. Board of Governance meeting 
4:30 p.m. at the Student Government Office 
. 
Saint !Vtary's Ecology Fair 5 p.m. on the library green 

. 
CWIL Film Festival 


6:30 p.m. at Carroll Auditorium, Madcleva 
VIEWPOINT 
Confronting a columnist's statements about Arabs 
A number of let­ters to the editor express disappoint­ment with John Litle's column "Middle East com­munities ignorant." 
page 11 
WHAT'S COOKING 



North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Boiled linguine, shells, tri-color rotini, meat sauce, marinara sauce, breaded chessesticks. pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, veg­etable pizza, tomato soup, cream of broccoli soup, minestrone soup, whipped potatoes, corn, oriental veg­etables, baked potato, hamburger, chicken patty, chicken breast 
Today's Dinner: Pork loin with apples, hot applesauce, brown sauce, pork gravy, peas, whipped potatoes, corn, steamed carrots, steamed broc­coli, mixed vegetables. baked sweet potatoes, hamburger, chicken breast, krinkle kut fires, plain rice, taco meat 

South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Pasta shells primav­era, boiled fettuccine, gorgonzola sauce, French bread pizza, whipped potatoes, corn, turkey gravy, baked potato, roasted vegetables, spinach. hamburger, chicken nuggets, krinkle kut fries, chicken taco, taco, meat, spanish rice, mexican bar, portobello fajita, chinese noodles, fried rice 
Today's Dinner: Thin spaghetti, shells, mostaccioli, linguine, alfredo sauce, spaghetti sauce, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, sausage pizza, French bread pizza, whipped potatoes, corn, roasted vegetables. fried chicken, roasted top oven round, chicken patty 


SCENE 
Scene reviews local restaurants Fondue!and Famous Dave's 
Scene crtics test the local fare at Fondue! located in Mishawaka and Famous Dave's 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
0:: 
LLI 
::c 
ti: 

;:LLI _. 
~ 
<C 
(,,) 


0 
...J HIGH 81 HIGH 66 HIGH 82 HIGH 66 LOW 58 LOW 57 LOW 55 LOW 39 
SPORTS 
Irish softball team weathers the Storm 
Notre Dame sky­rocketed up the Big East standings after a perfect 4-0 recorded this week­end against the St. John's Red Storm and the Seton Hall Pirates. 
page 24 

Employee loses Kontrol Kard 
On April 11, a University employee reported mis­placing her Kontrol Kard at an unknown location. 

Car towed for parking violations 
Two student vehicles were towed for parking vio­lations on April 11. 

Missing bike found 
A bike that was reported missing from outside the Stadium was recovered by the bike's owner. 

Employee injured 
NDSP escorted a University employee from South Dining Hall to the University Medical Center on April 11 for treatment of an injury. 

Two car accident reported 
NDSP responded to a two-car accident on Angela Boulevard on April 11. There were no injuries reported. 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
located Bend. 
in South 
page 12 



Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Falafels, saffron rice, marinated cucumber salad, buttered noodles, light tomato sauce, parmesan muffins, sweet and sour chicken served with sticky rice, pork cutlet, patty melt, garden vegetable patty, bat­tered onion rings, montery turkey, flat bread sandwich, potato chippers, fresh green beans, cheese pizza, bread sticks 
Today's Dinner: Hot and sweet tofu, herbed pasta, marinara sauce, corn­bread, fried plantains, grilled Italian sausage with pasta and Italian vegeta­bles, broiled hamburgers, BBQ chick­en, Texas grilled cheese, baked beans, gypsy schnitzel, buttered noodles 
THURSDAY FRlDAY 


HIGH 46 HIGH 48 LOW 29 LOW 32 

Atlanta 72 / 53 Boston 52 / 37 Chicago 60 / 46 Denver 78 / 46 Houston 80 I 56 Los Angeles 62 / 50 Minneapolis 66 / 46 New York 59 / 43 Philadelphia 62 / 42 Phoenix 82 / 52 Seattle 56 / 42 St. Louis 71 / 44 Tampa 80 / 61 Washington 64 / 55 
Monday, April 14, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Alumnae discuss job options 
Team. part of Eli Lilly and 
By LAUREN O'BRIEN Company. 
News Writer 
While the four alumnae were all Political Science majors, each Saint Mary's alumnae visited pursued different career paths, campus Saturday morning to ranging from law to business. spc,1k with students about life Kahn spoke of key skills after col!P-gc. acquired in the major, such as !'al Pierce, chair of the critical thinking, communication 
l'olitical Science <lopartmcnt, "I think the reason I 
organized thought I would be 
Uw Political 
successful was because
Science P o w o r my professors believed in 
Lunch Lo me and I didn't know any
giV(' studrml,;; 
better."

Llw opportu­nity to hear about the 
Maura Kahn uxpericnces 
manager of the Arzoxifene
or notab[(l 
Global Product Team
alumnae, as well as to discuss potenlial career paths. 
Delia Garcia, a 1993 alum, attended the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Ilarvard University an<l is the formnr Executive Dirnctor of the !\rizona Hispanic Chamber of Comm(1ru1. Laura Bueckman, a t<J96 alum. is a law clerk to the l lonorable llarvey Schlesinger, a 
U.S. l"cderal district judge in Florida. Ann Hucker O'Connor, a 1988 alum. is the former Assistant Director of Law Enforcement and Immigration Issues for the Department of Justice. Maura Kahn, a 1983 alum, is the Manager uf the Arzoxifcne Global Product skills and the ability to distill information. 
"As a Political Science major, you are learning transferable skills," Garcia said. "Wherever you have people, 
you have poli­
tics." 
Each of the four women spoke about their experi­ences after 
graduating. A common thread was the emphasis on the value of a Saint Mary's education. The alumnae said they did not real­ize the value of a Political Science degree until after they actually had the opportunity to use it. 
"I think the reason I thought l would be successful was because my professors believed in me and I didn't know any better," Kahn said. 
Another common link was the importance of taking time off before getting a job or going to graduate school or law school. Boeckman took advantage of an opportunity to teach English in Japan for a year before attend­ing law school and earning her Masters in public administration at Indiana University. 
"Having life experience and then going back to school makes it a much richer experience," Hoeckman said. "So seize oppor­tunities that make you a more well-rounded person." 
During a question and answer session that followed the presen­tations. the panel underscored the willingness of alumnae net­works to assist Saint Marv's graduates in searching for a job. 
One message that the panel highlighted is that experience is more important than your major or your GPA. Experience is par­ticularly important in the inter­view process to make connec­tions with possible employers and to present a more compre­hensive picture of yourself. 
"You are more than your resume, more than your acade­mic credentials and more than your personal and family rela­tions," O'Connor said. "You are what you do and how you do it." 
The Power Lunch was the cul­mination a week of alumnae vis­its to the College. Alysann Sieren and Annie Kiperman, 1992 alums, returned to campus last Wednesday io talk with students about business jobs and the diffi­culties of the economy, as well as the importance of alumnae networking. 
Contact Lauren O' Brien at obril648@saintmarys.edu 
STUDENTS CALL IT AS IT IS 

U-WIRE 
College paper claims victory with district court ruling 
By MARK BIEGANSKJ 
Northern Star 
In a victory for public college and university newspapers. the U.S. Court of Appeals decided that administrators cannot cen­sor student-run newspapers. 
The case arose in 2001 when editors of the Innovator, Governors State 
University's student newspa­per, decided to sue the dean of student affairs Patricia Carter for censoring the newspaper. 
The decision, which wasn't expected until mid-summer, doesn't support thestate of Illinois' request to apply a ruling in a similar case involvinghigh school publications. 
In 1988, the United States Supreme Court granted adminis­trators in the 
Hazelwood School District authority to review and censor its high school-sponsored news­papers. The state of Illinois was looking for this decision to be applied to public college and university students, but ha.sheen unsuccessful so far. 
"It's a wonderful victory," said Mike Hiestand, attorney for the Student Press Law Center. "It could have been a devastating defeat, but luckily it went the other way." 
He said throughout the case, there was a feeling that the law would be on students' side. 
Mark Goodman, executive director of the Student Press Law Center, said in a press release he hopes this decision reaffirms the last 30 years of college censorship cases. 
"We hope that this ruling will dissuade once and for all college officials who are inclined lo cen­sor from engaging in that uncon­stitutional behavior," Goodman said. 
In its ruling, the Court said,"... Hazelwood's rationale for limit­ing the First Amendment rights of high school journalism stu­dents is not a good fit or stu­dents at colleges or universities." 
The decision went on to state that the differences between col­lege and high school newspapers are far greater than differences in curriculum and extracurricu­lars. 
Carter, who looked for quali­fied immunity in the case. was denied. The court denied her request on the notion that if her action to censor the Innovator is true, then "she violated cl(iar rights of which she should have been aware." 
"I think the decision reflects that there was no uncertainty in their mind and what school ofli­cials at Governors State did was wrong," Hiestand said. 
He said that the case is not over because it could carry on in trial courts if it continues to be pursued. 
"Other courts that are faced with this question are going to look at this decision," Hiestand said. 

Greyhound has Indiana covered. 
Greyhound, makes it easy to travel across Indiana, to Chicago, or across the country. Our fares are always affordable and you never 
need to plan ahead to get a good deal. Plus, students car> save ever> more with special travel and shipping discounts with your Student Advantage Card. 

South Bend Bus Terminal located at: 
South Bend Regional Airport 4671 Progress Drive 574-287-6542 

.-------------------------------. ----­
-· 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 14, 2003 

Puck 
continued from page 1 
that the Office of Student Activities received informa­tion about an alleged inci­dent, in which Rainey and another male were involved, and left Rainey's girlfriend injured. 
According to an e-mail from Bailey "charges were never filed against Mr. Hainey by either his girl­friends or the unnamed male, charges were brought by the Los Angeles District Attorney's Office. After pleading 'no contest.' to one count of corporal injury to a spouse or cohabitant." 
Dorbish said that when SAB decided to bring Rainey to campus she was aware that he had spent time in prison, but she docs not know whether or not everyone on the Board was aware of Ilainey's past. 
However. the decision to postpone Rainey's visit was not made by SAB but by the Office of Student Activities, after discussing the matter with College administrators. 
According to Bailey's e­mail there were two deciding factors behind postponing the visit, one of which dealt with the image of the College and the other with the content of Rainey's presentation. 
In the e-mail Bailey cited the litigation in which the 


Indian 
continued from page 1 
pated ... they were excited to the see a varied and different dance form which they tried to learn and they were happy to see a different side of celebration," Malik said. 
Holi was much different as it was celebrated outdoors and even though the event coincided with the Fisher Regatta, "there were still a considerable number of non-Indian participants, which is also one of our goals," said Kohli 
Danielle Noujaim a freshman said, "I thought Holi was just total chaos and total fun and I thought it was incredible how different cultures celebrate events." 
Another difference was that Holi was celebrated with color dyes which raised a dilemma for College is involved with because of the report released about a year ago by the Department of Education, which has caused the College's image to "come under close scrutiny." 

"In lieu of the information [however incomplete] we received, and the potential controversy Mr. Rainey's visit might generate, we felt that allowing the show to contin­ue as scheduled could possi­bly bring about negative repercussions that could damage the image of Saint Mary's College," Bailey's e­mail said. 
However, Rainey's image and past behaviors was dis­concerting to several stu­dents at Saint Mary's and one student, senior Jill Maxbauer, was organizing a protest for Wednesday. 
Last week Maxbaurer sent an e-mail to students expressing her concern about Rainey's visit and to organize students who felt the same way as she did. 
"I was amazed at how many responses I got about his visit," Maxbaurer said, adding that she received 35 e-mails and 15 phone mes­sages in support of the pro­posed protest. 
Maxbaurer said that she did not understand why Rainey was invited to Saint Mary's, in consideration of his past behavior. 
However, Maxbaurer said that she· was surprised when 
the officials. "Initially there was a lot of objection towards hold­ing this event but with the sup­port of other organizations on campus we were able to obtain permission for it, the university tries to promote diversity and they want cultural events on campus but because a lot of these events have traditions that do not apply to the rules already created, the authorities are often hesitant but they try to accom­modate as much as possible," said Kohli. 
The Indian Association was also responsible for a free tele­cast of the cricket world cup and for organizing events such as Indian Dance Nights. 
"The attempt is to make Indians feel as close to home as possible while, giving back to the Notre Dame community by let­ting people know what we hold important," said Ritivj Bowry, president of the Indian Association. 

HilMANSHU KOTHAR!ffi1e Observer Members of the Indian community celebrate the Festival of Colors on South Quad Saturday. 
it was announced that Hainey's presentation had been postponed. 
Senior Katie Vincer shares Maxbaurer's sentiments and said, "I am just glad that they decided not to bring him to campus," adding that she felt it was hypocritical of Saint Mary's to bring Hainey to campus when he has made public remarks openly anti­homosexual and racist. 
Bailey explained in his email that it is important to have an open mind, other­wise "we rush to make hastv judgments that are based merely on half-truths, partial facts, pre-conceived notions, and perceptions that are dic­tated by rumor, hearsay and secondhand information." 
Bailey apologized to the "overwhelming majority and number of students" that expressed their "excitement and desire to see 'Puck' on campus" and to SAH for their effort in organizing Rainey's presentation. 
Howeyer, according to Dorbish "the administration never said that [Rainey! could never come to campus" but that at this point his pre­sentation is just postponed. Dorbish said she hopes that SAB will be able to bring Rainey to campus next semester. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 

Holi was one of the associa­tion's last main events of the semester and it plans on ending the year with another Indian Dance Night on April 18. 
Contact Himanshu Kothari at hkothari@nd.edu 

US31 
continued from page I 
workers and residents who live and work along the corridor, said that the implementation of the roadway proposal would increase economic activity in the cities and towns between South Bend and Indianapolis. 
"The businesses are very con­cerned about ihe economic Jife. line that U.S. 31 provides to the entire northern Indiana region," he said. "People are findin~ themselves stuck in traffic and stopped at stoplights more and more ... they start to bypass 31 and therefore miss those towns and businesses along the way." 
With scores of travelers mak­ing a concerted effort to avoid 
U.S. 31, the businesses whose well-being depends on the patronage of travelers are beginning to suffer. Local com­munities, too, are feeling the effects of the roadway's short­falls, he said, as workers wish­ing to avoid travel on U.S. 3J search for industrial jobs closer to home. 
"In Kokomo, for instance, fac­tories draw their work forces from all around. [U.S.] 31 allows them to bring their workforce from a wider radius. As the functionality of [U.S.] 31 begins to deteriorate, the workforce available begins to dwindle," Faulkenberg said. 
It is the inconveniences, such as frequent traffic stops, ineffi­cient intersections and bad road conditions that cause motorists to think twice about utilizing 
U.S. 31, but they also raise a number of safety concerns that Faulkenberg said cannot be ignored. 
He cited numerous railroad crossings and dangerous inter­sections that dot the road as pri­mary among the hazards that 
U.S. 31 presents. The same INDOT study that projected an increase in the economic devel­opment of the corridor within 20 years of the proposal's imple­mentation also predicted a twelve-person decrease of traffic fatalities on the road, he said. 
"I can talk about economic development all I want, but sav­ing twelve lives is really the greatest part," Faulkenberg said. 
Heightened safety and the lim­ited-access nature of the pro­posed freeway will have a signif­icant impact on the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's communi­ties, Paulkenberg said. 
The proposed freeway, which faulkenberg said he hopes to see started within the next ten years, is expected to rnduce travel time between South Bend and Indianapolis by more than twenty minutes. 
"It will definitely give to your students a better, quicker, safer, route to drive -particularly at sporting events -but more important ... is the overall eco­nomic health of Michiana," he said. "It's going to really make for a strong community that folks are going to want to go to school in and maybe even stay and work here at good jobs." 
Vivienne Peck, a resident of Indianapolis and assistant to Senator Zakas, said that a better 
U.S. 31 might cause southern Indianans to be more inclined to travel north on a more frequent basis. 
"If it shortens travel time and increases safety, I would think it would definitely have an impact on people who might want to travel up there," she said. 
Zakas has ""en larger plans on the table. 
"We're hoping this will become 1-67," he said, "maybe even eventually connecting Grand Rapids to Indianapolis." 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.ec1u 

Study* in Tokyo 

*{Anthropology, Art History, Business, History, Literature, Philosophy, Religion, Sociology, Political Science... and, of course, Japanese!} 
Spring 2004 


No previous study of Japanese language required! 
For more information 

127 Hayes-Healey Tuesday, April 15 at 5pm 
It 
' 







WORLD & NATION 
Monday, April 14, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSEHVEH WIRE SERVICES page 5 
World Bank outlines fix to world poverty 
i\sso.:iateJ l'ress 

WJ\SIIINGTON 
(;Joi.ml poverty can be cut in half by 201:i if rich countries lowur tracfo barriers and inn·tiasP fornign ai<l, tile World Bank said Sunday. 
Poor countries can help them­s,-1 ves by investing more in health and cclucation, the bank said. 
But a nPw bank report said 1ivP11 if worldwide economic growth stays on track, poverty will rPm,tin s1were in Africa., wtwni th11 number of poor is likoly to climb from 315 million in 1991) to 40<t million in 2015. l'oVl'rty also is m1 L!w rise in the Middlt; l·'.ast. ttw bank said. 
"(;row1h alonn will not be enough to halvo poverty by 20lfi," said Nicholas Stern, the bank's rhil'f economist. 
"Devoloping countries neod to 1•11sure that all people, and espe­cially poor people, have access to l'ducation, health care and put in place tlw right investment c!i­matn to increase opportunities, spur productivity and make real improvements in peoples lives." 
In a sign wealthy nations were offnring more aid, Treasury SPcrntary John Snow said the Unitcd Stales would give the bank $100 million in the budget year starting Oct. 1 f"or low-inter­est, long-term loans to poor countries. 
Snow, who made the 
announcement at thr. spring meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, said the United States might provide an additional $200 million in 2005 if developing countries show progress in edu­cation, health and private sector development. 
Sturn said 1.he bank hoped "rich countries will follow through on their aid commit­ments and will take action on trade," particularly on agricul­ture subsidies at the \rVorld Trade Organization meeting in Mexico in September. 
Developing countries maintain that the $300 billion a year that wealthy nations pay their !"arm­ers in subsidies drives down the price of' commodities produced by poor nations. That makes it hard for them to sell goods at a profit and improve lheir economies. 
The bank report outlines tho sharp differences between life in poor and rich countries. 
It shows that during the 1990s there was rapid progress in reducing the number of poor people who live on less than $1 a day, the bank's definition of poverty. 
The report said the numbers dropped from 1.3 billion in 1990 to 1.16 billion in 1999 but these gains occurred largely in India and China, whose economies made strong progress during the decade. 
The number of poor rose in 
Eastern Europe and Central Asia 
from 6 to 24 million, from 48 
million to 57 million in Latin 
America, from 5 to 6 million in 

the Middle East and North 'Africa, and from 241 million to 315 million in Africa. The bank said lower trade bar-

riers by well-off countries could boost annual growth in develop­ing countries by an extra 0.5 percent over the long run and lift an additional 300 million out of poverty by 2015. 
"Trade can spur development by expanding markets for devel­oping countries exports," Stern said. 
"Poor countries are facing huge rich country barriers in exporting those products that play the best to their compara­tive advantage -namely agri­cultural goods and textiles." 
Bush warns Syria about aid to Iraq, chemical weapons 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
PresidPnt Bush warned Syria on Sunday not to harbor Iraqi leaders and charged that Damascus has chemical weapons, but was carnf'ul not to threaten military action. 
"They just need to cooperate," Bush said. 
Bush sought to strike the kind of mea­sured tone ho has used when discussing the North Korea crisis. 
"We expect cooperation, and I'm hope­fu I we'll receive cooperation," he told reporters al'Lcr returning to the White House l'rom Camp David. 
Syria's l'oreign ministry spokeswoman, Buthayna Shaaban, seemed to strike a conciliatory tone in a telephone interview with Al-Jazeera television. 

She said Syrian's borders with Iraq are now closed and reiterated that none of the lraqi leaders had asked to come to Syria. 
"As you know Syria's history with the Iraqi regime has never been cordial, but we have always been keen about the Iraqi people," she said. 
Shaaban said Syria had opposed the war against Iraq because of potential harm to the lraqi people. 
"I believe we are conducting continuous dialogue with the American officials," she said. "The problem is all the accusations against Syria come from Israel. Israel is the primary instigator to undermine 
Syrian-American relations, but I don't believe Israeli will succeed in its attempts." 
"Syria knows best how peace and stabil­ity may be secured in the region, and I believe that there is an advantage in con­sulting with Syria and that Syria play a role in achieving peace and stability in the region," she said. 
However, some top administration offi­cials made plain the administration is increasingly frustrated by Syria. 
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said the majority of foreign fighters in Iraq were from Syria, brought in by the "busloads." On one bus, military authori­ties found leaflets that offered rewards for killing Americans and several hundred 
thousand dollars, Humsfeld said on the CBS program "Face the Nation." Ilumsfeld also said top members of Saddam's government had fled to Syria. 
U.S.-led forces captured one of Saddam Hussein's half brothers in northern Iraq, and said he was planning to cross the bor­der to Syria. 
Rumsfeld last month warned Syria to stop sending military equipment ­including night-vision goggles -to Iraqi forces. 
Bush and Rumsfeld wore ambiguous about what price Syria might pay for defy­ing the United States, but seemed eager to make sure that Damascus understood the message in the coalition's toppling of Saddam. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

U.S. rolls through Saddam's hometown 
U.S. Marines entered Saddam Hussein's home­town and power baso Sunday and clashed with some final vestiges of Iraqi resistance, using airstrikos and artillery assaults aimed at over­wlwlrning any plans for a furious last stand. U.S. l'orc<\S suspncted v.bout 2,500 die-hards of the Hl'publican Guard and the paramilitary l<edayeen -and possibly officials frurn Saddam's regime ­were !wind up in Tikrit. 

Iraqis return prisoners of war to marines 
Iraqi troops south ol' Tikrit handed U.S. Marines a stunning surprise Sunday: seven American POWs released in relatively good condition after 22 days of captivity. 
Five of those returned Sunday were members of the 507th Ordnance Maintenance Company that mad<' a wrong turn near Nasiriyah and was ambushed March 23. 

NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 


Bouncer killed enforcing smoking ban 
A bouncer at a Manhattan nightclub died Sunday after he was stabbed in a brawl with two men that police said began when he tried to enforce the city's new ban on smoking in bars and restau­rants. The bouncer approached the men about 2;30 a.m. to tell them they could not smoke in the bar, police spokesman Michael O'Looney said. It was unclear whether one or both men were smok­ing, he said. The smoking ban took effect late last month. 
Security alarms not drawing response 
With about 95 percent of the nation's 38 million yearly alarms turning out to be false, according to a naiional police group, authorities increasingly aren't coming when a siren sounds. Ten large police departments nationwide reportedly do not respond to alarms unverified by a private security guard, a surveillance camera or a resident. 

Five die in house fire near Ohio State 
A suspicious fire broke out in a three-story house early Sunday as a college student's 21st birthday party was breaking up, killing five students and injuring three others, authorities said. 
One of the injured. a 20-year-old man. was in criti­cal condition with burns and smoke inhalation, om­cials said. 
Arson and homicide investigators were at the stu­dent-rented house near Ohio State University, and police were investigating reports that a fight had started before the fast-moving fire ignited. 
The house is about a block from campus in a neighborhood of older homes popular with students. About 80 people had been at the party. and 10 to 20 were still inside when the fire started around 4 a.m. in the front of the house. 
It appeared some had been sleeping when the fire began, Norman said. Drinking could have been a factor in the deaths and injuries. 
r ­
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 1-4, 2003 
U-WIRE 


Penn State: guilty of discrimmation 
By ABBY HEISEY The Daily Collegian 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Penn. 
The United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has found Pennsylvania State University in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. 
Title VII ensures that job applicants cannot be discrimi­nated against on the basis of race, religion, national origin or sex. 
The determination was made because of a discrimination daim filed against the university by Christopher D. Fernando. Fernando worked part-time as a computer operator in the com­puter science and engineering department from August 1999 to June 2002. He requested full­time employment starting in summer 2000 and left the department when he was unable to secure full-time status. 
In August 2002, a former co­worker informed Fernando of the availability of a full-time position in the department, which included job duties exact­ly the same as those he per­formed during his employment. 
Fernando applied for the posi­tion, but was not granted an interview. He said he did not receive an interview because he is Asian. A white man later got the job. 
Fernando then filed a com­plaint with the EEOC. 
Bill Mahon, Penn State spokesman, said in an e-mail yesterday that the university dis­agrees with the ruling and will move to the next level of concili­ation. 
The Penn State Office of Affirmative Action and the department of computer science and engineering would not com­ment on the case. "I had the feeling that something bad had happened to me, and I didn't know what," Fernando said. 
"It was something that needed to be done because, if it happens to someone else, nothing will change." 
The EEOC investigated the claim and decided "the evidence obtained during the investiga­tion establishes a violation of the statute," according to the deter­mination sent to both Fernando and the university. The docu­ment also says both parties must work together to resolve the matter. 

U-WIRE 

Professor indicted on 15 counts 
By HEIDI TOTH University Daily 
LUBBOCK, Texas 
The Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center profes­sor arrested in conjunction with a plague scare in January was indicted on 15 counts Thursday. 
The charges against Dr. Thomas Butler covers a variety of crimes, including illegally transporting the bacteria and making false statements to the FBI and other federal agencies involved in the incident. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Dick Baker declined to comment on the charges because the investi­gation is ongoing. The first count alleges Butler imported the Yersinia pestis bacteria from Tanzania by commercial airlines in April 2002. He did not have a permit from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
There are two counts of smug­gling merchandise into the United States, also on commer­cial airlines in April, that should have been invoiced. There are three counts of transporting smuggled goods using his per­sonal vehicle, Federal Express and commercial airlines. There also are three counts of illegal transportation of hazardous materials, as well as one count of unauthorized export to Tanzania in September, using Federal Express. 





Observer takes third in contest 
Observer StaffReport 
The Observer was named the third-best Indiana daily student newspaper at Saturday's annual Indiana College Press Association award banquet. 
Numerous staff members captured a variety of individ­ual honors as well, led by former editor-in-chief Jason McFarley. 
McFarley's story on ResLife won Best Investigative Story, his Jan. 1 reporting on Tyrone Willingham's hiring won Best Online Breaking News Reporting and his story on students protesting the alcohol policy was third in the category of Best Breaking News Reporting. 
McFarley, along with Helena Payne, Lauren Beck, Meghan Martin and .Jessica Dalsing, also contributed to a third-place series on 30 years of co-education at Notre Dame. 
Other first place entries went to Noreen Gillespie [Best News Feature for a story on womens boxing]. Peter Wicks [Best Column for a humorous Viewpoint piece on foreign students studying at Notre Dame] and Spencer Beggs [Best Inside Page Design]. 
Three others captured sec­ond place honors: Andrew Soukup [Best Column for a sports column on Willingham's hiring]. Sheila Egts [Best News Feature for a story on a Holy Cross stu­dent] and Tom Keeley [Best Editorial Cartoon]. Third place individual honors were earned by Meghanne Downes [Best Non-Deadline News Reporting for a story on Notre Dame's response to the Catholic priest scandal I. Katie McKenna I Best Informational Graphic for diagramming the option], Tim Kacmar [Best Sports Photo] and The Observer's Editorial Board (Best Staffl Editorial for an editorial commenting on how alcohol policies would affect residen­tial life. 

Other Notre Dame media groups represented at the !CPA convention included the Juggler, named best literary magazine; Scholastic, named the top news magazine; and the Dome, named the sec­ond-best yearbook. 

BuyorSellyourHome with aGrad from the Dome Call Maria Cardle 360-3334 CRESSY and EVERETT/GMAC Realty Office 233-6141 


Monday, April 14, 2003 COMPILED FHOM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch April 11 
DowJones 
8,203.41 • -17.92 


N4SDAQ 
1,358.85 -6.76
•



S&P5()() 
868.30 -3.28
•


AMEX 
832.00 -0.87
•

NYSE 
4,875.63 -11.78
•
TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.59 -0.39 24.20 
crsco svsTEMs <tscox <+1+ae ~Iir:t~iiii 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.71-0.1216.76 
SUN MICROSYSiEM' {SUNW) ;1:?s :a[eG :J'~:sl 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -0. 70 -0.08 11.29 
IN BRIEF 
Consumer spending bounces back 
Consumers snapped out of a funk in March and splurged on cars, garden supplies and f'urniturn. The biggest increase in retail sales in J7 months occurred even as energy prices soared. After a string of mostly dismal eco­nomic reports, analysts were encouraged by Friday's sales l'igures and another report showing that consumers' confidence improved in April. StiH, they weren't ready to declare the economy's trouble days over. Profit-pressed businesses and battered manu­facturers remain reluctant to make big invest­ments in capital projects or in hiring. major forces holding back the economic recovery. 
House approves drilling in Alaska 
ThP !louse passed sweeping incentives Friday for oil and gas production, including approval of drilling in an Alaska wildlife refuge, despite complaints that the legislation gives too much to energy companies and does little to promote conservation. The bill, approvml 247-175, now awaits action by the Senate. which is expected to consider a less industry-friendly energy bill next month. President Bush called the !louse-passed legis­lation "a major step forward in the effort to secure our nation's energy futurn" and said in a statement be looked f'orward to prompt Sl'natn act.ion. 



Congress completes budget work 
Congress wound up work on a $2.27 trillion federal budget Friday with enough room to givo Prnsidcnt Bush three-quarters of the tax cuts he wants but without enough support in the Senate to enact them. Senate Finance Committefl Chairman Charles Grassley s1icurnd the last vote for the budget by promis­in!( not to permit new tax cuts passed lhis year to excnod $350 billion through 2013, less than half wlrnl the president wanted. Congress also held a weekend session to break a stalemate ov11r millions of dollars in projects attached to $80 h,illion for war and domestic security. 

Instant oil revival not likely 
. U.S. may have to cut deals to restore Iraq's oil 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON 
U.S. troops are within striking distance of Iraq's last big oil field, and sabo­tage at oil wells and facili­ties elsewhere appears minimal. But even this good news won't lessen the challenge ahead for oil experts planning to revive tho country's most impor­tant industry. 
Political disputes. legal issues and the need for bil­lions of dollars in invest­ment are among the hur­dles Irnq must pass before it can restore crude output even to 1990 levels much loss increase it beyond that. 
Iraq has the world's sec­ond-largest proven crude reserves, at 112 billion bar­rels, but its pipelines, pumping stations and oil reservoirs have suffered for years l'rom a dearth of funds and lack of mainte­nance. U.N. economic sanc­tions imposed after the 1991 Gulf War forced engi­neers or tho Iraqi National Oil Co. to cannibalize parts and equipment and use outdated technologies to keep the crude 11owing. 
Some people, including many in the Bush adminis­tration, suggest that Iraq's oil reserves make it a potentially rich country and that it should be able to pay for its own reconstruction by selling crude. 
"The reality is that to get the oil out of tho ground is going to require a massive upfront investment, and companies aren't going to do that as an act of chari­ty," said Haad Alkadiri, an analyst at The Petroleum Finance Co., a Washington consulting firm. 
Alkadiri estimates that Iraq will need to invest $3 billion to $6 billion over two years just to refurbish its facilities and nudge out­put up to 3 million barrels a day. Hampered by eco­nomic sanctions imposed after the last Gulf War, Iraq's capacity has fallen from 3.5 million barrels a day to 2.6 million barrels a day. Output essentially stopped with the start of the war. 

With the collapse of the Iraqi government, U.S. offi­cials are moving swiftly to install a transitional authority to manage the oil industry before eventually turning the business over to the Iraqis themselves. Military planners and oil analysts estimate it could take one to three months before Iraq can resume exporting large quantities of crude. 
Small amounts of oil flowed from Iraq's north­ern fields even during fighting around the region­al oil center of Kirkuk. 
That city's seizure by 
Kurdish fighters on Thursday brought Kurds and Americans to the edge of Iraq's giant Kirkuk oil field, and the facilities there appeared to be intact. Kirkuk pumps as much as 900,000 barrels a day. 
In southern Iraq, the immediate task for American and British forces is to ensure that oil fields are cleared of any booby-traps and made safe. 
Engineers will need to repair well heads damaged by retreating Iraqis and "shut in" non-producing oil wells to prevent ruptures in well shafts and to maintain pressure in the under­ground reservoirs. Plants that separate oil and gas are largely intact, and the limited damage to southern pipelines can be easily repaired, said Jim Placke, an Iraq specialist at Cambridge Energy Hesearch Associates in Washington. 
The main export terminal in southern Iraq -the Persian Gulf port of Mina cl-Bakr -was captured in good condition early in the war. 
Yet anyone wishing to buy Iraqi oil must first get legal title to it, and U.S. officials have so far been unable to unilaterally transfer ownership of Iraq's oil. 
With Iraq in desperate need of oil income, Washington may find it has no practical alternative but to ask the U.N. Security Council to help craft an internationally acceptable method of transferring title to Iraq's crude to buyers. 

Investors taking cautious approach 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Investors took a cautious approach Friday ahead of next week's rush of earnings reports. sending stocks lower for the third time in four ses­sions. Mixed economic and earnings news contributed to the sluggish per­formance. 
"The market is nervous that in the near term, with earnings coming out in the next couple of weeks, it will be a bumpy ride," said Hobert Harrington, co-head of listed b!ock trading al UBS Warburg. 
The market's major gauges all fin­ished lower on Friday and posted weekly losses as well. 
Investors are paying close attention to the economy and first-quarter earnings results, the bulk of which will be released during the next two weeks. Analysts say investors are less concerned about the war with Iraq now that allied success seems assured. 
Analysts expect the next few weeks to bring choppy trading but no steep declines as investors already antici­pate that earnings will be weak. 
"There are concerns about earn­ings, because oil prices were high and consumer spending was generally pretty weak," in the first three months of 2003, said Jeff Kleintop, chief investment strategist for PNC Financial Services Group in Philadelphia. "But we're braced, at this point, for a fairly soft earnings season, and it's not going to be dis­mal." 
Friday's economic nows was mixed, adding to the market's lackluster tone. 
The Commerce Department said retail sales increased by 2.1 percent in March, much better than the 0.6 percent rise economists predicted and an improvement from the 1.3 percent drop in February. Much of tho strength was owed to automobile sales, getting a boost from positive financing and other incentives. 
Monday, April 14, 2003 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


/JRtcEWAfRHOUsE(roPERS I 

VOTED•1 IDEAL EMPLOYER BY BUSINESS STUDENTS, 
UNIVERSUM UNDERGRADUATE STUDY, 2002 


Become part of a multi-disciplinary tax planning and compliance team to help us help companies determine the tax basis of damaged assets, and we'll help you build a career. 
For opportunities and information go to: 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere 
Look beyond the numbers. 
Monday, April 14, 2003 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
ISRAEL 

Abbas picks reformers for new Cabinet 
. Palestinian prime minister appoints himself as security czar 
A<sodatrd Press 
JERUSALEM 
The incoming Palestinian prime minister completed a new Cabinet on Sunday in line with a leadership overhaul the United States sought, keeping the key post or security czar for himself and appointing several profes­sionals and reformers. 
Once the Cabinet of Mahmoud .r\bbas is approved by the Palestinian parliament, possibly later this week, President Bush is expected to unveil a "road map" to Palestinian statehood, starting tho clock ticking on the three-year plan. 
Israel's willingness to go along wilh the plan remains unclear, although Prime Minister Ariel Sharon did stake out a relatively moderate position in an inter­view published Sunday. 
Sharon reiterated that ho has many reservations about the plan, but also believes the Iraq war has created a chance for reaching a peace deal more quickly than anticipated. In the past, Sharon advocated an inter­im deal, saying a final treaty must be delayed for years because of the gaps in positions. 
Sharon also told the Israeli daily llaaretz that Palestinian statehood is inevitable and sug­gested he is ready to dismantle some Jewish settlements. 
"I do not think we have to rule over another people and run their lives. I do not think that we have the strength for that," Sharon said, adding that Israel's recent reoccupation of Palestinian towns and cities in the West Bank is temporary. 
Sharon's top aide, Dov Wcisglass, is presenting 

Israel's con­"/ do not think we have Arafat's Fatah cerns about to rule over another movement, 
the three­whose backing
people and run their
stage "road he needs, 
map" to U.S. lives. I do not think that However. the officials in we have the strength for meeting was Washington called off at
that."
this week. The short notice. main issue The Cabinet appears to be Ariel Sharon list was provid­Israel's c d to The
Israeli prime minister 
demand that the obliga­tions of each stage should be ful­filled before the sides move on to the next one. 
The Palestinians want the sides to adhere to a strict timetable and accuse Sharon or trying to scuttle the plan by rais­ing new demands. 
Israeli critics have also long accused the career hawk of mis­leading the world by hinting at moderate intentions while crack­ing down on the Palestinians and expanding Jewish settlements which successive U.S. adminis­trations have viewed as obsta­cles to peace. 
With the fighting in Iraq wind­ing down, the United States is expected to resume efforts to end the 30 months of Israeli­Palestinian violence. A senior Israeli official said after the weekly Cabinet meeting Sunday that he expects the United States to press for Israeli gestures that will help Abbas' reform efforts. 
Abbas was to have presented his Cabinet list later Sunday to 
the ruling 
party, Yasser 
Associated 
Press by three senior Palestinian officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Abbas named several top Fatah officials to his Cabinet to ensure support, but was expect­ed to encounter some resistance because of his refusal to keep Interior Minister 1-iani al­Hassan, another senior Fatah member. 
Abbas, who has had personal differences with al-Hassan, kept the interior ministry for himself, meaning he will oversee the security forces and an expected crackdown on Palestinian mili­tants, a prerequisite for moving forward in peace talks with Israel. 

Abbas also named Mohammed Dahlan, a former Gaza security chief, as state minister for interi­or affairs, suggesting Dahlan will play a key role in security mat­ters. Both men have criticized attacks on Israelis and enjoy the support of the international community. Dahl an, pegged as a possible Arafat successor. has said he is confident he can restore order in the Palestinian areas. 
Only two ministers from the outgoing Cabinet, Finance Minister Salam Fayad and Education Minister Nairn Abul Hummus, remained in the same posts, according to the list. 
Fayad, a former senior International Monetary Fund official, is widely seen as having done a credible job of putting the murky Palestinian money trans­actions, including some of Arafat's reputed slush funds, in order. 
Abbas also created the new posts of external affairs and deputy prime minister. 
Nabil Shaath, the outgoing planning minister, was given the external affairs portfolio. Shaath has extensive contacts with for­eign leaders and for years acted as de facto foreign minister. Interim peace agreements had prevented the Palestinians from formally creating a foreign min­istry. Shaath and Nasser Yousef, a former senior security official, will also serve as deputy prime ministers. 
NEPAL 
Disabled clitnb Everest 
Associated Press 
KATMANDU 
It's a tough trek even for seasoned moun­taineers, but for 14 dis­abled Americans climbing Mount Everest felt it was impossible. 
Five were in wheel­chairs. Others walked on artificial legs. Some were hearing impaired. Yet after 18 days of negotiat­ing steep mountain trails with the help of Nepalese Sherpas, they reached their goal arriving at the massive mountain's base camp at 17.160 feet. 
The route takes about a week for able-bodied peo­ple. 
"This expedition proved that disabled lpeoplel should not hold back from doing what they think they can't do. It was breaking all the bound­aries," said Riley Woods, 28, of Waco, Texas, who was paralyzed from the chest down in a 1996 ski accident. 
The group started at an airstrip in Lukla, a town at 9,180 feet. 


254 Nieuwland Science Building Notre Dame, IN 46556 631-0622 
INFORMATION OPEN HOUSE FOR 
SUMMER LONDON 2004 & 2005 
6:30 TO 8:00 P.M. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16, 2003 
IN 136 DeBARTOLO HALL APPLICATIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED FOR 2004 
OssiRVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Monday, April 14, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nocre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR BVSINE.sS MANAGER 
Scott Brodfuehrer Lori l.ewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghannc Downes 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm 
SPORTS EDITOR: Joe Hettler 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER; Maura Ceneddla 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight 
WEB ADMINISTRATO!u Jason Creek 
CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 
SYSTEMS MANAGER: Ted Bangerr 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNP0.............•631-747I FAX............................................................ 631-6927 
ADVERTISING....................................63 J-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 
NEWS........ ·················•···............................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. ]@nd.edu YIEWl'OINT.................................................631-5303 observer .viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ...............•.631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://ob,erver.nd.edu for daily updares of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent che opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commencaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters co rhe Editor mw;t be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiam regarding Observer policies ,hou!d be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Andrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The O~w.·nic-r {USPS 599 240) D published Mo11dar through Fri.day o:ccpt Jurin& ,:.um 1.11d ¥;.catiun periods./\ ~uh..:ripcion to The Ob5t:rva is SJOO for one x.adcmk year: 155 for one ~ester 
The Obstrver i, publitMcl at: l'05TMA5TliR 1124 ~nurh Ui11ing HdJ !-lend aJJn:s, corm:riom m: N<''tll" Dame. IN 46556 The Obit:tv<"t 
r.o. l>u:,;Q PcrioJiul l"m~i;c j'.iid -1,1 Nouc 0.uni: Num: l).i,mc, IN 46J)6.on9 ~nJ ~.Jdi11<.111.ll nuiling ,1ffic~. 
The Ob~fl't.'l j,:. memt--cr of rhc A.uocfa,fl'U Pr~. All r{'f'rod1.1ctioo righu :tre 
N,'}C,Vt:J. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Why I choose veal 
Once upon a time, in a village far away, people Jived happily in ignorant bliss. They didn't think about their choices Loo seriously and never worried that their routine decisions might come back to haunt them in the future. They lived, while often irresponsibly, without a care in the world. They ate when hun­gry, including a wide array of meats and cheeses and never contemplated choles­terol. calorie counting or whether it was moral to eat other animals. Manv of them smoked cigarettes (or pipes), never realizing that other people may not enjoy the smooth. relaxing ride to flavor country as much as they did. 
One anernoon however. a tiny light bulb clicked on right above the head of a particularly socially conscious villager. "Eureka!" He yelled, "Might it be that some of our choices have consequences? Will we have to answer for our decisions in the future?" 
Research was done. To everyone's dis­may. this killjoy was correct. Smoking, it seemed, led to lung cancer, heart dis­ease and a host of other health prob­lems. Overeating led to obesity, exhaus­tion and diabetes. Eating meat led to, well, dead animals. "What should we do?" asked the people. "Should we allow these activities, or ban them forever from our world?" 
A vote was taken, and it was decided that because many of the residents still enjoyed these activities, they should be permitted to continue. Several of the vil­lagers, though, not willing to accept the consequences of smoking, overeating or eating meat, decided that these things would no longer be part of their lifestyles and promptly gave them up for good. They made this noble choice for themselves because they believed it was the right thing to do. The others all com­mended them for taking the moral high road, even while the majority of the vil­lagers were unwilling to do the same. For a time. things returned to normal and were good once again. 
Eventually however, several of the more self-depriving individuals began to feel that they were somehow better than the other residents of the village. "What's wrong with the others'?" They asked. "It's obvious that eating meat and smoking cigarettes is wrong and bad for you. If the others can't understand that, maybe we should help them to quit, whether they want too or not." They held a conference. organized petitions and decided that the best thing to do would be to force their choices upon everyone else. Maybe when everyone tried their lifestyle choices, they would see how much better they were. 
This story should sound familiar to every one of us. because it plays out every day our country, our cities and even on our college campus. Initially positive and noble lifestyle choices can be dangerously seductive and find them­selves easilv twisted into a notion that one is obliged to drag the rest of society along with them whether they like it or not. 
New York and California, places where upwards of 20 percent of citizens smoke, have now passed laws making it illegal to smoke in bars or on public streets. Certain municipalities have even debated making it illegal to smoke in your own home. Here at Notre Dame. a club named "ND for Animals" has embarked on a campaign to eliminate veal from the dining halls because they don't want to eat it themselves. I love veal and think that they have no more of a right to take it from my plate than I have to put it on theirs. I respect their choice to abstain from veal. but I am deeply saddened by their choice not to respect mine. 
Carolyn Tampe, president of ND for Animals, I am sorry that you are offend­ed by my choice to eat veal. However, if you arc so cavalier in your belief that I don't have a right to choose what I cat for myself, I would please ask you explain why my choice is not worthy of preservation even if you personally dis­agree. I repeat that I respect your choice, and that vegetarianism and healthy living is not something foreign to me. Personally. I'm a non-smoker who once abstained from meat for four months because of animal rights con­cerns. Ultimately however, I'm just a person who doesn't like to see others deprived of their ability to make com­pletely legal lifestyle choices because of the paternalistic views of those who think that they know better. Please make your choices for you, and please allow me to make my choices as well. 
Alex Pagnani 
law student 
Mishawaka 
April 10 

What the American flag means to me 
The American flag, like any cultural symbol, is an intriguing object because it can mean so many different things to different people. Where a North Korean family might view the flag as a symbol of imperialism and evil in our world, a Turkish family might view it as a symbol of all that is good in the world. It all depends on one's perspective and expe­rience with America. When we begin to look at the flag in a more domestic con­text, the different interpretations narrow a bit, but still the diITerences exist. 
For me, the American flag represents more than a people. The flag represents an idea, a vocation even. That idea, cre­ated and defended by our forefathers, is an idea that one man or even one group of people cannot know everything, and therefore, only through democracy, dia­logue and debate can individuals and groups challenge and stir the nation to be the best that it can be. Further, the flag represents the vocation that all Americans and all people are called to bear witness and work for truth, free­dom, peace and human rights both in our country and throughout the world. 
Looking at history, this idea or notion is reinforced tremendously through the different social movements that have challenged the majority in our nation to a higher calling. Such movements include the abolitionist movement before the Civil War, the women's rights move­ment, the labor movement, the Civil Right movement and anti-war move­ment during Vietnam. From my perspec­tive, these movements are when America has shined most brightly. It was and still is through these movements that individuals, in the tradition of those who dumped tea off a boat on the cold night of Dec. 16, 177 3 in Boston, have truly lived up to the American call to ask their beautiful country to be even more beautiful. 
I will not use American social history to try to imply that the current war in Iraq is wrong. My point is that regard­less of where you stand on this war, it is historically irresponsible to think or believe that protesting against a war or challenging a nation to a different course of action, even during a time of war, is something new or something anti-American. To make an argument that such protesting is wrong, one would have to condemn the likes of Thomas Merton, Dorothy Day, Robert F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King; all of whom protested against the Vietnam War after it had begun. Without the voices of such people, what would our country be? 
Therefore, it is possible to support the American troops and question the rea­sons that our government is asking them to risk their lives in this war. In fact. that is what I believe the American flag rep­resents: the constant dialogue and debate in search of truth and best course of action. So, while I perhaps dis­agree with the College Republicans on policy, I went to the pro-America rally and I encouraged all to attend. I donated some money for the suffering troops, lis­tened to the Republican pro-war speak­ers and took my free flag to put it right next to my picture of Dr. Martin Luther King and the sign in my room that reads, "No war on Iraq, violence is not the answer." 
Peter Quaranto freshman Sorin Hai! April 10 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Sarah Nestor Shannon Nelligan 
Kevin Allen 
Viewpoint 
Patrick McEiwec 
Graphics 
Mike Harkins 
Sports 
Hryan Kronk Kurt Bogaard Christine Armstrong 
Scene 
Emily Howald 
Lab Tech 
Andy Kenna 

NDT0DAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Collective fear stimulates herd instinct and
Do you agree with the decision to hold the 
tends to produce ferocity toward those who 
ROTC Pass in Review indoors again this year? 
are not regarded as members of the herd. " Vote at NDToday.com by Wednesday at 5 p.m. 
Bertrand Russell philosopher and activist 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
Monday, April 14, 2003 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Confronting a columnist's statements about Arabs 
Anti-Arab racism runs deep in modern-day American society 
.John Litle thinks Friday's column, "Middle East Communities ignorant," is going to get him in trouble. But the only emotion it evokes in me is pity. True, it is tempting to get enraged aL the stereo­types, blatant racism and outright false­hoods that pepper his article, but what's tho puint? 
Fewer books translated from Arabic in the last 1000 years Lhan .tre translated in Spain in one year! Everyone in the Middle East blames Israel for their prob­lems! llow easy it is to reduce the beliefs of 300 million into a few lies. 
Easy. but also very convenient for the American people. Now it is safe to fear i\rabs, to hate Arabs. It is safe to rule them, subjugate them. kill them and ultimately take from them what's right­fully ours. Have no qualms my blue-eyed soldier, just pull the trigger. It is not humans you are killing. These are not "functioning member[sj of human civi­lization." They are the lowest form of living organisms. They are A-rabs. 

Don't underestimate the role of racism in international a!Tairs. Don't underesti­mate how easily one accepts belliger­ence after the subject has been dehu­manized. One tends to start thinking more rationally after that, to see the other point of view. to understand why we need to invade countries and "smoke-out" designated criminals. One learns to adopt that viewpoint as one's own. 
The point of writing this letter to the editor is not to respond to Lille's col­umn, but to point out how deep anti­Arab racism is in America and the links that this racism has with rationalizing foreign policy. For racism against Arabs here is deep. As Noam Chomsky puts it so eloquently. it is in the air you breath. 
What response from the Notre Dame community will an article such as this evoke? I doubt it will cause even a small stir although I would hope otherwise. Have you ever thought or replacing some of the comments made about Arabs by another ethnicity or race? Take your pick: Jews. Blacks, Hispanics. And these three are ones that suffer despicable racism themselves. Even so, Lhere is a line that one cannot cross when talking about them or else face outrage. 
This line clearly does not exist when it comes to Arabs. Or the line does exist. but one can cross it at will and the only thing it will evoke is a nervous laugh, or at best a "we-know-what-you're-saying­is-true-but-yo u-didn 't-have-to-say-it­out-loud" reprimand. 
But how can the ordinary American think otherwise when facing a barrage of constant propaganda from birth? Be it the corporate media, the "newspapers or record" or tho trusted leadership. How can they when the kingdom of fear is constantly creating enemies. Why should anyone think differently? 
Better yet, why should anyone dare to act differently, and dare to dissent and try to steer this great nation from the disastrous path it is heading into? No, best keep with the crowd and wave those flags. Just stay fitter, happier, 
more productive. Comfortable. 
I hope that you, dear reader, will have a different reaction. I hopp, you will help Americans wake up from a 300-year old hibernation and bring back "America of old; the one that never was, and yet must be." Or else this whole planet is going to go straight to hell. 
Oppose these kind of hatreds. Oppose them in your school and in the world. Oppose the militarization of your mind, soul, of your school and community. of your country and the world. In the words of my friend Aaron Kreider who, unlike Litle, used the pages of The Observer to spread love rather than hate: Think, question, resist. 
Omar Dahi 
graduate student South Bend April 11 

The Observer staff failed to exercise discernment 
As a representative of the students at Notre Dame. The Observer has the twofold responsibility ofjournal­istic integrity and commitment to social activism. We believe that The Observer has failed in both of these responsibilities. We believe that recent columns -in particular, "Middle East communities igno­rant," by columnist John Litle on Friday -are poor reflections upon our community, and furthermore such columns offer little, if any, redeeming value for the readers of The Observer. 
To support this claim, we would like to analyze briefly John Litle's piece as an example of the type of column that The Observer should not publish. First. in John Litle's piece there is an apparent confusion of argument and opinion. He often intermixes these two in such a way that the reader is not sure whether this piece is to be taken as merely the opinions of the writer or as a broader social criticism. 
Secondly, even if there is some redeeming value of this piece as a criticism of the values of the Middle East, such merit is lost because of the language that Litle adopts for his column. We also find dubious gencrulizatious -ones that cross the line from generalization into sttlreotype. Moreover, there is mis­representation of the facts 1.1.nd insults upon the intelligence of Mitldlo-East1wn people -both Arab and .Jew. 
This column conlributes nothing whatsoever to a discussion of the present condition of the Middle East. In fact, it seems that this col­unm's main goal is rather to stir up and inl1ame the intentions and angers of those on both sides of the issue, with the consequence of plac­ing these people at odds with one another. Thus, not only does this column have nu value, but it actual­ly damages any hopes for construe­tive debate of the socio-political realities of the Middle East. 

As this piece has no clear inten­tion and it does not contribute any­thing of worth to the discussion at hand, we believe that this is a prime example of the type of column that The Observer should not publish. The Observer, dedicated to its goals ofjournalistic integrity and social criticism, mindful of the temptation not to fall into a tabloid, yellow­journalist mentality, should only publish columns that arc constructive and contribute to the knowledge and tol­erance of its readers. This column, which is insult­ing and is itself the type of ignorance it seeks to decry, should never have been printed. 
Indeed, it is not only a poor reflection upon the students and the University but also shameful that The Observer judged this piece to be worthy of pub­lication. We recognize that the views expressed in this column, as well as in several past columns, are not necessari­ly the views of The Observer; how­ever, the newspaper must not print columns that are poorly constructed regardless of the opinions expressed therein. Furthermore, even in satire we must strive to respect the sensi­bilities of all parties involved, espe­cially keeping in mind current world issues. 
We believe that in the future The Observer should be more careful and conscientious when it considers columns for publication. 
Michael Sena, Geoffrey Johnston and Divish Ranjan students Zahm Hall April 12 
Apology from an 'ignorant' professor 
What an interesting surprise it was to open The Observer on Friday and to read a column by my former student John Litle who basically labeled me and all those of my race as ignorant. No, the column was not about me. but Litle does state that "Arabs are ignorant. Plain and simple," so the inference is quite clear. Litle hides behind a fake political argumentation in order to conceal his main theme, a racist insult. With this letter, I don't care about the politics. It's the latter that I'm address­
ing. I realize that Litle's main -----intent it to bait people into replying so that he can build his portfolio to become the next William Satire. I'll do him a favor, and I'll bite. 
Litle somehow feels the need to add a disclaimer that he's not 
racist, just "regionist." I have no clue what it means, but then again, 
I'm an ignorant Arab. His self­proclaimed knowl­

edge of an entire race is quite impres­sive, given that he has 
never lived in an Arab country. Watching TV and 
reading newspapers must have done wonders to develop his exten­sive erudition. I should try that. And all this time I thought that proper knowledge came from both education and experience. 
With one stroke of a massive paint brush, Litle states that he just means "those who live in the Middle East," there­by increasing the level of insult by clearly implying that all Arabs in the Middle East are the same (reminds me of the "All blacks are alike" or similarly racist "Chinese, Japanese. Korean. what's the difference" remarks), and that Arabs who live in the United States arc better than those in the Middle East. Of course we must be better, we have after all been in contact with non-Arabs. and they have enlightened us. 
But, we Arabs apparently contribute absolutely nothing to the world. Well. except oil it seems. The thing is, there's not a single drop of oil in Lebanon. So I guess we Lebanese must be the worst among Arabs. 
What a source of frustration it must be for Litle to have had Arabs as professors. Let's hope that he learned the subject on his own, because he obviously could not have learned it from an ignorant Arab like me. Come to think of it, maybe Litle would conjecture that I've become a better per­son because he was my student. But then, my parents, who live in Beirut, have not had the fortune of crossing paths with Litle, so their respective Ph.D.'s in philoso­phy and history must be worthless, given that they are, after all, just ignorant Arabs. 
While on the subject of ignorance, let me point out to Litle that contrary to what he infers, Pakistan is not an Arab country. I am so sorry to break up his secure bubble of pseudo-knowledge, but let me shock Litle even further by pointing out that Iran is not Arab either (which he indirectly infers with his generalization on the Middle East), nor is Afghanistan, nor Turkey. But of course, the entire region is just made of non-contributing ignorants. 
So to Litle and to any other former stu­dent with similar racist views (yes, racist -not "regionist" or any other pathetic cop-out of a neology), I suppose I must now apologize for having sullied your edu­cation as a result of the race I belong to. To think that Litle's educational experi­ence has been tainted for having been taught by an ignorant Arab (and, ironical­ly, that his major's director is also an Arab). the University must. I guess. find a way to compensate him for that contami­nation. Maybe Notre Dame, in its journey to become a top-tier university, should rid itself of us Arabs, since ignorance has no place in an institution of learning. 
/\nd come to think of' it, as a first stop, perhaps Notre Dame should start by forc­ing us Arabs to use separate water coolers. 
Ramzi Bualuan 

professor of computer science and engineering Sou1h Bend April 13 
THE OBSERVER 


page 12 Monday, April 14, 2003 
Notre Dame and Nalgene: A winning combination 
During my two years here at Notre Dame, J have noticed an astounding number of students jumping on the Nalgene bandwagon. These plastic colored bottles, clearly the coolest thing invented since the sleeve­less shirt, can be Tom Raaf seen swinging freely from a myr­iad of North Face Scene packs across cam­columnist pus. It appears that several stu­dents even have different colors to coordinate with their outfits. After all. what better accessory is there than a stout, indestructible, flores­cent water bottle. This feat of engi­neering genius that pushes not only glassware, but also plastic, flimsy cups into extinction is arguably the greatest and most -widely received thing to hit this campus since the new alcohol policy. 
Those of vou who own one or· two of these fabled, spill­

proof miracle jugs "I know [Nalgene] has no the spawn of a 
surely know the joy spout and that it splashes divine being so and pride that accom­great and pow­
me in the face every time I 

pany them. Many of erful that we 
you, however, have drink, but it just looks so cannot even 
never been given the gnarly, radical and tubu­comprehend His chance to rate and glory. I'd really 
lar at the same time."

analyze the numerous love to keep virtues of your per­ranting about sonal marvel mug. Mike Roaldl how great these Well you're in luck. I sophomore little catalysts 
have developed a Nalgene bottle rating system that can help you obtain maximum coolness through your plastic wonder-cup. First off, if you don't have the largest bottle that this great compa­ny makes, subtract five points and contemplate suicide (only kidding, of course). Add five for every sticker on your bottle (double points if they're Dave Matthews stickers!). Finally, if you can look straight at your bottle without being temporarily blinded by it's ultra bright cool-rays, subtract five points and go find some high­lighters, ASAP. 
Student reaction to these bottles 

has been incredible. "I know they're heavy, ridiculously large, and diffi­cult to drink from, but my Nalgcne is my best pal-gene!" said Dillon soph­omore Michael P. McNamara. Additionally, sophomore Matt Schulte said, "Sure I know that the water fountains on campus are bril­liantly placed and that the water in my Nalgcne is always lukewarm. But let's be honest, who wants to be seen leaning over a water fountain! Losers, that's who." 
Mike Roaldi currently toting a hot little fuscia number. had this to say about his plastic life-partner. "I know it has no spout and that it splashes me in the face every time I drink, but it just looks so gnarly, radical and tubular at the same time. Cowabunga!" 
Just like anything, Nalgene bottles are man-made and do contain some form of human error. Actually, disre­gard that last comment. These bot­
tles are perfect 
in every way 
and are clearly 
on the quest to 
coolness are, 
but my favorite one, Jose Luis, is beckoning my parched throat from across the room. Here I come, my sweet! 
Tom Raafis a sophomore who enjoys spending his time with Wolfman Jack. He can also be seen swimming the lakes or playing a common game entitled "jump on bush." 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Famous Dave's and 
Bill's Barbeque are popular spots to try 
By MARIA SMITH 
Scene Ediror 

The Midwest may not be famous for its excellent sushi, its succulent Mexican fare or its fine French cui­sine, but Indiana also has food spe­cialties to its name. for truly excel­lent b,arbeque ribs, the Midwest 
can beat anvone. ly as extensive 
When you're in a menu, but he a mood for meat, will give youit's easy to find a good ribs fast. good restaurant. Bill's 
Famous Dave's BarbequeBarbeque near doesn't offer University Park d r u n k e n Mall and Bill's apples, but all Barbeque on US the dinners 31 both offer 
come with slow-cooked beef good French and tangy flavor. fries, which Picking a restau­may be the rant, however, only side dish 

can give rise to a vital debate ­can commercialized barbeque ever be quite the same as small restaurants and family recipes? Barbeque is a tra­ditional outdoor holiday kind of food, and it may just taste better the closer to home it comes. 
As an established chain, Famous Dave's has a lot of advantages. The menu naturally has greater variety, with rotisserie chicken, corn on the cob and drunken apples available in addition to ribs. The home-style side dishes are great as an appetizer or along with the food. Famous Dave's Caesar salad, not soggy like the stuff at South Dining Hall, is also a good starter if you've got a big appetite. Even better than the side dishes is the selection of barbeque sauces. Famous Dave's offers a variety of sauces including rich and sassy, devil spit, sweet and zesty, and Georgia mustard to add flavor to their ribs, and sam­pling the different flavors is one of the best parts of the meal. 
If you're looking for a more tradi­tional dinner date, Famous Dave's is the way to go. It has the table service and atmosphere of chains like Chili's or TGI Friday's, but the more special­ized menu means good food instead of a compromise variety menu. Like all chains, however, Famous Dave's charges table service prices, and a meal is likely to cost you $12-15. 
Bill's Barbeque is a homo kitchen gone commercial. Bill won't wait your table, he doesn't bring you napkins and he won't offer you near­
ribs really 

need. The small building on 31 still looks like the Taco Bell it used to be before Bill took it over, but the kitchen now hosts a large wood-burning stove complete with an indoor woodpile, and Bill ladles his own sauce straight out of the pan. 
What's in it? With barbeque sauce ingredients ranging from molasses to cider vinegar you'll have to ask Bill, but chances are it's a secret. 
Although the restaurant offers a few indoor tables, the food may be a bet­ter option for a last minute picnic. Although ribs are always expensive, Bill's Barbeque offers more affordable prices, with rib tip dinners starting at $8. 
Sometimes it's better to forego the fancy stuff and just go for good home cooking, but wherever you go for ribs hard to lose. With the weather warm­ing up, don't miss out on one of the best summer foods during the last month of school. 
I 
I
Contact Maria Smith at :f,,
,,
Smith.525@nd.edu 
!' 

---------------------------------------~-~. --­
THE OBSERVER 


Monday, April 14, 2003 page 13 
Fondue! a great time and an excellent meal for all 
Fondue! is located in the upper level of the Brewery at 100 Center in Mishawaka and is special for numerous occasions 
The menu offers you an entree plat­
By KC KENNEY 

ter with a choice or raw meat. includ­
Seen~ Criric ing seafood, chicken or beef tenderloin. 
and an array of different vegetables.
What is one of the fow places in town There were also six different dips and

that you can go. singe your self and 

a small bowl of batter. This is when it your datti, and still say that you had a got surprising to me. The reason thatgrmtt time'' there aren't any ovens or stoves in this
Fondue!. tlrn restaurant, is located in 

restaurant is because you pick the
the upper level of the Brewery at 100 arrangement of food and cook it your­



Center in Mishawaka. If you've been to Hum Hunners, it's in the same com­plex. 
The entrance was a little unconven­tional for a restaurant in my opinion, walking up two 11ights of stairs in what otherwise seems to be an old ware­house. llowevcr, located on the top floor is a small restaurant with a lot of 11avor and fun. 
Supposedly, the restaurant doesn't lrnvp many st.ovP.s or ovens in the back. Thny're all located at your table. For those unfamiliar with the art of fondue. l!1t nw explain. I was under the miscon­ception that fondue was the act of sim­ply dipping different items into a dip, usually or cl1ccsc or chocolate. Itowevrr, thlirn is much more to it than thal. 
The classic meal served at Fondue has a fairly regular composition. It starts out with a platter of apples and brnads and a pot of a wsty mix of three cheeses that intimidated me at lirsl. Tlrnrl' was just something unap­pealing about cheese and apples. But tllun they lit the candle under the duwse, 
I skewered a piece of apple and dippNI. It was very good. a new taste that J found different but really scrumptious. It followed with a house self right at your table. There were two ways to cook your food. The first is to simply put the food on a skewer and put it in the boil­ing oil, though this doesn't do much for the state or the vegeta­bles besides heat them up and simply cook the meat past raw. 

The second is much more fun. By dipping the meat or the veg­
. etables in the batter and placing them in the oil. Out comes a well-cooked fried morsel with a really fun crispy covering. It might seem a little strange to cook the meal yourself at a restaurant, but it was a really fun experience. offering a lot of diversi­ty and choice as you develop an understand­ing of what dips go well with what food. 
The highlight of the meal was definitely the desert. The presentation alone was fan­tastic. A dish of fresh fruit and pound cake is presented with a pot of thin chocolate. Orange liquor is poured on the chocolate, lit on fire, and you are given a pre-skewered marshmallow to roast before you get into the actual plat­ter. Jt was like eating a piece of heaven. warm chocolate-coated strawberries and other great pieces. I would go back just to order another helping of the desert. 

This was a great time. relaxed and at your own pace. The food was very good and the service was excellent. very helpful in instructing fondue first-timers like myself. It's the kind of place that would be great for a date or a group of friends. a fun experience with a nice atmosphere and great food. 
If you're looking for something new to do this weekend. get out and give dip­ping a try. Just be careful not to splash the oil and you'll have a great time. 
Contact KC Kenney at Kenney.28@nd.edu 
salad to cleanse the palate and then Fondue! allows visitors to enjoy their dinner by having a hands-on experience at the restaurant. Fondue! creates an excit­tlw entree was brought out. ing dining experience for all who choose to participate. 
Monday, April 14, 2003

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 

Davis gets 16 in first game back to top 76ers 94-89 
"I am very happy with the Conference. 
Associated Press 

game other than it had a real Struggling Portland needed ugliness to it," Bucks coach the win after a loss to Memphis
PHILADELPHIA 

George Karl said. "We played a on Friday dropped them a half­
Jamal Mashburn scored 27 

game that was kind of physical game back of Minnesota forpoints, including a key jumper and aggressive. Indiana has a fourth place, and tied with the
with 32.1 seconds remaining, 

lot of great athletes and lots of surging Lakers for the fifth 
as the New Orleans Hornets physical ability and we spot.

beat the Philadelphia 76ers 94­matched well with them The Timberwolves defeated89 on Sunday night. 

tonight." Chicago 119-95 on Sunday toBaron Davis scored 16 points 
Said Anthony Mason: "We retain the fourth seed, whichin his first game back after 
just weren't going to let them would ensure home-court
missing three with a sore left come in and bully us." advantage in the flrst round ofknee, and Jamaal Magloire had Cassell had wanted to take the playoffs. Portland has two14 points and 10 rebounds for 

the night off or at least put in games left. while Minnesota
New Orleans. 

light work like Indiana's Reggie has one remaining.
Allen Iverson scored 30 

Miller (13 minutes) or Brad The loss snapped a six-gamepoints, including 22 in the first Miller {10 minutes) did. winning streak for the Lakers,
half for the Sixers -who But after scoring 14 of who were led by Shaquille

missed an opportunity to clinch 

Milwaukee's first 18 points, O'Neal's 36 points and 11home-court advantage in the Cassell ended up playing a rebounds. Kobe Bryant also
first round of the playofl's. 

team-high 39 minutes as the had 36 points for Los Angeles,
The Sixers led 78-71 with 

playoff-bound Bucks (41-40) which was coming off key wins 
7:12 to play, but Stacey ensured themselves a fifth against Sacramento and Dallas.

Augmon scored six straight 

straight season at . 500 or bet­The Lakers play Denver and
points as the Hornets went on an 11-2 run to take their first ter. Golden State to wrap up the 
Milwaukee has won seven of season.
lead of the game, 82-80. 
eight and even though they'rePhiladelphia tied it on an 18­

just 14-16 since the block­Tlmberwolves 119, Bulls 95
footer from Eric Snow, but 

Davis answered with a 3-point• buster trade of Ray Allen for Wally Szczerbiak tied a fran­er to put the Hornets up by Gary Payton, Karl deemed the chise record with 44 points and three. deal a huge success because Kevin Garnett had 14 points 
After Mashburn's jumper the Bucks are back in the play­and 19 rebounds as the gave the Hornets an 89-84 offs after a year's absence. Minnesota Timberwolves lead, Eric Snow made a 3-Payton had 12 points and defeated the Chicago Bulls. it with a runner before Chicago Celtics 94, Heat 86 pointer with 20 seconds eight assists and Toni Kukoc Szczerbiak went 19-for-26 called timeout. On the way Paul Pierce scored 32 points remaining. scored 17 and Michael Redd from the field and hit a buzzer­back to the bench, Garnett and the Boston Celtics took sole 
Snow also had a 3-point 13. Indiana lost its third beating 3-pointer at the end of extended his arms and repeat­possession of sixth place in the attempt to tie it with under 5 straight despite getting 25 the third quarter to match edly bowed behind Szczerbiak, Eastern Conference with a win seconds left, but the shot fell points from Jermaine O'Neal, Tony Campbell's team mark, bringing loud applause from over the Miami Heat. 
short of the rim. 23 from Ron Artest and 20 set Feb. 2, 1990 against the the crowd. The Celtics' victory moved 
Davis was held scoreless in from Al Harrington. Boston Celtics. The Timberwolves began the them a half-game ahead of idle 11 first-quarter minutes before Each team shot 39 free Jamal Crawford scored 22 day in fourth place in the Orlando. The Magic have two heading to the bench to ice his throws in a game that lasted 2 points and Jay Williams had 18 Western Conference playoff regular-season games remain­knee. He did not record his 1/2 hours. to lead the Bulls, who finished race, a half-game ahead of the 
ing, while the Celtics close the first field goal until 7:52 of the 3-38 on the road this season. Los Angeles Lakers and the regular season at home againstsecond quarter. Trail Blazers 101, Lakers 99 Their only victories away from Portland Trail Blazers, who 
Detroit on Wednesday.
The Sixers opened with a 9-2 It wasn't only that the the United Center were against played each other Sunday. The 
Antoine Walker added 24 
run and held the lead for the Portland Trail Blazers were Boston, Atlanta and Cleveland. top four teams in the confer­
points for the Celtics, who
entire first half. Iverson hit riding a two-game losing Szczerbiak scored 15 points ence get home-court advantage never trailed and withstood anine of 10 first-half free throws streak and jockeying for playoff in the opening quarter and was in the first round. 
late rally by the Heat. 
and a 3-pointer with 3.6 sec­position. on the receiving end of an Minnesota is looking to Caron Butler led Miami withonds left in the second quarter They were also playing their impressive alley-oop dunk from secure the home court for the 20 points. 
to put the Sixers up 53-41 at nemesis -the Los Angeles Troy Hudson. Szczerbiak had a first time in its history, which Pierce's two free throws withthe half. Lakers, who have swept the quiet second quarter, but he would be a big step toward 
3:32 left in the third quarter
Blazers out of the first round of scored 22 in the third to help advancing past the first round 
gave Boston its biggest lead,
Bucks 107, Pacers 98 the playoffs for the past two the Timberwolves pull away. for the first time. The 73-59, before Miami went on aThe Milwaukee Bucks seasons. With his team leading by 10, Timberwolves close the regular 24-10 run to tie the game at 83
matched the Indiana Pacers "If you can't get amped up Szczerbiak hit a 17-footer, a 3-season Wednesday in push for push, shove for shove, for a game like this, you never pointer, a runner in the lane Memphis. · on Travis Best's free throw taunt for taunt and almost will," Rasheed Wallace said. and another 3 to give The Bulls had won three of with 3:33 remaining in the technical for technical. Wallace hit a 3-pointer with Minnesota a 70-55 lead with their previous four games, game. 
Sam Cassell's 33 points led 4.1 seconds left as the Blazers 8:04 to go in the third. including a 95-86 win over But the Celtics responded the Bucks past the Pacers in a held off the Los Angeles Lakers After Rasho Nesterovic New Jersey on Friday. But with a 7-0 spurt on 3-pointers game marred by 11 technical to take sole possession of fifth dunked to give the Wolves a their offense looked disorga­by Walter McCarty and Walker fouls, six of them on Indiana. place in the Western 74-60 lead, Szczerbiak made nized in the second half. and a free throw by Pierce. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Study Abroad with CEA England, Italy, Spain, France, Australia. Request a Free Catalog www.GoWithCEA.com 

Oakhill Condo. Bdrm down/Iott up.  HOUSE AVAILABLE furn. 4b2ba,  
FOR SALE  2 baths. Asking ~88,500. Mike @ 330-393-1584.  walk to campus.jo5225@aol.com  

Ranch home, 3 bdrm, 1.5 bath, fire- DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3  
place, full bsmt, 2 car att garage,  nd senior selling 1br apt turn. like  HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004  
fenced yard, 1 mile from ND. 288·  new. prices negotiable. call 243­ SCHOOL YEAR-WELL MAIN­ 
2001  0064.  TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAM- 

WRiGLEYVILLE Large, bright, 2 bedroom, 1 bath, cable ready. Great security, woodwork, crown moulding. bookcases, oak hutch, hardwood floors. New kitchen dish­washer, pantry, central heat ale, celing fans, mini blinds, balcony, deck, laundry in building, off street ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE Are you pregnant and dont know what to do? Loving, open-hearted, linan­cially stable woman would like to consider adopting a baby. Free counseling, living expenses and medical expenses This can be a good thing for you and your baby 
PUS-STUDENT NEIGHBOR- parking included. Quiet ND prof  Discreet and legal. Call 904-824·  
HOODS-SECURITY SYSTEMS­ owner-occupied. $1475. Call 773­ 7006  
3-6 BDRM HOMES. $195. PP/MO. 272-6306  Oak Hill Condo. 574-243-2621  FOR RENT  MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL-WAHSERS/DRYERS  348-5832 or 312-543-3572 or pgm3740@hotmail.com.  
CALL TODAY-HOUSES GOING  Mexico/Caribbean only $125 each  
New Schwinn w/lock $100. Call  Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom  FASTill-CONTACT KRAMER (574)  way all taxes included! If you can  
Leaving town? We II buy your car.  Mark @ 4-2061  homes 1/2 mile from campus.  315-2436-ALSO LEASING FOR  beat these prices start your own  
574-243-0000 Dealmaker Auto  mmmrentals@aol.com 272­ 2004-2005 VISIT OUR WEBSITE  1 bdrm apt. summer sublease at  damn airline! Book on line  
Sales 52081 933 No. So Bend, IN  1525 www.mrnmrentals com  @ WWWDOMUSKRAMER.COM  Turtle Creek. Fully furnished, price  www.airtech.com or (212)219-7000.  
JUDAY LAKE HOME ON LAKE.  negotiable dboudon@nd.edu  
WALK TO ND. GILLIS REALTY  
Babysitter, May-Aug., 3 kids ages  272-6306  Student Rental House 3-4 or 5 per- Summer sublease ­ 2 bedroom  
2, 6, 8. 10-12 hrs./wk, 2 morn., 1  son 2 story. 8 blocks from campus.  Turtle Creek Townhouse. (217)  house: 2-3-4 bedrooms; 234-9334;  THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF  
eve. $7/hr. Robyn @ 271-3646.  New everything. Wired for comput­ 417-4223  800-966-8399  THE OBSERVER IS WEDNES•  
ers etc. Avail. Summer or Fall, 235­ DAY, APRIL 30.  
98 HONDA CIVIC EX COUPE 2D;  3655  
Two bedroom cottage in good stu­dent area. $350 per month. Dave  LOADED; 5 SPEED MANUAL; 58000 MILES; $8250; 574-631­ LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH  PERSONAL  Move from Notre Dame to Chicago  
243-5353  6295  Very nice 3 bdrm home Avail. June  OF ND 2773097  s Lakeview. Two bedrooms, Near  
1st tor summer or fall Ea~t Race  Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it  Wrigley and el.  
dist.near Corbys Pub & St. Joe  alone. If you or someone you love  Heated, alumni owned, $1040 800·  
A BUSINESS MAN IS LOOKING  Church. Incl. alar syst,washer/dryer.  needs conlidenlial support or ass1s­ 323-8144 x640  
TO BUY YOUR ND FOOTBALL  Acura lntegra LS 1996 Red 60,000  Can email p1cts. Call Joe Crimmins  Spring Semester 2004 only! 4  tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise  
SEASON TICKETS. (TOP DOLLAR  miles, sun root, CD player, power  @ 273-0002(h)or 514-0643(cell)or  Bedroom. 2 Bath ..GOOD Student  Gude, CSC, at 1-7819 For more  
PAID)Discretion Assured Call:277­1659 Thank you.  locks and windows $9850 or best offer. 287-4306 ~ ... ' .. ,. .  JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com. $650/"; ~egotiab'.e .•••• , .• . . 'I 'It •  Area. Dave..243-5353  information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. . ... ... - Touchdown Texans . -' ........  

-~----1 
=M=o=n=da=y=,A=p=r=il=I=4=,2=0=0=3===============================T,='h=e=O=b=se=rv=ei=·.
==S=P=O==R=T==S=========================================p=a=g=e=I=5 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Phillies notch 13-run inning, destroy Reds 

Associated Prc.,s 
CINCINNI\TI 
Once the Philadelphia Phillies got started. nobody wanted to slop. 
Philad1ilphia scored a fran­chise-record 13 runs in the fourth inning -10 of those coming with two outs -and bnat the Cincinnati Reds 13-1 Sunday. 
Hicky Lcdee's three-run homer capped the outburst, which foll just two runs short of the National League record l'or runs in an inning. 
''! didn't want to be the last out," said Ledeu. who walked and scorr,<l his lirst time up in the fourth. 
The Brooklyn Dodgers scored 15 times in the first inning against Cincinnati on May 21, 1%2. 
The major league mark is 17 runs. set by the Boston Bed Sox against Detroit on June 18, 1953, in the seventh inning. 
TIH• Phillies' 13 runs, aided by seven walks, surpassed the club record of 12 in the sixth inning July 21, 1923, against the Chicago Cubs. Handy Wolf (2-0) was the beneficiary of all the offense in this one. 
It was another ugly perfor­mance for the Hods at new Great American Ball Park, where tlrny are :i-6 this season. Cincinnati last allowed 13 runs in an inning in a 20-7 loss to Brooklyn on i\ug. 8, 1954. 
After facing just 11 batters tl1rough the first three innings, Hyan Dempster (1-1} faced 11 in the fourth alone. Bobby Abreu walked and scored twice, and Jim Thome singled and scored twice in the inning. 
Thome couldn't remember ever gr.tting two hits in an inning before. 
"It doesn't happen a lot, but when it does you try to take advantage of' it," he said. 'Tm just glad I got that opportunity." 
Braves 7, Marlins 1 
What was good news for the Atlanta Braves was bad news for the rest of the National League: Greg Maddux looked like his old self. 
Maddux, off to the worst start in his carePr. earned his first win of the season by pitching the Brnvfls past the Florida Marlins. 
Maddux (l<{) gave up one run and two hits in six innings, low­ering his EHA from l 1.05 to 
8.27. The !'our-time Cy Young winner had lost his first three starts fur the lirst time ever. 
"What did vou think he was going to do. g;i 2-14?" said Mike Lnwcll, who homernd in the sec­ond for the only Florida run. "!Io's won 15 games for 15 straight years." 
Pitching on three days' resl. Maddux walked none and struck out three. Ile throw 59 pitches, 40 for strikes, before leaving because of' a slightly sore neck both he and Braves manager Hobby Cox insisted was nothing sPrious. 
"When you're fighting your­self, you're fighting every pitch," Maddux said about his early­season struggles. "I was fighting a little today. l lopefully it'll be more fun next time out. I didn't really settle down." 
The Braves gladly will take the Maddux of Sunday. 
"lie was more into it today, not that he wasn't into it during his other starts," Braves catcher Henry Blanco said. "lie really wanted do everything right." 
Vinny Castilla homered and drove in live runs as the Braves stopped Florida's four-game winning streak. Andruw Jones had two hits and walked three times. 
The Braves had scored five runs in Maddux's previous three starts, including a 17-1 loss to Florida at Atlanta on April 5. Maddux surrendered eight hits and seven earned runs in two innings of that game. 

John Smoltz pitched the final two innings to earn his third save. completing the combined four-hitter. 
Castilla's three-run homer in 

the ninth off Vladimir Nunez 
broke it open fur Atlanta. 
Indians 6, Royals 1 
The Kansas City Hoyals want to remember their winning streak -and vow not to forget Ricardo Hodriguez. 
The lloyals lost l'or the first time this snason, ending base­ball's best start in 13 years as Hodriguez pitched the Cleveland Indians to a win and strained some relations along the way with a handful of flamboyant gestures. 
"llopef'ully, he'll be around the next time we face thcm,"lloyals outfielder Michael Tucker said. 
The Hoyals, the first club to start 9-0 since the 1990 Cincinnati Heds, claim Rodriguflz tried to show them 
up. 
Instead. he kept Kansas City from becoming 1.he eighth team in history to open at 10-0, and lirst since lhe 1987 Milwaukee Brewers started 13-0. 
"I just hope everybody enjoyed it as much as I did," Kansas City manager Tony Pena said of the streak, which tied for the fifth­longest overall in team history. 
Milton Bradley had four hits, including his second homer for Cleveland -and took a few ver­bal swipes at the Hoyals, too. 
Expos 2, Mets 1 
The Montreal Expos must feel like they're on paradise island. 
The surprising Expos won a hot one, beating the Mets when Orlando Cabrera homered off Armando Benitez leading off the ninth inning and Jose Vidro hit another shot off Mike Stanton on the first pitch of the 10th. 
"This kind of ballgame can put you on a roll," Montreal manager Frank Robinson said. 
It was 136 degrees on the field when the game started. and the Expos walked off with a fiery win, mobbing Vidro at home plate as the crowd chanted "Vi­dro! Vi-dro!" in honor of the Puerto Rican star. Montreal is 3­0 at its new part-time home and has won four straight overall going into Monday's series linale, 

For the Mets, it seems like they're as stranded as Gilligan, hoping someone, anyone, will step up and rescue them. They've lost five straight, drop­ping four games behind the NL East-leading Expos and falling into last place, where they fin­ished last season. New York (4­
8) has scored only 35 runs and is hitting .218 -just .150 with runners in scoring position. 
While the bats are missing, 
injuries keep hitting. f.irst base­man Mo Vaughn left in the third inning with an inflamed left knee, and catcher Mike Piazza came out in the ninth after jam­ming his left foot on first base ­while legging out an infield hit that ended an O-for-17 skid. 
Cliff Floyd, who strained his right Achilles' tendon Saturday, couldn't run hard to first when he pinch hit with two outs in the ninth and popped out with the bases loaded. 
"If this goes longer, then we're going to go nowhere," Hoberto Alomar said. "We all know what we need to do. We all know what we're doing wrong. We must hit with run­ners in scoring position. We must save the games we need to save." 

White Sox 3, Tigers 2 
Normally. Bartolo Colon's approach to pitching is about ,L'i direct as it gets. 
He used a little morn guile Sunday against the worst offense in the majors. 
Colon struck out a snason-high nine in seven innings, earning his first victory for the Chicago White Sox with a win over tlw Detroit Tigers. 
"He's pitching now, not just sit­ting on 95-98 mph fastballs," Chicago manager Jerry Manuel said. "When he's doing that and he's making good pitches with his slider and changeup, he can get some early oul-; and he can get some strikeoul'i. I'll take that performance every time," 
Colon (1-0) allowed two runs on six hits and two walks. The Tigers have scored only 20 runs in starting the season 1-10. 
"Usually, he comes right at you with his fastball, but today he threw a lot ol' sliders and mix1·d things up mor11 than he normally dews," Detroit's Craig Paquetlt• said. "I saw eight pitches in my first at-bat, and I think then' were l'ive sliders, a changeup and only two fastballs." 
The White Sox have won seven of nine, including live victories over Detroit. The Tigers, who started 0-11 in 2002, beat Chicago 4-3 Saturday for tlwir only win of the season. 
Damaso Marte and Billy Koch 


Monday, April 14, 2002 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Warmer weather pays dividends for Irish 
dash in 23.77 seconds. Both Andre English, as he qualified steeplechase, indoor All­meters}. 
By HEATHER were season-best times for the for the Big East Championships, American Luke Watson began For the women, Kate Duman his mission for outdoor All­won the javelin with a toss of
VAN HOEGARDEN where he will look to defend his
Irish. Sports W ricer Meanwhile. Ayesha Boyd was 2002 title in the event. Other America honors, as he won eas­40.34 meters. and was followed ily in 8:53.07. The second-place by Lauren DellaVolpe (39.15
right behind Love in the 100-hurdling action saw Roberto 
finisher was 15 seconds behind meters) and Andrn DuplechainThe Irish enjoyed their trip to meters. placing third (11.85 Garcia {53.12}, Napolean 
Missouri this weekend. qualify­seconds), as well as taking fifth Suarez (53.30) and Mark Watson. Also for the Irish, Ryan (34.23 meters). Duman broke in the 200-meters. Tanya Barber (53. 70) dominate the Johnson (third place, 9:20.75) her own school record with her
meet and eight more for the Cheatham also qualified for the 400-meter hurdles, as they fin­and David Alber (fourth place, effort. Big East ished one-two-three, rnspec­9:23.72) qualified for the Big Meanwhile, school record­holder Jaime Volkmer took sec­
meet in the tively, to qualify for the Big East East meet. 
Saturday saw freshman ond in the pole vault (3.81
100-meter Championships. 
sprint with Notre Dame's distance run­Thomas Chamney. who, after meters), and third in the triple nearly missing the NCAA jump (11.87 meters). Laura
her time of ners were just as successful on 
12.26 sec­both sides. as they finally were Regional qualif'ying time last lluarte and DeeDee Bryan also 
qualified in the pole vault, with
onds. able to run in beautiful weather weekend, reached the mark Friday night. The women domi­easily, winning the 800-meter efforts of 3.51 meters and 3.36
Finally, in 

meters, respectively. Petra
the 400-nated the 1,500-met.er run, as run in 1:49.55. Eric Morrison meter run, Megan Johnson took first in a also qualified for the Big East Dankova took second in the
time quali-King Love triple jump (11.99 meters).

Kristen time of 4 minutes, 31.68 sec­meet in the 800-meter with a
fiers this Finally, freshman Meghan

Dodd won onds, Jennifer Handley time of 1:51.18. 
In the mens 1,500-meters, Horn, the only Irish womens
in a qualify­(4:31.72), second, and ing time of Stephanie Madia. third four Irish runners qualified for thrower, took fourth in both the shot put (12.90 meters) and dis­
54.63 sec­(4:33.40), all just missing the the Big East meet as well. onds. NCAA qualifying time of Vinnie Ambrico led the way cus (41.85 meters). Both were 
On the 4:31.00. Also qualifying for the (3:51.58), followed by John good to qualify her for the Big 
men's side. Big East meet was Elizabeth Keane (3:54.64), Terry Lennon East meet. Ryan Postel Webster, with a time of 4:36.36. (3:54.76), and Sean O'Donnell Dan Porter qualified for the led the way Also on the women's side, (3:54.81). Big East Championships in tho in the 400-freshman Jean rvlarinageli Finally, the Tom Botts javelin with a throw of 54.97
the way for 
Watson Nurudeen 

m et er s, experienced the thrill of her Invitational saw the Notre meters.
the women 

winning in a first collegiate victory, winning Dame throwers qualify their The Irish travel to Walnut,
w a s 

time of 47.97 seconds, toying the 5 ,000-meter run in fair share of athletes. Juan Alba Calif., over Easter Break, whereTameisha King, who won both 17:15.42. The race also saw led the way for the men, taking they will compete in the Mt.
the 100-meter hurdles (13.61 with the NCM Regional quali­

seconds) and the long jump fying time of 47. 4 5. Trevor Stephanie Madia qualify for the second in the hammer throw SAC Relays. The Irish look to 
(51.36 meters). and he was continue to boost their perfor­
(6.37 meters). to claim her spot McClain-Duer and James conference meet as well with in the NCAA Regional Bracken followed Postel to the her third place time of joined by third place finisher mances heading into the Big 
Chip Roberts (50.46 meters), East Championships May 2-4 in
Qualifying Meet in Columbus, finish, taking third and fourth, 17:26.79. Meanwhile, Emily Showman who also qualified in the discus Connecticut.
Ohio, May 30. respectively. 

Saturday also saw Kymia In the 110-meter hurdles, posted her first Big East quali­(45.23 meters). Other qualifiers Love sprint to second in the Selim Nurudeen crossed the fying time in the steeplechase, in the hammer throw were 100-meter dash in 11.85 sec­finish line just in time (14.33 finishing third in 11:20.57. Jason Davis (48.10 meters). and Contact Heather Van Hoegarden onds, and win the 200-meter seconds} to defeat Illinois' In the mens 3,000-meter Brian Thornburg (4 7 .62 at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 




ATTa1;(i,!IJ:a;1;:1ii1N~fSEN·tORS!
! 
~~ts•1l~IIIB¦tm1ti11,r,¦1-tl~? 

.. 

:!~~zn~~•=~~111~;rra~,ra1;1•11;:~~:t~ 5tt;ai~tllli~i&,~~~-,~d;~:.:::r::;06t 



Womens NCAA > •·•·• ··· 
·Rowing!~,l,,,;/i.,,,> 
1 2 
3 
4 
·5 ':• 
6 
1· 
6 
!I 
10 11 12 
13 . 14 15 16 
17 
18 19 20 
Baseball> 
team w 
NOTRE DAME 1 Virginia Tech Ii Conneetlcut 6 Rutgers 4 Boston Colleg11 3 West Virginia 3 Sl. John's 4 
Seton Hall 4 Pittsburgh 4 
Villanova 2 Georgetown 1 
Softban<· 
Big East standings 
·.-· :·.-.: ..: 
team w . Ii+ :P~\C pv1r~Jl 
Seton Hall !L SI. John's s 
C!};;r.;!~/!111~
VIiianova 3 Boston College 3 
3. 6 ·. . 9,1!L<
Syracuse 3 Piltgburgh 3 5 6 · · 17-21< NOTRE DAME 2 o. f A 16·11 
Connecticut 2 tr·· •·••··•···· 4· , : 13°130 , Virginia Teen 2 4 4/ ..•. J4;20> Rutgers 1 
.:. ./ : ...·.•· 1:~1:)\
Provldenee 0 
team w 
Georgetown 3 Syracuse 5 NOTRE DAME 3 ... 
Boston College 1·, 
Rutge!'i O Con11eclicu1 U Virginia Teeh o 
around the dial 
NHL HOCKEY 
Flyers at Maple Leaves 6 p.m., ESPN Avalanche at Wild 6:30 p.m., ESPN2 Red Wings at Mighty Ducks 9:30 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB BASEBALL 
Athletics at Mariners 9 p.m., ESPN 


AROUND THE NATION 
Monday, April 14, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER Wilm SERVICES page 17 
GOLF 

watching Len Matiiace Mattiace could have used The final round ultimate­
Associated Press 

self-destruct on the first a mulligan. He pulled his ly belonged to Weir. who 
extra hole. approach into the trees on fielded a call from Jean 
AUGUSTA, Ga. "It was an incredible No. 10 in the playoff, Cretien, Canada's prime 
Lefty finally won a day," Weir said. "To go chipped 30 feet, nearly ran minister. 
major. bogey-free at Augusta his par putt off the green The only other time Weir Just not the guy anyone National on Sunday, I can't and choked back tears was in the final group at a expected. ask for anything more." when he realized what he major, he was tied with 
Mike Weir clidn 't rely on Mattiace brought drama had lost. Woods in the 1999 PGA power and !1air. This mini back to the final nine holes Tiger Woods made it to Championship at Medinah. Maple Leaf is about Lenad­with phenomenal shots the green jacket ceremony Weir shot 80, but it wasn't ty and resiliency, two traits that took him to the edge for the third straight year, a wasted effort. he leaned on Sunday to of a stunning victory with only this time he slipped Weir and Mattiace l"in­win the Masters after the a 7-under 65. the coveted prize around islrnd at 7-under 281. the first sudden-death playoff Weir refused to buckle, Weir's shoulders. highest winning score al in 13 years. making a 15-foot birdie on Mattiace, who had to the Masters since 1989. 
Weir became the first the 13th, sturting a wedge make a 6-footer on the Weir won t'or the third Canadian to wear a green into 5 feet on the 15th and 18th for bogey, was sign­time this year, and all six jacket, and the first left­making keys pars along ing his card when he of his PG/\ Tour victories hander in 40 years to win the way, none bigger than looked up and saw that have been comebacks ­a major, by making clutch the 6-footer he had on the Weir had pulled even on none more special than putts down the stretch and 18th to force the playoff. the 15th. this. 
IN BRIEF 

Henin-Hardenne stuns a 1-4 career mark against Williams, in the 100-year history of the fran­Williams who won a so-called Serena Slam by chise. 
Serena Williams is capable of los­winning the last four major tourna­At 9-1, the Yankees had tied the ing, and everyone on the WT/\ Tour ments in a row: the French Open, best start ever, set by the 1988 team. can thank Justine Henin-llardennc Wimbledon and U.S. Open last year, No Yankees team has ever gone 10-1 for reminding them. and the Australian Open in January. at the start and Tampa Bay made 
The Belgian emphatically ended llenin-I-lardenne made Williams sure it stayed that way. Williams' 21-0 start to the season by pay for errors, running down shots In a rally fueled by an error by beating the world's No. 1 player 6-3, into the corners and forcing the catcher Jorge Posada and a wild 6-4 Sunday for the Family Circle Cup American to go deeper into points pitch by Juan Acevedo, Toby I!all hit Litle. than she wanted. a sacrifice fly that delivered the win­
"This doesn't change anything !L's Henin-Hardenne's second title ning run in the ninth inning. about the great champion that of the year and improved her match "You're just looking to hit it hard Serena is. But it means that today we record to 21-4. She won a tourna­some place," llall said. "You're trying could see that we can do these things ment on hard courts at Dubai in to make contact against a guy who's against her. and she can be frustrat­February, beating Jennifer Capriati throwing 90-plus miles per hour." ed, too," Henin-Hardenne said. and Monica Seles in consecutive Hall drove in the run with a long l1y 
Williams' last loss came against matches. to left and reliever Lance Carter another Belgian, Kim Clijsters, in the made the run stand up with a 1-2-3 2002 season-ending Tour Yanks fail to break record ninth inning, ending a Yankees' five­Championship in November. History took a hiatus at Yankee game winning streak on a day when She issued a bit of a warning to Stadium on Sunday, shoved aside by Yankees starter Roger Clemens was future opponents. the Tampa Bay Devil Rays. bidding for his 296th career victory. "I'm so motivated now. I can just The perennial patsies capitalized Clemens worked seven innings, feel it coming on again. So you've got on a pair of New York blunders for a allowing seven hits. He struck out six to watch out," said Williams 2-1 victory that prevented the and walked three and left trailing 1­The Belgian entered the match with · Yankees from achieving the best start 0. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 14, 2003 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles win 1 of 3 at Midwest Invitational 
. Saint Mary's plays tough in field of strong teams 
By LISA REIJUIA 
Sporn: Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team competed in the prestigious Midwest Invitational on April 11 and 12 in Madison, Wis. The tour­nament featured the top 12 teams in the region and included several teams ranked in the top 20 nationally for Division Ill. 
The teams invited to the region­al included Denison University, Albion College, Carthage College, Carleton College. St. Catherine's, DePauw, Washington (St. Louis), Kenyon College, Luther College, Gustavus Adolphus College, University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire and Saint Mary's. 
The Belles had a tough opening day, losing to No. 20 Kenyon College, the 7th seed in the tour­nament by a 6-3 score. Saint Mary's was barely edged out by Luther College in their next match, falling 5-4. 
"The matches were really close," No. 1 singles player Jeannie Knish said. "The competi­tion was just incredible and we got a lot of great hitting in." 
On the second day of competi­tion, the Belles faced Carleton College and earned a 5-4 victory. No. 2 Kristen Palombo, No. 3 Kaitlin Cutler, No. 4 Kris Spriggle and No. 6 Angela Sandner all picked up victories for the Belles. 

In doubles play, Saint Mary's team of Knish and Palombo fell to Carleton's Diane Danforth and Genevieve Philp at the No. 1 spot. Carleton's No. 2 duo of Eryn Roch and Russell defeated the Belles· pairing of Cutler and Elisa Ryan. Freshman Lindsay Cook and Spriggle salvaged a win for the Belles with their v:ictorv at No. 3 doubles. · 
"We were definitely happy that the weekend ended on a good note," Knish said. "We had tough matches when we got here, and we played well, it was just that the competition was so good. 
Top-seeded DePauw won the Invitational with a 6-3 victory over third-seeded Gustavus Aldolphus College. DePauw's title win was an upset, as the Tigers were ranked 12th nationally and Gustavus' squad was ranked 5th. 
The Belles are now 11-5 for the spring season. The results of the Invitational are used in determin­ing qualifiers for the NCM tour­nament. With their solid win in Madison, the Belles are a step closer to their postseason goals. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 
WOMENS TENNIS 

Hurricanes blow by Irish 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 

Saturday a hurricane knocked down the Irish, who formerly had been riding on a five-match win streak. 
Playing in Coral Gables, Fla , No. 25 Miami upset No. 24 Notre Dame 6-1 in what was both teams' final regular season match. It was just the third loss in 12 matches for the Irish, who moved to 13-8 on the season. 
Irish junior Cay Ian Leslie obtained her team's only point with her 3-6, 6-3, 6-3 effort over Megan Bradley at the No. 1 flight. Leslie. who is ranked 39th nationally, improved to 17-8 this season with the win. Bradley, ranked 121st in the nation, is the ninth-ranked opponent to fall tu Leslie. 
Other than Leslie's win, it was a challenging and bleak day for the Irish. 
Miami claimed each of the three doubles matches to go ahead 1-0. Then, not allow­ing Notre Dame a single win, the Hurricanes stormed ahead to take the next three singles matches, thus sealing their victory. 
Nevertheless, given the successes the team has had recently, the Irish are taking Saturday's match as a learn­ing opportunity. They hope that the lessons learned over 
the weekend will make them a more formidable team 
come  the  Big  East  
Championships  and the  
NCM tournament.  

"It didn't exactly go the way we wanted it to go," freshman Lauren Connelly said. "I think it was a good learning experience. We all learned a lot from it. Hopefully we'll go back and beat them [in two weeks]." 
Because of the team's big wins over Big Ten opponents recently, one loss even to Miami-~ is not enough to damage their confidence, according to Connelly. 
"{ think our recent success­es have given us a lot more confidence," she said. 
In doubles, the 22nd­ranked pair of Melissa Applebaum and Megan Bradley defeated senior Katie Cunha and freshman Jennifer Smith, 8-2. Then Igna deVilliers and Abby Smith secured the doubles point for the Hurricanes with their 8-5 triumph over Lauren Connelly and junior Alicia Salas. 
After Miami clinched the point, Stacie Stevens and Mari Toro added to what would turn out to be a domi­nating match with their 8-5 topping of sophomore Sarah Jane Connelly and freshman Kristina Stastny. 
Applebaum, ranked 91st 
individually, continued the momentum for the Hurricanes when she defeat­ed No. 87 Salas, 6-4, 6-2. 
After a tough first set, Stevens survived Stastny, 7 ­5, 6-1, at the No. 4 flight to put Miami within a point of the win. 
Toro, playing at the No. 3 flight. clinched the victory for her team with her 7-6 (9­7), 6-1 defeat of Cunha. 
After Miami claimed the win, the Irish still had an opportunity to put some points on the board with three singles matches remaining. 
Leslie prevented a Miami shutout with her win. howev­er Sarah Jane Connelly's attempt to rally against Sihem Bennacer was not successful. The sophomorn fell 6-2, 2-6, 6-1, as her nine-match winning streak was snapped. 
Lauren Connelly, could not survive Sara Robbins at the No. 6 flight, and was defeat­ed 6-4. 5-7, 1-0 (10-4). 
Notre Dame will now have two weeks off before they return to Coral Gables April 25 for the Big East Championships. Because of Saturday's victory, Miami has earned the top seed for the tournament. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 


What maI<.€s Colin Farr€1 ticl<? 
I<EOUGH illSTITUTE FOR IRISH STUDIES Und€1qraduatE: ComsE:s fo1 FaU 2003 
HISTORY 
4213/IRST23S:01 :Xrlsh American Experience (Dolan} 

The Irish are one of the great success stories In American history. They have moved from the shantytowns of urban America to the boardrooms of Wall Street, leavlng a mark on politics, literature, ..-ellglon. and the labor movement. The first part of the course examlne.5 the history of modern Ireland. After studying the famine of the 1840s the -course wUI turn to eml,gratlon aind the great themes of Irish Amerkan history -poTltics, literature, religion and labor. 
4321/XRST326B:01 Irish History I (Smyth) This course explores the main themes In Irish h,story from the ,plantation of Ulster, In the early severiteenth century, to the rebellion of 1798. Attentlon focuses on plantation. colonization and religious confflct; the Cromwel1ian epJsode, the WJ!llamlte war, the anti-Catholic penal laws and the 
rise of the Protestant ascendancy. 
4451/IRST381:01 Nineteenth-Century Ireland (Mac Sulbhne) 

Drawing on monographs and generat studlcs, this course Invites students to consider how different soclal g,roups expe.rlenced the profound changes that transformed nfneteenth-century Ireland. Al~hough the course traces polltlcal developments, It pays equal attentlon to 5odo~onomlc r1nrt rulturel fssues, Including th~ shift from high fertlllty to sexu,il restnrlnt; patterns o, emigration, consumption and soc~al unrest; Improvements In education and llterac:y; llngulstlc chenge; changing devotional pra;.tlces and cuJtural 'revival' In the late 1800s.. 
ANTHROPOt.OGY 

52S2/1RST228:01 lri!!:h and Amierica.n Tap Oanc.-i (Mckenna) This course teaches a range of fundamental American tap steps in additlon to at least two nnlshed tap dar,c~ ptec~s: set to CD music:. Sever-at hard show Trish tap dances wlll be taught end depending an the abillty of the studeants, several other r:ompleted dances are PO!ll!Slble . .Although the clsss ts Intended for 
studl'!lr,ts who have never learned tap, both elementary and mlddle range student$ have round the class suited to their needs 
LITERATURE 

46G5/IRST302:01 Crime in the Nineteenth Century Novel (O'Brien) Using the dosely refoted Victorian concepts of' cr-lme and prog..-ess a5 a frame for· clas!froorn debate and analysls, this course foc\J.se:9 on socfel tssues such as pov~rty, women's suffrage, colonization, :ind the nascent Idea of human rfght:s. Readings wilt lncl1Jde works by Dickens, WIide, Eliot. Davitt, Yeats, and Conan Doyle. Course work wrn indude sieveraJ brief essays and a r:esearch paper-. 
S074/JR.ST305:011rfsh Poetry tn Translation (M'cKlbben) "This c::ourse examines poetry wirltten In lrlsh from the late rilneteenth century. Students will wor-k on close r-eadlng using English translations, with lrlsh texts given In facing text. No previous knowledge Or Irl!ih ls required. p_equlrements wlll include r-esponse papers. two 5hort essays, .and one longer essmy. 
S080/XRST309:0i The Hidden :Cro/and (6 Buaic:haUa) This course exarn1nes aspects of the corpus of 18th century poetry in the fd-sh language In the llght oF 
Danie! Corkery•s 1-fldd~n Ireland (1'924), a classic analysis or the literature and soclet'( of Irish• !':PP.aklng Munster, and subseciuent reas!;essments ol" that analysfs. Selections from the corpus of poetry will be taken from O Tuama and Klnsefla, An Du11r1aJre.: poems of the dtspo!!'S~sed (1981). 
614Z/IRST371.:01 ,.,,odern British t!!lnd Trl~h Drama (Mclntosh) Thls course examines the violent fusion of politics a11d performance In British and Irish dramill of the twentieth century_. focusing on the ways that Ireland's struggle for-Home Rule shaped th~ Anglo-frish 
dr-amatlc tradition, Stvdents will re~d pop11.1l~r rnelodril!lrrias by Dion Bouclcault nnd J, w. Whltb.-ead and than study tllll'! increasingly ambivalent r~sponse5 of subsequent dr-amotlsts to the romantlclzatlon of Ireland's soclal and polltlcal crises. 
5463/l'.RST373A:01 Writing and Polltlcs In Northern Ireland (Burgess) This course explores the politics or culture. and the cultures or politics, In the North or Ireland during the twentieth century. Using a multlplfclty or genres • drama, fiction, poetry, mm, painting and documentary material -lt unravels the history behind partition, the cauo;;es of the Troubles, and the nature of the confilct. Certain key themes stretch through the semester's work. Among the!;c arP.: sectarianism; the relatlonshlp between vlolence and culture; borders; Identity; Issues or soctal and polltkal justice. 
5460/IRST382:01 Twentieth-Century Irish Literature (Wallace.) This course explores the cultural and polfttcal factors which have shaped 1reland'!i cxtraordln.1ry literary achievement, paying particular attention to decolonization and the Northern Troubles. Wr: will read major works by Shaw, Yeats, Joyce, Bowen, Frlel, Heaney and Deane. In conjunction with our readings, we wlll view John Huston·s The Dead and Nell Jordan's The Crying Game. 
S293/ZRST429:01. Postcolonlal Literature: A Comparative Introduction (WIison) This course lnv~stlgates the development of literatures from the former calonles of vr1rlou~ r.mplrr.s, but prlnclpally the 81"1tlsh and FrE!nch. Authors may lncludP. Chlnun Achehe, MRrlAniw:, Ba, Bu("'.hl 
Emecheta, Anlttt Desai, Bessie Head, George Lamming, Salman Rushdie, Wole Soyinka, Vikram Chandra, Derek Walcott, and Thlch Nhat Hanh, among others. Theorist!: lnciude frantz rr1non, Edw11.-d Saldf Gayatrl Splvlilk, Ng-vgl vva TMlong'o, 
6017/IRST4,1_:01 Leaving the l:!mplre; lrlsh Writing. 1900--1930 (Deane) This course concentrates on th.e crltlciue of the Brltl!!i.h Empire anct of Emr,ir-e as soch as It I!= m:mtfe~trd In the work of some of the best-known Irish writers of the period. The fiction of Joyce (lnc:ludlng Ulysses}, a selection of poems from the different phases of Yeats's career, plays and Prefoces (essays) b-,, Shaw and nctlon and drama by Beck@tt wlll constitute th@ core readings. 
S3S5/IRST471D:01 Modern Irish Drama {Harris) This co-urse concer-ns both the drama produced by the playwrlghts or the Irish literary .-rn.als~;1nc~ ­Yeats, Synge, Gregory, and O'Casey -~nd the pofltlcal struggle ror Irish Independence th;it wns taking phsce et the same time. Students read the te,cts of the plays ntongslde the reviews they generated and the debates that were taking place at the time In the natlonallst press. Partkular attention Is paid to the relatlonshlp between national and sexual polltlcs, ~nd how repre5entatlons or gender -and audience responses to them -shaped It. 
535B/IRST4?'5:01 Angln...Irish Gothic (Walton) This c-ovrse Is an attempt to Interpret the uses of the uncanny and the sunernatur.11 In Anglo-Jrlsh nctton of the nineteenth century. Readings will Include ghost stories a!'i well a~ Gothle and 'Ala t-r"usf!' fiction (some or It In English disguise). Burke's treatise on the Sublime wlll serve as prologue. Joines Joyce wUI haunt the premises. 
LANGUAGE 

4089/J.RST10J. Be:glnntng It'lsh I (McQulUah) 4269/IRSTl.01 Beginning Irish I (McKibben) 4704/IRS:T101. Beginning Irish I (6 ConchubhaTr) 4310/l'RST102 Beginning Irish II {6 Conchubhalr} 4092/l.RST103 Intermediate [rlsh (McQulllan) Irish Language is orTered at three levels. Beginning lrl5ih r Is an Introduction to ,noele-rn spoken and written Trish, lncludlng the basic prlnciples or grarnma,-and sentence structure, as well ns core 
vocabulary. Emphasis Is placed on the app!k..,.tlon of these prlndples In every day sltui'ltlons. Beginning Irish U places more emphasis an reading slmple t@)l'ts and lntcrmedl;,te Irish lnchtd"'s reading literary works, 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 14, 2003 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXII 

Mmm ... Cheese has "easy" time in 2nd round win 
By MATT LOZAR and 
HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Associate Sports Editor and Sports Writer 
Of all the cheese tvpes on the backs of their shirts, the one that described No. 6 Mmm ... Cheese's victory the best was "easy." 
Dominating on both ends of the court, Mmm ... Cheese cruised into the third round with a 21-2 \.Vin over Press X to Exit the System. 
Mmm ... Cheese allowed only one shot on the defensive end and then got out in transi­tion. On the break, Mmm ... Cheese used no look and behind the back passes to score easily. 
Ahead 11-1 at the half, Mmm ... Cheese slowed down the game to work on playing against Press X's zone, some­thing Mmm ... Cheese expects to see in later rounds. 
"They played zone like a lot of other teams might," Steve Burns said. "With the hard rims, it is hard to make shots out here." 
After the game was over, Mmm ... Cheese worked on their free throws, knowing full well how important they are after last year. 
"One of our players missed a big free throw last year," Burns said. "When we play some smaller teams, they are just going to hang on our big guys so we need to be ready." 
Popcorn Plurs 21, lntercourts 17 
The experience of the Intercourts wasn't enough. 
The group of MBA students couldn't get out of a first-half hole and lost to the Popcorn Plurs in a second round game Sunday afternoon at the Bookstore courts. 
Popcorn Plurs built an 8-4 lead and held off an lntercourts' charge, which got them within one. to be up 11-7 at the half. 
In the second half, Popcorn Plurs continued to keep the comfortable lead and never let the Intercourts get close enough to make them worry. 
Baska Loves Molly 21, Hoop Warriors 6 
The jerseys didn't help them. 
Hoop Warriors came out in an assortment of jerseys but were outhustled by Baska Loves Molly in the second mound. 
Baska Loves Molly simply did all the little things neces­sary to win. On offense, they repeatedly got the rebound and scored on easy put-backs. Off steals on the defensive end, Ilaska Loves Molly ran the fast break using hesita­tions, head fakes and good passing to score some easy baskets and move into the round or 128. 
We're Not as Good as LeBron James, but We Would Still Enjoy a Hummer 21, Team 44 7 
Their bright green shirts matched the headband of the high school senior to whom they are dedicating this tour­nament. We're Not as Good as LeBron James moved the ball extremely well in their victory over Team 44. 
"ThAse are new courts that are not friendly to the shoot­ers," Chad Kohorst said. "We also wanted to use our height advantage." 

Their sharp interior passing throughout the whole game gave We're Not as Good as LeBron James easy transition baskets. Getting numerous run-outs off rebounds, We're Not as Good as LeBron James used the bounce pass to per­fection resulting in a bunch of lay-ups. 
"We played really well but we could play better," Kohorst said. "We have the potential to go places." 
Bye 21, Bye Into the Next Round 8 

Despite similar names, these two teams were nothing alike, as Bye waved Bye Into the Next Round right off the court. Wearing Hawaiian shirts, per­haps wishfully thinking the weather would be warm, Bye Into the Next Round could not compete. Bye Into the Next Round was unable to over­come their lack of offense to give Bye a game. 
Meanwhile, freshman Paul Pogge was Bye Into the Next Round 's worst nightmare. Nailing jumper after jumper, the Hawaiian-clad team guarded him closer. only to watch him blow by them, time and time again. Pogge seemed inspired by the large boom box that was brought by a fel­low Morrissey resident. However, Pogge didn't rest on his laurels afte·r his unpre­dictable performance. 
"My teammates Sean Saari, Tim Fiorta and Paul Switaj all played huge. The crowd was awesome." 
Saari, on the other hand, had other ideas after the vic­tory, as no one could stop Pogge, they could only try to contain him. 
"Paul is a playground leg­end." 
However, Pogge was just having a good time, scoring more than half his team's points. 
"You can't beat bookstore basketball," he said. 
i ; I I 

Above, Laurie Privitera shoots a layup during her bookstore basketball game, Her team "He's Freakish, He's Small ... and He Shoots the Three" defeated "Cowboys and Indian" 21-6. Right, Pat Kurz of "Hoop Warriors" shoots while a member of "Baska Loves Molly,. try to block. 
. 
Photos by 
LISA VELTE 

Roe Sports 21, Stop Me If You Can 7 
Despite their name. Stop Me if You Can was stopped dead in its tracks Saturday after­noon at the Bookstore Courts. Roe Sports was simply too big and too strong for the under­sized, coed team. Despite play• ing hard, Roe Sports dominat­ed the entire game. Stop Me if You Can was never able to get going, as their outside shoot­ers were affected by the strong wind, and they were simply too small to go inside the paint. 
One play summed up the rough day for Stop Me if You Can, as a Roe Sports guard went to save the ball from going out of bounds, and instead the ball went over the backboard and in the hoop. 
Mlchael Jackson's Little Buddies 21, Strippers 8 

Alumni's pre-wake events on Friday night took a toll on the Strippers, as they were domi­nated by Michael Jackson's Little Buddies. Despite their best efforts to distract the other team with their strip­ping antics, the shirtless boys from Alumni could not come through with a win. 
Michael Jackson's Little Buddies continually fast­breakcd, as they got every defensive rebound and ran with it. By the end of the game, the Strippers were just too tired to compete. However, they had their share of good plays, despite their tiredness at 12:30 in the afternoon, as players hit some good shots on the drive. In the end, Michael Jackson's Little Buddies were just the better team that after­noon. 
Rall Splitters 21, Wouldn't You Like to Know 7 
After this game, everyone just wanted to know the secret of the dominating Rail Splitters. They dominated the entire game, as Wouldn't You Like to Know had trouble get­ting into the flow of the game. 

The Rail Splitters went inside almost every play, and with a strong wind blowing, no out­side shots would drop for either team. 
Team 8121, Renegade Angels 12 
The Renegade Angels were anything but angelic on the court Saturday afternoon. Sporting purple shirts, the team of all females aggres­sively competed with Team 81. The Renegade Angels were all over the court, grabbing rebounds and screaming at Team 81 every time they shot. When Team 81 stole the ball and took it coast to coast for a lay up, the crowd booed. The Renegade Angels were the obvious crowd favorite, but despite the support, the ladies in purple couldn't come away with the victory. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu or Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
.... t 

Monday, April 14, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 


Streak 
conlinued from page 24 
six innings of' work. Ile pitched oul of a bas1is loaded jam in ttw fourth inning by rntiring two straight batters al'tcr allowing an HBI single. 
"(Niescl] is so steady. Every time he goes there. it seems he givns us six or seven solid innings," Mainieri said. "Quite frankly, he didn't have his best stuff. but he pitched with a lot of couragci." 
The Irish outlasted Creighton in Sunday's game behind five HBI and four hits from Hdwards and three RBI and four hits from Grogan. Irish starting pitcher Hyan Kalita and the rast of' the Notre Dame pitching staff uncharacteristi­·cnl ly struggled, but Wf're picked up by 18 hits and 13 runs frum their offense. 
Notre Dame took the early lead .!-0 in the second inning on an HBI triple l'rom designat­ed hiltcr Craig Cooper and a RBI double by first baseman Joe Thaman. After Creighton scored in the lrnltmn of the sec­ond to cut thi• lead to 2-1, Notre Dame respouded with a four-run third. Edwards blast­ed a two-run home run and Rizzo and Cooper each had HBI doubles. 
The Bluejays came right back with four runs of their own in the bottom of the inning off Kalila. The senior went 4 1/3 innings. giving up eight earned runs on nine hits. 
Grogan's triple wilh the bases loaded gave the Irish a 10-5 lead in the lirth inning. But once agaih, Creighton matched Notre Dame's runs bv scoring three of Hs own to ge't back within t·wo runs. The Irish added l'llf!S in the seventh and ninth to hold off the Bluejays. 

Irish reliever Matt Laird went 3 1/3 innings to gain his iirst win of'the soason. Senior closer J.P. Gugne came in to close out the ganw and narn the save, his second of' tho weekend. 
Maininri was pleased with the two vit:tori(~S and that his ti~am had a chan cc to truvcl back to Rosenblatt. 
'"We wanted to take the team back for all the freshman this year," Mainieri said. "I felt that if they got a taste or it, it will push them to work a little harder and listen to their coaches a little more. This was an invitation to Omaha, in June we have to cam our right to Omaha." 
Notre Dame returns home to race Central Michigan in a make-up game Monday at 5:05 p.m. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Storlll 
continued from page 24 
Bledsoe's game-winning HBI singlA. · 
Notre Dame could have defeated St. John's by a larger margin, but clutch hitting fal­
tered as the lrish lefl a total or 
14 runners on base in the 12 innings Friday. 
Timely hitting prevailed on Sunday though, as the Irish managed to smack a total of' four home runs. which com­bined for 10 RBIs, off of' Seton llall pitchers. 
"They're all capable of doing that every at bat," Gumpf said of her lineup and their ability lo hit the long ball. "We have a nice group of hitters with some power." 
Third baseman Andrea Loman paced the Irish home run derby with a long ball in each game. 
"[The Seton Hall pitchersI had been throwing all the hitters the same way," Loman said. "I just focused in and waited on my pitches." 
It was a Loman shot that led off the scoring in the third inning of the first game, when she took a Christina Shanko offering over the left field wall. The Irish then played short ball as both Ruthrauff and shortstop Andria Bledsoe connected with singles. 
Huthrauff stole second before Bledsoe's hit, and was replaced by freshman Kellie Middleton, who scampered homo off of Bledsoe's HBI single. After left fielder Liz Hartmann grounded out, first baseman Lisa Mattison connected with another HBI sin­gle that brought Bledsoe home. 
The Irish added a little more offense in the fourth, when cen­ter fielder Megan Ciolli reached · 
base off an error by Pirate pitcher Casey McDevitt. 
McDevitt then walked 
Huthrauff, and both runners 
scored oil' a two-out double by 
Bledsoe. 
The Irish starter Booth 
pitched an amazing gume, giv­
ing up only one hit and allowing 
three walks while striking out 
seven. The one hit came with 
two oul5 in the seventh inning, 
ruining Booth's chances at a no­
hitter in heartbreaking fashion. 
"I had no idea I was pitching 
a no-hitter," Booth said al't1ir­
wards. "The defense was really 
key. We've really startnd to 
conrn together and play as a 
team." 
Booth's win improvnd linr 
record to 12-5 on the season. 
Stenglein had a tough act lo 
follow in game two, but pitched 
an impressive game in her own 
right, allowing orily one 
unearned run in four innings 
pitched. 
"The pitching staff is realizing 
their strengths and also learn­
ing what they need to work on," 
Gumpf said. "They're learning 
to use the batter's weaknesses 
to their advantage." 
But pitching wasn't the domi­
nating !'actor in the game as tlw 
Irish put ten runs up on tlw 
board against Pirate starter 
Megan Meyer, resulting in tlw 
game being called after l'ivn 
innings. 
Loman and Ciolli each belted 
three-run homers, and 
Huthrauff added a solo shot to 
pace the Irish offense, which 
had nine hits and lnl't only fivn 
runners on base. 
"These games were definitely a momentum-builder." Loman said. "It sends a message to tlw rest of the Big East that we're a team to be reckoned with." 
The Irish travel to Hhode 
Island Tuesday to take 011 
Providence in a Big East dou­
bleheader. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Domus 
PROPERTll!S 

OFF CAMPUS HOUSES FOR RENT 
FOR 
2003-2004 

2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT www.domuskranter.co01 
OR CALL 574-315-5032 OR 574-234-2436 ASK FOR KRAMER 
..--•-.. ------------------------------------' 
MENS TENNIS 
Wildcats claw their 
way past Irish 5-2 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
Playing in their last road match of the season. No. 60 Notre Dame fell to No. 12 Kentucky 5-2 Sunday. 
With the fifth loss in their past seven matches, the Irish move to 7-12 on the season. while the Wildcats improved to 
17-10. 
Notre Dame won the first match ol' the day to leave the court. Sophomore Brent D'Amico and junior tri-captain Matt Scott topped Karim 13cnmansour and Matt Emery 8-3. 
But Kentucky rebounded when Evan Austin and Alex llurne won 8-6 over Irish junior Ben Hatten and sophomore Paul McNaughton. The 55th­runked duo of' Rahim Esrnail and Jesse Witten took the uou­blcs point for the Wildcats and set the mo.mentum in their favor when they defeated the Irish tri-captain pair of senior Brian Farrell and junior Luis lladdock. 8-6. 
In singles, the Wildcats quick­1y won the requisite three matches to claim the victory. At the No. 2 !light, Evan Austin defeated Matt Scott, 6-3, 6-0. Then Notre Dame's lladdock, ranked 97th, fell 7-5, 6-3 to No. 16 Witten. Witten was the 2002 NCAA runner-up as a freshman last season. 
With the Wildcats on the verge of victory. the battle at No. 4 between Esmail and Farrell was in its third set. The Irish senior had claimed the first set, 6-2, but Esmail rallied to win the next set, 6-3. In the end, Farrell could not hold on, and Esmail won the linal set 6­2 to give Kentucky the win before the Irish could earn a point. 
After the victory was clinched, Bcnmansour, ranked 100th. def'eated !)'Amico in 6-4 straight sets. 
Notre Dame finally won sonw matches with tho aide ol' junior !\liculas Lopnz-Accvedo and freshman Patrick Buchanan. 
Lupez-Acevedo def'ea ted Emery, 7-6, 6-4. and Buchanan topped Humo 6-4, :-l-6, 6-2 tu make tho final score 5-2. 
Notre Dame will havn its last regular season competition Tuesday when Indiana Stall' comes to tlrn Eck Pavilion. Tlw11 the Irish will have nearly t,vo weeks off before the Big East Championships in Coral Gablns, Fla.. April 25. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 14, 2003 

Lacrosse 
continued from page 24 

stepped up again. Stops on one rnd of" the field gave way lo scor­ing chances 011 offense, and the Irish dominated in the second hall', ouLscoring the falcons 9-1. 
"That's something we've been hoping would be a hallmark for our team, that the defense could keep us in games and give the offense opportunities to make plays." Irish coach K,win Corrigan said. Td like to see us bo more consistent offensively. But I was happy to see us be aggressive." 
Berger, the team's leading goal­scorer with 28, began the offen­sive explosion with three goals in tho third quarter. Senior Kyle l'rlgon tallied one goal and Giordano scored his third and fourth goals. When Giordano then scored his fourth goal of the day with 11 :03 remaining in tho game, senior midfielder Travis Wells scored back-to-back goals off assists from Karweck and defenseman Mickey Blum. !\II of a sudden, the game had gone from a tight 4-3 game to a 12-3 blowout. 
Air force scored one goal to halt the consccutivP Irish goaL'i at eight. but Giordano answered with a goal off an assist from freshman Brian Hubschmann at the 3:50 mark, 
Irish goaltender Stewart Crosland made ten saves on 13 shots in S1 minutes. Senior back­up Nick Antol played nine min­utes and made one save on two shots. 
Even with the win, however, Corrigan belifwes the automatic bid may be out of reach after Ohio State's 11-9 win over Fairfield Sunday. 
"Ohio State 1s 2-0 and we are 3­1 in the league," Corrigan said. "They have three !games) to play, and I can see them struggling with Denver possibly, but I don't see them losing in league at this point." 

Even if Ohio State lost one game, the Buckeyes would still win the tiebreaker with the Irish. Ohio State beat Notre Dame head-to-head 11-5. The GWLL regular season champion receives one of seven automatic bids to the 16-team postseason tournament. 
"Hopefully we can take carp of our business and win these last three games," Corrigan said. "Then, we will have wins over North Carolina and Penn State and hopefully '.\,1aryland, and we will be able to make a serious case for an at-large bid." 
Fairfield is the only GWLL opponent remaining on the frish schedule. That road game and upcoming home games against Harvard and No. 4 Maryland will decide Notre Dame's fate this season. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

WOMENS LACROSSE 

Irish fall hard against two ranked opponents 
before Burker's final score sent 

By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer  the game into overtime. The loss to Stanford was the  
second defeat of the weekend for  
Even after holding the lead at  ·  the Irish, who also lost to No. 3  
some point in both halves and the first overtime, it just wasn't meant to be for the womens lacrosse team when No. 16 Stanford battled back for a 14­13 win in double overtime over  Duke 10-7 on Friday. In that game, Notre Dame also fell behind 3-0 and eventually was down 5-1 before rallying to get within two goals during the mid­dle of the second half at 7-5. The  
the No. 15 Irish at Moose Krause Stadium Sunday. It was another frustrating end­ing for the Irish who dropped to 4-6 on the season. They have  Irish would twice trade goals with the Blue Devils, eventually pulling within 9-7, but they could never quite catch Duke. Simon led the Irish with two  
had opportunities to win in most of their losses, all of which have  goals and an assist against Duke, while Fischer and Foote each  
come to ranked teams. Still, out of those six games, the loss to Stanford might have been the most frustrating. The Irish held the lead most of the  had a goal and an assist. Next up for the Irish will be another game against a ranked opponent, as No. 6 Georgetown will head to Moose Krause  
second half, before Stanford's  Stadium to face the Irish at noon  
Megan Burker tied the game at 11 with 1 :32 left. In the first overtime the Irish took a 13-12 lead on a goal from junior Abby Owen with only 2:03 remaining. After controlling the  on April 19th. The Irish will be looking to give the Hoyas their first Big East loss and to stay in the race for the Big East Championship.  
draw, the Irish turned it over ½ith about 40 seconds to go. The Cardinal capitalized again, with  Contact Andy T roeger at atroeger@nd.edu  CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer Junior midfielder Abby Owen chases down a Stanford player during a 14-13 loss Sunday. The Irish also lost a tough game to No. 3 Duke on Friday, 10-7.  

Julie Calzonetti scoring the equalizer with 18 seconds to go. 
The lone goal of the second overtime came from Stanford's Kelsey Twist with 2:35 to go. The Cardinal was then able to stall through the final minute­and-a-half for the win. 
Senior Danielle Shearer led the Irish with two goals and two assists. Angela Dixon had three goals, while Lauren Fischer, Crysti Foote and Meredith Simon each added two goals. Twist had six points on four goals and two assists for Stanford, while Burker added four goals for the Cardinal. 
The entire game was back and forth, with the score being tied 7-7 at halftime, 11-11 after reg­ulation and 13-13 after the first overtime. 
Stanford jumped out to a 3-0 lead in the first six minutes, but Notre Dame surged back, scor­ing three times in 35 seconds to tie the game. After Stanford jumped out 5-3, the Irish scored four of the next five goals to take a 7-6 lead before Burker tied the game going into halftime. 
In the second half, Notre Dame scored the first two goals to take a 9-7 lead. The teams traded goals to make it 10-8 but Stanford tied the game again at 
10. Simon's se,cond goal on a free position shot made it 11-10 

• We 1>0 Mondays 
½ 
Like No Place Else! 


Enjoy a double order of fajifas (enoueh for fwo) for jusf t11( 



GRILL &BAR 
MISHAWAKA •4810 Grape Road 574-271-1330 
*Offer valid ever Honda 11 a.m. unfil dose.. 
GRADUATE THEN CELEBRATE! 
GC> ­EXPA.ND VC>UR HC>RIZC>NS... 
Jot.n the trt.p o~ a_ lt.~ett.me E n 0 L. a_n d, Fr a_n c e , "fta.L.y $ ~reece l-et thLS be you..r yea.., ~or 
.,/, d L S C O Y e r Y ! 
,>-•~

:-~"~tlEatll~--.,.....
I:'[" ii ! '. • .__,...,--=
.... ­
..,....ay .29 -June 1 4,.. .2003 $ 1 946 + airfar~ 1 7 days -4 count;ries 
Get detailed information on 
Monday, April "14 5-Bpm 
AI1.111111iAs~~ciacic,11 
C:,pe.11 .l-#'c:,1.1.se 
Presented by 
_.:,,, /'.S...':5--r-Ji:~
=1"--~;~­
i-,.,i'.;'i'litRiJi iiiA.M~· 
web: alumnl.nd.edu . ,n-avel e-mail: aluh'lCrav@nd.edu phone: S74.631 .872.4 
Monday, April 14, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
SCHOOL DAZE 
f;:f. IZE1U'2NS... WH~N HAW'# 
and now he's p\'ton~ PNOfCED il"I '100 numbers~ SAU..i 
HAPPY TOWN 

CLARE O'BRIEN 
JF1HIS ~SE su.,ws re 
BEL.AW IOHPKITilBlbW.
--· 

JACK MONAHAN 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGlRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
~Jir! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words 
ESTAE 

b
02003 T ribi,ne Media Servicea, lne. 
AU Ai,ghts He,erved. 
LEETA 
(J I b
tBEJARB 


THAT P051TION AT 
THE CANDY 

FAC.TORY TURNED 
www.11.1mble.com 

OUT TO BE THI<::>,
t
PALLOW t Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J I I J I 

suggested by the above cartoon 
1nm hem: A"[ I I I I]' lI I j 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's ! Jumbles: CHIME CROWN FALTER ABSORB Answer At first, his itch for money made him do this -"SCRATCH" FOR IT 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Gently shitt to a new topic
1 Voting group 5 Ala_ (with 37 Sony Pictures ,ce cream) 
Studio m Culver City, usually 
9 Wedding helper 41 Taboos
14 Singer Horne 42 Prefix with
15 "Be _I" ("Help plasm orme out!") 
morphic16 Stockholm 
43 Wide shoenative width 
17 Horse feed 44 Dele overrider
1a Actress Garr 45 Use cheap
19 Spooky 
materials. say20 Popular 
48 Stratford'sCanadian-born stream 
game show host 50 _culpa
23 "Nope· 51 Response to an
24 "y" ending, in superlative form 
answer 
59 Jazzman Blake Frankenstein's 60 Songwriter workplace Bacharach 25 Dr. 
30 The Pof 
61 Sch. with PANDL 
generals as 34 Enzyme sul!ix alums 
35 Seize 62 Macaroni shape 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
JABSIRAGASICOMP 
A G I O E V I C T I R A Q K U D U P E N T A F A R R E A S T 
E R N A I R L I N E S
,c_
A 
I 
G 
0 T A S P E 
-H 
R s E N 0 T A ST E 
S N A pU A N E D C H P E R 
L I
-p 
M N 
N 
0 
N 0 
I S TA R A 8 C H A R 
R E 0 M E 
S AM I S L U N E 
T T E A L 
E 
A R CH­
C E C I R T 
L E 
N R E T S E w 
HOP TT
'IN I 
'IROSA
AT M S T O T O E O N T V P A S T S T A N D N Y S E 
63 Pricey theater section 64 Bring up, as children 65 Buildings with lofts 66 River of central Germany 67"_ meeny miney mo" 
DOWN 
1 Explode. as a volcano 2 Wife of Jacob 3 Aware of 4 Vegas attraction 5 Infamous 
W.W. I spy 6 European auto 7 Take risks 8 Miracle drink 9 Consumers 
10 Flowering vine 11 Parsley or sage 12 Singer/actress 
Adams 13 Stink 21 Three-stripers 22 Mystery writer 
Josephine 25 Suburban expanses 26" in the Dark" 27 Designer Geottrey 28 Profs' helpers, 
for short 29 d'art 31 See eye to eye 32 Less polite 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puulo by Patrick Merrell 

33 Conservative 45 Comedian Bill, 52 Belly-shaking columnist Alan familiarly dance 53 39-Down, e.g.
36 Ferns reproduce 46 Lacking the skill with them 54 Part of Q.E.D.47 Word with 
55 Basic desire

38 24 hours, for "second" or the earth "laws of' 
56 "So that's what you mean' 39 Stamped return 49 Vantage points 
57 Mideast's Gulf 
env, e.g. 
of

51 Hall-of-Fame 
40 Counter in a car coach Ewbank 58 _ a one (zip) 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card. 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year}. Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Julie Christie, Rod Steiger, Loretta Lynn, John Shea 
Happy Birthday: Your ideas will be cutting-edge, and as long as you don't second­guess yourself, you should be able to pul them into motion. Don't become sidetracked by what those around you are doing. Focus on what you need in your life and how you can obtain it. Your numbers arc 13. 17. 22, 35, 41, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): It's time to make a career change, so gel out 10 all 
the interviews you can set up. Relationships will open up if you have a hca11-to­
heart talk. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Make personal changes. Get involved in ai:1ivitics 
that will jump-start your body. You will see --and like --the results. ***** 
GEMINI {May 21-Junt 20): This is not the day to start something new or 
confront a situation that has been bothenng you. Instead, gel caught up anti finish 
projects that have been hanging over your head. Work by yourself today ** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Spend some lime with liicnds or relatives who offer 
you encouragement. Open up an<l let your thoughts be known. There will he a 
better connection to those you care about. **** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It's time to tum your financial situation around. Talk to 
friends who may nave similar interests and see if you can collahorate to benefit everyone involved. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl-22): You will find it difficult to control your emotions 
today. Not everyone is on the same schedule as you these days. You will have to allow others space to do as they please. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Someone may not be as loyal as you think. Do something that will improve your living quarters. The changes you make will help to raise your spirits. *** SCORPIO (Oct-2J-Nov. 21): Money and love may get you into trouble if you think you have to impress someone by spending a lot. Get out anti meet some interesting people who will take your mind off a non-productive pursuit.**** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You should try to be inconspicuous today. Trouble is brewing on the home front and you don't want to be the brunt of anyone's discontent. ** CAPRICORN (DfC. 22-Jan. 19): Be well-prepared today. Business trips will pay off. Don'l hesitate to pick up and move if it means a promotion. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): This is a great day to make some Financial changes. Follow your innovative ideas. Keep a close lab on your health. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): This could tum into a touch-and-go sort of <lay. especially whereany kin<l of partnership is concerned. You'll have trouble convincing others to go along with your plans. ** 
Birthday Bahy: You will be practical, concerned about others anti always willing to lend a helping hand. You will have an innate ability to reason and to use common sense. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroa<lvice.com. eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
----~--------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name Address ---------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
.. 


PORTS 
Monday, April 14, 2003 
BASEBALL 

Keeping the streak alive 
• Irish extend win streak to 16 with pair of 1-run victories 
By JOE HETTLER 
Spores Ediror 
Notre Dame enjoyed revisit­ing Rosenblatt Stadium over the weekend. They enjoyed sweep­ing a two-game series with Creighton even more. 
The Irish traveled to Omaha, Neb., and the annual site of the College World Series to face Creighton in a two-game series, winning both games, 2-1, 13­
12. The Irish played the first game of the series at Rosenblatt before heading to the Creighton Sports Complex for the second contest. 
In the process, the victories extended Notre Dame's win streak to 16 games. 
The Irish participated in the 2002 College World Series in Rosenblatt Stadium. losing to Stanford twice and beating Rice. It was only the second time Notre Dame had played in the Series. 
"There were a lot of emotions and most of them were very positive emotions," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "It was great being back out on that field. Next to Frank Eck Stadium, that's my favorite place to play in the entire world." 
Notre Dame used two unearned runs in the first inning of game one to jump on top of the Bluejays early. Those runs were enough for right­hander Chris Niese!, who worked six innings and yielded only one run on four hits. Niese! improved to 4-1 on the season. 
Notre Dame scored the first two runs in an interesting first inning. Second baseman Steve Sollmann singled to start the inning and outfielder Brennan Grogan attempted to sacrifice Sollmann to second. However, Creighton starting pitcher Tom Oldham threw the ball off Grogan's back. allowing him to reach first and Soltmann to go to third. First baseman Matt Edwards then grounded to the Creighton shortstop to drive in Sollmann and give the Irish a 1­0 lead. 
After Grogan was thrown out on a double steal, Cody Rizzo ­playing catcher for junior Javy Sanchez who has sat out the past three games with back spasms -was plunked by a pitch before shortstop Matt Macri came through with an RBI single up the middle. 
Staked to a two-run edge, Niese! fought his way through six innings of work. He pitched 
see STREAK/page 21 


ND SOFTBALL 

Irish weather the Storm 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Spom Writer 
For much of this season, it's been the weather that has stopped the Irish from putting wins on the board. 
It's fitting then that they had to beat the Storm this weekend. 
Notre Dame skyrocketed up tho Big East standings after a perfect 4-0 record this weekend against the St. John's Red Storm and the Seton Hall Pirates. Notre Dame defeated St. John's 6-1 and 2-1 Friday and swept Seton Hall by scores of 5-0 and 10-1 Sunday. 
At the start of the weekend, the Irish sat near the bottom of the conference standings with four points off of two wins against Pittsburgh Thursday. After sweeping both St. John's and Seton Hall, the top two teams in the conference, the Irish have suddenly leapt to a total of twelve points -cur­rently tied with St. John's for second -and a record of6-0 in the Big East. Seton Hall holds a narrow two-point lead for first place. 
Notre Dame clicked on all cylinders as they took care of business in impressive fashion. Irish pitchers allowed only ten hits in the four games, and Notre Dame outscored its oppo­nents 23-3 in the two double­headers. 
"We just played two very good teams out there," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "It was great to see our girls hit the ball like they did." 
Notre Dame got things started quickly in Friday's first game against St. John's, when fresh­man Meghann Ruthrauff belted a three-run home run, her sec­ond of the season, to help blow the game wide open. 
Spectacular pitching by Heather Booth, another mem­ber of the Notre Dame's impres­sive freshman class, helped make the job easier on the Irish offense. Booth only allowed one run, while scattering five hits. 
Sophomore Steffany Stenglein pitched an equally impressive game for the Irish in game two, which was important as Irish could muster only two runs. She gave up two hits and one run before giving way to reliever Carrie Wisen, who pitched the rest of the game to pick up the save. 
It was Ruthrauff who factored in on a huge run in the second game, as well. She belted a dou­ble in the fifth inning, which allowed her to score on Andria 
see STORM/page 21 
MENS LACROSSE 

Giordano makes it two in a row for Irish 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Behind a career-high five goals from midfielder Brian Giordano and solid defense, the Notre Dame mens lacrosse team (7-4, 3-1 in the GWLL) swept a two­game home stand by defeating Great Western Lacrosse League opponent Air Force (2-7, 0-2) 13­4 Saturday afternoon at Moose Krause Stadium. 
The No. 20 Irish were heavy favorites over Butler on Thursday and over Air Force Saturday. Still, Notre Dame needed both wins to stay in the hunt for a league title and an automatic birth into the postseason. 
Air Force began strong and held a 2-1 lead at the end of the first quarter. For the second straight game the Notre Dame defense held its own until a .slow offense could find a rhythm. 

Freshman attackman Pat Walsh scored the lone goal of the first quarter at the 9:24 mark off an assist from sophomore mid­fielder Chris Richez. Walsh fin­ished with a goal and three assists. 
Notre Dame added two more goals in the second quarter but still went into halftime trailing 4­
3. Walsh assisted on goals by Giordano and junior Dan Berger. and freshman Matt Karweck net­ted an unassisted goal at the 4:23 mark. 
With the offense on the board but struggling, the defense 
see 1ACROSSE/page 22 

WOMENS LACROSSE 
MENS TENNIS 
BOOKSTORE 

WOMENS TENNIS 
TRACK & FIELD

SMC TENNIS 
Stanford 14 
Kentucky 5 
Miami 6 
Competition gets 
The Irish qualify 58
Notre Dame 13 
Notre Dame 2 

Belles win 1 of 3 in 
Notre Dame 1 
intense as Bookstore 
athletes for the Big East

Midwest Invitational 
baskteball enters the 
Tournament at the Tom
Duke 10 
Irish lose a tough 

over the weekend. 
The 25th ranked 
second round of compe-
Botts Invitational. 
Notre Dame 7 
match and fall to 7-12 

Hurricanes out-muscle 
titian.
on the season. 
the Irish. 
l!Lm !; 
page 16

en 
page 18
page 20 

page 18
page 22 
page 21 

... 








