
VOL. XXXVII NO. 104 
STUDENT SENATE 
Senate questions department changes 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
News Writer 
Senators unanimously approved a letter voicing student reaction to !.he impending changes to the Department of Economics at Wednesday's meeting. 
Jeremy Staley, Sorin sena­tor, presented a letter his committee drafted regarding the recent decision to divide the Department of Economics into two separate departments. 
"We felt it was our duty to take a leadership position. Everyone agrees students should participate in deci­sions that affect them. We wanted to guarantee [the administration) heard what students thought," Staley said. 
This letter addresses the need for changes in the department in order to bet­ter qualify economics majors for graduate school, as well as better prepare them for the academic rigor of gradu­ate schools. It also address­es concern that any changes in the Economics Departme.nt will affect the retention of talented profes­sors. 
The letter states there are outstanding professors in the department. as evident by the student-elected recip­ient of last year's Frank O'Malley Teaching Award, Jennifer Warlick. The Senate's Academic Affairs Committee is concerned that 
any changes made to the structure of the department will estrange current profes­sors and pose a hindrance to any improvements in the degree program that need to be made. 
Staley hopes this letter will bring attention to the need for student voice in major decisions regarding their education. 
"We want to ensure a stu­dent voice in the next deci­sion that affects students. We want to create a dia­logue between administra­tion and students," Staley said. 
Senate unanimously approved this letter, which will be sent to University President Father Edward Malloy and to the Executive Committee of the Academic Council. 
Staley said this letter comes as a response to the lack of student input involved in making decisions in this situation. 
In other Senate news: 
. 
The Senate unanimously approved nominees for the three top positions of the Student Union Board for the 2003-04 school year. Those approved include, Charles Ebersol, board manager, Kimberly Zigich. director of programming and Lauren Meagher, chief controller. 

. 
The Senate unanimously approved the two nominees 


see CHANGES/page 4 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

KNOCKOUT PUNCH 

By JOE TROMBELLO News Writer 
Barry Steinhardt, associate director of the American Civil Liberties Union, highlighted the risks that increased monitoring has on individual rights in his lecture, "Bigger Monster, Weaker Chains: The Growth of an American Surveillance Society." 
His talk was based on the mid-January report the ACLU released expressing its concern with the growing capabilities of technology to track American citizens' every move. 
"We are at a point where pri­vacy in America is at a great risk," he said. 
Steinhardt, inaugural director of the ACLU's Program on Technology and Liberty and a member of the US delegation to the G-8 summit on cyber crime, began his speech by describing the futuristic, surveillance soci­ety depicted in Steven Spielberg's "Minority Report" while illustrating that current technology has made possible the violations of privacy and other adverse ramifications that the movie portrays. 
"What the film depicts is what we called in our report the sur­veillance society -a society in which every movement, utter­ance, action -even our thoughts -can be tracked and monitored," Steinhardt said. 
Steinhardt mentioned the numerous ways in which new technology and government leg­islation have contributed to the rise of a society that values and uses surveillance to undue extremes. In particular, Steinhardt explained the Total Information Awareness 
see STEINHARDT/page 4 

SMC elects class officials, high turnout reported 
Desiree Paulin and Kris Spriggle as their class presi­dent and vice president. 
"We're so excited that we won, but what's even more amazing is that over halt' of the class voted." said Paulin. "It projects that our class may be very participatory next year." 
they look forward to an excit­ing and successful senior year. 
Of the 38 percent of sopho­mores who voted, 69 percent elected Sarah Catherine White and Mary Pauline Moran as their junior class president and vice president. The 
Pernotto/Kierl ticket 

Mary 
"We're so excited that we received 26 percent
Leppert of the vote, while w i I I won, but what's even five percent serve as abstained.
more amazing is that 
the new "The voter turnout 
over halfofthe class 
senior was impressive and c I a s s voted." we'd like to thank secre-those who voted. It's tary and so important that
Mary Pauline Moran
B e ts y everyone in our 
sophomore class president
Mitchell class has a voice," as class said White. "The treasur-increase in voter er. turnout is definitely a reflec­
The elected Paulin/Spriggle tion of growing class involve­ticket will now focus on estab­ment." Iishing a diverse and hark­working board, and they said 
see ELECTION/page 4 By EMILY BRAMMER 


News Writer 
Saint Mary's students turned out in large numbers to cast their votes for class leadership positions. 
According to Alison Joseph, Board of Governance elections commissioner, the voter turnout was amazing for all three classes. Fifty­two percent of upcoming seniors participated in the online election. along with 38 percent of sophomores and 46 percent of freshman. 
"The increase in voter turnout could definitely be due to the convenience of online voting," said Joseph. "But the candidates also did a very good job campaign­ing, which really helped raise voter awareness and participation." 
Upcoming seniors elected 
Thursday, February 27, 2003 

page 2 The Observer . "WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& BUSINESS
Need a cab? 
VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTS
NEWS NATION NEWS 
Need a cab? You're in the wrong place. 
Let's be reasonable -nobody likes taking a cab and cabbies are, in general, a shady lot, prone to bouts of abra­
siveness and body odor. It really isn't a true cab ride unless the car is a little dirty, the driver arrives a few minutes late and you're slightly 

overcharged. 
Andrew Thagard
Still, it's a news flash to no one that cabs in 
Wire Editor 
South Bend are a 
little below aver­
age. I can't con­
firm this, but it may be a city-wide 
ordinance that South Bend cabs 
must be built before 1974, that cab 
drivers must be chain smokers and 
that the dispatcher answers the 
phone on a limited basis. 
The South Bend area has five major cab companies, including ABC, City, Michiana. Shamrock and Yellow. As a junior, I have taken cabs numerous times, mostly to and from the airport over breaks. I can recommend none of them. I have ridden in cabs from each company, had bad experiences with all of them, vowed never to use them again and then called back despite this promise. 
I have taken cabs encased in mud, ridden in cars with strange townies that just seem to be along for the ride with no apparent desti­nation and called one company only to be picked up by another. Interestingly enough, of all the · times I've been driven from my dorm to the airport I have never been charged the same fee twice despite the fact that the distance doesn't appear to be changing. 
The main problem I have with cabs. however, is the dishonesty factor. Need a cab to anywhere? It'll be there in 15 minutes. 
Riiiiight. 

When you call back 30 minutes later to check up on its status it's still on the way -just another 15 minutes. The cab will not be there in a quarter of an hour. It is not on its way. There may not even be a cab. 
Why then, why this insanity? Just tell us that it's not coming. We'll call a different company, we'll make other arrangements, we'll walk there. Just be honest, please. 
But that's wishful thinking I'm afraid. 
A word to the wise: Spring Break is less then two weeks away. Don't start your break on a bad note. Find a friend to drive you to the airport, hitchhike, bundle up and walk, but whatever you do don't take a cab. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at atha­gard@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In ~rerday's article "Sharon remembered in campus Mass: Hundreds attend memorial Mass held in Basilica," Cedric Alvarez was incorrectly recognized as Chad Sharon's Resident Assistant. Dane Paulsen was actually Sharon's R.A. The Observer regrets the error. 
Federal court 
Students 
Columnist 
Redskins let
Drury lectures 

Bush rejects 
celebrates
charges two 

weigh in on 
one of NFL's
on danger of 

Canadian 
top running
former Kmart 
affirmative 
animation
date rape at 

deadline for 
backs go
VPs 
action 
comeback
Saint Mary's 

Iraq to disarm 
Notre Dame 
The Washington

A court indicted 
Scene Columnist
Patrick Drury, 

President Bush 
two former Kmart 
seniors debate the 
Jack Watkins dis­
Redskins released
SOS advocate coor­

rejected a Canadian 
cusses the renais­

vice-presidents on 
pros and cons of 
Stephen Davis, the
dinator, led a dis­

proposal that gives 
sance of animation, 
No. 3 all-time rush­

federal charges that 
affirmative action
cussion on date 

Iraq until the end 
claim their actions 
and the 
citing films like 
er to beat a Friday
rape at Saint 

of March to disarm. 
inflated the compa­
University's deci­
"Shrek," "Spirited 
deadline to get
Mary's Wednes­

Bush said that 
ny's earnings. 
Away" and "Ice 
under the $75 mil­

sion to join a suit
day. Drury empha­

Saddam Hussein 
against Bush's 
Age" as proof. 
lion budget cap. 
sized that a woman 

must disarm with­
recent decision. 
cannot prevent a 

out delay. 
rape. 

page 7
page3 

page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Lecture with Jamil Mahuad. former president of Ecudaor, 4:15 p.m. at The llcsburgh Center, Boom C­103. 

. 
Photography exhibit, "Girl Culture: Lauren Greenfield Photographs,'' all day at The Snitc Museum of Art. 

. 
Lecture by Girard Sagmiller. "Dyslexia: My Life," 7 p.m. at Debartolo Hall, Hoom 101. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Lily Campaign Mardi Gras Celebration, 11 :45 a.m. at Stapleton Lounge. 

. 
Art Exhibit. "Women in Holography,'' all day at the '.Vloreau Art Gallery. 

. 
Women of Faith Conference, Friday, 2 p.m. at Stapleton 


page 11 
page 13 
page 15 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Public intoxication citation issued 
NDSP issued a citation for public intoxication at the Main Gate. The case is currently being referred for administrative review. 
Employee sustains injury 
A University employee working in a Food Services Support Facility was transported for treatment of a laceration. 
Telephone call under investigation 
NDSP is investigating an alleged telephone harassment complaint that occurred in the land­scaping department. 
Student vehicle towed 
A Notre Dame student's vehicle was towed from main circle for a parking violation. 
Unlocked bike reported stolen 
A student reported that his unlocked bike was stolen from outside of the Coleman-Morse Center. 
NDSP continues vandalism investigation 
NDSP is continuing to investigate a case of van­dalism at Fischer Hall. Currently, suspect informa­tion is being developed. 
Lounge. 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Texas chili, minestrone soup, cream of broccoli soup, french onion soup, mushroom stroganoff, pep­peroni, cheese, vegetable, and chicken fajita pizzas, tuna casserole, blueberry pancakes, vegetable eggroHs, pork fried rice, chicken taco and chicken and cheese chimichanga. 
Today's Dinner: Pepperoni, cheese, vegetable and chicken fajita pizzas, minestrone soup, Texas chili, cream of broccoli soup, tomato soup, grilled pork chops, grilled tiliapia, baked noodle casserole, sesame chicken breast, veg­etable eggrolls, chicken taco, California rancho rice and portabello fajita. 
TODAY TONIGHT 
= 
w 
:I: 
ti 
;:w 
..J 


~ 
I( (.) 

..I0 HIGH 27 HIGH 27 LOW 8 LOW 25 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Linguine with vegeta­bles, sausage calzones, honey-garlic pork chops, rotisserie chicken, herb­backed pollock, scalloped corn casse­role, wild rice with pine nuts, tangy grilled chicken sandwich, soft pretzels, szechwan vegan noodles and Caribbean BBQ chicken wings. 
Today's Dinner: Sausage calzones, grilled ham steak, beef potato pie, lemon-baked perch, Jamaican-jerked pork loin, BBQ chicken, scallop and veg­etable stir-fry, beef and pepper casse­role and flame-roasted fiesta corn and peppers. 
FRJDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 34 HIGH 35 LOW 23 LOW 26 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Vegan burritos, Mexican rice, herbed pasta, sandwich provincial, fried rice bar, chicken ten­ders, rolled broccoli pizza, cheese pizza. grilled beef, turkey breast, Asian veg­etable soup and Canadian cheese soup. 
Today's Dinner: Fettuccine pasta, sweet potato biscuits, tortellini, Texas style brisket, chicken fajita and cheese pizzas, vegetable and cheese chimichanga and briyani rice and cashews. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 38 HIGH 33 LOW 18 LOW 23 

Atlanta 45 / 40 Boston 29 / 22 Chicago 30 / 20 Denver 33 / 20 Houston 55 / 41 Los Angeles 62 / 47 Minneapolis 30 / 19 New York 31 / 25 Philadelphia 30 / 27 Phoenix 62 / 48 Seattle 51 / 39 St. Louis 31 / 21 Tampa 81 / 62 Washington 30 / 28 
Thursday, February 27, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Drury lectures on danger of date rape at SMC 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saint Mary's Ediror 
In conj unction with Madison llospital's SOS rape crisis center. Saint Mary's security held a date rape pre­vention discussion to educate students about preventative steps that can be taken to decrease the chance of date rape occurring. Patrick Drury, SOS advocate coordi­nator. led the discussion. 
Drury began the discussion by asking if it is even possible for a woman to prevent rape. According to Drury it is impossible for a woman to prevent a rape from occur­ring lo her, but there are cer­tain behaviors that can result in risk reduction. 
"The only way a woman can prevent rape is by choosing not to rape someone else," he said. 
Drury said 90 percent of rape survivors are women and men commit 99 percent of all rapes. He, however, pointed out that men are rape victims, too. Drury also said that one in three women in the U.S. is raped and that one in four college-aged 
women  been  raped  or  
assaulted.  
"Most times these  are  not  

crimes of sex, but crimes of power and control through using sex," Drury said. 
Sexual assaul~ is defined as conduct of a sexual or inde­cent nature toward another person that is accompanied by actual or threatened phys-ical force or that induces to Drury there are four situa­cent of women raped knew fear, shame or mental suffer­tions in which it is legally their attackers for at least a ing. This can include rape impossible to give sexual con­year. Drury said there are no and attempted rape, child sent: if you are intoxicated, big signs to look for and that molestation, incest, sexual mentally handicapped, under there are no warnings typical harassment, obscene phone the legal age limit, or uncon­of a rapist. calls and indecent exposure. scious or asleep. However, Drury said that According to Drury, rape is a "If you don't have the free­there are risk reduction sexual assault, but not all dom to say no, you don't have actions that women can take sexual assaults are rapes. the option to consent," Drury when in social situations. 

An important aspect to said. Reducing alcohol intake, determining what constitutes Drury acknowledged that watching your drink being a rape is finding whether most rapes occur in everyday poured and protecting it are consent was given. According situations and that 84 per-all ways to reduce risk. 
Taking these actions can also protect potential victims of date rape drugs, such as GHB or Rohypnol. 
Until recently. date rape drugs were completely odor­less, tasteless, colorless and easily dissolved in liquids. Scientists have added certain chemicals to GHB and Hohypnol so that there are not easily used as a date rape drug. Rohypnol is now manu­factured so that it will turn blue in liquids and GHB is made so that it leaves a salty aftertaste. Drury said if there is any suspicion of these drugs being used, it is best just to pour the drink out. 
According to Drury, if someone tells you they have been raped, one of the f'irst things to do is make sure they arc safe and to suggest that they go to a hospital. If a victim goes to a hospital within 72 hours of being raped evidence can still be collected and the victim will also be tested for STD's, tre a tcd for i nj uric s and receive counseling. 
"Every woman acts differ­ently," he said. "It is impor­tant to listen to them, talk less and listen more." 
Drury also said it is impor­tant to believe what you are told and that you don't blame her or allow her to blame herself. 
He ended his discussion by pointing out that every hour, 28 women are raped in the U.S. 
"While we sat here for the past hour and a half, 42 women have just been assaulted," Drury said. 
Saint Mary's students that have raped can contact cam­pus security by dialing exten­sion 5000 or using any of the blue light phones on campus. Students can also dial 911 from any phone on campus. 
In 2001, there was one forcible rape and two inci­dents of forcible fondling reported. This school year there has been one forcible rape reported to campus security in September. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 



page4 The Obseroer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 27, 2003 
Steinhardt 
continued from page l 
Program (fIAP), a currently on­hold government program run by Adm. John Poindexter that plans to collect volumes of pri­vate information on every citi­zen. 
"The notion of TIAP is very ominous," he said. "Tho gov­ernment is going to collect huge volumes of information about us ... everything about us ... [and is] somehow going to be able to predict future dangers on the basis of all this informa­tion. Spielberg's nightmare of 2054 is Poindexter's dream of 2003," Steinhardt said. 

In addition to this and other similar government programs, Steinhardt described the tech­nological advances that will contribute to the growth of a surveillance society. He men­tioned a proposal by Washington, D.C. police to install large spreads of surveil­lance cameras to monitor the population and also mentioned technological developments like face recognition and genetic capabilities that would further increase the amount of infor­mation the government could possess about each citizen and the surveillance that could be conducted. Steinhardt also said that laws protecting citizens from undue surveillance are no longer functional. 
"As the surveillance monster grows stronger every day, we weaken the chains that keep it from entangling our lives. The body of law that prevents us from (invasions of privacy) is still very much in the legal era of the stone age," he said. 
Steinhardt also said society lacks the ability to examine the larger picture of the rise of sur­veillance and monitoring, pre­ferring to examine specific pro­posals or technological advancements rather than con­sidering the larger effect that such privacy invasions could have on America's citizens. 
"What has been lacking is looking at the bigger picture, an attempt to step back and say what kind of society are we cre­ating, what is the consequence of [surveillance programs]." Steinhardt said. 
In addition, he mentioned 
from OIT. This meeting, said Norman, included dis­
Changes 

cussion on the segregated bandwidth policy currently
continued from page 1 in place at OIT. 

for next year's assistant OIT officials said they are student looking u n i o n into con­
'We want to ensure a stu­
treasur­necting 
e r s , dent voice in the next deci­
w i t h Claire sion that affects downtown Fadel and students.,, Chicago in 
Matthew order to

Jeremy Staley
Kinsella. facilitate 
. Jesse Sorin senator 
greaterNorman, bandwidth 
O'Neill 

for the senator, University.reported to the Senate on Norman said they also dis­his meeting with officials cussed increasing publicity that although individuals' liber­ties are continuing to be cur­tailed, citizens are not being offered any means to protect themselves from these viola­tions. 
"The reality of all this ... is in exchange for this loss of liberty we are not being offered any more security," he said. 
By beginning to examine the larger picture of the creation of a surveillance society, by reviv­ing the Fourth Amendment and enforcing regulations on the government's use of new tech­nological advancements and by enacting laws that protect per­sonal privacy, Steinhardt said the problems associated with the rise of a surveillance society could be curtailed. 
Steinhardt's lecture was fund­ed in part vvith a grant from the Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning's Fund for the Improvement of Post Secondary Education. The Reilly Center for Science, Technology and Values, the Law School and the Computer Applications Program also sponsored his.talk. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 
to students regarding where they can find help with computer problems. 
. Senate unanimously passed an amendment regarding the election of off-campus Senators. The former policy stated that Senators had to reside off­campus in order to run for the position. The new amendment states that stu­dents who live on-campus, but will reside off-campus for their entire term as senator, may run for the position. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 
:···································------·---····································~···-·--·············~---·
.
.........  Domus PROPERTIES  
OFF CAMPUS  
HOUSES  
FORRENT  
FOR  
2003-2004  
2004-2005  
SCHOOL YEAR  
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT  
domuskrametcom  
. ...  
OR CALL  
574-315-5032 OR 574-234-2436  
ASK FOR KRAMER  

Election 
continued from page l 
Along with Meghan Hargrave, the newly-elected class secretary, and Molly Welton, class treasurer, White and Moran said they can now focus on serving their class. 
"With the many talents in our class, the possibilities are endless. It will be a privilege to serve our class and we are looking forward to bringing everyone together junior year," said White. "As we become upperclassmen, I have confidence that we will all lead the school by our enthusiasm and example." 
The freshman class elected Michelle Fitzgerald and Amy Oliva as their sophomore class president and vice pres­ident. Erin McQueen and Kellye Mitros joined them as class secretary and treasur­er. The Bauer/Goers ticket captured 30 percent of the vote, while 4 percent abstained. 
"The victory is exhilarating, and we're really excited to have the opportunity to serve," said Fitzgerald, sophomore class president elect. "It's an honor." 
With their campaign and election behind, the newly elected sophomore class offi­cers said they will now con­centrate on pulling together a diverse class board that best represents their class. 
Contact Emily Brammer at 
bram350l@saintmarys.edu 
Write for Observer News. Call Helena at 631­5323. 

The ND Department of Music Presents 
A Senior Rectial 
Angela Zawada, soprano 
w/ Kathy Keasey, piano Performing songs by Purcell, Bellini, Schumann, and more! 
Sunday, March 2, 2003 
1:30 pm, Carey Auditorium 
Hesburgh Library Free and open to the public 
NEED A JOB FOR THE 2003-2004 ACADEMIC YEAR? 
~o~' tO~ 
\Y'~ 

oO~ 
\,: 
~~~1­


THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE IS NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR ALL POSITIONS: 
24 Hour Lounge Monitors Ballroom Monitors Building Set Up Crew Information Desk Attendants Lafortune Building Managers ND Cake Service ND Express Attendants 
Program Assistants 
Sound Technicians 

Stepan Center Managers 
Student Activities Office Assistants 
Applications available outside the Student Activities Office 31 S Lafortune or on-line at www.nd.edu/~sao/office/jobs. ' 
APPLICATIONS DUE MARCH 28. 
··~·································································-···-·································· 
WORLD & NATION 
Thursday, February 27, 2003 COMPILED FHOM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Bush rejects Canadian deadline for Iraq to disarm 
Associated Press 
WASI-IINGTON 

The Bush administration on Wednesday rejected a (;anadian plan to set an end-of-March deadline for Iraq to disarm, say­ing a decision on military force cannot be delayed. President Bush said Saddam I lussein must comply "one way or the other." 
Expanding his case against the Iraqi leader, Bush accused Saddam of being a menace Lo peace in the Middle East. "The danger with Iraq is that [Saddam) can strike in the neigh­borhood," Bush told Hispanic leaders at the White House. 
Later, addressing a conserva­tive Lhink tank in Washington, the president outlined his plans for bolh the Middle East and Iraq after Saddam. 
Bush's remarks were part of an administration-wide cam­paign to try to swing reluctant allies behind a U.S.-British­Spanish resolution that would authorize war unless Saddam quickly rids Iraq of weapons of mass destruction. 
There was some evidence that Bush was gaining ground, including signals that Mexico would back the resolution at the 
U.N. Security Council, where the United States needs nine of 15 votes and no veto. But new obstacles emerged, including the Canadian compromise plan that threatened to siphon votes from 
Bush. Saddam is trying Lo convince 
U.N. nations that he is complying with their anti-arms resolutions. despite what the United States says is ample evidence that he is not. In a rare interview with a 
U.S. journalist, Saddam dis­missed U.S. efforts to encourage his exile. 
.. We will die here," Saddam told CBS TV's Dan Rather. 
While State Department offi­cials fanned out across the world to press Bush's case, the presi­dent met with Azerbaijan leader Geidar Aliev. The country, 250 miles northeast of Iraq, has backed U.S. calls for Saddam's disarmament. 
Bush spoke by telephone with Prime Minister Peter Medgyessy of Hungary and Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien. 
The Canadian leader is trying to bridge bitter differences posed by Bush's war-making resolution and a French-Russian-German proposal to continue weapons inspections until at least July. 
Chretien's plan would give Iraq until the end of March to com­plete a list of remaining disar­mament tasks identified by U.N. weapons inspectors. 
Coolly receiving the plan, State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said it "only procrasti­nates on a decision we all should be prepared to take." 
Aides said Bush fears the Canadian proposal would serve only to string out the confronta-

President Bush shakes hands with Attorney General John Ashcroft after remarks to the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative think tank. Bush used the opportunity to reiterate his desire for a timely regime change In Iraq. 
tion with Saddam, who they say A senior Defense Department on condition of anonymity, said is playing for time. official said it will cost $60 bil­the State Department and relat­
"He is a master of disguise and lion to $85 billion for military ed agencies are discussing for­delay," the president said of operations in Iraq and else­eign aid and diplomatic activities Saddam. "Saddam will be dis­where. ranging from $12 billion to $18 armed one way or the other." Another official, also speaking billion. 
E-mails reveal NASA engineers' concerns about shuttle 
Associated P rcss 
WASHINGTON 
One day before the Columbia disaster, senior NASA engineers raised concerns the shuttle's left wing might burn off and cause the deaths of the crew, describing a scenario much like the one investiga­tors believe happened. They never sent their warnings to NASA's brass. 
"Why are we talking about this on the day before landing and not the day after launch?" wrote William C. Anderson, an employee for the United Space Alliance LLC, a NASA contractor, less than 24 hours before the shuttle broke apart. 
After intense debate -occurring by phone and e-mails -the engineers, supervisors and the head of the space agency's Langley research facility in Hampton, Va., decided against taking the matter to top NASA managers. 
Jeffrey V. Kling, a flight controller at Johnson Space Center's mission control, foresaw with haunting accuracy what might happen to Columbia during its fiery descent if superheated air pene­trated the wheel compartment. 
Kling wrote just 23 hours before the disaster that his engineering team's rec­ommendation in such an event "is going to be to set up for a bailout [assuming the wing doesn't burn off before we can get the crew out]." Kling the following day was among the first in mission con­trol to report a sudden, unexplained loss of data from the shuttle's sensors in the left wing. 
The e-mails released Wednesday describe a far broader discussion about the risks to Columbia than the concerns first raised three days earlier by Robert Daugherty, a NASA senior research engineer at Langley. He was mostly con­cerned about the safety of the shuttle landing with flat tires or wheels dam­aged from extreme heat. 
Among the messages was one from Daugherty's boss at Langley, Mark J. Shuart, to another Langley supervisor, Doug Dwoyer, describing Daugherty as "the kind of conservative, thorough engineer that NASA needs." 
One e-mail, from R.K. "Kevin" McCluney, a shuttle mechanical engi­neer at Johnson Space Center, described the risks that could lead to "LOCY" ­NASA shorthand for the loss of the crew and vehicle. But McCluney ultimately recommended to do nothing unless there was a "wholesale loss of data" from sensors in the left wing, in which case controllers would need to decide between a risky landing and bailout attempt. 
"Beats me what the breakpoint would be between the two decisions," McCluney wrote. 
Investigators have reported such a wholesale loss of sensor readings in Columbia's left wing, but it occurred too late to do anything -after the shuttle was already racing through Earth's upper atmosphere and moments before its breakup. 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
N. Korea reactivates nuclear reactor: 
North Korea has reactivated a reactor at its main nuclear complex, the tirst step toward production of additional nuclear weapons, U.S. officials said Wednesday. Pyongyang currently has the ability to produce five or six plutonium bombs from 8,000 spent fuel rods in a matter of a few months. The new step, disclosed by two sources familiar with the North's military activities, could enable them to build additional weapons in about a year. 
House of Commons supports Blair: 
British lawmakers on Wednesday hacked Tony Blair's determination to disarm Iraq, but rebels from his own Labor Party mounted their biggest challenge to the prime minister since he came to power in 1997. While the government carried two votes decisively, the los­ing dissenters made a stronger-than-expected show­ing, underlining the strength of opposition to war among Britons and within Blair's party. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Supreme Court favors abortion protesters: 
In a victory for abortion foes, the Supreme Court ruled Wednesday that federal racketeering and extor­tion laws were wrongly used to try to stop blockades. harassment and violent protests outside clinics. The 8-1 ruling lifts a nationwide ban on protests that interfere with abortion clinic business. Abortion rights supporters said they fear the ruling will lead to a reprise of screaming matches and physical con­frontations outside clinics. 
Loved ones mourn nightclub victims: 
Grief-stricken friends and relatives of Providence, R.I. said goodbye Wednesday to two men who perished in the Station nightclub fire, while members of the rock band Great White arrived to tell a grand jury their version of how it all began. More than 200 people crowded into a Pawtucket funeral home to pay tribute to Dennis Smith, 36, who had gone to the nightclub concert because a friend had an extra ticket. 
Court indicts 4 for sending $4M to Iraq: 
Four Arab men were indicted Wednesday on federal charges they illegally sent at least $4 million to Iraq through a Syracuse-area charity called Help the Needy. Separately, a University of Idaho graduate student was indicted for allegedly failing to disclose on his visa appli­cation his relationship with an organization that oper­ates Web sites praising suicide bombings. The prime minister emphasized that the House of Commons vote was not about whether Britain should go to war against Saddam Hussein -he said it was too soon to decide. 
Fire spreads through nursing home: 
A suspicious fire ripped through a I-lartford, Conn. nurs­ing home before daybreak Wednesday, killing 10 people and forcing 100 residents -some of them bedridden, elderly and confused -into the freezing cold. Police said they wanted to question a resident about the blaze. The fire at the Greenwood Health Center also injured 23 people, seven critically. 

page 6 

Design chosen 
for Trade Center 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
A cluster of sloping, angular buildings with a 1,776-foot spire that would be the tallest in the world was chosen Wednesday as the blueprint to redevelop the World Trade Center site, The Associated Press has learned. 
Architect Daniel Libeskind's design beat a plan by an inter• national design team known as THINK, which envisioned two 1,665-foot latticework towers straddling the foot­prints of the original towers, said a source familiar with the selection. An official announcement is expected Thursday. 
The choice of the soaring design, which pays homage to the year America declared its independence, was made by a committee of representatives from the Lower Manhattan Development Corp., the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and the offices of the governor and mayor. 
Both Gov. George Pataki and Mayor Michael Bloomberg favored the Llbeskind plan, an important factor in the deci­sion, said the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
LMDC Chairman John Whitehead telephoned Libeskind with the news, the source said, telling the archi­tect his "vision has brought hope and inspiration to a city still recovering from a terrible tragedy." 
Libeskind, who is based in Berlin, declined comment. The source said he told the LMDC chairman that being selected is 'a life-changing experience.' 
Deciding what to do with the 16-acre site in Lower Manhattan has been wrench­ing at times. Relatives of the nearly 2,800 people who died at ground zero called for memorials with a sense of respect and grace, while busi­ness officials and others said the city cannot afford to lose too much office space. 
The Libeskind design called for 70 stories of offices, with airy 'gardens of the world' beckoning tourists above office level. It included five starkly geometrical towers and sever­al smaller cultural buildings around the foundations of the fallen towers. 
The plan, which may under­go revisions, also called for a Park of Heroes, and a memori­al encompassing the footprints of the fallen towers. The spire was designed to house a gar• den all the way to its top, and not office space, because 'gar­dens are a constant affirma­tion of life,' Libeskind said in December. 
He has estimated the cost of building his design at $330 million. 
Developer Larry Silverstein, who owns the lease on the trade center site, said earlier this month he was not satisfied with either plan. 
Howard Rubenstein. a 
spokesman for Silverstein, said Wednesday he "has great respect for the architect," and looks forward to working with him to "get this project mov• 
ing." 
Rubenstein said Silverstein had no comment on the ele­ments of the plan. 

The design competition was launched after an initial set of plans, released in July, was derided as boring and over­stuffed with office space. Nine. proposals were unveiled Dec. 
18. 
The two finalists each fea­tured buildings surpassing Malaysia's 1,483-foot Petronas Twin Towers, the tallest in the world. The World Trade Center towers stood 1,350 feet tall, and would have had to be 35 stories taller to equal Libeskind's spire. A small number of telecommunications towers would still be taller than the spire. 
After the two finalists were chosen, both were asked to revise their designs to make them more easily realized. Libeskind, whose original design called for a memorial 70 feet below ground, report­edly changed that to 30 feet, allowing for infrastructure and transportation underneath. 
·~··············································· 
: · Univers·ity Resources · : .: • 
for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
COIIIWITTl'.E OH 
GAY AND l.a81AN STUN.NT N&llD8 

The Standing Committee on Gay and 
•

Lesbian Student Needs (Confidential infonnation, education, and resources) 
Contact· Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students 
.and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 l@nd.edu 
Univ~tsity Counseling (:enter 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more infonnation, check out our web site: http://www.nd.ed11/-scgls1W' 
¦ 

¦ . 
¦ 

• ¦ 
The Observer . NEWS Thursday, February 27, 2003 
BENGAL BOUTS 
LISA VEL TE/The ObseNer 

Shelley Skiba, left, spars with Lauren Conti In the second set of exhibition bouts by the Notre Dame women's boxing club. Wednesday was the last day of women's bouts for this year's 
Bengal Bouts. 

Thursday, February 27, 2003 COMPILED FROM TIIE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch February 26 
Do-ones 
<?:flt

7,806.98 -102.52 
NASDAQ 

1,303.68 -25.30
•
S&P500 

827.55 -11.02
•
AMEX 

826.82 -1.76 
NYSE 

4,653.98 -59.40
•

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
N'.RTEL NElWN<S (NT) +1.46+0.03 2.08 i~;;g111:¦J!lllilill,i:11:1:1:J1!li . Jl::-~.J~~~l:*~':~~ 
NASDAQ-100 INDE (QQQ) -2.22 -0.55 24.22 
~-i~1;rm111ll!il!li!!lltllllllllllli: 
HEWLETT-PACKARD (HPQ)-15.46 -2.8115.37 
IN BRIEF 
U.S. auto official calls for safer SUVs 
A top federal auto safety official who has said he wouldn't buy his children certain sport utility vehicles told senators Wednesday that automakers, not the govern­ment, should be responsible for making SUVs safer. Dr. Jeffrey Runge, the head of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, tried to repair a rift he start­ed last month when he said he wouldn't buy his children an SUV with a high rollover risk "if it was the last one on Earth." He told the Senate Commerce and Transportation Committee Wednesday that every current SUV model meets basic federal safety stan­dards, so there's no reason to remove them from the market. 
Vehicle sales plummet nationwide 
Jittery consumers, rising gasoline prices and a paralyzing snowstorm have combined to curb U.S. vehicle sales this month, ana­lysts say, and automakers are turning to an old standby -incentives -to provide a boost. "I can honestly say it's the first lousy month I've had in a couple of years," said James T. Botsacos, a Toyota and Hummer dealer in Flemington, N.J., who predicts his February sales will be off 25 percent from last year. Like many dealers on the East Coast, Botsacos closed his business on the President's Day holiday as a snowstorm hammered the region. He spent the next two days digging out. 
SEC pushes for more rights to fine 
The Securities and Exchange Commission wants authority to fine individuals and com­panies without going to court, the agency's top enforcement official said Wednesday. Under current law, the SEC can impose fines on its own through a so-called administra­tive process only if the individual or compa­ny being fined is regulated by the SEC. In all other cases, the SEC is required to file a fed­eral court action seeking financial penalties. 
Former Kmart execs face suit 
. Court charges two former VPs for false reports 
Associated Press 

DETROIT 
Two former Kmart Corp. 
vice presidents were indict­
ed Wednesday on federal 
charges that claim their 
actions inflated the compa­
ny's earnings for part of the 
year before the retailer 
filed for bankruptcy. 
Enio "Tony" Montini Jr., 51, and Joseph Hofmeister, 52, were charged with securities fraud, making false statements to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and conspiracy to commit those offenses. 
Separately, the SEC accused Montini and Hofmeister in federal court of accounting fraud. The SEC is seeking the return of financial gains related to their alleged actions, including a $750,000 reten­tion loan that Montini received from Kmart. 
The SEC also seeks civil 
penalties and asks to bar 
them from serving as offi­
cers or directors for pub­
licly traded companies. 
Mantini, of Rochester Hills, is a former senior vice president and general merchandise manager, and Hofmeister, of Lake Orion, accounting and auditing record as revenue the $42 jobs at its Troy headquar­is a former divisional vice divisions resulted in million." ters. At the time, the retail­president of merchandis­Kmart's filing with the SEC Kmart filed for bankrupt­er said the cuts were part ing. Their attorney called a quarterly report that cy on Jan. 22, 2002, and of an effort to streamline the charges "wrong and overstated Krnart's operat­plans to exit Chapter 11 the retailer's senior-level unjust." ing results by $42.3 million protection by April 30. management team and 
The indictment alleges for the period and helped If convicted, Montini and reduce its geographic divi­that from November 2000 Hofmeister each face a sions from five to two.
Kmart meet Wall Street's to about Jan. 21, 2002, maximum sentence of 10 "It's not appropriate for
earnings expectations for 
Mantini and Hofmeister the period. years in prison and a $1 us to comment on this," conspired to have the com­Attorney Mark A. Srere million fine on the securi­Kmart spokesman Jack pany improperly include a ties fraud charge, and five Ferry said Wednesday.
denied that the pair
$42.3 million payment from years in prison and a "We've cooperated with all
engaged in fraud. He said 
one of its vendors, $250,000 fine for the con­of the outside investiga­
no investors were harmed 
American Greetings, in its spiracy and false state­tions, but we can't com­
by Kmart's decision to
financial report for the sec­ments charges. ment on this announce­
record the payment andond quarter of 2001. said it had nothing to do U.S. Attorney Jeffrey ment." 
The money was actually with Kmart declaring bank­Collins, who read from a After Montini left Kmart, subject to repayment under prepared statement and he went to work for Rite
ruptcy.

certain circumstances and "Both Mr. Hofmeister and left without taking ques­Aid Corp. Karen Rugen, a therefore should not have Mr. Montini have spotless tions, told reporters, "these spokeswoman for Rite Aid, been fully booked by Kmart records in over 30 years of two individuals made false said Montini voluntarily in that quarter, the indict­business experience each," statements to Kmart's resigned from the Camp ment said. Srere said. "Both Mr. accounting division." Hill, Pa.-bascd company on 
According to the indict­Hofmeister and Mr. Montini Both men were let go by Wednesday. He was senior ment, the defendants' false received no personal gain Kmart in May 2002 when vice president of category statements to Kmart's from Kmart's decision to the company cut a dozen management. 

Senators support Greenspan view 
"Some in the administration are on investor dividends. President Bush 
Associated Press 

sending a clear message: You are predicted Tuesday that Congress 
WASHINGTON either with us or against us," would enact the plan and bolster the 
Democratic senators on Wednesday Schumer said. "It is a heavy-handed faltering economy, which White accused the White House of mount­attempt to corrupt the objectivity of House advisers said was being ing a whisper campaign against the Fed that is so vital to the confi­slowed by the threat of war in Iraq. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan dence of our financial markets." Greenspan, in testimony to the Greenspan for not fully endorsing the He gave no examples. White House committee two weeks ago, warned president's tax cut plan. They put officials dismissed the notion of any that further tax cuts should be paid forward a resolution supporting such campaign. for. That led Democrats to proclaim Greenspan. "Everyone from the president on that Greenspan had delivered the 
As the central bank chief sat at the down has enormous respect for "kiss of death" for Bush's proposal. witness table at a Senate Banking Chairman Greenspan," White House The White House pointed out that Committee hearing, Sen. Charles spokeswoman Claire Buchan said. Greenspan had endorsed the divi­Schumer, D-N.Y.. spoke of "an ongo­The Bush administration is trying dend tax proposal. ing. orchestrated whisper campaign to persuade Congress to approve the The Fed chairman said future tax to discredit" Greenspan, who heads $670 billion tax-cut plan, including a cuts should be paid for. either by an independent agency. centerpiece proposal to slash the tax spending cuts or tax increases. 
page 8 Thursday, February 27, 2003 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Center fr,r Socia{ Concerns 
w 
Website: http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-lOPMFri. 8AM-7PM
SOCIAL 

Phone: 631-5293 Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
CONCERNS 

'As yeoyfe offaith, we at tfie Centerfor Socia(Concerns are ieey{y concerneda6out tlie threat ofa yre-emytive war on tfie }!art ofour nation's (eaders as a means efdea{ing with the mounting threat yosed by_ tlie 'lraqi aovermnent. Over many centuries our Christian tradition has estab{ished 6otfi tfie just war tradition and a strong suyyort for nonvfo{ence, inc[ucfing a strongyresumytion against war. We striv~ to know our_ Christian tracfition andto ayy{y it to _present day circumstances. ?ls one Center within this Catfioltc 'llniversity, we encourage yrayerju(reading oftheJoaO"Wing summary of, tfie 'Bis~ops'yosition on 'lraq is.sued 6y the 'United States Conference ofCatfio[ic 'Bi.sfiaps ('February 6, 2003) andinvite you to con.sider your own active andfaitfiji[fei response. 
'ln an effort to continue the eluca.tion anddtafo8ue a(reaiyyresent am{active en our camyus ccmmuniry, the Centerfor Socia( Concerns has avai(a6(e a resource weGyage <htt_p//centeiforsociafconcerns.na.edu> aniwiffGe ef.fering diafoBue an!eaucationa[oy_portunities after Syring 'Break. 
Summary of the Bishops' Position on Iraq 
Office of Social Development & World Peace United States Conference of Catholic Bishops February 6, 2003 
The Issue 

The United States seems to be ever closer to going to war with Iraq. The first report ofthe inspectors to the UN Security Council acknowledged Iraq's steps on access but faulted its lack ofclear commitment to disarmament. As the United States responds to calls for more evidence to support its position, the UN Security Council will be considering whether to take up a new resolution authorizing force against Iraq or whether to give inspections more time to work. 
Last October, Congress voted overwhelmingly to grant the President the power to go to war with Iraq, authorizing the President to "use the armed forces of the United States as he determines to be necessary and appropriate in order to defend the national security ofthe United States against the continuing threat posed by Iraq." 
USCCB Position 

Moral obligation to address threat Iraq poses. We have no illusions about the behavior or intentions ofthe Iraqi government. The Iraqi leadership must cease its internal repression, end its threats to its neighbors, stop any support for terrorism, abandon its efforts to develop weapons of mass destruction, and destroy all such existing weapons. The United States should be commended for pressing for the resolution that led to the return of inspectors to Iraq. Iraq should continue to be pressed to comply fully with Security Council resolutions. All involved should work to see that UN action will not simply be a prelude to war, but a way to avoid it. 
Moral concerns about the use of military force. People of good will may differ on how to apply just war norms in particular cases, especially when events are moving rapidly and the facts are not altogether clear. It is difficult to justify the resort to war against Iraq, lacking clear and adequate evidence of an imminent attack of a grave nature. With the Holy See and bishops from the Middle East and around the world, the U.S. Bishops Conference fears that resort to war, under present circumstances and in light ofcurrent public information, would not meet the strict conditions in Catholic teaching for overriding the strong presumption against military force. 
Just cause. The Catechism of the Catholic Church limits just cause to cases in which "the damage inflicted by the aggressor on the nation or community ofnations [is] lasting, grave and certain." (#2309) The Bush administration's proposals to expand dramatically traditional limits on just cause to include preventive uses of military force to overthrow threatening regimes or to deal with weapons of mass destruction would create troubling moral and legal precedents. Moreover, consistent with the proscrip­tions contained in international law, a distinction should be made between efforts to change unacceptable behavior of a government and efforts to end that government's existence. 
Legitimate authority. Decisions concerning possible war in Iraq require compliance with U.S. constitutional imperatives, broad consensus within our nation, and some form of international sanction. That is why the action by Congress and the UN Security Council are important. As the Holy See has indicated, if recourse to force were deemed necessary, this should take place within the framework of the United Nations after considering the consequences for Iraqi civilians, and regional and global stability. (Archbishop Jean-Louis Tauran, Vatican Secretary for Relations with States, 9/10/02). 
Probability of success and proportionality. The use of force must have "serious prospects for success" and "must not produce evils and disorders graver than the evil to be eliminated" (Catechism, #2309). Not taking military action could have its own negative consequences, but the use of force might provoke the very kind of attacks that it is intended to prevent, could impose terrible new burdens on an already long-suffering civilian population, and could lead to wider conflict and instability in the region. War against Iraq could also detract from the responsibility to help build a just and stable order in Afghanistan and could undermine broader efforts to stop terrorism. 
Norms governing the conduct of war. The justice ofa cause does not lessen the moral responsibility to comply with the norms of civilian immunity and proportionality. The United States has improved capability and has made serious efforts to avoid directly targeting civilians in war, but the use of military force in Iraq could bring incalcu­lable costs for a civilian population that bas suffered so much from war, repression, and a debilitating embargo. In assessing whether "collateral damage" is proportionate, the lives oflraqi men, women and children should be valued as we value the lives of our family and citizens of our own country. 
Alternatives to war. The United States, in collaboration with the international community, should continue to pursue actively alternatives to war in Iraq. It is vital that our nation persist in the very frustrating and difficult challenges of maintaining broad international support for constructive, effective and legitimate ways to contain and deter aggressive Iraqi actions and threats. In addition to the UN inspections, the military embargo could be enforced more effectively while political sanctions and much more carefully-focused economic sanctions which do not threaten the lives ofinnocent Iraqi civilians should be maintained. Addressing Iraq's weapons of mass destruction must be matched by broader and stronger non-proliferation measures that are grounded in the principle of mutual restraint. 
Action Requested 

Urge your Member of Congress and President Bush to work with other world leaders to find the will and the ways to step back from the brink of war with Iraq and work to fashion an effective global response to Iraq's known threats that both recognizes legitimate self defense and conforms to traditional moral limits on the use ofmilitary force. 
Resources 

USCCB, "Statement on Iraq," ( l l/13/02); Letter of Bishop Wilton Gregory to President Bush, (9/13/02); "Catholic teaching on War and Peace"; See www:usccb.org/sdwp 
Further information: Gerard Powers, USCCB, 202-541-3160 (Phone); 202-541-3339 (Fax); gpowers@usccb.org (Email) Kathy Brown, Catholic Relief Services, 1-800-235-2772 x 7232 (Phone); kbrown@catholicrelief.org (Email) 
Office of Social Development & World Peace United States Conference ofCatholic Bishops 3211 4th Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20017-1194 (202) 541-3000 
February 06, 2003 Copyright© by United States Conference ofCatholic Bishops 
Thursday, February 27, 2003 The Observer . NEWS page 9 

Cuniversity 0 f not re dame 
JUNE 1 6 -AUGUST 1 , 2003
0 ~\(;.c, 

• -~ ;::::::-anthropology
(f) '//\\~ 

archit~ct':~ 
(f) 
(]) 
(f) 
L. 
(]) 
E E 
:J 
(f) 

( biology business chemistry classical languages computer applications economics engineering engllsh film french german history Irish studies Italian mathematics music phllosophy physics political science psychology sociology spanish theatre theology 
The 2003 summer session will begin on 
Monday, June 16 (enrollment), and end on Friday, August 1 (final exams). Some courses­primarily in science and languages-will begin and end before or after these dates. The Summer Session Bulletin contains complete schedule information. The Bulletin 1s available at the Summer Session Office (510 Main Bldg.) beginning on Thursday, February 20. Infor­mation on summer courses, as it appears in the Bulletin, is also available at the Summer Session Web site (www.nd.edu/-sumsess). 
Notre Dame continuing students-undergraduate and graduate students in residence during the spring semester of 2003 who are eligible to return in the fall-must use Web Registration 
( 1) to register for summer courses and (2) to add or drop courses according to the add and drop dates printed with each course. The Web Registration PIN (personal identification number) for summer is available on Irishlink for all continuing students. Instructions for course registration (selection) are available at http://registrar.nd.edu. Course call numbers are published in the Bulletin and at the Summer Session Web site. 
Web Registration will be available for summer registration from Wednesday, March 19, through the course add and drop dates published in the Summer Session Bulletin. Students may register or make schedule changes whenever they choose during this period; no appointment times are necessary. 
Air-conditioned and non-air-conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plans will be available. Forms for these services may be obtained at the Summer Session Office at any time during the spring semester. 
Tuition for the summer session of 2003 will be $486 per credit hour for undergraduate students and $270 per credit hour for graduate students, plus a $45 general fee. 
Congregation ofHoly Cross 

Be part of the solution. 
1
tli)) 

www.nd.eaat-vocation 
ANSWER~ THECALLW 

'Joe Millionaire' to have second edition 
Associated Press 
Flush with the success of 
'Joe Millionaire.' Fox exec­
utives said Wednesday that 
they are readying a second 
edition. 
Fox would not say when the hit reality series would return or how a sequel would differ from the first, which was based on a joke that everyone but the female competitors were in on. 
"It can't be done identi­cally to the first one for all the obvious reasons," said Sandy Grus how, Fox Television Entertainment chairman. 
Grushow said the network "has come up with a notion that carries all of the same values forward. We're obvi­ously optimistic that it will perform extremely well when it returns." 
An estimated 40 million viewers watched the final hour of the series on Feb. 17, helping lead Fox to its first-ever victory in a rat­ings 'sweeps' month among viewers aged 18 to 49. 
CBS was the most popular network in February when viewers of all ages are counted. 
But networks like Fox, NBC and ABC are intensely interested in the youthful demographic because it's craved by advertisers. 
The chaotic February sweeps was marked by intense competition for Michael Jackson program­ming and reality series like 'American Idol' and 'The Bachelorette' that could be moved and expanded in a scheduling chess game. 
CBS President Leslie Moonves called it the "cra­ziest sweeps in the history of television." 
NBC Entertainment 
Chairman Jeff Zucker said 
it was "nutty" and his ABC 
counterpart, Lloyd Braun. 
called it "wild and woolly." 
All of those assessments 
left Grushow somewhat 
miffed. 
"The comments are so transparent that it borders on being comical." he said. "If they feel that February was ridiculous or crazy or nutty, they ought to be ready for ridiculous or crazy months of March, April and May.'' 
Zucker congratulated Fox and noted it was the first sweeps month NBC had lost in the 18-to-49-year-old demographic since February 2000. 
"Obviously, it's disap­pointing that we didn't win," Zucker said. 
"But it's far more a cred­it to what Fox did than what we didn't do.'' 
One of NBC's top priori­ties for this summer and next year is to develop a successful relationship­based reality series along the lines of 'Joe Millionaire' and 'The Bachelor,' he said. 
Meanwhile, ABC announced Thursday it was preparing a fourth edition of 'The Bachelor' that "has the heir to a well-known family, a 'Dynasty'-like family," ABC executive Susan Lyne said. 
Fox is about to debut 'Married by America,' a series based on the idea that it can marry off two longing-for-love people who had never met. 
In April, Fox presents 'Mr. Personality,' a series that 'explores how looks effect love,' said entertain­ment President Gail Berman. 





THE 
OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Helena Payne Chris Federico Himanshu Kothari Joe Lindsley Andrew Thagard Lisa Reijula 
Viewpoint Scene Patrick McElwee Maria Smith Kurt Bogaard Lab Tech 
Graphics Laura Kelley Andy Devoto 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Would you support a. war in Iraq? Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Nobody in the game offootball should be called a genius. A genius is somebody like Norman Einstein." 
Joe Theisman former quarterback 

page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notr, Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kare Nagengast  Lori Lewalski  
AssT. M/1.NAGING EDITOR  OPER/1.TIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VI.EWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hertler, Matt Lozar SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie: McKenna SAINT MIi.Ry's EDITOR• Sarah Nestor 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DE.SIGN MANAGER, Meghan Goran 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer 
CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFo.............. 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer .obsnews. I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOJNT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR.v's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu l'HOT0 ........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire ar http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs of the University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint M,uy's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither inscirurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent 1he opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe 
Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free exp1ession of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contaet information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be direct­,dto Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The: ObM:f'lcr (USPS 599 240) is publid)Cd Monday 1hruugh Friday c:xa-pt during exam and v~•rinn pcrioch. AsuhK:riprion to The Oh,crvcr i1 SIOO for one ~adcmic year, SSS for one llt'tllatcr. 
The Obserttr i1 r11hli,hd u· l'OSTMASTER 
02.1 Sourh Din.ing H:dl Smd addra.s corrections ro: Nouc Dame, IN 46S"6 TheOb.ervu 
P.O. Box Q_ PcriocliaJ p,miap p:ud .111 Norn!' Oa.me Norre Dame, IN 46)56-0n9 ~d .ddicion~ m.iling: oUica.. 
The c»m-rJcr is a mcmhe-r ofdar, ,\J;wcl;.UIQ Prcu. All reproduction right1 arc 
"""""'· 
Economics department isn't in touch 
Go into the community and survey its poor. Cook a dinner people. We are not being taught about trade barriers without with the budget of someone living at the poverty line. being shown that it influences total welfare. We are not Question whether there is a link between consumption and being taught about wages without looking at what it docs to happiness. These are just a few examples of the employment levels of the poor. In short, rather than unique experiences an economics major can have giving us lots of fancy models and theories and at Notre Dame, where the social and moral then throwing us out into the world to put our dimensions of economics are emphasized. knowledge to whatever uses we please, they 
Unfortunately, not everyone in the eco­are giving us a glimpse of the complicat­nomics department believes these are ed, and too often ignored, relationship valuable learning experiences. Some between economics and morals. members of the department think that I recently overheard the following the economics major should focus sole­joke. An economist and a professor ly on mathematical and theoretical are up in a hot air balloon when a fog models. bank rolls in, making it impossible 
It is true that without its theories for them to discern where they are and formulas, economics would be or land. When the fog rises hours nothing more than empty, untested, later, all they can see are fields. 
uneducated predictions. However, I Finally they see a farmer out tend­feel it is possible to have a first-rate ing his crop, so they drop down economics program without splitting lower and yell to him, "Where are the department into two. If some mem­we?" The farmer looks up at them bers of the department are concerned and responds, "You're in a hot air bal­that Notre Dame economics students loon." The professor then turns to the aren't being taught enough math and economist and says. "He must be an theory, why not just add more required economist. He is absolutely right and classes in these areas? With only ten absolutely useless at the same time." required classes, economics majors have Today's economic students are getting an plenty of room in their schedules for Linear education that will ensure that this will never 
algebra, real analysis, econometrics and other happen to them. Perhaps the real questions to beneficial classes. We can still compete with the top ask is what will the future hold if the only thing economics programs in the country, but we need to do it on tomorrow's economic majors can tell you is that you're in a 
our terms, not theirs. hot air balloon? 
Here at Notre Dame, not only do the economics professors teach us the theories and mathematical models, but they Erin Daly show us how these can be applied to help change the world junior into a better place. We are not being taught how to maximize Welsh Family profit without being shown how it affects different groups of f.eb. 26 
Thousands of students, faculty and staff from Notre Dame. Holy Cross and Saint Mary's did not sign a petition opposing a potential U.S.-led war with Iraq. The petition appeared yesterday as an ad in The Observer, included the sig­natures of approximately 600 people superimposed over the phrase, "Hear Our Voice," and was the feature of a front-page article written by Helena Payne for the Wednesday Observer. 
The approximately 9,000 students. fac­ulty and staff who did not sign the peti­tion opposing war with Iraq might cite the just cause tenet of Catholic just war theory as a primary motivating factor in their decision to abstain from endorsing the petition. They could mention that "The Challenge of Peace; God's Promise and Our Response," a United States Catholic bishops' pastoral on war and peace, endorses war "to protect innocent life, to preserve conditions necessary for decent human existence and to secure basic human rights." 
The approximately 9,000 students, fac­ulty and staff who did not sign the peti­tion opposing the war with Iraq could combine this 1983 Catholic Pastoral teaching with CIA-generated facts con­cerning human rights abuses under Saddam Hussein including Hussein's use of mustard gas in Panjwin in October-November 1983 leaving 3,000 Iranian and Kurdish casualties. his murder of another 2,500 Iranians on Majnoon Island in February-March 1984 by the same method, his April 1987 mustard­gas attack that left 5,000 Iranians dead or wounded in al-Basrah, his deploy­ment of tabun and mustard gas against some 3,000 Iranians at Hawizah Marsh in March 1985 and 5,000 more at al­Basrah in April 1987 and his use of sarin and mustard gas against 3,000 Iranians in October 1987 at Sumar/Mehran. 
The approximately 9,000 students, fac­ulty and staff could also take into account Hussein's Stalinist purges of his Ba'ath party, chemical attacks on Kurds in Iraq, his documented chemical experi­mentation on Iraqi jail inmates and his tyrannical political oppression of any semblance of an opposition party. 
The approximately 9,000 students, fac­ulty and staff who did not sign the peti­tion opposing the war with Iraq heed the words of Fadel Sultani, President of the National Association of Iraqi Writers, who stated in response to peace protest­ers, "Did they not realize that oppres­sion, torture and massacre of innocent civilians are also forms of war?" 
The approximately 9,000 students, fac­ulty and staff who did not sign the peti­tion opposing the war with Iraq could cite the violation of 17 U .N. Security Council resolutions since 1990, including those designated 678,686,687, 688, 707,715,949, 1051, 1060, 1115, 1134, 1137, 1154, 1194, 1205, 1284 and 1441 as primary examples of Hussein's unwillingness to abide by international law and as a pretext for armed interven­tion. 
The approximately 9,000 students, fac­ulty and staff who did not sign the peti­tion opposing the war with Iraq may also believe that a war in Iraq remains ideo­logically consistent with a worldwide war on terror due to Hussein's $25,000 rewards to the families of Palestinian suicide bombers and his ties to terrorist groups operating throughout the world. 
The approximately 9,000 students, fac­ulty, and staff who did not sign the peti­tion opposing the war with Iraq may have considered Saddam Hussein's fla­grant human rights atrocities, his con­tempt for the 17 UN security council res­olutions passed in order to limit his destructive capabilities and his close ties to terrorism and thought to themselves, "Hear our Voice." 
Timothy Bonadies 
junior off-campus feb. 26 
Thursday, February 27, 2003 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Approximately 9,000 other voices 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, February 27, 2003 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Examining different perspectives on affirmative action 
Legacy policy hinders diversity 
To all African-American students at Notre Dame: Have you ever been asked the question, "What sport do you play?" by a white student who assumes that the only role a person of color has at this institution is to compete in athlet­ics? Regardless of your athletic partici­pation, perhaps you should answer with an equally offensive question of your own: "Are you here because your daddy went here?" 
I recently read that Notre Dame received a record total of more than 12,000 applications for the class of 2007. According to Daniel Saracino, assistant provost for enrollment, the applicant pool this year is more ethni­cally and racially diverse. This may be due to the Willingham Effect. 
One aspect of the admissions process that recently has come under fire is the explicit preference granted by most schools, including Notre Dame, to chil­dren of alumni. Proponents of affirma­tive action point out that these favored applicants tend to be disproportionately white and disproportionately wealthy. 
As Democratic presidential candidate John Edwards remarked, "This is a remnant of 16th century British aristoc­racy and has no place in 21st century American democracy." 
The class of 2006 features 23 percent children of alumni, yet just 16 percent minorities. I propose a noble goal to the administration that would speak vol­umes about its commitment to diversity: Enroll an equal number of legacies and minorities for the class of 2007. 
Many believe this practice of reward­ing applicants because of their parents, achievements is blatantly unfair. I con­cede that I see the value in maintaining tho level of legacy enrollment that the administration deems appropriate to preserve the unique sense of family at Notre Dame. For a university committed to social justice, however, I see no justi­fication for desiring a level of legacy enrollment that exceeds the level of underrepresented minority enrollment. 
I challenge the admin­istration to seek an equitable balance between these two groups that deserve special consideration. Such a balance would demon­strate clearly our University's commitment to racial diversity and destroy the 

image that some have of o to Notre Datne becai1 white males claim that it is just to support other Notre Dame as I should g t here white males because of their race and gender. It 
a school for rich a my pa.rents wen is not -in either instance. That is why I believe white kids. This Martin Luther King spoke of the ideal of a "color­
b my etbn1c1ty l has 
goal should be blind" society, a society not of blacks and whites,
. money my famt y
made public and but simply of people. Because it is difficult being a
c the d / SAT scores
the action taken to person. Some have it easier than others. but we all
d my gra es 
attain it should be have our challenges in life. The privileged may be able affirmative. The mes­to avoid their obstacles, but that only makes me pity sage it would send to soci­them. 
My point in writing this letter is not to belittle the injus­ety about our commitment to tices faced by certain groups. Rather, it is an expression of myracial diversity might do the 
same for the image of the university as hiring Tyrone Willingham has done for the football program. 
Michael Hourigan 
senior off-campus Feb. 26 
Injustice cannot be rectified by another injustice 
I love being a white male. Who wouldn't? Life has been handed to me on a silver platter with any hint of difficulty polished away. The ancestral manor is so beautiful in the summer (my family moved three times for financial reasons before I was 12). The new car on my 16th was a given (I got to drive the '85 Subaru POS my brother had received 3 years earli­er as his first car). Vacationing in the Hamptons was nice, but l always preferred our winters in the Alps (my mother raised my brother and I on a public school teacher's salary). Of course. I knew I was going to attend Notre Dame; how could they turn .. me away with Daddy's double Domerhood and " my 1600 SAT-thanks Kaplan. (My parents went to undistinguished public colleges and my mom couldn't afford a test prep course for me -I got a 1540.) When you paint people by race or gender, you use much too broad a brush. As a "minori­ty" or a woman, if you support others based on their race or gender, do not be surprised if 
belief that one injustice cannot be rectified by means of another. Please remember when you speak of whites or males: For every one Rockefeller, there are 10 regular schmucks like me. 
Mike McNary senior off-campus Feb. 26 

Grammar and Ensler mar the 'Monologues' 
Next week on campus there will be two performances of "The Vagina Monologues," the play that has done so much to bridge the gap between modern feminism and Tourettc's Syndrome. 
The "Monologues" are a series of solilo­
Peter Wicks 
quies written by Eve 
Ensler based on her 
interviews with a 
Englishman
diverse group of 
Abroad
women, from Bosnian rape victims to a lesbian domina­triJc Between the longer monologues there are sections which relate an assort­ment of the responses Ensler received to the questions, "If your vagina could talk, what would it say?" (sample answers: ''Oh, yeah," "Bonjour") and, "If your vagi­na got dressed, what would it wear?" The vaginas' sartorial choices ranged from the practical "jeans" to the wholly inexplica­ble "purple feathers with twigs and shells." 
This is certainly an innovative line of inquiry, but one wonders why Ensler didn't pursue it further: "Ifyour vagina went to college what would it major in?" or perhaps. "How does your vulva feel about welfare reform?" 
Ensler's writing is stupefyingly bad. Her sentences do not merely lack meaning, they actively resist it, like Zen koans. Despite the absence of a finite verb or any discernable moaning, the following is a complete sentence: 
"To satisfy ourselves, to teach our lovers to satisfy us, to be present in our vaginas, to speak of them out loud, to speak of their hunger and pain and loneli­ness and humor, to make them visible so they cannot be ravaged in the dark with­out great consequence, so that our center, our point, our motor, our dream, is no longer detached, mutilated, numb, bro­ken, invisible or ashamed." 
This is the English language gone on holiday. It makes as much sense to speak of vaginas' "loneliness" and "humor" as it does to talk about their love ofopera or their penchant for French cuisine. No nuance ofsense would be lost if the above quotation were replaced with two words, "Vaginas -Hooray!" 
The sentence quoted was clearly never spoken by any of Ensler's interviewees. To verify this just try reading it out loud. Lots of people write third-rate poetry and too many of them perform it, but nobody -nobody at all -actually speaks like that. The monologues are based on the experiences ofwomen in the same way that some films are "based on actual events." 
The tendency to speak of vaginas as if they were people should also be viewed with suspicion, since the cumulative effect of this trope is to reduce women to their body parl5; as one of the monologues con­cludes, "my vagina, me." The play does not blur the distinction between women's experience and their experience of their 
bodies; it obliterates it. 
After watching the play last year, I imagined how one of Ensler's interviews might have gone with a variety of famous women including Sally Ride, the first American woman in space. 
In my vision, Ensler's eyes glazed over when Ride described the experience of looking down upon the Earth from her shuttle and she almost fell asleep while Ride talked about her Science Club, founded with the aim ofencouraging women to enter the male-dominated world ofprofessional science. When Ride finished, Ensler turned on her tape­recorder. "So, do you think ifyour vagina got dressed it would wear a space hel­met?" she asked empoweringly. 
In one monologue a vulgar slang term for the vagina is "reclaimed" by being repeated at ever increasing volumes. Shouting rude words can provide a sense of release from pent-up frustration, but this is nothing more than primal scream therapy masquerading as a political act. 
Even Ensler's writing isn't bad enough to completely stifle the power the piece about a Bosnian rape victim has to dis­turb, but like the other monologues it lasts for only a few minutes and is imme­diately followed by another on a wholly different topic (in this case the story of a vagina which is "pissed otr' about tam­pons and thong underwear. grievances which in the context seem embarrassingly trivial). This is not consciousness-raising; 
it is channel surfing through women's 
experiences. 
Much of the "Monologues"' appeal derives from the way it encourages those involved with the play to picture them­selves as participating not in an illiterate piece of theater, but in a cosmic struggle between absolute good (lesbianism. orgasms) and absolute evil (patriarchy, grammar). But the play's pretensions to be challenging modern society are a sham, pure self-deception. It no more challenges the assumptions of contempo­rary culture than do "Sex and the City" or "Cosmopolitan" magazine. 
"The Vagina Monologues" is ill-con­ceived and abysmally written. The stories on which the monologues are based have been so thoroughly filtered through Ensler's own ideology that the play lacks value even considered as documentary. Rather than praising the work, feminists should be play' s most insistent critics. because women deserve better than this. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in the Philosophy department. E-mails explain­ing why he just doesn't get it should be sent to pwicks@nd.edu. Tomorrow night Peter will be hosting a stand-up comedy show in the Hesburgh Auditorium. The show starts at 8 p.m. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE 
OBSERVER 


page 12 Thursday, February 27, 2003 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Old School' has fun of college without the brains 
By ADAM WELTLER 
Scene Movie Critic 

Step l; Turn off brain. Step 2: Enjoy movie. 
Every now and then it's nice to find a movie that requires little to no men­tal effort to enjoy. Indeed there are more than a few of these movies in theaters currently, but Old School lives up to expectations as an enter­tainingly lowbrow comedy in the tra­dition of such quality films as Road Trip and Animal House. 
Animal House it's not, but director­screenwriter Todd Phillips (who also helmed Road Trip) packs enough laughs into Old School to keep the audience smiling, and stars Luke Wilson, Vince Vaughn and Will Ferrell form a comic trio of characters that come off equally hilarious and famil­iar. 
The film begins with the dilemmas of three friends: Mitch, Beanie and Frank (Wilson, Vaughn and Ferrell respectively) are each in his early thirties and becoming more disen­chanted with adult life. Mitch, a real estate lawyer, discovers his longtime girlfriend has been cheating on him with several people -at the same time. Beanie resents his life as hus­band and father of two, one of which, the baby, is frequently strapped to Beanie like a 
er, and they must struggle to keep their fraternity alive. Luckily, Mitch is a lawyer, so the men have more resources than the average fraternity. 
First things first -this is a stupid, stupid movie. But it's an amusingly stupid movie. The movie draws laughs. but not as much as it should. Luke Wilson. a talented actor but never an especially funny one, plays a 
decent straight 

backpack. Frank, man to the antics
"Old School"
newly married, of Vince Vaughn struggles to adapt 
and Will Ferrell. to life as a mar­Vaughn plays the ried man and put same comedic his days as ulti­character he's 
Director: Todd Phillips
mate party ani­been playing
Writers: Court Crandall and Todd Phillips
mal Frank "The since Swingers,
Starring: Luke Wilson, Will Ferrell, Vince
Tank'' behind once again to 

Vaughn
him. 

Mitch's breakup with his girlfriend due to his distaste for her gang-bang fetish gives the men the perfect excuse to relive their college glories by throwing a "Mitch Martin Freedom Festival" in Mitch's new house near the local college campus. The popu­larity of the party encourages the group to form a new fraternity, one with no age restrictions or public service requirements whatsoever. The members range from college students to middle-aged businessmen to an 80­plus-year-old Navy veteran named Blue. 
In classic fraternity movie fashion, the boys run into trouble with the col­lege dean (Jeremy Piven). In this case, he is the one they used to beat up when they all attended college togeth­humorous effect. 
Ferrell practi­
cally saves the movie once he reverts back to his Frank "The Tank" mode and starts yelling, streaking and bonging beers like a champ. And for all the guys out there: don't worry, all the nudity in the film isn't Ferrell. Old School fol­lows the fraternity college movie handbook to the T. but fails to pro­duce any particularly memorable scenes -although Ferrell's soulful rendition of Dust in the Wind comes mighty close. Essentially, if you've seen the previews and laughed, go see the film so you can laugh at those parts again. Otherwise, you might want to wait for video. 
Contact Adam Welder at aweltler@nd.edu 

NDCinema spices up already wild Thursday 
Lles," the neo-realist "Petits Freres," "Go
By BJ STREW 

Tigers!" and Michael Moore's "Bowling
Scene Movie Critic 

for Columbine." That last one is allegedly 
good, but the rest were indisputably
Admittedly, it is a tough choice, decid­worth any ND student's time. ing between watching "Scrubs" or "Are Tonight, "The Adventures of Felix" will You Hot?" It's also tough deciding be shown at 7 p.m. at the Careybetween TV or spending your scarce Auditorium. For those of you who don't hours and your hard-won dollars at Boat get around to foreign and independent
Club. (The Heartland boycott is still in cinema, or simply lack the interest, this 
effect, isn't it?) The only thing to count is a chance to take a risk and test your on is that either homework's done and appetite for something out of the ordi­tests are studied for before 8 p.m. or nary. This movie in particular is a they are cast into the academic abyss. French comedy about a man who, after 
NDCinema, formerly Cinema at the getting the pink slip, hitchhikes to south­Snite, offers an escape from Must See TV, ern France seeking his absentee father. the bars and schoolwork. Later in the semester, students can 
Students have the Department of Film, expect to see such cinematic gems as Television, and Theatre to thank for this "One Hour Photo," where Robin Williams often-superior alternative. State-of-the takes a turn for the psychotic. The beau­art digital projection and sound turn the tifully shot story of Catherine the Great's Hesburgh Library Auditorium into a noc­rise to power is related in "The Scarlet turnal theatre once a week every Empress." In "Bread and Tulips" the Thursday. Great, you say, another viewer follows a capricious Italian 
Thursday evening destination to submit housewife's search for identity. 
to the procrastination gods. Well, the cul­One that absolutely cannot be missed ture gods and procrastination gods are is from Krystof Kieslowski's celebrated in agreement here, at least. If you're Three Colors trilogy, based on the colors going to blow that time, you might as of the French flag. "Bleu," which will be well take something away from it -and shown April 3, is a film about liberty 

so, in that respect, NDCinema offers a from the French motto, which corre­decent ROI. sponds to the flag. Specifically it deals Ben Kingsley, of "Gandhi" fame. is in make at least one trip to an NDCinema 
Since the beginning of the semester, with liberty with respect to the main the leading role in the frenetic Brit gang­screening this semester. the series has shown the somewhat con­character's attempt to withdraw from ster flick "Sexy Beast," which follows troversial. highly sexualized class-con­her old reality and find herself, only to Bleu. More great movies follow, and flict commentary "Y Tu Mama Tambien," be drawn back in by the strength of every one deserves a few hours of your Contact BJ Strew at the Student Film Festival, "Secret & familial bonds and friendship. time. Take a break from the usual and wstrew@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 

Thursday, February 27, 2003 page 13 
NOTES FROM THE UNDERGROUND 
Animation Renaissance 
Last year, "Shrck" became the first movie to win the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature. This year, in all probability, "Spirited Away" (also known as Sen to Chihiro no kamkakushi) will take possession of a less dubious dis­tinction -the first movie to clearly deserve the honor and lose to a more pedestrian film that made a lot more money. 
I should make a couple things clear -l'm not an animc guy. I start to get a rash when people around me watch "Cowboy Bebop" and my little sister's love for Sailor Moon never sat right with me. So it took a lot of critical acclaim, and access to a DVD of dubious legality, to coax me into watching "Spirited Away." What's more, I have no desire to attack "Ice Age" or "Lilo & Stitch." the prohibitive favorites. Well, no desire lo attack "Ice Age." "Lilo & Stitch" is part of what's wrong with animated features today in general, and I'll get to that later. 
But right now, I want to talk about what's right in animated features, and that means "Spirited Away." See this movie. "Spirited Away" is an incredible display of visual imagination combined with a genuinely complex story and a magical, melancholic feel. The story is basically that of "Alice in Wonderland" or "The Wizard of Oz": a girl stumbles into another world, populated by strange and magical creatures -but in doing so, she is separated from her home. "Spirited Away" ups the ante by having her parents stumble through with her, and transformed into pigs to serve as bacon at some kind of banquet of Japanese gods and spirits. The girl, Chihiro, must do menial labor for the spirits while plotting to free herself and her parents. 


As the plot may indicate, this is a story about a child, but not a "kid's movie." While it is a family movie that kids should certainly be allowed to see, "Spirited Away" is entertainment for the whole family, adults and adolescents included. The plot is occasionally grim, the violence (when it occurs) is real and treated with deadly seriousness, a far cry from the rambunctious cartoon fare Disney offers. Chihiro is a slave to the spirits, and is often treated unfairly, with no guardian or moral authority to stand up for her. And yet, due to her own courage and resourcefulness, she is able to make the best of what she is given, and eventually, to triumph over her poor circumstances. 

The director, Hayao Mizayaki, widely considered a genius in Japan, has mixed universal fairy-tale elements with specif­ically Japanese cultural mythology, giv­ing the film an odd feel for American audiences, almost as if the world Chihiro stumbles into is one we've seen in a dream, but is somehow alien to us. Of course. this strange feeling accentuates the many strengths of the movie, forcing us to further identify with Chihiro and her plight, and yet allowing us to experi­ence, along with her, a sense of wonder at her surroundings. 
"Spirited Away" transcends the great­est flaw in the now-annual animated Disney extravaganzas -it teaches a 
moral lesson without being preachy or sappy. There is no culminating speech or tearful embrace to close the film, no pat one-line message a la "Lilo & Stitch" ("Family means no one gets left behind"). Instead, there is a portrait of a girl who leaves behind her immaturity and takes on the responsibilities of an adult. Even better, this change does not occur abruptly, but slowly over the course of the entire movie. This allows for a unity of story and moral, and a depth of character development rarely seen in the animated rivals of "Spirited Away." 
Which brings me right around to what's wrong in the world of animated fea­tures. With rare exceptions, like 200l's "Waking Life," animated films arc almost all cookie-cutter clones market­ed to the under-12 crowd, with, at best, a few in-jokes to keep adults entertained. What's worse, they are almost always musicals, which results in a number of painful experiences. Here, Disney's competitors, not the Mouse itself, are the main offenders. Nevertheless, my readers might be thinking, these are children's movies. Kids like singing. Kids like stupid plots and meaningless cartoon violence. And all this is true. 
But the Academy has a great opportu­nity here. "Waking Life" wasn't qualified for last year's Oscar (it was filmed and animated over the film -apparently a no-no), but "Spirited Away" is nominat­ed. By giving the award to "Spirited Away," the Academy could encourage artistic and multi-layered animated films. While I hesitate to call such a triv­ial controversy an "issue," or to promote the "cause" of good animated movies. anything that will save our generation from sitting through thousands of hours of "Pocahontas" and "The Pebble and the Penguin" clones is worth doing. 

But in all probability, the Academy will honor either "Ice Age," an unremarkable film with great CGl animation and a fan­.,.. tastic take at the box office (nearly $400 million) or "Lilo & Stitch," Disney's amazingly sappy take on its stock themes of incomplete families, acceptance and "being yourself." complete with stupid and redeemable villains, more-or-less innocuous ethnic stereotypes and songs -thankfully, this time, Elvis, not singing and dancing routines. This is exactly what does not need to be encouraged, and what was not encouraged last year, when "Shrek," which is as much a send­up of Disney's predictable style as any­thing else, won. 
The Academy will probably blow this chance, and honor the wrong film. But see "Spirited Away" anyway, even if, like me, you don't like Japanese animation. You'll be surprised at how good it is. and as you lose yourself in Mizayaki's melan­cholic otherworld, you just might feel an extra touch of regret when you contem­plate all the opportunities that have been missed in American animation. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly those of The Observer. Contact Jack Watkins at watkins.25@nd.edu. 
Thursday, February 27, 2003 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 

McCarty's 3 hands Pacers 6th consecutive loss 
percent shooting in handing New 
Associated Press 

York its most lopsided loss of the season.
BOSTON 
The game between the Hudson Walter McCarty hit a go-ahead River rivals lacked emotion, and

3-pointer with 24.9 seconds 
a simmering tiff between Knicksremaining, and Boston extended forward Latrell Sprewell andIndiana's longest losing streak in 
Nets coach Byron Scott over
10 years to six games with a 71­some recent comments by Scott69 victory Wednesday night. 
never escalated. The two spokeAfter McCarty's 3-pointer gave briefly in the third quarter, butBoston a 69-67 lead. Jermaine what they said could not beO'Neal, who led the Pacers with heard.
31 points and 13 rebounds, 
Sprewell gave the Nets somemissed two free throws with 10.2 

anxious moments, hitting twoseconds left. In the final 10 sec­early jumpers. But he never gotonds, Pierce and McCarty each untracked and finished with aconverted one free throw before team-high 13 points on 5-for-14Reggie Miller shot an airball at shooting.
the buzzer despite a wide-open Houston. who had 28 in a winlook. 
over the Rockets on Tuesday,Antoine Walker led Boston was never a factor, scoring sixwith 18. Pierce had 16 and Tony points -16.1 less than his aver­Delk added 14 points and nine age. He was 3-for-11 from therebounds. 
field.
Ron Artest missed the game The game was competitivefor Indiana after being suspend­until the final 90 seconds of the ed for the third time this season, first half. 
this time by head coach Isiah A baseline jumper by Michael Thomas. 
Doleac pulled the Knicks to 42­The last time the Pacers lost 40 with 1:50 left in the half. New six straight was Feb. 1993. They 
York didn't score again until
have lost nine of 13 overall. 

Houston hit his final basket of
Trailing 54-48 with 2:42 
the game on a 15-footer with
remaining in the third, the 
8:57 left in the third. 
Celtics went on an 11-0 run fea­
By that time, the Nets had

turing seven points by Pierce. 
scored 13 straight points -theThe Pacers went 6:20 without final seven of the first half andscoring before O'Neal hit a pair first six of the second. 
of free throws to cut the lead to Kerry Kittles had five of his 1359-56. O'Neal's basket with 6:42 in the span and Jason Collinsremaining in the fourth snapped added four. Kidd added a layupan eight-minute drought without and made a nice no-look pass toa field goal. 
set up a dunk by Kenyon Martin, Miller missed three 3-pointers who spent most of the secondin the final quarter and had only quarter in the Nets' locker roomnine points. 
with an upset stomach. 
Walker's mid-range jumper 
New Jersey led by as many aswith 3:17 remaining gave Boston 17 points in the third quarter,a 38-29 lead, its biggest of the and the final score representedfirst half. He led all scorers with 

the largest margin of the game. seven victories have come throw. finishing two points shy of his 11, while Pierce, who was in foul against teams with losing The Grizzlies again were V\ith­season high.
trouble for most of the half. 
missed his only shot attempt and 76ers 111., Grlzzlles 107 records. out Mike Miller, who averaged Gary Payton led Milwaukee The Grizzlies, who trailed the 17 points in his first two games with 26 points. Sam Cassell had
had 2 at the break. Allen Iverson scored 34 points 
almost the entire game, finally after being traded from the 24 points, and Toni Kukoc 23. 
After falJing behind 10-2, and Eric Snow had Ms first tied it at 92 on a steal and dunk Orlando Magic. Miller had back Marbury scored 18 points in
McCarty hit a pair of 3-pointers career triple-double with 22 to cap a 13-0 run with 4:12 points, 11 assists and 10 by Earl Watson 2:38 into the spasms and has sat out two the third quarter to give Phoenix remaining in the first. The rebounds, leading Philadelphia fourth. After Wesley Person straight. a nine-point lead going into the missed a free throw that The Sixers led 59-50 after a
Pacers had 10 turnovers and to its seventh straight victory, fourth quarter. The Bucks wiped 
shot 25 percent after one, but 111-107 over Memphis would've given Memphis the driving layup by Iverson with out that margin in the first six lead, Iverson hit a running 14-2:31 left in the first half. But the minutes, and Tim Thomas sank
only trailed 21-14. Wednesday night. 
footer to make it 95-93. Grizzlies scored eight straight on a 3-pointer to put Milwaukee up
J.R. Bremer made his 21st Keith Van Horn added 21 
Memphis got within 101-100 a jumper by Batiste and consecu­97-96 with 6:14 left. 
start for Boston. but was O-for-7 points and nine rebounds. and on a putback by Batiste, but Van tive 3-pointers by Williams. Marbury made two jumpers,from the field and is 3-for-20 in Iverson had nine assists for 
Horn made a turnaround
the last three games. Philadelphia, which is 7-0 since and Dan Langhi added a third to
jumper. Gasol's short turn­
the All-Star break. Suns 118, Bucks 112 give Phoenix a 105-100 lead with 
around cut it to 103-102, but
Nets 105, Knlcks 76 Pau Gasol tied his season high Stephon Marbury scored 41 3:47 left. 
Van Horn answered with a turn­
Jason Kidd scored 21 points with 32 points, Jason Williams points, including 35 in the sec­The Bucks closed within a
around hook shot and Snow 
and the New Jersey Nets ended a had 19 and Mike Batiste added ond half. to help the Phoenix point, but another jumper by
made two free throws for a 107 ­
season-high three-game losing 15 for the Grizzlies. Memphis, 102 lead with 1:57 left. Suns snap a four-game losing Langhi and Marbury's layup with streak by shutting down Allan which has the third-worst record After Snow missed two free streak with a 118-112 win over 1:51 left put the Suns back up by Houston and embarrassing the in the NBA, had won three of throws with 15 seconds remain­the Milwaukee Bucks on five. 109-104. The Bucks never New York Knicks 105-76 five, including victories over ing, Shane Battier missed a 3-Wednesday night. got closer. Wednesday night. Indiana and Utah. pointer that would've tied it with Joe Johnson added 20 points Marbury made three straight 
Richard Jefferson added 17 The Sixers (32-24) are in 6.6 seconds left. Snow got the for Phoenix. Marbury surpassed 3-pointers to help the Suns open points and 10 rebounds as New fourth place in the Eastern rebound to record the triple-dou­40 for the fourth time this season up a double-digit lead in the Jersey limited the Knicks to 37.2 Conference. Six of their last ble, then iced it with a free and the second time this month, third quarter. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
5 Bedroom house available June 1,  Very nice 3 bdrm home.  
NOTICES  105 Marquette Ave 232-6964  FOR RENT  Avail. June 1st for summer or fall. East Race dist.near  WANTED  PERSONAL  
Corbys Pub & St. Joe Church.  
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, &  LOST& FOUND  Rooms for rent. $250month  Incl. alarm syst,washer/dryer. Can email picts.  NETWORK MARKETING MEETS BIOTECH  Unplanned pregnancy? Don I go it alone.  
Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels,  Includes utilities.  Call Joe Crimmins @  
Best Prices! Space is Limiledlll 1­ FOUND NEAR CLUB 23 -CAN­ 272-1525  273-0002(h)  Local Domer  If you or someone you love needs  
800·234-7007 www.endlesssurn­ NONDALE BIKE. IDENTIFY TO  mmrnrenlals@aol.com  or 514-0643(cell)  {BSBioJogy 77/MBA 84) seeks hard  confidential support or assistance,  
mertours.com  CLAIM. CALL 574~07-0706.  or JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com.  working ND/SMC students who  please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,  
Walk to School.  $650/m negotiable.  want financial security by gradua•  csc. at 1-7819  
STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE 3-4  tion.  For more information,  
OR 5 PERSON 2 STORY. 8 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW EVERYTHING. WIRED FOR COM­PUTERS ECT. AVAIL. SUMMER  FOR SALE 4-bdnn, 2-bath home, close to cam­ 2-6 Bedroom homes 112 mile from campus. mmmrenlals@aol.com 272-1525  LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUESTIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF ND FOR 3-5 PEOPLE  Take your business home on breaks ­work from anywhere.  see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. Work for Observer Sports.  
OR FALL 235-3855  pus. Clay Twp. 271-5144.  www.mmmrentals.com  2n3097  Call Charlie 574-289-2803 for info.  Call 1-4543  

Thursday, February, 27, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Stew-art released from. Steelers 
Associated Press 
PITfSBURGH 

The Pittsburgh Steelers finally cut ties to Kordell Stewart on Wednesday, releasing the enigmatic quarterback who led them to two AFC title games but perplexed them with his inconsistency. 
The move, a foregone conclusion for weeks, allows Stewart to become an unrestricted free agent and gets the Steelers under the 2003 salary cap, which kicks in this week­end. 
The Steelers were about $2 million over the cap before waiving Stewart, but they clear $6.3 million of cap room -Stewart's 2003 salary -by letting him go. Stewart will count $1.62 million against the cap, as the prorated share of the signing bonus he got in 1998. 
Stewart has known since he was benched early in the season for Tommy Maddox that the Steelers would trade or release him, and he said recently he welcomes the chance to start again in the NFL. 
'Tm going to have a chance to win a champi­onship, I'll promise you lhat," he said. 
Stewart was known as "Slash" in his early days with the Steelers in the mid-1990s, when they used him as a multidimen­sional threat who would line up as a receiver on one play and a quarter­back the next. 
He took the Steelers to the AFC championship game in his first year as a starting quarterback in the 1997 season, but threw three interceptions in a 24-21 loss to John Elway­led Denver at Three Rivers Stadium. 
He later lost his starting job twice -at the end of a 6-10 season in 1999 and again at the start of the 2000 season as the Steelers missed the play­offs for three straight sea­sons. But he rebounded to unexpectedly lead the Steelers to a 13-3 record and the AFC title game in 2001, winning team MVP honors and making the Pro Bowl. 
But, again, he threw three costly interceptions in an AFC championship game loss at home, this time to New England, and he was benched this past season after the Steelers lost their first two games and were in danger of los­ing a third. 
He got off the bench only occasionally after Maddox came off the bench to rally the Steelers to a comeback victory against Cleveland on Sept. 29, starting and winning games against the Bengals and Jaguars when Maddox was hurt. But Maddox goes into the 2003 season as the starter, with his backup still to be determined. 
"In order for us to com­ply with the salary cap, we are forced to make some very difficult decisions," coach Bill Cowher said Thursday. "He was a ter­rific player for us and always handled himself as a consummate profession­al. We wish Kordell all the best as he continues his NFL career." 
Cowher praised Stewart for remaining a team play­er last season and not publicly debating the deci­sion to bench him, though Stewart was clearly stung and angered by the deci­sion. 
The 30-year-old Stewart leaves the Steelers with the second-most passing yards in Steelers history (13,328) and ranked 13th in rushing (2,561 yards). 
Arizona, New Orleans, Baltimore, Carolina and Chicago might be among the teams interested in signing Stewart. 
Redskins cut their No. 3 all-time rusher Davis 
.A.,sociatcd Press 

WASHINGTON 
Stephen Davis, one of the NFL's top running backs for the last half­decade, was cut Wednesday by the Washington Redskins in a long­expected move to help get tho team under the salary cap. 
The Redskins also released former starting safety Sam Shade and tight end Walter Rasby as they beat a Friday deadline to get under the $75 million cap. 
Davis, who turns 29 Friday, leaves as the Redskins' No. 3 all-time rusher with 5,790 yards, just 85 yards behind second-place Larry Brown. He is the only player in franchise his­tory to run for 1,000 yards in three consecutive seasons. 
But Davis' bruising, straight-ahead style didn't mesh with Steve Spurrier's pass-happy Fun 'n' Gun offense. Grumbling at times over the offensive game plan, Davis had just 207 carries for 820 yards in 2002, compared with an average of 326 carries for 1,385 yards in his three seasons before Spurrier's arrival. 
Davis also missed four games and parts of two others with knee and shoulder injuries, but his per-game carries and yards were down some 20 percent even when factoring in the injuries. 
The Redskins either had to cut Davis or renegotiate his contract, which would have counted $11.4 mil­lion against the cap in 2003. Under the cap's complex rules, the team saves $5.2 million by cutting Davis and $1.6 million by cutting Shade. 
Davis, a fourth-round pick from Auburn in 1996, could be an attrac­tive free agent for several teams, including the Dallas Cowboys. The Redskins' archrival will need a run­ning back if Emmitt Smith doesn't return. 
The favorite to take Davis' spot in Washington is Ladell Betts, a second­round pick from Iowa who ran for 307 yards as a rookie last year. 
Shade was a three-year starter in Washington before losing his job to Ifeanyi Ohalete seven games into last season. Rasby played two seasons with the Redskins, catching 18 passes for 206 yards in 20 starts. 
The Redskins also cut rookie punter Craig Jarrett, who played in the last four games last season after Bryan Barker was injured. 
Meanwhile, the Redskins might be losing two players they had planned to keep. Negotiations have stalled with defensive linemen Daryl Gardener and Carl Powell, with both set to become free agents Friday. 
Gardener was a find late in training camp last year, adding run-stopping force and locker room leadership to the defensive line. 
The Redskins targeted him as their top pending free agent to re-sign, and agent Neil Schwartz offered to include safeguards in the contract in case. 



L 

C:CJL.L.ECiE CJ F" e NCilNEERINCi 
THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING WELCOMES EARLY ADMITTED ENGINEERING INTENTS 
Leah Acker Scott Augustine Nathaniel Barbera Andrew Blanford Ryan Boehler Kevin Bricker Christopher Calderone Ricardo Cantu Kelly Cederburg Carolyn Charbonnet Daniel Chavka Erik Christensen Matthew Coady Sarah Connolly Andrew Cook Michael Cozzolino Meghan Crowley Peter DeMoss Kimberly Dueffert Carolyn Ehrenberger Kyle Fleege Amanda Flynn William Gallagher Anna Gelhaus Patrick Gettings Michael Giordano James Grace Elizabeth Grob Caitlin Hawryszkow Kevin Hederman Joshua Hoen Zachary Holobowski Lisa Horstman George Hudelson Stephen Hutchings Paul Jennings Peter Johnson Brian Kelly Joshua Kennedy Matthew Kirchner Bradley Laney Marie Lange Kaela Leonard Douglas Mahoney Sarah Mashburn Wesley Mateo Benjamin McClain Michael McConnell Lauren Michniacki Michael Moore Patricia Moye Kathryn Murphy George Murray Patrick Murren Michael Nelson Eric Oster Timothy Paukovits Neil Reece Heather Richards Matthew Robbins Elizabeth Rollins Maria Romano Karl Sault Russell Schaefer Jonathan Schuster Damian Sclafani Mark Seager Devin Shelly Elizabeth Skvarenina Michael Soltys Nathan Stober Lucy Summerville Lydia Szeligowski Vincent Thomas Gregory Tome Michael Toomey Ailis Tweed-Kent Koreen Uhde Christopher Urban Jonathan Witte 


WE HOPE TO SEE YOU IN OUR CLASS OF 2007. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 27, 2003 
TITLE IX 

Panel at odds over enforcement of law 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The law requiring equal opportunity for male and female athletes can be better enforced and explained, but the push to loosen the rules should be rejected, two dis­senting members of a Title IX review study commission said Wednesday. 
Their views, outlined in detail in their minority report, aim to counter a series of proposed changes in how col­leges carry out the landmark anti-discrimination law. 
Critics, building a campaign around actors, athletes and leading senators, hope to spur opposition from a nation of parents. 
In a morning news confer­ence opponents also tied the proposed Title IX changes to President Bush. 
"We plead with the presi­dent and the secretary of education and the Congress to understand the implica­tions of the recommenda­tions," said Julie Foudy, an Olympic gold medal winner in soccer and an author of the dissenting report. 
"It could result in substan­tial losses to women in athlet­ic opportunities," she said. 
Education Secretary Rod Paige was set Wednesday to receive those recommenda­tions, compiled by his Title IX panel, as well as the minority report from Foudy and fellow commission member Donna de Verona. 
At issue is the enforcement of Title IX. which prohibits sports discrimination at schools that receive federal money. The commission came up with ideas intended to increase the flexibility of the law, but opponents see an attack on women's civil rights. 
"These proposals are based on the stereotype that women are not as talented or inter­ested in sports as men, or that men are entitled to greater athletic opportuni­ties," said Sen. Edward M Kennedy, D-Mass. "Those myths are contrary to the ideals and principles that led Congress to pass Title IX." 
The commission's chair­man, Stanford University ath­letic director Ted Leland, had hoped to avoid the awkward­ness of competing reports by negotiating with his two dis­senting members. But several phone calls failed to help; Leland viewed the commis­sion's work as centrist while Foudy and de Verona said it would "critically weaken this important civil rights law." 
The minority report asserts that Title JX. in ensuring more opportunities for women over the last 30 years, has not been the cause of any cuts in mens sports. That point of contention is central to the work of the commission and many of its recommenda­tions. 
The minority report says there are fewer girls and women in sports because of "persistent discrimination" against them, not because of a lack of interest among females. Overall, the report says the commission gave short shrift to dissenting views, unfairly focused on men's sports, rushed its work and failed to even assess the impact of its ideas. 
Sen. Patty Murray, D­Wash., said she will ask for a hearing on whether the com­mission conducted a fair process. Other legislative moves to try to block the commission's ideas could fol­low, she said. 
What's needed, the minority report says, is an educational campaign so schools can bet­ter understand how to meet any part of the law's "three­part" test. That test, the heart of Title IX enforcement, could change significantly if Paige adopts the commission's ideas. 
Join 
Women's Running Club 
No big time commitment! Participate in road races and other activities! 
Have fun in a relaxed team atmosphere! 
Open to ALL ability levels! 
Informational Meeting TODAY February 27 
Foster Room, Lafortune 
7pm 
Contact WomenRun@nd.edu with questions 
NCAA 
Texas lavv-n1aker proposes stipends 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN 

Saying college athletes should cash in on at least some of the millions of dollars they generate for their schools, a Texas lawmaker has proposed letting state universities give them up to $200 a month. 
A bill filed this week by Rep. Ron Wilson, D-Houston, would allow the schools to set up grant programs that would give the money to scholarship athletes. 
It's only fair, Wilson said, to give something back to the football, basketball and base­ball players who put on the uniform and represent their schools. 
"These kids are raising a lot of money for the schools," Wilson said Tuesday. "[Many] of them won't graduate and the schools know it. They're being used for the schools' 
• 
benefit without any kind of compensation." 
Wilson has filed the bill in previous sessions with no suc­cess. But this time, it comes on the heels of legislative action in Nebraska, where lawmakers are considering a bill that would allow the University of Nebraska to pay its football players a stipend. 
There are some big hurdles for Wilson's bill. the biggest being the National Collegiate Athletic Association, which doesn't allow such payments. 
The stipend for a scholarship athlete would be considered a special benefit, said NCAA spokesman Wally Renfro. Any school who paid it would put the athlete's eligibility at risk as well as face potential penal­ties for the entire program. 
"You're basing it on the selection of them as a scholar­ship athlete," Renfro said. "It's an extra benefit and not per­missible." 
Renfro also noted financial aid programs available for athletes who are strapped for cash, including Pell Grants (which pay up to more than $3,000 a year). and other NCAA assistance programs. 
Typically. a full scholarship at a Division I school provides the student athlete with tuition, room and board and books. At major universities, athletes also are given access to special tutoring and acade­mic counseling. 
Wilson dismisses critics who say that should be enough. 
"You could make the same argument about the farmer who buys feed for the hogs and gives them antibodies to keep them healthy and then makes sure they have enough space so they can grow and in the end slaughter them," Wilson said. "Those ungrateful pigs, 
they should've been happy." 
• 

Interested in Working for 
the Dom.e Yearbook? 
Section Editor positions are now available for the 2003-2004 staff. 
Please contact the Dome for more information. 
631-7524 dome@nd.edu 

• 
• 


Thursday, February 27, 2003 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 
ministry.1@nd.edu www.nd.edu/~ministry
C-M Campus Ministry_ 
• 

Notre Dame Encounter
51 
now 
Get involved, go on a retreat 
wh t' h 
[riday 2.28 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #75 
Friday through Sunday Fatima Retreat Center 
Freshman Retreat #46 
Friday through Saturday Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Mass for Peace and Justice 
5:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
807 Mass 
8:oo p.m. CoMo Student Lounge 
sundayJ.02 
RCIA Session 
10:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m. CoMo Student Lounge 
Notre Dame Handbell & Celebration Choirs in Concert 
8:oo p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
. 
sunday rcont. > 
Rejoice! Mass 
10:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center Chapel 
tuesday 3.04 
Campus Bible Study 
roo -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Confirmation Session #11 
7:00 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 
wednesday J. os 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:oo p.m. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 
Morrissey Hall Chapel 
unique opportunity 
Wade in the Water: 
Immersed in the Stream of African American Spirituality 
~ Black History Month Prayer Service ~ 
Musical selections by Mahogany Soul Reflection by Dr. Hugh Page Jr. 
Sunday, March 2 10pm Coleman-Morse Chapel 
mass schedule 
Retreat #76 
Retreat Date: April 11-13 Sign-up through March 7 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
: 
Pickup info & apps in CoMo room 114, Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to s p.m. 
I 

or the CM Welcome Center (room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight. 
I 

considerations.... 
RAs @ Notre Dame 
Giving Something Back 
by Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. 
Director of Vocations, Congregation of Holy Cross 
Hundreds of juniors have been interviewing this month for RA positions across campus. Though many view it as the capstone of their Notre Dame experience, RA's spend a good amount of time performing unrewarding tasks -making rounds, filling out RCR's, checking bathroom conditions, and just staying up late hanging around -interspersed with bursts of crises and confrontations. 
During interviews, no one ever says they like long hours, getting friends in trouble, or cleaning up Friday night vomit, but candidates typically do mention their gratitude for how their own freshman year RA welcomed them to Notre Dame. fu a result, the prospect of helping next year's freshmen and transfer students make the adjustment to the University is both appealing and rewarding. 
Almost every applicant says, "I want to give something back." Still, it's remarkable that the most popu­lar way for seniors to do that is through a position that dumps them into a fishbowl of intense scrutiny from peers and seriously curtails their social lives during their final year. Yet, there is no shortage of candidates in most halls, and Notre Dame may be the only major university in the country where juniors or sophomores 
aren't needed to  
fill those spots.  "We shall always place education side by side  
Why? It could be that the training  with instruction. The mind will not be cultivated at the expense of the heart. While we prepare  
and develop­ment of RA's is the most distinc­ useful citizens for society, we shall likewise do our utmost to prepare citizens for eternal life."  
tive, if not most  
important, part of Notre Dame's  Rev. Basil Moreau, C.S.C.  
educational mission.  Many universities have outstanding academics, championship sports teams, and vi­ 

brant campus ministries. Bur, uniquely at Notre Dame, an RA is a "foot-soldier" in ministry, the individual most immediately responsible for the personal welfare of each student in a section. 
An RA is an extension of the rector, who has a pastoral responsibility for every individual under his or her roof. As they are obliged to know each person in the hall by name, it's the RA's duty to know everyone in their sections and to care for them, whatever that may entail, from having lunch with a freshman eating alone to turning in a friend whose behavior is out of control. 
Tourists, who come briefly to gaze, leave campus overwhelmed by the Dome, the Grotto, and football pagentry, but most enduring for those who dwell here is the daily experience of hall life and memories of those who shaped it. RA applicants approach their senior year with gratitude, wanting to give something back, primarily because others cared enough to know them and form them into a community that became a second home. The main difference between residential life at Notre Dame and most other universities is that the priority here is ministering to people, not managing housing. Being an RA is an essential part ofthe mission, not just a job, and that is no accident. 
It has been part ofthe plan ever since Father Sorin hopped off the boat in New York 162 years ago. The founder didn!r arrive with much money, but he did bring an educational philosophy rooted in the principle that '~he mind will not be cultivated at the expense ofthe heart. » He inherited that from the Holy Crosss founder, Rev. Basil Moreau, C.S.C., who insisted that priests and brothers instruct students inside the classroom and teach them how to live by caring for them outside it. 
The University has grown exponentially since then. Most professors and employees aren't Holy Cross religious, and there are 164 seniors in RA positions that didn't exist in Fr. Sorin's day. But it's still the same mission -preparing people not just for careers but for lives of faith and service. More than anyone else here, RA's are trained, challenged, and formed to care about fellow students so they too grow in their desire to give something back. Many universities shape minds, but this one moves heans, and that makes all the 
difference at Notre Dame. 
Eighth Sunday in Ordinary Time 
basilica of the sacred heart 
Saturday Sunday 
5:00 p.m. 10:00 a.m. 
Rev. Bill Miscamble, c.s.c. Rev. Bill Miscamble, c.s.c. 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. James B. King, c.s.c. 
around campus (every Sunday) 
1:30 p.m. 5:00 p.m. 
Spanish Mass law School Mass 
Zahm Hall Chapel Law School Chapel 
Graduate Student Retreat 
Retreat Date: April 4-5 Sign-up dates: February 28-March 31 contact Fr. John Pearson, 631-7953 or pearson.1@nd.edu 
7:00 p.m. 
MBA Mass 
Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 

Sunday's Scripture Read;ngs 1st: Hos 2: 16b, 17b, 21 -22 2nd: 2Cor 3: 1b -6 Gospel: Mark 2: 18-22 
..----------------------------------------------------~­
AROUND THE NATION 
·-­

page 18 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Thursday, February 27, 2003 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Marquette at Louisville 8 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL Blackhawks at Flyers 8 p.rn., ESPN 
NBA 

Rockets at Wizards 7:00 p.m., TNT Kings at Mavericks 9:30 p.m., TNT 
NFL 


the future of the team and Walter Payton for tops on raised in Florida, and Associated Press 
there are a lot of things the career rushing list. His attended college there. He involved. It's not about record total is 17,162 moved to Dallas afterAUSTIN Emmitt's ability to play. yards. being drafted in 1990 andDallas Cowboys owner We know he can play." Asked if he would con­has been there ever since.
Jerry Jones said Wednesday he expects to Smith's status has been sider being a backup in "I've been a proud citi­
decide by the end of the in doubt for months Dallas or anywhere else, zen in the state of Texas week whether Emmitt because of his contract Smith said he would for 13 years now, going on Smith will remain with the and age. He turns 34 in "weigh all options, that 14, so I look at Texas as team. May and was due a base much I will do." my home now," Smith said 
Jones said he visited salary of $7 million next While Smith was being when asked if he'd consid­with Smith on a flight from season, with a salary-cap honored in Austin, new er playing elsewhere. Dallas to Austin, where the figure of $9.8 million. If Cowboys coach Bill Smith later was honored running back was honored released now, he'll still Parcells held his first team in the Senate, where Sen. by the Legislature for count $4.9 million against meeting. Royce West, D-Dallas, said becoming the leading next season's cap. Backup running back his chamber should draft a rusher in NFL history. He's coming off his least Troy Hambrick, who has resolution suggesting the 
"We know he's NFL roy­productive season since he made no secret of his team keep Smith. alty, he's Dallas Cowboys was a rookie, but said last desire to replace Smith, Smith told representa­royalty," Jones said. "But month he believes he can said Parcells didn't men­tives that he was apprecia­this is about the future of still gain 1.300 yards. In tion Smith's absence. tive of the honor and the the team. We're looking at October, Smith passed Smith was born and work they do. 
IN BRIEF 

Veterans Committee names to happen. season. White replaces Etan nobody to Hall of Fame NL umpire Doug Harvey received Thomas, who was placed on the 48 votes, the most among the 15
The first vote of the Hall of Fame's injured list with a bruised left eye new Veterans Committee finished in managers, umpires and executives socket after taking an elbow in the on the "composite" ballot, where 60
a shutout: No one got in. face against the New Jersey Nets last 
votes were required for election. 
With Hall of Famers themselves week. doing the voting. all 41 of the men on Jordan skips _practice to Jackson to protest Augusta the ballot fell short of the necessary recover from tlugh injury The Rev. Jesse Jackson's 75 percent vote total to gain Michael Jordan sat out practice 
Rainbow/PUSH Coalition has 

enshrinement in Cooperstown, N.Y. with a stiff right thigh and could requested an application for a per­Brooklyn Dodgers first baseman miss Thursday's game between the mit to demonstrate at the Masters in 
and New York Mets manager Gil Washington Wizards and the 
April.

Hodges came closest, getting 50 Houston Rockets. 
Jackson's group has indicated it 

votes in totals released Wednesday, Jordan was kneed in the leg after 
will protest in support of Martha

falling 11 shy. colliding with Reggie Miller in the 
Burk, the chairwoman of the

Minnesota hitting star Tony Oliva fourth quarter of Tuesday night's 83­
National Council of Women's

was second among the 26 players on 78 victory at Indiana. The injury is Organizations. who is leading thethe ballot with 48 votes and Chicago just above the knee that required 
fight against the Augusta National

Cubs third baseman Ron Santo was surgery last season. 
Golf Club's all-male membership. 

third with 46. "He's going to come in here and Col. Gary Powell of the Augusta­
Santo said he was "devastated,'' have treatment today and tomor­thinking this was his time. row." coach Doug Collins said Richmond County Sheriff's 
"It hurt me. It really hurt me," he Wednesday. "Hopefully. he'll loosen Department said Wednesday he said at his house in Scottsdale, Ariz. up and be able to play, but he was received requests Tuesday from "I'm not going to kill myself, don't very stiff today." Jackson's group and from an get me wrong. But all indications ... The Wizards also activated center unidentified man from Maine who were giving me a feeling it was going Jahidi White for the first time this supports Augusta National. 
Thursday, February 27, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
BENGAL BOUTS -170 POUNDS -HEAVYWEIGHT 
Cosse's fists do some talking in win over Knust 

By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Spores Writer 
Clay "The Mouth of the South" Cosse let his fists do the talking in the first semifinal in the 170­pound weight division. Cosse, the brash senior from Chalmette, La., used his lesser stature to his advantage in defeating junior Matt Knust. 
Cosse remained low through­out the bout, using his quickness to dodge several blows from Knust. Neither fighter was able to land many punches, but the ones that Cosse landed were enough to earn him the unani­mous victory. 
Joyce def. Voss 
Rob Joyce did his part to guar­antee a No.I-No. 2 matchup in the finals this year. Joyce, the second seed, will face No. 1 Cossc in the finals Sunday. 
Joyce advanced to the finals with a unanimous decision over senior Jason Voss. The match was even until near the end of the second, when Joyce pushed Voss to the ropes and connected with several hard hooks. 
PRIYA 
The referee went over to check if Voss was dazed, and though he wasn't, Voss couldn't come back against Joyce. In the third period, a hard right hook by Joyce that made Voss stumble back several steps scaled the deal. 
180 pounds 
Pearsall def. Demko 
Last year, Tommy Demko advanced to the semifinals before losing to eventual runner-up Matthew Sarb. This year, Christopher Pearsall gave Demko his second early exit. 
Early in the first, Pearsall, a senior, landed a tremendous right thal knocked Demko to the mat. Although Demko was able to continue with the fight and did a good job of coming back to make it close, he was unable to overcome the early blow. 
Pearsall landed two hard rights right at the end of the match with Demko on the ropes. en route to his split decision victory over the No. 1 seed. 
Groebner def. Rooney 
The second semifinal in the 180-pound division was no less 
VENKATARAMAN 
RHYTHM.F OF INDIA -INDIA ALIVE 
Authentic music and cos­tu mes highlight dance in a traditional 5haratanat_yam st~le From New Delhi, India 

Sat., March Ist 
9:00pm in LaFortune Ballroom 
*For n1ore information calI 631-7308 
Part of the lntercultural Arts Series sponsored by Student Activities 
7 
I I 
I I I 

Discover how you can help someone with a Leaming Disability. I 
Girard Sagmiller will share skills he used to overcome Dyslexia and be successful in business and life. As a I child, Girard was wrongly diagnosed with mental retardation, yet he went on to earn an MBA, teach college, I and travel internationally as acomputer consultant. Sagmiller will talk candidly about his stmgglcs to overcome I 
I 

the ignorance and prejudice of friends, family and society.  I  
7p.111. DeBartolo Hall Romn IO 1  I  
Free Adn1ission.  ,vww.nd.cdu/~bbuddics  

'------------------------------­
exciting than the first, with 
senior Andrew Groebner earning 
a split decision win over junior 
Larry Rooney. 
Despite Rooney's ability to pin 
Groebner to the ropes three 
times during the bout. the junior 
was unable to answer several 
hard punches. At the bell of the 
second, Groebner connected with 
a tremendous right that snapped 
Rooney's head back. 
In the third round, Rooney was 
able to pin Groebner to the cor­
ner, but it was too late for the 
junior to make a serious come­
back. Groebner will face Pearsall 
in the finals Sunday. 
190 pounds 
Lynk def. Gathlnjl 
John Lynk's quest to defend his 
championship in last year's 
Bengal Bouts is still on track, 
despite the valiant effort by 
senior Mwangi Gathinji. 
Both boxers came out of the 
gate firing, and each landed sev­
eral good punches before they 
started to drift apart and play a 
more defensive game. The bout 
was closely matched going into 
the third round, when Lynk start­
ed to pull away. 
The No. 1 seed Lynk connected 
hard with a right that sent 
Gathinji backpedaling, then fol­
lowed with an uppercut and a 
right hook. Lynk landed two 
more rights before the final bell 
that may have helped to secure 
his split decision over Gathinji. 
Zlzlc def. otlewskl 
William Zizic showed there was 
more to boxing than just throw­
ing punches -you have to stop 
them too. The junior put on a 
blocking clinic in defeating senior 
Patrick Otlewski. 
Otlewski tried to connect with 
his punches, but Zizic's agility 
enabled hini to successfully block 
almost every blow. The few 
punches that Zizic was able to 
connect on were enough to 
defeat Otlewski, who fought 
rather defensively as well. 
Zizic's victory sets up a 
rematch of last year's semifinal, 
in which Lynk defeated Zizic. 
Heavyweight 
Burton def. Abeyta 
The Bengal Bouts had its own 
David vs. Goliath light this year, 
as sophomore Darryl Burton 
upset No. 1 seed and third-year 
law student Carlos Abeyta. 
Burton used an aggressive style 
to get in as many punches as he 
could against Abeyta, even when 
the two lighters were wrapped 
up. Burton's strategy changed to 
a more defensive one as the 
match continued. 
The strategy almost backfired, as Abeyta mounted a comeback, but it wasn't enough as Burton earned the split decision victory. 
Borovlna def. O'Connor 
It will be a matchup of "Killer B's" when Burton faces off in the finals against Stefan Borovina, who won a called match against Ben O'Connor. 
Borovina connected with his punches early and often, as the burly junior dominated the lanki­er O'Connor. After getting O'Connor on the ropes early in the third, Borovina attacked with a vicious string of hooks that dazed O'Connor. 
The referee called the match just 40 seconds into the round, declaring Borovina the winner. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 27, 2003 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
pointers from Ratay. But the Panthers (11-14, 3-11) fought back and used a 12-2 run of their own to get back in the game and tie it at 19. 
Notre Dame responded by ending the half on a 19-5 run and led 38-24 at the break. The Irish shot 50 percent in the first half, compared to Pittsburgh's 
29.6 percent shooting. 
However, the Irish couldn't carry their momentum from the first half over into the second. Pittsburgh cut the Irish lead to six at 45-39 with 10:57 left in the game on a Mandy Wittenmyer field goal. Wittenmyer led Pittsburgh with 23 points. while Laine Selwyn added 11 points, a team-high 10 rebounds, six steals and four assists for the Panthers. 
"We're disappointed in the loss. I don't want to take any­thing away from Notre Dame, I thought they played well," Pittsburgh coach Traci Waites said. "But to some degree I just don't think we gave ourselves a chance to win." 
Notre Dame built its lead back up to 13 at 71-58 on a Katy Flecky jumper with 1 :01 left. McGraw then substituted her bench players into the game, but had to pull them with 18 seconds left after the Panthers knocked down back-to-back 3-pointers. 
"At this time of the year you want to be peaking," McGraw said. "You want to be going into the tournament ready. You want to be showing the NCAA tourna­ment committee 'Hey we want to get a good seed, we're a good team.• The Big East teams should be worried about who's got to play us in the tournament, [but] right now they're all licking their chops. They can't wait to get Notre Dame." 
The Irish out rebounded the Panthers 39-30, but turned the ball over five more times than Pittsburgh. At times the Irish made crisp passes to the interior where LaVere or Flecky would put in an easy layup. But at other moments, the Irish made sloppy passes, let Pittsburgh players drive to the lane and allowed Wittenmyer to almost single-handedly keep the Panthers within striking dis­tance. 
"It's incredibly frustrating for me because we had a very poor practice yesterday, and I thought we played like we practiced," McGraw said. 
Notes: 
. 
With a 3-pointer early in the first half, Ratay tied Sheila McMillan for first all-time in career 3-pointers made at Notre Drune. It was the 249th trey of her storied career. 

. 
Saturday will be the last time seniors Karen Swanson and Ratay step onto the Joyce Center's court in an Irish uni­form. The Irish face Seton Hall at 4 p.m. that day. 


Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@od.edu 


ANDY KENNA/The Observer Irish guard AUcla Ratay tries to get rid of the ball whlle she Is trlple teamed by the Panthers. Notre Dame defeated Pittsburgh 77­69 Wednesday at the Joyce Center. 
Legisla'l:ing Corpora'l:e Bi-hies 
All lectures begin at 2 p. rn. and will take place in the Law School Courtroom. 





ERASMUS BOOKS 
•Used Book, bought and sold -25 Categories of Books -25.000 Hardback and Papert,ack books 
in <tock -Out~of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday lhrough Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 466 I 7 (219) 232-8444 
Richard Painter James D. Cox John C. Coff.ea Jr, Ronald Gilson Harvey J. Goldschmld

Pruf1•:;1orvf law, Bt111'.n11trJ Cun-i" f'raft·ssor ot Ls~v, Ad&lfA. 6ct!b fmftM!Jlft ll/ law, Mm-c & £v3 s:em Fr~f£•!!-scr cf Lnw and Rut:ilW5!!, 

C-arr.,:n,~siiJft~u; U.:t .'\'t.1,:w;1f,JJ fJ11kP. Univ~n;ity· f,()/umblr, Unft:t,NlfY CnlamN,1 fJ11!vr.•~-.Jf.v,-Me-1~rs P;c.fe.~5rw of l.:nv amf P.usini'.:.H. :uuf fw::tu,r)Tt.• Comm,'.1,!/iti:; SIM"1frl lfn/1•.srs/fy OK1l;:hl f'mf{t~tl.'r n/ !_;,,v. Cail!m!;ia l.J.l:ivr.tsilv 
Unive.r;~i.y of /1.','µr,fa 

susan Koniak 
Pn1f,•ssor of Law. 8{1sfou l!mvr:rsify 
David Dana 
Profvstor ul Lai+~ N.:JrlhWl!"J/t1m Uni¥i•tt.it_;, 
:.. f;o; ~0111 u!lanruit111~• .i, ·• :::. :~ .:.t,1;~t. l:11111,y · v •·· •: " ·•.. ,.. :· ,, foll<.1rtiielusc0-· · ·· · · ,, · ' · .., ~l~~!i#il<)llf~~t,., ,•,• ,...,. ·, ....... ,Mu,tiMtt~rnt111~l'GfUw · · Astot:tate"PtofetMrM(!lw ·' · , ·. ·· ' ·. · ,: :'· ·.. .x ·,· ·:·· :'!i:74:4tH-954jl·, ' •, · · ' '· · !M•S3l,496S · . · ' .• .,.._·•• , •. • , :,:,: :·1· i,:; :'' i' ..,•" ,.", . lll:iin,1®ml~fi!ir, > • < •' •• r,,e111~1.:11@ri/£,11d!l · ' · · · ' · 
I,.,•:''•••,~ °;:' ; .. : :,x,,,;,»•::x:,,» :::::,•,~.,;, ., ,' ,t,, Y,~•• /,\ \\''••• ~• I, • ,:•, ,• I : •' • • •
t' 

Thursday, February 27, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
BENGAL BOUTS -125-145 POUNDS 
Senior captain Newburg impressive in 1st fight 
By LUKE BUSAM Spores Writf'r 
Senior captain Shawn Newburg's first appearance in the 2003 Bengal Bouts was a strong performance in a unani­mous decision over Brian Faist. 
Round one was essentially all Newburg as the experienced fighter was barely touched by the constantly circling Faist. Faist remained on the outer parts of the rings as Newburg held the center with his jab. Newburg worked his way in with jabs and then used a variety of punches to FaLst's head and body. 
Faist obviously made good con­tact in the first, because round two began with a slightly bleed­ing Newburg. Newburg's nose was cleaned twice in the second round as Faist grew more aggressive. 
While the third round began with good jab exchanges, Faist's tendency to drop his hands when attacking opened up several hook opportunities for the captain. 
Newburg capitalized well and scored several large hooks to Faist's head in the final round to earn the unanimous decision vic­tory. 
Valenzuela def. Kim 
Jon Valenzuela earned a unan­imous decision win over Sung Hoon Kim and will move on to face Newburg in the finals. 
The match began with good exchanges by both boxers. Kim held the ring well in the first and used a looping hook to keep Valenzuela circling him. Valenzuela's defense was strong throughout the round, but Kim found room for contact in Valenzuela's open stance. 
A huge exchange set a swift pace for ihe second round as Kim took advantage of the low left hand of Valenzuela and moved him to the corner. Valenzuela did not stay long as he quickly turned his opponent's back to the ropes. 
Valenzuela relied on his right hook in round three, but found most success in one-twos. With 10 seconds left in the round, he landed a solid upstairs one-two that Kim did not respond to. 
140-pound class Hollowell def. Schmidlin 
Junior Captain Tony Hollowell earned a well-fought victory over Joe Schmidlin to advance to Sunday's finals. 
Hollowell played the aggressor in round one and forced his fast lead jab through to Schmidlin's head on a number of occasions. Hollowell's excellent jab held up throughout the round. 
Schmidlin came out strong in the second round and move Hollowell to the ropes twice early. Hollowell continued to ini­tiate, and his fast left never stopped. Schmidlin often replied well, though with less scoring punches than the aggressive Hollowell. 
In the final round, Schmidlin countered Hollowell well when he chose to, but was often unable to reach Hollowell. Schmidlin looked strong throughout the 

(Located between Eddy & Francis Street) 
1 We bring more roommates together by splitting them up.,, 
At Lafayette Square, we realize that the closer you are to your roommates, the farther apart you want to be. Knowing this, we separate the bedrooms upstairs and downstairs, with common living areas on the main floor. 
Now you can still save money by sharing the rent, AND KEEP YOUR PRIVACY TOO! 
***Ask us about leasing promotions going on! 
1574) 234-9923 Tclark@cbresb.com 

It's a wise "joint venture" Townhomes available for 2003-2004! 
Professionally Managed by Real Estate Management Corp. (Housing also available at Notre Dame Apartments) 
fight, but overcoming the strength and speed of Hollowell proved no small task. 
Wuest def. Hoffman 
Bill Wuest's straight left jab and his ability to quickly replace it with the power right earned him a called victory over Christopher Hoffman. 
Hoffman got inside early on Wuest, who had a large reach advantage. Hoffman continued to be aggressive in round two, but Wuest's jabs found their targets more often than in the first. Wuest was often able to pick off the squared-up Hoffman as Hoffman closed to his body. 
A number of hard shots to Hoffman's head sent him dazed to the corner, prompting a stand­ing 8 count. Hoffman took a knee and did not return from the corner, and the fight was called at 1:10 into the second round with Wuest the victor. 
145-pound division Harris def. DIiion 
Paul Harris won a unanimous decision in a close match over Luke Dillon. Harris was more mobile in the ring and charged often while Dillon stuck to his straight one-twos. 
Dillon appeared more relaxed throughout the first round and 
Lynk 
continued from page 24 
Bengal Bouts in his mind. Giving the idea some thought, Lynk decided the Bouts were for him. 
In his first year, Lynk dropped a split decision to Rob Joyce in the 170-pound weight class. As a junior, Lynk used what he learned from his semifinal round loss to Criniti to win the 190­pound championship. 
As the top seed this year, Lynk has earned two victories after a first-round bye and is in line to waited for openings to capitalize with his jabs. Harris threw more punches, but Dillon's selection was better and more accurate. 
Round three brought a series of good one-twos from Dillon. Harris' punch count fell from the earlier, more aggressive rounds and Dillon's right scored often. The bell sounded with a good shot to Harris' head by Dillon. In spite of a strong third round, Dillon was unable to overcome the unrelenting charges and flur­ries of Paul Harris. 
Duffey def. Ham 
Ryan Duffey held off the strong first round of Jeff I lam to earn a split decision victory. 
Ham was fast in closing and attacking DufTey's body and head to start the match. However, Duffey stuck to his jab in the first and throughout the match and earned a victory in doing so. 
In round two, Duffcy's jab made contact more often while Ham's lead began to loop a bit. Both landed more punches in the second. but a strong right to Ham's head prompted a clinch with five seconds left in the round as Duffey left the judges with a good impression. 
Contact Luke Busam at lbusam@nd.edu 
defend his crown. 
After investing so much time over the past four years, Lynk couldn't put into words what the Bengal Bouts experience has meant to him. 
"There's so much that it can't be summed up easily," he said. 
And then Lynk said what all the boxers believe encompasses their roles in raising tens of thou­sands of dollars for the Holy Cross Missions every year. 
"Strong bodies fight, that weak bodies may be nourished." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


AUTHENTIC 5U55 SINCE 1956 
A FltEE SOB? 
YES!• • P\Jrchase Any Reg, or Giant Slze 5Ub & a 22 oz. Fountain Drink at ~egular Price 
And Cet Another Sub of Equal or Lesser Value....FREE....11 Coopon Not Valid Wid, Ocher Olfu,, Couporu.Wich Your 15% Studcn,/Faculty Discount Or Fo, Ddi""Y On!,,.,_ "Valid only u Michuna Loc.ations and oBly wich chi! coupon which ~api.tts on March 28, 2003•• IN Ml.,;HAWAU!-AT S7I 8 N. MAIN ST. -ACROSS FROM SAM'S CLUB-~ 247-0056 IN SOLTH BEND-AT THE COLLEGE FOOTBALL f--iAil. OF FAME .. z4o.QJJ6 AND AT 11-ili INTffiSEGTION OFSR 9JJ AND AUTEN ROAD...277-89.lO 
COW9n..,@ll)On,..rottpon...coup,n....g;,ypon.•.gp.ipon • ..roupon....coypon...cogpon,_mupon....c09;P9n...cmapora~!l' 

0

FE•-=•-· G 
Midwest Conference Championships 
I 

#1 Men and #3 Women take on 
H.

#4 Ohio State 
I

Saturday, 3/1 @ 12:30pm Enter through Gate 3 of the JACC s 
Free t-shirts to the first 50 fans! D 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 27, 2003 
BENGAL BOUTS -150-165 POUNDS 
Vargas gets close decision to advance to finals 
seconds into the final round and bent-arm punch that was near­sions as Dillon's right fell late in Fergus def. Yost
By LUKE BUSAM 

forced Loughrey to the ropes ly impossible to defend. the round. Alex Fergus won a unanimous 
Sports Writer 

late in the round. Loughrey's The finals of the 160-pound Throughout the second, decision victory over Mark Yost one-twos scored a number of class will be a match of two Gough occasionally picked off and will meet Charlie Gough in 
Nicaraguan Juan Diego times, but he continued to take good fighters with drastically Dillon as he attacked, but Dillon the finals Sunday. Vargas won another close shots to his body. The fight was different styles as the powerful. seemed willing to take an occa­Fergus moved comfortablymatch with a split decision vic­close as the split decision victo­brawling Pierce will meet the sional shot in order to score a and swiftly throughout round tory over Ryan Rogers. ry reflects. technical, jabbing DeSplinter. number of hard punches to one, and slipped a left-right by
Vargas circled to begin the Gough's head. Dillon's footwork Yost flawlessly. Fergus jabbed
Keppel def. Schaefer

match, but engaged quickly saved him a few times in the well and moved better to finish
Steve Keppel overcame a 165 pounds
with hard combos to Rogers' second as he avoided Gough's the round. 
number of stops to clean the
head and body. Rogers held the Gough def. DIiion advances and continued to Round two began with a great
blood from his face to win a
ring well in the first, and Charlie Gough's final push in throw combinations upstairs. flurry by Fergus that sent Yost
split decision victory over Greg
Vargas dropped his head and the third round won him a split At the start of round three, to the corner. Yost backpedaled
Schaefer.

let his hands stray from his face decision victory over junior cap­two rights to Dillon's head often and took several jabs from
Keppel began the fight by
a bit when he got in trouble. but tain Pat Dillon. prompted a stop in the action Fergus: Yost had a strong, ille­
forcing Schaefer to two differ­
Vargas dominated the first Dillon was aggressive and for a cleaning. Gough pushed gal backhand to Fergus's head
ent corners with strong charges 
round. appeared the better boxer in hard throughout the round to and received a warning at 50
on the taller fightei;. Schaefer
In the second, Vargas held the round one with a number of match the bleeding, though seconds in. 
was caught unguarded a few
ring from Rogers and sent him upstairs combinations tha:t undeterred Dillon, who was Jn the final round, Fergus
times in the match and was sent 
to the corner one minute in forced Gough to the corners. unrelenting with his combina­appeared a bit tentative while
to the corner at 55 seconds in.
with a fast, hard upstairs flurry. Dillon held the ring well and tions upstairs. An impressive Yost jabbed well. but his first
Schaefer drew blood on Keppel
Rogers came out slightly more landed hard shots throughout exchange ended the bout and two rounds earned him a the
after an exchange in the corner
tentative in the third as he wait­the round. Gough scored a both fighters, the junior captain unanimous decision victory. 
with five seconds left in the first 
ed for Vargas to throw and number of times when he chose and the upsetting freshman, left
and landed a hard left to end
attempted to counter. to initiate and was able to land everything in the ring as the Contact Luke Busam at
the round. 

Rogers came on very well at several jabs on different occa-final bell sounded. lbusarn@nd.edu
After a fast exchange to startthe end of the match prompting the second round, Keppel wasa clinch. The final five seconds 
cleaned at 15 seconds in.
of the match saw no exchanges. 
Schaefer was more aggressiveRogers' punches were straight in the second, but still forced to
and accurate throughout the 
fight backing up due to Keppel's bout, but Vargas threw a great 
constant charges. The match
deal more, going almost three 
was stopped at :30, :55 and
to one on punches with Rogers. 
1:05 to clean Keppel and againVargas was bound to land more at 1:28 to clean both fighters. 
and did so in his split decision Although Schaefer fought pri­victory. 
marily backpedaling, he did Gasser def. Lohmeyer find success with his one-twos. Brendan Gasser won a unani­Schaefer struggled to find a 
mous decision in a brawl with score in the third round and 
Nathan Lohmeyer and will meet missed many of the punches he Vargas in the finals Sunday. threw while moving away from Round one began with a 15-the ever-advancing Keppel. The 
second exchange and a bevy of fight was stopped twice more in punches, although few straight, the third to clean Keppel, but from each fighter. Little separa­he won a well-earned split deci­tion was found between the two sion victory. during the round or throughout the fight. 
160 pounds

Round two began in a similar fashion with nearly 20 seconds DeSpllnter def. Enterline of solid punches. Gasser looked Mark DeSplinter out-boxed a HEKHI PHIFER strong in the second, and he brawler in his win over John landed a large number of Enterline. punches as Lohmeyer's hands Enterline altered his some­left his face. times barroom style to meet the 
One minute into the round, technical form of DeSplinter. Lohmeyer was warned for Both fighters circled each other pushing Gasser to the ropes to start the match, testing each after a clinch. The blood was other's reach. There was little cleaned from Gasser's face. contact, but each moved and 
Lohmeyer charged Gasser boxed well throughout the first. and sent him to the ropes to DeSplinter moved back often in start the third, landing a hard the round and neither fighter right before a counter by made significant contact. Gasser. Both fighters were visi­Round two brought more solid bly tired and clinched at 1 :00. boxing, but few hard After the clinch, Gasser forced exchanges. DeSplinter was a bit Lohmeyer to the corner, and more aggressive and jabbed a the round ended shortly after. great deal, keeping the charg­Little air was seen between the ing Enterline from scoring. two fighters throughout the When DeSplinter stood his bout as Gasser earned his ground, his one-twos were unanimous decision win by accurate. being more aggressive and find­In round three, Enterline ing his target with his one-twos. relentlessly pursued the 
backpedaling, jabbing DeSplinter, but was unable to
155 pounds 

engage DeSplinter in any hard
Kerrigan def. Loughrey 

exchanges as he did to oppo­Colin Kerrigan earned his first nents in earlier fights. 
trip to the finals with a split decision victory over Galen Pierce def. Phillip Loughrey. Senior Captain Tom Pierce 
Loughrey's defense was once has enjoyed two called fights again strong in this match as and under three minutes of his left hand remained at his boxing in the 2003 Bengal temple and moved only for a Bouts. Wednesday, Pierce 
quick jab to set up his right. earned a victory over Bill Phillip Loughrey was patient and com­with a right hook that was near fortable in the ring as Kerrigan textbook perfection. circled him in the first round. Pierce held to his gritty style 
In the second, Kerrigan was to start the fight and held the successful and scored often as ring well against the taller he drove to Loughrey's body. Phillip. He jabbed in to close Loughrey's defense was strong distance effectively and fol­around his head, but Kerrigan's lowed with hooks to the head constant body shots produced a and body. Pierce sent Phillip to strong round. the mat at 1:20 into the first Kerrigan landed a big right 19 round with a close, powerful, 
,­

-7 
Thursday, February 27, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
HENRI ARNOLDCLARE O'BRIEN 
JUMBLE

SCHOOL DAZE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon

Jl~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, He hits e lot His new musical 
to form four ordinary words. 
of home runs la a winner 
-
LEGYE 

j
rJ r 
02003 T ti>une Media Services, Inc, All Rights Reserved 
CASIB 

j
I I r 
LARLOF j
I rx
www,1umble.oom 





IHOWDASj 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

M~r Mre: [I]"[I I~ 11 )" 
nswers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: MADAM TWEAK OVERDO ITALIC Answer: What she did when he turned on the light in the 
middle of the night -TOOK A "DIM" VIEW 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 38 Label on many 65 Surrounding an advertising light
1, s & 10 Need for photo
69-, 70-and 71-66 Litigious one Across 41 Washington 
67 "A~d then again
State's Sea-_

14 "_ ott?" Airport
15 Earthling 68 Desktop marker 42 Pantywaisl
16 Vargas Liesa 69, 70 & 71 What novel '_Julia 43 Adherent in Iran the middle of and the this puzzle 1s
44 Work boot Scriptwriter'' 
feature 17 Ye follower 
46 Clockmaker DOWN 18 Blue dyes Terry 
1 Snares 19 Atlases, e.g.: 47 How some 
2 MarriageAbbr rebukes are 
byproduct 20 Cruelty 
made 

3 Yes-man, 22 Hebrew prophet 49 "Lile_ perhaps cabaret"
24 Milk provider 4 ·_ Sleep, lor 52 Creepy-crawlies Every Favor" 
25 P.D. alert 54 38-Down was 
(old hymn) 27 Cheated the second one 5 It might be next30 Div. of a former to a bar ot soap
55 R.N.'s treatment

union 6 Bit of wit 
31 They have big 56 Rarely 7 Provenc;:al pal
bills 59 Unconcerned 8 "Safe" or "out"
34 Outside: Prefix retort 9 Academy
35 Relating to life 61 Kind of bag graduate
36 Philips product 63 Period 10 Abdel 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Nasser 
Private Eye magazine 23 Anlldrug mantra 26 Fit up against 
2B Split personal1t1es? 29 Feeble-minded 32 Informal goodbyes 

WILLSHORTZ 


Puul1 by Patrick Merrell 

33 Ins have it 45 Nearly 57 Other, in Espana
35 She played 48 Ted Williams 58 "Death inMaude on and others Venice" author "Maude" 
49 Cornell's home 
60 Antiroyalist, in37 Limo passenger 

50 Winter the Revolution 38 See 54-Across Olympics event 
61 Scolding sound 39 Scottie in the 51 Broadway 62 Ja. across the White House opening? Rhine 
40 Craved 53 Turns 64 Vishnu. e.g. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles. nyt1mes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). 
Crosswords tor young solvers: The Learning Network, nylimes.com/learn1ng/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIUS DAY: Elizabeth Taylor, Joanne Woodward, Ralph Nader, Adam Baldwin 
Happy Birthday: Your intuition is strong this year. follow your feelings regardless of what anyone else advises. Your patience and tolerance will help you see matters through to the end and deal with any minor setbacks along the way. This is a year of potential gain. Don't lose sight ofyour own objectives. Yournwnber.;are 1,6, 29, 34,40,46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can pursue your goals, but don't become discouraged if someone isn't quick to understand or see the value in what you are trying to do. Be persistent and patient tt TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't rule out travel: waiting for others will be frustrating and awaste oftime. Follow your own goodjudgment. -lrlrlrlrlc GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may have overspent lately. Look to see where you can make up any lost income. Joint financial ventures will not pan out, so don't even consider them '1rlrlr CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will find it difficult to deal with emotional matters today. Don't divulge your personal secrets or put demands on others. Just be fun to be with. tt LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may find that someone is trying to hold you back today. Find out whatever information you need to get your work done yourself. You can resolve personal uncertainties ifyou ask direct questions. '1rlrlr VIRGO (Aug. 2.l-SepL 22): Take care to enhance your looks or improve your attitude today. Social events will be hectic but exciting, so be sure to accept all invitations. -lrlrlrlrlc LIBRA (SepL 2.l-OcL 22): The people closest to you will confuse you today. If you can't get others to discuss the issues, consider talking to an outsider who will have an objective view ofyour situation. tt SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You should be on the road or at least doing something that is pleasing today. Pleasure trips will be enjoyable and infonnative. You can make a difference to those you encoonter. tttt SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Protect your own interests and handle your own cash. Don't consider taking a risk. Losses will occur if you get involved in joint financial schemes. '1rlrlr CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may take things the wrong way today. Don't jump to conclusions. Listen, observe and maintain your composure. tt AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will want to be straightforward today to avoid any misunderstandings. False infonnation may lead you in the wrong direction, especially ifit pertains to legal or financial issues. '1rlrlr PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If someone is putting too much pressure on you or asking you to do things you don't want to do, it's time to reek away. Your involvement in a new group or organization may pose a threat to those you are close to. Do what's bestforyou. tttt 
Birthday Baby: You'll have the strength and fortitude to take on any challenge that comes your way. You will be insightful, compassionate and will know when to help. You will be interesting, fun and you'll draw many people to your side. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. 
(l)PYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRE.5S SYNDICATE 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.eau1 



PORTS 
Thursday, February 27, 2003 
-ND WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Venting her frustrations 
"I didn't feel like we were men­

. McGraw not 
tally focused .... We didn't under­pleased despite stand time-and-score, we didn't take care of the basketball, we
Notre Dame's 
didn't execute the offense,"

77-69 victory 
McGraw said. "I think the list is fairly endless to what we didn't do and very short as to what we

By JOE HETTLER 
did [well]." 
Sports Editor 

Notre Dame (16-9, 8-6) did have five players score in double Instead of addressing her team figures, led by Courtney LaVere's immediately after facing 14 points off the bench. Irish Pittsburgh Wednesday night as guard Alicia Ratay contributed 
I
she usually docs her first 1. after games, Irish double­coach Muffet " ... Right now they're all double of 
McGraw stofmed licking their chops. They the sea­
directly into the son with
can't wait to play Notre 

press conference 12 points room and impa-Dame." and a tiently waited for season­questions from the high 11
Muffet McGraw 

press. rebounds.
Irish head coach

Despite beating the Panthers 77-69, McGraw was far from pleased with her team's Sophomore forward Jacqueline 
performance. Batteast added 10 points. eight 
"I thought we played poorly. I rebounds and three assists for would just like to leave it at the Irish. that." McGraw said. "I thought it "We did not play well. We have was a team effort and it was not to play better," Batteast said. a good one." The Irish jumped out to an 
McGraw didn't just think her early 15-3 lead behind two 3­Irish struggled in one area, but in almost every aspect of the game. see IRISH/page 20 

BENGAL BOUTS 

Lynk teaching basics he learned as sophomore 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Spores Ediror 

Former three-time champion Mark Criniti taught then-sopho­more John Lynk a few basic lessons about boxing in a semifi­nal bout two years ago. 
"Keep my hands up, move a lit­tle bit more," Lynk said. 
But that fight started a rela­tionship between the two accom­plished fighters. 
"Mark is great," the defending 190-pound champion Lynk said. "I have asked him to be in my corner this year, and he is a great coach." 
Now as a senior captain, Lynk is teaching what he learned from Criniti and the other boxing cap­tains to the new fighters. 
"We are trying to get every one 
..... to learn the basics," Lynk said. "We teach a basic style of boxing so they can work with it." Besides teaching the basics inside the ring, Lynk tries to 
teach the younger boxers about what the Bengal Bouts truly mean. 
"We try to encourage a lot of charity work," Lynk said. "We have gone to a church in a Hispanic community and help them fix it. We try to do some random things as well as helping the missions in Bangladesh." 
With all students having little time to participate in extra-cur­ricular activities, the Bengal Bouts gives students an opportu­nity to do two things that many have done for most of their lives -athletics and service. 
"Boxing is a great sport and a lot of fun," Lynk said. "Everybody has a limited budget of time so it's great to be able to get a sport and a service project in at the same time," 
Lynk didn't think about boxing until a friend approached him in the weight room as a freshman and planted the seed of joining 
see LYNK/page 21 



BENGAL BOUTS 150-165 POUNDS  BENGAL BOUTS 125-150 POUNDS  BENGAL BOUTS 170 POUNDS~HEAVYWEIGHTS  
Kerrigan def. Loughrey, Keppel def. Schaefer,  Newburg def. Faist, Valenzuela def. Kim,  Cosse def. Knust, Joyce def. Voss, Pearsall def. Demko,  
DeSplinter def. Enterline, Pierce def. Phillip,  Hollowell def. Schmidlin, Wuest def. Hoffman,  Groebner def. Rooney, Lynk def. Gathinji, Zizic def.  
Gough def. Dillon, Fergus def. Yost  Harris def. Dillon, Duffey def. Ham, Vargas  Otlewski, Burton def. Abeyta, Borovina def. O'Connor  
def. Rogers, Gasser def. Lohmeyer  
page 22  page 21  page 19  



