
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

idwestern hospitali 
?• 

By ANDREW THAGARD Assistant News Editor 
The University of Michigan Athletic Department's warn­ings that the number of Notre Dame band members allowed in Michigan Stadium would be limited never materialized Saturday. Members of the Marching Band were person­ally escorted inside the stadi­um by Michigan's band with­out reaction from ushers, band officials said. 
"We received 11th hour assistance from the Michigan 
band." said Ken Dye, director of University Bands. "Everybody got in, everybody performed. There were no problems." 
This result, however, came as a surprise. On Thursday, the band was notified by Notre Dame's Athletic Department that limited space would force officials to cut 50 members from the sections. 
The band staff sent out an e­mail to members asking for volunteers to sit out parts of the game, but said the entire band would perform during 
pre-game and post-game fes­tivities and the half-time show. 
By Friday, · however, University of Michigan Deputy Athletic Director Sandy Barbour warned that Notre Dame's plan of having band members enter the stadium for parts of the game might not be feasible, and the addi­tional band members would not be allowed in the stadium at any time, according to an e­mail from Lane Weaver, assis­tant band director. 
see BAND/page 6 

Tensions high between fans as Michigan blows out ND 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Editor 
ANN ARBOR, Mich.-Rivalries are common in college football, 
but this week- 
end's  rivalry  
between Notre  See Also  
Dame  and  
Michigan  in  "Abused in Ann  
Ann  Arbor  Arbor"  
was  not  con­ 
tained  to  the  Irish Insider  
field  as  fans  

from both sides threw barbs before, during and after the 

David Tyson named provincial superi­
Former ND vice president returns to Indiana 
lenges, this is an exciting time in is still empty and University Tyson has been involved with 
By SHEILA FLYNN the Church and in Holy Cross." President Father Edward Notre Dame since 1966, when 
News Writer A<> provincial superior, Tyson is Malloy's tenure expires in 2005, he entered the University as a 
responsible for the spiritual and Tyson's office is particularly freshman. He has two Notre 
University trustee and former physical welfare of every mem­important. Dame degrees: a bachelor's Notre Dame Vice President ber of the order. Each year, Tyson said he expects the sub­degree, earned in 1970, and a Father David Tyson has either the provincial superior or ject of a new executive vice pres­master's degree, earned in 197 4. returned as provincial superior his delegate visits each member, ident to be After his ordi­of the Indiana 
as near as South Bend and as far addressed nation in
"Even though I have
Province of as Chile, Kenya, Tanzania and shortly by the 1975, he held t h e Uganda. board, which been in Holy Cross many various posi­Congregation "The provincial superior meets on cam­tions at the
years now, I am enjoying
of Holy Cross. works with the other provincials pus in October. University,
engagzng our
Tyson was worldwide and the general "The Chair of including elected to the administration of the order to the Board cre­membership through my admissions office in June, coordinate our many min­ated an Ad Hoc new role.,, counselor, succeeding istries," Tyson said. Committee on assistant rec­F a t h e r Tyson The role also gives Tyson Organization tor in Dillon 
David Tyson 
William increased power in the appoint­that is prepar­llall, business Dorwart, who served as provin­ment of upper-echelon ing a report for Provincial Superior of the professor, cial superior since 1997. Tyson University oflicials. As a trustee, the full Board Indiana Province Qf the executive did not officially leave his post as he was already involved in the on structural assistant to
Congregation of Holy Cross
president of the University of process; the board of trustees issues in the the president Portland, which is also a Holv elects the Notre Dame president. University under Father Cross school, until Aug. 1. He However, the board's gover­administration," Tyson said. "It Theodore Hesburgh and vice arrived permanently in South nance and nominating commit­is my understanding that the president for student affairs. He Bend on Aug. 18. tee is also required to request a position of executive vice presi­left Notre Dame after being 
"Even though I have bePn in recommendation for the next dent will be included in the selected as president of the lloly Cross many years now, 1am University president from the report." University of Portland in ·t990. enjoying engaging our member­provincial of the Indiana Tyson was one of the top can­ship through my new role." province. At this point in the didates for the Notre Dame pres­Tyson said in an e-mail inter­University's history, when the idency in 1987. when Malloy Contact Sheila Flynn at view. "Though there arc chal-office of executive vice president was selected. sflynn@nd.edu 
game. Ann Arbor police officer Sgt. 
Andrew  Zazula  said  police  
responded  to  several  fights  
Friday  night  between  Notre  

Dame and Michigan fans on Michigan's campus. He was unaware of any arrests. 
At several tailgates prior to the game, fans from both sides exchanged comments, and it wasn't uncommon for Notre Dame fans to pass Michigan tail­gates and hear unsolicited derogatory comments. 
see TENSION/page 6 

-, 

Dykes' fate almost in jury's 
Closing· arguments begin today in second of four sexual assualt trials 
Observer Staff Report 
Jury deliberations are expect­ed to begin Monday in Donald Dykes' trial where a Notre Dame student alleged he raped her. 
T h e defense rested Friday after calling only three wit­nesses, while the 

prosecution 
Dykes
had called 13 since the trial began Tuesday. Dykes, who pled n<rt guilty, did not testify during his trial. He is charged with rape, conspiracy 
see DYKES/ page 9 


Monday, September 15, 2003

page 2 The Observer + PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

First Impressions 
I learned a lot about first impres­sions this weekend in Michigan. 
I learned that Ann Arbor is, in fact, not a woman of ill repute as I had been repeatedly told and was beginning to 
believe. Rather, Allison Walsh it is a pretty 
amazing college town that, upon first glimpse, Ad Design 
outdoes the city of South Bend in every way possible, as asserted by our ranking as "Great Campus, Bad To·wn" by Sports Illustrated On Campus. 
I also believed that Michigan fans couldn't be all that different than Notre Dame fans. We both came in hopes of good times and a good game, although I was forced to drive home without the latter. 
Upon entering one State Street locale and hearing a rowdy rendi­tion of the Notre Dame fight song, my first thought was to keep an eye out for locals. Soon I realized, however, that throwing insults back and forth with the enemy can be a source of entertainment for all. 
"Overrated," they chanted in response to our rounds of "25-23," the score of last year's encounter. For the next half hour, as both tables tried to one-up the other, chants of "George O'Leary" and "Bob Davie" were directed at us, we received our insults with amusement. 
When everyone ran out of come­backs, two of the Michigan stu­dents brought a peace offering of two cold pitchers. 
They shook hands and introduced themselves, and soon enough, the Irish were teaching our opponents how to play cups. It brought a tear to my eye. 
I think it's safe to say that our fondness for drinking games is where our similarities with their fans end. 
Game day was another story. What other student body assaults visiting fans with eggs and half­empty (or half-full?) beer cans? At least their clever and oft-repeated chants of "Rudy sucks" and "F--­the Irish" gave Notre Dame stu­dents reassurance as to our insti­tution's admittance of individuals of higher intelligence. 
After the game {let's not even go there... ) I realized that maybe my first impressions were right. 
So maybe South Bend has a little less to offer than Ann Arbor, but on the drive back home, I took sol­ace in the fact that despite the out­come of Saturday's game, (although I'm still more than a bit upset about that) it's better to live in a second-rate city than to live amongst a second-rate student body. 
Contact Allison Walsh at awalsh@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publi­cation and strives for the highest standards of jour­nalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
. ' 

I QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF SATURDAY'S FOOTBALL GAME AGAINST MICHIGAN? 





Mel Triay Shlee Ghiaseddin Dan Brown Lisa Sustman Geet Paul Adam Kaufmann 
St. Edwards Keough St. Edwards Lyons O'Neill Off-campus Freshman Sophomore Freshman Junior Freshman Junior 
"Like elastic. ..It was tough ''Lance "/ went to bed ..Chris Perry is "Man, let's we will bounce but I support Armstrong had -before probably one of never let that back to our players. .. some bumps on halftime ... the best happen again. .. 



championship  his Tour de  
form and win  France  
the national  victories. ,,  
title.··  


Man uses nose to roll nut across London 
LONDON  -A protester  
rolled  a  nut  to  Prime  
Minister  Tony  Blair's  

doorstep with his nose on Friday. completing a 7 -mile journey across London aimed at highlighting the issue of-student debt. 
Mark McGowan, 37, crawled on his hands and knees for 11 days as he pushed the nut from Goldsmiths College in south­east London to Downing Street using his nose. 
"I wanted to do something that was particularly diffi­cult, so I think I've proved the point there," said McGowan, who wore a bandage on the tip of his nose. He had spent eight hours a day since Sept. 1 pushing the nut through the capital. 
McGowan gave the nut to a member of Blair's office with a letter asking the prime minister to accept it as payment for his 15,000 pounds ($24,000) of student debt. 
Police evict man from cave 
FLAGSTAFF. Ariz. -A man was evicted from a cave he had lived in for 11 years after pleading guilty to using a national forest for residen­tial purposes. 

Thomas Crawford had a bed, books and clothes arranged on hangers, along with pots and cutlery for cooking in his cave in the Coconino National Forest in northern Arizona. 
He was arrested Friday after a Flagstaff resident reported a suspicious camp. 
Crawford pleaded guilty in 
U.S. District Court on Monday and was sentenced to one year of probation and banned from the forest. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 0::: 
L&.l :I: 
ti 
L&.l 
~ 
..... 
<
(.) 


0 

HIGH 66 HIGH 68 HIGH 77 HIGH 77
.... 

LOW 57 LOW 58 LOW 53 LOW 55 
running backs in the nation, it was a tough
.. 
game. 
IN BRIEF 
The CeH.ter for Social Concerns is sponsoring "Discerning One's Future." The reflection session, scheduled from 5 to 7 p.m. at the Siegfried Hall TV Lounge, will be led .by Father Michael Himes. 
The Engineering Depart­ment is hosting "Engineering Industry Day.•• Learn more about engineering programs and opportunities from 6 to 9 
p.m. in the McKenna Hall Atrium. 
Ellen Gootblatt will deliver a lecture entitled "Mating, Dating and Relating," at 7 
p.m. at Saint Mary's Carroll Auditorium. 
Come watch "Johnny Stecchino" with the Italian Club on Tuesday at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
The Irish film "Bloody Sunday" will be shown at 7 and 11 p.m. on Tuesday in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune. The event is spon­sored by International Student Services and Activities. 
The Nanovic Fellows Forum presents "Americans are from Mars, Europeans are from Venus: Can we still talk?" The panel discussion will feature experts on the current tensions between Europe and the United States. The event begins at 4:30 p.m. at the Hesburgh ·Center Auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

:· 
HIGH 75 HIGH 
61 
LOW 54 LOW 
50 

Atlanta 81 I 60 Boston 76 I 66 Chicago 73 I 53 Denver 78 I 54 Houston 88 I 66 Los Angeles 81 I 64 Minneapolis 70 I 51 New York 75 I 67 Philadelphia 76 I 66 Phoenix 105 I 80 Seattle 65 I 49 St. Louis 78 I 52 Tampa 89 I 72 Washington 78 I 65 


Monday. September 15, 2003 page 3 
The Observer + STATE NEWS 


Small Christian Faith-Sharing 
Groups Kick-off: Monday, Sept 6-7pm Coleman-Morse 
•

631-7800 I campusm1n1s 
START THE .JOURNEY. 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Newly sworn-in Indiana Gov. Joe Kernan declared Sunday a statewide day of remem­brance in honor of the late Gov. Frank O'Bannon but remained out of the public eye in preparation for the week ahead. 
Kernan was to return to the Statehouse Monday facing some pressing problems' including a controversial death-penalty case, a growing budget deficit and a property­tax overhaul stinging thou­sands of homeowners with much higher bills. 
He also must choose some­one to take over his job as lieutenant governor and begin melding his own staff with that of O'Bannon's. 
There was confidence among leaders in both parties that Kernan could corral con­sensus to address the state's biggest problems during next year's legislative session and run the state's business for the next 15 months without pulling partisan surprises nr throwing political punches. 
Kernan, a Democrat who had been lieutenant governor since 1997, announced in December he would not run for governor in 2004. The decision stunned Democrats, who had banked on him as their best chance for keeping a 16-year hold on the office. 
But in the week since 
O'Bannon suffered a stroke, 
Kernan has said he does not 
anticipate changing his mind. 
"I think it will be steady as she goes," House Speaker Patrick Bauer, a fellow Democrat, said Sunday. "I don't think he's going to rein­vent the wheel or step out of bounds. I think he will do the duty that was thrust upon him." 
Said longtime Senate Finance Chairman Larry Borst, a Republican: "The state will do well in his hands." 
The state Supreme Court formally transferred power to Kernan, 57, on Wednesday, two days after O'Bannon was found unconscious in his hotel room while attending a trade conference. O'Bannon, 73, died Saturday at a Chicago hospital, and Kernan was sworn in as governor about six hours later. 
In brief remarks after the ceremony. Kernan asked Hoosiers to remember O'Bannon on Sunday, suggest­ing the day be one "of reflec­tion, sorrow and joy for a life that was lived to the fullest in the service of the people of Indiana." 
Parishioners at a church where Kernan has attended services prayed Sunday for the new governor and for Frank O'Bannon. 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Frank O'Bannon, who parlayed down­home southern Indiana charm and consensus-building ability into mixed success as his state's governor since 1997, died Saturday, five days after suffer­ing a stroke. He was 73. 
O'Bannon, who fell ill Monday while attending a conference in Chicago, died at 11:33 a.m. at Northwestern Memorial Hospital after his blood pres­sure and heart rate dropped. 
"Based on the governor's liv­ing will, first lady Judy O'Bannon and the family decid­ed to use no further means of support and care, and the gov­ernor died naturally," a written statement from his office said. 

O'Bannon designated himself an organ donor, so his body was not immediately returned to Indianapolis, the statement said. 
Lt. Gov. Joe Kernan, who had served as acting governor since Wednesday, was sworn in as governor Saturday night. 
By late afternoon, mourners, many in tears, were leaving flowers outside the governor's office. Flags fell to half-staff at the Statehouse and other loca­tions in downtown Indianapolis. 
"If a measure of a person is how he lives. he measured up to a very, very high standard," said Indiana House Speaker Patrick Bauer. a fellow Democrat from South Bend. 
President Bush called O'Bannon "a dedicated public servant and a good and decent man." 
"He has served the people of his state with integrity and devotion," Bush said in a writ­ten statement. 
Monday, September 15, 2003 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Center for Spirituality launches lecture series 
By MICHELLE EGGERS 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality launches its "More Than One Way to Be Catholic" fall lecture series on Tuesday. The series will help the Saint Mary's community rediscover its Catholic identity in a time when the· Church is facing great resistance to the notion of pluralism, organizers said. 
"The Catholic Church is at a point in its long history where the notion of pluralism is falling on hard times," said Sister Kathleen Dolphin, Center for Spirituality direc­tor. "The world and the church are both facing confu­sion, which results in a lack of clarity on what the church really is. There is resistance to the notion of more than one way to be Catholic." 
Dolphin approaches the notion of pluralism Tuesday in the first of the three lectures. In her talk, "More Than One Way to Be Catholic: Catholic Identity Revisited," she will stress spirituality as both a way of life and an academic discipline. 
"I hope to show students and community members how to integrate theory and prac­tice in helpful ways," said Dolphin. 
The second lecture on Wednesday, "Guadalupe and the Crucified One: Hispanic Ways of Being Catholic," will continue with the theme of identity. Timothy Matovina, associate professor of theolo­gy at Notre Dame, will explore the issue of the rapidly grow­ing theology of the Church's Hispanic population. As it becomes a larger component of the U.S. Church, Dolphin feels fellow Catholics should be knowledgeable of its prac­tices. 

The series will conclude on Sept. 30, with "Breathing Lessons: An Introduction to Eastern Catholic Churches." Rosemary Carbine, associate professor of theology at Holy Cross College in Boston, will focus on the institutional dif­ferences within the Catholic Church. 
There are a number of rites within the Catholic Church that are in communion with Rome. However many Catholics do not realize the 
different  ways  of being  
Catholic,  such  as  the  
Byzantine Rites.  

The lecture series is the first among several planned for the year to promote awareness of and appreciation for a Gospel­centered spirituality among the Saint Mary's community. 
··My overall hope for the lec­ture series would be that the Saint Mary's community and general public would develop a healthy attitude toward plu­ralism within the church," said Dolphin. "In everything we do, it is instrumental that we honor Catholic tradition while pioneering change." 
All lectures are free and open to the public. Each will be held at 12:15 p.m. in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge. 
Contact Michelle Eggers at egge2272@saintmarys.edu 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS 
Buy-SELL-TRADE 
~:.··.··· ..~""·.:.w.-,. 

ALL GAMES -ALL LOCATIONS -w'~y~· .--, :)= $$ EARN EXTRA INCOME $$ . :.:J~ CASH PAID TODAY FOR TICKETS CALL PREFERRED TICKETS NOW 
234-5650 
Ages 3-5 &Kindergarten 
Enrollment Openings are Now Available for the Following Age Groups: 
3's; afternoons 

4's and 4/5's: T,1'H all day or afternoons 
Kindergarten: full time or mornings 

Accrt~dited Program, Degr<..>ed Teachers, 25+ Years of Serving Childrt'n, Families and the Community, llmovalive Cttrrkulu·m 
Nurturing,. Stimulating Teachers 

Singer Owens rocks Legends 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 

After performances by "The Rutabega" and "The Love of Everything," singer and song­writer Owen headlined Saturday night's WVFI concert at Legends, the first in a six-show series that will span the school year and feature bands a few steps out of the mainstream. 
Expanding on its one concert a year "quadrock" program, \WFI has six shows booked at Legends' prime staging area. The next concert is set for Oct. 4 featuring Erin McKeown and Sara Slean. In doing so, the sta­tion hopes to bring musical diversity to campus and provide an outlet for fans of more alter­native music, said Mairead Case, co-director of MINDset, Notre Dame's independent on-line music resource. Future dates are tentatively set for Nov. 22, Feb. 7, March 27 and April 17, though they may be changed to suit negotiations with bands. 
Also on the agenda for the series is making Notre Dame a more popular concert stop. 
"Many bands make the Midwest college circuit every year, and usually they don't stop at Notre Dame," Case said...We hope to change this." 
A crowd of approximately 290 students greeted the three bands, and the show started at 9 
p.m. and ran until the club sec­tion of Legends opened at mid­night. The two opening acts, "The Rutabega" and •'The Love of Everything," featured Josh Hensley and Bobby Burg respec­tively, and carried an em(}""mdie­rock sound that led into Owen's performance. 
Also known as Mike Kinsella, Owen has three COs released on Polyvinyl Records -one of which is a split with "The Rutabega." In the past, he worked with some of Chicago's most popular alternative bands, including American Football, Cap'n Jazz, Joan of Arc and Owls. 

For most, Owen was the biggest draw of the evening, but some students said Legends in itself was a strong attraction. 
"I haven't heard of any of these bands. I like Legends in general, and the lighting set-up is great," said Notre Dame freshman Mike McConnell. "There's not much else going on tonight anyways." 
Case and her fellow station manager Emily Earthman explained that, even if Saturday night's concert was not in a stu­dent's style, their presence and input not only supported Notre Dame's artistic community, but improved chances that future shows would be more their taste. 
"There's nothing to lose in coming out to the show -you might just like who you see," Earthman said. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

The Nanovic Institute
N... 

(or European Studies
.:.:.-. 

Fellows Forum 
Americans Are From Mars:l Europeans Are From Venus: Can We Still Talk? 
A discussion among experts on the current tensions between Europe and the Unitea States 
With panelists Margaret Doody., Keir Lieber, Julia Lopez., ana Dinah Shelton 
September 16., Tuesday., 4:30-6:00 pm ClOl Hesburgh Center Auaitorium 
A reception will follow in the Great Hall 
www.na.eau(Nnanovic ror more information 
~--------~~--~--------------~~-------~--------------------------------------------------~-----­

Monday, September 15, 2003 CoMPILED FROJ\1-rHE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israeli official threatens Arafat 
RAMALLAH, West Bank -The second­ranking official in the Israeli government said Sunday that killing Vasser Arafat is an option, as thousands of Palestinians took to the streets across the West Bank and Gaza Strip promising to protect their leader. 
Israel blames Arafat for blocking peace efforts and preventing a crackdown against militants who have carried out two suicide bombings in the last week. 
Vice Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said Sunday that killing Arafat is a possibility ­along with expelling him or keeping him in a siege that would "isolate him from the world." 
Frail pope says Mass for Slovaks 
BHATISLAVA, Slovakia-Looking drained, an increasingly frail Pope John Paul II cele­brated Sunday Mass for 200,000 faithful, completing a grueling four-day pilgrimage that raised fresh doubts about his ability to keep traveling. 
The 83-year-old pope appeared alert, but clearly weakened during the 2 1/2-hour serv­ice honoring two clerics imprisoned and tor­tured under Slovakia's former communist regime. 
-

Army seizes Gunea-Bissau in coup 
LISBON, Portugal -Soldiers ousted the president of the West African nation of Guinea-Bissau on Sunday, taking advantage of widespread discontent with his rule to seize power in a bloodless coup. 
The army chief of staff, Gen. Verissimo Correia Seabre, declared himself in charge of the country after the early-morning arrest of President Kumba Yala. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Stunt jet crashes at air show 
MOUNTAIN HOME, Idaho -Ajet in the Air Force's vaunted Thunderbirds flight unit crashed at an air show Sunday, but the pilot ejected with only minor injuries and no injuries on the ground were reported. 
About 85,000 spectators looked on as one of the six Lockheed Martin F-16C Fighting Falcons performing crashed during the "Gunfighter Skies 2003" air show at Mountain Home Air Force Base, about 50 miles southeast of Boise. 
Report: Soot regulations too lax 
WASHINGTON-New federal health stan­dards that limit the amount of soot in the air do not adequately protect the elderly and people with respiratory problems and should be tightened, according to an internal gov­ernment report. 
The findings could become the basis for additional pollution-control requirements to reduce the amount of microscopic soot emit­ted by diesel-burning trucks, cars, factories and power plants. 
Such a step would put the Bush adminis­tration at odds with business groups. 
They have argued the current federal soot­control startdards, issued by the Clinton administration, are based on uncertain sci­ence. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Zoo has last Tasmanian devil in U.S. 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. -The Fort Wayne Children's Zoo is home to the only Tasmanian devil outside Australia, now that a member of the marsupial species has died at the San Diego Zoo. 
A Tasmanian devil named Gillian died at the San Diego Zoo last month of age-related health problems. 
International Species Inventory System records now show that 6-year-old Coolah at the Fort Wayne zoo is the last devil not liv­ing in its homeland, zoo officials said. 
The Fort Wayne Children's Zoo has placed an emphasis on its Tasmanian Devil exhibit in the Australian Adventure section. 
IRAQ 
Powell warns of terror risks 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD-Secretary 
of State Colin Powell said 
Sunday he is convinced 
"the winds of freedom are 
blowing" across Iraq but 
acknowledged the possibil­
ity that terrorists ·are try­
ing to make their way into 
the country and sabotage 
the process toward self­
rule. 
Powell spent 12 hours in talks with the team of American officials guiding Iraq in the postwar period and with the U.S.-appoint­ed Iraqi Governing Council. 
On his first visit to the 
nation that has dominated 
his attention since the 
early days of the Bush 
administration, Powell 
attended a Baghdad City 
Council meeting, met with 
Foreign Minister Hoshyar 
Zebari and joined the U.S. 
administrator for Iraq, L. 
Paul Bremer, at a joint 
news conference. 
He described impressive moves toward self-govern­ment and seemed invigor­ated by what he heard as he made his rounds. 
"There is vibrancy to this effort, a vibrancy that I attribute to the winds of freedom that are now blowing through this land," he said after the city council meeting. 
Powell's day began with a flight from Kuwait aboard a C-130 cargo plane and ended with a dinner with a leading Baghdad-based Shiite cler­ic. 
He said the United States is committed to having Iraqis run their govern­ment, but wants to cede power after a "deliberative process" rather than the early transfer advocated by some fellow members of the U.N. Security Council. France has pressed for seating a provisional gov­ernment within a month. 
"We are not hanging on for the sake of hanging on. We are hanging on because it's necessary to stay with this task until a new government has been created, a responsible gov-ernment," Powell said at the news conference with Bremer. 

"The worst thing that could happen is for us to push this process too quickly, before the capaci­ty for governance is there and the basis for legitima­cy is there, and see it fail." 
Powell called attention to the appointment of an interim Iraqi Cabinet with 25 ministers, steps toward creation of an independent judiciary and general Arab acceptance of Zebari as a legitimate Iraqi represen­tative even though Iraq still lacks an authentic government. 
"There is a sense of hope here even in this time of difficulty," Powell said. "Those who are so critical of the administration might want to hold their fire a bit." 
Powell acknowledged that the security situation 
•remains challenging, with a major new threat coming from "terrorists who are trying to infiltrate into the country for the purpose of disrupting this whole process." 
The secretary gave a 
rough estimate of 100 such 
infiltrators and said he 
was confident that the U.S. 
military can handle the 
problem. 
The attacks on American 
occupying forces, an 
almost daily occurrence in 
Iraq, continued when a 
roadside bomb hit a con­
voy in the city of Fallujah, 
killing a U.S. soldier and 
injuring three others, the 
military said. 
Some 155 soldiers have died in Iraq since President Bush declared an end to major combat on May 1. During the heavy fighting before that date, 138 soldiers died. 
"This security threat comes from those who do not want to see [deposed President] Saddam Hussein go and those who want to foment trouble here, terrorists who are coming in, as well as rem­nants of the old regime," Powell told "Fox News Sunday" in Washington. 
He said military com­manders told him they are confident they can handle both threats, though it will take time. 
Almost nine in 10 Americans, in an ABC­Washington Post poll released Sunday, said they were concerned that the United States is going to get bogged down in a long and costly peacekeeping mission in Iraq. 

Powerful hurricane eyes E. Coast 
As~ociated Press 
MIAMI -Hurricane Isabel weak­ened slightly Sunday but was still a powerful Category 4 storm as it plowed across the Atlantic Ocean on a course that could slam it into the central East Coast late this week. 
"It's looking more and more likely that this is going to be a big event for the eastern United States," National Hurricane Center meteor­ologist Eric Blake said Sunday. 
Computer models predict that weather conditions over the East Coast should prevent Isabel from 
turning back out to sea and missing land, hurricane specialist Stacy Stewart said. 
"Landfall along the U.S. mid­Atlantic coast somewhere between North Carolina and New Jersey between four or five days [Thursday or Friday] is appearing more and more likely," Stewart said. "Little or no significant weakening is expect­ed to occur until after landfall occurs." 
In Wilmington. N.C., John Byrnes had already stocked up with 25 sheets of plywood Sunday and enough two-by-fours and screws to barricade the windows at his house, his in-laws' house and their down­town law office. 
His household generator was ready and he had an extra tank of propane gas to run appliances. 
"We're all pretty much taken care of," Byrnes said. "We're in standby mode." 
At 5 p.m. EDT, Isabel's maximum sustained wind speed was 1.55 mph -1 mph below the minimum for Category 5 -and down 5 mph from earlier measurements. Experts had said it would be extremely unusual for Isabel to maintain Category 5 strength as it moved north over cooler water. 


page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, September 14, 2003 
Tension 
continued from page 1 
Several students said Michigan fans would approach them in line or while they were walking and make obscene comments or gestures. 
"I enjoy going to the game and having the competition, but I think the line was crossed in many areas and that takes away from the fun of going," Walsh sophomore Patty Rose said. "Friendly banter is fine but when there are older men yelling profanity at you it's uncalled for." 
At one golf course tailgate, a 

wore either The Shirt or one that read "Ann Arbor is a whore ... We are here to score" with "Rudy Sucks ... The Irish Swallow" and others that con­tained obscenities. 
A law enforcement officer, who directed traffic outside Michigan Stadium, made nega­
.tive comments about Notre Dame throughout.the day, say­ing "Go home Irish" and sin­gled Irish fans out in the crowd over a bullhorn. 
The questionable fan behav­ior carried over into "The Big House" where the Michigan student section began cheering with "F---the Irish" several minutes before kickoff. 
Though several students found the stadium personnel to be accommodating and help­ful, the Michigan fans, outside of the student section, argued with and taunted the Irish. 
Several band members said they were warned prior to the game to avoid confrontation with Michigan fans who attempted to take part of their uniforms. 
Kenneth Dye, director of University bands, said he expects problems at certain away games, but generally the band has been well received. 
stuffed 
d u m m y 
bedecked with Notre Dame gear was lynched from a tree. A Michigan dorm also hosted a "Leprechaun Roast." 
Michigan T­shirt hawkers countered Notre Dame fans who 
'"/ enjoy going to the game and having the competition, but I think the line was crossed in many areas and that takes away from the fun of going ... 
Patty Rose Walsh sophomore 

He said the gen­eral audience, stadium person­nel and Michigan's band were helpful; however, he did encounter rowdy fans. 
"There were some fans who sat right behind the band and they said all kinds of things," Dye said. "The favorite thing was that they would substi­
tute 'Fighting Irish' with a bad word." 
Irish cheerleader Mike Riess said he expected the taunting that he and other Notre Dame cheerleaders experienced. 
"We got some rude com­ments. They were up there with what we experienced at USC," Riess said. "We kind of expected stuff like that to hap­pen." 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownes 1 @nd.edu 
Clinton rallies Dems against Davis recall 
Associated Press LOS ANGELES -Former President Clinton railed against the gubernatorial recall cam­paign Sunday in an effort to energize California Democrats who are increasingly hopeful they can defeat the attempt to oust Gov. Gray Davis. Clinton, still a highly popular and polarizing figure nearly three years after leaving office, mixed Scripture with politics in his 40-minute address during a midmorning service at the First African Methodist Episcopal Church in Los Angeles, the city's oldest black congregation. He repeated Democrats' theme that the Oct. 7 recall election is part of a right-wing power grab, and said removing Davis could scare future office­holders away from making dif­ficult choices. "Gray Davis and I have been. friends for a long time, and I don't want this happening to him," Clinton said. "This is way bigger than him. It's you I'm worried about. It's California I worry about. I don't want you to become a laughingstock or the beginning of a circus in America wtrere we throw peo­ple out for making tough deci­sions." After a pause, he continued, "Don't do this. Don't do this," as the congregation erupted in applause. Clinton is the first of several rominent national Democrats 
week to campaign alongside Davis against the recall. The list includes Al Gore, Jesse Jackson and several Democratic presidential candi­dates. 
Band 
continued from page 1 
assistant band director. 

The banci obtained the required number of volun­teers, but everyone, including security aild support staff, was able to enter t!Je stadium. 
"There was a contingency plan had they asked us when we were entering the stadi­um," said drum maj:u Jeff Serpas. "No one told us any­thing when we got there. 
There was nobody there go places." counting heads." On Saturday, Michigan's 
Dye attributed the outcome "Big House" set an NCAA to hospitality attendance on the part of record with
"Everybody got in,

Michigan 111,726 peo­
erJerybody performed. 

band mem­ple in the bers and There were no problems., stands. Notre Dame's "I guess we 
reputation of Ken Dye helped them 
being courte­set that ous. director of University Bands at t e n d an c e "Notre record," Dye Dame people have a way of said. being very polite and not get­ting in anyone's way," he said. Contact Andrew Thagard at "We're very careful when we athagard@nd.edu 
Recycle The Observer. 

University ofNotn• Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, ~France 
"Should I stay
... ' 
or should I go~!" 
INFORMATJ:ON 1\IEETING 

With Prof. Paul ·~t'cDowell and returnees of the progran1 
r......... ·······------------·-··..-................................................................______ -...................................................... 
j ruesda:~:;g:z~::6, 2oo3 , 
.........................................._______.............................................................._________, .................................. . 
Application l)eadline: Dec. 1, 2003 Acadernic Year 2004-2005 Fa112004-Spring 2005 Applications available: \VW\v.nd.eduf.-...·inJJ~.t!.t~ 
When it's the prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yearjob in the Far East, strategically chosen to match your career goal. Apply by November 7, 2003. 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end of May 2004) an ND degree? No east-Asia experience? 


who have scheduled visits this 
~------------~--------------~-------~----~------~------------------------------------~-----­
Monday, September _15, 2003 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
9,471.55 +11.79

Jones 

ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -3.31 -0.43 12.55 CORVIS CORP (CORV) -25.76 -0.51 1.47 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +1.80 +0.50 28.34 INTEL CORP (INTC) + 1.11 +0.31 28.34 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.24 -0.05 20.66 
IN BRIEF 
Conseco skids after relisting 
NEW YORK -Shares of Conseco Inc. fell 
Friday as they returned to the New York Stock 
Exchange, a day after the insurer emerged 
from bankruptcy. 
Conseco's stock closed at $20.29, down 
$1.38, or 6.4 percent, from its closing level of 
$21.67 Thursday in over-the-counter deal­
ings. 
The shares, which now trade under the new 
symbol CNO, had been trading on a "when 
issued" basis in the over-the-counter market. 
Conseco 's new stock will total about 100 
million shares. Its former common stock, 
trading under the symbol CNCEQ over the 
counter, has been canceled. 
Talks go on as UAW deal runs out 
DETROIT-United Auto Workers President 
Ron Gettelfinger said Saturday the union had 
reached no agreements with any of Detroit's 
Big Three automakers and that intense nego­
tiations continued. 
Gettelfinger, who spoke Saturday afternoon at the AFL-CIO-sponsored LaborFest at Ford Field, declined to speculate when new agree­ments would be reached. The current labor pacts, negotiated in 1999, expire at midnight Sunday. 
"We're keeping all options open," Gettelfinger told reporters after his speech. 
Sources familiar with the talks have told The Associated Press a historic, simultaneous resolution is likely before the current four­year pacts expire. 
Representatives of General Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and DaimlerChrysler AG's Chrysler Group declined Friday to discuss the talks substantively, saying only they were ongoing. 
Gasoline prices leveling out 
CAMARILLO, Calif. -Retail gasoline prices rose a fraction of a penny in the past three weeks, stabilizing after a steep climb of 21 cents a gallon since early June, an analyst said Sunday. 
The average price for a gallon of sdf-serve gasoline nationwide, including all grades and taxes, was $1.7 5 on Friday, according to the Lundberg Survey of 8,000 stations. 
That was up about 0.29 of a cent since the last Lundberg Survey was taken Aug. 22. 
Analyst Trilby Lundberg said the end of the summer driving season and a general reduc­tion in the cost of crude oil helped prices sta­bilize. 
Economists see no Fed rate cut 
WASHINGTON -Even though U.S. compa­nies are reluctant to hire workers, the econo­my over the second half of this year is expect­ed to grow at the fastest pace since 1999. 
That surprisingly upbeat prospect means that the Federal Reserve will see no need to cut interest rates at Tuesday's meeting, pri­vate economists believe. 
In recent weeks, analysts have kept revising upward their economic forecasts, given a series of favorable government reports. 

page 7 

World trade talks fall apart 
Developing nations declare wzn over industrialized world in WTO negotiations 
Associated Press 
CANCUN, Mexico -Talks 
designed to change the face 
of tfade around the world 
collapsed Sunday amid dif­
ferences between rich and 
poor nations, the second 
failure for the World Trade 
Organization in four years. 
Delegates from many poor countries celebrated what they called a victory against the West, and an increasingly powerful alliance of poor but popu­lous farming nations said they had found a new voice to rival the developed world. 
"The developing coun­tries have come into their own," said Malaysia's min­ister for international trade and investment, Rafidah Aziz. "This has made it clear that developing coun­tries cannot be dictated to by anybody." 
Hours later, the meeting's chairman, Mexican Foreign Secretary Luis Ernesto Derbez, declared the meet­ing over, saying: "Unfortunately, we didn't achieve the advances we had proposed to acheive" and pledging to work toward completing negotia­tions in the future. 
In the end, it was the diverging agendas of 146 member countries that split delegates beyond the point of repair. 
Poor nations, many of which had banded together to play a key role in negoti­ations, wanted to end rich countries' agricultural sub­sidies. European nations and Japan were intent on pushing four new issues that many poor countries saw as a complicated and costly distraction. 
Many poor countries accused the United States and Europe of trying to bully poor nations into accepting trade rules they didn't want. 
"Trade ministers have been pressured, black-

Pascal Lamy, the European Union's trade commissioner, speaks to the media after trade negotiations cGIIapsed in Cancun on Sunday. Lamy called the talks a failure that would make the Doha market-opening measures more difficult to implement. 
mailed," said Irene Ovonji as the major opposition to Odida, a delegate from the U.S. and European Uganda. positions. The group repre­
The UnitRd States blamed sents most of the world's some countries, which it population and includes didn't name, that it said China, India, Indonesia and were more interested in Brazil. flowery speeches than Leaders of that group negotiations. said they had brought con­
"Some countries will now crete issues to the table need to decide whether that would be the basis for they want to make a point, future trade talks. or whether they want to "We emerge from this make progress," U.S. Trade process stronger than we Representative Robert came into it," Brazilian Zoellick said. Foreign Minister Celso 
His comments appeared Amorim said. directed at a group of Ecuador's foreign trade mostly poor nations -minister, Ivonne Baki, often known as the Group added: "It's not the end. It's of 20-plus -that emerged the beginning.·· 
Before the talks col­lapsed, delegates spent Sunday debating not the changes to farming policy that they had spent much of the conference negotiat­ing, but instead four pro-· posals about foreign invest­ment and competition. 
Delegates said the Europeans agreed to back off on three of the propos­als. but insisted they be granted one. South Korea wanted all four taken up together, and African nations refused to negoti­ate on any of them, accord­ing to an EU official who spoke on condition of anonymity. 

SWEDEN 
Voters reject euro in referendum 
Associated Press 
STOCKHOLM -Swedes rejected adopting the European common cur­rency in a Sunday referendum over­shadowed by the killing of Foreign Minister Anna Lindh, an ardent euro supporter, days earlier. 
The vote came· as a. blow lo Europe's single currency and to European integration, and it provided a boost for euro opponents in Britain and Denmark, still using their own currencies. 
"We have evidently not been able to firmly establish the European idea among the voters," said Alf Svensson, leader of the Christian Democrats and a euro supporter. "People still seem to believe that we live in a Europe with national borders and national currency, but the reality is something else." 
Despite the setback, the second since 2000 in Scandinavia, the European Commission reiterated its faith in the euro and held out hope Sweden would adopt it at a later time. 
"We're confident the Swedish gov­ernment will choose a way forward to keep the euro project alive in Sweden," the Commission said in a statement. 
With all votes counted from t,he Scandinavian country·s 5, 967 precincts, 56 percent of the more than 5.4 million ballots cast were against the euro, while 42 percent voted in favor of it. Remaining ballots were blank. More than 7 million Swedes were eligible to vote. No min­imum voter turnout was required. 
The results countered some ana­lysts' predictions that the stabbing death of Lindh would emotionally sway voters to adopt the currency used by 12 of the 15 European Union members. They also ran contrary to opinion polls in the final days. 
Prime Minister Goeran Persson said that opinion polls were read too opti­mistically. "We could have had a ref­erendum at a better time. Europe is in a deep recession." 
European Central Bank president­Wim Duisenberg said the decision would not change the euro's position or bank policy. 


page 8 Monday, September 15, 2003 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

.. 

wednesdayseptember 17 
4:00pm-9:00pm 
All students regardless of degree, major, college, or year 
Student ID card required Attire is business formal 
joyce center north dome 
(hockey rink side), enter gate 3 
findoutmore! 
For more information about the participating companies, 
job descriptions, and contacts, access The Career Center website: 
• 
Go to http://careercenter.nd.edu 

• 
Click on Undergraduates, then click on Go IRISH 

• 
Enter your NetiD (AFSID) and Password, then click on Log in 

• 
Click on Search Jobs/Internships 

• 
Click on Jobs/Internships for Notre Dame Students 

• 
Scroll down to Keyword Search, type in BCF, then click on Search 

• 
For an alphabetical list of: -Organizations, click on 1/0rganizationl/ -Positions, click on "Position Title" 


THE 


UNIVERSITY OF
CAREER 

NOTRE DAME
CENTER 

MENDOZA 
COLLEGE OF BUSINESS 
participating n 

Abbott Laboratories 
03 

Abercrombie &Fitch Accenture 
A.G. Edwards Allstate Insurance Company 
American Express Financial Advisors 
AMS Aon Corporation 
Bain & Compahy Bank One Corporation BDO Seidman 
Boeing 

Boys & Girls Clubs of America bp 
careers INsite 
Carson Pirie Scott & Co. 
CDW Central Intelligence Agency 
Chicago Consulting Actuaries CIGNA ~ 
Coachmen Industries 
Crowe Chizek and Company Deloitte &Touche 
Deloitte Consulting DirectEmployers E& J Gallo Winery Eli Lilly & Company Ernst & Young 
FactSet Research Systems Federal Bureau of Investigation Fifth Third Bank 
General Electric General Mills 
Hartford Financial Services Group 
H-E-8 Grocery Company Hewlett-Packard 
Honeywell Houlihan Lokey Howard 
&Zukin Humana Huron Consulting Group IBM 
lndaiex Aluminum Solutions 
lnteCap IRISH Online 
Johnson & Johnson -Finance 
Johnson & Johnson ­Information Management Johnson &Johnson ­Marketing Johnson &Johnson -Sales Jones Lang LaSalle Katz Media Group* 
KeyBank Kirkland & Ellis 
KPMG -cDJ
Kraft 
LaSalle Bank McGiadrey & Pullen Morgan Stanley 
::S 
Morningstar e Motorola 
(R 
National City Corporation 
Navigant Consulting News America Marketing Northwestern Mutual Financial Network­Hoopis Financial Pfizer PNC Financial Services Group PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter &Gamble Progressive Insurance Protiviti Pulte Homes SBC Communications SCORE Small Business Development Center SCORE! Educational Centers SIRVA Smart and Associates State Farm Strong Financial Corporation Stryker Instruments Sun Life Financial Target Corporation Teach for America The Boston Beer Company The Boston Consulting Group The Gallup Organization The Horton Group The Vanguard Group Towers Perrin Travelers Tucker Alan 
U.S. 
Cellular 

U.S. 
Dept. ofTreasury, Internal Revenue Service 

U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission Wachovia Securities Walgreens Wells Fargo William Blair &Company WPS Resources Corporation YAI/Nationallnstitute for 


People with Disabilities* Zurface, Sanders & Rasor* 
*Resume drop 

Monday, September 15, 2003 page 9 
The Observer + NEWS 
Kirk denied telling the woman to avoid contacting

Dykes
EPA suggests tougher soot laws 
the police, but he admitted 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-New feder­al health standards that limit the amount of soot in the air do not adequ~tely protect the eld­erly and people with respirato­ry problems and should be tightened, according to an internal government report. 
The findings could become the basis for additional pollu­tion-control requirements to reduce the amount of micro­scopic soot emitted by diesel­burning trucks. cars. factories and power plants. 
Such a step would put the Bush administration at odds with business groups. They have argued the current feder­al soot-control standards. issued by the Clinton adminis­tration. are based on uncertain science and have cost industry tens of billions of dollars. 
The new findings are in a draft paper by Environmental Protection Agency staff and are being circulated for review by outside scientists. 
The 1997 standards have not yet had significant impact. They were delayed by several years of litigation as industry opponents unsuccessfully chal­lenged the rules all the way to the Supreme Court. which eventually upheld them. 
The EPA soon expects to determine what areas of the country will have to impose additional pollution-control measures because their air is so dirty it does not meet the standard. 
Even as the rules are being put in place. the EPA staff review of the latest scientific studies on the effects of soot on health has concluded that the standards may not produce the intended health benefits. 
The 400-page draft paper says that since 1997. some sci­entific studies "have confirmed and strengthened" the associa­tion between exposure to microscopic soot and prema­ture deaths. cardiovascular problems and respiratory ill­nesses. Such soot contains par­ticles and gases 20 times smaller than a strand of human hair. 
Furthermore. the paper says. in many cases these studies showed adverse health effects when airborne soot concentra­tions were well below the max­imum allowed by the 1997 standard, particularly during days when the air is especially dirty. 
As a result, the staff analysis recommends the allowable concentrations be reduced fur­ther. possibly as much as 50 percent for the 24-hour stan­dard and 20 percent for the annual average standard. 
The annual average under the 1997 rule of no more than 15 micrograms of soot per cubic meter of air might have to be cut to 12 micrograms to achieve adequate health bene­fits, and the 24-hour standard of 65 micrograms per cubic meter to between 30 and 50 micrograms, according to the staff paper. 
EPA spokeswoman Lisa 

Harrison said the draft paper 
has not been peer-reviewed by 
scientists and that no new soot 
regulations are imminent. 
"EPA will not base any regu­

latory decision on this draft 
staff paper," said Harrison. 
"It's very early in a lengthy 
[review] process." She said a 
final draft paper, expected next 
year, "will include recommend­
ed options for the administra­
tor to consider." 
Health advocates cited the 

EPA staff finding as a major 
development, supporting their 
contention that tougher air 
quality standards are needed 
for microscopic soot because it 
can become easily lodged deep 
inside lung tissue. 
"This represents the best 

judgment of the EPA staff in 
their interpretation of the sci­
ence," said Deborah Shprentz, 
a consultant for the American 
Lung Association. She said it 
reflects that numerous studies 
support aggressive actions to 
curtail this type of air pollu­
tion. 
"New research has shown 

that even short-term exposure 
to particulate pollution can be 
dangerous for some people, 
particularly the elderly, young 
children and people with asth­
ma and other serious lung dis­
eases," said John Kirkwood, 
the association's president. 
Industry spokesmen ques­tioned the staff conclusions and indicated they are ready to . challenge the analysis' scientif­
ic underpinnings. 
continued from page 1 
conspiracy to commit rape and sexual battery. The woman maintains she was gang raped by the four for­mer players, who are bejng tried separately. 
John Scroggins, Smith's roommate, testified Friday that he did not hear any screaming or sounds of dis­tress from Smith's room, which is adjacent to his, that night. 
Michael Blakesley, a doctor at Memorial Hospital who examined the woman in the emergency room six days after the alleged incident, also 
· testified for the defense and said she had no injuries con­sistent with rape. On Thursday, Bill Kirk, associate vice president for student affairs. testified and said it was University policy to provide students who claim they are victims of sexual assault with information regarding Notre Dame's disci­plinary process and contact­ing police or other support services. 
that he possibly told her it would be difficult to contact the police and pursue an investigation. 
Rachel Lee, a friend of Smith's, testified Thursday and said she overheard Smith telling Dykes that they and Elam needed to discuss their stories and Dykes nodded in agreement. 
The prosecution also called a DNA analyst who said the woman's blood and Dykes' semen were found on Smith's comforter. 
During Abram Elam 's trial. the first of the four. Elam. Dykes. Lorenzo Crawford and Justin Smith all testified. offering their versions of what occurred March 28 at Smith's house and maintained the sexual acts were consensual. Elam was convicted of sexual battery and acquitted of crim­inal deviate conduct and con­spiracy to commit rape. 
The trials for the two remaining football players will begin later this year. 
The South Bend Tribune contributed to this report. 
Gotnews? CallMegha e at 1-5323. 
. .

La.·w··
···;*'~···· •. . . .•.• 
• • • 
·An Interdisciplinary Colloquium·series 



September 17, 2003 
4:00 p.m., Law School CourtrooiD 
''When Republicans Were Feminists: Explaining Party Change" 
Presenter Christina Wolbrecht 
Packey J. Dee Associate Professor Department ofPolitical Science 
....

Commentator Anthony J. Bellia, Jr. 
Associate Professor La'rv School 


Monday, September 15, 2003

page 10 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 




. 

. . . . . . . .::~ :. ..:. -.·_:::. . . :: : . . : . . . . . . . . .· .. :-.. 
: . . . . . . . . . ·-.-·: -. -· . -..._·.. . .. : .. . . . . .·_-. . . . . . . .. . .-.. ·...: :. . ·. ·.: . 


·--·--· 

; ... . ... FOR FALL 2004 AND PRING 2005 
I' 
i 
' 
! fl . ::-. 
·I 
., 
. . . 

Tuesday, September 16, 2003 
~ . . . 

. 101 DeBartolo 6:30pm 

---·-----------­
Monday, September 15, 2003 page 11
The Observer + NEWS 

Ben, Jen reportedly break off wedding 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Have they gone from Bennifer back tq. Ben and Jennifer? 
The most overexposed couple on the planet was supposed to exchange wedding vows Sunday, but instead there was a report that they had ended their tabloid-chronicled story­book romance. 
Amid the frantic speculation surrounding the pair last week, People magazine reported Sunday that Affleck has dumped Lopez due to "second thoughts" about their impend­ing wedding. 
Dubbed "Bennifer" by gossip wags, the pair planned to wed at a mansion estate near Santa Barbara. But they postponed the ceremony Wednesday, say­ing excessive media attention was turning the event into havoc. 
Citing unidentified "sources close to the couple," People reported that Affleck initiated the breakup with Lopez, who was "devastated" and "in tears." However, the magazine hedged its scoop by adding "it was unclear whether the sepa­ration was permanent." 
A representative for Affleck, Ken Sunshine, declined to com­ment on the breakup rumor. Lopez's publicist, Dan Klores, did not return The Associated Press's call for comment. Klores told People he believed the cou­ple was still together, but had not spoken to Lopez in several days. 
Ifthe wedding happens, it will be the third for Lopez, 33, and the first for Affleck, 31. They met while filming this summer's infamous bomb, "Gigli." 
Their second film together, writer-director Kevin Smith's "Jersey Girl," is set for release next year. 
Texans approve tort reform amendment 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN -Texas voters approved all 22 constitutional amendments on a statewide bal­lot, including a heavily debated plan to limit medical malpractice and other civil lawsuit awards. 
The vote was close on the law­suit amendment, known as Proposition 12. With 99 percent of precincts reporting Sunday, 51 percent, or 734,897 voters, favored it, while 49 percent, or 708,726 voters, opposed it. 
Voters also approved amend­ments that, among other things, allow wineries in "dry" counties to sell their products on premis­es; protect religious groups' undeveloped land from taxation; and allow issuance of up to $250 million in bonds for loans to communities trying to stave off military base closures. 
ESTONIA 

Voters approve entrance to EU 
Associated Press 
TALLINN -Estonians voted Sunday to join a historic expansion of the European Union, fulfilling what once seemed an unattainable dream for the small Baltic state. 
The supporters of joining the globally powerful economic bloc had 67 percent of the vote, according to results from nearly all polling stations. The other 33 percent voted no on the referendum, Estonia's Central Election Commission reported. 
"This decision will guarantee the future of Estonia," a smil­ing Kristiina Ojuland, the country's Foreign Minister, told The Associated Press. "I'm so glad Estonians 

·Tm so glad 
on access to

made this right choice." Estonians made this the lucrative EU market,
At a festive right choice ... gathering at the campaigned aggressively
Scotland Yard 

Kristilna Ojuland for the "yes"
pub in the capi­

tal, Tallinn, Prime Estonian foreign minster side. Minister Juhan Entry in the Parts compared union has the results to the day in 1918 been a primary goal since when Estonia first declared Estonia regained independ­independence, only to lose its ence amid the 1991 collapse of freedom to the 1938 Soviet the Soviet Union. Leaders of invasion. the Baltic state have insisted it 
"We will stay Estonian, but would boost living standards _ with this emotional feeling that at least for future generations. Twelve years ago, it looked
we will belong to a family ... a family of the European peo­like it would take decades for ple," he said. Estonia to meet EU require­
More than 60 percent of ments. The economy was in 850,000 eligible voters cast free-fall -with annual infla­ballots, though there was no tion topping 1,000 percent, minimum turnout requirement and Russian troops, remnants 
for the vote to be valid. of a 50-year Soviet occupation With this vote, eight of 10 force, stationed throughout the nations invited to become new country. 
members of the European Union next year have approved referendums endors­ing the move. Cyprus is leaving the decision to lawmakers while Estonia's Baltic neigh­bor, Latvia, will hold a referen­dum on Saturday. 
All 10 countries are expected to become full members of the trade bloc in May 2004, increasing European Union membership to 25. 
In recent months, Estonian opinion polls had suggested lukewarm support for mem­bership -raising the possibili­ty Estonians would snub the powerful European bloc. 
But the government and businesses, spooked by the 
prospect of 
missing out 
The government implement­
ed radical economic reforms 
after communism unraveled, 
and Estonia quickly gained the 
reputation as the most suc­
cessful of the 15 former Soviet 
republics. The country's gross 
domestic product increased 10 
percent by 1997 and has 
remained stable. Since regain­
ing independence, inflation 
has fallen to just below 5 per­
cent. 
Younger, better-off Estonians hoped EU membership would bring greater opportunities to travel and work abroad. One tongue-and-cheek, pro-EU advertisement even offered the promise to women of "sexier men" with the lifting of border restrictions among member nations. 
At least some voters seem swayed by the symbolism of membership in the union as a mark of the nation's return to mainstream Europe after so long on the fringe. 
Both sides resorted to scare tactics to sway the 850,000 eli­gible voters, many of whom expressed confusion about what EU entry will mean. 
Many pro-EU ads raised the specter that Estonia's erst­while ruler Russia could re­exert its influence if the nation stayed out of mainstream Europe. 
One refrain from EU backers was that "a no to the EU is a yes to Russia." 
Opponents warned the EU will force Estonia to abandon it low-tariff. low-tax system that has helped it achieve years of impressive economic growth, at or above 5 percent. 


University of Notre Dame International Study Pt·ograms 152 Hurley Building T: 631~5882 

INNSBRUCK 
2004-05 Academic Year 
BERLIN 
2004-05 
Information Meeting with Professor Hannelore Weber 
VVednesday,Sept. 17,2003 214 DeBartolo 5:00-6:30 pm 
Application Deadlines:  Questions???  
lnnsbruck: .Dec. l, 2003  Weber..l5@nd.edu  
Berlin: Oct. 1, 2003 for Sp '04  Applications:  
Dec. 1, 2003 for F '04  www.nd.edu/---intlstud  
and AY 04-05  

A\t~ ~ ...,_nces the followinc lntroducto'>' often of••• 
·----··---··----··----··----· 
I I I I I $69 I I I I $79 I 
$26 $79

I $lS I I I I Color, Cut & I I I I Highlights, I I Mens Cut I 1cut & Style I I Style I I Perm, Cur & Sryl< I I Cut & 5 le 1 
One Process ty

·----··---··----··----··----· 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must b~ pr~s~nud to R~c~ptionist B~tor~ s~rvic~s Ar~ Pnform~d 
Jennifer -KJ -Kefly-Elena 
No< ..-.lid li" opir.ol f"'"T"'· Lens or rinnod l.ur add $ I0. No ocher dio­ATRIA SALON ..,.._apply. Open MMD<~ AllUA Solon~ rhc ritlJ>r oo 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr.
.diur .IICI'Vicr to any client ~hair cnndirion ill unm:arable Corner ofEdison 
OFFER EXPIRES 1.2-31.-03 289-5080 


SOUTH BEND'S NEWEST RESTAURANT AND SPORTS BAR Serving Lunch, Dinner, and Late Night Snacks 
GREAT FUN-GREAT FOOD -YOU BET LARGEST BIG SCREENS IN THE AREA 
Monday night football on 15 screens .99 specials Give away night • 32 oz specials Live music featuring_
Darryl Buchanan, "What's the Name" 
R&B Music and Dancing · Game day on 15 screens with live waor remotes. NFL Sunday ticket 
2046 SOUTH BEND AVE 
Must be 21 with valid I.D. 

7 -1766 

BOO 
MON: TUES: WED: THURS: FRI: 
SAT: 
SUN: 


THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box. Q., Notte Dame, IN 4fi5$6 024 Soum Dining HaiVNotre. Dame. IN -46556 ··•··· 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Scott Brodfuehrer LAlri L.ewalski · 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR 
SheilaFlynn 
NEWS EolTOih Meghanne ~ VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Tcre5a Fnlbh ·. SP()RTS El>l'rolt: Joe Hettk~r ScENE EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Annelie5e Woolford PHOTO f.om>R; Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHlCS EDITORs Mike Harkim ADVER'I'ISING MANAGlla: M:uarn <::eneddla AD DESiGN MANAGllll: Tom Haight SYSTEMS ADMlNJSTRATOR: Ted Bangert Wt;B ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek CoNTROlLEft: Mike Flanagan 
CONTACT US 
(574) ()314541.... ()bsrne@nd.<:du 
............. ·.. BUSINEss OFf1tE > (l74) 631"5313<·· .··• <J<
·.•.....·· . H£wsnm . ·.··.. 
(574) li3[,;5~~3> .. ()bsney;s.l@nj:l;edu 
VIEWPoiNT DESi ?::.::t::=:::??t• {574}631-530l vicwpolnt.1@)#4((!u
SPORTS DESK .· ..: : · 
{574) 631454~ ·· ~rts, ~@.·.n&ed.u :::::::::::::=·:::::::::>·· 
· . . SceNE uesr......... .. ·. :::??::.??> . {)74)631..:454>()<'·· scend@nd.edU.·. .· SAUlT MARY'S Dtsle . ....

(574) 63F43~4 .$ffic.l@nJ.edu 
. PHOTO DEsK . ··.· · 
·••··•:·:::::·.•·=···.·.i •.•.•. {$/~s~:!s~~~EBt,'::::~::··. (514) 631-8839·· THE .· ..•. •. 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmeobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Damedulac; an4_Saint Mary's Cot~. Editorial <:Ontent, including advertisements.is· 
.·. · fiot governed by policies. ofthe administration ofeithl:t ·· itistiru:tion. The Obsecver r~rves W:. right w refuse. 
advermern.ents based oncontenr. · •• . . .r: .... :.·.Then~ is reponedas accurately and objectivelyas ?.~t;k, Uusigm:dedim{i:ils t~present·dle t>pinion 9f :::. the majority ofthe Edimdil Chle€ Managing Editor, 
Assistant Mamging Ediro.r arid derarunc:nt ~diro.rs. Commentaries; lette.u and 001~ present the vie\'?$ ofthe authors and not ne~Uy rhQsc ofThe Observer. . .... · 
Viewpoint spacds available to all r~aders. Thefree · · elo;plessi<m Ofall opinions through lerms is enwuraged. uners to the Editor must be signed and mustinclude:·. 
· · · cont:lednfurmaciori. .· · 

POST: OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ~(USPS ~99 MOO<!} li po~Gsl\ro MoodaY thrirugll Fii<iay aaop. ilw'IHg "'""' roo~ .....oon ~·A wl>a:ripcion ..Thcab..=ner a. SlQ(If!;r OJIC ltlldc.mc )'<!If; S5Ho<.~nc-=. · · 
Tlu, Ob10m:c i> publi.bo:d •r: . · I'OSTMAsTEJt lf24$oo.d. Dining l1.B 
$(,cdodQ...o -~''" 
No,.. Dome. IN *5j4.~77~ Thf()b...,.,., l'triodic:ol "'""'" paid ., No<~ lhlll< P.O. BoocQ 
al>d :ldditi<>Ml tnOiW>g o!fi=. ~24 So~dt DIAi~g H:olt Ni>ttt n...,.,. tN #!fS6.W7</ 
The Ob,uv.,. io a ~n~:mbcc ofd.. Asooci...,.J .I'.,.. . .All ccprnd>.cuoR ripro.,.. 
~-. . 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics Andrew Thagard Mike,-larkins Joe Trombello Sports Matt Bramanti Chris Federico 
Viewpoint Justin Schuver 
Dolores Diaz Joe Lindsley 
Illustrator Scene 
Pat Quill Emily Howald 


U.S. and Wl~O must embrace fair trade 
The brand-name products you buy, from cardigan.:; to cof­fee, almost certainly come from a wealthy public: corpora­tion based in a wealthy country. Chances are this company is a sprawling multinational, pushing its profit-driven agen­da across the globe, with help from the World TradP 
Organization and the bloc of First World  
countries at its helm. Yesterday. the WTO wrapped up its  BJ Strew  
fifth Ministerial Conference !n the tropi­ 
cal resort city of Cancun, where global leaders from both developed ano' dev£1­oping countries convened to discuss  Straight. No Chaser  
international trade. Perhaps the most  
hotly debated matter was fair trade, an  .  

issue with which the WTO has a less than ~tellar history. 
Because the First World stays its course, favoring "free trade" over fair trade, the vast corporations meet little opposition when pushing their agenda.s. This is a bad thing, but for wh.Jm? Obviously not for the rich G8 coumrit::s­it's bad for the developing countries of the Third World, because they can't push back. "Free trade" is still a myth. 
I would like to do away with this dicho>;omy, a Cold War relic, but it remains useful in underscoring the rift between the First and Third Worlds, which widens daily. It is strik­ingly clear which side comprises which nations: in one country, someone gets $2 fur making a pair of trainers; in another, some middle-schooler pays $67 fur th~m. 
An admixture of protectionist tariffs and trade-distorting subsidies is to blame for the rift. taking a. petilmlf toll 011 developing countries. On top of this peeuliar combu, the developed countries hypocritically compel their developing counterparts to liberalize. Desperate for foreign invest­ment, poorer nations must kowtow to First World demands, often prompting a regulatory "race tc thd bottom" that endangers th~ environment and expll)its workers in the Third World. This is the brutal corrceptlor. of so-called free trade trumpeted by neoliberals. · · · 
Perhaps most distressing is the fact that First World farm­ers are lavishly subsidized-at $1 biilion a day. Sinre the Great Depression, American farmers have received increas­ingly hefty sums of federal assistance In fact, a recent farm bill upped subsidies by 70 percent, with the lion'~ share pocketed by the wealthiest producers. This trend is mir­rored across the pond, where the European Union's Common Agricultural Policy accounts for 85 percent of the agricultural subsidies worldwide, more or less supplying welfare to an elite handful of European farmers. This prac­tice lethally robs the Third World of opportunity and the ability to compete, with poverty and social unrest proceed­ing therefrom. 
With such an asymmetric adva·ntage, the developed coun-
OBSERVER POLL 
Do you think that you will be able to obtain a job or an internship this summer? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
tries end up with a surplus of produce, which they "dump" in the Third World markets. This immense oversupply drives down the j)rice of local goods. devastating the local economy in turn. Not only does it make poor farmers (and ccuntries) poorer, it often forces them off their own land. 
Tariffs. on the other hand, offer another obstacle to fair trade. If Africa, East Asia, South Asia and Latin America increased their share of world exports by just one percent, 128 million could be lifted out of poverty. 
Many coffee farmers earn less than it costs for them to grow. Do your part: ask for Fair Trade coffee wherever you can -at Starbucks, at Reekers, anywhere. Show the demand exists for goods ethically produced and environ­mentally friendly. 
On a related note, every year. 14 million die from treat­able diseases. Denied access to simple, anti-retroviral med­icine, parents in the Third World pass HIV on to their chil­dren. This is just one example of the immorality of the glob­al patent rules. Any decent person believes that public health trumps patent protection. Rut the pharmaceutical lobbies on K Street in Washington beg to differ, claiming they must be compensated for the funds they pour into research and development, at the annual cost of 14 million lives. 
Jt is a little disconcerting, and perhaps testimony to lean­ings of the media across the board, that injustice on such a scale goes unreported. It verges on media blackout. And without coverage, the media become party to the continued injustice. 
So if this is news to you, you should already be wondering how this came to pass-and why it continues to. You should, at l~ast, be troubled by the unfairness of it. 
You should not dismiss this as a bee buzzing in the ultra­liberal bonnet-anyone who abhors injustice ought to be outraged and ought to know that radical change is needed here. You should not dismiss this as a topic too remote to warrant a 'moment of attention-anyone reading this undoubtedly reaps the benefits of the unjust practice of "free trade," directly or indirectly. You should not dismiss this, period. 
The exploitation of the Third World by the First World must not carry on. For world trade tc work for the poor as it does for the rich, iair trade must be established. Sign petitions, buy Fair Trade goods, reject neoliberalism at the ballots, write your senators, do anything you can to speed up the process. 
BJ Strew is a junior English major. /lis column appears every other Monday. Contact him at wstrew@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Being a sports fan is a complex matter, in part irrational ... but not unworthy ... a relieffrom the seriousness ofthe real world, with its unending pressures and often grave obligations. " 
Richard Gilman journalist 


• 
THE OBSERVER 
p

Monday, September 15, 2003 


page 13 
Notre Dame students ruin the game 
Treat opposingfans the way you would want to be treated 
-
On Saturday I was at Ann Arbor at the big house with my wife and two of my three sons. I have been going to Notre Dame games since 1972. In all those years, I have had some problems with fans in the stadium but I never thought my worst game that I ever had attended would be the fault of the Notre Dame students. 
I have driven all night in the rain and snow to games at Penn State and Ohio State and even Miami. All of these have a reputation for being a hostile environment for the opposing team's fans. But Saturday, Sept. 13 is a day I won't forget. 
We got there early in the morning and tailgated with the Michigan fans. We joked together about how the game would be played-a very enjoyable t\me. When get­ting to our seats I was happy that Notre Dame fans and mostly students of Notre Dame surrounded me. My sons have been raised in the state of Michigan and were wearing Michigan shirts while my wife and I were in the 2003 Shirt. 
The five male students behind us had been drinking and were very loud and were raining down four letter words on all the Michigan fans. If you're a fan of any organization you can only tolerate so much before you start looking for a confronta­tion. One of the Notre Dame students slipped off the bleacher and into one of my boys. A shoving match started, words were exchanged and I had to stand in between them. I was asked why I was standing up for them because they were Michigan fans. 
I would have done the same for any fans and I would hope that most Notre Dame fans would do the same. This was not frus­tration from what was happening on field because there was no score yet. I have always believed that it didn't matter what school you supported as long as you could respect the opposing team. This is what makes college football so great. 
It has long been a tradition at Notre Dame to stand on the bleachers during the game. I have always been proud to see that at home games. But at an away game there is no student section and there is a mix of fans of all ages. My wife is close to having knee replacement and, at 53, my ability to balance while standing on the bleachers during the whole game is not what it used to be. I could only imagine what the 70 plus gentleman down from me was going through. 
I was asked by these same students, later in the game, why I was not cheering for the Irish and stated that they had taken away my spirit. I was embarrassed for Notre Dame by what was happening in the stands, not by what was happen­ing on the field. 
The security at Notre Dame stadi­um is unmatched by any away event and at Michigan there was nowhere to get help. Therefore it should be up to the stu­dents to police themselves to uphold the standards of being part of the greatest University. 
After all, we are Notre Dame. 
Ge1ald Sckz Portage, !.-,di;;lla Sept. 14 

Remarks at soccer game offensive to crowd 
I have been a long time fan of Notre Dame soccer, going both to the men's and women's games. There is a group of Notre Dame students (male) who also go to sup­
port both teams forming a single cheering section. They are vigorous, loud and, on rare occasions, funny. The problem is that they are also fre­
quently obnoxious, unremittingly vulgar and a disgrace to the university. 
On Friday evening, Sept. 12, they amused themselves with a steady string of homopho­bic remarks and vulgarities directed at the 
opposing goalie. On Saturday, Sept. 13, 
they directed repulsive remarks to the opposing goalie comparing her to various animals. There are not 80,000 people in the stands, so their braying remarks carry a goodly distance. 
People in the stands were appalled by their behavior (e.g. a family with a prospective student, the coaches of a visit­
ing high school team, a man who was 
restrained by his wife from going down to shut them up, etc.). I spoke to one of them on Friday but, seemingly, to no effect. I did apologize to the visitors whom I could identi­
fy. I am not proposing some politically correct speech code. I am merely noting how much they besmirch the reputation of the student body by their loutish activities. I do not know their names. I can only hope that they read this letter and realize what oafs they are and how bad they appear to the people who come to the games. Let them be funny, 

wild, loud and a little out of control. However, let them not be offensive to the crowd and hurtful to the opposition. Cardinal John Newman once said that the gentleman never consciously offends. These guys don't seem to have the wit to see how offensive they are. I am ashamed of them and the bad name they give this school. 
Lawrence Cunningham department of rheology Sept. 14 

Michigan fans classless 
Congratulations to the University of Michigan Wolverines on their over­whelming victory on Saturday. God knows they were the better team, and surely God would reward such a fan base who carries themselves with the dignity of the maize and blue. 
That very same dignity seems to have seeped into the very soul of every U of M fan. It has permeated their collective consciousness deep enough to welcome their opponents to Ann Arbor by lynching effigies of the Irish head coach. Yes, all that fight for an affirmative action stance in the Admissions Department seems to be creating quite a revolutionary perception about diversity. 
Of course, Lord knows Ty Willingham could use a reprimand for his uncouth behavior on the side­lines and during his press confer­ences. Instilling a sense of integrity in his players would be the least he could do. His players would do well to imitate the compassionate way Michigan's Marlon Jackson forgave a fellow bar patron with an absolving blow to the head with a beer bottle. 
But, as the team only accounts for a small demographic, let us look to the little people at defining the universi­ty. So instead ofjudging the players for their virtuosity, let us be equally ready to beg pardon of the students and fans for whom we provided tar­gets at which to throw unopened cans of beer. Heaven forbid the Notre Dame faithful should occupy the hos­pital beds desperately needed for ter­minally ill Wolverine fans. After all, it appears a great many require as much care as possible to treat their incurable condition as alcoholic social vegetables. 
Such uncivilized behavior charac­terizes the Irish race and seems espe­cially repulsive in lieu of the example set by the Michigan student body. The classy manner in which "F---the Irish" and "Rudy Swallows" frequent­ly resounded from the student section speaks volumes about the creativity and intelligence that emanates from the Ann Arbor campus. Their new and innovative ways to support their own team are not only noteworthy but commendable. 
So here's to the University of Michigan. Kudos for establishing yourselves as both worthy of a top five football ranking and also as the people we will most enjoy terminat­ing from your jobs. 
Matt Mooney junior Siegfried Hall Sept. 14 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


' 



one? 
Wondering what to wear next weekend? The '80s are 'it' in the upcoming fashion world 
So we all know how everyone secretly loves the '80s. There are always dances that honor the great· fashions that filled the era, and we consis­tently attempt to find reasons to repeat the oh­so­treacher­ous fash­ion 
mishaps
~ i 
' 
that plagued the time period. Well boys and girls, it's back with the hotness of 99 Luftballoons. 
Yep, that's right; the '80s are making their comeback, and not all too quietly either. Slits in the clothes, camouflage prints, para­chute pants, too many zip­pers to count, off the shoul­der tops ... you name it -and it is considered "in style" in were in the day, I can speak for at least one girl when I say that there is rarely an excuse for them today. It will take more than a fad to bring back cut-off jean shorts. And let's face it, as funny as we all think mul­lets can be, it will most def­initely not score you any points with the female pop­ulation, trust me on this one. 


So even though the Saved by the Bell look is back, as scary as that may be for some of us, we are going to have to deal with it for awhile. We all thought Zack Morris and Kelly Kapowski were the coolest people in the world once upon a time; looks like we are going to have to try to find that yet again, but then again, when was Zack real­ly ever not cool? 
My advice is to take advantage of it-it could be fun to pull out the crimpers and the slap bracelets. Just don't spend 
too much money try­ing to emu­late Pat Benatar, aE 
all the major it will most
Remember how you 

cities and likely not
laugh at how

stores. last long.It's a scary ridiculous you looked We've thought to already
back during those 

know that done the 
once again horrible days in the 
side-pony­,-we may be '8os? Get ready for tails and wearing pink scrunchies
yet another dose. 

heals with 
yellow tights, 
or tight-rolled 
jeans, but 
that is what 
the designers 
are bringing 
back, so who knows. While 
we falshdance, there could 
be some serious flashbacks. 
Remember how you laugh at how ridiculous you looked back during those
! 
1 
li horrible days in the '80s? Apparently the designers 
I don't think we have had enough of the neons, the rips and tears, or the span­dex. So get ready for yet another dose. But guys, don't think this gives you the right to dress like George Michael or grow out a mullet. Because however popular the stone­washed jean jackets and Miami Vice sport-coats 
once, what 
more can 
you do? 
So next 
weekend, 
when you 
are jam­ming out to Rick Springfield or Starship, throw on a something that you reminds of the good old days and have a little '80s pride 'before video kills the radio star ... again. 
Emily Howald is far bet­ter at giving advice on clothes than really any­thing else. She is a pro at "damage control," yet does it far too often and is a bit too sarcastic for her own good. Contact her at ehowald@nd.edu but be nice! 
By CHRISTIE BOLSEN Assistant Scene Editor 

At any given time on the University's campus, some­one is about ta break into song. 
Although many students choose to sing only when the band plays the Fight Song or during Mass, there are tal­ented singers all over cam­pus who have many groups they may choose to join. At the beginning of each year there are general auditions for some of these groups, from Glee Club to Liturgical Choir. Students indicate their preferences on which groups they would most like to join and then show off their skills for a chance to be a part of one of them. 
Like snowflakes and finger­prints, no twu choirs are the same. Do you prefer "Amazing Grace" or "Stick Shifts and Safety Belts"? Do you mark "M" or "F" on offi­cial forms? Would you prefer a non-religiously affiliated group or are you interested in learning spiritual music from different cultures? There's something for every­one who has a stunning voice 
and dedication.  Here is  a  
rundown of just a  few of the  
choirs  that  can  be  heard  
around campus.  
Glee Club  

This all-male choral group is a favorite for musical per­formances. It's over 85 years old and more than 2,000 men have been members of the club. New members are added during the general try­out at the beginning of the year, but Glee Club also adds members before spring 
The 


semester and interviews potential members to make sure they are committed and will mesh with the group. 
The main events for Glee Club that are held every year 
are a fall concert, a Christmas concert, a spring con­cert, a con­cert in the Basilica and a com­mencement concert. Every three years there is also a reunion. and this year is the 8 8 t h reunion year. On Sept. 19, about 250 Glee Club alumni will be return-
also be singing the National Anthem for the Michigan State game. Besides the big events. members keep busy with numerous appearances that the University or other 
"For the audience, I think it's about enjoying great music and learning something sometimes because there are a lot ofobscure pieces ... that are gre_at pieces ofmusic and no one's heard them much." 
Sean Sprigg Glee Club 
ing to Notre Dame to sing with the current members at a concert that night and to reminisce about their years singing under the Dome. Everyone is encour.aged to attend the Reunion Concert at Stepan Center at 8 p.m. Tickets are $3 at the LaFortune Box Office. 
Glee Clubbers can be seen all over campus, though, and not just at their concerts. Every Saturday morning of a football game they can be heard singing "ND in Revue" in the Joyce Center. For the alumni reunion, there will be so many singers that they will be performing in front of the Reflecting Pool at 11:30 
a.m. before the Irish take on Michigan State. They will 
groups' requests. 
Sean Sprigg is one of the returning members of Glee Club. 
"For the audience, I think it's about enjoy­ing great music and learning something sometimes because there are a lot of obscure pieces that [director Dan Stowe] still picks out that are great, great pieces 
of music and no one's heard them much. So you learn a little bit, and then the second half you get to have fun lis­tening to some songs you really do know and love," Sprigg said. 
"Dan's done a great job of letting us sing pretty much everything," Tom Schreck, another member of the Club, said. "For football concerts, we do a lot of fight songs, or American folk songs, or Irish folk songs, or barbershop songs. And for our major concerts we'll still do those but then we'll also do music from the Renaissance and serious classical literature, and for our concert in the Basilica we do all sacred music," Schreck said. 


The Liturgical Choir poses together on their trip to Rome. This choir sings in Europe often and Is heard at the Basilica each week. 
--~~ 
THE OBSERVER 
E

Monday, September 15, 2003 


Page 15 

otre Dame 
For the members. it's about group began when students 
brotherhood and music. Brooke Phillips, Jessica 
Members take tours together Rinaldi, Danielle Rinaldi and 
during fall and spring breaks, Shawna Monson noticed that 
and every other year they there was no female a acap­
take an international tour pella group at Notre Dame. 
during the summer. This past When they realized that the 
summer the group toured four of them sang all four 
Europe, traveling to Italy, female voice parts, they 
Austria, the Czech Republic, began their quest to start a 
Germany, Switzerland, new group. Monson, now a 
France, Spain and Ireland for senior and president of the 
about a month. group, has been with 
"It was a lot of fun," mem­Harmonia from the start. 
ber Javier Hernandez said. "It "By the beginning of the 
was just different; we basical­next year we had a name, 
ly lived on a bus. I always Harmonia, we had try-outs to 
wondered what it was like to pick the 12 other girls in the 
tour with a musical group, group and we were getting 
and of course you just bonded gigs. At the end of that year 
with all the people because we had established ours.elves, 
you're just driving twelve performing with the 
hours a day from country to Undertones to a sold-out 
country and you've got noth­crowd in Washington Hall," 
ing to do but talk to each Monson said. 
other." Harmonia is now in its third 
After an exciting summer, year and still consists of 16 the Glee Club has an eventful girls who perform frequently year coming up as well, at dorm functions, benefits, where fans should be able to banquets, parties and con­enjoy numerous performanc­certs. Their biggest event for es. the past two years has been a concert with the Undertones in May. Auditions
Undertones 
are held each fall for any
This subset of the Glee Club 
woman

is an a cappela 
who is

all-male group 
interest-

that currently 
ed in

has 10 mem­
bers from dif­..It's more than just an joining . 
" N o

ferent classes extracirricular activity, it's 
p r i o r

and all vocal 
a family. We sing an experi­
parts. Only 
Glee Club mem­incredible repertoire -its ence is 
required,

bers can be in hard to beat eight-part 
we

t h e all
harmony -and have the ask is
Undertones, 
and they try to priveilege ofsharing it that they s i n g
stick with with the faith community 
beauti­

arrangements 
at Notre Dame and 
fully. We

of popular 
songs like throughout the world, are also one of
tunes from the thanks to the Hallmark 
the only

Beatles, Cake, 
Channel." 
choirs on

Eric Clapton, 
the ND

the Jackson 
campus

Five and more. Teresa Bloemker 
that is

Sprigg, who is Liturgical Choir 
not reli­

starting his 
giously

second year in 
affiliat­

t h e 
ed. The

Undertones, 
songs we sing are songs .YOU
says the group tries to find 
would hear on the radio, and
songs that are fun, recogniza­
we try to stick to the contem­
ble and just sound good. 
porary stuff. Harmonia con­
"We have a lot of fun doing 
tinues to grow, continues to
our own arrangements of 
improve and continues to rule
these popular songs and per­
to this day," Monson said. 
forming them for girls' dorms," Sprigg said. "We usu­ally have one big project per 
Liturgical Choir 

year and lately it's been an 
Heard at mass each week,
end of the year concert ... we 
the Notre Dame Liturgical
also do a lot of small concerts 
Choir was founded in 1973 as
for anyone who's looking for 
the Chapel Choir. It's made up
entertainment." 
of both undergraduate and
This means the Undertones 
graduate students and per­
perform for various clubs, 
forms at the 10 a.m. mass at
organizations and dorms. The 
the Basilica. They also per­
Bookstore also has them sing 
form at Sunday Vespers, wed­
for one hour after every foot­
dings, dedications, ordina­
ball game. The Bookstore also 
tions and more. Special occa­
sells COs that the Undertones 
sion performances include
have recorded. 
JPW, Baccalaureate Mass and Harmonia Holy Week, which includes This all-girl a acappella Palm Sunday and the Easter 
Vigil. 
The choir usually takes tours each year, its most recent being the May 2003 trip to Italy. The group trav­eled to many Italian cities and sang at a Papal Audience. Other tours have included upstate New York, Canada, France and the majority· of the United States. 
Teresa Bloemker, a senior and secretary of the choir, has been involved since fresh­man year. 
"It's more than just an extracurricular activity, it's a family. We sing an incredible repertoire -its hard to beat eight-part harmony -and have the privile,ge of sharing it with the fa~tl1 community at Notre Dame and throughout the world, thanks to the Hallmark Channel. 
"We become the closest of friends not just through singing, but by going on r·etreats, hosting weekly movie nights and organizing all sorts of activities to bring us together. Being a member of the Liturgical Choir has made me come to love my Catholic faith all the more through the ministry of music," Bloemker said. 
Folk Choir 
This group consists of both female and mr.t.le voices as well as instruments. Their musical selections are unique in that they are taken from all parts of the world, adding a cultural element to their per­formances. It cons.ists mostly of undergraduate students, but recently also include graduate students, faculty and professional staff mem­bers. Members sing during the year at the 11:45 a.m. 

liturgy on Sundays at the Basilica as well as various worship celebrations on cam­pus. 
The choir's current director, Steven Warner, started the choir in 1980. He talks about the range of the types of music the choir sings, using their performance for Archbishop Desmond Tutu as an example. 
"Our choir actually sings music from South Africa ... they are songs that actually came out of the response to the apartheid movement. They are songs of liberation, songs of praise to God," Warner said. 
This is one of the unique aspects of Folk Choir; their repertoire includes many selections from other coun­tries and cultures, and they even perform in bilingual liturgies for masses such as St. Patrick's Day. 
"I think God is celebrated in diversity. We belong to a Catholic Church, and the word catholic means univer­sal. That means we see God throughout all the cultures ... some people I think can be very pejorative in their stance toward not liking diversity. But the Catholic Church and all of her wisdom says that diversity is actually a sign of the wonder of God. And if that's the case, then should not our music express that 
diversity  or  emulate  that  
diversity  as  well?" Warner  
said.  

To incorporate different sounds, the choir will play instruments from different cultures as well. For the South African pieces, like "Siva Hamba" and "Hallelujah Pel~ Tsa Rona," a pair of con­gas is played or a djembe, 
which means "happy drum." 
For the Irish pieces, like 
"Rian Padraig" (song of 
Patrick) a bodhran, is played. 
The next event for the choir, which was the first to travel internationally to Ireland in 1988, is to travel again to Ireland for Fall Break. Warner describes the state of Irish liturgy right now as "dead on arrival," with short masses and prayers spoken out of sync. Every three or four years, The Folk Choir goes to Ireland to work with assemblies there to sing their music and learn new music to bring back. 
Chorale 
Out of all the groups on campus, this is the official concert choir of the University. Over 60 singers perform several times every year, including with the Chamber Orchestra in the Basilica each semester. They also sing Handel's "Messiah" with the Chamber Orchestra in December in Washington Hall and have concerts in the fall, spring and during Commencement Weekend. They also sing at the Baccalaureate Mass during Commencement Weekend. 
Members of the Chorale also take tours in winter and spring, as well as internation­al tours about every three years to locations such as Rome, Ass isi, Flo renee, Venice and Padua. They have recorded "Cantate Domino" and "The Notre Dame Chorale in Concert." 
Contact Christie Boisen at cbolsen@nd.edu 
Monday, September 15, 2003

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Cardinals' playoff hopes look dim after sweep 
Associated Press 
' 
HOUSTON -The Houston Astros just about ended the play­off chances of the Cardinals. 
Tim Redding combined with three relievers on a three-hitter and Craig Biggio drove in three runs as the Astros beat St. Louis 4-1 to complete a big three­game sweep. 
Houston boosted its NL Central lead to two games over the Chicago Cubs and dropped the third-place Cardinals 5 1/2 games back with two weeks left in the regular season. The Astros and Cardinals play three more times in St. Louis next weekend. 
"You can't start talking about scenarios," Cardinals catcher Mike Matheny said. "We're not going to give up. The guys in here believe in each other, and that's what's gotten us this far, and it's going to continue to get us through the rest of this sea­son." 
It was the frrst sweep over the Cardinals for the Astros since a three-game series in April 1997. 
"These games do end up counting more because if you win three you're in great shape and if you lose three you end up being in even more of a mess," Astros third baseman Morgan Ensberg said. "You have to put them away, and we did in this series. It was a great series for us." 
Reds 1, Cubs 0 
The Cincinnati Reds tried for eight innings to shake Carlos Zambrano out of his groove, with little success. 
Then Zambrano had to wait out a 13-minute delay when an umpire became ill before the ninth inning, and the Reds got the opening they needed. 
Ray Olmedo drew a leadoff walk, and Russell Branyan drove him home with a two-out single as the Reds beat the Chicago Cubs 1-0. 
"That's something that could­n 't be helped," Cubs manager Dusty Baker said. "Zambrano wasn't as sharp when he came out against that first hitter. But we should have won three or four times earlier in the game. We had plenty of scoring oppor­tunities." 
The loss dropped the Cubs two 
games behind Houston in the NL 
Central race. The Astros beat St. 
Louis 4-1 earlier Sunday. 
It was the Reds' 29th victory in 
their final at-bat, most in the 
majors. 

"It's a bump in the road," 
Baker said. "There's 13, 14 
games left. You can make up two 
games in two days. It's still going 
to go down to the wire." 
Zambrano (13-1 0) was daz­
zling for most of the day, allow­
ing only three hits and no walks 
through the first eight innings, 
and retiring 13 straight at one 
point. But after he came out for 
the ninth inning, home plate 
umpire Steve Rippley left the 
game with a headache. 
• Rippley had been hit in the chin with a foul tip in the sixth inning, and his headache got progressively worse. He was taken to an area hospital for observation, and Zambrano waited 13 minutes while second base umpire Jerry Meals changed to go behind the plate. 
Braves 8, Marlins 4 
On the verge of being swept by 
NL wild-card leader Florida, 
Atlanta Braves manager Bobby 
Cox turned to his bench. 
That's where Chipper Jones 
and Javy Lopez sat. 

The two sluggers came 
through in rare pinch-hit roles, 
sparking a five-run ninth inning 
against Braden Looper for an 8­
4 victory that ended the Marlins' 
seven-game winning streak. 
Atlanta snapped a three-game 
losing streak and avoided being 
swept by Florida in a three­
game series for the first time 
since 1996. 

"We've been struggling lately," 
said Robert Fick, whose two-run 
single put the Braves ahead. 
"For us to come back in the 
ninth, it let us know we've still 
got it, I guess." 
The Marlins' defeat cut their 
lead in the wild-card standings 
to 1. 5 games over the 
Philadelphia Phillies, who beat 
Pittsburgh 10-7. 
Florida begins a three-game 
series at Philadelphia on 
Thesday. The Marlins have beat­
en the Phils eight times in a row. 
"This is the most important 

Reuters 

Houston's Craig Biggio collides with Cardinals second baseman Fernando Vlna after breaking up a double play In Houston's 4-1 victory Sunday that completed a three-game sweep of St. Louis. 
series of the year," Florida's helped himself with two hits as Babe Ruth for second place on Juan Pierre said. "We need to do Philadelphia avoided a three­the career list. our job and get some distance game sweep by the non-contend­After Bonds was replaced by a between us." ing Pirates. pinch runner and Rich Aurilia 
By salvaging the final game of By losing Friday and Saturday, was called out on strikes, Bonds the series in Miami, Atlanta the Phillies fell 2.5 games behind was ejected for arguing from the increased its lead over Florida in Florida in the NL wild-card race dugout with plate umpire Jim the NL East to 9.5 games with -the furthest they've been Reynolds. Bonds. who had been two weeks to go. The Braves are behind since June 26. They got watching the game on television only 22-20 since Aug. 1. back to within 1.5 games Sunday earlier, sprung out of the dugout 
when the Braves rallied with five for an animated rhubarb. 
Phlllles 10, Pirates 7 

runs in the ninth to beat the "I just said, 'It's not that diffi­Randy Wolf was too sick to 
Marlins 8-4. cult,' and he threw me out,"pitch at his best, not that it mat­
tered. The game was much too "This was a great day for us, Bonds said. "I didn't say he was big to think about missing. so he an awesome day," Thome said. a bad umpire, but after I was 
didn't tell anyone how bad he Giants 5, Brewers 4 thrown out, he yelled, 'You're felt, not even his manager. Barry Bonds' finger-pointing not that great.' I didn't insult 
Jim Thome drove in three runs argument was unusual·-and anybody." as the Philadelphia Phillies nearly as surprising as his It was a surprising burst of shook off two weekend losses in replacement's game-winning hit. passion from Bonds, who rarely 
Pittsburgh to quickly open an Todd Linden. had a bases­dignifies umpires' calls with eight-run lead, then held on for loaded single in the 11th inning even a glance -but Reynolds a much-needed 10-7 victory over as the San Francisco Giants beat apparently did something to irk the Pirates. the Milwaukee Brewers 5-4. the single-season home run king. Wolf (15-9). the Phillies' most Though he was on the field for "I asked the umpire if he said reliable starter when they need less than five minutes, Bonds any bad words, maybe I didn't an important victory, pitched 6 made two small bits of history. hear it, and he said, 'No," Giants 1-3 innings despite being up He drew his 2,062nd walk when manager Felipe A lou said. "I most of the night sick. He also he pinch hit in the eighth, tying never saw 25 (Bonds' uniform 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

NOTICES 
PART-TIME WORK EXCELLENT PAY WWW.WORKFORSTU­DENTS.COM 
STUDENT WORK $11.50 base­appt. Flex.pt hrs. Cust.svc/sales. No D-T-D/No Telemkt. 
Fun work schol.linterns. cond. apply. work w/other students 574­282-2357 www.earnparttime.com 
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306 
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski &Beach Trips on sale now! 
www.sunchase.com or call1-800­SUNCHASE today! 
B&B NEAR CAMPUS FOR IRISH HOME GAMES 
CALL (574)288-5377 
Lost near ND: Small white, black and brown spotted dog on 9/5/03. 
Reward. 232-2601. 
SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for a few good men and women who wish to work in a FUN and fast pace environment. A new store will be opening up in early October. We have aggressive pay. Hrs from 11 am to 3am. In-shoppers, drivers and mgmt available. Call Andy at 57 4-277-0850 for interview. 
Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO exper required. All looks & ages. Earn $100-$300 a day. 1-888-820-0167, ext. U187 
NOW HIRING. Kaplan Test Prep is currently hiring test proctors and student adVisors. Work from 2-16 hlwk. To apply, call 272-4135. 
FoR SALE 

LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMODELED, FULLY EQUIPPED. $94,500. Email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu 
LOFT, single, wooden. Will deliver and help set up. $165. Call 574-243-0853. 
IRISH CROSSINGS A NEW LUXU­RY VILLA COMMUNITY Build your dream home next to Notre Dame. A limited number of home sites are available. For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com 
Couch $150. 80'Lx38W Excellent condition. Light tan w/green&coral plaid lines. 
Call 272-0004 or email mvander­griend@sbcsc.k12.in us tor photo. Will deliver to NO campus. 
FoR RENT 
2-bdrm apts $435/mo plus utilities. 2-story, 4 bdrm, 2 full baths. Avail. immediately. 273-4555 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@AOLCOM 272­1525 3-6 BDRM HOMES.AVAIL. NOW & 04/05.FURN.272-6306 
That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast has space available for tootbaiVpar­ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, full hot breakfast, $80-$115, 
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418­9487. 
Furnished 2 bdrm apt. for ND home games. 1.4 miles to ND. 
$595 per weekend. 269-684-6409. 
2,3,4,5 and 8 BEDROOM HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2004/5. 
CALLANLAN PROPERTIES 532­1896 
Home games tor 2 or 4 in clean suburban home 7 mi from ND-1 or 2 nights and reasonable (574) 291-2279 
Home games for 2 or 4 in clean suburban home 7 mi from ND-1 or 2 nights and reasonable 
(574) 291-2279 
TICKETS 
ND FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR TOLL FREE 877 • 773-3911 . 
TOP $$$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX OR INDIVIDUAL GAMES. DISCRETION ASSURED. 654­8018. 
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288­2726 
WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232­0964. 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570. 
JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT· BALL GAME PLEASE CALL674­6593. 
Will trade 2 MSU, 2 NAVY, or 2 BYU for your 2 FSU or 2 USC tickets. 574-289-8048 
Will trade 2 MSU tix for 2 FSU. Call Jim Newell at 203-748-8926. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
Chuck, fill in your fantasy football lineup. 
Quincy is destroying San Antonio. 
She'll take this seriously. 

Monday, September 15, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Buehrle's 7-inning effort keeps Sox atop Central 

Associated Press pitching with a 2-0 lead after Roberto Alomar's double off 
BOSTON -Mark Buehrle kept John Burkett (10-8) and Carlos the Chicago White Sox in first Lee's 30th homer. place and the Boston Red Sox in Buehrle was solid when he a slump. needed to be as Boston got lead­
Buehrle pitched seven strong off hits in five of his seven innings as the White Sox won 7-innings. And he didn't have to 
2. Chicago took two of three at face Nomar Garciaparra, who Fenway Park, limiting the top missed the game with the flu. offense in the major leagues to "I got myself in a lot of jams, 19 hits in the series. fell behind the count a lot. And I 
"We're in a good situation," couldn't throw strike one to save Chicago catcher Sandy Alomar my life," Buehrle said. Jr. said. "The last two games But with Chicago ahead 5-2 here, our pitchers backed us up with no outs in the sixth and two and our offense came around." on, Buehrle got David Ortiz to 
Chicago and Minnesota, which ground into a double play. beat Cleveland 5-3, are 3 1/2 "We were getting ready to games ahead of third-place unload on him right there," Kansas City in the AL Central. Boston manager Grady Little The co-leaders begin a three­said. "That was the pivotal point game series Tuesday at in the game." Minnesota. Buehrle allowed two runs and 
Buehrle (13-13) didn't have his seven hits, and Damaso Marte best stuff, relying more on a worked two innings for his 11th 
White Sox second baseman Roberto Alomar leaps to avoid a Red 
strong sinker than a mediocre save in 18 chances. 
Sox runner during a double play attempt In Chicago's 7-2 win. 
cutter and slider. But he started The Red Sox, who lost their 
.· . . . 

Is ittheWind that generates electricity? 
.or isittheideathatharnessed it?•• At GE;we believe in the powerofideas. · Ideas tn~t not oniYturn wind into electriCity ! 
. . l 
but rnake . tne worlci . a betterptac~than ifwas 
. . 
··thed~Wbefore; tfyou· have those kinds of J 
ideas;We hope you contact us. · 
l 
I 

The future relies on GECareers l 
gecareers.com 
l•

inventions from GE. r 
.. lGE's future relies ~ 
on people like you. 
I
! 
i 
I } 
! 
) 
' 
i 
l 
i 

Upcoming GE Events at WPI ! 
Seeking intern, co-op and full-time hires! September 17th: Visit us at the Career Fair September 25th: Resume drop deadline 
· ·. sign up with the CDC 
. !! 
I 
I 
' 
; 
' 
r 
l 
! 
:
: 
l 
·­

, imagination at work 
e 
second straight, remained 5.5 games behind the AL-East lead­ing Yankees. Boston remained a half-game ahead of Seattle in the wild-card race. 
Twins 5, Indians 3 
A painful bounce turned into a 
lucky one for Minnesota as the 
TWins remained tied for the AL 
Central lead. 
Doug Mientkiewicz delivered a 
tiebreaking single in the eighth 
inning and the TWins overcame 
right fielder Michael Ryan being 
hit in the head with a flyball to 
defeat the Cleveland Indians 5-3 
Sunday. 
Mientkiewicz also hit a two­
run homer for the Twins, who 
moved 11 games over .500 for 
the first time this season and 
remained tied with the Chicago 
White Sox for first place. 
It was 3-all in the Cleveland 
seventh when Jhonny Peralta 
led off with a fly ball to right­
center. 
Ryan shaded his eyes, then 
lowered his glove and the ball 
bounced off the side of his face 
-but was caught on the 
rebound by center fielder 
Dustan Mohr for the out. 
"It was embarrassing more 
than anything," Ryan said. "I 
had three balls hit my way and 
lost every one in the sun." 
Ryan had a large welt just 
above his left eye, and was 
replaced by Torti Hunter. 
Ryan said he felt his eye and 
thought he was bleeding -but 
it was just sweat. 
"It felt like I was stung when I 
was hit," he said. "I wanted to 
stay in the game, but they 
wouldn't let me." 
The TWins took the lead in the 
eighth after Danys Baez (2-9) hit 
the first two batters he faced, 
Hunter and Cristian Guzman, 
with pitches. 
Shannon Stewart sacrificed 
the runners over, but Hunter 
was thrown out at the plate 
when he tried to score on Luis 
Rivas' grounder to second base­
man Brandon Phillips. 
Mientkiewicz followed with his 
go-ahead hit. 
"That was a big moment," 
Mientkiewicz said. "Every game 
is a playoff game for us." 
Royals 7, Tigers 2 
The Detroit Tigers reached 
another milestone they'd rather 
not think about. 
The Tigers became the first 
team in 34 years to lose 110 
games in one season as Kansas 
City beat Detroit 7-2 behind 
three RBI from Angel Berroa. 
"At this point, the losses make no difference to me," said the Tigers' Bobby Higginson, who was on the 1996 Detroit team that lost 109 games. "It's just bad. We knew it was coming. If we end at 110 or 119 losses, I don't think it's going to make much of a difference. It's a lot of losses, either way. It's been a miserable year." 
Detroit (38-11 0) has the most losses since the Montreal Expos and San Diego Padres each went 52-110 in 1969, their first seasons in the major leagues. 
The Tigers, who set a fran­chise record for losses, are 93­216 since the start of 2002, tying the 1952-53 Pittsburgh Pirates (92-216) for the sixth­most losses in consecutive years. 
Detroit needs at least five wins in its last 14 games to avoid matching the 1962 New York Mets for the most losses in a season since 1900. 

. . 
....j.-... -.......·.-.. ·" ··" .-.••.•. -~· 
Monday, September 15, 2003

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
PGA 
Lewis, Singh lead as tourney runs long 

Associated Press 
SILVIS, Ill. -J.L. Lewis and Vijay Singh held a one-stroke lead after a long day of golf Sunday didn't produce a win­ner at the rain-soaked John Deere Classic. 
Lewis, who won the tourna­ment in 1999, and Singh, third on the PGA money list this year, were at 12 under after com­pleting the rain-delayed third round. They only played five holes of the final round, which will resume Monday morning. 
A dozen players were within five shots of the lead when play· was halted by darkness at the Tournament Players Club at Deere Run, where heavy rains washed out Saturday's round. 
Lewis, who has topped the leaderboard throughout the tournament, couldn't add to the 12-under total he built with identical 65s during the first two rounds. 
He said a north wind and slow putting surface offset rain-softened greens and fair­ways. He predicted a score of 4 under might be needed to win Monday. 
"If it stays calm, they'll be some birdies made," Lewis said. 
Singh, who started the day four shots back, picked up two strokes with three birdies and a bogey during the third round, then birdied two of five holes in the final round before play was stopped. 
He is playing_ for the seventh straight week in an attempt to win the money title. 
Notah Begay III, Chris Riley and Paul Stankowski were one shot back at 11 under, while Jonathan Byrd was alone in sixth place at 10 under. Three players were within three shots at 9 under. 
Stankowski, returning after wrist surgery in May, said fatigue wasn't a factor despite the extra holes on the hilly course. 
"I only played 25 holes today so it's not that bad. It could have been worse," said Stankowski, who has won two PGA titles -the last in 1997. 

Presented by the Senior Qass 
Thursday, September 18,6:00-8:30 PM Margaritas, beer cash bar, music & dancing On the beach and dock at the lake house 
$3 includes soft drinks, pig roast. leis 
MUST BE 21!H Bring your Student ID &Driver's License 
w"ww.nd.edu/-class04/ 





t~y, September f67pm.~ -CarrollAu.ditiorium Saint Mary's_ College A..l$$1ott ~ f~ For~ ~ion. pfc:w ®1Wt OMAat 2tf-41ll 
Great Career 
Opp~rtunities 
1n Sales 
Mendoza College of Business 
Career Forum Wednesday; September 17 
4:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. 
On Campus Interviewing Thursday, October 30 
. Interview Center, Flanner Hall 

Please StJbmit your resume and transcript through the GO IRISH system by October B to be COJ,Sidered for pre~selection. Candidates must have a 
3.0 cumulative GPA E-mail oncampus@newsamerica.com with any additional questions. 
nation's leading 
consurner promotions
~li ~sit us at
i www.ncwsamericn..com 
..... ~... ...:i . •. 
page 19

Monday, September 15, 2003 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

JOYCE CENTER NORTH DOME {HOCKEY RINK SIDE), ENTER GATE 3 
BRING YOUR STUDENT ID CARD {IT'S REQUIRED) ATTIRE IS BUSINESS FORMAL 
INDUSTRY DA'i •Ol 
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
Monday, September 1 5 
Industry Day Banquet McKenna Haii/CCE Reception, 6:30 p.m. Dinner, 7:15 p.m. 
Tuesday, September 16 
Career Fair North Dome of the Joyce Center -12:00 -5:00 p.m. 
Wednesday, September 17 
Interview Day Flanner Hall 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. 
"GO \R\SH\'' • out more\ use .
ftnd articipatln9 
. aboUt the P cess the
information d contacts. ac 
for mor~ . b descriptions, an 
anles,JO


comP b ·te·
We Sl · 
career Center 
·Jicareercenter.nd.ed~·ck on Go \R\SH Go to httP· aduates, then c I d then click Click on undergr tl\.fS\0) and passwor ' 
r NetlO \,.. ­Enter you 
on Log in Jobs/lnternshipS me Students Click on search h'ps tor Notre oa 
1\ terns ' ·n
(\ick on Jobs n rd search, type I \1 dovm to l{eywo ,. ck on search 
scro a 2003, then c 1 \ndustf'Y D y . \' t of: , For an alphabetlca~ :~ n "Organization 
. ns c\lc"' o \ ,
-Qrganiz.atiO. , "Position Tit e 
_ positions, c\lck on 
PARTICIPATING COMPANIES* 
Accenture American Electric Power Company Anson Industries, Inc. Bank of America Bechtel Nevada Biomet, Inc. Boeing Boston Consulting Group BP Energy Company Bristol-Myers Squibb careersiNsite CC Technologies Central Intelligence Agency Cowhey Gudmundson Leder, Ltd. DaimlerChrysler Corporation Deloitte Consulting Delphi Automotive Systems Denso International America, Inc. DENSO Mfg. Michigan, Inc. DuPont Exelon Corporation Federal Bureau of Investigation . Federal Mogul Corporation General Dynamics Advanced Information Systems General Electric Hewlett-Packard 
IBM Corporation lndalex Indiana Department ofTransportation Johnson and Johnson Lockheed Martin Corporation Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC McKee Foods Merck & Co., Inc. MIT Lincoln Laboratory Motorola NAVAIR Northrop Grumman PPG Industries Protiviti, Inc. Pulte Homes, Inc. R.A.Smith & Associates, Inc. Raytheon Schlumberger Technology Corporation 
_Stryker Instruments Teach for America Technology Services Group Travelers Property Casualty Turner Construction Unisys Corporation United Parcel Service United States Air Force United States Army Corps of Engineers United States Marine Corps United States Navy United States Navy Civilian Jobs 
U.S. Cellular Vedder, Price, Kaufman & Kammholz Walsh Constructiol) Group Westinghouse Electric Company 
•companies listed in bold will be interviewing on Wednesday, September 17. 

SPONSORED BY THE JOINT ENGINEERING COUNCIL, NOTRE DAME STUDENT SECTION OF THE SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS, THE CAREER CENTER, AND THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
Monday, September 15, 2003 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS 
NFL 
Blocked extra point propels Panthers to victory 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -With Tampa Bay lining up to kick an extra point with no time on the clock, the Carolina Panthers easily could have hung their heads and accepted defeat. 
The Buccaneers knew they wouldn't. 
"It's never over. We fight to the end," Carolina defensive tackle Brentson Buckner said after Kris Jenkins blocked what would have been a game-winning con­version by Martin Gramatica. 
.. ­
That set the stage for the Panthers to beat the Super Bowl champions 12-9 in overtime Sunday. 
"We knew they had to go out and make the extra point. We blocked two kicks prior to that, so we thought: 'Hey, we've got a chance.' ... By the grace of God we blocked it." 
John Kasay's fourth field goal, a 47-yarder with 3:28 remaining in the extra period, capped a wild fmal few minutes. 
The Bucs had tied it with no time left in regulation on Keenan McCardell's 6-yard reception. Considering Gramatica never missed an extra point in his career (129 attempts), the con­version seemed a formality. 
Jenkins had other ideas. 
( 
"I went in and blocked it. I don't think it was rocket science or anything," said Jenkins, who also knocked down a 38-yard field goal try in the second q_uar­ter. "It was now or never. We did­n't have a choice. Somebody had to get it." 
,_ Packers 31, Lions 6 
It took a mere 52 seconds for the Green Bay Packers to redis­cover their running game and their home-field advantage. 
Ahman Green rushed 23 times for 160 yards, including a 65­yarder for a score on his first carry as the Packers rolled past the Detroit Lions 31-6, snapping a two-game home losing streak. 
Green topped 100 yards by halftime, and the Packers (1-1) picked off three of Joey Harrington's passes in the second half to send the Lions (1-1) to their 17th straight road loss. 
Green scored when he found a hole in the eight-man front creat­ed by guard Mike Wahle, broke a tackle by safety Corey Harris and raced 65 yards for the touch­down on a field drenched by nearly 3 inches of rain in 48 hours. 
"This is our type of weather," Brett Favre said. "When we're running the ball like that, we're tough to beat. Anybody would be." 
The play accounted for more yards than Green had in either of his previous two games. He had 53 yards against Minnesota a week earlier and 34 yards against Atlanta in the playoffs ­both of them losses at Lambeau Field. 
Redskins 33, Falcons 31 
This looked more like a Steve Spurrier-coached team. 
Patrick Ramsey threw the ball all over the field, Laveranues Coles had a career receiving day and the Washington Redskins rallied from a 17 -point deficit to stun the Atlanta Falcons 33-31. 
Quite a change from Week 1, when Spurrier's "Fun 'n' Gun" offense went conservative in a 16-13 victory over the New York Jets. 
After taking a terrible beating in the first half. Ramsey threw for a career-high 356 yards and two touchdowns. Coles, shaken up early when his head rammed the leg of Falcons safety Kevin McCadam, recovered to set career highs with 11 catches for 180 yards. 

Coles had the clinching touch­down on a 19-yard reception with 12:47 to go. 
"Whenever things aren't going well, I want to be the guy who steps up and makes things hap­pen," said Coles, acquired by owner Daniel Snyder during an offseason spending spree. 
Washington is 2-0 for the first time since 1991, the season of its last Super Bowl championship. 
The Falcons (1-1) failed to give coach Dan Reeves his 200th career victory and squandered a chance to win their first two games for only the second time in 17 years. 
Rams 27, 49ers 24 
Marc Bulger kept the St. Louis Rams' quarterback controversy alive. 
Kurt Warner's backup shook off two first-half turnovers, throwing for two touchdowns and keeping his cool on the final drive of a 27-24 overtime win over the San Francisco 49ers. Jeff Wilkins kicked a 28-yard field goal with 13 minutes left in the extra period. 
Coach Mike Martz wouldn't say whether Bulger or Warner, who had a concussion in the opener, would be the starter next week at Seattle. 
"This is a time to celebrate a win and feel good," Martz said. "We'll deal with that on Monday." 
Martz couldn't hold back on praise for Bulger, 25-for-36 for 236 yards and two touchdowns -including 15-for-17 for 155 yards after halftime. Bulger was 6-1 as the Rams' starter last year while Warner was 0-6. 
"That, ladies and gentlemen, is a big league quarterback," Martz said. 


Lemur, May you never grow up: 
Happy 21st! 
Love, BNM, Lioness & Poodle 
Volunteers Needed 
ECDC, .at Saint .Mary's and Notre Dame, is looking for volunteers. ro play a.nd intet"dct with young children; If you enjoy readingto children, playmg games, building.with blocks, art activities and singing sot1gs, please consider voluhteeting for two hours once per week. Iris both rewarding a.nd·fun! 

INFORMATION.NIGHT 
The Investment Office of the University of Notre Da01e is offering 
One investment analyst position open to graduating seniors 
Thursday, September 18, 2003 Center for Continuing Education McKenna Hall, Room 112 
7:30 PM Refreshments and discussion with Investment Office Personnel 
8:00 PM Special Presentation by Scott 
Malpass, Vice President & Chief Investment Officer 
The entire Investment Team will be available to answer questions about the opportunity. 
-~ 
Monday, September 15, 2003 page 21
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

At Motorola, you could be the driving force behind our innovation. 
You've seen our cell phones and two-way radios. Have you seen them surfthe Net? Or explored how we use DigitalDNA to create "living" electronics? Or maybe you're more interested in opening up the world to wireless broadband communications. Everything is possible when you are acompany of visionaries with the technical prowess and drive to do things differently. Care enou9h to 
join us? 

Exciting career opportunities exist for students interested in co-op, intern and new graduate positions in the following areas: >AccountingI Finance >Mechanical Engineering >Electrical Engineering >Process Engineering >Human Resources >Research & Advanced Technology >Information Technology >RF Engineering >Marketing ~ Software Engineering 
Please visit us at the career fair tomorrow and Wednesday. We look forward to meeting you. Please submityour resume to www.motorola.com/careers/university. 
Motorola is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. We welcome and encourage diversity in our workplace. 
~•:mmn 


-------------------------------------------------------------------·--------~~-----------------------------­
page 22 Monday, September 15, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS 

~ NFL 
Lewis makes good on promise, breaks record 
Associated Press 
1-.. 
BALTIMORE --The Baltimore Ravens gave Jamal Lewis the football, as prom­ised, and he delivered on a pledge in set­ting a single-game NFL record with 295 yards rushing. 
Lewis' incredible performance, which included two touchdowns, led Baltimore past the Cleveland Browns 33-13. 
He would have had a third score and surpassed 300 yards if not for a holding penalty on Marcus Robinson during a 60­yard run in the first half. 
"On a day like today, I can't regret any­

....__ 
thing," said Lewis, who averaged a whop­ping 9.8 yards on his 30 carries. "It was beautiful." 
Lewis ran for an 82-yard touchdown on the second play from scrimmage, added a 63-yard touchdo,wn in the fourth quarter and broke the record with a 3-yard run with 6:55 left. 
He shattered the single-game mark held by Corey Dillon of Cincinnati, who ran for 278 yards on Oct. 22, 2000, against Denver. 
During a phone call with Cleveland line­backer Andra Davis earlier in the week, Lewis said he would break the record if given 30 carries -twice as many as one week earlier in a 34-15 loss to Pittsburgh. 
"Andra told me he wanted me to get the ball 30 times. I told him if I get the ball 30 times it's going to be a career day," Lewis said. ''I'm not going to say I predicted it. It was lucky." 
Raiders 23, Bengals 20 
Jerry Rice won't stand for being embar­rassed in his 19th NFL season. Something had better change in a hurry, 
because the likely Hall of Farner is 
annoyed with how the Oakland Raiders 
are playing. 
Sebastian Janikowski kicked a 39-yard field goal, his third of the game, with nine seconds left as the Raiders overcame a lackluster performance in their home opener to beat the Cincinnati Bengals 23­20. 
"I didn't come back for this," the 40­year-old Rice said. "We're at home. We won the game, but we didn't play well." 
Oakland's offense sputtered through another week, barely surviving against the lowliest team of the last decade. The Raiders (1-1) have yet to find a rhythm on offense, and lost their final three exhibi­tion games and their opener last week at Tennessee. 
They got a break on their final drive when Jeff Burris was flagged for pass interference against Rice, giving Oakland the ball on the Cincinnati 22 with 23 sec­onds left. 
Rich Gannon completed a 25-yard pass to Charlie Garner with 36 seconds left to put the Raiders on the 37-yard line. Gannon then threw two incomplete passes before Burris was penalized. 
The Bengals fell to 0-9 in Oakland. But for more than three quarters, this seemed to be their shot at a win. Cincinnati has beaten the Raiders just once in 13 tries on the West Coast, with that victory coming in 1988 when the Raiders were in Los 
_Angeles. 
Broncos 37, Chargers 13 
The Denver Broncos lost their starting quarterback midway through the second quarter and their top running back was gone by halftime. 
&ladlf.l\t 

They still manhandled the San Diego Chargers, winning 3 7-13 for their second straight road victory. 
Shannon Sharpe, one of three wide­open Broncos receivers who caught touch­down passes, credited coach Mike Shanahan's system that Denver was OK after losing Jake Plummer and Clinton Portis. 
~·vou get a system, you get guys who fit our system, one guy goes out, we don't miss a beat," Sharpe said. "Yeah, we're disappointed we lost those guys, but we're just going to keep chugging away, finding a way to get guys in there who want to play." 

Plummer got a mild separation of his right shoulder when he dived out of bounds after gettin·g a first down. He stayed in for two more plays, long enough to throw his third touchdown pass in less than two quarters. Steve Beuerlein replaced Plummer. 
Portis bruised his sternum and missed the second half. when Mike Anderson filled in. 

LO-NDON SUMI\IER PROGRAMME 
INFORM.ATION SESSION. FOR 2004 & 2005 
FOR THOSE WANTING INFORMATION AND FOR THOSE ALREADY ACCEPTED FOR 2004 
•·........ 

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16,2003 DROP IN BETWEEN 7:00-8:00 P.M. 136 DEBARTOLO HALL 
LONDON SUMMER PROGRAMME R.UNS FROM MID-MAY TO MID-J·u-NE 


OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Monday, September 15, 2003 Co1v\PILED FRO/v\ THE OBsERVER \VIRE SERVICES Page 23 

j:::::;:::: 
.. 
.. 
: 
, 

around the dial 
NFL 
Cowboys at Giants 8 p.m., ABC 
BOWLING WPBA Classic 8:30p.m., ESPN2 TRACK & FIELD 
IAAF Grand Prix Final 7 p.m., ESPN2 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Associated Press  case, probably the week after next.  1,237 yards and 18 touch­downs last season as Ohio  with the agreement of the NFL Players' Association.  
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -Suspended Ohio State running back Maurice Clarett has asked the NFL to change its rules and make him eligi­ble for the 2004 NFL draft. Commissioner Paul Tagliabue said Sunday that the league received a request last week from Clarett's lawyer, Alan  Last week, Clarett was State won suspended by Ohio State for ../ think it would be at least better ifhe stayed inone sea­son for school.·· violating N C A A PauiTagllabuebylaws NFL Commissionerconcern­ing bene­fits for athletes  the national champi­onship, is in his sec­ond year at the school. Under NFL rules, he would not be eligible for the draft until his third  "I think it would be bet­ter if he stayed in school," the commissioner said. Asked if he thought, as a lawyer, that the NFL could win a lawsuit if Clarett were to file one, Tagliabue replied: "My feeling as commissioner is that we have a very strong case and that we'11 win it." CBS Sports reported Sunday that Gene Upshaw, the executive director of  
Milstein. Tagliabue told The Associated Press that a lawyer from his office would meet with a lawyer for Clarett to discuss the  and for lying to investiga­tors. Also, Ohio State is investigating charges that athletes received improp­er help in classes. Clarett, who rushed for  year out of high school, which would be 2005. Tagliabue said the NFL remains opposed to changing that rule, which was put into effect in 1990  the Players' Union, said that Milstein had threat­ened a suit. Calls to Milstein and Upshaw by Tne Associated Press were not immediately returned.  

IN BRIEF 

Williams' sister shot dead cable TV drama series. ming after resting. 
COMPTON, Calif. -An older sis­"This is sad and very tragic news," At the start, Dreyer said his goal 
was to swim along the lake's eastter of tennis stars Venus and Serena WTA Tour chief executive Larry Scott 

Williams was shot to death Sunday said in a statement. "The thoughts coast for the Mackinac Bridge, the following a dispute in suburban Los and prayers of everyone at the \VTA suspension bridge that links Angeles, authorities said. Tour are with the entire Williams Michigan's two peninsulas. 
Yetunde Price, 31, was with a man family at this difficult time." Dreyer ran into a problem off 
in a sport utility vehicle shortly after Price wa:s shot in the upper torso. Saugatuck, the Web site reported. midnight and "somehow they had Deputies on patrol heard the gun­"The current from the Kalamazoo become involved in a confrontation shots and found Price, who was later River emptying caught Jim and the with the local residents," said Los pronounced dead at a hospital. The inflatable and took him far enough 
Angeles County Sheriff's Deputy man who had been with her in the out that he was no longer able to see Richard Pena. SUV wasn't injured and was being land," it said. 
Sheriff's deputies searching for interviewed by authorities, Pena 
At one point, he lost his bearingsthree people believed to be involved said. 

and lost about an hour, it said. 

in the shooting surrounded a house 
The Byron Center man has said

in Compton at about 6 a.m., but it Man swims Lake Michigan that he expected to swim 340 milesturned out to be empty. No arrests HOLLAND, Mich. -An endurance in 16 stages of 20 to 30 miles perhad been made by midday. swimmer on Sunday finished the stage. He said he hoped to complete
Venus and Serena Williams both fourth of 16 stages of his attempt to had been ranked No. 1 in the world swim the length of Lake Michigan. the event in less than 20 days. and have won a total of 10 Grand Jim Dreyer entered the lake Sept. 8 Dreyer has made direct crossings Slam singles titles. in Michigan City, Ind. He finished the of all five Great Lakes except 
Venus and Serena's agent, Carlos fourth stage about 6:20 a.m. Sunday, Superior. His latest attempt ended Fleming, said the family was en 13 hours, 13 minutes after he began Aug. 27 with Dreyer completing route to California. Serena has been the stage, according to his Web site. about 33 miles of a 70-mile swim in Toronto to film a guest role in a He was expected to resume swim-across Lake Superior. 
page 24 Monday, September 15, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles dominate SMC Triangular with two wins Saturday 
The Thunder will enter the
By JUSTIN SCHUVER MIM next season, with this year 
Associate Sports Ediror 
being their last to compete in the NAIA. 
Just two weeks into the 2003 Playko led the team against season, the Belles have already Tri-State with 12 kills. Temple matched their win total from last led the team with three service year. aces, and middle hitter Shelly
i Saint Mary's improved to 7-3 Bender led the Belles with three on the season with two wins in solo blocks. 
I 
\ F. the SMC Triangular this A continual bright spot for the Saturday, defeating Kalamazoo Belles this season has been the in five games with a score of 26-play ofPlayko. 30, 30-18, 30-17, 24-30, 15-10 "I was hoping for this kind of and taking down Tri-State in play out of [Playko]," Schroeder­straight sets by a score of 33-31, Biek said. "She's just a very 
30-24, 30-26. dynamic woman who plays with 
"I was very happy with how we a lot ofintensity." played," coach Julie Schroeder­The Belles received an addi­Biek said. tional honor this week as outside 
The Belles were again led attacker Alison Shevik was offensively by freshman outside named MIM specialty player of hitter Kristen Playko, who had the week. 28 kills against Kalamazoo. Saint Mary's doesn't get much Playko also led the team with rest after their impressive four service aces. Middle hitter Triangular performance. The a scrimmage game that did not goal when playing them in the Saint Mary's faces the Elise Rupright led the team with Belles are back on the court count as a regular season match. scrimmage was not to win, but University of Chicago at home at five service aces. Monday against University of For this reason, the Belles' coach just to experiment with our line­?p.m. 
Against Tri-State, the Belles Chicago. believes there will be a different up. had difficulty getting going early In the first SMC Triangular on outcome now that it counts. "We probably ended up seeing but managed to pull away as the Aug. 30, the University of "I am real excited to play more of their starters than they Contact Justin Schuver game went on. Chicago defeated Saint Mary's in them," Schroeder-Biek said. "Our saw of ours." at jschuver@nd.edu 

~ MENS TENNIS 
i• 
f• I 
'l .I Irish post undefeated record at weekend meet 

Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team completed an outstand­ing opening weekend of play by posting an 11-0 record Sunday, the final day of the Crowne Plaza Invitational. The Irish won championships in three of four singles flights and one of two doubles flights in a four-team tournament featur­ing three squads that finished ahead of Notre Dame in last year's final national rankings. 
Senior tri-captain Matthew Scott led the way, notching an upset against a top-60 player for the second consecutive day, beating No. 18 Richard Barker of Rice in straight sets. 
''I'm obviously really encour­aged by our results, but one tournament does not make a season," Irish head coach Bob Bayliss said. "We competed pretty darn well, and we hap­pened to win a lot. It was a pretty great weekend for us." 
In all, Notre Dame players were 22-5 in singles and 5-3 in doubles. Among the top Irish 

I 
performers were four playersl who went undefeated in sin­gles, including a pair of rook­jj ies who did not lose in singles or doubles in their first colle­
) 
giate event. Stephen Bass who was a finalist at the USTA Boys' 18s Super National Clay
~ ! 
Court Championships over the summer, won three matches in the B Singles flight, including a 6-1, 6-3 decision against Shunsuke Shimizu of Tulsa Sunday, to win the flight cham­pionship. 
He teamed with fellow fresh­man Bobby McNally in Flight B Doubles action, gaining a first­round bye before winning two matches to capture that title. The Irish rookies defeated Danny Bryan and Brandon Nicholson of LSU 8-4 Sunday. 
In singles play, McNally also was perfect, winning a trio of Flight D matches, culminating with a triumph over Rice's Roland Robb, 7-6, 6-1, Sunday. In other flight D play, freshman Ryan Keckley completed an undefeated singles weekend by beating Luc Maasdorp of Tulsa 6-1, 6-1. MeNally and Keckley shared the flight's champi­onship. 
Sophomore Eric Langenkamp also came away with a singles title, winning the Flight C Championship with a 6-3, 6-4 victory over Colt Gaston of LSU. 
Each of the other five Notre Dame players competing were 2-1 in singles. Scott's victories both came against ranked players. His 6-2. 6-3 triumph over Barker S1,1nday marked his second career triumph over a top-20 player. Scott was win-· less in eight matches against ranked opponents a year ago and now has four career wins against ranked foes. 
Notre Dame struggled early on Friday when rain forced some of the matches indoors to the fast courts of the Met Business and Sports Club. But once the weather cleared up, the Irish took control, winning 24 of 28 matches played out­doors at Jake Hess Tennis Stadium. 
Senior tri-captain Luis Haddock finished third in the A flight with a 6-7, 6-2, 7-5 win 


2~ 03-04 THE BEST Of NOTRE DAME THEATRE 
1·· · , t · 
!. .··.·. · .·· · ·ot .. 1 ·.~ ... ·. ·· ,.1"'1·. ·· ._ · · :· · ··. · ·· S....~ ·,n· ·)
1.\tltH ~ .. I. tHU .. Jt ..JJlH. Oll. ... :.dhl:.· 
~Ieasure for ~leasu1·e ··· 

W¢("z:,~$'f~ Sq:~~~~ t7,.,.S:31lp,m fhur.:-..:f!W,t, Sl~«tn~ 18.,.. '7::W pAn fni:f~y, St+pl~rnb~ H~.."7~30 p.m. 

P1ayir~g ~"'t Vlf<llihin:gto:n H~ll •Rt'::-.*t'#-ed S~ats $H3 ~nio~ $14 • M Stttdef>tt!. $t 2 
Tli.:J<£lts, ;ii'~-ail~b~'3 a;t laF-oo.~m~ S~u~nt Chf.lt9r T~k£1t Ofik:ij, 'Ma~MlrC;ltd ~nd VI~ •:3fdt<tt':t, <;<'#! 631·$128, 
Th~ Mh::r-~ t6Si&mq ·" ~i_$p:'n~1 in P,'Jil t~( lf.lr. 1-lw.k~k t~tu:~ ~r.~. 
against LSU's Jason Hazley, while sophomore Patrick Buchanan took the same spot in the B flight, beating Hazley's teammate, Bryan 7-5, 6-4. 
Freshman Irackli Akhvlediani took third in the C flight with a comeback win against Rice's Jason Mok. Akhvlediani trailed 5-2 in the third set, but rallied to send it to a tiebreaker. He then fell behind 4-1 in the breaker before coming back for a 7-5, 4-6, 7-6 (7-5) win. 
Junior Jimmy Bass won a three-setter in the D flight over Eduardo Gutierrez of Tulsa, 6­2, 5-7, 7-6. 
In doubles. Scott and 
Langenkamp were slated to face Haddock and Keckley in the consolation final of the A flight, but the match was not played. In B flight action, Akhvlediani and Buchanan beat Rojas and Gutierrez of Tulsa 8-0 to win the consola­tion championship. 
Notre Dame's four freshmen played particularly well in their first collegiate matches. combining to go 11-1 in singles and 7-3 in doubles. 
Barry King, another Irish rookie and the national 18­and-under champion of Ireland, missed the season­opening tournament with ten­dinitis in his wrist 
GRAND OPENING TODAY 
GOLDEN DRAGON 
CHINESE FOOD TO CARRY OUT OR DINE IN 


54533 Terrace Lane South Bend, IN 46635 (US 23 next to Subway) 
Tel: (574)271-8899 We Deliver 
Fax: 271-3399 for menus 


Monday, September 15, 2003 page 25
The Observer + SPORTS 



SMC GOLF 
Belles do well at meet 
Volleyball 
continued from page 28 
match, their lowest perform­
ance since the 2001 NCAA 
Tournament against Michigan 
State. 
"We've had a long stretch of games," Kinder said. "We will learn what we need to do." 
Kinder also contributed 29 
assists to go along with her 
14 digs. Sister Jessica led the 
defense with 23 kills. 
Based on the first two days of action, three Irish earned all-tournament honors. Neff and Jessica Kinder earned all-tournament, while Brewster was named MVP. the second tournament in a row in which an Irish player has taken the MVP. 
Sunday, the luck of the Irish ran out, as their mediocre play caught up with them. 
"We know that looking across the net tonight, we were the better team," Kristen Kinder said. "The most disappointing part is that we beat ourselves." 
The Irish were unable to overcome South Carolina's two game lead, as they fell in four games (30-26, 30-27. 24­30, 31-29). 
Once again, the Irish strug­gled to hit, as they had a .165 attack percentage. Brewster led the way for the Irish with 15 kills, while Loomis added 14 and Kelbley added 12 kills, on .310 hitting percentage. 
"South Carolina had an amazing defensive night," Kristen Kinder said. '"They dug out of their heads, which made it very hard for us to get kills." 
Kristen Kinder had 29 assists and 10 digs on the match. The defense of the Irish was solid on Sunday, registering 71 digs. 
Freshman libero Danielle 

digs. Henican had 17 digs, and Jessica Kinder had 14. 
South Carolina had 75 digs, but made fewer hitting errors than the Irish, resulting in a .242 attack percentage. 
"Knowing that it's under our control -that it's not that another team beat us ­it's that we beat ourselves, it's so much better because we have it, we have the tools; we just need to do it," Kristen Kinder said. "It's a huge dis­appointment that we beat ourselves." 
NOTRE DAME 3, INDIANA 1 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME 30 30 28 30 
NOTRE DAME -Kills 57 (Loomis, Emily 16), Assists 54 (Kinder, Kristen 28), Digs 52 (Henican, Meg 13), Blocks 27 (Kelbley, Lauren 7); Hitting percentage .208 (Neff, Katie .375), Aces 8 (Kelbley 3) 
Indiana -Kills 58 (Archibald, Christina 19), Assists 56 (Zimmerman, Victoria 48), Digs 55 (Heimann, Beth 13), Blocks 16 (Pollom, Katie 5), Hitting percentage .085 (Brewer, Melissa .179), Aces 3 (Archibald 2) 
-
NOTRE D~\1E 3, UTAH 2 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME 34 16 30 26 15 
Utah 32 30 26 30 12 
NOTRE DAME -Kills 58 (Kelliley 13), 
Assists 53 (Kinder, K. 29). Digs 80 (23 
Kinder, Jessica), Blocks 31 (Brewster 13), 
Hitting percentage .138 (Neff .261). Aces 8 
(Burrell, Kelly 3) 
Utah -Kills 84 (Sommerfeldt, Shelly 
23). Assists 75 (Kartchner, Kelsie 60). Digs 
88 (Morrill, Jackie 18), Blocks 32 (Turner, 
Kim 10). Hitting percentage .220 
(Leichliter, Danielle .472), Aces 3 (three 
tied with 1) 
NOTRE DAME 1, SOUTH CAROLINA 3 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME 26 27 30 29 
South Carolina 30 30 24 31 
NOTRE DAME -Kills 61 (Brewster 15). Assists 56 (Ki;:;der. K. 29). Digs 71 (Herndon, Danielle 20), Blocks 18 (Kelbley 6). Hitting percentage .165 (Leader .310). Aces 10 (Kinder, J. 4) 
Opponent -Kills 69 (Vanden Hull. Lynae 21). Assists 60 (Panzau. Katelyn). Digs 75 lPanzau 17), Blocks 19 (Ford, Lauren 6), Hitting percentage .242 (Curry. Niece .321), Aces 4 (Panzau 2) 
-----------­
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's women's golf team battled rainy conditions and several national golf power­houses to place fourth in a field of 20 teams at the Knox Invitational in Galesburg, Ill., Friday. 
The Belles were led by junior Chrissy Dunham and sophomore Megan Mattia, who both fired rounds of 81 s in the one-day tournament. Those scores were good enough to finish tied for fourth individually. Lacy Wicksall of Hope finished first with a 78. 
Stefanie Simmerman also added an 84 for Saint Mary's, who finished the tournament with a 337, nine shots off the pace set by University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire's 328. 
"We did well as a team, but there's always room for improve­ment," Simmerman said. 
The one disappointment from Friday's tournament was that MIAA rival Hope College took second-place, two better than the Belles, by shooting a 332. 
"You don't want to ever lose to a conference team," Simmerman said. 
Saint Mary's had to fight off and on rain throughout the round Friday, but still managed to finish in the top five for the second straight tournament. The Belles took fifth at the Ferris State Invitational earlier in the season. 
Saint Mary's faced some of the best teams in the country at the Knox Invitational. including three teams that participated in the D-Ill National Championship Tournament last spring. Wisconsin-Eau Claire, the University of Wisconsin-Oshkosh and the University of Wisconsin­Whitewater participated in the tournament and finished first, third and ninth, respectively. 
The Belles will participate in the Briton Fall Invitational at Albion College Tuesday. 
ContactJoe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

OPENINGS unge Monito 
Do you find yourself up late studying? Get paid for it!!! Work for the Student Activities Office as a 
24 Hour Lounge Monitor 
1-2 shifts perweek.--DURING THE ACADEMIC YEAR NOT DURING BREAKS (HOURS AROUND 1:30AM..5AM) Applications outside StudentActvities, Room 315 LaFortune. 
I 
'~ page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, September 15, 2003 
,f 
WOMENS SOCCER 
II 
Irish dominating in 5-0 win over Hilltoppers 

Dame attack in the 16th minute formances, including freshmen
By ANDY TROEGER 

on a long crossing shot from the Kim Lorenzen and Lizzie Reed. 
Sports Writer 

left side to give the Irish a 1-0 "I thought Tancredi was great lead. A few minutes later, for us tonight," Waldrum said, 
After a solid first-half that Schefter delivered a pass "and Kim Lorenzen was solid as produced a 2-0 lead, the toward the left endline where well. With that first group we women's soccer team struck midfielder Mary Boland crossed had in, this was probably one of three times in the first five min­the ball to Warner, whose head­our most organized nights since utes of the second half to run er gave the Irish a 2-0 lead [Gudrun Gunnarsdottir] went away from Western Kentucky 5-going into halftime. down. [Reed] could make a 0 at Alumni Field Saturday Warner and Thorlakson led great outside back for us." night. the assault coming out of the In addition to being able to 
Sophomores Annie Schefter half. Warner's pass down the continue pressuring teams with and Katie Thorlakson each had right side to Maggie Manning big leads, the Irish depth has two goals for the Irish, while set up the third goal, as also helped them play better in senior forward Amy Warner Manning sent a cross to their second game of a week­added a goal and two assists for Thorlakson whose header start­end. Whereas a year ago the the Irish. ed the Irish surge. Irish went 4-4 when playing 
The second-ranked Irish dom­Warner and Thorlakson two days after a previous game, inated from the beginning, out­struck again less than two min­this season they are 3-0, shooting the Hilltoppers 21-3, utes later, as Warner took the outscoring those opponents 13­including 11-0 in the first half. ball near midfield before racing 1. Erika Bohn and Nikki Westfall through the Hilltopper defense. "I think it is due to having the combined in goal for a second She passed to Thorlakson who depth to being able to change consecutive shutout for the scored again to push the lead to our lineups," Waldrum said. Irish, who were never severely 4-0. "We're able to keep fresher kids 19:36, (Boland, Mary; Shefter); threatened. The Irish onslaught was com­a little more, and we can be televised live on CSTV. Thorlakson, Katie (1), 45:40, (Manning, 
Maggie; Warner); Thorlakson (2). 47:26. 

"I was pretty pleased with the pleted moments later when change people during the game . 
(Warner); Schefter (3), 49:23, (penalty 

way we started the game,'' Irish Thorlakson was taken down in too. In my five years, this may 
NOTRE DAME 5, kick)

coach Randy Waldrum said. the box, giving the Irish a be the best we've been on the NOTRE DAME-Saves 1 (Westfall 1),
WESTERN KENTUCKY 0 

"We talked about a couple ways penalty kick. Schefter's low shot second day." Shots 21, Corner kicks 9, Foul'i 12 
at ALUMNI FIELD 

to get in behind them at half­easily got past Becky Kasper, The Irish will next be in Western Kentucky -Saves 8 (Kasper
1st 2nd Total 8), Shots 3, Corner kicks 2. Fouls 12 

time. The kids just made it hap­giving the Irish the 5-0 margin action at the Santa Clara NOTRE DAME 2 3 5 pen. I thought the girls came of victory. Tournament in California. The Opponent 0 0 0 out and played very well In addition to the goal scor­Irish play Stanford on Friday at 
Scoring Summary

tonight." ing, all four Irish starters on 7 p.m. and Santa Clara Sunday Contact Andy Troeger at
ND-Schefter, Armie (2), 15:18,Schefter started the Notre defense turned in strong per-at 11:30 a.m. Both games will (Guertin, Amanda); Warner, Amy (5), atroeger@nd.edu 

The Irish appeared to get on Notre Dame came out with a the board in the 12th minute of vengeance in the second half,
Mens 

the first half, after Martin outshooting the Zips 14-2, but deflected a free kick from Riley unable to get anything past the
continued from page 28 

past Christafaris. The referee Akron keeper. 
brilliant save," Clark said. "That judged that Martin had played Neither team got many good what one of the best saves I've the ball intentionally with his looks in the two overtime peri­seen this season." hand, and the goal was disal­ods, perhaps stymie·d by a rain­
Sawyer finished the game with lowed. storm which seemed to pick up 
two saves, while his Akron coun­Martin received his first yellow just after the end of regulation. terpart Justin Christafaris saved card of the season for the inten­Once again, Detter helped lead seven Irish shots. tional handball. the Irish offensive attack, finish-
ATTENTION 
Undergraduate Student Groups 
Last Chance Club Info Meeting 
Tomorrow-Tuesday, September 16, 2003 LaFortune Student Center -Foster Room 5:00PM-6:00PM 
Last chance for clubs to send two representatives to the mandatory Club Information Meeting. The meeting will be held in the Foster Room on the 3rd floor of LaFortune Student Center on September 16th at 5:00 PM. 
Clubs which fail to have tVJO representatives attend a Club Information Meeting (CIM) will be considered inactive by the Student Activities Office and will lose the following rights associated with good standing: 
• 
room reservations 

• 
poster approvals 



• table tent and banner space reservations Additionally, funds allocated by the Club Coordination Council will be rescinded from clubs who have not met the requirement of having two representatives attend a CIM. The club may reapply for the funds in the spring ifthe club has 
,,I I 
l been reinstated and is in good standing with the CCC and the SAO, but might 
' 
not receive the full allocation amount. 
For more infonnation, please call631-7308. 
ing the game with nine shots, four of which made it on goal. 

"It was a tough game,'' Clark said. ''But we knew it was going to be a tough game. [Akron] is very well organized, well coached, and has good players. 
"They were very well-disci­plined, so you have to give that to them." 
Notre Dame faces in-state rival Indiana Thursday night at Alumni Field. The Hoosiers knocked the Irish out of the NCAA tournament last year and have been a perennial power­house over the last few decades. 
"Hopefully we're saving some goals for Indiana," Clark quipped after the tie game. 
NOTRE DAME 2, 
FRESNO STATE 1 
at ALUMNI FIELD 
1st 2nd OT Total 
NOTRE DAME 1 0 1 2 
Opponent 0 1 0 1 
Scoring Summary 
ND-Prescod. Devon (3), 26:48 (Detter, Justin; Martin, Greg); Detter (1), 99:08, {Riley, Chad) 
FSU-Leroy, Jeremiah (1), 58:31 (Oka, Dan) 
NOTRE DAME -Saves 2 (Sawyer 2), Shots 19 (Detter 9), Corner kicks 4, Fouls 13 
Fresno State -Saves 5 (Kronberg 5), Shots 10 (five tied with 2), Corner kicks 4. Fouls 19 
NOTRE DAME 0, AKRON 0 at ALUMNI FIELD 1st 2nd lOT 20T Total NOTRE DAME 0 0 0 0 0 Opponent 0 0 0 0 0 
NOTRE DAME-Saves 2 (Sawyer 2). Shots 19 (Detter 5), Corner kicks 11, Fouls 13 
Akron -Saves 7 (Christafaris 7), Shots 13 (two tied with 3), Corner kicks 6, Fouls 12 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
A second half letdown was feared after the Belles led 3-0 at
Belles 
the half. But the Belles played continued from page 28 even harder in the second half 
in preparation for a difficult goals. On Concannon's final upcoming schedule. The Belles assist, Wendy Irvin headed in a had 12 shots on goal while limit­long Concannon pass from close ing Adrian to only two shots range despite an Adrian defend­spaced 15 minutes apart. Adrian er hanging all over her. Irvin did not attempt a shot on goal also had an assist in the game. during the last 25:52 of the 
"That was a great service and game. a great header," Haring said. "[At the haln, I told them that "That was well done. [Irving] it's necessary to keep the inten­sacrificed herself and just dove sity up because we're going to and squeaked in that near post." be playing harder opponents 
Carrie Orr capped off the scor­later on," Haring said. "Next ing with a 20-yard free kick with week on Saturday we play Hope, 
10:18 remaining. which is one of the top programs 
"That was a great free kick in the conference. that she bent to the near post," "I told them that walking away Haring said. "The keeper gave it with a 3-0 game can't be accept­to her, and [Orr) is a player who able, and we have to distance· can read that really well and ourselves from the middle group wherever the keeper is off-hal-. and the bottom group and put ance in the goal. The keeper ourselves in the top group." was back in the post, and the The Belles next test comes wall wasn't really set up great, Saturday at 1 p.m. at Calvin. and [Orr] saw the seam and just bent that ball to the near post. [Orr's) dangerous in that fash­Contact Erik Powers at 
ion." epowers@nd.edu 


..._ . . . . 
. . ' . 
Monday, September 15, 2003 page 27
The Observer+ TODAY 

-----------------------~-------------------------------------------------­
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 
JUMBLE 

GLUNE ± 

FIVES 
tNIPICC 
IJ I 
www.jumble.com 
tHUHRTS 
t
J rJ J 
1 



HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrion 
C'mon, we're falling behind 
.... 
' " 
WHY THE: HEAD­WAIT!:R He:LP!:D OUT IN THf: BUSY KITC.He:N. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 33 Overly, 60 "Stupid of me informally not to know"

1 Games nobody wins 35 _-Cat (off-62 Defeat road vehicle) decisively
s Small, medium or large 37 Motor City tabor 63 Handle roughly org. 
64 _gin fizz

9 Green fruit drink flavor 38 "If only .. : 
65 _-bitty 41 Late columnist 

13 West Coast gas 66 Stuff to the gills 
brand Landers 

67 Weigh station 14 Shoelace 42 Broadway hit units problem letters 43 Cat that catches 
15 Get_ a good 
DOWN
rodents
thing 1 Tex-Mex snack 
44 No longer on

16 "Well, I'll be!" active duty: 2 Wrinkle remover 19 Out for the 
Abbr. 
3 Quito's country: evening, maybe 

46 "Dumb" girl of Abbr. 20 Gymnast old comics 
4 Auctioneer's Comaneci 

48 Fourposters, closing word 21 Yogi or Smokey e.g. 
5 Kid's wheels 23 Quart divs. 49 Got together 
6 Scared (of) 24 "Sesame 51 007 
1 Animal house 
Streer skills 53 Photo tint 8 English prep 28 Get-up-and-go 

55 Port in "The school 29 Dictatorship 45 Sheriff's 56 "Check this 30 Folklore meanie Marines' Hymn" sidekick outt•
9 Deceived 

31 Thumped fast, as the heart 57 Norway's capital 
10 Wearing a 47 Cheap booze 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
costume, say 

32 Decorative jugs 58 "Exodus" author 
50 Up to, informally

-::+.~-F.-1 11 N.Y.C. gallery 34 Takes too much, Uris briefly 52 Fizzle out
-::+:::+o:+.=-t 12 U-turn from 59 Fateful March WSW day
36 Lennon's lady 53 Flu season ~~+-:-+-::+:~ 17 Apply gently protection 60 Lanka
39 Doofus 18 Napkin's place 
40 Kernel 54 U.S.N. bigwigs 61 Battery size ~~:-:+::-i 22 Greet the day 
~~~~+=ot-:-t 24 Battling For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
25 Daniel with a Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycoonskin cap 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 ·ACROSS. -i+:~+%-t-::-1 26 "I don't want Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
any part of it" 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). ~..-+-:+=-+-:-i 27 Cardinals' team Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, letters nytimes.com/leaminglxwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: I The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester -­
Name __________________________________________________________________ Address ________________________________________________________________________________________ City _________ State ____ Zip______ 
Ans: TO ( 
I I I JrI I I I I Jrn 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Saturday's I Jumbles: BILGE EMBER FOSSIL ft'DGER Answer: She followed in the cover girl's footsteps because she wanted -A "MODEL" LIFE 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
Sharing this birthday: Tommy Lee Jones, Oliver Stone, Dan Marino, Scott Thompson Baker, Agatha Christie, Prince Harry 
Happy Birthday: Stand up for what you believe in and let your thoughts be known. You can .Jtave a great impact on others if you stick to your convictions. You are a strong competitor who will not admit defeat or back down regardless of the obstacles that face you. Your "do or die" attitude will bring you the rewards you are looking· for. Your numbers: 7, 13, 22, 35, 42, 49 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You will not be too happy if members of your family are not pulling their weight. Organize your day well to avoid setbacks that will lead to temper tantrums.*** TAURUS'(Aprii20-May 20): Involvement in groups or organizations will be beneficial. You can meet individuals who will listen to your ideas and contribute valuable input. Be discreet about personal matters. *** GEMINI {May 21-June 20): Travel will promote secret affairs. You will find that you spend more than anticipated. You will be exceptionally good with words today. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): A little extra work never hurt anyone, and in your case, it may even bring financial gains. Romance may unfold through social activities with colleagues and clients. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Travel will be on your mind, but if you are planning on mixing business with pleasure, be careful. Empty promises and disappointments are likely. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can come into money if you turn over an investment niade some time ago. Your lover will be in a passionate mood. You will find yourself all alone if you aren't attentive. *** · LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Double trouble at a personal level. Be sure to check potential hazards around the house. Bad wiring or problems with the furnace may be worth looking into. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Relationships can be highly passionate. Your feelings will intensify if you get a positive response from your mate. Pleasure trips will be entertaining and conducive to startiqg new friendships. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Get involved in physical activities that will increase your metabolism. You need to feel that you're accomplishing something if you want to be satisfied today. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You'll have added responsibilities if you allow others to take advantage of your good nature. Be cautious when dealing with other people's money. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Try not tu get involved in gossip or secret affairs. Be sure that someone who shows an interest in you isn't already married. You need to be discreet in all your dealings. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will be a bit depressed if your professional life isn't moving forward. Set your life in order fina:1cially so that you can realize your personal ambitions. A commitment can be made even if you haven't made a million. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will touch the hearts of many throughout your life. You are caring, loyal and willing to do whatever is necessary to help others. You will be praised for your beliefs and admired for your dedication. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugeniala.H.com 

~­
I ~ 
,: 
-~ 
1: 
' 
i 
~ 
t 
~ 
,J£
iJ.
'1 
r ~~., ,, 
l~ -~ 
c~ ·r 
~J 
'\l 
I 
.. 
,•.
>. 
: . t 
r n ~ \ 
q( 
(' 
I 
-~ 



-----· -------­
·­

THE OBSERVER 
p

Monday, September 15, 2003 

Page 28 
MENS SoccER 

,' 
('
·1-A little something extra 
):. Irish defeat Fresno State in overtime, tie against Akron 
just right to bounce a header past Irish goalkeeper Chris Sawyer. It was the first goal of the season for Fresno State. 
Notre Dame had most of the remaining good scoring chances in the half, with Detter getting off several good looks, including one which was sent just right of the goal post after a pretty pass from Prescod. 
It was fitting then that Detter would get the golden goal. With less than a minute left in the first overtime, the Irish drew a foul and took a free kick from the deep left wing. Midfielder Chad Riley sliced a perfect kick into the Bulldog defense and Detter headed the ball past Kronberg to give the Irish the 2­1 victory. 
"I just told Chad to play it near post," Detter said. "I couldn't have asked for a better ball. It was really the ball that made the goal." 
Detter became the first Irish player other than Prescod to score a goal this season. Prescod, Detter's partner at the forward position, had scored the first three goals of the year for Notre Dame to that point, including the first goal against the Bulldogs. 
"In the offseason Coach Clark started working [Devon and II together," Detter said. "We started clicking right away. 

We're both seniors who have been playing for four years now, and we just work really well together." 
"They're a good combination," Clark agreed. "I think they're getting better with each game." 
Sunday afternoon, the Irish went up against an Akron team that had upset No. 14 Indiana l­0 in overtime Friday night. Although unranked, the Zips certainly made a case for them­selves, coming away with a 0-0 tie in windy and rainy weather. 
It was the Zips who led 7-2 in shots on goal after the first half. and were it not for a brilliant save by Sawyer, the Irish might have had been down going into halftime. 
In the 29th minute, Akron's Kirk Harwat sent a cross to Hans Haugland, who got off a shot from the top of the box. Haugland aimed for the upper right corner of the net, but Sawyer was able to get across his line and punch the ball over the bar. 
"It was really the only real save that Chris had, but it was a brilliant save," Clark said. "That what one of the best saves I've 
see MENS/page 26 
VOLLEYBALL 
Irish win 
• 
a pa1r, lose one 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Spons Writer 

The Irish never really got started at this weekend's Shamrock Invitational. After defeating Indiana and Utah without playing their best vol­leyball, the Irish lost to South Carolina in the weekend's final match. 
"We didn't bring it today," senior setter Kristen Kinder said. "We were flat as a team." 
Despite their lackluster play, the No. 15 Irish managed two victorie~ Friday and Saturday. 
Friday night saw Notre Dame defeat Indiana (4-3) in four games (30-24, 30-23, 28-30, 
30-19).  However,  the  Irish  
were  not  pleased  with  their  
performance.  

"I don't think we came out ready to play against Indiana," Kinder said. "It was a wake-up call." 
The Irish hit a mere . 202 on the match, with 27 errors, which was unusual for the Irish, whose hitters had been dominating at the nets this season. However, they did have 16 blocks, twice as many as the Hoosiers. 
Senior hitter Katie Neff, however, excelled, as she hit for a .375 percentage with 11 kills and just two errors. Sophomore middle blocker Lauren Brewster also had 11 kills on .348 hitting. 
Saturday saw Notre Dame struggle with Utah (5-3). The Irish fought hard to earn the victory in five games (34-32, 16-30, 30-26, 26-30, 15-12). 
"On Friday we definitely came out flat," Kinder said. "Our big focus this weekend was Utah, and we just barely got the job done." 
Against Utah, the Irish hit .000 in the second game. They had eight kills and eight errors as a team. The Utes, on the other hand, hit .432. However, the Irish were able to rebound to pull out the match. 
Emily Loomis had 12 kills, Meg Henican had 11 kills and 14 digs and Lauren Kelbley had 13 kills to lead the~Irish. 
Sophomore Lauren Brewster registered a career high 13 blocks, while Neff had a career high nine. 
The Irish hit .138 for the match, their lowest perform­ance since the 2001 NCAA 
see VOLLEYBALL/page 25 
MLB 
Baseball scores from the American League and National League from Sunday's games 
page 16, 17 

.j 
~.. 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Fans at the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament this weekend got a lot more than they paid for. Three of the tour­nament's four games went to overtime, including both of the contests in which the Irish par­ticipated. 
No. 16 Notre Dame defeated Fresno ..iltate Friday night in overtime 2-1, and tied Akron 0­0 Sunday afternoon. The Irish currently have a record of 2-1-2 for the season. 
Friday night, the Irish got on the board first with an impres­sive display of teamwork. In the 27th minute, forward Justin Detter tapped the ball to mid­fielder Greg Martin at the top of the box, who then returned a feed to Detter. 
Detter then hit forward Devon Prescod with a short cross, allowing Prescod to shoot the ball in past Bulldog goalkeeper Eric Kronberg. 
The Irish took a 1-0 lead into halftime, but the Bulldogs were able to score the equaliz(3r ofl' a corner kick just 14 minutes into the second half. 
Dan Oka took the kick and sent a sailing ball into the center of the Irish defense. Jeremiah Leroy managed to time his leap 

·,t 
~~'t
l,~j 
SMC SocCER

~A 
~··... 
~ ::·r 
Belles make statement with 7-0
I By ERIK POWERS '\ 
\' Sporrs Writer 
Saint Mary's continued its 
.. -, 
season-opening unbeaten streak by dominating Adrian in a 7-0 victory Saturday. The Belles (4-0-1) rose to 1-0-1 in the MIAA while Adrian (0-4-0) dropped to 0-1 in conference play. 
Carolyn Logan and Ashley Hinton led an explosive Saint Mary's offense. Logan pulled ofl' a hat trick, scoring two goals in the first half and one the second. Hinton scored two goals and two assists. 
Logan's third goal came with 
13:32 left in the second half. After dribbling past one defender to the right, Logan fired a one-timer across the goal and into the net. Twenty­three seconds later, Hinton faked out her defender, planted and sent a high, curving 15­

FOOTBAll 
Michi~n 38 
Notre arne 0 
The Wolverines embarrass the Irish on national televisiion. 
Irish Insider 
yard kick past Adrian's diving goalie for her second goal of the game. The goals put Saint Mary's ahead 6-0. 
The Belles controlled the pace of the game throughout. Adrian struggled clearing the ball versus the Saint Mary's defense. The Belles repeatedly stole throw-ins, goal kicks and passes, many of which turned into breakaways. Saint Mary's ofl'ense worked fluidly with minimal mistakes, and Coach Peter Haring was pleased with his team's effort. · 
"For our team it's great," Haring said. "I think that some­times when you just start get­ting into a rhythm, all of a sud­den the things just fall into place." 
Jen Concannon had three assists for Saint Mary's. Concannon assisted on two of the three Belles' first half 
see BELLES/page 26 
NFL 
A round-up of some of Sunday's games from around the National Football League. 
page 20, 22 

------------------------~---------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

O 
THE 

Monday, September 15, 2003 BSERV-Michigan 38, Notre Dame 0 
Abused in A tltt Arbor 
Michigan dominates eve.ry aspect ofgame in 38-0 demolition of the Irish 
By MATT LOZAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
ANN ARBOR Mich. -Even the 
spin doctor couldn't take some­
thing good from this one. 
Soundly beating the Irish in 
every phase of the game, No. 5 
Michigan blanked No. 15 Notre 
Dame 38-0 Saturday at the Big 
House in front of an NCAA 
record 111,785 fans. 
"There is nothing positive we can take away from this game," Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said. 
The loss was Notre Dame's 
worst since a 58-7 pounding by 
Miami on Nqv. 30, 1985, Gerry 
Faust's last game as Notre 
Dame's coach. It was the biggest 
margin of defeat in the Notre 
Dame-Michigan series since 
1902, with the previous mark 
being a 23-0 win by Michigan. 
What the Wolverines did was­n't a surprise to the Irish. Running back Chris Perry ran for 133 yards on 31 carries and scored four touchdowns -three on the ground and one on a pass from quarterback John Navarre. Perry's consistent running -the Irish never stopped him for a loss -set up Navarre's passing game. Navarre was 14-of-21 for 199 yards and a touchdown. 
Michigan did what everyone expected by using the running game to open up the passing game. The Irish simply couldn't stop it. 
"You know what they are going to do," linebacker Courtney Watson said. "It's the same thing as last year. We just weren't ready to play this year." 
In their last three games crushed Navarre, forcing a fum­"Unfortunately it didn't work out touchdown on the next play. 36 yards and an interception. against ranked ·opponents, the ble. Linebacker Brandon Hoyte because that was a great oppor­Michigan took advantage of a After games against Michigan Irish have been outscored 110-jumped on the ball and the Irish tunity, we had good field position Holiday interception early in the State and Purdue during the 19 with their last offensive were in business at the and we didn't capitalize on it." second quarter and went 81 next two weeks, the Irish play touchdown coming in the fourth Wolverine 38. That one completion for three yards in nine plays. Perry caught three straight against teams cur­quarter against But offen­feet turned out to be Notre a third down 5-yard touchdown rently ranked in the top 10. In Florida State -a sive coordi­Dame's entire passing offense for pass from Navarre to give the order to salvage this season, the 
..You know what they are 
span of 190 min­nator Bill the first half. Watching his Wolverines a 17-0 advantage Irish know they have to turn it utes, 14 seconds. going to do. It's the same Diedrick offense regress after its inspiring going into the locker room. around -now. Nobody can thing as last year. We stuck with fourth quarter comeback against On the second-half kickoff, "We've just got to do a lot of explain it. his pre­Washington State just seven days Vontez Duff caught the ball three soul-searching. Obviously, the
just weren't ready to

"There's no game script earlier, Diedrick knew the Irish yards deep in the Michigan end players just didn't come to play
play this year. , 

rhyme or reason. of plays -need a lot of work. zone. He started to run out, hes­today," Watson said. "You can It's college foot­Ryan Grant "Anytime that you don't score itated at the goal line and then look at the scoreboard and see ball," Notre Dame stuffed on any points and you aren't very had to continue forward. The that. To get shut out, not score
Courtney Watson 

defensive tackle first down, effective in anything, then I think Wolverines tacked him at the 10. any points, to give up 38 points is 
Irish linebacker 

Darrell Campbell a 1-yard it is always a step backwards The Irish went three and out embarrassing. said. "Things hap-completion because you aren't moving for­again and Michigan took over at "Hopefully we'll pick it up, if pen in this game, and you've got from Carlyle Holiday to Hashon ward," he said. the Notre Dame 36. Two runs by not, it's going to be a long sea­to be prepared for them. Powers-Neal on second down After the Irish forced a Perry later, the score was 24-0. son." 
"We just didn't show up today and an incomplete pass to Jared Wolverine punt, the offense once Michigan used a 19-play drive and adjust to it." Clark on third down. Willingham again went three-and-out. spanning 10:35 to get Perry his 
The defense, just like last sea­elected to punt instead of trying Nicholas Setta came out to punt fourth touchdown and send Irish son. gave the offense a perfect the 55-yard field goal. and boomed one 50 yards. Steve fans to the exits. opportunity to silence the crowd "Because it was our first Breaston utilized perfect bl()(~k­The coaching staff sent Brady early. Watson flew through the opportunity, we wanted to go ing from his teammates and Quinn into the game looking for Michigan offensive line on the back to our script, stay with our returned it 55 yards to the Notre any sort of spark going into next Contact Matt Lozar at 

third play of the game and script." 
player of the game 
Chris Perry 

Moving to the front ofthe Heisman Trophy race. the senior running back rushed for three touchdowns and caught another as he out­gained the Irish offense by 37 
stat of the game 
36 

inches ofpassing offense the Irish accumulated in the first half 
Diedrick said. Dame 2. Perry scored his first week. Quinn finished 3-of-1 0 for mlozar@nd.edu 
play of the game 
Steve Breaston's 55-yard first quarter punt return 
I 

That play set the tone for the day for the Irish and the Wolverines 
--------~.-~ 
quote of the game 
'There is nothing positive we can take away from this game. , 
Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach 

page 2 Tlie Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 15, 2003 
report card 

F 
quarterbacks: Holiday threw for how many passing yards in the first half? But Quinn wasn't much better, only 
completing 30 percent of his passes. Two picks don't help much, either. 
running backs: Running behind an inef­fective offensive line, Jones and Grant were few bright spots for the Irish offense. Yet their longest runs were only 15 and 12 yards, repsectively. 

F 
receivers: When your tight end is your leading receiver, you know it's a bad day. And if they can't get open, the 
quarterback can't get them ball. 

F 
offensive line: Holiday was sacked twice and pressured all day long. What's more, Michigan defenders 
routinely found their way into the 
Irish backfield. 

F 
defensive line: For the first time in a long time, Notre Dame's front four was completely manhandled. The 
Michigan offensive line deserved the standing ovation they got at the end of the game. 

C+ 
linebackers: Watson and Hoyte led the Irish in tackles, but that's because the defensive line did little. Watson also 
forced a fumble that should have turned 
the tide in Notre Dame's favor. 

F 
defensive backs: Wherever Navarre want­ed to throw, he could. Michigan's run­ning game forced the Irish to use many 
man-to-man schemes, and the second­
ary couldn't shut the Wolverines down. 

F 
special teams: If Setta wasn't shanking a punt, he was kicking a line drive that gave Michigan returners plenty of time 
to snake upfield. 

F 
coaching: Poor playcalling. A team drastically under-prepared. No fight. No enthusiasm. Willingham's 
Stanford teams rode rollercoaster seasons; might the same thing be happening at Notre Dame? 
overall: After Saturday's per­formance, the Irish are lucky their GPA is higher than

0.48 
Bluto's infamous 0.00 GPA from Animal House. 
adding up the numbers 

offensive touchdowns scored by the Irish in their 
o 

last three games against ranked opponents. The Irish have been outscored 110-19. 
14 
number of carries by Chris Perry in the first quarter; the Irish ran 13 plays 
length of time since Notre 
19Q14 

Dame's last offensive touchdown : against a ranked opponent 
7 
of Notre Dame's 12 drives, number of times the Irish went three-and-out. On two other 
drives, the Irish threw an interception. 

number of consecutive losses at the Big House for 
3 

the Irish, the most ever 
10:25 
length of Michigan's drive that put them ahead 31-0; it was the longest drive, timewise, in Michigan history 
Carlyle Holiday's pass efficiency 
-13 • o9 

rating in the first half 
111, 726 
attendance at Michigan 
Stadium on Saturday, an NCAA Division I record 


ANN ARBOR, Mich. -What's the only thing worse than hearing the Michigan student section chant "Houston's better" to Notre Dame? 
Hearing them chant it in the third quarter­twice. 
Then again, maybe the Michigan fans had a point. After all, Houston -the team Michigan pancaked 50-3 the week before Saturday -at least managed a field goal. 
That's more than the Irish could say after they got bageled Saturday, after Carlyle Holiday threw for exactly one yard in the first half and after a defense that worked as well as a broken condom allowed Chris Perry and John Navarre to do anything they wanted. 
"For the first time in a long time, I really can't think of any words to explain how I'm feeling right now," said Bob Morton, Notre Dame's cen­ter and one of the most quotable players on the team. 
A team claiming to be Notre Dame ran out of the tunnel at Michigan Stadium Saturday, but they didn't play like Notre Dame. They donned gold helmets and jerseys that read "Irish" in tiny letters on the front, but they certainly weren't the Fighting Irish. 
Who would have thought Notre Dame's 38-0 drubbing would have made the poorly organized Michigan ticket lottery look like a stroke of genius. 
So, Tyrone. are you humiliated? 
"Next question," the Irish coach evenly replied, his steel gaze doing more damage than anything the Irish tried Saturday. 


Whatever magic the Irish had left over from their 8-0 start has totally disappeared. Dating back to last season, the Irish have been outscored 136-48 in their last four games. And that includes a 19-point comeback against unranked Washington State a week ago. 
Sure, the Irish have played top­ranked opponents. And Notre Dame Nation shouldn't get caught on the rollercoaster of emotions that often follows tough losses by criticizing anything and everything Notre Dame-related. 
But after Saturday's embarrass­ment, it's hard not to. 
An inexperienced offensive line plagued the Irish all afternoon. If it wasn't jumping early on fourth-and­short (like some did to kill a third­quarter drive), they were allowing Michigan's front seven to pitch tents in the Irish backfield. And the rest of the Irish offense wasn't much better. 
A sorry performance by a highly­touted defense didn't help, as Michigan's offensive line manhan­dled one of the best defensive lines in recent Notre Dame history and allowed Chris Perry to stake his claim for the Heisman Trophy. But Carson Palmer knows Perry would­n't be the first to make his case for the college football's pre-eminent award on national television against the Irish. 
The coaches weren't much better. Like the chicken and the egg, does offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick lack the personnel to implement the vaunted West Coast offense or is the Irish offense handicapped by ques­tionable, conservative and pre­dictable play calling? And how many more times will the Irish have to take timeouts on fourth down because it takes too long to send in a play? 
When a team comes out as Hat as 
it has against ranked opponents like 
Notre Dame did, you can't help but 
wonder what happened to the well­
prepared, well-disciplined squad of 
last year. 
"We look at Michigan and we 
realize what kind of team we could 
be now," Morton said. "We do have 
that talent. We do have that capa­
bility. Today, we didn't play." 
Nobody wants to bring up the 
"Heturn to Glory" campaign of last 
year, but the way the Irish looked 
Saturday, you couldn't help but 
wonder if this year will be the 
"Heturn to Davie." Notre Dame 
looked more dejected after 
Saturday's loss than they did 
against Boston College or USC or 
North Carolina State last year. · Players tossed around words like 
"disgusted" and "frustrated" and 
"shocked." Linebacker Courtney 
Watson, whose fumble-forcing hit 
on Navarre marked the high water 
point for the Irish Saturday, all but 
called out his teammates by saying 
the Irish have to do some "soul 
searching, or it's gonna be a long 
season." 
But after those other big losses, 
when the Irish had to search their 
souls, nothing happened. 
The Irish have to find the killer 
instinct that helped propel them 
into the upper echelons of college 
football last year. The Notre Dame 
team that crawled out of Michigan 
Stadium wasn't the same one that 
edged the Wolverines at home last 
year. In fact, the Notre Dame team 
that suffered its worst loss since 
1985 and the eighth-worst in school 
history wasn't a Notre Dame team. 
"We're not that bad of a football 
team." Holiday said. "Trust me." 
Can Irish fans? After Saturday, 
nobody knows. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obserl'er. 



Notre Dame quarterback passes against the Wolverines Saturday. Holiday finished the first half with one passing yard. 
Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn receives some encour­agement from center Zach Giles. 
Monday, September 15, 2003 page 3 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Neither Irish quarterback effec-
Holiday and Quinn go. a combined 8-of-24 for 91 yards anq 2 intercep-
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -Just how inef­fective was Irish quarterback Carlyle Holiday in the first half Saturday? 
Using the NCAA's complicated formu­la for calculating passing efficiency, which relies on attempts, completions, passing yardage, touchdowns and interceptions, Holiday was positively atrocious. 
A good quarterback normally has a rating over 160. Anything below 130 is considered a tough day at the office. Holiday, who threw one interception and completed 1-of-7 passes for one­one -yard, had a rating of -13.09. 
"All I know is me personally, I didn't do what it takes to win today," said Holiday, who finished the game 5-of-14 for 55 yards. "Michigan is a great team, but I think we kind of shot ourselves in the foot today." 
Holiday shouldered much of the blame for Notre Dame's ineffective 
Navarre sets Michigan passing 
Observer Staff Report 
Michigan quarterback John Navarre became the school's all-time passing leader Saturday. 
Navarre has been Michigan's full-time starter the past three seasons after getting four starts in his freshman year. Navarre fin­ished Saturday's game 14-of­21 for 199 yards and now stands at 6,503 yards for his career. 
Elvis Grbac previously held the record with 6,460 yards. 
Perry grabs attention 
With his effort Saturday afternoon, Mjchigan tailback Chris Perry became one of 
TIM "-"'\viVI"n 

offense, and he was yanked in favor of Brady Quinn. The true freshman, on the other hand, wasn't much better, completing 3-of-1 0 passes for 36 yards and one interception. 
So will Holiday start against the Spartans Saturday? Offensive coordina­tor Bill Diedrick .emphatically said yes. But head coach Tyrone Willingham raised more questions by waffling on the issue of Holiday's status. 
"It's very easy for us and it will always stay the same. We'll play the best player," Willingham said Saturday. 
And is there a question about who is the best player? "Possibly, but not yet," the Irish coach responded. 
For the record, Holiday's final passer rating Saturday was 54.4. Quinn's was 40.24. 
But the coaching staff contemplated pulling Holiday at halftime before deciding to give him another chance. Yet after Michigan's 10-minute marathon touchdown drive, Holiday stood on the sideline for most of the third quarter while Quinn logged valu­able game experience. 
"It was more like a pitching change," Diedrick said, "where you are trying to jump-start things and get something created or something going. It gave us a little momentum, but not the boost we needed." 
Diedrick's search for a spark is eerily similar to what Irish coaches said two years ago, when fans were clamoring for Holiday to start in favor of Matt LoVecchio, who transferred to Indiana following the 2001 season. 
How ironic that Quinn's jersey num­ber-10-is the same as LoVecchio's. 
"I understand the situation, I wasn't being very productive," Holiday said. "Coach told me to sit out, watch from the sidelines and see things from that perspective. I wasn't effective and I think Coach did the right thing. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
• 
The Irish were shut out for the first time since Nov. 28, 1998, a 10-0 loss at USC. 

• 
Michigan's shutout of Notre Dame was the first in the series since 1902. The 38 point margin of victory was the largest in the series by 15 points. 

• 
The last time the Irish scored an offensive touch­down against a ranked oppo­nent was a 31-yard touch­down run by Ryan Grant against Florida State on Oct. 26, 2002. 


Gameday captains 
Captains for the Irish on Saturday afternoon were quarterback Carlyle lloliday, linebacker Derek Curry, defensive lineman Darrell 
the front-runners for the Hesiman Trophy race. 
Perry set the tone on the first play of the game when he stiff-armed Notre Dame cornerback Preston Jackson to the ground. Later in the game, Perry hurdled Irish cornerback Jason Beckstrom. 
The Wolverines wanted to establish the pace of the game early by pounding the Notre Dame defense with Perry. Michigan gave Perry 14 carries in the first quar­ter. His success early in the game forced the Irish to go to man-to-man coverage where Navarre took advantage of his wide-open receivers. 
Dubious marks from 
Saturday 
After the domination by Michigan Saturday, a num­ber of records were set in this series and in Notre Dame history. 
• 
The 38-0 defeat was the biggest shutout against the Irish since a 40-0 Notre Dame loss to No. 1 Oklahoma at Notr€' Dame Stadium on Oct. 27, 1956. Saturday was also the eighth biggest mar­gin of defeat in Notre Dame history. 

• 
Notre Dame's total yards of 140 was its worst output· since the USC game last November when the Irish only gained 109 yards. 


•
scoring summary 
t st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 
Notre Dame  0  0  0  0  0  
Michigan  7  10  7  14  38  
First quarter  

Michigan 7, Notre Dame 0 
Chris Perry 2-yard run with 6:25 remaining (Adam Finley kick) Drive: 1 play, 2 yards, 0:04 elapsed 
Second quarter Michigan 10, Notre Dame 0 
Finley 24-yard field goal with 14:56 remaining Drive: 10 plays, 51 yards, 3:57 elapsed 
Michigan 17, Notre Dame 0 
Perry 5-yard pass from John Navarre with 9:00 remaining (Finley kick) Drive: 9 plays, 81 yards, 3:54 elapsed 
Third quarter Michigan 24, Notre Dame 0 
Perry 9-yard run with 12:35 remaining (Finley kick) Drive: 2 plays, 36 yards, 0:39 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Michigan 31, Notre Dame 0 
Perry 1-yard run with 13:26 remaining (Finley kick) Drive: 19 plays, 80 yards, 10:25 elapsed 
Michigan 38, Notre Dame 0 
Pierre Rembert7-yard run with 4:24 remaining (Finley kick) Drive: 10 plays, 50 yards, 6:37 elasped 
statistics 

time of possession 

25-49 rushes-yards 54-188
• N 
8-24·2 comp-att-int 17-24-0 9·43.9 punts-yards 3-31.7 0-0 fumbles-lost 2-2 5·31 penalties-yards · 6-40 7 first downs 19 
passing 
Holiday 5-14-1 Navarre 14-21-0 Quinn 3-10-1 Gutierrez 3-3-0 
rushing 
Jones  11-42  Perry  31-133  
Grant  10-20  Underwood  9-21  
Wilson  1-(-3)  Rembert  4-15  
Holiday  3-(-10)  Navarre  5·13  
Bracken  2-4  

Clark Jenkins Fasano Samardzija McKnight Powers-Neal 
Watson Hoyte Earl Jackson Bible Tuck 
receiving  
2-29  Edwards  4-54  
2-10  Perry  4-44  
1-19  Avant  3-53  
1-11  Tabb  2·28  
1-11  Buller  1-24  
1·1  Massaquo1  1-20  
Matsos  1-19  
Fisher  1-9  

tackling  
12  Jackson  6  
10  Shazor  6  
10  Diggs  4  
8  Stevens  3  
7  Reid  3  
5  Curry  3  


-
.. ·­
-
-
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 15, 2003 


In every aspect of Saturday's game, the Wolverines outplayed the Irish. 
Notre Dame's offense amassed a paltry 140 yards while its defense yielded 
439 yards. Michigan running back Chris Perry gained 133 yards on the ground scored four touchdowns. The Irish special teams allowed a 55-yard punt return in the first quarter and made some poor decisions. After the game, Notre Dame coach Tyrone Willingham summed it up simply, "There is nothing positive we can take from this game." 


PLY 
ISGRACEFUL 

TIM KACMAR and ANDY KENNA!The Observer Running back Ryan Grant tries to break a tackle (top left). Linebacker Courtney Watson forces a fumble of Michigan quarterback John Navarre (top right). Notre Dame coach Tyrone Willingham looks dejected (bottom left). The Irish gang tackle Michigan wide receiver Braylon Edwards (bottom right). 





