
VOL XXXVII NO. 110 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Senator addresses social issues at SMC 
By SHANNON NELLIGAN NcwsWri1cr 
Senator John Broden, D-lnd. addressed the Saint Mary's Community last night about his role as an ally and advo­cate of s o c i a I workers. Broden represents the inter­ests of most of the South Bend and half of t h e Mishawaka constituency. 
Broden's most recent action to aid social workers in their effort to help Indiana's elderly is his work on the passage of Senate Bill 493. The bill intends to expand Indiana's in-home care system, CHOICE. 
CHOICE was first imple-mented in the early l 980s and modeled after the successful systems in Washington and Oregon where 45-55 percent of healthcare funding is allo­cated to home and community based healthcare. 

"States who allocate a good portion of their funds toward home and health based care systems often find that they realize a savings in their bud­get. This is because they arc shifting funds from institution­al healthcare," Broden said. 
The senator believes that there is a real need to expand health care for the marginal­ized in society, including the working poor and the elderly. His current constituency in South Bend has a large popu­lation of widowers who are in great need of care. 
"Children and people on the margins are going to suffer, but no one wants to pay for it. You have to decide between raising taxes or cutting pro­grams," he said. "Everyone wants programs but no one wants to pay for it." 

In order to pay for the expansion of the CHOICE pro­gram in the midst of Indiana's budget shortage to halt his crusade in helping the poor in his constituency. He believes that a soda tax is one way to decrease the budget deficit. The tax will be a one-cent per 
$ 800 million budget deficits, Broden sup­ported the passage of a cigarette tax last year. This did not make up for the deficit and has lead to the possibility of large cuts of up to $263 million in Medicare. 
"Children and people on the margins are going to suffer, but no one wants to pay for it. You have to decide between raising taxes or cutting programs. 
John Broden 
senator, D-lnd. 
gallon tax, but will not appear on a purchase of a 20 oz. Soda. 
"This will not allow for a total relief of the deficit but it will lead towards a transition fee while still providing for intuitional care with its 
projected $168 million in rev­

"Cuts to Medicare will be enue," Broden said. detrimental to the healthcare The social workers in the system because the federal audience were most con­government will not be able to cerned with how they could match funds," Broden said. help in persuading their gov­
Broden refuses to allow the ernment and community to promote greater social ser­vices despite the objections. 
He encouraged civil negotia­tion and contacts with the adversaries. By treating peo­ple with respect and dignity legislation will eventually be considered and passed. 
Writing letters and working with interest groups like AARP were also given as methods to get the attention of legisla­tures. 
"Few voice their opinion about current legislation to their representatives," said Broden of how constituents could aid in the legislation process. "It's the greasy wheel that gets the oil." 
Broden is a graduate of South Bend's St. Joseph's High School and Notre Dame's law school. 
Contact Shannon Nelligan at nell2040@saintmarys.edu 
Students depart for spring break destinations 
By NATASHA GRANT 
News Writer 
With spring break beginning today, many students are already on their way to a week of fun. According to Kayleen Carr. assistant manager at Anthony Travel. cruises are the most popular travel means, particularly among the senior class. Carr said that over three hundred people booked cruises headed to exot­ic locations like Jamaica and Grand Cayman Island. She also said this is a great improvement over the less than 200 people who booked cruises last year. 
Carr said that she believe that the rise in cruise passen­gers is due in part to the cost. She said that cruises were a better deal this year. 
"It seems that the market is saturated. There are so many slots to fill and prices are down," Carr said. She believes that as more and more compa­nies enter the market. prices will continue to improve. 
Students like Kristine Rosario, who booked a week­long cruise to the Western Caribbean. couldn't be happi­
er. 
"It's an idea we had to get some friends together for spring break. The cruise came out to be the best alternative," Hosario said of her trip. 
Hosario said that a trip to Cancun, Mexico had also been a consideration. 
Flights to various cities in Mexico, and to Jamaica were "We book a lot of students to Italy and London to visit said. "For a small fee, the card other popular trips that Carr who visit friends international­friends. Caligiuri said the dis­is a good bargain for students booked. She said that the price ly," Carr said. Although, she counted price of tickets was an planning to do much travel of flights has been down. so says that fewer people chose added incentive for booking abroad." there hasn't been much of a that option this year. her flight. Caligiuri said that she is not slow.:down in the amount of Lena Caligiuri is not among "[Fights are] a lot cheaper if concerned about airport secu­students booking flights in the the group who chose to stay you get an international card United States and abroad. stateside. Caligiuri is headed while you're under 21." she see BREAK/page 4 

Airport security strong 
By MATT CHAMBLISS 
News Writer 
Students departing this weekend to their spring break destination from South Bend Regional Airport have no reason to be concerned about a ter­rorist attack, South Bend Director of Security John Schalliol said. According to Schalliol students should not be worried about falling victim to a terrorist act because airport security in South Bend has been updated to follow federal procedures. 
On Feb. 27, the nation's terror alert status was low­e red from orange (high risk) to yellow (elevated risk) in response to a decreased terrorist activity threat level. 
At South Bend Airport, an orange alert status meant that every car had to be searched before being allowed to drive up to the front of the terminal. This policy was enacted in com­pIi ance with the federal regulation that all cars entering within 300 feet of an airport during an orange alert status must be searched. 
However, since the alert status has fallen back to yellow, the car searches are no longer necessary, although security personal 
see AIRPORT/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Friday, March 7 , 2003 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Men, put your shirts on 
As a cast member of "The Vagina Monologues" I attended a forum that took place Thursday night, in order to promote a discussion between those who protest the Monologues and members of the cast. All interested stu­dents -regardless Sofia Ballon of their opinion on the show -were 
Lab
welcome to attend 
Technician 
as well. Several of 
the issues posed 
against the Monologues were groat points 
that motivated conversation between dif­
ferent members of the cast and the oppos­
ing students through which mispercep­
tions were cleared and constructive criti­
cism was taken into consideration for later 
performances of "The Vagina 
Monologues." 
However, I am deeply concerned about the criticism raised about the monologue "My short skirt." The background of this monologue is based on several stories about rape in which aggressors were not convicted solely because the female victim had been wearing provocative clothing (thankfully such kind ofclaims do not hold up in today's court). 
The message this piece promotes does not only refer to the unfairness of such kind of legislation, but it also deals with women's self-image and their freedom to wear whatever they please because they want to. Women should not have to think about who is going to look at them, and should not have to worry about receiving glances or arousing provocation in men. 
One male student talked about having gone to Saint Mary's earlier that day and finding all the girls in the classroom wear­ing pajama bottoms "probably because they knew men were not going to be there." 
I bet you are already tired of all the let­ters and articles about the dress code of the women of Notre Drune, but I just want to state for the record that I choose to wear pajama bottoms when I want to, fully aware that men are walking all over the campus. Women should be able to dress in the manner they want to express them­selves, their style and their traditions ­regardless of how men will look at them. 
What is even worse is when women themselves criticize other women's cloth­ing (and I must claim I've been guilty of this, too), promoting judgments against people who are exercising their freedom to wear what they want to wear. 
IfI feel like wearing mesh shorts to class that have "Irish" printed across the back it's probably because of the warm South Bend summer (far, far ago) and that I like to sport my ND gear, not because I want to entice men to look at me from behind. I believe women should have the right to wear what they please without having to worry ofwhat other people are thinking or doing around them because just as one girl with a short skirt is criticized for looking "slutty," the girl who wears a hoodie and sweatpants is just as criticized for looking "slobby" and this must stop. 
Now here's were I get to the purpose of my title. Just think of how socially accept­able it is for men to wear whatever they please. Sweats -they're athletes, Suits ­they're SBG candidates, Shorts and no top -hey it's wa.nn. A good six pack is just as boWld to incite comments and looks from the ladies, a.s a short ski.rt sparks comment in men, yet I don't see any students asking them to put their shirts on. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Sofia Ballon at sballon@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
In Monday'sscoiy, "ND organiu:s anci-war evenrs,"The Ob6'eM,r incorrectly reported chat Books Noc Bombs was agroup. Itw:is acrually aslogan for die National Day of Scudmc.Aaion. Also, six speakrs insteadofchree talked at the rally, including Profes.sor.a David uirtrighrand Danid Philpan and graduate srudmc Carmen Pauls Wiens. 

WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Apartments receive ND Internet connection 

The Cripe Street Apartments are finally connected to the University's internet network. 
page 3 
WORLD& NATION 
Bush says 
U.S. can invade Iraq without U.N. approval 
President Bush addressed the country Thursday night preparing the nation for the pos­sibilty of war. 
page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
. Lecture with Derek Neal 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Vivendi Universal loses $25.6 billion in 2002 
Chairman and CEO of Vivendi Universal Jean­Rene Fortou reports largest loss in French corporate history. 
page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
The fight for gay marriage 
Columnist Richard Friedman reflects on land­mark decision to hear case for same­sex couples mar­riage rights. 
page 11 
SCENE 

Scene previews performance of "The Stuff of Dreams" 
Minneapolis Guthrie Theater performs original play by Bill Corbett 
at  Washington  
Hall.  
page 12  

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Student pick-pocketed 
SPORTS 
Mens Basketball team tries to shake slump 
The Irish are struggling through the end of their sea­son, losing three straight games, with NCAA tour­nament starting soon. 
page 24 
A student reported the theft of money from her coat pocket in LaFortune. There are no suspects._ 
Abandoned bike found 
Wednesday, an abandoned bike was found in the 81 faculty and staff south lot and is being kept by NDSP for safekeeping. 
Student finds license 
Wednesday, a student found a driver's license in the Cl student lot and turned it into NDSP for safe­keeping. 
NDSP issues speeding ticket 
Thursday, a NDSP officer issued a state citation for exceeding the posted speed limit on Juniper road. 
Car towed for parking violations 
Two student vehicles were towed for parking vio­lations on Wednesd·ay at the Hesburgh Center for International studies. 
Student reports missing bike 
A student reported that her locked freestanding bike was taken from the east side of Lafortune Student Center. There are no suspects. 
"Effects of the Decline in employment and earnings 
among Af"rican-American Mon" 
1:30 p.m. at DeBartolo Ilall, room 213 
. 
Mens and wonrnns track, Alnx Wilson lnvitalional. 7 p.m. at Lof'tus Sports Cmiler 

. 
Theatre 



"The Stuff of Dreams" by Billy Corbett Guthrie Theater tour production 
7:30 p.m. at Washington Hall 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Art Exhibtion "Women in Holography" 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at Moreau Art Galleries 

. 
Ilartman-Sticklcy Piano Compeition 


1:30 p.m. at Moreau 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Al prosciutto pizza, betsy flannigan grilled chicken breast. boulangere potatoes, brown sauce, chicken gravy, whipped potatoes, mixed vegetables, cherry crisp, orzo with portobello and cream, broccoli quiche, cut corn, sliced carrots, baked potato, BBQ beef sandwich, fried potato skins, onion rings 
Today's Dinner: Honey-glazed ham, baked beans, brown sauce, pork gravy, whipped potatoes, mixed vegetables, cherry crisp, vegetables rabat, cous­cous, baked potato, broccoli, cauli­flower, scrambled eggs with cheese, french toast sticks, Lyonnaise potatoes 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Beef ravioli, spinach fettuccine, pesto sauce, tomato pizza, apple turnover, BBQ beef sandwich, shrimp spaghetti, rotisserie chicken. oriental vegetables, roasted rosemary potatoes, red beans and rice, corn dogs, fishwich, crinkle fries. soft pret­zels, stir-fry beef and southwestern pasta sauce, basil-garlic linguine 
Today's Dinner: Buffalo chicken lasagna, spinach fettuccine, pesto sauce, tomato pizza, apple turnover, vegetables marinara, capri-blend veg­etables, baked turbot jardiniere, beef bourguignon, kluski noodles, bourbon­baked ham, baked sweet potatoes 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
D:: 
LLI
:c 
~ 
LLI 
== 
..J 
ct 
(.) 


0

.... HIGH 41 HIGH 44 HIGH 45 HIGH 28 LOW 35 LOW 31 LOW 20 LOW 9 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Biriyani rice with cashews, baked potatoes. broccoli cuts, fettucine pasta toss. sweet potato bis­cuits, tortellini, texas style briskett, lyonnaise potatoes, corn & tomatoes.chicken fajita pizza. cheese pizza, Bread sticks, vegetable and cheese chimichanga,refried beans, nachos, cheese sauce 
Today's Dinner: Pasta fantastica, veggie cutlet with mushroom daice. harvard beets. vegetable corn muffins, tempura vegtable bar, broccoli, zucchi­ni, cauliflower, sauteed chicken breast, cheese stuffed shells, rice pilaf. sea­soned corn, garlic tomato surprise 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 26 HIGH 31 LOW 22 LOW 22 
Atlanta 54 / 39 Boston 25 I_ 10 Chicago 311_24 Denver 49 / 26 Houston 55 / 44 Los Angeles 67 / 50 Minneapolis 26 / 12 New York 28 / 8 Philadelphia 30 I 20 Phoenix 67 / 50 Seattle 50 / 32 St. Louis 44 / 37 Tampa 68 / 61 Washington 33 / 26 
Friday, March 7, 2002 The Observer . TECHNOLOGY NEWS page 3 
OIT connects Cripe Street to network 
apartments have been access­Dame's housing for students $25,000.
• University Village 
ing the Internet through dial­with children, remains the Currently, OIT is workingwill be last housing up modem connections. With only student-housing complex with Telecom, the companycomplex to connect the new system, users will without access to the which provides telephone ser­have faster and easier access University Internet network. vices to the University Village. to the Internet. The network The University has tentative to coordinate plans for a pos­will provide residents of the plans to install the network at sible installation of fiber optic
By NICOlA BUNICK 
News Writer apartments with Internet University Village, but offi­cables in the complex. capabilities similar to those cials currently do not have a "When [Telecom] goes in to found in University residence specific time frame for when upgrade the voice system [at
The Office of Information 
halls. the project would take place. University Village]. that would
Technologies has connected 
"This project has been in "Interest in getting high­be an opportune time for us
the Cripe Street Apartments. 
the plans for about two speed networks to both Cripe to run fiber optics," said
one of the last remaining stu­
months" said Tom Kilmek, Street and University Village Kilmek.
dent housing complexes with­
OIT manager of network engi­has basically been an issue of It's unclear when that
out network access, to the 
neering, who oversaw the funding" said Kilmek. installation would take place.
Universily's Internet network. 
Cripe Street installation. "fortunately with Cripe but once the building is prop­
Installations were finished 
"The bulk of the work took Street. it was less expensive erly wired, it would then be 
earlier this week. The 
place over the last six weeks. because fiber optic cable::; to possible to connect it to the 
University's Cripe Street 
The electrical crew had to each apartment [which were network. Apartments, located north of wire in the apartments, then necessary for the network] the campus property line, install the network." were already in place." provide housing for married Now that the new installa­Even with the cables students without children. tions are in place, the already in place, the project Contact Nicola Bunick at Until now, residents of the University Village, Notre cost the university about nbunick@nd.edu 
Saint Mary's revamps e-mail server 
to via the SMC@Home Web their own computers. mail system will be much 
By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
site. However, the According to the Director of faster and feature an even 
News Writer 
SMC@Home Information better Webmail interface," site is only Technology said Fowlkes. Saint Mary's campus e-mail accessible "The new overall e-mail K e i t h Senior AnnMarie Mahay is has undergone a facelift to from Saint Fowlkes, very pleased with the new
system will be much faster 
interface and upgrade the Mary's cam­student Webmail. She explained that Webmail system currently pus comput­andfeature an even better response to the system is much clearer used by the College. This is a ers, but stu­Webmail interface." the upgrade and user-friendly comparedtransition phase between the dents who has been to the old system she used. old system and the planed live off cam-overwhelm­"I like how the system saves 
upgrades due to begin this pus can Keith Fowlkes ingly posi­your password and how it summer. ob tain the director of lnfonnation Technology tive. color-codes your e-mail," 
The update to the new e­new URL "We do Mahay said. mail format requires no sys­f r o m recognize However, the implementa­tems upgrade. Access to the SMC@Home that the tion of the upgraded e-mail new Webmail interface is while on campus. Students new Webmail interface is still system has not reached the available to students to log on are encouraged to add it to very slow. The new overall e-attention of every student on 
campus. First-year stu­dent Megan Lynch has yet to try the new system and was not aware of the

UNIVERSITY OF ·NOTRE DAME 
changes the IT depart­ment has made. "I have not yet heard

WASHINGTON PROGRAM 
about the new e-mail system," Lynch said. 
Contact Shannon Nelligan 
• Study in the 
at nell2040@saintmarys.ec1u 
nation's capital 


•Work 
in an internship 

• 
Fulitll philosophy, 



Microsoft hands out dividends 
Associated Press 
SEA'ITLE 
It's payday for Microsoft 
investors. 
Microsoft Corp. is issuing its 
first dividend Friday, shelling 
out more than $850 million to 
shareholders, from the small­
est investor right up to co­
founder Bill Gates. 
At 8 cents a share, the annu­
al payout won't be huge to the 
average investor, analysts said. 
But it still marks a significant 
change for the Redmond. 
Wash., software company that 
went public in 1986 and has 
long hoarded its cash -now 
$43.4 billion -for research. 
acquisitions and legal claims. 
Of course. there are the not­so-average investors. 
Gates, who directly owns more than 1.2 billion shares of stock in the company he helped found in 197 5, will receive a dividend of about $96.5 mil­lion. Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer will receive about $37.7 million. 
Another 27 executive officers and directors will receive a total of about $9.5 million, based on shares reported in the company's proxy state­ment. 
Microsoft announced the div­idend in January, and issued a two-for-one stock split in February. The company has about 10.7 billion shares out­standing. 
When announcing the divi­dend, chief financial officer John Connors noted that Microsoft was the only compa­ny of the 30 in the Dow Jones industrial average not to issue a dividend. With many of Microsoft's legal troubles near­ing conclusion, Connors said the company felt it could afford the dividend. 
The payment, though modest compared to other companies in the S&P 500, is still a monu­mental change for Microsoft, said Howard Silverblatt, an analyst in Standard & Poor's quantitative services division. 

HOLY 
CROSS COLLEGE 
HALL DIRECTORS NEEDED 
theology, and f1ne 

AT
arts requirement •Open to 
HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
• Study public Sophomores, GRAD STUDENTS 
affairs Juniors, and 
LAW STUDENTS
Seniors from
•Live in an exciting city all colleges 
IF INTERESTED CONTACT 
John Eriksen, Director 

RESLIFE@HCC-ND.EDU
338 O'Shaughnessy Eriksen. l@nd.edu 

FOR MORE INFORMATION 
www.nd.edu/...... sen1ester 
page4 The Observer . NEWS Friday, March 7, 2003 
MEXICO 

President Fox says room for compromise on Iraq 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 

President Vicente Fox said he sensed there is still room for compromise in the United Nations during a telephone call with President Bush Thursday, and called on "the other extreme" presumably France and Germany to try and reach an agreement on lraq. 
Fox's comments reflected Mexico's desire to avoid an open split with its major trading partner, the United States, and 
Break 
continued from page 1 
rity but she is concerned about her reception in Italy. 
"I am concerned about anti­American attitude over there so I have to try and blend in," Shfl said. 
But, Caligiuri added that the warm weather in Italy would help make it worthwhile. 
Carr believes that the weath­er might be another driving force behind students need to escape South Bend, having booked several trips within the last couple of snowy weeks. 
Contact Natasha Grant ngrant@nd.edu 
Airport 
continued from page I 
are still taking the extra pre­cautions that have been the norm since the Sept. 11 attacks. Schalliol advised students to show up at least an hour and a half before their scheduled departure so they can get through the security proce­dures with time to spare. 
According to Schalliol there is a minimal chance of a terrorist attack at the South Bend Airport. He went on to add that bigger airports such as Chicago's O'Hare would be much more appealing targets for terrorists. 
"I think the chances are very low. We just don't have the people here to make that type of an impact. We wouldn't get near the media coverage," Schalliol said. 
Notre Dame students depart­ing from South Bend Airport did not express concern either. 
"I don't think it's very likely that anything will happen flying out of South Bend. I haven't really thought about it," said sophomore Jaclyn Ballotta, who will fly out of South Bend today.. 
Contact Matt Chambliss at mchambli@nd.edu 


indicated that a compromise solution could win support from other Security Council countries who, like Mexico, won't back an openly pro-war resolution. 
"The American position, as I was informed of it today by President Bush, opens the door to changes in what was previ­ously a hard-line stance, as well as possible modifications of the 
U.N. resolution they are plan­ning to present."· 
"That allows us to dialogue, and seek a compromise," Fox told a meeting of businessmen 
Mexico has joined with fellow Security Council member Chile. as well as Canada, in seeking such a compromise resolution. 
"We still have a few days to reach this compromise," Fox said. 
Fox said he told Bush Mexico could not support any unilateral action against Iraq, but said Bush had never sought to pres­sure Mexico or threatened any kind of economic retaliation if Mexico votes against a U.S. res­olution. 
Many Mexicans fear the United States will punish its southern neighbor if it votes 
against it in the Security Council. But during an inter­view Thursday in Tucson, Arizona, Foreign Secretary Luis Ernesto Derbez denied the United States was pressuring Mexico. 
"If there was pressure from the United States, we could handle it, but there isn't" he said. "There are statements. There arc opinions. There is no pressure." 
Recent polls have shown that a majority of Mexicans oppose war, and on Wednesday, Congress approved a resolution urging Fox to support a peace­ful resolution to the conflict. 

Also Thursday, Mexican uni­versity researcher Benjamin Ruiz who is scheduled to leave Friday to work as a U.N. weapons inspector in Iraq -said "my objective is to stop awar that to me seems stupid." 
In an interview with The Associated Press, Ruiz, 52, said he was proud to be serving as a 
U.N. inspector. adding that his job was to tell the truth. However, he also said he believed the inspectors should try to avoid a war with Iraq. 
UNITED NATIONS 

Britain to offer Iraq weapons deadline 
&sociatcd Pres• 

UNITED NATIONS 
As opposition hardened against a war with Iraq, Britain offered Thursday to compro­mise on a U.S.-backed resolu­tion by giving Saddam Hussein a short deadline to prove he has eliminated all banned weapons or face an attack. 
With some 300,000 U.S. troops massing for battle, British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw made clear that any compromise must still include an authorization for military action. But Straw's demand, made a day before a crucial Security Council meeting, was unlikely to be acceptable to key council powers that favor more weapons inspections to disarm Iraq peacefully. 
President Bush, in a rare prime-time news conference Thursday, said the United States will call for a Security Council vote even if it appears certain that the resolution will be defeated but he added that he isn't afraid to go to war if the council rejects the resolu­tion. 
"We're days away from resolving this issue in the Security Council," Bush said. "No matter what the whip count is, we're calling for a vote.... It's time for people to show their cards and let people know where they stand in rela­tion to Saddam." 
"As far as ultimatums, we'll wait and see," Bush also said. 
The resolution, co-sponsored by the U.nited States, Britain and Spain, says Iraq missed its "final opportunity" to disarm peacefully and paves the way for war. 
The United States faces an uphill struggle to get nine "yes" votes and avoid a veto by one of the permanent members opposed to war soon. On Thursday, China threw its sup­port behind France, Germany and Russia, which have vowed to prevent the resolution's pas­sage. 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan appealed to council members to discuss the crisis calmly, noting there were sev­eral proposals on the table. 
"The positions are very hard now," he said. "I am encourag­ing people to strive for a com­promise to seek common ground," adding, "to make con­cessions, you get concessions." 
Secretary of State Colin Powell arrived in New York on Thursday to try to win support for the resolution from unde­cided council members. 
He said the threat posed by Saddam must be dealt with now, not after thousands of people die when his "horrible weapons" of mass destruction are used. 
Powell and other foreign ministers will attend a Security Council meeting on Friday where chief weapons inspector Hans Blix and his counterpart, Mohamed ElBaradei, will brief members on Iraq's cooperation in eliminating its banned weapons. 
For many council members, Friday's reports will be key in deciding whether to vote for the U.S.-backed resolution. 
EIBaradei, the chief nuclear inspector, suggested Thursday he would tell the council that abandoning the weapons inspections makes little sense so long as the Iraqis are active­ly cooperating. 
"That's clearly the gist of my presentation: In my area, inspection is working. We are making progress. There's no reason to scuttle the process," ElBaradei, head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, told The Associated Press on a flight from Vienna, where the IAEA is headquar­tered. 
In a hint of own report, Blix said Wednesday that Iraq is now cooperating "a great deal more" in providing evidence about its weapons programs and engaging in "real disarma­ment." He said he would wel­come more time for inspec­tions, but wouldn't ask for it. 
Straw, the British foreign minister, told a news confer­ence after meeting Annan that London was prepared to nego­tiate language in the resolution. He also said he was open to possible amendments that address concerns raised by the divided council. 
He did not spell out the details during a news confer­ence. But British diplomats floated the idea of attaching a short deadline with the resolu­tion, either as an amendment or a statement that would accompany it. The deadline would give Saddam a brief period to prove he has no more banned weapons, or face war. 
"We are open to discussion on the wording, but the princi­ple we are holding firm to," he said, emphasizing that Iraq has squandered its final opportuni­ty to disarm peacefully. 
U.S. diplomats in recent days have signaled a willingness to hear suggestions on the word­ing so long as there were no changes to the substance of the draft. U.S. officials said Washington had "not complete­ly signed off' on the British ideas. 
British diplomats said discus­sions were going on among capitals and at the United Nations, but it was too early to talk about the amount of time Saddam would be given. Several council diplomats expressed surprise that British hadn't approached them to dis­cuss their ideas. 
Russia's deputy U.N. Ambassador Gennady Gatilov said his government hasn't been approached yet about the British suggestion, but he said talk of a short deadline on the existing resolution "sounds cos­metic." 
"Just to add something to the existing draft in terms of putting deadlines. short dead­lines, one week of course, it will not fly because it doesn't change ... the substance of the draft," Gatilov said. 
Pakistan's U.N. Ambassador Munir Akram, whose country is considered a swing vote, said he also hadn't heard directly from the British. But he said his understanding was that they were suggesting "a delayed fuse." 
Asked whether that was acceptable, Akram replied: "If you don't want to set off the firecracker in the first place, whether the fuse is lit or not is immaterial." 

WORLD & NATION 
Friday, March 7, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Bush: We can invade Iraq without U.N. approval 
Associated rrcss 
WASHINGTON 

President Bush, preparing the nation for the possibility of war, said Thursday night the United States will drive Saddam Hussein from power if it comes to war in Iraq -with or without support from France, Germany and other skeptical allies. 
"It's time for people to show their cards and let people know where they stand in rela­tion to Saddam," Bush said at a prime-time news conference. 
Bush said he had not decided whether to invade Iraq but that it was only a matter of days before a U.N. Security Council vote on a U.S.-backed resolution authorizing f'orce. 
"Our mission is clear in Iraq," the president. "Should we have to go in, our mission is very clear: disarmament. It will mean a regime change. No doubt there's risks in any mili­tary operation. I know that." 
Bush said it was up to Saddam to avert war. "It's his choice to make whether or not we go to war. He's the person that can make the choice of war or peace. Thus far he's made the wrong choice." 
The president's news confer­ence came on the eve of a cru­cial Security Council meeting. On Friday, chief weapons inspector Hans Blix and his counterpart, Mohamed ElBaradei, will report on Iraq's measure of cooperation in eliminating its banned weapons. Their assessment could weigh heavily in deter­mining the outcome of the Security Council's vote on a resolution to authorize force. 
France. Germany, Russia and China say they oppose such a resolution. Bush said he would call for a vote even If it appears certain the United States will lose. 
Bush answered questions for about 40 minutes after making his case against Saddam in a 10-minute opening statement in the East Room. 
Asked how his faith was guiding him through these deliberations. Bush said: "I pray daily, I pray for guidance and wisdom and strength." He added that if he decides to send troops into war. "I would pray for their safety and I would pray for the safety of innocent Iraqi lives as well." 
Bush, growing teary-eyed, said it was a "humbling experi­ence" to know that people he's never met "have lifted me and my family up in prayer. It's been a comforting feeling to know that." 
Turning to another hot spot, Bush said the best way to deal with rising tensions with North Korea is to involve other nations in the region, such as China, South Korea, Japan and Russia. 
"I think the best way to deal 

with this is in multilateral ests," Bush said. fashion by convincing those Bush's news conference was nations that they must stand part of an intensifying cam­up to their responsibilities, paign to prepare Americans along with the United States to for the possibility of a war that convince Kim Jong II that could be just days away. development of a nuclear arse­Military leaders say U.S. forces nal is not in his nation's inter-are now ready to strike Iraq. 

More than 230,000 troops are now arrayed around Iraq and more are on the way. awaiting a final go-ahead from the president. 
"If we have to use force, I think a lot of nations will be with us," Bush said. 
ALGERIA 
Airline crash in Sahara kills 102; lone soldier survives 
As.ociated Press 
ALGIERS 

An Air Algerie passenger jet, one of its engines ablaze, crashed shortly after takeoff deep in the Sahara Desert on Thursday, and 102 people were killed. officials said. A young soldier survived. 
The Boeing 737, flight 6289, crashed after taking off from Tamanrasset bound for the Algerian capital. Algiers, 1,000 miles to the north. 
Terrorism was not suspected, said an airline spokesman, Hamid Hamdi. 
"There was a mechanical problem on takeoff," he said. "There is no element that leads us to think there was a terror­ist attack." 
Witnesses at the Tamanrasset airport and airline officials said one of the plane's two jet engines caught fire as it was taking off. 
APS, Algeria's official state-run news agency, and airline officials at the scene said 102 had been killed. But an official at the airline's office in Algiers told The Associated Press that he couldn't imme­diately confirm the number of deaths. 
"Unfortunately, we know only of one survivor," said Hamdi, identifying him as a young Algerian soldier who was in a critical but stable condition in a Tamanrasset hospital. 
Algeria, an oil-and gas-rich nation in North Africa, has been torn by a decade­long insurgency by Islamic militants that has left tens of thousands dead. 
Seven French citizens were among the 97 passengers, APS reported. Hamdi said he knew of six Europeans aboard. The remaining passengers and six crew members were Algerians, he said. 
Hamdi said 39 passengers were head­ed for Algiers and that 58 others were to disembark at a stop in Ghardaia. 
Prime Minister Ali Benflis set up a cri­sis unit at airports in Algiers and Tamanrasset to deal with the crash, thought to be the first in the history of Algerian commercial aviation. An inves­tigative unit was also set up at the Tamanrasset airport. 
Hamdi, the airline spokesman, insisted that the downed plane had been well maintained. 
"This Boeing 737-200 was, at takeoIT, in perfect working order," he said. State-run Air Algerie was established in 1953 and this was its first crash, he said. 
Interior Minister Yazid Zerhouni and Transportation Minister Abdelmalek Sellai were headed to the scene. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Arafat said to appoint prime minister: 
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat told aides Thursday that he will appoint his deputy, Mahmoud Abbas. as prime minister. and not a Palestinian bil­lionaire as he first planned, senior Palestinian offi­cials said. Arafat told a meeting of top officials of his Patah movement that he will name Abbas, also known as Abu Mazen, at a session next week of the Palestinian Legislative Council, said Ahmed Qureia, speaker of the council. 
Armenian opposition alleges vote fraud: 
President Robert Kocharian was re-elected in a sec­ond-round landslide, election officials said Thursday, but the opposition charged the vote was riddled with fraud and vowed not to recognize it. International monitors also criticized the vote and the campaign period leading up to it as falling short of recognized standards for open elections. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Ex-NASA official cites safety faults: 
A former NASA official who led a study three years ago that faulted the way the agency dealt with safety risks told the Columbia investigation board Thursday that the same problem appears to have played a role in the shuttle disaster. Henry McDonald. an engineering professor, appeared as a witness as the board held its first public hearing on what caused the shuttle to break up over Texas on Feb. 1, killing all seven astronauts. 
Energy Dept. predicts more gas hikes: 
Gasoline prices are expected to continue their upward dimb and reach a record national aver­age of $1.76 a gallon in April, the Energy Department forecast Thursday. It predicted gas prices will average about $1.70 a gallon for regu­lar brands through the summer driving season. 
Lawyer claims permission for fireworks: 
An attorney for Great White disputed claims Thursday that the band made a habit of using pyrotechnics without notice and said it had oral per­mission to use the effects blamed for starting a deadly nightclub fire. Attorney Ed McPherson said tour manager Dan Biechele always made sure he spoke with each club to get permission because pyrotechnics were a new part of the heavy metal band's act and were not included in some of the contracts. 
'Taliban John' Lindh attacked in prison: 
John Walker Lindh, the American imprisoned for taking up arms for the Taliban in Afghanistan, was attacked by a fellow inmate and slightly bruised. his lawyer said Thursday. Law enforcement authorities confirmed the 21-year-old Lindh was attacked but would not disclose a possible motive. 
Friday, March 7, 2003
page 6 The Observer . COLLEGE NEWS 
U-WIRE 

Thousands participate in campus anti-war protests 
ines. They're borough council to oppose war with Iraq torium to stop the war on Iraq." It could 
High school and college students By DAN lAMOTHE going to take and resist elements of the USA Patriot not immediately be determined whether across the country walked out ofMassachusetts Daily Collegian people of color and the Homeland Security acts. any widespread sick-outs had occurred. class Wednesday to protest a war and poor peo-About 125 students and a few faculty Andrew Pearson took the day ofl' from with Iraq, holding a series of rallies ple." members turned out in gray, drizzly work to hang anti-war banners from organizers predicted would be the Dozens of Stanford professors weather for a rally at Miami University highway bridges and later joined a biggest campus demonstrations since endorsed the rally, either by telling stu­in Oxford, Ohio. Ross Meyer, a junior demonstration at the University of North the Vietnam War. dents there would he no penalties for and founder of a student peace group, Carolina in Chapel Hill. 
Tens of thousands of students at more leaving class or by canceling class. said he was disappointed by the turnout. "We're trying to show folks across than 300 colleges and universities About 500 students walked out of "I am patriotic and loyal to my' coun­North Carolina that people arc ready pledged to join in the protests, according class at the University of Maryland. In try," he told the crowd. Someone called and willing to disrupt their daily lives to to the National Youth and Student Peace Milwaukee, 40 students lined the side­out to urge the crowd to support the stop the war," Pearson said. Coalition. Thousands of students also walk in front of the Marquette government if the United States invades Joe McTaggart, 49, who skipped work rallied for peace in Britain, Sweden. University student union during an Iraq. and joined about 100 demonstrators in Spain, Aust_ralia and other countries. hour-long protest. Two sisters, Kate and Allie Dunn, trav­Raleigh, N.C., said he thinks a war is 
The Books Not Bombs "lt's good to let eled to a New York City anti-war rally "going to be such a disaster I had to protests were also geared to people know stu­from suburban Westchester County to come out." call attention to the effects "lt's the Middle East, not dents have a say express their support of the Dush "There's a lot of people who are 
of a war's costs on educa­the Wild West and the in what happens administration. against the war, but tion, health care and the in the world," "Remember 9-11 ?" asked • don't say anything,"
majority ofus didn't vote "It's good to let people
economy. But the focus was said Abir a sign carried by 18-year­he said'. the looming threat of war for this war.·· Chaudhry, 19, old Kate. know students have a In Virginia, where with Iraq. who carried a Farther north, around many colleges were
say in what happens
Manon Terrell, a 19-year­sign that read 100 people took part in a on spring break, only
Manon Terrell 

in the world...
old sophomore, missed three ''God Does Not "Mall Walk for Peace" at a two students showed
student

classes to take part in a rally Bless America suburban Albany, N.Y., up for a demonstra­at Stanford University, Only." shopping mall to protest tion at Virginia
Abir Chaudhry
where about 300 people car-Sporadic rain the arrest of 61-ycar-old Commonwealth
student
ried signs that read "It's the fell as about man who wore a T-shirt University in Middle East, not the Wild West" and 1,500 protesters and a small number of that read "Peace on Earth" Richmond. "The majority of us didn't vote for this Bush supporters holding a counter and "Give Peace a Chance" "If this were some­war." demonstration gathered at Penn State while he shopped two days thing the world want­
"This is a personal thing for me University. earlier. ed to do together, I because my friends are going to fight After an hour-long rally, about half Another anti-war group, Not in Our would support it," said Jim Sparks, a this war," said Terrell, a civil engineer­the protesters marched four blocks to Name, called on workers to call out sick 32-year-old biology graduate student. ing major. "It's not going to be Bush and the municipal building, where Mayor and business owners to close up shop "It is a bigmistake to go it alone." his cronies in business suits on the front Bill Welch accepted petitions asking the Wednesday as part of a "national mora-
Prime minister lectures at Texas University 
task can directly affect how do, she said. of famous role models, be senior, said she was hon­
By RASHA MADKOUR we perform a task," she The talk was the fifth in a they male or female" so that ored that Campbell took the

Daily Texan 

said. "I was raised to believe series put on by the' they may be able to glean time to speak to students girls could doanything." University's Muriel Siebert. something from their experi­and share her views on gen­
Kim Campbell holds many With regard to leadership Foundation. Siebert was ence," said Jane Macon, a der schemata and how to "first" titles. From the first and women, Campbell said the first woman on the New UT alumna and attorney change them. female president of her high gender schemata don't asso­York Stock Exchange. The with Fulbright & Jaworsky. "Any woman that has school's student council to ciate women with compe­objective of these lectures is Julia Wagner, a mechani­achieved such success is an Canada's first female attor-tence. As a child, Campbell "to give students an image cal engineering and Plan II inspiration," Wagner said. 
ney gener­ said  she  
al, minister  was  told  
of justice and nation­al defense,  "Sex is the single most important characcteristic  she was "really smart for a  
Campbell  that determines how peo­ girl,"  and  
became Canada's  ple treat us. "  later in life was identi­ 
first female  fied  as  an  
prime min­ Kim Campbell  anomaly or  
ister  in  Fonner Prime Minister of Canada  as  having  
1  9  9  3  .  achieved  
where  she  success  by 
attained the  "sleeping" 

highest approval ratings in her way to the top. 30 years. These characterizations 
Campbell spoke on the "rob the merit of women's University of Texas-Austin achievements." _ campus Wednesday about "Your success isn't luck. social gender constructs It's a reflection of your qual­both from an academic and ities," Campbell told audi­
political perspective. ence members. Currently a visiting profes­While acknowledging that sor of practice at the John women have come a long
F. Kennedy School of way, "We still have history Government at Harvard to make," she said. 
University, Campbell said Campbell offered some the social norms and ways to work toward schemata shortcuts that progress. help us understand things "We can become gender­associated with sex are very literate to recognize the 
important. dynamics when they occur. 
"Sex is the single most We can pro-actively use important characteristic leadership to challenge the that determines how people status quo. This is not a. treat us," Campbell said. 
men-versus-women thing,"Although these gender she said. schemata may sometimes be Title IX which prohibits 
accurate, "they have the gender discrimination in power to override our participation in educational empirical observations. Our programs is an example of perceptions are a reflection how "visionary leadership of what we expect to see," made a quantum leap," she said. Campbell said. Female par­This phenomenon is also ticipation in sports flour­manifested in people's self­ished as a result of Title IX, perception, Campbell said. proving that one can never "How we think of our-tell what people can accom­i selves before we perform a plish by what they actually 
l______----­

College of Arts and Letters University of Notre Dame 
Invites 

Nominations 
for 

the Father Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Hugh R. Page, Jr. Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Thursday, 20 March, 2003 

Friday, March 7, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch March 6 
DowJones 
7,673.99 • • -101.61 
N4SDAQ 
1,302.89 -11.51
ij 
S&P500 
822.10 
-7.75 
AMEX 
-1.62
827.02 ' 
NYSE 
4,626.02 • -47.73 
TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX(QQQ) -0. 24 -0. 06 24. 49 
II:¦;111tlllliii!::~111~:1111:1:111111;il~!iliillillllll!!li 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.65-0.2816.70 
:,1;! '"'' lllilli~i,~iiii:~ii!!ll~:11111!!1l:;ill!i;:;t 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -2.40-0.08 3.25 
IN BRIEF 
Microsoft to pay first-ever dividend 
It's payday for Microsoft investors. 
Microsoft Corp. is issuing its first dividend Friday, shelling out more than $850 million to shareholders, from the smallest investor right up to co-founder Bill Gates. 
At 8 cents a share, the annual payout won't be huge to the average investor, analysts said. But it still marks a significant change for the Redmond, Wash .• software company that went public in 1986 and has long hoarded its cash -now $43.4 billion -for research, acquisitions and legal claims. 
Microsoft announced the dividend in January, and issued a two-for-one stock split in February. The company has about 10.7 bil­lion shares outstanding. 
Visa fights fraud by hiding numbers 
Visa will begin limiting the display of credit card account numbers on receipts to combat identity theft. 
While many merchants already truncate the 16-digit card numbers on receipts, Visa will require, beginning July 1, that new credit­card machines display only the last four dig­its, company chief executive officer Carl Pascarella said Thursday. 
All machines that accept Visa cards must comply with the change by mid-2006, Pascarella said. 
Owners to keep Tyco in Bermuda 
A proposal to have Tyco International move its headquarters from Bermuda to the United States failed to win enough shareholder sup­port at the troubled conglomerate's annual meeting Thursday. 
However, shareholders unhappy with scan­dals involving top management scored a very rare victory with approval of a resolution to subject executive severance packages to a direct shareholder vote. 
The non-binding resolution won 58 percent to 42 percent at the meeting, which took place in Hamilton, Bermuda. 
Vivendi loses $25.68 in 2002 
. Media giant's loss--biggest­ever in France 
&sociated Press 
PARIS 
Vivendi Universal said 
Thursday it was examining 
all options for its U.S. 
entertainment assets as the 
debt-laden media giant 
posted the largest loss in 
French corporate history. 
Yivendi's net loss of 23.3 billion euros ($25.6 billion) snatched the corporate record sot only a day earli­er by France Telecom when it posted 20. 7 billion euros ($22.7 billion) in losses. 
Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou called 2002 "an extremely difficult year." but vowed Vivendi would return to profitability in 2004. This year will be "a year of transition and of financial and economic progress," he said. 
Fourtou also said Vivendi was in talks with various potential buyers for its U.S. television and film busi­nesses. Those include the world's largest music com­pany, Vivendi Universal Music, as well as the Universal film studio and theme parks and the USA and Sci-Fi cable networks. 
Fourtou confirmed that he met with Sumner M. Redstone, the head of U.S. that reflected the sharp earlier. entertainment auctions in media conglomerate decline in the value of its Fourtou vowed to press years. Viacom, in Los Angeles to media assets. A year earli­ahead with his 7 billion Vivendi's board met discuss the possible dispos­er, the company posted a euro ($7 .7 billion) asset dis­Thursday, with the enter­als. loss of 13.6 billion euros. posal program over the tainment assets' future 
But he refused to provide Revenue totaled 28.1 bil­course of this year to believed to top the agenda. details, saying he was con­lion euros ($30.8 billion), return Vivendi to solid foot­Vivendi officials refused to sidering all options. ·compared to 57.4 billion ing. discuss the outcome. 
"I do not want to answer euros ($63 billion) in 2001. To accomplish that goal, "We don't want to negoti­your questions about what I "The results are bad, but Vivendi will almost certain­ate under the media spot­plan to sell," Fourtou said. encouraging.... Our main ly have to sell all or part of light," Espinasse said. "I am talking to every­problem was confidence, its entertainment empire, While Viacom appears to body." which we have to restore," which was acquired just be leading the field, other 
Vivendi barely staved off said chief financial officer two years ago by then­contenders include General bankruptcy last year as it · Jacques Espinasse. chairman Jean-Marie Electric Co.'s NBC and struggled to cope with bil­Through a fire sale of Messier as part of a mas­Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. lions of debt, a collapsing assets. Vivendi was able to sive spending spree that Former oil tycoon Marvin share price, boardroom reduce its debt last year by almost sunk the company. Davis has made a $20 bil­infighting and no clear 25.8 billion euros ($28.3 The potential sale of the lion bid for all the enter­strategy. billion) to 12.3 billion euros assets, which include the tainment assets. But Davis 
The company's 2002 ($13.50 billion) as of Dec. record label of pop band U2 appears to be interested in earnings were weighed by 31, the company said. This and the studios behind acquiring all the entertain­a hefty charge of 18.4 bil­compares with net debt of "The Grinch" could turn ment assets. not various lion euros ($20.2 billion) 37.1 billion euros a year into one of the largest pieces. 

February retail sales disappoint 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Winter storms dealt a major blow to February sales at the nation's retailers, where business has already suffered amid the weak economy and worries about a possible war with Iraq. 
As merchants reported their February results Thursday, Wal-Mart Stores Jnc. announced sales at the low end of its expectations, and apparel retailers and department stores were again the hardest hit. Consumers had no incentive to buy spring fashions like micro-miniskirts in the frigid cold, analysts said. 
But some retailers were exceptions, incluqing Pacific Sqnwear of California Inc. and Gap Inc., both of which reported that sales at stores open at least a year, or same-store sales, beat Wall Street expectations. Same-store sales are considered the best gauge of a retailer's health. 
Overall, though, "this was a weak reading, and it is the same story line. But the only difference is that the weather complicated the issue," said Michael P. Niemira, vice president of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd. '"Weather is a passing problem, but concern about war and the economy is a lingering issue and therein lies the problem." 
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's same­store sales tally of 78 stores was up only 0.8 percent in February, com­pa,r!}~ with an increase of 6.2 percent 
. 

a year ago, when unusually warm weather helped spur sales of spring clothes. Niemira said it was the weakest performance since last November. when the index was unchanged. 
The biggest blow in February came when a snowstorm blanketed the Northeast during the President's Day weekend, forcing many stores to close and wiping out the much-antici­pated sales bonanza needed to jump­start the spring season. 
Niemira estimated that the holiday storm as well as extreme cold weath­er and other storms in the Northeast and Midwest last month shaved about 1 to 1.5 percentage points on average from the monthly sales fig­ures at national chains. 
Friday, March 7, 2003
page 8 The Observer . NEWS 
N.J. man tortures hamsters 
Associated Press 
SOMERVILLE, N.J. 
A man caught torturing hamsters he had just bought from a pet store has been sen­tenced to three years proba­tion. 
Richard Mattia was also ordered Wednesday to under­go substance abuse and psy­chiatric counseling as part of the plea bargain he reached with Somerset County authori­ties. 
He initially was charged with animal cruelty and then faced drug possession after police found 18 packets of heroin on him when he was arrested. 
Mattia was charged last October after a Watchung pct store employee saw him squeezing the hamster. Authorities said Mattia also clipped the hamsters' teeth so it wouldn't bite him. 
Mattia also faces animal cru­elty charges in Mountainside and is scheduled to appear in municipal court there next week. Those charges were filed by the New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals after two dw,1rf ham­sters were found at Mattia's home last year. 
Officials said one of the ham­sters died after it was bruised and Us teeth were damaged by nail clippers. The second ham­ster survived and. along with the hamster from the pct store case, was adopted. 
BRITISH COLUMBIA 
Calif. man 
pleads for 
rnar11uana 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER 
A fnrmer California guberna­torial candidate is seek:ng politi­cal asylum in Canada because he snys he'll be prosecuted for mnri_juana possession if he ret:. rns to the state. 
Steve Kubby, 56, claims he ncPds to srnoke marijuana at le,hl nnce an hour in order to co11Lrul symptoms of a rare adrenal cancer. 
Canadian federal prosecutors, how<'ver, are challenging Kubby's refugee claim and say he's just trying to avllid jail in Calil",,rnia on a peyote convic­tion. · 
In Oocember 2000, Kubby was convicted in California of two drug possession charges and s1•11tenced to four months in pri.-w11. He and his family fled to Can;ida after the sentence was ha 11r!1:d down. 
'J 11011, last April the former Lilwrtarian candidate was am·.~Le<l in Canada on an imrni­gr:11 ion warrant. lie faces Cui. dian criminal clwrges of pr0t. :ction of a contr, lh\d sub­st:111 ,i and possession for the pui-1 se of trafficking. 

Clinton, Dole to debate on '60 Minutes' 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Former President Clinton and his 1996 election oppo­nent Bob Dole are joining the CBS newsmagazine "60 Minutes" for weekly debates on national issues in the show's old "Point­Co u n tc r ­point" style.

The two Clinton agreed to 10 segments, starting Sunday night, but CBS executives say the network will consider extending the debates into 
next season. 

Clinton said he often watch­es some of the political shows on cable television that degenerate into screaming matches. 
"There may be a market for people who want light instead of heat," the former president said. 
The retired politicians taped their first segment Friday morning, declining to identify the topic. Asked who won. Clinton said, "He did." 
"I got a 'B,'" said Dole, the 
former 


Senato majority leader. "He got a 
' B 
minus."' 
Clinton said that given their 

Dole old jobs, 
both men want to be careful about what they say regarding any poten­tial war with Iraq. All citizens want to be supportive of the armed forces, he said. 
Clinton. who has reportedly been offered several televi­sion opportunities, said the CBS idea appealed to him because "60 Minutes" is a serious show. "It's just once a week and not too long, so we won't be in anybody's way," 
Associated Press 

HAVANA 
President Fidel Castro was elected a sixth term Thursday and he wasted no time in criti­cizing the United States, warn­ing that Cuba doesn't need its foreign office. 
The 76-year-old leader made the veiled threat about the sta­tus of the U.S. Interests Section in Havana as an angry response to a public visit last month by section chief James Cason to a meeting with Havana dissidents. 
"Anyone can see that this is a shameless and defiant provoca­tion," Castro said of Cason's meeting with the dissidents. 
"Perhaps the numerous U.S. intelligence agents working at the Interests Section could explain to him that Cuba can easily do without this office -a breeding ground for counter­revolutionaries and a command post for the most offensive sub­versive actions against our country." 
Castro, the world's longest ruling head of government, acknowledged he won't be around forever after being elected by Cuba's parliament to another term that would have him governing until he is 81. 
"I promise that I will be with you, if you so wish, for as long as I feel that I can be useful ­and if it is not decided by nature before," the 76-year-old Castro said in a rare reference to his advancing age and mor­tality. "Not a minute less and not a second more. 
"Now I understand that it was not my destiny to rest at 
REMINDER 
Board applications are due by 
THIS FRIDAY outside the 
SUB office, 201 LaFortune. 
It's not to late to apply! 
he said. 

CBS would not say how much he and Dole will be paid. 
The segments will revive the "Point-Counter-point" segments popular until they stopped airing in 1979, but 
will instead be called 

"ft is goi,ng to be
"Clinton/ 

.Dole" one provocative but not mean week and or nasty. That would be a 
"Dole/ 

first for us. " 
Clinton" the next week. Executive Bob Dole producer 
fonner Senate majority leader 
Don Hewitt said the 

tive but not mean or nasty. That would be a first for us," quipped Dole, whose sharp tongue occasionally got him in trouble during his political career. 
Clinton said their wives ­Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, 
D-N.Y., and Sen. Elizabeth Dole, R-N.C. ­were "both terrified" about what they may say. 
"They should be," Dole added. 
Clinton said. 
planned format calls for one debater to pick a topic and write a 45-second script that would be faxed to his oppo­nent. The response would also be 45 seconds. After the initial arguments. the first debater would get 15 seconds to rebut, followed by a final 15 seconds from the oppo­nent. 
"It is going to be provoca­"All I can do is make a blan­ket plea that neither of them be held responsible for what we say." 
Producers of "60 Minutes" hope the Clinton-Dole debates will boost ratings. The show has been in the top 10 for the past 20 years. but its popu­larity dropped recently, with the loss of about a million viewers in the last year. 
CUBA 

Castro wins sixth term as president 
the end of my life," added Castro. 
Castro, now in power for 44 years, holds the title of President of the Council of State, this communist-run island's supreme governing body. The sole presidential can­did ate in Thursday's vote, Castro wore a dark suit and tie rather than his typical olive green military uniform. 
Deputies later re-elected Ricardo Alarcon to his third five-year term as speaker of the parliament. Alarcon is Castro's point man on Cuba-U.S. rela­tions. 
Castro was elected by National Assembly deputies to his fifth presidential term five years ago . 
Castro has been Cuba's unchallenged leader since 1959, though he was elected 
president only in 1976. The second-longest ruling head of government is President Gnassingbe Eyadema of Togo, who has been in power since 1967. 
More than 97 percent of Cuba's voters in January elect­ed Castro and the rest of the 609 candidates who ran uncon­tested for parliament, including Juan Miguel Gonzalez, the father of Elian Gonzalez, the boy at the center of the 2000 international child custody bat­tle. 
A handful of international reporters who were invited to the Feb. 24 meeting by dissi­dents were surprised to find Cason there. The diplomat, who arrived in Havana about six months ago, gave reporters a brief interview, reading from prepared notes. · 
Friday, March 7, 2003 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
U-WIRE 
9th circuit puts Pledge of Allegience ban on hold 
By CHRISTINE PATTERSON The Daily Universe:  Sacramento, Calif., atheist who alleged that his daughter shouldn't be forced to take part  edgements of religion that show up periodically. It's almost like there's a de  yet on whether the Supreme Court will hear the case. The Court's doctrines on manifesta- Allegiance in class on March 10th without the 90-day stay, support Elk Grove's decision to  
in reciting the pledge, accord­ minimis  tions of wor-·  appeal.  
PROVO, Utah  ing to the Associated Press.  exception  ship or refer­ "Our teachers have been very  
The Ninth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals issued a 90-day stay on its ruling banning the recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance in public schools,  Newdow argued that the recitation of the pledge in pub­lic schools violates the estab­lishment clause of the constitu­tion and the separation of  that below a certain level, the courts are just not going to be  "We 're talking about things like 'God save this honorable court. 'people swearing on the Bible and 'In God we  ences to God, like in the case of' school prayer, tend to be se para­ supportive of the saying the pledge in class." said Kathy McNamara. superintendent of Banning Unified School District in California. "We're glad for  
enabling a  California school  church and state.  that  con­ trust' printed on coins."  tionist.  the 90-day stay and we'll con­ 
district to appeal the decision  A decision by the Supreme  cerned."  Gedicks  tinue to say the pledge until  
to tho Supreme Court. For at least the next three months, students in California  Court would override recent rulings in Utah making the pledge mandatory in public  Gedicks said there is a legal  Frederick Gedlcks professor of law  thinks that all things being equal, the  they tell us we have to stop." McNamara said every morn­ing various students are invited  
and the eight other states in  schools.  premise for  Supreme  to sing the national anthem for  
the ninth circuit will continue  Frederick Gedicks. a  profes­ banning the  Court  would  the student body at Banning  
to say tho pledge in class.  sor of law at Brigham Young  Pledge of Allegiance in schools.  probably reverse the lower  High School.  
"Our Board of Education  University, said there's a large  but thinks the public recitation  court's. decision if they decided  An assembly including the  
believes strongly that our stu­ class of church-state interac­ of the pledge is a modest impo­ to hear the case.  presentations on the pledge  
den ts should be allowed to  tions that refer generally to  sition on those who would pre­ The Elk Grove district will  and other displays of patrio­ 
recite the pledge," a statement  God that in a doctrinal sense  fer not to sav it.  ask the Court to hear their  tism  is scheduled  for  fi f'th  
from Elk Grove Unified School  are violations of the establish­ "In a technical sense it draws  case  within  the  next  two  graders in the District.  
District said.  ment clause and the principle  attention to some students and  months.  "We hope that the Supreme  
"We are proud to defend the  of separation.  causes them to differentiate  "ff the Supreme Court takes  Court will reverse the deci­ 
Pledge of Allegiance, and we  "We're talking about things  themselves from their class­ the case, its going to have to  sion," McNamara said. If they  
arc confident that we will pre­ like 'God save this honorable  mates. which may not be a  alter its doctrine," Gedicks  tell us we have to stop saying  
vail in this case."  court,' people swearing on the  good idea," Gedicks said. "But,  said.  the pledge, we will. But, we'll  
The Elk Grove, Calif., district  Bible and 'In God  we  trust'  I don't think this a battle they  Some  school  districts  in  continue to sing the national  
was the target of a lawsuit flied  printed on coins," Gedicks said.  should fight."  California, which would have  anthem and have  an observed  
by  Michael  Newdow,  a  "These are generic acknowl- No decision has been issued  stopped reciting the Pledge of  patriotic moment every day."  

Sudents cope with troop departures 
By HOLDER SHANNON Nonh Carolina State U. 
RALEIGH, N.C. 

With the deployment of more than 200,000 U.S. troops to the Middle East region, many students at North Carolina State University are dealing with loved ones going overseas. 
Mark McLawhorn, a senior in art design. found out two weeks ago that hisyounger brother, Philip, is possibly going to Turkey. Philip has been in the Air Force for about four years. Though McLawhorn is not daily affected by his brother's deployment, his mother is having a difficult time. 
"The biggest impact of him leaving was on my mother ... just becausewhenever some­one's children [are] in the military, there's a threat that they may never make it back 
to  American  soil,"  
McLawhorn said.  
His mother  seems  to  be  

dealing with Philip's depar­ture fairly well, but she steers clear of movies such 
"Something is going to

as "Saving est country Private happen. there's too much on the H y a n . " earth at the
politics and bravado 

Mclawhorn moment.
wrapped up in it now.

feels that his There are brother is regardless ofhow many things that "saving lives you are
missiles Hussein destroys

of other peo­able to do 
or claims to destroy. " 

ple" rather here that than "fight­you can't ing against Mark Mclawhorn do any­an enemy" where else.
student

but would rather not disclose what his brother's duty is other than "running detail." 
Mclawhorn is unsure of whether his brother is in dan­ger because "nothing has happened yet." 
"Maybe if this was day one and we were trying to drive down the streets of Baghdad, then that would be some­thing, but there is no notion of what is going to happen," he added. "Something is going to happen, there's too much politics and bravado wrapped up in it now, regardless of how many mis­siles Hussein destroys or claims to destroy." 
McLawhorn is undecided on the future of a war with Iraq, commenting, "I don't think I'll ever see it as a clear-cut 
f i g h t against good ver­sus evil, like a World War II scenario where you had a Hitler, because it's more broad. Right now, it's about Saddam Hussein, but next 

"/ would be/or a war ifit were demonstrated that the Iraqi regime posed an imminent threat to the United States and its interests. I haven't been convinced ofthat yet. and so I don't think that it is necessary right now. .. 
Joshua Smith student 
year, it could be about North Korea or some new thing we haven't heard of." 
Even though he is not sure of the Iraq situation, he still feels American pride. 
"It still is 
the great­
The people 
out in the street protesting the war wouldn't be able to do that if it weren't for the people in the military guarding our borders," McLawhorn said. 
Joshua Smith, a graduate student in physics, has a brother-in-law stationed in the Persian Gulf. Smith's brother-in-law, Mark, has been in the Navy for about seven years and has been in the Middle East since July. 
''I don't think he's in dan­ger, like if he was a pilot. He works on an aircraft carrier, 

I really don't feel like he is in any danger," Smith said. 
Having family sta­tioned in the Middle East has not changed Smith's view of the possi­bility of war. 
"Basically, I make my own judg­ments on these sorts of things. 
Mark's in the Navy, and that's his job," remarked Smith. "If he goes to another part of the world to fight a war that I may or may not agree with, it's still his job. It's just like the police officer who gives you a speeding ticket -he's just doing his job, regardless of how you feel about it." 
At this time, Smith is against a war with Iraq. 
"I think that war is a pretty barbaric idea; since the beginning of civilization, there have been wars. I don't think at this point in our his­tory it is necessary to fight a war, but I do realize that sometimes war is necessary," he said. "I would be for a war if it were demonstrated that that the Iraqi regime posed an imminent threat to the United States and its interest. I haven't been convinced of that yet. and so I don't think that it is necessary right now." 
Students with family mem­bers being deployed may be confused on where to stand on the Iraqi issue, but they are not confused about sup­porting the military. Most say they will support their loved ones regardless of their own personal beliefs about war. 
Man faces trial for attempt to buy child 
By NATE TABAK 
Daily Californian 
OAKIAND, Calif. 
An infamous child predator must stand trial for allegedly try­ing to buy a 4-year-old boy for $500 in Berkeley, Calif.• a judge ruled Wednesday. 
Kenneth Eugene Parnell, 71, sat stoically in a wheelchair in Alameda County Superior Court as a prosecutor played recordings of him arranging to make the purchase. 
Parnell gained infamy for kid­napping 7-year-old Steven Stayner in 1972 and keeping him for seven years. Stayner told police Parnell had molested him. 
Parnell was arrested at his West Berkeley home on Mathews Street Jan. 3 after he allegedly gave the informant, Diane Stevens, $100 for a birth certifi­
cate of a child that she claimed 
was waiting outside in a car. 
He was charged with attempted purchasing of a person, attempt­ed child theft and solicitation to commit a kidnapping. 
Stevens described in testimony Wednesday how she met Parnell, who went by the name "Gene" in 2001, through her brother who was his in-home caretaker. 
Stevens said her brother told her about Parnell's past during that time. 
After Stevens' brother died in December, Parnell called her to buy a case of the nutritional bev­erage Ensure. 
Stevens said their contact over the next year stuck to drink transactions until Dec. 12, when he offered $500 for her to "get him a child" between 4 and 6 years old that he would raise as his own. 
"I was stunned," Stevens said. 

and he isn't a combat person; he's a support person. If the aircraft carrier that he was on was under attack. I think the United States would be in some serious trouble. I just don't think that the situation will escalate to that level. So, 
The Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee invites nominees for the award, which is given annually to a library faculty member who has contributed significantly to library service to the Notre Dame community or to the library profession through personal scholarship or involve­ment in professional associations. The award is named for the Holy Cross priest who served as director of Notre Dame's library from 1912 to 1924 and was a leading fig­ure in the library profession in the first quarter of the 20th century. It is among those announced at the President's faculty dinner in May. Previous winners, beginning with the first award in 1991, included Maureen Gleason, Robert Havlik, Joseph Huebner, Rafael Tarrago, Janis Johnston, Charlotte Ames, Dwight King, Jr., Stephen Hayes, Katharina Blackstead, Margaret Porter, Lucy S. Payne, and Laura Bayard. 
All members of the University Libraries' and Law Library faculty with two or more years' service are eligible. Professor David Smith, Psychology, will chair this year's committee. Please send letters of nomination to the Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee, c/o Melodic Eiteljorge, 221 Hcsburgh library, by March 7 (preferred). but by Mard1 1S at the latest. Such letters should include reasons for considering tl1e nominee for this award. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, March 7, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Andrew Soukup 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Kate N agen.gasr Lori Lewalski 
OPERATIONS MANAGER Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
Vl£Wl'OINT EDITOR, Krisiin Yemm 
SPORTS EDITORS, Joe Hettler. Mart Lozar 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie Md(cnna 

SAINT MARV'S EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer 
CONTROLLER: Michael Flanag:,n 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNfo, ............631-7471 FAX............................................................ 631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORI.AsS'r. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................ 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

V!EWPOINT................................................. 631-5303 observer .viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu SCENE.. .......................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARV's.............................................63 I-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS............ .....631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at bttp:llobse=r.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistanr Mmaging Editor and deparrment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpaint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informarion. 
Qimtiom regarding Obreroer policie, should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief/man McFarley. 
Posr OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Okna-(USPS 5\19 240} is p11bfuhed Monday through Friday oc.q,1 during exam and vacation periods. A 1ub5Criprion a:, The Obxrvcr i, S l DO for one :academic ye;u-; 5.55 for one ~tcr. 
The Olnc-rver i5 published ar. POSfMI\STl'.R 024 South Dining: Hall Send addreu oorrecrion1 to: Nnrn: Oarne. lN 46,SO Thc-Ob!Cf"\'Cf 
P.O. S..Q PerilJClkN past.ge paid at Norn: DamC' Nouc Dam~, IN 46556.0n9 and addirior11l mailing offica:, 
Thr Observer is• n,embctoi rhe Aa>aared I"ff:1111. All rct"nxluction righ11 art ,a,,,,,d 
Homework paid off with reading day 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Helena Payne 
Sarah Nestor Shannan Nelligan 
Viewpoint 

Kurt Bogaard Pat McElwee 
Graphics 

Chris Naidus 
Sports Katie McVoy Bryan Kronk Lauren Dasso Scene Sarah Vabulas Lab Tech Lauren Porbes 

Doing your homework really does pay Student Academic Council representatives off. That's what Saint Mat1''s student gov­and even to class councils. Working togeth­ermnent representatives found uut this er they researched 130 different institu­week when the reading day pruposal was tions, looking not only at whether or not finally approved for implementation into these colleges and universities had study the 2003-04 academic calen­days, but how many class dar. O Th days they had each semester
oserver
Spearheaded by Student and how many crndit hours Body President Kim Jensen they required for graduation. and Vice-President Elizabeth And that i'> just the beginning 
Editorial 
Jablonski-Diehl, the reading day proposal was a comprehensive pr~ject that involved many student government representatives' input and commitment. Because Jensen and Jablonski-Diehl made this project not only their undertaking, but the Widertaking of the entire student gov­ernment, they achieved something that will have tangible results for College students. 
The amount of work the pair put in is impressive. Organizing themselves and what thev wanted to do, Jensen and Jablonski-Diehl delegated responsibilities to Board of Governance commissioners, 
of the amount of data collect­ed. 
Jensen and Jablonski-Diehl also con­ducted a student survey to gauge reaction to different scenarios of how a study could be in1plemented by using the percentages and input to draft I.heir final written pro­posal. 
More impressively, instead of restricting the reading day proposal to what Jensen and Jablonski-Diehl could accomplish. the pair included all members of student gov­ernment in the effort, fulfilling their cam­paign promise to add a study day to the 
Our study-abroad advisor from Notre Dame visited Cairo today, and she mentioned that there have been .numerous let­ters in the Observer about worries for students studying abroad. Also, the office in Hurley Hall has received many phone calls from parents concerned about their kids in the dif­ferent programs. 
I always appreciate it when friends ask me how I am holding up and how safe I feel, but I wish I could bring all those people here to see what it's really like. My friend and fellow domer, Aaron and I, are doing just fine in Cairo. I assume the same is true for all the students abroad elsewhere. 
On the streets, when people ask me where I am from, I refuse to hide and say I am from Canada. I always say proudly that I am an American. I hope, too, in several months time to have that same pride. Usually this leads into a discussion about Iraq. Yesterday, outside the mosque ofAmr ibn al-As, I chatted in choppy Arabic with three old Egyptian men about the grave situation in the Middle East. They told me how they loved American people, and I told them how I loved Egyptian people. We decided that next week we ought to gather again outside the mosque and invite Saddam Hussein and President Bush to join us to discuss their differences. Not once did I feel uncom­fortable. 
Not once have I ever felt threatened here traveling or con­versing, even in a section called "Old Islamic Cairo," whose name would probably scare many who have not been here. Insane traffic seems to be the only threat. I do not claim to have been to Iraq. Cairo is not Baghdad, I know, but Baghdad is not too far, nonetheless. I do not claim to have more per­spective than anyone else at home. However, this experience inevitably shapes my perspective. 
I hope some time to meet Aaron's two roommates who are from the Gaza Strip and maybe find out what life is like as a Palestinian. I enjoy getting harassed and surrounded by little 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you feel that local bars take adequate steps to ensure the safety of their customers? 
*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 49 responses. 

academic calendar. Adding study days to the calendar has been a promise student government representatives have been making to the student body for the past 10 years, but give Jensen and Jablonski-Diehl credit for finally succeeding. 
Previous student government adminis­trations did not completely undertake the study day endeavor. No other administra­tion in the past 10 years took the time to thoroughly research or put together a comprehensive proposal, therefore making it diflicult for faculty and admini,;trators to take the need for study day seriously. 
Today, the student body can be proud of what its student govemm.ent representa­tives have accomplished and how they accomplished their goal. By being pre­pared and acting in a professional manner. student government gained the attention and respect of the College's faculty and administration. 
It really does make a difference when you do your humework. 
Egyptian kids, who probably are not that different from kids in Baghdad and who probably are not that different from kids in South Bend. 
I am fascinated by the anti-war demonstrations that take place on campus, because there are hundreds of police in riot gear ready to suppress any freedom of expression. The govern­ment just renewed the "emergency laws" in order to prolong this police-state for another three years, to everybody's disap­pointment. You see, there is little freedom here -even in Egypt -and these students want freedom more than any­thing, but they also do not want war and they fear American intervention. 
I do not buy stories that Bush is only in this for oil or to finish something his father started. Weapons of mass destruction and changing the Iraqi regime are serious, truthful matters. In try­ing to soak all this in, though, my only truthful conclusion is that war is not the answer in this case. I knew that before I came here. This area is too complex to fully explain in this let­ter, so this may be an unsatisfactory answer to many: But, full­fledged diplomacy is the only way now. My hope is that Bush (and his advisors) knows what war· will mean for people in this area and for Americans. My biggest fear is that he doesn't know. 
No matter what happens here, I appreciate my friends' and family's concern. I am sure others abroad (and their families) are apprehensive, rightfully so, about what is going to happen in the world. But, please do not worry too much. If the war does happen, we will stay until the end of the semester because I am pretty sure we'll be fine. 
Terence J. Fitzgibbons junior Cairo, Egypt March 6 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You can live to be a hundred if you give up all the things that make you want to live to be a hundred." 
Woody Allen comedian 

O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, March 7, 2003 page 11 
You're welcome, Father Poorman 

Dig hole in sand, insert head, cover sufliciently. 
I congratulate those ofus on campus who stand on principle and law. I am a black and white person most of the time as well. This doesn't mean. however, that I'm blind to the truth. 
First, I'd like to say that I'm addressing the minority here. I 
realize that most people on campus are in touch with reality and don't like to directly endanger the lives of their classmates or advocate a stance that does so. 
There are those few. however, like Zahm I !all H.A. Lenny DeLorenzo, who are con• tent to support any stance which to them looks good on paper, espouses their sup· posedly elevated Catholic morals and aligns 
John Litle 
Frankly Obnoxious 

itself with a law that they openly admit is completely ignored. 
When persons like this announce and support a drop in statis­tics ofon-campus emergency room trips, they are correct; exact­ly as was stated in last Friday's letter "Thanks Father Poorman." Those persons however, are sure to admit that drinking itself has not decreased -only the on-campus incidents. What does this mean? 
It means that those who were drinking on campus last year, and getting help, arc now ofT campus in the same situation, passed out on someone's floor. And while this may be considered a great thing to lazy H.A.·s who would prefer less work commen­surate with their free stay on campus, I feel it's pretty safe to assume it is not in the best interest of the campus as a whole. 
t\t some point. it becomes time to reconcile both reality and the law. EITorts to control on-campus drinking, not eliminate it, will meet with success. Unfortunately. I doubt anyone here would have the courage lo try an innovative program like an on-cam­pus student drinking license or the like. 
I do feel for the law-abiding claims of the morally self-right­eous. They are standing on a principle, something I have done many times in the past and will certainly do in the future. I think perhaps it is unfortunate that they do so at the peril ofnot just the social atmosphere, but the lives of their schoolmates. Perhaps it is a sacrifice they are willing to make. And who could fault them for following the lead of the Office of Student Affairs (OSA). 
This brings me around to the focal point of this controversy: The Office of Student Affairs and its affable leader. your very own, father Mark Poorman. Having neither received, nor expected, a response from the OSA last week, I would like to for­ward a response from an alumnus. a challenge to Father Poorman. The simple request is that ho provide "greater trans­parency with respect to the studies they have conducted and the basis for [his) decisions." What can it hurt? If the decision was based on an honest assessment ofstudents, using an honest measure of what is dangerous drinking activity, my argument is out the window. If it wasn't, well, hate to tell you, the cat's already out of the bag. 
The same man also asked me to "urge current students and alumni to write to the Board ofTrustees expressing their dissat­isfaction with the present situation (something considerably stronger [than what the] student body president presented)." But we all know how likely that is to happen. It would be nice if stu­dents would stand up for themselves in such a way, but I better move on to something that's feasible. 
This University operates on and for money -lots of it. One might even say it has been an overbearing focus of the adminis­tration starting with the Malloy presidency. Another alumnus recalled to me that in the past, Fathers "Joyce and Hesburgh used to rule the University by regularly asking one question, '!low will the students be affected by this?"' This isn't the case today. Administrators seem to be more concerned with the CSC, "cash, strictly cash" and volatile clergy politics than in what all their positioning is doing to students. 
The biggest weakness that I've been able to locate in the administration is their focus on greed. (Appeals to morality.jus­tice, safety and reality have simply been ignored.) It seems from my copious amount of responses, I was fairly far off the mark with my assessment last week that alumni agree with Poorman's policy. Most alumni from the early '70s forward seem to agree about the shortsightedness and danger of the Poorman hegemo­ny. Even the older alums seem split on the issue. For my part, should Poorman become the next University president, not a dime of' mine will find itself in the University coffers during his tenure. I'd suggest that students and alumni make the same pledge. 
John Litle is a senior MIS major who was shocked to learn he had to write a column for Friday on Thursday morning. He received 55 e-mails from alumni last Friday. Fifty-two agreed with his viewpoint. E-mail him your burning rage and tears of wisdom atjlitle@nd.edu. As always, his views are not represen­tative ofThe Observer. In fact, he's fairly certain they denounce him. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The fight for gay marriage 
This past Tuesday a landmark event happened in Massachusetts. After almost two years of prepara­tion. the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court heard the case ofGoodridge v. Department of Public Health, in which seven same-sex couples are arguing against the unequal marriage laws of Richard Massachusetts. If the justices Friedman rule in favor of the plaintiffs, it 
would pave the way to make A Skewed Massachusetts the second state to legally recognize a Perspective 
union between same-sex part­ners. 
The debate over same-sex unions has been rag­ing in various state and federal courts since 1993 when a male couple first challenged the marriage laws of Hawaii. The largest victory for gay right activists came in December of 1999 when the Vermont Supreme Court ruled that the state's mar­riage laws were unequal and ordered the state leg­islators to correct the inequalities. What resulted was the Vermont civil union which allowed the same state benefits, civil rights and protections to same-sex couples as to married couples. 
Recently, New Jersey has also been very much expression of love between two individuals. Two men or two women can love each other to the exact same extent that a man and a woman can, so how is it that the man and woman are following the ideal of marriage whereas the two men arc not? 
Looking more directly at legal marriage, this argument holds even less weight. 
Legal marriage has nothing to do with sexual activity between two people, but rather the vast majority of rights provided to legally married cou­ples are in terms oflegal protection, custody, med­ical decisions and inheritance. And while people often express disdain for people who legally marry only for these benefits. l have never heard of any­one proposing that we ban marriages of this sort. It is only when it come to homosexual couples that the idea of controlling who receives these benefits comes up. If two men love each other and plan to spend their whole lives together, the men should be afforded the same sort of legal rights that any het­erosexual couple receives. 
Another often used reason why same-sex couples should not be legally sanctioned is that by doing so we will be effectively undermining the whole idea 
of family as a unit with children. This is a 
-=~­

involved in court battles, as a case was filed seeking equal rights for gay and lesbian couples in June of 2002. Directly opposing these three states, 32 states including Hawaii have legally redefined marriage as only occurring between a man and a woman or specifically denied state protections to same-sex couples. 
This idea of banning civil unions or denying same-sex partners the same rights of legal protection as hetero­sexual couples is completely unaccept­able. As most recent­ly illustrated on a large scale by the tragic events of Sept. 11, not allowing for civil unions causes all kinds of unequal, unfair and unreason­able problems for homosexual people. Due to their lack of legal status, homosexu­al couples are unable to make all sorts of legal and medical decisions that heterosexual couples can make for each other. 
Why should a heterosexual person be allowed to make medical decisions for a partner to whom they have been married one year, whereas a homosexual person who has been together with his or her partner for over 20 years has no input? 
The arguments against civil unions have often been hollow or religiously based. And. while I am not at all against religion helping to shape our soci­·etal values and ideals, our Constitution is based on a separation of church and state. This is something that is often forgotten when it comes to homosexu­al partners. Many people agree with the separation of church and state as is evidenced by the recent rulings about removing the 1 O commandments from courthouses or by trying to remove "under God" from the pledge of allegiance, but then use religiously based argument,; to counter the idea of legalizing gay marriage. 
One of these arguments is the often stated idea that marriage is about procreation. This idea is obviously based in the religious ideas that sex is a part of consummating a marriage and that sex is about unity and procreation. 
Since a homosexual couple can not procreate, they cannot be married. But marriage is not just about sex. Instead, marriage is also about the 
rather outdated view, however, as the specific definition of a family contin­ues to change. It also falls apart when you consider that there are many married couples that have never had any 
intention of having chil­dren, but many homo­sexual couples that 
have raised children. A third argument is that homosexual 
couples lack lasting commitment to each other. Not 
only is this idea 
completely absurd, it is con­tradictory as well. How can you use an argu­ment that homo­sexual people show no real commitment to 
each other to 
argue that those same people should be denied 
the rights to have any sort of legally established and rec­ognized commitment? Providing an institu­

tion such as civil unions for homosexual couples would not only dispel this incorrect idea, it would help provide the couples with an . increased commitment to each other due to its public nature. Homosexual civil unions have been 
supported by three states as well as several other countries throughout the world. The fact that so many states have taken such direct efforts to contradict the efforts of some states towards pro­gression and equality is really unfortunate. Marginalizing and denying equal rights to some cit­izens is rather hypocritical for a country that claims to be about progression and equal rights for all. There is no difference between what two men or two women can feel for each other or the level of commitment they can have for each other, so there should be no reason why they cannot be afforded the same sorts of equal rights and protec­tions that arc available to heterosexual couples. 
Richard Friedman is a senior majoring in archi­tecture and psychology. His column runs every other week. and he always welcomes your com­ments at rfriedma@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

THE 
OBSERVER 

page 12 Friday, March 7, 2003 
'The Stuff of Dreains' 
A mysterious host conjures up four famous characters as ifdreaming 

Brian A. Grandison as Hamlet and Jon Andrew Hegge as Cyrano de Bergerac engage in a sword fight. 
Theater has a large pool of resources for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. From a director's advice to elaborate costumes to a tip about theatre perform­ance, the Guthrie Theater will provide a new way for students to uncover the dif­ficult and various facets of live theatre. 
But on the eve of spring break it may be difficult to get the student body to trudge through the biting wind and brave the icy sidewalks on a trek to Washington Hall. Rathburn knows, how­ever, that there will still be a number of students on campus tonight. "Our chal­lenge is, how can we make sure every student takes advantage of this world class theatre?" he said. 
One way is to offer the tickets for only 
$7 to students and $18 for the general 
public. Another is to offer them a 
chance to see theatre's classic dramatic 
figures trade quips. 
''The Stuff of Dreams" will be per­formed tonight and Saturday at 7:30 
p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are on sale at the LaFortune Box Office. 
Contact Colleen Barrett at cbarrett@nd.edu ­



By COLLEEN BARRETT Scene Writer 
Tonight at 7:30, five of Western the­ater's most famous characters will meet on the main stage of Washington Hall. 
In the Guthrie Theater's premier pro­duction tour of "The Stuff of Dreams," an original play by Bill Corbett, Notre Dame students and members of the sur­rounding community will experience an exchange between five recognizable dramatic figures. 
On an empty stage, the characters appear as if in a waking dream. The audience is led to believe that the dream has been conjured by the mysterious cloaked figure who acts as a host. The other four figures are the title charac­ters from Sophocles's "Antigone," Edmund Rostand's "Cyrano de Bergerac," Nora from Henrik Ibsen's "A Doll's House" and Willy Loman from Arthur Miller's "Death of a Salesman." 
The host challenges the four charac­ters to tell their individual stories in hopes of finding the most compelling, play-worthy life among them. 
Antigone is a headstrong teenager, uncompromising in her view of herself as history's most tragic figure. In his turn, Cyrano laments his unrequited love and his personal appearance, which has resulted in a life of indignity. Ibsen's Nora, who appears not as the woman in "A Doll's House," but the woman she became after she walked out on her life, claims no unusual power. However, the experts from the play and her own words reveal the strength it took this 19th century woman to walk away from her life and start over. Willy Loman approaches the mysterious host as he would a sales client, and throughout the evolution of his own tale, Loman realizes the consequences of spending his life chasing unrealistic expectations and unreasonable dreams. 
After the four characters have fin­ished telling their stories, the host reveals himself to be Shakespeare's Hamlet, and tells of his own tragic life. He claims that he has suffered as much as the other four, but the complications of his own situation make his story the most compelling. 
Throughout the play, the audience is under the impression that it is witness­ing the host's dream, but at the end of the play, one of the characters turns to the audiences and asks the others, "Who are they?" 
Suddenly, the audience realizes ­the dream is its own. 
"We're approaching the production very simply," said director Jeff Hall­Flavin. "Since theatre is a very human art form, the emphasis is on the actors ­they're featured by stripping away everything except the essentials. The hope is that this will engage the audi­ence as active participants." 
The Guthrie Theater's hope to have an active audience isn't simply a dream. Invited by Summer Shakespeare's founder and Artistic Director Paul Rathburn, the men and women of the Guthrie Theater attended classes yester­day to provide insight about the stage to students. 
Summer Shakespeare is a sponsor of the Guthrie Theater, ensuring that South Bend is a regular stop for the company's performances. Besides offering their expertise in the classroom, the Guthrie 

MICHAL DANIEIJProotsheet 
THE OBSERVER 
..., 

• 
Friday, March 7, 2003 page I3 
'The Men of March' 
A journey inside the lives ofcollege basketball coaches and their teams 
team's season. For example, instead of B>· ANDREW SOUKUP merely explaining Notre Dame's pre­.Sports Wrirer 
game ritual, Curtis follows the team on a road trip to Chicago, where his portrayal 
The premise bnhind Brian Curtis' "The of the team's pre-game Mass sheds light Mnn of March" is simple: spend a full on an event fow get to see. At another year following four college basketball point, Curtis discusses 1.hc unique rela­coaches around the country and chroni­tionship betwep,n coaches and officials cIe (lVcry aspect of their lives from by highlighting a Notre Dame game recruiting to dealing with the media. whore Brey drew a technical foul. And if Curtis' book only provided unique One of the most interesting aspects of perspective gleaned from a behind-the­Curtis' book is how he provides an scenos look at major basketball pro­inside perspective of events that drew 
grams, it would still  national  attention.  
be a good read.  When Alford's team hit  
Hut the fact that Notr11 Dame coach Mike Brey is one of the !"our coaches  "Brian Curtis has cap­tured the true humanity as well as the behind­ a December slump and the Iowa coach contacted former Indiana coach Bobby  
Curtis observes makes "The Men of March" that much more entertaining to Notre  the-scenes business and professional aspects ofa head coach slife at the  Knight. Curtis provides a unique glimpse into how Alford and Knight rebuilt their once­ 
Dame basketball fans. A former sportscast­er for Fox Sports Net  highest levels of college basketball. ,,  rocky relationship. But there are dozens of little nuggets Curtis  
in Los Angeles, Curtis  includes from memo­ 
spent  the  2001-02  John Swofford  rable poinis in the four  
season following Brey, UCLA's Steve Lavin, Illinois' Bill Self and  Atlantic Coast Conference Commissioner  team's seasons. Brey, for example, likes to sit by himself in virtual  
Iowa's Steve Alford.  uninterrupted silence  
His  comprehensive  before games. If upset  

look at the life of a college basketball at halftime, he'll yell at his team for a coach from the perspectives or these few minutes, leave to discuss adjust­four men covers the college basketball ments with coaches while his players season from Midnight Madness through sort things out and then return to calmly the Final Four and the NBA Draft deliver the new game plan. Curtis' 

Virtually every aspect of coaching is explanation of Brey's interaction with a covered in "The Men or March", but struggling David Graves last season only Curtis analyzes each aspect of coaching makes one wonder how he responds in by placing it in the larger context of a other situations. And how Brey dealt with Harold Swanagan's frustration over his brother's arrest shows the impor­tance of helping players through a bas­ketball season. 
Notre Dame fans, however, will be dis­appointed that Rrey is the least repre­sented of the four com;h­es. While Curtis does an 
excellent job showing the complicated process through which Brey arrived at Notre Dame, how the Irish coach deals with media and what he is like off the court, he spends less time talking about Notre Dame games than he does with other teams. That isn't neces­sarily a bad thing, as the perspective provided by other teams helps makes the story one about col­lege basketball and not just life in South Bend, but fans who buy the book because Brey is in it might finds themselves flipping through a lot of pages. 
That still doesn't detract from what is an excellent insider view of a college basketball sea­son. Curtis covers such a broad spectrum of topics that it sheds new light on the difficulty of coaching college basketball. "The Men of March" only appeals to a narrow audience, but the crazed basketball fanatic who buys Curtis' book won't be let down . 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 



... 
-
Friday, March 7, 2003
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Frye leads uninspired Wildcats to victory 
remaining.
Associated Press 

Jackson's 3-pointer with 
10:16 to play cut the Wildcats'TUCSON, Ariz. 
lead to 58-54.
Channing Frye scored 24 

Walton scored inside to startpoints, one shy of his career 
a 6-1 spurt that boosted the
high, and grabbed 12 rebounds lead to 64-54 on Adams' steal

in an otherwise uninspired 

and breakaway stuff with 7:32Arizona performance Thursday 
remaining, but even though
night as the No. 1-ranked 

Ricci was on the bench withWildcats beat Oregon State 72­four fouls, the Beavers didn't60. 
fold.
The Beavers (13-13, 6-11 

Jackson's final 3-pointer
Pac-10), in their first year made it 64-58 with 5:45

under former Arizona assistant remaining.
Jay John, lost at McKale Center Frye's dunk with 3:10 left putfor the 20th year in a row, but 

Arizona ahead 69-60, then
they stayed with the Wildcats Walton made one of two freethroughout. 

throws and the Wildcats ledLuke Walton was the only 70-60 with 1 :56 remaining. 
other Arizona player in double figures with 12 points. He also Duke 72, Florlda State 56 had seven assists to reach 100 The P.A. announcer at for the fourth season in a row. Cameron Indoor Stadium told Hassan Adams had six points, exiting Duke fans he would see three steals and two blocked them in New Orleans. shots. The 10th-ranked Blue Devils 
The Wildcats' Salim believe they still have a lot of Stoudamire was O-for-4 shoot­work to do to even come close ing and scoreless in 12 minutes to the site of this year's Final in the first half. He didn't play Four. in the second. Coach Lute Shelden Williams had 12 Olson said he benched points and season-high 17 Stoudamire because of the rebounds and Duke forced 24 one-on-one style he was play­turnovers in a 72-56 victory ing in the first half. over Florida State on Thursday 
Brian Jackson scored 16 for night. Oregon State, including 3-of-6 But coach Mike Krzyzewski on 3-pointers. However, he was angry after the win by a was only 2-for-8 inside the 3-second-half letdown and by a point line. Philip Ricci added lack of emotion from the home Conference) rebounded from would be in this position," FSU said. "They were more aggres­15 points and Jimmie Haywood fans, who he said have become blowing a double-digit lead late coach Leonard Hamilton said. sive and we didn't match their had 12. The Beavers were just spoiled by his program's suc­in a weekend loss at St. John's "I feel we have been competi­intensity. Their hands were 9-for-21 at the foul line, 7-for-cess . and avenged a defeat to the tive and we think we've earned everywhere and we didn't fin­
• 
17 in the second half "I've never seen Cameron Seminoles a month ago in a certain measure of respect, ish our cuts." 
Arizona (24-2, 16-1) clinched like it was in the second half," Tallahassee, Fla. but this is the position we've Florida State, last in the ACC the Pac-10 title with its sweep Krzyzewski said of the lack of Dahntay Jones added 14 earned, we didn't win enough in scoring at 68.7 points a at California and Stanford last emotion. "It's indicative of the points for Duke in his last games. You can't take moral game, had its worst first half of week, and the Wildcats came attitude that's been surround­game in Cameron. victories away from playing the season, failing to score on out sluggish against the slow­ing our team all year long, you The Blue Devils, one of five people close and playing well." 24 of its first 27 possessions as down style of Oregon State. know, 'We're Duke and we teams in the Top 10 all season, Tim Pickett was coming off a the Blue Devils went up 2_?-7 
Arizona used a 16-2 run to should win instead of giving moved one game behind ACC-career-high 32-point game less than 14 minutes in. take a 22-10 lead on Adams' these kids [support].' 1eading Wake Forest with a against Virginia, but got off to Williams was strong on the 15-footer with 8:20 to go in the "We've won too much. This game left this weekend at a slow start before finishing inside with 11 points and 11 first half. has been such a good year for North Carolina. The ninth­with 11 points for the rebounds in 16 first-half min­
The patient Beavers came us. We're 21,5 and these kids ranked Demon Deacons play Seminoles. Mike Mathews led utes. The freshman played just back time and again, though. have played their butts off and N.C. State on Saturday and can Florida State with a career­nine minutes in the first meet­Lamar Hurd's 10-footer cut it's like nobody knows -espe­nail down its first outright reg­high 18 points, all in the sec­ing with one point and no Arizona's lead to 32-28 with cially our fans." ular-season title since 1962 ond half. rebounds. 
1:11 to go in the half, but the Captain Chris Duhon said the with a victory in Raleigh. Duke didn't take long to gain The Seminoles closed to 44­Wildcats scored the next eight Blue Devils once again failed to Maryland is tied with Duke control of its 28th straight 27 in the early stages of the points to go up 40-28 at the close out a game in proper with a game left at Virginia on home win, leading by as many second half, but Jones and break. Frye had a three-point fashion. Sunday. as 23 in the opening half as the Daniel Ewing scored on three­play, Andre Iguodala had a "It's one of those inner The Seminoles (13-14, 4-12) Seminoles had trouble estab­point plays and J .J .. Redick breakaway dunk off an Oregon things, it's like hunger or finished in sole possession of lishing any offensive flow added a driving layup to push State turnover, and Walton determination or a chip on our last place in the regular-season against Duke's pressure the lead to 25 as Duke com­sank a 3-pointer just before the shoulder, something that we standings for the first time defense. pleted its 14th undefeated halftime buzzer. need to go out every night to since joining the league in It was in sharp contrast to home season at Cameron. 
Arizona got off to a listless prove," he said. "Until we find 1992. That lands Florida State Feb. 2 when Florida State shot Williams grabbed the most start in the second half, and that, it's going to be tough for in its third straight play-in 60 percent during a 75-70 rebounds by a Duke player the Beavers went on an 11-4 us." game in the ACC tournament defeat of the Blue Devils. since Carlos Boozer had 16 run to cut it to 44-39 on 1-Iurd's The Blue Devils (21-5, 11-4 next week in Greensboro. "They didn't look like the against Wake Forest on March three-point play with 16:54 in the Atlantic Coast "Everybody predicted we same team we beat," Pickett 9, 2002. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Summer Job-North Shore subur- Walk to School. 2·6 Bedroom  Hettler 21  If you want me to wear 37 pieces of  
NOTICES  WANTED  ban Chicago Financial Planning and Investment Management Firm  homes 112 mile from campus. mmmrentals@aol.com  HVH17  flair like your pretty boy Brian over there, why don't you make the min- 
seeks serious student for full time  272-1525  Wow, the betting was definitely off  imum 37 pieces of flair?  
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS:  summer internship. Skills required:  www.mmmrentals.com  on that one.  
Make a difference in the life of a  excellent Excel and courteous  I WANT A MONKEY,  
DOMUS PROPERTIES- child! Summer therapy camp for  communication. Demands utmost  STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE 3-4  Spring Break ­ Here we come!  NOW!  
children with disabilities. Located  discretion and reliability. Resume  OR 5 PERSON 2 STORY. 8  
HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003­ on shore of Lake Superior in Big  and professors references  BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW  I am against picketing, but do not  I know a few people who gave up  
2004 SCHOOL YEAR-WELL  Bay, MT. Positions available for  required. Please send inquiries,  EVERYTHING. WIRED FOR COM- know how to show it.  Joanne tor Lent.  
MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR  Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors  interview availability in Chicago,  PUTERS ETC. AVAIL. SUMMER  
CAMPUS· STUDENT NEIGHBOR- for Nature/ Arts & Crafts/  and resume to ccberto@aol.com.  OR FALL. 235-3655  Hey Peter man, check out channel  Happy Spring Break Leroy!  
HOODS· SECURITY SYSTEMS·  Recreation/Canoeing, Nurses,  nine. Check out this chick.  
MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL- Therapists, Food Service, and  From your favorite Observerite who  
- WASHERS/DRYERS CALL TODAY-HOUSES GOING FASTIII  Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June 15 lhrough August 10. Salary,  FOR RENT  PERSONAL Unplanned pregnancy? Don I go it  Cathy and cast ­Congratulations on a GREAT show! You guys rock my world.  now has his life back. Sambuka­ 
-CONTACT KRAMER (547) 315­ room & board, and experience of  Rooms for rent. $250 month  alone If you or someone you love  Bubble, bubble, bubble.  
5032 OR (574) 234-2436 -ALSO  lifetime provided. Call or write for  includes utilities.  needs confidential support or assis•  Roommate­ (Translation: We'll miss you over  
LEASING FOR 2004-2005  application and information. Suite  272-1525  lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise  1 leel that it is time for some  spring break)  
300, Marquette, Ml 49855, (906)  Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more  SERIOUS  
VISIT OUR WEBSITES @  228-5770, email  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  roommate partying this spring  
DOMUSKRAMER.COM  BayClittHC@aol.com  mmmrentals@aol.com  The Observer.  break!  L  

- - - - - - - - - - - - 
..  
Friday, March 7, 2003  The Observer . SPORTS  page 15  

NBA 
21 is the lucky number in Spurs victory 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO 

The San Antonio Spurs had a high roller's dream night Thursday against the New .forscy Nets. 
Tim Duncan. who wears No. 
21. scored 21 points and grabbed 21 rcbou nds, and Tony Parker added 21 points, 10 in the fourth quarter, as the Spurs fonded off a too-lit­tle, Loo-late charge by thP­Nets en route to a 92-78 win. 
Tho win was San Antonio's 17th in its last 21 games. 
The Nets, who lost their fifth in six games. cut the Spurs' margin to 83-77 with 
1:41 left on consecutive jumpers by Jason Collins and Kenyon Martin. But San Antonio finished with a 9-1 run capped by a 3-pointcr by Duncan at tho final buzzer after New Jersey, the out­co11w assured, stopped play• ing defense. 
The Spurs, who allowed l'honnix Lo shool 59 percent in a loss Tuesday, limited the Nets to 36.6 percent from the 11oor. 
Jason Kidd, guarded mostly by the 20-ycar-old Parker, shot 4-for-19 for 11 points, about hair his season aver­agu, but he uxceeded his norm with 13 assists. 
"If the ball is not going in, you have to find another aspect of your game," said Kidd, whose name tops the list of potential free agents the Spurs might pursue in the offscason. 
The Spurs certainly would 
like to roll the right numbers with Kidd. But on the ques· tion of free agency and the Spurs. Kidd tried to rein in the chatter and at the same time teased reporters, saying "you guys have kind of taken it overboard, but we'll see what happens come July 1," the date his current contract expires. 
Reserve Manu Ginobili scored 18 points for the Spurs, and he energized his Learn with seven assists and five steals. 
"Ile has rnally been a spark for us and just is fun to watch," Spurs coach Gregg Popovich said of the rookie from Argentina. "Sometimes he scares me out there, because I don't know what is coming, but he is so creative and we have to give him that freedom to just make things happen." 
Ginobili, who has scored in double figures in four of the past five games, said. "Tonight just felt very easy out there." 
Bruce Bowen had 11 points and Stephen Jackson 10 for San Antonio. 
David 1-lobinson left in the third quarter with a strained lower back, an injury that has plagued him all season. He scored eight points and had five rebounds in 24 minutes. 
San Antonio jumped to a 13-4 lead, making five of its first eight shots while the Nets managed only a pair of baskets in their 11 attempts from the Ooor. 
Kittles hit a corner jumper and then a 3-pointer to start 


a 10-0 New Jersey spurt that gave the Nets their first lead at 14-13 late in the first 
JOHN DUDA, PROFESSOR OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY AT THE UNIVERSITY OF BIRMINGHAM IN THE UNITED KINGDOM, WILL DISCUSS 
MOTIVATION AND SPORTS A PSYCHOLOGICAL PERSPECTIVE 
MONDAY, MARCH 17 AT 1:45 IN ROOM C-103 HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
SPONSORED BY THE MORAL DEVELOPMENT AND EDUCATION RESEARCH GROUP; THE MENDELSON CENTER FOR SPORT, CHARACTER, AND COMMUNIIT; THE INSTITUTE FOR EDUCATIONAL INITIATIVES; AND THE DEPARTMENT OF ATHLETICS. 
quarter. 
The teams stayed close through most of the second period before an 11-footer by Duncan began a 10-3 burst that put San Antonio up 40· 32 about a minute before the break. 
Aaron Williams made a layup with 7.3 seconds left in the half, and then Kidd stole the inbounds pass and got the ball to Kittles for a 17-foot jumper at the buzzer, draw­ing the Nets to 40-36. 
Kidd made only two of his 11 shots in the half, while Martin went 3-for-9. Duncan secured his double-double early by scoring 10 points and grabbing 14 rebounds in the first two quarters. 
San Antonio got its lead over 10 points late in the third period and kept it there most of the way. 
Bulls 119, Warriors 105 
Eddy Curry had 24 points and 10 rebounds as the Chicago Bulls beat Golden State and snapped the Warriors' six-game winning streak. 
The Bulls' victory was just their fifth in the last 19 games, but gave them 22 wins -one more than last season. 
Curry's fellow prep-to-pro teammate Tyson Chandler added 23 points and 14 rebounds as the Bulls scored their most points this season following controversial state­ments by rookie guard Jason Williams. 
Williams said Monday the team needed to shake things 

up, suggested there was a rift between players and coaches and hinted maybe it was time some players move on ­maybe even him. He started the game on the bench. 
Jamal Crawford was in the starting lineup in his place, although Chicago coach Bill Cartwright said before the game Williams was not being punished for airing his gripes. 
Crawford had 15 points and a career-high 10 assists in 31 minutes, while Williams scored nine points with three assists in 17 minutes. Jalen Rose scored all 21 of his points in the second half. 
Gilbert Arenas scored 28 to lead Golden State and Antawn Jamison added 22. 
Leading by five at the half, the Bulls ran out to 16-point lead after three quarters, get­ting a pair of 3-pointers from Donyell Marshall and one each from Crawford and Rose. 
But the Warriors turned to their bench and scored the first seven points of the fourth quarter to make it 88­79 with just under 10 minutes remaining. 
Then Williams and Rose hit jumpers as the Bulls regained control and pulled away again to break a three-game losing streak. 
With Golden State center Erick Dampier in early foul trouble, Curry and Chandler went to work. Curry scored 19 points and Chandler had 12 points and 12 rebounds in the first half. 

AROUND THE NATION 
page 16 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Friday, March 7, 2003 

NCAA MENS BASKETBALL 
.. 
serious challenge of his a backup point guard in and not make a mistake."
Associated Press 
career at Georgia. 2001, Harrick pushed hard Harrick is mystified by the ATHENS.Ga. A former Bulldogs player, to get Cole enrolled at way he was treated at UCIA. 
Before each practice, Jim Tony Cole, accused Jim Georgia, even though he had where the first major scan­Harrick scrawls a message Harrick Jr. of paying off bills, bounced around to numer­dal of his career led to his fir­to his players on a white doing schoolwork and teach­ous high schools and junior ing shortly before the 1996­board next to the court. ing a sham class on coach­colleges. 97 season. 
On Thursday, the words ing. Harrick Jr.. an assistant Cole didn't have much On Monday, Rhode Island seemed especially relevant: on his father's staff, was impact on the court, but he announced it was investigat­"Today is the first day of the fired Wednesday. made plenty of news off it: ing whether players had rest of your life. Forget the A day earlier. the elder Midway through his only their grades changed and past and start thinking about Harrick defiantly predicted season with the Bulldogs, he received money from the future." his son would be cleared and was among three athletes Harrick's staff and school 
If only it were that easy for nothing more than minor accused in a campus rape. boosters. In addition, Harrick the Georgia coach. violations would be uncov­While the charges were Jr. was accused of falsifying 
Harrick has had so many ered. He also challenged his eventually dropped, Cole was hotel and meal reports for problems in his past that it portrayal as a renegade kicked off the basketball recruits. might be tough for him to coach who breaks rules. team for repeated violations. The elder Harrick hopes to survive the latest scandal. 'Tve never had a viola­He struck back by accusing survive the latest blow to his 
He was fired at UCLA for tion," Harrick said. "Go ask Harrick Jr. of breaking troubled coaching career lying on an expense report. the NCAA." NCAA.rules. and remain at Georgia. Rhode Island is looking into On the other hand, he "Yeah, I admit to making "We've got a nice program alleged transgressions that acknowledges occasional some poor decisions in going here," he said. "I don't occurred on Harrick's watch. lapses in judgment on the recruiting," the elder Harrick want anything to spoil it." And now, he faces the most recruiting trail. Desperate for said. "You can't go 30 years It may be too late. 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Womens Big Ten Tourney 6 p.m., FSCH Womens SEC Tourney 7 p.m., FSS 
NBA BASKETBALL Bucks at Wizards 7 p.m., CSN Clippers at Celtics 8 p.m., ESPN 76ers at Supersonics 10:30 p.m., ESPN 

IN BRIEF 
Bulls bench Williams 
In the first game since he called for the Chicago Bulls to shake things up, Jay Williams was part of the change -he was taken out of the starting lineup. 
Jamal Crawford made the start Thursday night as part of a lineup shuffle that also included Danyell Marshall replacing Trenton Hassell for the game against the Golden State Warriors. 
After Monday night's loss to Orlando when he went scoreless, Williams said the Bulls needed to spice up their approach, suggested there was a rift between players and the coaching staff and hinted that maybe some players needed to move on, maybe even him. 
Bulls coach Bill Cartwright said Thursday that Williams was not taken out of the starting lineup as punish­ment for airing his gripes. 
"I think Jamal has played good," Cartwright said. 
"I feel like this is our best group.... I'd like to come out with more thrust." 
Cartwright said he talked Thursday morning with Williams, the No. 2 pick overall in last year's draft. 
"All Jay has to do is play, play the way he has his whole life," Cartwright said. 
"He needs to play and not worry about things." 
Before Thursday, Williams had started 51 of the 55 games in which he had played. Crawford was making just his 12th start in 61 games. 
In other moves announced Thursday, the Bulls activated center Dalibor Bagaric and placed forward Eddie Robinson on the injured list because of a pulled right hamstring that has kept him out of the last six games. 
The 7-foot-1, 290 pound Bagaric has scored six points and grabbed 10 rebounds in four games this season. He was the Bulls' third first-round pick in the 2000 draft. 
Robinson has started nine of the 53 games he has played in this season. The 6-9, 210-pounder has averages of 
5.7 points a game and 3.1 rebounds. 
Swiss plan Cup celebration in Geneva 
The America's Cup will arrive Saturday in Switzerland, making its return to Europe after an absence of 152 years. 
Cup winners Alinghi, carrying the trophy aboard a charter flight from Auckland, will land at Geneva airport in the early afternoon and will be met by federal, regional and municipal dignitaries. 
A public celebration of Alinghi's vic­tory in the world's premier sailing competition will be held in the evening in downtown Geneva, Alinghi syndi­cate spokesman Bernard Schopfer said Wednesday. 
The Cup leaves Auckland on Friday afternoon, ending an eight-year stay in New Zealand. 
Friday, March 7, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NHL 
Brown's 2 goals help Sabres defeat Maple Leafs 
Associated Pre.,s 
TORONTO 

Curtis Brown had two goals. and Miroslav Satan extended his points-scoring streak to seven games as the Buffalo Sabres defeated the Toronto Maple Leafs 4-2 Thursday night. 
Taylor Pyatt had the other goal !'or BulTalo. which handed Toronto it's third straight loss. Shayne Corson and Robert Svehla scored for the Maple 
Leafs. 
Satan also had an assist. giv­ing him 10 points in his streak. Brown has four goals in his last live games and 15 overall. 
Brown made it 3-1 on the power play at 4:36 of the third period when he took a pass from Satan beside the net and beat Ed Belfour over his left shoulder. 
With less than two minutes left in the game, Svehla took a pass from Mats Sundin and fired it past Martin Biron to pull Toronto within a goal. 
The Maple Leafs nearly tied it wilh less than a minute left, but Biron gloved Gary Roberts' shot. Then Brown hit an empty net with 10 seconds remaining. 
Pyatl gave the Sabres a 2-1 lead late in the second period when he took a pass from Dmitri Kalinin in the left faceoff circle, skated in and beat Belfour between the legs for his eighth goal. It was Pyatt's first goal since Jan. 24 -also against Toronto. 
The Maple Leafs opened the scoring 1:46 into the second period when Corson redirected Wade Belak's centering pass past Biron for his seventh goal. 
Buffalo tied it less than three minutes later when Satan's weak wrist shot from the point deflected off Alexander Mogilny and past Belfour for his team­leading 24th goal. 
Toronto -without penalty minutes leaders Tie Dami and Darcy Tucker because of sus­pensions -didn't lack for toughness. 
After Bryan McCabe checked Adam Mair into the boards early in the first period, Rob Hay fought Alexei Ponikarovsky. 
Less than three minutes later, McCabe and Mair battled, and 31 seconds later Corson and Chris Gratton fought. Five sec­onds after, Belak and Eric Boulton tussled. 
In the second period Belak, dropped his gloves and punched Boulton, and both were assessed minors. 
Biron finished with 31 saves. 
Bclfour had 22. 
Blue Jackets S, Canucks 4 

Hick Nash thought he might have breached the rules of sportsmanship by celebrating too much after his first over­time goal in the NHL. 
Nash scored on a breakout to hand Vancouver its first over­time loss as the Columbus Blue Jackets beat the Canucks. 
"I think I got a little too excit­ed, but that's all right," Nash said with a grin. "It's an excit­ing moment and the guys were really happy." 
Vancouver. which had leads of 2-0 and 3-2, was 5-0-10 in overtime before Nash scored with 2:58 remaining in the extra period. Columbus was just 1-2-7 beyond regulation. 
No wonder the Blue Jackets were piled on Nash and cele­brated as if they had just won their division instead of escaped last place in the West. 
"With the Vancouver Canucks, one thing you don't want to do is get into a shootout," said Ray Whitney. who had two goals and an assist for the Blue Jackets. "You've got two of the best for­wards in the league. Tonight we had timely goals, the power play was working really well and what can I say about Rick Nash? That's one hell of a goal, especially on this ice late in the game. To be able to make that move, it's going to be exciting for people here in Columbus for a few years, that's for sure." 
Columbus defense man Jaroslav Spacek, who had a goal and two assists. passed from the defensive circle and hit Nash in stride near the Vancouver blue line. Nash, the No. 1 overall pick in last sum­mer's draft, swooped in on goaltender Alexander Auld while defenseman Marek Malik and trying to make too many pretty plays -not grind it out and play our game plan." 
Hurricanes 4, Penguins 0 
Jeff O'Neill scored Carolina's first two goals and the Hurricanes ended a two-month road winless streak by beating the reeling Pittsburgh Penguins. 
The Hurricanes came into the game with an NHL-low 51 points, but had an easy time with a Penguins team that has tumbled into the league's bot­tom five even with Hall of Farner Mario Lemieux in the lineup. 
The Penguins lost their sev­enth straight, and fourth in a row at home, during a streak that is beginning to resemble their 10-game winless run that tried to slow him down with his stick. Nash waited until Auld committed before putting the puck over Auld's right shoulder for his 14th goal. 

Asked where the goal ranked in his young career, Nash said, "It's up there. Obviously, my first goal in the NHL was really exciting. But this goal is up there. I think the bigger thing was getting the team a win. That's the main thing, the two points." 
Todd Bertuzzi and Markus Naslund each had a goal and an assist and Sarni Salo• had two assists for the Canucks, who are live points ahead of Colorado in the Northwest Division and two points behind Dallas for best record in the West. 
"I think we invited them back into the game," Naslund said. "We had a lead there. If we would have just kept on going and played disciplined, I think we would have been all right. It's 
Oefenseman Bryan McCabe of Toronto mixes It up with Buffalo center
more not preparing mentally for the game Adam Mair during Buffalo's 4-2 victory In Toronto Thursday. 

ended last season. 
Lemieux began the night tied with Vancouver's Markus Naslund for the NHL scoring lead with 85 points, but was held scoreless for the second straight game and the third time in five games. 
Carolina was 0-11-2-2 on the road since a 4-2 win at Boston on Jan. 4 and had lost five in a row overall. The Hurricanes, Stanley Cup finalists a year ago, had won only three times since Dec. 22 and had scored only five goals in their previous five games. 
It got so bad for Pittsburgh shortly after Kevyn Adams' sev­enth goal made it 4-0, the Hurricanes spent nearly the entire second half of the period on a nine-minute power play resulting from Ville Nieminen's 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us 
to be better 
Indiana and Michigan 

; :t, -~, •.~  574/239-6611 • 800/522-6611 Outside Indiana and Michigan 800/400-4540 You can also stop by your nearest branch or visit our web site at www.ndfcu.org.  
The perfect home: That's been your dream.  

Now. with annual percentage rates as low as they are, you can live your dream. Notre Dame Federal Credit Union can help. We'll design a fixed or adjustable-rate mortgage around your specific needs. Plus. you can finance up to 100% of your home. And, we'll do it for you quickly, with no hassles. We even offer first mortgages nationwide! Still dreaming of your perfect 
-@

home? Notre Dame Federal Credit Union will help make it a reality. ~ IQUII VOUSINC 
~ LENDER 
Independent of the University 
four-minute instigating penalty and five-minute fighting major. 
The Hurricanes had a two­man advantage for the first two minutes of the lengthy power play as Steve McKenna also was sent off for instigating and fighting, but did not score. 
O'Neill gave the Hurricanes the only goals they needed, tak­ing advantage of Richard Lintner's giveaway on an intended clearing pass to score at 2:34 of the first. The pass deflected off Ron Francis' skate directly to O'Neill, who wristed it into an open net as goalie Sebastien Caron couldn't scramble back in time to defend. 
Francis needs four more points to match Gordie Howe's record of scoring at least 50 points in 22 seasons. 
O'Neill scored his 26th. this time on a power play. in the second before Bruno St. Jacques scored his first NHL goal on a shot that deflected off defenseman Han Jonsson's hip. 
Carolina goalie Kevin Weekes was barely tested in getting his third shutout of the season and 21st of his career, turning aside 21 mostly harmless shots. Pittsburgh managed only two shots in the first period and five in the third. 


Friday, March 7, 2003 
page 18 The Obseroer . SPORTS 
Hoyas 
continued from page 24 
tle. We have to be ready to start at the beginning of the game, and we have one more chance in the regular season to do that against a Georgetown team that is very challenging as well." 
The Irish will try to get back on track Saturday with a road trip to visit the Hoyas (14-12, 6-9). 
"We're going back to Georgetown and hopefully we will start something new in that gym," Irish point 
"It's disappointing that

guard Chris with a sense Thomas said. we've lost the last two of urgency "It doesn't like we do in
games at home, and that 

matter if we the second 
we lost on Senior Night.

como out half." with a win or But there~ a lot of But with loss, as long one game
basketball left ... " 

as we get left on the some of our regular sea­old habits Dan MIiier son sched­back and Irish forward ule, the Irish 
gain some confidence." 
After beginning the season 11-4 and near the top of the Big East, Georgetown endured a streak of six straight defeats, including a heart-breaking 93­92 double overtime loss to 
Notre  Dame  in  the  Joyce  
Center Feb. 1st.  
The  last  time  these  two  

teams squared off in the MCI Center in Washington D.C.. the matchup proved a game for the ages, with the Irish coming away with a 116-111 victory in the marathon four-overtime battle. 
With a history of close games 
Florida 
continued from page 24 

in the series -the last two contests have gone to multiple overtimes -Notre Dame would like to go ahead early and avoid another close finish. The Irish have appeared a lit­tle exhausted in their recent struggles, and they would like to have an easy one before beginning play in the Big East Conference Tournament Wednesday. 
"We're not tired. Coach Brey has prepared us well, but there is just something about how we start the game," Notre Dame senior captain Matt Carroll said after the loss to Syracuse. "It's our own fault. We don't come out 
have one last 
chance to fix whatever has been breaking down before kicking off post• season play at the Big East Championships in New York's Madison Square Garden. 
"It's disappointing that we've lost the last two games at home, and that we lost on Senior Night," Irish forward Dan Miller said. "But there's a lot of basketball left, and we have a chance to make a great run." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

games in the 2002 series, held at the Express College Classic in Round Rock, Tex. In addi­tion, Creighton is the only team out of the six Irish opponents 
MENS TENNIS 
Irish grab first home win 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Spores Writer 
The Irish finally won their first home match of this season after going undefeated at the Eck Pavilion last year. 
No. 46 Notre Dame defeated No. 57 Michigan 5-2 Thursday, and the Irish are showing signs of improved confidence as t.hey prepare for the talent-laden Blue/Gray National Classic over spring break. 
The momentum that put the Irish ahead 4-0 to clinch the vic­tory was initiated by the claim­ing of the doubles point. Each of Michigan's points came only when the score did not matter. 
''We got off to a good start in doubles," sophomore Luis Haddock said. "That kind of kept us going. We haven't won at home. It was finally huge that we could win [the way we did]." 
While the No. 1 Irish doubles team lost, the bottom two, which have at times been points of concern for the team, ensured that Notre Dame would start the match with the initial point on the board. 
Junior Nicolas Lopez-Acevedo and sophomore Paul McNaughton won at the No. 3 light, 8-5, over the Wolverines' Anthony Jackson and Josef Fischer. Lopez-Acevedo and McNaughton have not competed together in match play since Jan. 26. After their win, junior Brian Farrell and Haddock, both Irish captains, defeated Vinny Gossain and Chris Shaya, 8-6. 
"It feels good," McNaughton said. "It's a new feeling for us, especially at the No. 3 doubles, because we haven't done very well at that position. It really felt good to win one." 
Although sophomore Brent D'Amico and junior Matt Scott lost at the No. 1 light, the team was comforted by the fact that the other duos were able to come through on a day when the best were not at their best. 
"That's a great sign," Scott said. 'Tm really proud of [McNaughton] and [Lopez­Acevedo]. They fought hard. They came up big when they needed to. It's a big confidence booster when you can't bring your 'A' game and you have your two other teams to back you up. They saw that they were capable of playing well and playing with big teams. and I think that gave them some con­fidence." 
The Irish believe that their participation in the Pacific Coast doubles tournament last week­end gave the doubles lineup some valuable experience and practice time, which seems to have served as a confidence booster. 
In singles play. D'Amico notched his first victory in almost a month with his 6-2, 6-1 win over Shaya. D'Amico began the spring season 6-0 before he lost two consecutive matches and missed a third due to injury. Overall, D'Amico, who was 1-3 last spring, has been an impor­tant asset to the young Irish squad. 
Other key assets are starting to emerge for Notre Dame. 
Lopez-Acevedo, a transfer from Bowling Green, came through with a 6-3 win in straight sets over Gossain. The junior has won four of his past six singles matches. 
A freshman clinched the day's win for Notre Dame. Patrick Buchanan, who has won five of his past six matches. topped Michigan's Fischer 7-5, 6-3. 
Haddock, ranked 88th nation­ally, was upset by No. 101 Michael Rubin, 7-6 (7-4), 6-1, which gave the Wolverines a futile point. The Irish junior cap­tain was injured during the match, but the condition is not serious. Haddock's doubles partner Farrell also lost, 7-5, 6­
3. The team's third captain, Scott, won the final match on the court, and showed his excitement with a little celebra­tion after he finally triumphed over Michgan's Anthony Jackson, 6-1, 4-6, 1-0 (10-8). Jackson defeated Scott last fall, and the Irish player was eager for revenge. 
Over spring break, Notre Dame will compete for the pres­tigious green blazers awarded to the victors of the Blue/Gray National Tennis Classic in Montgomery, Ala. Two years ago the Irish won the green, and last year they advanced to the finals. 
Overall, the team is looking forward to playing outdoors. and with trips to Miami and Dallas approaching after the break, they won't have to count on South Bend weather to get a chance to leave the indoor courts. 
"Definitely I think we'll have a little better outdoor team," Haddock said. 
Scott thinks the Irish are already a little better, though. 
"I think we'll do fme adjusting outdoors," Scott said. "I think [Thursday's win] is a good step­ping stone to turning our season around today." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
losing streak three other times. 
However, unlike last week­end where the Irish faced two top-20 teams in three days, none of Notre Dame's six oppo­nents that they will face during 
spring break has a national  
ranking.  
After  facing  the  

Commodores. the Irish will meet host North Florida Sunday, followed Monday by the first of two games against Navy. 
The Irish get a day off Tuesday before resuming the series against Jacksonville Wednesday evening, and play­ing Eastern Illinois Thursday. 
Notre Dame closes out the series next Friday and Saturday with the second match against the Midshipmen and a meeting with Creighton. 
The Blue Jays are the only team of the six opponents which the Irish faced last year. The two teams split the two to have a winning record against Notre Dame (2-1). 

The Irish have historically been known to get off to slow starts. Notre Dame opened the 2002 campaign with a 9-10 record before earning a trip to the College World Series. 
In order for the Irish to break out of their slump, they will need to rely more on the offen­sive firepower that was severe­ly lacking at the Metrodome last weekend. After averaging over six runs per game in the opening four-game series in Arizona, the Irish scored only five runs in three games against some stellar pitching. 
In addition, the Irish pitching corps must step up. They will need to improve on their team ERA of 7 .23 and to lower their opponents' batting average, which is currently .317. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 
3:00 p.m.

internet2 day 8:15 a.m. ­
free admission and continental breakfast open to all students, faculty and the public an informative conference on the technology and academic application of lnternet2, a high-speed IP network connecting universities and research groups  M A R C H 13  
featured speakers from Notre Dame and the lnternet2 governing body:  
Dr. Nathan Hatch, Provost, University of Notre Dame Tom Klimek, Notre Dame Networking Infrastructure Steve Corbato, Director of Network Infrastructure for lnternet2 Ann Doyle, Program Manager of Arts and Humanities for lntemet2 Brendan Bellina, Office of Information Technology Dr. Jeff Kantor, Notre Dame's research agenda Gordon Wishon, Chief Information Officer, University of Notre Dame  debartolo hall  

What a great break! Thank you Jackie Clark and Steve Miller and the Freshman .ass for sponsoring a St. Patrick's Day Parents' Night Out 
Signed, Your favorite kids an campus and their parents at University Village 

conference will be broadcast over the lnternet2 network 
I NTifRNIJ,.
visit http://i2day.nd.edu for more information r 
Friday, March 7, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
WOMENS TENNIS 
Irish hope to sparkle in the southern sun 
By JOE LINDSLEY Sporis Writer 
The Irish wit! be spending spring break in Tempe, but before that they will travel to Provo, Utah, where they will take on No. 49 Brigham Young. 
After a week of practicing under the Tempe sun. Notre Dame will then take on No. 7 Arizona State. 
The Irish expect a tough fight this Saturday. 
"!Brigham Young! is a team that always lights to the very end in every single spot of their lineup," Irish senior Katie Cunha said. "I think they have a little bit of the home-court advantage being in the !high] altitude." 
The No. 19 Irish earned their lirst upset victory of the season lasl weekend when they defeated No. 13 Texas. and the team is planning on carrying the momen­tum from that win into Saturday's match. 
"If we play like we did last week­end. we should win," Cunha said. 
After Brigham Young, Notre Dame will spend the rest of break in Arizona. 
"We're just going to get down there to Tempe and practice hard all week, just get used to the out­door courts and the weather and then play some ball on Friday," Cunha said. 
One of the best parts of traveling to Arizona State, according to Cunha, is non-tennis related. 
"First of all, we're looking for­ward io getting out of the weath­er," she said. 
Other than that though, the Irish are excited for the opportunity to do battle with a top-ten power 
At about the midway point in the season, the Irish are making advancements despite their chal­lenging schedule. 
"I think we've had some hard­fought matches," Cunha said. "I really think that our doubles are coming together. All the girls played solid last weekend. I think everything is starting to come together for us." 
Although tho. team is relatively young, the Irish arc slowly gaining importance experience. 
"The freshmen are starting to get used to the individual match­es," Cunha said. "We're getting a little more comfortable with our lineup. I think we're getting pretty good right now." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 


MENS GOLF 
Irish still green as spring season gets under way 
By ERIK POWERS Sports Writer 
The fall season had an inauspicious start for the Irish. At the Inverness Intercollegiate Invitational, the team finished 14th out of 15 teams and 46 strokes behind tournament champion Florida. But freshman Eric Deutsch turned in a positive performance, entering the third day in fifth place before fading late. 
Deutsch's performance was 

a microcosm of the fall sea­s on. The Irish have been starting strong and then tail­ing off. In four of its five fall meets, the team has posted its best overall score in the open­ing round. By the end of the fall season the squad had fin­ished in the top half of tour­naments three times, peaking at 5th of 14 teams at the SMU Stonebridge Invitational. 
Tomorrow marks the dawn of the spring season for the Irish. Like the fall, the team will be especially green. 
Freshmen Scott Gustafson, 
Tommy Balderston and Deutsch have competed in all five tournaments this year and appear to be the core of the team for the remainder of the season. Fellow freshman Mark Baldwin, who battled mononucleosis last semester, was in four tournaments and his 11th place finish with a 211 was the fourth-lowest 54­hole score ever by a Notre Dame golfer. Senior captain Brandon Lunke anchors the squad with a team-best 73.33 average. 
Because of improved sched­
uJe-making at the request of coach John Jasinski, the Irish participate in two different tournaments over spring break than last year. This Saturday and Sunday, the Irish invade Ocala, Fla. with eyes set on a championship against a wide-open field. Lamar won the championship by three strokes over Michigan State last year, but while the Spartans return to the Big Red Classic, the Cardinals will not. 
No ranked teams from the Precept fall season coaches 

THE BEST KEPT SECRET ... 
PARK JEFFERSON APARTMENTS 
I Bedroom starting at $466.00 2 Bedrooms starting at $544.00 

NOW RENTING FOR THE 2003 SCHOOL YEAR 9MONI'H SHORT TERM SUMMER AND MONTH TO MONTH LEASES LOCATED 2.1 MILES FROM NOTRE DAME ON BUS LINE LAUNDRY FACILITIES, INDOOR HEATED POOL, FITNESS & EXERCISE ROOMS, BILLIARDS SPACIOUS 1 & 2 BEDROOMS, SOME WITH DENS FREE MEMBERSHIP TO CASTLE POINT HEALTH CLUB 
VIEW OUR MODEL DAILY MON-FRI 9:00AM -6:00PM SATURDAY 10:00AM -6:00PM SUNDAY 10:00AM -4:00PM 
3001 EAST JEFFERSON BLVD SOUTH BEND, IN 46615 574-232-3333 
www.parkjefferson.com 
· 
poll will compete at the Lake Diamond Golf and Country Club either. The Irish will face No. 7 Minnesota and No. 18 Purdue at the Conrad Herling Invitational in Brookwood, Ala. Minnesota, last year's champion, heads a stiff class of competition. The meet runs from March 13 to March 16. 

The next two weeks afford the Irish an opportunity to shed the rust from four months away from competi­tion. While the team has been far from dormant, the South Bend winter has deprived the Irish the luxury of daily course play above freezing temperatures. 
Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 
INDIANA ONLINE DRIVER IMPROVEMENT 

TAKE IT ON THE 
INTERNET 
• 
No classroom attendance required 

• 
All materials available on the Internet 

• 
BMV Approved 


(877) 972-4665 
www.lndlanaOriver.com 

Friday, March 7, 2003
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
ND SoneALL 
Irish look to exorcise last year's demons 
By AARON RONSHEIM Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame softball team (6-6) has a chance this weekend to exorcise some of last year's demons when they face No. 3 Nebraska at the Kia Classic during spring break. Last year the Cornhuskers ended Notre Dame's season with a 5-3 victory over the Irish in the regional final. A win would have given Notre Dame its first ever berth in the College Softball World Series. 
"They know how much it hurt to lose that game at regionals last year," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "I think that the girls' emotion will take care of itself in this game." 
Besides the past team history on the field, which included a Notre Dame victory at Nebraska last season. Gumpf has a personal relationship with the Cornhuskcrs. Gumpf played for Nebraska from 1989-1992 and would want nothing more than a win against her alma mater. 
"I don't think I need to say much about this game," Gumpf said. "The girls know that Nebraska is a tough team and they know how I feel about them." 
The Cornhuskers are 12-1 this season, with their only loss coming against No. 1 UCLA. They've also defeated seven ranked teams. 
The Cornhuskers have an explosive offense. boosting a .337 team batting average. Leading the explosive attack is senior outfielder Lisa Wangler, who is batting .432 with five home runs and 20 runs batted in. 
In order to shut down the Cornhusker offense, the Irish will need their young pitching staff to step up. Inconsistency has been the biggest worry for Gumpf and her coaching staff, but she is hoping that will improve soon. 
"Our pitching needs to be more consistent," said Gumpf. "I think we are ready in every other area, and I think we are very close to where we need to be." 
To keep pace with the Nebraska offense, Notre Dame will have to continue the offen­sive tear they were on last weekend in Louisiana. The Irish hit 10 homeruns and pounded out 45 hits in their last five games. With the offense back in gear. some of the pressure is taken off the pitching staff. 
"It relaxes you," pitcher Steffany 
the last few games. 

As a team, the Irish are bat­ting .270 and have five players hitting over .300. 
The Irish will begin their California trip with a double­header Sunday against Cal 
S t a t e 
Stenglein said. North ridge
"They know how much it

"It also allows (11-9). Even you to throw hurt to lose that game at though the 
your own game regionals last year. I Matadors 
and you don't are only
think the girls' emotion

have to be per­two games fect." will take care ofitself over .500, 
One of the this game. " they have 
offensive stars played a for the Irish t o u g h last weekend Deanna Gumpf schedule, was senior Irish coach w h i C h third baseman includes a Andrea Loman. victory over Loman was named Big East No. 4 Michigan and losses Player of the Week for her per­against No. 22 Alabama and formance in Louisiana. Loman No. 1 UCLA. went 8-for-16 at the plate. Junior outfielder Christen which included three doubles, Bedwell leads the Matador one homerun and two stolen offense, hitting .419 with eight bases. RBI and two homeruns. 
Another encouraging sign Besides Bedwell, the Irish will last weekend was the hitting of have to worry about sopho­shortstop Andria Bledsoe. more pitcher Kia Fennell, both Bledsoe broke out of an early when she is on the mound and season slump by blasting three at the plate. Fennell is 6-2 in homeruns and has raised her the young season and has an average from .111 to .306 over impressive 2.10 ERA. At the plate, Fennell is equally impressive with a team leading 14 RBI and a .413 batting aver· age. 
Besides facing Nebraska at the Kia Classic the Irish will take the field against Fresno State and DePaul in round robin play before starting tour­nament play. 
Against Fresno State (4-8), the Irish will likely face Bulldog pitcher Jamie Southern. Even though Southern is 3-5 this season, she boosts an excellent 
0.61 ERA and has struck out 
79 batters in 59 innings. The DePaul Blue Demons (6­
2) are ranked No. 13 in the country because of a good pitching staff that has a great one-two punch with senior Lindsay Chouinard (3-2. 0.75 ERA) and junior Sarah Martz 
(3-0, 0.90 ERA). 

"Against DePaul we have to play solid and hit the ball well," Gumpf said. "They have two good pitchers. We can't make mistakes against a team like DePaul. They are very aggressive and will capitalize on our mistakes." 
Contact Aaron Ronsheim at aronshei@nd.edu 

SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles looking for fresh start with new coach 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team will travel to Fort Myers, Fla. this week to play 11 games in four days beginning Sunday, March 9. 
Behind first-year coach Anna Welsh, the Belles will open the season away in hopes of growing accustomed to each other and to the new staff. 
Last year, the Belles went 4­4 on the trip, defeating Drew University, 4-0, Salve Regina University, 4-2 and Bentley University. 4-0 and 8-2. respectively. 
Only Salve Regina and Transylvania University return to the Belles' schedule from last year. 
Welsh, a two-sport athlete at Olivet Nazarene University in Illinois and an NCAA All­American in softball. joins Saint Mary's with a unique 
Work for the best looking department at The Observer. 
Write sports. 
Call Joe. 

coaching style and a confident attitude. 
Welsh will not have much help from upperclassmen, either. Only one senior returns to the Belles' squad, catcher Susan Kutz. Libby Wilhelmy, Kate Sajewich, Katie Amick and Bridget Grall will anchor the Belles pitching staff. 
Amick will be a key team member, as she is the only player for the Belles who bats left-handed. Welsh could use her in key hitting situations. 
The roster includes nine freshmen, no sophomores. five juniors and Kutz. Freshman third baseman Meghan Marenkowic will probably start for the Belles and numer­ous other freshmen will start or split time with juniors. 
Welsh, who also first got into coaching by becoming the stu­dent assistant coach her senior ye_ar at Olivet Nazarene, has since coached at Nazarene, Notre Dame and Bethel College summer softball camps. Assistants Don Miller and John Antonucci hope to help Welsh develop a young but solid core of softball play­ers into a competitive MIAA program. 
Contact Pat Leonard at _ pleonard@nd.edu 


•Since 1923 •Group Services •Professional Drivers 
•Luxul}' Buses •Competitive Rates •Wheelchair Accessible 
Spring Break Hours 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore will be open Monday through Saturday 8:00 am ­
7:00 pm March 8th through March 16th for Spring Break. We will resume our normal hours March 10th : 
Monday -Saturday 8:30 am -9:00 pm Sunday 10:00 am -7:00 pm 
I 

---~--­
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
''on the campus" 
1-4543 

Recycle The Observer 
friday, March 7, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MENS LACROSSE TRACK 
Irish must face test in early season game 
By PAT LEONARD 
Spom W rirer 
The last time the mens lacrosse team opened a season 5-0, the squad advanced to the 2001 NCAA Final Four. 
To reach that goal this season, the Irish must win at No. 12 North Carolina Saturday. The No. 11 Irish (2-0) will then face two more top 15 teams in a seven-day span. 
While Notre Dame knows it will have to work for a win in every con­test, the team is testing itself early in what head coach Kevin Corrigan hopes to be a repeat of two seasons ago. 
"I don't think we're going to see any tea.ms this talented on the same trip [again]," Corrigan said. "In these three straight games we will find out a lot about ourselves." 
Notre Dame will face No. 12 NortJ1 Carolina and No. 1 Virginia on the road and No. 8 Loyola at home. Last season, the Irish dropped a close 7 -5 contest to Virginia and a 7-6 nail-biter to Loyola. 
This season, however. the Irish have started with two solid wins over two solid programs. Notre Dame beat now No. 13 Penn State on the road 10-9 and blew out Ivy League opponent Penn at the Loftus Sports Center, 14-5. Junior Matt llowell had three goals and two assists against the Quakers, fresh­man Patrick Walsh had two goals and three assists and freshman Matt Karwcck scored three goals in a game that featured an impressive, even distribution of points across tJ1c roster. 
Now, the Irish will face a North Carolina squad that has played in just as many games but has a few more battle scars to show for it. The Tar IIeels lost in quadruple over­time to Navy in i1s season opener, and then defeated Bucknell to move to 1-1. North Carolina has been tested, as have Virginia (2-0) and Loyola (3-0). Virginia beat Syracuse 16-15 last weekend and sit tied atop the rankings with Johns Hopkins, a team that defeated then-second ranked Princeton, 10-8. Loyola took care of Hofstra, 10-4. 
"Anytime you play teams that are as talented as them, you have got to establish what you are and aren't going to do and try to impose the style and tempo that is most com­fortable to your team," Corrigan said. "We'll see if we're ready to do that." 
Notre Oame hopes to continue to get scoring from all over. particular­ly from the impressive freshman class that has emerged early on. 
"We're young but we like the way we've been playing," Corrigan said. "We have to be careful not to let the tempo get away from us and see if we can play with enough discipline to do that." 
Notre Dame's match against Virginia, originally scheduled to be played at either Klockner Stadium or on the U-Hall Turf Field in Virginia, has been moved to Charlottesville, Va .. and will be played on Tuesday at 3:30 p.m. 
Notre Dame will be in action in North Carolina Saturday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

The ND Department of Music Presents A Graduate Degree Rectial 
Lan Jiang, cello 
w/ l<ui Min, piano 

Performing works by Marti nu, Beethoven, and Prokofiev 
Friday, March 7, 2003 
7:00 pm, Carey Auditorium 
Hesburgh Library Free and open to the public 

A~t ' 
~ ........,.,.......................,,,.,_., 

• Men hope to add more quali­fiers to NCAA 
By LISA REIJULA Sports Writer 
With this season's confer­ence meets completed, colle­giate track and field teams across the nation now have the NCAA Championship as their goal. 
Notre Dame will host the Alex Wilson Invitational this Friday and Saturday in Loftus Fieldhouse. The Invitational is unique, a "last chance" meet for athletes looking to qualify for the NCAA Championships, held in Fayetteville, Ark., on March 14 and 15. 
Teams will be sending between one and 10 mem­bers to the Invitational to either improve their qualifi­cation times or post their first qualification. The Loftus track is considered fast, so many teams are hoping their athletes will reach an auto­matic time and qualify. 
The meet this weekend 
. Women glad for one more look at NCAA competition 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Spores Writer 
In what some may deem as one of the "last chance" meets in the nation, hun­dreds of the nation's best track and field athletes will compete this Friday and Saturday at the Alex Wilson Invitational at Loftus Sports Center. 
With the Big East confer­ence meet over after a sec­ond-place finish, the Notre Dame women's track team looks to qualify more ath­letes for the NCAA Championship. 
Senior pole vaulter Jaime Volkmer cleared 4.00 meters to earn a Big East individual championship, and is cur­rently 19th on the NCAA list. Teammates Laura Huarte and Jill VanWeedlen join her, as they look to clear 
r------• r------• r------• r------, ·------· 
I 
I $15 
I 
I Mens Cut 
..I ______ .. 
ATRIA SALON 1357 N. Ironwood Or. Corner ofEdison 289-5080 
Irish looking at last chance 
I I I I I
$69 I I 
I $26 I I I I $69 I I $69 I I 
I I I Color, Cut & I I I I 
Highlights,
I Cut & Style I I Style I I Perm, Cut & Style I I I
Cut & Style 
.,I ______ ..I I One Process I I .I I 
·------· .. ______ ·------· I 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 

-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY ­
-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-

Must be presented to Receptionist Before Services Are Performed 
Melissa-Sergi' -Kristin-Jennifer 

ATRIA SALON 2 
NotvaliJti:,r511ir.dpcrrm. L()11gortintaih.1iradd$JO. Noorhndisa:1unUaJ\~Y· OJienM>nKcvcui1iw, ATRIA Martin's Shopping Center s.lon~thc,w,110..fux"""°"tn,nydicntwho.sehairmnclirionisuntn:ar,hle. Next to Sprint 
271-8804 OFFER EXPIRES 3-16-03 Less than I mile from campus 
should prove to be more exciting than the average meet, as every race repre­sents a chance to make it to the Championship. Races will be close, with the top athletes from across the country vying for a qualify­ing time. 
For the Irish. some ath­letes have already qualified for the Championship, while others arc looking to make their mark this weekend. 
Sophomore hurdler Selim Nurudeen will be in the hunt for a qualifying time in the 60-meter event. Ranked 24th on the NCAA descending order list, his best time this season is 7.83. At this year's conference meet, Nurudeen placed second and was awarded all-Big East honors. 
On Friday evening, the men's distance medley relay team will seek an NCAA qualification time in their event. The automatic time of 
9:36.05 is within the reach of the team, made up of Eric Morrison, Ryan Postel, Thomas Chamney and Luke Watson. 
Watson already qualified for the NCAA Championship. 
4.05 meters to secure spots. Volkmer would be the first Irish pole vaulter to earn a spot in the NCAA Championship. 
In the high jump, All-Big East volleyball player Emily Loomis looks to qualify for her second-career NCAA Championship, as she is cur­rently 19th on the NCAA lists. 
In what promises to be a competitive race, the women's mile includes Lauren King, who has already qualified in the 3,000 meters. Teammate Molly Huddle is fourth in the 3,000 meters, and looks to qualify in the mile as well. 
Freshman Petra Dankova, an all-Big East performer in the triple jump, looks to improve on her ranking of 33rd, as she looks for an automatic qualifying jump. 
In the 5,000 meters, Jennifer Handley hopes to make the cut as well, as she competed in the 2002 NCAA outdoor meet in the 10,000 meters. 
Finally, Tiffany Gunn, 

A proven leader for the men's team, Watson's victo­ry in the Meyo Mile earned him a spot in Sports Illustrated's "Faces in the Crowd" this week. 
Watson won a Big East Championship in the mile while recorq ing the best mile time of the collegiate indoor season with his 
3:57.83 effort. He has quali­fied for both the mile and 3,000 meters, an event in which he is ranked fifth in the nation. It has not yet been determined which event Watson will run at the NCAA meet. This weekend Watson will run the anchor leg of the DMR with the goal of earning a spot in the NCAA field. 
Irish teammate Morrison will look to join Watson in the mile event. The sopho­more post9d a strong time of 
4:01.90 in the Meyo Mile, a performance that ranks him 19th in the country. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreiju1a@nd.edu 
Kristen Dodd, Kymia Love and Ayesha Boyd look to qualify in the 4x440 relay. Dodd, Love and Boyd have the experience necessary, as all three earned All-America honors in this relay just a year ago. 
Notre Dame also has a few athletes who have already secured spots in the field. 
Huddle and King both have qualified for the 3,000 meters, with Huddle holding the school record. 
Another school-record holder, long jumper Tameisha King, has already qualified, as she is 12th in the NCAA. 
The Irish as a team look to send as many athletes to Fayetteville as possible, despite the stiff competition the Alex Wilson Invitational proves to provide. The meet starts at 7 p.m. on Friday and carries over to 1 p.m. Saturday at Loftus Sports Center. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
"Rethinking U.S. Catholicism: International and Comparative Frameworks" 
Friday and Saturday, March 14-15, 2003 McKenna Hall Center for Continuing Education University of Notre Dame Please contact cushwa.l@nd.edu 
> 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 7, 2003 
HOCKEY 

Irish keeping playoff hopes alive this weekend 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Sports Writer 
Assuming everything goes according to plan, the Irish hope to return to something more than books and tests when spring break nears its end. 
They hope to return home for a play­off game. 
With a good showing against Northern Michigan on the road this weekend, that hope could change into a reality. 
Currently, the Irish sit tied for fifth place in the CCHA along with three other teams, one of which is Northern Michigan. 
If the Irish (14-14-6, 12-11-3 CCHA) can collect at least three points against the Wildcats. they will be in a good posi­tion to secure home ice for the first round of the playoffs. The top six fmish­ers in the league receive home ice. 
A month ago, an Irish bid for home ice appeared almost impossible, with Notre Dame, at one point, standing as low as ninth place in the 12-team con­ference. Since the start of February, a surge has seen the Irish win five of their last seven and has put the team in posi­tion to earn the home ice advantage. 
Last weekend, the Irish split a home­and-home series with Western Michigan, in which the home team won each contest. The Broncos defeated the Irish 4-2 on Friday in Kalamazoo, but the Irish responded with a 5-2 win Saturday at the Joyce Center. 
In Saturday's game, on Senior Night, senior goaltender Tony Zasowski and freshman Matt Amado were the heroes. Zasowski, making "'just his fifth start of the season, stopped 25 of 27 shots, and Amado scored the eventual game-win­ning goal. 

The other seniors aided the team in its victory as well. Evan Nielsen assisted on Amado's goal, Connor Dunlop and John Wroblewski scored the insurance goals, Michael Chin assisted on Dunlop's goal and Jake Wiegand start­ed his first game at defense for the first time in his Irish career. 
The seniors and the rest of the Irish are in for a tough test when they travel to Marquette, Mich., to take on the Wildcats (17-15-2, 13-12-1 CCHA). The Wildcats are coming off last weekend having achieved a split against Ohio State in Marquette. 
Following an impressive 5-2 win over the Buckeyes on Friday, the Wildcats lost by a score of 4-1 the following Saturday. 
A pair of talented senior forwards lead Northern Michigan offensively. Chris Gobart leads the team with 37 points, including 10 goals, while Mike Stutzel is right behind with 36 points and an impressive 23 goals, good enough for third in the CCHA. 
The Wildcats are led in net by junior Craig Kowalski, who holds a respectable 2. 77 GM for the season. Kowalski usually doesn't have to work too hard, as he plays behind a defense that only gives up an average of 27.2 shots a game. By contrast, the Irish give up an average of33.7 shots a game. 
If there's a strength for the WIidcats, it's their special teams. They are ranked in the top five in the CCHA in both power play and penalty kill percentage, and have yet to give up a shorthanded goal while scoring three of their own. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
FENCING 
Irish hope to qualify for toUTI1ey 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Editor 
If they want a chance at 
their first national title since 
1994, then Saturday is a very 
important day for the Irish. 
Notre Dame looks to quali­
fy 12 fencers for the NCM 
Championships at Saturday's 
Midwest Regional 
Championship at Ohio State 
University. 
"Our goal is to qualify as 
many as we can. Our goal is 
to qualify 12 which will be 
hard and not easy," Notre 
Dame coach Janusz 
Bednarski said. "For us it is 
easier to get the better 
results if we have a full 12­
fencer team." 
To automatically qualify for 
the national championships, 
a fencer must finish in the 
top four at the regional com­
petition in his or her respec­
tive weapon. A formula is 
used to determine the final 
standings by combining regu­
lar season performance with . the finish at the regionals. 
Each school can qualify a 
maximum of two fencers at a 
weapon on the mens and 
womens side. 
Four berths at each 
weapon are allotted to the 
Midwest Region because of 
the low number of schools in 
the area. With the strength of 
the schools in the region, 
especially Notre Dame and 
Ohio State, some fencers will 
be left out because of the 
numbers game. 
"Our region is stronger 
with Ohio State having high­class fencers so the competi­tion is growing," Bednarski said. "It's a political reason because we should get more spots in the region due to the strength. It is based on the number of schools, so we can't increase the number of spots. I think it is wrong and we should have the ratio that if you are stronger. you are better." 
At last year's regional com­petition, the Irish qualified 11 fencers automatically and had to wait for sabre Matt Fabricant to earn an at-large bid to give the Irish a com­plete squad at the NCAA Championships. 
Bednarski believes the biggest challenge for the Irish this year will be at womens sabre, which has been their weakest weapon so far this season. Junior captain Destanic Milo qualified for the past two NCAA Championships while junior Maggie Jordan qualified for the 2001 NCAA Championships at foil as a freshman. 
"Destanie Milo and Maggie Jordan have to give every­thing, have a good day and have a little luck to qualify for nationals," Bednarski said. "Womens sabre will be the key for us, but we are trying hard." 
The Irish got good news with both Milo and Jordan being seeded in the top four of the region. 
Mens epeeists Jan Viviani and Michal Sobieraj, womens epeeists Anna Carnick and Kerry Walton and womens foilists Alicja Kryczalo and Andrea J\ment should quaWy easily for this year's NCAA Championships. 
At mens sabre, seniors Gabor Szelle and Fabricant will face tough competition from the Ohio State sabre team, but have a very good chance at qualifying. 
The biggest internal battle for the Irish comes at mens foil. Senior captain Ozren Debic has the top seed and wrapped up one spot, but the other spot is up for grabs between senior fourth-seed­ed Forest Walton and sec­ond-seeded sophomore Derek Snyder. 
Walton qualified for the NCM Championships as a freshman and earned All­American honors as a sopho­more before spending last season studying abroad. As a freshman, Snyder finished seventh and was a second team All-American. 
Despite dropping the con­ference championship last weekend to the Buckeyes, the Irish feel confident heading into this weekend's impor­tant regional competition. 
"According to the current seeding, we have a chance," Bednarski said. "If we have strong results, that should elevate us to qualify 12." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


This year's Men's BIG EAST Basketball Championship takes place at the center of it all-New York. 
You've heard of it-The City that Never Sleeps. Times Square. The Empire State Building. Madison Square Garden. Fifth Avenue. Super Models. The Notre Dame Club of New York is set to do it up right with game watches, parties, and ending it all with our annual march down Fifth avenue in the world's largest St. Paddy's Day Parade_ 
If you're in town, or want to be, check out our 
"to do" list. Be there to take it all in_ Go Irish! 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW YORK CITY 
WWW.NDNYC.COM 

Big East pre/post game happy hours will be at Triple Crown (7th btwn 28th and 29th) for all the ND games. PRE-parade party-at Connollys on 47the 
between 5th and Madison beginning at 
12:30 on March 17th-come for lunch, drinks or both. 
PARADE party-the ND club of NYC will again be marching in the parade this year-if you would like to march, please email the club at ndclubnyc@yahoo.com for specific information. 
POST parade party will be upstairs at Bar Harbour (1st Ave btwn 76th and 77th) beginning at 5pm-come quench your thirst, be it from marching, watching or working. 

f"•ilO¢••~Y(; For Info email; ndclubnyc@vahoo.com 
Friday, March 7, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN 
SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon

~]1]1J]_ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, Take your best shot to form four ordinary words. 
BICUT 
j 
1 
rx 
02003 Tribune Media Services, Inc, All Rights R"'erved. 
ORFUL 
I rJ

tINCADD j 
WHAT THE= TOUGH 
C.OOKIE: DID WHE:N 
HE MET Hl5
J 
www.jumbla.com 
MATC.H.

tSKUTEM t Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as

J I I J I 
suggested by the above cartoon 
Print ~ 

here, rI 11 I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

... 
Yesterday' I Jumbles: GLEAM BORAX PASTRY MAGNUM
6 Answer: The kids wanted the leftovers to become ­
BYGONES 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  25 One who  52 Shoe spec.  
1 Woman in a "Paint Your  suspends an action, in law  53 Like typical Georgian  
Wagon" song  26_Aigner,  woods  
6 They may go on park walks 11 Kind ol pad 14 Like musical  noted designer of shoes and handbags 27 Romantic verse starter  54 Council member, maybe 55 Places for sgts. 56 Popeye's  
instrument-s 15 Loose on  30 Feller 31 Hand-held  creator 57 Procedures: Abbr.  
16 Violinist Jean- entrees  
_ Ponty 17" Thier (1950 movie) 18 Not separate from 20 Mountain goat's perch 21 Site of Churchill  32 _ city atty. 36 Brando, notably 38 Web-surfing needs, at times 42 Ideals 43 Early 20th­century art movement  DOWN 1 W.W. II area 2 Collectible for a so-called paileontologist 3 Up 4 Check on  
College 22 1967 Pulitzer-.  44 Marcher's instrument  5 Some ballet twosomes  
winning novel by Bernard Malamud 24 Radioactive isotope  46 Tough spots 48 No more 49 Essays 50 Pick up  6 Find a job for 7 Fix, as a road 8 Little bit 9 Quintessential news headline  Puula by Sherry 0. Blocl<ard 29 Command level: 36 Fender Abbr. benders, e.g.  44 Kentucky college  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Olympics no-no ~.....-"""""' 11 Came home  32 With real effort  37 Puts side by side  45 From Nineveh: Abbr  
N I N 0 N 0  A C E feet first, maybe ...+..+,-,­12 Overpower in battle ...,,.__,::+.-:+.-+-:-1"!!'1'~ 13 Be up to something 1-:-f~::-t='+-=-t 19 Red or white  33 Allowances 34 Duke in "King Henry VI" 35 Skipping syllables  38 Household expenses 39 Lay out 40 Wears down 41 Solemnity  47 Like ·war and Peace· 51 Ambulances' destinations: Abbr.  
22 Renowned  

For answers, call 1-900-289-CLUE (289-2583). $1.20 a1939 film minute·. or. with a credit card, 1-800-814-5550.
setting Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
23 Sile of raw crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

material? 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 26 Suffix with past puzzles, nyt1mes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year).
-,-+.=+=o-t-cNc:-1 smack 

Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, .......___.__....._. 28 Stinkers nytimes.com/learning/xwords . 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Willard Scott, Daniel J. l'ravanti, Toylor lli}re,.kmHml 
Happy Binhday: Utilize your strength, oourage and jXl!ient nature and you will accorrplish what you set oot to do this year. Toke care of yoor.;eif, your realth and your errdimal well­oong, W:Ika)OJCtMIsp;w;inµraim will re)OJSIJU1gp:u1. Ya.mmtmae3, I~ 23, 27, 31,45 
AruFS (March 21-April 19): Look at your ~ms for 11-e future and begin planning. This is a good day to start new ventures like edicatirn or travel in fAUSllll of b.Jsincss. tt* TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will be emotional today, but if you channel that energy into being affectionate, great thing; can happen. Th: rmre creative you are in ~ywcbll:Xbytn:Ixm-treresullswillre.**** GEMINI (May 21-JWJC 20): Yoo may re a tit fickle today, e,µ:dally if you have nm: than me love interest in your life. 11y nct to re inck.:cisivc with 11-e cn-s that rrom 11-e rm;t toycu*** CANCER (JWIC 21-July 22): Your ability to say what yru think in a nu;t elCXjUfflt way will aid you in getting thing; 001e. Plan to take a trip: it will be good for you to venture 
rut**** 

LEO (July 2.'l-Aug. 22): Somme yoo know through wcrk may try to make you look ood. fu!\ rely rn anycre to ~ck up 11-e sla:k. It will re up to yru to see matter.; through to 
treeirltt VIRGO (Aug. 2.1-Sq>L 22): Yoo will have excellent icbis fer furtrering your = or making Jl'ICreY by freelancing er starting your o= oosinelis. Loo; of new cmllCts can be mrl:lhtwilll:eoo'dmtoywcbwntrerad ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0d. 22): If you have oversp;,nt, yru may have to (JJI in extra lrurs. Yoo can make financial gains through your career cmces today if yoo are willing to WY fer a 
~*** SCORPIO (Oct 2.'l-Nov. 21): Partnerniiµ; may be a reasrn fer coocem if you haven\ cm: your n:search well. Just because somme tells yoo that re er she can do cei1ain job; creill\mID11a1n:j:.b will redn: we11.** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your fast retoru and .cion will give yoo 11-e edge today. Yoo will have a lively ~ to everything yoo do, rut cm\ let your entlul5ia<im kalywcbwnm~IBh,*** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be in an entreprenewial mood today. Everything yoo trud1 will tum in your favoc Yoo will have 11-e know-how wmi it oorn.:s tormkingooacm***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Yoo may want to rury your Im in a good book and 
fcrget aboot what's going rn in 11-e wcrld aroond you. This can be a favorable day to go CMrJ,W"inµlmµµis. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-1\-fan:h 20): Ask fuends and relalives for oovice. Ooce you set yoor 
mind on what yoo are doing yoo s!DJ!d re able to make headway with cmfidence. This Clllrea~-.eday.**** 
Bir1hday Baby: Yoo will have '11mg beliefs and standards and you will expect 11-e sarre fiuntre~ywrae.to.Jt.Yruwill \\Uklmlnlmikea:nnb.llim;ID~i'iirrµmtllyru. 
Oieck out Eugenia's Web sites at a,;troodvice.com, eugeniala,;t.com, =etwork.com. 
aJPYRIGHT'Jll3 lJNIVERSALffiESSSYNl)CpJE 
-----------~-------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name -------------------------­
Address City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

PORTS 
Friday, March 7, 2003 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 

Streaking Irish look to make waves 

Irish center Teresa Borton shoots a layup In Notre Dame's most recent matchup with Pittsburgh. The lrlsh and Panthers face off tomorrow night. 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
Sixth-seeded Notre Dame is playing their best basketball at the right time of the season as they head into the their first round Big East Tournament game against No. 11 seed Pittsburgh Saturday at 8 p.rn. · 
The Irish, winners of seven of their last nine. are looking forward to the challenges awaiting them in Piscataway, 

,. N.J. "We're playing well right now and we're building momentum," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. " 7-2 in our last nine, 
Notre Dame beat Pittsburgh Feb. 26 77 -69. The Panthers are making their first Big East tournament appearance in three years and are 0-12 all-time against the Irish. The winner of the game will face No. 3 seed Villanova Sunday at 8 p.m. The Irish already defeated the Wildcats earlier this season on Jan. 25, 58-56. 
But right now, McGraw is more con­cerned about getting past the Panthers than looking ahead. 
"We need to focus on beating Pittsburgh," McGraw said. 
However, McGraw did admit that it's a 
no-lose situation if 
Notre Dame ends up 
there are a lot of posi­"We need to focus on playing Villanova. tives that come from The Wildcats have an
beating Pittsburgh." 

that." RPI ranking of six 
Notre Dame has had and are ranked No. at least one player step Muffet McGraw 18 and No. 20 in two up her game in all Irish coach national polls. 
seven wins. "I think everyone has had a good game for us

--
when we needed it," McGraw said. "Now we're just waiting for everyone to have a good game at the same time." Senior guard Alicia Ratay has been the spark plug for Notre Dame's recent run. The Lake Zurich, Ill., product has made big shots when the Irish have needed it the most. "She has really taken the load off of everybody else," McGraw said. "She's done a great job. We've done a good job of getting her the ball, too. She's always been there when we've needed a buck­et." Now the Irish hope to delve deep into the conference tournament. Awaiting them is a familiar foe in Pittsburgh. 
"If you beat 
[Villanova] that's 
great, but if you lose you don't lose all that much," McGraw said. 
In their last meeting against Pittsburgh at the Joyce Center, McGraw was very displeased with her teams play. After starting the game on a 15-3 run, Notre Dame found themselves tied at 19 midway through the first half. The Irish allowed Panther center Mandy Wittenmyer to score 23 points while guard Laine Selwyn added a double­double. 
Courtney LaVere led the Irish with 14 points. Notre Dame had five players score in double figures in that contest. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
MENS BASKETBALL 

Irish try to shake slump 
"If we haven't learned our such college basketball pow­
By CHRIS FEDERICO 

lesson after three losses, I ers as then No. 2 Texas, No. 9
Sports Writer 

don't know what it will take," Maryland and No. 10 
At a time of the year when Irish coach Mike Br.ey said of Marquette and reach the cov­most teams are hoping to his team's recent struggles. eted 20-win plateau in just 25 peak for the NCAA No. 16 Notre Dame (21-8, 9-games, the Irish are still all Tournament, 6 in the Big but assured a spot in the the Irish are East) has NCAA Tournament bracket. struggling to lost four of But Brey doesn't want to
r "If we haven't learned 
get through its last six leave the tournament seeding the end of our lesson after three games, solely in the hands of the the season. losses, I don't know what with its selection committee.· He For the only two wants his team to make a
it will take...

first time wins in statement at the end of the s i n c e that stretch season and in the Big East January Mike Brey coming Tournament to secure a high 2002, the over con­seed.
Irish coach

Irish have ference "After everything this team lost three, bottom­has done throughout season, straight dwellers they are not going to hang games, the most recent a 92-West Virginia and Virginia their hat on that," Brey said. 88 loss at the hands of No. 12 Tech. "We have to be ready for bat-Syracuse in front of a packed But after a hot start that crowd in the Joyce Center. saw Notre Dame knock off see HOYAS/page 18 
BASEBALL 

Trip to Florida should ease recent struggles 
and Minnesota, the Irish were
By BRYAN KRONK 

able to fend off No. 7 Wake
Sports Writer 

Forest in a 2-1, 13-inning affair. Pitcher J.P. Gagne threw Tan-seeking partygoers won't six shutout innings in relief of be the only Notre Dame stu­starter John Axford, who gave
dents in Florida over spring 
up one run in seven innings.
break. 

For his outstanding efforts ­
The Notre Dame baseball 
and after earning his first win 
team will take residence in of the season as a result ­
Jacksonville starting Saturday, Gagne was tabbed as the Big ,playing seven games in eight 
East Pitcher of the Week 
days over the break. 
Tuesday.

The Irish (3-4) kick off the Sunday's victory for the Irish 
series with a matchup with 
averted what would have been 
Vanderbilt at 3 p.m Saturday. 

the squad's first-ever five-game Notre Dame heads into this losing streak under head coach week of games coming off a 1-2 Paul Mainieri. Under his lead­
weekend at the Dairy Queen 
ership since 1995, the Irish Classic in Minneapolis last 
have only suffered a four-game
weekend. After coming up short against no. 16 Nebraska see FLORIDA/page 18 

MENS LACROSSE MENS AND WOMENS TRACK 

HOCKEY
FENCING MENS TENNIS 
Notre Dame at 

Notre Dame hosts Alex Wilson 
Notre Dame at Notre Dame at 

Notre Dame 5 North Carolina 
InvitatlonaI Northern MichiganMidwest Regional 

Michigan 2 Saturday 
Today and Saturday 
Championships 

Today and Saturday 
The Irish continue The Irish men and women welcome competition The Irish will look to 

Home ice advantage 
With the win over the their rigorous early 
from across the country who are all making a last­
Wolverines, the Irish schedule at Chapel Hill. 
qualify the maximum of is at stake in this week­

ditch effort to qualify for the national championships. 
12 fencers. 

got their first home win this season. 
end's series. 
page 22 page 22page 20 page 21 page 18 

<. 


