~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OlUME 38: ISSUE 39 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17,2003 

Trustees reject Hallahan's report 
By SHEILA FLYNN 
News Writer 
The Board of Trustees rejected a proposal present­ed Thursday by Student Go v e r n m e n t office r s t h at called for changes in the composition of the Campus Life Council. 
Student Body President Pat Hallahan and Vice President Jeremy Lao presented the report, "A New Attitude: Student Government and the 
Campus Life Council," which "When we 
suggested that the body's name be changed to "Student Life Council" and that its mem­bership be altered to include a more diverse array of rep­resentatives 
··... we can make things better at the University. ,, 
Pat Hallahan student body president 
all get together, we can make things better at the University," Hallahan said, s tatin g that changes must be made to ensure that the voice of the students is more effec­tively and 

from the faculty, administra­consistently heard. tion and student body. He complained of "stuff the 
administration does that we don't know about that we would want to be a part of." 
The Student Government officers told the Board they want an expanded role and more high-level dialogue because every decision made at the University either directly or indirectly affects the students. 
"Therefore, we feel that [for] every decision, we should have some type of 
see BOARD/page 6 

Game day aftermath costs money, time 
By KEVIN ALLEN 
News Writer 
After the echoes have been awoken and returned to rest, the teams have left the field and the Sea of Green has drained out of the gates, one sound still whis­pers through Notre Dame Stadium: the rustling of foil wrap­pers and the hollow sound of empty plastic cups rolling across concrete. 
In other words, after everyone leaves a Notre Dame -football game, one thing that is left behind is garbage -and lots of it. Outside the stadium the situation is much the same. Trash bins in the parking lots overflow with aluminum cans and litter of all kinds is sprinkled throughout campus. 
The University spends a lot of money and time on the cmnplex process of returning Notre Dame to a clean, litter-free campus after 
see STADIUM/page 4 


Tradition crackdown continues 
_ By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER News Writer 
Students who are caught bring­ing marshmallows into Notre Dame Stadium or throwing marshmallows or other objects during Saturday's game will again be ejected from the stadium and have their ticket books confiscated by stadium personnel. 
"There is nothing different in our enforcement, we are still going to be the marshmallow sheriffs," said Cappy Gagnon, coordinator of stadium personnel. 
Gagnon said the crackdown on the senior tradition of throwing marshmallows during half time began because students were throwing marshmallows with rocks, coins or other hard objects in them. in addition to throwing 
see TRADITION/page 6 


McCourt entertains crowd 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Editor 
Frank McCourt delivered the 20th annual Red Smith Lecture to a packed Carey Auditorium Thursday, leaving many laughing as he explained his storied writing career. 
McCourt, a high school English teacher, is best known for. his New York Times hard cover and paper back best seller "Angela's Ashes." 
McCourt said when he left Ireland at the age of 19, he knew he wanted to be a writer but did not trust himself to tell his own stories. It was not until after over 30 years of teaching students about sim­plicity and telling their own stories that his students inspired him to write his story­in the form of "Angela's Ashes." 
"I was a teacher, but more and more I wanted to be an 
see McCOURT/page 6 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM Security guard charged 
Clark terminated by the University 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Editor 
Timothy Clark, a Notre Dame security officer recently fired by the University, was arraigned earlier this week in Elkhart 
County for child battery on a Class B felony, said Elkhart County Prosecutor Curtis Hill. 
Hill said 


the  ca-se  is  Clark  
still  under  
investigation  B:nd  further  

charges may be·-filed by his office. 
The Elkhart Truth reported that Clark, 32, admitted to police he dropped and shook his infant son, Samuel Clark, between Sept. 29 and Oct. 6, causing a skull fracture and broken wrist, rib, leg and facial bone. The Truth report­ed that police did not believe the mother, Elizabeth Clark. was involved in the incident. 
The University originally put Clark on paid leave when he was arrested by the Elkhart County Sheriff's office Oct. 8 for assaulting his seven-week­
see CLARKipage 4 

CCC raises questions on money 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS Associate News Editor 
Funding cuts have fueled ques­tions about the allocations made by the Club Coordination Council to campus clubs. ­
Each year, the CCC is charged with the vast responsibility of allo­cating money to each of the clubs on campus. 
While the CCC does receive a large sum of money to divide between 200 student clubs, they often cannot meet each club's financial needs. This year, some clubs have seen their budgets cut from the amount they received la~t year. 
La'it spring, the CCC requested additional funding of approxi­mately $64,000 because accord-
see CCC/page 8 

page 2 Friday, October 17, 2003 .T
The' Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR PREDICTION FOR THIS WEEKEND'S GAME? 

A call for a change 

This week in many of the dorms and buildings on campus, state­ments regarding Notre Dame's sex­ual harassment/rape policy were put up in many visible places. 
While I 

believe that a Jonathan Retartha better under­standing of 
Assistant Scene 

what does 
Editor

and what does not con­stitute sexual harassment is cer­tainly a necessity on campus, I strongly disagree with one key point made at the end of the state­ment. The statement establishes the policy that all victims of sexual assault will not be prosecuted for parietals and drinking violations. 
I can certainly understand the motives for such a decision. Exempting victims from these vio­lations are meant to encourage vic­tims to not be afraid to step for­ward if something terrible should happen. Exemption from parietals accomplishes this task very well, especially if the victims were forced to stay against their will, or were drugged and/or unconscious as a part of the assault. 
However. their policy regarding exemption from alcohol violations is completely unfounded. 
Over 80 percent of rape cases involve alcohol. If the woman or man assaulted got plastered during the evening, they should absolutely be prosecuted for it. The drinks were not poured down their throats. 
Furthermifre, if they had not got­ten drunk, the very statistics I mentioned earlier would have dra­matically reduced the possibility of rape. Getting drunk on a first date just is not a good idea, and if Notre Dame insists on prosecuting alco­hol violations no matter what, less girls may be apt to drink on a first date, and there would be much less chance of assault. 
Also, this dangerous exemption opens the door to a possible slip­pery slope of having violators false­ly accuse people of rape just to avoid convictions. 
You may see that as an extreme possibility right now, but if placed in the situation, the desperation that sets_in can drive people to des­perate measures to save their own skins. 
The bottom line is that allowing alcohol exemption actually encour­ages the key factor in the majority of date rapes. 
I strongly recommend that the sexual harassment policy be revised to be consistent with the University's general alcohol policy. The current exemption has the pos­sibility of doing more harm than good. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Jonathan Retartha at jretarth@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact w at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 



Javier Arriaza Alejandro Arrlaza Ale Ramirez 
Freshman Freshman Freshman Dillon Morrissey Morrissey 
"We want more "Should have "/just want to cheerleaders. •• sold my ticket. •• score!" 
• 


Pier Park of the birds failed, city officials purchased a 2­year-old Border collie named Kate, specially trained to chase away geese. 
"We now have our park baok," Assistant City Manager Shane Reeside told the Detroit Free Press for a story "Vednesday. 
The black and white canine cost the city $3,500, and included training for the employees who work with her. 
It was money ·well spent, city officials say. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Museum to Chronicle History of Funerals 
FLETCHER, Ohio -When people walk into the Suber­Shively Funeral Home, they may soon get a history les­son. 
The home's operators, Bart and Roxanne Shively, plan to open a museum at the funeral home they bought two years ago. 
"We just thought it would be interesting for some peo­ple in the area to reflect back on how the funeral service has evolved,"· Bart Shively said on Wednesday of the hundreds of casket handles, burial garments and other items previous 
TODAY 
IX 




Mario Chiu  Claudio GuerroCastro  Dayna Vayhinger  
Freshman  Sophomore  Junior  
Morrissey  Siegfried  Lewis  
"Anyone need a  "Tailgate! Then  "so-o ifBrady  


ticket? Call me.·· 

owners collected over the past century. 
The museum will be housed in two rooms of the funeral home in this west­ern Ohio village about 35 miles north of Dayton. Admission will be free, and the couple hopes to open it by the end of next summer. 
Town Hires Dog to Keep Geese From Park 
GROSSE POINTE FARMS, Mich. -Officials have hired a new employee entrusted with the task of keeping a city park free of geese and the droppings they leave behind. 
After other attempts to rid 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
Ll.l 
:z: 
!(( 
Ll.l 

3: 
_. 
<C 
(.) 


.3 HIGH 55 
LOW 37 


40 
37 


HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

leave.·· Quinn starts. He's hot.,, 
IN BRIEF 
Friday night at midnight, join the ND Drumline for the Drummer's Circle -a great way to get pumped for an ND win over USC. The Drummer's Circle takes place in front of the Main Building. 
The men's and women's tennis team take on USC in a tennis exhibition today from 4 to 6 p.m. at the Courtney Courts. Rain location: Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Edna O'Brien. author of "The Country Girls" (1960), "House of Splendid Isolation" (1994). and "In the Forest" (2002) will speak today from 
4:30 to 6 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. This lecture is sponsored by the Keough Institute for Irish Studies. 
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart will hold a Blue Mass for police officers, firefight­ers, rescue workers and their families. The mass will be celebrated at 5:15 p.m. today. 
Blues legend John Garcia performs in concert tonight at Legends. Don't miss his soulful performance with a mesmerizing harmonica play­er, David Barrett. Doors open at 8:30 p.m., and tbe concert begins at 11:30 p.m. 
Comhaltas, a traditional Irish music and dance tour group, will play at Washington Hall tonight at 
8:00 p.m. For tickets, visit the Lafortune Box Office or call (574) 631-8128. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH LOW 

50 30 


Friday, October 17, 2003 
The Observer'+ NEWS page 3 

The Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame and Comhaltas Ceolt6irf Eireann present 
The vel)' best<i111Hsh Entertainment on armpus .at Notre Dame. 

I 


Comhaltas 31 stAnnuallnternation.c.tt·concertTour ofAmerica 






Former administrators considered for Portland 
Beauchamp or McDonald to replace Tyson as University of Portland president 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Ediror 
The University of Portland announced last week that it has narrowed its presidential search to former Notre Dame adminis­trators, a press release stated. 
Father E. 
William Beauchamp and Father J a m e s McDonald will be inter­viewed by the University of Portland Oct. 


26 to 29. The Beauchamp position was vacated this summer when Father David Tyson resigned his post after being elected provin­cial superior of the Indiana Province for the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
University of Portland spokesman John Furey said, "[fhe Board of Regents] hopes to make a decision by the end of the year, but there has been no firm decision [regarding the naming of a President]." 
Beauchamp, senior vice presi­dent at Portland, served as Notre Dame's executive vice president from 1987 to 2000 and is a mem­ber of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees and Board of Fellows. 
Beauchamp, who attended University of the Detroit as an undergraduate, received his law and divinity degrees from Notre Dame and served as both assis­tant rector and rector in Grace Hall, before joining the adminis­tration in 1980. He was ordained a priest of the Congregation of 

Holy Cross in 1982. 
McDonald, rector of S a i n t George's College in Santiago, Chile, a pri­mary and 

McDonald s e c o n d a r y 
school, was the­associate dean of the Notre Dame Law School from 1999-2000 and assistant dean from 1997-99. 
McDonald also was the assis­tant provincial of the Indiana Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross from 1994-97, associ­ate rector of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart from 1990-91 and assistant rector of Sorin Hall from 1984-85. McDonald received his undergraduate degree in modem languages and Program of liberal Studies and his masters of divinity degree from Notre Dame. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
October 18, 8PM 

Wh·t·tapshington HaU,h_Nottre Dame :11www.com a1as.com 


41& 4IL. 
,...... ~ 

Tickets $18 for adults, $8 forStudents Available through the Notre Dame Box Office (574) 631-8128 Crogan's Iris~ ImportStore (574) 243-1400 


Gigot Center to host competition 
By MATT BRAMANTI News Writer 
For the fourth straight year, the 
Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial 
Studies will host business plan 
competitions aimed at developing 
small-business awareness among 
students and alumni. 
As the nerve center of a rapidly expanding entrepreneurship pro­gram in the Mendoza College of Business, the Gigot Center has created a growing series of such competitions. This year's lineup includes contests focused on con­ventional new ventures, family­run businesses and social-oriented enterprises. 
Theresa Sedlack, program man­ager at the Gigot Center: said the competitions are becoming increasingly popular. 
"The numbers continue to grow," she said. "We had 70 par­ticipants two years ago and 9 5 last year." She added that Gigot staffers expect the growth to con­tinue. 
In the McCloskey Notre Dame Business Plan Competition, teams of undergraduate and graduate students, alumni and others sub­mit business ideas with the aim of capturing at least some of the $24,000 in prize money. Teams create short executive summaries, which are reviewed by a judging panel, consisting of 95 judges with experience in business. Sedlack said the large panel allows judges the time to look at each submis­sion in detail. 
The top teams will be invited to write full business plans with the aid of $300 planning software, donated by Palo Alto Software. The plans will include a more in­depth business model, detailed information about products and services, and fmancial projections. From those entries, the panel will select finalists, who will refine their entries with the help of men­tors. Finalists will present their proposals to the panel in April, at which time winners will be announced. 
The judging panel includes members of the IrishAngels, an elite group of Notre Dame alumni and friends with histories of entre­preneurial undertakings. Sedlack said that Angels will serve as advisers and mentors to the com­peting groups, particularly with student groups. · 
"It's a really wonderful use of the Notre Dame network and the Notre Dame family," she said. 
The McOoskey Competition has drawn business plans dealing with a wide variety of industries. Last year, the winning entry was CN Resource, a company that con­sults with local school districts to plan cafeteria menus and nutri­tion guidelines. Other entries included a university consulting firm, an aerial mapping service, a hedge fund and even a war-games simulator. Plans dealt \\ith busi­nesses on a local, national and international scale. 
"We continue to see a real diver­sity of business plans, and it's real­ly exciting," Sedlack said. 
The McCloskey Competition was established in 1999 by a gift from Tom McCloskey, a 1968 Notre Dame alumnus, and his wife Bonnie. The contest is. also spon­sored by Idea Works LLC, Palo Alto 
Software and Pace Global Energy 
Solutions. 
In addition, the Gigot Center is also holding a competition aimed at family businesses. The Dorothy Dolphin Notre Dame Family Business Plan Competition, now in its second year, invites family entrepreneurs to create a busi­ness or plan the future of existing ventures. Dave Hayes, the Gigot Center's director of family busi­ness enterprise, says that family­run businesses can benefit from careful planning. "The competi­tion encourages families to work together and plan for both busi­ness continuity and family involve­ment," Hayes said. 
Hayes lauded the competition, which was the first of its kind when it debuted last year. 
"It's a very natural fit because Notre Dame is all about family," he said. "It's the piece we thought was missing in our business plan competitions." 
The competition was created by a gift from Dorothy Dolphin, founder of Dolphin Staffing, a staffing agency in Mirmeapolis. 
The Gigot Center will also hold the Notre Dame Social Venture Plan Competition, which is similar to the other two, but deals with non-profit and social-oriented enterprises. Last year, finalists included an organization dealing with the preservation of tradition­al culture, a campus outreach program and a pharmaceutical ethics organization. Total awards for the competitions equal $40,000. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at · mbramant@nd.edu 

Local Contact: 1,11 Learn to Fly Proauctions 273·6080 
Additional support forthis show Is providedbyThe Collge ofArts and Letters and the Keough Institute ofIrish Studies 

Friday, October 17, 2003 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
president of the company, said he does not have exact figures on how much garbage his company collects from an average game, but he estimated the amount to be between 18 and 24 cubic yards of material. Best Sweeping is responsible for cleaning up the area between the inner wall of the stadium and Moose Krause Drive, which encircles the stadium. 
"(The clean-up] is divided up. Quite a few people work on pick­ing it up," Skinner said. "But in terms of litter, it's one of the biggest jobs we do." Skinner said his company's portion of the clean-up usually takes between five and six hours on Sunday morning, but that varies depend­ing on weather conditions. Best Sweeping also sweeps the inside of the stadiwn prior to the games to clear out trash that was missed from the previous game, as well as leaves and other debris. 
Due to limited manpower and the large volume of trash pro­duced by the football crowds, most of the material is sent to a landfill rather than being recy­cled. ''There's so much trash emit­ted from a game, there's really no way to sort it," said Brazo. 
According to Alan Bigger, direc­tor of Building Services, the con­cession stands at the stadium use large amounts of cardboard and most of that is recycled, but noth­ing else is sorted for recycling. 
Bigger said his department attempted to institute a game day recycling program during the 1998 season, but the project was unsuccessful. For each home game they set up 7 5 cardboard recycling containers around the stadium, clearly marked for plas­tic bottles and aluminum cans and contained only one round hole. Bigger said the hope was to catch recyclable items before fans entered the stadium, but almost all of the containers were com­pletely contaminated with food waste and other non-recyclables. The venture lost a significant amount of money because none of the collected recyclables could be sold, and the department has not attempted game day recycling since then. 
Bigger said Building Services would be willing to try recycling again, but budget constraints mandate that volunteers would be needed to help with sorting the material and transporting the receptacles to a central location after the game was over. 
Pat O'Hara, manager of Warehouse Services in the Building Services department, is in charge of the recycling pro­gram on campus and said his crew already handles a larger than usual amount of recyclables on football weekends just from residence halls and academic buildings. 
"It's a massive operation," O'Hara said in reference to han­dling the recyclables on football weekends. "That's basically all we do all day Monday." 
Recyclables are not unloaded during the weekends because the bins look unsightly on loading docks and most people do not work on the weekends. O'Hara said his crew prepares for the job by working from 5 a.m. until 9 
a.m. on the morning before a home game, placing trucks around campus in strategic loca­tions like the Hammes Bookstore 
· and the Morris Inn. 

Bigger said that a good portion of the recyclable aluminum from games ends up getting recycled through what he called a "subter­ranean operation." He said com­munity groups like Boy Scouts and church groups travel through the parking lots after the game has begun, collecting the aluminum cans. The cans can then be sold to the recycling ce.nter near down­town South Bend. Many fans also collect the plastic souvenir cups inside the stadium, he said. 
Contact Kevin Allen at kallen@nd.edu 
Clark 
continued from page 1 
old baby. Clark was 
employed by Notre Dame as a security officer. 
Though University spokesman Matt Storin said the University is no longer fielding matters related to Timothy Clark, he said, "There are two polices. When there is an investiga­tion of wrongdoing, gener­ally the person is put on unpaid leave. The second policy that comes into play is that if you don't show up · for three days without con­tacting the University or having a valid reason, you are terminated and that is germane to this case." 
Hill said a class B felony carries a presumptive sen­tence of 10 years in prison, which can be reduced to six years or be increased by a maximum of 10 additional years. 
Clark remains in the Elkhart County jail with a bond set at $80,000. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
SAY... 
'' 


Stadium 
continued from page 1 
a home football game. Several University departments, including Building Services, Landscape Services and the Athletic Department, collaborate with a multitude of outside organizations to make the clean-up efficient and effective. 
According to Dan Brazo, athletic facilities manager at Notre Dame Stadium, the cJean-up process begins well before the game is over. "After the first series, the stadium crew goes around the outside of the stadium and collects barrels and that trash is compact­ed," he said. ''Immediately [after the game], we have a contractor come in and they hand pick [up] all the trash." 
Brazo said that morning crews come in Sunday with leaf blowers to blow the smaller pieces of garbage, such as peanut shells and candy wrappers, into large condensed piles. The crews spend about five hours cleaning up on Sunday, starting at 7 a.m. and usually finishing around noon. 
Best Sweeping Specialists Inc. is one of the several companies con­tracted to assist in the football weekend clean-ups. TIID Skinner, 
'' 






eeseca e 
COFFEE &'vVtNE 
Proudly Serve 
Domestic &Imported Wine Cheesecake from The Cheesecake Factory Seattle Best's Coffee &The Republic of Tea Joseph ?chmidt's Chocolate from San Francisco 
Mon-Fri 73f'n·1opm/Sat 1~m1opm (Special Hours to Accommodate Events at Morris Performing Arts Center) 
413 North ~~in Street Downtown South Bend (Behind Morris Performing Arts Center) 
233·-cafe 
NOW Hiring 

Friday, October 17, 2003 CotvtPlLED FROtv1 THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bolivian Pres. pressured to resign 
LA PAZ, Bolivia-Tens of thousands of Bolivians rallied to demand the presidents resignation Thursday, after protest leaders rejected the government's offer to compro­mise over a gas export plan that triggered weeks of deadly street clashes. 
Soldiers guarded the presidential palace as columns of farmers, workers, miners and indigenous groups descended on La Paz, set­ting off dynamite and wielding sticks demanding the presidents resignation. Others waved the rainbow-colored flag that is the symbol of Bolivia's Indian community. 
Over the past three weeks, demonstrators have set up roadblocks and battled police in a crisis pitting the ruling elite against a poor Indian majority over market reforms that have failed to narrow the gap between rich and poor in South America's poorest country. 
Human rights groups say some 65 people have died, most of them at the hands of police and military. The government has not confirmed the deaths. 
Swiss diplomat kidnapped, raped 
NEW DELHI -A Swiss diplomat was abducted and raped by two men as she left the International Film Festival in the Indian capital, New Delhi. 
Police mounted a citywide search for the suspects Thursday, offered a $1,110 reward for information leading to their capture and tightened security for the festival. 
"We do not know how this can happen in a city like Delhi," Press Trust of India news agency quoted Swiss Ambassador Walter Gyger as saying. "We hope the criminals are arrested soon and punished." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Republicans split on energy bill 
WASHINGTON -House and Senate Republicans were unable to reach an agree­ment Thursday on a handful of conflicts that have blocked agreement on energy legisla­tion, despite the direct intervention of top GOP leaders. 
"We're really getting close," Sen. Pete Domenici, R-N.M., chairman of the energy talks, told reporters after what had been billed as a make-or-break meeting. 
Rep. Billy Tauzin, R-La., said a final pack­age is "within a hair's breadth" of being approved. While not elaborating, they said several issues remained to be ironed out. 

Killer admits to additional victims 
HARRISONVILLE, Mo. -A man convicted of killing three women in Kansas pleaded guilty Thursday to five more murders in Missouri, where some of the victims' bodies were found stuffed into barrels in a rented storage locker. . 
John Robinson Sr., 59, avoided trial and a possible death sentence in Missouri by admitting that he killed the two women and teenage girl whose bodies were found in the storage locker, as well as two other women whose bodies were never found. 
William Godfrey, whose 19-year-old daugh­ter, Paula Godfrey, has been missing since 1984, struggled to compose himself in court Thursday before describing her as an excel­lent student and ice skater. She was especial­ly close to her mother, who died 10 years ago of cancer, Godfrey said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Amstrong cycles through IN 
INDIANAPOLIS -Lance Armstrong and a team of cyclists crossing the country to raise awareness for cancer research stopped Thursday in the city where aggressive treat­ment saved his life. 
Armstrong, who will seek a record sixth straight Tour de France victory next year, joined other cancer survivors to promote clinical trials like the one at Indiana University Medical Center that rid his body of the disease and allowed him to return to cycling. 




U.N. adopts resolution on Iraq 
Security Council unanimously approves U.S. resolution in huge victoryfor Powell 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -The Security Council unani­mously adopted a resolu­tion Thursday aimed at attracting more troops and money to help stabilize Iraq and speed its inde­pendence -a diplomatic victory for Washington after the bitter dispute over the war. 
The resolution's success hinges on whether it gen­erates additional funds for Iraq's reconstruction at next week's donors confer­ence in Madrid, Spain, and whether countries decide to send new forces to Iraq. 
In a dramatic shift, France, Germany and Russia -key opponents of the. U.S.-led war against Iraq -supported the reso­lution. But they immedi­ately ruled out any new military or financial help, reflecting ongoing concern about the speed with which Washington would transfer authority to Iraqis. 
The resolution gives U.N. authorization to a multina­tional force under unified command that will be led by the United States and calls for troop contribu­tions as well as "substan­tial pledges" from the 191 

U.N. member states at the Madrid donors conference lution might get only the The resolution makes opponent of the U.S.-led on Oct. 23-24. minimum nine "yes" votes clear that the U.S.-led war. 
The 15-0 vote was a needed for adoption. occupation of Iraq is tem­Not wishing to revive the coup for Secretary of State A day earlier, France, porary and states that "the bitter divisions over the Colin Powell, who called Russia and Germany failed day when Iraqis govern war itself, virtually all the outcome "a great to persuade the United themselves must come council members said they achievement" -although States to include in the quickly." It urges the U.S.­wanted council unity on he cautioned that the reso­resolution a timetable for led Coalition Provisional the next steps in Iraq, even lution should not be seen restoring Iraq's sovereign­Authority now running the if the resolution didn't as "opening the door to ty. Instead, the draft calls country to let Iraqis govern meet all their demands. troops." for the U.S.-appointed the country "as soon as "The outcome is a clear 
Powell led six weeks of Iraqi Governing Council -practicable." demonstration of the will intense U.S. lobbying and in cooperating with the The United States also of all the members of the worked the phones from coalition and a U.N. repre­won backing from China Security Council to place the early hours sentative -to provide the and Pakistan, and finally the interests of the Iraqi Wednesday. When he Security Council by Dec. 15 and most surprisingly, people above all other con­launched his final diplo­with a timetable for draft­from Syria, the only Arab siderations," Secretary­matic blitz, U.S. officials ing a new constitution and nation on the Security General Kofi Annan said were concerned the reso-holding elections. Council and a staunch after the vote. 


ENGLAND 

World's Anglican leaders threaten split 
over gays would not have to super­Scripture, said the primates had 
Associated Press 
vise congregations that rejected their issued "an honest statement of where 
LONDON-The world's Anglican views. we are, a statement of our willingu leaders piled pressure Thursday on Presiding Bishop Frank Griswold, ness to work together, and our recog­churches in New Hampshire and head of the U.S. Episcopal Church, nition of the obstacles to our working their openly gay bishop-elect, warn­joined in the statement. American together." · ing that if he takes office it could conservatives, who are close to revolt Archbishop Drexel Gomez, primate shatter a global communion deeply over their church's growing accept­of the Province of the West Indies and torn over homosexuality. ance of gay relationships, took that as a sharp critic of Robinson's election, 
"If his consecration proceeds, we a hopeful sign. said the primates had "studied, recognize that we have reached a Griswold said he intended to be in reflected, prayed and worked togeth­crucial and critical point in the life of New Hampshire on Nov. 2 for the er, and we have done so in almost the Anglican Communion," the lead­consecration of the Rev. V. Gene brutal honesty." ers of 37 national churches said after Robinson as bishop -but he said i:Joth sides in the bitter debate two days of emergency, closed-door "anything could happen" before then. found reasons to cheer the statement, talks. "We have had to conclude that Asked if he would urge Robinson to and primates left the meeting with the future of the communion itself withdraw, Griswold said: "I might do their fragile association still intact. will be put in jeopardy." many things." Supporters of gay clergy took heart 
The Anglican primates issued a Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan that the primates agreed to appoint a statement that also told church lead­Williams, who is personally sympa­commission to begin "urgent and ers to start thinking about new struc­thetic to gays but has pledged to deep theological and legal reflection" tures of "episcopal oversight" so that uphold the church's teaching that on ways out of the impasse, and to bishops on one side of the debate homosexual acts are contrary to report within a year. 
page 6 Friday~ October 17, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS 
Board 
continued from page 1 
say whatsoever in that deci­sion-making process," Lao said. 
The Board, however, main­tained that the bylaws and structure already set forth for the CLC by the University is adequate for its purpose. 
One board member said she was "impressed with the quantity and quality of reso­lutions" passed by the CLC, while another said he had reviewed the bylaws outlin­ing the body and had found them well conceived and thoughtful. 
The Observer has a policy of not attributing quotes to specific members of the board. 
Hallahan, however, said the .CLC very often ignores subjects of particular inter­est to students, citing stu­dent government's attempts to address RA orientation policies and teacher course evaluations as examples. 
Board members refuted this claim by pointing out that he, as chairperson of the CLC, has the power to set the agenda and invite the members for discussion. 

The Board also said they were "disappointed" with the Student Government's choice of topic for their presenta­tion. Last May, Board mem­bers had recommended that Student Governement re­examine and restructure itself to increase its effec­tiveness, and they said they had expected a more exten­sive report at this meeting. 
"Is this your only focus ­to get student voice heard?" one member asked. 

"I was a little disappointed to see that you did a report on the CLC," another Board member said, reminding the student officers that last year's Board meeting had spoken to them about "the need to look at the whole Student Government." 
"I really was hoping that that's where your efforts would go," she said. 

Hallahan, however, said the restructuring was a process, one in which this report figured as the first step. · 
He asked_ for Board recom­mendations and advice about how to further improve Student Government. "Let us know where you feel our plac-e should be." Hallahan said. 
Board members, however, rejected all the student offi­cers' requests and proposals, continuing their support of the old structures and advis­ing Student Government to eradicate inefficiencies in other ways. 
"It's bothersome to me that the student body president is coming to us and saying, 'Where do we fit in?'" one B_oard member said. 
Af'te r the presentatio n, however, Hallahan said he appreciated the criticism and considers it extremely con­

structive  for  Student  
Government.  
"We had  a  very, very hon­ 

est dialogue, and we have a very good direction to go from here," Hallahan said. 
"They were very harsh, and I thou g h t they w e r e great," he said. "This is where we are at; this is where we need to be." 
Contact Sheila Aynn at sflynn2@nd.edu. 

way in the world and in writ­on the head," McCourt said. his own stories. As he contin­ing," McCourt said. McCourt said his closeness ued to find his own voice, he

McCourt 
continued from page 1 
author," McCourt said. "They said I could write a book. I do what I am told and that's why I am here." 
While the best selling author and New York high school English teacher enter­tained the audience with his witticisms and anecdotes, he detailed his desire to write since a young age. 
McCourt spoke of his Irish schoolmasters who. empha­sized grand sentences and reprimanded him for his sirn­plistic writing. 
"You have to find your own 
McCourt said his family was so poor he scraped plastic and glue from discarded wall­paper to chronicle his loosely based version of Irish history and had to steal his family's only pen and hide his wallpa­per from being thrown in the fire. 
His schoolmaster discov­ered the wallpaper at school and told him he could not write on wallpaper and.gave him two composition note­books. 
"He made me uneasy because he acted differently than normal school masters who weren't supposed to pat you on the head but rap you with this schoolmaster ended when he read aloud to the class his version of Irish his­tory, leading many classmates to tease him as th~ school­master commented on his imaginative version of history. 
"Language was all we had and it was free . . . Our tradi­tion was oral and later liter­ary," McCourt said. 
He said he struggled to write his own story because his teachers never empha­sized writing your own sto­ries or about your communi­ty. 
In college, McCourt said he failed when he tried to imi­tate others instead of telling recorded stories in over 40 years of notebooks. 

Joking about this collection, McCourt said, "I keep these to remind myself what an ass I was." 
McCourt finally found a way to write his own story with "Angela's Ashes" and is cur­rently working on book that chronicles teaching in New York. ­
"When I was a high school English teacher trying to get [students] to write, I said 'When in doubt, write a story,"' McCourt said. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu. 






ege ­
Congratulations on a successfuI start to your first year as a Student Government Association! 

-·-............... ---,-,-------------~----................. -­
dha:n/Zyouforyour v-Eo~ltafity / 
~Saint Mary;s College 
Board of Government 



Stop in on Saturday October 18th, 2003 
Before the USC gante! 
You can pick up the applications you will need andtake them home over FALL BREAK! 
. 


Tum ~ them in when classes resume and have your housing set up for 2004-2005! 
We also have floor plansavailable for the 2004 spring semester.. www.turtlecreeknd.con1 info@turtlecreeknd.com 
,**we are now renting single one bedroom and studio's for 2003-2004** 

Friday, October 17, 2003 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks Dow 
9,791.72 -11.33
Jones 
Up: Same: Dcwrr Composite Volume: 
1,902 193 4,~~~0 1,365.886,976 \;~/ 
NASDAQ I ,950.14 +11.04 NYSE 5,952.25 +16.64 AMEX 1,020.94 +3.40 S&PSOO 1,050.07 +3.31 NIKKEl (Tokyo) 11,044.32 +19.17 FTSE 100 (London) 4,339.70 -29.10 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN IPRICE 
SIRIUS  SAT RADIO  (SIRI)  +8.12 +0.18  2.37  
SUN  MICROSYS  (SUNW)  -4.30-0.16  3.63  
ORACLE  CORP(ORCL)  -1.24-0.15  11.97  
INTEL CORP  (INTC)  +1.48 +0.47  32.23  
MICROSOFT CP  (MSFT)  +0.55 +0.16  29.23  
Treasuries  
3o:...YEAR BOND  +0. 23 +0. 12  53.08  
10-YEAR Nai'E  +1.32+0.58  44.55  
5-YEAR Nai'E  +3.31+1.09  34.02  
3-MONTH BILL  -0.11-0.01  9.02  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE  {$/bbl.)  -0.20  31.66  

GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.10373.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -3.0088.575 
Exchange Rates YEN 109.9 EURO 0.8631 POUND 0.5979 CANADIAN $ 1.318 
IN BRIEF 
NYSE to fine trading firms 
NEW YOHK -The New York Stock Exchange will discipline and seek tens of mil­lions in fines against five floor-trading firms as part of a widening probe into improper trad­ing that may have cost investors millions. 
The world's largest stock exchange said Thursday it will seek to compensate investors after the NYSE investigation, which found the specialist firms ignored their primary duty to directly match buy and sell orders when possi­ble and instead, intervened from their own account for a profit. 
The exchange also said it would seek improvements in the self-monitoring and start implementing surveillance software next week as a deterrent. The probe examined trades Jan. 1, 2000 through Dec. 31, 2002, and found suspect activity in about two billion shares, which is slightly more than a single day's vol­ume. 
Chicago company to buy local mall 
FORT WAYNE, Ind.-A Chicago-based real estate investment trust is buying the city's largest shopping center. 
General Growth Properties announced Wednesday that it plans to acquire Glenbrook Square in Fort Wayne as part of a $550 mil­lion, three-mall deal. 
General Growth said it expects to complete the purchase of the 1.2 million square-foot Glenbrook Square and The Maine Mall in South Portland, Maine, by Oct. 31. It has already acquired Sikes Senter in Wichita Falls, Texas. 
Glenbrook was built in 1966 and is managed by Chicago-based Landau Heyman, which also is a part owner. L.S. Ayres, J .C. Penney, Marshall Field's and Sears are the anchor ten­ants. 
Buying the three malls gives General Growth "the opportunity to build upon the already strong performance of three successful prop­erties," General Growth CEO John Bucksbaum said. 
The company said the deal is expected to provide General Growth with about $39.1 mil­lion in additional net operating income in 2004. 
Tween shoppers a tough sell 

Pre-teen shopping power grozvs, but finicky tastes are difficult to predict 
Assodated Press 

NEW YORK -Girls like 
eight-year-old Kelsie 
Templin are a challenge 
for the toy industry. 

Unlike boys in the 8-to­12 age group, who seem easy to please with video games and action toys, Kelsie and her peers are in a fuzzy, in-between stage. Kelsie, for example, likes to collect stuffed animals, but she also enjoys more grown-up activities like shopping at Claire's Stores, creating picture frames for her room and listening to tunes by pop star singers Christin a Aguilera and Britney Spears. 
"I don't like action figure toys and babyish dolls," said Kelsie, who lives in Pembroke Pines, Fla. 
This holiday season, toy makers and retailers are making a big effort to cap­ture the hearts of girls like Kelsie, known in the indus­try as "tweens." 
"Everyone is trying to figure out how they can get her away from Limited Too and Claire's and get her into the toy stores," said Chris Bryne, an independ­ent toy analyst, noting girls' ever-growing interest in clothes. 
With the tween in mind, K-B Toys is expanding beyond toys and selling for the tween girl to put in ing to Margaret Whitfield, such as Mattei's Ello and room decor like lava lamps our stores," said Susan senior vice president at Lego's Clikits have also and room beads. Toys "H" McLaughlin, a Toys "R" Us Brean Murray, an invest­been popular with tweens. Us Ine., whose "R" Zone ·spokeswoman. ment firm. One problem manufac­featuring video games has One strategy for manu­The tween market turers and retailers have is become a magnet for boys, faeturers is to try to lure aecounts for a significant developing more sophisti­is trying out a store-within­tweens back to dolls. The 20 percent of total tradi­cated toys for twnens ­a-store that has the popu­fashion doll market has tional toy sales, which but not so sophisticated lar pouty-Iipped Bratz dolls become particularly com­reached $21.3 billion last that thr~y're inappropriate at its Times SquarA loca­petitive, with MGA year, according to NPD for young girls. tion. Entertainment, the maker Group, a market informa­Some analysts believe 
"We're experimenting in of Bratz dolls, battling tion company in Port the lukewarm response to uncharted [areas]," said Mattei Inc., which manu­Washington, N.Y. Mattei's Flavas is due to Fred Hurley, vice president factures Barbie. Many of the products the popularity of Bratz, but and divisional merehandise Mattei is trying to keep aimed at tweens have done others think Havas may be manager of K-B. girls from giving up their well since they arrived in just too edgy. The Flava 
Toy makers, meanwhile, Barbies and defecting to stores over the past few dolls, which wear such have come up with more Bratz. Last year, Matte I months, analysts said. urban fashions as low­funky-looking dolls, arts introduced My Scene Hasbro Inc. has had suc­slung wide leg pants, come and erafts kits and prod­Barbie, which has an edgi­cess with Video Now, a with their own graffiti wall. ucts such as fur-trimmed er style than Barbie. This portable personal video "Their dothes are torn. CD players and flashy summer, the company player, and Thintronics, a They shouldn't be for pre­bikes that appeal to unveiled Flavas, hip-hop new line of phones and teen girls," said Elissa tweens. inspired dolls that so far radios. Tennant, 9, from Wicklisse, 
"There's more out there are selling slowly, accord-New arts and crafts kits Ohio, who prefers Bratz. 

Guidant Corp. reports drop in profits 
Thomson First Call had expected. he was encouraged by the company's
Associated Press 

Guidant stock was up 61 cents to overall sales growth. 
INDIANAPOLIS -Medical device close at $48.50 on the New York "The company contihues to sustain maker Guidant Corp. on Thursday Stock Exchange. a high level of profitability as our reported a 26 percent drop in its Sales of implantable defibrillators, sales mix shifts from U.S. end-user third quarter profit, as its revenue which electrically jolt the heart back stent sales to implantable defibrilla­from heart stent sales declined. into rhythm in case of cardiac arrest, tors," he said. "Our gross margin for 
For the July-September period, rose 48 percent from a. year ago. the third quarter represents year­Guidant said it earned $129.1 mil­But Guidant reported a 14 percent over-year improvement and contin­lion, or 41 cents per share, compared drop in worldwide sales of its bare­ues to be at the high end of our his­with a profit of$175.1 million, or 57 metal stents -tiny mesh-metal torical range." cents per share, a year ago. tubes inserted into coronary arteries The stent market is shifting with 
Sales rose to $937.8 million from to prop them open after surgery. the introduction of next-generation $813.1 million. U.S. sales of those stents declined stents that are coated with slow­
Excluding one-time expenses, the 26 percent during this year's second release drugs to prevent scar tissue Indianapolis-based company posted a quarter as Johnson & Johnson this from forming new blockages. $183 million profit, or 58 cents per year won federal approval for a new Guidant is behind competitors in share. That was two cents a share drug-coated stent. introducing a drug-coated stent, and more than analysts surveyed by Guidant CEO Ronald Dollens said expects to reach the market in 2005. 
page 8 



Tradition 
continued from page 1 

other objects. Gagnon said patrons were injured by flying objects in the past when and that NBC lodged a complaint that its camera equipment might be damaged. 
Stadium personnel ejected between 12 and 15 students dur­ing the Michigan State game for either possessing or throwing marshmallows. Afterwards, some students complained that they were unaware that there was such a stiff penalty for marshmallows. To combat this problem, Gagnon said an announcement would be made during the game, probably before half time, stating that throwing objects is prohibited. 
Gagnon said that his ushers, in addition to Notre Dame Security/Police officers, would be looking for "ringleaders" during half time -students who are throwing a large amount of marshmallows. However, he would not rule out the possibility that a student who threw just one marshmallow could be eject­ed. 
"Might we get you in the round up even if you only threw one marshmallow? It's possible, we are concerned about injuries," Gagnon said. 
"We don't want to be the anti­fun police, it is just getting worse and worse each game ... throw­ing stuff is just juvenile." 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu. 
Friday, October 17, 2003 

The Observer + NEWS 
CCC 
continued from page 1 
ing to the request printed in the budget "over 45 clubs did not sub­mit a budget to the council" before the CCC had to make their request to the FMB. The CCC was only granted an extra $20,000. 
This year, the CCC was allocated $286,258, including the additional $20,000, which was up from last year's allocation of $258,194. 
The money the CCC receives comes from the budget the Financial Management Board develops every spring. The total amount the FMB can allocate to Student Union groups comes from the every student's Student Activity fee and from part of the profits made by The Shirt. The CCC is guaranteed 36.75 percent of this total amount every year, but 
they can request additional money. "The CCC interviews all the clubs and compiles a single
Bridgeport Diocese request for money from the FMB based on the club requests. We always request more money than it is possible to get," said CCC

will pay $21 million 
Associated Press 
BRIDGEPORT; Conn. -The Bridgeport Diocese announced a $21 million set­tlement Thursday with 40 people who said they were molested by priests as chil­dren, and the bishop publicly apologized to the victims. 
The payout is believed to be the third-biggest settle­ment by a U.S. diocese since the scandal that has rocked the Roman Catholic Church 
broke in Boston in 2002. 
"Let me express my per­sonal remorse and the remorse of the eQtire diocese for the harm that was caused in the lives of so many indi­viduals," Bishop William Lori said. He said the settlement is an effort to "do what is right, just and compassion­ate." 
Lori said all but one of the 16 priests named in the set­tlement are no longer active in the church. 
President Seth O'Dmmell. 
Despite the increase in the CCC's fund, some clubs' budgets were still cut from last year. 
Eric Wooldridge, president of Circle K, said the club's allocation was cut 9 percent from last year. He said that 1he amount of money they received from the CCC was not enough to cover all their costs for the year. 
"We were able to get a donation from a former member of ours, and we've been able to cover all our plans, but not exclusively from the CCC allocation," Wooldridge said. 
According to O'Donnell, these cuts aren't the fault ofthe CCC. 
"It's hard to compare lac;t year to this year because this is the first year we've had a performing arl<> division, and it looks like there is less money per division," he said. 'There are a ton of different vari­ables [for allocating money], and there is an ever increasing num­ber ofclubs asking for money." 
This year, according to O'Donnell, about 20 new clubs requested money from the CCC. Because of this, O'Donnell said that in addition to the extra money the CCC granted these new clubs, it needed to increase the money placed into its contingency fund. 
"Beeause there are so many new clubs, we allocated more money to our contingency fund this year so that our new clubs wouldn't just die out," said O'Donnell. "All clubs are eligible for money from these [contin­gencyJ funds." So far about five clubs have appealed for more money, according to O'Donnell. 
Wooldridge says Circle K plans to appeal for more funds. 
"We plan on appealing for money for at leac;t one project with another club," said Wooldridge. There are no specific plans yet for this event. 
At the Campus Wide Fair on Oct. 4, any club participating and pro­viding food was allotted $150. O'Donnell would not specifY where the money for the food allotment came from, though he did say that the event was co-sponsored by the Office of the Student Body President. 
Additionally, the CCC instituted a new policy this year that required all clubs to internally raise addi­tional funds of at least 20 percent of their allocation from CCC. According to Jaclyn Ballotta, chair of the CCC's social service division, most clubs can do this by charging dues for their club members, but social service clubs generally do not charge dues. 
"The main reason [for the 20 percent mquirement] is that as we get more clubs, we are requiring that they do some sort of fundrai<>­ing, so that they actively look for money in other areas," she said. "Clubs in other areas are required to charge dues, but we don't feel like people should have to pay to do service." 
Ballotta acknowledges that it may be hard for a service club to raise money, but maintains that it is not something clubs cannot do. 
"I agree that it is difficult for service clubs to fundraise," Ballota said. "It doesn't have to be too much of a hardship if they arc pretty proactive. We're more than willing to help in any way, shape or form." 
Ballotta said that if a club has difficulties raising money, they can contact the CCC for help, but she says they have not received any great concerns from clubs on the issue. 
Concerning the allocation for clubs in her division, Ballotta said, "We try to give the clubs as much as we possibly can . . . We try our best to match what they got last year." 
However, O'Donnell said that there is no rule regarding consis­tency in allocations. 
"There is no policy of matching any previous allocation," he said. "Every year, a club must go through the same process ... The CCC always will request the amount of money it needs to best fund clubs. We arc here to help clubs as much as possible." 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at 
mreynold@nd.edu. 


Transportation to O'Hare & Midway Airports 
Convenient • Affordable • Reliable 

Special Express buses to and from the airports for Fall Break! 
Call for details 


Call for our daily schedule 
The way to go to the 

(574) 254-5000 or 1-800-248-TRIP
Coach USA~ airports! 
Friday, October 17, 2003 page9
The Observer + NEWS 



Progress made in CIA investigation 
Associated Press 
"From conflicts of interest to 
inexplicable delays. the 
WASHINGTON -Attorney actions so far of the attorney General John Ashcroft said general and the Justice Thursday that progress is Department make it far less being made in the investiga­likely that the culprit will be tion into the leak of a CIA found," said Sen. Charles undercover officer's name. Schumer, D-N.Y. 
Ashcroft repeated that he President Bush and Ashcroft has not ruled out any option. have repeatedly expressed 
including appointment of an outside spe­cial counsel to run the investi­gation. a move Bush adminis­tration critics say is neces­sary to ensure the probe is thorough. 
"I am direct­ing and will do everything within my power to make sure that this investigation is professional, thorough, prompt and 
..From conflicts of interest to inexplicable delays. the actions so far of the attorney general·and the Justice Department make it far less likely that the culprit will be found.·· 
Charles Schumer senator 
confidence that a team of career Justice Department prosecutors and FBI agents will uncover who leaked the name of Valerie Plame, a CIA under­cover officer married to for­m e r Ambassador Joseph Wilson. 
Ashcroft said the team is making progress in the case, although he provided no 

complete." Ashcroft told reporters. ··This is a matter of great concern to me. Leaks are a serious matter." 
Democrats contend that Ashcroft should appoint an outside special counsel or, at the very least, recuse himself from involvement in the inves­tigation. 
details. 

Wilson has said he believes Bush administration officials leaked his wife's name to syn­dicated columnist Robert Novak in an attempt to dis­credit his contentions that the White House was manipulat­ing intelligence to justify war with Iraq. 

: &~Fs~l CO;I't~Mt $HO;P : 
:33~ W MISHAWAKA AVENUE: I MISHAWAKA, IN 46&45 I : PH (574) ;25CJ~4807 : 
I!XTENOfO HALLOWfEN HOURS:I
I  ·~  I  
1  MON.  -FRI. 9AM TO 8PM  1  
:  SAT. 9AM TO i'PM  :  

:wrfH IHIS VJP. COUPON YOU CAN: ~£110% OF ONE COSfU~E RENfAll~ 
-------~---------~ 
Church marks Pope's anniversary 

Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY -An ailing Pope John Paul II celebrated his 25 years as pontiff on Thursday, asking tens of thousands of pil­grims, his admiring Polish coun­trymen and the men who help run his church to pray for him, saying his future rested in the hands of God. 
The festivities, made bitter­sweet by the pope's obvious ail­ments. highlighted John Paul's role as one of the most influential religious figures of the last centu­ry as he reached a milestone matched by only three of his predecessors. 
At least 50,000 people packed St. Peter's Square for an anniver­sary Mass that began at 6 p.m. ­about the same time a quarter­century ago that white smoke from a Vatican chimney signaled that a Polish cardinal named Karol Wojtyla had been elected the first non-Italian pope in 455 years. 
As the sun set over the square, the crowd broke into applause when a weary-looking John Paul was wheeled to the altar, dressed in golden vestments and a jew­eled miter, while a choir sang hymns. 
He smiled after the greeting from the dean of the College of Cardinals, Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, who praised the pope for his tireless work and his endurance of .. criticism and insults." 
..You turned to young and old, rich and poor, powerful and hum­ble, and always showed, accord­ing to the example of Jesus Christ, a particular love for the poor and the defenseless," Ratzinger said. 
The 83-year-old pope, who suf­fers from Parkinson's disease, read only portions of his prepared remarks, including a prayer, and appeared pained at times. He spoke in a strong voice during his homily, but began slurring his words later in the two-hour serv­ice. 
"I renew, in the hands of Mary, beloved Mother, the gift of myself, of the present and the future: everything will be done according to your will. Supreme Pastor, stay among us so that we can proceed with you securely to the house of the Father." 
And in a portion read by an aide, John Paul said, ··Help the pope and all those who want to serve Christ." 
As the Mass ended on a floodlit square, John Paul asked for a closing hymn dedicated to the Virgin Mary, for whom he has 
always had a special devotion. Official congratulations poured in from overseas. 
"The United States and the world are better because of his dedication to sharing his wisdom, guidance and faith," President Bush said in a statement saluting the pope. 
"For the past 25 years, His Holiness has led worldwide efforts to develop a new culture of life that values and protects the lives of innocent children waiting to be born. He has also brought the love of the Almighty to people of all ages, particularly those who suffer or live in poverty, or who are weak and vulnerable." 
Despite his physical limitations, the pope has pressed on. 
Earlier Thursday, he appeared before cardinals to sign an exhor­tation on the role of bishops. delivering his speech in a weak and slurred voice and relying on an aide to read parts of it. John Paul was joined at the Mass by 149 cardinals, as well 28 of the 30 recently named cardinals who will be installed next week. 
At a meeting of cardinals Wednesday, a top Vatican cardi­nal, Bernadin Gantin of Benin, effectively quashed speculation John Paul might retire, saying popes serve for life. 


Hockey vs. Bo·wling G rccny~ "Shake the Joyce" 
Friday October 17th~ @7:30pm Enter through Gate 3 of the JACC 
•FREE 
milk jug noise makers 

•Chance 
to win ND vs. USC Football tickets! 


*FREE admission for all ND students* ** visit und.com promo's and giveaway link 
Friday, October 17, 2003 

page 10 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Friday, October 17, 2003 page 11
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Ferry investigation centers on pilot 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The investiga­tion into the Staten Island ferry wreck that killed 10 passengers focused Thursday on whether the ship's pilot blacked out and slumped over the throttle before the vessel crashed into a con­crete pier. 
City Councilman Michael McMahon, after a briefing from city emergency and transporta­tion officials, said the crash may have been related to the pilot's health and medication he was taking for a possible blood-pres­sure problem. 
The pilot, Assistant Captain Richard Smith, attempted suicide after the crash by slitting his wrists and shooting himself with a pellet gun, police said. 
"The assistant captain at the controls collapsed," McMahon said. "By the time the other cap­tain could get control of the ship, it was too late." 
The 310-foot ferry slammed into a concrete pier as it approached the Staten Island shore in choppy, wind-swept waters Wednesday afternoon, ripping a giant hole along its right side and severing the limbs of three passengers. Some pas­sengers leaped into the water. 
The crash left more than 60 people hospitalized, eight in criti­cal condition. The dead, one woman and nine men, ranged in age from 25 to 52. 
There was one bit of good news: A missing woman, pre­sumed to have died in the water, turned up safe at a friend's house. police said. 
The fractured ferry sat at the docks Thursday as thousands of commuters boarded boats for the morning rush hour. 
"If you look at any photograph of a terrorist attack on a bus or train in the Middle East, that's your idea of what it looks like," Staten Island Borough President James Molinaro said. 
Witnesses said the vessel appeared to speed up as it approached the shore. A source close to the probe, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the captain told investigators that Smith "slumped forward" on the controls in a way that could have made the boat accelerate toward the pier. 
Blood samples were taken from Smith and the rest of the crew. Early test results on Smith indicated alcohol was not a fac­tor, according to a high-ranking law enforcement, source speak­ing on condition of anonymity. Authorities were still investigat­ing whether prescription drugs played a role, the source said. 
Alan Abramson, an attorney for Smith, issued a statement that said only: "The family and all concerned hope that people will not rush to judgment. Their prayers go out to all the victims." 
Smith, 55, was a 15-year ferry veteran whose record gave no indication of a blood-pressure problem, said City Transportation Commissioner Iris Weinshall. Smith remained hospitalized in critical condition. 
The investigation, led by the National Transportation Safety Board, was also looking into whether the pilot and captain both should have both been in the pilot house as the vessel approached the dock. Under city Transportation Department pro­cedures, that typically happens, although it is not a Coast Guard requirement. 
"If the policy of the Department of Transportation was imple­mented at the time of the acci­dent, we don't know," said NTSB chairwoman Ellen Engleman. 
McMahon expressed skepti­cism that anyone had been close to Smith: "It's hard to believe that someone who was right there could not gain control of the ship." 
Smith spoke with police on Wednesday, but had not yet been interviewed in depth, Engleman said. The NTSB was already speaking with members of the crew, ferry engineers and some of the victims, she said. 
Investigators were also speak­ing with an attorney for the ship's captain to arrange a ses­sion with him. 
Engleman said her agency had "a lot of conflicting reports" about the pilot's condition before the crash. "We don't want to pass on stories or rumors," she said. 
Engleman added that the NTSB investigation would con­sider other possible causes, such as the weather and engineering factors. 
Ferry service resumed Thursday morning, with Molinaro reporting that the num­ber of riders did not appear down. The ferries, with their free, 25-minute cruise across New York Harbor, ordinarily carry 70,000 people daily between Staten Island and lower Manhattan. 
Jury selection in sniper trial slows 
Associated Press 
VIRGINIA BEACH, Va. ­Jury selection in the trial of sniper suspect John Allen Muhammad slowed Thursday as several would-be jurors said they believe he is guilty in the string of shootings that terrorized the Washington area a year ago. 
Only seven of 16 potential jurors interviewed Thursday qualified for the panel, with five of the nine disqualified at the defense's request, and one at the joint request of the defense and prosecution. On Wednesday, 13 of 15 potential jurors were qualified for service. 
''It just seems like some jurors are harder to seat than others. This was one of those days," prosecutor Paul Ebert said after court adjourned for the day. 
Facing a series of questions from defense attorneys, sev­eral potential jurors said they think Muhammad is guilty, even though they had previ­ously said they had not formed an opinion about his guilt or innocence. 
"From all the evidence at the time, I think he's guilty," said one woman, Juror 318. All jurors were identified in court by number to protect their privacy. 
Another juror was disquali­fied because her husband works at the Virginia Beach jail and has contact with Muhammad. Three were dis­qualified because they said they could not impose the death penalty or must be absolutely certain of guilt before considering it. 
Seven men and 13 women have qualified for the jury. The judge must qualify seven more jurors to reach a panel of 27. 
Then prosecutors and defense attorneys each can eliminate six jurors, leaving a jury of 12 plus three alter­nates. 
Potential jurors have been quizzed individually about their views on the death penalty, their exposure to pretrial news accounts and whether they felt terrorized by the sniper spree that killed 10 people over a three-week span. 
Muhammad is charged with capital murder in _the Oct. 9, 2002. slaying of Dean Harold Meyers at a gas station near Manassas. 
Opening statements are expected to begin Monday. 
The trial was moved away from the Washington area to this southeastern Virginia city after defense lawyers argued that every northern Virginia resident could be considered a victim because the shoot­ings caused widespread fear. 
Fellow sniper suspect Lee Boyd Malvo, 18, goes on trial separately next month. 

"Catholicism and 
AmeriCtln Freedotn '' 
John.McGreevy JJeparttnent Chairperson. · 
'~Catholicism and American Freedom,;, with John McGreevy, John A. O'Brien Associate Professor and chair ofhistory. McGreevy will begin by examining on~ l~ttle-known even~ the Eliot School Rebellion of 1859, 
;in which a gr;oup ofBostAA. patholic boys refused to readfromh.!he ':ingd.. . James Bible in a Boston pl.lblic schooL The controversy overt 1s eptso. e . . sheds lightpri tensions and overlaps between.CatholicandAmerican ideas offreedOin; from the nineteenth-century slavery debate through·· · · contempbntry arguments.aoout abortion. . · 
. McGreevy is the authorof Catholicism and American Freedom: A History (\V,W~ Nortoll1 2003) and Parish Boundaries: The Catholic Encounter with Race in the Twentieth Century Urban North 
(Univetsity ·orChicago•.1996). 



Fall2003Schedule 
l~xpetieut~ an lntimatc <liscussion Witl1 Notn~ Dame's mosi t'tlgaging fanlltyspeakets on·some of the mostpressing issues of our times. 
~~ 9/6 ... Washillgton State
LQ.... 

Gustavo Gutierrez, Professor of11xology, 
johnG'ardinal CYHara Cbuir in 11wology 
i;Liberation Theology for ltw 21·: Centuty" 
~VJ 

~ . 9/20-Michigan SUite Actors from the Londcm Stage · . . . ":Fron1 P'.lge to Stage': An inter~tdive audience perf~JntJa rice expeti.en(x~'· · 
10/18-usc . . ·jnhn JvkGreevy~ Depart1rwnt(Jmii1Je-rson,·.. }6/:mA (/Brien A.ssodate Profes.~or (~flllsto~v · 
«Cathdidsrn and.AmeriCan Fn:•edom'' 
· 
.. : .... 

11/l-f1orida State . . . . . Carolyn Nordslfot1l, iL~sociate Hrojessor ofAntbropolog1;; 
·. ~Living on the Front Lines: An.Antllropolot.,>ist Loo.ks·.at .. th(; Realities of Waf· · · · · 
11/8-Na.vy . . 
Jim McAdamsi Profes.~or ofPoliti.(:al Sciencet 
the Dr. Tt'llllam M. ScboJJ Chair in International PolttN:s 
~~Big Browser: Are 'w bdng wutchedt 
·utt5 -BYU 

Al~1sdair M~tdntyre, Professor ofPht'losopby 
"Truth Telling and Lyi.ng'' 
3~'1/1 hours bet(we kkkolT: at the He.shurgh Centt~r Auditorimn, 
For more infonnation, visit http://saturdaysc.bolar.nd.edu 
UN I·V E R S I ·r Y OF 

NOTRE DAME 
~ ··..c 
lf'. 
~ 
l.r; 
\0
~ 
'~ 
~ 
z 
~ 
;....., 
~ 

L... ~. 
-1 
b 
~ 
0 

.. ';>< 
··tf)







'if;
() ;.t:l 
z 

~ :r. 
--..,
1 
~ ..... 
~ 0 0 
~ ~ 



n..~;. ·-lol'foi"<MA.-ci~ "'-AJI.~oiott .......
.....~. 
. . . 

TobAv's STAFF 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
News Graphics . Teresa Fra.lish Graham Ebetsch ... ·.MaureenReynolds .Sports 
OBSERVER POLL
Meghanne Matt Lozar.· Downes Pat Leonard ;, Megan o·Neil 
···• DanTapetillo.· Do you approve of student 


l .·
·.·.....··scene >>•
:: · Vlewpobtt . body president Pat Hallahan's 
• Nicole Clery · Sarah Vabulas proposal to transfer authority from Student Senate to a
Illustrator · Jon Retartha · restructured Executive Cabinet? 
Vanessa Saenz 


*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 28 responses. 
Restore purpose to CLC 
It's easy to wonder-such as the University's Board of than a decade later, the trustees removed the group's leg­Trustees did -why student body presidents want to present islative ability and changed its name, and students have three consecutive reports discussing student government never since had a direct impact on campus policy. 
reform. After all, it was the second time a student body In its current form, the CLC fails as an effective body for 
president had addressed the University's top policy-making students and administrators to work together because stu­body on the issue (Libby Bishop presented an dent life officials on the CLC consistently block outline of student government's strengths and OJhe recommendations that come from student rep-weaknesses in the spring) and a third report userver al resentatives, even though the body's decisions 
may bring up creating an endowment for stu­~ • carry no binding weight. Trustees who criti­dent government events . Edi.LOn cized Hallahan's supposed lack of leadership as 

But of the three student government-related reports that could be brought before the Board of Trustees, Hallahan's Thursday presentation addressed an issue that moved beyond studen~ government reform and struck at the heart of student-administrator relations. Hallahan's proposal to change the Campus Life Council from a recommendation-only body to one with real legislative force could have corrected one of the most preva­lent problems on campus. 
Or it did until the Trustees' Student Affairs Committee effortlessly dismissed Hallahan's proposal and mistakenly criticized his leadership of the committee. 
The Trustees who ripped Hallahan apart and questioned aloud why the student body president was wasting face time with the University's top policy-making body thought Hallahan should have addressed a different topic. But what they didn't understand was Hallahan's recommendations would have gone a long way toward improving the hostile attitude of students toward the administration. 
Hallahan's report called on the Trustees to change the Campus Life Council, which it created in 1977, back into its predecessor, the Student Life Council. The Trustees who originally created the Student Life Council in 1968 as a poli­cy-making body saw it as a way to calm conflict between students, administrators and other factions on-campus. Less the chairperson of that committee fail to under­

stand that votes on issues vital to student inter­ests are split along student-administrator lines, and there's little Hallahan can do to achieve a consensus. After all, administrators on the committee prevented him from even discussing, much less evaluating, resident assistant orienta­tion procedures earlier this year. It's no surprise that stu­dents feel apathetic toward their elected government if their leaders lack the power to make decisions -or even discuss -policy. · 
The Student Life Council, as Hallahan suggested in the report, has the potential to reverse this sentiment and make students feel as if they have a voice in campus policy. Under Hallahan's proposal, the 18-member body would be com­posed of seven representatives from all branches of student government. faculty members, rectors and administrative officials. The SLC would have the ability to enact campus­wide policy. 
Students were upset when the alcohol policy was unveiled a year and a half ago because they thought they weren't involved in the decision-making process. Hallahan deserves praise for recognizing the sorry state of student-administra­tor relations and bringing it before the University's highest level. The Board of Trustees deserves criticism for dismiss­ing him so easily. 
Maintain spirit of senior tradition 
This weekend, two sets of perennial rivals will face-off in entire fire department battalion to put out a Boy Scout's camp­Notre Dame Stadium. Fans who paid to see Notre Dame play fire. The problem isn't with students who toss marshmallows ­USC will also see stadium personnel and students clash over the it is with students who maliciously-toss water bottles or marsh­senior tradition of a half time marshmallow fight. mallows with rocks inside of them. Instead of issuing a blanket 
At the Michigan State game, students were ejected and had policy against tossing marshmallows --thus eliminating a time­their ticket booklets confiscated for throwing the honored Notre Dame senior tradition-Stadium soft projectiles. Not since Ghostbusters has such Q}jhe personnel should use the video cameras and a concerted effort been made against the light, server ·a~ other technology available to them to punish spongy, sweet confection. ~on those who throw objects that could harm others. 
The motivation behind the crackdown is pro­.l! Students have a role in solving the problem, 
Edi
tecting the safety of the venue's patrons and too. They must recognize the officials' legitimate employees. Coordinator of stadium personnel safety concerns and not put objects inside any Cappy Gagnon said that people put rocks and coins inside the marshmallows they throw or throw water bottles or other marshmallows, making them dangerous. objects. But until the marshmallow policy is clarified, students 
But the policy of ejecting any student who is caught possess­who choose to participate in the tradition Saturday should do so ing or throwing marshmallows is the equivalent ofsending an knowing it may cost them their place in the Stadium. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It is better to debate a question without settling it than to settle a question without debating it. " 
Joseph Joubert French writer 



Where are the WMDs, President Clinton? 
Over the last five years, leaders of the Democratic Party have blatantly led the public to assume that Saddam Hussein possessed or intended to possess weapons of mass destruction despite recent evi­dence which may prove to the contrary. 
OnFeb.17,  
1998, President  
Bill Clinton boldly  Bill Rinner  
asserted, "We  
want to seriously  
diminish the  
threat posed by  A Voice of  
Iraq's weapons of  Reason  
mass destruction ·  
program."  
Incidentally, he  

made no reference to an international coalition including countries such as France, Germany and Russia as impera­tive to any military campaign aimed at disarmament and liberation of the Iraqi people. 
The very next day both Secretary of State Madeline Albright and National Security Adviser Sandy Berger issued warnings to the same effect. Albright made perfect­ly clear the stance of the Clinton adminis­tration by stating that the possibility of Hussein "using nuclear, chemical or biological 
··weapons against ·· ' us or our allies is the greatest secu­rity threat we face." Berger echoed her senti­ments by claiming that "[Saddam] will use those weapons of mass destruction again, as he has 10 times since 1983." These are powerful words. Granted, they came from an adminis­tration with a docu­
mented history of mis­/)£STRUC1JO . called itself the party of 
leading the public in every way, shape or form, so they may be suspect. Still, I always assumed that the Democratic Party was one of peace, never inter­ested in starting a war against a sover­eign power unless an imminent threat existed. 
A letter to Clinton signed on Oct. 9, 1998 by Senators Carl Levin, Tom Daschle, John Kerry and others urged the com­mander-in-chief to "take necessary actions ... to respond effectively to the threat posed by Iraq's refusal to end its weapons of mass destruction programs." So much for Democratic opposition to a U.S.-led war against a brutal, dictatorial regime. 
Fast-forward to the year 2003. The party of "opposition" to President George 
W. Bush's purportedly unilateral war of aggression against a sovereign nation slams him for blatantly misleading the American public into thinking weapons of mass destruction existed at any time. In the six months since the end of major mil­itary action, occupying troops have found no smoking gun and Democrats couldn't be happier. Behind their backs they cross their fingers and hope none will surface. Understandably, no one enjoys the taste of his own foot in his mouth. 
However, it is difficult to ignore the warnings that emanated from the most powerful ranks in the Democratic party, such as the statements made by AI Gore and Senator Edward Kennedy just over a year ago. In his superior wisdom, Gore declared, "We know that [Saddam] has stored secret supplies of biological and chemical weapons throughout his coun­try." Kennedy, perhaps harkening back to Clinton's comments a few years prior, said, "We have known for many years that Saddam Hussein is seeking and develop­ing weapons of mass destruction." 
The quotes go on, too plentiful to be list­ed in this limited column. The best defense they can conjure if ever anyone confronts them on these points is that Bush blatantly misled them as well by presenting skewed intelligence reports overstating the existence of the Iraqi's weapons of mass destruction programs. Hillary Clinton's allegation of a "vast right-wing conspiracy" comes to mind, starting at the top with Bush, Cheney and Rumsfeld, continuing down to the pundits 
like Rush Limbaugh and his disci­ples on Clear Channel radio. Make no mistake, this neocon­servative push to unilateral­ly dominate the world comes in spite of Bush's sheer incompetence and utter stupidity -a curious yet self-serv­ing contradiction for Democrats. 
As the ever­increasing field of Democratic presi­
dential hopefuls sling more mud at Bush by claiming he and he alone inflated the claims of Iraqi weapons programs, one must conclude that 
they are relying on either the impecca­ble short-term 
memory or the logi­cal ineptitude of the average American 
citizen. Such tactics make my stomach turn as I consider what once 
the people. 
Are we to forget that 
Democrats have a recent his­
tory of condemning Iraq's 
weapons programs and suggesting military action for their removal when their fingers point squarely at Bush? Should we exempt presidential hopefuls who approved a resolution giving the president the power to use force in Iraq and backed up their vote as more than passive acquiescence if we believe that no weapons ever existed? Can we not admit that Saddam was probably clever enough to remove any vestiges of a weapons pro­gram to neighboring friendly countries in the months before the seemingly inevitable war, or should we jump to the naive conclusion that if we can't find any smoking guns then they never existed in the first place? 
Considering the angry rhetoric spewed forth by today's Democratic Party after years of believing in the existence of Iraqi weapons of mass destruction, their accu­sations of Bush blatantly misleading the nation reek of partisan political hypocrisy. 
Bill Rinner is a junior economics major studying at the London School of Economics. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at wrin­ner@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Gay marriage provokes many questions 
In her Oct. 16 letter challenging Charles Rice's stance on gay 
marriage, Jess Reddinger argues that homosexuality is not "intrin­
sically wrong" and that the inclination to it is not disordered. She 
bases this statement on the idea that "deny[ing] the right of some­
one to express their affection for another is not only abominable, 
but also inconsistent of what we value as love." This statement 
implies that any consensual sexual act -including sodomy, fellatio, 
incest, violent sexual practices and polygamy -may be defended 
as the "right for someone to express their love for another." 
Reddinger cannot allow one unnatural action without allowing all 
of the rest. The only consistent standard on which sexual acts are 
allowed or disbarred is the standard of natural law, and the natural 
law shows that the only true expression ofsexuality is between a 
man and a woman in a way that is open per se to child bearing. 
Reddinger also states that homosexuality is not a psychological 
disorder as listed in the DSM-IV. While this is true, she does not 
explain why it is absent. According to the website of the National 
Association for Research and Therapy of Homosexuals, the 1974 
vote of the American Psychiatric Association to remove homosexu­
ality from theDSM-IV "was taken with unconventional speed that 
circumvented normal channels for consideration of the issues 
because of explicit threats from gay rights groups to disrupt APA 
conventions and research." Four years after the removal, the 
majority of psychiatrists still believed homosexuality was disor­
dered. 
Reddinger assumes these points when stating in the beginning of 
the letter that the love and nurturing a family provides is more 
important than its composition. Of course, the Dutch study cited by 
Rice proves that stable "gay" relationships are the exception, not 
the rule. But even if it could be shown that gay families are gener­. ally loving, stable environments, they would still be immoral 
because no end justifies an evil means. 
Reddinger ends with the typical song and dance about how intol­
erant Rice is. But what does tolerance gain? A 1997 Canadian study 
showed that a 20 year-old homosexual marl can expect a life 
expectancy 8 to 20 years shorter than that of the average man. If 
tolerance means taking a position that can rob society of so many 
people before their time has come, tolerance is a very strange 
virtue indeed. 
Michael Gerardi freshman Keough Hall Oct. 16 

Proud of women's role in the liturgy 
I was completely unconvinced by Emily Klejewski's letter, published Oct. 13, supporting the dismissal of female altar servers. Primarily, the argument does not give young men enough credit for following a call to priesthood. Klejewski claimed that young men would not want to serve alongside young women at the risk of it becoming "yet another girls' club." I would hope that a young man would not simply dis­miss God's call due to the simple involvement of females in a church ministry. The discernment of priesthood is not a light matter to be influenced so strongly by such an insignificant issue. 
Additionally, her argument effectively punishes girls for being "natural volunteers," as she claims. Instead of focusing energies on encouraging young men's participation, she assumes the church should deny women the opportunity to . serve God as they are called to do. This line of reasoning implies that women should be excluded from other forms of church service, such as Eucharistic minister or lector, simply because it might "scare away" the young men. Klejewski might point to the Dome and use Our Lady's presence as a jus­tification for the exclusion of women as servers, but quite honestly I am proud of the advancements that women have made in active involvement in the Mass and I would be shocked to witness the Vatican approve of such a digression. 
Gabby Sopko sen tor Walsh Hall Oct. 16 


Friday, October 17, 2003 
page 14 


George Davidson, a pianist in Grand Caym 
audiences, while recording CDs fort} 
By SARAH VABULAS Scene Editor 

What is something you remember from the last vacation you and your family went on together? Well, for many people who stay at the Westin Casuarina Hotel in Grand Cayman, British West Indies, the pianist who tickles the ivories six nights a week is 
I 
l 
I 
I' 
I 
what they vividly remember. His name is George Davidson. He 
was born in Toronto, Canada, the last 
of five children and the only boy. His 
family moved around about every six 
months when he was a child. They 
would travel on ocean liners from the 
United States to Jersey Island or the 
North of England. These travels affected Davidson musically. 
"My musical influences came from alJ over ­the Caribbean, Jersey, Canada and the North of England," Davidson said. "I heard bar music and all types of music on the ocean liners." 
He began tak­ing piano lessons at the age of eight, but he only continued with them for about one or two months before becoming bored. He started again when he was 13 years old and continued with his lessons until the age of 16, when he and his family moved to the Cayman Islands. 
"It's when we lived on the Island of Jersey that I fell in love with the piano," Davidson said. "I was influenced at age 10, but didn't start lessons until I was 13." 
The last piano 

teacher he had played at the Ritz Carlton in 

. 
_/ 
George Davidson has been playing the piano since he was a young boy and has recorded ten albums while continuing to play at the Westin in Cayman. 
Naples, Fla; he encouraged Davidson to get a Job as a piano player in a hotel, too. After moving to Cayman, Davidson and his parents were visit­ing the Hyatt Regency Grand Cayman and he saw a piano in the lobby. He sat down and began to play. The man­ager walked up and offered him a job, so at age 17, he landed his first posi­tion as a pianist. 
"I played for the Governor of the Caymans every few months," Davidson said. "I've played for every governor." 
Guests loved to listen to Davidson play the contemporary love songs each night. They loved him so much that they asked him if he had any recordings of his music. Unfortunately, Davidson did not, but it gave him something to work towards. He took down the names of the people interested in purchasing his music. 
At age 20, Davidson made his first recording and sent it to the people who had requested it. He also began to sell the COs to gift shops through­out Florida. He then began to travel throughout the United States, selling CDs to shops and boutiques. 
"I've sold 50,000 copies now. I didn't plan on making any COs except one ­then it sold well, so I made more," Davidson said. "I have seven COs by myself ,and two with a Paraguayan harpist named Eugenio Leon. I met him at The Wharf, a restaurant in downtown Georgetown in Cayman, 14 years ago." 
Davidson and Leon spend a couple of months on the road each year, tour­ing through the United States, playing charity concerts. "We started touring about four years ago to raise money for kids," Davidson said. "Now, we just tour for various fundraisers. We make about $75,000 per year." 
Check Davidson's Web site, www.georgedavidson.com, for a list­ing of tour dates for the 2004 year. 
Davidson met his wife, Eileen, four and a half years ago while working at the Hyatt. Eileen is from Vancouver, Canada. They dated for about a year and then married. They have been married for three and a half years now. The Davidson's reside in Grand Cayman. 
Davidson is a Yamaha artist. He plays and records on Yamaha Grand Pianos. "I swear by them," Davidson said. "They are great instruments." 
Not only does Davidson cover popular love songs on his COs while he plays at the Westin, but he also composes his own origi­nals. One if his most recent com­position is a song he wrote for his wife, which appears on his album called "Allure," which was released in 2001. 
"It takes a couple hours to get the melodies just right," Davidson said. "It only happens every now and then. You have to be in the right mood." 
Davidson plays contemporary love songs, but with a slight twist. "My style of music is dif­ferent then most," Davidson said. "Probably from living on the island." 
"Loving You" is one of Davidson's first releases. This album features two of Davidson's 

George Davidson Is a Yamaha artist and play Casuarina Resort in Grand Cayman. He also t1 
original compositions, "Rebecca's Rain," written for his sister, Rebecca Davidson, who is a professional pho­tographer in Cayman, and "Loving You." 


Friday, October 17, 2003 Page 15 
.tertains audiences 
~an, plays six nights a week for enthusiastic 
hose who have a love for piano music 

Photo courtesy of George Davidson Productions 
ys the plimo six nights a week at the Westin :ours the U.S. for a few months each year. 
George's sister, Rebecca Davidson, shoots most of Davidson's pictures for his COs and press. Her Web site is www.rebeccadavidson.com, where you can view her work. 

This-CD is one of Davidson's most popular and considered one of his best, if not his best, among Davidson's fan base. 
This CD also features "Somewhere in Time," the title track from the famed movie and "The Music of the Night," a song from the popular musi­cal, "The Phantom of the Opera." 
Davidson's next CD is called "Somewhere In My Heart," where he plays "Canon in D," "Phantom Of The Opera," and his original title track, "Somewhere in Time." 
Davidson's next release is titled "For The Love of Music," which contains one original called "Leah's Tears," as well as songs from "The Phantom of the Opera," "Dr. Zhivago," "Les Miserables" and "Cats." 
After the success of "For The Love of Music," Davidson recorded "My Heart Will Go On," which is also one of Davidson's best. This CD contains "La Belle Isle," a composition inspired by beautiful, sunny, Grand Cayman Island. The track "Joie de Vivre" is about the joy of life and was written for Davidson's father. "Mariage d'Amour" or "Marriage of Love" is so precise and meaningful. Yannie's song "In the Mirror" is also one of the best on the CD. 
After these COs, Davidson and Leon paired up for a release of a CD featur­ing Davidson on the Grand Piano and Leon playing the Paraguayan Harp. It is a beautiful combination of two tal­ented musicians. Make sure to listen to the hauntingly beautiful "Speak Softly Love," while "Chi Mia" will become a favorite melody. Leon's composition, "Winter Rose," is one of the best. Also remember to listen to ·•starry Starry Night," and two of the Beatles best loved songs, "Yesterday" and "Norwegian Wood." 
Nothing brings the piano to life like the sensitivity of Davidson in his release, "Perhaps Love." The exqui­site melodies of Chopin's "Etude," or "La Vie En Rose," are sure to capture 
your heart. "Touched" gives the feel­ing of being under romantic Paris skies. Let Davidson take you to Paris and linger a while, humming along to 
Brightman and Bocelli's "Time to Say Goodbye." The oldie "Unchained Melody," also makes an appearance on this beautiful CD. 
Following ~he success of "Twin Strings," Davidson and Leon again paired up for the record­ing of a second dual album, "Twin Strings II," which features both contemporary and classical tracks. 
On his CD "Allure," Davidson turns to Lev Ljova, a Russian violist for some extra flare. "Feather Theme," from the movie "Forrest Gump," is found on the CD along with many other popular tracks. Classic song "Danny Boy" and Davidson's melodic original, "Moments in Time," make the CD worth the listen. 
On Davidson's most recent release, "Heminiscing," he adds his own special romantic touch, which is sure to make you fall in love with some of your favorite oldies all over again. This is truly a classic and nostalgic 
release. 

Davidson is releasing a CD in December which will feature many Italian songs. 
"I've just been to Italy for three weeks," Davidson said. ''I wanted to do Italian songs." 
Davidson's Web site features pic­tures of his house, his family and his dogs. You can also sample his music, purchase COs and sheet music. His CDs are also found on Amazon.com. Some reviews of Davidson's CDs can be found at www.solopianop­ublications.com. 
Some of Davidson's COs are going on sale on TV commer­cials in the U.S. His CDs can be found in 32 dif­ferent states, including cities in Indiana like Bloomington, Indianapolis and Madison. They can be found in privately owned gift shops and gift boutiques. lie recently bought a new Yamaha grand piano for his home in Cayman using the money from his CD sales. 
Davidson plays at the Westin in Grand Cayman every night except for Sunday. If you or your parents visit Cayman, be sure to drop in at the Westin for anight and listen to Davidson's melodic playing, 


entertaining audiences of all ages and nationalities. 
But if you cannot make it to the Cayman Islands to hear Davidson live in person, be sure to visit Davidson's Web site at www.geogedavidson.com and purchase a CD or two there. You will not be disappointed. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 
Friday, October 17, 2003 

page 16 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 

Bryant awaits rest of prosecution evidence 
Associated Press ing her June 30 at the moun­tain resort where she 
DENVER -Kobe Bryant worked. Bryant has said the will probably be ordered to two had consensual sex. stand trial for rape but it On Wednesday. defense remains to be seen if prose­attorney Pamela Mackey got cutors have enough evidence the lead investigator to to convict him, many legal acknowledge the panties the experts said. woman wore to the hospital 
During a two-day prelimi­fewer than 24 hours after the nary hearing that ended alleged assault had sperm Wednesday, both sides and pubic hair that did not showed hints of their strate­match Bryant's. Mackey said gy. Prosecutors alleged the it presented "compelling evi­NBA superstar forced himself dence" her client is innocent. on the Eagle woman while The panties were a differ­
Bryant's  ent  pair  than  
attorneys  the underwear  
attacked her credi­ "J don ,t think they  the woman said she wore the  
bility. "This is just the beginning  provedinnocenc~ They raised a series of questions. ,,  night she met Bryant. "I don't think they proved  
i.n terms of  innocence. They  
the evi­dence and at a proba­ble cause  Robert Pugsley Southwestern University Law Professor  raised a series of questions," said Robert Pugsley, a pro- 
hearing,  fessor  at  
you put on  Southwestern  
the minimal  University  

amount of evidence that you School of Law in Los Angeles. think you need in order to get "It could conceivably set the over the probable cause stage for plea negotiations or threshold," former Denver some type of out-of-court set-. prosecutor Karen tlement." Steinhauser said Thursday. Prosecution spokeswoman 
"I would imagine there's Krista Flannigan said going to be a lot more coming Thursday the woman and her and that's why people should family were doing well. "Her not make value judgments at resolve has not weakened," this point in time on the Flannigan said. strengths and weaknesses of Bryant has the right to a the case." trial within six months of 
Judge Frederick Gannett entering a plea, but he could hoped to decide by Monday waive that right. whether to order Bryant to The defense could appeal a stand trial on the sexual decision to bind the case over assault charge. A 19-year-old for trial, but legal analysts Eagle woman accused the Los say such a move would be Angeles Lakers' guard of rap-unusual. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL 




Changing the quarterback 
noted Leinart's rapid on a sprained ankle hurt at
Matt Leinart posts 
progress. Arizona State on Oct. 4. He impressive statistics "He's only played six games. went out in the second quar­It's scary to think about how ter, but came back to help as successor of good he can be," Colbert said. USC score 27 consecutive Notre Dame coach Tyrone points in the second half of a
Heisman winner Willingham, whose Irish host 37-17 victory. 
the Trojans on Saturday, is "I would have to have had a Associated Press similarly impressed with broken legnot to go back out Leinart. there, and even then I proba­
LOS ANGELES -Matt "He's very talented and he bly would have tried," said Leinart's first pass in a college had an opportunity to kind of Leinart, a 6-foot-5, 220­game didn't come until this see a very good quarterback pounder. year. He's proved to be a fast perform -probably even bet­Colbert and the other 
learner. ter than that -in Palmer. He Trojans appreciated the quar­
Halfway through his first just had a fantastic year," said terback's grit. season as a starter for Willingham, who watched "He showed a lot of courage Southern California, Leinart Palmer throw for four touch­and a lot of heart to come quietly and efficiently is filling downs in the Trojans' 44-13 back out to play. The second 
a huge void. win over Notre Dame last half of that game, most people 
He has thrown for four year. might not have. He's out there more touchdowns than "I think there's also some hobbling around, hobbling Heisman winner Carson learning that takes place into the huddle. It was a great Palmer had at this time last when you're that second guy thing," Colbert said. year, and his passing efficien­just sitting and you're watch­Last weekend against cy rating is more than 20 ing and you're learning from Stanford, Leinart finished 18­points higher. someone who is pretty good. of-27 for 260 yards and threw 
"As the season's progressed, But he has done an excellent three first-half scoring passes I've felt way more comfort­job of stepping in, not being as the Trojans built a 41-14 able taking grasp of the intimidated by their program halftime lead on the way to a offense. We just want to keep or by the fact that he is step­44-21 victory. this momentum going each ping in and replacing Carson "I think everything he's week," Leinart said. Palmer." done has made a good 
A year ago, USC was 4-2 Leinart also believes he impression," coach Pete and ranked 19th before profited from watching Carroll said. "He has shown Palmer and the Trojans won Palmer, both on and off the his toughness on a couple of eight consecutive games, field. Palmer drew some criti­different occasions, especially capped by a 38-17 Orange cism when the Trojans strug­coming back in the Arizona Bowl victory over Iowa. gled earlier in his career as State game. Then he played 
This season, the fifth­their quarterback. so well last week. ranked Trojans are 5-1, with "I learned a lot about foot­"He's making a statement the loss a 34-31 triple-over­ball, but I think mostly what I that he wants to be the quar­time defeat at California on took from him was how he terback here and be the Sept. 27. dealt with things, with adver­leader." 
Leinart has thrown for sity and success, how he car­Even tho ugh he's played 1,473 yards, with 13 touch­ried himself," Leinart said. well so far, Leinart may face downs and seven intercep­"He had a lot of adversity, and some competition if he ever tions -three at Cal. His pass­turned it around. stumbles. ing efficiency rating is 146.9. "He took all the criticism John David Booty, who 
Palmer had passed for and didn't let it bother him, skipped his senior year of 1,633 yards through six then in his senior season, he high school to come to USC games last year, with nine showed everybody." and is highly regarded by the touchdowns, six interceptions Leinart has played through Trojans' coaching staff, and a 124.6 rating. several nagging injuries this already has vaulted to No. 2 
Receiver Keary Colbert fall and is still limping slightly on the depth chart. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO  LARGE ONE·BEDROOM CONDO  2 Nice Bedrooms: 1 double, i two  NO FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
NOTICES  exper. r~uired. All looks and ages. Earn $100-$500 a day. 1·888-820·  FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY  signle. Immediately East of the Campus for Game  CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR TOLL FREE 877-773-3911 .  not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support  
0167, ext. U187  REMODELED. FULLY EQUIPPED.  Weekends Or~ly. $80 per  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  
$84,900.  person/per night. Call 272-0928  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT·  Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For  
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306  EARN MONEY OVER FALL  Email: Williamson.1 @nd edu  ED -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232­ more information, see our bi·weekly  
BREAK. The Early Childhood  3 bdrm house, 2 full baths, 2-stall  2378 PM 288-2726  ad in The Observer.  
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski  Development Center at Notre Dame  WOMENS GOR-TEX JACKETS,  garage, all appliances, partially  
&Beach Trips on sale now!  and Saint Marys College has  NEW WITH TAGS, FOREST  turn.,  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America  
www.sunchase.com or call  employment opportunities over Fall  GREEN,SIZES SMALL AND  2 miles from NO, $900/mo.  SALE AM -232·2378 PM  - s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring  
1-800-SUNCHASE today!  Break (October 20-24,2003). If you  LARGE. $60 EACH.  Call298-3000.  288-2726  campus reps.  
I  #1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in  are available to work part time and are interested in spending time  GREAT FOR THE FOOTBALL GAMES. 574-289-8048  STUDENT HOUSING AVAILABLE!  WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel. com  
Acapulco is now offering 3 destina­ reading childrens books, building  2,3,4,5 Bedroom Apartment and  TOP DOLLAR PAID.  
tionsl Go loco in Acapulco, Party in  with blocks, and singing songs  GEORGETOWN-CARRIAGE  Townhouses available.  (574)232-0964.  ADOPTION:Irish, affectionate,  
Vallarta, or get Crazy in Cabo-all  with children, please contact Thayer  HILLS AREA. 2.7 Ml TO NO. 3BR­ Excellent location to campus!  childless, stay-at-home mom and  
with BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS.  Kramer at 631-3344 as soon as  1.5 BA. FULL BSMT/FAM RM.  Contact Rod Ludwig at 574·234­ JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER,  environmentalist dad, dream of  
Book by Oct 31-get FREE MEALS!  possible.  NEW AC/SIDING,ROOF. MANY  9923 or  NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT- sharing love with Caucasian or  
Organize a group and travel for  Have fun and get paid too!  UPDATES.2 CAR GAR.$109,000.  Email: Rludwig @cbresb.com  BALL GAME  Hispanic newborn through  
( t I !  1 '  FREE Call tor details. 800-875­4525 or www.bianchi-rossi.com. ...ACT NOW!Book 11 people, get 12th trip free.  FoR SALE  574-272-1112. JUDAY LAKE HOME.ON LAKE .WALK TO CAMPUS 272·6306  4 Bedroom House for next semes­ter and/or next year. 1136 E. Madison. Great for parties. Contact Mike (216) 408-0780 or  PLEASE CALL 674-6593. Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ Pay Top Dollar$$ 1-866-808-0990  adoption. Legal &confidential. Call Jacqueline and Allan toll free at 1·800-484-6754, PIN: 8642 Badin girls think they're the  
Group discounts for 6+  Matt (216) 408-07 44 if interested  Need 2 GA tix for USC & FSU. Call  hottest... please  
www.springbreakdiscounts.com or  IRISH CROSSINGS ·A NEW LUX·  276-8507. After 5 pm, 288-2877.  
'~ (  800·838·8202.  URY VILLA COMMUNITY Build your dream home next to Notre  FOR RENT  2 Bedrooms, Immediately East of the Univ. Less than a 1/4 mile.  NEED 2 USC tix. Prefer trade for 2  You gotta know when to hold 'em . Know when to walk away  
( ( ·( I '  Vector/Cutco workforstudents.com/574·282·2357  Dame. A limited number of home sites are available. For more info go to:  NO FOOTBALL HOUSING:  Football weekends only. $80/nighL'person. 574-272-0928  Florida St. or BYU. Call ASAP 574-634-0830.  I'll miss that boom shakalaka boom  
·~  www.lrishCrossings.com  Beautiful home (plus two tickets) in  3-6 BDRM HOMES & ROOMS.  I NEED GA TIXS TO USC &  Don't count your money while your  
,) ~  WANTED  GEORGETOWN-CARRIAGE  nice neighborhood available for remaining NO football  LOW $$.272-6306,329-0308  FLORIDA ST.272-6306  sitting at the table, Kenny Rogers truly teaches us about life  
''  HILLS AREA. 2.7 Ml TO NO. 3BR­ games. Six blocks from stadium.  NEED A CHANGE?? HOMES OR  
t<  Part Time Professional Server  1/2 BA. FULL BSMT/FAM AM. NEW AC/SIDING. MANY  Sleeps 10. Two baths, kitchen, laundry, parks 6  ROOMS NEAR CAMPUS.272-6306  PERSONAL  Bienvenido a campus, Erin  
r I' )  Assistant, will train. Must be available Tues.-Sat. Evenings beginning at 4:00pm.  UPDATES. 2 CAR GAR. $101,400. 574-272-1112  cars. $1 ,200 per weekend. No pets. (574) 231-8823 (evenings).  TICKETS  A 'Reality' Spring Break 2004s  no shirts, hombre ... so mean to me ... but i might die sunday ... milch  
I  1995 Honda Civic 2 door, black, 5­ 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  Hottest prices Book now.  You can't lose what you don't put in  
I i 'i)  Apply in person: 24460 Adams Rd., South Bend (far North West side) or call (574) 272-9220-ask tor Emily.  speed, 106,500 miles, $4,300 o.b.o. call ~234-4536  CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@ AOL.COM 272-1525  FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570.  Free Trips, Meals & Parties sun­splashtours.com or 1800-426·771 0  the middle of thE! table But you can't win much either  
L_  


Friday, October 17, 2003 page 17
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 

Browns not overlooking winless Chargers 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -The San Diego Chargers return from their off week on Sunday. 
Really, they've been "off' all season. 
Browns defensive end Kenard Lang isn't taking any chances, however. He spent the week warning his teammates not to overlook the Chargers, the NFL's lone winless team. 
Cleveland's defensive end can appreciate what it's like to be on a squad hungry for its first victory. Not long ago, Lang was on one. 

In 2001, he played in Washington for Chargers coach Marty Schottenheimer, who got off to a similarly horrid start during his one -and only ­season coaching the Redskins. 
"When I was with Marty, we started off 0-5," Lang said, "and then we won like six straight games. I know he'll have them ready. We have to be ready for them." 
Following their bye week, the Chargers (0-5) are more than ready for a win after losing nine straight and 12 of 14 dating to their second-half collapse last season. 
"It's an embarrassment," run­ning back LaDainian Tomlinson said. "This team is too good to be 0-and-whatever. It is just unacceptable and we under­stand that." 
San Diego's players returned from the time off rested and resolved to end their skid. 
They're now all alone as the league's only 0-for-2003 team following the New York Jets' win over Buffalo last week. Tomlinson said it's time to join the winners' club. 
"Guys are really desperate to get a win," he said. "It's some­what surprising that we're 0-5 because we expected big things, but hopefully we can get this thing turned around." 
That's what the Browns (3-3) did. 
They've rescued their season from the brink of disaster by winning three of four, including victories ove~ Pittsburgh and Oakland the past two weeks. 
The Browns can't afford a let­down against a team they feel they should beat, but that's always easier said than done. 
"These are the scary ones," wide receiver Kevin Johnson said. "These are the guys who have nothing to lose and every­thing to gain. They'll lay it all on the line." 
After struggling early on, Cleveland has finally estab­lished a running game. William Green has rushed for a com­bined 260 yards the past two weeks, the highest consecutive­game total for a Browns back since 1986. 
Quarterback Tim Couch, 2-1 since replacing the injured Kelly Holcomb, has played with a renewed confidence and is making better decisions. 
But the biggest reason for the Browns' turnaround has been their defense. 
HORSE RACING 

Funny Cide joins field of top horses at Breeders' Cup 
Associated Press Candy Ride and Moon Ballad out Azeri, the reigning Horse of be taken Wednesday, when own­Megahertz in the $1 million BC 
of the race, the presence of the Year, was cross-entered in ers declare which race their Filly & Mare Turf, and Peace 
The Breeders' Cup Classic may Funny Cide adds intrigue to the the Classic and the $2 million BC horses will run. Rules likely to run in the $1.5 turn into a pretty fair horse race 1 1/4-mile Classic at Santa Anita Distaff, but trainer Laura de The Breeders' Cup races usu­million BC Mile. after all. on Oct. 25. Seroux said there were no plans ally determine divisional cham­Frankel is just 2-of-49 in 
Thanks to a late change of A full field of 14 was pre­for the 5-year-old mare to run in pions and Horse of the Year. Breeders' Cup races, but has a plans by trainer Barclay Tagg, entered Thursday, including the Classic against males. A total of 101 horses were win in each of the last two years the $4 million Classic will fea­Travers winner Ten Most "The Distaff has always been pre-entered for the eight-race, -Starine in the 2002 BC Filly & ture Kentucky Derby and Wanted and older horses my goal," de Seroux said, adding $14 million Breeders' Cup World Mare Turf and Squirtle Squirt in Preakness winner Funny Cide Congaree, Medaglia d'Oro, that Azeri was pre-entered in Thoroughbred Championships, the 2001 BC Sprint. taking on anywhere from eight Perfect Drift and last year's sur­the Classic only so owner Mike including eight from Hall of Funny Cide hasn't won since to 13 rivals. prise winner Volponi. Paulson could keep his options Farner trainer Bobby Frankel's the Preakness on May 17. He 
"We welcome a Kentucky Medaglia d 'Oro, runner-up last open. barn. finished third in two starts since Derby winner, and in this case a year, was the early 4-1 favorite, Also pre-entered for the Besides Medaglia d'Oro, -in the Belmont and the near Triple Crown winner," with Funny Cide a co-sixth Classic were Dynever, Evening Frankel will send out Sightseek Haskell at Monmouth Park on Breeders' Cup president D.G. choice at 12-1. Attire, Falbrav, Hold That Tiger, to test Azeri in the BC Distaff. Aug. 3. The horse owned by Van Clief said Thursday. "We "There are some horses we Peace Rules, Pleasantly Perfect Azeri is the 9-5 favorite, with Sackatoga Stable of upstate New think it's terrific they decided to might have expected to be here and Toccet. Azeri at 2-1. York was ill this summer but make the trip." that aren't, but there are lots of Besides Azeri, the four others The nation's leading trainer appears healthy again. 
With stars such as Belmont reasons," Van Clief said. "We're horses cross-entered were also has Aldebaran and Midas "We're confident that he'll run winner Empire Maker, Horse of not feeling any pushback from Congaree, Falbrav, Peace Rules Eyes in the $1 million BC Sprint, a good race," Sackatoga manag­the Year favorite Mineshaft. the ship, though." and Toccet. Official entries will Tates Creek, Heat Haze and ing partner Jack Knowlton said. 

COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF lNTERNATIONA.L AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS THE EARTH INSTITUTE AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 
Earn your MPA in Environmental Science and Policy 
The Master of Public Ach1.1.inistn\tion 
Program in Envirorunental Science 
and Policy cornbines Columbia 
University's hands-on approach 
to teaching public policy and 
adrninistration with 

pio1iee1:ing thinking about 
the environn1.ent. Beginning in June, this tvvelve-month 
progra1n takes place at 
Columbia University's 
Nevv York catnpuses. 

For n1.ore inforn1ation. please call 212-854-3142~ e-mail: lar46@colun1.bia.edu, or visit our Web site. 
Now accepting applications for the progt"am beginning in June 2004. 

fL 
THE CUSHWA CENTER 
FOR THE STUDY OF 
·.-... • ...•... ·.AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 

presents 
"Catholicism and American Freedom: 
A History" 
By John T. McGreevy 
Saturday, October 25, 2003 9:00a.m. 
McKenna Hall Centerfor Continuing Education 


page 18 Friday, October 17, 2003 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

PR9JECT Give away your coat•••and SHARE THE WARMTH. 





WARMTH 
' ', ' ' '' .. ' . . . 
:: ::· ·The Center for Social Concerns is gearing up for 
) 
') 
'\ ') 
.another successful run of Project Warrn.th.... t~st . . 
: ~ 
·.. year, .over 4700 .coats were received apd distrib.., 
'' 
I uted to sites all across the country, including ttu=,:\ . Appalacfli8. region, outreaCh facilitieS ar~ufld thd', '.; l ~ ' c-South Bend area, and many cities throughout ... 
) i 
the nation.

) 
EVERYONE ca~ participate! Starting October 6, collection sites spread an over campus will be ....·.· eag$rto accept your coat donations. These . sites insh.tde: · · · 
Center for Social Concerns * Hammes Book­store *·LaFortune Information Desk * RecSports 
* North Dining Hall * South Dining Hall * Cam-• .• :,:.::·:;:::....... pus Ministry/Hesburgh''Library *AU Residence :-i::j:::.·:::.:·i~l:::i·:.:.::::,::. Halls> * St Michae.l!:s Laundry Distribution Cen.. ··:·· :::::::::::·;:..::::::-_:-.-_-·I:.ter. *> Other sites will-soon be -announced! 
:"-:. 
····: •• >·.·:.:'·:::::-:::-::::·:::';=:::':::;~:::::::;::r;:;:,:::,;::":::::·· 

~ .-:-:.-··=._.:.::::·:·:-:.::::./:::·:::_::-.::;:>:-::::::::·.· . -: -.·· 
.I 
I~ return for your coat donation, you will recei~~lcoupon for 25% off of any new coat of
i I 
~ I your choice from the Notre Dame Bookstore. ·Keep that Fighting Irish spirit and generosity 
; 
alive while fighting for the rights and dignity of the poor. 
) 
{i 
I'j; 
)) t
J' 
.· ...·Han Competition 
). 
I: · ·· As Project Warmth heats up again, so do the prizes for the two dorms with the highest 
(' 
,, ( ' ' · . percentage of participation.. The first place dorm will receive $1 000 and the second place I dorm wiU win $500. Start energizing hall spirit for this great cause! 
If 
,{ 
I' 
I• 
I' 
' I Sponsored by: .
H 
k 
r ·University. of Notre Dame 
St. Michael's Building STUDENT I AcnvmES
I · ·HAMMES BOOKSTORE ·Student . Government .Jaundcy Services 
• 
.: ' ' 
I 
,. 
I 
, ~ ~ 
i. 
Friday, October 17, 2003 page 19
The Observer+ SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

N.C. State beats Clemson 17-15 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C.-Philip Rivers threw two touchdown passes to tie the Atlantic Coast Conference career record as North Carolina State beat Clemson 17-15. 
Rivers had scoring tosses to 
T.A. McLendon and Richard Washington for the Wolfpack (5­3, 2-2), who improved to 5-0 at home this season. Rivers now has 79 touchdown passes in his career, tying the mark set by Florida State's Chris Weinke. 
Chad Jasmin scored the only touchdown for the Tigers (4-3, 2­2), who trailed throughout the contest. Aaron Hunt added three field goals as Clemson fell to 0-5 in nationally televised Thursday night games. 
Clemson had won three of the last four meetings here, but the Wolfpack took an 11-point lead early in the fourth quarter and held off a comeback attempt by the Tigers. · 
The Wolfpack held a 7-6 half­time lead and increased the margin on its first drive of the second half. 
With N.C. State facing a third­and-1 from Clemson's 37-yard line, the Tigers' defensive front jumped ofl'sides. Rivers took the snap and immediately lofted a pass to Washington down the right sideline. 
Washington got a step on Tye Hill, stretched out to make the catch and fell into the end zone for a 14-6 lead with 10:18 left in the third quarter. 
N.C. State pushed the lead to 17-6 on a 27-yard field goal from Adam Kiker with 14:49 left. end­ing a 14-play drive that took five minutes off the clock. Clemson committed two personal fouls to help keep the drive alive. 

The Tigers scored on their next two drives to get back into the game, beginning with a 21­yard field goal from Hunt to cut the margin to eight with 10:04 left. 
After holding N.C. State to a three-and-out, Clemson put together a 65-yard scoring drive. Whitehurst-found Bobby Williamson over the middle for a 23-yard pass play, leading to a 5­yard scoring run from Jasmin that cut the deficit to 17-15 with 
6:01 to play. 
But the Tigers came up short on the 2-point try, as Tony Elliott couldn't haul in Whitehurst's low pass to the back of the end zone. 
Clemson had a final chance to tie the game, but Whitehurst's pass for Kevin Youngblood was tipped by Pat Thomas and inter­cepted by Dovonte Edwards with about four minutes left. The Wolfpack then ran out the clock to seal the win. 
N.C. State got on the board first, putting together a 13-play, 67-yard dri~e that took more than 7 1/2 minutes off the clock. Rivers ended the drive with his 4-yard scoring toss to McLendon with 1:22 left in the quarter. 
Late in the drive, Rivers sus­tained a cut on his right hand from a cleat, but still made the throw despite having blood run­ning down his wrist. 
OLYMPICS 

Tests for new steroid are positive 
Results lead to a number of suspensions 
Associated Press 
Several track athletes tested 
positive for a steroid that until 
recently was undetectable and 
now face suspensions that 
could bar them from the 2004 
Athens Olympics, the U.S. Anti­
Doping Agency-said Thursday. 
USADA chief executive officer 
Terry Madden called it a wide­
spread "conspiracy" involving 
chemists, coaches and athletes 
that was brought to the 
agency's attention by an anony­
mous tip. 
He said the inquiry began in 
June and has expanded to 
other U.S. professional sports, 
but wouldn't give specifics. He 
aiso refused to give details 
about the athletes or say how 
many tested positive for the 
steroid, known as tetrahydro­
gestrinone, or THG. 
"What we have uncovered 
appears to be intentional dop­
ing of the worst sort," Madden 
said in a statement before his 
conference call from USADA 
headquarters in Colorado 
Springs, Colo. "This is a far cry 
from athletes accidentally test­
ing positive as a result of tak­
ing contaminated nutritional . supplements. 
"Rather, this is a conspiracy 
involving chemists, coaches 
and certain athletes using what 
they developed to be 'unde­
tectable' designer steroids to 
defraud their fellow competi­
tors and the American and 
world public who pay to attend 
sports events." 
Olympic athletes face drug 
tests at major competitions, as well as random testing between events. Their samples are divided in two and stored for future reference. • 
The athletes whose "A' sam­ples revealed THG have been notified and will now have their "B" samples tested. If those are positive, a review process will begin. Appeals could last for months. Track athletes found to have used steroids would face two-year bans. 
THG has a chemical struc­ture similar to the banned ana­bolic steroids gestrinome and trenbolone, Ma,dden said. Though THG is not specifically named as a banned substance in world track, it would be con­sidered a related substance outlawed under the sport's doping rules. 
"This is a serious warning for cheaters," said Dick Pound, chairman of the World Anti­Doping Agency. "It shows that supposedly undetectable sub­stances can be detected as new tests are developed." 
Madden said the USADA received a call from a man in June claiming to be a track coach. The caller named ath­letes he claimed were using a steroid that wouldn't be detect­ed by tests then being used by the USADA. The man later sent the agency a syringe containing the substance, Madden said. 
After determining the syringe contained THG, the USADA retested 350 urine samples taken from athletes at the U.S. track and field championships in June at Stanford, as well as 100 samples from random out­of-competition tests. 
Madden said USADA contact­ed federal authorities with the findings. 
The anonymous tipster, Madden said, identified the source of the THG as Victor Conte, founder of BALCO labo­ratory of Burlingame, Calif. The lab supplies nutritional guidance and supplements to athletes ranging from Barry Bonds to Bill Romanowski to Marion Jones. 
"Everything that the coach has identified to us up to this time is true. We are fairly cer­tain this substance came from Victor Corite and BALCO labs," said Madden, refusing to be specific. 
Conte did not respond Thursday to an e-mail inquiry from The Associated Press. and 
calls to  BALCO went unan­ 
swered.  
In  an  e-rriail  to  the  San  

Francisco Chronicle and San Jose Mercury News. Conte denied BALCO was the source of the substance. 
"In my opinion, this is about jealous competitive coaches and athletes that all have a his­tory of promoting and using performance enhancing agents being 'completely hypocritical' in their actions," Conte said. 
Agents from the. Internal Revenue Service and a San Mateo County narcotics task force went to BALCO last month. No arrests were made, and IRS spokesman Mark Lessler wouldn't comment on the visit. 

Visit LePeep in South Bend across from the Hall of Fame or next to SuperTarget in Mishawalu 
M thru F 

6:30 am -2:00 pm 

Weekends 

7:00am -2:00pm 
-call ahead seating 
. . 

-catenng at your stte -non-smoking -unique menu items such as fruit crepes, pampered eggs, skillet dishes, great "lite" way omelettes, sandwiches and salads -professional upscale atmosphere 




271-PEEP 
Mishawaka 
288-PEEP 
South Bend 
:·s-~ffii.'tliis·c-~·~·P·~-n--fi~·ffi·tli~·obs-er~er-1 
to LePeep and receive: j 

Buy one entree, I 


'! 
\ page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 17, 2003 
.... \ NHL 
Blue Jackets off to best start in team history 

Associated Press for the 12th time in 16 regular­Phoenix goal. The Coyotes were NHL shutout. with the Predators earlier this 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Rick season games. John-Michael trying to open the season with month. Nash has been right where he Liles and Milan Hejduk also four straight wins for the first Detroit 3, Vancouver 2 Zidlicky converted a pass wants to be this season. scored in the second for the time in franchise history. Ray Whitn~y picked up on the from Andreas Johansson at the 
Nash had a goal and an assist Avalanche. Lukowich made it 1-0 by Detroit Red Wings' system pret­8:18 mark of the f~rst period, 
and Marc Denis stopped 30 David Aebischer stopped 21 beating Phoenix backup goal­ty quickly: Score the game-win­beating St. Louis goaltender shots as the Columbus Blue shots for Colorado to send the tender Brian Boucher from the ner late. Chris Osgood on the stick side Jackets beat the Chicago Wild to their third loss of the top of the left circle at 6:44 of Whitney broke a 2-all tie with from close range. 
seaso!l. Andrei Nikolishin the first. . 1:06 left. scoring his first goal Petr Cajanek scored on a shot
Blackhawks 2-1. Geoff Sanderson added two scored~is first goal of the sea­Sean Burke. who allowed just with Detroit to give the Red from just inside the blue line, assists for the Blue Jackets, son, giving Colorado an early 1-two goals in the Coyotes' first Wings a win over the beating Nashville goaltender
Vancouver Canucks. 

who won their third game in a 0 lead. three games, was given the Tomas Vokoun over the right row at Nationwide Arena -the night ofT. The Red Wings have won all shoulder and tying the game at
Tampa Bay 5, Phoenix 1 
three games by the same score,

best homestand in the team's 8:47 of the second period. 
. Nikolai Khabibulin claims he Atlanta 0, NY Rangers 0
four seasons. scoring either late or in over­The Predators regained the
gets no extra satisfaction from· The Atlanta Thrashers have
Columbus' 3-1-0-0 start is time. Steve Yzerman scored lead at when Hamhuis scored
.. beating his former team. True never looked better. The New
I 
also a team best. Nash, the No. with 1. 7 seconds left in the the third power-play goal of the 
l 
or not, he certainly seems to York Rangers have been wait­
opener, and they beat Ottawa

1 overall draft pick in 2002, is game. He sent a one-timer past 
play well against them. ing a long time to say the same. 
one of the biggest reasons. on Saturday when Nicklas Osgood on the glove side. 
Khabibulin made 20 saves for Pasi Nurminen stopped 29 Lidstrom scored in overtime. 
Brett McLean, called up from Vladimir Orszagh scored a
his fourth win against Phoenix shots for the 5-year-old
I 
Norfolk of the AHL to replace Dominik Hasek made 36 short-handed goal at 11:23 ofand Martin St. Louis and Jassen Thrashers, unbeaten after four
the injured Alex Zhamnov, saves. He was at his best during the third period, and Andreas
Cullimore scored 25 seconds games this season following a a five-minute Vancouver power Johansson, who also had an( \ scored his first NHL goal mid­
\ I apart in the second period as tie with the Rangers. 
\\ way through the third period. play in the.second period. He assist, scored into ail empty net 

the Tampa Bay Lightning beat Mike Dunham made 30 saves made several saves, including a at 18:22.
Zhamnov is expected to miss the Coyotes. for New York. 

point blank stop of Todd

four to six weeks after undergo­Vokoun stopped 30 shots for
Since being acquired from the Not only is Atlanta's 2-0-2
ing back surgery Thursday. Bertuzzi on the first shot and a his second victory of the sea­
Coyotes on Mar. 5, 2001, start the best in franchise histo­
rebound with 9:24 left in the

The Blackhawks' Eric Daze son.
Khabibulin has allowed three ry, but the four-game unbeaten period.
also was sidelined by back pain. 

goals in the four victories over streak matches the Thrashers' Edmonton 4, Buffalo 1 
Detroit also got goals from 

l 
The loss was the third in a Phoenix. best run at any point. Ales Hemsky and Raffi Torres 
Brendan Shanahan and
row for Chicago, which has lost Khabibulin has given up two The Thrashers have yielded had a goal and an assist each

Lidstrom. Mathieu Schneiderboth of its road games while goals on 51 shots this season, only six goals this season, after as the Edmonton Oilers beat the 

had two assists. 
scoring just one goal. 

helping Tampa Bay start the allowing an NHL-worst 284 last Buffalo Sabres. 
Dan Cloutier made 28 saves

Colorado 5, Minnesota 2 season with consecutive wins. season. Defense is especially Ty Conklin stopped 31 shots
for Vancouver (2-2-0-0), which

Peter Forsberg ignited St. Louis put the Lightning up now without top for Edmonton, which had. two
a important got goals from Markus Naslund
three-goal second period, 2-1 from the left circle during a scorer Dany Heatley, sidelined straight shutout losses and had­
and Marek Malik. 

Teemu Selanne crushed any power-play at 8:07. Cullimore indefinitely with a knee injury. n't scored in 1 hour, 45 min­hopes for a comeback in the made it a two-goal game on a It was the first scoreless tie in Nashville 4, St. Louis 1 utes, 31 seconds. third and the Colorado close-in shot at 8:32. Thrashers history. Jordin Tootoo got his first · Hemsky scored at 14:48 of Avalanche looked flat-out domi­"I thought we had a good sec­New York (0-2-1) became the NHL point and Marek Zidlicky the second after taking a pass nant. ond period and we didn't sit last team in the Eastern scored a power-play goal and from Torres along the boards. 
Forsberg notched a goal and back in the third," St. Louis Conference to earn a point in assisted on another as the Torres gave the Oilers a two­an assist and Selanne scored said. the standings. But the Rangers, Nashville Predators beat the St. goal lead with 38 seconds left in his first goal in a Colorado uni­Brad Lukowich scored his out of the playoffs since 1997, Louis Blues. the period, on a pass from 
J ' 
form as the Avalanche beat the first goal in 71 games for haven't scored in 157 minutes, Tootoo, the first person of Hemsky. Minnesota Wild. Tampa Bay. His previous goal 13 seconds. Inuit descent to play in the The two linemates lead the 
!! 
Forsberg scored the first of came in last year's season Dunham was especially sharp league, assisted on Dan team in scoring with two goals three second-period goals for opener -against Florida. from the middle of the second Hamhuis' power-play goal at and two assists each after four Colorado, which beat the Wild Mike Johnson had the period on in, earning his 17th 10:53 of the second. He debuted games. 
: ~ 
I I 
: ~ 
I I 
I ) ; I i 
'' 
I'. 
I'' 
~ .. 
I,, 
I. 
~ 
) ) 
: ) ) ~-·, . 
I . 
~ I , ) )/ 
) I l 
,) 
) 
t 



.I_' 
~I I I 
} 
I 
f
I 
•' 
i·
•--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­







OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Friday, October 17, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S \VIRE SERVICES Page 21 
Men's Soccer Top 25 

team  record  prev.  
1  UCLA  10-1·0  1  
2  Maryland  11·1·0  2  
3  North Carolina  10·1·2  3  
4  Old Dominion  10·0·0  4  
5  Saint louis  9·1·2  5  
6  St. John's  9·3·1  7  
7  Washington  8·1·2  8  
8  Dayton  8·1·2  18  
9  Wake Forest  7·3·0  14  
10  Fairleigh Dickinson  8·2·1  11  
11  Florida International  7·2·2  10  
12  NOTRE DAME  7·2·3  6  
13  Rutgers  7·3·1  25  
14  . Santa Barbara  8·1·1  20  
15  Tulsa  9·3·1  12  
16  Yale  5-3-0  
17  Hartwick College  8-2-0  9  
18  Virginia Commonwealth  8-4-0  
19  Loyola Marymount  8-3-1  24  
20  Brown  6-3-0  22  
21  Cincinnati  6-1-4  
22  Duquesne  8-1-2  
23  Alabama  6-3-3  21  
24  Cal State Northridge  6-1-2  15  
25  Virgjria Tech  9-3-1  16  

Women's Soccer Top 25 
team record prev. 
1 North Carolina 14·0-0 1 2 NOTRE DAME 14·0-1 2 3 UCLA 9-1-2 3 4 TexasA&M 10-1-2 5 5 Portland 12-2-0 6 6 Virginia 10-1-2 4 7 West Virginia 12-2·2 8 8 Pepperdine 11·2·0 13 9 Florida 11·2·0 7 10 Washington 7-3-3 9 11 Penn State 12-2·2 14 12 Colorado 11-1-1 12 13 Wake Forest 9-2-2 16 14 Purdue 9-2-2 17 15 Connecticut 7·3-1 10 16 Nebraska 9-3-1 22 17 Santa Clara 7-3-4 19 18 Duke 8-4-1 15 19 Utah 11-2-0 20 Illinois 9-3-1 25 21 Princeton 7-1-2 23 22 Mississippi 12·2-0 23 Boston 9-2-2 20 24 Arizona State 8-2·2 25 Ohio State 8-2-3 11 
Eye on Irish Opponents 
Saturday 

USC (5-1) at NOTRE DAME (2-3) WASHINGTON STATE (5·1) at STANFORD (2-2) Illinois at MICHIGAN (5-2) MICHIGAN STATE (6-1) at Minnesota PURDUE (5-1) at Wisconsin PITISBURGH (3-2) at Rutgers BOSTON COLLEGE (4-2) at SYRACUSE (3·2} FLORIDA STATE (5-1) at Virginia NAVY (4·2) at Rice BYU (3-4} at Wyoming 
around the dial 
fRIDAY: GOLF PGA Tour 3_p.m., USA COLLEGE FOOTBALL Tulane at Louisville 7 p.m., ESPN 
SATURDAY: COLLEGE fOOTBALL Iowa at Ohio State 2:30p.m., ABC BASEBALL World Series, Game 1 6:30p.m., FOX 
AMERICAN LEAGUE PLAYOFFS 

Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -Wow, what a shot! 
Aaron Boone set ofT bed­lam in the Bronx on Thursday night with a lead­off home run in the 11th inning to give the New York Yankees a 6-5 victory over the Boston Red Sox for a trip to the World Series and their 39th American League pennant. 
New York trailed 4-0 in the fourth inning and 5-2 in the eighth as Roger Clemens made an early exit in what looked to be the final game of his storied career. 
But the Yankees bounced back, rekindling all those painful memories that have haunted so many Red Sox fans -thoughts of Bucky Dent, Bill Buckner and decades of New York domi­nation. 
This was the fifth pennant in six seasons for the Yankees, who haven't won the World Series since 2000, and the 26th time they played these old foes -a baseball first. 
The final words of the ulti­mate chapter revealed it was the same old story, one that the Red Sox perennially curse: pinstripes in the World Series, despair back in Boston. 
Only the names change in the annual fight between 
.>o 

New York and New park shaking. There wasn't England, never the result. a doubt from the moment it 
Mariano Hivera didn't left his bat. al1ow a run in his first three­It was the first pennant­inning appearance since winning, extra-inning Sept. 6, 1996. It capped a homer for the Yankees since triumphant night for a New Chris Chambliss' ninth­York bullpen that had failed inning shot against Kansas so often. This time, it City in 1976. allowed just one run in eight Rivera went right to the innings, and Rivera walked mound, dropping to the off with the MVP award. ground and pounding the 
Wakefield, who relieved to pitching rubber with his start the 1Oth, had baffied right hand. He seemed to be New York with his knuckle­sobbing by the time coach ball in Games 1 and 4 and Wille Handolph got to him started with a scoreless and hugged him. inning. The Yankees waited for 
Boone, acquired from Boone at home plate, hop­­Cincinnati on July 31, then ping with excitement, and homered into the left-field mobbed him when he seats, setting the old ball-arrived. 
IN BRIEF 

Ullrich challengesArmstrong 
INDIANAPOLIS -Five-time Tour de France champion Lance Armstrong answered a challenge from his chief rival Thursday, saying his team is still the one to beat in cycling's most prestigious race. 
Armstrong, in Indianapolis to pro­mote a cycling tour for cancer research, defended his U.S. Postal Service team from comments made Monday by Jan Ullrich that his new T-Mobile team was strong enough to stop Armstrong's bid for a record sixth straight Tour de France victo­ry. 
"It's a great team," Armstrong said of Ullrich's T-Mobile, "but I'm confi­dent we have the best team in the world. But it won't be easy." 
Ullrich was runner-up for the fifth time at this year's Tour de France and won the race in 1997, riding for Telekom. The team has been renamed after the cellular telephone subsidiary of the German telecom­munications giant. 
"The decisive thing was that I'd been runner-up at the Tour often enough," Ullrich said Monday at a press conference announcing his move .from Bianchi to T-Mobile. "I need a team that's strong enough to really challenge Lance Armstrong. I have now found it. We are the strongest team in the world." 
Williams' trial moved 
SOMERVILLE, N.J. -Former NBA star Jayson Williams' trial in the death of a limousine driver will be moved to a neighboring county because of heav:: publicity about the case. 
Judge Edward Coleman on Thursday directed that the trial, ten­tatively scheduled to begin in .January, be held in Somerset County instead of Hunterdon County. 
Williams, 35, is accused of reck­lessly handling the shotgun that killed limousine driver Costas 
.. 

Christofi in 2002 at Williams' Alexandria Township home. He could get nearly 55 years in prison on the charges, the most serious of which is aggravated manslaughter. 
Defense lawyers had asked for the move, saying the "avalanche of pub­licity" would prevent the seating of an unbiased jury. 
The defense said news stories about Williams "contained inaccu­rate and highly prejudicial informa­tion which would be inadmissible at trial." 
A survey conducted by defense consultants found the percentage of residents inclined to believe Williams is guilty was nearly twice as high in Hunterdon County as in Mercer or Bergen counties, defense lawyers said. 
Williams was among the NBA's 
best rebounders when leg injuries led to his retirement from the New 
-

Jersey Nets in 2000. After the shoot­ing, he was suspended from his job as an NBA analyst for NBC. 
' 
\ 
' 
\ 
\ 
\ 
' 
' 
' 
\ 
\ page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 17, 2003 

.... 

I 
\ 
\ 
\\ 
' \\ 
l 
\ 


,, " 
,,
' 

-

,, 
,, 
~ 
• • 
Hockey 
continued from page 28 
the off-ice preparation for the second game of a series," coach Dave Poulin said. "It's up to them as individuals to prepare themselves. 
"We talked about it after the game and they agreed that they prepared differently the second day. for whatever rea­son." 
Notre Dame played the Ohio State series without their top goaltender, junior Morgan Cey, who was sidelined as he recov­ers from off-season surgery. 
Sophomore Hory Walsh, who collected the win last Friday, and freshman David Brown, who stopped 36 saves in the loss to the Buckeyes filled in for Cey. 
"Going into last weekend, lgoaltending] was our question mark," Poulin said. "They both did a very good job last week­end. The team played well in front of both of them. 
"It's put us at an extremely deep situation in goal, and that's a great positive for us." 
Globke, a senior forward, wa~ the team's leading goal scorer last season and came into this year with high expec­tations. 

It didn't take him long to answer some of those expecta­tions, as he scored the first teams last year. The Irish have forwards D'Arcy McConvey (six Irish hat trick in an opening a 16-3-2 record against the goals, 23 assists last year) and game since 1995. Falcons since the start of the Mark Wires (13 goals, 15 
"It's one thing to say some­1996-97 season. assists last season). one's supposed to be the ofTen­Bowling Green opened its The Irish face the Falcons at sive guy, and it's another to season last weekend at the Joyce Center tonight at have someone go out and do 1\'orthern Michigan, dropping 7:35p.m. it," Poulin said. "He'll get his 2-1 and 6-3 decisions. The Notre Dame then travels to opportunities; he is a domi­Faleons' goals were all scored Bowling Green. Ohio, to play nant player in this league and by different players. the Falcons in the second in this country." Bowling Green is led in net game of the series at 7:05p.m. 
Cey will remain sidelined by Jordan Sigalet, who has a Saturday. this weekend as the Irish take 3.56 goals-against average on the Falcons (0-2, 0-2), and .865 save percentage so whom Notre Dame defeated in far this season. The Falcons Contact Justin Schuver at all four meetings between the expect to be led offensively by jschuver@nd.edu 


"Notre Dame Federal Credit Union has a lot of great products and services. I love their free checking!" 
•
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNJON You can bank on us to be better 
574/631-8222 •www.ndfcu.org 


Free Checkingl (It doesn't get better than free) 

Midfielder Luke Boughen and the Irish open a key three­game conference road trip against Connecticut on Saturday. 
Huskies 
continued from page 28 

it was really a team perform­ance," Clark said. "It's still a nice reward fur Devon, though, because he's a very good player. 
"Sometimes players don't get much recognition unless they get some statistics, so it's nice for him." 
Notre Dame's last confer­ence game was a 5-2 home loss to Rutgers, a game in which the Irish gave up four unanswered goals in less than 10 minutes to the Scarlet Knights. The Irish might have taken a bit of frustration out on Cleveland State, outshooting the Vikings 19-6 on the way to the shutout. 
Notre Dame more than like­ly won't have it that easy against the Huskies (5-6-2, 3­3-2), though. Despite a losing record, Connecticut plays one of the most difficult schedules in the country and has histor­ically been a thorn in Notre Dame's side. 
The Irish have a 3-6-1 all­time record against the Huskies, and have only defeated Connecticut once since joining the Big East in 1995. That one victory was a 3-1 win against the Huskies at Alumni Field last season. 
"UConn is a very talented team, a potential conference championship team," Clark said. "The Big East is one of the toughest conferences in the country, and this is going to be a difficult group of three games. 
"We just have to take it one game at a time." 
Connecticut comes into Saturday's game still stinging from a 1-0 double overtime loss to St. John's Wednesday. The Huskies also lost to No. 2 Maryland 4-0 earlier this week on Sunday. 
The Huskies are led offen­sively by Andres Rota and Steve Sealy, who have scored three and two goals, respec­tively. · 
In goal, Connecticut fea­tures one of the best in the Big East in Adam Schuerman, who has a miniscule 1.13 goals-against average in 10 games this season. 
After facing Connecticut, the Irish remain on the road to face Providence Wednesday. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


Mediterranean Cuisine *************************** 
Open: Tues.-Sat. 1 Jam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) 
We offer...~ -Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hownmos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie 
and many delicious dishes ... How about some Baklawa dessert to complement your meal.. 
Our address: 115 Dixie Way North Sauth Bend, IN 46637 (574) 277-7239 
We are located within few minutes from campus. in Roseland ar~ near Pendle Road on 3 I 


. ·',{ r.f f, , . . . . . , \ c : (" f (
,· I 
Friday, October 17, 2003 page 23
The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL GOLD LEAGUE ­
Johnson injured but Dillon stays undefeated 
By DAN TAPETILLO and 
CHRIS SINUTKO 
Sports Writers 
Thursday night's game between the Big Red of Dillon and the Keenan Knights was a match-up between two unde­feated teams looking to end the regular season on a high note. 
Dillon struggled in the first half. but overcame an injury to its starting quarterback to defeat Keenan 14-8. 
Prior to the game, Dillon team captain Kevin McCarthy said he knew Keenan would be a diffi­cult opponent. 
"Knowing how they played [last game]. we knew it would be a tough game," McCarthy said. 
Keenan was also aware of 

how dangerous its opponent Dillon would be after its 42 point victory over Stanford. 
"42 points is ridiculous in inner hall football," Keenan team captain Reed Langton said. 
Early in the first half, Dillon faced offensive difficulties as Keenan came .out strong to begin the game with a touch­down to make the score 8-0. 
In addition to the strong offense, the defense was also relentless in trying to stop Dillon's drive. 
Dillon was able to get on the scoreboard and even the score on a touchdown pass from quarterback Michael Johnson to McCarthy. 
Later in the first half, Johnson suffered a dislocated shoulder and had to leave the game. A. J. 
Cedeno replaced Johnson. 
But, Cedeno scored the game winning touchdown in the sec­ond half off a quarterback sneak to make the score 14-8. 
Keenan managed to drive the ball to the Dillon 7-yard line with two minutes left in the game but could not complete the touchdown. 
"We just have two drives that came up short," Langton said. "[The playoffs] are a whole new beginning." 
Keough 10, O'Neill 8 
Keough earned its first win of the season Thursday night with a 10-8 win against O'Neill. Both teams came to play and it showed in this closely fought game. 
"It was nice to finish with a win," Keough captain John 
McCarthy said. 
The Kangaroos came back to score 10 straight points in the second quarter. They avoided a disastrous start and came out with the victory. 
On the second play of the game. Keough fumbled at its own 35. John Enterline of O'Neill picked up the loose ball and ran in the end zone for a quick six points. On the conver­sion. Enterline then pounded it in for another two points. 
On the very next play for Keough, they fumbled it again on a bad handoff. O'Neill recov­ered on its opponent's 32-yard line. There could not have been a much better start for O'Neill. 
However, the strong Keough defense held and sacked the ·O'Neill quarterback on fourth­
and-four to regain the ball. 
"We .wasted a lot of opportu­nities, but we still had fun. Both teams gave 100 percent efforts and that's all you can ask for," Enterline said. "We're looking ahead to next year as we're only losing three or four guys. This year has been something to build on and we have no regrets." 
O'Neill had a field goal oppor­tunity late to win the game, but since the game was at night, the field with lights that they were playing on did not have goal posts. They could not kick a field goal so they had to score a touchdown. 
Keough picked off the O'Neill quarterback. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at dtapetil@nd.edu and Chris Sinutko at csinutko@nd.edu 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Improved Belles hope to contain scrappy Alma attack 
Since that game, the Belles games on the road for the season." The Scots are one of the best 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
have compiled a 5-4 record Belles, and a key stretch for a The Scots {20-4, 9-1) are led offensive teams in the confer­Associate Sports Editor 
including a 2-2 mark in con­Saint Mary's team looking to offensively by outside hitter ence, leading all teams in both 
ference matchups. increase its conference stand­Kristen Judson and middle hit­kills and service aces so far 
Saint Mary's hopes to start "We have improved tremen­ing. ter Erin Fralick. Judson has this season. its first conference winning dously since' the last time we "It's nice that we get the first 128 kills in 32 games and After today's game. the streak of the year as it travels played Alma," coach Julie place and second place team Fralick has 117 kills in 34 Belles will remain on the road to face conference leader Alma Schroeder-Biek said. "We're [Hope] on this road trip." games. as they travel to the Hope today. going to have to really do a Schroeder-Biek said. "We· Fralick was also. recently College Triangular Tuesday. 
The Belles (13-10, 3-7 in good job blocking [today] if we know that we're not going to named MIAA Player of the Saint Mary's will play two con­MIAA) defeated Adrian at want to stop their attack. get first in the conference any­Week. ference matches at that tour­home Tuesday, paced statisti­"They're just a real quick, more, but we can still go into The Scots are defensively nament, facing Olivet at 7 p.m. cally by Kristen Playko's 26 scrappy team, but then again this trip looking to make some balanced, with four players and host school Hope at 9 p.m. kills and 25 digs. so are we." damage. collecting over 100 digs so far 
Saint Mary's lost to Alma at Today's game is the first of "We're out to improve our this season. Fralick also leads Contact Justin Schuver at home in four sets Sept. 21. three straight conference standing· going into the post-the team in blocks with 39. jschuver@nd.edu 
Better Pizza. 
NOTRE DAME 


Better Ingredients. 
-
. 
. 

We've been' ready over 35 years. 
~~lruuuctiou·bit~ruk rathfrwnme~~-at Holy a~ COlle~. Our d~s o'Ut ~ntall snd lftt:bl'l~~, so ~u~nu rt:~l:\<t: 'tht htgl~ .lt'<\1d fS F~'t~"lnat attt:ntl.on f:r()in. a. dedkate'd~, 
. e~ulng ra.~ult)~ •~udetrt~ ~an ea:m an..~-..;.iate: ol.Juu.o.r &d1ilor e~f.Art.s. degrbl! .att:kll~· Cr~. R~~ t:esidt.~ lU'e. is .~cwtr.tgwith d:"~e addl.btlofoo:r6fth rtstde-l~ hall, 
1[)~"~ lookmgJOr aihan~ lt" t.:gi.n orron:t:in\1(' ~.a !Sf.'JQII11.d'~~~ '";here alittl~ Q~-Qn,...Qne 15 an tntegnd pnt o{ otl.r mi.nion ~nd phi1o.!10ph}\ give HolyCOOSJCOl~~ a. QJlat{57~) l39-&IDO (lf\1~it tt!< at ~"'""~~-:lXh'!ti.u.. 



ZWll.---lLl"7'7 

·ILA'f'JE~ 
N:EGH'fl 
s~ ID;~'tr~T!A,\ IL
!i.lr' m~~JJ ..~ 
ST MARY~S HOLY CROSS 
Z;TJL---717~ 


Fr-Sat 11 am-3am Sun 12pm-1am 
·-------------· 
I I I 1 Large I 
I I 
I 1 Topping I I
I I I I I 
I $6.99 
I I I I after 9pm I 
·-------------· 
Free Delivery Visa, Mastercard 

p~ge 24 
Friday, October 17, 2003 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish host exhibitions 
Special to The Observer 
The men's tennis team will play host to the USC Trojans this afternoon in an exhibition match in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Nos. 7 and 8 singles will kick off the action at 2 p.m., with Nos. 4-6 sin­gles starting at 4 p.m. and doubles and Nos. 1­3 singles to follow. 
This will mark the 16th meeting between the two squads. The Trojans lead 

·-the series 8-1 and have won five of six exhibition matches. The lone Irish official victory came in the 1992 NCAA semifi­nals, where Notre Dame upset the top-ranked Trojans 5-1 to advance to the national title match for the first time in school history. In the teams' last meeting, Notre Dame won five of six singles matches to post a 5-2 fall exhibition win in 2001 over a USC squad that would go on to win the national championship. 
The Trojans return six starters from a team that finished 14-12 in 2003 and advanced to the sec­ond round of the NCAA Tournament. Junior Johan Berg is ranked No. 
87 nationally in singles and seniors Parker Collins and Daniel Langre are the No. 41 doubles team in the country. 
Peter Smith is in his second year as the head coach of the Trojans, with a 14-12 record at USC and a 284-147 mark in his 16 years of coach­ing. Prior to his stint at USC Smith spent five seasons leading Pepperdine. In his final two campaigns with the Waves, current Irish assistant Todd Doebler served as his assistant coach. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish, Trojans meet today 

Special to The Observer 
In a prelude to Saturday's meeting on the gridiron, the Notre Dame women's tennis team will make its lone home appearance of the fall in an exhibition against USC on this afternoon. 
Today will mark the sixth meeting between Notre Dame and USC. The teams have met three times in the regu­lar season, and the Irish lead the series 2­
1. This is the third time the teams have met in the exhibition play. The young USC team returns four letterwin­ners and boasts six tal­ented freshmen. In 200 3, the Trojans reached the NCAA quarterfinals and post­ed a final record of 22­6. 
Leading the way for USC is junior Luana Magnani, who reached the second rou'nd of the NCAA singles tourna­ment and enters the fall ranked No. 15 in the nation. Sophomore Carine Vermeulen also holds a national rank­ing in singles at No. 93. Richard Gallien is in his 
ninth season as head coach of the Trojans. He is 139-76 at USC 
and  201-100  in  10  
years of coaching.  
The  last  time  the  

teams played, the Irish upset No. 7 USC 5-2 in the opening round of the 2002 USTA/ITA National Team Indoor Championships. Notre Dame won the doubles point and four of six in singles to take the deci­sion. The Trojans had defeated the Irish by the same score in an exhibition match earlier that season, in October 2001. 

,,, 
,)• 
I\)
) II 
Barbados

,\ 
) ' 
continued from page 28 

Caribbean island nation, the team will play three games and practice at least once a day. The final full day the squad is in Barbados, next Friday, will ' \ be basketball-free. Instead, the Irish will take a day-long
I 
[ 
l 
cruise. 
"Great weather alone, it's going to be a great time," Jordan Cornette said. "I think 

\' it will be good for this team, because I think it will be a great advantage. We get to go down there and see what the young guys can do. We can get a feel for our lineup before we even actually get into exhibi­tion play." 

Brey has said he'll use the foreign tour to tinker to help the younger members of the Irish gain valuable experience. He also wants to experiment with unique lineups to try to find combinations that work well together even before the Irish play their first exhibition game. 
"There's not a lot riding on it, so to speak," Brey said. "You can't experiment against [Notre Dame's first opponent] Northern Illinois. Hopefully,· that gives us a head start." 

-
r 
'~ ~ 
I 
( 
I 
_,.
:~ 
'I 
'I ') 'I 
I) 'I 
'I
.,
,, 
J 
,, 


For the Irish, who have been scrimmaging against each other non-stop in their 10 practices since the team began working out Sept. 4, the Barbados tour offers them an opportunity to play against other opponents in game-like conditions. 
"Every time we go out there, it's a game-like intensity in practice. I expect the same out of these scrim­mages," Cornette said. "I think it will be more of a game-type preparation having the score­board and having the refs out there." 
In Barbados, the Irish will play the Barbados national team as well as a team from London. A reporter from ESPN planned to follow the Irish around during their week-long trip to provide a behind-the­scenes look at preseason bas­ketball preparation. 
The only Notre Dame player not making the trip is transfer Dennis Latimore who, because he is sitting out this season per NCAA regulations, cannot begin practicing with the team until later this month. 
"I like the fact that we get to go to one place and stay there," Brey said. "It's going to be a retreat atmosphere." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

THAI RESTAURANT 
ccWe-i-Ywue-yo-wto-tr-y wor~~ ~ -rhcW~ thcd;-waL ~e-yo-ur {We-~ ~ee;t; ~, ~, lp(,cy ~na.tuvCW. ,, Lunch: Mon-Fri 11 am -2pm Dinner: Mon-Sat 5pm -9pm 
211 Main St. Downtown South Bend 232-4455 N 0 W HIR.TIK; 
1 ! 


Friday, October 17, 2003 pa~e 25
Th( tlbstrvn-+ SPORTS 

IF YOU I!NJOY STAM_. COLLECTING, DON"T MISS THI! 
STAMP COLLECTORS' MARKETPLACE 
THI! STAMP SHOW WITH SOM!THINO FOR ALMOST IV!RYONE 
NATIONAL DEALERS OFFERING: 
MORE 

OTHER FEATURES: DOOR PRIZES-SILENT AUCTION -YOUTH TABLE FREE PARKING AND FREE ADMISSION 
i t 

COME TO BUY OR SELL
I 

WHERE: RAMADA INN s2aeo u.s~ 31133 N SOUTH BEND, IN 
EXIT 77N OFF I-8Ci90 
WHEN: SATURDAY, OCTOBER 25
' i 

10:00 AM .. 6:00 PM
i l SUNDAY,OCTOBER26 
l
j 10:00 AM TO 3:00 PM 
FOR MOR£ INFOR.AllOH, CONTACT PATti Olt STEVE SCHI1118E'CKLER AT 
l.___1.aoo._811_1--1l4_!i_OR_E-_..IIIU..;._~.•~~~:::~:-_,.L-OCAL~·
'-8-14_AR_E_ACAU--1181--1-IIB-·-J 
~ VON DUTCH * SEVEN JEANS * BLUE
=.--------------.....,g 
Q 
~ 

tn 
528 :E. Colfax ~ve., Suite #1 * ~ South 1>eru£, 11f46617 ·i ~ 574/232-1821 ~ 
~ ~. 
~.~ 312 W. C(evefandlfuL 

!~ ~r
§ranaer, '1:1'1 46530 ~n_.. ~ 574/177--6693 
~ 
~ 

~ AConlemporary 
= 


~
\Vomen'1 Rou!Jqllt SJ~edahzlng ln 
Designer Oo~es anJ Gi~ 


* 
~ 
z 

:nlfil..OO) A.Jiilf 11-ILlS> 
17-4 for the game. shy of the team record. The cur­"They've changed their system rent shutout streak covers 584
Rivalry 
­
a little bit this year in their mid­minutes, about a game and a half continued from page 28 field, so we need to be able to shy of the team record of 726 
deal with that, and they definitely minutes by the national champi­Waldrum said. "They always will use last year's loss as some onship team in 1995. The Irish hover around the top six or eight added fuel for this game," have outscored their opponents in the country at the end of the Waldrum said. 55-5, including 26-1 on their cur­season and should be there again Connections between the two rent homestand. this year." teams also add to the rivalry. Irish "It's amazing how much confi­
The Huskies senior Amy dence we have, all the way from ­present a for­Warner will be the freshmen to the seniors, in midable chal­reunited with both ourselves and team," senior
"They've changed their 
lenge for the former high defender Melissa Tancredi said. surging Irish, system a little bit this school team­"It's a different quality of play and having already year in their midfield, so mate Kristen the effort and intensity given in defeated a top Graczyk, who practice shows on the field."
we need to be able to deal
five team by is one of the The Irish defense has shown a
with that. ..
winning at top scorers for strong blend of youth and experi­Portland. They the Huskies. ence. Tancredi, who has been also were the Randy Waldrum Both players, named to the Soccer America last Big East who hail from Team of the Week and declared
Irish coach 
team to defeat La Cueva high Big East Defensive Player of the the Irish at school in Week two weeks in a row, pro­home, winning Albuquerque, vides the experience along with in 1995. The Irish have won their N.M., have been named "Big East Pruzinsky, while freshmen last 48 games against Big East Offensive Player of the Week in Christie Shaner and Kim teams at Alumni Field. the past two weeks, with Warner Lorenzen have also delivered con­
The Huskies will also be looking being the current honoree. sistent performances in the back to avenge last year's loss to the In addition two Irish players, for the Irish. Irish, as unranked Notre Dame defender Vanessa Pruzinsky and "I don't think anyone expected shook off a 1-0 halftime deficit goalkeeper Erika Bohn, hail from them to come in as good as they with three goals in the second the state of Connecticut and have did, even Shaner and Lorenzen," 
-)

half to beat the No.9 Huskies 3-1. a number of connections with Tancredi said. "They've done so 
The Irish dominated the second Husky players. well just being thrown in there. half, ending up with an overall 9-The Irish head into the game It's become very easy for me to 0 shot advantage for the half and with six consecutive shutouts, two count on them to do their job." 
After facing Connecticut, the Irish will fmally go on the road for their last three Big East divisional games of the season. The Irish take on Pittsburgh Sunday before traveling to Rutgers and Seton Hall next weekend. At 3-0, the Irish will be looking to go unde­feated in the division a year after fmishing tied at 3-3. 
TIM KACMAR/The Observer Contact Andy Troeger at Freshman mldflelder Lizzie Reed dribbles past Georgetown atroeger@nd.edu defenders earlier this season. 

Hope 
continued from page 28 
vulnerable position that allowed for Hope's game-winning goal. He said the teams match up very well for this game. 
"It's a great match-up of how we defend and they control the ball," Haring said. 
Saint Mary's will be without two key players for the game. Striker Wendy Irvin injured her ankle against Adrian last week and is out indefinitely, according to Haring. She did not break the bone but could have ligament damage that would keep her out for possibly the remainder of the 
season. ­
Defender Shannon Culbertson will also miss the game because of a red card last game. Haring said the penalty was uncalled for and inappropriate for what Culbertson did. Either way, the team will look for other players to cover for the losses of those two players. 
"You deal with the cards you're dealt. We're going to be asking some freshmen and other players to step up," Haring said. "They are going to get quality minutes in a very important game." 
The game could have a major effect on the outcome of the MIAA this season. A win and Hope moves nearly out of reach of Saint Mary's. 
Saint Mary's has six confer­ence matches left and would be behind Hope by six points. Teams receive two points for a ·win, one point for a tie and zero points for a loss. If the Belles do lose to Hope, it will also give the Flying Dutch the tie-breaker even if the Belles make a run. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

Fri'd'ay, October 17, 2003

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Pre-National meet preparation for Big Easts 

. .•· ..·. ; . The following guidelines wiiLopp)y: ..·. •· 
National powers await Irish at Northern Iowa this weekend 

ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
Saturday at the Pre-National meet at the University of Northern Iowa, both the men's and women's cross country teams will have their first taste of the competition they will face at the national champi­onships in November. 
Both squads are coming off victories two weeks ago at the Notre Dame Invitational, which included a sampling of some top 25 teams. Saturday's event is important for the Irish as strong performances could help them obtain at-large bids to the National Championships if they do not automatically advance to the title race by finishing in the top two at the NCAA Great Lakes Regional Nov. 15. 


The Irish women are cur­rently ranked fifth nationally and Saturday will be the strongest competition they have faced so far this season. Notre Dame will contend with the likes of No. 1 BYU, No. 8 Georgetown, No. 23 Princeton and No. 22 Michigan. The Irish, who have three victories in three races this season, will be running without sophomore
·' 
Loryn King, who is now out for the season due to injury. Additionally, an injury will keep senior Maggie Nelson from running. 


But the Irish will have the services of their top runners, ): the All-America duo of sopho-
Chinese Restaurant 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine! Voted Michiana's Best Chinese Restaurant 
·,, Open 7 Days 
'. nch Special -$4.75 Mon-Fri 11 :3o-3pm Dinner starting at $6.45 222 Dixieway S., S.B. 574-272-7376 
Bernardo's Fine Mens Clothing 
\. 
( ', 
OctoberSale 20-30-40°/o off 
Great Selection of Suits & Sport Coats for Your Interviews 
Famous Brand Names 
;I 
(~,' 
Kenneth Cole Suit $495 for $325 
j: 
1 
~ . 
i. 
I , 
Hart Shaffner Marx 
I 
I 
Joseph Abboud
·~ 
) 
~ Austin Reed 
I 'I 
i 
I. Tommy Bahama 
'I 
') 
I 
'/ i . 255-8818 


'i : 
,, ,' 
more Molly Huddle and junior Lauren King. Huddle took first place at the Notre Dame Invitational, and King took second. Senior Megan Johnson will also be aiding the Irish. Nelson took 21st at the race two weeks ago. 
The Irish will also be sup­ported by senior Katie Wales, sophomore Jean Marinangeli and junior Kerry Meagher, who finished seventh at the Notre Dame Invitational. Additionally, sophomore Stephanie Madia, a top runner as a freshman, will be partici­pating in her first race of the season. 
Last season the men, who are currently ranked 15th, were one of the last teams to receive an at-large bid to the national championship meet. For the first time this season, the Irish will be able to find out just where they fit among the country's top teams, allow­ing them to gauge their progress towards their goal of a top ten finish at the national championship race. · 
Notre Dame will likely be led by sophomore Tim Moore, who two weeks ago finished third in the competitive Notre Dame Invitational, which was his first race of the season. Senior Todd Mobley is also expected to aide the Irish effort. Mobley, a former All-American, has been in the process of getting back to his old form after an injury one year ago at the Pre­National meet caused him to miss the Big East Championships and hurt his the line in 12th place overall. performance in the post-sea­Junior Sean O'Donnell and son races. soph-omore Kaleb Van Ort as 
An Irish newcomer, fresh­well as seniors Brian Kerwin man Kurt Benninger, will be and David Alber will also be an important asset to the representing Notre Dame as team. Benninger was third for the Irish contend against 43 Notre Dame at the race two nationally ranked teams, weeks ago, when he crossed including No. 3 Northern Arizona, No. 5 Colorado and No. 11 Ohio State. 
In two weeks, both teams will travel to the Bronx for the Big East Championships. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 


• Name. perso;ndizafion only"'no messoges please •• Upon presenlation>of your Hommes 
Bookstore receipt showing purchase of The Doythe Babies CrowledAway/ one (1) additional · · book may be signed • Call for information: 574-631..6320 
HAM.MES 

NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
lN THE ECK CE.NTER 
Jhone~ CS74l 631·6316 • www. ndbeokttore.c:em 
Open to the public-• Convenient parking 
• 

Friday, October 17, 2003 page 27 _
The·Obstrver + TODAY­
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 

fiVES BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
QUEST10N OF THE DAY: What are you doing ov·er the October break? 

H 
J.Yhot :r a break? t• 




HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
Four aces. I'm to form four ordinary words. back in the game 
LEEXI 

rJ rJ
1 
C2003 Tribune Media SBtVicea, Inc. All Righta Reserved. 
TIGAN 

rJ I []
1 

TO A R:>KER.
tUFEED 
PL..AYE'I< DOWN ON HIS L-UCK, A 
I

J I I 
WINNING HAND 
www.jUmble.com 
MEANS--­
tTEAREA j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J rx 

1 1 suggested by the above cartoon. 
AAswer: A 

rI I I I]"( I I I]" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: TULIP CRAFT KITTEN JETSAM Answer: When the van driver was stopped for speeding, the passengers said it was -JUSTTHE "TTCKET' 
I 
A 
1 
.... ~ 
j j 
1 
i 
I 
I ~ 
__, 

l J 
j 
I 
j ( I 
j I 
! 
-

CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  37 Part of a swap?  54 Marshal Kane's  
1 WAlas"  38 Whom Scarpia  time  
5 Berated  double-crosses  55 Tots  
15 Catch bt'.Jt good 16 Bouncer's place  39 Midwest city abutting Eden Prairie  56 Wrong 57 Flout the pecking order?  
17 Frumpy 18 Bad bit of planning  40 "Cherish those hearts that_ thee": Shak.  58 Mythology anthology  
19 Title heroine of 1816 .20 Bullets 21 "Concentrate!"  41 Behind bars 42 Chihuahua, e.g. 46 Boomer or . buster  DOWN 1 Banked 2 Blues player, maybe  
22 Baked dish  47 Some Texas  3 American  
23 Media attention  A&M degs.  Airlines Arena  
24 Turns aside  48 Thoreau's "_  team  
25 Here  on the Concord and Merrimack  4 Portoferraio's island  
27 Cooler 29 Piccolomini Library's home 30 Unreason  Rivers" 49 Sheepish look 51 Kodak or Fuji competitor  5 Hair piece? 6 Lie, slangily 7 Pace  
31 As shown, for short 34 "Beats me"  52 Start of a conformist's phrase  8 911 responders: Abbr. 9 Knuckle dragger  30 Certain protest 31 Deserving at least a B  41 Quality oi being fashionable 42 Two-masters  46 Something New York and Los Angeles each have  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Landlord's 
32 Another nameentitlement 

43 In the least 49 Understand
for Tennessee 11 Yale name 
-=+-:+.::+:--1 33 Start of a 44 Quarterback 50 Rice-A-_ -=+:-:-+:~:--:t 12 Slew request Rodney 
13 Concerning 51 Chip in
35 Rocket 45 Numerical 14 Ship woods 36 Old leftist grp. prefix 53 Cultural org. 

-=+:::+.:~hrl --=+-....+::~ 23 Like hawks 
24 Titan's place For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
26 Common girl's Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
-=+:-:+-~:--:t middle name 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 27 Brothers on the 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
~~~ air 
past puzzles, nytimes.comlcrosswords ($34.95 a year). -:-:-+-=+::+.:+.::--1 28 Radio code Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, word nytimes.com!leaming/xwords. · 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable· to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ________________________________________ City _________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Beverly Garland, George Wendt, Alan Jackson, Arthur Miller, Margot Kidder, Evel Knievel 
Happy Birthday: You won't stop until you know that you are ahead of all your competitors this year. You will be on lhe move and in the groove, reaping the rewards !long the way. You've paid your dues, and it's time for you to let your thoughts be known. The more powerful you appear, the more respect you'll receive. Your numbers: 2. 18. 21, 38. 43,45 
ARIES (March 21·April 19): Uncertainties about your relationship could be causing more upset than you thought. Take some time to be alone. Question your motives regarding an individual who has been pursuing you. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Problems with foreigners or authority figures may detain you. Make sure all your papers are in order. Don't work with 
-individuals who appear to be unreliable. Protect your interests.***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Sudden romantic infatuations will take you by surprise. You can meet new mates if you get involved in groups that can provide 
· you with mental stimulation. *** CANCER (Junt 21-July 22): Your partner will be unpredictable. Don't confront people with ultimatums or negativity if you want a favorable response. Prepare yourself for change. Acceptance will be necessary. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Opportunities to do things with friends will be informative and fun. You need a break from your everyday rouline. Don't let your mate back you into a corner. Arguments won't solve any problems. *** VIRGO (Aug. 2J.Sept. 22): Problems with children will escalate if you don't deal with these situations immediately. Be careful when joint monies are involved. Take aclose look at contracts before you sign them. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Opposition will stand in your way if you are too vocal about your beliefs or your intentions. Get out and make new friends who can offer you insight into new and exciting at:tivities. •• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may have to deal with an unreliable individual. Be careful how you handle the situalion; one of your superiors is watching. Don't let anyone stand in the way of your advancement. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dtc. 21): You're lired of the same old routine. You need a change. Join different groups or get involved in something that will take you inlo different envirorunents. You have to make things happen. *** CAPRICORN (Dtc. 22-Jan. 19): Don't overdo it. You have atendeney to think that no one will do things properly. You need to pul a bit of trust in others. Une~pected events will cause upset. Don'l be afraid to ask for help. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Ftb. 18): Don't push others to join in your crusade if they really don't want to. It is best to savor the friendship rather than make the connection uncomfortable. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Deception is likely if you get invol,·ed in joint money matters. This is not the best time to give too freely of yourself or your cash. You have to learn to say no in order to save yourself grief. **** 
Birthday Baby: You'll stand out in a crowd. You are clever and know how to please others. Your charm and grace will allow you to get what you want. You will strive to reat:h your goals and will know instinctively how to get others to help you do just that. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
I' 
~: 
\ 
\ 
I . 
I, 
THE 
OBSERVER 
I 
~ 
I 
', 
p
Friday, October 17, 2003 Page 28 
~ 
( 
t I 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

\ 
~ 
~~ \, Irish to practice in Barbados over fall break 
~~ 
\ 
\ 
The Notre Dame's men's bas­they're going to Barbados." the summer. Carter couldn't have come 
.\ By ANDREW SOUKUP 
ketball team is heading to NCAA regulations stipulate But unlike many schools, the along because they weren't
'' \ Sports Writer 
\. Barbados. that a team may take a foreign Irish have a week-long fall technically college students "We thought this would be a tour once every four years and break. So Brey decided to take yet. 

Some students are going good thing to do," Irish coach practice up to 10 extra times the team's foreign tour then so The Irish leave· for Barbados home for fall break. Others are Mike Brey said of the foreign before the traditional start of the freshmen could participate. Saturday morning and return a heading to Boston for the Irish­trip. "They're good workers, practice to prepare for that Had the Irish left for Barbados week later. While in the tiny Eagles football game next but I see a little bit more tour. And normally, most bas­in the summer, freshmen Colin Saturday. bounce in their step knowing ketball teams take their trip in Falls, Omari Israel and Russell see BARBADOS/page 24 
SMC SOCCER 
Win over Hope key for Belles 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
A golden opportunity awaits the Saint Mary's soccer team this weekend. 

I· 
Standing in a tie for second­

' ( 
' 
place with 12 points in the MIAA, the Belles have a chance 

'/i 
to cut conference leader Hope's

:U 
advantage when the two teams face oft' Saturday at Saint Mary's. 

~ 
"We put everything in our own '' ·?" hands for the outcome of the
~ 
'II\ 
'( 
season," coach Peter Haring

I ' ~· 
said.

ii• 
The Flying Dutch and Belles 

~ 
met earlier in the season, with ,, Hope winning in overtime 1-0. ~ ' Haring said the Belles played 
' )i
.i)J well in that game, but got into a 
:)\jI, , 
see HOPE/page 25 

.·~ 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Renewal of a rivalry 
Big East powers Notre Dame and Connecticut meet 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
One sign of an intense confer­ence rivalry comes when the teams play each other in years when the conference doesn't schedule a game between the teams. That will be the case tonight when Notre Dame takes on the Connecticut Huskies in a non-conference game between the teams that have historically dominated the Big East. 
The Irish come into the game· ranked No. 2 in the country with a 14-0-1 record, while the Huskies are No. 14 with an 8-3-3 record. The Irish are atop the Mid-Atlantic Division of the Big East, while the Huskies share the top spot in the Northeast Division. 
. "Connecticut is our oldest rival," Irish coach Handy 
see RIVALRYI page 2 5 

:)l:j 
MEN'S SOCCER 

'! 
s 
y 
·.~ ~ ~ J' ,,·, 
Irish make conference road trip
I 
I I 
under head coach Bobby Clark 
II 
; 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
the Irish have scored six goals. ;~i Associate Sports Editor "I think there's been a few
I ! ( I '! games over the years where we 
II I} 
if 
Earlier this week, Notre could have scored this many Dame succeeded in showing goals," Clark said. "We don't the Big East that they are still a necessarily go into the game force to be reckoned with. Now, looking to score that many, but they'll have to show it to their when the goals come,· we're 
opponents in person. definitely going to take them." :~ The Irish begin a key three­The Irish were paced offen­T! game conference road trip as sively by senior forward Devon 
they face Connecticut on the Prescod, who scored the first I' road Saturday at 7 p.m. hat trick for the Irish since 
~ 
Notre Dame (8-2-3, 3-2-1 in Sept. 25, 1994. the Big East) is coming ofT its "I think it was great that 
1' 
. 
Oifl best offensive performance of Devon scored those goals, but ?t.' TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer the season, a 6-0 drubbing of he would be the first to say that z~ Chad Riley leads Notre Dame Cleveland State on the road
J 
!)~ with eight assists. Tuesday. It wa.s the first time see HUSKIES/page 22 
:.JZ' 
HOCKEY 

Home schedule opens tonight 
Bowling Green on the road 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Saturday.
Associate Sports Editor 
Tonight's game will be the 
home opener for the Irish (1­

The Irish are hoping the 1, 1-1 in the CCHA) this sea­good start on the road last son. weekend will help jumpstart Notre Dame defeated Ohio the rest of their season. State last Friday by a score 
After opening the season of S-2, paced by a Rob with a split on the road Globke hat trick. The against Ohio State, the Irish Buckeyes came back to split will face CCHA opponent the series however, defeating Bowling Green in a home­the Irish 3-1 the next day. and-home series. "I think that the thing we 
Notre Dame will face the most need to improve on is 
Falcons at the Joyce Center tonight and then ·take on 
u~ I?~ 
li
01 
(1} en
11.£.
, ~. .. CROSS COUNTRY 
-#! 
1.1.1 

),C
f Pre-National meet
1-" z 
Saturday 


., a: ::5 
The men's and women's teams head to the University of 
== 
Northern Iowa.
a..~ 

en 
page 26 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
SMC VOLLEYBALL
MEN'S TENNIS 

INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Saint Mary's at
USC at Notre 
Dillon 14
USC at Notre 

Dame 
Keenan 8 
Alma
Dame 
Today
Today, 2 p.m. 

Today, 4 p.m. 
Keough 10 
The Belles will focus
The Irish host the 

Notre Dame leads the 
O'Neill 8 
on defense to defeat
Trojans in an exhibition 

regular season series 2­
league opponent Alma.
at Eck Tennis Pavilion. 

1. 
page 23 

page 23
page 24 
page 24 
see FALCONS/page 22 
MLB 
/ / 
New York 6 Boston 5 
The Yankees' Aaron Boone hit the game-winning solo home run to beat the Red Sox in game seven. 
page 21 



.... 
... 

.. 
I 0 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 


Irish ready for revenge after last year 
USC quarterback Carson to show them that last year's Notre Dame player and fan in a very different position head­
Palmer drove the train that game was not Notre Dame the country felt the same that ing into this season's game 
ran over Notre Dame's season football." night. than in 2002. They aren't 
in 2002. Throw out Notre Dame's The USC loss has been on ranked in the top 10 in the 
Just to sub-par 2-3 record. Who the Irish players' minds this nation. There will be no BCS 
put into cares that the team has tough week. Notre Dame may have berth opportunity. And they 
context games against Boston College had several big games this aren't expected to give the 
how domi­and Florida State left on the season -Washington State at Trojans much of a game. 
nant the schedule. None of that m·at­home, Michigan and But Notre Dame has some­
Trojans ters Saturday. Pittsburgh on the road -but thing very crucial in its favor. 
were That's because the players none of those will mean as The Irish faithful have been 
against from the 2002 Notre Dame much to the players as facing waiting almost a year for USC 
the Irish team still·have vivid memo­USC Saturday. to march its Trojan horse 
in late ries of that terrible game. Linebacker Courtney back into South Bend. The 
November They remember what it felt Watson had to be shocked at players have been waiting a 
of last like to have USC knock them the way the Trojans offense long time for a chance to 
season, on the ground, then kick moved the ball up and down knock down some yellow and 
USC put them in the head. the Rose Bowl field all night. red jerseys. The chance for 
They remember the signs After the game, he tried to payback is inching closer. 
up more Sports Editor 
total yards that said, "The glory stops justify that the Irish defense When the Irish take the . of offense here." was still a good unit-few field Saturday, they will have 
-610-They remember the hope believed him. a mission. It will be more 
than any other opponent had they had Vontez Duff than just winning the football 
in the previous 1,081 games entering that couldn't stop game and upsetting a top five 
of Irish football history, dating game-a USC's star team at home. It will be get­
Graduated offensive 
back to 1887. Much of that chance to freshman ting back at a team that
lineman Jordan Black 
credit went to Palmer, who earn a BCS receiver Mike trashed them in front of the wrapped up the Heisman bowl berth simply said he wanted Williams nation and sent a near-fatal Trophy with last year's big -and the from grab­blow to an otherwise success­
to throw up after the 
win against the Irish. empty feel­bing 10 pass­ful season. It will mean an 
The Irish offense didn't help ing they had game. He and every es for 169 opportunity to win for the the cause, either, by gaining leaving it, as Notre Dame player and yards and seniors of last year that still all of 109 yards and scoring a team that two touch­feel hatred for USC. But most 
fan in the country felt 
as much as the club chess had just downs during importantly, the game is a
the same that night. 
team. been embar­the game or chance for Notre Dame to get 
After that thrashing, you rassed in stop him revenge on a team that disre­
better believe the Irish want front of the from ripping spected them. A chance to 
revenge. nation. the Irish secondary after the ruin USC's season. 
"We went out there and got And they remember trying game, saying the unit wasn't A chance to take down Troy. 
our butts kicked," Dwight to figure out how that beating good at all. The opinions expressed in 
Ellick said. "I feel like they could happen. You better believe those this column are those ofthe 
tried to embarrass us on Graduated offensive line­two, along with all the 2002 author and not necessarily 
national television. We really man Jordan Black simply said players will be rallying those of The Obserz,er. Contact 
didn't like that. We are going he wanted throw up after the around last season's game. Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd. 
to come out this week and try game. He and every other The Irish find themselves in edu. 
Friday, October 17, 2003 

game hype 

"You are always hoping your team hits some type of stride.,.
Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach 
··we are really psyched about 
this game. ,. 

Dwight Ellick Irish cornerback 


··The ·wild Bunch·-I don't know about that. We are pretty good too.·· 
Darrell Campbell Notre Dame defensive tackle 
··This is a big match-up. It's very significant #' 
,,

t0 us. 



' I I I 

' .. I ' 
Friday, October 17, 2003 page 3 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Controlling his ·anger 
Notre Dame provides Campbell with a chance to vent his early-life frustrations 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 

Maybe the reason Darrell Campbell rips through offen­sive linemen is because he's learned to harness the rage he felt at never, ever having Darrell Campbell Sr. be a part of his life. 
Maybe the reason Campbell appreciates Tyrone Willingham's attempt to turn football players into a men is because, for the longest time, he never really had one in his life. 
Maybe the reason Campbell respects Willingham and posi­tion coaches Kent Baer and Greg· Mattison so much is because they act as fathers to a player who never experi­enced a relationship with his biological one. 
"Me growing up and not hav­ing my biological dad there, or him not doing the things that he was supposed to do when 
.he was there," Campbell shrugged, "that's all the more testament to what· a man is not." 
The anger has always exist­ed. Campbell just had to learn how to find a place to control it. 
Luckily for Notre Dame, he did. 
Worrisome of commitment 
Campbell was three years old when his father exploded into a fitof rage_'-~1ill1b_ed ~ntQhi~_ 
bh{e R'uick arfd drove awrrv· fro m his son and h is wife.. Since Jeannette Campbell filed for divorce 19 years ago, her son can count on one hand the number of times he'd seen his 
·father. 
That's not to say he didn't want to s~e him. Campbell often cried that he wanted to talk to his dad, not under­standing why he couldn't have a father in his life like the rest of his friends did. 
"There  weren't  really  
instances  where  he  came  
through,"  Campbell  said.  

"There were only glimpses, and they 

"We were on a rollercoaster going up at that point, and it stopped because I detoured and focused on my biological father instead of focusing on him," Campbell said. "It takes a man who really loves his son to step back and say, 'Go ahead, do what you have to do -just know that I'm here if you need me."' 
As much as Jeannette and Milton tried to alleviate Campbell's loss, they couldn't. "There was a lot of anger, a lot of animosity, a lot of hard times, hard feelings that I had to deal with," he said. 
So Campbell, a future English major, turned to writ­ing and poetry as a way of expressing his feelings. He turned to football as a way of venting his anger. 
"That was a way to relieve my frustrations on people," Campbell grinned wickedly, "in a legal sort of way." 
He Just didn't know how good he'd be at it. 
Change of plans 
Two national publications named Campbell, who had emerged as a terrifying defen­sive force, one of the top 100 players in the nation. USA Today gave him honorable mention All-Amer:-ican status. He was his high school football team's MVP for three years, qualified for the state track meet, played basketball, wres­tled and even played baseball for a year. 
only lasted for a when I was
..For those 
moment in time, growing up to
moments, I almost 
and then they know who to put were gone. had him, but at my faith in," "For those Campbell said.
the same time, I 
moments, I almost "But at the same 
was so far away. " 
had him, but at the time, he stayed same time, I was there and gave so far away." Darrell Campbell me everything I Jeannette, how­needed to let me
Irish defensive tackle 
of the school's ..I liked the kid and one too many strong academic times, but McGee,
I felt in my heart
reputation. "She who Campbell
that he belonged at
had purple com­always introduces ing out of every Notre Dame." as his father. orifice, purple As for DarreII robes, purple Campbell Sr.?
Greg Mattison
everything." Twice, he con­
Irish defensive 
But his commit­tacted his son to ment didn't deter line coach try to re-establishever, was deter­mined to raise her son not to follow in his father's footsteps. With a strict hand, she made sure he excelled in the classroom, treated people with respect and made sure he kept his word to others. Sports, however, came after the home­work and the chores were done. 
Ironically, the long hours Jeannette worked at a Chicago power plant brought the two­person family more than money. It also gave Campbell a father figure. 
Jeannette married Milton McGee, whom she had met at work, in 1995 when Campbell was 12 years old. But Campbell wasn't so accepting of his new stepfather at first. McGee couldn't understand how important Campbell Sr. was to his stepson, and Campbell Jr. couldn't under­stand how badly McGee want­ed to give him the father's love Campbell had been missing his entire life. 
"What Milton did was give 
me the space to kind of make the determina­tion for myself 
know he was 
there." 

That was something Campbell's biological father had never done. But Campbell didn't understand that yet. 
Relieving his frustration 
Time after time, Campbell had hoped his biological father would come back into his life. Time after time, he was let down. 
There was the eighth grade graduation, where the father promised his ex-wife he would show up to see his son give a welcoming speech. As Campbell stood at the podium speaking, his eyes were fixed on the rear doors to the audi­torium, waiting for his father to walk in. He never did. 
While Campbell inexplicably waited for his true father, McGee unwaveringly waited for Campbell. 
When football recruiters tripped over themselves trying to land the highly-coveted Campbell, the choice was easy. 
He picked Northwestern. 

"My mom was just bleeding purple," Campbell said, who committed to the Wildcats because 
services, a tour of everything 
Notre Dame. 
But it took a conversation 
from someone he had never 
met before coming to Notre 
Dame to convince Campbell to 
play for the Irish. 
"If you want to be good, go 
someplace else," alumni asso­
eiation president Chuck 
Lennon told the prospect dur­
ing his visit. "If you want to be 
great, come here." 
Coming into his own 
Buoyed by his trip to Notre Dame -and the fact that Northwestern coach Gary Barnett had left the school for Colorado -Campbell changed his mind and decided to play for the Irish. His mother wasn't happy. 
"His mom is a very loving mother and taught him that he's a man of his word," Mattison said. "I don't think she understood that until you sign the name is when you become attached to the univer­sity. She wanted him to go where he originally said he was going to go." 
With Mattison's prodding, who promised Jeannette Notre Dame had everything Northwestern had academical­ly, Campbell's mom started wavering. With McGee's calm­ing influence, she caved in and allowed Campbell to go to Notre Dame. 
"She probably wasn't con­vinced until the first time she ~ame up here and saw the alumni," Campbell said. "Up until that point, she wa~ like, 'Yeah, you're making a mis­take."' 
Since then, Jeannette Campbell has seen her impos­ing son wreak havoc on oppos­ing offenses and graduate from the University last May with a degree in English and comput­er applicatiuns. In his four­year Notre Dame career, Campbell has started 27 of the 37 games he played in, record­ed 75 tackles and 10 sacks. 
But Campbell knows he owes who he is now to his mom and his dad. Not his biological dad, 
who has pulled a 

disappearing act ... 
Notre Dame or Mattison, the coach assigned to recruit Campbell. 
Even though Campbell never took a visit to Notre Dame, Mattison loved everything about the talented defensive prospect. One night, he drove to watch Campbell at a wrestling meet. Before he left, he told Campbell he was mak­ing a mistake if he didn't at least check out Notre Dame once. 
"I liked the kid," Mattison said, "and I felt in my heart that he belonged at Notre Dame." 
So Campbell drove two hours east on the Indiana Toll Road to visit Notre Dame. There, he got the royal treatment -see­ing his name on an Irish uni­form, wined and dined by a coaching staff begging for his 
a relationship. 
Twice, he left phony contact information, leaving Campbell frustrated again. If his biological father called again, Campbell would talk with him, but nothing more. 
No longer will Campbell chase a blue Buick. Instead, he's hunting down quarter­backs. 

''I'm older, I'm 22 years old. I'm coming into my own," he ·,said. "The weaning way from the childhood where the son always wanted his father to be there, it's kind a gone." 
"He'd have the biological tag, but he wouldn't be my father." 
It took Campbell a while, but he found plenty others who want to fill that role. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 17, 2003 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 2-3 AP: NR Coaches: NR 


Tyrone Willingham second season at Notre Dame career record: 56-42-1 at Notre Dame: 12-6 

Tyrone Willingham against head coach USC: 4-4 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
1  Jared Clark  TE  6-4  230  SR  
2  Freddie Parrish  DB  6-1  195  FR  
4  Ryan Grant  RB  6-1  211  JR  
5  Rhema McKnight  WR  6-2  207  SO  
6  Carlos Campbell  CB  5-11  194  JR  
7  Carlyle Holiday  QB  6-3  214  SR  
8  Matt Krueger  QB  5-10  180  SR  
8  Quentin Burrell  FS  6-0  180  JR  
9  Jason Beckstrom  CB  5-10  186  SR  
9  Pat Dillingham  QB  6-1  209  JR  
10  Brady Quinn  QB  6-4  210  FR  
11  Marcus Wilson  RB  5-ll  199  JR  
12  Josh Schmidt  FB  6-1  220  JR  
13  Nicholas Setta  KIP  5-11  184  SR  
14  Gary Godsey  TE  6-6  259  SR  
15  Preston Jackson  CB  5-9  177  SR  
16  Rashon Powers-Neal  FB  6-2  227  JR  
16  Stan Revelle  QB  5-11  183  JR  
17  Geoffrey Price  P  6-3  180  FR  
18  Ronnie Rodamer  WR  6-4  211  SR  
19  Glenn Earl  FS  6-1  205  SR  
19  D.J. Fitzpatrick  KIP  6-1  192  JR  
20  Travis Thomas  RB  6-1  200  FR  
21  Maurice Stovall  WR  6-5  221  SO  
22  Julius Jones  RB  5-10  210  SR  
23  Chase Anastasio  WR  6-2  190  FR  
24  Dwight Ellick  CB  5-10  177  JR  
25  Nate Schiccatano  RB  6-3  224  SO  
26  Garron Bible  FS  5-10  197  SR  
27  Lionel Bolen  55  6-0  206  JR  
27  Mike Profeta  TB  5-11  208  SR  
28  Cole Laux  FB  5-10  229  SR  
28  Tom Zbikowski  DB  6-0  185  FR  
29  LaBrose Hedgemon  DB  5-10  180  FR  
30  Mike Richardson  DB  6-1  188  SO  
31  Jake Carney  DB  6-0  180  SO  
32  Jeff Jenkins  RB  6-0  211  SO  
33  Courtney Watson  ILB  6-1  234  SR  
34  Vontez Duff  CB  5-11  194  SR  
35  Ashley McConnell  FB  6-0  240  FR  
36  Isaiah Gardner  DBIRB  5-10  190  FR  
37  Matt Mitchell  DB  5-9  184  SO  
39  Brandon Hoyle  ILB  6-0  226  JR  
39  David Bemenderfer  55  5-11  195  SR  
40  Nate Schomas  WR  5-10  165  SR  
41  Mike Goolsby  LB  6-3  243  SR  
42  Ambrose Wooden  WR  6-l  190  FR  
43  Anthony Salvador  LB  6-2  226  SO  
44  Justin Tuck  DE  6-5  246  JR  
45  Carl Gioia  P  5-11  165  FR  
46  Corey Mays  ILB  6-1  238  JR  
47  Mitchell Thomas  LB  6-2  210  FR  
48  Jerome Collins  OLB  6-4  250  SR  
49  Derek Curry  ILB  6-3  228  SR  
50  Cedric Hilliard  NG  6-2  295  SR  
51  Jamie Ryan  OT  6-5  290  SO  
52  Joe Brockington  LB  6-1  215  FR  
54  David Fitzgerald  OL  6-4  271  SO  
55  Zachary Giles  C  6-3  281  JR  
56  Nick Borseti  LB  6-1  205  FR  
57  Dwight Stephenson  LB  6-3  237  FR  
58  PaulJancha  LS  6-1  245  SO  
59  James Bent  OL  6-2  253  SO  
60  Darrell Campbell  DT  6-4  288  SR  
62  Scott Raridon  OT  6-7  300  SO  
64  Casey Dunn  OTlOG 6-4  255  JR  
65  Sean Milligan  OG  6-4  291  SR  
66  Derek Landri  NG  6-2  265  SO  
68  Ryan Harris  OL  6-5  270  FR  
69  Darin Mitchell  OL  6-4  280  JR  
70  Jim Molinaro  OT  6-6  301  SR  
71  David Kowalski  OG  6-2  249  SR  
71  James Bonelli  OGIOT 6-6  282  SO  
72  Jeff Thompson  ClOG  6-4  287  JR  
73  Mark LeVoir  TE  6-7  309  JR  
74  Dan Stevenson  OG  6-5  297  JR  
75  Chris Frome  DE  6-5  264  SO  
76  Bob Morton  C  6-4  299  SO  
77  Greg Pauly  DT  6-6  291  SR  
78  John Sullivan  OL  6-4  280  FR  
79  Brian Mattes  OT  6-6  250  SO  
80  Omar Jenkins  WR  6-2  204  SR  
81  Chinedum Ndukwc  WR  6-3  190  FR  
82  Matt Shelton  WR  6-l  172  JR  
83  Jeff Samardzija  WR  6-4  190  FR  
84  Mike O'Hara  WR  5-10  174  SO  
84  Rob Woods  WR  6-2  205  SO  
85  Billy Palmer  TE  6-3  251  SR  
87  Marcus Freeman  TE  6-4  242  SO  
88  Patrick Nally  TE  6-3  243  SR  
88  Anthony Fasano  TE  6-4  253  SO  
89  John Carlson  TE  6-6  230  FR  
90 .  Brian Beidatsch  DL  6-4  283  JR  
91  Craig Cardillo  K  6-0  · 165  SO  
92  Kyle Budinscak  DE  6-4  270  SR  
93  Dim Santucci  DE  6-5  270  SO  
95  Victor Abiamiri  DL  6-5  245  FR  
97  Travis Leitko  DE  6-6  264  SO  
98  Trevor Laws  DL  6-2  290  FR  
99  Jason Sapp  DE  6-3  256  SR  

NOTRE DAME 
2003 Schedule 
Sept. 6 WASHINGTON ST.· W 
Sept. 13  at Michigan -L  
Sept. 20  MICHIGAN ST.  -l  
Sept. 27  at Purdue -L  

Oct. 11 Oct. 18 Oct. 25 Nov. 1 Nov. 8 Nov. 15 Nov. 29 Dec. 6 
1.1.1 
:E 
<C 
c 
1.1.1 0::: 
1­
0 
z 

en
-
en 
~ 
<C 
cr:z 



COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
•

Willingham got the Irish up last weekend to pull off the upset in Pittsburgh. Until that point, however, the year had been a disappoint­ment. Again, Willingham will need to get every­thing from his players if they are to have a chance against USC.  Quinn didn't throw the ball very well against the Panthers, but he didn't need to, as the Irish had 352 yards rushing. Still, he took a step or two back last week in his progress as the Irish starter. But at Purdue, Quinn threw for 297 yards.  The Irish rushing game was hitting on all cylin­ders for the first time last week as they amassed 352 yards on the ground. Jones had a record­breaking day, and the offensive line dominated the line of scrimmage against the Panthers.  Notre Dame's rushing attack kept pressure off Quinn against the Panthers. Even though they didn't throw the ball much last week, the Irish will need the running game again against USC to set up the pass. Quinn had trouble last week finding his receivers.  
Carroll has resurrected the USC program. Last year, he took the Trojans to the Orange Bowl and had a Heisman Trophy win­ner. Offensi-ve coordina­tor Norm Chow is con­sidered one of the best offensive minds in the game.  Leinart has done a remarkable job in step­ping into the spotlight and filling in for Heisman Trophy winner Carson Palmer. The sophomore has a 146.9 passing efficiency rating this season with 13 touchdowns and seven interceptions.  The Trojan defensive front is one of the most formidable units in col­lege football. It ranks fifth in the nation in rushing defense, allow­ing only 73.7 yards a game. The Trojans have allowed only three rush­ing touchdowns in 2003.  The Trojan pass defense has ben susceptible to attack this year, yielding 270 yards a game through the air. The Trojans rank 104th in the country in pass defense, but they play in the pass­happy Pac-1 0. USC has allowed 10 touchdowns through the air.  
Carroll is one of the hotte~tGo~h~sin college footbjilt tOday.··· He bas the Trojans in tgptentioh for a national title. Willingham~s ,team has struggledt<1a 2~3 record this year,: hut gri't a big win last woek~gajnst the Panthers. ··· -·  For the second straight week,Jhe Irish will face a quarferback in Lej,p.art hypeij 'as one ot tfie 'best in the nation~ He has the edge oYer t.he rookie Quinn. L~inart has com­pleted 5~<per:-cc.nt of his passes this 'sea,lion and ranks 18th~in the nation in passing efficiency.  The Irish rushing attack finally came together last week. ~gafnst~,. the Pantl},~rs, ·bUt t.he· Trojans should oiler a\p1uch big­ger chaUenge up front. The Irish Q[f~nsive line will not b1~ ahlo to push around guys li_.k.e Cody and Udezeas they did against the Panthers.  Notre Dame's success on the ground last week may give it some help in tpe<•p~sing game J\S t~e Jfr~ga~t,r~~r~h~'~... i~ tb..:.stop :the tun, Quitin will have to be more effective than he was against Pittsburgh.  

at Pittsburgh -W USC at Boston College FLORIDA STATE NAVY BYU at Stanford at Syracuse 
NOTRE DAME 
OFFENSE 
TAILBACK 
4-Grant 
22-Jones 

FULLBACK 16-Powei$-Neal 
12-Schmtdl 
RIGHTTACKLE 
68·H•rrls 
74-Stevenson 
WIDE RECEIVER 
80-Jenkins 
21-Stovall 
CORNERBACK 8-Attmond · 23-Nunn 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKERA 51-Simmons 
'J'Ill36-0tanl 

:~ 
I 
I \ 
MIDDLE .J 
) LINEBACKER · 58-Tatupu · 53-Urquhart 
-\

1 \I STRONG SAFETY 
' 20-Bing
1
.7) 
42-Sartz 
FREE SAFETY 27-Leach 42-Sartz 
c) 
usc 
DEFENSE 




Upset? No way. USC is too good on offense and Notre Dame isn't a'i skilled as USC and should be too dominant on defense for the Irish to knock big W1derdogs. But the Irish have been waiting for them ofl'. While the Irish will probably unveil a t.hLo;; game for a year and the players will be more
Irish 

few wrinkles in their offense to keep the hyped than usual. The defense will build oft' of last 
Trojans ofT-balance, they won't be able to week's domination, while the ofTensP must fmd a way to rush the ball. If the Irish can run the ball, 
duplicate their ofl'ensive firepower of its last
experts two games. Notre DamP will come out fired they'll have a ehance to seore some poinl'i and pull ofl't.he huge upset. 
up, but emotion can only carry a team so far. 
FINAL SCORE: USC 27 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24Notre Dame 17 
usc 23 
) l 
I 
___j 

Andrew Soukup Editor in Chief 
Joe Hettler Sports Editor 

-~ r ' 

Friday, October 17, 2003 page 5 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Matt Lozar 
Chris Federico Sports Writer 
usc 

OFFENSE 
TAILBACK 34-Dennis 21·Whlte 



RIGHTTAGKLE

~~:t~:~:e~ 1td... ¥~~)
, _ DEFENSIVE TACKLE 

TIGHT END 110-Campbell ~ l ·, 44-Guenther 90-Beidatsch ~ c.:_; . 
1 ~ ~ t. {1 
.•. ~ ) OUTSIDE .. ~ LINEBACKER --::...; 49-Curry LEFT END . 48-Cottins 

44-Tuck G CORNERBACK 95-Abiamiri 34-Dull 
NOTRE DAME
9-Beckstrom 
DEFENSE 

TROJAN RUSHING TROJAN PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS 
The Trojans have three talented backs that can run the ball in sopho­more Dennis and fresh­men White and Bush. Each of the three aver­age over four yards a carry. White leads the squad with seven touch­downs on the ground.  Leinart and the talented Trojan receiving corps of Williams and Colbert have had success throwing the ball this year. The Trojans have passed for 260 yards a game with 13 touch­downs and seven inter­ceptions. Williams has 39 catches for 6:~ 1 yards on the season.  The absence of Setta will hurt the Irish kicking game this week. Setta is 9-for-1 0 on the season on field goals. Fitzpatrick was only 2­for-4 last week. For the second time this season, the Irish yielded a long punt return that lead to a touchdown.  Notre Dame has a lot of things on its side head­ing into the matchup with USC. The Irish want revenge for a 44­13 drubbing at the hands of the Trojans last year. They have a chance to upset a top­five team at Notre Dame Stadium.  
Because of the play of the Irish defensive line and linebackers, the Panther rushing game was almost non-existant last week. Notre Dame ranks 25th in the nalion in rushing defensive this season, yielding only 105.6 yards a game and 2.75 yards per carry.  Duff and the Irish defense shut down Larry Fitzgerald last week, and they will have their work cut out for them this week with Williams. But the Trojans' trump card this week is Colbert, their No. 2 receiver. It will be a tough task for the Irish to stop both.  Malone is the top punter in the nation, averaging 49 yards per kick. He has had a punt blocked. Killeen is 11-for-13 on field goals and one of the nation's leaders. Both Allmond and Bush average over 20 yards per kick return.  The Trojans have very lit­tle to gain in their matchup with the Irish, but just about everything to lose. With a 5-1 record, the Trojans will be a heavy favorite. They are in the running for a national title this year, but the Irish could end that with a win.  
The Irish have shown that they can stop the run. With the exception of Chris Perry and Michigan, Notre Oame has had little trouble in stopping opposing backs. The Trojans tire talented, but the Irish should bP able ttl keep them at bay.  Last year, the Trojans threw/aU ,over. a talented Irisllf~·c t.ll"d:a:ry for .tt25 yards. If N'dtre Dadf~ is not careful, lJSC could have that same type of day. LeiiWt is riot ,Carson Palmer ye~ hilf'he is a very good qu<:trterback. Williams r~~ onp,. of the nation's best.  Without Setta, there are some.,ques._ti9ns. with the I ri§h'}kickingru.nl]lUPting games. FitZpatrick may not havqc the ~perience or leg str~.g,gth to deal with a p()tontiat game­winning -kick, The Trojans have an out­standing kicking game with Killeen and Malone.  While the Irish may not have the better record this year, they have almost all the intangibles on their side. They get a home game with a highly­ranked rival and a chance to m-ake a statement to the world. Thev will also be hungry for f~"venge after last year's loss.  
ex:; 6-3 SNP 6-4 DE 6-3 OT 6-5 c 6-4 


CORNERBACK
LEFl TACKLE 
24-EIIIcll
n-Rogers 
15-Jackson
73-Drake 
LEFT GUARD  
78-Vandermade  
FULLBACK  63-Watklns  
40-Hancocll  QUARTERBACK  
35-Webb  11-leinart  

~11-~\)#-----1 

' 
~ 
• RIGHT END 92-Budinstak 
.,

NOSE~~ 8•"~ 
GUARD L! ' '' 
50-Hilllaii ' "'--' 
n-Pauiy '--_i
' ~ 
33-Watson 46-Mays 
usc 

Trojans Record: 5-1 AP: No.5 Coaches: No.4 
Pete Carroll
usc 
third season at 
usc
2003 Schedule 
career record:
Aug. 30 at Auburn-W 
23-9 
at USC:
Sept. 6 BYU -W 
23-9 


against Notre Pete Carroll
Sept. 13 HAWAII-W 
Dame: 1-1 head coach 
Sept. 27 at California -L 
Roster

Oct.4 at Arizona State -W 
No. Name 
1

Oct. 11 STANFORD-W 
2 4 5 6

Oct. 18 at Notre Dame 
7 
8 8

Oct. 25 at Washington 9 9 10 11
Nov. 1 WASHINGTON ST. 
13 14 15 15 16 16 17 

Nov. 15 at Arizona 
Nov. 22 UCLA 
17 18 18 19 19 2D 21 21 22 23 24 25 25 26 27 27 

Dec.6 OREGON STATE 
INTANGIBLES 
28 29 29 30 31 34 35 36 37z 38 39
0 
40
-t 
41
::a 
41 42 43 
"' 
44
c 
44 45 46 46 47 
3: ~ 
c: 
"' 48 48 49 49 50 51 52 53 56 57 58 59 
60 62
(/) 
63n 64 65 66 67 69 70 70 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 


85/61 Kurt Katnik 
86 87 88 89 90 91 92 94 95 96 97 98 99 

Mike Williams Steve Smith Whitney Lewis Reggie Bush Matt Grootegoed Sandy Fletcher Branden Hance Marcell Allmond Chris Barrett · Andre Woodert Matt Cassel Matt Leinart Billy Hart Tom Malone Zach Sherwood Jason Mitchell Michael McDonald Ryan Killeen Chris Bocage John David Booty John Walker Morgan Craig Greig Carlson Mario Danelo Darnell Bing LenDale White Justin Tolliver Desmond Reed Ronald Nunn Justin Wyatt 
Chauncey WashingtonRB 
Alex Gomez Greg Farr Jason Leach John Zilka Will Poole John Griffin Terrell Thomas Kevin Arbet William Buchanon Hershel Dennis Lee Webb Bobby Otani David Kirtman Brandon Ting Ryan Ting Brandon Hancock Jody Adewale Thomas Williams Dallas Sartz Mike Ross Matt Lemos Gregg Gumther, Jr. Oscar Lua Eric Wright Salo Faraimo Sean Kelly Kyle Matthews Tomm~ Huff 
s;,dric Ellis Mike Brittingham Matt Hayward Melvin Simmons LaJuan Ramsey Daniel Urquhart OmarNazel Fred Matua Lofa Tatuhu 
Collin As ton Drew Radovich Norm Katnik Travis Watkins Joe Boskovich Jay Bottom Eric Torres Ryan Kalil Matt Spanos Will Collins Spencer Torgan John Lanza John Drake Winston Justice Kyle Williams Nate Steinbacher Jacob Rogers Lenny Vandermadc Sam Baker Steve Levario, Jr. Alex Holmes D). Hale Keary Colbert ShaunCody Marco Chavez 
Dominique Byrd Nick Vanderboom Owen Hanson 
Chris McFok Frostee Rue er Van Brown 
Manuel Wright Kenechi Udeze Travis Toff Lawrence jackson Alex Morrow Rvan Watson Mike Pallt•rson Pos. WR WR WR RB LB WR QB CB DE RBIS QB QB QB 
p 
p 
WR 
QB 
PK 
s QB CB 
FB 
WR 
PK 
s 
RB CB CB/S CB WR 
CB 
s 
s 
WR CB 
RB 5 CB CB 
RB 
FB 
LB FB CB/5 CB FB RB LB LB/S 
s 
5 TE LB CB LB RB 
s 
p DT 
FB 
SNP LB DT LB DE 
OG 
LB LB 
OC/OT 6-5 c 6-4 
ex:; 6-5 5NP 6-2 c 6-1 c;cx:; 6-3 OT 6-4 OT 6-6 CX~?OT 6-6 OT 6-5 OT 6-6 OG 6-3 
ex:; 6-5 
WR 5-9 TE 6-3 WR 6-1 WR 6-2 DT 6-4 LB 6-3 TE/C 6-4 TE 6-3 TE 6-4 TE 6-2 WR 6,-1 DE 6-4 DE 6-5 DT 6-5 DE 6-4 DT 6-4 DE 6-5 DE 6-5 DT 6-3 DT 6-0 
Ht. 6-5 6-1 6-1 6-0 5-11 6-1 6-1 6-0 6-5 6-0 6-5 6-5 6-2 6-0 6-4 6-1 6-1 5-ll 5-10 6-3 6-2 6-2 5-10 5-10 6-2 6-2 5-B 5-9 5-11 5-10 6-1 5-10 6-0 5-11 6-4 6-0 6-0 6-2 5-11 6-3 5-11 6-0 6-0 6-0 5-10 5-10 6-1 6-0 6-3 6-5 6-0 5-10 6-8 6-2 6-0 6-0 
6-0 6-1 6-2 6-2 6-1 6-1 6-1 6-3 6-2 6-5 6-2 6-0 6-1 
Wt. 230 190 225 190 215 195 195 200 250 210 220 220 200 190 195 200 180 200 190 200 200 205 195 200 220 225 160 180 180 180 205 175 195 210 195 190 195 180 190 180 190 240 240 220 190 190 235 
210 225 220 175 180 245 245 180 210 200 200 230 280 205 225 220 270 250 245 300 225 215 280 280 305 240 225 300 270 285 22-') 275 255 350 300 290 305 305 275 315 170 270 185 210 285 245 255 255 220 
225 
190 240 265 285 285 255 250 265 285 285 


YR 
so 
FR FR FR JR SR JR SR FR 
so 
JR 
so 
so 
so 
so 
JR FR JR JR FR 
so 
FR 
so 
FR FR FR 
so 
FR JR 
so 
FR 
so 
SR JR FR SR FR FR SR 
so 
so 
JR JR 
so 
FR FR 
so 
FR FR 
so 
so 
JR JR 
so 
FR 
FR 
FR 
JR 
SR 
FR 
FR 
SR 
SR 
so 
)R SR FR JR 
so 
FR SR JR SR )R SR FR FR FR )R FR JR 
so 
FR SR SR SR FR JR SR SR SR JR JR FR 
so 
FR JR FR 
so 
JR FR JR FR FR FR FR JR 

-. 


The Irish offense can't be one-dimensional The Irish finally played to their potential against the Trojans. Tyrone Willingham last week against Pittsburgh and had their put it best when he said he needs the best game of the year. But the Irish will passing yards against Purdue and the need to play even bntter and get some lueky rushing dominance from Pittsburgh. It'll breaks to beat USC this week. The Trojan be close like always at Notre Dame defensivf' line will pro~idf' a bigger chal­Stadium, but the Trojans haw"' too much lenge for the Irish than the Panthers did last talent and \Viii pull out a heated contest. week. 
FINAL SCORE: USC 23 FINAL SCORE: USC 24 Associate Sports Editor
. Notre Dame 20 Notre Dame 17 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 17, 2003 
. .., 
' 
' ~ 
' 
I I 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
t 
f t 
' 
Sizing up the Irish and the Trojans 
AVERAGE PER GAME 
total yards gained total yards allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 
passing yards gained passing yards allowed 

kick return yards gained kick return yards allowed 
punt return yards gained punt return y_ards allowed 
yards per punt punts blocked 
turnovers lost turnovers recovered 
yards penalized yards penalized 
points scored 
points allowed 
~ 

NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE 
vs 
USC'S DEFENSE 


143.4 


37.8 
40.41 

0 
USC's OFFENSE 
vs 

NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 


43.8 


KEY MATCHUP 

USC NOTRE DAME DEFENSIVE LINE OFFENSIVE LINE 


USC has one of the best defensive line units in the nation, allowing just over 73 yards per game. Notre Dame's offensive line and running backs helped ignite last week's victory over Pittsburgh. 
If the Irish can have success running the foot­ball, Notre Dame will have a good chance of suc­cess against the Trojans defense. But if USC can shut down the Irish rush, it could be tough for Notre Dame to score points. 
by the numbers 
number of yards USC gained last season 
610 

against Notre Dame -the most in one game by any opponent ever 
number of yards gained Notre Dame in the 2002 game. The Irish lost 44-13 on
109 
national television. 

number of Notre Dame wins in the last 10 games at Notre Dame Stadium against USC 

# 



RlS ROSSin 


Currently in the final development planning phase. Construction to begin late Fall 2003. First homes completed by Spring/Summer 2004. 


For more information go to: www.lrishCrossings.com 





A new upscale villa development within walking distance (one block east) of the Notre Dame campus. 
single-detached and duplex luxury villas with attached garages priced from $189,900 • customizable floorplans • owner-occupied walk to campus, grocery store, retail stores, restaurants & bars very close to ND stadium, Joyce Center, & the new p~rforming arts building located one block east directly across from tennis courts and sports fields quiet residentiC;1.l area with quick access to major roads, mall, & toll road enjoy a low-maintenance lifestyle including lawn care & snow removal city water and sewer • low county property taxes • semi-gated community a limited number of home sites are available on this 8.25 acre parcel the only development of its kind next to the University of Notre Dame 
I ' ' ~ • 

Friday, October 17, 2003 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Ellick works his way into starting lineup 
Consistency combined with speed is the key 

·­

Cornerback Dwight Ellick (front left) gets ready to block on a Notre Dame kick return last week at Pittsburgh. 
By MATT LOZAR Associate Sports Ediror 
Dwight Ellick has something you can't teach -and he's not afraid to tell anyone about it. 
"I don't think anybody in the country's faster than me," the Irish cornerback said. "I feel I'm the fastest man in the country." 
As a senior at Wharton High School in Tampa, Fla., Ellick won the Class 4A state title in the 100 defense, the playbook at Notre Dame was a lot thicker than Ellick usually saw. 
But Walton kept telling Ellick to stay dedi­cated to the game and continue to learn the playbook, because Ellick's speed would take care of the rest. . "My freshman year I was just trying to Jearn the playbook as much as the other guys. [Walton, Duff and Beckstrom] helped me a lot and taught me some tricks of the trade to help me as I go," Ellick said. "When 
Shane left, he told me, to go 
out there and work hard. If 
more than that in practice to become a starter. 
"I think the biggest thing was consistency. He was able to play the coverage and not have mental blows and just be consistent in what we were asking him to do," Notre Dame secondary coach Trent Walters said. "You can always use speed, but you have to use speed that is under control. He has been able to control his speed and play with consistency." 
Ellick came to Notre Dame in 2001 with hopes of jumping right into the starting line­up, but that changed pretty quickly. Former All-American Shane Walton and current teammates Jason Beckstrom and Vontez Duff taught him a lot about what it takes to be a collegiate cornerback on the field. Coming from a high school that had two simple zone coverage packages and a man-to-man brings speed and size in his 6­

foot-5, 230-pound frame. 
"I think Vontez has. done a great job all year," Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "We've matched him up against some of the better players in the country to date, and he's stood the test very well." 
Like Fitzgerald, Williams is one of the best in the business. Last year, he burned the Irish -and Duff -for 10 eatches and 1()9 yards with two touchdowns. But for Duff, guarding such a talPnted recPiver is nothing new, having defended players like Fitzgerald, Washington State's Devard Darling or Michigan's Braylon Edwards. 
"Whether it's Michigan or Michigan State or Washington State, whoever it is, I just have to play my game and have confidence in myself and our team that we'll get the job done," Duff said. 
''It's just another No. I to me," he added, commenting on the fact that almost every great receiver he's sePn this year -includ­ing Fitzgerald, Williams and Miehigan's 
Another week, another top receiver for Duff 
Irish ready for next big test in Williams 
Braylon Edwards -has worn the number one. 
But according to Irish defensive coordina­tor Kent Baer, the number on their jerseys is where the similarity ends for Fitzgerald and Williams. While both are big, physica-l receivers, the two have different styles of play and operate in vastly different offenses. 
"It's a whole different offense," Baer said. "They're still different guys. About the only similarity is they wear number one." 
One thing Williams has that 
Fitzgerald did not is many 
other weapons on offense. 
and 200-meter dash. Ellick's you do everything you got to 
../don •t think
speed has helped him as mem­do, with my speed and ber of the Notre Dame special anybody in the everything I got going for teams units in all three of his country ·s faster than me, eventually I'm going to years with the Irish. start. I kept that in mind." 
me. I feel rm the
This year, Ellick started in a The hard work in practice
fastest man in
reserve role for the Irish, but finally paid off for Ellick worked his way into starting the country.,, with his first start last lineup last weekend at week, which saw the Irish Pittsburgh. While the coaching secondary contain All­
Dwight Ellick
staff alway~ knew about his American candidate Larry
Irish cornerback 
speed, Ellick needed to show Fitzgerald and shut down 
even a single reception in the ..Its just another For instance, Williams has second half of Notre Dame's 20-1\ T ,, the benefit of a speedy and
1vo. 1 to me.

14 win. dangerous receiver on the 
This week, the task doesn't get other side of the field in senior any easier against Southern Vontez Duff Keary Colbert to take some of _.. California's Mike Williams, who Irish cornerback the defensive pressure off the 
the Pittsburgh passing attack in the second half. 
The best passing offense the Irish have seen this year invades South Bend Saturday. Ellick and the other cornerbacks know it and are ready for the challenge Trojans receiver Mike Williams and company bring to the table. 
"They are pretty good. Mike Williams isn't the fastest guy in the world. But he is big, strong and physical. Keary Colbert is a little blazer," Ellick said. "We can go out there and match up with them. If they want to get phys­ical, we'll be physical. If they want to jump and fight it out, we'll fight it out. Whatever they want to· do, we'll match it. 
"Whatever they bring to the table, we'll bring that and then some." 
Contact Matt Lozar mlozar@nd.edu 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Writer 
There is no rest for the weary. Nobody knows that better than Notre Dame cornerback Vontez Duff. 
Last week, Duff matched up nearly all game with one of the nation's best receivers in Pittsburgh's Larry Fitzgerald. The under­sized Duff, who gave up two inches and 31 pounds to Fitzgerald, more than held his own, preventing the Panther receiver from getting sophomore. 
The Trojans also have three 
running backs in Hershel Dennis, LenDale White and Heggie Bush that each average over four yards a carry and have 11 touchdowns between them. 
"They have great receivers," Baer said. "Keary Colbert is as good as there is. He's 
.. 

fast, and he's really their go-to guy as much 
as No. 1 IWilliamsJ. That's their offense ­
good speed, and they spread the field. It's 
what they do." 

Like last week, Willingham believes that the onus of stopping the Trojan passing game lies not just on DutT and his coverage of the big receiver, but on the entire defense. 
"It's not just a test of one individual, ­because if any offense has all day to throw the ball. then their receivers are going to get open regardless of how good your coverage is," Willingham said. "So it has to be a total team effort, and l think we've done a good ..~ job of playing good team defense so far." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

' 4 I ) t I 
' ' . 

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 17, 2003 
t 
l 

l ! I 
l 
. / 

,.
! 



