
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Jury awards Jefferson victim $1M 2 1/2 year-old assault case settled in civil court 
and $2 million in compensatory on him as she passed in and out 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES damages. The woman received of consciousness. 
News Editor $500,000 in punitive damages "He had sex with me," she testi­
and $500,000 fied. "I did not want to 
in compensa-have sex with him." 
SOUlll BEND-A jury award­tory damages. Jefferson, who rep­
"/ didn't grab her 
ed a former Saint Mary's student The woman resented himself $1 million Tuesday during the claimed or force her to do because he claimed civil trial of former Notre Dame Jefferson gave anything." he cannot afford to football play­her and others hire an attorney, er Clifford a ride from described the event in
Clifford Jefferson 
.Jefferson, Bench warmers detail during his who was Sports Lounge, defendant opening argument accused of a downtown and maintained the s tl xu a II y South Bend bar, acts were consensual. assaulting to her dorm, McCandless Hall, "I didn't grab her or force her to the woman and then walked her back to the do anything," Jefferson said. in March lobby. She admitted she was During the two-day trial, the 2001. intoxicated and did not remember plaintiffs attorneys attempted to 
T h e how she ended up back in show the emotional impact the woman's Jefferson's car outside her dorm incident had on the woman and attorneys, Michael Anderson and where the assault occurred. She called as witnesses her psycholo-Lee Korzan, originally asked for said Jefferson raped her and $10 million in punitive damages forced her to perform sexual acts see JEFFERSON/page 4 

Boat Club lawsuits postponed, appealed 
200 decisions delayed until April 
by Millennium Enterprises, the By TERESA FRALISH company that owns Boat Club, in Assiscanc News Editor 
small claims court for fraudu­
lently representing themselves. 
SOUTH BEND -For the 200 The suit demands $3,000 in Notre Dame and Saint Mary's damages from each student. students who thought their In August. St. Joseph County brush with the law would soon Magistrate Hichard McCormick be over, many found out dismissed about 40 of the suits Tuesday that they may have to on grounds that no legal prece­wait several months longer to dent existed in Indiana for such see their cases resolved. claims and that the bar could 
Of the 200 lawsuits filed not claim underage drinkers against students cited in the Jan. were solely responsible for dam­24 raid on The Boat Club, about ages it might incur. 40 that were previously dis­Mitchell Ileppenheimer, an missed will be appealed and the attorney representing rest will likely be delayed until Millennium Enterprises, said the April. 
The students are being sued sec BOAT/page 6 

Cheney could visit JACC for fundraiser 

By MEGHAN MARTIN Associate News Edicor 
Vice President Dick Cheney is slated to be the keynote speaker at a fundraising luncheon for Hepublican Indiana Congressman Chris Chocola on Oct. 9 in the Joyce Center. 
According to invitations sent out for the event, Cheney, who visited the area in May 2002 during Chocola's bid for his current Congressional seat, will address a $250-per-plate crowd of supporters that Thursday. 
For security reasons, Chocola's office would not officially confirm the vice president's visit. 
"We cannot confirm the vice president's schedule," Chocola spokesman Brooks Kochvar said. "The White !louse press office will say the same thing. 
For security reasons, they will not publicize his schedule until 48 hours in advance." 
Cheney's office could not be reached for comment. 
If the vice president does participate in the luncheon, a $2,000-per-couple reception will be held before the signa­ture event, which will give patrons the opportunity to meet and pose for photo­graphs with him. 
Cheney's last visit to South Bend raised over $250,000 for Chocola's initial congres­sional bid, and October's event, with 3,500 invitations already sent out, has the potential to raise even more for the incumbent's re-elec­tion campaign. 
The vice president, whose visit is expected to serve in a strictly fundraising capacity, is not expected to address 
see CHENEY/page 6 


FYS sponsors first convocation 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 

Dean Eileen Kolman and the rest of the First Year of Studies Department saw months of hard work come to fruition Tuesday night as its first­annual academic convocation titled "The United States and the Middle East: Do We Face a 'Clash of Civilizations'?" took center stage at the Joyce Center. 
"[This convocation is] designed to provide insight into the way scholars tackle thorny problems," Kolman said. Roughly 1,000 students attended the convocation, although students left in large groups after each panel pres­entation. 
Moderator Scott Appleby, a history professor and the director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, added that students will learn how a sound argu­ment is constructed, and that 
see FYS/page 6 


ND prof heals from U.N. bombing 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Editor 

The Notre Dame professor emeritus injured in the Aug. 19 suicide bombing of the Baghdad U. N. headquarters made a considerable step in his long road to recovery last week, speaking audibly for the first time since the inci­dent, his family reported. 
Gilbert Loescher's relatives posted the information on a Web site tracking his recov­ery. They said his tracheosto­my tube was replaced Thursday with a smaller, more flexible tube, allowing him to speak more clearly. 
Family members posted that, prior to Thursday's pro­cedure, the political science professor emeritus would attempt to talk and would become anxious and frustrat­ed when he could not be understood. Doctors informed the family that it was com­mon for patients with tra­cheostomies to believe that others can hear them because they can hear their own voice even though their attempts to speak are inaudible. 
Loescher, who is now able to talk for brief periods, recounted memories from the blast. 
Relatives posted that he remembered seeing his right hand getting sliced during the explosion, the floor falling and the ceiling caving in. 
"Using hoarse whispers and 
sec LOESCHER/page 8 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 24, 2003 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Don't 'fix' sm_oking rule 
Let me preface this column by saying that I do not smoke. I tried a cigarette once several years ago and didn't find it particularly appealing. It's also pretty obvious that smoking leads to cancer, damages teeth and skin, and is an expensive habit. 
That being said, smoking tobacco is legal in this country and I respect other people's right to light up as long as they do so in a man­ner that shows concern toward others. 
Thus, I do not believe that the University should consider a cam­pus-wide ban on smoking. I believe that the current policy is effective in creating an environment that allows both smokers and nonsmok­ers to coexist fairly peacefully. 
According to du Lac, "the right of non-smokers to a smoke-free envi­ronment always takes precedence over the desire of smokers to smoke." The undergraduate student handbook states that smoking is prohibited in all buildings, stadiums and University vehicles. Notre Dame leaves open the possibility of allowing students to smoke in their dorm rooms, but individual halls have rules and regulations that effectively forbid it. University poli­cy also prohibits smoking in out­door high-traffic areas. 
This essentially means that stu­dents are forced to smoke in desig­nated outdoor areas. Such meas­ures ensure that those who smoke have an opportunity to do so, while safeguarding those who may have asthma, are allergic to tobacco smoke or find the habit unpleasant. 
My experience to date has indi­cated that, overall, Notre Dame smokers are respectful of the rules and other people. I am rarely bom­barded with the smell of smoke when I walk around campus and I almost never see litter from tobacco products on the ground. 
I have, however, observed a nationwide trend that aims at demonizing and belittling those who smoke. I have watched passers-by reward smokers who are enjoying their habit at a consid­erate distance from others with dirty looks, and I have friends who dispense insulting and condescend­ing remarks to smokers because they "care." 
If the University is smart, it will avoid getting involved in this messy debate. The current policy on smoking is effective in creating a good environment for nonsmokers while simultaneously accommodat­ing those who smoke. 
As the old adage says, "If it isn't 
broke, don't fix it." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at atha­gard@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Andrew Thagard 
Assistant News Editor 
CORRECTIONS 

The Sept. 22 article that was attributed to Beth Erickson should have been labeled an Observer Staff Report. The Observer regrets the error. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO WOULD YOU RATHER SEE ON "THE SEASON" THAN THE FOOTBALL TEAM? 








"Interhall cross "Men's soccer." "Women's "Dawg Hockey." "Brady Quinn." "Water Polo!!!" 
country." soccer. 

PAMELA LOCKfThe Observer 
Alter servers process Into the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on Tuesday. The Mass, presided over by Bishop John D' Arcy, was celebrated as part of "A Call to Solidarity with Africa," a conference sponsored by the Institute for Church Life. The confer­ence, held In McKenna Hall, concludes today. 
OFFBEAT 
Woman bites two librarians In robbery 
CRAWFORDSVILLE, Ind.­A woman bit two librarians after they tried to stop her from stealing about $70 from the public library's cash drawer. 
One of the librarians, Debbie Barry, said that a man tried to distract her Saturday while a woman grabbed the money and fled. 
Barry and fellow librarian Christina Crouch chased the woman outside and wrestled with her while library patrons called police. The woman bit Crouch on the chest and Barry's thumb before the man pulled her free and they ran off. 
"When I grabbed her it was kind of stupid," Barry told the Journal Review newspaper. "What I should have done was yanked her hair and sat on her, but I didn't think of it at the time." 
Anna M. Davis, 24, and her live-in boyfriend, Kevin 
T. Kamradt, 25, were caught a few minutes later, police Officer Bob Rivers said. An officer at the Montgomery County Jail reported finding $71 in Davis' underwear. 
Man In woman's underwear hid bomb 
VAN BUREN, Ark.-A man dressed in women's underwear, awakened as he slept in a vehicle at Lee Creek Reservoi~ had a homemade bomb in the car, a Crawford County deputy says. 
Earl Woodruff, 40, of Van Buren, was arrested about 5 a.m. Monday after a deputy was sent to the reservoir in response to a call about a parked vehicle occupied by a man wearing women's under­wear. Blount said the man was wearing a bra and women's thong panties. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
c:: 
w 
::c 
!;;: 
$ --~
~ 

3: w 
...J 
:·

ct 
(.) 

....0 HIGH 65 HIGH 69 HIGH 56 HIGH 65 LOW 52 LOW 57 LOW 39 LOW 48 
IN BRIEF 

The Center for Social Concerns will hold its annual post-graduate service fair at Stepan Center from 5 to 8 
p.m. tonight. 

The Institute for church Life will continue its "A Call to Solidarity with Africa" con­ference today at McKenna Hall. The conference begins at 
8:30 a.m. and concludes at 2 p.m. 
Betty Balanoff. a labor histo­rian, justice activist and Hammond Ind. resident, will deliver a lecture entitled "Environmental Injustice in Northwest Indiana." The lec­ture takes place at 4:30 p.m. at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The lecture is part of the "Environmental Justice: Grassroots Voices" series. 
A diversity commissioner training session will be held tonight at the Center for Social Concerns from 7 to 8:30 
p.m. All diversity commission­ers are asked to attend. 
The Snite Museum of Art will present its "Freshman Night at the Snite" Thursday at 7 p.m. The event, geared toward first year students, will feature a talk by the museum's director. refresh­ments and entertainment. 
Saint Mary's Department of Student Activities will sponsor a card tournament at Dalloway's tonight at 8 p.m. The event is open to all stu­dents. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 
• 

~ 
HIGH 60 HIGH 63 LOW 37 LOW 43 
Atlanta 84 I 62 Boston 72 I 56 Chicago 65 1 46 Denver 72 I 44 Houston 88 I 68 Los Angeles 88 I 62 Minneapolis 60 I 42 New York 73 I 63 Philadelphia 76 I 60 Phoenix 98 I 77 Seattle 73 I 52 St. Louis 75 I 51 Tampa 85 I 73 Washington 76 I 60 

------~~--~~~-.--------.---------------------------------------~--------------~--­Wednesday, September 24, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
small-company big-companyenvironment impact· 
Who says you have to c·hoose? 
The Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, the world's most comprehensive and broadly based manufacturer of health care products, will be visiting your campus. Come discover how our · small-company environments, combined with our big-company impact, can open the door to a world of career opportunities. 
Look deeper at the Johnson &Johnson Family of Companies. 
Location: Stadium Room
find more The University Club 
www.jnj.com/careers 
C Johnson & Johnson Service<, Int. 2003. Johnson & Johnson companies ate equal opportunity employers. SMALL-COMPANY ENVIRONMENT/BIG-COMPANY IMPACT;. a se~ mane of Johnson & John<on. 

Honor Code may change 
"what looks like a complicat­
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
ed bureaucratic situation" by
Associate News Editor 
not reporting Honor Code 
violations, and that faculty 
Faculty I lonor Code Officer members also believe they Thomas Flint said he would are "looking out for the stu­not be surprised if discussion dent so a violation won't be of possible changes to the on their record." I lonor Code came up at the Flint, howev­first University er, said faculty Honor Code members also Meeting, slated "It seems very do not report 
to take place likely that the incidents sometime in because they
current code isn't 

the ncar do not want to 
future. working in the way relinquish con­"It seems it calls for." trol over their very likely that students and the current the grades
Thomas Flint

code isn't they receive. 
working in the Honor Code officer "I think pro­
way it ·calls for," said Flint, a Notre Dame philosophy professor. 
Flint wrote two letters to The Observer two weeks ago on the subject of llonor Code violations. One decried the suspected number of viola­tions by students and the fac­ulty inconsistencies in deal­ing with them. The second proposed changes that may be made to rectify the situa­tion. 
Flint said he believes stu­dents arc cheating and not getting caught, and faculty arc handling I Ionor Code vio­lations on their own. 
Faculty members, Flint said, have a "mixture of motives" for handling things by themselves. IIe said they believe they are avoiding 
fessors are 
reluctant to surrender what power they have. It's not a particularly nice trait, but I think it's accurate," Flint said. 
The main problem with this practice, Flint said, is that it creates the opportuni­ty for students to repeatedly commit Honor Code offenses· because there is no record of their violations. Under the Honor Code, students who commit a second violation would usually be suspended or dismissed from the University. If faculty mem­bers do not report incidents, however, students can violate the Honor Code repeatedly and never have any ultimate penalty. 
"Faculty who fashion pri­vate penalties are opening the door to the possibility of serial offenders," he said. 
Faced with this problem, Flint believes there is a possi­ble solution, albeit a some­what radical one. 
He said he would like to propose a system in which professors are explicitly per­mitted to negotiate penalties for Honor Code violations directly with students. In this system, not every case would go directly before an honesty committee. 
The catch would be that faculty members would be required to submit a report of the violation and penalty the student sustained to the Associate Provost's Office for record keeping. In this way, Flint said there would be a record of students who com­mitted offenses. 
"At least if this was made an appropriate or acceptable option, there would be some sort of check on those who are [violating the Honor Code] repeatedly," he said. 
Flint said feedback to his proposal has been positive. 
"I've received a lot of feed­back from faculty ... I haven't had one faculty member who has clearly opposed this proposition," he said. 
Any changes recommend­ed by the University Honor Code Committee must be passed be the University's Academic Council. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 





Journal to publish 
SMC professor's study 
Kim's paper explains N. Korean Sunshine Policy 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
News Writer 

Sci-Hill Kim. assistant professor of Communications Studies at Saint Mary's, recently received word from the International Journal of Public Opinion Research that his paper, "Talking on Sunshine in North Korea: A Test of the Spiral of Silence as a Theory of Powerful Media Effects," will be published at the end of this year. 
The paper and publication are aimed at professors, researche·rs and graduate students who are doing research on public opinion. 
Kim, who is from South Korea, wanted to examine how the mass media influences the population's opinion on Sunshine, a controver­sial government reunification policy. 
"These two countries have been separated for more than 50 years," he said. "We wanted to see how South Koreans viewed North Koreans, which is important to gov­ernment policy." 
To research this topic, Kim worked with Miejeong Han, a pro­fessor at Hanyang University in Anyang and friend since their PhD studies at Cornell. 
The two studied the South Korean news media and how it played a role in shaping people's opinions. 
"My contact in Korea collected data in a small city like South Bend, with a population of 500,000. It was a telephone survey of 443 resi­dents." 
There were several key findings. 
"We found that the media, in gen­eral, were in favor of this public policy. People infer public opinion from mass media, and the people see the public opinion as in favor," Kim said. "People, in general, are really concerned about how people think about this issue, and their perceptions influence their political behaviors." 
A good example of this, Kim said, is the American view of North Korea. The general tone of the med!a coverage can sway a popula­tion if they are led to believe that others are also in favor. 
"Even in the U.S., North Korea is becoming the next big thing. If the American media portrays North Korea in a very negative light, then people will believe that the American public is very negative about North Korea," said Kim. "If American media keeps portraying North Korea in a very negative light, there will be positive support for military action in North Korea." 
There are two current views held by South Koreans, Kim said. One is to see North Korea as an enemy. The other is to be sympathetic to their northern neighbor, viewing them as family and friends who need South Korea's help. 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

--~------~------------------~-~~-------------­
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, September 24, 2003 
Schools share classes, facilities 
ND, SMC, HCC utilize campus resources, curriculum 
of the course ·exchange "You are simplifying the
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
between schools. search." 
News Writer 
"I think it is crucial for any Co-planning and hosting of university to offer as many social events amongst the Notre Dame, Saint Mary's courses as possible to its stu­schools has also served to and Holy Cross students uti­dents," Gifford said. "Look at strengthen the bond between lize a variety of resources on our education program -we them. Student governmentall three campuses, the offered that and Notre Dame representatives from each result of a long tradition of doesn't, so their students college sit in on board meet­cooperation that has evolved can come here for it." ings at the other schools and into a unique The academic report back to their respec­academic~ and exchange goes tive officers. Boards often social commu­"It is great to be beyond just the cooperate and bring students nity rarely seen able to go to The classroom set­together for events such as in other univer­ting, however; The Show and the Keenan
Rock and play a
sity environ­students are Revue. ments. game ofpick-up also permitted to The availability of athletic One of the basketball. access and events is another positive most widely check out aspect of the close links
Interacting with 
used shared library between Notre Dame, Saint r e s o u r c e s Notre Dame resources at all Mary's and Holy Cross. With between the students is always three institu­a student identification card colleges is the tions. Recent from any of the three
a good time. It's 
curriculum. network schools, students can attend
part ofwhat makes
Through the improvements or purchase tickets for anyNorthern going to school have linked the sporting event. ~ Indiana Notre Dame, Students can also take
here so awesome. " 
Consortium, Saint Mary's and advantage of the athletic university stu-· Holy Cross facilities on the three cam­dents are Tom Gannon li-brary c a ta-puses. While the need has allowed to take sophomore logues, enabling diminished in recent years,classes at one Holy Cross students to per­as a result of development of of the other two form a broader their own fitness centers, institutions on reference Saint Mary's and Holy Cross a space-available basis. search. students still frequent Notre 
The exchange permits stu­"It's the same system, but Dame's Rockne Memorial dents to access courses that segmented," said Saint facility to work out and may not be available on their Mary's library director Janet swim. immediate campuses. There Fore of the shared online "It is great to be able to go 
are currently 88 Notre Dame system. "Each data base is over to The Rock and play a and Holy Cross students separate." game of pick-up basketball," enrolled in Saint Mary's The multi-catalogue search said Holy Cross sophomoreclasses, and 159 Saint available to the three stu­Tom Gannon. "Interacting
Mary's students enrolled in dent bodies accelerates the with Notre Dame students is Notre Dame classes. search process. always a good time. It's partSaint Mary's sophomore "Rather than go into a cat­of what makes going to 
Nicole Gifford, currently tak­alogue to search and then school here so awesome." ing introductor·y engineering out again and then into at Notre Dame, said all stu­another, you get all of the Contact Megan O'Neil at dents should take advantage hits immediately," Fore said. onei0907@saintmarys.edu 


54533 Terrace Lane South Bend, IN 46635 (US 23 next to Subway) 
Tel: (574)271-8899 We Deliver 



Jefferson 
continued from page 1 
gist, some of her friends and a Saint Mary's professor. The woman, who was a freshman at the time, said the incident that occurred March 22, 2001 was so traumatic that she transferred from Saint Mary's to a university closer to her Pittsburgh home and that on the first anniversary of the incident she overdosed on antide­pressants. 
When Jefferson questioned the woman on cross-examination why she had not pressed charges, she responded she was traumatized when she went to Memorial Hospital on March 22, 2001 and was scared she would lose her scholarship because she had been drinking underage. Evidence col­lected at the hospital was not saved, she said. 
Jefferson testified Tuesday, and he did not call any defense wit­nesses. The jury's verdict comes following a two-and-a-half-year process, during which Jefferson 
CLC 
failed to appear at multiple court proceedings and nipeatedly did not cooperate with his own attorneys and the plaintitrs attorneys. His most recent attorney withdrew himself from the case in October 2002 because he was unable to contact Jefferson once he returned to Texas and claimed Jefferson was uncooperative. 
The civil trial was supposed to begin Jan. 21, 2003 but was delayed when Jefferson, who had missed several other court appear­ances, unexpectedly appeared in court. Judge Jenny Pitts Manier, who had not called a jury because she did not think Jefferson would appear, then denied the plaintiffs motion for summary judgment and recused herself from the case. Before recusing herself, Manier had withdrawn most of the requests for admissions that Jefferson had failed to respond to in November 2002. Failure to respond is considered an admis­sion of guilt. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 

Me111bers plan dinner meeting at Legends 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
Assistant News Editor 
Members of the Campus Life Council (CLC) enjoyed an especially short meeting on Monday. Student body vice president Jeremy Lao presided over the meeting, which lasted less than 10 minutes. 
Lao took attendance and handled some administrative tasks. He asked members if they had any new business to bring before Council. No members, however, raised any new business nor was old business discussed. 
Members planned to attend a dinner meeting at Legends in October. 
The next CLC meeting is scheduled for October 6. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 

The Society for Human Resource Management & The Management Club invites everyone to attend the . 

Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory Management 
Dr. Jatnes Boyd 
Greenleaf Center for Servant Leadership 
" Servant Leadership: Principles for Power Sharing" 
Friday,.~ept~mber 26 12:00 -1:15 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College ofBusiness 






ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, September 24, 2003 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israelis poised for prisoner swap 
JEHUSALEM -Israel's defense minister said Tuesday the government had no inten­tion of releasing a jailed Palestinian uprising leader, but that progress was being made toward a prisoner swap with Lebanese guer­rillas. 
Freeing Marwan Barghouti, considered a poll~ntial successor to Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, could help get the stalled U.S.­hacked "road map" peace plan back on track. 
A Palestinian source close to the talks said Monday the emerging deal would include Barghouti, who is on trial in Israel for his alleged role in terror attacks that killed 26 lsnwlis. The idea of his release would trigger tough resistance from hard-liners in the Israeli government. 
Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz said Barghouti was not likely to be part of a deal to exchange Arab prisoners, including Palestinians, for Israeli businessman 1\lhanan Tannenbaum and the bodies of three Israeli soldiers kidnapped by llezbollah in 2000. 
"We have no intention of releasing Barghouti," Mofaz said. adding that the num­bers and names being mentioned are not correct. Palestinian and llezbollah oflicials say Israel would free about 400 Arab prison­ers. inducting at least 200 Palestinians. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Laborers Union endorses Gephardt 
WASIIINGTON -Dick Gephardt picked up his 14th union endorsement for the Democratic presidential nomination when leaders of the Laborers International Union of North America decided Tuesday to back the Missouri Democrat. 
"Dick has been there for us for 27 years," said Terry O'Sullivan, president of the Laborers Union. which reported 322,000 dues-paying members last year. "His tenure in Congress has been defined by his commit­ment to working men and women, to work­ing families, and I think the vote today is a recognition of that." 
On Wednesday, however, the International Association of Fire Fighters was poised to become the first national union to break publicly with Gephardt, giving its endorse­ment instead to Massachusetts Sen. John Kerry after a vote of its leaders. 
The Laborers' decision in favor of Gephardt came after a survey of about 1,000 union leaders attending a conference in Chicago. 

Sniper case denied domestic motive 
MANASSAS, Va. -Prosecutors argued Tuesday that sniper suspect John Allen Muhammad may have sought to harm his ex­wife during last year's killing spree, but a judge ruled they can't make that argument at trial because they have no supporting evi­dence. 
Circuit Judge LeHoy F. Millette Jr. upheld a request from defense lawyers to bar any trial testimony that Muhammad had either made any threats against his ex-wife or kidnapped the couple's children. 
LOCAL NEWS 

State to help investigate vote fraud 
CHOWN POINT, Ind. -The Indiana attor­ney general's office has agreed to help the Lake County prosecutor investigate alleged election fraud and other public corruption, authorities said Tuesday. 
'1\vo weeks ago, Prosecutor Bernard Carter asked Attorney General Steve Carter for state assistance, citing the need to avoid the appearance that he might have a conl1ict of interest. 
County records show three people accused of pushing fraudulent absentee votes in Schererville and East Chicago contributed money to Carter since 1999. 
Bernard Carter said Sept. 10 he would donate to charity about $13,000 contributed to his campaign by potential targets of the probe. 
CoMPILED FROM T1-1E OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES PageS 
UNITED NATIONS 

Bush addresses U.N. about Iraq 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS  
Unbending in spite of  
widespread opposition,  
President Bush returned  
to the United Nations on  
Tuesday to try to marshal  
support for a deliberate  
transition to democracy in  
Iraq. "Let us move for­ 
ward," he told those lead­ 
ers who would have the  
U.S. occupation ended  
right away.  
A year ago, Bush stood  
before the U.N. General  
Assembly and tried to  
build a case against Iraqi  
dictator Saddam Hussein.  
Ultimately, he drew only  
some support from the  
Security Council and went  
to war without direct  
authority.  
There were nations with  
the United States, Bush  
said in Tuesday's speech,  
but "some of the sovereign  
nations of this assembly  
disagree with our actions."  
To try to accommodate  
them, Bush on Tuesday  
offered the United Nations  
a larger role in Iraq's  
reconstruction. But he did  
not budge from his plan  
for step-by-step transfor­ 
mation of Iraq to democra­ 
cy. President Bush addresses the United Nations on Tuesday. In the speech, he  
"This process must defended the war on Iraq and called for Iraqi autonomy.  
unfold according to the  
needs of Iraqis -neither  international community  weapons of mass destruc­ name.  
hurried nor delayed by the  and he could have made  tion -once cited by the  "The deadly combination  
wishes of other parties,"  the case for more troops,  administration as a key  of outlaw regimes, terror  
he said.  more resources," the  reason for the war but  networks and weapons of  
Couching U.S. policy in  South Dakota Democrat  given less emphasis lately  mass murder is a peril  
Iraq and Afghanistan in  said. "He didn't do that. ...  after none have yet been  that cannot be ignored or  
terms of countering ter­ It was a missed opportuni­ found.  wished away," he said.  
rorism, Bush said the  ty and that's very disap­ "The regime of Saddam  In the audience sat  
world should stand with  pointing."  Hussein cultivated ties to  Ahmed Chalabi, this  
the people of both coun­ In his speech, Bush invit­ terror while it built  month's president of the  
tries as they seek freedom  ed the United Nations to  weapons of mass destruc­ Iraqi Governing Council,  
and stability.  play an expanded role in  tion. It used those  President Jacques Chirac  
Bush spoke as negotia­ Iraq's reconstruction. The  weapons in acts of mass  of France and German  
tions continued behind the  world body should assist  murder, and refused to  Chancellor Gerhard  
scenes on a new U.N. reso­ in preparing a constitution  account for them when  Schroeder.  
lution setting terms for the  for Iraq, help train civil  confronted by the world,"  The Bush administration  
transfer of power. So far,  servants and conduct free  he said.  has urged Chalabi to pre­ 
U.S. efforts have been  and fair elections. he said.  Bush also appealed for a  pare a timetable for trans­ 
stymied by France,  "Every young democracy  worldwide drive to stop  fer of power to Iraqis, a  
Germany and other critics  needs the help of friends,"  the spread of weapons of  U.S. official said. But in  
of the U.S. approach.  Bush declared.  mass destruction,  the meantime, he has  
In Washington, Senate  The president's address  although he mentioned  demanded that the U.S.­ 
Minority Leader Tom  was received politely by  neither North Korea nor  appointed Iraqi governing  
Daschle said he thought  the General Assembly  Iran -two nations that  council be given at least  
Bush "lost an opportuni­ audience.  his administration has  partial control of the pow­ 
ty."  Bush also revived the  accused of trying to build  erful finance and security  
"He came before the  issue of Saddam Hussein's  nuclear weapons -by  ministries.  


Court rules recall must proceed 
California, said at a news confer­ruling by a district court judge who
Associated Press 
ence. had refused to postpone the elec­
SAN FRANCISCO -A federal The 11-member panel of the 9th tion. The judges based their decision appeals court Tuesday unanimously U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals unani­on the state's constitution, not any reinstated California's Oct. 7 guber­mously overturned the Sept. 15 precedent set by Bush v. Gore. natorial recall election, swiftly decision of a three-judge panel from "The district court did not abuse rejecting a three-judge panel's deci­the same circuit. its discretion in concluding that sion to put it off for months. The original panel postponed the plaintiffs will suffer no hardship that 
!lours later. the American Civil election on whether to recall Gov. outweighs the stake of the state of Liberties Union said it would not Gray Davis because six counties California and its citizens in having appeal the ruling to the U.S. would use outdated punch-card bal­this election go forward as planned Supreme Court. removing the final lots that were the subject of the and as required by the California legal roadblock to the election just "hanging chads" battle in the 2000 constitution," the ruling said. two weeks away. presidential election in Florida. The Legal scholars had predicted the 
"With the election just two weeks panel repeatedly cited the Supreme outcome. A day after the decision away, we do not believe we should Court's Bush v. Gore decision that delaying the vote, the court prolong the uncertainty any longer," effectively decided the 2000 elec­announced it would revisit the case Dorothy M. Ehrlich, the ACLU's tion. with 11 judges -a sign the court executive director for Northern The appeals court reinstated a was not happy. 
Wednesday, September 24, 2003 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Hamilton said. After all briefs are filed,
Boat 

FYS 
Hamilton said he believed it continued from page 1 would probably take about six continued from page 1 
------------weeks for the appeals court. a company will appeal all of the panel of three judges, to reach 
careful attention should be paid lawsuits dismissed earlier to a decision. 
not only to what the speakers say, the Indiana Court of Appeals The students whose cases 
but how they say it. in Indianapolis. were scheduled for Tuesday 
These speakers, who were Heppenheimer refused to were faced with three choices; 
members of both the faculty and comment on why the cases they could pay the requested 
the student body, presided over were being damages, agree 
three panel discussions dealing appealed or to the continu­
with the summer readings what he thought "We think we have ance or set a 
assigned to freshmen, including about the trial date for the 
"The Heart of Islam" by Seyyed
a good case. ,,

chances for the Small Claims 
Hossein Nasr, "The Clash of appeals' suc­Court. 
Civilizations" by Samuel cess. Ed Sullivan At the court­
Huntington and a set of Muslim­Millennium defense attorney house, students 
Christian dialogues from various Enterprises is had to wait in a 
sources. Each presenter was also requesting corner of the
who represents 

given seven minutes to argue
40 students 
that all remain­ing suits be postponed until April 20, when the results of the appeals will likely be known. 
Because the suits are identi­cal. any ruling made by the Indiana Court of Appeals will likely apply to the other cases as well. 
Attorney John Hamilton will represent Millennium Enterprises in the appeals process, and Heppenheimer will continue to represent the client for the postponed cases. 
Attorney Ed Sullivan. who 
of their 
represents all 
"It's a waste of
the students 
whose cases time. I think 
were dismissed. [Heppenheimer is] said he believed 
trying to
he would win 
intimidate us.,,
on appeal. "We think we have a good Gillian Poppe 
case," he said. 
sophomore
Hamilton said 
Indiana University 
the process will most likely take South Bend several months. The Boat Club 

legal options. 
will have 30 days to file its attorneys did not have to be would."
appeal. followed by 30 days present Tuesday and many University spokesman Matt
for the defendants with the other students whose cases possibility of an additional were scheduled did not month for Millennium appear. 
Enterprises to respond. 

"Then the [appeals] clerk Contact Teresa Fralish at must certify the record," tfralish@nd.edu 
Come sail away with Observer News at 1-5323. 
Dueling Piano Bar &Grill 

EVERY WEDNESDAY 
Standard Mixed Drinks All Night Long 

EVERY THURSDAY 
$  2.00 Long Islands  
&  Domestic Bottles  
All Night Long  

Ladies Get In Free!!! 
This place rocks!! 
However. all the students eventu­ally decided to sign the continu­

Cheney 
ance. "It's a waste of 
continued from page 1 time. I think [Heppenheimer 
students or participate in any
is] trying to 
University functions. Although
intimidate us," the event will be held at thesaid Gillian 
Joyce Center. Notre Dame isPoppe, a sopho­
not involved in sponsoring
more at Indiana 
Cheney's visit. 
University-South "We're just renting the facili­Bend. 
ty," Kochvar said. "Notre Dame Students who doesn't give us the facility ­
had retained we rent it as anyone else 
tradictions as serious flaws in its argument, and Mahmood seeing the work as descriptive. explana­tive, and interpretive of a religion from within important to the understanding of culture. 
"Do We Face a 'Clash of Civilizations?"' a topic tentatively breeched in the first panel, was further explored in the second. All three speakers found Huntington's thesis that the source of most major conflicts today can be traced to fault lines between civilizations far too vague and limited in application. 
"[Huntington's theory is] over­simplistic, and in some cases, just wrong," said Kathleen Collins. professor of Political Science. 
Senior Terence Fitzgibbons used his experience studying abroad in Cairo to debunk the thesis, while political science pro­fessor Michael Francis attributed international conflicts to power politics, not clashes between civi­lizations. 
The third and final group expounded upon the need for inter-and intra-civilizational dia­logue to move toward soothing the world's conflicts, and was appropriately entitled "The Gift of Dialogue". This two-member 
Storin said that Notre Dame will be renting use of the Joyce Center to the event's planners as a business transaction, a common practice with a venue so large and publicly accessi­ble. 
"We do rent our facilities out," he said. "The Joyce Center is regularly rented out ... There are occasional activi­ties held there that are unre­lated to the University. This is one of them." 
Storin said that University policy does not permit the endorsement of political candi­dates, and Notre Dame will panel was made up of Middle East Studies and theology profes­sor Joseph Amar and theology professor Paul Franks. 

Amar argued that the clash the­ory overlooks commonality and that dialogue between conflicting groups creates trust, respect, and foundation for coexistence. Franks, drawing upon his own Jewish devotion, said that recent Jewish-Christian dialogue has fos­tered a veritable revolution of feeling between the two groups. 
"Interfaith dialogue is between individuals ... and individuals can transform communities," he said. 
Appleby summarized the evening by explaining how each speaker's argument provided a lesson for the scholarly reading of text. including using empirical. historical, and experiential tests to examine a case. 
"[This convocation is] intended as a milestone along the road of [first years'] development as stu­dents and scholars," Kolman said, adding that she hopes that the level of discussion in the class­rooms and residence halls would continue. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at arnichael@nd.edu 

lobby to speak 
w i t h Heppenheimer. who presented them with the three options. 
The bailiff told students they could not speak with the judge at that time because of the large number of cases on the court's schedule for Thesday. 
Several Notre Dame stu­dents who had not hired attor­neys and did not wish to be identified said they were con­fused by the process and did not feel they had a clear grasp their case, and each individual panel was followed by 10 minutes of questions from designated stu­dents. 
The first panel, entitled "What is 'The Heart oflslam"' was made up of theology professor Gabriel Reynolds. anthropology professor Cynthia Mahmood, and freshman Sarah Wheaton. These three dis­cussed the views of Nasr in "The Heart of Islam," with Reynolds and Wheaton citing ignored coun­terarguments and internal con-therefore have no involvement in the event or Chocola's cam­paign itself. 
"There is a policy that allows for politicians who are running for office to speak on campus on substantive issues," he said. "When that situation arises, we are certain to invite their oppo­nent to speak. as well ... Otherwise, \H:: would not, for example, host a fundraising event. but we would rent the Joyce Center out as a lmsiness move." 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu 


528 1:. ~olfax 1\.ve., St.tite #1 South :Bend, 1'1f46617 
574/232-1822 
312 W. C(eve(anl%f. §ranger, •11f46530 
574/2?7~6693 

ACodem~oraru 
\Vomen's HonHqne Specializing ln 

De~gllel' Oo~es anJ G*s 


100 N. Center St. (The 100 Center) Mishawaka-(574) 259-7522 


MUST BE 21 WITH VALID ID! 
r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­THE OBSERVER 
USINESSWednesday, September 24, 2003 
Page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 9,576.04 +40.63
jones 
Vp: Stone lMm Composite V~1u: 22 0 1,864,611,000
~ 

AMEX 1,000.77 +5.33 NASDAQ 1,901.72 +27.10 mse 5,794.22 +23.12 S&P5fXJ 1,029.03 +6.21 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +3.43 +0.14 4.10 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +1.82 +0.53 29.60 INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.47 +0.42 28.94 SISIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) +3.38 +007 2.02 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +1.78 +0.37 21.15 
IN BRIEF 
Microsoft to slash chat services 
SEATTLE -Microsoft is shutting down 
Internet ehat services in most of its markets 
around the world and limiting the service in 
the Unit<>d States to help rnduce criminal 
solicitations or children through online discus­
sions. · The changes will take effect Oct. 14, 
Microsoft said Tuesday in an announcement 
from Europe. 
In must of its 34 markets in Europe, Latin 
Ameriea and Asia. Microsoft MSN has chosen 
to simply shut down the service, the, 
Hedmond, Wash.-based software company 
said. However. MSN will continue to offer chat 
services to users in the United States, Canada, 
.Iapan and Brazil. 
FDA stiffens BSE-related guidelines 
WASIIINGTON -The government is work­
ing on expanding its ban against brains and 
spinal tissue in cattle feed to include food for 
dogs, cats. pigs and poultry. 
Stephen Sundlof, director of the Center for 
Veterinary Medicine at the Food and Drug 
Administration, said Tuesday the agency 
wants to prevent animal diseases from being 
passed unto consumers and other animals. It 
will probably write new regulations, one of 
which could require companies that slaughter 
"downer" livestock -animals that are sick or 
injured -to dispose of the brain and spinal 
cord before mixing animal feed and pet food, 
he said. 
The government already bans animal feeds 
made with spinal and brain tissue from being 
fed to sheep, goats and cattle -a safeguard 
against the spread of diseases like "mad cow 
disease" or BSE. But the tissue can be mixed 
into pet food and feed for pigs or poultry. 
The FDA is working with slaughterhouses 
and animal feed companies to come up with a 
plan by 2007 to prevent high-risk materials 
like spinal tissue from ending up in feed. 
Local parts companies face layoffs 
GARY, Ind. -The push to pressure the Bush administration to maintain tariffs on steel imports drew thousands of steelworkers and their supporters to a rally in one of the industry's key centers. 
Many who gathered Saturday in the city's 
baseball stadium -known as the U.S. Steel 
Yard -carried signs that urged Bush to con­
tinue the tariffs. 
"This is important to our livelihood," said 
steelworker Karen Fleming of LaPorte. "The 
end of tariffs would cause a downward spiral 
in the steel industry just when things are 
starting to turn around and get better." 
Northwestern Indiana is the site of several 
large steel mills-including ones owned U.S. 
Steel, International Steel Group and !spat 
Inland -and many have blamed cheaper for­
eign steel imports for bankruptcies and lay­
offs in the U.S. steel industry. 
Gary Mayor Scott King told the crowd that 
the federal government should be just as con­
cerned with the security of domestic industry 
as keeping the borders secure from terrorism. 






Iraq's role in OPEC questioned 
Associated Press 
VIENNA, Austria ­OPEC members struggled Tuesday to prevent a dis­pute over Iraq's participa­tion in their oil policy talks from causing a damaging rift and impeding their plan to set production tar­gets for the coming months. 
Cartel members, exclud­ing Iraq. failed to resolve an impasse between Venezuela and Iraq during a late Tuesday meeting, OPEC sources said. The 10 members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries heard Venezuela's position that Iraq, a cartel founding member, should not attend the group's formal meeting Wednesday because its government has no U.N. recognition. 
Iraq is attending OPEC talks for the first time since the toppling of Saddam Hussein, and its presence was seen as a sign of grow­ing international accept­ance of its U.S.-backed interim government. 

However, Venezuela's minister of energy and mines, Rafael Ramirez, said Iraq could only attend on an informal basis. Iraqi oil minister Ibrahim Bahr al-Uloum countered that he and his delegation Sheik Ahmed Fahd al­have expressed a similar tinues to crimp its exports, expected to represent Iraq Ahmed Al-Sabah, joined view. and with Iraq's recovery as a full, voting member of several other OPEC dele­"I think we have to con­taking much longer than the group. gates in calling for the tinue with the same pro­expected, several OPEC 
The 10 members were group to leave output duction that we have now" members have said the unable to agree. unchanged for now. and monitor the oil market group should continue 
The differences threat­Al-Sabah said he closely in coming months, pumping at current levels ened to flare into a major believed Iraq would be al-Sabah said upon his leading into the peak win­dispute and interfere with allowed to attend arrival at a hotel in the ter heating oil season. OPEC's need to set output Wednesday's formal meet­Austrian capital. December Given the large number policy for the year's busy ing as a full member would be "a good time" to of oil ministers who have fourth quarter. because Venezuela was the reassess supply and already stated a prefer­
Despite a recent slide in only one demurring. demand for crude, he said. ence for not changing out­crude prices, OPEC should Wednesday's OPEC meet­United Arab Emirates' put, a decision by OPEC to hold oil output steady for ing is at the group's Vienna Oil Minister Obaid Al­do anything different the next few months and headquarters. Nasseri, speaking earlier, would be "irresponsible," meet again in December to OPEC secretary-general said there appeared to be said Yasser Elguindi of consider cutting produc­Alvaro Silva predicted that "no big reason" for OPEC Medley Global Advisors, a tion ahead of a seasonal OPEC, which supplies to adjust its output at this New York-based consul­downturn in spring about a third of the world's meeting. tancy. demand, Kuwait's oil min­crude, would hold its out­Earlier fears that Iraq "It would take something ister said. put ceiling steady at 25.4 might quickly restore its dramatic at this point for 
Kuwait is "very worried" million barrels a day for prewar output and glut the them to change their posi­about the 14 percent the rest of the year. Some market with crude have all tion, and the market would decline in prices so far this members, including Saudi but disappeared. Sabotage not appreciate it," Elguindi month, but its oil minister, Arabia and Indonesia, of Iraq's oil pipelines con-said. 

Virus infects nationa! visa system 
that "CLASS is down due to a virus ed systems are designed not even to 
Associated Press 

found in the system." There was no print a visa until such a check is com­
WASHINGTON The State backup system immediately available, pleted. Department's electronic system for and officials could not predict how long It was unclear which computer virus checking every visa applicant for terror­the outage might last. might have affected the system. But a ist or criminal history failed worldwide Such an outage would represent the separate message sent to embassies late Tuesday because of a computer most serious disruption in years to U.S. and consular offices late Tuesday virus, leaving the U.S. government government computers from an warned that the "Welchia" virus had unable to issue visas. Internet infection. been detected in one facility. Welchia is 
The virus crippled the department's State Department spokeswoman an aggressive infection unleashed last Consular Lookout and Support System Joanne Moore said the agency experi­month that exploits a software flaw in (CLASS), which contains more than 12.8 enced some computer problems but recent versions of Microsoft Corp.'s million records from the FBI, State could not confirm the visa-checking sys­Wmdows software. Department and U.S. immigration, tem was affected. Collectively, Welchia and a related drug-enforcement and intelligence "We did have some computer prob­virus, "Blaster," have infected hundreds agencies. Among the names are those lems," she said. "They're working on of thousands of computers worldwide, of at least 78,000 suspected terrorists. it." including computers at the Federal 
In an internal message sent late Every visa applicant is checked Reserve in Atlanta, Maryland's motor Tuesday to embassies and consular against the names in the CLASS data­vehicle agency and the Minnesota offices worldwide, officials cautioned base. The State Department's automat-Transportation Department. 

Wednesday, September 24, 2003 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
geries, which included the removal of debris and skin
Loescher 
grafts. Though he has been 
continued from page 1 weaned from many heavy ------------sedatives, he remains on sev­facial expressions he told her era! painkillers, including how in an instant everything morphine. changed," the family posted. During an earlier proce-
Loescher then asked about dure, doctors inserted a tra­the fate of colleagues Sergio cheostomy tube to aid Vieira de Mello, a U.N. spe-Loescher with his breathing. cia! representative, and Though Loescher remains on Arthur Shelton, who both a respirator, his ability to died in the blast. Loescher breathe without aid is steadi­was working for the Open ly increasing. Doctors Democracy Project and was informed the family that they trapped with de Mello follow-are positive about Loescher's ing the blast. condition but expect his 
The family posted that they recovery to be extensive. learned Loescher was the -Loescher, a human rights only person to survive the and refugee expert, joined blast in the section of the the Notre Dame faculty in building from which he was 1975 and is a fellow with the rescued; he vaguely remem-Kroc Institute for hers the rescue. International Peace Studies. 
Loescher lost both of his legs and severely damaged his right hand in the blast. Contact Meghanne Downes at He underwent a series of sur-mdownesl@nd.edu 

Firefighters union to endorse Sen. Kerry 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Massachusetts Sen. John Kerry is the first Democrat to get a national union endorsement other than Dick Gephardt, who now has 14. 
The International Association of Fire Fighters planned to endorse Kerry on Wednesday after a vote of union leaders. 
The union, which reported 214,000 dues-paying members last year, likes Kerry's record as a decorated Vietnam War veteran; his political, legal and legislative experience; his sense of humor; and his per­sonal interests in athletics and Harley-Davidsons, union President Harold Schaitberger said. 
"He is a proven leader," Schaitberger stated in remarks prepared for Wednesday. "He knows how to navigate Washington. He learned the hard· way in Vietnam, in the courtroom and. in the halls of the U.S. Senate." 
Late entrant Wesley Clark has four-star credentials, but lacks political and legislative experience, said Schaitberger, who spent a couple of hours at breakfast with the retired gen­eral several weeks ago, along with other union presidents. 
"You've got to know how to navigate and operate in Washington, D.C., to be a good president and to be an effective executive," he said. "I question Wesley Clark's experience, and John Kerry clearly has that experience." 
Gephardt is a longtime ally of organized labor, yet some pub­lic and service sector unions are hesitant to embrace his second run for the White House. 
The firefighters union want­ed to support a candidate who can beat President Bush next year. "Our view is that Dick Gephardt is not the candidate who has that best chance," Schaitberger said. 
After a disappointing show­ing in fund raising, Gephardt's third-quarter results, out Sept. 30, will be a key indication of whether he can win enough support for a laborwide endorsement from the AFL­CIO. 
President John Sweeney is expected to call a general board meeting around Oct. 15 to consider an endorsement, which requires support from unions representing two-thirds of the federation's 13 million members. 

LIVE ENTERTAINMENT AT BOOI<MAI<ER'S PUB 
2046 South Bend Ave. 272-1766 
*Wednesday, September 24, 8 -11pm Jason Sapen Lead Singer with Blammo 
*Friday, September 26, 9-12pm Daryl Buchanan and Randy Martin 
Congressional politics heat up 
Bush's $87 billion Iraq request sparks partisan debate 
wary about being seen as
Associated Press 

undermining him on national 
WASHINGTON -There was security issues so soon after the a time when Iraq was almost a Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. nonpartisan issue in Congress. When Bush made his case That clearly ended when against Iraqi President Saddam President Bush requested an Hussein at the United Nations additional $87 billion for the on Sept. 12, 2002, Democrats war there. Now it's beyond praised him even as some political. It's nasty. questioned 
Sen. Ted the need for Kennedy has called "{Bush's) I Ith-hour, war. Senate the war a fraud Majority
halfhearted speech to
"made up in Leader Tom 
Texas," prompting the United Nations, Daschle of a top Republican to and his continuing South Dakota accuse him of said, "Every
!-told-you-so tone, 
"hate speech." Iraq time the pres­
have made it more
administrator L. ident contin­Paul Bremer was difficult to secure ues to speak said to have faced out, he
international

"a maelstrom" strengthens
assistance."

when he met with his case." Democrats behind Sen. Joseph closed doors. Joseph Lieberman Lieberman of And 85-year-old Connecticut
senator

Robert Byrd, a praised
Connecticut

Democratic sena­tor from West Virginia since the Eisenhower administration, complained that he had never been treated with such discourtesy as he had been at a hearing on Bush's spending request. 
That was the environment awaiting Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and two top generals who were scheduled to appear Wednesday before the Senate Appropriations Committee to defend Bush's spending request. Separately, Bremer was to appear before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
The mood was a striking change from last year. Bush was soaring in opinion polls, and. with midterm elections approaching. Democrats were Bush's "pow­
erful and con­vincing indictment" of the Iraqi leader. 
After Bush's speech Tuesday at the United Nations, Daschle -now minority leader -said Bush "lost an opportunity" to make he case for more interna­tional troops and resources. 
Lieberman -now a presi­dential candidate-said Bush's "11th-hour, halfhearted appeal to the United Nations, and his continuing 1-told-you-so tone, have made it more difficult to secure international assis­tance." 
Much has changed in a year. Opinion polls show rising doubts about Bush's Iraq poli­cies. Lawmakers do not face re­election this year. And criticiz­ing the aftermath of a war isn't as risky as criticizing the war itself. 
With the $87 billion request coming on top of a $79 billion package approved in April. Democrats argue that Bush woefully underestimated the costs of the war, the difficulty of rebuilding Iraq and the amount of international help available. 
But many Democrats acknowledge that the $87 bil­lion request likely will be approved. They say they can't deny the money that the Pentagon says is needed for 
U.S. troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Daschle said Tuesday he doubts most senators will sup­port the $20.3 billion part of the request that is for Iraqi reconstruction. But he said it is not clear whether that money may be considered separately. Republicans, who control both Houses, adamantly oppose splitting the bill. 
But if Democrats' actions are limited, their words are not. They are lashing out at the administration, in public and in private. 
Bremer received a harsh reception from Senate Democrats during a closed­door meeting with them Tuesday. When he began com­paring the current situation to the German defeat in World War II, Sen. Jay Rockefeller, D­W.Va., asked him to discuss Iraq, not world history, accord­ing to one senator present. 
"It was a maelstrom," said Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, who described the session. 
While the Democratic seua­tors usually applaud visitors to their weekly meeting, Bremer left to silence, Harkin said. 




SNITE MUSEUM of ART 
Cordially Invites the Freshmen Class to 



''Freshmen Night at the Snite'' 
Thursday, September 25th 7pm 
Welcome by Chuck Loving, director of The Snite Museum. Free music and food in the courtyard. Tours of the exhibitions available. 
Free and open to the Freshmen class. Call 631-5466 for more information. 
~-----------------------------------------­
Wednesday, September 24, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
McGillan, Gorman join ND 
Two set to assume newly created positions in the Development Dept. 
Special to The Observer 
Mary Ellen McGillan, most recently assistant vice presi­dent for development at Santa Clara University, and Jean Gorman, vice president for development at the Scripps Foundation for Medicine and Science in LaJolla, Calif. have been appointed to newly cre­ated positions in the Department of Development at Notre Dame. 
McGillan will serve as assis­tant vice president for devel­opment and director of nation­al programs, with responsibil­ity for foundation and corpo­rate relations, the annual fund, communications and advancement of the Notre Dame Law School, Mendoza College of Business, new DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts and athletic department. McGillan assumes her duties Sept. 2. 
Gorman has been appointed senior director of planned giv­ing and development research with oversight for planned giv­ing, research activities and training the major gifts staff. 
She will join the University on Sept. 29. 
Both positions were created this summer following two major promotions. Daniel Heagan, formerly assistant vice president for University relations and executive direc­tor of development, was appointed associate vice presi­dent for University relations and executive director for principal gifts and campaign administration, and Timothy Rippinger was promoted from director of development oper­ations to assistant vice presi­dent for development and director of leadership gifts. 
McGillan brings to Notre Dame more than 20 years of board fund-raising experi­ence. In addition to Santa Clara, she has held senior development positions at Belmont Abbey College in Belmont, N.C., the Horticultural Research Institute in Washington D.C., the American Diabetes Association and the American Cancer Society. 
An active leader with the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education (CASE), McGillan will serve as co-chair of philanthropy at the western regional CASE confer­ence this year. She also previ­ously served in the same posi­tion for all Jesuit colleges and universities. 
McGillan earned her bache­lor's degree in sociology from Belmont Abbey. 
Considered one of the coun­try's leading planned giving experts, Gorman has served as the vice president for develop­ment at Scripps College and has worked in development at the University of California, San Diego, the University of Portland and St. Mary's Hospital in Grand Rapids, Mich., in addition to the Scripps Foundation. 
A graduate of Saint Mary's College and Notre Dame Law School, she served for five years as director of financial aid at Saint Mary's and was an assistant rector of Farley Hall at Notre Dame for three years. 
Gorman earned a master's degree in education, college counseling and administration from Northwestern University. 

IRAQ 



Council bans two Arab news stations 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD, Iraq -Iraq's U.S.-appointed Governing Council on Tuesday barred journalists from two leading Arab satellite news channels from government buildings and press conferences. 
The council said the two­week ban was imposed on Al­Jazeera and Al-Arabiya ­two of the most popular tele­vision news stations in the Middle East -because it sus­pected the stations had violat­ed rules that include not dis­closing information about pending attacks on American troops. 
A spokesman for Ahmad Chalabi, the current Governing Council president, accused the stations of "incit­ing violence" against U.S.-Jed coalition forces and Iraqi offi­cials. 
"We hope other channels will draw a Jesson from this decision," spokesman Entifadh Qanbar said. 
AI-Jazeera spokesman Jihad Bailout said the station regretted the council decision but "will continue our work as usual until we are officially notified" of it, according to Al­Jazeera's Web site. 
Reaction from Al-Arabiya was not immediately avail­able. 
Qanbar did not elaborate on what the two stations had done, and the council state­ment did not mention any specific allegations against the two Arabic broadcasters. 
Both channels have in the past broadcast audio tapes and statements purported to be from Saddam Hussein and footage showing alleged resistance fighters vowing to continue attacks on U.S. troops. 
"We will not let them broad­cast footage of U.S. soldiers being ripped apart," Qanbar told reporters, adding that the two channels could be fined. 
He called the council decree "a positive step to protect the Iraqi people from the poisons being broadcast by the chan­nels." 
Under rules listed in the council's statement Tuesday, Iraqi and foreign media are prohibited from inciting vio­lence or "chaos" or promoting the return of Saddam's Baath party. All news organizations are required to inform authorities if they learn of any information concerning ter­rorist activities. 

ACCION: Leah Henley; Amate House: Kari Eaton; Catherine Eichers; Erica Hayman; Maria Farm: Timothy Ruggaber. Nuestros Pequenos Hermanos: Paul Nolen. New York Teacher Service Ochsner; Elizabeth Pottle; Andrea Swineharr; Katie Van Tiem -Americorps: Mary Henrick. Program: Meghan Fenton. Operation TEACH: Casey Buckstaff; Brennan Leddy. Paradete Center: Danielle Ledesma; Katie OsOtrowski; Andre House: Sarah Brook. Associate Missionaries of the Brande Flamez; Andrea McClure; Mike McDonald. Passionists Volunteers: Allie Swiacki; Karen Assumption: Laura Kelly. Augwtinian Volunteers: Andrew Musgrave; Brian Ostick. Bon Secours: Kosinski. Peace Corps: Daniel Buonadonna; Patricia Drummey; Annie Hasten; Jason Klocek: Katie Murphy. Boston Health Care for the Homeless: Ryan Sullivan. Campus Ministry Internship: Kerri Murphy; Kara Tholen; Jim Tully. PLACE Corps: Sean Griffin; Maria Cristina V: Mathew; Keara Coughlin-John Glynn -Lauren Willoughby-Capuchin Franciscan Corps International: Brian McCoughlin; Staci Pangle; Julia Toman. Power ofLove Foundation: Ashlee Logan. Promise Pam Ronson. Chapin Street Charter School: Kathryn Clinic: Jim Flynn -Christian 
Ann Walter. Providence Appalachian Project: Amy 
Volunteer Ministry: Cynthia Schill. Colorado Vincentian 
Shea. Pueno Rico Center Volunteers: Jenny Stahl. 
for Social Concerns: William Dodoma Tanzania Health 
Boyd; Ann Feilmeyer; Jennifer Development: Karin Soby -
Hooyman; Dave. Knesek; Dominican Covent School: 
Beth Lauck; Colleen Pepper. Annamarie Bindenagel. 
Think Outside The Box 
Response-Ability John Emerson National Hunger 
Beltramo; Salesian Missions Fellowship: Bridget Purdue 
Volunteer Program: Thomas -Jeanine Valles -Farm of 
Hayes. Share Foundation: the Child: Beau Schweitzer; 
Kara Roche. St. Mark's Parish Nicholas St. Ores; Mary Beth 
Consider joining these 2003 graduates who have committed 
Mission: Steve Kelly. St. Paul's Stryker -FrancisCorps: 
Outreach: Luis Matos-Teach 


to a year or two with post-graduate setVice programs.
Kassie Murphy. Fulbright 
for America: Meg Anderson; Teaching Assistantship: 
Mark Avitable; Elizabeth Maura Kelly; Anne Lewis. 
Ayala; Emila Badrov; Brendan Georgetown Visitation Prep 
Barker; Daly Barnes; Patrick School: Katie Casey; Colleen 
Dunnigan; Danielle Finley; Lawler; Cherise Yund. Good 
Kathleen Higgins; Tiffany Shepherd Volunteers: 
Johnson; Megan Kovac; Alison Libby Cunningham; Kristen 
Lanser; Joseph Lordi; Agatha Kleiser. The Haitian Project: 

Post-Graduate Service Fair 
Noble; Nina Siggins; Lauren Jonathan Joyce; Steve Keppel; 
Walsh. ACE: Yogeld Andre; Lindsey Randall. Holy 
Cliff Arnold; Laura Aull; Brian 

Wednesday, September 24 
Bircher; Kathleen Brogan; Benevidez; Kristen Caponi; 
Cross Associates: Andrew 
Gretchen Bryant; Katie Maggie Donohue; John 
Cawley; Catherine Corke;


5 -8 p.m. @ Stepan Center 
Rory B. Dippold; David Michael Greenfield; Jessica 
Donnelly; Paul Graham; 
Esch; Thomas Flanagan; Jesse Howell; Katie Knoack; 

Flores; Joshua Fulcher; James Michael McGarry; Jeanna 
Gaffey; Michael Gracie; Palmer; Sheila Payne; TJ 
Esteban F. Granados III; Anne Pillari; Jane Sloss; Whitney 
Hainley; Brian Harrman; C E N T E R F 0 R 
Michael Hoefling; Stephen Jason Villarreal. Holy Cross 
Thompson; Tony Trela; 
Holte; Jillian Houghton; Missions: Lacey Haussamen; 
SOCIAL 
Beth Jeub; Shatomi Kcrbawy;

CONCERNS 
Luke Klopp; Charles Teaching Corps: Kathryn 
Becky Luckett. Inner City 
Lamphier; Daniel Linton; Golden; Lauren Hogel. Jesuit Crystal Marrinez; Madeline Volunteer Corps: Amy Braun -Rebecca Lyman-Magnus McGinty, Rebecca Reilly; Ellyn Rideout; McKenna; Kristine Monahan; Brian MosconaNorma Nelson; Kelly Novak; Meredith Panzica; 
Mark Roland; JVC International: JP Jarczyk; Anne Traynor. KNOM: Anna Dummer. LANCE: Brooke Piller; Allison Ricci; Paul Rodriguez; Michael Ronan; George Salib; Emmeline Schoen; Peter Matthew Bleecher. VArche: Margaret Laracy; Bill Taylor; Alexandra Torres. Los Embajadores: Schupp; Monica Stone; Laura Tushaus; Seth Whetzel; Andrew Zengel. Other programs: Katherine: Kathleen McGoey. Loyola University CHOICE: Sandria DeSapio; Kathleen McKearn: Maggie's Ball; Tim Brennan; Brian Cruz; Teresa Do; Megan Flynn; Angie Gubana; Molly Jacob; Kristen Place: Julie Davis. Maryknoll China Teaching Program: Anne Lim. The Master's Mission: Kenny; Megan Kovac; Marcel Lanahan; Kelli MacKay; Alan Mackiewicz; Sarah Ross; Patrick Sluka Nathan Phillips. Mercy Home: Tim Callan-Mount Carmel High School: Leslie Ann Aldridge; (As ofSeptember 15, 2003). Bridget O'Brien; Matt Reisenauer; Amy Updike. Nativity Prep Academy:Jill Cardenas. Nazareth 
~ ··--·-·...-.-..-...... ,._ ... ~"' .. --~--'9,.,._ ...... -.. .-..................... ". 

t~ir.g 11!;; a\', i't'A..'I.t d'&.1~irg r~1 mear',ng r. ~ 'HOt'\! a;Qro us. f11t'ict'l yt:.'liJ iea<rM'Ig expet~ by using the nation's most honored newspaper arKi Tt>.e NeiN York Times K!KYMe<JQt-> !1'~\~A /;,Jr ,.,~~m.:.~.-:.•..ffli'rx~~ .access ca;r ~by -&iiiect S>'r'&ct: erw~. IOC!:;.ive e-mail al€1tS 0!1 your areas of Interest. and advance your job search through Job Mark!:1!. For mDr£! !M;Jlrrr.-\il~nr. and !!.• o-re-a &...U:{!rotoo ~Too Trnes at stl.lde!1 f"dles. ·~ ~.oorn/colk:'lge or cal? t-888·698·2655. 
m.e Neurlfork~ KNOWLEDGE NETWORK.. 
INSPIRING lHOU6HT 

Wednesday, September 24, 2003 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page ll 

on 

--A uniqueopporlunitq £or qoung adults to discuss laith £rom their own perspective in an in£ormal and casual atmosphere. 
0


,. "'"'Join other Notre Dame, Holy C:ross, and Saint MarlJ's students 
w 


as thelJ gather lot an honest, straieht-up conversation about being Catholic in toda.y's world.. 
PremierMs.bt Wednesday, October1st 
f"'.J 

Leaends of Notre Oan1e ( cl·ub side) 
f"'.J 



1Op1n -11:30pn1 
t'.J Cash. bar ,.....; free soft drinks & s11acks. 
C-M 




GraIn In y Awards to return to Los Angeles 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -After shift­ing to the Big Apple, the Grammy Awards are coming back to the City of Angels. 
The National Academy of Hocording Arts and Sciences announced Tuesday that its 46th annual 
ceremony hon­"This is great news self has since 
oring the best stepped down
for our City ofAngels

of music will amid investiga­take place at and reaffirms our tions of alleged the Staples place as the sexual harass-Center arena in ment, even
entertainment capital 

Los Angeles on though the 
Feb. 8. ofthe world. " Grammy organ­Mayor James ization said he llahn said the was cleared of
James Hahn 

announcement wrongdoing.

mayor

was "great Current

Los Angeles

news for our Grammy chief 
City of Angels and reaffirms our place as the entertainment capital of the world." 
The Grammys, which once frequently bounced back and forth between the two cities, settled in Los Angeles for four consecutive years, from 1998­2002. That wus due in part to Michael Greene, the former head of the Grammy organi­zation. lie had a much-publi­cized feud with former New York Mayor Hudolph Giuliani, who had accused Greene of unleashing a stream of 
obscenities at a mayoral staffer in 1998. 
Within days of curre11t Mayor Michael Bloomberg's 2001 election, Greene began talks to return the show to New York. and the ceremony took place in Madison Square 
Garden last 
February. 
Greene him­
Neil Portnow 
said in a state­
ment he was "delighted" that the show is back in Los Angeles. 
Along with an economic boost, the Grammys also bring a monthlong series of festivities before the telecast that includes performances. exhibits. workshops and edu­cational events. 
CBS will telecast the Grammy Awards live. Nominees were to be announced Dec. 4 at the Beverly Hilton Hotel in Beverly Hills. 



Bon Jovi starts AFL team 
Associated Press 
PHilADELPHIA -Rock star -and football fan -Jon Bon Jovi is now co-owner of the Philadelphia Soul, an Arena Football League expansion team. 
''I'm a football fanatic. I love football, always have," the New Jersey native said Monday. "It's the only sport I really live and breathe." 
His partner is real estate developer Craig A. Spencer. whose properties include the five-star Ritz-Carlton in Philadelphia, where Bon Jovi spoke about his lifelong love of football and his plans for the Soul. 
The announcement was made Monday. The Soul will begin play next season in the Wachovia Center and Wachovia Spectrum. 
Bon Jovi had to overcome skepticism among league exec­utives when he first approached them earlier this year about owning an AFL franchise. 
Arena League commissioner David Baker said he quickly impressed with his business acumen, work ethic and knowl­edge of the game. 
"We're driving on our way to a concert and he's asking me about the emergency quarter­back rule. Nobody ever asks me about the emergency quarter­back rule," said Baker. 
Bon Jovi, whose hits include "You Give Love a Bad Name" and "It's My Life," said he'll hold a private performance for season ticket-holders. But that's all the singing he's planning to do -at least for now. 
''I'm not going to be the half­time entertainment," the 41­year-old rocker said. ''I'm going to sit in the owners' box." 
The Soul becomes the 18th team in the Arena Football League and the second expan­sion team announced this year, following the New Orleans VooDoo in May. A 19th team. in Austin, Texas, is also expected to enter the league next season. 
Baker declined to put a price tag on the Soul. 
Philadelphia has a glut of professional sports teams, but Bon Jovi and Spencer said they're not worried about put­ting fans in the seats. 





THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Page 12 Wednesday, September 24,2003 




:Pfloro EoimR: 1'lrn Ka~inir GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Hit:kins. ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella AD Dlls!GN MANAGER: Tom Haight SVSrtlMS ADMINIS't'M!Olt: T~d Bang¢t~ .···· WEB ADMINISTRATOR: jason Creek · 
CoNTROLlER: Mike Fl~~ ·•··. 
(SJi~$TEMs ~·.6*fl~. J,:~:~:~~6~~ c 
(574)~31~8839•·•···· 
THE • 


POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Passion is priceless 
The sky is far from blue on this day. Lightning flashes and seconds later the thunder claps loudly against the dull landscape, giving reason to question why the scene is 
Adam Cahill
barren of people. However, there is one individual braving nature's A Domer's elements. The rain Outlook is coming down so hard that it feels like pinpricks on the lone soul's shoulders. 
But the figure remains on the field, undeterred by the torrential down­pour or the chill given by soaked clothing. Fundamentals that have been practiced hundreds of times seem to hold new importance now, 
· each one done by heart in the blind­ing rain. They are done meticulously, precisely, but without fear. The legs churn, the arms pump and the eyes remain focused-pushing, pulling, prodding for more in the slop of the muddy field. For every mistake that is made, the exercise is done cor­rectly 10 times more. No mistakes are tolerated. Now the dreariness of the late spring evening is fading into com­plete and utter darkness, and the fatigue of hours spent on the soggy field begin to show in the body lan­guage. But only the sagging shoul­ders and hands on hips illustrate the weariness, sweat having lost all dis­tinction to the pouring rain. The movements are not quite as sharp, and the eyes have glazed over, mak­ing the mistakes snowball. But the dark silhouette keeps on, more determined to find the perfection that has not been reached, the time not yet achieved, the perfect 10 never attained. Only then does the figure fall, remaining motionless in the mud for seconds, seemingly like minutes, and time stops. It is the desperate groping for something more. The mindless 
screaming in the inner soul that urges, that expects more, that is confident in the abilities not yet shown. It is the burning torment of defeat when an opponent celebrates a victory and the empty satisfaction of victory, knowing that you still have not shown the world your best. There is no substitute for it. It is only black and white. You either have it or you do not. Some teams have it and some teams do not. It is for the love of the game. 
There is only so much the body can take. The body tries to get up but fails. Once again, an attempt to revive, to rejuvenate, but another failure ensues. After several min­utes, a shaky hand is planted and an elbow 
is raised, push­have. We pity
It is the burning torment of
ing the body up those who do not
defeat when an opponent cele­
from the earth have it because we with as much brates a victory. knowing that know that when frailty as a the game, race or
you still have not shown the 
matchstick event comes down
world your best. 
house. to the wire, they 
Wobbling against the wind, the indi­vidual stands once again and the basics continue, slowly at first, then faster, one at a time, in the rain. It is a stirring sight but no one knows, no one sees. No one needs to know­the true champions are the ones who run even when they cannot stand. 
It cannot be taught but it never leaves. It is the intangible that coaches preach and dream about but can never duplicate because it lies in a place that they can not touch. Away from all the scoreboards and shoes, contracts and television cam­eras, it is some place deeper. It fol­lows an athlete into every aspect of life-jobs, family, company softball games -nothing is done with reserve. But like a sleeping volcano or a warrior retired to the solitudes of a farm, passion can lay dormant for years. The will to overcome and conquer can fade if something is not worthy of the absolute effort needed. 
It is why men and women who have donned high school and college jerseys decades ago still talk about the glory days. If a horse retires from the track, does it mean it still does not love to run? It haunts them just as much as it drives. It is why they push their children to be better than them, why they will not accept anything other than 110 percent. They want that feeling again -the knowledge and quiet satisfaction that comes with doing more before breakfast than most of the popula­tion does all week. 
And when we have it, we recognize 
it. We exploit it 
because some 
times it is all we 
do not have a 
chance because 

passion will get us there. Passion, even more than determination, wins games. Passion wins championships. 
It is in that place deep down inside that we find out who we truly are ­a world so full of possibility that it seems impossible to get to. And it will escape most of us; that perfec­tion will elude us forever. 
"It eluded us then, but that's no matter -tomorrow we will run faster, stretch out our arms farther and one fine morning ... " 
Passion for life, passion for any­thing, is priceless. 
Adam Cahill is a senior history and American studies major. Contact him at acahill@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
OBSERVER POLL 
Are you in favor of a smoke free 
"/owe my success to having listened 
campus, including outside buildings 
respectfully to the very best advice and then going away and doing the exact opposite." 
and on the quads? 
Emily Tuiilhrink Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
G.K. Chesterton

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
writer 


r-----------------------------------~----~---~ -~ 


THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Spirit lacking in Notre Dame marching band 
Wednesday. Seprember 24, 2003 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Recognize and respond to inequality 
Few recognize that right beyond the walls of our campus are children who are starving, LLc.;ing pacifiers to battle bouts of hunger, children without pillows to sleep on, children watching their mothers get arrested on the front lawn and children wit­nessing murders as they walk out their front door. Few recognize that as we sit, complaining about homework, there is a child trying to read who can't concentrate because they haven't eaten today or a child who can't all'ord school supplies to even attempt their work. And fmally, few recognize that these are not exaggerations, but arc the realities of growing up in poverty in South Bend. 
This problem is not unique to South Bend, it plagues countless cities throughout the United States and the world. In Baltimore the drop out rate is 70 percent at some high schools. On average, children attending public schools in the inner city are three grade levels below their suburban peers. I can cite statistic after statistic to illustrate the disgusting inequity that exists, but l don't feel it is necessary nor yields action. 
Hather, I am going to ask each and every one of you to think of what role you could play in closing this disturbing gap. Many of you already tutor in the community and arc making an impact right now. Some of you reading this have the talents and drive to participate in programs like Teach for America and the Alliance for Catholic Educatior:t and immediately make an impact after graduation. Some of you may one day light to forever change educational inequity, and some of you, at the least, will remember these gross inequities and be sympathetic to the situation. 
For most of us this is not our story, we cannot directly relate, and sometimes we don't want to believe. But it is the truth, and we are the only ones who can make a difference. If you arc not willing to take action, how can you expect a seven year-old with no food and a shattered household to believe in his future. 
Kristen McCaffiey senior off-campus Sept. 23 



Blame ignorance for lack of diversity 
Deka Motanya's Sept. 22 letter addressed the stark lack of diversity on campus. The deficiency of minorities on campus is obviously an unfortunate situation; how­ever, attributing the lack of diversity to people not attending the president of Nigeria's speech is asinine. Furthermore, counting on "students drastically chang­ing their mentalities" to bring more diversity to the school plays into every stereo­typical portrayal of minority students. It fosters the idea that the reason more minorities aren't attending prestigious private schools is because the minorities themselves have done something wrong. 
The reason that more minorities are not on campus has nothing to do with the attendance of speeches and everything to do with the lopsided politics that we, as Americans, deal with on a daily basis. When the Federal Housing Administration was created, the government made it difficult if not impossible for minorities to get loans for homes. No loans translated into no equity and no equity translate into no borrowing power for minorities, which greatly all'ected minorities abilities to send their children to good schools. Perhaps this happened before most of us were born, but the effects remain today. Despite the University's ell'ort to recruit students, the sociological, economical and political boundaries keep many minorities at home. 
Motanya was correct in one respect-diversity does need to be promoted on campus. There have simply been too many times that I have heard racial slurs, especially directed at the field during football games. Ignorance amongst the gen­eral populace is the culprit for the lack of diversity, ascribing the monotonous nature of the University to anything else is oversimplifying matters, and is ignoring the real problems that face us today. 
Amanda Arguijo freshman Pangborn Hall Sept. 23 
page 13 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Preserve the marshmellow tradition 
Last Saturday, as many of you know, while the hopes of our Irish putting together another championship run was being derailed, so was another worth­while tradition that was known to take 
traditional halftime marsh­throwing one marshmallow," mallow fight was under as I am living testimony to attack. the inaccuracies of that 
After reading a Sept. statement. 22 article about the Nevertheless, we are marshmallow fight forced to watch hope­raid, being a victim lessly as we see of the debacle has another tradition left me with a few here at Notre Dame afterthoughts. The squashed. Here is a primary message suggestion though: that Cappy Gagnon is Next time maybe they sending is that marsh­should consider mak­mallow fights cause ing an announcement injury. However, all that marshmallow pos­Gagnon mentions for evi­session or throwing is now dence of this are past inci­punishable upon ejection from dences of putting metal in the Stadium. At least students will know, and obviously, neither do the ush­ers in the Stadium. The consequence: My peers and myself get ejected for their mistake. Gagnon should be more careful when he makes statements such as, "no 
marshmallows and injuring people. 
If this is the case, why didn't ushers stop this back when there was a problem and not decide to all of a sudden make this drastic change? Next, he claims that his men were only targeting "ringleaders" of the student body. In a senior section of 2,000 students this is an absolutely ludi­crous proposal. One very good question would be what traits mark a "ringleader" of a marshmallow war? I surely do not 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
know what is coming, and it will save Gagnon and his men from the embarrass­ing scene from last week of them being under a "white" attack as they lead the "ringleaders" from the Stadium. 
Brian Michalek 
senior 
Siegfried Hall Sept. 22 


After spending four hours Saturday afternoon being This attitude has carried over into the game, with poor­regaled by the Michigan State Band, it appears that the ly timed musical selections. The Irish Jig is a song of cele­uninspired play plaguing the football team has also infect­bration. It is not supposed to be played after the Irish ed our band. Instead of increasing the enthusiasm of the punt, when we down the ball for a touchback or when we 
student body and fans, the band has on  get stuffed on a second and long  
several occasions hampered our spirit. The pep rally is designed to culminate with the entrance of the football team, but before that happens, the energy and  Instead ofincreasing the enthusiasm ofthe student body andfans, the band  when we are down 10 points. This misuse not only cheapens a great song, but disconnects the student body from the game.  
excitement slowly builds until it reaches a  has on several occasions  In the same way The Jig is  
fever pitch. Events should be quick, ener­getic and in rapid succession. When Chuck  hampered our spirit.  overused, the Kill Chant is underused. An exciting chant  
Lennon says, "Here's the band," everyone  that pumps up our crowd and  
present expects the band to be ready.  ignites our defense has been left  

However, for the second time in as many pep-rallies, the on the shelf too many times. For example, when the Irish band was five minutes late, resulting in dead time and had the Spartans pinned down on their own nine in the effectively killing the mood. third quarter, our defense took the field essentially by themselves, while the student body was busy dancing The Jig. 
Finally and most importantly, when the team came out of the tunnel before the second half, they were greeted only by the cheers of the student body and not the Notre Dame Victory March. This silence continued, as the band played nothing during much of the third quarter. 
As the oldest and greatest university marching band, the band of the Fighting Irish must be held to a higher standard and in turn needs to perform better on Saturdays in support of our football team. 
Chuck Smith Bill Coffey juniors Keough Hall Sept. 22 


THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, September 24, 2003 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Dave Matthews flies solo 
By EMILY TUM BRINK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Dave Matthews' much-anticipated solo release, Some Devil, contains 14 original tracks, with Matthews' vocals and lyrics taking center stage on each. Though he collaborated with many guest artists during the production of the album, including Trey Anastasio of Phish, the Dirty Dozen Brass Band and guitarist Tim Reynolds, Matthews' songs definitely possess a softer and more intimate feel than any performed by the Dave Matthews Band. Whereas most popular Dave Matthews Band songs would be characterized as rous­ing, energetic and jam-centered (think "Tripping Billies," "Lie in Our Graves" or "Two Step"), Some Devil possesses a more subdued and blues-influenced sound. Many of the tracks are soft and meandering, and most would never be categorized in the jam band genre. 
Two of the tracks on Some Devil may be familiar to fans of the Dave Matthews Band. "Gravedigger," the first single from the album (a different acoustic version is also includ­ed). has been performed by the Dave Matthews Band dur­ing their regular touring schedule but has never been officially released on any of the band's albums. "An' Another Thing," perhaps one of the most unusual tracks on Some Devil, possesses a strik­ing resemblance to the song "Little Thing" from the Dave Matthews and Tim Reynolds' release Live at Luther College, but with the addition of strings and percussion. Matthews' haunting vocals on this track seem spontaneously concocted and manage to cap­tivatingly convey his emotion through mere sounds rather than actual words. 


ALBUM REVIEW 

Boyd Tinsley abandons his violin 
By EMILY TUMBRINK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Boyd Tinsley, well known for his con­tributions as the violinist for the Dave Matthews Band. became the first mem­ber of the band to release a solo album on June 17. 2003, beating Dave Matthews by a matter of months. 
True Reflections, the title of Tinsley's album, was named after a song he wrote in the 1990s that has now become a con­cert staple of the Dave Matthews Band, though it has never been released on a studio album. Tinsley has included this song on his own album. with Dave Matthews providing back-up vocals just as he does during live performances of the song. However, listeners expecting other aspects of Tinsley's album to be comparable to the work he does for the 
True Reflections Boyd Tinsley 
RCA Records 

Dave Matthews Band will be disappoint­ed by his solo release. 
Tinsley. trained as a classical violinist, neglects to showcase his greatest talent on True Reflections. Listed as providing the lead violin on only four of 11 tracks, Tinsley instead focuses his energy on songwriting and providing vocals, two things at which he is not very skilled. Tinsley's voice is not very strong, and his lyrics are even weaker. Though it must be said that the lyrics of the well-known song "True Reflections" are cliched, these lyrics seem far deeper than any of the other song lyrics included on this album. 
"All the lyrics were written after think­ing about what's important in life, what I appreciate about life. So the songs are basically about love and relationships," Tinsley told VHl. 
Unfortunately, Tinsley does not provide 

Most of the songs on 
Some Devil 
have a much darker tone than we are used to hear­ing from Matthews. Through the use of spare electric guitar melodies that often mirror the sound of Matthews' unusual voice modulations, "Some Devil," the title track, succeeds in cre­ating a mellow and haunting sound. "Too High" utilizes the Seattlemusic Group, an orchestra, on strings and horns, further increasing the overall drama. Though "Trouble" may sound like an uplifting song, its title and lyrics reveal otherwise. 
There are, however, some positive, upbeat songs on Some Devil. "So Damn Lucky," one of the most conventionally "Dave" songs on the album. contains an optimistic message paired with an upbeat melody. 
Apparently, Matthews' main motiva­tion for releasing a solo album was to have an outlet for the songs he has written that do not quite fit with the Dave Matthews Band style. 
"I hadn't really been thinking about doing a solo album until I had a hand­ful of songs that didn't really fit with the band, so I started with those and it just grew into a full record," Matthews told MTV. "I kind of thought it'd be fun to put it out." 

Fittingly. it is nearly impossible to envision most of the songs included on Some Devil being played by the Dave Matthews Band. The stylistic differ­ences between Matthews' solo work and that of the Dave Matthews Band are striking, making the influence of the other band members on the overall sound quite apparent. Some Devil shows a side of Matthews that would never have been revealed in his normal working environment, and by straying from his traditional formula, he is able to prove to listeners that he is capable of creating a new and unique sound. 
Contact Emily Tumbrink at etumbrin@nd.edu 
any interest­ing insights into these common lyri­cal themes. Perhaps the best example of this comes on the cringe­worthy track titled "Perfect World," which Tinsley says was written for his two chil­dren as an attempt to explain the concept of war. Alas, Tinsley's treatment of this serious theme will leave even children say­ing "duh" by the end of the track. With lyrics like "It's not a perfect world, I I don't want to lie. I Sometimes it makes me laugh, I Sometimes it makes me cry. I I'm beginning to wonder why, I I won't tell no lies. I I just don't know why. I No matter how I try, I I wonder why," "Perfect World" is so completely unin­spiring that it leaves listeners wondering why Tinsley ever thought he was a song­writer. 
Although it is admirable that Tinsley had the courage to release his own material knowing that it would be com­pared to the work of the ever-popular Dave Matthews Band, this album might have been better left unreleased. Tinsley should have focused more on what he is good at, namely playing a mean fiddle, instead of trying to fit the role of singer/songwriter. By relying on a slew of guest artists to provide the instrumen­tation, Tinsley completely misses what should have been the point of his album. Hopefully, Tinsley will realize where his talents lie and release an amazing instrumental album, one that can redeem his listeners' opinion of him. 



Contact Emily Tumbrink at etumbrin@nd.edu 

~~ ~--­
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Wednesday, September 24, 2003 
Page 15 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Nappy Roots still country and proud of it 
By KENYATTA STORIN 
Scene Music Critic 
Last year. Kentucky-based Nappy Hoots' major-label debut, Watermelon, Chicken and Gritz. was a pleasant surprise to the rap world. providing a fresh, lighthearted brand of Dirty South rap. Thanks to the hit single, "Awnaw," good. down-home production. catchy hooks. fast paced lyrics and an overall good-time country feeling. the album went platinum. 
In a genre known for short-lived careers. however. there was no guarantee that the sextet could duplicate this suc­cess in their sophomore release. Despite all the positives. the album ran a little long. their lyrics were sometimes bland and tracks seemed to blur together after awhile. Thankfully. the group avoids the "sophomore slump" by improving upon 

By REBECCA SAUNDERS 
Scene Music Critic 
"Who would have guessed?" is exactly the qunstion that races through one's mind while listening to the new Christian rock band Sky !!arbor. 
In its first album. Who Would Have Guessed, the band continually keeps listen­ers guessing about what could possibly be coming next as the album plays. The punk/garage rock band's music varies from that of strong guitar riffs and heavy their original formula in the entertaining 
Wooden Leather. 
Although they've tasted success, the rap unit has not forgotten its country roots. Individually. the rappers are arguably average at best, but together the six eJTectively work off each other's contrast­ing 11ows and voices. On their first single, "Houn' the Globe," they rap about every­one's inner Southerner with the sing along chorus. "The whole damn world is country I Been all around the globe from Monday to Sunday I Y'all the same folk we see in Kentucky," over a mellow, upbeat production juiced with hand claps and acoustic guitars. "Nappy Roots Day," a reference to the group being honored by Kentucky Governor Paul E. Patton with "Nappy Roots Day" on Sept. 16, 2002, is another highlight, combining a piano melody with female vocals for a soothing sound. 
Much like in the pop­ular songs "Po' Folks" a n d "Ballin' on a Budget" from their debut. N a p p y Roots also continues to stay true to the com­mon man on serious tracks like "Sick & 
rock to near acoustic-sounding songs interspersed throughout the album. This mixture is extremely successful, and the music carries you through this debut album. Songs with distinct messages, deep metaphors and great lyrics have the potential to stick in the head of listeners for days. 
The four-part. Phoenix-based rock band is led by Garth Bostic. doing vocals and guitar. His brother Willie Bostic performs bass and vocals. Steve Houser plays guitar and vocals, and Jonathan Russo completes the group on drums. A relatively young 
band. with no members over the age of 20, their young age does not in any way compromise the depth of the songs found on the album. 
The album title itself is drawn from "A Case for Christianity" by C.S. Lewis. who argued that the best thing about Christianity is that no one would have guessed it to be true, but it is that fact which makes it true. 
The entire album is laced with rich and 
Tired," in which they 

Wooden leather
rap about "barely get­ting by" and "not 


NappyRoots
I i v i n g right." U n I ike 

Atlantic Records 
most mod­ern rap albums, 
Wooden Leather is not littered 


with guest appearances, but the few that do appear supply quality assistance. Vocalist Anthony Hamilton contributes on "Push On," one of the more emotional tracks, and R&B singer Raphael Saadiq provides some good production on "Leave This Morning." · 
Unfortunately. Wooden Leather is not without its missteps. possessing the same problem as its predecessor by continuing for too long. Clocking in at just under 70 minutes, even with six rappers the group does not have the creativity to sufficiently maintain such a lengthy endeavor. Tracks such as "Lac Dogs & Hogs," "1\vang" and "Roll Again" sometimes have their moments but often leave the sextet appearing very ordinary and generic. The Lil' Jon-produced "What Cha Gonna Do?'' has a catchy trumpet blaring beat, but it could very well be confused with any number of Cash Money songs. The group's attempt at rap-rock, "War/Peace," has good production. but possesses a lackluster chorus of "War! Peace! Come on Nappy!" and probably could have been left ofT the album, as well. 

Wooden Leather may not be deepest rap album out there, but it's still enter­taining and unique in its own right. Unlike other pop Southern rappers, like Nelly and Big Tymers. who only rap about their riches, Nappy Roots have not let success go to their heads and. have man­aged to stay true to themselves. Their lyrics may not turn any heads, but the group mixes things up well. and every now and then they produce a gem. However. their main strength remains in the catchiness of their music, for it only takes a few listens before one finds him­self humming Wooden Leather for the rest of the day. You may have missed Nappy Roots Day this year, but be sure not to forget it next year. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Sky Harbor updates Christian rock 


deep messages such as the one found in the title of the album. The current single, "In Stereo" is an upbeat rock song with strong drums accompanied by quick yet heavy guitar rifts. The song talks about the revolution of Christian music through punchy and clever lines like. "It's a culture revolution fueled by noise pollution I Funny-looking kids are offering solutions." As "In Stereo" continues, it moves to a challenging tone, pointedly singing. "And everybody's praying I While sitting on their hands." The song is probably the strongest on the album in both message and music. 
The rock songs throughout the album are generally very strong. and the best tracks, such as "Welcome" and "Day at the Beach," carry weaker songs like "Identity" and "Not Gonna Change." While all of the rock songs on the album are unique and individual. high-quality tracks such as "In Stereo," "Welcome" and "Day at the Beach" really stand out as terrific songs. 
A huge strength of the album is the three out of 10 songs that are of a lighter rock nature. "What If I Doubt," one of the best songs on the album, is light acoustic mixed 
-
with rock and an upbeat rhythm behind it. The song confronts the issue of doubt in Christianity, asking, "What if I doubt? I What if I question things my life has been about? I Will you turn your back on me?" As one of the strongest songs on the album. the melody stays with the listener. 
Likewise, "Who Needs A Girl" is also a softer song on the album. The song, about a boy needing a girl to "miss when he's away" extends larger into the metaphor of the human need for connection. As one could probably guess, by the end of the song "Everyone needs someone to miss when we're away," just as the boy needs a girl. 
Sky Harbor's Who Would 1/ave Guessed is an energetic mix of heavy rock and lighter guitar that makes for a terrific album. Enjoyable for any age and any type of person. the debut album is the perfect recording for anyone who, just as the title hints, may not have initially guessed the band's talent and appeal. 
Contact Rebecca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
Wednesday, September 24, 2003

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 

Wood only gives up one hit as Cubs shut out Reds 6-0 
The Giants roughed up Wade Brett Myers (14-8) scheduled to
Cubs take sole 

Miller (14-13) and sent the pitch against the Marlins' Josh possession of first Astros to their fourth consecutive Beckett (8-8). loss. Houston fell a game behind Jimmy Rollins' two-run doubleplace in NL Central the Chicago Cubs, who beat in the second put the Phillies Cincinnati 6-0. after holding at ahead, and they were up 3-0 
Associated Press 

least a share of the division lead when Florida rallied in the sev­since Sept. 8. enth. Philadelphia manager 
CINCINNATI -With a whiff of The Astros are seeking their Larry Bowa needed four pitchers postseason in the air and thou­fifth NL Central title in seven to get through the inning, which sands of Cubs fans reveling in years. included four bases on balls and the stands, Kerry Wood dominat-· Jason Schmidt (17-5) benefited just three Florida hits. ed. from all the San Francisco The Phillies lost for the sixth 
Wood struck out 12 and limited offense. The right-hander, slated time in 10 games, and they've
... 
the Cincinnati Reds to one infield to start Game 1 of the playoffs lost five in a row in Miami. single in seven innings Tuesday for the NL West champion Florida has won 12 of its past 14 night, leading Chicago to a 6-0 Giants, gave up only two runs home games. victory and sole possession of and three hits in seven innings. first place in the NL Central. He has won five straight deci­NY Mets 1, Pittsburgh 0 
Houston's 10-3 loss to San sions and 12 of his last 14. One run was finally enough to Francisco dropped the Astros a Jason Lane homered twice for get a win for AI Leiter and the game back with five days left in Houston, the first multihomer New York Mets. the regular season. The Cubs game of his career. The last-place Mets have haven't been alone in first this The Giants lead Atlanta by two struggled for offense in recent late in a season since 1989, the percentage points in the race for weeks since Cliff Floyd and Jose last time they won a division the best record in the NL and Reyes were sidelined with sea­title. home-field advantage through­son-ending injuries. Leiter and 
Florida's Juan Pierre slides safely into second base as Phillies
"We're sensing that we've got­out the playoffs. the rest of New York's starting 
second baseman Placido Polanco fails to field the throw. 
ten into the position we wanted After Wednesday's series staff were faced with having to to be in all year long," Wood finale, Houston closes at home nearly pitch a shutout every said. "We're in it, and now we've with four games against night to earn a victory. night. out in the fifth. got to step up and play good Milwaukee. The Cubs play at Leiter did it Tuesday night as The Cardinals stayed 3 1/2 baseball." Cincinnati on Wednesday and the Mets beat the Pittsburgh games behind the Chicago Cubs Atlanta 2, Montreal 0 
The Cubs, alone atop the divi­Thursday, then go home for a Pirates 1-0 to snap a skid in in the NL Central race with four John Smoltz got his first save sion for the first time Sept. 8, three-game series against which New York lost eight games left as they snapped a since coming off the disabled list took the lead with a big-game Pittsburgh. straight and 16 of 17. five-game road losing streak. after Rafael Furcal's two-out sin­performance from the major "There was not a whole lot of Williams (17-9) scattered three gle in the eighth inning broke a leagues' strikeout leader, who Florida 5, Philadelphia 4 wiggle room," said Leiter, who hits over seven innings, walking scoreless tie, and the Atlanta beat the Reds for the third time The Florida Marlins came from pitched his first complete game none and striking out six as the Braves defeated the Montreal this season. behind to keep their lead in the in slightly more than a yea. Cardinals improved to 12-3 Expos 2-0 Thesday night. 
Thousands of blue-jacketed NL wild-card race. Tony Clark drove in the game's against Milwaukee. Gary Sheffield added a run­fans stood and chanted "Let's go Jeff Conine's three-run homer only run with a fourth-inning Williams was just as sharp at scoring double off Javier Cubs!" as Chicago rallied for four off Kevin Millwood highlighted a double. Miller Park as he was in St. Louis Vazquez (13-12), who dominated runs in the sixth inning, then let five-run seventh inning, and "We were able to get that one on Thursday night, when he also the Braves for seven innings Wood have his way with the Florida rallied to beat the fading run across and it held up," Clark scattered three hits over seven before tiring in the eighth. majors' most strikeout-prone Philadelphia Phillies 5-4 Thesday said. "Offensively, we haven't innings in a 13-0 rout of the Sheffield has 128 RBis, breaking lineup. night. gotten the job done," Clark said. Brewers. the Atlanta record held since 
The Marlins overcame a shaky But one run was enough for In three starts against 1966 by Hank Aaron. 
San Francisco 10, Houston 3 start by rookie Dontrelle Willis. the Mets, who are 33 games Milwaukee this season, Williams But the most encouraging per­The Houston Astros are fading They were on the verge of falling behind NL East champion went 3-0, allowing just eight hits formance for the Braves was fast. into a tie with Philadelphia in the Atlanta. and one run in 20 2-3 innings for turned in by Smoltz. who missed 
Edgardo Alfonzo hit a grand wild-card race, but instead a 0.44 ERA. nearly a month because of ten­slam in a 10-run second inning, moved two games ahead with St. Louis 5, Milwaukee 1 He gave up a solo homer to dinitis in his right elbow. The and the San Francisco Giants five to go -including two more Woody Williams mastered Brady Clark, his sixth, on a 2-closer pitched for the second knocked Houston out of first between the teams. Milwaukee for the second time in and-0 pitch in the first inning but night in a row, striking out all place in the NL Central with a The second game of the three­a week as the St. Louis Cardinals then retired the next 11 batters three batters in the ninth for his 10-3 victory Tuesday night. game series is Wednesday, with beat the Brewers 5-1 Tuesday until Wes Helms singled with one 45th save in 48 chances. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content wichom issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

SOCCER & VOLLEYBALL REFER­99 Honda Civic EX, Exc. cond., fully B&B NEAR CAMPUS FOR IRISH NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­Spring Break 2004 w/STS, EES-needed for south side loaded, auto, 44K, dk grn. $9,900. HOME GAMES. CALL (574)288-ED -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-America's #1 Student Tour 
NOTICES elementary school, located near Call574.251.1459. 5377. 2378 PM 288-2726 Operator. Hiring campus reps. Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. $30.00 per soccer game; $25.00 CLASSIC '65' STUDEBAKER DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 7 NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or 
PART-TIME WORK EXCELLENT per VB match. CRUISER RUNS GREAT! 83,000 HOUSES AVAILABLE FOR THE SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288-www. ststravel.com PAY WWW. WORKFORSTU­mi $3,900 call: 289-9351 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR WELL 2726 DENTS.COM Call 291-4200. MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR Seeking quieVgrad roommate. 
TOPSFIELD CONDO FOR SALE. CAMPUS 2,4,6,8 & 10 BEDROOM WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. Quiet street, 20 min. to campus. I NEED GA TIXS.2726306 A SPRING BREAKER NEEDED NICELY DECORATED 2 BED­HOUSES-STUDENTNEIGHBOR­TOP DOLLAR PAID. Choice of 2 rooms; $220 or $300, 
-
2004 Hottest Destinations & Parties ROOM. ALL MAJOR APPLIANCES. HOODS-SECURITY SYSTEMS­1/2 uti!. GUITAR LESSONS harmonica, 2 free trps high commission sun­10 MINS FROM CAMPUS. $69,900 MAINTENANCE STAFF 24 (574)232-0964. banjo & mandolin. Hoosierdads splashtours.com 1800-426-7710 299-7078 HOURS-WASHERS/DRYERS 269/325-2267 
0 

Music 4609 Grape Rd CALLTODAY-HOUSES ARE FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. 
Mish, IN 2775038 Guitarist, Bassist, or Drummer for a Beautiful3 bedroom, 1-1/2 bath GOING FAST A 'Reality' Spring Break 2004s punk band. Influences range from ranch with 1800 sq. ft. Great LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570. Hottest prices Book now. Free Green Day to Boy Sets Fire. Oakmont Park subdivision, close to CONTACT KRAMER 574-315-5032 Trips, Meals & Parties sunsplash­Contact JB at 634-3751 NO. Corner of Cleveland and or 574-234-2434 ALSO STARTING JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, tours.com or 1800-426-7710 
Juniper. 53122 Oakmont Central, TO LEASE FOR 2005-2006 NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT­$123,685. For more info, call Peggy SCHOOL YEAR BALLGAME. TRUE CHAMPIONS NEVER GIVEWANTED Weissert, Cressy & Everett, GMAC, UP WHEN THE GOING GETS at 574-235-4039. 3 bdrm home w/fenced yd, hrdwd PLEASE CALL TOUGH.FOR SALE floors. Very clean, quaint. Appl. incl. 674-6593. last mo. 10-mo lease. 417 GO IRISH! !I 
SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns Napoleon. 1/2 mil. from NO. Just Between You And Me, ADire Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO Fan in NEED of 2 or 4 USC GAs lma call you Josh a few good menand women who FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO. FoR RENT Call 299-9428 Graduate students, 
wish to work in a FUN and fast NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­faculty or staff. ONLY PLEASE PH:277-1659 He shoots, he scores! pace environment. A new store will ELED, FULLY EQUIPPED. be opening up in early October. We $94,500. Email: Braves in six. have aggressive pay. Hrs from11 am Williamson.1 @nd.edu 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO 
to 3am. In-shoppers, drivers and CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM Mr. Madison, what you've just said
PERSONAL

mgmt available. Two BR, 2 bath condo. One mile to MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272-TICKETS is one of the most insanely idiotic 
NO. Clubhouse, pool, 2 car garage. 1525 things I have ever heard. At no Call Andy at 574-277-0850 for inter­$107,000. (574) 273-1666 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do point in your rambling, incoherent view. That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast not go it alone. If you or someone response were you even close to 
IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW LUX­has space available for football/par­you love needs confidential support anything that could be considered a Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO URY VILLA COMMUNITY. Build ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, NO FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL. or assistance, please call Sr. Mary rational thought. Everyone in this exper. required. All looks & ages. your dream home next to Notre full hot breakfast, $80-$115, 
CHECK MY PRICES. Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. room is now dumber for having lis­Earn $100-$300 a day. Dame. A limited number of home Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. tened to it. I award you no points, sites are available. For more info go Toll Road, Exit #1 07, 1 -800-418­1-888-820-0167, ext. U187. to: www.lrishCrossings.com 9487. 
----------·· 


-----~ 
Wednesday, September 24, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
MLB 



Yankees clinch sixth straight division title with win 

Associated Press 
CHICAGO-The New York Yankees' playoff party was rock­ing even before they left the field. 
Jason Giambi hit a grand slam in the ninth inning, and Jose Contreras struck out a career­high nine Tuesday night as the Yankees clinched their sixth straight AL East title with a 7-0 victory over the Chicago White Sox. 
Nick Johnson and Juan Rivera hit solo homers, and Hideki Matsui drove in his 106th RBI for the Yankees, who are live games ahead of second-place Boston with five games left. 
"The guys in this room under­stand how hard it is to get here, especially when everybody in the league guns for you every year because they know that you're going to have a good team," Giambi said. "By no means was anybody feeling sorry for us when Jeter went down and Bernie [Williams] went down and Nick Johnson." 


"That's what's gratifying. We still all came together as a ball­club and ended up winning the division with all those guys going down." 
The loss was doubly disap­pointing for the White Sox, who were eliminated from postseason play. Minnesota beat Cleveland 4-1 earlier Tuesday and lead the White Sox by six games with live to play. 
The White Sox had a two-game lead in the AL Central just two weeks ago. Since then, they've lost nine of 13. 
"I always held out hope," White Sox manager Jerry Manuel said. "Hegardless of what the numbers were I always held out hope we could get it done. Baseball is a funny game, but we just didn't get it done." 
White Sox fans already were disgruntled with their team's late collapse, and Tuesday night's rout didn't help their mood. By the eighth inning, they were more interested in doing "The Wave" than watching the team lose another game. 
When Mariano Rivera got the last out, the Yankees ran out of their dugout, exchanging hugs and high-lives. When they got in the clubhouse, they popped open bottles of champagne, alternat­ing dousing each other with swigs of the bubbly. Their new T­shirts, which read "Six in a Row Eastern Division Champions," were quickly soaked, but nobody minded. 
And when the champagne ran out, the Yankees grabbed beer and shaving cream. 
"This is just step one," manag­er Joe Torre said. 
Minnesota 4, Cleveland 1 
The Minnesota Twins clinched their second straight AL Central title by defeating the Cleveland Indians 4-1 Tuesday night, win­ning their 10th consecutive game as Kenny Rogers came within one out of a shutout. 
Shannon Stewart drove in two runs and Cristian Guzman went 2-for-2 with a homer and two runs. 
After the game, Minnesota had to wait 30 minutes to celebrate. The Twins' title wasn't ensured until New York defeated Chicago 7-0 and Detroit routed Kansas City 15-6, dropping the White Sox and Royals six games back with five to play. 
Hogers (13-8), probably the odd man out of the postseason rotation, rolled through a lineup stocked with eight rookies. His last shutout was a five-hitter against Seattle on April 19 last year. 
He gave up one-out singles to Jody Gerut and Alex Escobar in the ninth before Josh Bard hit a two-out single to make it 4-1. Eddie Guardado got the final out for his 40th save in 43 tries. 
Rogers gave up eight hits and struck out two. 
Guzman sparked a two-run third with a leadoff single against Jake Westbrook (7 -1 0). Stewart and Luis Hivas followed with back-to-hack HBI doubles. 
Westbrook gave up four runs -three earned -and six hits in seven innings. He walked three. 
Hogers had runners on first and third with one out in the sec­ond inning, but he picked Josh Bard off first and got Greg LaRocca to ground out. 
Boston 6, Baltimore 5 
Todd Walker tied the game with a three-run homer with two op._!.s_ in tl_l~ _nJ~ t_h_ !_n_n_i~g _a_n_d 

David Ortiz won it with a solo 
shot in the 1Oth as the Boston 
Red Sox beat the Baltimore 
Orioles 6-5 Tuesday night. 
Despite the heroics, the Hed Sox were eliminated from the AL East race when the New York Yankees beat the Chicago White ·Sox 7-0. Boston still leads the wild-card race, bringing a 2 1/2 ­game lead over Seattle into the night; the Mariners played a late 
game at Anaheim. 
Byung-Hyun Kim (8-5) earned 
the win with a scoreless ninth. 
Ortiz sent the fourth pitch from 
Kurt Ainsworth (0-1) in to the 
new seats above the Green 
Monster as the crowd erupted. 
Luis Matos hit a three-run 
homer in the second, and 
Baltimore scored two more in 
the ninth to extend its lead to 5­
2. 
But with Jorge Julio on and 
one out in the ninth, pinch-hitter 
Jason Varitek singled and took 
second on a passed ball. Johnny 
Damon bounced out to second 
base, then Nomar Garciaparra 
walked and took second. 
Walker hit Julio's 3-2 pitch into 
the Baltimore bullpen to tie it. 
On Aug. 10, Julio's previous 
appearance in Boston, he walked 
the bases loaded before striking 
out Garciaparra on a pitch in the 
dirt to preserve Baltimore's vic­
tory. On Tuesday, he got Bill 
Mueller, the leading hitter in the 
league, to line out in the eighth 
to protect Baltimore's 3-2 lead. 
The Orioles made it 5-2 when 
Brian Hoberts doubled and 
scored on Jay Gibbons' single. 
Larry Bigbie, who had been 
intentionally walked, scored to 
make it 5-2 when right fielder 
Gabe Kapler couldn't field the 
ball cleanly. 
Toronto 8, Tampa Bay S 
The Toronto Blue Jays and 
Tampa Bay Devil Hays tried to be 
diplomatic after several run-ins 
on and off the field. 
Not anymore. 
Toronto's starting pitcher was 
ejected for the second straight 
night Tuesday, and Carlos 
Delgado hit his 299th career 
homer as the Blue Jays beat the 
Devil Rays 8-5. 
Josh Towers was ejected for 
throwing behind Aubrey llufl" in 
the fifth inning. Hoy Halladay 
was tossed for hitting Rocco 
Baldelli with a pitch Monday. 
Both teams said there were no ill 
feelings between the teams on 
Monday, but that's no longer the 
case. 
Victor Zambrano hit Delgado 
with a pitch in the second and 
Chris Woodward with a pitch in 
the fourth. 
Benches cleared in the ninth 
after Aquilino Lopez threw 
behind Crawford. Crawford had 
to be held back and a shoving 
match ensued. 
Delgado gave Toronto a 5-4 
lead in fifth with his 37th home 
run, a solo shot off Zambrano 
(11-10). 
Reed Johnson extended his hit­
ting streak to 20 games with a 
double in the third, and his two­
run shot ofT Brandon Backe in 
the fifth gave Toronto a 7-5 lead. 
lie finished 3-for-4 with a career­
high four HBis. ­
Jason Kershner (3-3) pitched 3 
1-3 innings for the win. 
I luff went 4-for-4 for the Devil 
Rays. 
Zambrano allowed five runs ­
four earned -on five hits in live 
innings. 
Damian Holls' HBI single cut 
Toronto's lead to 7-5 in the 
eighth. 
~~~~~--~~~~~----------­
,-----­

Wednesday, September 24, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Tigers look to end yet another disappointing season 
With three more losses, Detroit will become baseball's worst team ever 
Associated Press So, yes, perhaps there is hope. caliber players, and a handful of "We lost a lot of games, but we veterans not worth the millions can't say it was a complete fail­they're making, the Tigers were
DETHOIT -The embarrass­
ure," said Tigers rookie pitcher not expected to be competitive

ment on the tield is just about 
Jeremy Bonderman, who has 19 this season after losing 106

over for the Detroit Tigers, a sea­
losses. "A lot of young guys, games in 2002.

son of futility coming to a merci­
including myself, have gotten a "The Tigers are a bunch of

ful end. Then, of course, they'll 
lot of experience." young guys who could've used

have to deal with the jokes for 
Most of it not good, though. another year or two in the

years to come. 
Detroit beat the Royals 15-6 in minors," said Don Zimmer, an

As this once-proud franchise 
Kansas City on Thesday night to original Met. 

closes in on the modern record of 
snap a 10-game losing streak. While national TV and talk

120 losses. it can lind solace in 
The Tigers set the American radio shows devote time and

one other pince of history: 
League record for losses with space to trashing the Tigers, they 

Tlw team they seem destined 
their 118th on Monday and still are all but ignored closer to

to pass. the 1962 New York Mots, 
need to win four of their remain­home.

won tlw World Series just seven 
ing live games to avoid tying the It's a good thing the Tigers said 

y1mrs after setting the standard 
historic mark. they didn't hire Trammell and

for bad biL'>nhall. 
Alan Trammell, a former star coaches Kirk Gibson and Lance 



shortstop with the Tigers in his Parrish -stars of the 1984 first year as manager, planned to World Series team -to create miss the games Tuesday and fan interest. The Tigers have been around made mental errors. Even talnnt­Wednesday to attend the funeral Attendance has declined since 1901, produced numerous ed players, such as first baseman 
of his mother, who died Saturday. sharply each year since the team llall of Famers and won four Carlos Pcna. have provided low­
The Tigers have played so moved into Comerica Park in World Series in nine appear­lights. poorly they are 20-plus games 2000. The average paid atten­ances. In a recent game, Pena com­behind the San Diego Padres, the dance at the 40,120-seat ball­"We knew in spring training mitted two errors in one inning, next worst team in baseball. park was 17,226 this season, that we weren't going to be a the second when he failed to Besides the Mel'>, the only other down about 1,500 from last year. contender, but we didn't expect catch a perfectly thrown ball. team to lose as many games dis­Not only has Detroit failed to this," said Hall of Farner AI "There's no explanation," Pena banded the following season. The have a winning record since Kaline, a special assistant to the said. "Believe me, I asked myself. 1899 Cleveland Spiders finished 1993, it also is baseball's team president. '!low could that happen?' that 20-134. losingest team over the past When they haven't been limit­day. When things are going bad, 
With a slew of minor league decade. ed physically, the Tigers have they just go bad." 




School has started and you have books to read, papers to write and projects to complete. All of these things are done with the ultimate goal of obtaining 
enough credit to graduate, get a job and hopefully contribute to society. Along with the academic college experience is the "social" college experience ... 
road trips to take, social activities to participate in, Spring Break to plan. All of these items can earn you credit too ... on a piece of plastic. This "extra" 
credit can add up over time and turn one's college experience into a life-long, never~ending financial lesson. Do not learn this lesson the hard way! 
The nation's undergraduate students are carrying and using credit cards in record numbers. Over half (54%) of first year students carry a credit card. with that number vaulting to 92% in their sophomore year. (Nellie Mae, Aprii'02) The median credit card balance-where half the population have balances lower than this amount and half have balances higher-has risen to $1,770, up from $1,236 in 2000. (Nellie Mae, April '02) There has also been a 61% jump in undergraduate students who carry credit card balances between $3,000 and $7,000. (Nellie Mae, April '02) How do you avoid all of this "extra credit"? By educating yourself about the use of credit and how it can help you or harm you in your not-so-distant future. 
What is a credit card? A credit card do~s not give you more money nor does it provide you with "free" money. It simply changes the way you pay for 
things whether it be an airline ticket or a night out with friends. (studentcredit.com) 
How do credit card companies make money? First, the cardholder pays interest on the amount of money not paid off (balance) each month. For example, if you ring up a $3,000 tab for food, cds and spring break, it will take three years to pay off the balance if you pay the monthly minimum of $100 @ 10% interest, and that is assuming you do not charge another penny on your card (what are the chances of that?)! Income is also generated through assessing annual fees, late fees and fees for exceeding one's credit limit. (studentcredit.com) 
Why do I need a good credit history? Credit history is the record of the way an individual manages their debts. A credit history report may include late or missed payments, current account balances and bankruptcy filings. This information can be used to quality or disqualify an individual from obtaining credit cards, car loans, mortgages, apartment leases and possibly employment. (studentcredit.com) 
How do I build solid, responsible credit? Keep your account active by purchasing small items and the paying off the entire balance on time each 
month! Make sure the correct name and address are on the bilL Stay organized... keep your bills separate from your econ notes. (studentcredit.com) 
Pitfalls to avoid: Overspending! Make sure you can afford to pay your bills. Those late night pizza runs can add up! Overborrowing. Keep your balance manageable. Being unorganized. Forgotten bills, roommate thought the bill was junk mail, etc... (studentcredit.com} 
D 

College is one of the best times of your life. It is a time of new friends, new experiences and new freedoms. Along with that freedom is a new level of responsibility for your studies, your health and your finances. Do not let your personal finances add to the stresses of college life. A 
Get some "hands~on" personal finance training by attending the "Hey! That's My Money" workshops presented by Troy 
Adams, PhD and ubwell2, the student wellness coalition. Dr. Adams is a professor at ASU and has worked with students in 
Health Promotion and Wellness tor over 15 years. Dr. Adams' research has found that "money stress" has an enormous 
impact on students' lives. He is known for his energetic, interactive and passionate style when presenting the "money 
stress" to ic. Please take an. hour to lear abo t t ic that affects the rest of our life. S.ll'f.. Z6 • ~:OO·J:OO, I:S0·4:10, 7:00•31001'14 CIOWUIIJIIA C'MMOIII, COM SIPf. ~· • fOtA·fi:,O, 1100..6100 aM.. ~~~, C'OCIA QCitltiOHI, l'UAS& CAU tltl11116 A'¥ 1·1-4$ 


page 20 

The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 24, 2003 
I I I I 
I 
I ­
! 
I 
I ­
WANT TOP...........
~~ 
.RUGBY? 


JOIN 

THE SOUTH BEND OLD BOYS THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25 6:30PM IN THE ALUMNI HALL LOUNGE ALL ARE WELCOME 


IF YOU HAVE ANY QUE'STIONS CONTACT MICHAEL DUDA AT MDUD,A@ND~EDU 

NOTE: THE SOUTH BEND OLD BOYS ARE fN NO 'NAYAFF'ILJ.ATED WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME HOWEVER ALL CURRENT MEMBERS ARE NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 

Wednesday, September 24, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
NFL 



Parcells getting ready to face his former team 
Associated Press said Tuesday, "but it's still long mind after talking to Cowboys 
enough." owner Jerry Jones last 

IIWING, Texas -When Bill Parcells took over the Jets in December. Parenlls rnturned to the 1997 after taking division rival Parcells insists his knowledge Mnadowlands two weeks ago to New England to the Super of the Jets won't help much. He face the New York Giants, it Bowl. llis stature grew as he noted that Patriots coach Bill was a nostalgic night. took a team coming off a 1-15 Belichick and defensive coordi­Lawn~nce Taylor was there to season and went 9-7 his first nator Romeo Crennel, his for­
greet him. as wen~ more than a year. then made the AFC title mer assistants in New York, doznn other former players, all game the second. are far more familiar with the long n~tired. llis 1999 team started 0-4 Jets -and New England
Wlwn Parcells and the Dallas and 1-6, but finished 8-8. squeaked by New York 23-16 Cowboys go back again Parcells moved into the front Sunday.Sunday, this time to face the office the next year, then left After watching game films of 
New York Jets, thn reunion will the club. lie was so sure that the Jets, Parcells said he does­bn all business. his coaching days were done n't see much to remind him of 
This time. the 11 Jets that he titled a book about the club he left behind. rmnaining from when Parcells 1999, "The Final Season: My "Look, I've been gone from was their coach will all be suit­Last Year as Head Coach in the there," he said. "This is my
ed up -and I 0 will start. So NFL." fourth year out. Whatever whiln there will be plenty of "I thought it right up until they're doing, they're doing. I 
lwllos and handshakes before very, very late in the fall -know some of the numbers on kickoff. the warm fuzzies will very late. I already had my the players. That's what I end there. ticket to go to the Super Bowl know. There's nothing I had to 
"I haven't been gone from and do my broadcasting," said do with what they're doingthe Jets that long," Parcells Parcells, who changed his now." 

Meet author  
Virginia Tranel  
Thursday  TEN U P 0 N  .•CIRCtES THE P O.N D  
September 25  .··  ·  
•••,,,,., < ·.·=-.·. .•.  
7:00pm-8:00pm  
Mother of lOr  
including five N D  
and Saint Mary's graduates  
in the Eclc Center  

HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME BOOKS'I ORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndbool(store.com 



Icon Sports Cowboys coach Bill Parcells coaches his team during their overtime win over the New York Giants two weeks ago. 
NFL 
Broncos proud of big win against Raiders 
Associated Press and Ashley Lelie in the first 
quarter, then put the Broncos 
DENVER Beating up 21-0 with a 6-yard touch-
Cincinnati and San Diego was a down run on a bootleg. 
nice way for Denver to start the He wasn't done. Plummer also 
season. The wins gave the took ofT on a 40-yard run in the 
Broncos a little more confidence second quarter to set up anoth­
and new quarterback Jake er score. It was the longest run 
Plummer time to get comfort-ever by a Broncos quarterback 
able. -and six more than any by 
But it is not like the Broncos John Elway, the player Broncos 
took out the town bully with one fans hope Plummer can emu­
punch. It was the Bengals and late. 
Chargers, after all. "It was a lot of fun to be that 
Embarrassing the Raiders on efficient in the first half and 
national television? Now that's score 31 points," said Plummer, 
saying something. who was 14-for-21 for 197 
''I'm tired of all these people yards. "It was a great feeling." talking about other teams and No one felt better than how great they are," Broncos Denver's defense. tight end Shannon Sharpe said Nearly a year after being after Denver's 31-10 win picked apart by Rich Gannon, Monday night. "They talk about the Broncos made the Raiders' these teams that quarterback look are supposedly set like an unsure for the Super "We played like a rookie instead of Bowl. But you great team and a confident know what? We showed what we're league MVP. played like a great all about.,, Defensive end team and we Bert Berry sacked showed what we Gannon on the are all about." Shannon Sharpe game's first play, 
Denver joined Broncos tight end one of five by the Kansas City and Broncos, and the Indianapolis as the line disrupted his only teams in the AFC at 3-0. rhythm all night. The Raiders, Oakland, last year's AFC cham-the highest scoring team in the pion. fell to 1-2. league last season. had just 7 
OK, so the Raiders have been yards in the first quarter and a shell of the team that lost to finished with 195 for the game. Tampa Bay in the Super Bowl "We kept going after him, hit­last year. Oakland's offense ting him and pressuring him ­looks like it is stuck in the mud, all these things and he couldn't the defense can't stop anybody get his rhythm down," Pryce and the penalties are piling up. said. "You could see it in his 
But don't tell the Broncos face." about Oakland's troubles. The Broncos played so well They're not listening. Not only that coach Mike Shanahan did­is Oakland the team Denver n't even have to lie about loves to beat, the Raiders injuries. embarrassed Denver twice last A week ago, Shanahan came season. under league scrutiny after say­
'Tm about as satisfied as I've ing Plummer's injury was a con­been in a long time," Broncos cussion instead of a shoulder defensive end Trevor Pryce injury in his halftime injury said. report against San Diego. 
It's hard not to be. Shanahan avoided a repri-
Plummer shook ofT last week's mand. but NFL commissioner shoulder injury and showed Paul Tagliabue has told teams why the Broncos picked him up that further "fibbing," as in the offseason. He threw Shanahan called it, would leadloucnaown -passes-ro~ Sharpe··-io disciplinary actior{ · -~ ·, -· ­


OUND THE NATION 
Page 22 CoMPIUD FROlv1 THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, September 24, 2003 


around the dial 
MLB 
Yankees at White Sox 2 p.m., WGN Giants at Astros 2 p.m., ESPN Phillies at Marlins 7 p.m., ESPN Cubs at Reds 7 p.m., ESPN2 Dodgers at Padres 10 p.m., ESPN 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 


Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio ­Suspended Ohio State tailback Maurice Clarett sued the NFL on Tuesday, asking a judge to throw out a league rule that prevents him from enter­ing the 2004 draft. 
The lawsuit contends the NFL rule prohibiting players from being draft­ed until they have been out of high school for three years violates antitrust law and harms competition. 
Clarett, who rushed for 1,237 yards and led Ohio State to a national cham­pionship as a freshman last season, wants U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin to declare him eligible for the 2004 draft -or require the NFL to hold a special supplemen­tal draft sooner. 

Under current rules, he is not eligible for the draft until 2005. 
"Had Clarett been eligi­ble for the 2003 Draft, it is almost certain he would have been selected in the beginning of the First Round and would have agreed to a contract and signing bonus worth millions of dollars," according to the lawsuit filed in federal court in New York. 
The NFL says it will fight any challenge to the rule it adopted in 1990 because coaches and executives believe younger players aren't physically ready for the league. 
"We do not believe that this lawsuit serves the best interests of Maurice Clarett or college football players generally, but we look forward to explain­ing to the court both the very sound reasons underlying our eligibility rule and the legal impedi­ments to the claim that was filed," NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said. 
Football is the only sport with a draft that doesn't allow teams to select players when their high school eligibility is finished. 
Clarett was suspended from the team for at least a year after an investiga­tion determined he broke NCAA bylaws concerning benefits for athletes and lied to investigators. 
His attorney, Alan Milstein, filed the lawsuit against the NFL a day after he and Clarett's mother met with league executives in Washington to discuss whether Clarett would be eligible for the April 24 draft. 
IN BRIEF 

Lobo retires from WNBA chased by the Mohegan Indian ous at-bat. 
UNCASVILLE, Conn. -Rebecca Tribe. Halladay, a leading contender for Lobo retired Tuesday after a career Lobo averaged 2.4 points, 2.1 the AL Cy Young Award, was ejected in which she led Connecticut to its rebounds and 11.9 minutes for the in the sixth inning Monday night first NCAA basketball championship Sun, who lost to eventual champion after hitting Devil Rays rookie Rocco and helped launch the WNBA. Detroit in the Eastern Conference Baldelli with a pitch. 
The 29-year-old Lobo, who spent finals. She averaged 6.7 points and Towers was ejected for throwing last season with the Connecticut 4.1 rebounds in 121 WNBA games. behind Huff in the fifth inning Sun, was plagued by knee injuries "There is no better spokeswoman Tuesday. during her seven years in the for the game of women's basket­"It stems from last year," Palermo, WNBA. ball," Sun coach Mike Thibault said. a supervisor of major league 
"This was a decision I made long "She represents the game with class, umpires, said Tuesday. "Aubrey Huff before the end of the season," Lobo insight and articulation." got hit in the head last year. What if said. "While I still love playing the he was laid up in a hospital with a game, in my heart, I know it's time Warf!.ing caused Halladay's concussion?" to move on to a new phase of my eJection After allowing a home run to Julio life. I've come full circle." TORONTO -Steve Palermo of the Lugo and a single to Huff, Halladay 
Lobo, 6-foot-4, led Connecticut to commissioner's office warned hit Baldelli with his first pitch. Plate its first national championship in umpires working Tampa Bay­umpire Phil Cuzzi ejected Halladay, 1995, when the team went 35-0. Toronto games to watch for bean­who put up his arms in disbelief. 
She was one of the WNBA's origi­balls, leading to the ejections of Blue Palermo thought Halladay threw nal players in 1997, initially Jays starters Roy Halladay and Josh at Baldelli on purpose, even though assigned to the New York Liberty. Towers on consecutive nights. Baldelli said he didn't think Halladay 
Lobo was traded to Houston before On June 6 last season, Tampa did it intentionally. the 2002 season and returned to Bay's Aubrey Huff was hit on the "I think I can convict Roy Halladay.Connecticut when the former helmet by Toronto's Luke Prokopec There is outstanding evidence," said 
Orlando Miracle franchise was pur-after hitting a home run in his previ-Palermo, a former AL umpire. 
Wednesday, S~prember 24, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 

The University ot Notre Dame welcomes First Asian American Catholic Bishop 
Tbe Mo.st Revereno Bi.sborJ Ignatiu.s Wang 
Auxiliary Bishop of the Archdiocese of San Francisco Monday, September 29, 2003 
4:00p.m.  R.c{(cdiott 011 Hi~ PcrMma( J01HliC,1J '"'~ A.\il.lt1 Alllcricmt aJt&oficisur -The Most Reverend Bishop Ignatius Wang Jourdan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business  
5:15p.m.  M~oiS~ -Basilica of the Sacred Heart  


Theo Most Reverend lgnatlue Wang. Born In Beijing. China in 19~. Bishop Wang, a 12 generation Catholic, waw ordained a priest In Hong Kong m 1959 On January 
30. 2003, BIShop wang became the first Asian 
American Bishop. 
(-MCampus Ministry & 
... · 

Inter hall 
continued from page 28 
was good. 
The Chaos came right back on their next drive, using a hal· anced attack before finally scor· ing on a 14­yard quarter­
Schmidt found Maureen Heynolds for a 5-yard touch· down pass. 
The extra-point conversion failed. 
Welsh Family 21, Farley 6 
While the rain cleared for the 
-,
Tuesday night game between Farley and Welsh Family, 
back bootleg "/ think Pangborn scoring raindrops 
run by Lisa were replaced
first really built up the 
Ruffer. by passing Cavanaugh intensity and kept us on bombs as both elected to go teams looked
our toes." 
for two and to connect failed, mak· deep. In the 
Megan Land 
ing the score end, the Welsh 7-6 in favor Cavanaugh captain Whirlwinds 
of Pangborn. 
"I think Pangborn scoring first really built up the intensity and kept us on our toes," Cavanaugh cap­tain Megan Land said. 
Neither team scored for the rest of the first half. Cavanaugh opened the second half with a three-play drive for a touch· down. A key run in that drive was a halfback option pitch that netted 54 yards. Ruffer complet­ed a short pass to give the Chaos the lead again. 
The Chaos went for a 2-point conversion and were successful, . ' making the score 14-7. The 
'J .,
:. !• ! 

•' _;·.: :·· Chaos stopped the Phoxes on a . ' .. ... . .. ~· four-and-out to get the ball back 
..·•·.~ ' . i ~ ; .• ~ • . 

,; ll'.' and went right down the field to score again. 
Ruffer found Jenny Nokes open in the endzone for an eight yard touchdown pass. The extra point conversion was successful. 
Down 21-7. Pangborn mount· ed an impressive comeback drive to cut the lead to one touchdown. Dunn found wide receiver Katie Mooney for an 6-yard touch­
down pass. "We were able to keep up quarterback and the extra Katie Popick.
our spirits and stay
point conver­However, on
focused even after getting 
sion was good. four consecu­
Pangborn behind early" tive passing could never plays the get the ball Whirlwinds
Ben O'Conner 
back. though, defensive 
Farley coach 
backs man·as the Chaos 

quarterback Leslie Schmidt,
The Cusml'a Center for the Study ofAmerican Catholicism 

were able to get the tying touch­down with less than two min­utes in the game. 
prevailed 21-6 
thanks in 

large part to the success of their 
air attack. 
Welsh wasted no time getting 
its passing offense in gear by 
getting a quick 10-yard touch­
down pass to finish a strong 
opening drive. On Farley's first 
two drives down the licld, the 
Finest lived and died by the pass 
with long catches by receivers 
but also two costly intercep­
tions. 
Welsh continued its whirlwind 
attack on the next drive, this 
time with a long 35-yard pass 
from quarterback Melissa Sands 
to wide receiver Lauren 
Perease. For Perease. the catch 
was her second touchdown of 
the game. 
"Melissa threw me perfect ·passes and I just wanted to 
make sure I could catch them 
and get into the end zone," 
Perease said. 
She had nearly 7 5 receiving 
yards on the night. 
Farley threatened at the end 
of the first half 
after a nice 
drive lead by 
aged to keep 

the ball out of the end zone. 
Welsh opened up the second half with another scoring drive that included two passes for 25 yards. Even down 21-0. Farley remained very resilient and stayed optimistic. They mounted another drive in the half and their passing game looked sharp. Once they neared the red zone, Welsh's defense tightened up again to prevent a touch· down. 
The game was interrupted temporarily as the lights shut off and took 20 minutes to turn back on. When the game resumed Farley went to the ground and marched down the field to score their first touch­down of the game. For the Finest, the rushing attack proved to be the easiest way to get into the end zone this game. 
In the end, there simply was­n't enough time left for Farley to come hack but coach Ben O'Connor was impressed with their effort. 
"We were able to keep up our spirits and stay focused even after getting behind early," he said. 
The final passing statistics on 
the day for Welsh Family were 
impressive with Sands complet­
ing 12-of-17 passes with three 
touchdowns. Farley went 9-for· 
21 on the day with two intercep­
tions and one touchdown. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu and Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 
executed an eight play drive that ended in a touchdown at the very end of the game. Ruffer pitched to Land for a 9­yard touchdown run at the 
buzzer. 
The Chaos didn't get a chance to go for a conversion, because there was no time left on the clock. 
Breen-Phllllps 6, Pasquerllla 
West 6 
The Babes and Purple Weasels played to a tie in inter­hall action Tuesday, in a game that could be best described as sloppy. 
The teams combined to throw 

four interceptions and there 
were numerous penalties that 
stalled drives. Neither team was 
able to convert on their point· 
after conversion, either. 
It was a strange game for 

Breen-Phillips, which had been 
the most prolific team in worn­
ens interhall, scoring 59 points 
in their first two games. 
It started out like usual, as the 

Babes scored rather quickly into 
the first half on a 35-yard quar­
terback keeper by Traci 
Kaznerski to score a touch­
down. 
The potent Breen-Phillips 

offense then stalled, as their 
next three offensive series 
ended in an interception, a 
turnover on downs and a punt. 
The Purple Weasels, despite 

three interceptions thrown by 
Wednesday, September 24, 2003 
fOOTBALL 
Samardzija hopes to be t-wo-sport star 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Freshman receiver Jeff Samardzija has impressed the football coaching staff with his performance in practice so much that he has earned a regular spot in the rotation on game days. 
In the spring, Samardzija hopes he can do the same for the baseball team. 
A football, baseball and bas­ketball standout athlete at Valparaiso High School in Indiana, Samardzija figured he would have to give up baseball when he went to college. But when baseball coach Paul Mainieri learned Samardzija, a pitcher and an outfielder who batted .481 with eight homers and 50 RBis in high school, still wanted to play baseball, he approached football coach Tyrone Willingham about the prospect of Samardzija playing baseball. Willingham, to Samardzija's delight, said yes. 
"I was almost expecting him to say yes because he'd help your team out," Samardzija said. "That's the kind of player he is. Words can't say enough about the kind of person he is and how he runs his system." 
For now, though, Samardzija is focused on football. He entered fall camp unsure of how much he would be able to contribute, but a week before Notre Dame's season opener against Washington State, "everything just clicked," Samardzija said. In each of Notre Dame's three games, Samardzija has caught one pass. 
"He has not.been intimidated by any means," Willingham said. "He's jumped right in, he's made catches and he's been an active blocker and has understood a variety of positions that he's been placed in on our different forma­tions." 
Firing the shotgun 
Playing in place of injured cen­ter Bob Morton, Zach Giles 
couldn't snap a ball out of the shotgun to save his life. And Tuesday, he ripped him­self for it. 
"I don't know when it became an issue for me; it never hap­pened all through camp and I caught the bug last week, I guess. It was the most frustrat­ing thing watching that tape, I worked so hard on it last week. 
"It's ridiculous. The quarter­back needs the ball, and I have to get it to him." 
Giles said he took 250 extra practice shotgun snaps last week trying to hammer out early-sea­son problems, and he said he'd be willing to take 500 extra snaps to get it right this week. 
The most frustrating part, he said, is that he has no idea if a snap is good or not until he talks to the quarterback on the side­line after the play. 
"I feel like I'm putting it back on the money every time," he said. "To hear it's not, it's a real chop in the throat, it's real tough to swallow." 
Old players no excuse 
Willingham dismissed any notion that Notre Dame's 1-2 start is the result of playing with players that aren't players he recruited. 
"Those players that were listed in the previous program fit under one category for me ­they are Notre Dame football players," he said. "So in my esti­mation, they are all a part of the same system." 
The Irish coach also pointed out that the lack of execution of the new offense the coaches are trying to install is not related to the players left from the Bob Davie era. 
"Right now, no one has adjust­ed," Willingham said, later adding, "but I don't think it's necessarily because another regime recruited those individu­als. We are not executing and we are not doing the things that good offenses have to do." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Seminole quarterback Rix ticketed again 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. Florida State quarterback Chris Rix was ticketed again Tuesday for a parking violation, this time for leaving his vehicle in a spot reserved for patients at the school's regional rehabilitation center, university police said. 
Rix was ticketed last week for parking in a handicapped-only spot and was fined $100. Tues·day's offense, which will cost Rix $20, was reported by a student who took several pho­tos of Rix's vehicle, university officials said. 
"We have no explanation," vice president for university 
relations Lee Hinkle said. "Ask Chris Rix." 
Rix refused to comment about the latest incident after Tuesday's practice. University police said the player's vehicle was ticketed at 11:10 a.m., school officials confirmed. 
Team officials imposed a pun­ishment of extra running drills against Rix this week, in response to the handicapped­spot ticket he received after students called authorities when the player failed to heed their advice to remove the vehi­cle. More team-imposed penal­ties against Rix are possible, coach Bobby Bowden said Tuesday. 


ADAM MIGLOAE!The Observer 

Wide receiver Jeff Samardzija, right, blocks for wide receiver Rhema McKnight in Notre Dame's game Saturday against Michigan State. Samardzija also hopes to play baseball for the Irish. 
Jlt Men·s Soccer 
THURS 9/25 7PM VS BRADLEY 

NASCAR Night 
**FREE mini cars for the first 250 fans!** 
Sponsored by Fazoli's 
Ryan Newman/NASCAR autographed items 
**Chance to win 2 NASCAR tickets to: 
•Atlanta 
Motor Speedway on October 26th for the Bass Pro Shops MBNA 500 

•North 
Carolina Speedway on November 9th 


for the Pop Secret Microwave Popcorn 400 **FREE books for a semester for one lucky student!** 
Sponsored by the ND Bookstore 
• FREE admission for ND students to all games@ Alumni Field •!~ 
Argentina, Australia, Chile, Cost~ Rica, Cuba, England, Ireland, Northern Ireland, New Zealand, & Scotland 
Scholarships Available 
IIIIDnnallanTabla 
ThlrBIIIJ,1811181111•25.2803 11:00a.a-1:0011.11. Great1111 II nhaagblllll 
MeetRepresenlative 
·Chris Bragdon 
800-858·0229 
www.nsa-butler.org 

~.-----.---------------------------------------~--------------------------------~--~--~~-------~~--~----~----------­
Wednesday, September 24, 2003 page 25 
The Observer + SPORTS 



The Nanovic Institute for European Studies 
211 Brownson Hall 
University of Notre Dame 
Notre Dame, IN 46556·5601 USA 
phone: 574,631.5253 
fax: 574.631.3569 
Professor Gary Hamburg 
Department of History 
will lecture on 
"In Lubianka' s Shadow: A Catholic Priest in Stalin's Moscow during the Great Terror, 1934-1938" 
Wednesday, September 24, 2003 4:15-6:00pm 119 0'Shaughnessy Hall 
Sponsored by The Nanovic Institute for European Studies and The Erasmus Institute 
Refreshments 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Purdue looking forward to Irish 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYATTE-Purdue coach Joe Tiller loves compet­ing against Notre Dame. lie expects his players to feel the same. 
"I told the team on Sunday, 'Fellas this is why you play Division I football. This is why you came to Purdue to play, to play in this game," he said Tuesday. "This is why I came to Purdue to coach, to coach in this game." 
If No. 22 Purdue (2-1} can beat Notre Dame (1-2) in West Lafayette on Saturday, the Boilermakers would tie Michigan State for the second­most wins against the Irish (24). But the Boilermakers, already the team Notre Dame has beaten the second-most times (49), are just 2-15 against the Irish the past 17 years, beating the Irish in 1999 and 1997. 
Tiller, who is 2-4 against Notre Dame, still likes playing the Irish. 
"I like nail-biters," he said Tuesday. 
Tiller has chewed his nails down to the quick the past four games, with the games being decided by an average of four points. The past three games have been decided by big plays by the Notre Dame defense. 
Last season, Notre Dame cornerback Vontez Duff inter­cepted a tipped pass and returned it 33 yards for a touchdown with 5:09 left to give the Irish a 24-17 victory. Earlier in the game, Notre Dame had scored 14 points in 11 seconds on Purdue turnovers. 
Two years ago, Duff returned a kickoff 96 yards for a touch­down and Jason Beckstrom returned an interception 29 
-.

yards for a touchdown in a 24­18 victory in Bob Davie's last game as Notre Dame coach. 
Three years ago, the Irish scored 17 points off Purdue miscues and Nick Setta kicked a 38-yard field goal as time expired to give Notre Dame a 23-21 victory. 
Tiller said he won't talk much to the players about how the Boilermakers lost those games. He admits, though, he thinks about what could have been or would have been if a play or two had been different. 
"It really kind of grinds on you because you see the way we've gotten beaten," he said. "You have to give Notre Dame credit. They did make the plays when the plays were there to be made." 
Despite the last three games turning on big defensive plays by the Irish, Tiller said he won't put any special empha­sis on preventing turnovers. 
"We want our team to be aggressive and we want to be an attacking team. We're not going to play this game not to lose. We're going to play to win." 
just have to go out and continue to practice and improve." 
QBs 
Because of the nature of the quarterback position,
continued from page 28 
Willingham said he would be 
Although fans cheered him cautious not to play anyone when he entered the game before they were ready. So how Saturday, Quinn's numbers can Quinn, who coaches have aren't much better. The true praised for his poise and under­freshman has completed just 10-standing of the Irish offense, sur­of-27 passes for 139 yards and a pass Holiday's 26 games of expe­touchdown rience? and one inter-"I don't ception. But he know if you helped the gain on
"IfI didn't start, I'll just
Irish score t h a t , " 
Saturday late have to sit back and know Diedrick 
in the fourth my role from there. I'm not said. "It's a quarter, lead­matter of
really a selfish person so I
ing the team who can 
on a nine-play, really want what's bestfor execute the 85-yard drive this team now. " offense and against a who can Michigan State give us the
Carlyle Holiday 
defense that best oppor­
was mostly senior quarterback tunity to 
trying to pre­vent a long 
pass. 
The Irish offense under either quarterback hasn't been particu­larly effective, either. Both Holiday and Quinn have connect­ed on touchdown passes with Rhema McKnight, and Julius Jones rushed for the only other Irish touchdown. 
Both Quinn and Holiday have said all the right things during the controversy, with Holiday saying he would support any decision made by the coaches and Quinn saying Holiday has the skills to be the starter. 
"If I didn't start, I'll just have to sit back and know my role from there," Holiday said. ''I'm not a selfish person so I really want what's best for this team now. I win." 
W hi I e Willingham said he was anxious to make a decision, it was not one he was willing to make light­ly. And after practice Tuesday, he said the competition was still up in the air. 
"If we could have that decision today, it would be better for the team, better for the quarterback, better for everyone. We don't have a problem making it as soon as possible. But it would have to be in our estimation the right time when you make that decision. 
"So if it takes till the end of the week to make that decision, then that's when we'll make it." 
..... 

Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
----------------------~---------------------, 
page 26 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish rookie receives Big East a1Nard 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame freshman defend­
er Christie Shaner has been 
named the Big East Conference 
women's soccer rookie of the 
week, after playing a lead role in 
last week's pair of strong show­
ings versus 16th-ranked 
Stanford (0-0) and No. 10 Santa 
Clara (2-1) at the SCU adidas 
Classic. 
Shaner started both games at central back alongside senior Melissa Tancredi as the Irish continued to cope with the absence of injured All-American Candace Chapman. Another defensive starter, Gudrun Gunnarsdottir, played just a handful of minutes off the bench in last week's action. Shaner and her defensive counterparts responded to the challenge in dominating fashion by holding Stanford and Santa Clara to just three combined shots on goal and three combined corner kicks in 200 minutes of play. 
Four Notre Dame players already have received Big East weekly awards this season, including player of the week Mary Boland (Sept. 1). rookie of the week Jen Buczkowski (Sept. 
8) and defensive player of the week Vanessa Pruzinsky (Sept. 15), making Notre Dame the Big East's only team to receive at 
least one award in each of the 
four weeks this season. Notre 
Dame also has produced the 
most Big East weekly award 
winners thus far in 2003, is the 
only team to feature both an 
offensive and defensive player­
of-the-week selection and is the 
only squad with multiple rookie­
of-the-week recipients. 
Shaner was rated by Soccer America as the nation's No. 22 incoming recruit for the 2003 season (Buczkowski was No. 6 on that list) after a stellar prep career at Germantown Academy. She also has been active in vari­ous U.S. National Team pro­grams and nearly guided her FC Bucks Challenge club team to the 2003 USYA national-title game. 
Notre Dame (7 -0-1) remains No. 2 in the NSCAA Coaches poll and the Soccer Times and Soccer Buzz polls while Soccer America now lists the Irish third behind North Carolina and Florida. 
Notre Dame is one of 10 unde­feated teams remaining in all of Division I soccer, with that group including five teams that have no loss·es and no ties (North Carolina, Florida, Boston College, Cal Poly and Oklahoma State), three that join the Irish with one tie (Navy, Ohio State and Princeton) and twice-tied Pennsylvania. 


The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 24, 2003 
"I want shnplicity. With nine ATM.s on campus, Notre Darne Federal Credit Union 
understands  mv  W'd.nts and  
"  
tny needs."  

0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAl CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 

9 ATMs on Campus with No Surcharge! (We have one near you) 
Institute for Church Life 
Now Harvesting! 
• 
For recent ND grads interested in living and sharing the Catholic faith 

• 
Participants pursue a Master's Degree in Theology 

• 
Look for us at the Post-Graduate. Service Fair (Wed., 5-Spm, Stepan Center) 


Questions? Want More Information? Please Contact: 
Dr. Jerry Baumbach (1-2894) 
or

-
Mr. 




,.....-------------------------------------------~--~~ 
Wednesday, September 24, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
SCHOOL DAZE  CLARE O'BRIEN  JUMBLE  HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION  
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,  
i'''~~~~~·~r·  .....  
rJ  1  .  
C2003 Tribune Media Servlcu, Inc. All Rlghla R..orved.  
NOMEW  
rJ  1  t J  
FIVES  BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI  WHAT JUNIOR'SISEMQUO PROMISE: TURNE:D OUT TO BE' WHE:N. rI J THE: DRIVE:WAYwww.jumble.oom WASN'T C.LE'ARE:D.tBEJOCT Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as) ( ) I I..,_..c.L_....,.......:JL...--L--_.____, suggested by the above cartoon. Answer here: A "( I I I J" rI I J  
Yesterday's I Jumbles: Answer:  (Answers tomorrow) NEWLY BANJO CASHEW INLAID The miner quit his job because he was ­ALWAYS "DOWN"  •  



ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
57 Connived 59 Compared (to) 61 More than 
worried 
62 Where a-Across was born 63 Jane who co­starred in three a-Across films 64 1933 Broadway 
musical that featured a-Across 
DOWN 1 Band-Aid rival 2 Inedible orange 3 True-blue 4 Wagering 
places, for short 5 _-Turn (sign) 6 Some hospital staff 7 Golfer Palmer, to friends 8 Blackfish or redeye 9 Make a choice 10 Brief encounter 11 Satisfied, as a meal 12 Prefix with -gon 13 Laureate figure, maybe 14 Raison d'_ 21 Staffing up early 
24 "You're
welcome, Hans!" 25 Warbled 26 Some bringers 
of baby gifts 28 a time 30 ETs' ships 31 Age-old tales 

WILLSHORTZ 
...,..+--+-~­
...,_-+-_.,"'""'"1-+-­
32 Ancient Athens's 39 Actor Epps 53 Rights grp. Temple of_ 
44 Pacific 54 Cartoonist 33 Museo holdings phenomenon Addams 34 Kind of scale 46 French river in 55 Supplementary:
W.W.I news Abbr.
35 Scottish denials 48 Gulf vessel 56 Prefix with 36 General 
49 Gulf money photo
chicken (Chinese menu 50 Regarding 58 Sushi fish item) 51 Gossipy Hopper 60 Former Vladimir 37 Destiny 52 Bygone autocrat Putin org. 
--------------------· 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-aaa-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
-

Name __________________________________________ _ Address ____________________________________ City ___________ State _____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Celebrities born on this day: Jim Henson, Linda McCartney, Phil Hartman, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Jim McKay 
Happy Birthday: Happy Birthday: If you wolk hard, you will receive the rewards -it's as simple as that. Self-improverrent will be a good place to sta11 this year. If you feel good about yourself, you will do a much better job promoting what it is you want to accomplish. You will show everyone exactly what you are made of. Lucky number.;: 3, II ,20,24,38,40 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Don't let a deal that sounds too good to be true put you in an awkward position. Take a safe route. A creative project could lead to a new relationship. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't pick a fight with sorreone you live with. Your stubborn attitude will lead to more trouble than you realize. A change of scenery will do you good.** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A friend may need to lean on you, so prepare to give him or her a little reassurance. Popularity will result if you offer suggestions and advice to people who are at a loss. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get moving before you miss out on an opponunity to make some cash. A new job or a raise is apparent if you take the initiative to go after advancement *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't neglect your responsibilities or family rrember.; will be extremely upset with you. Spend sorre tirre pampering yourself but put family fir.;t today.** VIRGO (Aug. 2..~Sept. 22): Double-check everything thar you are responsible for because someone is likely to make you look bad on pW'JlOS<: if you don't. Romance will be yours if you take time to engage in a liule one-on-one time. *** LIBRA (Sept. 2..~0ct. 22): Your involverrent in organizations will be exciting. Don't let those who oppose your ideas srop you from following through. This could be the 
stan of sorrething new but prepare to work hard. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 2.l-Nov. 21): Don't jump to conclusions or react too quickly today. Things will not be as they appear. You can assess the situation with plenty of time to correct anything that needs it. ** SAGI'ITARnJS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll be ready to take on whatever comes your way today. The infonnation you pick up will contribute to what you can do to make extra money. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-JWL 19): Proceed with caution today. Acontract that someone is offering will not be in your best interest. Hold off and you will do much better. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You probably won't be too willing to compromise today but, if you do, you will discover how much easier it is to get along with other.;, Don't blurt our something that could be offensive to colleagues. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your astute observation will lead to hands-on help and sorre very worthy introductions to people who may be able to help you with your future goals. Mix business with pleasure. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are sincere, helpful and always concerned about everyone else. You are dedicated and loyal and can easily find a solution to any problem that may crop up. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site ar www.eugenialastcom 
ACROSS 1 Jerry_, mustachioed comedian with a-Across 8 Late, great entertainer 15 Circuit well-trod 
by a-Across 16 Liqueur flavoring 17 House Speaker 
nicknamed "Mr. Sam" 18 Job lor a speech coach 19 Mideast bigwigs of old 20 Drinks daintily 
22 Madeleine Albright's bailiwick, once 
23 One of the 13 colonies: Abbr. 24 Oktoberfest serving 25 "Quiet, please!" 26 15-Across audiences 
27 Swift avian 29 Faulkner character Varner 33 Answer to "Are tool" 36 With 40-Across, a-Across's signature song 38 a-Across film of 
1940 40 See 36-Across 41 Kentucky Derby 
prize 42 Bygone U.S. gas brand 43 Elvis hit "A Fool
.
Such 44 CPR user, often 45 Early Dungeons 
& Dragons co. 47 Vincent Lopez's 
theme song 49 Morse bit 52 Speed: Prefix 55 Not fer 56 Poker? 

CROSSWORD 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE 0BSER\'ER 
PORTS
Wednesday, September 24, 2003 
Page 28 
FOOTBALL 

Up for grabs 
2003 QB Comparison Holiday Quinn 




• 
CHIP MARKSffhe Observer 

Carlyle Holiday throws a pass against Michigan State. MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graphic 
Quarterback battle heats up as Holiday and Quinn fight for starting job 
tions to focus on Purdue's dangerous Holiday, a 24-game starter who has had decision this week, and we'll let our prac­By ANDREW SOUKUP offense. difficulty executing the Irish offense in its tices and previous history make that deci­
Sports Writer 

Instead, question after question frrst three games, or Brady Quinn, a true sion." revolved around who freshman who hasn't yet thrown 30 pass­Holiday's recent struggles have been 
Notre Dame might be playing Purdue will start Saturday as See Also es. well documented, and the senior doesn't this week, but you wouldn't guess it from quarterback for Notre Offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said shy away from admitting his shortcom­listening to the media's weekly press con­Dame. And as "Samardzija the coaching staff would make a decision ings. In three games, Holiday has complet­ference with head coach Tyrone Willingham and the Friday at the latest, and Willingham said ed 36-of-73 passes for 303 yards, includ­
hopes to be two

Willingham. Irish are finding out, the Irish wanted to make a call as soon as ing one touchdown and four interceptions. Just two of the 40-odd questions asked nothing generates as sport star" possible. Both players are splitting repeti­He left the field Saturday to boos after he Tuesday dealt with the Boilermakers. But much interest as a tions equally in practice this week and are threw an interception that was returned
page24

when a team struggles to a 1-2 start and a quarterback controver­off-limits to the media until Thursday. 40 yards for a touchdown. head coach ·says a quarterback change sy. "We will go with the quarterback who could loom in the future, Willingham This week, Willingham said the Irish will give us the best opportunity to win," couldn't have expected many of the ques-will decide whether to start Carlyle Willingham said. "We need to make that see QBS/page 25 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL IBLUE LEAGUE 
Pangborn falls short against Cavanaugh 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER AND 
STEVE COYER 
Associate Sports Editor and Sports Writer 
For a while, it looked like the underdog Phoxes would pull ofl[ an upset. Then the Chaos offense got going. 
Cavanaugh defeated Pangborn 27-14 Tuesday, but the game was much closer than its finall score. Pangborn led at one poin., and was in the game until the Chaos scored two late touch­downs to put their opponent away. 
''I'd say this is definitely a moral victory," Pangborn cap­tain Katie Murray said. "The first half we were right with them, and we know they're one of the best teams in the league." 
It was the Phoxes who got on the board first, with quarter­back Christina Dunn completing a 26-yard touchdown pass to Trish Conneely. The extra point 
see INTERHALL/page 23 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles struggles continue 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associate Sports Editor 

Saint Mary's (8-6, 1-5) contin­ued to have trouble winning in conference, falling to Hope in four sets at home Tuesday by the score of 20-30, 30-28, 24­30, 26-30. 
"It seems like we didn't get started in that frrst game," said middle hitter Elise Rupright. "We really need that first game to get us going." 
Outside hitter Kristen Playko led the Belles with 21 kills and defensive specialist Alison Shevik led the team in digs with 22. 
Settter Lauren Temple and Playko each had three blocks. Temple also had 42 assists. 
"The team really played with a lot of heart," Rupright said. "We did many things right. It was close again, but we didn't quite pull it out." 
The Belles aren't hitting their stride. 
"We're coming up short a lot and we're searching for what it is we're missing," Rupright said. 
Saint Mary's has one last chance to win a conference game at home as they play Olivet Saturday at noon. 
HOPE 3, SAINT MARY'S 1 at the ANGELA ATHLETIC FACILITY 
SAINT MARY'S 20 28 30 26 
HOPE 30 30 24 30 
Saint Mary's -Kills 53 (Playko 21), Assists 48 (Temple 42), Digs 79 (Shevik 22), Blocks 7 (Playko 2.5). Hitting percent­age .145 (Bender .294), Aces 3 (Playko 2) 
Hope -Kills 70 (VanderSlice 21), Assists 63 (Troyan 63), Digs 121 (Buche 30), Blocks 11 (Schaap, Buche 3.5), Hitting percentage .301 (Troyan .500). Aces 7 (Hall, Hoogeveen 2) 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
FOOTBALl 

MLB 
-
Freshman wide
Christie Shaner 
Purdue is anxious for 

The Yankees clinch
The Detroit Tigers are 
With a victory over 
receiver Jeff Samardzija 
receives Big East Rookie 
revenge against the Irish 

their sixth straight AL 
Cincinnati, the Cubs

suffering through yet
hopes to try his luck at
of the Week after per­
on Saturday in West 
take the lead in the NL

another abysmal season. 
East title with a victory
baseball as well.
forming well for the 
Lafayatte. 

over the White Sox. 
Central. 
Irish. 

page 25 
page 19 
page 16

page 17
page 24 







