
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Cross-examination reveals inconsistencies 
Alleged victim testifies at Elam trial, but defense attorney discovers inaccuracies 
By SHEILA FLYNN 
News Writer 
SOUTH BEND -The defense attorney for former Notre Dame football player Abram Elam cross-examined his 22-year-old accuser Wednesday, pointing out several inconsistencies in her statements and testimony about the alleged sex­ual assault incident. 

Elam is charged with conspiracy to commit rape, criminal deviate conduct and sexual battery in connection with a March 28, 2002 incident at a tri-level house on Warrick 
Professor emeritus injured in U.N. attack 
Lawsuits threaten 
student filesharing 

By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Editor 
The Aug. 19 suicide bombing outside the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, which killed at least 22 and wounded hundreds, seriously injured a Notre Dame professor who was in Iraq researching the costs and reconstruction after the recent war. 

Gilburt Loescher, a professor emeritus of political science, and colleague Sergio Vieira de Mello, a U.N. special represen­tative, were working in the headquarters when the late­afternoon explosion occurred. Loescher, who retired from Notre Dame three years ago, was working for the Open Democracy Project at the time of the blast. 
The Washington Post report­ed an Army sergeant and a paramedic from the New York City Fire Department worked for approximately three hours to free Loescher and Vieira de Mello from the debris that pinned them down. About 15 minutes before Loescher was f'reed, Vieira de Mello died 
before rescuers were able to 
free him. 
Loescher was flown to a U.S. Army hospital in Landstuhl, Germany for medical attention. As a result of the blast he lost both legs above the knee. frac­tured several bones, severely injured his right hand and sus­tained several scrapes and cuts. 
Loescher's wife and daugh­ters joined him in Germany and created a Web site to post updates of his recovery. 
The Web site said Loescher's condition varies daily but has improved considerably. He remains in the intensive care unit on a respirator, and doc­tors have begun to reduce his sedatives, which had stabilized his condition and relieved pain. His larger wounds remain open and some cuts on his body were so deep staples were needed to close the lacerations. 
Doctors and family members said they were uncertain whether Loescher is aware of the severity of the bombing and if he knows that Vieira de Mello 
see BAGHDAD/page 4 

Elam 
Street. 
During defense attor­ney Mark Lenyo's ques­tioning, the alleged vic­tim -who was a 20­year-old Notre Dame stu­dent at the time of the incident -admitted she had consumed alcohol while taking two pre­scription medications, disre­garding the instructions on the bottles. She· said she drank three mixed drinks and several sips of beer, prompting Lenyo to question her written statement that she was "100 percent sober" on the night of the inci­dent. 

The woman also said she had 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
News Writer 
For years~ students down­loaded copyrighted music and other files under the anonymity of handles such as NDQTPie, Goirish04 and BellesFan12. Most knew these downloads were not legal, but few feared they would get into trouble for downloading the latest U2 song. 
But a series of court rul­ings and decisions by the Recording Industry of America threaten to change 

this culture, putting students who illegally download copy­righted files at risk of legal action. 
"We are advising all stu­dents to think very carefully about the degree to which they put themselves at legal risk by downloading or shar­ing copyrighted files," said Gordon Wishon, Notre Dame's chief information officer. 
Saint Mary's has repeated­ly warned students not to download copyrighted files. 
see SHARING/page 6 
By MEGHAN MARTIN Associate News Editor 
In what has become as tradi­
tional as football and finals for 
university students across the 
country, the cost of a Notre Dame 
education has risen once again. 
Tuition and fees increases, which were announced in the spring for the 2003-04 academic year, jumped from $32,515 to $34,680 for each on-campus stu­dent. While a $1.660 rise in tuition itself has constituted the bulk of the increase, the University's Board of Trustees approved a 2003-04 tuition pack­age that added for the first time a $50 per semester Health Center Access Fee to its undergraduate tuition. · 
Ann Kleva, director of University Health Services, said that the increase was made after Health Services, the University Counseling Center and the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education submitted a joint budget proposal to the Office of Student Affairs suggesting the need for increased funding to the three organiza­tions, which classify themselves as wellness and prevention serv­ices for the University community. 
After careful review, the pro­posal was approved by the administration and passed on to · the Board of Trustees, which gave the addition a positive nod as a component of the 2003-04 tuition and fees package. 

not intended to inform either the University or the police of the events, but her parents con­tacted the Notre Dame adminis­tration after she told her family what had happened. 
The University, she said, specifically advised her not to go 
see RAPE/page 6 


ANDY KENNA/The Observer 

A student browses his com­puter for music files. Filesharing may soon become more risky for students due to the RIAA's decision to pur­sue legal action. 
ND tuition, fees continue to rise 
Increase in Student Costs 
2003-2004 

Annual Costs for Notre Dame Undergrads 2002-2003 
2001-2002 ;.;:;::>> ·:-;.·. :·:::::::::;::;:;::::· 
Tuition:,.$t4;3-:l.O Twttbn: $25,5'1{) Tech I!ji;~: $100 T~dl Fe~f $250 Stud~rtt.Ai::ct.: $65 StJH~ttt A'Cet:::: $80 Obser~;:~it$i~/ .. Room/ Boird{$6,210 
~~b:/~l:r~l·l~t510
RoorrtPh~ei $147 Rd'dful?:h~n~'($153 
Total: $30,854 Total: $32,515 Total: $34,700 


"This is not taken lightly," Kleva said. "[fhe administration) is very sensitive to any tuition increases. But to be able to provide these programs on campus, you've got to support them." 
Notre Dame is not alone among its peers nationally when it comes to charging students for medical services within its general tuition package. A large part of the health and wellness organiza­tions' report to Student Afl'airs included benchmarking the University's programs with those of other comparable national institutions, such as Boston College, Duke, Indiana University, Clemson and Texas A & M, among others. Most of these insti­tutions, Kleva said, charge stu­dents directly for services ren­dered, on top of the annual health services fee. 
"They charge anywhere from $55 per semester at Texas A &M to over $200 per semester at Duke," she said. "We thought $50 per semester was a realistic and workable fee to help us out in the future." 
MIKE HARKINSfThe Observer 

Kleva attributed increasing operating costs in part to the ever-increasing costs of health care and the documentation of thousands of student immuniza­tion and health records that the University is required by state and federal governments to keep on file. 
"We must provide tuberculosis immunizations for international students and those from high-risk areas," she said. "We must keep and document their records ­and all students' immunization records ... We are also required to provide education to students regarding the hepatitis and meningitis vaccines. That's a full­time job in itself." 
The costs of maintaining a full­time, 24-hour a day health center have become increasingly diffi­cult to address, Kleva said, as updating academic buildings and hiring new faculty often take precedence over spending tuition dollars on such auxiliary pro­grams as health and wellness 
see TUITION/page 4 
Thursday, August 28, 2003 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S THE STRANGEST THING YOU'VE SEEN IN A DORM? 
Scandal at the Rock 
Shoulders aren't sexy. They can be freckled, bony, muscular, shrimpy or even minorly attrac­tive, but they're not sexy. I don't sit in South Dining Hall with mv girlfriends talk-· ing about the Claire hot shoulders on Heininger that guy in the stir-fry line, and Production I seriously doubt that any of the men on this campus waste their time checking out the shoulders on us. 
But apparently, according to the · rule-makers at the Rock -that's the Knute Rockne Memorial work­out building for all of you sloths out there -shoulders are an urgent issue. 
Or rather, hiding shoulders is an urgent issue. 
Let me explain. When this exhausted, sweat-soaked, endor­phin-drenched female stumbles the last few steps of her lake run up those famous stairs, she is not only greeted by the smiling statue of Rockne. 
Knute 's contented, welcoming expression bears no resemblance to the indignant look on the front desk attendant's face. "Sorry," he or she will say, frowning disap­provingly at my shoulder-expos­ing tank top. "You gotta have sleeves on to come inside." 
This has happened to me on several occasions, and countless more times to my female friends -having our ambitious post-run plans of weight-lifting, stretching, or even just getting a drink of water shot down at the sight of our scandalous shoulders. 
Never mind that male friends walk right on upstairs in their cut-off T-shirts, bound for the familiar light-headed scents of chlorine and basketball rubber and oversprayed weight-room Lysol. Never mind that a girl could be wearing a hat, gloves, full-length pants and boots, but still be turned away at the mere glimpse of a collarbone. 
If it's Notre Dame's responsibili­ty to protect our chastity, then why stop at locking down female dorms 24 hours a day? Why stop at forcing male visitors to hand over their ID cards, sign in their names and suffer under the scru­tinizing looks of security guards when they even dare to broach such a security fortress? 
They ought to know by now that the real temptation doesn't come from spending time with a mem­ber of the opposite sex after mid­night, or even from taking a sip of beer -it's the naked shoulders of the panting, dripping girl on ,the next treadmill. 
If you consider yourself a knowledgeable Notre Dame stu­dent, you already know that Knute Rockne was an amazing football coach and an honorable American. But now you know that his legacy isn't complete without a mention of his shoulder fetish. 
Contact Claire Heininger at chein­ing@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself a5 a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, ple<Ue conract us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 



Emree Chapman  Conner O'Keefe  Dave Cieslak  
Freshman Pasquerilla East Hall  Junior Alumni Hall  Senior Carroll Hall  
"Someone sleeping outside the door."  "Someone's puke."  ·'A bat. it was flying around and it had to be chased out the front door. "  

THE WRITING ON THE WALL 
Volunteers find skeletal hand In roadside cleanup 
DUNKIRK, Ind.­Volunteers picking up trash along a highway found the skeletal remains of a human hand that apparently was once a teaching tool for a biology class. 
Volunteers discovered the hand Tuesday along Indiana 167 just north of Dunkirk, about 15 miles northeast of Muncie. 
Investigators determined the hand had been recon­structed for use in a biology or anatomy class. The bones were connected by wires, said Lt. Andy Coffee, com­mander of the Indiana State Police post in Redkey. 
"It's kind of weird when 


Senior Breen­Phillips Hall 
"Lots of cockroaches. " 


a public art display in the city's downtown. 
About one pig per month was swiped from 300­pound concrete slabs throughout the display that began in May as a benefit for the Art Museum of Greater Lafayette and CASAs for Kids Inc. 
If those who have the stolen pigs return them to police or the art museum by Sept. 1, they will not face criminal charges, Tippecanoe County Prosecutor Jerry Bean said. 
"We'd like to get the pigs returned, and hopefully they're in good condition," he said Monday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
. ADAM MIGLORE!The Observer 
Alumni Hall residents use the front of their dormitory to voice their com­ments on former football players Chris and Greg Olsen's decision to transfer from the University. 
OFFBEAT 
you reach down to pick up trash, and I looked down and realized -that's not animal bones," said James . Wasson, a veterinarian who was working with members of the Dunkirk Kiwanis Club. When he spotted the 
bones in the grass, Wasson 
immediately backed away 
and called police, who later 
secured the scene and took 
a series of photographs 
before picking up the hand. 
Prosecutors offer amnesty for return of fiberglass pigs 
LAFAYETTE, Ind. -The county prosecutor is offer­ing amnesty to those who stole four life-size fiber­glass pigs that were part of 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a: 
LLI ::t: 
=: 
LLI 
==-I 
<
(.) 

0 
HIGH 89
...I LOW 70 



75 69 



76 57 


Cory McDevitt Mlchaele Carney Gary Pritts 
Senior Freshman Cavanaugh Stanford Hall Hall 
"Dirty 'The mess in Alumni Hall."
underwear." 
IN BRIEF 
Notre Dame sophomores may purchase season football tickets today at the Stadium box office, across from the Joyce Center. Tickets are available for $144. 
The Graduate Student Union will host a picnic to celebrate the return of all graduate stu­dents and their families to cam­pus. The welcome-back event will be held at the Fischer Graduate Residence from 5:30 to 7 p.m. today. All graduate stu­dents and their families are invited to attend. 
The Class of 2006 will hold a late-night grill tonight on the Fieldhouse Mall from 10 to 
11:30 p.m. 
Multicultural Student Programs and Services will sponsor a welcome back picnic Friday to celebrate the begin­ning of another academic year. The dinner will be held on the Fieldhouse Mall from 4 to 6 p.m. and will feature ethnic food and cultural dances. All students are invited to participate. 
The Show. Notre Dame's annual opening concert, will return to campus Friday with performances by Black Eyed Peas and Guster. The concert will be held at 7:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center, and tickets can be purchased at the LaFortune Box Office for $10. 
Legends of Notre Dame will hold a Club Dance night from 12 a.m. to 4 a.m. Saturday morning to celebrate its grand opening. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

75 56 

HIGH LOW 

Thursday, August 28, 2003 page 3 
The Observer + NEWS 

Department of Chemical Engineering changes name 

Discipline will now be known as Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering 
undergraduates and graduate stu­strongly with thi<i area," she said. Chris Norfolk. president of the based projects and industries such 
By JOE TROMBELLO 

dents better access to research "If they [students] do not see they Chemical Engineering Graduate as pharmaceutical companies
News Writer 

and courses focusing on biomolec­can get appropriate training here, Student organization. says that the always are looking for students ular engineering. Courses in such they will go elsewhere. It is a department's additional focus on with a fine-tuned understandingIn order to better reflect their areas as biomaterials engineering necessity to sell the assets of the biomolecular engineering will of biomedical, biochemical and 
gradual process towards integrat­and bioprocess engineering have department in the strongest terms have a global rather than an indi­biomolecular applications and 

,ing bioengineering and molecular already been offered, and possible." vidual effect on students enrolled concepts. 

biology into their curriculum, the McCready said that his depart­At the graduate level, McCready in the program. Palmer also said that students of 

Department of Chemical 

ment plants to recruit at least one said the changes to the graduate "The change in name makes the all levels in the Department of 
Engineering formally changed its additional faculty member special­core are planned in "the near department more appealing to a Chemical and Biomolecular 
name over the summer to the 

izing in bioengineering to further future," but he also said that the wider group of students, at both Engineering will see benefits. 
Department of Chemical and 

advance course and research addition of biomolecular engineer­the graduate and the undergradu-"The name change will benefit Biomolecular Engineering. 
opportunities. ing to the ate levels, current students because when According to Mark McCready, "If the opportunities were there depart­and we're they enter the job market,
"The embracement ofmolecular
department chair, the name 

to take electives. I would consider ment's excited prospective employers will under­change reflects seven years of it," said Jon Conover, a Knott Hall name will biology is occurring because it a b o u t stand that their curricula includes integration of molecular engineer­junior majoring in the depart­probably provides intellectual and attracting solid grounding in biomolecular 
ing into his department's curricu­ment. "The more opportunities not signifi­even greater theories and applications. I hope 

educational opportunities that 
lum. faculty interests and research there are for people. the better." cantly numbers of it also encourages current engi­

opportunities. In addition, new are so exciting we could not 
Agnes Ostafin, an assistant pro­improve the nation's neering students to consider tak­faculty in bioengineering were fessor in the department specializ­the repu­pass on them. ·• brightest ing a bio-based course. or to con­
·hired and additional faculty modi­ing in biomolecular engineering, tation of students duct research in a bio-based lab," fied their interests in research to said that the name change may the pro­into our he said. "Additionally, both

Mark McCready
better represent a biological per­also attract students with an inter­g r a m , labs," he undergraduate and graduate stu­

spective. chair of Department of Chemical and 
est in this area of engineering who since it is said. dents who are considering study "By the end of' last year, we felt would not otherwise have applied. already Blomolecular Engineering Andre at Notre Dame will understand we had made enough progress on "In the past, students interested highly Palmer, an that they can take advantage of our plan to alter in these regarded. assistant the department's shift toward bio­the department areas "Since we are already recog­professor in the department, said molecular engineering." 
"Biomedical and biomolecular
name to reflect 

[biologi­nized by leading chemical depart­that the name change reflects the McCready said that his depart­our changes in engineering is the hottest, cal or ments as producing students for growing importance of biomedical ment is considering some changes
research and 

fastest-growing trend in biomole­their Ph. D programs who are bet­and biomolecular engineering to the undergraduate chemical curriculum." he c u I a r ter or equal to any other universi­within the numerous concentra­engineering curriculum. but these 
engineering right now.,
said. "The 

e n g i -ty, our growth into -bioengineering tions that comprise engineering. changes are not related to biomol­embracement of nee ring] will not be likely to improve this ''I am thrilled that the depart­ecular engineering. He also said molecular biolo­Andre Palmer w e r e situation," he said. "However, our ment is at the vanguard of the that the current concentration gy is occurring Chemical and Biomolecular unaware students will be intrinsically better trend towards biomolecular engi­option in biomolecular engineer­because it pro­of the educated ... [and] should see neering," he said. "Biomedical ing will continue for students who
Engineering professor 
vides intellectual opportu-expanded employment opportuni­and biomolecular engineering is wish to take electives devoted and educational nities ties as chemical engineering pro­the hottest. fastest-growing trend solely to this topic. 

opportunities that are so exciting 

available to them. Web searches grams around the country are hir­in engineering right now ... uni­
we could not pass on them." 

did not hit our department, and ing faculty who have bioengineer­versities are trying to increase Contact Joe Trombello atThe name change will give both our name was not associated ing interests." their research capacity in bio-jtrombel@nd.edu 





Tickets are 
$10 015aeNON! 
at the LaFortune Box Office 
Need student I D to purchase (N D, (.~ SMC and HC 
4~ () 
~ 
~n


e welcome)
t I « 
~: . c

/1 (_') n Doors open at 7, 
e-(j
...:.y: 
: ~·

r show starts 7:30 
f~ 
::.0.: 
:6:~ 
·>:> 
;" 



Joyce Center Arena





Guster 

Black 
www.nd.edu 
page 4 Thursday, August 28, 2003
The Observer + NEWS 


Tuition 
continued from page 1 
services. 
"We're in an academic environ­ment," Kleva said, ''but we provide support to that academic environ­ment -but tuition is coveted to provide the best academic envi­ronment possible. We almost have to rely on our own resources ... to be able to provide 24-hour service and to improve and expand educa­tion. We do provide quite compre­hensive health services on cam­pus, and for that we require addi­tional funding. We don't want to decrease services." 
Students who visit the University's health center, which is open 24 hours a day during the academic year, are not charged for such basic services as physician visits, drop-in appointments or overnight stays in the center's upstairs inpatient care depart­ment. The center provides a free van service to transport students to and from off-campus doctor, dentist, physical therapy and coun­seling appointments during nor­mal business hours. 
Kleva estimated that the health center has had an aver­
own phone
..The costs that we 

age of services this year, he 
18,000 charge are way below said. annual visits market.,, While increased during the revenue will cover last three the ever-fluctuating
Ann Kleva

years in its costs of operating walk-in clin-director of Health Services phone systems on pus." 
The $50 per semester Health Center Access Fee that students and parents will be assessed is not expected to increase over the next few years, Kleva said. 
"I don't anticipate an increase ­we feel in the very near future that this isn't something that's going to increase annually," she said. 
Another increase to the tuition bill that students and parents received in the mail this year was 
· in the room telephone charge, an annual fee that covers the costs of local phone and voicemail servic­es. 
Room phone fees increased $7 in 2003-04 from the last academic year, a 4.5 percent rise compara­ble to that which affected room and board charges. . 
"We key the phone rate increase to the increase in room and board," said the University's deputy CIO Dr. Dewitt Latimer. "Like room and board, the phone service is tied to the cost of provid­ing it." 
Although dorm room phone charges have increased for stu­dents, they have not risen at the same rate assessed to the rest of campus. Faculty, staff and admin­istrative offices have seen an 11 
percent increase in 
• their 
ic. which includes allergy and travel/immunization services. 
Since the addition of the annual fee, University Health Services has not increased its operating expens­es. and has continued to assess the lowest costs possible to students who utilize such services as X-rays and pharmacy, Kleva said. 
"The costs that we charge are way below market," she said. "We're not in the business to make money -we're in the business to pay for supplies." 
The extra revenue generated by the addition to this year's tuition package will go directly to a Student Affairs fund that has been allocated to the office's three health and wellness organizations. 
"[The money] is solely used to support student health and well­ness and prevention services on campus," Kleva said. "This was a necessary increase to maintain the richness of healthcare on cam-campus, it will also 
allow the University to utilize increased technology in the voicemail system used by fac­ulty, staff and students alike. 
"The old phone systems that don't treat voice as data will be replaced by phone systems that do treat voice as data," Latimer said. 
Latimer heads the newly created Integrated Communication Services directorate on campus, which has brought the former Telecommunications department under the auspices of the Office of Information Technology since July 1 of this year. 
"One of the reasons we merged the two departments was to gain the benefits of common technolo­gy," he said. He has led the effort to research possibilities for upgrading the University's voice messaging system over the course of the next few years. 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu 
SMC launches technology store 

By ANGELA SAOUD News Writer 

A new addition to Saint Mary's is now open for business. 
The campus iStore, located in the -Information Technology office, offers students. faculty and staff educationally-priced computers, software, Nextel cel­lular service and other periph­erals. 
"The feedback I've received has been very positive," said Keith Fowlkes, Saint Mary's director of Information Technology. "Most people who bought through us are finding that they are having far fewer problems with their comput­ers." 
If there is a problem with something bought from the iStore, a technician will be sent out to fix it. 
"It takes the worry out of buy­ing a computer for college," Fowlkes said. 
The Saint Mary's campus is progressively transferring from Dell computers to Omni Tech computers. These machines are specifically designed for Saint Mary's campus. All of the equip­ment in the iStore is tested by Information Technology and compatible with Resnet. 
"The Omni Tech computers are a brand that might not be familiar to many people, but they have great prices, service and support." said Fowlkes. 
Baghdad 
continued from page 1 

and colleague Arthur Helton, from the Council on Foreign Relations, died in the blast. They expect he will experience significant emotional trauma as he recovers. 
"He sometimes surfaces from the fog induced by sedatives and seems terrified," the family posted. "He tries to run. throw­ing his limbs about rhythmically and rolling his head." 
Since Friday, Loescher has successfully undergone a series of surgical procedures to flush and clean debris from his wounds. He continues to run a 
ADAM MIGLORE!The Observer Saint Mary's new technology store, !Store, offers computers, software and cellular phone service. The store is located in the Information Technology building. 
In addition to the lower prices of computers, the iStore is sell­ing Nextel cellular phones and service at a discounted price. Nextel cellular phone and accessory prices are discounted 27 percent while cellular phone service is 10 percent less than that of normal Nextel rates. 
Toshiba notebook computers have been the most popular selling item thus far, Fowlkes said. The iStore also reports selling an equal amount of Macintosh and PC computers. 
Although the iStore is prima­rily targeting new students, Fowlkes is hoping to attract returning students to the store as well. 
fever and his blood pressure remains erratic. The family said on the Web site they were hope­ful because in recent days Loescher has followed their voices and his high blood pres­sure drops when a family mem­ber talks to him or places a hand on his chest, though Loescher's erratic recovery rais­es concerns. 
Doctors diagnosed Loescher with pneumonia Wednesday and discovered a potential blood clot in his thigh. However, they believe both can be treat­ed. 
The family said they hope to move Loescher to John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford, England when he is released in a few weeks. They said doctors expect 
"We're going to be having promotional events in December and near the end of the year," Fowlkes said. 
During promotional events, the iStore will open its mobile kiosk in Le·Mans Hall's Reinbeaux Lounge. 
Although the main clientele to the iStore are students, faculty and staff of Saint Mary's, the iStore is open to the larger com­munity. 
"We're more than willing to take customers from the Notre Dame and Holy Cross communi­ties," Fowlkes said. 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
to insert a tracheal tube to help him breathe on the respirator • when the swelling in his neck reduces. 
Loescher, whose expertise is in human rights and refugees, joined the Notre Dame faculty in 191.5 and is a fellow in the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
His family said on the Web site, "In thinking about Gil and the other new U.N. patients here we have been also thinking about the Iraqi casualties who are not so lucky and who are dying in unsatisfactory hospitals in Iraq ... he would want us to keep them in our thoughts." 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 

Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
lfyou or someone you love needs help or infornuition, please call. 
Co1tjidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
~  Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Studcni Affairs, 1-7407  
~  Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CS.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819  
::Y  Sylvia DlHon, Cumpus Ministry, 1-7163  
)­ John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163  
>  Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich. Counsebng Center. 1-7336  
>  Ann E. 'llmmpson, Heulth Services} 1-8286  

South Bend ComtnUilit)' Resources: 
~ Women's Care Center: 234-0363 ~ Catholic Charities: 234-3111 



Thursday, August 28, 2003 CoMPitEo rRoi\1 ·rHE OBsERVER wtRE sERvicEs Page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Dozens killed in India stampede 
NASIK, India -Crowds of Hindu pilgrims waiting to bathe in a holy river in western India surged over a flimsy bamboo fence. triggering a stampede that killed at least 39 people and injured 125. 
Worshippers spilled to th~ ground as the fence collapsed and were trampled by the thousands of others pushing toward the Godavari River outside the town of Nasik, about 110 miles northeast of Bombay. Twenty-six of the dead were women. said Nasik Mayor Dashrath Patil. 
Hamas rejects Arafat peace plea 
JERUSALEM -Yasser Arafat asked mili­tant groups Wednesday to halt attacks on Israelis, the Palestinian leader's first public attempt to restore calm following the col­lapse of the armed groups' unilateral truce. 
But a Hamas leader rejected the call, while Israel, which has tried to sideline Arafat from the peace process, dismissed it as empty rhetoric and said the army would keep rounding up terror suspects and hunt­ing down their leaders. 
Spaniards relish tomato battle 
MADRID, Spain -Tens of thousands of people got pasted in eastern Spain on Wednesday in one of the country's most pop­ular summer traditions -the annual toma­to-throwing festival. 
Participants pelted each other with over­ripe tomatoes, turning the streets of the east­ern Spanish town of Bunol into red, juicy pools in an annual festival known as "La Tomatina." 
It is said to be the world's largest tomato battle. Last year, the crowd numbered around 38,000 -more than four times the population of Bunol. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Study: Only 2 of I 0 teachers male 
WASHINGTON -Know anyone having 
trouble finding a man? Add public school 
leaders to the list. 
Only two out of 10 teachers in America's 
classrooms are men, the lowest figure in 40 
years, according to a National Education 
Association survey. Just one in 10 teachers is 
a minority, another sign that teachers have 
far less diversity than the people they edu­
cate. 
West Nile infections leap to 1,400 
ATLANTA -West Nile virus activity has again doubled, now affecting more than 1,400 people in the United States, federal officials said Wednesday. 
Thirty-four states reported a total of 1,442 cases and 21 deaths, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said. Last week, the agency reported 715 cases and 14 deaths. 
Hope memorial draws stars, pols 
LOS ANGELES-Bob Hope was eulogized Wednesday as one of the legendary figures of the past century during a memorial Mass that drew Hollywood stars, politicians and generals. 
"He knew how to use laughter to bring us joy," Roman Catholic Cardinal Roger M. Mahony told mourners including Hope's widow, Dolores, at St. Charles Borromeo Church in North Hollywood. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Baby undergoes major transplant 
INDIANAPOLIS -A 14-month-old girl who was born without the ability to digest food was recovering Wednesday after undergoing surgery to replace her intes­tines, liver, pancreas and stomach. 
Doctors said Stormy Bryant was healing from the surgery, known as a multivisceral transplant. Only 29 such procedures were performed last year in the United States, doctors said. Stormy was the first trans­plant patient in Indiana. 

L I 
Seven dead in hail ofgt•nfire 
Worker kills 6 in Chicago warehouse before being shot dead by SWAT officers 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -A man who 
had been fired from an 
auto parts warehouse six 
months ago came back 
with a gun Wednesday 
and killed six employees 
in a rampage through a 
maze of engine blocks and 
55-gallon drums before 
being shot to death by 
police. 
Salvador Tapia died in a gun battle he waged with police inside and outside of the building, hiding behind a container as he fired off rounds from his semiautomatic pistol, authorities said. 
"He got up, he had the gun, they ordered him to drop the gun, he refused to drop the gun. That's when the officer shot him," acting Police Superintendent Phil Cline said. 
"We saw a guy shooting at police officers outside the building and saw peo­ple running around like crazy," said Al Martinez, who owns a business a half-block away. "We came and saw all the cops running, hiding behind cars." 

Tapia, 36, lost his job Windy City Core Supply about six months ago for causing trouble at work and frequently showing up late or not at all, Cline hospitals and died there. across the street when a liest workplace shooting said. He said Tapia had an "From the scene it warehouse worker ran in, since July 8, when Doug extensive arrest record. appears that he went looking for a phone. "He Williams shot 14 co-work­
Cline said when police throughout the supply said someone was in there ers, killing six, at a arrived shortly after 8:30 warehouse shooting shooting. He was really Lockheed Martin aircraft a.m., they tried to get in them," said Cline. "They scared, like a chicken with parts plant in Meridian, the building but were weren't all in one sec­its head cut off," she said. Miss., before taking his driven back by gunfire. He tion." She said police arrived own life. said when an assault team Tapia also tied one and evacuated the restau­In the Chicago area, entered the building they man's hands behind his rant within five minutes. William D. Baker, 66, had trouble maneuvering back, but the employee All buildings within a killed four people and through all the auto parts. escaped unharmed, Cline block of the auto parts himself at a Navistar 
He said four people died said. and supply store were International engine plant at the scene. Tapia and Pamela George was evacuated. in suburban Melrose Park two others were taken to cooking at the Dox Grill It was the nation's dead-in February 2001. 

Mars makes closest pass in eons 
was no beating the orbiting Hubble tailed friend, 7-year-old Robin 
Associated Press 

Space Telescope, which snapped dra­Walker, said she'd stay away. ''I'm 
matic close-ups of the passing planet. scared there would be aliens there," 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -"They are quite spectacular. You she said. Mars. the planet the ancients feared knew they were going to be good; The Vatican's Jesuit astronomers at and revered as the Red One, the seeing them is something else," said the pope's observatory at Castel Fiery One, or Death Star, made its Michael Wolff, an astronomer with Gandolfo manned their 40-centimeter closest pass to Earth in 60,000 years the Space Science Institute in Zeiss telescope for some nighttime Wednesday, glowing a pale orange in Boulder, Colo. "These are the best viewing, said the Rev. Sabino Maffeo, a moonless night sky. that have ever been, and will ever be the retired director of the observato­
Mars is usually about 140 million taken with the Hubble Space ry. miles away from Earth, but on Telescope." In Australia, the skies cleared over Wednesday its orbit brought it about David Laney, head astronomer of Sydney and thousands of people went 
34.6 million miles away, reaching the the Cape Town Observatory, said the out to catch a glimpse of the planet in closest point at 5:46 a.m. EDT. The best vantage point was Tahiti but that the eastern sky. The view got better planet will not be so close to Earth viewing would be spectacular any­overnight Wednesday as Mars rose in again until 2287. where. The good viewing will last for the horizon. 
Tertius Dormehl and his two chil­several days as Mars pulls away from About 3,000 people gathered along dren were among those waiting in Earth, astronomers say. Hong Kong's waterfront for a closer the long lines wrapped around the "The planet is at its biggest and look. Some waited to peer through a parking lot of Johannesburg's plafle­brightest from any position," Laney telescope atop Hong Kong's Space tarium to gaze through telescopes. said. "There is something special Museum. while others settled for the 
"It's stunning, so bright that it's about being eyeball to eyeball with naked eye and cameras. incredible. It gets your mind wander­Mars." In Argentina, hundreds of people ing to space travel -the ultimate Budding astronauts abounded at bundled up against the South adventure," said Dormehl. 40, a proj­the Johannesburg planetarium. American winter chill and passed the ect manager at an information tech­"I want to study outer space, and night at Buenos Aires planetarium to nology firm. I'd really like to go to Mars," said 8-look through three telescopes set up 
For the sharpest eye on Mars. there year-old Jessica Gallacher. Her pony-for the occasion. 
Thursday, August 28, 2003 

page 6 The Observer+ NEWS 
Wishon said this is a dan­to occur. Last year, it indexed gerous assumption, adding the files of approximately 120



Sharing 
that it is possible that the users and offered them for RIAA may choose to use other download to any user of the
continued from page 1 
techniques to identify viola­campus network. Cooke is not Notre Dame's Office of tors. One of these could running Findit this year Information Technology is include setting up a "honey because he is living off-cam­planning a com­pot" of ille­pus, but said he gave the munications gal files and computer to a student who campaign with "/personally don •t identifying lives on campus so the pro­the Office of users who gram will still work.
think that any

Residence Life download Wishon said that OIT has no and Housing to student. faculty. or staff these files. intention of blocking the use warn students member is safe from "I person­of this tool. of the increased ally don't "We have no intent to pro­
inspection ifthey are 

scrutiny focused think that h.i.bit the use of any specific on file down­downloading any student, technology," Wishon said. loads. copyrighted files.,, faculty or Flanagan declined to com­
The RIAA sued staff mem­ment specifically on Findit, Verizon ber is safe but said the law does not gen­
Gordon Wishon 

Internet, an from inspec­erally target technology.
chief Information officer 

Internet Service tion if they "The law has been very Provider, under are down­slow to attack technologies the Digital loading that are used for illegal pur­Millenium Copyright Act ear­copyrighted files," Wishon poses. It attacks the illegal lier this year, requiring them said. "Tactics like a honey pot file sharers," Flanagan said. to turn over the names of are used elsewhere to attract Cooke said that because customers who they claim other types of illegal behavior Findit only provides a con­downloaded hundreds of and I wouldn't be surprised if venient way to download files copyrighted files. In April, they were used here."_ that are already available, he Verizon lost an appeal to the In addition to targeting believes it is not likely that he RIAA and was forced to turn users of copyrighted files, the or the administrator of the over the users' names and RIAA has also attempted to tool could be held liable for information. During the sum­shut down file-sharing tools the files downloaded on it. mer, the RIAA began to such as Kazaa. It was unsuc­"We are not responsible for search the Internet for users cessful in shutting down these the content on it, if we are who had large numbers of services, and a judge com­informed of something on 
copyrighted files and issued pared them to a VCR, stating there that is copyrighted, we subpoenas to their Internet that while a VCR could be will take it down," Cooke service providers to deter­used to violate copyright said. mine the identities of the laws, there are "substantial While students who down­users. The RIAA plans to use non-infringement uses" for load files now risk the RIAA this information to file law­both VCRs and file-sharing discovering their activities. suits against the users. programs. Wishon said OIT will not be 
To date, neither Notre Previously, the RIAA settled monitoring the campus net­Dame nor Saint .Mary's has out of court a lawsuit against work to determine if students received a subpoena. In the a Princeton student who cre­are using copyrighted files past, both schools have ated a tool that allowed stu­illegally. He said the only way received cease and desist dents to easily search for and his office would find out orders, which, under the download copyrighted files. about such behavior would be DMCA, require the copyright­A tool if it was report­ed files to be removed. When at Notre ed to him by an
"The law has been very

these cease and desist orders D a m e outside organi­were received, both schools that is slow to attack zation. required students to remove used by technologies that are "The OIT is not the files and forwarded the many stu­the police. We
used for illegal purposes. 
case to the. Office of dents to have plenty to do 
Residence Life and Housing download It attacks the illegal file without tracking for possible disciplinary files sharers" illegal or unethi­action as a violation of the b 0 t h cal things taking Responsible Use of c 0 p y -place on our net­
Tim Flanagan 

Information Technology poli­righted work. If we are cy. However, a cease and and not general counsel told there is con-desist order did not" require is tent on our net­that the identity of the copy­called work that is not right violator be turned over Findit. According to Allan in compliance, we will take for possible legal action. Cooke, the creator of Findit, action," Wishon said. 
When the RIAA issues these the program indexes files that subpoenas, they require that are already shared through the campus network by users
the identity of a copyright Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at violator be disclosed. Some who give permission for this sbrodfue@nd.edu Universities have already received such subpoenas. Two of these, Boston College and Donald Dykes and Justin Smith -involved in the inci­


Rape 
dent. Judge Roland Chamblee, 
continued from page 1 
to the police. The four players were expelled after a 2002 ResLife hearing, nearly two weeks before charges were formally filed in the middle of May. 
The woman who has accused Elam and three other former Notre Dame football players of sexual assault spent more than eight hours on the stand over two days.. 
Bill Kirk, associate vice pres­ident for Residence Life and Housing, testified Tuesday, the first day of the trial. So did other friends and family mem­bers of the woman. 
The prosecution's witness list includes 20 names, includ­ing the other three former players -Lorenzo Crawford, 
Jr. told jurors to expect the case to last until at least Saturday. 
Elam is the only one of the four defendants not charged with rape. Crawford, Dykes and Smith are charged with rape, criminal deviate conduct and sexual battery. All have maintained their innocence, claiming the sexual activity was consensual. 
Jury selection is scheduled to begin for Dykes' trial Sept. 
8. Crawford's trial is sched­uled to start in October and Smith's in November. 
The Associated Press and WNDU contributed to this report. 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 
LAFORTUNE LINES 


Students walt In line In the Dooley Room of the LaFortune Student Center to pick up course packets needed for class­es. Copy centers In Declo and O'Shaughnessey halls also house course packets needed for classes. 
Like news? Sunday, 5 p.m., SDH basement Be there! 
the Massachusetts Institute of 

~··············································~ 
Technology, won an appeal : Universit}t Resources •• 
against the HIAA and do not • •• 
have to turn over students' •• for Gay, Lesbian, & •• 
information because a judge • • said that the subpoenas •
• Bisexual Students • 
issued in Washington, D.C. do •
• 

not apply to the schools in •
•

Massachusetts. 
•
•
Tim Flanagan, assistant 
•

vice president and general •• • •• counsel at Notre Dame, said •
• The Standing Committee on Gay and •
it is difficult to determine in • advance if the University Lesbian Student Needs • would appeal a subpoena if it (C<>nfidential information, education, and resources) •• 
•

received one because subpoe­•
Conftu~t: Sr. AJ.L. Gude, CSC, 1p5550, or student . 
•

nas are fact-dependent and 
members (w?e web idle fl>r sludeflf conluc.'l inji).) • 
fact-specific. •
•

"If we were to get one, we • would review the subpoena Office ofCatnpus Ministry •• and see if it was valid and •
(Annual retreat for gay/lcshia.n/qucstioning students •
legally supported. If it was, •
and their friends; pertinent library resources in 
•

the law requires us to dis­
• 304 Co-Mu~ cont1dential discussion and support) 
close the identity [of the .. ••
•

• Ctmtuct: Fr, J Steele, CSC, at Steele.31 (a~nd.edu •
copyright violator]." 
• 
•

Flanagan said. • • 
To date, the RIAA's main • University Counseling Center • method of identifying copy­
• (Individual counseling) •
•
right violators is to find users •
• Contact: Dr . .\1(.HJreen Lajfi:rty at Laffeny.3@nd.cdu •
who are sharing large num­• •
•
bers of copyrighted files in •• • programs such as Kazaa. As a •• 
• 
For more information, ch~k out our wei> site: http:/IW\'Hl.nd.cdu/-sceJsn! •
result, many file sharers • .. believe that they will not be • • targeted for legal action if ••.....•.........................................:• 
they do not share files. 
' 

Thursday, Augusr 28, 2003 Page 7 

MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

9,333.79 -6.66

jones 
''''[~~~}:-. Snmt ~ Composite Vohont 1;964 215 • l,Oi7,595,(XJ8 
..... --··--·--·-·.··---·-. .·· 
AiJlEX': '' 911.2& >< ( +5..54• ' NASDAQ 1 782.13 +11.48 ·NYSE ·..••.• / [~57;9~-->••, "<±.tt8ri· Y 
S&P500 996.79 +0.06 

COMPANY -
%CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC)  +1.12  +0.31  28.02  
NASDAQ 100 TRUST (QQQ)  +0.80  +0.26  32.80  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  +0.08  +0.01  12.45  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -0.47  -0.09  19.01  
MICROSOFT CP lMSFn  -0.15  -0.15  26.42  

IN BRIEF 
EPA relaxes costly air rules 
WASHINGTON -The Bush administration on Wednesday made it easier for thousands of older power plants, refineries and factories to avoid having to install costly clean air controls when they replace aging equipment. 
In a major revision to its air pollution rules, the Environmental Protection Agency will allow up to 20 percent of the costs of replac­ing each plant's production system to be con­sidered "routine maintenance" not requiring expensive anti-pollution controls, according to agency documents and interviews with EPA officials. 
The new rule culminates decades of debate over a controversial Clean Air Act program. Electric utilities and oil companies have been urging the White House to revise the pro­gram, saying the costs prohibit them from making energy-efficiency improvements. 
Biotech firm plans Indy location 

INDIANAPOLIS-A biotechnology company said it plans to open a specimen-storage cen­ter near Indianapolis International Airport that could eventually create 100 jobs. 
The announcement Wednesday by BioStorage Technologies was welcomed by state and city officials who see the life-sci­ences industry as a way to reduce Indiana's dependence on manufacturing. 
BioStorage Technologies said it would invest $3.5 million to build the headquarters in an industrial park on the city's west side. The company expects to store several hundred thousand specimens during its first year. Temperatures in the storage area will range from room temperature to minus 232 degrees. 
NYMEX gasoline futures tumble 

NEW YORK-A sizable sell-off in U.S. gasoline futures Wednesday dragged the rest of the New York Mercantile Exchange crude futures trading complex lower. 
Since Monday's settlement high of $1.1163 a gallon, the September gasoline futures con­tract has lost 8.5 cents, or 7.7 percent.­Monday's high had been a new five and a half month high for front-month gasoline futures. 
"It's a free-fall," said Tony Rosado, floor trader at Zone Energy, reacting to the selling. 
HealthSouth execs plead guilty 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -Two former HealthSouth executives pleaded guilty Wednesday to fraud charges in a scheme to overstate earnings at the rehabilitation serv­ices company. 
The pleas were entered in federal court by Richard Botts, 45, former senior vice presi­dent for tax, and Jason Brown, 34, former vice president of finance. 
They are among 14 former HealthSouth executives who have entered into plea agree­ments with prosecutors. Investigators say HealthSouth overstated its earnings by at least $3.5 billion. . 
"I regret my actions and I'm very sorry for my actions that furthered this conspiracy," Botts said. 
Students boost area eateries 

Local restaurants, bars thrive on student business as academic year begins 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Many South Bend and Mishawaka-area restau­rants and taverns have wit­nessed a sharp increase in sales, coinciding with the beginning of classes and the return of students. 
Deanna Reed, manager of Famous Dave's, a barbecue restaurant on Grape Road, said business is booming now that Notre Dame stu­dents have returned for the fa11 semester. 
"We've definitely picked up since students came back," Reed said. "It's a · huge plus for us -I'd say 10 to 15 percent this week." 
Higher-end restaurants also count on increased business when school is in session. Tippecanoe Place, which bills itself as "Michiana's most romantic restaurant," caters to stu­dents looking for an upscale treat, said general manager and Notre Dame alumnus Dave Barry. 
"It's not astoundingly dra­matic, but it is a market," he said. 
Drinking establishments likewise count on traffic from Notre Dame students, as well as thirsty football fans. 

Fiddler's Hearth, a down­town tavern that opened on North Main Street last year, has found success with an Manager Jason Zolman influx of Notre Dame cus­said the vast majority -"70 tomers. to 80 percent" -of his rev-
Jason Fawcett, a bar­enues come from local stu­tender at the Irish pub, said dent5. But the level of busi­he has seen "a little bit of a ness at Corby's is relatively jump" over the past week. stable year-round, he said. 
"But the big boom is home "For us, it's a smooth football weekends," he said. transition -Notre Dame 
Corby's Irish Pub on students take the place of LaSalle Avenue is also heav­students who were home for ily dependent on student the summer," Zolman said. patrons. Not all businesses have profited from the beginning of the academic year, how­ever. 

Macri's Deli on Niles Avenue, however, has not enjoyed the success of some of its competitors. Manager Gerry Mott blames the pop­ularity of on-campus dining options. 
. "More restaurants being built on campus hurts com­munity restaurants," Mott said. 
He remained optimistic, however, that the beginning of the Notre Dame football season will bring hungry Irish fans to his door. 
"We're standing behind the team, and we hope the community gets the bene­fit," Mott said. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at bramanti.l@nd.edu 

State charges WorldCom, execs 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY -Oklahoma prosecutors filed the first criminal charges Wednesday against WorldCom and former CEO Bernard Ebbers in the $11 billion accounting scandal that plunged the long-dis­tance giant into bankruptcy. 
The company, Ebbers and five other former executives were accused of falsifying the firm's books in violation of Oklahoma securities law. 
Each executive faces 15 charges, each carrying up to 10 years in prison. The former executives have one week to app~ar in court in Oklahoma City. WorldCom, which now calls itself MCI, could face mil­lions in fines and restitution. 
"By falsifying information, the com­pany looked stronger on paper than it really was," Oklahoma Attorney General Drew Edmondson said. "Investors counted on this informa­tion when buying WorldCom securi­ties. The company lied. These employees lied. The law was broken. It's just that simple." 

WorldCom collapsed last year in the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history ­part of a wave of scandals to rock corporate America in the last two years. 
The plunge in WorldCom stock cost investors an estimated $180 billion, and Edmondson said the Oklahoma state pension fund took a $64 million hit.. 
Ebbers' attorney, Reid Weingarten, said he expects the former chief executive to be exonerated. 
"The entire WorldCom matter has been investigated exhaustively for over a year by the FBI and the U.S. Department of Justice and no charges have been brought against Bernard Ebbers," Weingarten said. "This is not because of any lack of prosecutorial zeal; rather, it is because of a total lack of any evi­dence that Mr. Ebbers committed crimes." 
Although this marks the first crimi­nal charges against Ebbers and the company itself, other former WorldCom executives have been charged in federal court, including ex-chief financial officer Scott Sullivan, who was also charged in Oklahoma. 
Four other former executives who 
have pleaded guilty to federal 
charges and are helping prosecutors 
were charged in Oklahoma as well: 
David Myers, Buford Yates Jr., Betty 
Vinson and Troy Normand. 
The company has been under 
investigation by several other states 
and federal authorities, and was 
recently barred from signing new 
contracts with the U.S. government. 
Oregon officials announced a law­
suit Wednesday against WorldCom 
seeking $24 million to cover losses 
suffered by state investment funds. A 
spokesman for the attorney general 
said criminal charges remain an 
option. 
The Oklahoma charges come as 
MCI tries under new management to 
emerge from bankruptcy and the 
scandal, which has already led to a 
$750 million settlement with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission. 
"Today's action against the compa­
ny would only punish our 20 million 
customers and 55,000 employees ­
2,000 of which work in Oklahoma," 
MCI general counsel Stasia Kelly said ·in a statement. 

Thursday, August 28, 2003

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 



Building project will revamp Saint Mary's 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Nc:ws Writer 

The Saint Mary's College Master Plan, an expansive build­ing project which will span sever­al years, is well under way and has already given the college a new look. And returning Saint Mary's students are finding them­selves slightly disoriented on cam­pus this fall. 
The recently-completed Noble Family Dining Hall. a keystone of the campus changes, has given students a taste ofwhat the future of Saint Mary's will look like. The verdict on the new facility, howev­er, is waiting to be heard. 
Many students agree that the building itself, which sits just west of the site ofthe old hall, is beauti­ful both inside and out. 
"It is pretty cool because it is more open and modem, there is a different atmosphere in here than in the old one," said McCandless sophomore Desiree Antonson. 
New seating arrangements, which consist of an assortment of long rectangular and circular tables, have been well received. The layout and organization of the new facility, however, has received its share of criticism. 
"It is a bit chaotic with all the different food lines," said Le Mans senior Erin Quinn. "Everyone just gets in the first line they see." 
Regina junior Tabitha Rand said that the new look may have compromised convenience. 
'The atmosphere is better," she said, "but it takes longer to get your food. They are all about the presentation, not necessarily the process." 
Another concern the students have is the fact that they may no longer serve themselves. Instead, they must wait in line for a dining hall employee to place a single serving onto their plates. 
Others had positive responses to the improvements and said they believe it will simply take some adjustment to smooth out the confusion. 
A subsequent component of the College's Master Plan includes a student center. The center, which will connect to the new dining hall, will house the College's bookstore, a cyber cafe, Campus Ministry. and Student Government. The center will pro­vide both a social and academic meeting place for students and advisors. It is scheduled to be completed in January of 2005. · 
A third building phase is the addition of on-campus apart­ment-style housing. Projected to be inhabitable by the fall semes­ter of 2004, the three-story build­ing will hold 7 2 residents. Although it has not yet been determined whether Saint Mary's residence hall rules will apply, the apartments are expected to make living on campus all four years an attractive option for students. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at Onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

Schwarzenegger discloses views 
Associated Pren 

LOS ANGELES -Arnold Schwarzenegger spelled out his views on issues ranging from abortion to taxes on talk shows Wednesday, bowing to weeks of criticism that the action star's campaign has been all style and no sub­stance. 
Schwarzenegger's comments on several social issues were his most detailed to date in his bid to replace Gov. Gray Davis in the Oct. 7 recall elec­tion. But he did not give a position on affirmative action or Proposition 54, an initiative on the recall ballot that would ban collection of most racial data by state institutions. He also left open the possibility of raising taxes in an emergency situation. 
The Republican said he is in favor of legalizing marijuana for medicinal purposes, abor­tion rights, an assault­weapons ban and background checks on gun purchases. He said he is opposed to offshore drilling, gay marriage and granting driver's licenses to illegal immigrants. 
The governor, meanwhile, signed a sweeping financial privacy bill Wednesday that gives California consumers the right to block banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions from sharing their personal information. 
Asked whether he thought Schwarzenegger would make a good governor, Davis said the actor met the minimal age and state resident qualifica­tions. 
"Sometimes people want a little more," Davis said to chuckles from the traders around him at the Pacific Stock Exchange in San Francisco. "Like a little expe­rience." 
Schwarzenegger gave his opinions during a call to the syndicated Sean Hannity radio show, which also was broad­cast live on Fox Television. 
Some of his responses, including his opposition to gay marriage and his support of prayer in public schools, could play well with the state's con­servatives. They so far have been wary of him and have supported state Sen. Tom McClintock, Schwarzenegger's main challenger among Republicans on the ballot. 
His more liberal positions on abortion and marijuana, how­ever, as well as his support for a ban on assault weapons, could undercut some of that support. 
McClintock said he got the impression Schwarzenegger was becoming more conserva­
tive  as  the campaign moved  
along.  
"I've  been  in  the  public  

arena for 20 years. Positions I've taken have not changed in 20 years," McClintock said. "I am pro-life; I believe in the right of people to self-defense. It's enshrined in the Second Amendment. And again, these are positions that people can count on." 
Schwarzenegger described himself to Hannity as "pro­choice" but said he did not support late-stage procedures described as "partial-birth" abortions. 
Asked whether he is in favor of parental notification when m i n ors s e e k abo r t i o n s , h e replied, "I am. But in some cases when there is abuse in the family or problems in the family, then the courts should decide." 
Asked about gay marriage, Schwarzenegger said, ~·I do support domestic partner­ships" but added that he was against gay marriage. He said marriage should be between a man and a woman. 
Schwarzenegger also said illegal immigrants already in the country should stay here, but he said it was a federal issue and a spokesman said he was not proposing an amnesty program. 
Schwarzenegger supported Proposition 187 in 1994, which sought to deny many services to illegal immigrants,_ but he said Wednesday that the issue was history because courts had largely voided the measure. 
Although his positions on social issues have nothing to do with en_ding California's financial cns1s, which Schwarzenegger has said would be his main concern as governor, they are important because they could help him gain support from the conser­vative wing of the Republican Party. 


FBI investigates McVeigh case 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The FBI internal affait:s office is investigating the conduct of the crime lab's chie.f of scientific analysis in the Oklahoma City bombing case. according to people familiar with the investigation. 
The Associated Press report­ed last spring that a tran­script of a Justice Department interview showed that FBI sci­entific analysis unit chief Steven Burmeister initially had alleged in 1995 that his lab colleagues performed shoddy work in Timothy McVeigh's case, but then retracted several statements before appearing as a prose­cution witness at the trial. 
AP also reported that lawyers for some FBI lab employees sent a letter to Attorney General John Ashcroft in 2001, just days before McVeigh was executed for the April 1995 bombing, alleging Burmeister may have been pressured to give false testimony in the case. No action was taken and the alle­gation was never divulged to McVeigh's lawyers. 
The revelation about Burmeister, however, became an issue in the Oklahoma state murder trial of McVeigh conspirator Terry Nichols this spring. Burmeister had given key testimony against McVeigh and was originally slated to be a prosecution wit­ness in the new trial for Nichols. whom Oklahoma prosecutors want to put to death. 
Burmeister has been with­

drawn as a state witness by 
the prosecutors. 
The F B J's Office of 

Professional Responsibility, 
r 
~ 

Silver Hawks vs. Dayton; First Pitch; 7:00pm Student ID Night 
Bring your student ID to the Coveleski stadium box office and receive box seats for just $3.00. That's a savings of $4.00 per seat! Pepsi Pennant night -FREE to the first 1 ,000 fans. 
2003 playoff tickets are on sale now. Call 
(574) 235-9988 to order your tickets today! 

which investigates allegations against agents, recently opened an internal investigation into Burmeister's conduct in the McVeigh case, including his recantation, according to per­sons familiar with the investigation. 
One of Burmeister's former colleagues said the FBI internal affairs office had contacted him in the past month. 


Thursday Svptvmbvr 11 • 8:00 p.m. The Stotcr ThCl<ltrcr • Sooth Bernd 
21 an~ ov~r admltt~d to show 
Tickcrts on sale now! ot Morris Performing Arts Center. Box Officer. Chcuge by phone 574-235-9190 or Online <1t 
WW¥I.morriscenter: 17541896 
I" CO"CE~! 
Sunday Octobvr 26 • 7:30 p.m. .~2t:;;;X~:;<r~:o::~, Morris Performing Arts Ccrnte2r 
.... __ ......••.•·.·.·.·.vu..· Sooth B~nd, ln~lana 
Tkkets on solv Saturday August 30! ot 10:00 o.m. ot Morris Box Offiee2. Chcugv by phone 574-235-9190 or Onlinv qt
www.morriscvntvr.org. 

' 

Thursday, August 28, 2003 page 9 
The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 



ISRAEL Arafat tells militants to stop violence 
Associated Press 

JERUSALEM --Arafat on Wednesday asked militant groups to halt attacks on Israelis the Palestinian leader's first pub~ lie attempt to restore calm fol­lowing the collapse of the armed groups' unilateral truce. 
Israel, which has tried to side­line Arafat from the peace process, dismissed his appeal as empty rhetoric and said the army would keep rounding up terror suspects and hunting down their leaders. 
Militants formally abandoned the nearly two-month unilateral cease-fire after Israel responded to a deadly suicide bombing in Jerusalem last week with missile strikes on Hamas leaders in the Gaza Strip. 
Arafat stepped forward with the appeal at a time when he's caught in a power struggle with his prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas, and when the United States is pressing the Palestinians to act against militants, a key requirement under the creaking U.S.-backed "road map" peace plan. 
Arafat rejected U.S. demands he give Abbas control of key security forces that would lead any sustained crackdown and instead appointed his own securi­ty adviser: the tough former West Bank security chief Jibril Rajoub. 
Rajoub openly supports the peace plan and has arrested mili­tants in the past. But in an inter­view with The Associated Press, he was evasive over whether he would launch a crackdown now, and suggested Israel should stop military action fl.I'St. 
"The ball is now in the American court to pressure Israel and monitor the process of implementation," Rajoub said. "If Israel stops its attacks and begins to take serious steps to end the occupation, all the conditions that are demanded of the Palestinians will be fulfilled on the spot." 
Abbas staked his political future on being able to rein in Palestinian militants through persuasion, rather than force. With his authority crumbling, Abbas was meeting with Cabinet ministers Wednesday to try to rally support. 
Abbas was to present the achievements of his first 100 days in office to parliament Monday, and aides said he was planning to seek a vote of confi­dence. 
But amid speculation that Abbas could lose, Information Minister Nabil Amr said later it was not clear whether such a vote would be held. 
fRANCE 




Officials ponder holiday cut 
Associated Press 

PARIS -France, a country where leisure time is sacro­sanct, is mulling a radical plan for financing health care after a heat wave estimated to have killed thousands: Make people work on a national holiday. 
The idea, which the govern­ment floated Wednesday, immediately split opinion and provoked one main question 
which of France's 11 national holi­days should 
go? Labor Day, ..There's no question ing alone. The
perhaps, or a 

oftouching holidays.,, deaths focused
religious festi­
attention on
val? 
France's strug­

At least two Alain Bocquet 
gle to care for
ministers said 

French legislator an aging popu­
Christmas should not be touched. 

Ever wary of angering France's powerful unions, the government insisted it still hadn't made a decision. But even considering the idea shows how seriously the gov­ernment is taking calls to improve care for the elderly, who made up most of the vic­tims from the record tempera­tures that baked Europe this month. 
Hamlaoui Mekachera, secre­tary of state for war veterans, told The Associated Press that if the plan is adopted, social taxes from the extra workday could help finance elderly care. 
But most of all, abolishing a holiday would signal that France is ready to make sacri­fices to better care for the vul­nerable, he said. 
"It's a very important, very strong symbol," Mekachera said in an interview. "The ges­ture of solidarity is more important than the financial gesture ... so that we never witness again what we saw." 
Thousands died in the heat, the government has estimated, 
many of them 
elderly and liv­
lation and 
prompted a storm of criticism that the cen­ter-right government reacted too slowly. 
Secretary of State for the Elderly Hubert Falco noted that Germany has made peo­ple work the Day of Penance and Prayer in November to finance care for the aged since 1995. 
"It's one of the possibilities, among many others," Falco said after a Cabinet meeting. "It would be, as is the case in Germany, a holiday that would be worked to the advantage of national solidarity." 
At first blush. the idea seemed fraught with risk. 
Many French, long connois­seurs of fine living, appreciate the extra time off granted by a law passed by the previous Socialist government that restricted the working week for many to 35 hours. 
There are also religious and historical sensibilities. 
Transport Secretary Dominique Bussereau said he opposed abolishing a May 8 holiday that celebrates the end of World War II in Europe, or Christmas, or Armistice Day on Nov. 11, when fighting stopped in World War I. 
"Definitely not May 8, because it left quite a few memories; not December 25 because I want Christmas presents," he said. 
On the political left, there was outrage. 
"There's no question of touching holidays," thundered Communist lawmaker Alain Bocquet. "There's no question of erasing May 8 and the memory of victory over Nazi barbarity and fascism!" 
Jean-Claude Mailly, a leader of the Workers' Force trade union, said a wealthy country like France should not have to make workers labor longer to finance health care. The union, he warned, would not take kindly to the abolition of the May 1 Labor Day holiday. 
"It's enforced charity, totally unacceptable," he said in an interview. 


~m fovrenStudios.COIIJ 
'~ ~~ ----~ ~ 

~------...........__ ..-----·---­

..-..... 
• 

p 

THE OBSERVER 


Thursday, August 28, 2003 
Page 10 

THE OBSERVER 

P.O.. Box Q, Notre Dame", IN"4~556 024 South Djning Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46$56 
EDITOR JN CtUJW 
Andrew Soukup 
MANA.GING EmToR BUSlNESS MANAGER Scon B{odfuelu-er Lorj Lewalski 
AssT. MANAGJNG EDITOR Sheila Flynu 
NEWS EDITORt Meghamie Downes 
VrEWPOJNT EDITOR: Teresa Frn:lish SPoRTS ED11UR: Joe HetdeT SeEN£ EDITOR; Sat"ah Vabulas SAINT MARvts EDITOR: Annelie.se W6olford PHOTO EDITOR: 1irnl<acmar 
. • • GRAPHICS EorroR.: Mike Harkins · · ADVERtlSlNG MANAGmt:. M~tlf~ Omeddla · 
. . . . .........· . 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haitbt 
SYsTEMS AoMINJSTRATORt Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINJSTRATORt J;uon Creek 
CoNTROW!.R: Mike flanagan 

...... fAX > 
{574}4H~tj927 • 
•ADVERTISING 
··•· (574l(}~~di~I)Q 
>•··••····••·••.•.· •·· ... 

...·•••·•••·•• i.w.AGING EDtTO~j4~~~i~iANAGING. EDitriR •• •···•· .. 
(5:74) 6.31.•4541 •~b~me@nd;edu ·. . 8USIIt£SS 0FAtE · 
(574}~3h~,3l3 
NEWS DESK . · (574) 631.5:323 ob~n6vs.l®nd.edu . VIEWPOINT 0£SK 
..(574) 63J-5303 viewpoint>l@nd;edu·•• 

. . SPORTS DESK . · ·· · ·• · 
(5:74) 631-45~3 sponil~nd.cdu 
•.•.••·.. • . . . . . SCENE DfSK . . . . • (J.Y4) 631-4540 .$~ne.J@11d:.edu.< 
·......... > •.•..• SAINT MARY'S DESiC> (574) 63Pl324 $1llt:i@nd~edu . · ·. ···•· .·.· .· ... PHoroDm > ··. 
.·.•• (SJ~~s~:.!i8l1h£aJ:~~;'~ri:i 
{574)>631":8839 
THE. ·.·.·······.. ·. . 
.0BSERVERONL/NE ·. 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The ob~erver is the independent, daily newspaper • published inprint and online byihe students of the University of Notte Dame du .La~ and Saint Mary's. College. Editorial content.incfUJiing advenismlent.s; is · not governedby policiesofdie aamiriisU.adollofeither ·· · irncit~trion, Tht:: O~r ~ey tpetight«n:efuse •. • • ad<Verrisements b~ed ()n con ~to;j)( •• .• .............•••. ··• < .. 
The newsis reported l!s ~tdy and objeetivelj :1$ possible. Unsigned editoriali ripresentthe opinion of········ the l'flajodty of the Editol: in Chief; Managing Ediro{; . · Assisiarir Managing Ediror ~ deparrinenr ediwrs. Commentaries, lenen and col~tmrn present the view!~ of the authors and not n~ily those ofThe Observc:r.. 
Viewpoint .space kav:ailable to all readers. The free . · apress:Wn ofall opinions through letter~ is en~uraged. lener~ to the Editl>t must be signed ;:tnd.mtist jndtide ·• 
conr.acrinformation, ·· .· .· · 
. . 
~ftifJm regardmg Obs#PrrpvliciN shouJJ bf . direcwl.ta Ediror in Cbfij'AndrTWStJ#Itup, • · 
POST 0FFlCE INFORMATION 
n;o (l~{tls~$'i9 M6~l4 pul>li>W ~Y ,~ ...~Jill r•i<lor~ <l¥~R>g. . ~"' on<l ~R(IIll'<<i<><k A~rip<i<>t>;., 'lkObsci'.er Is SIOOfw<.n..~i< ~' J55 f.>t '>liJ: umc.li:r. · · · · · · · 
~Ob..,ry«~ pu~W>~ ~, · ..· rosrw.~ER . 
n~ S.."rh Pi<IIAI Hlllt . . . SW<I..J""'"w,,,;,~Ot!> "" l'<loird)~ iN 411~~719 · 1'~~~· l'ttiodi<.al~iioid>~Noln:D.mt. .• !ID;)Io~Q . 
..,a .dd<~b:d n,.,~b~~ <if&a. · · il:io~ S<...m .Dil>Ki& tl.JI .·Not, Dam<, IN 46~56.6779 
. .·· . . 
~Oiuctoorinm<rploe,~M~~~~ Nl ~rio, tjpo.,...
n:s<rYcJ. .. • .·. . . . .. ·. . . . 

Lessons from Cairo 
Egypt is a country with a special history and grace. There is an open air about the culture where friends gree~ each other with a kiss on both cheeks. As in many developing coun­tries, it is com­mon to see men Andrew walking arm in 
DeBerry

arm on the street. 
There is a ND Changing calming simplici­Times ty and a peaceful joy among the people. 
Many Egyptians welcomed strangers with open arms. During his studies in Cairo last semester, Terry Fitzgibbons, now a Notre Dame senior, met many random peo­ple on the streets who wanted to meet at later times for tea or conver­sation. 
Despite having little money, Egyptians were willing to give him gifts and share what little they had. 
His time in Cairo during the war added a special dynamic. The day the war began, the U.S. State Department advised Americans in Cairo not to go out, and the city was heated with protests. Despite this, he took a 40-minute walk alone from the school to the dorm without feel­ing threatened. He walked around town with friends that evening, and they were pulled into a wedding to dance around the new couple. The Egyptian hospitality was warm, how­ever this attitude was not shown for all aspects of the United States: "We love Americans! We do not love your President." 
Near the end of my summer there on a National Education Security Program scholarship, I could talk with taxi drivers and shopkeepers and heard this often. Egyptians described Bush as "magnoon" (crazy) and as a thoughtless Yankee. There was graffiti on one street wall saying, "No, no, no to American prodl\,.Cts." However, I personally encountered no hostility in Cairo. The streets were safe. I heard about no stories of crime. There's a sense of communal justice and with one cry, several armed guards standing a gross injustice. has grown more sus­

While there are notable
Jihad is also a picious of American
differences between 
term that's been media, having had misused. With a def­Christianity and Islam, an external perspec­inition related to a tive, and feels trou­
claims that the Quran 
purposeful struggle, bled from a seem­
tells Muslims to kill
jihad resembles ingly unquestioned evangelism more Christians are alarming. acceptance of than war. However, American news.
I am at a loss for how 
some Muslims have There is much that 
one reaches this 

hijacked the idea today's current and and used it to justify conclusion. rising leaders must outside buildings could run to one's aid. 
Learning about the Quran and vis­iting mosques were key opportuni­ties. The Western view of Islam is rife with misunderstanding. The word "Islam" itself has an awesome sense of divinity with a literal mean­ing of "peaceful submission." This is a far cry from images of terror we may associate with the faith. Linking Islam primarily with extremist ter­rorists does the faith 
violent acts. On top of that, the Western media reports these extreme inci­dents and soon the world has a mis­construed view of the principle. Only when the faith is seriously threat­ened or attacked does jihad permit the use of force in limited fashion. This has similarities to the Catholic doctrine of the just war theory. 
While there are notable differences between Christianity and Islam, claims that the Quran tells Muslims to kill Christians are alarming. I am at a loss for how one reaches this conclusion. I encourage anyone, whether Muslim or not, to make this clearer. 
Another key lesson gained from Cairo was to distinguish between the political and religious aspects of Middle Eastern culture. We may too often lump the two together as being one in the same. There are countries with strict social rules that stem from that nation's government and not the Quran. My Quran professor noted that, while fierce dictators such as ldi Amin and Saddam Hussein may have proclaimed them­selves to be great Muslims, those true to Islam know the opposite to be true. 
The best exemplars of the faith I encountered were the many common people in the streets of Cairo who lived with peaceful hearts and a joy­ful love toward others. 
Returning to the States brings a second reality check. Terry has struggled to find a shift from heavy social concerns in Cairo to worries about one's personal comfort in the United States. He has also returned with a sharper insight and concerns 
about democracy. He 
address. Notre Dame 

is meeting this chal­lenge head on. For the first time, incoming freshmen were required to do specified readings about tensions between the Middle East and the United States. Kudos are due to the Kroc Institute, First Year of Studies, the Program of Arabic and Middle Eastern Studies and first-year stu­dents themselves who are preparing for a Sept. 23 academic convocation on "The United States and the Middle East: Do We Face a 'Clash of Civilizations?"' 
Such efforts will help our genera­tion forge ahead in promoting a more genuine and realistic leader­ship at home and abroad. 
Andrew DeBerry is a fifth-year senior and studied at the American University in Cairo, Egypt over the summer as a Boren Scholar. He encourages all students to bookmark the list of scholarships at http://www.nd.edu/scholarship. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at adeberry@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics 
Meghan Martin Mike Harkins Joe Trombello Sports 
Matt Brarnanti Chris Federico Viewpoint Jus tin Schuver Teresa Fralish Scene Illustrator · C. Spencer Beggs Katie Knorr 

OBSERVER POLL 
How often do you plan to visit Legends, the 18-and-over nightclub for students? 
Vote at www.ndsmcobserver.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
• 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
..Do not go where the path may lead, go instead where there is no path and leave a trail." 
Ralph Waldo Emerson essayist 

GUEST COLUMN 

California recall mocks 


electoral process 
There's a new breed of politician, and it's 
coming to a theater ncar you! 
The recall election in California has been 
the topic of much debate recently and many 
are scrutinously asking, "Are recall elections 
ethical? Or are they 
merely a way for big 
money hustlers like Eric Howerton 
Bill Simon to sway 
government doings? 
The New
And if a recall occurs, 
Mexico Daily 
is justice being served 
Lobo
when one of the recall 
candidates takes 
office by garnering a lower approval rating 
than that currently held by Gray Davis?" 
While these are all good questions, the answer to whether recall elections are a sound alternative rests precariously on a slippery slope. 
In some ways, recall elections are a little like political piracy; the unpopular politician is hoisted from his throne before his term is up in order to make way for a preferred replacement. This begs the question: If someone is elected to do a job for four years and suddenly upsets the public with his deci­sions, should he be fired? Or should Davis be guaranteed the full four years to repair his mistakes and fulfill his duties? 
Others regard recall elections as a feasible solution to rectifying high tier incompetence. After electing Davis, many Californians feel like he is no longer the most suitable man for the job and should be replaced by someone who can perform to a higher standard. 
Unlike an impeachment hearing, recall elections don't accuse the defendant with any illegal activity; rather, they merely cen­sure and point out a lack of constituent confi­dence. And in a democratic society, if the majority of people want to relinquish some­one's political authority, shouldn't they have the right to do so? 
This is where things start to get ugly. Most educated Americans concur that the majority of the population is made up of complete buf­foons, and they're right in this belief. So to predicate the future of a country based on millions of button-pushing nincompoops seems like a very precarious way to run a country. Most Americans don't even know what their candidate's platform is, but the Constitution guarantees them the right to vote for the guy with a cooler sounding name. 
The real humor lies not in the Constitutional promise that a million bozos get to determine the shape of th!ngs to come, but in the pool of qualified individuals who should be running the country, which seems to be shrinking by the day. 
While the legitimacy of recall elections should be the most important issue in California and the rest of the country, it's not. Instead, Americans are more concerned with which of the recall election candidates has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. 
Since actor John Wilkes Booth popped Honest Abe in the noggin, acting and politics have celebrated an inseparable partnership, the pinnacle of which can be seen in the rocket to stardom of John Kennedy. Since Kennedy's forays with America's most noted blonde bombshell, Sonny Bono, Ronald Reagan, Clint Eastwood and Charlton Heston have all tried their hand in the politician poker game of celebrity and affairs of the state. And it's happening again in California. 
Since the early rumors of a recall election, porn super-mogul Larry Flint, "DifT'rent Strokes'" diminutive Gary Coleman, water­melon smashing comedian and general good-for-nothing Gallagher, coitus queen Mary Carey and former Mr. Universe/star of "Kindergarten Cop" Arnold Schwarzenegger have all announced their intention to run for 
governor of America's most populated state. 
Welcome to the freak show, folks! Two bits 
a gander! 

It's easy to see that none of these candi­dates could be deemed "qualified" for the job. While Larry Flint has spent a Jot of time in the courtroom arguing his right to expose women's genitals to the public, it appear~ as though the Austrian terminator has the best shot of taking the cake. 
Schwarzenegger has already been vicari­

ously employed by the government before by 
continually playing military men and police 
officers. Arnold may also be able to get a 
grasp on California's immigration problems 
as he trenchantly demonstrated his ability to 
wrangle up evasive aliens in "Predator." 
Strengthening Schwarzenegger's chances is his role in "True Lies," in which he played a federal agent hunted by international ter­rorists. But with all of the action Schwarzenegger has seen in the last 20 years, one might wonder: Will politics be interesting enough for Conan the Republican? 
Perhaps we should be giving him a high profile position lest he get fed up with taking press conferences and lay waste to every reporter in the room with a battle-axe. 
Fortunately, Arnold's political aspirations could never carry him as far as the White House as he's not an American by birth. However, I fear that Schwarzenegger already has an answer to this problem. Borrowing from the plot of The 6th Day, scientists could birth a clone of Arnold inside the United States, speed up the aging process by feeding him nothing but coffee and Miracle Grow and install the Arnold clone in the White House. 
Now you might be saying that it's impor­tant to see the actor apart from his movies and that to separate the two is essential. Perhaps actors can be good politicians. 
But even before Arny starred ·in action flicks making casual murder to the '90s what casual sex was to the '60s, he wa~n't all there. With an aspiration to sculpt his body after Gigantopithecus, can California stand to replace a poor financial manager with a vio­lence-endorsing, self-absorbed body builder? And after admitting to using steroids, it's important to keep in mind that Arnold could have some very serious health concerns in the near future. Remember that steroids of Arny's era have been linked to causing brain cancer. And I don't think merely saying, "It's not a toom-ah," will dispel concerns. 
While its true principles of acting and poli­tics are structured around performance, rhetoric, approval ratings, hob knobbing and fundraising, the similarities between the two fields stop there. It takes years to understand the interconnectivity and complicated net­works of politics. And jumping in head first in the race for governor might be a little too ambitious. 
There's not a dearth of candidates to replace Davis. However, there is a dearth of suitable candidates. Instead of looking at a ballot that more resembles the MTV Movie Awards, California would be wise to stick with a professional and allow Gray Davis to complete his term. Unfortunately, America seems content on being the laboratory of humanity. So get ready for the decade of political method acting! 
Hey Arny, I've got an idea for your re-elec­tion campaign: ''I'll be back." 
This column first appeared Aug. 26 in The Daily Lobo, the University ofNew Mexico's student newspaper and appears here cour­tesy ofU-Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Decrease intolerance at Notre Dame 
I was saddened to see that Notre Dame has been ranked No. 1 by the Princeton Review for Colleges and Universities for "Alternative Lifestyles not an Alternative." 
It is incredibly disappointing as an alumna of Notre Dame to see that the intolerance for gay and lesbian students that I observed when a student at Notre Dame has been not only verified but rec­ognized widely. I realize that the University follows the teachings of the Church and I respect that. 
My sadness is that while the University may not encourage alter­native lifestyles, its students seemingly do not, either. It may be okay to hold ill will toward homosexuals and discourage their civil rights in the Catholic Disneyland that is Notre Dame but as you (third person) are exposed to different cultures and people in cities of the world, that kind of intolerance and ignorance is not accepted and is only a mark of inhumanity against fellow men and women. 
I'm ashamed and embarrassed when my co-workers and friends ask me about this. 
Laura Stolpman 
class of '95 Aug. 26, 2003 
GUEST COLUMN 



Right-wing bias perverts law 
Just when you thought it was safe to practice your first amendment rights again, here comes Fox News to smite those who present views
-that contradict its own. The supposed culprit? Al Franken, who used the phrase "Fair and Balanced" in the title of his new book. Franken, a vocal left wing "nut" was Aaron sued by the Rupert Murdoch owned entity that Schlanser trademarked the phrase. Of course, upon examination the court docu­
The Houston

ments seemed more as though they were designed to promote the network than to pres­Daily Cougar ent any real grievances. 
And in the end, the case was dismissed as it was wholly without merit both legally and factually. So it seems that the behemoth has been defeated and good has prevailed once again. However, it just goes to show how conservatives try to suppress any that would oppose them. 
Last semester was my first at the university and reading the letters to the editor in The Daily Cougar was interesting to say the least. Most of them consisted of pleas to cease printing the columns of writers who leaned to the left, as well as accusations against the paper of being communist. The fear of communism has permeated the country since the Cold War and has given socialist leanings a bad name. As such, the slightest suggestion that a person's beliefs include a measure of social­ism meets with jeering and name-calling. 
I guess some of the conservatives are too busy being religious fanatics to spend time listening to opposing viewpoints. As is well known by now, Justice Roy Moore of the Alabama Supreme Court has become a hero of sorts to the Christian right. Despite being overruled on the state, federal and supreme level, he refuses to remove a huge stone monument that he secretly contracted to be built in the middle of the night bearing the Ten Commandments. He purports to be upholding a "higher law" that will not be overruled by the law of man. 
This is all fine and good, except that his job is to uphold the law of man. 
He's not a priest; he's a judge. If he takes it upon himself to declare the law irrelevant, then how can he continue to serve? How can he enforce the law upon others when he doesn't obey it himself? 
Just like the Fox News case, it's all about self-promotion. It might sur­prise some to find out that according to a local Alabama news source, in remarks he recently prepared, he mentioned God only 12 times, while mentioning himself 21 times. As long as his name is in the paper, I sup­pose that's good enough for him. It's funny how we as a nation denounce the Middle East for being in essence a theocracy, yet this sort of thing is celebrated. 
Woulcl. these people fight for the right to keep a giant statue of Buddha clearly visible in a courthouse? Somehow I doubt it. 
This column first appeared Aug. 24 in The Daily Cougar. the University ofHouston's student newspaper. and appears here courtesy ofU-Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
--------------------------------------::::-----------:----:--:-:------------~
--~ 
• 
Thursday, August 28, 2003
zes

page 12 



By C. SPENCER BEGGS Scene Movie Critic 

Among summer traditions, the blockbuster "event 
movie" has bf'come an American summer staple. 
Unfortunately, the 2003 roundup of blockbusters 
turned out flop after flop after flop. With special 
effects and production costs soaring to new heights, 
the quality of action flicks is starting to scrape rock 
bottom. 

The blockbuster season appeared to be off to a _good start with the release of X-Men 2: X-Men 
United. It is the follow up to the successful 2000 
adaptation of the Marvel comic series about a world 
filled with mutants with wonderful and terrifying 
powers. 

Breaking the Hollywood curse of sequels, director 
Bryan Singer managed to make X2 more compelling 
than his original film. X2 expanded upon the X-Men 
universe introducing many new characters like the 
tattooed teleporting demon Night Crawler (Alan 
Cummings) as well as expanding upon and integrat­
ing previously established plotlines. 

X2's action sequences were some of the best of the 
summer. The sequel was notably more violent than 
the first film in the series, which brought cheers 
from audiences as Wolverine (Hugh Jackman) actu­
ally used his claws to, well. claw people. 
After X2. the blockbuster season took a surprising 
nosedive with the much-anticipated The Matrix 
Reloaded. In the second of the man vs. machine sci-fi 
trilogy, Neo (Keanu Reeves) explores his god-like 
powers over the cyber reality of the Matrix as the 
machines begin burrowing their way to Zion, the 
haven of unplugged and freeborn humans. And, 
once again, Neo and co. must launch a daring rescue 
mission in the Matrix to save all humanity -blah ba 
blah-blah-blah. 

The Matrix Reloaded was filled with eye-popping 
CGI effects, but little else. Instead of taking risks with 
Scene looks at the good, the bad and the jusl 
the storyline, part of the reason the original film captivated audiences, the Wachowski brothers stuck to their original formula. Reloaded showed audiences a bigger Matrix world, but not really a better one -perhaps "reloaded" was a bit too apropos. 
Following the success of comic book heroes onscreen like Spider­man, Daredevil and X­Men, it was only a mat­ter of time before every­one's favorite green behemoth bashed his way onto the silver screen. 
The prospect of hav­ing veteran director Ang Lee at the helm of Hulk created a lot of early buzz about the movie. But the film never man­aged to shake the bad rep it picked up after the awkward CGI Hulk was previewed during the Super Bowl. 
Lee, who directed the action masterpiece 
Crouching Tiger. Hidden 
X-Men 2: X-Men Unite 
The Matrix Reloade, 
Hul~ 
Charlie's Angel! Full Throttl1 
Pirates of the Caribbea11 The Curse of the Black Pea1 
Terminator J Rise of the Machine The League~ Extraordinary Gentleme 
28 Days Late 
Bad Boys I 
Lara Croft Tomb Raide1 The Cradle of Lit 
"'·~-­
Freddy vs. Jaso 

Dragon, attempted to focus on the dark side of a mis­understood hero, but the idea didn't translate to film well. In the comic book version of the story, mild mannered scientist Bruce Banner gets zapped with radiation during an experiment that turns him into a muscle:bound green giant when he gets angry. Granted, the explanation of the Hulk's origin may seem a bit unexplained, but watching Lee grind through a redux of the back-story involving genetic modifications passed on to children, weapons experi­ments and an unnecessary Freudian twist with a creepy looking Nick Nolte as Banner's father was nothing short of torturous. 
To Lee's artistic credit, he used a number of inter­esting editing techniques to emulate the look and feel of a comic book. But Lee's artistic savvy couldn't wade through the tedious storyline and unsightly CGI. 
The next flick to try its hand at box office gold was Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle. Reuniting Cameron Diaz, Lucy Liu and Drew Barrymore as a team of pri­vate eyes working for the mysterious Charlie Townsend, Full Throttle proved to be a movie that maintained the status quo -a mindless status quo, but entertaining nonetheless. 
The plot and plot twists to Full Throttle proved to be essentially inconsequential, much like the origi­nal. Much of the appeal of the Charlie's Angels series has been its affable star power. Demi Moore bol­stered the already camera friendly cast this time around as the angel-gone-bad Madison Lee; Bernie Mac stepped up to fill Bill Murray's shoes as Bosley. Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle was entertaining, but a third outing might not be the charm for this fran­chise. 
One of the summer's best action movies came from an unlikely source. Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl was Disney's first PG-13 movie ever. But the kids company's gamble turned into big bucks banking on Johnny Depp's acting chops as Captain Jack Sparrow, a swaggering pirate with a penchant for daring escapes that never quite work out. 
Pirates was just plain fun. It was a pirate movie that used every pirate cliche in the book. Heck. 
Photo courtesy of Disney Johnny Depp's Captain Jack Sparrow from Pirates of the Caribbean was a breath of fresh air In a summer filled with lackluster and formulaic blockbusters. 
THE 0HSERVER 
• 

Thursday, August 28, 2003 

zes Page 13 

t plain awful flicks from the summer 

Disney wrote the book on pirate cliches. 
Of course, cliches can work against a film too. After 12 years Arnold Schwartzenegger returned to the fran­chise that made him famous. But for fans of the first two Terminator flicks, there's not much new in Terminator 3: Rise ofthe Machines . . 
Evil computers from the future senci a killer robot back in time to kill the leader of the human resistance, John Connor (Nick Stahl) and the humans send another reprogrammed killer robot to protect him. Last time they sent a shape shifting Terminator, this time they send a shape shift­ing Terminatrix (Kristianna Loken). 
Schwartzenegger tosses in a lackluster performance -he has more personality pre­tending he knows some­thing about politics. And 

even though the film has well choreographed action sequences, watching indestructible robots smash for each other for hours at a time gets really boring really fast. Remember when bullets were objects to be avoided? 
One of the summer's biggest stinkers. The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, also had a lot of real potential. Sean Connery stars as an aging adventur­er, Alan Quartermain, who is put in charge of a group of literary superheros in Victorian England to stop a stock B-movie madman hell bent on world domination. 
The premise is a PL" major's fantasy: Quatermain teams up with Captain Nemo, the Invisible Man, Tom Sawyer, Mina Harker, Dorian Gray and Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. But the shoddy acting and cumbersome script manage to suck the life out of any of the League's characters. Connery's days as an action star are long over. 
Sometimes, old ideas can be reused. What do you get when you cross Dawn of the Dead, The Stand, 12 Monkeys and Lord ofthe Flies? 28 Days Later. 
The breakout hit of the summer was released last November in the UK and has been steadily gaining momentum at the box office culminating in a double ending release earlier this month. 
28 Days Later doesn't really have any one great idea; it has more like five pretty good ideas. Shot in the UK. director Danny Boyle of Trainspotting fame shows ofT his keen eye for gorgeous and morbid cine­matography in this flesh-eating zombie blasting flick. 
Bad Boys II also breathed some much-needed life into the summer movie scene. Heuniting Will Smith and Martin Lawrence as the Oscar and Felix of the Miami P.D., Bad Boys II is a testament to why Jerry Bruckheimer is a master of producing action flicks. 
Although the plot was one of the most unnecessari­ly convoluted storylines to reach a mainstream action flick -something about Cuban ecstasy king­pins who employ KKK members-Bad Boys II truly had it all: great car chases. huge explosions, wild gunfights and lots of comic relief. With star power like Smith and Lawrence in its corner, Bad Boys II was sure fire. 
Angelina Jolie brought her bitch-in-boots back to the big screen in Lara Croft Tomb Raider: The Cradle of Life. Jolie may be one of Hollywood's hottest, but she couldn't stop Cradle from being lukewarm at best. Tomb Raider 2 plods along at a tediously slow pace and is almost exactly like the flrst one except set in different CGI locales. It's not that Cradle is the worst way to spend $10, but this is definitely better for a rainy day rental. 
If you go to Barnes & Noble and purchase a copy of How to Write a Movie Script in a Week, you'll get the gist of how S. WA. T was developed. In one sense the film was amazing because it managed to be the most generic action flick ever written. If you couldn't guess the plot twists in bomb, there's some beach­front property in Iowa you might be interested in. 
The only redeeming thing about S. WA. T was a seriously buffed L.L. Cool J; but despite his oiled, rock-hard abs, this movie "said mama's gonna knock you out." 
The final blockbuster of the season brought some much-needed hope and much-needed levity the sum­mer movie bustfest. 
Freddy vs. Jason settles that argument every 12­year-old guy had at sleepover at some point. Pitting dream killer Freddy Kruger of the A Nightmare on Elm Street franchise against hockey rpasked mutila­tor Jason Voorhees of the Friday the 13th franchise against each other in a no hold barred deathmatch was the perfect way to forget about a summer of lame movies. Freddy vs. Jason may be cheesy, but at least it knows it's cheesy. 
It may have been a bad year for the blockbuster, but perhaps studios will realize that moviegoers want more than bigger and better special effects. With box office takes down, hopefully studios will start producing action flicks with a bit more sub­stance-or maybe we'll all have to see other genres of summer event movies for anything decent. Oh wait, we forgot about Gigli. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu. 



Thursday, August 28, 2003 
page 14 The Observer+ CLASSIFIEDS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 



Wood's 11 K's not enough as Cubs blow lead 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Kerry Wood struck out 11 in seven shutout innings for Chicago, but the St. Louis Cardinals rallied against five Cubs relievers for a 4-2 vic­tory Wednesday night. 
Tino Martinez hit a tying, two­run single and St. Louis took the lead on Kyle Farnsworth's wild pitch in a four-run eighth. The Cardinals evened the series between NL Central contenders at a game apiece. 
The Cubs fell to 5-24 at Busch Stadium since the start of the 2000 season. Sammy Sosa drove in both runs for Chicago. 
Wood blanked the Cardinals on four hits and was pulled after 125 pitches. 
Albert Pujols singled off Antonio Alfonseca to start the eighth and Jim Edmonds fol­lowed with a single off Mark Guthrie. Farnsworth (3-1) walked Scott Rolen to load the bases before Martinez singled on a 1-1 pitch. 
On an 0-1 pitch to Edgar Renteria, Farnsworth threw a fastball in the dirt well in front of the plate and it bounced off catcher Damian Miller's chest protector as Rolen trotted in with the go-ahead run. 
Pinch-hitter Eduardo Perez drove in an insurance run with a bases-loaded groundout against Joe Borowski. Second baseman Ramon Martinez fumbled the ball, costing the Cubs a chance at an inning-ending double play. 
Steve Kline (5-5) got the last out in the eighth and Jason Isringhausen finished for his 15th save in 16 chances. 
Expos 9, Phillies 6 
Pinch-hitter Joe Vitiello sin­gled home the go-ahead run in the seventh inning as the Montreal Expos beat the Philadelphia Phillies 9-6 Wednesday night and closed within one game of the NL wild­card lead. 

Montreal has won four straight overall and eight in a row at home. The Expos led 6-1 in the seventh, but Pat Burrell hit an RBI double and Marlon Byrd tied in the score with his first career grand slam. The homer came against Hector Almonte (1-1), who got his first major league win. 
Endy Chavez hit a two-out double off Dan Plesac (2-1) in the bottom half and Vitiello, hit­ting for Almonte, lined a single to right for a 7-6 lead as the crowd of 20,105 cheered. Brian Schneider added a two-run dou­ble in the eighth off Carlos Silva. 
Philadelphia has lost five straight and fell to 1-8 on a sea­son-high, 13-game trip. 
Montreal's Vladimir Guerrero hit his 19th homer and went 3­for-4 with two RBis, falling a triple short of the cycle. Rocky Biddle got four outs for his 31st save in 37 chances. 
Phillies reliever Turk Wendell was ejected by plate umpire Brian O'Nora in the eighth after hitting Guerrero in the eighth with a pitch, a batter after Wendell hit Jose Vidro. 
Philadelphia manager Larry Bowa sprinted from the dugout to argue with O'Nora and crew chief Jerry Crawford, who had ejected Phillies backup catcher Todd Pratt from the dugout in the first. 
Expos starter Torno Ohka allowed four runs and six hits in 6 1-3 innings. Philadelphia's Brett Myers gave up five runs and 10 hits in five innings. 
Pirates 4, Marlins 0 
Kip Wells and two relievers shut out the slumping Florida 
Marlins and Jason Bay had two 
key hits in his Pittsburgh debut, 
leading the Pirates to a 4-0 vic­
tory. 

For the second straight night, the Marlins could do nothing against a Pirates starter pitching out of order. A night after spot starter Pat Mahomes held them hitless for four innings, Wells ­moved up in the rotation follow­ing the Brian Giles trade -lim­ited them to two singles in six innings. 
The Marlins managed only 
three hits total and have just 
seven in losing the first two of 
the three-game seriPs to the 
trade-depleted Pirates, who had 
lost four straight and nine of 13 
entering the series. 

Florida has lost seven of eight 
on a road trip to Colorado, San 
Francisco and Pittsburgh that 
ends Thursday, scoring more 
than four runs only once. 

As promised, manager Jack 
McKeon" jumbled his batting 
order, hitting Ivan Rodriguez 
sixth for only the second time 
and flip-flopping Juan Pierre 
and Luis Castillo at the top of the 
order. Castillo and Pierre singled 
in succession in the third off _Wells, but Juan Encarnacion ­
hitting third for only the ninth 
time -grou~ded out to end the 
inning. 

Weils (6-7) struck out seven 
and walKed two to end a three­
game losing streak and win for 
the first time in five starts since 
beating San Diego on July 30. 
Astros 6, Dodgers 1 

Jeff Bagwell be•.:ame the 13th 
player in major league history to 
hit 30 or more homers in eight 
consecutive seasons, and the 
Houston Astros beat the Los 
Angeles Dodgers 6-1 Wednesday 
night. 

Houston won its third straight 
and increased its NL Central 

le&d to one game. Los Angeles has lost four in a row but rema.ined two games back in the crowded NL wild-card race. 
Bagwell hit a three-run homer in a a four-run first inning, the 41Oth home run of his career. 
Wade Miller (11-11) won for the fourth time in five decisions, allowing an unearned run and seven hits in seven innings. 
Shortstop Adam Everett helped Miller out of trouble in the first. With two on and two outs, Adrian Beltre hit a grounder up the middle that Everett gloved and threw to first for the inning's final out. 
Hideo Nomo (15-10) gave up six runs -five earned -seven hits and four walks in five innings. 
Houston, which had 17 hits in Tuesday's 18-4 rout, took a 4-0 lead in the first on Bagwell's homer and Lance Berkman's RBI double, a long drive to the center-field hill. 
The Observer accepts classific:ds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifaeds for content without is~uing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Tutor for a 5th/8th grader. Mon­ 1997 MERCURY GRAN MARQUIS  Spring Break 2004 with  
NOTICES  Thurs 2 hrs. daily. Paid weekly. Call Sarang ASAP Hm 574-272-1003  EXCELLENT CONDITION, LOADED GREAT CONDITION ONE  FoR RENT  TICKETS  StudentCity com and Maxim Magazine! Get hooked up with  
Wk574-247C0242.  OWNER $5,500  Free Trips, Cash and VIP status as  
a Campus Rep! Choose from 15 of  
PART-TIME WORK EXCELLENT  Wanted: Exceptionally dependable  (WnOLESALE PRICE) 282-2228  One bedroom apt. in home on a  NO FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL.  the hottest destinations. Book early  
PAY WWW.WORKFORSTU­ babysitter with own car for 2 girls  lake. 10 min. drive from NO.  CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR  for FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS  
DENTS.COM  ages 7 and 5 on Tues. and Wed.  Octagon multi-use poker table with  Furnished, parking. Postgrad stu- TOLL FREE 877·773·3911.  and 1 50% Lowest Price  
from 2pm til 7:30pm. Sitter will pick  hard top, $25. Antiqued green din- dents only. No cigarettes, no alco- Guarantee! To reserve online or  
STUDENT WORK. $11.50 base- girls up from school and transport to  ing set, includes dropleaf table with  hoi, no party, '10 pet. $400/mo.  TOP$$$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX  view our Photo Gallery, visit  
appt. Flex.pt hrs. Cust.svc/sales. No  our home, both located by UP Mall.  three extra leaves, 4 chairs; china  (574)277-0189. Deposit &  OR INDIVIDUAL GAMES. DISCRE- www.studentcity.com  
D-T-0/No Telemkt. Fun work  $6.00/hour. Call Laurie at  cabinet and buffet, $200. 2 reclinirog  References required.  TION ASSURED. 654-8018.  or Call 1-888-SPRINGBREAK!  
schol./interns. cond. apply. work  574-271-0389.  chairs, 1 gold & 1 tan, $25 each.  
..  w/other students 574-282-2357  Yamaha organ with pull down  Furnished apt. close to NO. 1 bdrm,  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED  Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America  
www.earnparttime.com  Need babysitter M,W,Th for 2nd  top & bench, $150. 42" round oak  no smoking or pets $425/mo.  -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378  s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring  
grade boy after school & evenings.  coffee table, $100. Sleeper sofa,  utilities included.  PM 288-2726  campus reps. Call for discounts:  
2 spayed female hound puppies •or  Reliable car needed (will need to  $30. Winged chair (floral), $25.  800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  
adoption. 4 months old, very sweet  take child to activities).  Desk with 7 drawers, $10. G'een  255-1738.  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  
and CUTE!  lamp table, $5. Microwave oven,  SALE AM -232-2378  Welcome back to campus Joanna.  
www.petsconnect.org or call  Call574·210·31421ve name & no.  $10. Toaster oven, $15.  2-bdrm apts. $435/mo plus utilities.  PM -288-2726  
 
233-3190.  Interviews done ASAP.  2-story, 4 bdrm, 2 full baths. Avail.  It's time tor the DisCharge.  
Call 272-1784.  immediately.  Help! I need 2 tix to every N D home  
Wanted:D.J. For Saturday Nights 9­ football game.  Is it ethical to prostitute yourself to  
WANTED  3 For Local Nite Club.  Mazda 90 Miata MX5, 48,500 miles, 5-speed,Hard&Soft Top, Tonnoue  273-4555.  Please call 288-2877.  50-year-old men for free drinks? Hey, as long as I'm drinking free I  
Call287-7379.  Cover,Custom Red,$9,900.  Bed&Breakfast within walking dts­ guess Louisianan morals rule.  
WANTED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  lance of NO Former Moose Krause  TRADE (2) Wash. St. OR (2) Florida  
TOP DOLLAR PAID (574)232-0964  Babysitter/playmate wanted tor tod­ 258-0520.  House. Rooms available for  St. for (2) USC. USC nx must be  Safety?  
dler,(8.30-1.30), flexible days if  Washington State, FSU,  together. Face-value trade.  
Do you miss your family pet? PET  needed, in NO profs home, very  For sale: 8ft couch almost new.  BYU.$130/night. 232-9750  Well, The Dude abides.  
REFUGE, a no-kill shelter just 10  close to campus $7 an hour; own  Floral print.  .  C:all Rachael 634-0830.  
minutes from campus, urgently  car needed. Phone 287 8843,  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  It's nice to know he's out there. .The  
needs VOLUNTEERS and FOS- or 631 0456.  Can deliver to campus. $300 cash.  CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM  NEED FS TIX FOR FAMILY. WILL  Dude. Takin' it easy for all us  
TEAS for its CATS and DOGS.  Call1-5766  MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM  TRADE 50YD LN 2NAVY, 2BYU,  sinners.  
Please call 256-0886, email web­ 272-1525  OR 3 TOGETHER MS  
master@ petrefuge.com, or visit www.petrefuge.com.  FoR SALE  Walk to NO, 3 BR, 2 Bath, 1500 SF, HUGE Garage, New Roof, A/C,  FOR RENT: 3-bedroom home 1  TIX. 289-1993  How 'bout some barbecue?  
Furnace, Carpet &Kitchen. 1719  mile from NO. Garage, alarm sys·  How 'bout them Cubbies?  
Child care for two lovely daughters (ages 5 and 9 months). Mom works  FOR SALE ND FOOTBALL TICK­ETS LOWEST PRICES  Derwood Dr $119,900.  tern, A/C. Available lmmed. $650/mo.  PERSONAL  Their playoff hopes ...and  
Wed and Thurs evenings; Dad (NO  (574)233-9947  dreams...all gone.  
Thee prof) needs help with kids and  (574)251-1570  Call220-0499 or 614·353-5889.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
dinner prep. Preferred hours: 3-8  OAKHILL CONDO FORSALE! 2  not go it alone. If you or someone  They're like the Viet Cong ... Varmint  
pm, but negotiable. Open to teams  FURNITURE FOR SALE  BEDROOMS, 2 FLOORS WON T  2-bdrm house close to ND.  you love needs confidential support  Gong.  
of friends to cover different times.  LAST LONG!  269-699-5841 .  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  
Pay $8/hr plus dinner. Close to  Couch,loveseat,2 end tables,2  Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For  My meat on your grill.  
campus. Contact 288-6732 or  lamps,beige-western-style, $400.  574 243.3911 OR 574.532.0956  3-6 BDRM HOMES.AVAIL. NOW &  more information, see our bi-weekly  
Whitmore.1 @nd edu  282-1979,5:30p.m.-10:30p.. m.  LEAVE MESSAGE1  04/05.FURN.272-6306  ad in The Observer.  Peace outside.  
•  

page 15

Thursday, August 28, 2003 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Buy a bundle, get a bundle back. 
$300 oft everything you need for schc)oL 


For a Hrnited tirne, buy any ~i1a< laptop together \Nith any iPod., and any eHg.ible HP .printer~ and vve~H take $300 off the already~discounted education price.)\" 



Another great offer when you buy a Mac. 

Buy any fv1ac i~nd get Ff.na~ Cut E~:.press; for only 599 ....., an Jn~~tont. s.~\~·inqs of $200, 
-


Back to school basics, available from Apple. 
' ,.. ' .. :>) "'1 I "

I~~ d:OO!tt.on to-~~---~~ to ~y-:~1 rHsccunt~~ on rno~t Appl·t? 
produ( b, you t:.dn buy aH the 



Mh~D $}$l't~?<.1,.-3 0 t~?<lfl ~w 1?-H'l~f 
~-~~~(~ ·-; ~) 



illt. (rr_>,<rW:l~ Spe~ker!O ':i. :.~9nn 


f;:tlf!.4 tt:oh~~ c~J't(dr 


No~r~ 'Ji:l ~"'*""'·~ Cmrg:w~~f P?f~d~.J·:f.::t~ S1nr"P.!: 


L6 GHz .. $lt799 
:·~-.~~·A=="~-·~$~~~~~-!~:~~ lw' <::=·% ;S(l ~<-:: H:::.
R.oorn r12 Inforrnation Technology Center 
Dual 2A) GH:z .. $2,699
http://:solution~nd ..edu,l 

ir-.=du.i~l:S. ::;!.:.~~·~·t3! l·-=~, -~·'"iC !f.;' -:.>l~ ·-i~.~ 
574-631-7477 

~----------------------­
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, August 28, 2003 
1--AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Walker's home run completes Red Sox rally 
Associated Pres!> 
BOSTON -Todd Walker hit a tiebreaking homer in the sev­enth inning as the Boston Red Sox overcame a three-run deficit and beat the Toronto Blue Jays 6-3 Wednesday night for their sixth win in seven games. 
With the score 3-all, Walker connected on an 0-2 pitch from Roy Halladay (17 -6) for a two­run homer. He became the ninth Boston player with 10 or more homers, a Red Sox first. 

t.. David Ortiz added an eighth­inning solo homer for Boston, which tied the game in the fifth on a three-run homer by Jason Varitek, who has a career-high 79 RBis. The Red Sox had 11 hits, their eighth straight game with 10 or more. Mike Timlin (6-4) pitched one scoreless inning, and Byung­Hyun Kim got four outs for his 11th save in 14 chances. John Burkett gave up three runs and seven hits in six innings. Boston began the night five games behind the New York Yankees in the AL East. In the wild-card race, the Red Sox were one game behind Oakland and Seattle, who shared the AL West lead. Halladay, tied with Chicago's Esteban Loaiza for the AL lead in wins, allowed all six runs and 11 hits in 7 2-3 innings. He gave up three homers for the first 
time since April 2 5 against Kansas City. 
White Sox 11, Yankees 2 
Roberto Alomar and Frank Thomas homered in Chicago's seven-run fourth inning as the White Sox routed David Wells and the New York Yankees 11-2. 
Alomar drove in four runs with a two-run homer that capped the fourth-inning outburst and a two-run double in the sixth that chased Wells, who was charged with a season-high 10 runs. 
Bartolo Colon struck out a sea­son-high 10, and the AL Central­leading White Sox got 15 hits in winning for the eighth time in nine games. 
The Yankees' AL East lead over Boston, which was 7 1/2 games last Thursday, was cut to four. After Thursday's series finale, New York visits Fenway Park for a three-game series. 
Thomas, who went 3-for-5, started the uprising in the fourth with a solo shot into the first row of seats in left field, quite differ­ent from Tuesday when his grand slam hit high off the foul pole in a 13-2 win. 
Chicago's 24 runs the last two nights are the most by a visiting team at Yankee Stadium since the White Sox won 10-9 and 17­4 on June 17-18, 2000. 
Alomar has avoided the New York media in his first trip back to the city since being dealt by the Mets last month. But he brought loud groans from fans, who booed him each time up, by ripping a two-run homer to left that gave the White Sox a 7-2 lead. 
Chicago pounded two homers, a triple and three doubles in the fourth off Wells (12-5), who has just one victory since the All-Star break. The left-hander had won six of eight decisions but is 0-2 in his last six starts. 
Indians 9, Tigers 7 

Jody Gerut drove in four runs while Coco Crisp had four hits and scored four runs to lead the Cleveland Indians over the Detroit Tigers 9-7. 
The Tigers hit a season-high five homers, but once again failed to win consecutive road games. They have not won two straight on the road since June 3-4 at San Diego. 
Gerut hit a two-run homer and a two-run double and Matt Lawton drove in three runs with three singles. 
Crisp went 4-for-5 -all sin­gles-stole a base, and became the first Indians player to score four times in a game since Roberto Alomar on Sept. 19, 2001. 
Jack Cressend (2-0) pitched 1 2-3 scoreless innings and David Riske worked the ninth for his fourth save. 
The Tigers rallied from a 6-1 deficit with a five-run fifth inning that featured three homers off Terry Mulholland. 

Brandon Inge began the bar­rage with his seventh homer. Dan Klassen added a two-run shot, his first homer since June 26, 2000. and Dmitri Young tied it with a two-run drive, his 26th. 
Mulholland made his first start since last Sept. :J.3. The 40-year­old left-hander worked in 39 games in relief this year, but was called upon when scheduled starter Jason Davis developed tendinitis in his right shoulder. 
>(_ 
. ,r­







Congregation of Holy Cross 
Join us as our brothers in Holy Cross celebrate their perpetual profession of vows and consecrate themselves to Christ forever: 

Final vows class from left to right, bottom row: Chuck Witschorik, C.S.C., Dan Parrish, .C.S.C., Ralph Haag, C.S.C.; top row: Neil Wack, C.S.C., Lou DelFra, C.S.C., Andy Sebesta, C.S.C., Michael Wurtz, C.S.C. 
Saturday, August 30, 2003 Sacred Heart Basilica 1:30 p.m. 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 
Thursday, August 28, 2003 page 17 
The Observer + SPORTS 
US OPEN TENNIS 

Davenport feeling hopeful 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK Lindsay Davenport is replacing thoughts of retirement with hope for a U.S. Open title. 
If her injured left foot holds up, she just might pull it off. 
Davenport, the only past Open champion in the women's field, didn't play perfectly Wednesday night, but she played well enough to put together a 6-2, 6-4 victory against overmatched Maria Elena Camerin, an Italian ranked 92nd. 
"The main thing is, my foot didn:t hurt, and I'm on to the third round. You always want to be doing things better and better at Grand Slams," Davenport said, and she knows what she's talking about, hav­
ing won  three such tourna­ 
ments.  
Roger  Federer,  too,. now  

knows what it feels like to take to the court as a Grand Slam champion. Kim Clijsters, still getting used to seeing "No. 1" next to her name, would love to be the proud owner of a major title, too. 
Accustomed to shaky starts at Slams, Federer lost the first set of his U.S. Open, then took con­trol against Jose Acasuso and eventually advanced to the sec­ond round when the Argentine quit because of pain in his groin and back. The official score was 5-7, 6-3, 6-3, 2-0, ret. 
Clijsters followed in Arthur Ashe Stadium and had a much easier time, beating Laura Granville of Chicago 6-1, 6-1 to get to the third round. 
"If it's in their head they're playing the No. 1, maybe that's a little bit intimidating," Clijsters said. "On the other hand, that could even be also more motivating as well. I think it depends on the character of your opponent." 
On a day of few surprises, the man Federer beat in the Wimbledon final, No. 20-seeded Mark Philippoussis, won his first-round match, as did 2002 Wimbledon runner-up David Nalbandian, No. 7 Carlos Moya, and No. 10 Jiri Novak. Philippoussis, also the finalist at the 1998 U.S. Open, pounded 20 aces to beat Janko Tipsarevic 6-2, 7-6 (4). 6-4. 
U.S. Davis Cup player James Blake played later. 
Women's winners included No. 5 Amelie Mauresmo, No. 9 Daniela Hantuchova, French Open semifinalist Nadia Petrova, No. 14 Amanda Coetzer, and No. 13 Vera Zvonareva, who eliminated U.S. teenager Ashley Harkleroad 6­3, 4-6, 6-1 thanks in part to a 37-16 edge in winners. 
In the second set, Harkleroad screamed at the chair umpire after what she thought was a series of missed calls. 
"You can never be my chair umpire again! That's horrible!" Harkleroad yelled. 
Conchita Martinez, the 1994 Wimbledon champion, No. 18 Patty Schnyder and No. 28 Lisa Raymond were beaten. Raymond, Davenport's doubles partner, lost 4-6, 6-4, 6-1 to Melinda Czink, who never before had won a Grand Slam match. Czink's next cpponent? Davenport, whose quarter of the draw already has seen four seeded players lose. 
On Wednesday, Davenport won in straight sets again despite putting in just 46 per­cent of her first serves and making more unforced errors than winners, 23-22. And then there's the nerve problem in her left foot. on which she'll have surgery after the tourna­ment, ending her season. 
The injury forced her to quit at the French Open, curtailed her at Wimbledon, and caused her to stop during the second set against Jennifer Capriati in the final of a tuneup event Saturday. Davenport got an injection later that day, and now is relying on ice and tape. 
"Hopefully, as more days go by, if it doesn't flare up, I'll be more and more confident of pushing off it and not really worrying about it," she said. "More than anything, each day that goes by, I just have to keep ... playing the type of tennis that it's going to take to win the tournament, not necessarily just win matches." 
Not long ago, she was talking about quitting altogether. After losing to Yen us Williams at Wimbledon last month. Davenport said, "It definitely ran through my mind when I was out there that that could be my last singles" match at the Ali England Club. 
In France and England, Davenport said Wednesday, she was "just really frustrated deal­ing with another injury, anoth­er surgery, another layoff. It takes its toll mentally. But I'm really happy I stuck around this summer." 

·------------------------------------· 
I 

: I Have you thought-about : I teaching Religion and 
I 

: I becoming a Catechist? 


i I C-M 
: Campus Ministry 
I I * Do you enjoy working with children or adolescents? : * Can you give one-two hours ofyour tinte each week? 1 * Do you welcottU? the challenge to articulate and share yourfaith? I * Wtluld you like to be a "'aluable asset to a local parish? : * lVould you like to work towards catechist cert{fication? 
I I I 
: If you can answer YES to any or all of these questions., 
1 come find out more about being a Reli~:ion Teacher or 
: Retreat Team Leader I I I I
• Important Information Meeting:
I 
: Thursday, Septe1nber 4 : 5:00-6:00 P.M. ·: Room 330 Colenza1z-Morse Center 
I I I 
I 
: I : I I I 
I 
!I I 
I I 
: I 
I 
: 
I I I 
: II 
I I I I 
1 
I 
: : : 
I 
I 
I 
!...f...aJL-!<.!.~1!.2!:§-r!':i!.I!U~!l-~t-~t.:zl~~---! 
MLB 


Braves being cautious with Smaltz's elbow 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA -Atlanta Braves closer John Smoltz went on the disabled list Wednesday with tendinitis in his right elbow, probably derailing his chances. of breaking the sin­gle-season save record. 
Team physician Dr. Joe Chandler stressed several times that the condition is not serious, and said Smoltz is not expected to have any lingering effects when he returns Sept. 8. 
To take his place in the bullpen. the Braves recalled lefty ·Jung Keun Bong from Triple-A Richmond. 
Smoltz, who had reconstruc­tive surgery on his right elbow in 2000, will rest completely for seven days. 
"This is an enforced period of rest that John otherwise wouldn't take," Chandler said. "This takes it out of his hands. This is not a serious prob­lem." 
A year after setting the NL record with 55 saves, Smoltz has a major league-best 44 this season and was on pace to beat the all-time mark of 57 set in 1990 by Bobby Thigpen. 
The Braves have the best record in the majors at 84-4 7, and they have a 14-game lead in the NL East. 
"This is classic tendinitis," said Smaltz, who's had prob­lems warming up because of the ailment. "You have to do more to pitch less. 
"I want to pitch in the post­season at my best. If this was a four-game lead, I wouldn't be doing this. This is a luxury thing." 
Chandler took Smoltz to see orthopedic surgeon Dr. James Andrews in Birmingham, Ala., earlier Wednesday. After an examination that included an MRI test, Andrews made the diagnosis. 
To help with his recovery, Smoltz got a cortisone shot in the elbow. It's the third time since he returned from sur­gery in 2000 that Smoltz has gone on the DL with tendini­tis, but the first time since 2001. 
"You can't replace a guy like Smoltz," rookie starter Horacio Ramirez said. "Smoltz is Smoltz. He did say some­thing about his elbow, but he'd go out there and throw 97 miles an hour and you fig­ured he's fine." 
Smoltz is 0-2 this season with an ERA of 0.89 and three blown· saves. He hasn't pitched since Saturday in Colorado, when he struck out the side in the ninth for his 44th save. 
"That's the frustrating part, because I consider this one of the best years I've ever had," Smoltz said. ''I'll just end it on a different note, that's all." 
Last week, in a tight three­game series in San Francisco, Smoltz never got to pitch as the Giants won all three in their final swing. Twice, Barry Bonds hit game-ending homers. 
USA BASKETBALL 

Mexico hangs with 
U.S. during 1st half 
Associated Press 

SAN JUAN. Puerto Rico ­Strange things happen at international basketball tour­naments, and there were plenty of them -including· Mexico being within five points of the U.S. team in the second half-on a wacky Wednesday at the Tournament of the Americas. 
Mexico, which lost by 74 points to a team of U.S. pro­fessionals at the 2001 Gooqwill Games, trailed just 52-47 early in the third quar­ter as the Americans had their sloppiest game of the Olympic qualifying tournament but won 96-69. 
Earlier, Venezuela shocked Argentina 97-92, Canada beat the Dominican Republic 78-75 and Puerto Rico locked up a semifinal berth by defeating Brazil 72-70 in three games that featured weird and wild endings. 
The most shocking thing about the Mexico-U.S. game was that it didn't become a blowout until the fourth quar­ter. Mexico led 26-1 9 after one quarter, surrendered a 13-0 run in the second quar­
ter and never truly had a 
chance to win in the second 
half. 

Two jumpers by Allen Iverson and a fast-break layup by Jason Kidd highlight­ed a 10-0 run that gave the Americans a 62-47 lead, and the U.S. team eventually led b)' as many as 30 points. 
"We had some good points in that game and some bad points," Iverson said. "We played good enough to win, that's the most important thing." 
Venezuela came up with several key steals in the final minutes and closed the game with an 18-2 run to hand Argentina its third loss of the tournament. 
Barring a victory by Puerto Rico over the U.S. team in the final game of the second round, Argentina needs to defeat the Dominican Republic on Thursday to avoid a semifinal matchup with the United States on Saturday, when two of the three avail­able berths in the Athens Olympics will be earned. A third berth will be awarded to the team that wins the third­place game Sunday. 

page 18 Thursday, August 28, 2003
The Observer + SPORTS 
~-NCAA BASKETBALL 
Dotson indicted on Dennehy murder charge 

Associated Press 
WACO. Texas -Former Baylor basketball player Carlton Dotson was indicted Wednesday on a charge of murdering his former teammate and roommate Patrick Dennehy, and prosecutors began the process of extraditing him to Texas. 
The grand jury heard evidence for about 90 minutes before handing up an indictment against Dotson, who has been jailed in his home state of Maryland since his July 21 arrest. 
The indictment, which contained a single murder count, alleges Dotson

' 
shot Dennehy on or around June 1-2. Dennehy's body was found in a field southeast of town July 25. 
He had been shot twice in the head, according to an autopsy report. 
District Attorney John Segrest and other law enforcement officials have refused to discuss motive, which is not mentioned in the one-page indictment. The maximum penalty for the murder count is life in prison. 
Segrest's office on Wednesday 

began the paperwork to formalize a request to Gov. Rick Perry's office to seek Dotson's extradition. If Dotson continues to contest extradition, a judge in Maryland will schedule a hearing. 
"How long it will take to secure his presence here is o.nybody's guess," Segrest said. 
Dotson's lawyers could not be immediately reached for comment. 
The grand jury met twice, Segrest said. Dotson's estranged wife Melissa Kethley testified Aug. 13, and McLennan County sheriff's investiga­tor Clay Perry and Waco police detective Bob Fuller testified Wednesday. 
Kethley's mother, Pam Bayuk, said the family had been expecting the indictment. 
"We just didn't know why it took so long," Bayuk said Wednesday. 
Kethley has said 3he last saw her husband when he drove Dennehy's vehicle to visit her in Sulphur Springs the night of June 12 -the same day Dennehy was last seen on campus.· 
1!5.20 '*Jl(ta,f. tJIHf. 
l!l~""K>\ ::w~ 
r57"!1-i5tl-'4l8!l 
nms rtt::~~-s1.~~~'c411 man·Tlltn•·SPm • m.$liT: u••tm 
.··~:~lJW.!~· ~)cal' ;~-;a ::C..· <r-~~~--•••.•.•~-~-r.~~'t1 ~:~; 


The Career Center 




SENIOR ''KICK-OFF'' 
Thursday, August 28, 7:00pm @ Stepan Center 
Attendance Mandatory StudentLD. Required 

Career Center Services 
• 
Job Search Strategies 

• 
Sign up for Mock Interviews 

• 
Learn more about Graduate School 

• 
''City Tours" 


• 
Learn about upcoming workshops and events 

• 
Meet Career Counselors representing your major 




Sponsored by Progressive Auto Insurance "'.,. 
jobs.progressive.com I J ill ~ponsored by: The Career Center, 248 Flanner Phone; 631·5200 Website: careercenter.nd~ed~ 
Thursday, August 28, 2003 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Peppers reluctantly accepting Carolina fame 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -Julius Peppers is too big-time to still shop at Wal-Mart, and he's too small town to have a wild night with his rapper buddies at the Grammy Awards. 
The budding NFL star is still feeling his way through fame, trying hard to settle into Charlotte. A standout defensive end on a Carolina Panthers team that lacks offensive stars, Peppers may be the city's biggest sports celebrity right now. 
"When we go to the mall, sometimes I feel bad for him," said running back DeShaun Foster, one of Peppers' closest friends on the team. "It's like one person sees him, and word spreads and he gets totally mobbed. 
"It's not like he can hide, because he's too big. So he just patiently signs everything, and then we get out of there." 
Peppers is an enormous fish ­6-foot-7, 285 pounds-in a very small ·pond. But he's quiet, almost shy, and doesn't have much interest in cashing in on his celebrity status. 
In some ways, he's an unas­suming child in a man's body and doesn't quite understand why he's such a big deal. · "It's kind of hard for me to go anywhere in Charlotte because I draw a lot of crowds," he said, taking one of his trademark long pauses to think about his answer. ·'And I don't really get why. I guess I really just don't see myself in a famous light. 
"Other people around me see it, but I'm just me. I like to play video games, watch TV and go to the movies. That's about it." 
Charlotte has never really had a marquee athlete, and current­ly counts NASCAR stars among its most famous residents. 
Big names have come through the small city -Alonzo Mourning, Vlade Divac and Larry Johnson all played here for the now-departed Hornets. But all went on to bigger things in the bright lights of Miami, Los Angeles and New York. 
For the Panthers, about to begin their ninth season, Kerry Collins made a small splash on the nightlife scene early in his career, but tight end ·wesley Walls was the only player with any celebrity staying power. 
That leaves Chris Leak, a freshman quarterback at Florida who set national high school records while playing in the Queen City, as Charlotte's most celebrated athlete. 
Peppers is about to change that. whether he wants to or not. 
When the Panthers took the North Carolina standout second overall in the 2002 draft, he already had a following with many of the team's fans, having starred at nearby Chapel Hill. 
Then he earned NFL Defensive 
Rookie of the Year honors, get­
ting 12 sacks in the 12 games he 
played. Peppers probably would 
have done more, but was sus­
pend-ed from the final four 
games of the season for testing 
positive for an illegal supple­
ment. 

In the time he did play, the 
native of tiny Bailey, east of 
Raleigh, attracted an impressive 
fan base that stretches far 
beyond the Panthers' faithful 
and fathers who want their sons 
to grow into strong defensive 
linemen. 

Now, he's on the verge of becoming Charlotte's first super­star, its first athlete to draw ·widespread attention outside the 
Carolinas. 

Peppers is considered an A-list 
athlete among A-list celebrities. 
But if he's impressed by the 
doors it has opened for him, he 
doesn't let on. 

He had a prominent role in 
one of Nelly's videos, and now 
considers the St. Louis-based 
rapper a friend: "I know his 
crew pretty good." 

He attended the Grammy Awards: "I mean, you go to the Grammys when you get asked. It was cool, it was all right. It was­n't all that." 
And he got great seats at a Mike Tyson fight: "Going to fights are cool, I guess." 


It's not. 

How smart is this: All the textbooks you need for up to 60% off retail prices. And all you have to do is go to half.com and type in the book titles, or ISBI\I numbers. Bring on the quantum physics. 

fcom~ 

bvdJIY' 
Same textbooks. Smarter prices. 
•A~ootffag~ •etail prict:: of;. ne'<h coll~e textbvok: $73 based on 2001 tictiG from Fu:lett Corp.. Assoc•aled Press. 1121.\JZ. Average Hatf...:om coneoe textbOok prir.e: S26 [lased on Site st.:lll•st•cs. Jdn<.~ary 200::1 lopyr•Qtlt .tOOJ Half com. Inc All rt9hts re:::et"Ved. Half.com a .. d the Half com logo •re arildemarks of Hilf.com. Inc. eF\o11y ind the eBav logo are reg1stt>red trademarks of eea.,.. tnc. 

----~-------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Thursday, August 28, 2003 COl\1PILED FRO!vtl~HT OBSERVER \VIRE SERVICES Page 20 


~. 
~... 

around the dial 
PRO TENNIS 
U.S. Open, 10 a.m., 6 p.m., USA 
TRACK AND FIELD World Championships, 1 :30 p.m., ESPN2 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Miami at Louisiana Tech, 6:30p.m., ESPN Georgia Tech at BYU, 8:30p.m., ESPN2 
MLB White Sox at Yankees, 12 p.m., ESPN Mets at Braves, 6:30p.m., TBS 
WNBA Charlotte at Connecticut, 6 p.m., ESPN2 
EXTREME SPORTS X Games IX, 3 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 



Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-Larry Bird insisted he took his new job with an open mind about the future of coach Isiah Thomas. 
The Indiana Pacers' pres­ident of basketball opera­tions needed only seven weeks to come to a deci­sion. 
Bird wasted little time in making his first major move, firing Thomas on Wednesday and immediate­ly tapping former assistant Rick Carlisle as his succes­sor. 
"I just had a gut feeling this wasn't going to work," Bird said of a surprise move that came only two months before the start of the sea­son. 

Bird said he didn't feel comfortable with the Pacers' direction after a second-half swoon that knocked them out of first place in the Eastern Conference and into third. 
Bird also said there were other problems with Thomas, who was with the 
U.S. men's basketball team at the Olympic qualifying tournament in Puerto Rico earlier this week. 
"! spoke to him one day in a meeting, and I talked to him one day on the phone. The communication wasn't really there," Bird said. 
Carlisle and Bird 's rela­tionship dates to the 1980s when the two were team­mates with the Boston Celtics. Carlisle also was an assistant for Bird from 1997-2000, but was passed over by current Pacers CEO Donnie Walsh in favor of Thomas. 
Carlisle spent the past two seasons as coach of the Detroit Pistons before being fired in May. Carlisle spoke with Bird on Tuesday night and said he was interested. 
"He's my first choice," Bird said. 
Bird said he would have fired Thomas even if Carlisle was not available. 
Bird and Thomas were 
-~ 
,_ 
·" ~ 
~ 
"\: 
' 
·' 
\' 

contentious rivals from their days of leading the Boston Celtics and Detroit Pistons to NBA titles in the 1980s. 
When he was hired July 11, Bird walked off the podium at a news confer­ence and shook hands with Thomas -but neither smiled. 
The Pacers were 131-115 in the regular season under Thomas, making the play­offs all three seasons but never advancing past the first round. Speculation swirled toward the end of the season that Thomas would not be back for the final year of his four-year contract. 

IN BRIEF 
Uma placed on disabled list 
due to injured groin 
KANSAS CITY -Kansas City Royals pitcher Jose Lima was placed on the 15-day disabled list with a strained groin for the second time this season Wednesday. 
The Royals also added outfielder Rondell White to the roster. He was acquired Tuesday from· the San Diego Padres. 
Lima won his first seven decisions after he was signed out of the inde­pendent Atlantic League, but was 0-1 with a 10.13 ERA in two starts since coming ofT the disabled list. 
General manager Allard Baird said he was unsure who would take Lima's next scheduled start Saturday against Anaheim. 
"We'll make a decision for Saturday, whether that would be a waiver claim. a trade or in-house," Baird said. "We feel our chances with whoever toes the mound for Saturday is a better bet to contribute than an 80 percent Jose Lima. " 

Baird said Lima would be eligible to come off the DL on Sept. 8 and might miss just two starts. 
"We're looking at the waiver wire and we're also talking to clubs," Baird 
~aid. 
White was immediately put to work, batting sixth and playing left field for the AL Central leaders against Texas on Wednesday night. . 
White was hitting .278 with a team­leading 66 RBis for the Padres. He had 18 home runs. 
"I've been watching these guys on TV. You can't help but get fired up," White said. "It's a great situation for me. I'm just going to relax, try to drive in some runs and hopefully help these guys win their division." 
''I'm just going to try to fill in. I hope things work out," White said. 
Pappas wins big at World 
Championships 
SAINT-DENIS, Francr -It was a painstakingly slow, yet totally sweet, victory lap. 
With an American flag draped over his shoulders, Tom Pappas gingerly walked and lightly jogged around the track on which he had just wrapped up his world title in the decathlon. 
He became the only American other than three-time champion Dan O'Brien to win the event, which tradi­tionally crowns the "world's greatest athlete," at the World Championships. 
"The victory lap, I was so over­whelmed and tired at the same time. I didn't feel like jogging, I wish I could have walked the whole way, but a cou­ple of guys kept telling me to hurry up," he said. 
Coming into the final event of the grueling two-day decathlon with a huge lead, Pappas struggled to an 11th-place finish Wednesday night in the 1,500 meters and fell into the arms of U.S. teammate Paul Terek. It was a personal-best time in the 1 ,500 for Pappas. 
"When I crossed the finish line, I was trying not to fall over," said Pappas. 


Thursday, August 28, 2003 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 

Welcome Back Students! The Multicultural Student Programs and Services staff would like to invite everyone to join us at our annual W el­cotne Back Picnic. Music will be provided by Conjunto Caribe and MSPS student groups. Con1e enjoy the music, 
entertainment, and free food. ~ 

Martin 
continued from page 24 
that he would be on a team with play­ers much bigger and stronger than he. Rather than fretting about size, he said that he was only encouraged to train and practice harder. 
"I like [being smaller]; it's a chal­lenge," Martin said. "I realize that per­sonally I've got to be one of the hard­est-training individuals just to keep up." 
Martin seems to have kept up. As a junior, he 
everyone on the same 
../ like {being 
was the fourth leading page." 
scorer on the team with smaller]; it's a Even if the Irish are 13 points (six goals and challenge. " unsuccessful in their pur­one assist). Being a suit of a title, Martin said midfielder, however, that his experience at
Greg Martin 
Martin is unable to 
Notre Dame has been focus primarily on Irish captain more than he dreamed. 
offense. 
Calling the position "the soccer brains," he explained that a midfielder is responsible for really bol­stering the team because of his respon­sibilities on both the offensive and defensive side of the ball. 
Of course, all the soccer talent in the world means nothing without a coach to organize it all, and Martin believes Notre Dame has one of the best in Bobby Clark. 
"We call him 'The Boss' because you can't just call a guy like this 'Coach,"' Martin said. "He's so much more than just a coach. He's a father figure, a mentor, and probably least of all, he's a coach." 
Before Clark was hired in 2001, the Irish went 15-17-5 in their two previ­ous seasons. Under Clark. the Irish are currently a cumulative 24-13-3. 
Despite his coaching expertise, Martin maintains that "The Boss" is special because of who he is off the field. 
"He teaches us more, about life and just how to be a good person," Martin said. "Even alumni who played for him 25 years ago realize he's just a very special person. I've grown to be best friends with him. He's a saint, or as close as you can get at least." 
In fact, it is because of Clark that Martin has said this year's seniors are so anxious to win a national title. With the recent Soccer America poll placing the Irish at No. 3 in the nation, Martin says it may be hard for the team to maintain its focus, which should be the immediate goal. 
"For the season, there's ultimately one goal that every team in college sports has -the national champi­onship," he said. "But in the meantime, we want to try and elimi­nate distractions and keep 
"It's far beyond what I 
expected," he said. "I couldn't ask for more than what I've been given at Notre Dame. I think what makes it special is the quality of indi­viduals. I think there's just a special kind of person hf're. I'll be deeply sad­dened when I have to leave." 
Although it's still a long way off, Martin already has tentative plans for life after Irish soccer. He would like to continue to play professionally, but if that doesn't work out, he wouldn't be averse to attending law school, perhaps even at Notre Dame. 
What is most important to Martin, though, is what people remember about him after he leaves Notre Dame. 
"My goal at Notre Dame is to leave a legacy in the soccer program," he said. "By that, I don't mean championships or winning percentage, but just the way the team handles itself both on and off the field. [The seniors and I] want to kind of create a mold. in which future leaders can step in and be able to lead this team in the right direction." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Football 
continued from page 24 
cally different offenses. Before the switch to the pro-style offense, the Irish were always a run-first, pass-second team. Diedrick's system strives for balance, but empha­sizes the pass. Running the offense well all comes down to spacing. 
"What you have to understand first of all, is what a passing game means. Spacing is impor­tant. It opens up lanes," Notre Dame head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "When you understand that in a passing offense, then you begin to open up lanes and put pressure on a defense at certain points. It's the overall learning process and knowledge that we are gaining that is better than last year. 
"Hopefully, every guy on our squad has learned a little bit more this year, and we learn a little bit more next year." 
With the team now improving its understand­ing of the spacing concept, the coaching staff builds off those fundamentals to install the thick playbook. 
"It now becomes how }'OU apply the concept, is it vertical, horizontal, how do you work in the concept?" Willingham said. "The great thing about the sys­tem is once you under­stand the concept, you can take the concepts and show it to people in plays." 
One player in particular who coaches think has improved from a year ago is starting quarterback Carlyle Holiday. Last sea­son, Holiday didn't seem to have a total understanding of the new system. After getting on-the-field experi­ence in a more pass-ori­ented offense, studying film over the winter and having another off-season of practice, Diedrick can't even begin to explain the difference between the third-year starter from this year to last. 
"Oh God, it's like light years," Diedrick said. "Even with the veteran receivers and the return­ing group, we have been able to install so much more and do so many more things. I think he has a much better handle on things now than he did at last year this time. 
"He is a totally different person." 
Diedrick wasn't able to quantify the difference in how much of the offense is currently in place com­pared to last year, but he said, "Quite a bit more of the offense has been put in [this year]." 
No Game Tape 
With Washington State opening its 2003 campaign Saturday against Idaho, some fans would argue Notre Dame has the advantage in seeing the Cougars' game film. But that is not necessarily the case. 
"We are handicapped, because I don't know of our ability to see them play. We don't trade this film. We don't have a game to trade with them," Willingham said. "We hope 

........
we can watch the game. It's very difficult when you watch a football game on television, to watch the game of football ... To actually see all of the nuances of a football game, you can't see with a television copy." 

...
Willingham actually said he would prefer the option of having the roles reversed this weekend, the Irish playing and the Cougars on the sideline, on one condition -only if the Irish would win of course. 
Tight End Situation 
With the transfer of Greg Olsen and the unknown severity of Gary Godsey's knee injury, the tight end position has suddenly become a minor area of concern for the Irish. 
Throughout the off-sea­son, the tight ends ­namely Jared Clark and Billy Palmer -tried to become better all-around players. 
Last year, Clark was viewed primarily as a receiving threat while Palmer was at his best blocking. 
"[Clark's] doing a much better job with his block­ing, and is much more con­sistent. What that brings is ari opportunity to be an every down tight end," Diedrick said. "I think Billy has made strides in that area [of receiving]." 
Anthony Fasano and Marcus Freeman, who both sat out the 2002 sea­son as freshmen, are push­ing for playing time as well. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

..... 
.. 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORl"S Thursday, August 28, 2003 
"Some real critical people that I 2003, Stetson eliminated peren­baseball here." Dame has] assembled in the past talked to had some very com­nial power Georgia Tech from One aspect of Rooney's posi­couple of years have been phe­
O'Connor 


l
' 
~ 
,I ,I 
., " 
I { 
{ 
I 
' 
continued from page 24 
we'll be able to continue to attract some quality players." 
Even with all the applicants, Mainieri quickly narrowed the list down to three names and selected Terry Rooney, the pitch­ing coach and recruiting coordi­nator at Stetson, after the inter­view process. Mainieri took one last bit of advice from his former associate, as O'Connor recom­mended Rooney as his successor. 
"I conducted a really exhaus­tive search and refused to lower my standards of who we were going to hire," Mainieri said. 
PREP COURSES 
FOR THE MATH SECTIONS OF THE 
GMAT&GRE 
For schedule and registration information visit: 

pelling things to say about [Rooney] that got my attention. If 
·you look at his record as a pitch­ing coach and recruiter ... I think it was phenomenal. He was the third person I inter­viewed and was clearly the right person for the job for us." 
At Stetson, Rooney's pitching staff led the Hatters to consecu­tive NCAA Tournament appear­ances and 40-win seasons. In the NCAA Tournament. With the Irish, Rooney will assume the role of pitching coach and work with assistant coach David Grewe on recruiting. 
''I'm very excited about the opportunity to be here and work at Notre Dame," Rooney said. "Ym.:. really feel like you're work­ing with the upper-echelon stu­dent athlete in the country with the combo of academics and tion that makes him enthusiastic is the talented staff O'Connor leaves behind. Rooney will work with juniors Niese!, John Axford and Johnson. who returns to the staff after missing all of 2003 due to shoulder surgery, sopho­mores Ryan Doherty and Tom Thornton and a hyped incoming freshman class that includes Texas phenom Jeff Manship. 
"Certainly the staffs [Notre 
nomenal, and I'm honored to fol­low in those footsteps with the staff we have this year," Rooney said. "With the corps of guys we have returning and the young guys coming in, I think it's a tremendous situation from a pitching standpoint." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd._edu 


''NOTRE DAME STYLE'' ,-Thurs. 8-28 -Lafun Ballroom -7:30pm ,
.... --·-·-----··-··-· -----. -... ----··---------··--'-~-... -·-------·· ... -------__________,.,. . ---------.. ···------------·­
QUESTION: What was used as a Notre Dame mascot before the Leprechaun? 

a) A Priest 
b) An Irish Terrier 
c) A Shamrock 

d) A Shetland Pony 
ANSWER: Come to FOOTBALL 101 and discover this and other IRISH football history and tradition 

Thursday, August 28, 2003 page 23
The Observer+ TODAY 

---------------------------------------------~---------------------------­
SCHOOL DAZE 
CoM~ TD DRftANtC 
tH~ ONL~ N.t>. CLASS 1W\T ~AVES "{ou MOtlEY! 
FIVES 
BUT ONCE )'OU ~1"oP I:ATINfl OlJl-; SEElNf( f"'t(NIES, ANP USI~ A CElL PHONE,You WILL sAVE AU. n4AT 
AND MO~E! 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
CLARE O'BRIEN 
JUMBLE 
JJ~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, .; to form four ordinary words. 
RYTUL 

(IJ
Cl2003 Tribune Media Services, Inc 
r~i~f-~] 
LINOCU 

[l]
www.jumble.com 
tTRYGEN±
J -1 r J 1 
Ans: 

"( I I I I )" ( I I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: ABIDE MANLY TYRANT COUPLEYesterday's I 
Answer: What she hoped to meet on the singles cruise -A"DREAMBOAT" 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
High in fiber, low in fat 
PRA.C.TIC.ED BY THE DIETING C.OUPL-E. 

.... 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
WILL SHORTZ 
ACROSS 32 Shoppers' 56 Where cons 1 Base pursuits 
may congregate m-+--+--t­transportation 33 Joe Hardy's 58 Steelhead or 5 Rice in a temptress, on squaretail bookstore Broadway 
59 Saint known as 9 Nobel-winning 34 Its slogan was "the Grear peacemaker once "The sign 60 Talker with a . of extra servicew
14 Conductor beak 
Klemperer 35 Balmoral 61 AntOnio, for one 15 Pass relative 
621t's spun 18 White poplar 36 Feller of 63 Requestfolklore?
17 No matter what 37 Uncommon
19 Asian tree with DOWNinsightmany trunks 1 Rivers with 20 Comparatively 38 Mounted on 
barbs cracked 40 League: Abbr. 
2 Famed words to 
21 Sorrows 
41 Lug a backstabber 22 It's intoxicating 43AWOL 
3 Louisiana, e.g., 23 National .w Jupiter, e.g. in Orleans Aviation Hall of 45 Olympian 4 Bun alternative 
Fame site 5 Be like-minded.e Time out25 Film festival 8 Film genre 48 CD followerfilm, often 71thasa49 Visual28 It's taken in for peacock logo treatment 51 Kicks 8 Peacock plume2t Spring's downstairs, so featureopposite, to speak 27 Sky Masterson's 42 Potential source 52 "The Best Manw9 Woodenoceanwlse 55 Echo location 
footwear creator of verbal mis-star Diggs 28 Good things understanding
10 Marine rock­53 Shore soarer
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
clinger 30 Good thing 47 Poem division 54 Admission of 

~~F.-I 11 Live ascetically 31 Shade of red 48 Ambe
r, e.g. 
1889: Abbr. 

49 Fall times: Abbr. 58 Use diligently 
-:-:+~-t 13 Top scores, middle name sometimes 50 Irene of "Fame•
39 Leave rubber on 
57 Mens_

18 A ton the road 
51 Christian from (criminal

21 "Knockin' on 41 Remote option France intent)Heaven's Door" singer, 1973 
For answers, caii1-90D-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
~-=+i~ 23 Greek god of credit card, 1-800-814·5554.
wine Annual subscriptio'ns are available for the best of Sunday24 Detective crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
Pinkerton and Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000others 
past puzzles, nytimes:com/crosswords ($34.95 a year) . .z+:~:+:-t-::-t 25 Item on a chain 
Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, ....;;..a,;;;..a.;..;.&.;.,&..;;;;,.J 26 ·swell!" nytimes.comlleaminwxwords . 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
_
.... 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ____~---------------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip__________ _ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Macaulay Culkin, Brnnfml Marsalis, Rebecca Calix, Angie Lotto 
Happy Birthday: Your lightrearted approoch and playful imaginatim will help you bridge the gap with a<>SOCiates. You will have gr:md ideas and you11 want to do everything in a big way. Ifyou are opm to suggestioos you will imrrove your mind, body and soul. Your numbersare3,9, 13,27,31,40 
ARIFS (Mardl21-April19): Put the rre;sure oo y01.mt'and you will get everything and mere completed today. Your irrl!xessive perfcnmnce will lead to bigger and better thing;. 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): You may have trouble taking advantage ofan opportunity that corres your way today. Bide your time and keep your qxions open until later in the week. Avoid a dispute.** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Listen to tre advice being offered by a gocrl friend. If something isn't working at a personal level, coosider doing sorrething about it sooner rather 
than later. **** 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Make rroney using your ingenuity and creative talent. Don't lei ajealous friend make you insecure about your capabilities. *** LEO (July 2..1-Aug. 22): Take a look at the possibilities and don't hesitate to make the changes that you've beencmtemplating. You will have the drive and the desire to make a difference today. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 2..1-Sept 22): Don~ let your uncertainty about somecne else slow you down. You will exJHience financial changes today, and the outcome will be based on how sman and thrifty you have been. *** LIBRA (SEpt. 2..1-0d. 22): Doo't let a setrock stop you from llXlving forward Cootinue with your plans and you will end up m:eting som:ooe along the way who will help you get 
aread**** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someooe may be pushing you, but making changes today can lead to problems later on. Observe and you will realize that whoever is pressuring you is looking out f<I his orluown interests. ** SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can do no wroog today. Your strength and courage will be noted by onlooker.; and will lead to offers that will be hard to refuse. Think befcre 
making changes.. * * * * * 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): Take note ofthe pa;sibilities before you make a roove. You can gain finanaally, but you need to do what's best fcr everyone involved Avoid joint financial deals. *** AQUARHJS (Jan. 20-Feb.18): Oppcrtunities to get involved in a notewCithy partnership are aprment. Any rontributioos you make to an ccganizatioo you believe in will enhance your ~lalirn and result in IXJtential offers. *** PISCES (Feb.19-Man:h 20): Don~ leave an impcrtant job for someooe else to complete. If you do the wm yOUJ>elf, you will be rewarded foc your effoos. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are intuitive and engaging and will always snive for harrmny and lxllance in your life. You know the rules, b.Jt live by your belief, traditioo and culture. 
Olex.:k out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com eugeniala<;t.com, wnetwcl'k.com 
COPYRIGI-IT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 

~---~------­

Thursday, August 28, 2003 
MEN's SoccER 

,. Stnall in stature, not ability 
Three-time captain Greg Martin leads Irish to new heights 
. 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Spores Writer 

It's okay to call Greg Martin short. Really. He doesn't mind. 
"I've always been the little guy," he said. "The guys will joke about it." 
The jokes about Martin stop at his stature, however. There's nothing funny about the Plano, Tex., senior's leadership ability or the respect he garners from his team. After all, Martin is the first three-time captain in Notre Dame men's soccer history. 
',;. "I think it was flattering to know I had earned the respect Of my teammates," Martin said of his sophomore year, the first year he was named captain. "At the same time, any time there's a leader, it's a credit to his team­mates." Even so, the 5-foot-8, 151­
! ' 
pound Martin has a lot to be proud of, especially considering that he didn't even begin to play soccer until the fifth grade, unlike several of his Irish team­mates who had been playing at much earlier ages.
i 
i. Despite his late start, there was no doubting Martin's talent, and at 15 years of age, he began to 
·., t 
tour around the world with the Under-17 U.S. National Team. 
In January 1999, Martin trav­eled to the IMG Academy in Bradenton, Fla., a school that trains soccer players for college admission and academic recruit­me:r.t. 
During his years with the U-17 National Team and the time spent at the Academy, Martin became friends with four other current' Notre Dame players, senior forwards Justin Detter and Devon Prescod and senior midfielders Filippo Chillemi and Chad Riley. 
Martin spoke of a conversation the five had during the recruit­ment process, when they all agreed to attend Notre Dame together with the goals of receiv­ing a quality education and put­ting Irish soccer on the national map. 
"Our goal vvas to come here and rhange Notre Dame," he said. "We wanted to make it a soccer school." 
When Martin was offered a scholarship to join the Irish, he didn't give it a second thought. 
"Just like any other kid in this university, you can't pass this opportunity up," he said. 
Despite his prowess on nation­al teams and at the prestigious soccer academy, Martin knew 
see MARTIN/page 21 

.---­
Page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Learning process for Irish 
By MATT LOZAR . Associate Sports Editor 

To understand a basic concept 
of Notre Dame's offense, think 
of a basketball court. 

Think about how the five 
players on offense want to 
achieve proper spacing on the 
court to find the open shot. 
That concept, which seems so 
basic, is essential to running 
offensive coordinator Bill 
Diedrick's pro-style offense. 
Last year, the Irish didn't totally 
grasp that concept. 

On paper, Notre Dame's 2002 offense wasn't very much differ­ent from the 2001 edition. The 2002 offense finished 108th in total offense and 91st in scoring offense compared to 2001 when the Irish were 11 Oth and 99th, respectively. Looking at the passing game is a little more encouraging, as the Irish ranked -91st in 2002 and 114th in 2001. 
One reason for the marginal 
improvement came from the 
major switch in systems and 
concepts between the two radi­
see FOOTBALL/page 21 

'•
·' 
BASEBALL 

Loyal O'Connor finally leaves for head coaching job 

By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sporrs \Xirittr 

It was only a matter uf time. 
Long considered one of the top assistant coaches in colle­giate baseball, Brian O'Connor couldn't remain as Notre Dame coach Paul Mainieri's associate :orever. 
Still, it was a ~ad day for the Irish skipper when his long­time assistant and friend O'Connor left Notre Dame to ~ake a head coaching job at the Ur..iversity of V:rginia July 9. 
"You have a whole myriad of emotions," Mainieri said of O'Connor's departure from the program. "First is you're so happy for him and so proud of him. You know he's worked hard, and he deserves it. At the same time you have a tremen­dous sense of loss." 
O'Connor came to Notre Dar.1e with Mainieri nine years ago, serving as pitching coach and recruiting coordinator and earning the title of associate head coach two years ago. 
"It's almost like a death in your family," Mainieri said. "The guy's been with you for nine years and been involved with every major decision you've made relative to the program. 
"You know he's had a lot of impact as far as success of the program, and not only that, but he's also a very close friend of yours. You developed a very close relationshi? and all of a sudden he's gone." 
Along with helping Mainieri and the Irish to their first College World Series since 1957, O'Connor cultivated pres­en~ major league pitchers Brad Lidge and Aaron Heilman, along with current Irish aces Chris Niese! and Grant Johnson. 
But with a talented, young pitching staff that includes four incoming freshman, Mainieri realized the importance of quickly finding a skilled coach to replace O'Connor. 
"The biggest emotion that I had was concern for the future of our program," Mainieri said. "I know that I owed it to our kids to not rest until I went out and found what I felt was the best available pitching coach in the country ... so that we can carry on the great work that Brian did." 
Mainieri had a great task ahead of him, however, as over 200 coaches -some of them Division I head coaches ­applied for the position with the Irish, a testament to the growth in prestige the Notre Dame pro­gram has experienced under Mainieri and O'Connor. 
"I think that position is a much better one now, nine years later, than it was when Brian entered the position." Mainieri said. "I think the thing that was attractive to a lot of candidates was the fact that we've had some great success here, we've got some quality pitchers in our program now, and I think people see that 
see O'CONNOR/page 22 
NCAA BASKETBAll 
MlB
NFL
en 
&1.1 
t-u
:z 

Carlton Dotson was
Julius Peppers tries to 
Atlanta puts closer John 
adjust to life in the fast 
cc: =:5 

indicted in the murder 
Smoltz on the 15-day 
Q c:l 

lane with the Carolina 
of former teammate 
disabled list due to ten­
4 Panthers. 

Brian Dennehy. 
dinitis in knee. 
CL !i 

en 
page 19 
page 18 

page 17 I 

TENNIS  Al  Nl  
Lindsey Davenport  The Chicago White Sox  Wild matchup between  
starts to feel optimistic  continue their domi­ wildcard  contenders  
after coming back from  nance of the New York  Phillies and Expos con- 
injuries.  Yankees.  tinues.  
page 17  page 16  page 14  






