
VOL. XXXVII NO. 122 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.H1U 
Students feel connected to Iraq war 
. Community Although I'm glad that my 
cousin is serving his country, I comes to grips still hupc that we stop the war with military loved and send our troops home," said 
Olsen.
ones in Iraq 
Unfortunately. there are many among us who have more cause to worry about the well being of Uy MIKE CHAMBLISS friends and relatives. Although New, Wr11cr troops arc able to communicate via e-mail. they are frequently 
With hun<lnids of thousands of prohibited f'rom disclosing their Lroops in Iraq. and U.S. ol1lcials exact location and from dis­d1!claring that lhr United Statrs cussing the activities in which is prepart1d to pay a "high they arc currently engaged. price" in order lo oust Iraqi Sophomore Michael pn·sidcnt Saddam Hussein. mil­Poffenberger has a brother lions of Americans are anxiously serving as a lieutenant junior waiting and pray-grade on a ing for tlrn safe 
N a v y rl'lurn of their minesweeper l'riPnds. children. ship in the siblings and sig­Persian Gulf. nificant others. Poffenberger, 
Likt> any other who strongly !\mnric~an com-opposes the munity, Notre Dame has its war, says that his brother's share of individuals with loved presence in Iraq has created ones currnntly serving their tension within his family. cciuntry in the Middle East. "It has caused a rift in the 
For those people, the war relationship between my par­lakes on a greater. personal en ts and myself. They don't meaning than for those whose think that my actions and ideas personal lives remain unaffect­are supportive of my brother 
t'd. being in the war," said 
Many of those in Iraq fulfill Poffenberger. roles in which they will probably Don Balka, a mathematics not be put into harm's way. For professor at Saint Mary's example. sophomore Colleen College, has a son serving as a Olsrn has a cousin serving as a lieutenant in the Navy. Balka lawyer in the U.S. Army. believes that his son, who pilots 
"I am proud that he is doing a P3 aircraft. is currently in his duty although I don't think Kuwait although he has n? way there is a grnat chance that any­th in g will happen to him. see RELATIVES/page 4 

• Students send care packages to 
U.S. troops 
By ANGELA SAOUD News Writer 
Saint Mary's students in Susan Baxter's classes recently begun an effort to send letters and collect items on a wish list for Michiana Marines. 
Baxter, a professor in the communication studies depart­ment, first found out about the project through her daughter's high school English class. Mothers of Marines from the South Bend area are sponsor­ing the effort. 
The mothers compiled a list of items that area troops would like to receive. Items include, among a variety of other things, chapstick, home­made cookies, playing cards and Pringles potato chips. These items are given to Baxter who then passes them to be sent overseas. 
The most important item Marines included on the list is written letters. 
"I had a dad [who was) in the army during World War II. and two brothers in the Navy," Baxter said. "All three spoke over and over about the importance of mail call. espe­cially when they were deployed." 
see PACKAGES/page 4 
Design students try to meet demands 
Felllinist denounces 
. Project aims to redesign urban delivery truck 
By HIMANSHU KOTHARI 
News Wriltr 
D1isign students arc working on a new project to redesign an urban delivery truck that can be used in industries from general delivery to specialist manufac­tur1irs. 
The project is heirrg led by art professor Paul Down, the vice presi<lenl for national education of the Industrial Designers Sorietv of America (IDSA). and John (:aruso. an assistant pro­fessor of llrn industrial design group and also the rnidwestern district education representative of IDSA. 
Two teams of students -led by graduate student Michael Kahwaji and senior Joseph Villalvazo -will work on differ­ent aspect<; of the design. 
"We am trying to make the truck such that it can accommo­date any type of engine, electric, hydrogen etc.," said Khwaji, who is leading the team that will look at future changes. 
Villalvazo. who is leading the warn to monitor the truck's use. 

practice of abortion 
McQuade. "Unfortunately. efforts have done very little to achieve this cause." 
McQuade also talked about the feminists who spearheaded the original women's rights movement, and how Second Wave feminists. when they adopted abortion righlc; as the central issue in the 1960s and 70s, abandoned the core femi­nist principles ofjustice, nonvi­olence and nondiscrimination. 
"The original feminist move­ment did not even mention abortion," said McQuade. "The Second Wave feminists com­pletely abandoned the work of the original feminist move­ment. Instead of changing society to accept women. they fought for women to accept society." 
She quoted original women's rights activists such as Susan 
B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton. and Elizabeth Blackwell, who considered abortion a great injustice to both the unborn child and mother. 
"The activists of the first 
see ABORTION/page 4 


By EMILY BRAMMER 
News Writer 
Deirdre McQuade, National Program Director of Feminists for Life of America, said women deserve a better option than abortion Tuesday. 
Students, faculty, and mem­bers of the surrounding com­munity were in attendance for the talk, which was sponsored by the Center for Women's lntercultural Leadership, the Center for Spirituality, and Saint Mary's Right to Life. 
"We Feminists for Life stand behind women who have had an abortion and say, 'No woman should ever have to go through what you went through,"' McQuade said. 
She aims to bring people together who differ on contro­versial issues like abortion, so 
said. "We are 'dealing with the entire project though is to cut 

that the conflicting sides may usability aspects, we have to costs and increase efficiency in 
find common ground. design the dashboard and figure the assembly line. 
"While many Americans dis­out ways to make it easier to "I would say that the patent 
agree on the issue of abortion, load the truck for many differ­design is to have better aesthet­
both sides agree that we ent industries like mail delivery. ics and design and produce a 
should work on limiting the food manufacturing and such." 
number of abortions that The ultimate purpose of the see DESIGN/page 6 occur each year," said 
Wednesday, April 2, 2003
page2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Fuzzy math 
Yesterday, the U.S. Supreme Court began to review the University of Michigan affirmative action case. 
If this case is good for anything, it is the fact that it shines a spotlight on the still present prob­lem of people's atti­tude toward race and ethnicity in academics. 
The plaintiffs in the Michigan case are former appli­cants who were rejected from Michigan. It hap­pened to be that Helena Payne they were white. It happened to be 

Senior staff
that Michigan was 
writer 
a supporter of affirmative action. 
Even though out of 150 points on the Michigan undergraduate admissions scale, one could attack several areas where certain groups of people have a greater advantage than others, the plaintiffs decided to play the race card as the reason for why they were not admitted. 
Never mind the fact that there are 110 points that are strictly academic, including GPA. standardized tests, aca­demic strength of schools and curricu­lum. Most know that the last three are advantageous to the wealthy of any race because of their access to better high schools with better test prepara­tion and course options. 
Never mind the fact that there are five non-academic categories in which students can receive up to 20 points and only one of them is by being a minority. If they qualify in all areas, they cannot get 100 points, only 20. 
A student can receive the 20 points for socioeconomic disadvantage but we haven't seen a major lawsuit attacking poor applicants, who can be of any racial background. Athletes can receive the 20 points also, but the Supreme Court is not hearing a case on how that discriminates against the physically dis­abled. 
Or what about the Provost's discre­tion clause, which can also get you a . piece of the 20-point pie? Who do you think has access to the Provost's discre­tion? I'd bet that it's not a dispropor­tionate amount of socioeconomically disadvantaged people, athletes or minorities -but that's just my educat­ed guess. 
Then you get to the hotly contested areas of the 20-point clause: being an underrepresented minority or attending a predominantly minority high school. In the latter category. one does not have to be a minority. 
The remainding 20 points are spread across several categories including resi­dency and alumni relationships ­again categories where some are win­ners and some are losers regardless of race. 
It is not my intention to tout Michigan's policy as the best. What I do intend to do, however, is ask a question. Out of all the potential points in the Michigan undergraduate admissions policy, why is it that the plaintiffs look to the race issue as the one to immedi­ately attack? 
The Michigan admission policy, found at http://www.umich.edu/-ureV 
ad missionslfaqs/uapolicy .html. clearly shows alternative ways to look at the debate. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact !lelena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rh~ highest standards ofjournal­ism ar all nmcs. We do, however, recogoize thar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, pl=e contact u, at 631-454 I so we can correct our error. 

WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS NEWS  WORLD & NATION  BUSINESS NEWS  VIEWPOINT  SCENE  SPORTS  
Suffering talk ends Lenten Lecture series  Troops clash near Karbala in approach to Baghdad  Airline aid package proposed  Inquiry is patriotic  Bienvenidos a Fiesta Tapatia  Offensive explosion  
A couple discuss­es the positive out­comes of suffering in the final lecture of the Lenten Lecture series.  An American POW is rescued after U.S. Army ground forces attacked Republican Guard units 50 miles from the Iraqi capital.  Congress debat­ed on a proposed $3.2 billion package in aid to offset the cost of war and ter­rorism on the air­lines.  Guest columnist Andy McMillen of The Shorthorn of the University of Texas challenges those who say criti­cism of Bush dur­ing the war is unpatriotic.  Scene reviews Mishawaka's inex­pensive Mexican restaurant, Fiesta Tapatia.  Notre Dame's baseball team beat the University of Detroit Mercy 15 to 5, with a nine-run second inning.  

page 6 
page 5 

page 7 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 

. 
Student Senate, 6 p.m., Notre Dame Hoom of LaFortune 

. 
International Festival Weck Undergraduate Dating Game, 8 p.m.• McGlinn Ilall Lounge 

. 
Interfaith Christian Night of Prayer. 10 p.m.. Morrissey Hall Chapel 



WHAT'S HAPPENING@ SMC 

. 
Irish dance lessons, 5:30 p.m., 231 Madeleva Hall 

. 
Adult Children of Alcoholics meeting, 317N Madeleva II all 

. 
Psi Chi Forum, 6 p.m., LeMans Hall Stapleton Lounge 





WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Fried cheese ravioli, cheese and pepperoni freedom bread pizza, Swiss steak, haddock with herbs, curried rice and vegetable pilaf, sugar-snap peas, cream of wheat, scrambled eggs, sausage links, almond freedom toast, cheesy hash browns, BBQ rib sandwich, Japanese ginger chicken tenders, chicken taco 
Today's Dinner: Fried cheese ravio­li, three-pepper sauce, cheese free­dom bread pizza, sherried chicken thighs, whipped potatoes, broccoli spears, grilled redfish. corn, sliced carrots, baked sweet potatoes, cauli­flower, beef tamale, flame-roasted corn and peppers 


South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Neapolitan spaghetti, italian sausage marinara, 4-cheese pizi.a, cherry turnover, toasted pretzel sticks, cheese and rice croquettes, chick­en jambalaya, rotisserie chicken, cut corn, broccoli cuts, sliced carrots, steamed spinach, fried cheese ravioli with spaghetti sauce, soft pretzel, veg­etable lo mein, chicken Acapulco 
Today's Dinner: Neapolitan spaghetti, cherry turnover, toasted pretzel sticks. Italian-blend vegetables, buffalo chicken wings, rotisserie beef churrascarias, grilled pork chops, hot chunky apple­sauce, cut corn, steamed spinach. free­dom dip sandwich, au jus, soft pretzel. sesame-soy chicken breast, pork tamale 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0:: 
LI.I 


s ::c 
== 
..I ct (.) 


..J 0 HIGH 71 HIGH 64 HIGH 71 HIGH 55 LOW 64 LOW 48 LOW 45 LOW 29 
page 24
page 11 
page 12 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Student falls in Dillon, goes to hospital 
After a fall in Dillon Hall. NDSP took a student to St. Joseph Medical Center for injuries early Tuesday morning. 
Student reports suspicious person 
A student reported to NDSP that a suspicious person was on Holy Cross Drive Sunday at 5 p.m. The case is pending. 
Wallet of student missing since Oct. 
A student reported Monday to NDSP that his wal­let was stolen off campus on Oct. 23. The ca'Se is pending. 

Driver allegedly hits parked vehicle 
NDSP received a report Monday that a vehicle hit another parked vehicle on St. Joseph Dr. No injuries were reported and the cased is closed. 

Two-car accident reported on Juniper 
A visitor reported to NDSP a two-car accident occurred Friday on Juniper Rd. 

NDSP find 2 abandoned bikes 
NDSP found one abandoned bike near the Stadium outside gate A and another between Morrissey and Fisher Halls. Both bikes were brought to NDSP for safekeeping. 
-compiled from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Caribbean portobello wrap, chicken tuscany with herbed pasta, grilled hamburgers. turkey strollers, rigatoni with Italian sausage, pepperoni pizza, tomato mozz pizza. grilled chicken, teriyaki loafer, roasted turkey, slice turkey breast, sliced roast beef hummus, sugar cookies, bananas foster bars, New England clam chowder 
Today's Dinner: Quiche, roasted pep­per quesadilla, baked ziti ratatouille, black eyed peas and corn muffins, ice cream floats, pasta bar, rotisserie style Greek chicken, confetti rice, ranch pizza with bacon, cheese pizza. pesto and veg­etable stuffed potatoes, warm bread pudding, white cake with fudge icing 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 38 HIGH 51 LOW 32 LOW 41 
Atlanta 78 / 52 Boston 52 / 41 Chicago 70 / 48 Denver 76 / 37 Houston 82 / 61 Los Angeles 64 / 50 Minneapolis 56 I 38 New York 54 / 47 Philadelphia 66 / 48 Phoenix 80 / 54 Seattle 48 I 38 St. Louis 80 / 58 Tampa 77 / 57 Washington 74 / 53 

Wednesday, April 2, 2003 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Online calendar increases in popularity 
By LINDA SKALSKI 
News Writ~t 
Scanning posters plastered in the stairwell of O'Shaughnnssy, rnading Diers tapml insidn bathroom stalls or looking at table tents in the dining hall no longer have to be student's central source ol' campus event information. 
Underthcdomc, a new oulinc cal<in<lar with a com­pr!'hcnsive list of campus events. has been extremely popular since it was first made availabl1i mid-February. 
Located at www.undertho­dome.nd.edu, and featured on thn "Popular Links" drop­down menu of the Notre Dame homepage, the Web site received 114 .402 page hits in its lirst rnon th. 
"Peopln walk through the halls and gPt poster-blind­ness." student body vice pres­idcnt Trip Foley said. "The !'act that this calendar has been used so much shows that there has been a need." 
The calendar is unique in that all the clubs. depart­ments and halls have their own password to submit information, which is immedi­ately incorporated in the site. There are currently 301 active users, and Foley said that every day he receives two Lo three e-mails from another club or academic group that wants to join. 
"There is so much to do on campus," said Foley. "People always say that there is noth­ing to do on campus, but the whole idea of this calendar is that there are things going on." 
The calendar provides week. month, day and event views with color-coded orga-nization. There is also a search field to look up specific events or all activities particu­lar to a certain organization or club. 

"We designed and created the Web site custom-tailored to student's needs," said senior Matthew Wilkerson, the former manager of Dome Designs who was hired to cre­ate the Web site. "Events are multi-listed because not everything falls equally into one category." 
To ensure that the calendar has a complete listing of cam­pus events, freshman web administrator Patrick 
Longenbaker spends at least an hour every day searching for information to post. 
"Believe it or not, many events never make it to an official University calendar," said Longenbacker. "It's my job to always be on the look­out for advertisements and posters to what is going on." 
The online calendar has suf­fered no technical difficulties, and Foley said that the only real issue has been with spreading the word. He informed the admissions office about the new calendar with hopes that they will pass the information onto prospec-
Asklbout 

% 
APR* 
AslowAs 
¦ 
Financing on New &used Vehicles 

It'll Get Your Motor Runnin'! 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
800/567-6328 • www.ndfcu.org 

,----..·-1NCUA 'Annual Percentage Rate As low as 490%APR is available for various financing terms. Rates subject to change without notice. ...,.,,,,.==-Certain restrictions may apply. No refinances or Noire Dame Federal Credit Union loans apply Independent of the University 
tive students. 
"It was designed to be a central location for all student events, and we are trying to get as many people to know about this as we can," said Foley. "This calendar is a per­fect vehicle to know what is going on in campus, benefit­ing not only current students, but upcoming students, par­ents and alumni." 
Organizations interested in including their event informa­tion on the calendar should e­mail thedome@nd.edu. 
Contact Linda Skalski at lskalski@nd.edu 
GSU 
Members finalize 2003 gala 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
The 2002-03 Graduate Student Union board held its final meeting of the year Tuesday. New officers will replace the group when elec­tions are held later this month. 
"This is it. The year is over," said GSU president Tim Dale. "I definitely valued all or your input and I hope you stay involved next year. People here have had some good ideas." 
GSU members dedicated most of the meeting toward finalizing plans for the charity/year-end gala to be held April 25 at the downtown Marriott. Tickets went on sale this week. As of noon Tuesday, Dale said that approximately 50 of the 400 tickets had been sold. 
The event will feature a bar, DJ and a raffie designed to raise money for Immigration and Refugee Services of South Bend. Dale anticipates that the event will raise roughly 4,000 dollars. 
"Immigration and Refugee Services is really excited to be working with us," he said. 
Dale also encouraged GSU members to attend the event and to recommend it to their friends. Tickets are $5 and available at the LaFortune box office. Transportation to the event will be provided. 
In other GSU news: 
. 
Web manager Paul Mueller will run officer elections this year rather than Sebastian Velez. Because Velez's wife is expecting a baby later this month, he was unable to commit to overseeing the elections. 

. 
Graduate students interested in volunteering at "llealth-E­day," an event promoting healthy living for Notre Dame graduate students. faculty and staff, should see Heather Edwards, GSU healthcare com­mittee chairperson. Edwards will be available all day today in the LaFortune Dooley Room to answer questions. 


Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 



Wednesday, April 2, 2003
page 4 The Observer . NEWS 
Relatives 
continued from page 1 
of being sure. 
"We are pretty concerned. We watch CNN every night and don't get anything done. He .is able to get e-mails out. He tells us everything is fine, although they are very tired. They have got them working hard flying planes and they don't get to sleep much," said Balka. 
The anti-war movement is an issue to which those with family members in the armed services react in different ways. 
For Poffenberger, the fact that his brother serves in the Middle East has only strengthened his original anti-war sentiments. 
Packages 
continued from page 4 
Senior Gabrielle Campo, one of Baxter's students, was the first to become involved in the effort. 
"Through this project, we're letting them [troops] know that we support them," Campo said. "Professor Baxter explained to our class how important it is that the troops receive letters of support." 
Although not all of those involved are pro-war. they agree that support needs to be shown to the men and women overseas. 
"I am vehemently opposed to the war, signed a number of petitions against it, but now that we're in it, I believe it's vital to support those who say 'yes' when the country calls," Baxter said. 
Campo, along with others, 
"I see the war as unnecessary and even harmful. I think that there could have been other diplomatic alternatives. For me, it is an injustice whenever an American soldier loses his life in the war because it doesn't need to happen. The fact that it could be my brother makes the reality that much more serious," said Poffenberger. 
For Balka. on the other hand, the anti-war protests have been an unwelcome sight. 
"It really bothers me to see the protests. They are over there protecting us the best they can. I know there are some good intentions, but it still both­ers me," sald Balka. 
Contact Mike Chambliss at mchambli@nd.edu. 
feels that this effort could involve additional students. "I don't think this is as big as it should be," she said. 
Sophomore Donna Lubbers is also helping to support troops by enlisting the help of her friends. 
"I have three friends over­seas right now, and the morale of the unit really goes down when some soldiers are not receiving letters," Lubbers said. "One of them asked if I could find some friends to write generic letters to be sent over." 
Through friends and class­mates, Lubbers was able to gather nearly 25 letters and a care package to be sent over­seas. 
She is hoping that more peo­ple will become involved and plans to send more letters again soon. 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
Congress panels back $80 billion for war 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The House and Senate Appropriations committees approved similar bills Tuesday containing nearly $80 billion for initial costs of the war with Iraq and other anti-terrorism efforts, including aid for the nation's struggling airlines. 
Both measures exceeded the $74.7 billion that President Bush requested last week for the remaining six months of the government's budget year. And both Republican-con­trolled panels weakened the wide latitude he had sought for spending most of the money without congressional strings, which he had argued was needed to quickly respond to the uncertainties of war. 
Besides paring down a near­$60 billion fund that Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld would have controlled. smaller accounts to be administered by agencies like the Justice and Homeland Security depart­ments were also dismantled or trimmed. That reflected a long­standing bipartisan legislative resentment of executive branch efforts to usurp Congress' power of the purse. 
"We didn't just create huge slush funds to be used at the discretion of an agency," said House Appropriations Committee Chairman Bill Young, R-Fla. 
The overwhelming votes of approval -59-0 in the House committee, 29-0 by the Senate panel -underscored lawmak­ers' desires to quickly approve the aid while U.S. troops shoot their way toward Baghdad. Bush has requested the funds by April 11, and GOP leaders hope the full House and Senate will approve initial versions of the bills this week. 
But a series of votes and remarks also spotlighted the pressures many lawmakers feel to increase spending for local law enforcement and emergency agencies. 
By a party-line 35-28, the House panel rejected a Democratic effort to add $2.5 billion to the $4.2 billion that measure contains for domestic security initiatives, the same as Bush requested. 
Rep. Zach Wamp, R-Tenn., said limiting the funds was necessary to avoid signaling to the states "that there's a bot­tomless pit in Washington for anything labeled homeland security." 
Though Democratic senators offered no amendments to the $4.6 billion in the Senate ver­sion, they spoke of trying to add up to $9 billion when the full Senate debates the mea­sure. perhaps beginning Wednesday. 

Abortion 
continued from page 1 

feminist movement under­stood that women then as women now seldom choose abortion freely," said McQuade. "It's a euphemism to call abortion a woman's choice, when she does so out of a lack of practical resources and emotional support." 
McQuade also talked about ways to Increase a woman's resources and sup­port during an unplanned pregnancy. Those goals included making pre-natal care available to college women and continuing the work of pro-life organiza­tions such as Women's Care Center. 
"Ultimately our goal is to make abortion unthinkable and completely unnecessary, said McQuade. "People should refuse to choose because women deserve bet­ter than abortion." 
Contact Emily Brammer at 
bram350l@saintmarys.edu 

Charges filed in vendeta killing 
Associated Press 

DETROIT 
A man charged Tuesday with shooting a former friend nine times during a church service in an apparent vendetta killing between Albanian-American families had an innocent plea entered on his behalf. 
Appearing at times con­fused and unresponsive, Gjon Pepaj. 38, listened as charges were read, including premeditated murder, sec­ond-degree murder, manslaughter and weapons charges. 
The premeditated murder charge carries a maximum sentence of life in prison. 
Pepaj said "no" several times when asked if he understood his rights. He was not represented by an attorney at the arraignment and was denied bond. 
Assistant Prosecutor Kelly Chard argued that Pepaj admitted to shooting 38­year-old Gjek Isufaj, and said that he bought a gun six years ago that he failed to register and carried at all times. 
Additionally, the defendant arrived in the United States in 1991 on a work visa, was not a U.S. citizen and posed both a flight risk and a dan­ger to the community, Chard said. Pepaj was born in the former Yugoslavia, she said. 
University of Notre Dame International 
Dublin  Study Programs Summer Pro gram  
June  19  through August  7,  2003  
Seona  Meeting with Special Guest MacReam oinn  
Irish Summer  Studies Director  in  Ireland  

Thursday, April 3 
5:00 p.m. 215 DeBartolo 
All undergraduates welcome 
WORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 2, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 IRAQ 
Troops clash near Karbala in approach to Baghdad 
A,sociatcJ Pres• 
KAHBALi\ 

Army ground forces attacked llcpublican Guard units Ttwsday nuar Karbala, scarce­ly 50 miles from Baghdad. part of around-the-clock combat pointing toward an assault on Llin capital. An American POW was rnscuncl from Iraq. 
D1•fcnse officials said Army units ,tttackud clements of the Mi>d ina Division of the !!,~publican Guard in the clash JH'ar Karbala. parl of an elite lrnqi fore!' targeted by heavy air bomharclrncnt over several days. 
Pl'c ..fossica Lynch, a 19­yiiar-old supply clerk from Pal1•stine. W. Va .. was the POW rcscumJ. Neither her con­dilion nor the details of her rescue were immediately available. 
"Coalition forces have con­d uctc d a successful rescue mission of a U.S. Army prison­er of war held caplive in Iraq. The soldier has been returned to a coalition-conlrollcd area," Brig. Gen. Vincent Brooks said in thr~ briefest of appearances ,lt U.S. Cenlral Command in ()atar. Other orficials provider her name. 
The developments unfolded as huge explosions rocked Baghdad, Saddam llussein's seat of power and the site of repeated bombing in the two weeks of the war. 
Saddam summoned his coun­try -via a spokesman -to a "jihad," or holy war, against the invaders. But American and British officials used tho occasion to raise fresh doubts about the fate of a man seen in public only on videotape since the war began. 
The attack on forces near Karbala marked the first major ground battle against Saddam's Hepublican Guard, and capped a day of aggres­sive American and British mili­tary actions. 
Marines staged a nighttime raid on Nasiriyah. a column of amphibious assault vehicles rolling into town under a moonless sky -and finding Iraqis had abandoned a huge. walled police compound. 
In Basra, a city of 1.3 mil­lion, warplanes dropped 500­pound and 1,000-pound laser­guided bombs on an Iraqi intelligence complex in an effort to dislodge die-hard defenders who have kept British forces at bay for days. 
"What you're seeing today on the battlefield in Iraq is a continuation of prepping the battlefield for a major encounter with the Republican Guard," said Navy Capt. Frank Thorp. 

Commanders refused to say officials said the ceaseless when that might come, or pounding on Saddam's elite whether the attack near Republican Guard was taking Karbala represented the its toll. "Some of them have beginning of a push toward the been degraded to pretty low capital. But senior American percentages of combat capa-

Associated Pre•• 
BOSTON 

Bishop Hichard Lennon is refusing to accept money from one of his archdio­cese's leading critics, saying the lay church reform group is undermining the church's own fund-raising efforts. 
The leader of Voice of the Faithful said Lennon's decision to decline $35.000 is "all about power and con­trol." and added that other Catholic groups may defy his order not to accept the money. 
"I lhink it will hurt overall contribu­tions to all Catholic activities," group president Jim Post said. "I think thcy'rii going to have a terribly difficult time." 
The Boston archdiocese announced Monday it will not accept the money from group's Voice of Compassion fund. Voice of the Faithful says it has received $49,000 this year from more than 600 people who did not want to give unrestricted donations to the archdiocese because of its clergy sex abuse scandal. 
The archdiocese turned down $56,000 from Voice of Compassion last year, but its charity arm. Catholic Charities, accepted the money in December. 
This year, Lennon has specifically forbidden Catholic Charities from tak­ing the money, but the group's presi­dent, Dr. Joseph Doolin. sugges.ted he might accept it in a statement released Tuesday. 

Catholic Charities "has always respected the teaching authority of the Archbishop," but had to consider the donation because Catholic Charities is a separately incorporated public chari­ty, Doolin said. 
If Catholic Charities refuses the money, the board of the National Catholic Community Foundation -a Maryland-based organization that administers the Voice of Compassion Fund -will distribute the money to local Catholic groups unaffiliated with the archdiocese, foundation president Edward Robinson said. 
The board has never had to do that before, and "I hope to God we don't have to," Robinson said. · 
Lennon, who became the archdio­cese's interim head after Cardinal 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
400 people missing after Bolivian landslide: 
Firelighters and local villagers raced Tuesday to reach villagers buried under clay and rocks from a landslide that has killed at least 13 people and left hunureds missing. Bolivian Defense Minister Freddy Teodovic said initial reports indicated that up to 400 pcopl11 wern missing after an avalanche early Monday swept through the mining town of 1,800 peo­ple, about 125 miles north or La Paz. 
French man scales building in protest: 
A Frunch climber who calls himself "Spiderman" scal1id the 47-story headquarters of oil giant TotaIFina Elf outside Paris on Tuesday to protest the war in Iraq. Wearing a shirt with the message "No war," i\lait1 Hoberl reached the top of the office tower in less than an hour. J\t the top. he unfurled a flag with the same slogan. Police greeted Hobert at the top of the building. located in the La Defense financial district west of Paris, and escorted him to the ground flonr. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Fears of mystery illness delay plane: 
Five passengers on a flight from Asia were cleared of a mystery illness. American Airlines Flight 128 from Tokyo to San Jose stopped short of the gate and was llanked by ambulances. The 125 passengers and 14 crew members waited as health officials in surgical masks came on board. When doctors had cleared all five people hours later, the situation turned into a testament to fears surrounding the little-understood severe acute respiratory syndrome, also known as SARS. 
38 Texas drug convictions thrown out: 
The drug convictions of 38 mostly black defen­d an ts from a farm town in the Texas Panhandle should be thrown out because they were based on questionable testimony from a single undercover agent accused of racial prej­udice, a judge said Tuesday. 
bility, below 50 percent in ... at least two cases, and we con­tinue to work on them," Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said at the Pentagon. 
Bishop refuses to accept donation from lay group 
Bernard Law stepped down in December, believes Voice of the Faithful's fund-raising effort is damag­ing the church's, said the Rev. Christopher Coyne, an archdiocese spokesman. 
Lennon also objects to the group's insistence that the money not be used for administrative expenses -which Post said donors worry have been used to fund clergy sex abuse lawsuits in the past. 
"It's not up to Voice of the Faithful to decide where money goes," Coyne said. 
Post said the archdiocese is hurting its own fund-raising in a time of budget cutbacks by failing to show donors there's a new accountability. Coyn~ said the archdiocese is open about how its money is spent. 
Nun charged with defacing missile silo: 
A Roman Catholic nun representing herself against charges she and two other sisters allegedly defaced a missile silo tearfully told jurors on Tuesday that the peace protest was worthwhile. even if the nuns arc jailed. Sisters Ardeth Platte, 66, Jackie Hudson, 68 and Carol Gilbert, 55, are accused of breaking into a Minuteman III missile silo site on Colorado's north­eastern plains Oct. 6, swinging hammers at it and painting a cross in their own blood on the structure. 
Hijacker surrenders Cuban aircraft: 
In the second hijacking of a Cuban plane in as many weeks, a hijacker claiming to have two grenades surrendered an hour after forcing the air­craft to land in Florida with 32 people aboard. The hijacker was carrying a little boy when he came off the Cuban Airlines plane at the Key West airport and was wearing a red windbreaker with the word "America" stitched in white on the back. 
Wednesday, April 2, 2003
page 6 The Observer . NEWS 
industries, so we have to see how the truck could be useful
Design 
for everyone from a baker to a continued from page 1 UPS delivery man," Villalvazo 
said. lighter vehicle with better Talking about the difference aerodynamics and thus in design and technology, improved propulsion which Down expressed his dismay at could save millions of dollars the fact that people often get for large delivery firms like confused between the design 
UPS," Caruso said. 
Union City Body Company in Indiana and A b l e Manufacturing and Assembly in Missouri, who are funding the project, have provided the design school with the truck that they want to be redesigned. 
"The firm which will use the refitted truck is trying to increase its 
process and the "The point with the actual technolo­
industrial design students is that they are gy. 
"The designing the engine. point with the indus­
They {design students] 
t r i a 1
want to produce a vehicle 
designwith good looks and a students is that
handsome design. Our 
they are
task is not to create the 
designingtechnology but to giue t h e engine,"
form to the technology. " 
he said. They want 
Paul Down 
to pro­
art professor duce a vehicle with good 
market power by making the looks and a handsome design. truck appeal to a variety on Our task is not to create the 
technology but to give form to the technology," Down said. 
To take care of the technolo­gy aspect of the project, two engineering students are work­ing in collaboration with the design school. 
This was something that is "happening more now than it has in the past," said Down. 
He said that over the many years of experience he has had in the design school, he has noticed more collaboration between the design school and engineering schools and busi­ness school. 
"There is a better under­standing between them," Down said. 
Last year, Khwaji said he worked with' the marketing department on a project last year with Whirlpool Corp. 
At the mention of such pro­jects, Down expressed his desire that more collaboration could exist between the vari­ous schools of the University, even leading to the creation of joint degrees. 
Contact Himanshu Kothari at hkothari@nd.edu 
ZAMBIA 
Group says hunger will continue 
Associated Press 
CHIBOMBO 
About 38 million Africans are threatened by starvation this year from a food crisis that relief workers predict could last for generations because of AIDS. 
Relief workers say the devas­tation from AIDS is combining with the effects of poverty, war, bad governance, corrup­tion and erratic weather to cripple the ability of societies in sub-Saharan Africa to recov­er from famine. 
"The stark message is this crisis is not going to go away. We will have a perpetual cri­sis," said Brenda Barton, the World Food Program spokes­woman in Nairobi, Kenya. 
"We are seeing a redefinition of famine, of humanitarian crises as we know them," she said. 
Within the United Nations that new definition is known as "new variant famine." It means that despite the best efforts of aid groups and donors, popula­tion losses to AIDS are wreck­ing agriculture, economies and health systems. 
Some 29 million people in sub-Saharan Africa are infect­ed with HIV, about 70 percent of the world's total. Overall, 9 percent of adults in the region of 633 million people are infected, but the rate ranges up to nearly 40 percent in some places. In those countries life expectancy has already fallen into the 30s because of the growing pandemic. 
In less than 20 years, the United Nations says, AIDS has killed more than 8 million farmworkers in Africa. It has killed the breadwinner in mil­lions of families, devastated poor rural villages, orphaned 
4.2 million children. 
"It is driving another stake into the heart of the poor. How do you recover when no one is alive to plant the food?" said Barton. 
"What you are seeing is the humbling of society," she added. "We have not seen the peak of the HIV statistics. We have not seen the worst of it." 
In fertile fields around Chimbombo, 90 kilometers (55 miles) north of Lusaka, Zambia's capital, a U.S.-gov­ernment sponsored aid group, the Cooperative League of the U.S.A., teaches subsistence farmers techniques for dealing with drought and increasing crop yields. 
Behind one ramshackle" house a small boy hacks at the reluctant earth with a long­handled hoe. His mother, Freda Sichalwe, walks through tall, uneven rows of healthy corn. She says the new meth­ods have increased the yield from her small plot fivefold. After the harvest, she will no longer need food aid for her family of six and will also have some corn to sell. 
Kinston Munkonze, of the Cooperative League, said 500 of the farmers he works with around Chimbombo have shown similar gains. The other 300 have at least doubled their crops, he said. 
All over Africa, humanitarian groups work tirelessly to use food aid to pay for agricultural improvements and maintain farm families while they learn new techniques. They also try to introduce new drought­resistant crops in some places, lower trade barriers and improve market conditions. 

Despite limited successes, relief efforts are like spitting in the wind, said Renny Nancholas, the Southern Africa food security coordinator for the International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent societies. 
"No one organization is ever going to dent such a huge cri­sis," Nancholas said. "It is real­ly getting out of control." 
Brenda Cupper, the program director for the aid group CARE in Zambia, agreed. "We need a unified strategy and we don't have one," she said. 
Donor response to the cur­rent food crisis has been ade­quate so far, but aid workers worry that the war in Iraq and humanitarian needs elsewhere may cut into the help coming to Africa. 
"We have prevented a cata­strophe, but the crisis is far from over," said Barton. 
With this crisis, aid groups find they must feed increasing numbers of people in major urban centers who simply can't afford to buy food. 

RecSports has openings for this summer and the 2003-2004 academic year in the following positions: 
~tudent ~upervi~or~ 
front De~k ~upervi~or~ 
fitne~~ Room ~upervi~or~ 
•~~ue Room ~upervi~or~ Lifeguard~ 
Any one who is interested in applying for these positions should stop by the RecSports office and fill out an application. Office hours are 8:00~ 12:00 & 1:00-5:00. First consideration will be given to those who apply before April 10, 2003. 

Suffering talk ends Lenten Lecture series 
Evelyn Whitehead said. "truth By NATALIE BAILEY about vulnerability, human con­News Wrirer nectedness and human compas­
sion." Pastoral theologian James The couple presented these truths as a redemptive aspect of 
Whitehead and developmental 
psychologist Evelyn Eaton suffering. Whitehead closed the Lenten "Compassion is a new level of Lecture Series Tuesday with a . consciousness that brings a new 
way of acting towards people,"talk on the positive outcomes of 
suffering. "It is 

"Compassion is a new level 
easy to 

talk about ofconsciousness that brings 
suffering a new way of in general, 
acting towards people ...
but suffer­

ing does {Compassion] increases 
not hap­respect and pen in 
compels us to use our
general," 

Evelyn resources to alleviate pain. " Whitehead s a i d . 
Evelyn Whitehead
"Suffering 

lecturer
is person­al, it hap­pens to the individual." 

In their discussion on the of suffering 
Evelyn Whitehead s a i d . "[Compassion] increases respect and compels us to use our resources to alleviate pain." 
J a m e s Whitehead offered a method of deal­ing with suffer­ing, in self and in others. "Redemption 
comes through 
"Passion of Suffering," the cou­empathy and prayer," he said. ple noted the characteristics of He suggested an understand­suffering and addressed its pres­ing of the way Jesus suffered 
ence in the world. would help one through the 
The couple discussed a myriad toughest of suffering. of questions about suffering in The Center for Spirituality has hopes to establish some under­an endowment from the Sisters 
standing of its existence. of the Holy Cross to fund this Among the questions posed annual lecture series. included: 
The next Does suffer­event for the
"Suffering sometimes 
ing redeem? Center is the Is there a opens us to a wider Madeleva link between 
Lecture Series
embrace ofthe truth. " 
suffering and on the topic, salvation? 
"Women Who Did Jesus Evelyn Whitehead Hear Voices: suffer so we lecturer The Challenge didn't have of Religious to or did he Experience," on do it to show us how?Another April 10 at 7:30 p.m. in Carroll 
question was: Is suffering pun­Auditorium. ishment? "Suffering sometimes opens us Contact Natalie Bailey at to a wider embrace of the truth," bail l 407@saintmarys.edu. 


Wednesday, April 2, 2003 COMPILED f<R0M THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch A11ril 1 
Dow Jones 

8,069,86 ~ +77.73 
NASDAQ 

1,348.30 +7.13
tt 
S&P500 

858.48 +10.30
tr 
AMEX 

824.21 -3.05
•
NYSE 

4,793.56 +63.35
e 

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) 0.00 0.00 12.98 
OAACLE· CORP (ORCl:) i:lfiii~!~i~:!ii:!1:~iiiii!Ii~;~~: 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +0.58 +0.14 24.35 
1NTEL CORP .·(INTC) :']Ml;l~l!11111li!:11~111 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW)+3.07 +0.10 3.36 
IN BRIEF 
White House targets trade barriers 
The Bush administration released its annual rnvicw of the trade barriers U.S. exporters face in trying to sell their products around the world. singling out 56 trading partners for erecting unfair barriers to American prod­ucts. "Bringing down barriers to trade pro­motes growth and prosperity," U.S. Trade Hnprescmtative Hobert Zoellick said Tuesday in releasing the 2003 edition of the National Trade Estimate Heport. "The Bush adminis­tration is committed to identifying unfair bar­riers to U.S. exports and to working aggres­sively with our trading partners to eliminate those barriers," Zoellick said. 
Kroger employees reject final offer 
i\ union representing workers at 13 Kroger grocery stores in Indiana has rejected what the company said was its best and final con­tract offer for employees of its Sav-On depart­menL'i. Local 700 of the Commercial Workers International Union represents about 300 employees who work in the Sav-On depart­ments -deli, bakery and non-food -of area Kroger stores. Union members rejected the contract by a 2-tu-1 margin, spokesman Rian Wathen said. Wathen said the union wants to continue negotiations. Jeff Golc, a spokesman for Kroger, issued a statement saying the company is encouraged that a growing num­ber of workers have voted to accept the deal. 
American Airlines to lay off 2,500 
American Airlines will lay off 2,500 pilots over the next year as it cuts costs in hopes of staving off bankruptcy, union officials said Tuesday. About 21 percent of American's 12,000 pilots will lose their jobs. with cuts beginning at the bottom of the seniority lad­der. Pilots can be recalled within two years if the airline. the world's largest, adds jobs. The cuts were announced by officials with the Allied Pilots Association, which has agreed to $660 million in annual concessions to help save the company from bankruptcy. 
Airline aid package proposed 
. White House may oppose $3.2 billion package 
As,ociated Press 
WASHINGTON 
House Republican lead­ers want to give airlines $3.2 billion to offset addi­tional costs from war and terrorism. more than the Senate but still less than what airlines want. 
The House and Senate appropriations committees passed their proposals on Tuesday as part of the spending plan for the war in Iraq. 
Both airline-relief plans may be too much for the White House, which said it is inclined to allow market forces to shrink the indus­try. The Bush Administration may oppose any package that's more than $900 million, said Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Ted Stevens, R-Alaska. 
"I haven't got any reason to believe they'll accept it," Stevens said. 

Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta. an advocate of limited help for the air­lines. said the votes "show that a considerable gulf remains between Congress and the administration the beginning of manned But Rep. David Obey, D­plans are bigger than the regarding the amount and flight because of terrorism Wis., complained that the $2 billion proposal. not structure of this assis­fears, the war in Iraq, airlines come to the gov­including war-risk insur­tance." overcapacity, mismanage­ernment for bailouts every ance, agreed last week by 
Both proposals would ment and high labor costs, couple of years. He said Senate leaders. freeze airline executive airline analysts say. Since this was the last time he'd The $3.2 billion House pay at 2002 levels, and an the war began, 10,000 air­vote to give the industry a plan relieves airlines of amended Senate version line jobs have been cut, dime. security fees until Sept. 30 would extend unemploy­according to industry esti­Eleven days after the and reimburses them for ment insurance for work­mates. Sept. 11, 2001, terror the security costs they've ers for a total to taxpayers The airlines began a lob­attacks, the airlines suc­paid since the attacks on of $2.7 billion. bying campaign in March ceeded in getting $5 billion the World Trade Center 
"Most people are very to get $9 billion in tax in cash and a $10 billion and the Pentagon. Security upset over what they con­relief but changed their loan guarantee program fees include the passenger sider to be excessive com­approach to try for $4 bil­from Congress. security tax of up to $10 pensation for some execu­lion in reimbursement for Darryl Jenkins, head of per round-trip ticket, tives," said Rep. Martin security costs when George Washington which the airlines arc Sabo, D-Minn., who pro­Congress seemed uninter­University's Aviation expected to pocket. posed the limits. ested in the original plan. Institute, said that bailout "This is just an immense 
Sabo said Delta Airlines' Rep. Norman Dicks, D­merely prolonged the amount of money," said chief executive, Leo Wash., supports the pro­industry's agony. Severin Borenstein, a Mullin, received almost posal. "If we saved "We keep coming up University of California $13 million last year, Chrysler and New York with these bailouts, and professor at the Haas while 16,000 company City, it's time we start we artificially prop up School of Business in employees lost their jobs. thinking about saving someone who shouldn't be Berkeley. "You're just 
Airlines are experiencing America's airlines," he propped up," Jenkins said. handing cash to the air­the worst downturn since said. Both House and Senate lines." 

Guidant defibrillators approved 
tors. into coronary arteries to prop them 
A5sociated Press 

Defibrillators electrically jolt the open after surgery. 
INDIANAPOLIS heart back into rhythm in case of car­Guidant is buying a nameless ven­
Medical device maker Guidant Corp. diac arrest. ture founded by SyneCor, a medical on Tuesday said it had won federal The Vitality and the Ventak Prizm technology company. approval of two heart defibrillators function in the same manner, but the Guidant has purchased a 51 percent and planned a $16 million acquisition Vitality is about the size of a large stake in the new company for $10 mil­
of company developing heart treat­matchbox and is smaller than compet­lion, and plans to buy the remaining ment technology. ing products, Guidant spokeswoman interest in early 2004 provided certain Indianapolis-based Guidant said the Annette Ruzicka said. The Ventak conditions are met. Guidant also will 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration Prizm is about the size of a pager. make payments if regulatory mile­has approved its Vitality implanted Guidant also plans to acquire a stones are achieved. defibrillator, which is expected to startup company developing a new The deal is the third recent acquisi­reach the market before the end of type of heart stent that can be tion by Guidant aimed at improving its June. absorbed by body tissue following position in the emerging market for 
Guidant also won FDA approval of restoration of blood flow in patients next-generation stents that are coated its Ventak Prizm defibrillator, an addi­with coronary artery disease. Stents with drugs to prevent scar tissue for­tion to the an existing line of defibrilla-are tiny metal-mesh tubes inserted mation in arteries. 


page 8 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, April 2, 2003 
Fortner Virginia GOP director pleads guilty to eavesdropping 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND, Va. 
The former executive director of the Virginia Republican Party pleaded guilty Tuesday to a felony charge of eavesdropping on a Democratic Party confer­ence call, the U.S. attorney's office said. 
Prosecutors will recommend Edmund Matricardi III serve three years' probation and pay a $10,000 tine. He is also expected to cooperate with investigators under the agreement, in which he pleaded guilty to one count of felony wire intercept. 
"This recommendation per­mits Mr. Matricardi to provide for his wife and two little girls and further continue his appeal that his conduct did not amount to wiretapping," said Steven Benjamin, his attorney·. 
Benjamin said his client never denied that he listened to an interstate conference call on March 22, 2002, during which Democratic legislators, party leaders and their lawyers dis­cussed strategy in a court battle over legislative redistricting. 
Matricardi, 34, executive director of the state GOP from 

1999 until April 2002, also admitted he used an access code given to him by a former Democratic Party staffer to join in on the call. Prosecutors said he also recorded the conversa­tion. 
Matricarcli had been charged with two counts of unlawful interception of a wire communi­cation, two counts of milawfully disclosing it and one count of aiding and abetting. Each count carried a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. 
He pleaded innocent Peb. 12, saying the conference call quali­lied as an open meeting under Virginia laws. He can continue to use that argument in appel­late courts as he pursues a motion to dismiss the charge to which he pleaded guilty. 
Paul McNulty, the U.S. attor­ney for eastern Virginia. said the prosecution of Matricardi made a statement about protecting confidentiality. not about politi­cal espionage. 
"We are, as a society, increas­ingly transacting our business by telephone and telephone con­ferences, and the usefulness of this technology ... is dependent on its security," McNulty said. 
Gov. Mark Warner, a Democrat who participated in the conversation Matricardi lis­tened to, said he hopes the plea discourages similar behavior. 
"The U.S. prosecutor accept­ing thift guilty plea sends a strong and clear message that dirty politics will not be tolerat­ed in Virginia," the governor said in a one-paragraph state­ment distributed by his oflice. 
After Matricardi is sentenced on July 8, he will relinquish a number of civil liberties, includ­ing the right to hold elected office and the right to vote, McNulty said. 

Moussaoui defense lawyers ask for access to witness 
rity and a defendant's right to been the mastermind of the for a second wave of attacks cution. Associated Press potentially helpful information. Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, and after Sept. 11, 2001. In the Moussaoui case, the 
Moussaoui won the first Binalshibh is suspected of help­Moussaoui, who faces the Bush administration has intro­
WASHINGTON round when his trial judge ing coordinate the airliner death penalty if convicted of duced an option not usually
Lawyers for accused terror ruled secretly that he could hijackings. conspiracy to commit terror­available to prosecutors: a mili­conspirator Zacarias have access to Ramzi In motions recently made ism, has denied he was part of tary tribunal that would allow Moussaoui asked an appeals Binalshibh, the prisoner. The public by U.S. District Judge the Sept. 11 conspiracy but greater secrecy and fewer pro­court this week to uphold a rul­government appealed to the Leonie Brinkema, the trial admitted in court that he's an tections for a defendant. ing that granted the defendant 4th Circuit, and the defense judge. Moussaoui also asked al-Qaida me·mber loyal to Legal experts said despite a access to an al-Qaida prisoner. replies were due Tuesday her to order the government to Osama bin Laden, the Saudi­new classification of al-Qaida 
Moussaooi had the right to under special secrecy proce­produce Mustafa al-Hisawi, a born fugitive who leads the ter­prisoners as enemy combatants 
file his own arguments sepa­dures. suspected financier of the ror network. The indictment without constitutional protec­rately, since he's representing Prosecutors reportedly have attacks, and Abu Zubaydah. a contends Moussaoui was in a tions, the conflict between himself while court-appointed explored ways of satisfying suspected coordinator of al­conspiracy with the hijackers national security and a defen­attorneys represent his inter­Moussaoui's constitutional Qaida terrorist activities. and specifies alleged conduct dant's rights hasn't changed. ests. rights but have tried adamantly Binalshibh reportedly that mirrors that of the attack­"It hasn't changed so far as 
Accused of conspiring with to maintain secrecy around the described Moussaoui as a ers. he's sitting in an American the Sept. 11 attackers, the trial interrogations of the key pris­backup figure in the attacks on In past cases involving courtroom," said Washington of Moussaoui, a French citizen, oners with knowledge of the World Trade Center and national security, the govern­defense attorney Stanley is on hold while the 4th U.S. Moussaoui. Paramount among the Pentagon. ment has been faced with a Brand, a former counsel for the Circuit Court of Appeals in those are Binalshibh and Mohammed reportedly told choice: find a way to provide a House of Representatives. Richmond, Va., resolves the Khalid Shaikh Mohammed. investigators that Moussaoui defendant access to favorable "That's the forum the govern­conflict between national secu-Mohammed is believed to have was supposed to have prepared information or drop the prose-ment chose." 
Sex...You never knew it was so good. 
··This is the body -a witness to creation as a fundamental gift, and so a witness to Love as the source from which this same giving springs. Masculinity and femininity -namely, sex -is the original sign of a creative donation and an awareness on the part ofman. malc­female. ofa gift lived in an original way." 
··Continence for the sake of the kingdom of heaven, the choice of virginity or celibacy for one's \vhole life, has become in the experience of Christ's disciples and followers the act of a particular response of love for the divine Spouse. Therefore it has acquired the significance ofan act of nuptial love. that is, a nuptial giving of oneself for the purpose of reciprocating in a particular way the nuptial love of the Redeemer. ll is a giving llfonesdf unJerstood as 
rem1m:iation. but made above all out 
nf lm·e." 

"By its nature, human life is 'coeducative. • Its dignity and balance depend. at every moment of history and at every point of geographical longitude and latitude. on \Vho woman will be for man and who man will be for woman... 
Po1>c John Paul II on the human person, the body and sexuality: 
Notre Dame Right to Life presents and in the midst of the world."' 
"It is necessary to rediscover continually in what is erotic the nuptial meaning of the body and the true dignity ofthe gift. This is the role of the human spirit. a role of an ethical nature. ]fit does not assume this role, the attraction ofthe senses and the passion of the body may stop at mere lust devoid of ethical value. Then man. male and female, does not experience that fullness oferos. which means the aspiration of the human spirit toward what is true, good. and beautiful. so that what is erotic also becomes true. good. and beauti rul :· 
"Uniting ,,.:ith each other ( in the conjugal acl) so closely as to become "one flesh,·· man and woman rediscover, so to speak, every time an<l in a special way. the mvsterv ofcrcation. Thev return in
-

~ ~ 
this way to that union in humanity \Vhich allows them to recognize each other and call each other by name. This means reliving. in a sense. the original virginal value of man. which emerges from the mystery of his solitude before God 
A WEEKEND WITH CHRISTOPHER WEST 
expert on Pope John Paul ll's Theology of the Body 
Evening Talks (open to all!): Friday April 25th 7:30pm 141 DeBartolo Hall Building a Culture q(L{le Saturday April 26th 7:30pm t41 DeBartolo Hall 1Warriage and Celibacy for the Kingdom Day of Prayer*: Saturday April 26th 9am-5pm CoMo Lounge A Crash Course in the Theology ofthe Body *Due to limited space, please register for the Day of Prayer. For rcgistrnti(111 details, email mcokclev(,~nd.e<lu, or see posters aroun<l campus. 

Wednesday, April 2, 2003 The Observer .NEWS page 9 
Bush launches plan to prevent recession 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Bush administration has f'mbarked on n campaign to kr.cp the war in Iraq from push­ing the country back into a rcc1!ssion. 
A "watch group" of the administration's lop policy• makers began holding daily meetings when the war started two weeks ago in an effort to stay on lop of developments in world financial markets, global oil markets and the U.S. econo­
mv. 
i:cdcral Hcservc Chairman Alan (;rcenspan has also been a participant in the sessions, which have Leen chaired by StPplrnn Frilidman. the director of the president's National Economic Council. 
In addition to these strategy sessions. the White Ilouse is dis• patching various Cabinet secre• tarics around the country to sell thn president's economic stimu­lus package. The Senate voted last week to cut the price of the package in half. 
"We are watching the econo­my through this period, keeping a close eye on energy prices and making sure that we are all talking to each other," Commerce Secretary Donald Evans. one of the participants in the White I louse meetings, said in an interview Tuesday. 
Frir.dman 's staff has devel­opod what they have dubbed a "dashboard" of key economic indicators. They update it throughout the day so all mem­bers of the team can keep apprised of any changes in eco· 1wmic or market conditions, according to a senior adminis­
dicaprio 
tration official. 
"We have been looking for any economic warning signs that might start to flow from developments in Iraq," said the official, who agreed to be inter­viewed on condition of anonymi• ty. "The purpose of this group is to look for early warning signs." 
Stock markets in recent weeks have been on a rollercoaster ride, soaring in the days imme• diately before the bombing ­when investors hoped for a short and quick U.S. victory ­and then declining as those hopes were dashed. 
Even with all the administra• lion efforts. analysts said the United States could still end up in another recession if the Iraq war drags on. 
"We will be in a full-blown recession if' the war isn't effec• tively resolved in the next two to three months," said Mark Zandi, chier economist at Economy.com. 
"Conlidence is falling, layoffs are mounting and troubled industries like the airlines are gasping for air." said Sherry Cooper, chief global economic strategist for BMO Financial Group. 
The administration's watch group has been monitoring all of these developments, holding daily sessions at first as each of the Cabinet secretaries educat­ed the others about particular areas ol' expertise, then cutting back to meetings several times each week. 
In addition to Evans, other Cabinet members who have been participating include Treasury Secretary John Snow, Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham and Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta. 
thurs 10 pm fri & sat 8 & 10:30 pm debartolo 101, $3 
ENGLAND 

Jury convicts two on terrorism 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
Two Algerian men were con­victed Tuesday of plotting to raise money for terrorist activ· ities and sentenced to 11 years in prison. 
Brahim Benmerzouga. 31, and Baghdad Meziane, 38, raised thousands of dollars through credit card fraud for an international network of terrorists planning a holy war against the West. prosecutors said. 
The nine-member jury returned the verdict after five days of deliberation in the court in Leicester in central England. 
"You have not directly taken life or seriously injured any­one. but the terrorists, in order to carry out their tcrri-
ISRAEL 

Israel: Peace plan n1ust be adapted 
ble killings and maimings, need money, false papers and military style materials. You both provided terrorists with the vital support and ran a well-organized and secretive cell," Justice Richard Curtis said after the verdict. 
During the trial, prosecutors said both men possessed pro­paganda identical to that of Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida terrorist network, advocating a holy war against "the Americans, their Christian allies and the Jews." 
Both illegal immigrants to Britain sat behind thick win­dows in a locked area of the courtroom, where an inter­preter translated the proceed• ings into Arabic. 
They were convicted of entering into a funding arrangement for the purposes of terrorism. 
According to trial testimony, Benmerzouga and Meziane, who were living in Leicester and working in a factory there. used numerous false identities and were secretly part of an intricate network of terrorist cells across Europe. 
Benmerzouga had amassed more than 60 films promoting suicide bombings and martyr· dom, including 19 copies of a bin Laden video, the court was told. Meziane had a book enti• tied "A Biography Of The Freedom Fighter Osama Bin Laden" and material about the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in the United States was found on a computer at his home. 
Suspected al-Qaida members visited Benmerzouga and Meziane in Leicester on their way to these training camps, according to court testimony. 
borders by the end of the year. 
After a cease-fire is in place, Palestinians would have to rein in militants while Israel would have to withdraw from Palestinian cities and freeze set• tlement construction. 
Palestinian Cabinet Minister Saeb Erekat said Israel's demands for changes amount to a rejection of the plan. 
"We had hoped that Mr. Shalom would have announced Israel's full commitment and acceptance of the road map. In reality he actually announced Israel's rejection," Erekat said. 
Mitzna. the Labor Party chair­man, said he suspected the Israeli government was playing for time. 
"This is a recipe to say 'yes· while in reality saying 'no,"' Mitzna told Army Radio. 
Also Tuesday, Israeli troops demolished the homes of five suspected Palestinian militants, including one who blew himself up in coastal Netanya over the weekend. 
Forces in the West Bank vii• !age of Deir Ghassoon destroyed the home of 20-year-old Rami Ghanem -the Islamic Jihad bomber who wounded 49 peo• pie Sunday at Cafe London in Netanya, the army said. 
Islamic Jihad said the bomb­ing, the first since the U.S.-lnd war in Iraq began, was a "gift" to the Iraqi people and vowed to increase its attacks against Israel during the war. 
The group also said it sent suicide bombers to Iraq to help fight American and British sol• diers. 
In the Al Amari refugee camp near Ramallah, troops demol· ished four homes belonging to four suspected militants from the Naji family, the army said. 
The four were members of the Al Aqsa Martyrs' Brigade, a 
militia  affiliated  with  
Palestinian  leader  Yasser  
Arafat's Fatah faction.  

The Naji family is accused of carrying out and plotting a series of attacks on Israelis, the army said. 
They participated in a March 2002 shooting attack in a Tel Aviv restaurant that killed three people and another in Jerusalem in February 2002 in which a police officer was killed. the army said. 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Israel's foreign minister said Tuesday the United States is determined to publish a Mideast peace plan soon. but Israel would seek changes before accepting it. 
The Israeli opposition leader, Amram Mitzna, and Palestinian officials said Israel effectively is rejecting the plan. a three-stage "road map" to Palestinian state• hood by 2005. 
The Americans are "deter­

mined to publish the road map," the foreign minister, Silvan Shalom, told Israel Army Radio on Tuesday, a day after meeting with President Bush at the White House. 
Shalom laid down a number 
of conditions for resuming talks 
with the Palestinians and said 
"the road map needs to be 
adapted." 
Israel repeatedly has said it accepts the "Bush vision," which is based on a policy speech he delivered June 24, but has balked at embracing the road map drawn up by the "Quartet" -the United States, the European Union, Russia and the United Nations -out­lining implementation of that vision. 
A diplomatic source said on condition of anonymity that Quartet officials would meet in Brussels. Belgium, on Thursday to discuss the possible publica­tion of the road map and how to monitor compliance by both sides. 
The source said the monitor­ing mechanism was expected to be a point of contention. 
"We expect that after the road map is published the first things they [the Palestinians] must do is halt the terror and the incitement," Shalom said. 
If the conditions are met, Israel would be a "true partner. exploring all roads to peace." 
The United States and Britain have said the road map would be unveiled after the new Palestinian prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas. and his Cabinet are sworn in probably sometime this month. , Palestinian leaders met with 
U.S. representatives Tuesday and were told by acting U.S. consul Jeff Feldman that the United States would set up a "monitoring mechanism" to make sure the road map was implemented when the Palestinian government started runctioning, said Nabil Shaath, Palestinian planning minister. 
The United States also would push for a road map similar to a draft presented last year. with no last-minute changes, Shaath said. 
There was no immediate comment from U.S. officials. The road map envisions a Palestinian state in provisional 
O
THE 
BSERYER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, April 2, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 45556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dam~. TN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Andn:w Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Scotr Brodfuehrer Lori Lewahki 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghannc Downes 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm 
SPORTS EDITOR: Joe Hettler 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
SAINT MAav's EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER. Maura Cencdella 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haighr 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR; Jason Creek 
CoNTROllER: Michael Flanagan 
SYSTEMS MANAGER: Ted Bangert 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNFo..............631-7471 FAX...........................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................63 l-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-454l BUSINESS OFFICE. ............................ ,..........63!-53l3 NEWS... ,... , ................................ , ............. , .. .631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer .viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE .........................................................631-4540 
observer .scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYS.............................................63 L-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO ........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
TttE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http://obmver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports. features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in princ and online by the studencs of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither rnsti1ucion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisemencs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent 1he opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lercers and columns present the views of the authors and nor nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Letters to che Editor must he signed and must include contact information. 
Querllom regarding Ob,eroer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefAndrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
rh...-Ob!it"r•cr (US!'S WIJ 240) i,: puhti1lwd Moi1Jar 1hruui,:;h friday i:xu:pi <luring l-xJ.m ,1,r,J \'.u.:,mun prrioJ,, A nih~ription ID Thi:' Olis..-rv<.-r i) 1100 for onc.Kadcmi~ yc.u: li"i'i for one loffnnrcr. 
Th,;: Ob}Crn.-r i1 puhlishnJ. .11: POSTMASTER OM :-iU\irh l.)it1ing Hail Send addtc!:5 com=ction1 1c: 
Nom" [)amc, IN 'i&556 ThcOrncrver 
P.O.Uo, Q 
f"cri,..J.1<~ J'QH~~ pait! .at Nmr<" O.i.mc None D.arm:, !N 46'iS6.-017? 2nd aJJitimuJ mailing offi~ 
Th«" Ohscrver is ,. m1..1nhc, of the AllOCi.i.ltt! Prc,s, All r('flroducrion righu tn: r~<:l'\'cd. 

Support men and women in uniform 
I would like to dedicate this column to my dear friend, Patrick O'Brien, whose courage and sacrifice for his country from the Vietnam War through the Gulf War earned him a Navy Cross and a lost lung. I love you Pat. 
Adam Cahill
Doc Brovvn told me that if I wanted to see chaos, I 
A Domer's 
should go to the 
Outlook
'60s. I'm not much for listening in his­tory class, so I guess I'll go and check it out firsthand. That crazy man. He travels through time and anywhere he wants to, but I don't think he's doing too well with the move from California to the Midwest. I'm sure he'll be fine though. 
Looking at the Chicago skyline, I wonder what it's going to be like 40 years ago. I turn into an unfinished housing project and stop at the begin­ning of a long stretch of road. Speeding up to 88 miles per hour is always my favorite part. The radio is on, but to get the mood right, 1 turn on a little AC/DC Thunderstruck. I can feel the music pumping through my veins and I can tell that I'm ready to do some time­traveling. I rev the engine, floor it and send the tires into a smoking frenzy. 
Within minutes I'm in uncharted ter­ritory. The '60s. I've heard so much about it but to actually be here is sur­real. I knew the place that I had picked to travel through time would be farm­land, but I didn't think there would be nothing here. Oh well. It's time to go see the city. 
I park the car behind a grove of trees to conceal it from the worid and wan­der into some small suburban town to hop on a bus to the big city. The scenery is one of a perfect Midwestern morning as the bus moves along slowly toward the noticeably smaller skyline. Once in town, Michigan Street is crowded with people. There seems to be tension in the air as they converge into the same direction. Naturally, wanting to see what's up, I follow them. 

With the convention center in the background, I fiQ.d what it is I've come for. Crowds of angry protestors fill the streets, and I begin to witness the Democratic National Convention and the Vietnam War protest that was so infamous during the 1968 presidential campaign. Signs, posters and banners arc everywhere and the crowd starts to lash out, screaming at the police offi• cers that have formed a barricade. The batons are out and tear gas is flowing through the crowd. 
This is so sad. A man lowers the American flag from a pole only to get beaten by police for doing it. Another lights a flag on fire and denounces the United S..tates as his country. The sight is so disgustingly stirring that tears start to flow from my eyes. Ijust can't believe it. Men are dying in Vietnam to protect these Americans' liberties, and the thanks they and their families get is to witness a country's indifference to their sacrifices. 
I've had enough. I need to get back to 2003, where things make sense. Surely the country has learned its lesson and such instances of division will stay here, in the past. I hop the first bus back to the small town and make the hike to the grove of trees. The tears won't stop. There are no sobs, just tears. Those poor families. Getting in the car, I can't muster the energy to even touch the radio. The music is gone. I just want to go home. 
Back in 2003, I return the time machine to Doc and without saying a word, slowly make my way home. I'm exhausted. The tears have dried only to leave streaks down my face. Collapsing into my Lazy Boy, an eternity passes before I can turn on the television. 
Ijust can't believe what I'd seen. It's no wonder Vietnam veterans coming home only to find ungrateful Americans drove many of them to madness and suicide. I can't blame them. How would I feel if the country I would die defend­ing didn't support my labors? 
But we've learned. I'm sure of it. We, as Americans, are too smart and com­passionate not to support each other. Especially our armed forces. I can't think about it anymore. I just want to turn my head otT. So, I turn on the tele­vision only to hear the words of a CNN news anchor tell me that hundreds of anti-war protestors had been arrested. I looked at the calendar on my wall: 2003. 
Ijump out of my chair quickly and try and get the restroom in time. It's no use. Vomit is all over the place. I'm guilt-ridden and dumbfounded. 
Now I know that history does repeat itself. Those poor soldiers. They don't have the support they deserve for risk­ing their lives for me. It's about time I showed them some love. Politics have been decided, the war is started, so let's support our heroes in uniform. 
Adam Cahill is a junior majoring in history• and Amerir:an studies. His col­umn appears every other Wednesday. He can be reached at acahill@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of Tf/e Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Prayer and love offered for troops 
The headline of a Viewpoint article Tuesday declared, "You can't be pro­troops and anti-war." In a certain sense, that's entirely true. I believe the current war is unjust; thus, logically, I cannot in good conscience give my approval to what the troops in Iraq are doing. I sin­cerely wish they weren't there. 
But it is for their sake as well as for the sake of the Iraqi soldiers and civil­ians that 1 wish our troops were not there, and I pray daily for their safety and for a quick end to this war. I have a much greater and deeper love for sol­diers since this war started and since I became part of the peace movement a year ago .. 
Even while I disagree strenuously with the method they have chosen to try to bring peace to the world, I respect and admire them for the sacrifice, devotion and love with which they live out that choice. I am striving to Jive out my paci­fist views as conscientiously as they live out their military lives. 

I cannot condemn soldiers for the choices they make in good conscience; I can only hope to inform their con­sciences in a different way and persuade them to choose another path. That's what I'm doing when I protest, when I wear a white armband for peace every­where I go, when I post signs saying "No War in Iraq" in my windows. That's what I'll be doing when I protest the Pass in Review later this month. I am not attempting to condemn any person, and I am not attempting to generate hate and discord.lam trying to con­vince conscientious men and women that the path they have chosen will not lead to true peace. 
I have a few friends who arc in ROTC, and I love them dearly. In truth, they are one of the most significant reasons I have for protesting the war: I don't want Erik to go to Iraq and never come back. I don't want Chris to take part in an unjust action. I don't want Peter's soul to be coarsened and embittered by war. 
It's true, I can't both protest the war and approve of what our soldiers are doing. But I can and do pray for our sol­diers and for their physical and spiritual well-being. I can and do look up to them as examples of people who are truly liv­ing out what they believe, no matter the cost to themselves. I can and do love them, and I will love them forever, even ifwe disagree forever, as we probably will. 
Sheila Payne 
senior Cavanaugh Hall April I 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Helena Payne Matt Lozar 
Joe Trombello Lisa Reijula Mike Chambliss Scene Viewpoint Sarah Vabulas Claire Kelley Lab Tech Graphics Claire Kelley Katie McKenna 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you think the incoming student body presidents will be able to fulfill their campaign promises? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"True patriotism hates injustice in its own land more than anywhere else." 
Clarence Darrow lawyer 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, April 2, 2003 page 11 
Suggestions to make Catholic Mass more fun 
The Catholic Church is having a spot of trouble transitioning to the New Millennium. Donations are down and seminaries are emptying of students. But mw thing is contributing to the Church's 
{locliue: Mass.  
Now Mass has long been consid­ Joe Muto  
ered lhc muat and  
potaLocs of the  
Catholic faith diet,  Muto Time  
often supplemented  
hy the creamy  
sacramental gravy  

and delicious desserts of the holidays. But man can live on meat and potatoes !'or only so long. It's time for a!I you Catholic dinurs to face the facts: Mass is boring. 
Some of you out there may disagree. You may say that it energizes you, refreshes you or helps you get ready for your week. Good f'or you -you're lying. You're just as bored as the rest of us. It's Lime lo admit it and move on. 
But have no fear. I'm not here just to tear down~ I wish to rebuild. There's nothing wrong with Mother Church that a bit of snazzy marketing can't fix. Observe as I single-handedly save Catholicism. 
First. let's talk about the general tone of the service. Must Catholic Masses are held in poorly lit churches where the congregation sits on cold, uncomfortable benches and is surrounded by stained glass depicting scenes of death and may­hem, all while being serenaded by the most depressing minor-key pipe organ music imaginable. This atmosphere doesn't say, "Hey come here and cele­brate your faith!" It says, "Hey, bring your family here and scar your children for life!" 
The first thing the Vatican can do to spice things up is take a cue from the world of professional sports. First. altar boys are gone, replaced by cheerleaders and possibly a mascot. Crossy the Crucifix can entertain the kiddies with his wacky antics and toss out T-shirts and the like while the cheerleaders assist the priest by getting the congrega­tion to start 'The Wave" at key moments. Gone also is the stained glass -it's now covered by banners trumpet­ing bingo championship titles and sport­ing the retired vestments of some of the more celebrated parish priests of the past. The pipe organ can stay, but the organist will be instructed to play only three songs: "Baby Elephant Walk," "The Mexican Hat Dance" and the always popular, "Da-da-da-dah-duh­daa-CHARGE!" 
The sports motif will be carried into all 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Clinton critique irrational 
In this time of' crisis, I find myself' dis­Clinton's cuts enabled programs and ini­secting a variety of opinions for the war, tiatives such as: increased childhood against the war, and all points in immunization, the working family tax-cut between. Often these arguments are and one that we can all be appreciative fraught with inaccuracies, unfounded of: student loan reform, just to name a conclusions and contradictions in terms. few. To assert that military cuts would No opinion was as shocking and disap­have prevented terrorist attacks on Sept. pointing at the stance taken by Matt 11 is appalling to hear. There is no dollar Somma in his letter entitled, "It would be amount that can prevent a terrorist act at worse without Bush." As a supporter of home or abroad. For every bunker­President Bush's current policy on the buster, cruise missile or surveillance light against global terrorism and a per­drone, there is another terrorist willing to son who voted for Gore in the last elec­sacrifice his life and the lives of others for tion, I feel that there are some key points purposes that will never truly be under­of Mr. Somma's letter that need to be stood by any ofus. addrussed. Secondly, Mr. Somma's letter lacks 
Mr. Somma, while supporting Bush, accurate perspective. It is easy to look argues, "What if the attacks of Sept. 11 back and say, "We should have done this had occurred during Bill Clinton's admin­or that." The fact is we live in a different istration? Or even worse, Al Gore's?" time now than we did under the Clinton Them is no doubt that President Bush administration. To respond to the made the right decisions following Sept. destruction of the Khobar towers in 1996 11, but to argue that Al Gore or Bill with an all-out ground or aerial assault Clinton would not have responded in a on Afghanistan would make current similar fashion is an indefensible and world sentiment towards U.S. foreign pol­baseless accusation. First and foremost, icy sound like a quiet hiss. To even pre­no one will ever know. To base an entire suppose that Clinton would have elimi­argument on the assumption that one nated Osama bin Laden with a few mis­person who was never placed in a given siles will never be known. Also, in keep­situation would have failed or performed ing with a previous theme, there is no poorly is unsubstantiated hearsay. guarantee that Osama's death would 
Look how easily this can be accom­have even prevented the tragedy of Sept. plished: If Nixon would have beaten 11. Kennedy, nuclear war would have In closing, Mr. Somma states, 'ihe art destroyed the earth. If Stephen Douglas of diplomacy ls only as strong as the had beaten Lincoln, the United States clenched fist that backs it up." I would would have been permanently divided. If hope that the actions in Iraq taking place Halph Nader had been elected, Sept. 11 today will not become the measuring would have never even occurred. As ludi­stick by which future diplomacy, especial­crom, and groundless these statements ly in the case of North Korea and Iran, am, they parallel the assumptions put will be measured. Personally, I long for forth by Mr. Somma. the day where the tightly clenched fist is 
Secondly, to state that Clinton's two loosened into the open hand, and the terms were "blessed with international United States can reach down and assist harmony (for the most part)" and then the struggling people of this earth, assert that Clinton was responsible for the United States becoming too "soft" is a Eric Bilinski contradiction in terms. If we were in a junior time of peace, what would be the purpose Dillon Hall of not making cuts in defense spending? March 28 aspects of the service. At the moment of consecration, instead of tiny bells tin­gling, someone in the crowd will sound an air horn. And, after a successful homily, the priest can spike the Bible and do the Dirty Bird dance. If he's feel­ing extra ostentatious, he can pull a Sharpie out of his sock and sign the hymn book for a fan in the front row. 
So, now that we've kicked the atmos­phere up a notch, we need to work on what I think is a major shortcoming: the food. I still remember my First Communion. As I took that sacred wafer and put it on my tongue, I remember thinking one thing: "Wow, the Body of Christ needs a little salt." Communion is supposedly the most important of all Catholic acts, yet we're cursed with bland, dry pseudo crackers. Imagine how much more bounce in your step there would be on the way to Communion if you knew that a bowl full of' Cheez-lts was waiting at the end of that aisle. Or possibly a delicious Triscuit cracker. Heck, we could go the full nine and add another distributor, Instead of bread then wine, it would be cracker, guacamole for dipping and then wine, 
Speaking of church wine, I have no qualms with it. It's tasty and refreshing. My only beef is that you get so little. You only get a little mini sip, and chances are that what you swallowed was half-wine, half spit-of-the-people-before-you. My suggestion is that everyone brings their own bottle of wine and the priest can just consecrate them all at the beginning of Mass, and then you can just sit back and sip on it for the rest of the service. 
For that matter, as long as we're going to suspend belief and say that wine is the blood of our savior, can't it be any liq­
uid? Can't it be beer? 
Don't get me wrong, it'd have Lo be good beer. You can't just bring in a sixer of Natty Lite and expect it to transub­stantiate into Our Lord. We're talking at least Bud Longnecks. Any theologian can tell you that Jesus would not have had canned beers at the Last Supper. Except maybe for Heineken Keg Cans. Those arc expensive. 
So, if the Catholic Church takes my suggestions, and it undoubtedly will, I predict a huge boost in the number of Mass-goers. Now if you'll excuse me. I have to wheel a keg into the Basilica. 
Joe Muto is a junior FIT and English major who just found out that offering a girl your coat is a move that actually works. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
GUEST COLUMN 
Inquiry is patriotic 
ARLINGTON, Texas -Let me see if' I in human capital, too. Armies of soldiers have this right. Americans want other -coalition and Iraqi both -will die, Americans not to criticize President but at least they, as voluntary and armed Bush. Some people won't even eat crou­combatants, had some reasonable tons because crouton is a French word. expectation of danger and death. More 
Huh? cruel in their injustice and randomness 
It's not patriotic to Andy McMlllen arc the deaths of bystanders who just oppose the com-happened to live in the wrong house, mander-in-chief such as the one where the cruise missile while the nation is The Shorthorn accidentally fell and obliterated 17 peo­at war. ple. 
What? Don't protest? 
If you do not follow our lead, you are Further payment will be due for yet either ungrateful, after all that we've unforeseen consequences. The surprise done for you, or you are the enemy. slowing of the initial American thrust 
Stop right there. from Kuwait toward Baghdad could be For the world's greatest democracy­just a foreshadowing of other events that 
as of this writing -this is all backward. will almost surely unfold accompanied Here's how it really goes: by more and greater burdens, financial Ifyou love your country and you and human. These unknowable results 
believe its leaders are making the wrong could range from "mere" long-term eco­military and geopolitical choices, then it nomic malaise (read: a very long return is not only patriotic to question their journey to the land of abundance and actions, it is your duty. A solemn obliga­plenty) all the way to an Armageddon­tion calls free people to have a mind, an scale Middle East conflagration. informed opinion and a voice regarding Why throw a lit match on a multi-bil­issues such as war, peace, hunger and lion-gallon barrel of oil? Given these human rights. costs, Americans and everyone else 
After all, each of us will bear the cost affected by the global consequences of or reap the rewards of our nation's the invasion of Iraq have a right to ques­actions, good or bad. We won't be able tion every edict and analyze every policy. to say later, "Oops! Sorry about Iraq. I We would be remiss ifwe did not exam­didn't have nothin' to do with it. It was ine carefully the motives of our officials. all Bush." Bush will be back in Crawford, both those they proclaim and those that Texas with a pension. Average they attempt to conceal. Americans will be working to 65 and As of this moment, the only nation beyond to pay for what he commits us to using weapons of mass destruction in or today, and they will be visiting the around Iraq is not Iraq -it's the United gravesites of their brothers and sisters States ofAmerica. and sons and daughters. They also might How did that go again? be dodging terrorist attacks launched as Be patriotic and shut up? retaliation for today's American actions. 
American taxpayers will pay the price This column first appeared in the in hard dollars -hundreds of billions of March 28 issue ofThe Shorthorn. the them. This alone gives us the right to campus newspaper at the University of participate in directing the spending of Texas at Arlington. It is reprinted here that money. But money is the least of the courtesy ofU-WIRE. costs. · The views expressed in this column are 
Don't say anything about it? those ofthe author and not necessarily We as human beings will pay the price those ofThe Observer. 
THE 
OBSERVER 


page 12 Wednesday, April 2, 2003 
Bienvenidos a Fiesta Tapatia 
Fiesta Tapatia in Mishawaka offers authentic, inexpensive Mexican food 
By CHRISTIE BOLSEN 

Assistant Scene Editor 
Fiesta Tapatia is a pleasant dining experience, yet not quite exciting enough to distinguish itself from other everyday Mexican restaurants. 
The evidence of the quality of its self-proclaimed "authentic Mexican food" is seen in the fact that the patronage of the restaurant seemed to be comprised mostly of regulars who enjoyed relaxing in the casual family atmosphere. Many of the patrons were also of Latin American heritage, adding to the authentic feel immediately perceived when one walks through the door. 
The quickness of the restaurant to take orders and to bring out the food made the experience even more enjoyable. 
The Atmosphere 
The decor inside is as brightly col­ored as the exterior (the restaurant is unassuming in size and locale, but shouts "Look at me, look at me!" with its bold stripes). The bright, bold col­ors brighten up the dining room to aid the patron into the authentic feel­ing emanating from the restaurant and its employees. 

Pictorial evidence of birthday fun is displayed on a wall covered with snapshots of sombrero-ed celebra­tors. Walls -decorated with of tapes­tries, paintings and pictures of Mexican origins gives the patron a feeling of being warped to Mexico to dine for the meal. 
Viney plants also adorn the small restaurant and the Latin music is 
soothing and inconspicuous until the Spanish version of "Achy-Breaky Heart" starts playing. This actually happened. All of those qualities com­bined provide a unique experience of Mexico right near campus. 
The Menu 
The menu offers typical cu1srne expected of Mexican restaurants with a helpful list of descriptions to distinguish between a tamale and an enchilada for those not experienced enough to know. 
The best aspect of the menu is not the many variations of nachos (with cheese, with beans, with beef, with chicken) or the various low-fat options (chicken quesadilla appetiz­er, chicken dinners like Mole Poblano and Chalupa Tejana) but the low, low pric.es for plates full of food. 
The average price of an entree ranges from $5 to $8, easily afford­able for the typical college student. 
The Cuisine 
Be warned not to indulge in the free chips and salsa until the wait­ress brings you water. While it's rrot the hottest salsa, the drinks might come some time later. 
Besides the usual alcoholic drinks and soft drinks, there are also deli­cious fruit-flavored Jarritos. These bottled Mexican sodas come in fun flavors like lime, guava, mandarin, strawberry and tamarindo. 
The "famous" fajitas are excellent, and can be made with combinations of chicken, shrimp or steak and onions, bell peppers and tomatoes. The burritos and enchiladas are served buried under mounds of let-tuce, sour cream and tomatoes, but are also tasty once you find them. 



Most lunch and dinner specials include generous portions of Spanish rice and refried beans. 
For vegetarians, there is a fairly extensive list of meatless choices that has a selection of bean and cheese versions of the combination dinners. In case someone is craving fajitas during Lent, there are mushroom faji­tas as well. 
On the other end of the spectrum, 
there is Steak a la Tampiquefia, which consists of T-Bone steak served with rice, refried beans, tortillas and tossed salad with sliced avocado, onions and lime. 
Desserts 
To top off the meal, there are crispy, honey-drizzled sopapillas. There is also creamy flan, which is fried ice cream. 
The Experience 
Out of the dishes tasted, all of them were appetizing and worth a try. Fiesta Tapatia seems to be the Mexican translation of a home-cook­ing diner that isn't as famous or flashy as a chain r,estaurant, but has loyal diners nonetheless for its cook­ing. 
Fiesta Tapatia would be a great place to throw a party. The atmos­phere is perfect and 1 the prices just right to invite a bunch of amigos and fiesta down. 
For authentic Mexican minus lhc big bucks, check out Piesta Tapatia and enjoy the food as well as the atmosphere. 
Fiesta Tapatia is located at 119 W McKinley Ave. in Mishawaka arid available for dine-in, order ahead. carry-out or pick-up at the window. flours are from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. on Monday through Thursday, from 11 
a. m. to 10:30 p. m. on Friday and Saturday and from 11 a.m. to 8:30 
p.m. on Sunday. For more informa­tion, call the restaurant at (574) 258­4202. 
Contact Christie Boisen at cbolsen@nd.edu 
• OTHE
BSERVER 


Wednesday, April 2, 2003 page 13 
'The Hipster Handbook' 
A guide to the ins and outs ofan almost inexplicable culture 
By MARIA SMITH 
S.ccne Editor 
llip-ster • VIIP-stur(s)\n, One who 
possesses tastes, social attituc:(es and opinions deemed cool by lhe cool. 
Everyone has seen these people. They frequent coffee shops and college campuses. they listen to the newest music and they would never be caught dead drinking Natty Light -unless of course th1•y dn it to be ironically main­strnam. 
For anyone who has ever wanted to be a hipster, or at least u-nderstand how one works, "The Hipster Handbook" is lrnre to l1elp. Author Hichard Lanham operates on the theo­ry that everybody, even the most unconventional of people, fits into a category. And he proves himself right with observations that are uncannily accurah-\. 
Far from being a mere collection of incorrt•cL outsider stereotypes. Lanham ·s book may provide a few shocks even to hipsters themselves who glance between the covers. With a fnw nxcnptions, "The Hipster llandbook" will let you in on the dress, attitudes. lingo and subcategories or society's rock star-sheik pseudo-out­
siders. 
How to Identify a hipster 
According to Lanham, this basically involves evaluating your tastes and deciding if they are sufficiently classy yet non-traditional. Do you prefer the uncombed look to your hair? Do you spend your time in bars with monosyl­labic names like Plant or Shine? Do you routinely abbreviate "postmodern" Lo "l'oMo'?" You may very possibly be a hipster. If' you listen to the Dave Matthews Band while driving in your SUV, you are probably not. 
Even if you fit nowhere within Lanham 's specifications of a hipster, lt's worth reading further into the book. You may spot some of your best friends within the pages. 
Hipster personality types 
From the facially pierced Waitstaff and Service Hipsters or WASHes who serve your coffee to baggy pants wear­ing skateboarding Teeters to trance music and anime character loving Clubbers, Lanham has the Hipsters pegged. 
The handbook not only describes the backgrounds, pastimes and li£e ambi­tions of all the types, but tells you how to go about dating them. As tricky as dating such a picky group of people may seem, it may not actually be that difficult. · 
"Teeters regularly sleep on their friends' couches or live at home with their parents, so having a place of your own can be very alluring to them," says Lanham. "If you have food in your fridge, the Teeter's eyes will fill with amore!" 
Hipster pastimes 
Hipsters prefer foosball to football and will never be found at sports bars, but like a good many non-hipsters, hold drinking as one of their most cherished activities. They are more likely to be found at complete dives which they find appealingly kitschy or at lounges with asymmetrical couches. Hipsters are also likely to be found drinking Cosmopolitans or Bloody Marys and smoking Camels or Lucky Strikes. 
Some Hipsters, especially the Loners reminiscent of Daria with unnecessari­ly large glasses, do not enjoy being around people at all and would rather stay in and watch obscure movies from the seventies. When trying to socialize with these people, it is wise not to exhibit great amounts of self-confi­dence. 

Hipster lingo 

Unfortunately, Lanham's dictionary pf Hipster vocabulary includes very few terms used by actual people. You may in the know using "deck" instead of "cool" and referring to beers as "bronsons," no one else will be, so it's a moot point. 
Hipster hairdos 

Hairstyles, and facial hairstyles, are a quintessential part of any hipster's image which must be carefully consid­ered. Although a hipster might look deck with a moustache at first, eventu­ally he will only start to look like a used car salesman. The handbook pro­vides a meticulous guide to which hair­styles can surprisingly be effective and how and when to wear them. 
-Although some outdated hairstyles 
can have a kitschy effect, including the 
"mulletude," make sure to note the 
handbook's tips on which ones miss the 
mark of ironic and just look stupid. 
The flock of seagulls look, for example, 
is never good. 

Lanham's book both glorifies and 
mocks hipster culture with its insights 
on what people like as well as why 
people like, all those things considered 
part of hipster culture, The book is not 
a criticism on any particular person, 
hipster or otherwise, but capitalizes on 
the social stereotypes that people often 
hope to leave behind but rarely entire­
ly do. Whether you're looking through 
·-~--~----------~-------·
!The Hipster Handbook ! 
a I 
·--------------~--------· 
Photo courtesy of Anchor Books 

The handbook ls the guide for all who have the urge to become a hipster. 
to recognize yourself or someone on the street, "The Hipster Handbook" can provide a window into another point of view, the goal of any good book. Ultimately, however, it is mostly just good for laughs. 
Contact Macia Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 
-

Photo courtesy ot hipslerhandbook.corn A group of non-hipsters, Illustrating the least accepted fashions and actions among the hipster pop culture. These non-hipsters are considered 'fin.' 

Wednesday, April 2, 2003

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Kent homers in first at-bat, Astros beat Rockies 10-4 
third with four straight hits -second inning

Associated Press 
singles by Oswalt and Craig with a double HOUSTON Biggio, a two-run double by and went to The Houston Astros wanted Blum and a two-run homer by third on Hideki more offense. Jeff Kent and Bagwell. Matsui's Jeff Bagwell gave· it to them An RBI double by Richard ground out. immediately. Hidalgo and a sacrifice t1y by Posada fol­Kent hit a home run in his Brad Ausmus completed the lowed with a first at-bat for Houston and big inning for a 7 -2 lead. homer off Cory Bagwell homered twice as the "He just couldn't make any Lidie to make Astros won their season open• pitches when he had to," it 2-0. Soriano er over the Colorado Rockies. Rockies manager Clint Hurdle added an RBI Kent, the 2000 NL MVP, said of Jennings. "The thing single in the 
_,,-helped lead the San Francisco you don't worry about Jason is inning. Giants to the World Series last that he's not going to take it to Giambi led year. He signed an $18.2 mil­heart. We know that he's off the third lion, two-year contract with ready to go back out there." with a homer the Astros in the offseason, Biggio, an All-Star and Gold and hit a two­joining Bagwell and Lance Glove winner at second base. out shot into Berkman in the middle of a played his first game of the the second powerful lineup. season in center field. He deck in the 
"With the welcome I received agreed to move to make room fifth inning for from the fans, I did not want to for Kent. his 20th let them down," Kent said. "As Preston Wilson doubled and career multi• long as I've been in the game, I scored on a second-inning sin­homer game. know enough that you don't gle by Jose Hernandez for He also flied get off to a bad start. So for all Colorado. The Rockies got two out to the things that came together for more runs in the eighth off warning track me tonight, it means a lot." Bruce Chen on an RBI triple by in center 
Roy Oswalt pitched seven Larry Walker and a single by against Doug strong innings and the Astros Wilson. Creek. roughed up NL Rookie of the A throwing error by Kent in The long Year Jason Jennings in their the third inning allowed a run balls spoiled first home opener since their to score. Lidle's Toronto stadium was renamed Minute debut. Maid Park. Yankees 10, Blue Jays 1 Acquired in 
Kent finished 3-for-5 and Jason Giarnbi and Andy the offseason scored twice. Bagwell hit a Pettitte made sure the New from Oakland, solo homer and a two-run York Yankees didn't miss he allowed five shot, while Geoff Blum also Derek Jeter -at least for one runs and homered and knocked in three game. seven hits in runs. Giambi homered twice, six innings. 
"Kent had a fine game," Pettitte pitched seven scoreless The Blue manager Jimy Williams said. innings and Jeter watched Jays lost their "His first at-bat certainly has from the clubhouse with a dis­first two games to make you feel great. located left shoulder as the for the first Bagwell had a great game, too, Yankees beat the Toronto Blue time since to say the least." Jays. 1981. and the third time in doubled on an 0-2 pitch from field seats to cut Arizona's lead 
The Astros piled up 14 hits, One day after Jeter was team history. loser Paul Shuey with one out to 4-3. including six off Jennings in a injured in the season opener, and was replaced by pinch­Paul Lo Duca followed with a six-run third inning. the Yankees got contributions Diamondbacks 5, Dodgers 4 runner Quinton McCracken. double, and the left-handed 
Bagwell's 27th career multi­throughout the lineup and won Junior Spivey and Mark Tony Womack's grounder Myers came on to pitch to homer game made him the their second straight game Grace came through when it went through the legs of first Green, who lined a single to second player in franchise his­over Toronto. mattered most, making Curt baseman Daryle Ward for an right-center to tie it. tory to hit more than one home Jorge Posada homered and Schilling's eighth-inning error, and McCracken Fred McGriff doubled to right run in a season opener. Roman drove in three runs, Giambi hit breakdown a little easier to advanced to third. Shuey and Green raced from second Mejias homered twice against a pair of solo shots, Alfonso take. walked Steve Finley on four for what would have been the the Chicago Cubs in 1962, the Soriano had two RBIs. and Spivey's bases-loaded single pitches to load the bases. go-ahead run. But rookie first first game in franchise history. backup shortstop Enrique in the 10th inning gave the Spivey, who was 3-for-4 with baseman Lyle Overbay took the 
Houston and Colorado were Wilson went 2-for-3 with an Arizona Diamondbacks a victo­two RB Is and a run scored, throw from Danny Bautista the last two NL teams to start RBI double in Jeter's place. ry over the Los Angeles lined the game-winning hit and fired a strike to catcher their seasons. Jeter was placed on the 15-Dodgers. over third base to bring home Rod Barajas, who tagged 
Oswalt, who went 19-9 last day disabled list Tuesday and Schilling allowed two hits McCracken. Green out on a close play. season with a 3.01 ERA, held will be out for at least a month through seven innings and Matt Mantei pitched a score­The Diamondbacks scored the Rockies to four hits and -it could be up to four took a 4-0 lead into the eighth. less 10th for the victory. four runs in the first three two runs -one earned. months if he needs surgery. But he gave up a three-run After Roberts' leadoff triple innings off Odalis Perez. 
Jennings gave up eight runs Jeter will have an MRI exam in homer to Dave Roberts, then in the third inning, Schilling Arizona, limited to four hits and nine hits in four innings. Tampa, Fla., on Thursday. Shawn Green hit an RBI single retired 14 in a row before Alex by Hideo Nomo in Monday's 8­
Kent homered over the Jeter spent the game in the off reliever Mike Myers to tie Cora led off the eighth with a 0 season-opening loss, scored right-field fence off Jennings in clubhouse and the trainer's it. single. Pinch-hitter Ward drew its first run of the season in the the second inning. room, watching on television. Grace, who entered in a dou­a one-out walk,· then Roberts first inning on Spivey's RBI 
Houston blew it open in the Ber'nie Williams led off the ble-switch to start the 10th, hit a 1-1 pitch into the right-single.
-

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE 
Oak Hill Condo 574-243-2621 
Ranch home, 3 bdrm, 1.5 bath, fire­place. lull bsmt, 2 car art garage, fenced yard. 1 mile from ND. 
288-2001 
Two speakers, 18 inch Bass Vins for P.A. $75. 
631-5195 
Laptop Computer $250, Dell Computer (with mon, kb, mouse, Win98) $150. 
229-3333 
FOR RENT 
Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom homes l /2 mile from campus mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 www.mmmrentals.com 
HOUSE AVAILABLE lurn. 4b2ba, walk to campus jo5225@aol.com 
1-Bdrm apts 1/2 mile from ND. $500/mo 283-0325 
Summer Sub-lease 1 bedroom apartment-fully furnished-cable t. v.­5 minutes from campus/good neigh• borhood. $350 a month. Call 229-1691 Very nice 3 bdrm home. Avail. June 1st for summer or fall. East Race dist.near Corbys Pub & St. Joe Church. Incl. alarm sys!, washer/dryer. Can email picts. 
Call Joe CrimmillS @ 273-0002(h)or 514-0643(cell)or JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com. $650/m negotiable. 
3·4 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR RENT' CALL Anlan Properties, LLC 532-1896 
LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH OFND 
2TT3097 
2 Rms(1 furn),Lg house.nice area Spa, tanning bed 229-3333. 

Summer :;;ublease -2 bedroom Turtle Creek townhouse Call (217)417-4223 
Nice 4BR near campus. Call Justin 288-9673 or 220-5414 
1 brdm apt. summer sublease al Turtle Creek, fully furnished, price negotiable dboudon@nd.edu 
NOTICES 

STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE 3-4 OR 5 PERSON 2 STORY. 8 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW EVERYTHING. WIRED FOR COMPUTERS ECT AVAIL. SUMMER OR FALL. 235-3655 DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR-WELL MAIN­TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAM­
PUS· STUDENT NEIGHBOR­HOODS-SECURITY SYSTEMS• MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL­WASHERS/DRYERS CALL TODAY-HOUSES GOING FAST!!! -CONTACT KRAMER (547) 315· 5032 OR (574) 234·2436 -ALSO LEASING FOR 2004-2005 VISIT OUR WEBSITES @ DOMUSKRAMERCOM 
LOST & FOUND 
Found: INFUSION basketball 
Call 4-0876 
PERSONAL 
Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it alone. It you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819 For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer 
ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE. Are you pregnant and don! know what to do? Loving, open-hearted, tinan­cially stable woman would like to consider adopting a baby. Free counseling, living expenses and medical expenses. This can be a good thing for you and your baby. Discreet and legal 
Call 904-824-7006. 

Wednesday, April 2, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
BOXING 
Tyson and Lewis could fight June 21, but not each other 
Mike Tyson and Lennox l.nwis may fight in the same ring June 21 -just not against each other. 
Talks am under way for the lwo hmtvywcights to appear in separate l'ighLs of a heavy­weight doubleheader, perhaps in Buffalo, N.Y. 
Possible opponents for Lewis include No. 1-ranked Vitali Klitschko, Kirk Johnson or Buffalo's Joe Mesi. Tyson's ligh L would be against some­one along tho lines of his last 
opponent, perhaps a fading Oleg Maskaev. 
Lewis had been hoping to fight Tyson, but Tyson has been adamant that he needs at least two more fights before he challenges Lewis for the title again. Lewis gave Tyson a beating last June before finally stopping him in the eighth round in Memphis. 
Though Lewis has a contract calling for a Tyson rematch, talks are being held for the two lighters to appear on the same card and push the rematch back to a later date. 
"We're trying to work that 
out," said Shelly Finkel, Tyson's manager. "That's part of the ongoing negotiations." 
If Mesi is on the card ­whether against Lewis, Tyson or someone else -the fight would be big in Buffalo, where the undefeated local heavy­weight is a huge attraction. 
If it was held in Buffalo. it likely would be outdoors at Rich Stadium where the Buffalo Bills play. 
Representatives of the two camps are also looking at other sites, including Las Vegas. 
Lewis hasn't fought since 

beating Tyson last June 8, and there has been increasing speculation that the 37-year­old WBC champion really doesn't want to light anymore. Lewis backed out of a pro­posed April bout with Klitschko, saying he wanted to wait and fight Tyson in June instead. 
Tyson, though, said after stopping Clifford Etienne in 49 seconds Feb. 22 in Memphis that he needed more fights before taking on Lewis again. Despite efforts to get him to change his mind, both the Tyson and Lewis camps are 
now reconciled to the fact the two heavyweights will not meet each other in June. 
Klitschko's lawyers have secured an agreement from the WBC saying Lewis has to fight him by the end of October or give up his belt, but the Lewis camp has been unhappy with the size of the purse that Klitschko is demanding to challenge the champion. 
Mesi is 25-0, but he has been brought along carefully. matched up with no-names or over-the-hill heavyweights, mostly in fights in or around his hometown. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Howland might leave Pitt for UCLA as soon as today 
Wooden coached them to 10 That would follow the time­However, it can offer the pres­Illinois State jobs, and he might
Associated Press 
national championships from line Howland spelled out tige of one of the most storied be a top candidate at Pitt 1964-75. Monday when he met with his coaching jobs in any sport, a should Howland leave. PITTSBURG II Pitt was willing to improve Pitt players and told them he more fertile recruiting base Dixon is llowland's top 
Th1\ arena isn't as nice, the the $5.9 million. seven-year wanted the issue resolved by than Pittsburgh and a greater recruiter -Pitt's incoming money would be about the contract Howland signed only Thursday, when he's leaving opportunity for ancillary class of four recruits is by far same, and Lhe players -at last year, but the sources, for the Final Four in New income, such as commercial its best under Howland -and least now -wouldn't be as speaking on condition of Orleans. endorsements. also handled some of the coach­good. All those disadvantages anonymity, said there were no Howland was an avowed Howland's biggest concern ing in practice. apparently won't prevent discussions between Howland UCLA fan while growing up in about UCLA appeared to be the While Howland weighed his Pittsburgh coach Ben Ilowland and the school Tuesday. Southern California -he arena issue. While Pitt just tough decision. Pitt also faces from leaving for UCLA. The Los Angeles Times played at Cerritos High -and opened a $96 million, luxury­one with his impending depar­
I lowland, who met with UCLA reported on its Web site only last week he called the laden arena that is one of the ture. The school would have to officials Sunday, was talking Tuesday that Howland would position with the Bruins his best in college basketball, UCLA decide whether it can afford to about a contract Tuesday, and be introduced as UCLA's coach "dream job." has spent decades in Pauley hand over the job to a promis­it wasn't wilh Pitt. Sources as early as Wednesday, follow­Howland is nearing the upper Pavilion, which is filled with ing but untested assistant coach rlosc to !lowland said his rep.a ing a meeting with chancellor echelon of Division I coaching history but lacking in amenities. such as Dixon, an on-the-rise rnsPntatives were Dnalizing th'c Albert Carnesale. UCLA sports salaries. Pitt is willing to guar­Howland said last week that Division I coach like Ilowland details that would make him information director Marc antee him about $1.1 million Pauley needs substantial was 1999, or an establishrd the Bruins' next coach -Dellins declined to comment on per year, and UCLA cannot sub­upgrades that might force the winner who's already a head LCL/\'s eighth since John the report. stantially improve on that. Bruins to play one season off­coach. 
campus. However, lining up the I-lowland's departure would money for an upgraded arena be Pitt's second major person­at a state-supported university nel loss in only four months. might prove difficult in the Athletic director Steve Pederson immediate future, especially left for alma mater Nebraska in given the current economic cli­December after overhauling
Friends and Brothers in 
mate. Pitt's athletic program. lie 
Howland also wants to take made numerous personnel his assistant coaches to UCLA. changes, built the new basket­two of whom -Jamie Dixon ball arena and football practice and Chris Carlson -are native facility. and tore down Pitt
Holy Cross 

Southern Californians. Dixon, Stadium, moving the Panthers' however. is under considera­home football games to Heinz tion for the Wright State and Field. 
-

www.nd.edu/r--1vocation 
ANSWER ~ 
fflECALL W 



.... 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 2, 2003 
GOLF 
Golfers still trying to catch up to Woods 
Associated Press 
PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. 
"Chase your own potential." 

Davis Love III underlined those four words, even put stars around them, as a reminder that the best way to catch Tiger Woods is to wear blinders. 
The strategy came from an off­season session with sports psy­chologist Bob Rotella. Love jotted down the notes on a yellow legal pad, and he reviewed them the night before the final round of The Players Championship. 
He proved to be a qui.ck study. 

Love turned in the greatest closing round in the 30-year his­tory of the tournament. In cold, blustery conditions, he shot a bogey-free 64 to make up two strokes on the leaders and even­tually win by six. 
"We always talk about playing against Tiger down the stretch," Love said. "1 was chasing my own potential. and I think that's the difference." 
It sounds good on paper, any­way. 
The real test comes next week in the Masters -or any other tournament where Love's pur­suit puts him on a collision course with Woods on the back nine Sunday. 
That never happened on the TPC at Sawgrass. 
Love's stiffest competition came from Jay Haas, who had not won in 10 years, and Padraig Harrington of Ireland. who has never won on the PGA Tour. 
It wasn't Love's fault that Woods finished one hour in front Championship. He calle~ Love's round the best he has ever seen anyone play. 
"Not just Davis -anybody." Couples said. 
Love said he was building to a moment like this and that he felt comfortable enough to compete with anyone, although he eased off when he saw the next ques­tion coming. 
'Tm not throwing down chal­lenges and saying, Tm back,"' he said. "But it's nice to see the ball going where you're looking." 
Phil Mickelson called out Woods in a magazine interview by saying he used inferior equip­ment, words that were intended as a compliment but perceived as a challenge. Woods whipped him the first time they played together, in the final round at Torrey Pines. 
Ernie Els challenged Woods with his results. 
The Big Easy became the first player in 14 years to win the first two PGA Tour events of the season, then won twice more against good fields in Australia. 
He and Woods met for the first time this year on Saturday at Bay Hill under unfavorable con­ditions -Els had a sore right wrist; Woods had a four-stroke lead. 
Woods wound up 10 strokes clear of Els after the third round, and finished 19 shots ahead of him at the end of the tourna­ment. 
Love has scars, just like every­one else who has been run over by Woods. 
He handed Woods his first PGA Tour victory in 1996 at Las 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Marquette coach waiting for call 
. Jet will be waiting at Final Four for Schwab, who needs a lung transplant 
Associated Press 

MILWAUKEE 
Trey Schwab sits on the 
Marquette bench, breathing 
oxygen from a tube connected 
to a portable tank. He wears a 
cell phone on his hip, and he 
checks it every so often to see if 
he's missed the call that could 
save his life. 

The 38-year-old assistant 
coach has a disease that is 
deteriorating his lungs, and a 
transplant is his only hope for 
survival. 

Schwab is at the top of a 
waiting list for a donor lung, 
and if a match is found, word 
will reach him through a vibra­
tion on his cell phone. He then 
would have just two hours to 
get to the University of 
Wisconsin Medical Center in 
Madison for the operation. 

This waiting game is not only 
tense for Schwab, it's an incon­
venience because his team is 
playing in the Final Four in 
New Orleans. The Golden 
Eagles play Kansas in the first 
national semifinal on Saturday 
afternoon. and Schwab left for 
the Big Easy on Tuesday to help 
with logistics for the team's 
trip. 

"The coach in me would like 
to put all this on a back burner 
for another week and not worry 
about it," Schwab said. "But 
this is life and death, and it'll 
happen when it's supposed to 
happen, and there's not any­thing any of us can do about that." 
A private jet will be waiting to whisk Schwab away from New Orleans should the call come while he's there. 
"We're actually pushing the two-hour window a little bit," Schwab said. "But hopefully we'll have a little bit of leeway ifthey find a lung for me." 
There was just no way he was going to stay back in Milwaukee after Marquette reached its first Final Four since Al McGuire led the urban Jesuit school to its only title in 1977, McGuire's last game as coach. 
"It's stressful on the bench and being so far away," Schwab said. "But I'd probably be in more stress if I had to sit at home and watch it on TV." 
He's ready -and hoping ­for his phone to go off in the middle of the game at the Superdome, or in the middle of the night. 
For the first two rounds of the NCAA tournament, Schwab had a prop plane ready to take him from Indianapolis or Minneapolis, both of which were about an hour's flight from Madison. 
"He's everywhere we go late­ly. A jet is all part of the travel itinerary," coach Tom Crean said. "I hope he's there for the game, unless he can get it ahead of time. It's a no-lose sit­uation for him." 
With New Orleans so far from Wisconsin, a faster airplane was needed to get Schwab back quickly enough for transplant surgeon Robert Love to perform the operation that could last up to 24 hours. 
"We're going to just have to drop everything and get to the airport as fast as we can when the phone rings," Schwab said. 
Shortly after Schwab arrived at Marquette last season, he and Crean developed a nasty cough they couldn ·t shake, and both men were diagnosed with walking pneumonia. But as Crean got better, Schwab only got worse. 
After numerous tests, doctors told Schwab that he had a rare, incurable disease called idio­pathic pulmonary fibrosis that attacks the air sacs in the lungs, hindering the body's ability to process oxygen. 
After six operations and I 5 months on the portable oxygen tank, Schwab moved near the top of the organ transplant list ln February. When a donor match is made, the transplant surgeon will determine Schwab will receive one lung or two. 
Doctors began cutting back on some of his medications in preparation for the operation, sapping his strength and stami­na. 
"Even healthy people get run down and tired this time of year," Schwab said. "So I've really had to get my sleep and take care ofmyself." 
He feels guilty because other members of the staff have picked up the slack. But not once has anybody complained. Crean said. 
Indeed, Schwab has become a source of inspiration to the Marquette's players and coach­es in this special season. 
"Every time we think things are tough, you look at him and see a man who isn't breathing on his own," Crean said. 

-
of him and 11 strokes behind, Vegas by missing a 6-foot par Woods' largest deficit since the putt in a playoff. Woods 2001 PGA Championship. trounced Love twice during a Love didn't need blinders, he four-week span in 2000, in the needed binoculars. semifinals of Match Play and in 
Would it have been different if the final round at Bay Hill. 

Love played the final round with "It's going to take somebody to Woods, instead of good friend stuff it in his face a couple of Fred Couples? times coming down the stretch 
Probably not. to knock him off," Love always Couples has been around for used to say. 20 years and shot a 64 on the That was the problem. final day in 1996 to storm from Not many can, and even fewer behind and win The Players do. 

'flu. CUnivmi½ of ~olre c.Dame CbJe g' Cbmber Or~al-ro. 
pl[.,...,.J., 'B(.,JJ'!-J;,.eclor 
&.J..o1 Mcuer -Joupl.Jf"'l.ln J{,.... <D.matu -JJeim ~ cZ.immennonn 
Cmcerlo 1,,,-JF'-'o,J;... -~vr1 <J'.tJ;pp 'ldein.onn jlC~.. ,11<'1".J~ 
Wednesday, April 2, 2003 
8:00 pm, Basilica of !he Sacred Heart 
Free and open to the public Call (574) 631-6201 for information 


When: Thursday, April 3rd 8-10pm Where: Reckers Come support your friends and your dorm!!! *** Door prizes and prizes for the Champions will be 
awarded 1 including gift certificates and apizza party. Questions: email: Carrie at cfrankli@nd.edu Sarah at stwedell@nd.edu 
Wednesday, April 2, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Shoulder injury_ will sideline Jeter at least a month 
A<Sociated Preu 
TORONTO 

EvM thu highest payroll .in baseball couldn't prepare lhe N,\w York Yankeos for what they face now -playing with­out IPadcr Derck Jeter for at least a month. 
.Inter was placed on the 1 5­day disabled list after dislocat­ing his lcf't shoulder on opening night. The Yankees expect to be without Urnir /\II-Star shortstop for much longer. and it could be up to four months if' he neflds surgery. 
"We miss him when he's out of' the lineup for one game," manager Joe Torre said. "To have him out for an extended period of' time. we're lucky we haven't had that happen before. This will probably be a month or more. There will be a big void." 
.Jeter will lly with the team to Tampa, Fla . after Wednesday nighl's game and have an MRI tnst conducted by Dr. Allen Miller on Thursday. The Yankees, who open a ihree­gamc series with the Devil Rays on Friday. hold spring training in Tampa and have extensive facilities there. 
'Tm sure there will be a sec­111111 opinion after that. Then the doctors will get together and rnnsult and determine a course ol action." general manager Brian Cashman said. "It's six weeks minimum. It could be 
sooner. It certainly could be later." 
The test will show the extent of the damage and whether Jeter needs surgery, said Dr. Jonathan Glashow, a shoulder specialist. 
Glashow, an orthopedic sur­geon at New York's Lenox Hill Hospital, said Jeter could be back in four-to-six weeks if he doe1m't need surgery or three­to-four months if he does need an operation. 
"Thursday will be the day we'll get at least some sign to the course of action and the ultimate downtime," Cashman said. 
Cashman said the Yankees were more comfortable having their doctors in Florida examine Jeter than having tests in Toronto. The team also figured it would be easier for Jeter to stay with the team that to fly to New York on his own for the tests. 
"I don't think it really makes a difference if we do it now or Thursday," Jeter said. "I want to find out. Obviously, some­thing is wrong. because some­thing is out of place. Something probably has to be torn.'' 
Erick Almonte will get most of the time there while Jeter is hurt, although Enrique Wilson started at shortstop Tuesday. Almonte was called up from Triple-A Columbus on Tuesday. 
Jeter hurt his shoulder in the third inning Monday night when he slid headfirst going from first to third on an infield groundout. 
Toronto catcher Ken Huckaby, covering third because of an overshifted infield, landed on Jeter's shoul­der in a violent collision. Jeter was down for more than 10 minutes, writhing in pain as concerned teammates sur­rounded him. 
Some of the Yankees thought it was a dirty play. Huckaby called it a "freak" play and left a message on Jeter's cell phone, apologizing. 
Torre said Huckaby was just being aggressive. and Jeter said he wasn't sure whether the catcher could have avoided the collision. 
'Tm just angry I'm going to miss a long time. I'm not happy about it," Jeter said. "I've never done this before. I have no idea how long it will take. I'll he cau­tious because it's early in the 
· season." At shortstop, the Yankees 
aren't as deep. Jeter. a five­time All-Star, has been the Yankees' leader during their run of four World Series titles and five AL pennants since 
1996. 
He has played at least 148 games each season, going on the disabled list only three times with minor injuries. 
"He'll be missed a ton, no doubt about it," first baseman Jason Giambi said. "This is just some adversity we have to over­come. We've all been through it before, just not with a player 


New York Yankees shortshop Derek Jeter writhes In pain after suffering a shoulder Injury Monday night In Toronto. Jeter Is scheduled to have an MRI Thursday. 
like Jeter. We have a lot of car in Columbus on Monday great players on this team and night when Rob Thomson, the we'll all have to pick up the vice president of minor league slack a little bit." development. called and told 
Almonte was unpacking his him to be ready. 

' ~ 
:::::;..•~----"" 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
'l:,. .\ 
, ,~~ .., ...--'i , 
,,. -::::s-r:,,, 
~ fi'LI'.-~~~~---f 
,,,,, -=----------__;.,.,,.v ­

The N"ot:re Dame La-i-v School N"atural La-i-v Inst:it:ute present:s 
The C>lir1 I >istirig"Liished Lect"LJ.re Series 
''Expressive Liberty, Freede>m e>f Ce>nscience, and C e>ns titutie>naI Deme>c racy'' 
Upcoming Lectures 
Joseph Raz 
April 10 
John Finnis April 1 1 

William A.. Galste>n 
Professor, School of Public Affairs University of Maryland Director. Institute for Philosophy and Public Policy 
Thursday,. April 3,. 2003 


Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
-

AROUND THE NATION 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, April 2, 2003
page 18 

.: :1:1:~1:/!l!!i1::;:!~!\:l:l!\l\1/j~l!!l!!:i~:~:1:1i1::1i,~!l :i !!!!lli1li1ll!l1ll~l~1li11llll:~l;~:;;,~ 

·········••rt11l1ill[ll!fij1~11·•·-·•·•-···· iil~l~Pnl::IIW 
,:.11¦~4":= 
E

;.,.,~ 
r:~ 
·•·•·•·•·•·· lfflt[9,r:nmmm:m:rn1&fftt:rn~,,mm1::::. 
1

· '. lll!l~l!1i1j:::1:11r1,1 l!!\l;!:: 1i!H1111ll1::;1:
1a:~~~-, 
~111111:111;11:::1;:·t 
i 

ii·•IGt 
-
t\~: 

.-:-:-:-: ·:-:·.<-.· ' -:..-.-.····-··.•.•.;-:-·:•:::::-.-.•••.-.-::··_.:•.;.:.;.: 

around the dial 
NBA 
Kings at Wizards 8 p.m., ESPN Knicks at Nuggets 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 
White Sox at Royals 2 p.m.,FOX Cubs at Mets 7 p.m., FOX 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 


series of meetings with long before he took over Kansas. It's unclear
Associated Press 

players and parents, some the program, having whether Williams, whose 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. of whom complained about played with Michael team is in the Final Four, 
Matt Doherty resigned the coach's intense prac­Jordan in the early 1980s. will be a candidate again. Tuesday as basketball tices and drastic mood He left Notre Dame and Baddour said he had no coach at North Carolina, swings. Three players returned to North Carolina specific timetable for hir­ending a bumpy three-year transferred last season to succeed Bill Guthridge, ing Doherty's replacement. run marked by feuds with and others talked about it and for the first season, "It will be a national players and his failure to this year. things were fine. North search," he said. "It will be lead a storied program But Baddour said Carolina went 26-7, but it open. It will not be limited back to national promi-. Doherty's resignation slipped to 8-20 last season to members of the nence. wasn't solely based on -the worst record in the 'Carolina Family."' 
The Tar Heels failed to those meetings. program's history. There was tension from make the tournament in "This was an agonizing This year, his young the start of Doherty's two of his three seasons. decision for him to make," team finished 19-16. tenure, especially when he He leaves with three years Baddour said. "He made Baddour picked the inex­didn't retain Phil Ford, left on a six-year contract this decision with a great perienced Doherty after Dave Hanners and Pat that paid him $855,000 a deal of class in looking out Roy Williams -a former Sullivan as assistant season. for what was best for the assistant to Hall of Fame coaches. Instead, he 
Doherty's resignation university." coach Dean Smith -brought in his own staff 
came after athletic direc­The 41-year-old Doherty 
turned down North from his lone season at 
tor Dick Baddour held a was a Tar Heel fixture Carolina to remain at Notre Dame. 
IN BRIEF 

Piazza's suspension cut to ly issued a five-game suspension and recommendations for the restructur­four games $3,000 fine after Piazza charged Los ing of the troubled organization, the Mike Piazza's suspension for Angeles reliever Guillermo Mota dur­New York Times reported Tuesday. 
charging the mound in spring train­ing an exhibition game March 12. Task force co-chair Bill Stapleton 
Piazza, who had been hit by a fast­wouldn't reveal the details ofing was reduced to four games, and ball, later went into the Dodgers' Monday's meeting of the USOCthe New York Mets' All-Star catcher clubhouse looking for the pitcher. Governance and Ethics Review Task
will start serving the penalty Wednesday. "I believe that we did make our Force, which met in Manhattan, the points effectively," Piazza said
The decision to shorten the ban by newspaper said. 
Monday after the 45-minute appeal Stapleton said only that the mainone game was made Tuesday by Bob hearing.
DuPuy, baseball's chief operating components of the recommendations 
Mota originally was suspended for
officer. He heard Piazza's appeal included the trimming of the USOC's
five games, but appealed and had it
Monday after New York's season­123-member board of directors and 
cut to four games last week.
opening 15-2 loss to the Chicago its 21-person executive committee.
Montreal slugger Vladimir
Cubs. according to the Times.
Guerrero, suspended for three
"Naturally, I'm glad the suspension The task force will present their 
games for charging the mound in
has been reduced," Piazza said. "I recommendations before the full
another spring training game,
just want to put this all behind me so board of directors on April 11-11 in
dropped his appeal in exchange for I can concentrate on baseball the the commissioner's office cutting the Fort Worth, Texas. 
The new guidelines would drasti­rest of the season." penalty to two games.
The Mets were off Tuesday. If cally change the dynamics of the games are played as scheduled, Task force to restructure organization's board of directors and Piazza would be able to return to the usoc take politics out of the decision-mak­lineup Sunday against Montreal. Members of a U.S. Olympic ing process. 
Bob Watson, baseball's vice presi­Committee task force met for the "It will be a more preventive sys­dent in charge of discipline, original-final time before they present their tem," Stapleton told the Times. 
Wednesday, April 2, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
Offense 
continued from page 24 
freshman starter Tom Thornton, who was only expected to see limited action Tuesday, threw five solid innings after getting off to a shaky start, allowing the lirst run of the game in the top of the first on three consecutive singles. 
"In the first and second innings, they were on him pret­ty good," Mainieri said. "As he was firing I thought, he just needs to get some pitches, get some work and get some expe­rience, so we let him go the fourth and lifth innings." 
Thornton linished his outing by giving up only one run on five hits. striking out four and not allowing a walk. 
On the other side, the Irish got to the plate early and often, sending 12 batters to the plate in a nine-run second after scor­ing one run in the first to tie the game. 
The binge began when Steve Andres smashed a triple that hit halfway up the centerfield waif, knocking in Matt Macri and Cody Rizzo. Greg Lopez knocked Andres in with a single lo left. After Steve Sollmann recorded the first out of the inning, Brennan Grogan singled before Malt Edwards launched a two-run double to right-cen­ter to make the score 6-1. 
.\ pitching change for the Tiwns failed to stop the bleed­ing as the Irish kept hitting the ball hard. Javi Sanchez smach.ed a hard shot through the third baseman's legs to drive in Edwards, and Macri, up for the second time in the inning, fired a towering fly ball that smacked the top of the right-field fence, knocking in two more runs and putting himself on third with a triple. Macri later scored on a wild pitch. 
"Tonight was a hitter's night, it really was," Mainieri said. "The atmosphere was so con­ducive to hitting." 
Notre Dame continued the offensive production in the fifth, in an inning that easily could have been much worse for the Titans. After Rizzo was beaned for the second time in the game, Andres singled through the right side to move Rizzo to third. A double-play groundout by Lopez brought Rizzo home. 
Three more runs crossed the plate for the Irish in the sixth, when a one-out fielding error on a sure double-play ball hit by Macri brought home Kris Billmaier. Rizzo knocked in another run with a single to center, and pinch hitter Tim Murray brought in the third run of the inning with another sin­gle through the left side three batters later to put the Irish in control. 14-1. 
Meanwhile, the Titans staged a mini-comeback in the seventh inning, as they knocked around Irish reliever Scott Bickford for four runs while sending 10 bat­ters to the plate. Three straight singles, followed by a fielder's choice, brought home the sec­ond Titan run. Four batters later, the Titans cleared the bases with a double to deep center that drove in three runs. 
After Bickford walked the bases loaded again, a fly ball to short left field wreaked havoc with newly-inserted left fielder Alex Nettey. However, Nettey made a terrific acrobatic catch by leaping for the catch then rolling while maintaining the ball in his glove, saving at least two more Titan runners from scoring. 
"The wind was slightly blow­ing out at the end of the game," Mainieri said. "When that kid hit that ball, I thought Nettey was going to need to make a diving catch towards the infield, but that ball just kept carrying. I thought he just made a real athletic play. 
"It looked funny, and he probably made it harder than it should have been, but at least he caught it." 
Freshman Matt Arminio, in his first appearance for the Irish, shut down the Titans in the final two innings, while the Irish added an insurance run in the bottom of the eighth to pro­vide the final margin. 
"I was really happy with the way Matt Arminio came in and fooled some batters," Mainieri said. "That was encouraging also." 
With his pitching staff still depleted, Mainieri will start Martin Vergara tomorrow against Valparaiso at 5 p.m. 
"Valpo is another rival of Notre Dame," Mainieri said. "I have a lot of respect for their coach, he works really hard at his job. We've got them at home, and it's another night where I think we just need to take care of business.... It's going to be really important for Martin Vergara to go out there and pitch well for us tomor­row." 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Sw-eetney leads 
Hoyas to NIT finals 
Assodatcd Press 
NEW YORK 
Craig Esherick always knew his team could win big games in the postseason. The Georgetown coach just didn't know if it would be this year. 
Having Mike Sweetney makes a lot of things possible. 
Sweetney took charge once again and led Georgetown to the NIT championship game, scoring 32 points as the Hoyas beat Minnesota 88-74. Georgetown will play St. John's in Thursday night's title game. The Red Storm beat Texas Tech 64-63. 
The Hoyas (19-14) lost three games by a point this season. One of those losses came in overtime, in which the Hoyas were 1-3. But now, rather than losing games they had a chance to win, the Hoyas are winning games they had a chance to lose. 
The Gophers appeared to have found a solution for Sweetney after allowing him to score 17 points in the first half. They held him scoreless through the early minutes of the second half. while drawing within a point. Sweetney final­ly dunked for a 53-50 lead with 14:44 to play, sparking a 13-2 run. Sweetney scored six points during the run, helping Georgetown retake control of the game. 
Sweetney shot 16-l'or-18 from the free-throw line, out­shooting all the Gophers, who finished 1l-of-18. I le punctu­ated the Hoyas' night with a two-handed dunk that brought a roar from the crowd and gave Georgetown a 10-point lead with 2 :56 to play. 
St. John's 64, Texas Tech 63 
Marcus Hatten made Bob Knight's return to the National Invitation Tournament an unpleasant one. 
Hatten had a steal and layup with 16.2 seconds remaining to give St. John's a thrilling come-from behind victory over Texas Tech in the NIT semifi­nals. The Red Storm held on in the closing seconds after Hatten missed two free throws with 4.1 seconds left. 
Texas Tech got the ball back, and Will Chavis missed a 3-pointer off the rim as the buzzer sounded, sending the St. John's fans running onto the Madison Square Garden court. 
Hatten led the Hed Storm with 24 points. 

Andre Emmett led Texas Tech with 21 points and 12 rebounds, while Kasib Powell, who's from nearby Teaneck, N.J., added 19 points. 
A. Johnnathan Velandia Adam Oyster Adam Willis Alex Borowieki Andrew O'Connor Andrew Romano Andrew Warner Andy Larson Anthony Yanez Austin Mun Bernard Akatu Bill Rinner Blake Shelide Bob Polchow Brandon Bludau Brendon Collins Brett Anderson Brett Cronin Brian Grundy Brian McLaughlin Brian Shula Bryan Arvai 
Charles Riffert Chris Hall Chris Pearsall Chris Plenicka Christopher Rupar Chuck Anthony Chuck Lamphier Corey Mays Craig Brede Craig Thompson Dan Burke Dan Gruett Dan Musick Dan Surrett 
Dan Zeller Dan Zenker Daniel Lockhart Daniel Santucci Dave Cook Dave Moisan Dave Murray Dave Rooney Derek Smith Drew Donovan Drew Smith Ed Liva Elise Brown Eric Hansen Eric Monger Eric Swanson 
Femando Murales Galen Laughrey Garrett Kirk Gary Kausmeyer Geof Grubb Gerardo Rojas Greg Borchardt Greg Hiltz Ian Anderson James Leite Jamie Holland Jamie Kralovec Jamie Tyrell Jared Monk Jason James Jason Kingery Jeff Macabobby Jim Krueger Jimmy Coulter Joe DelaGraza 
Joe Graham Joe Hagan Joe Horton Joe McCarthy Joey Barron John Dee John Klein John Litle John O'Doherty John Paul Slonkosky Johnny Burns Johnny Griffen Jon Flemming Jon Morgan Josh Bronson Justin Marx 
Justin Shoff Kerger Truesdell Kevin Brown Kevin Busen Kevin Phipps Kevin Sibbernsin Kyle Martin Kyle Taylor Lawrence Dernulc Luke Nisley Luke Slonkosky Mark Fredenburg Mark Srsen Mark Szczuka Mark Thoma Marques Bolden Matt Barrett Matt Birris Matt Fiorini Matt Kolasa Matt Patricoski 
Matt Summey 
Matt Thompson 
Matt Zenker 
Michael Miranda 

Michael Vanden Boom 
Miguel Salazar 
Miicah Johnston 
Mike Ferguson 
Mike Macaluso 
Mike Mccann 
Mike Rerko 
Mike Zell 
Mike Zito 
Morgan Pembroke 
Nick Hahn Nick Matich Nick Yonto Pat Millea Patrick Heffernan Paul McDonald Paul Schreck Percival Tan Peter Knoll Peter McCullough Rick Cavolo Rick Lennertz Ricky Leal 8J Voltz Rob Joyce Rob Mazzei Rob Van Gorder Russ Scialpi Ryan Cpnner Ryan Crochet Ryan Hurd Scott Schaeffer Sean Friedman 
Sean Silva 
Steve Sweeney 

Taylor Stuckey 
Ted Maglione 
"Tim" 
Tom Raaf 
Tommy Hayes 
TR Eckler 
Travis Cuprak Uel Pitts Vijay Ramanan 
Wyatt Maxwell 
Zack Linnert 
"Christopher Carl Destephano" 
Dubber(GrantJohnson) 
coagratulatio,_ 

®UiJ@lliJ@Gu Q@ [1)® 
. DlJW.ts@@ ~@
l'he Lewis crusJI 
BBQ: Tomorrow 6pm Dance: Friday, April 4th 8:30pm 
--
page 20 Tbe Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 2, 2003 
Rizzo 
continued from page 24 
multiple positions despite only being a freshman. 
"As the playing time is com­ing, I'm getting a lot more comfortable," Rizzo said. "It helps to get the playing time, going through the motions on the field instead of just in practice." 
Rizzo has now started in 18 of 23 Irish games this year, including each of the last 11. He has scored at least one run in each of the last seven games, including Tuesday's game where which he scored three. and is currently second in runs scored with 18. 
Hizzo credits his early suc­cess, as well as the success of his fellow freshmen, to learn­ing from not only the older players on the team but Mainieri as well. 
"Every at-bat I learn some­thing new. Every situation, Coach is helping us out. the young guys, and teaching us what to do in every situation,'' Rizzo said. 
Not only is Rizzo a terror for opposing pitchers, he also sports a pretty versatile ­and agile -glove on defense. 
While earning the bulk of his playing time this season in left field replacing the glove of Brian Stavisky, Rizzo was seen behind the plate as catcher late in Tuesday's game against Detroit. 
"I caught a lot in my career, I've played a lot of outfield too, so it really doesn't matter to me where I play, I'm pretty experienced in both posi­tions," Rizzo said. "Playing catcher at the college level is a little different than in high school and on a club team. It takes a little bit getting used to." 
So far this season, Rizzo has only made one error and wields a decent .947 fielding percentage. 
Versatility is one of Rizzo's key assets. And while his pro­duction numbers definitely support his playing time, he is just happy to be making a contribution to a winning effort, whether that is by his clutch hitting, his consistent defense or his aggressive baserunning. 
"I just want to do anything to help out the team," Rizzo said. "If that's to take an extra base, then that helps putting the runners in scoring position, and helps the batter to get the job done." 
And his numbers seem to back that up as well -of his 
-
22 hits this season, nine of them have been for extra bases, including seven dou­bles. Judging from his perfor­mance Tuesday against Detroit, where he went 1-for­3 with three runs scored and an RBI despite getting hit by a pitch twice Rizzo. along with his four fellow freshmen ­Greg Lopez. Brennan Grogan, Craig Cooper and Steve Andres -have a bright future ahead of them under the glimmer of the Golden Dome. "We've really got five fresh­men out there that l think can do some really great thing·s here at Notre Dame," Mainieri said. 
-
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 

• 

Start your c,Jreer off with a spark. 

F(JHTUNr:··
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ 
TO WORK FOR~ 
ey.com/us/careers 

At Ernst & Young, we not only offer you stimulating opportunities, we value what you, and only you, can bring to our team. We give you the latest technology, information and resources so you can feel empowered to succeed and grow. Charge up. 
i1J f RNST& YOUNG 
Quality In Everything We Do 
G;)21J03 feN~T I\ YOUNG llP 


\,~t,~.• :••····• •, .., ';., .._":,•~•r .'t.•.........,t,-;\•.~••"l"'"'••f~•.,"'' 

----__ 
Wi.:Jnesday, April 2, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish get back in the -win column ands-weep Purdue 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Sports Wrircr 
Seven was the lucky number for the Irish Tuesday after­noon as they swept intrastate rival Purdue in a double-head­er by scores of 7-3 and 7-1 at thr Varsity Softball Complex in West Lafayette. Ind. 
With the wins, the Irish again have a winning record as they improve to 12-11 on the season. 
J\ftcr having four straight games against Big East oppo­non ts cancelled due to inclement weather, the Irish came out firing on all cylin­dnrs to take care of the Boilermakers. The Irish com­bined for thrne home runs and 18 hits in the doubleheader. 
In the first game, senior shortstop Andria Bledsoe col­lected 4 RBIs as she knocked home a grand slam to spark the 7-2 victory. 
Notre Dame got on the board first in the second inning. when freshman Meghan 
Ruthrauff reached tirst after an error by the Purdue third baseman. Bledsoe then reached on a tielder's choice, with Sara Schoonaert, pinch running for Ruthrauff, advanc­ing to second. 
A single by sophomore Liz Hartmann brought Schoonaert home and advanced Bledsoe to third. Bledsoe put the Irish up 2-0 by stealing home. 
The Irish put five runs on the board in the third, includ­
ing Bledsoe's grand slam. Senior Andrea Loman drove in the other run with a single that plated sophomore Megan Ciolli. 
Purdue would then score a run in the bottom half in the third, a run in the fourth and a run in the seventh before their rally fell short. 
Sophomore pitcher Steff'any Stenglein evened her record to 4-4 this season with the victo­ry. 
In the second game, Hartmann connected on her fifth home run of the year, which scored two runs, and freshman outfielder Kellie Middleton added a solo shot in a 10-hit explosion for the Irish. 
The Irish struck right away 

in the first inning, when Bledsoe continued her torrid RBI pace with a single that drove in Loman from third. The run was unearned, as Loman was hit by a pitch, advanced to second on a passed ball and then advanced to third on a wild pitch. 
Notre Dame scored two more runs in the second off a two­out, two-HBI double by senior second baseman Alexis Madrid. Madrid's hit scored freshman Mallorie Lenn, who singled, and Ciolli, who had doubled to center. 
The Irish ran its lead to five in the third when Loman reached base on an error, and was then driven in by Hartmann's two-out long ball. 
In the sixth inning, 
Middleton slammed a solo-shot to left field, taking advantage of a strong wind, to score the lrish's sixth run of the game. 
Notre Dame added one more run in the seventh when a Mattison single scored Hartmann, who reached on a double. 
The Boilermakers thwarted freshman pitcher Heather Booth's shutout bid in the bot­tom of the seventh, when Heidi 
... 
Foster launched a two-out home run to left center. Booth improved to 8-5 on the year 
Notre Dame will return home Thursday to play Loyola (Chicago) at 4 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles travel to Kalamazoo looking to earn respect 
. Strong start gives Saint Mary's confidence going into M IAA play 
H) i'AT LEONARD 
Spores \'\frirer 
Senj,)r catcher Susan Kutz playPll in the 12-inning, three­hour marathon in the first game of a doubleheader against Kalamazoo last sea­son. At the time, Kutz had 
commented on how the Belles played strong for six innings and then relaxed, leaving room for the Hornets to rally and hand Saint Mary's a 9-7 defeat. 
The Belles are aware they cannot fall apart Jate in games or give up leads if they want to establish themselves as a league power. Coach Anna Welsh is confident her team, which has done so well in its non-conference schedule (10­6-1 ), will step up and surprise Wednesday at Kalamazoo. 
Doanus 
PROPERTIES 
"We have a lot of new play­ers that the conference is not familiar with so we are look­ing to surprise all of the teams," head coach Anna Welsh said. "Our upperclass­men have another year under the belts from last year and are ready to do whatever it takes to win the conference this year." 
After having Saturday's MIAA home opener versus Olivet College cancelled due to inclement weather conditions, Saint Mary's is anxious to go 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 
2003-2004 
2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT www.domuskranter.com 
OR CALL 574-315-5032 OR 574-234-2436 ASK FOR KRAMER 

on the road to open league play against a team they split with last season. 
"The team is very excited to start conference and send a message that we are going to be a top contender 
"Our goal is to start the
this year in but that won't the league," tradition this year, right be a downfall Welsh said. for us tomor­
away, to let everyone 
"We want to row against
know that Saint Mary's 
start right Kalamazoo or away and is going to be one ofthe against the send a mes­other teams."
top teams." 
sage both If all goes as offensively planned and and defen­Anna Welsh the Belles can sively." Belles coach steal two from 
The Belles have done it offensively, averaging over four runs per game by scoring 73 runs in their first 17 con­tests. Pitchers like junior Libby Wilhelmy and freshman Kate Sajewich are emerging as the leaders of the Belles defense. 
Saint Mary's has struggled recently on offense, particu­larly in the Indianapolis tour­nament. in which the Belles amounted only six runs and went 1-3 in four games. But Welsh is confident fans will see a different Saint Mary's squad Wednesday. 
"We faced great pitching in Indy, so it wasn't unexpected not to score more then we did," Welsh said. "I would have liked to see more runs 
the Hornets, it 

will be a statement from a team that was tied for sixth in the league the last time these two played. 
"Our goal is to start the tra­dition this year, right away, to let everyone know that Saint Mary's is going to be one of the top teams, if not the top in the conference this year and all the years following," Welsh said. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
.. 

Wednesday, April 2, 2003

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
1 
I 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles beat Bethel 7-2, aim to extend streak at Kalamazoo 
By LISA REIJULA 
Sports \Vritn ­
lt wasn't a shutout like the last two matches have been for Saint Mary's tennis team, but Monday's 7-2 victory over Bethel College (Ind.) was anoth­er solid win for the Belles. 
"We're right on track," fresh­man Kristen Palombo said. "We haven't lost a match since spring break and we're doing great right now." 
The Belles, now 9-1 this spring, went with a slightly dif­ferent roster Monday. Palombo moved up to No..1 singles and defeated Sarah Mater 1-6, 6-2, 6-0. At No. 2 singles, Kaitlin Cutler won over Bethel fresh­man Emily Lamport 6-1, 6-0. 
At the No. 3 spot for the Belles, Kris Spriggle beat Mindy Clark in a 6-1, 6-1 contest. For the season, Spriggle is undefeat­ed, seeing action previously at the No. 4 slot. Against Bethel, Elisa Ryan played at No. 4 and lost to Wendy Yater 3-6, 3-6. 
Rounding out the singles line­up was Miranda Mikulyuk, a 6­1, 6-1 winner over Kristen Conn. At No. 6, Meghan Lambourne also lost, dropping a 0-6, 3-6 match to Amanda Thompson. 
The Belles bounced back from the two singles losses and swept 

ND WOMENS TENNIS 
Illini latest Big Ten opponent for the Irish 
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Sports W ricer 
With two Big Ten opponents on their plate this week, the Irish are hoping to continue their domination of that confer­ence. The Irish have had 5 matches in the past 11 days, and four of those have been victories over Big Ten teams. 
Perhaps the womens tennis team should join the Big Ten conference, given that they only face three Big East foes during the regular season. 
Nevertheless, the Irish have a tough challenge approaching them when they travel to No. 17 Illinois. 
Both the Irish and Illini have been hot lately, with Illinois win­ning seven of its last eight matches and Notre Dame tri­umphing in four of its last five against ranked teams. Notre Dame suffered a close 4-3 loss March 23 to William and Mary, one of the nation's best squads. 
Additionally, Notre Dame has refused to allow Big Ten oppo­nents to emerge victorious. Ohio State, Purdue, Michigan and Iowa are all recent Irish victims. 
The Illini, who fell to Northwestern 7-0 Saturday, have had many highlights this season, including the prestige of being the first team to beat No. 1 Duke. Illinois defeated the Blue Devils 4-3 at home Feb. 23, just two days after the Blue Devils beat the Irish 5-2 at the Eck Pavilion. 
The Illini's four losses were to highly ranked teams -No. 7 Tennessee, No. 19 Miami, No. 26 Northwestern and No. 28 Oregon. The Irish were also defeated by Northwestern and Tennessee. 
Last year, the Irish, ranked No. 23 at the time, pulled out a win over unranked Illinois, 4-3. This year, the Illini are the high­er-ranked team and the Irish recently fell in the rankings to No. 48 -their worst position since the Intercollegiate Tennis Association first began the rank­ings in 1993. 
The past week-and-a-half has been chock-full of matches for the Irish, with contests on March 21, 23, 25, 26 and 29. After the Irish play with Illinois today, they will face Indiana, yet anoth­er Big Ten foe, in Bloomington Thursday. 
Compared to the Illini, the Hoosiers should pose a different scenario for Notre Dame. Indiana is 0-4 in Big Ten compe­tition, and the Hoosiers are fresh off an 0-3 road trip. Although Indiana has lost to five ranked opponents, they have failed to win a match against a top team. Last season, No. 40 Indiana upset No. 13 Notre Dame 5-2 at the Eck Pavilion. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at j1inds1e@nd.edu 
all three doubles matches. The duo of Cutler and Ryan made their No. 1 doubles debut by \Vinning 8-3 over Lamport and Clark of Bethel. 
A new pairing for the Belles at No. 2, Angela Sandner and Marta Dziekan, beat Julianne Houston and Donna Roberts 8-4. Mikulyuk and Laura Blume played at the No. 3 spot, defeat­ing the pair of Kuehn and Jessica Herbster 9-7. 
"It was good to get match practice before tomorrow [against Kalamazoo]," Palombo 
. 

said. "We're hoping to got better with each match we play." 
The afternoon featured faces and players in different posi­tions from the Belles' usual line­up. Jeannie Knish. the usual No. 1 singles player for Saint Mary's, did not i::ompete due to a conflict with her class schedule. 
Next up for the Belles is their second conference matchup of the season against Kalamazoo College. Kalamazoo holds an 8-3 record for the 2003 season. 
The Hornets are 1-0 in MIM play after winning 6-3 over Alma College in their conference opener. Anchoring the roster is sophomore Meaghan Clark, who is ranked No. 21 nationally in Division II1 womens tennis. 
"We're expecting them to be a tough team," Palombo said. "We're just looking match-to­match right now, and we're ready for them." 
The Belles will play at home against Kalamazoo today at 3 p.m. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 
ATTENTION\l 
Emerging Leaders & · Advanced Leaders Sign up for LeJdership Institute 
LI -Saturday, April 5 -Notre Dame Room LaFortune Student Center "You Ought To Be In Pictures" 
Emerging Leaders: Star Search ... Leaders On the Rise .... (based in part on 'Leading From Within' by Nancy Huber) 
8:30 am -2:00 pm 
* Teambuilding * Understanding of Self 
* 
Building Trust & Community 

* 
Personal Philosophy on Leadership 


Advanced Leaders: And the Envelope Please ..... (built around the 'Leadership Challenge' by Kouzes & Posner) 
3:00 pm -7:00 pm 
* 
Setting a Vision * Motivating Others 

* 
Conflict Resolution * Transitions & Change 


* Multiculturalism 
Leadership Institute will give you a head start on preparing to lead your student group. 
Sign up on the Student Activities Office Website. 
Registration closes April 4th at 5:00 pm. Food will be provided. 
~IIyourHomewith ,-; G~ from the Dome 
Call ~faria c~rdle 360-3334 CRESSY and [VERETJ'/GMAC Realty Office 233-6141 

Wednesday April 2, 2003 · The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 
AS CilAWATION IS 
ntENOBU6Bl~ C~~Plt.Jlil OP,t'M 
ISSC>SA~E ... .:t. 

f;tlff'T l(NOW fF Moll£ AfAAlt> OfflfE 
GETTl~q MOU ANP 
I~~AAMt>lE "R.€AL WOil.LO"... »-1'41\-\lN(t B..S&! 
JACK MONAHAN

HAPPY TOWN 

JUMBLE 

~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
GEFOB 

I 

C2002 TribuM Medin. Servw:::u. Inc All Righlll Retlt!Ned 
REZIP 
I [I j 
EVVELT 

I ( J (J 
www jumble.com 
~ FLOAWL 
j

IJ I I I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRlON 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrloo 


'Mt--V>.T n-f:: CUSTOM­E:RS CONSIDERED 
1-B<! \NRAPPING 
5KIU...'S. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon 
Answer: A 

rI I I ) "( I X I J' 
{Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles:  EXILE  RURAL  FLATLY  UNSOLD  
Answer:  The boss kept rejecting their proposals  
because he was a -"NO" -IT-ALL  

JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES N0.30. To order. aend your n•m•. addr111H 1nd SS,46 and make 
check pay ¦ble to Tribune Modlll Service¦ , P.O. Bax "330, Chicago, IL eoeao-4330. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Dana Carvey. Dcbralee Scolt. Emmylou Harris, Marvin Gaye 
Happy Birthday: It's time to take a positive position. Recognize whal you do well and start to push your attributes for a change. Make the necessary changes that will allow you to move forward and accomplish your set goals. Trust will play an important role in your life. Your numbers are S, 17, 23, 36. 39, 4S 
ARIES (March 21-April 19} You will be subject to minor mishaps and accidents if you don't slow down. Try not to argue today, even ii someone picks a fight with you. ** TAURUS (April 20·May 20}'. This is a great day lo learn all you can ahoul the people around you. Someone you meet may not be upfront with you. Your strong point will come from your ability lo listen and observe *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A serious group that is 1rying 10 make imporIa111 changes will appreciate your input. You can meet some interesting people who can change the course of your life.**** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your best efforts will unfold Ihrough the hard work you put in today. You will find yourself involved in a bit of a feud if you are stubborn and unwilling to compromise.*** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Travel and getting involved in communily events will all bring you high reIums today. Do a little research in order to follow through with some business plans you have been thinking about. * * * ** VIRGO (Aug. 23•Sept. 22): Take a step toward financial security. Look inlo your options and prepare to make some changes lo your portfolio. You should be able to start making some changes at home as well. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23.Oct. 22}: Partnerships will highlight your day. If you are in one already, you can take it to the next level. If you are single or looking for a business partner, get out and mingle. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will gel a great deal dorie if you focus on your work today. You will have the drive and determination to finish whal you start. New options will become available lo you. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22•Dec. 21): Both physical and mental al!eraIions will lead to a sense of accomplishment. Research 10 find what is being offered tha1 can help you make this transition perfect***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may be feeling a little unnerved b) what is going on around you. Chances are you need a change and Ihc outcome will be beneficial if you just let things unfold naturally. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20•Feb. 18): You will be the life of the party today. Others will gravitate to your side and listen to what you have to say. You can expecl 10 receive something today. **** PISCES (Feb. 19.March 20): You will get ahead if you work hard today and ask your peers for help. The more time you spend on detail, the betler your project will tum out. *** Birthday Baby: You will be emotional, giving and someone who likes to get things done. You will be creative, imaginative and unique in your approach 10 life. 
Check ou1 Eugenia's Web sites al asIroadvice.com, eugenialasl.com, wneIwork.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 The Charleses' canine 5 Circus . employee 1oFull of energy 14 Slick, in conversation 15 "I'd walk_ for 
· 16 Saharan 17 Doesn't keep 18 Hoarder's 
supply 19 Provide pro tern 20 Start of a quote 
by 53-Across, when asked to name his favorite song 
23 Carbolic acid 24 Moving about 28 Quote, part 2 33 R.p.m. indicator 36 Lacks, in brief 
65 "Fashion Emergency" host 
66 Buuers 
67 High bridge card 
68 Talk back to 
DOWN 
1 "Get_ on yourself!" 2 Sluggard's sin 3 Share With the church 4 Green liqueur 5 Angler's gear 6 Nanjing nanny 7 Flexible mineral 
8 Like some textbook publishing 
9 Item of 5-Down 10 Overshoe 11 Lode load 12 Card player's 
shout 13 Like all primes 
but one 21 Kabuki kin 22 1920's chief 
justice 25 Put darts into, as a garment 
26 Singer Hayes 27 Carries on 29 The Andes, e.g. 30 Start to go? 31 Spec.I< on a 
map 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Sarah Keller 32 Rock's Brian 42 Hence 
55 Expanding grp. 45 Rehshes 56 Ollie's human
33 Characters in eels friend
46 Game one 3-4 Patriots' Day 
57 "The Mikado"
47 W, e.g. 
character 50 1965 march city month 58 Flow's partner
35 Approximately 51 Dutch treats? 
59 "The Hustler"
39 Middle ol the second century 52 Units of force prop 
60 Ground breaker40 Early shows 54 Talk (over) 
For answers, call 1-900-285·5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1 ·800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network. nyt,mes.com/leaming/xwords. 
37 Go for the gold? 38 Nickname of radio shock jock 
Greg Hughes 39 Monte_ 40 Chops, e.g. 41 Bobby on the 
ice 42 Slur over 43 Rainbows, e.g. 44 End of the 
quote 48 What "dis" is 49 Self-assured 53 Speaker of the 
quote 58 Chamber phenomenon 61 TV producer 
Spelling 62 Verve 63 Channel marker 64 Amount 
wagered 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
S H A R S A B E 
IIP.l!~l-i-4":M••.. 
---+...+-,-1-,-1 
-,-+...+--,.1-,-,.,,':'1 
E M A N LOPE 


Visit The Observer on the web at htt11.1/observer.nd.edu/ 
INTERNITII-WO¦EN'S SOCCER SHOWCASE
IRISH BASEBALL 
VS. VALPARAISO TONIGHT -5:00 PM FRANK ECK STADIUM 
~; 
\.­




PORTS 
Wednesday, April 2, 2003 

BASEBALL 
• Nine run second inning leads Irish to 15-5 win over Detroit at the Eck 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Senior Scaff Writer 
It was as easy as turning over a calendar page. 
The Irish opened the month of April exactly the way they closed out March; that is, with powerful pitching and very solid hitting. 
The floodgates opened early and often for the Notre Dame offense as the Irish cruised to a 15-5 victory over the Detroit Titans Tuesday at Eck Stadium. 
According to Notre Dame coach Paul Mainieri, the sud­den surge in offense spells trouble for the rest of their opponents this year. 
"I think the guys are really starting to get into a groove now, so I'm excited about what the season holds for us," Mainieri said. 
Once again, a starting pitcher came through for the Irish as 
see OFFENSE/page 19 

Offensive Explosion 

CHIP MARKSIThe Observer Freshman left fielder Cody Rizzo tosses the ball in against Georgetown last weekend. Rizzo and the other freshmen players have been an Integral part of the team so far this season. 
. Rizzo paying dividends in early action for Irish 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Senior StaffWrirer 
On a team that contP.nds on a national level as corn:iistent­ly as the Irish, you probably wouldn't expect to sec a start­ing line-up stacked with as many freshmen as the current roster features. 
But that's not the case with Irish coach Paul Mainieri's squad. 
"I've been really exr:ited about the way our freshmen have played, and they're con­tinuing to get better on a reg­ular basis," Mainieri said. 
A prime example of the con­tributions this year's fresh­man class has already made to the Irish success is left fielder Cody Rizzo. Rizzo is currently second on the team in batting average with a .349 average. 
He is also symbolic of a recent surge in the Irish offense, thanks to the ample playing time he received at 
see RIZZO/page 20 

WOMENS LACROSSE 
Long road stretch finally ends today at No. 8 Syracuse 
• No. 14 Irish 3-3 after starting year with six of seven games on road 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 
Led by Big East co-Offensive Player of the Week Danielle Shearer. the No. 14 Irish travel to Syracuse to take on the No. 8 Orangewomen in a Big East battle this evening at 7 p.m. 
Shearer, a pre-season All­American and Tewaarton Trophy candidate, earned the weekly award for the second time this season for her perfor­mance against Ohio State and Virginia Tech. 
She scored two goals and had one assist in the losing cause
-
against Ohio State and had three goals and three assists in the victory over Virginia Tech. The game against Syracuse will mark the end of a season­opening stretch in which Notre 
Dame has played six of its first seven games on the road. During the difficult stretch, Notre Dame is 3-3 with wins at 
Ohio,  Boston  College  and  
Virginia Tech.  
The  Irish  come  into  the  

Syracuse game at 2-0 in the Big East, while Syracuse is 3-1 in conference. 
The game against Syracuse also gives the Irish yet another opportunity to notch a victory against a ranked opponent. The Irish have already lost to then­No. 9 Cornell, No. 13 Yale and No. 17 Ohio State. 
Despite the setbacks, the Irish remain optimistic they can beat Syracuse and return to the top ten in the polls themselves. 
"We know we can win on the road in the Big East," junior Meredith Simon said. "We have to do the same against Syracuse." 
While Shearer leads the Irish in scoring with 13 goals and 12 assists and is third in the Big East in scoring, the Irish have also used a fairly balanced attack. Juniors Simon, Abby Owen and Lauren Fischer, along with seniors Eleanor Weille and Anne Riley have also been major contributors on offense this season. 

In addition to Shearer, the other co-Offensive Player of the Week named was Syracuse's Monica Joines. Like Shearer. Joines posted impressive num­bers by registering eight points on four goals and four assists against Colgate and adding two more goals in a win over Connecticut. 
Despite the strong week from Joines, the Orangewomen 's biggest offensive threat comes from junior Leigh Ann Zimmer. who already ranks second in career points at Syracuse with 99 goals and 35 assists for 134 points. 
After the game against Syracuse, the Irish will return home Saturday for a Big East game against Connecticut. 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 


en 
ND WOMENS TENNIS 
SMC TENNIS 
ND SOFTS.All 
SMC SOFTBALL 
LI.I
c.:, 
Notre Dame at Illinois 
Kalamazoo at Saint Mary's 

Notre Dame 7-7 
Saint Mary's at Kalamazoo
~ z 
Purdue 1-3 
_..,. 
Today, 3 p.m.
Today, 3:30 p.m. 

Today, 3 p.m.
s 

After their weekend games were 
Belles look to continue their win-
No. 17 Illinois is the sixth Big Ten 

cancelled, the Irish get back in the 
A win today would give the Belles

== ca: 
ning ways in this MIAA conference
opponent this year for No. 48 Notre 

win column with a doubleheader 
some respect in conference. 
matchup.
Dame. 

sweep over the Boilermakers. 
Awa !; 
page 22 
page 22 

page 21 
page 21 





