
Students react to Economics Department split 
By TERESA FRALISH Associau, News Editor 
Al'l1•r IParning or changes that will affect the Economics Dt>partmcnt next year, students responded to how the changes might alter their field of' study and the quality of the University's economics program. 
StudcnL,; differed in their opin­ions as to how the changes would affect the study of Economics at the University. 
"I think it's sad that the process went forward." said Dank! Lawson. graduate studrnt and president of Economica, the graduate student organization for economics. 
According to the proposal passed by the Academic Council Thur~day, the current economics faculty will b,• sPparatt~d into two new departments, Economics and Policy Study and Economics and Econometrics. 
Tho split rcl1ects the two dif­ferent schools of thought that nxist in the study of' econnmics. 
Orthodox economics focuses on a more mathematical approach while heterodox economics con­siders less quantitative issues. Traditionally. Notre Dame's department has focused on het­erodox l'co110mics, although the program ranks low nationally. 
Undergraduates will still be offered one major, but other changes, such as class require­ments, were made to the gradu­ate economics program. The proposal passed Thursday dif­fered from the original proposal, which would have established two separate majors and made further changes to the graduate program. 
While Lawson felt that the pro­posal passed by the Council was a small improvement over the original one, he still had many questions about how the changes would affect his department. "I'm glad that they took faculty concerns into account,'' he said. "I wish that graduate students had been involved in the process from the beginning." 
Lawson, who focuses on a 
more orthodox approach to eco­nomics, said he felt the changes would negatively affect both schools of thought in the depart­ment. 
"It's going to hurt the study of both heterodox and orthodox economics at this University," said Lawson. Specifically. Lawson was concerned about how the changes would affect faculty hiring for both depart­ments. 
Junior Erin Daly said she agreed with the decision not to establish two separate under­graduate economics majors. 
'Tm definitely very pleased to find out that the undergraduate department is going to remain as one," she said. "By maintaining it as one [major) it's going to keep the focus on moral economics." 
Daly said she felt that the cur­rent Economics Department's approach to heterodox econom­ics made it unique among other universities' economics pro­grams. 
"You can get a pretty good eco­nomics major at most schools of 

this caliber, but that's what sep­implemented as well as how the arates it from other programs in process of change had been car­my opinion," said Daly. ried out. 
Graduate student Sharon Carr "I don't think this is how Notre was also concerned about the actual changes that will be see ECON/page 4 

r------------------------~ 
Tuesday, March 25, 2003
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL X NO. 116 


Eldred speaks about retirement 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Smior .'icaff Writer 
Saint Mary's Prnsidnnt Marilou I•:ldn•d publicly addressed the com­111 uni Ly Monday afternoon in O'J.aughlin Auditorium !"or the first tinw since announcing her rctire­nmnt l'arliPr this month. 
lildrnd cxplai1wd that she wauted to hold tlw forum to rnspond to questions about her retirement and relay what will be happening in the coming ynar. 
Eldred anrwimcHd her retirement March 5, but at the request of the Board ol' Trustees, will continue to sl'rvc as president until a replace­nwnt is found. 
Eldred said that she had been thinking about retirrment for sever­a I months and that the "time is right" for lwr to retire from Saint Mary's. She added that being presi­dent had been a "fairly high stress job." 
Eldred also said that the average ten urn !'or a college president is six years and that upon completion of the 2003-04 academic year, she will have served as president for seven years, adding jokingly that she might overstay her welcome. 
Eldred said that this is a transition point at the College, especially as Saint Mary's will be working to renew its accreditation from the Higher Learning Commission, an organization formerly known as Norlh Central Accreditation. 
"I felt I either needed to make a commitment for the next three or four years, or to leave a bit early," Eldred said. She added that she did not want to leave during the accred­itation process. 
Eldred also said that she wanted to spend more time with her hus­band, Don, who has been commut­ing f'rom St. Paul, Minn. to Saint Mary's almost every weekend for the past six years. Eldred plans to join her husband in Minnesota after leaving the Cnllege. but said that she docs not have any definite plans for what she will do. 
However, Eldred said she plans to take piano lessons, participate in vnlunteer work and do some reflective writ­ing. 
Eldred said business would continue as usual for the College and that she would continue to work toward her goals to finance the mas­ter and strategic plans. 
"It is important for us to continue the work already underway," Eldred said. "Saint Mary's College is very 


Saint Mary's President Marilou Eldred spoke to the College community Monday for the first time since announcing her retirement earlier this month. 

2 U.S. troops held hostage 


page 5 
H : 


Trigiani to speak at SMC commencement 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD Saint Mary's Editor 
Following months of anticipation, Saint Mary's announced Monday that author. screen­writer and director Adriana Trigiani will speak at the College's 2003 Commencement ceremony on May 17. 
Trigiani, a 1981 Saint Mary's graduate. was cho­sen based on her popularity among students and their requests. 
"l met her last year at the Sophomore Literary Festival," said senior Emily Blaha. "I thought she was 


very charismatic and was Trlglanl impressed at how she reflected on her time at Saint Mary's and how it helped form her as a person. 1think she'll be a great speaker." 
Trigiani is the author of three novels: "Big Stone Gap" (2000), "Big Cherry Holler" (2001) and "Milk Glass Moon" (2002), each focusing on the life of character Ave Maria Mulligan. "Big Stone Gap" will soon become a major motion picture, both written and directed by Trigiani. 
In addition to her work as an author, Trigiani's background includes work as a tele­vision writer/producer, playwright, comedian and documentary filmmaker. She has been involved with such television shows as .. A Different World," "The Cosby Show" and "Good Sports." 
She served as executive producer and head writer for the critically acclaimed film show "City Kids" and comedy special "Growing Up Funny," which earned an Emmy nomination for Lily Tomlin and Lifetime television. 
Trigiani wrote, produced and directed "Queens of the Bigtime" in 1996, a documen­tary film about her family in Roseto, Penn. The 
see TRIGIANI/page 4 

strong, as we all know, and it will be business as usual." 
In her remaining time at Saint Mary's Eldred plans to continue to work towards raising funds for the Master Plan, especially funds for the new academic building. Eldred said that the estimated cost of the acade­mic building is $13 million, but that $7 million had already been raised. She also added that $16 million of the needed $17 million for the stu­dent center has been raised and that she fully expects the student center to open in December 2004. 
By her own admission, Eldred said that enrollment is the College's biggest challenge. While projected enrollment for next year's freshman class is low, that enrollment has increased by 150 students, from 1,412 in the fall of 1997 to 1,571 in the fall of 2002. 
Eldred also said that she would begin to prepare the College for the re-accreditation process. 
see ELDRED/page 4 
Tuesday, March 25, 2003

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 


The 'Backer 
Do you know what I really like on a Saturday night? 
I like being crowded in a room that is far too small for the hundreds of people that are in it and being bumped into and spilled on by the intoxicated per­son standing to my left. 
It's important to come home smelling like the inside of an ash­tray and it's even more important to wear tall shoes to avoid getting yesterday's beer on the bottom of my jeans. 

Saturday night is not about getting dressed up in your best black pants and the shirt you have that is made of the least amount of material. It's about wearing your favorite T-shirt and coming home looking like you have run a marathon in that shirt. 
Saturday is made for laughing at the number of people surrounding me who have mullets. 
On Saturday nights I like to listen to Bruce Springsteen, sing Bon Jovi at the top of my lungs and cheer really loudly when the famous third verse that starts "I was drunk the day my mom got out of prison" comes on. 
l like crowding into my friend Amy's Altima with six of my closest friends, with Renee in the front because she has the longest legs and Lauren asking someone to please play "Fins." 
Saturday nights were meant for pushing your way through the crowd to get to the deejay booth to make the unnecessary request that DJ Dan plays "Like a Prayer" and "Goodbye Earl." 
In the winter, Saturday's are made for running from Edison, on the icy roads, all the way back to campus, and trying unsuccessfully to ice skate in your shoes halfway there. 
ln the spring, its important to wink at Silent Eagle Swallow on the way out the door to catch a breath of fresh air (or to escape when Nellie's "Hot in Herre" comes on). 
On Saturday nights, I like to use a little colored piece of paper to get a free long island iced tea, which oth­erwise would have cost me $4 and then follow it up with the world's biggest draft beers. 
Saturday nights are the perfect time to call across the bar to the guy you're with so he can rescue you from the local who has decided you have the best taste in clothing because you have a Smurf on your shirt. 
Saturday nights are the perfect time to see which law students who came out to the bar Thursday after bowling are still there. 
Saturday nights were made for The 'Backer. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Katie McVoy at mcuo5695@saintmarys.edu 

CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a protessional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recogmze that we will make mJStakes. If we have made a mmake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can 
correct our error. 

WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTS
NEWS NATION NEWS 
The rocket 
Trying to cage

Work for 
Fears of long
Captured POW
Theses 
has come for 
another

peace,
war cause
explore Third 
pilots appear 
Mraz 
cat

recognize
economic
Wave 

on Iraqi 

reality
slide
Feminism 
television 
Music reviewer 
No. 11-seed Notre 

Columnist Joanna 
War euphoria
Iraqi state televi-

Astrid Henry and 
Dame takes on 3­
Ryan Rafferty raves
sion showed two 

wore off on Wall 
Mikulski struggles 
Krista Longtin pre­
seed Kansas State
about Jason Mraz's 

with how to repre-
Street Monday 
more men said to

sented their gradu­
debut album titled, 
in round 2 of the 

when investors 
sent herself as an 
be members of the 

ate work in Third 
NCAA touma­
"Waiting for My 

realized the war in 
American abroad 
U.S. military cap-

Wave Feminism 
Rocket to Come." 
ment. The Irish are 

while she disagrees 
tured. 

Iraq might not be 
Monday at Saint 
hoping for magic to 

with the U.S. gov-
quick.
Mary's. 
beat the Wildcats 

ernment's war poli­
cy. 
page5 


page 7
page6 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Lecture on ·women and Wages Presented by Katharine Abraham at noon, in Cushing, Room 303 

. 
Lecture by the U.S. Ambassador to Brazil Presented by Donna llrinak at 12:30 p.m., at the Ilcsburgh Center, Boom C-103 

. 
Last day for Bookstore Basketball Sign-ups 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., 5 to 7 p.m. at LaFortune, cost $15 



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Contemporary Drama Heading 

4:30 p.m. at the President's Dining Hoom 

. 
Presentation of a Documentary Film 7 p.m. at Advanced Tech by Astrid llenry 

. 
Minority Women in Business Development Council 


6:30 p.m. at Madeleva llall, Hoom 247S 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Spinach-cheese tortellini with mushroom sauce, Italian sausage marinara, Polish sausage, sweet and sour cabbage, potato and cheese pierogi, whipped potatoes, apple crisp, grilled tuna with lemon, aspara­gus, wild rice, scrambled eggs, canadi­an bacon, battered waffles, fried potato patties, Sloppy Joe, seasoned fries, pep­pered tangerine chicken 
Today's Dinner: Roast top round, sauteed herbed mushrooms, green bean casserole, whipped potatoes, baby carrots, spinach quiche, Italian-blend vegetables, Buffalo chicken wings, chicken Kung Pao 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Baked beef ravioli, meatballs with sauce, tomato pizza, Oriental vegetables, BBQ beef sand­wich, shrimp spaghetti, rotisserie chicken, Louisiana rice and red beans, roasted red-skin potatoes with rose­mary, fishwich, crinkle fries, soft pret­zel, beef and pepper stir-fry, chicken fajita 
Today's Dinner: Lasagna with meat sauce, apple turnover, baked Pollock Jardiniere, vegetables marinara, cauli­flower au gratin, beef bourguignon, Kluski noodles, Bourbon baked ham, whipped potatoes, baked sweet potato. scrambled eggs, pancakes, sausage links, tater tots, soft pretzel 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
II.I 



::z: 
~ 
II.I 
3 
..I 
<
(,) 


...I 0 HIGH 55 HIGH 45 HIGH 45 HIGH 50 LOW 47 LOW 33 LOW 35 LOW 45 
impressive offense. 

page 8 
page 10 
page 20 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Banner stolen from LaFortune 
A University employee reported the theft of a banner from the Huddle between 1 a.m. and 1 :30 
a.m. Monday. There are no suspects. 

NDSP issues speeding violation 
NDSP issued a state citation for exceeding the speed limit on Edison Road Sunday. The case is now closed. 

Vehicle broken into in D6 lot 
A student reported his vehicle was broken into while parked in the 06 lot between 8 p.m. Thursday and 6:20 p.m. Sunday. There are no sus­pects. 

Student treated for sports injury 
NDSP transported a student to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury sustained at Rolfs Rec Sports Center Sunday. 

NDSP, Excise Police close 6 cases 
Indiana State Excise Police and NDSP closed six liquor law violation cases Monday for minors' con­sumption. Two of the original citations were issued March 17 on Edison Road; 1 was issued Saturday in Lewis Hall; and three more students were cited Saturday in South Dining Hall. All six cases have been referred for administrative 
review. 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Sushi bar, spinach and grilled vegetable gratin, tossed pasta, Szechwan chicken, Monte Cristo sandwich, Sloppy Joe, tuna melt muf­fin, extreme fries, wrap bar, cheese burger, pizza, Philly steak loafer, Oriental turkey salad, sliced honey ham, sliced smoked turkey, olive hum­mus, marshmallow Rice Krispies bar, ginger snaps, creamy chunky potato soup, beef vegetable soup, macaroni salad 
Today's Dinner: Soba noodle salad, rice pilaf, sizzlin Caesar salads, meat­ball hoagie, Baja beef sandwich. bean burgers, whipped sweet potatoes, green bean almondine, steak Po Boys 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH HIGH 44 LOW LOW 34 

Atlanta 76 / 54 Boston 56 / ~4 Chicago 50 / ~2 Denver 44 / 29 Houston 74 / 54 Los Angeles 77 / 51 Minneapolis 48 / 26 New York 61 / 47 Phlladelph1a 66 / 48 Phoenix 84 / 59 Seattle 52 / 40 St. Louis 58 / 40 Tampa 80 / 58 Washington 70 / 50 
Tuesday, March 25, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
EXECUTIVE CABINET 




'02-'03 Executive Cabinet meets for last time 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
New, Writer 
l:Xt'Cl/UW' CabinN nwmbf'rs mf't in l.aliortu1w Monday evening for their last regular mceling before llw new batch of student leaders t.akrn; ov<ir. 
MembPrs discussed an appeal for funding by Iron Sharpens Iron, llw intl'rd1~11ominational Christian spiritual group. ISi had requested $1,470 lo help finance its 2nd annual "Faith Hocks" evnnt, which will !hat.urn a Christian rock con­CPrt on South Quad. The concert, which will bn free or charge, is "an anmml ,went in which we publicly proclaim our faith and demon­strate our excit<•nwnt about Jesus Christ," according to the appeal. 
Tim 1wonL l, w-sponsored by the Class of 2004 and will also feature a speech by Notre Dame starting linebacker Derek Curry. 
"Last year, it was awesome," said junior class president Mcghan O'Donrnill. 
Excculivc cabinet members urnrnimow;ly approved the appeal. 
Outgoing Student Body President Libby Hishop led a fo1-1dback ses­sion among student leaders. 
Ihir administration began the strategic planning initiative, in which all student government organizations assembled plans outlining their respective long­term vL.,ions. 
Senior Class President Matt Smith stressed the importance of making student government activi­ties op1m and transparent to stu­dents. 
"Saint Mary's Board of Govl'rnance has a pretty good public pres1mce. nnd I think we roultl l1·arn lro!!. : hem," Smith 
MEZZONl'S 

ltilllan Eatery, LLC 
251-0007 

Delivery or Carry Out, Open 7 Days 2720 Mishawaka Avenue South Bend, IN 46615 
said. 
Several members suggested increasing Executive Cabinet's ovnrall role in campus governance. Tho group curmntly serves "as an advising body to the Student Body President," according to the stu­dent government constitution. 
"Th1mi's nnthing that Executive Cabinet really docs, other than the collaboration fund," said Student Body Vice President Trip Foley. 
Danielle Ledesma, president of the Judicial Council, agreed. "We need to increase our participation on campus," she said. 
Incoming Vice President Jeremy I..au suggested increased coordina­tion with University official5. "Why can't we have more interaction with the people who make the decisions in the Dume?" Lao asked. 
Smith said constitutional changes might be necessary to give the Cabinet more power to represent studcn1s. "I don't think we've seen the potential of this group," he said. 
Seth O'Donnell suggested a revamped Cabinet might serve as a check on the Student Senate's power. "I'm not sure the Senate accurately represents a majority of studen1s' views," O'Donnell said. 
Ledesma agreed. noting the con­troversy earlier this year regarding Bishop's report to the Board of Trustees on the new alcohol and dance policies. 
"Senate didn't get anything done for weeks because they were mad at Libby," Ledesma said. 
Bishop praised the work of this year's Executive Cabinet, and exhorted student leaders to contin­ue to work well together next year. In other Exec Cab news: 
. O'Donnell encouraged juniors to 

sign up for the 2nd class retreat, which will be held March 28-29 at Potato Creek State Park. Applications for the retreat, titled "Escape," can be obtained in the Campus Ministry office in Coleman-Morse. 
O'Donnell also announced a roundtable discussion, which will talk about issues related to student apathy. The forum will be held March 31 at 7 p.m. in La.Fortune's Notre Dame room. 
. Smith urged seniors to meet Wednesday evening for tours of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, steam tunnels, and Main Building. 

The tours will begin at the Basilica at 4 p.m., power plant at 4:45 p.m., and Main Building at 5:30 p.m., after which there will be a reception. 
Smith also announced "Spirituality on Tap," an event which will feature informal theo­logical discussion in Leahy's, the bar inside the Morris Inn. Several priests from the Congregation of Holy Cross and "the excellent work of Murl the bartender" will be pre­sent, Smith said. 
. Student Union Board manager Steve Christ said Everclear tickets are on sale in the La.Fortune Box Office. The band will play Stepan Center on April 4. 
. Freshman class president Dave Baron announced his class council will sponsor a late-night grill Friday night. The class will offer free food and drinks on the Fieldhouse Mall beginning at 10 p.m. 
The Oass of 2006 will also spon­sor an event called "Vegas, Baby!" Saturday evening in the South Dining Hall. Details can be found at www.nd.edu/-class06. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


BOG ushers in new 2003-'04 officers 


IIASE~BAl~I~ 

Tuesday, 3/25 
Wednesday, 3/26 5pm 3pm and 5pm Eck Stadium Ivy Field 

donation by the Board and passed

By MEGAN O'NEIL 
the torch ofleadership at Monday's

News Writer 
meeting. Outgoing and incoming board members were present. Board of Governance officers Outgoing President Kim Jensen v_o_t_n_d_o_n_a_fa_r_c_,.,,_·c_l_l_m_o_n_e_ta_r-=-y o_,_p_e_ne_d_the discussion on 1!1~ mon­
etary gift to the studen1s of Saint Mary's. Jensen suggested a dona­tion to the College, which would be matched by the Lily Foundation. 
"This year we thought that you might want to donate to the Lily match, so basically our donations would be doubled," said Jensen. 
"We definitely have the money to do it," said Elizabeth Jablonski­Diehl, who serves as outgoing vice president and incoming president. 
Some officers pushed for the entire sum to go to student schol­arships. Others supported the idea of giving the money to a building campaign, such as the new student center and dining hall. 
The Board eventually voted unanimously to give a total of $10,000, half of which would go to 
INDIANA'CJN'LINE DRIVER IMPROVEMENT 

TAKE IT ON THE 

INTERNET 
No classroom attendance
• 
required 

• 
All materials available on the Internet 

• 
BMV Approved 


(877) 972-4665 
www.lndianaDriver.com 
student scholarships and half to the building fund. This amount will be matched by the Lily Endowment. 
Incoming officers then had the opportunity to chat with their out­going counterparts. Each new board member will receive a binder with instructions and tips to help them in the next year. Outgoing officers expressed confi­dence in the new leaders. 
'Tm not sad about relinquishing my position because the people coming in arc so enthusiastic and competent," said Katy Best, off­campus commissioner. 
New officers will be officially sworn in March 28 at the Student Government Commissioning Ceremony. 
In Other BOG News 
. 
The Student Nurses Association was given $200 by BOG to attend a prenatal conference put on by Memorial Hospital at Notre Dame. SNA members originally intended to attend a statewide SNA conJi.ir­ence, but were unable to because of bad weather. 

. 
Annunciata I !all will no longer have its own hall council. The all­senior hall is located in I loly Cross and has traditionally been consid­ered i1s own dorm. It will continue to remain exclusive to seniors, but will no longer be represented on Residence Hall Association. 

. 
The Student Activities Board has Puck ofMIV's The Real World ten­tatively scheduled to speak at Saint Mary's April 16. 



Tuesday, March 25, 2003
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Eldred 
continued from page 1 
As of now the Board of Trustees is researching and discussing different search methods, but a nationwide search is not expected to start until next fall. Eldred said that the Board has been holding frequent meetings by confer­ence call and discussing the search methods for a new president. 
"Selecting a president is con­sidered the most important responsibility for a Board [of Trustees]," Eldred said. 
According to Eldred, the 

Board is also reviewing the organization of the College, but added that the search for a new president is their highest priority and they are giving careful consideration to how many internal positions are open. However, it will not be until a new president is chosen that the Board will begin searches for a permanent vice president/dean of faculty and vice president of finance. 
Eldred said that the chal­lenges facing the new presi­dent will be the changing role of the position, noting that most of what the president does deals with external responsibilities. Eldred added that because 70 percent of what she does deals with external College responsibili­ties, it is important to have a strong internal administration. Eldred also said that it is important that a president have strong alumni relation­ships and endowment support. 
"The president is a terrific job to have," Eldred said. ''Probably the most rewarding thing is to hand out those degrees at commencement ... seeing the results of' the work of everyone here lat the College] in the form of those graduates." 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 


Econ 
continued from page 1 
Dame should carry out their business. I think it's really unethical." she said. 
Carr said she felt that the new Policy Study department would be minimized and not receive necessary funding and consid­eration when hiring future pro­fessors. 
Like Lawson, Carr noted that administrators had not involved graduate students in the debate over the split 
"I felt [the students] were sort of blind-sided by it," she said. Sophomore Daniel Scaminace, 
who does not intend to focus on either type of economics, said he preferred the revised pro­posal because he will not have to choose between two different undergraduate majors. 
'Tm really not that upset," he said. "[The administrators] should know what they're doing." 
Scaminace said he wanted the new changes to contribute to improving the study of econom­ics at Notre Dame. 
"I just hope it boosts the eco­nomic progress at the school," said Scaminace. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 


Trigiani 
continued from page 1 
film won the Audience Award for Best Documentary Feature at the 1996 Hamptons [nternaticmal Film Festival and at the 1997 Palm Springs International Film Festival. 
Despite her fame, Triglani continues to keep the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame com­m unity close at heart. She includes Saint Mary's in "Big Stone Gap," and visited the campus for a book signing after it was published in 2000. 

She returned in 2002 to speak at Notre Dame's annual Sophomore Literary Festival. 
"It's been exciting to have Adri around the last two visits," said Max Westler, English department chair and Trigiani's former professor. "She's just an electrical charge and insists on every?,ne livening up them­selves. 
Westler and Trigiani remain close friends today. 
"Adri will bring her great wit and wisdom to a commence­ment that is usually burdened by earnestness," Westler said. 
Gift endows performing arts directorship 
Special to the Obsetver 
Notre Dame has received a $3-million gift, through the generosity of South Bend civic leader and philanthropist Judd Leighton, to establish a new endowed directorship for the performing arts. 

"Thanks to the extraordinary generosity of Judd Leighton, Notre Dame will continue to build its commitment to and reputation in the performing arts," said University President Father Edward Malloy. "This gift also will enable the University to strengthen its bond with the South Bend com­m unity through the arts, by creating and enhancing oppor­tunities for residents to share in campus performances and events." 
The first Judd and Mary Lou Leighton Director for the Performing Arts is John A. Haynes, who was appointed executive director of Notre 

Dame's  new  Marie  P.  
DeBartolo  Center  for  the  
Performing Arts last year.  

"For as long as I hold this directorship, the names of Judd and Mary Lou Leighton in my official title will be a daily reminder to me of the standard of service they have set and of my special obligation to forge stronger bonds between the University and the community," Haynes said. 'Tm doubly hon­ored by Mr. Leighton's gener­ous expression of faith in me personally and by his magnifi­cent investment in the future of the performing arts at Notre Dame." 
Haynes came to Notre Dame after serving since 1999 as chief executive of the California Center for the Arts, where he managed a six-building com­plex in Escondido with a 1,500­plus-seat concert hall; 408-seat theater; 9,000-square-foot museum of contemporary art; extensive arts education pro­grams; art and dance studios; a 

-Rebuilding Together ~ Benefit Run 
formerly Christmas in April 
Saturday, March 29, 11 :00 AM 
Stepar1 Center 
5K & 10K Runs 

2 Mile Walk 
T-Shiri·s to all Registrants Register at Rec.:Spcrts by 3/28. 5:00pm $6.00 In Advance or $8.00 Day of Race 
All Proceeds to Benefit 
Ji~ b Ll 1J tJ Htg "I b -~ 21 i .h ~.ii 
Sponsored By 
R~~ 


lfOTU DAME FOOD SUI/ICES 
"She'll have somi>thing to say to this graduating class Lhat they're going to want to hear. She's absolutely thrilled to be coming." 
The students agree. 

"[ think it's such a privilege to have a renowned author here to commemorate our class," said senior Renee Donovan. "She's been an inspiration not only to writers, but to alumnae using her Saint Mary's educa­tion to pursue her dreams." 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 
conference center with meeting and banquet facilities; a staff of 170 and an annual operating budget of $7.5 million. He pre­viously served from 1992-98 as executive director of The Children's '11 atre Company & School in Minneapolis. 










Friends and Brothers in HolyCross · 


www.nd.edu/,•-..1vocation 
ANSWER ~ 
THECALL '<!:/ 




WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, March 25, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page S 
IRAQ 
Captured POW pilots appear on Iraqi television 
Associated Press 
BAGIIDAD 
Iraqi state television on Monday showed two men said to have been the U.S. crnw of an Apache lwlicopter forced down during heavy lighting in central Iraq. 
(;nn. Tommy Franks. the 
U.S. war commander, con­11rmctl LhaL onn lwlicopter did not return from its mission Sunday and that its two-man crnw was missing. The men \\' (' r (' id (1 11 ti f'i Cd aS Ch j Of Wurrant Off'ic11r l{onald D. Young Jr., 26, ol' Lithia Springs. Ga., and Chic!' Warrant Officer David S. Williams. 30. or Orlando, Fla. 
If conl'irmr.d, the airmen would Im the second set of 1'0\\s rlisplayt•d by the Iraqis in as man~· days. On Sunday. the i\rnh satellite station J\l­.1 aznera carried Iraqi televi­sion footage of five U.S. sol­di<!rs who wen\ captured near An Nasiriyah, a crossing point over the Euphrates Hivcr. 
Unlike those soldiers, the mnn shown Monday did not app1!ar to be injured. 
The two wore cream-colored pilots' overalls and did not speak to the camera but appeared conl'uscd. They turned their heads and looked in different directions while bning filmed. One of' the men sipped from a glass of' water, looking wary but not cowed. 
The contents of one man's wallnt were displayed across a 
table, including a Texas dri­ver's license, a card from the Fort llood National Bank. phone cards and credit cards. 
;\ spokesman at the U.S. Army Post in Fort Hood, Texas, said that a helicopter from its 1st Battalion of the 227th Aviation Hcgimcnt was missing in action in Iraq. 
"The unit was deployed in February," spokesman Dan Hassett said. "That's all I can really say right now." 
Militarv ol'ficials said Williams has been in the ser­vice for 12 vears, and has a wifo and two· children who live on Fort Ilood. Young, an Army man for three years. is single. 
"Ile !'cit good about what they were doing, that they were going to get out there and it was going to be a quick situation," his father, Ronald Young Sr., told CNN. 
The footage was shown after Iraq claimed it shot down two /\pache helicopters and was holding the pilots. 
"A small number of peasants shot down two Apaches," Information Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf said. "Perhaps we will show pictures of the pilots." 
Franks denied that a second chopper had been lost, or that any craft had been shot down by farmers. 
Iraqi state television showed pictures of one Apache heli­copter in a grassy field. Men in Arab headdresses holding Kalashnikovs automatic rifles 

Iraqis celebrate near an Apache mllltary helicopter In the Hlndlya district, southwest of Baghdad. Iraqi officials said on Monday that Iraqi farmers had shot down two U.S. helicopters and televised footage of the second crew, showing identification papers of the two men. 
danced around the aircraft. lying on the ground. according to the Geneva 
The station also aired pie-Al-Sahhaf said Iraq would Conventions. Ile rejected accu­tures of two helmets apparent-consider displaying the other sations that Iraq had violated ly belonging to members of the helicopter it claims to have such accords by allowing Iraqi helicopter's crew, as well as shot down. Sahhaf said the television to film them and ask documents and other papers POWs would be treated questions. 
Bush, Blair plan two-day strategy meeting in the U.S. 
A55ociatcd Press 
WASIIINGTON 
British Prime Minister Tony Blair will visit President Bush this week, giving the two allied leaders a chance to plot strate­gy in the war with Iraq and plan for its aft,~rmath. 
Blair will arrive Wednesday and the two leaders will go to Bush's presidential retreat at Camp David to continue their talks Thursday, a diplomatic source told The Associated Press. 
Blair, at some considerable political risk, has stood firmly with the United States on the need to use force to unseat Iraqi President Saddam Hussein. Of late, Blair's popularity in Britain appears to be rising, as has Bush's as U.S. and British troops advance toward Baghdad. 
The president and the prime minister joined forces against a strong anti-war bloc in the United Nations, led by France and including Russia and Germany. The rift has created strains in the United Nations and NATO, a topic likely to be on the two leaders' agenda. 
Postwar Iraq is another likely topic. Blair favors a strong U.N. role in autho­rizing a post-Saddam government in Baghdad. But France and Russia appear determined to block the move. 
WORLD News BRIEFS 
Bush accuses Russian firms of aiding Iraq: 
l{ussia is putting U.S. troops at risk in Iraq by selling antitank guided missiles, jamming devices and 
night-vision goggles to Baghdad, the Bush adminis­tration said Monday in a growing rift with Moscow. President Bush raised the issue in a tense telephone call with Russian President Vladimir Putin, who in turn charged that the United States was creating "a 
humanitarian catastrophe" in Iraq. It was the latest llurc-up in a recently bumpy relationship between Washington and Moscow over issues ranging from missile-del'ense plans to NATO expansion. Russia sided with France and Germany to block a Bush­backed U.N. resolution sanctioning military conflict to disarm Iraqi President Saddam Hussein. After months of monitoring sales to Iraq, the United States received information in the past 48 hours about "the kind of equipment that will put our men and women in harm's way," Secretary of State Colin Powell said Monday on Fox News Channel. 
French President Jacques Chirac, furi­ous that he could not stop the war, has said permitting the United States and Britain to oversee creation of a new Iraqi government would reward them for start­ing a war that flouted world opinion. 
Chirac has threatened to veto any attempt at the United Nations to "legiti­matize the military intervention" and "give the belligerents the power to administer Iraq." 
Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov said Russia would "certainly reject" any resolution that that attempts to "legit­imize the military action and a postwar settlement in Iraq." 
France and Russia had argued that Iraq could be disarmed gradually through extended U.N. weapons inspections. Germany flatly opposed war, but Secretary of State Colin Powell has said he hoped Germany could play a role in rebuilding Iraq. 
Reconstruction of Iraq is already under discussion, with the United States likely to foot most of the bill, although contribu­tions from others will be sought. 
Bush and Blair met in the Azores in the eastern Atlantic on March 16, along with Spanish Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar, to confirm their intention to use force against Iraq. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Arab leaders endorse terrorist search: 
Arab-American community leaders on Monday urged cooperation with the government's search for a Saudi-born man allegedly planning terrorist attacks. Parvez Ahmed, the Florida chairman of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, and other local Arab-American lead­ers stood with FBI officials to demonstrate their support of the search for Adnan El Shukrijumah, whose last known address was suburban Broward County. "This is our coun­try, this is our state, this is our community," Ahmed said. "We join the FBI in calling on the public to come forward and contact the FBI offices if they have any information." Hector Pesquera, head of the FBl's South Florida office, said El Shukrijumah "has been identified by senior members of the al-Qaida organiza­tion" as a serious threat to the United States' interests here and abroad. 
Mystery illness new form of common cold: 
The mysterious and deadly flu-like illness from Asia that has stymied health officials around the world appears to be caused by a new variety of a common cold virus, U.S. health officials said Monday. The head of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said a number of tests had revealed traces of a form of microbe known as a coronavirus in the tissue of people infected with the unidentified disease. "There's very strong evidence to support coronavirus" as the cause, said CDC director Dr. Julie Gerberding at a news conference. However, she cautioned that more testing is needed before experts can be certain. Many different viruses can cause colds, including three different varieties of the coronavirus. Until now, in fact, the cold is the only human ailment known to be caused by coronavirus­es, but the CDC said the culprit in the Asian out­break appears to be genetically different and proba­bly represents a fourth type. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 25, 2003 



Graduate theses explore Third Wave Feminism 
• 'Sex and the City' characters exemplify new feminists 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 
Astrid Henry, coordinator and assistant professor of Women Studies, presented her paper, "Orgasms and Empowerment: Sex and the City and Third Wave Feminism," to open a three-day symposium on Third Wave Feminism cele­brating National Women's History Month Monday afternoon. 
Third Wave Feminism. the movement of feminism beyond the sexual revolu­tion of the 1960's, is focused on young women and men perpetuating and improving upon those rights gained in the past. The Third Wave is charac­terized by individualism and a lack of desire to con­fom1 to a definition. 
"This is a new feminism in the United States," Henry said. 'Third Wavers have never lived in a world with­out the women's move­ment." 
Henry focused on the Third Wave's role in popu­lar culture as seen in primetime television. Henry noted shows like "Rosanne" and "Murphy Brown" offered a liberated woman's perspective, but also had anti-feminist char­acters, while "Sex and the City" offers four characters as a representation of the archetypal modern woman. 
"The show offers a vari­ety of choices and charac­ters without saying this is the right one or this is the wrong one," Henry said. 
These four characters make up a close network of friends central to the show. The four women, with varying personalities and sexuality, end most shows sitting, laughing and talk­ing. Henry sees this as a statement about the impor­tance of such friendships. 
"The platonic relation­ships [on 'Sex and the Oty') are more important than the sexual relations with men," Henry said. "Critics do not normally focus on this, they tend to focus more on the sexual content ofthe show." 
The Third Wave has moved away from the belief that sexuality is dangerous for women, into the belief that sexuality is a source of power, Henry said. The idea that sexual assertive­ness is praised in "Sex and the City" and that there is no sense that the charac­ters are doomed or pun­ished because of their sexu ­al experience is very differ­ent from the way most fem­inine sexual acts are tradi­tionally treated in television and film. 
While the show offors a vjew of Third Wave Feminism in the activities and relationships of the independent, successful characters, Henry noted the limited view. 
"The view of female empowerment is linlited in that the four characters are white, similar in age, thin, conventionally beautiful and financially well-off," Henry said. "In this way, 'Sex and the City' lacks a larger political agenda, but is still concerned with the effects of individual choices on individual lives." 
The concern with the individual and choice is what makes the show intrinsi­c a l l y 
• Documentary examines modern icons 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 
Sainr Mary's Editor 
The Third Wave Feminism Symposium continued Monday night with Krista Longtin's documentary "Gloria Steinem, the Spice Girls and Me: Defining the Third Wave of Feminism." 
Longtin, a communication studies profes­sor at Indiana University-Purdue University at Indianapolis, made the documentary as part ofher master's thesis al Purdue. 
The documentary focused on women pro­fessors, authors, journalists and students' perception of feminism and how its popular connotation is revealed in today's media. 
"I think the Third Wave of feminism is still being defined," Longtin said. "There's a very organic way of how the Third Wave works 
Third _,,, ............... """""....,_._...................., .................... _.....,......,.......,....,......,, ..... _ Wave, accord­
so that its boundaries are almost perme­able." 
Women from activist Gloria Steinem to the Spice Girls were portrayed as key figures and role models, defining the Third Wave in their own unique way. 
The screening was followed by a group discussion, much of which focused on the word "feminism." "When it comes down to it, many of the media portrayals are really helping to define a movement that isn't theirs," Longtin said. "We don't see the ideas being talked about. Instead, we're being talked to about the ideas. 
"In reality things are getting done ... in a space like this," she said. 
Longtin's audience Monday included stu­dents from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, faculty, staff and members from the Michiana community. 
"I thought she was very willing to share things and Ithink that was a ,, ·tlcrtion nf her approachableness," said Noire Dame sopho­more Malt Patiicoski. 
...,...""""'..........""""'.....""""'...............................---.. 
STUDENT OFF CA:MPUS HOUSING
ing to Henry. 
"'Sex and the Oty' has created a world where Do You Know Where You're Living Next Year???? women can be 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
b o t h 
HOUSING AVAILABLE FOR THE 
fem i ­
2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR 
n i n e and sex­
APARTMENTS FROM AS LOW AS $280/mo per person!
ual . " Henry 
Town horn.es, 2-Bedrooin, 1-Bedroon,s and Studios Available
said. 
Stop by or call today! 272-8124 I_ vv'Nw. turtlccreeknd.con, 
~ 
,, Legislating Corporate Ethics '' 

A lecture by 
RALPH NADER 
Consumer Advocate 


Wednesday, March 26, 2003 
3:00 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
.-----------------­
Tuesday, March 25, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
. 

MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch March 24 
Dow Jones  
8,214.68  •  -307.29  
N4SDAQ  
1,369.78  -•  -52.06  
864.23  S&P500¥  -31.56  
AiWEX  
817.45  
 -8.08  
NYSE  
4,801.58  •  -169.36  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX(QQQ) -4 .16 -1.13 26. 04 SIRIUS STEUIT. (SIR1) ..7:;.~iJf;%4 @{?4 BOOTS & COOTS (WE L) +64 .18 +0. 43 1. 10 SPDR TRUST SER(SRy,) ::~1:;,~ii¥1{iiiliili 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -5.66-1.0717.83 

IN BRIEF 
U.S. Tech. CEO charged in scheme 
/\ federal grand jury brought new charges Monday against the chief executive of U.S. Technologies, who is accused of misusing $15 million entrusted to him by investors. 
/\ federal grand jury handed up a 22-count indictment charging C. Gregory Earls, 58, with multiple counts of securities, mail and wire fraud. 
The indictment says Earls controlled an investment company called USV Partners and claimed he would use investors' money to buy shares of U.S. Technologies. Instead, he allegedly used it for a trust fund for his chil­dren and to repay investors from other busi­ness ventures. 
It also says Earls stoic $1. 3 million from invustors. claiming he would finance an Internet company but pocketing the money for himself. 
Tho new indictment encompasses allega­tions first made by federal prosecutors in December, but adds new charges related to the alleged Internet scheme. 

Mortgage difficulties approaching 
Fewer homeowners were late paying tlrnir mortgages in the final quarter of 2002. but economists worry that a wors­ening job market could be making that more difficult now. 
The seasonally adjusted percentage of' mortgage payments 30 or more days past due for all home loans dipped to 4.53 per­cent in the fourth quarter of last year. down from 4.66 percent in the third quar­tor, the Mortgage Bankers Association of America reported Monday. 
The delinquency rate does not include l'orcclusures. 
Decades-low mortgage rates are helping honwowners handle their mortgage debt, nconomists say. The dip in the fourth quarter's delinquency rate came as per­sonal bankru.ptcies hit a record high in 2002. 





Fears of long war cause slide 
• Strong week followed by reality check 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK 
War euphoria wore off on Wall Street Monday as investors realized that Operation Iraqi Freedom might not be so quick after all. The Dow Jones industrials gave back more than 300 points, following its best week in two decades with its worst day of the year. 
With allied forces encountering resistance from Iraqi troops over the weekend, many investors chose to cash in profits following a stunning eight-day rally by the Dow and Standard & Poor's 500 index. 
"Going into the week­end. investors had this anticipation that there was a good chance that Saddam (Hussein) was killed and war might be ended," said Doug Sandler, chief equity strategist at Wachovia Securities. "The reality was that war is never clear and it's always 
REUTERS 
worse than people 
A trader pauses on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on Monday. Stocks
expect." 

went down more than 300 points, ending last week's big rally as footage from
"It's also just as much 

Iraq reminded Investors the war to topple Saddam Hussein would not be easy.
natural profit-taking," he added. "We had a such a nearly one-third of the six of the previous eight vision showed five cap-huge runup so you would Dow's 997-point gain sessions. tured U.S. soldiers. expect you would get a from the previous eight On Monday, U.S.-led Stocks surged in the retracement." sessions. forces pushed toward past two weeks on grow-
The Dow closed down The broader market Baghdad, meeting resis-ing investor confidence 307.29, or 3.6 percent, also finished sharply tance from sandstorms in a brief and victorious at 8,214.68, having lower Monday. The S&P and Saddam's troops. war, but analysts have gained 8.4 percent last 500 index dropped Iraq claimed to have shot said that would quickly week, its best showing 31.56, or 3.5 percent, to down two U.S. heli-change should the con-since October 1982. The 864.23, after a weekly copters and taken two flict become prolonged. blue chips advanced in gain of 7.5 percent. The pilots prisoner, a day They also say trading the previous eight ses­index also has posted after more than 20 will likely be choppy as sions, their longest eight straight days of Americans were killed or investors focus on the streak since December gains, its best perfor-captured. latest war developments. 1998. mance since June 1997. Saddam, meanwhile, "This is going to be a 
Monday's decline was The Nasdaq composite sought to rally his people very hard market in the the biggest for the Dow index lost 52.06, or 3.7 with a televised speech coming days," said Russ since Sept. 3, when the percent, to 1,369.78, that proclaimed "victory Koesterich, U.S. equity blue chips closed 355 having advanced 6.1 per-will be ours soon." Over strategist at State Street points lower. It erased cent last week. It rose in the weekend, Iraqi tele-Corp. in Boston. 


Bush: $74.7 billion for war efforts 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush is expected to ask Congress for $74.7 billion to pay for the war with Iraq, assuming a month of combat, and for strengthening counterterrorism efforts at home, lawmakers and aides said Monday. 
The money measure, which the president planned to describe to con­gressional leaders he invited to the White House, was dominated by $62.6 billion for the Department of Def'ense. It presumed the military efTort to oust Iraqi President Saddam Hussein would take 30 days, aides said. 
The request was also expected to include $4.2 billion for domestic security, chiefly for police and other so-called first responders. And it was to contain $7.8 billion for aid to Israel, Afghanistan and other U.S. 
allies, a down payment on humani­tarian aid for Iraq and for rebuilding the country, and money to increase security for American diplomats. 
At Monday's meeting, Bush was expected to ask congressional leaders to send him a completed version of the bill by April 11, when lawmakers are to begin their Easter recess. He is expected to send his recommenda­tions to Capitol Hill as early at Tuesday. 
Though lawmakers are eager to demonstrate their support for U.S. troops, Democrats and many Republicans are expected to have problems with parts of the proposal. 
Of the $62.6 billion for the Defense Department, the administration is proposing setting aside $59.9 billion in an emergency reserve fund that the Pentagon could largely spend with limited input from Congress, said Democrats who said they were familiar with a preliminary version of the proposal. 
"We need to provide every single dime the troops need, but I do think we need to know where it's going and for what purpose," said Rep. David Obey of Wisconsin, top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee. 
Obey said that Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld "wasn't appointed to be the U.S. Congress with the power of the purse..... We're sup­posed to know what we're doing before we open the purse strings." 
Democrats were also expected to complain that Bush's request had only $543 million in humanitarian aid for Iraq, $1.7 billion to rebuild the country and nothing for a peace­keeping effort after the war. Prior congressional and private estimates suggested the long-range expenses for those efforts would be many bil­lions or dollars, though administra­tion officials are hoping allied nations will help with the financing. 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. llo< Q, Notr, Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CJ-IIEF 
Andrew Souk\lp 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Scott Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes VIEWPOINT EDITOR; Kri,cin Yemm 
SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hetrler 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins SAINT MAR¥'S EDITOR> Anneliese Woolford 
ADVER11SING MANAGJ:IG Maura Ceuedella AD DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight 
WEIi ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek CONTROllli'.R: Michael Flanagan 
SYSTEMS MANAGER: Ted Bangen 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX .......................... , ................................. 631-6927 
ADVERTISING.....................................631--6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF....................... ............... 631-4542 MANAGING ErnrnR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS ......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. I@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. I@nd.edu 
PHOTO.....................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................ 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofrhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of rhe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves rhe righr to refuse advertisements based on conrent. 
The news is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of che Edicor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commenwies, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor nec­essarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free e<pression ofall opinions through letters is encoUiaged. Lerrers to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qu,stion, rrgarding O/mrver policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Andrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob~'TYcr fU.SP.'i 'i'99 24-0) ~ 1u1h!i,hed Monday rhro1.1g.h l;rid.t)' cxapt dunng O:.•m .mil ¥at:.,1,1i<rn p<:rioJ,.. A rnh~rlpunn ro Tfl.: Olucncr u JI 00 for um· ...cad.:rru.; yc.a.r: ~55 f11r on1: ":mnlcT ' 
The Uh~,vcr 1& puhl1•hcJ at; 1'051-M!\.:.'rUl 
024Sourfl Oi11in1:, H~ll Senti n,iJrc~~ ,;:<;;11'f~c:ti1Jm iu: 
No(rc Dame, IN 46i'l"6 Thl'Ohst'f'.'tT 
l'.N.l\o,Q 
!1eriudii:al post;,,~(' r~id a( Nom 0ame Notre l)amo::, IN 4"5SG-077':t 
1nd a.Jdiuonal muling off In',, 
11,e Ohwcnt<'r i~ ,i 1t1<"mbcT or rlw .t\JH•~iarc·G 11,a.,. A.ii ri::1,ru•JYcti<)n righr• ;u-c mcrvc;d 
O
THE 
BSERVER 



VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, March 25, 2003 
Work for peace, recognize reality 
Over break I traveled to Austria, Germany and Italy with my roommate, Dina. During the trip I had the opportunity to visit Innsbruck, Austria where I spent my sophomore year. I could not help but consider how much has changed in the world since I was last in the small city amidst the Alps. When I arrived in Austria in August 2000, Sept. 11 was incon­Joanna ceivable. The economy still 
Mikulski 
seemed relatively stable. In my mind, war with Iraq was a con­llict that began and ended in the Tuesday fourth grade. I felt very secure as Voice an American abroad. However, on this second journey, I did not walk through the narrow streets of the Old City with such confidence. 
Nevertheless I was eager and excited to show Dina the town that became my second home. I took her to Maria Theresian Brau, a bar in the center of Innsbruck. When we walked in, a group of nineteen and twenty-year old Austrians invited us to join them. Soon after we sat down, they asked us for our opinions on President Bush, American foreign policy and the then-imminent war in Iraq -not exactly small talk. Of course, Dina and I became accustomed to the questions. Nearly every day of our trip, we were asked to defend our country and its push towards preemptive, offensive war. 
I did not know how to respond to the inquiries that usually developed into attacks on the United States. I do not agree with the war in Iraq; I do not support our country's use of force to bring down Saddam Hussein. Yet, at the same time I believe that the servicemen and women -the fathers, moth­ers, daughters. sons -serving in the Middle East deserve the country's support. Consequently, I did not feel entirely comfortable expressing my opposition to the war or the Bush administration's foreign policy to the Austrians in the bar or any other European that we encountered. I found myself 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


An appreciation brought from war 
struggling with how to represent myself as an American abroad, when I don't agree with what my country is doing. 
The start of the war has put Americans, who had hoped, prayed and protested for peace, in a frustrating position. Protesters have filled city streets throughout the country, hoping that their voices and pleas, unacknowledged before the war began, will now have some effect now that it has started. How do Americans opposed to the war in Iraq con­tinue to work for peace while at the same time recognizing the reality of war and supporting the men and women who would risk their lives in the name of their country? 
For students struggling with this question. the Notre Dame Undergraduate Peace Conference, "Shadows of War, Visions of Peace," this weekend could help provide some answers. The conference, held annually under the sponsorship of the Kroc Institute, assumes particular importance today when the world is anything but peaceful. It features presentations by students and faculty from across the country on topics like the regional conflicts in the Middle East, peace and the media and the just war theory. The initial panel engages the topic of how to work towards peace in a time of war. 
The event demonstrates this University's commitment to human rights and to peace studies. a field that becomes increasingly important each year. Our country has many schools for war, for the study of conflict, battle strategy and armament. However, in the era of chemical, nuclear and biological weapons -like those that Americans fear Iraq will use each day -countries need to learn to avoid war at all costs. At a time when the reality of war threatens the health and existence of all humanity, the use of force must truly become the very last resort. 
Joanna Mikulski is a senior English and German major. Her column appears every other Tuesday. Contact her at mikulski. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
I see The Grotto tonight, gleaming in the midnight darkness, but I can't stop. I run right past it onto a trail around St. Mary's lake. Not being an avid run­ner, I know I will probably only make it once around the lake before I get winded. That doesn't matter ... it is time enough for what I need. 
My father left our house in Panama City, Florida, the night before. He would fly to Memphis, then across the Atlantic to Copenhagen and then from there on a series of short flights into Kuwait. As I am writing this very let­ter, he is waking up on what is very likely his first day in the Middle East. 
The lake is quiet as I run along its bank, though I disturb some ducks and geese, fearful of my heavy, loping gait. I notice no other runners, and only a few young couples walking or sitting on the trail, sharing their thoughts in the fresh night breeze. My pulse pounds in my ears, the wind rushes in and out of my lungs, and my footfalls add tempo of their own. I listen to what the couples talk about, and I lis­t.en to how serious their discussions are. I fPel that none of the matters they are speaking about carry nearly the gravity of the topic I have been unable to shake since I received the news. 
I don't write Observer Viewpoint articles with great frequency, nor do I recommend that anyone do so. The last time I wrote one was a little over two years ago, on another dark night after mass -a mass held the night before the death of former Notre Dame student Conor Murphy. I questioned why it is only in times of tragedy that we stop to consider our lives, our frailty and our purpose. 
I pass Carroll Hall wondering what my father will look like when I next see him in October. I ponder quietly how my mother, now alone in our Florida home, will spend the somber nights ahead. I ask myself how my sisters are doing, and how long has it been since I last talked to them. I curse myself for not being home to hear my father's goodbye before he left the U.S. 
Tonight, I don't want to instruct all of the readers to drop what they're doing and question their purpose in life. We all know that 99 percent of our lifetimes are wasted. Rather, I want everyone who reads this to keep living their lives, because if even 1 percent of our life isn't wasted, then all else is worth it. I just want everyone here at Notre Dame to appreciate the gift of life we have been given. I want us to stop griping about how the commence­ment speaker isn't up to par, or about how any other minor annoyance irri­tates us. I don't expect everyone to understand life and its point, but to simply know that there is one. I know, as I travel to Anaheim with a pep band this week, that my father will be work­ing abroad but thinking of home. I know that all members of my family will be separated by no less than 100 miles, but we'll be closer than we have been while in the same room. I know that I'll feel alone in the world, but I'll be surrounded by the closest group of friends I've known here at Notre Dame. 
My breathing is heavy as The Grotto comes into sight. I'm not alone as I walk toward the gated area. I stop with the statues of Mary atop the Dome and among the stones of The Grotto in my view. I genullect, I light two candles and I kneel to pray. 
Wm. Taylor Palfrey, Jr. junior Zahm Hall March 24 
TODAY'S STAFF 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 
News Sports Kate Nagengast Katie McVoy Maureen Lauren Dasso 
Do you think people should protest 
"In war: resolution. In defeat: defiance. In
Reynolds Charee 
the war in Iraq? 
victory: magnanimity. In peace: goodwill." 
Claire Heininger Holloway Viewpoint Scene 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Winston Churchill Graphics Lab Tech 
Dolores Diaz .Julie Bender 
British statesman, writer 
Chris Naidus Sarah Schneider 
O
THE 
BSERVER 




VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, March 25, 2003 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Address the roots of terrorism without violence 
Two years ago this week I received a final saluw from tho sailors of Main Propulsion Division. and I walked down Lhe brow of USS Vincennes (CG 49) for the lusl time. Aller four years of NHOTC here at Notre Dame and two years of naval ser­vice as an ol1iccr in the Seventh Fleet, I was dischargnd from the Navy as a consci­imtious objector and began my journny home from Singapore. I'm not your avcr­agn pacifist or your typical anti-war activist. I don't claim any particular ½'is­dom as a. result ol' my past, but I do offer a particular persper.tive sinco my worries about this conllict arc colored by my expe­rience as a military oHicr.r abroad and my great affection for the men who served under me and now light in the name of our country. 
Upon reporting to my ship, I was given charge of a division or forty-five men. aged 17 lo '.38. Of' those forty-five men, lhirly­livn wnrn not U.S. citiznns. In liJ.ct, most came from countries in which the U.S. has violently intervened over the course of the past century: the Philippines, Panama, Grenada and Ilaiti. We marched into their homos touting democracy, congratulating ourselv(is for the efliciency of our war and promising vast assistance and aid. Then we marched home again and their suffer­ing remained. These men enlisted in our Navy not because of their great aITection fur our attempts at liberation and rescue, not because of any special loyalty to the United States but because they realized the best foreign aid one can receive as a Filipino or Panamanian or Grenadian or 1laitian is a paycheck and a pension from the Department of Defense. The poor have no politics other than their own poverty and the hope of liberation. My sailors 
joined our navy not to enforce U.S. policy, 
but in spite of it. They joined to feed their 
families. not to effect political change. They risk their lives at sea this day not for 
freedom. but for food and the relative security of a warship. 

Our military is frighteningly powerful, and I have hopeful confidence that this war will end quickly. I am confident that in its aftermath we will find much of the evidence others did not-proof of torture and massacre and numerous chemical and biological weapons. We will declare vir:tory for Iraq and for the world, and we will again tout democracy, congratulate ourselves for the efliciency of our war and promise vast assistance and aid to the mil­lions uf hungry, wounded, homeless refugees left behind. We will retire into complacency, believing our enemy van­quished. Then, months or years from now, some hopeless terrorist full of' bitterness and rage will wound our cities and our psyches once again. After Sept. 11, we must realize that our enemy is no longer a single enemy, a particular Osama or ~addam. The enemy instead is the hatred for America festering all over the develop­ing world. The enemy is the anguished despair arising from poverty and the prospect ofearly and unnecessary death faced by two-thirds of the world's popula­tion. Whether the guilt is real or imagined, true or perceived, America is blamed for the suffering of too many in this world. Our greatest weapon in this war then, is generosity and concern -our capacity to do so much to alleviate some ofthe world's suffering. To truly engage the enemy we must engage the poverty and despair upon which his citadels are built. We must offer an alternative to the des­
peration of suicide bombings and the oblivion of religious fanaticism. We would better combat terrorism if the monies invested in funding this war were directed instead at third world development and fighting hunger and disease. We would better combat terrorism if the unsuccess­ful diplomacy invested in arranging this war were used instead to negotiate just peace between Israel and Palestine. We would better combat terrorism if the intel­lect invested in planning this war were directed instead at resolving third world debt and realigning linancial policies of the IMF and World Bank to promote local, sustainable development among the poor and the hopeless in Africa, Southeast. South and Central Asia and Latin America. 
This, then, L,; a non-violent alternative. Hather than engage in our enemies' vio­lence, we must engage them at the root of their violence. Pacifists are often accused of idealism and inaction, but true pacifism must be realistic and it must be active. We must realize the dangers of engaging our enemies with peace, of offering hope to the desperate. We must be willing to risk our own security for the security of the oppressed, to risk our own lives for the lives ofthose threatened by poverty or vio­lence. We must actively sacrifice our own abundant comfort to give some solace to the many who suffer in silent fear each day. Our president warns that we must be willing to accept casualties in this war. I agree. The war on terrorism proceeds, whether we want it or not. It may or may not have been a war of our choosing, but we have been blindly engaged in it for years. The decision now is not one of involvement, but of tactics. Ifwe choose compassion over combat as our strategy, we must be as willing to die for peace as we are now willing to die for war. We must seek out battles against human suf­fering in the world as eagerly as our sol­diers and Marines now seek out battles against conscripted, poorly equipped Iraqis in the desert. And we must have patience. The peaceful war on terrorism cannot be won quickly or without loss of life. Neither, however, can this violent war. If Baghdad falls tomorrow to our guns and bombs, we could not claim victo­ry. Having further spread the seed of hatred, our light would have just begun. 
We in America are troublingly impa­tient. We demand immediate resolution and refuse to wait for grace. We are quick to act and quick to react and quick to offer falsely expedient salvation to the world with our guns. Perhaps, if instead, we determined to suffer in patience with the world's poverty and pain, we might find the salvation we so recklessly seek sur­prisingly close at hand. Or perhaps not; peace must in the end be a leap of faith. It is a leap into the faith of an accused vagabond from an oppressed people in an occupied territory, the faith of a common laborer tortured by wealthy tyrants, the faith of a prisoner who looks down in pain from the cross and liberates us with for­giveness and the echo of one final. binding commandment. It is the faith we preach and the faith we purport to practice. May we have the patience and courage to do so in earnest now and in the progressing days of our war. 
Matthew Potts 
class of'99 March 24 


Defending the war in Iraq 
A view ofthe war from Saudi Arabia 
I am writing in response to Jessica Needles's March 21st letter. I am a Notre Dame grad and a First Lieutenant in the United States Air Force currently serving in Saudi Arabia. As you might expect, my opinions difTer from Ms. Needles's, and I'd like to share them. 
First I will address the topic of patriotism, which means "love for or devotion to one's country." Protesting this war does not necessar­ily qualify. I will not tell you that you are wrong to protest this war because you are entitled to your opinion -that is one of your freedoms as an American citizen. Nor will l tell you that you should not protest this war, because you are entitled to do just that -another of the free­doms you enjoy because you live in this great country. Having said that, please don't insult real patriots by insinuating that exercising those freedoms is inherently patriotic. Your right to expression allows you to burn American flags in protest; doing so is not patriotic. Let's get that straight. 
Next I will address your claims that this war is for oil. Ms. Needles, you could not. have made a more incorrect statement if you tried. Oil has nothing to do with this conflict, despite what Hollywood may want you to think. This war is about freeing the Iraqi people from an extreme­ly oppressive regime. You claim that these peo­ple don't want to be liberated. I wonder how you know. I saw women and children smile and wave at American and British forces as they moved north. I saw grown men dance and cheer as coalition forces secured the southern cities ofSafwan and Umm Qasr. I saw an Iraqi man help a U.S. Marine tear down a giant por­trait of Saddam Hussein only after removing his shoe to symbolically slap its heel against Hussein's face. Do you really think these people enjoy being led by Hussein? Trust me, as our forces move north and begin to provide some level of protection for the people of Iraq, you will see more and more of these images. It's hard to publicly speak out against a regime that employs chemical and biological weapons against its own citizens at a moment's notice. It's hard, that is, unless you enjoy such rights as freedom of speech -rights that you and many other Americans take for granted every day. 
Finally, I'd like to address your claims that an inept President is leading us. When he decided to forcibly remove Hussein from power, President Bush not only made the right deci­sion, he made the decision that an inept UN Security Council should have made more than a decade ago. Unfortunately, the UN has been plagued by corruption, indecision and a com­plete lack of resolve. It is worth noting that the three countries profiting most from present-day Iraq -France, China and Russia -were the most vocally opposed to any military action. I find it unbelievable that so many people have mistaken this ulterior motive for genuine con­cern for the Iraqi people. Ifyou want to accuse a government ofmaking decisions based on economics, look first to one of these three nations. 
In closing, I'd like to thank you for your patri­otic efforts. In return, I will proudly serve our great nation, our President and your right to protest my being here. 
Shawn H. Pulscher 
First Lieutenant. United Stares Air Force class of'99 March 24 


It's not about oil 
Claiming, "war protects U.S. oil interests," as Ms. Needles does in her March 21 letter, is a one-sided, incomplete statement ignoring important issues. First, all but a few countries in the UN support inva­sion oflraq; their reasons for support do not concern oil. Actually, investigations into the oil issue reveal that the countries opposing invasion are also Iraq's largest weapons suppliers and traders of oil. Also, although Iraq hasn't been held responsible for Sept. 11, they are known to harbor and supply terrorist organizations -not to mention that Saddam has repeatedly demonstrated his utilization of chemical and biological warfare. Hussein's regime has slaughtered hundreds of thousands of Iraqis using these weapons in what he calls "cleans­ing" Iraq; sounds like another political leader -Hitler. 
"Iraqis in Exile" is an organization representing Iraqis living in the 
U.S. They openly voice their elation saying they "look forward to going home and living without fear of Saddam." They have good rea­son; Hussein's sons and administration publicly pillage, rape and murder their countrymen. Combine this with a willingness to use weapons of mass destruction and it's easy to see the danger of such a man holding a position of power and that most Iraqi people are oppressed and terrified. Saddam Hussein truly believes he can over­power the United States, just as he did in 1991 -he is not afraid of war. 
The government cannot "hide behind" anything; the technology of today enables people at home to see what's going on, allowing closer contact with the realities of war. Yes, Ms. Needles, war is blood, sweat and pain. But it's also part of every generation, one that cannot be avoided. I don't call advocates of peace "un-American," (or those that drive SUVs -what car you drive is irrelevant to this topic). Everyone wants peace, including our government. But ignoring the facts of the Iraq situation is an irresponsible way to form an opinion. My opinion is that I will proudly support my president, government and military and that of all the countries fighting in Iraq. But then again, maybe I'm just misguided. 
Dave Welch 
Junior off-campus March 24 


THE 
OBSERVER 

page 10 Tuesday, March 25, 2003 
ALBUM REVIEW 



The rocket has come for Mraz 
By RYAN RAFFERTY 
Scene Music Critic 

As the warm weather begins to roll back into town, the search for the perfect summer album begins. In the past, artists like the Dave ~atthews Band, Jack Johnson and Jimmy Buffet have carried the summer music torch, but this year the torch will be passed down tu solo-acoustic act Jason Mraz. His major label debut album, Waiting I:or My Hocket to Come, showcases Mraz's catchy blend of acoustic rock melodics and witty lyrics that is rem­iniscent of the Dave Matthews Band with Jack Johnson on vocals. 
While Mraz may not create any shock­ingly new music on Waiting ror My Rocket to Come, he expands on the already well established genre of acoustic roots rock. Mraz is paired with well­known producer John Alagia, who has worked with the likes of the Dave Matthews Band, Vertical Horizon, Jack Johnson and Agents of Good Roots. With Alagia's experience, Mraz's amazing tal­ent comes out in full force. The first track, "You and I Both," sets the tone for the rest of the album. Mraz's smooth voice and lightly strummed guitar play the first few notes until the rest of the band comes in. What follows is twelve perfect acoustic pop songs. 

What sets Mraz apart from the vast amount of singer/songwriters out today is his witty lyrics. He shows this in songs like "Curbside Prophet" and ''I'll Do Anything," in which he sings, 'TH do any­thing spontaneously." This is exactly what Mraz's lyrics are -spontaneous rhymes, This spontaneous lyrical feel keeps even the more subdued songs fun and interest­ing. Mraz also adds his own modern spin to the often repetitive genre of singer/ songwriter. He adds in a bit of rap and reggae into his music. "Curbside Prophet" is a per­fect exam­ple. The track fea­tures a mandolin and banjo playing a v e r y bluesy feeling 
track, over which Mraz raps his autobiographical lyrics. 
Mraz tends to focus on keeping his music based in acoustic pop, but he mixes in other genres with ease. "Sleep All Day," for instance, sounds like Stevie Wonder decided to play acoustic guitar and record a song. Another track called, "No Stopping Us," mixes in a horn section that sounds very much like Chicago. The foundation, however, of all of Mraz's songs is the acoustic gui­tar, Before signing with Electra Records to record Waiting For My Rocket to Come, Mraz released several self-produced live albums that show just how far he has come since his coffee house days in Southern California. 
The best track on the album, "On Love and Sadness," appeared on several of Mraz's self-pro­duced live albums. On Waiting 

Photo courtesy of www.jasonmraz.com 
For My Rocket to Corne, it sounds 

A newcomer In the singer-songwriter genre,
much more polished and flows 

Jason Mraz stands out with witty lyrics and
better. The vocals, at times, sound 

and spontaneous rhymes.
very similar to Wings era Paul Matthews and Jack Johnson, Mraz's music is strong enough to stand on its own. This album is one of the most ener­getic releases of the year and will be the perfect summer soundtrack 

Contact Ryan Rafferty at rafferty.3@nd.edu 


McCartney. "On Love and Sadness" features one of the best chorus­es on the album with an incredibly catchy verse. 
Waiting For My Rocket to Come is an outstanding debut album. Mraz's fun, witty lyrics and his easy-going bluesy musical style combine for one of the best singer/songwriter releases this year. While he has drawn comparisons to Dave 
ALBUM REVIEW 


Kelly is as sweet as he sounds 
By SHAWTINA FERGUSON 
Scene Music Critic 

Although R. Kelly's reputation has been mottled as his legal issues continue to swell, many fans and critics agree that he is still a force to be reckoned with in the R&B world. His latest LP, the follow up album to multi-platinum selling TP-2, promises to be more of the smooth, sensual sounding Kelly that his fans are used to, with unexpected but successful musical twists. 
Producing, writing and arranging every track, the Chocolate Factory provides an in-depth look at Kelly, the musician and the man. His track, "Been Around the World," is Lest described as an open-ended tele­phone conversation with the world. Kelly praises fans, family and close friends for their support during his latest troubles and responds to critics and detractors with the lyrics, "When it comes to being the realest, I'm sho'nuff / I'm a straight-up industry vil­lain for sho'nuff / And I can't satisfy some of y'all no matter what/ And some of y'all cats is so jealous." This punch-lining, mid­tempo groove features Murder Inc.'s Ja Rule. 
Chocolate Factory's commitment to rela­tionships is another aspect that makes the album desirable. Soulful tracks like "Forever More," 'Tll Never Leave," "Forever" and "Heart of a Woman" all express admiration and love for women. ln the latter track Kelly sings, "I promised to love y'all/ with all of my might yeah/ I'll even burn a candle 

light / because

Chocolate Factorv 
we are here cause y'all pay the price/ and that's why I love 
R. Kelly 
Jive Records 

the word 'woman."' He then goes on to apologize for the common mistakes that many men make in relationships pleading, "Your mind versus / Your heart versus / Your soul versus / Your body versus/ Our bulls -/ Our ego / Our pride / That's why I love the word woman." 
"Showdown," the final sparring match between Kelly and Mr. Biggs, boasts a soft piano-influenced melody and is best described as a seven and a half-minute mini face-off between the two. The reggae influenced track, "Snake," featuring Big Tigger is definitely prime time for most club atmospheres. Showcasing a hypnotiz­ing flute, light drums and occasional gui­tars, "Snake" should appeal to most audi­ences. 
For those wondering, Kelly has not toned down his sensual side. While Chocolate Factory is not reminiscent of his early '90s release, 12 Play, tracks like "Ignition" (the original and the remix) and "Imagine That" offer the same not-so-sub­Ue playfulness that has made Kelly so pop­ular throughout the course of his career. 
Perhaps the best part of this 17-track composition is the flow of the album is well thought out. Fans can expect to listen to track after track without having to reach for their remotes, Kelly's mixture of pop, R&B, reggae and old-school blues is har­moniously combined to provide the listener with hot beats and personal lyrics that many will be able to relate with. If one is expecting a relaxing album filled \vith bal-

Photo courtesy of rollingstone.com 
Despite the controversy surrounding 
R. Kelly, his music has remained unscathed. 
lads, dub hits, enticing remixes, love songs and the likes they will not be disappointed. In other words, the Chi-Town native is back again; he's got the key in the ignition and is ready to roll! 
Contact Shawtina Ferguson at ferguson.29@nd.edu 


THE 
OBSERVER 

Tuesday, March 25, 2003 page 11 
ALBUM REVIEW 


The Ataris jump to the big time 
Hy EMILY TUM BRINK 
Scene Music Critic 
Punk/1\lllO veterans. The Ataris, have managml to build quite a fan base over the years. but nol without a lot of effort. The release of a handful of albums on Kung fu HHcords and Fal Wreck Chords. two inde­pendent labels, as well as a hectic touring schedule have finally managed to get the word out about the band. The Ataris recently signed with Columbia Records and released their much-anticipated major label debut. So Long, Astoria, the first full-length album they have released in nearly two years. 
Although it is sometimes difficult for bands. especially bands of the punk per­suasion, to make the transition from an independent label to a major one without in some way selling out, The Ataris' trade­mark sound remains intact on So Long, Astoria. The album is sure to satisfy not 
only long­term fans of The Ataris, but should a I s o attract many new listeners. In fact, the first single, "In T h i s Diary," is already receiving massive amounts of airplay. 
A per­fect album for sum­mer, So 
The Atarls have managed to make the shift from an Independent Lo n g , label to a major label while staying true to their punk/emo sound. Astoria 
possesses plenty of catchy hooks and teen anthems. One can easily imagine it being played as the back­ground music at a party. The only problem is that some of these songs might be bet­ter off left in the background. After listening to only a few tracks on the album, many of the songs begin to sound alike. The Ataris hardly stray at all from the repetitive for­mula begun on their previous releases. 
The most obvious difference between So Long, Astoria and other releases is the scope of the lyrics. On albums like Blue Skies, Broken Hearts ... Next 12 Exits and End is Forever, the Ataris sing almost entirely about break-ups and lost love. 
Although there are a few songs about this oft-examined subject on So Long, Astoria, including a cover of Don Henley's "The Boys of Summer," many of the songs stray from this theme. For example, "My Reply" is an attempt to offer hope to a hos­pitalized fan who sends poetry to the band. "The Saddest Song" is lead singer Kris Roe's apology to his daughter for not being around for her childhood because he is on tour so often. The lyrics to most of the songs possess both honesty and depth, and can be easily related to everyday life. 

"In a lot of my lyrics," Hoe told VHl, "I like to encode a lot of hidden messages and whatnot. I like our fans to read into things. I feel that our fans are smart and I don't want to give them just a bunch of surface lyrics that you can take at face value." 
Although So Long, Astoria lapses into a somewhat repetitive pattern, those who enjoy the sound of The Ataris will not mind this at all. With thoughtful lyrics and catchy melodies, The Ataris have created an accessible album that is not only fun and energetic, but also possesses deeply reflective lyrics. 
Contact Emily Tumbrink at tumbrink. l@nd.edu 

ALBUM REVIEW 


American Hi-Fi loses out 
By BECCA SAUNDERS Sc<'ll<' Music Criric 
The Art of Losing, American Hi-Fi's newest album L'i just that -a loss. Try as they might, the Boston based punk-rock band, American Hi-Fi, best known for their past hit "Flavor of the Weak," simply can­not express multiple musical styles on one album cohesively. Listening to the album leaves one wondering if the same band is even performing all of the songs due to the high level of variance in the musical style throughout the album. While variety can often times be a bonus by displaying differ­ent strengths of a band. this is simply not the case with American Hi-Fi. Instead of sounding like talented and varied musi­cians, the album lacks a level of cohesive­ness. 
This lack of cohesiveness is exemplified in the hip-hop/punk/rock song, "Nothing left to lose." From extremely typical punk­rock lines, "Nothing left to lose/ except you and your baby blues," to shout outs such as 
"Holla back ya'll," one is left won­dering what it is that these guys are trying to be. All the different musical themes get lost in one another and the song as a whole is more of a messy montage than a melody. 
Overall, The Art of Losing is not very strong musi­cally. However, what are really painful arc the lyrical choices that create the album. With cheesy rhymes all the way through the album, American Hi-Fi takes the light a n d spunky 
nature of punk rock to a whole new level, in a nega­tive direc­tion. With lyrics artistically reminiscent of those from an eighth grade rock band, American Hi-Fi does not give many lyrical surprises. With lines such as "You call me a loser/ say I'm just a user" and "She's on the movie screen / acting like a rocket queen / [do you know what I mean?!", the most entertaining part of the album becomes trying to predict what the end of the line is going to be before Jones' even sings it; but even that loses entertainment value when it is such an easy game to play. 
Just as all hope is nearly lost in American Hi-Fi, halfway through the album, redemption starts to sneak in. Beginning with '"This is the Sound," a slow­er song with a softer beat, the songs start to regain a more cohesive quality. As the soft and heavy beat plays, Jones' softly sings, "This is the sound of the broken down."' and it actually is! The lyrics and 

melody finally meet and therein produce a 
truly good song. This is soon followed by 
the appropriately punky "Gold Hush" and 
"Built for Speed." The lyrics are not amaz­
ing, but the clear punk-rock beat carries 
both of the songs, and American Iii-Fi 
finally presents a couple of melodies that 
are strong enough to get stuck in the heads 
of their listeners. Whether the songs are 
truly quality songs or just sound good 
enough after what preceded them is 
unclear, but nonetheless, they create a 
sound that gives some sort of definition to 
American lli-Fi, even if it is short-lived. 
American Iii-Fi tries to do too much in this album, and while there are some hil'i, · this is an album predominantly composed 
of misses. 
Contact Becca Saunders at saunders.8@nd.edu 

,., 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 25, 2003 
ND TENNIS 

Irish hope for win over Wolverines 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
After a close Sunday defeat at the hands of No. 13 William and Mary, the 27th ranked Irish will try to keep the Wolverines of Michigan at bay today at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Michigan is coming off a com­manding 6-1 victory against Marquette Saturday, which extended their home winning

..,._ 
streak to 12 matches . 
"It should be a good match," Irish assistant coach Liz Balanis said. "It will definitely he a com­petitive match. We always seem to have a close one with [Michigan]." 
Last year Notre Dame defeated Michigan 5-2 at Ann Arbor, but this year's Irish squad is rela­tively younger and less experi­enced. 
Despite that, the team is gain­ing confidence, especially after coming off their Friday win over Iowa and what was nearly a vic­tory over one of the country's best teams, William and Mary, Sunday. 
"We played very well against William and Mary," Balanis said. "Our doubles went great, and we competed very well in the sin­gles. We just had a couple matches we didn't pull out." 
Despite being a close match, the Iowa victory was also a con­fidence builder for the Irish. 
"It ended up being a close match," Balanis said. "It was good to pull that one out." 

The team saw a sign of improvement on Friday when freshman Kristina Stastny pro­vided the clinching win to secure victory against the Hawkcyes. 
"That was great," Balanis said. "She was very excited. That's a great feeling for a freshman." 
According to Balanis, the Irish have showed they can play well. and they just need to continue what they have been doing in order to have a strong second half of the season heading into the Big East tournament. 
"Overall, if we play like we [played Sunday] we'll do well this year," Balanis said. 
Unlike the Irish. the Wolverines were able to defeat Kentucky earlier in the season, but both squads were defeated by powerhouse Duke. 
After Tuesdav's bout with Michigan, Notre bame will face Purdue only 24 hours later for its last home match of the sea­son. 
"We had two matches over the weekend, we have two [with­in the next two days], and then Friday we leave to go to Ohio State," Balanis said. "We have a lot of matches coming up." 
The Irish are looking forward to the remainder of their season, which includes contests again [Jlinois, in-state rival Indiana, and Big East foe Miami. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 


Theisman named to College Hall of Fame 
Associated Press 
Former Notre Dame All­America quarterback Joe Theismann is one of 11 former college players and two coach­es named today to the National Football Foundation's 2003 College Football Hall of Fame Division I-A class by Jon F. Hanson, chairman of the National Football Foundation. 
The 2003 College Football Hall of Fame class will be inducted at the 46th Annual Awards Dinner on Dec. 9, 2003, at the Waldorf-Astoria in New York City. The players and coaches will be officially enshrined at the Hall of Fame in South Bend in August 2004. 
Theismann launched an 

attack on the Irish passing record books, setting 19 school marks while leading the team to its first bowl appearance in 45 years in 1969 and a 10-1 record capped by a Cotton Bowl victory in 1970 over top­rated and unbeaten Texas. 
A first-team All-America selection as a senior by Associated Press, Theismann was the runner-up in the Heisman Trophy voting in 1970. A participant in the 1970 Hula Bowl, Theismann set school records for passing yards in a game (526), yards in a season (2,429) and touch­downs in a season (16) among others. He ranked second in the nation in total offense as a senior at 291.3 yards per game -and that year he 
helped the Irish as a team average 510.5 total yards per game and 252. 7 passing yards per game, two marks that remain all-time Notre Dame bests. 
In three seasons, Theismann led the Fighting Irish to a 25­4-3 record while completing 290 passes on 509 attempts for 4.411 yards, a mark that still ranks fifth in school histo­ry. Honored for his classroom prowess, he earned Academic All-America honors in 1970 and was later named to the GTE Academic All-America HaJl of Fame. 
Following graduation, Theismann embarked on a 15­year professional career, his final 12 years in the NFL as a member of the Washington Redskins. Upon retirement, he became a highly successful businessman as well as a prominent television sports analyst for ESPN. Theismann continues to support such charitable interests as the United Way, March of Dimes, American Heart Association, Cystic Fibrosis, Special Olympics, Boy Scouts of America and the Fellowship of Christian Athletes. Originally from South River, N.J., Theismann becomes the 40th Notre Dame player to be cho­sen for the Hall of Fame since inductions began in 1951. Five former Irish coaches also have been selected. No other school has produced more than those 45 enshrinees, the most recent being Ralph Guglielmi in 2001. 
SMC TENNIS 

SMC wins 
big over Tri-State 
By LISA REIJULA 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's tennis team continued their winning ways last Sunday with a dominant 9-0 performance against Tri-State Cniversity. The Belles. the defending MIM champions, won every singles and doubles match and brought their record to 5-1 on the season. 
"We got good practice over spring break just playing actual matches," said junior Jeannie Knish, who won at No. 1 singles. "This was a good warm-up match for the season." 
Other winners for the Belles included freshman Kristen Palombo at No. 2 sin­gles, junior Kaitlin Cutler at No. 3 singles, junior Kris Spriggle at No. 4 singles, senior Elisa Ryan at No. 5 and senior Angela Sandner at the No. 6 spot. 
In doubles action, the No. 1 pair of Knish and Palombo earned a victory, as did No. 2 Cutler and Ryan. Spriggle and freshman Lindsay Cook also won at the No. 3 doubles spot. 
"We played with confidence and had fun," Knish said. "We haven't been playing too much outside here yet, so it's good to get used to different weather conditions." 
The Belles' match against Valparaiso scheduled for Wed., March 19 was post­poned due to poor weather. It was cancelled when rain began to fall during warm­ups. That match will take place March 26 at Valparaiso. 
The Belles look to keep their momentum going for the week. They will face off against Aquinas at home March 21 at 3:30. 
"We have good feelings about this weekend," said Knish. "We should do well; the teams don't look to be that tough. We have new additions to the team and everyone is getting used to their spots and doing a good job." 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edir all classifieds for content withour is,uing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Two speakers, 18 inch Bass Vins  3-4 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR  Lakeview Ashland/Belmont two  ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE. Are  That's it, Adam. We're breaking up!  
NOTICES  for P.A. $75. 631-5195  RENT: CALL Anlan Properties. LLC 532-1896  good-sized bedrooms, nice closets, Hardwood Floors, bright apartment,  you pregnant and dont know what to do? Loving, open-hearted, finan­ Oh, and another thing .. l'VE BEEN  
near el, heat included! May/1,  cially stable woman would like to  CHEATING ON YOU!!!  
STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE 3.4  FOR RENT  1-Bdrm apts 1/2 mile from ND.  $1100/mo or 1340 (rehabbed) 773/472-7775  consider adopting a baby. Free counseling, living expenses and  So, does it feel cool to say you've  
OR 5 PERSON 2 STORY. 8  $500/rno. 283-0325  medical expenses This can be a  hooked up with Michael Jackson?  
...  BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW EVERYTHING. WIRED FOR COM·  Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom  good thing for you and your baby. Discreet and legal.  We're going streaking!!!  
PUTERS ECT. AVAIL. SUMMER OR FALL 235-3655  homes 1/2 mile from campus. mmmrentals@aot.com 272­ Summer Sublease-Great House 4 Bedroom 3 Bath NC Garage Gall  PERSONAL  Call 904·824-7006.  Hey, it WOUid be OK in Kentucky...  
1525 www.mrnmrentals.com  243-9753  nme is running out to get $100  
back on your prep class ...Call 1 ·  Careful, that chair has a mind of its  
FOR SALE  HOUSE AVAILABLE !um. 4b2ba, walk to campus. jo5225@aol.com  LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH  Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it alone. If you or someone you love  BOO-KAP-TEST today!  own!  
OF ND 2773097  needs confidential support or assis­ I miss Florida... =(  
Summer Sub-lease 1 bedroom  tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise  
Laptop Computer $250. Dell  apartment-fully furnished-cable t.v.- Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more  That Rob, he's so hot right now.  Don't play your Chinese food  
Computer (with mon, kb, mouse,  5 minutes from  2 Rms(1 fum),Lg house.nice area.  Information, see our bi-weekly ad in  mindgames with me.  
Win96) $150. 229-3333  campus/good neighborhood. $350  Spa.tanning bed 229-3333.  The Observer.  Pssst. Wanna buy an atomic  
a month. Call 229-1691  bomb?  Bueller. ... Bueller.... Bueller?  

page 13

Tuesday, March 25, 2003 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
..
s.~Mh Centerfor Socia( Concerns &...1 & 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

oo ru ~ ~ ~ oo u oo ~ ~ rnJY~ 
http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 





r------------------------------------------------------~ 
"'
Apply for the Rodney F. Ganey, Ph.D. Collaborative .Community-Based Research Mini-Grant 
The CSC is offering a Mini-Grant in the amount of $5000, awarded in two phases, to support a joint faculty-student-community research partnership addressing a social challenge articulated by a community organization. It may support the planning and development of a new project, the expansion of an existing one, the assessment ofa:project, or the dissemination of findings from a project that is ongoing or in its final stages. 
' ~ 
The purposes ofthe award are to foster faculty-student-community partnerships that 
• 
result in measurable, positive impact in the South Bend area; 

• 
reflect the investment of faculty expertise in the local community; and • offer students community-based learning opportunities that promote civic responsibility. 


The proposal should be submitted by Monday, April 7, 2003. Please go to our web~ite at ~enterforsocialconcerns,nd.edu for more informa­tion about applying. 


~----------------------------------~-------------------~ 
What Does It Have To Do With Me?: 
Perspectives on War in Iraq 
Come join other students, faculty and staff in exploring issues of war and peace 
"Coffee House for Peace" 

March 26th, 8:00 -10:00 PM, Coleman Morse Lounge Featuring Emmeline Schoen (NO, '03, a student musician and songwriter) & Poetry Readings 
A Student Dialogue on War with Iraq April 9th, 7:00 PM, Coleman Morse Lounge 
With perspectives from ROTC, Peace Action Groups and others 

"Implications and Morality of a Pre-Emptive War" 
April 10th, 7:30 PM, Coleman Morse Lounge 
A Talk by Fr. Bryan Hehir "When Did I See You Hungry?" President and CEO, Catholic Charities U.S.A., Former Chair ofthe Executive Committee at Film Viewing and Presentation Harvard Divinity School 

by Filmmaker Gerry Straub 
"The Proplzetic Voice of Peace" 
April 24th, 7:00 -8:30 PM Presentation and Questions, Debartolo 141 Wednesda A ril 2 7:00 PM 
8:30 PM Procession to Grotto for concluding prayer for peace 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium A Talk by Fr. John Dear, S.J. 
Reception and book signing following 
Peace Activist and author/editor of 20 books on peace & justice, Former Executive Director of the Fellowship of Reconciliation 


r------------------------------------------------------~I 
ND For Animals Upcomini: Events (www.nd.edu/~animals) I I TODAY, March 251\ Dr. Michael Greger will be speaking on "Corporate Globalization: Trading Away I I Our Right to Protect Animals" at 5:30 p.m. in Montgomery Theatre. Refreshments will be served. I 

~------------------------------------------------------~ 
Current Volunteer Opportunity . 
A mother is in need of relief care for her premature twins (they are 3 months old, but were born 2 months premature). Care 

Candlelight Vigils for Peace
would consist of sitting with and holding the babies as well as occasionally helping to feed them for only one ·hour, one .....
evening a week. Please contact: Heidi Eckstein @ 246-9883 Every Weeknight, at 11:00 PM, a candlelight vigil for peace will be held 
at the Grotto. Rosary for Peace 
Tomorrow night, Wednesday,
9:00 PM Monday -Friday 
March 26th, at 10:00 PM, a candle­Starting last night, in Sorin Hall, the rosary will be light vigil around campus, beginning said in different residence halls each weekday night at South Quad flagpole, will be held. Monday through Friday, except Holy Thursday and Please come join in praying for peace. 
Good Friday. 
Please contact your Rector, Liturgical, or Social Concerns Commissioners ffyou wish to be involved. 

TONIGHT'S rosmy will take place in Walsh Hall. TOMORROW evening's will be in Badin. 









AROUND THE NATION 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES
page 14 Tuesday, March 25, 2003 
~ 
I:::::1;\;,::;:;1:l:i~!lfii~:::1:~,~~~~~!;l:\gt:~!l::::::~:~:~::::::i1­
\.':••J1it1Jili?W'''•MF•4tf?~=i••····••n$$G.•:n@1•::::$.t•·•nm::·····:·.·.·.···.ijf:lflt\l11r M~!~:;•; ri:;~•l!l!il!111tli!lli!!!fj:ilii!jil!l!~li'-'• .. :@;j 
,...•.•. •AttiliW•••tt:nw1.?t1?t:••···,•••A~P•=,•·•,•••mr::1g.•••rn:•:mm:11wn:wt

;;'.•~=,11,fP­
~-,iii"&'Sk'1~ 

'~&&E:~ 
: • Mim~1;1::11111:11lllI!!lllli!ll!l\:iliJllli1llll!llliilll!lllil11]!11l;;illlliil!l!lll:;;;iJ@

-._...-.; 
illillillil!!l:1~1!1i!;;~~IJ!lljil:ji11111~11111:1:1111111!l:,•!i1!!11!!:!!ll~!iilt~!l!lii......... /,: :! lllllll!ii!!l:iiit: 1:~g:·:: 11:::;::[tll:11~!1iil!l!l!1!1•:i:1:11;:1il!ll1!l!li!~liliilil!!!!ililii! ,·· •PimM~m.1 i1f!tJ %f#J!t• m:::::1•m11r:1rm:1l\1•4t@:J !1.ili:I11iiiij:ili11li!ll]!!;:;;1~11;;;;~1~i!illil!l!ili!i\!:!:~:1l1i:il1i!~liil;l::~!i. ::.:.":::.:.:::····: 

around the dial 
WOMENS COLLEGE BASKETBALL Second Round NCAA Tournament Utah vs. Duke 7:00 p.m., ESPN KANSAS STATE vs. NOTRE DAME 9:00 p.m., ESPN2 TCU vs. Connecticut 9:00 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS 
NASDAQ-100 Open 11 :00 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 

any pitcher in baseball his­on what they're giving me going to be able to see him
Associated Press 
tory. Roger Clemens aver­and I try to give them it continue on." 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. aged $15.45 million with back tenfold," he said. "I Last year, Johnson 
Randy Johnson and the the New York Yankees in suppose that if you contin­became the first major lea­Arizona Diamondbacks 2001 and 2002. ue to say that I'm old, guer since Boston's Pedro enjoyed their first four "I don't know if this year eventually you're going to Martinez in 1999 and the years together so much be right. But I'm looking at first NL player since the
and the two-year extension 
that they don't want to end it as just a number." New York Mets' Dwight
will take me to the end of 
the relationship any time Johnson is 81-27 since Gooden in 1985 to win a
my career," Johnson said 
soon. joining the Diamondbacks, pitching triple crown.
Monday, "but I know
Johnson, who won the raising his career record Johnson was 24-5 with a
inside of me I still have the
NL Cy Young every year to 224-106. With Arizona, 2.37 ERA and 334 strike­
fire and desire to continue
he's been in Arizona, the Big Unit has a 2.48 outs, leading the major
to go out and do the things
agreed Monday to a $33 ERA with 1,417 strikeouts leagues in strikeouts for million. two-year contract that I've done." and 31 complete games, the ninth time. Johnson and the
extension with the 11 of them shutouts. Johnson's extension will Diamondbacks won three
Diamondbacks. "We're talking about one pay him $16 million in The deal will keep NL West championships 
of the greatest pitchers of each of the 2004 and 2005 Johnson in an Arizona uni­and one World Series title all-time," owner Jerry seasons, and contains a $1 form through his 42nd in the first four seasons of Colangelo said. "It's been a million personal-services 
birthday, and is the largest his current contract. real pleasure for our fans contract at the end of the average annual salary of "They want some return and it's a joy to say they're deal. 
IN BRIEF 
French teen qualifier next ing Iroda Tulyaganova 6-0, 6-4. Minnesota Twins star grabbed the for Serena Williams "Always some people say, 'Serena woman's breast before she escaped In charming fractured English, 18-Williams is unbelievable. She plays from the bathroom at the Redstone so well,"' Bartoli said. "But I'm going American Grill in suburban Eden
year-old Marion Bartoli neatly to see what is it really to play against Prairie on Sept. 6.
summed up the challenge of playing 
No. 1." Puckett is charged with false
against Serena Williams. 
Other quarterfinal matchups imprisonment, criminal sexual con­
"She win everybody," Bartoli said. 
include No. 3 Kim Clijsters against duct and assault. As proceedings
That's why the path to a title at the 
No. 9 Jelena Dokic, and No. 4 Justine began, he pleaded innocent to the
Nasdaq-100 Open is about to become 
Henin-Hardenne against No. 12 misdemeanor assault charge, which
a whole lot tougher for Bartoli, who 
Chanda Rubin. prosecutors added last week.
has led a charmed life since arriving 
Rubin notched the most impressive If the jury finds Puckett guilty on
at Key Biscayne. 
victory, beating No. 8 Amelie all charges, prosecutors have said
After winning two qualifying 
Mauresmo 6-0, 6-2. No. 6 Jennifer they will seek probation, fines, com­
matches, Bartoli drew a wild-card 
Capriati ended a strong run by munity service and no more than a 
entrant, a lucky loser and a qualifier 
American compatriot Sarah Taylor, year in jail. 
in the first throe rounds, and beat 
winning 6-1, 6-0. Both matches took The 42-year-old Puckett, once one
them all. She won again Monday 
less than an hour. of baseball's most beloved players.
when No. 7-seedcd Lindsay 
sat between his lawyers and showed 
Davenport strained her right ham­
KirbY. Puckett's trial for little emotion as jury selection string in the second game and was sexual assault begins began. Opening statements and testi­
forced to retire after losing the first Kirby Puckett's sexual assault trial mony could begin late this week. 
set 6-0. began Monday, with the Hall of Judge Stephen Swanson ruled the That gave Bartoli a berth in the Farner accused of dragging a woman defense can present testimony that quarterfinals Tuesday against into a restaurant men's room and the woman bared her breasts in the 
defending champion Williams, who groping her. restaurant. The woman denies doing improved to 14-0 this year by beat-Prosecutors contend the former it. 
Tuesday, March 25, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 MENS LACROSSE 
Notre Dame falls to No. 13 after split road trip 
By PAT LEONARD 
Srorrs Writer 
The Irish (4-3) took a step back and a step forward this wer.kcnd. 
Notre Dame dropped to No. 13 in the college rankings after splitting a two-game road trip with its third straight loss to the No. 14 llofstra Pride (3-2) on Friday and a win over the unranked Ilartl'ord Ilawks (1-4) on Sunday. 
Junior attackman Dan Berger scored live goals against Ilofstra at Shuart Stadium. But llofstru's Jim Femminella notched seven scores for the Pride. The Pride took the game at home, 9-8, in a come-from­behind victory. 
Down 7-5 at halftime, Notre Dame came out firing, scoring three goals in a span of only two minutes. Berger scored with 
8:01 remaining in the third peri­od, then sophomore midfielder Brian Giordano tied the game at the 6:37 mark. Berger contin­that will not make up for funda­ued to bame Hofstra defenders, mentals. It must be in addition when he scored on a pass from to those fundamentals." rn~shman midfielder Matt The Irish have lost to the Karweck just 35 seconds later to Pride five straight years. includ­give Notre Dame an 8-7 lead. ing an 11-10 overtime loss in 
IIofstra would tic it, however, 2001. Notre Dame went 14-2 
a  n  d  that  season  
Femminella's  and  would  
final goal with 7:22 remain­ing would prove to be the  "We've got an ability to make plays that will serve us well, but that  advance to the NCAA national semifinal game.  
difference. Goalie Stewart  will not make up for fundamentals."  "We need to learn how to play different  
Crosland had  games  and  
eight saves on  Kevin Corrigan  different tem­ 
17 shots for Notre Dame.  Irish coach  pos," Corrigan said. "Some  
Irish coach  games  you  

Kevin Corrigan is concerned his want to push it and some you team has overlooked the basics can't afford to. But if we can get of the game. back to fundamentals and 
"We need to get back and adjust to different tempos, then become a team that relies on its I think we have a chance to be a fundamentals," Corrigan said. very good team." "We've got an ability to make In their most recent meeting plays that will serve us well, but last year, Hofstra piled 15 goals on Notre Dame, who scored onlv five. This year's Hofstra team has lost two games already, as well. The losses, however, both have been to top ten teams: No. 9 Loyola (10-4) and No. 7 Princeton (l 8-5). The Pride got its two wins 

had two more. Sophomore Chris Richez had two goals and one assist for Notre Dame. 
Berger and juniors Matt Howell and Owen Mulford have been key offensive threats for Notre Dame. Howell leads the 
team with 22 

by crushing unranked  "We need to learn how to  points goals,  (11 11  
Binghamton, 15-5, and beating No. 15 Cornell  play different games and different tempos. Some games you want to push  assists). Berger is the top goal scor­er with 16.  
University soundly, 13­5.  it and some you can't afford to. "  The upper­classmen have seen more  
In the sec­ scoring oppor­ 
ond game of  Kevin Corrigan  tunities  this  
the weekend, Notre Dame  Irish coach  year, due in part to the  
embarrassed  play of fresh­ 

Hartford, its first unranked men Walsh and Matt Karweck. opponent of the 2003 season, Walsh is second on the team in 17-3. points with 20. 
Freshmen Pat Walsh and Drew· Peters led the Irish with three goals each. Walsh also Contact Pat Leonard at added three assists and Peters pleonard@nd.edu 
WOMENS LACROSSE 
Irish face Buckeyes in first home match 
won five straight, including a
By ANDY TROEGER 
14-4 win at No. 20 
Sports Writer 
Northwestern. Their only loss came at the hands of Stanford. 
After starting the season with Despite the 2-2 record, Coyne four consecutive road games, has been fairly pleased with the womens lacrosse team her team's play so far. finally gets to play at home "I thought we came out Tuesday afternoon when it strong against Boston College," 
meets No. 17 Ohio State. 
Coyne said. "We were up 4-0 The No. 12 Irish stand at 2-2 but they kept fighting back.... on the season with wins against 
We had opportunities, two goodOhio and Boston College and and we
chances to score put 
losses to ranked teams Yale ourselves in position to win so and Cornell. With the game what more can you ask?" against Ohio State, the Irish Possibly the biggest positive will be looking for their first from the past few games has 
victory been the playagainst a 
of junior mid­ranked foe "We are focusing on field er Abbythis season. 
Owen. After

aspects ofour game that
"We were 
having

will make us stronger as
pretty tired played in just[playing on a team." two games in 
the roadJ," 
her first two said Irish 
seasons,
Tracy Coyne

coach Tracy Owen erupt­Coyne. "It's Irish coach 
ed for five good to be goals and two home. Ohio 
assists in the State is one of our bigger rivals, 
last two games including her 
we've been playing them first career hat trick againstthroughout [tho program's exis­
Yale. tence] and they've been rising "Abby's always been right 
like we are." there," Coyne said. "She's real­This will be the seventh meet­
ly come into her own the last ing between the Irish and few games and is really playing Buckeyes and the series is tied well." at three. In the regular season Coyne also pointed out the 
meeting last year, Ohio State strong play from senior captain won with a 12-11 decision in Kelly McCardell. Columbus. The teams met 
"Kelly is playing well, reallyagain in the NCAA 
solid in the one-on-one, said Tournament, where the Irish Coyne. "She's coming up with took their first-ever tournament 
key ground balls and is reallywin by an 11-7 score. playing well in the transition. Coyne is looking forward to Today's game will be played the challenge of playing the 
at Moose Krause Stadium at 4 Buckeyes. p.m.. weather permitting. In "We've been focusing on 
case of bad weather the game aspects of our game that will will be held inside the Loftus make us stronger as a team." Sports Center at the same time. 
she said. "Every opponent pre­sents a different challenge.'' 
Ohio State stands at 5-1 and Contact Andy Troeger at comes into the game having atroeger@nd.edu 

Tuesday, March 25, 2003 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
POST PERIMETER COACHING STYLE OF PLAY BENCH INTANGIBLES
PLAYERS PLAYERS 
UI 
~ 
<
C 
UI 
a: 
t­
o 
z 












The Irish offense may Ohlde is one of the 
The Irish already

The Irish outsideMuffet McGraw had be struggling, but their best post players in The Irish used eightscoring is limited to one have one upset under
her team ready for 
defense is playing its the country, averaging 
players and this
player -Ratay. The 
their belts and now

Arizona, especially on best ball of the season. 
18.5 points and 8.9 
should help themsenior took over the they want another.
defense. She's been to Notre Dame is solid at rebounds per contest. 
against Kansas State.
Arizona game in the 
They're the lowest

the Sweet Sixteen in double-teaming down 
She shoots a team­Their depth shouldsecond half and the 
seeded team left in the

four of the last six low and using their high .572 from the 
help Notre Dame stayIrish need her to play 
tournament and can years so she knows 

zone effectively. They field too. The Wildcats fresh throughout thewell again Tuesday. 
use the underdog

how to get her team are still looking for 
out rebound their 
game and maybe wearSevere needs to take mentality to upend theready for big games. 
consistent scoring from 
opponents by eight 
down Kansas State. 
more shots, too. 
Wildcats.

·their starting five. 
boards a game. 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::·::::::: 
Deb Patterson has 
The Wildcats have a The Irish post shot 
Kansas State shoots made Kansas State 
potent offense, averag­poorly against Arizona, the ball about as good The Wildcats mainly 
The Wildcats are into a national powcr­
ing 75 points and 48 missing easy layups 
as any team in the rely on their starters 
just good at home, h o use during her 
percent shooting per and short put backs. 
country. They hit 38 
for the bulk of their 
where the game will seven-year stint at the 
game this season. 
But the Irish did an percent of their 3­
be played, they're per­school. She's taken 
points. Their bench 
They can score from excellent job defen­pointers as a team, led players are used often 
fect. Kansas State is her team to the tour­
the inside and the out­
sively on Arizona's 
by Mahoney's 44.1 per­
and this could be a 
19-0 at home and nament before and 
side and can get points inside game and have cent 3-point shooting. 
factor late in the 
their crowd gets will have them ready 
in bunches. Four play­made it more difficult game, if Kansas States 
behind them from to reach the Sweet 
Four Wildcats boast 3­
ers average in double for their opponents to point shooting percent­starters tire. 
before the opening tip. Sixteen. 
figures in scoring. 
score in the paint. 
ages above 35 percent. 
::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Both coaches have The Wildcats can 
The Irish are deeper
The Wildcats are The Irish may behad success in the 
score and score often. 
If Notre Dame can play just too good from the tharg:pt:!Qple t}µW¢(iitnd upset;:ming~.,d but thetourney before and will 
e 
®ll ···:tt..... \6fmiheirout§~. J?,layer
is t.. ·•• .. · t 
WJ!i;fj@.jijfoUJi't*'kLll ot

,,.haV:e=tthe}r Jespe~&iv~ ~w..ams,::pret>4.rQ4. fqftp~~ 
t
i­
slJ.iilH!';;;,:;:;:;;:::::1r1zaitfa 
~f/1,!!!l:l!ll:!!

11i1e~Mei~t'ts,tfa,
tage with getting her 
~::&:,.,.,.. t,,,,11ts!:

~;~~;
team prepared, since 
t::111 
State,..fffo' Irish are inthe game is at Kansas 

their inside game; and gunning on 
trouble.

State's home court. 
to have a chance. 
Kansas State will. 
offense. 


Teresa Borton looks to pass the ball during a game earlier in 
the season. 
.. Wolllen 
continued from page 20 
points. 
If nothing else, the Irish are facing the best. 
"I think they're one of the best," Harvard coach Kathv Delaney-Smith told the Associated Press Sunday after the Wildcats' win against the 14th-seeded Crimson. 
After Notre Dame's perfor­mance on Sunday against Arizona, their defense looked like it could hang with the best, but the offense was a far cry from the top. 
Notre Dame only shot 19 per­cent from the floor in the first half. Aside from the perfor­mance of Alicia Ratay, who hit 3-of-4 shots from the 3-point line on her way to a team high 20 points, and 15 points from freshman Courtney Lavere, the rest of the Irish turned in a lack­luster offensive performance. In addition, they were outrebound­ed 52-43. 
On Sunday, however, they somehow managed a win. 
"It's hard to believe you can win a game when you give up 52 rebounds," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. " ... I don't know how it happened, but I thought defensively we made a lot of stops." 
So an Irish team that struggled offensively is going to have to take on a very prolific Kansas 
State team. But that's not all the Irish have to face . 
Kansas State is hosting this round of the NCAA tournament and that will be whv the Irish need the real magic. · 
The Wildcats are undefeated at homo. Thev have won all 19 of their home "games this season and their fans know that. 
When Kansas State took the floor on Sunday, everyone knev>' who the hometown favorite was. Bramlage Coliseum was full of purple clad spectators and so loud the opposing team was hav­ing trouble hearing its calls. 
The Wildcats have home court advantage and the fans to prove it. 
Notre Dame, however, has played well on the road and has been battle tested in hostile envi­ronments. Although they lost, the Irish took on the No. 1 Huskies at Storrs en route to an 11-6 record road record, includ­ing a win away against Big East champion Villanova. 
Tipoff is tonight at 9:27 p.m. 
Notes: 
. 
The No. 11 seeded Irish are the lowest seed to make it past the first round of the NCAA tour­nament. 

. 
If the Wildcats make it to the Sweet Sixteen, it will be the sec­ond consecutive year Kansas State made it into the third round of the NCAA tournament. 


Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo569S@saintmarys.edu 


Tuesday, March 25, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
SOFTBALL 
Irish start second half of season victoriously 
Sharron worked two innings of immediately induced a double
S pedal to The Observer 
solid relief in game two. play ground ball to Andria 
On offense, the Irish game Bledsoe at shortstop, who 
The None Dame softball day was defined by 25 team flipped to Sara Schoonaert at team (10-9) began the second hits in the two games. Notre second base. Schoonaert made part of its season with two solid Dame came out and posted five a nifty turn and throw to victories al Western Michigan runs in the top of the first immediately put an end to any (12-1 OJ on Sunday afternoon. inning in game one and never possible come back by the Thn Irish jumped out for five looked back. Broncos. Gina Dobbs grounded runs in the top ol' the first Ciolli led off ihe big inning out to end game one. inning during game one and with a triple to the wall in left­The se.cond game was all (\nclecl up with an 8-5 victory. cen terfie Id. She eventually Notre Dame from the first Notre Dame cruised to an 8-0 scored on a Bronco fielding pitch. Take away four walks victory in game two. error which allowed Loman to and freshman Heather Booth 
Sunday's doubleheader was reach base. Ruthrauf'f then pitched extremely well. Booth tlw first Lime Notre Dame was drove in the second run of the ended up with 5.0 innings, one hack on the !fold since return­inning with a double into cen­hit, four walks and seven strike ing from Spring Break and the tefield. outs. Kia Klassic -the final presea­Eventually, RBI singles from The lone hit she issued came so n tournament of thl' year. Liz Hartmann and a two-run in the bottom of the fifth. Tlw next string of Irish games fielding error accounted for the The Irish spread out their will be Big East Confcrf'nce and three additional Notre Dame scoring in the second game, regional doubleheaders before runs in the inning. putting up one run in the first, posL'inason play begins in May. Mallorie Lenn and Ciolli three in the second, one in the 
Sophomore outfielder Megan added HBI singles in the sixth third, two in the fourth and one Cioll.i was the offonsivc star f'or inning and llartrnann collected in the seventh. Ruthrauff, Notre Dame on the day. piling her second HBI of the game Loman, Bledsoe. Lisa Mattison up f'our hits in eight at bats and with a single in the seventh. and Alexis Madrid all had lwo two HBL M<)agan Ruthrauff Western Michigan threatened hits in the game. also had four hits and two BBi to get back in the game in the Jessica Sharron worked the whilf' Andrea Loman had three sixth inning. Marie McCarthly sixth and seventh innings, hiL'i and two HBI a.s well. led off with a home run to cut allowing just three singles and 
In the pitching circle, the lead to 7-3. Stenglein came no runs. Stcffany Stenglcin started the back to get a strike out and a first game and pitched well, fly out, but issued two walks Notes: but ended up struggling at the and a single to load the bases. . The 14 hits Notre Dame end o!' the game once again. Bronco lead off hitter Angie posted in the second game of 
Stcnglein worked the first Fiero then came through with the doubleheader is a team live innings of game one, giving a two 1rn1 single. high for the season, eclipsing up two runs on a home run. Suddenly, a comfortable 7 -1 the 12 the Irish had against Wc\stern Michigan came back lead was cut to 7-5. Colorado State Northridge on to get three runs in the bottom Irish coach Deanna Gumpf March 9 ol" the sixth. forcing Steng!ein went to Wisen in relief and the . Madrid was hit in the face by out of the game. Carrie Wisen sophomore right hander imme­a ground ball which took a rame in to get her first save of diately put out the fire with a nasty hop in warm ups, so she tlrn year. routine liner to second base. started the first game (Madrid 
Heather Booth cruised After the Irish tacked on an has started all 202 games pos­through the first five innings of insurance run in the seventh sible since she joined the pro­game two, striking out seven on Hartmann's single, Wisen gram) and rested for the final and giving up just one hit (in did issue a walk to Western five innings ... she played all Lhn bottom of the fifth). Jessica Michigan's Crystale Gorny. She seven innings in Game 2. 
-¦• -•• -··-··-.·-•• --• -• ·-··-¦ ¦-•• -•• -• ·-·¦ -··-•• -·¦ -··-·¦-. ¦ -•• -:
I
.
. 
Out and Back: Ho\N Notre Dame 
Prepared Me -for the '' Rea I'' World 
Mark Massoud 
Notre Dame BA '99 MA '00 
Founding member of the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs: 1996-1999 
Welsh Family Hall Lounge 
4:45 p.m. 
Thursday, March 27th 

Ttlr !"!TANrJlN~
Sponsored by the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs t"'lf",.
C:,C"',llrlt.o11TTJ:'~ 
G,A.T AND Ll!.SIUAN STUOll"!':NT NIEl!D'S 
i.. ..-..--··-........_..•.-··-··-¦¦ -··-¦• --¦• -¦• ··-... -·.-¦•--· ¦ -·¦-•·-•• -··­

BRIAN PUCl::VICH/The Observer Senior Andrea Loman throws a ball during a game last season. The Irish had two solid victories against Western Michigan. 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC' PRESENTS 
~bcnb:::MUSIQVE 
CONCERT XX: MUSIC FOR THE TRIDUUM & THE CROSS 
~CV 0Jcfjofa 9:Ylusicorum 

WED., MAR. 26, 2003 
9:30 PM, BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
FREE AND OPEN 
TO THE PUBLIC 

CALL (574) 631 -6201 FOR MORE INFORMATION 

page 18 Tuesday, March 25, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS 
TRACK 
Volkmer sets school record in pole vault 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sp(Jrts Writer 
Despite competing in an Invitational that didn't give team scores, the Notre Dame mens and womens track teams had fun in the sun this weekend in the Baldy Castillo Invitational at Arizona State University. at their first out­door meet of the season. 
The Irish had strong perfor­mances from many individu­als, as four athletes claimed individual wins. highlighted 
by  pole  vaulter  Jaime  
Volkmer.  
The senior set  a  school  

record with an effort of 3.9 meters. 
With the vault, Volkmer broke her own school record of 3.81 meters, set one year ago. Volkmer also qualified for the NCAA Regional meet. which is new to the collegiate schedule this year. 
The NCAA Regional meet gives all competitors a chance at qualifying with lower stan­dards than the NCAA Championship meet. From the Regional meets, some athletes will move on to the NCAA Championships a week later, depending on performance. 
Meanwhile this weekend, the 4x400 relay team also started off on the right foot, capturing first-place with a time of 44.7 3 seconds. The team, comprised of seniors Tameisha King, Kyrnia Love, and juniors Ayesha Boyd and Kristen Dodd, only won the race by .01 seconds against second-place Arizona State. 
Their time was also only a half second off the school record set last year and was good enough to qualify them for the NCAA Championships. 
But Love. Dodd and King were not quite finished. Love won the 400 meter dash in 
53.85 seconds, and Dodd took second, with a time of 54 .18 seconds. Joining her team-

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE DEPARTMENT of COMMUNICATION STUDIES. DANCE & THEATRE 
presents 
Euripides' classic tale of betrayal, revenge, and murder. 
March 27 -28 at 8:00 p.m. • March 29 at 2:30 & 8:00 p.m. March 30 at 2:30 p.m. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium Stage Limited to 120 seats per performance.  ...,,.,,.,,,,,,c.,,.,,~~MgN-{-'j'I{. / 
Advanced purchase of tickets is  FOR me AR.Ts  
suggested.  NOYA£ DA.,.., ,,,  

For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 
S74/184-461G 
mates at the finish line was sophomore Tiffany Gunn, who took third in 54.92 seconds. All three qualified for the NCAA Regional with their times, 
Gunn also took second in the 400 meter hurdles, finish­ing with a time of 1:01.13, only two hundredths of a sec­ond out of first plaGe. 
King, meanwhile, took fourth in the 100 meter dash, sprinting to the finish with a time of 12.02 seconds. 
The last Irish woman to make her mark was freshman Stacey Cowan, who won the high jump by clearing 1.75 meters, also good enough for a NCAA Regional qualifica­tion. 
While the womens team was busy making waves, the 
men  had  some  success  of  
their own.  
Sophomores  Selim  

Nurudeen and Ryan Mineburg led the way for the men, as they both took third-place in their respective events. 
Nurudeen flew in the 110 meter hurdles, with a time of 
14.31 seconds. Not only was it good enough for third-place, but it also qualified Nurudeen for the NCAA Regional. 
Nurudeen also took 11th in the 200 meters, by finishing with a time of 21.94 seconds. 
Mineburg cleared 2.07 meters on his way to another NCAA Regional qualification. 
Slightly missing a top 3 fin­ish was the men's 4x400 relay, which finished fourth in a time of 3:22.41. 
Notre Dame track and field travels all over this weekend, as they compete at the Florida Relays in Gainesville, Florida, the Stanford Invitational in Palo Alto, California and at the Western Michigan Open in Kalamazoo, Mich. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
ROWING 
Irish ready for competition 
By CHRISTINE 
ARMSTRONG 
Sports Writer 
The Irish have a difficult schedule ahead, but as they showed on Saturday, they're ready for the tough competition. 
The rowing team hosted Michigan this past weekend in its first home regatta on the St. Joseph River. The Irish took six races on their way to the victo­ry. 
"The stiff competition of the season is good," Irish rower Erica Drenne said. "It's helpful to have the opportunity to race in close races before the big multi-team competitions such as Big East and Central Regions. Our competitive schedule can only help us. Plus, most of the teams we face in the beginning of the season. we will see again at the Central Regions in May." 
Michigan was victorious in two of three varsity eights races. The Wolverines narrowly defeated the crew of coxswain Kacy Mccaffrey, Drennen, Natalie Ladine, Alice Bartek, Meghan Boyle, Casey Buckstaff, Rachel Polinski, Ashlee Warren and Danielle Protasewich by 0.5 seconds. In the second heat, coxswain Maureen Gibbons, Katie McCalden, Jacqueline Hazen. Katie O'Hara and Andrea Amoni and 1.25 lengths over the Irish B boat of coxswain Caitlin Rackish, Kristen Mizzi, Sarah Keefer, Antionette Duck and Megan Sanders. The Notre Dame A boat bounced back to overpow­er Michigan by 1.5 seats and the Notre Dame B shell by 1.5 lengths. The A crew won by three seats over the Notre Dame B boat in the third race, while Michigan was half a boat length behind the A boat. Finally, in the novice eight, Notre Dame defeated Michigan twice and then tied in the third race. 
The Irish are satisfied with their work so far and are work­ing together to build on each performance. 
"Each day in practice we make slight improvements and this weekend was proof of what we have done in just one week since Tennessee," Drenned said. "I think all boats had better races this weekend than last. We expect to see that sort of trend continue throughout the season." 
Though Notre Dame faces the most difficult schedule it has seen in its five-year existence, the rowers are ready to take on its challenges and are enthusi­astic about the upcoming Indiana Classic, which takes place on March 30th in West Lafayette. 

"I think that with three of the best programs in Indiana com­ing together there will be great competition," McCaffrcy said. "Having been at the line of com­petition multiple times already this year. I feel our crews will not mly be physically prepart>d. but also mentally." 
The Irish program. only in il'> 5th year, made its first NCAA appearance last spring where it placed 16th in the varsity eight championships. The team hopes to build off its most triumphant season to date. 
In its Clemson, South Carolina season opener two weeks ago, Notre Dame secured two winning races against Clemson and North Carolina and likewise had a strong per­formance in its regatta with Tennessee, where the Irish won four races against the Lady Vols. 
Contact Christine Armstrong at carmstro@nd.edu 

which was coxed by Kathryn Long, Michigan beat the Irish by 
1.96 seconds, while in the third race, coxed by Cassie Markstahler, the Irish finally overcame Michigan as they fin­ished 1.5 seconds ahead of the Wolverines. 
Notre Dame shone in the sec­
University Web Administration 
ond varsity eight, dominating in three races. The crew of 
Summer Positions 
Mccaffrey, Shannon Mohan, 
Come join our team 
Kerri Murphy, Kathleen Welsh. Devon Hegeman, Christy 
and work on the University Web Site! Donnelly. Meredith Thornburgh. ' Katie Chenoweth and Melissa 
There are rn·o Web Page Programmer positions
Felker won the first race by 5.1 seconds. In the second race, the 
available. Requirement: Fluent in HTML and JavaScript. Irish, coxed by Long, won the by 
Familiar with Coldfusion and Dreamweaver/Firework or
3.79 seconds. In the third race 
PhotoShop a plus. 
win, coxed by Markstahler, the Irish beat the Wolverines by a mere 0.5 seconds. 
Hours: M-F 8-5 20-40 hours a week 
In the varsity four, Notre 
will work around student's class schedule 
Dame triumphed over Michigan in two of three races. In the first 
' race, Michigan won by a length Submit application at http://www.nd.edu/~finaid/jobboard/on campusi over Notre Dame's A boat of 

111¦8!!y~!!=''""
,Id. 4:00PM ,M .. Moose Krause Field .. (in Loftus if poor weather) 
Student Activities Nightl , 
All NOTRE DAME STUDENTS have a chance to walk away 
with cash!! Be there EARLY to find out how..... 
$$$FREE$$$ 


---------------~---------~---·-------------------------------·------­
Tuesday, March 25, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
~----~---------~~--------------------------------------------------------­
CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 
J: WI\S WASTINL:f TIME Wf<N.S OUT, THE. CIA 
00£f> Tl-tAT :;OR.T-OF 
\M... HLHt
0NLtNi; 1"DPAY AND OH Sf'E:NTcveR. TVvaJ.T'f­
UNl)~l-2N INf YWR. 
L~• ~~ 
rn.lNO A \>JA51-fl~qlo.J YEAH? H1u..10N DOI.LA li?-5 oN 
oPINION CF:;c,t,1E
PC6T ART IC-LE. J\f()l}f ~'/CHIC.'313'/ lqq.e:,. 
~EN$'E:'. ~PENt:>HJC::i ... 
JACK MONAHAN
HAPPY TOWN 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold ond Mike Arglrlon 
~ 

Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter lo each square, It's close. but this to form four ordinary words. stitching Is better 
o

BYNAD o' 
0
rJ I b
02002 Tribune Media Servieea, Inc. 
. :'•
All Right& Reserved 
'" 
KHYAS 

j : 
I rx
IVERYUP 
HOW 5HE WON
I ( J b 
THE Sf.:WING
www.juntile.com 
C.ONTeST.

tTHROYP I Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as
J I I rJ 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
M~r here: A (

rn l l 1 I l ) 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: FELON THINK ZODIAC LOUNGE Answer Whal the phone solicitor considered his job ­A "CALLING" 
7·+ 

JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 30 • Ta order, Hnd your n•m•, addreH and $5,45 1nd meke check payable lo Tribune Media S.rvlcH, P.O. Box 4330, Chk:ago, IL 60680-4330. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 A Chaplin 
1 Hefty volume 36 "Hurry up!" to a person
5 Utah city 
sharpening a 9 Hammett sleuth 
pencil? 14 About half of 40 Affrightbinary coding 
41 Peyote15 Zilch 42 Guinea pigs16 Noncitizen 
and kin 17 God wounded 
45 Under the in 1ne Trojan weather 
War 
46 Attorneys' org.
18 Observed 49 Approached
19 Fox comedy stealthilyseries 
51 Military20 "Hurry up!" to a commando 
person putting 53 "Hurry up!" to aon a jacket? 
person23 French fine 
assigning spies? 24 "Timecop· 
56 Island northwest 
actress 
of Oahu 28 'Car Talk" airer 
59 Designer 29 "Last one _ a Gernreich rotten egg!" 
60 To be, in Tours 32 Shon sock 
61 _lours 33 Beyond tipsy (crawling) 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
62 Poker declaration 63 Cold-shoulder 64 Hosless Mesta 65 Singer k. d. _ 
66 London gallery 
DOWN 1 Without 
exception 2 Highway entry 3 More sheepish 4 Ruhr city 5 nther's amount s Tanners catch 
them 7 Perfect place 8 Palindromic title 9 Far East boat 
10 Hasbro division 11 Helping hand 12 L.A.P.D. 
investigator 13 Ur. holder 21 Dimwit 22 Zadora of 
•Butterfly" 25 Baseball's Moises 
26 Month!y bill, for many 27 loss for words 
30 Gossip topic 31 Monica of tennis 33 Suburban 
shopping area 34 Lucy's guy 36 PRNDL pick 

1 
b0,...4--+---4---' 
Puzzle by Myln C ¦Uum 
38 Adding up, as 46 Dame of 54 Arizona city interest mystery writing 
55 Chief Norse 39 Senegal's 47 Lebanon's god capital capital 
56 Keystone 40 TV watchdog: 48 Actress Dahl lawman Abbr. 
50 Danger 57 Hydrocarbon 43 Prima ballerina suffix 
52 Bikini 44 Isuzu Rodeo, experiment, for 58 Former Mideast 
e.g. short alliance 
For answei:s, call 1-900-285·5656, $1.20 a minute; or. with a credit card, 1 ·800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords lrom the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nyt1mes.com/learninlt"=ords. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name --------------------------­Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON 11IlS DAY: Elton John, Aretha Franklin, Sarah Jessica Paiker, Hoyt Axton 
Happy Birthday: It's lime to live for the future and what it can bring you ifyou work hard and follow your own path. This is the year to change your image and revamp your ideas to suit you and you alone. Take hold of your life and start doing what's best for you. Your nwnl:eis are 3, I5, II, 33, 38, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You could easily say something that will lead to trouble today. Be careful not to get too serious. Toke a lighthearted approach. but remember to complete your wcrk. tt TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't let others disillusion you about what you can and can't do. Travel for knowledge rather than pleasure and you will discover valuable informalion. tttt GEMINI (May 21-Jwie 20): An investment made today may not be all that it's drummed up to be. Organize yrnrr financial situation before you make a finandal promise......... CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may meet someone you think is special today. It doesn't matter if this person is a personal or business connection. You must nut believe everything that you are told tt LEO (July 2.1-Aug. 22): You or someone close to you may have some health issues to deal with today. Don't let a colleague or employer lake you for granted. Emotional matters must llOI tr revealed at work. tt..;, VIRGO (Aug. ~t.22): Your practical nature coupled with your creative talents should amuse everyone you deal with today. A little socializing at the gym could lead toagoo:lcoonection. tt-lrlrk LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Expect things to crop up at home that will disrupt your r1oonal routine. Yoo may need to tend to the affairs ofan older relative. Don't ovcrspend in cnler to impress sorreooe. tt..;, SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): The more you interact with others, the better infomled you will be. You can learn a great deal today if you listen and observe. **** SAGfITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21}: This is not the day IO gamble or overspend. Luxury can wait for the time being. Focus on bringing more cash in through hard work.......-. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Self-deceplion will be your worst enemy. Do not let false pride or jealousy stand in the way of saving a situation you cherish. ** AQUARIUS (JaIL .20-Feb. 18): 1iy to keep your thoughts to yourself even if you an: upset You will have amuch better chance citurning things around later in the week. tt..;, PISCFS (Feb. 11).March 20): If you don't have the cash, don't make the pwcllase. Work-related matters should be taken care of befcre you do anything fer tiee . ......,. 
Birthday Baby: You will be forceful, active and a little bit argumentative. You will be competilive, able to stand alone, or lead the troops when you have followers. 
-
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroodvice.oom, eugenialast.corn, wnetwork.com. 
O)PYRJGHT2003 UNIVERSAL PRE.~ SYNDICA'IB 



PORTS 
Tuesday, March 25, 2003 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Trying to cage another cat 
. 11-seed Irish looking for a little 
.-magic in round two 
By KATIEMcVOY Senior Sraff\X'rittr 
After Sunday's upset victory against Arizona, Alicia Ratay said she played as hard as she did because the lrish didn't want to go home early. 
But now it's going to take more than an upset for the Irish to play one more game in the NCAA tournament. lt's going to take some magic. 
The Irish take on No. 3-seed Kansas State at Kansas State tonight. · 
It's bad enough to face anoth­er set of Wildcats -especially when they have Kansas State's statistics. The Wildcats shoot over 48 percent from the floor while hitting more than 38 per­cent of their shots from outside the arc, on their way to a 29-4 record. 
The Wildcats boast four play­ers who score in double digits on average and four players who shoot better than 35 percent from 3-point range, led by Megan Mahoney who shoots 48 percent from behind the arc. The Wildcats outscore their opponents by an average of 18 
see WOMEN/page 16 

Above, Le 'Tania Severe struggles with an Arizona playerfor the ball Sunday. At right, Alicia Ratay drives past an Arizona defender. 
. 
PHOTOS BY CHIP MARKS 
BASEBALL 
Irish lose 13-inning opener; rebound in double-header 
-
By CHRIS FEDERICO Spotts Writer 
After sloppy playing conditions pushed back No. 22 Notre Dame's conference opening series against Villanova, the lrish finally took the field Sunday for the first of three games fol­lowed by a morning double­header Monday. 
Playing seven games over a span of eight days during Spring Break, the extra-long break from game action left the Irish bats a little rusty in a 3-2, 13­inning loss to the Wildcats in the first game of the series. 
The Irish retaliated Monday with a pair of solid pitching pcr­formances from John Axford and Ryan Kalita to sweep the doubleheader 3-2 and 5-1. 
In the opener, Notre Dame sophomore Chris Niese! had another dominating perfor­
mance for the Irish on the mound. The right-hander went 7 1/3 innings, allowing only two earned runs and striking out 11 Wildcat batters in the no deci­sion. 
Senior J.P. Gagne was also effective in relief for the Irish, pitching 5 1/3 scoreless innings before allowing the game-win­ner in the bottom of the 13th on an RBI single from Wildcat infielder Danny Poydenis. 
The Irish had 10 hits in the opening game but were only able to drive in two runs as they left 15 runners stranded on base. Freshmen accounted for both Irish runs, as left fielder Brennan Grogan twice drove in designated hitter Cody Rizzo. 
Villanova had a chance to take the victory in the 11th inning as shortstop Brian Trotta led off the inning with a single to right. With two outs, Poydenis smacked a single to left, but Trotta was thrown out at the plate by Grogan to end the inning. 
In the top of the next inning, Notre Dame loaded the bases with two outs, but Rizzo ground­ed out to shortstop to end the threat. 
The Irish had their best chance to win in the top of the 13th, as first baseman Joe Thaman led off the inning with a triple. However, the next batter, Notre Dame's leading hitter Steve Sollmann, would strike out. Grogan then lined out to the shortstop and Thaman was picked off third for the inning­ending double play. 
In the first half of the twin-bill Monday, Notre Dame would use some more good freshman hit­ting and solid pitching from the sophomore Axford to secure a 3­2 win. 
The tall right-hander worked five innings and allowed only one run on two hits while getting seven strikeouts to improve to 4­0 on the season. Senior reliever Brandon Villarta worked the last two innings, allowing only one run for the save. 
Notre Dame tied the game at 1-1 in the third on Grogan's RBI triple and then took the lead 2-1 when right fielder Kris Billmaier got a single through the infield to bring Grogan home. 
The Irish got an important insurance run in the sixth with a two-out RBI single from left fielder Craig Cooper, who went 3-for-3 at the plate in the first game. 
In the second half of the dou­bleheader, Notre Dame got a dominating pitching perfor­mance from the senior Kalita, who remained undefeated in his Notre Dame career (8-0) after a strong eight innings of work, allowing one run on five hits with seven strikeouts to improve to 2-0 on the year. 
Grogan provided the offensive spark in the game for the Irish, hitting 3-for-5 in the nightcap with two RBIs and a run scored. 
Notre Dame opens its home season tonight at Frank Eck Stadium against Toledo at 5 p.m. The Rockets are 3-8 on the sea­son and are led at the plate by a pair of .400-plus hitters in catch­er Mitch Maier (.460) and out­fielder Jay Juras (.404). As a team, the Rockets bat an impres­sive .328, but they have had some trouble on the mound. Toledo sports a staff EHA of 6.51, while opponents bat .356 against the Rockets. 
Contact Chris Federico at 
cfederic@nd.edu 



ND SOFTBALL 
MENS LACROSSE 
SMC TENNISND WOMENS TENNIS 

Notre Dame 8 
Notre Dame 17 
Michigan at Notre 
Saint Mar_y's 9 

The Irish womens and 
Western Michigan 5 Hartford 3 Dame Tri-State 0 
mens track teams competed in their first outdoor meet of 
Notre Dame 8 Hofstra 9 
Today, 4 p.m. 

The defending MIAA the season. Jaime Volkner set 
Western Michigan 0 Notre Dame 8 
The No. 27 Irish are look­
champion Belles dominated a new pole vaulting record 
ing to defeat Michigan. 

Tri-State. while at the meet. 
page 15 page 12 page 12page 17page 18 




