
VOL. XXXVII NO. 80 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Shipwrecked: Boat Club busted 
ByJASON McFARLEY 
NewsWril~r 
South Bend police raided The Boat Club early Friday morning, apparently issuing dozens of underage drinking citations to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student,;. 
The bar at 106 N. Hill St. had long been a weekend beacon for freshmen and sophomores and other studenl,; under 21 years old. The popular campus belief was that the club would never be busted. 
Police wouldn't comment on the raid. but students said it happened at about 12:30 a.m. with hundreds of students inside the bar. 
"The lights came on, the music stopped and the police told everyone to get in two lines," said a 19-year-old Notre Dame freshman who received an lndiana minor in a tavern citation. "There were two or Above: South Bend Police three cops at every exit." 
raided The Boat Club 

More than a half-dozen squad cars surrounded the bar, and Friday morning with a police led some patrons into a van for prisoner van for prisoner transport. In 
transport.

below freezing temperatures outside, police administered Breathalyzer tests and arrested 
Right: Officers discuss

at least one student. For more than an 90 minutes, student citations outside 
dozens of people, most carrying 
the bar.

blue, minor in a tavern cita­tions, emerged from the bar. Many cried as they walked out, 
.

and some called friends on cell phones. The bar closed following the 
PHOTOS BY

raid, but at 2 a.m., many 
TIMKACMAR 
see BUST/page 6 


Senator to speak on foreign policy 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Assistant News Editor 
Nebraska Senator Chuck Hagel will speak on campus today about U.S. foreign policy issues that the United States will face in the coming vears. itagcl 's t a I k • titled 
.. u. s. 
Foreign Policy: Meeting t h e Challenges of Change," will take place at the Library Auditorium today at 11 a.m. 
I lagel was invited to speak on campus because he is one of the leading voices in the 
U.S. Congress on major for­eign policy issues. organizers said. 
"Wartime Washington is 

filled with 'hawks and doves,"' said Steven Brady, a diplo­matic history professor and one of the talk's organizers. "[Today), we have a chance to hear one of the 'owls,"' he said. 
Planners of' the event said they expect the Senator to speak about global terrorism and tensions in North Korea and Iraq. Joe Heieck, a sopho­more who helped organize Hagel's visit to campus, said he believes Hagel may focus on the importance of multilat­eralism and the need to pre­sent international problems to the United Nations and the UN Security Council. 
Senator Hagel. one of just three Vietnam veterans cur­rently in the U.S. Senate, has had much experience in intcr­national affairs and foreign policy. serving on the Senate Foreign Relation Committee and previously as deputy 
see HAGEL/page 3 
Druker drops com.plaint 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Assistant News Editor 
WNDU reporter Bonnie Druker has dropped her complaint against Father Tim Scully, Notre Dame executive vice president. Druker filed a report with Notre Dame Security Police yesterday afternoon indicating that she did not want the case sent to the county prosecutor's office for review, said Matt Storin, a spokesperson for the University. 
Druker could not be reached for comment on Thursday. 
Druker filed an initial report with NDSP around 1 a.m. on Dec. 17 after the Fisher Hall mass held Dec. 16 for missing Notre Dame freshman Chad Sharon. 
Druker and WNDU cam­eraman Patrick Hartney alleged that Scully grabbed them by the arms and forcibly escorted them outside Fisher Hall. Hartney said he smelled alcohol on Scully's breath and felt that Scully over­reacted to the situation. Scully was apparently upset about the location of WNDU vehicles parked in reserved spaces behind 
see SCULLY/page 4 
NEWS ANALYSIS 

Alcohol changes affect dorm life 
off-campus residences. About pus, but dorm parties are fun,
By KEVIN ALLEN 

80 percent of undergraduates too," she said. 
News Writer 

currently live in residence Other freshmen have been 
halls -a figure unchanged in disappointed with the social 
Last spring, when University several years. But many stu­life on campus. administrators revealed pro­dents acknowledge a changed "For a true social life, youposed changes to Notre atmosphere in dorm life this have to go off-campus," said Dame's alcohol policy, stu­year, resulting from the week­freshman Andrew Vihtelik of 
dents immediately protested. end exodus to off-campus Alumni Hall. One of the main concerns bars and parties. Recalling his visit to campusemphasized by students was "I've noticed that there last year as a high school 
that the new policy -which have been a lot more people senior, Vihtelik said this year banned hard alcohol on cam­going off-campus, especially he has found the campus pus, restricted tailgating and underclassmen. The dorms scene at Notre Dame less 
eliminated in-hall dances 

are pretty much empty on the vibrant on the weekends. (SYRs) -would be detrimen­weekends," said Erin Fisher. 
Dangers of the exodus
tal to the social life and sense 

assistant rector of McGlinn 
Rather than reducing bingeof community in Notre Dame's Hall. 
drinking, students like
residence halls. Despite noticing a small Vihtelik argue that the new
Now after a fulJ semester increase in students going off­
policy pushes parties off-cam­under the new policy, stu­campus, Alumni Ball resident pus.
dents, administrators and 

assistant Ken Allinson insists 
But recently, this has raisedJocal police are seeing both that a strong sense of dorm 

questions as to whether the
the positive and negative con­community remains. 
off-campus party scene leaves sequences. "We haven't lost anything by 
students vulnerable to new 
Empty on the weekends [banning hard alcohol]. We dangers.According to Scott lost a bit of our character by 
Such dangers have been Kachmarik, associate director losing SYRs," he said. highlighted by recent events of Residence Life and Many freshmen, like Jamie 
involving freshmen, like the Housing, the new alcohol poli­Peters of McGlinn. are still mugging of a Notre Dame stu­finding ways to entertain
cy does not seem to have 

themselves on campus.
pushed students to move to 

"A lot of people go off-cam-see ALCOHOL/page 4 page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Less hYJ?e, tnore football 
Ifyou've been a part of a top-secret mission to Mars with your best friend Mono the chimp for the past week, no doubt it'll come as a surprise to you that Oakland and Tampa Bay are playing in the Super Bowl on Sunday. That seems to be about the only way any­thing from Earth could have avoided hearing about this apparently cata­clysmic event. the likes ofwhich have never been seen before and never will be again. At least, according to ESPN. the great and wise Magic 8-hall of the sports world. 
Before you regurgitate your heaping plate ofBlazing Sea Nuggets, I'd just like to ask one question: Could the Super Bowl maybe. possibly, be a little overblown? The Fox network has to be salivating madly at all this promotion. Knowing Fox, the halftime show will no doubt include Simon Cowell in the lock­er rooms, telling both teams that ifthey don't play better, they'll be stoned. While this might be a bit of a stretch, even for Fox, it probably isn't too far from reality for Tampa Bay and Oakland. If so, no doubt 20 TV cameras will be there. 
What's that? Oh, yeah. you can run to the trashcan now. 
If Fox is going bonkers over this Super Bowl, you can bet just about everyone else is too. There were so many stories about the "Media Day" on Tuesday, all talking about the Don King impersonator, that I'm surprised none of the Sports Center anchors donned a wig of whatever dead animal Don King has on his head these days. Or maybe they did, and I didn't see it, since I'm only watching Balkan ice hockey at the moment. This is because l have to resort to ESPN35 nowadays to avoid hearing at every turn how Johnson and Johnson will rip the Raiders, or how Gannon will make the Bucs look like they're wearing skirts. It all sounds like a lot of baby powder and powder-puff tome. 
Don't get your diapers all in a bunch, though -I do know how good these teams are. I watched entirely too many NFL games this season, and even thought some were good. My problem isn't with the football-it's with the cov­erage. It just takes something out ofit for me when MTV sends Mandy Moore while Nickelodeon sends kids (with slime in hand, no doubt) to "cover" Media Day. Then ESPN.com has so much Super Bowl stuffthat it must be impossible to read it all without sitting in front ofa computer from now until kickoff. 
While that may work for some of us, like the squirrels on top ofthe library, for most of us that isn't going to hap­pen. Sure, I'll watch the Super Bowl; although as a Browns fan I don't really care who wins. But just a little bit less hype, and a lot more football would go a long way. Who knows, if it's another breathless classic like the last couple, Mono might even clap! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Will Puckett at wpuckett@nd.edu. 

CORRECTIONS 
Due to an editing error, Thursday's arride about Chad DeBolc incorrectly quoted from the police 

The Observer . 'WHAT'S UP 
WHAT'S INSIDE 

CAMPUS WORLD& BUSINESS NEWS NATION NEWS 
American
Jill Long 
Earthquake in 
Thompson 
Mexico is 

Airlines 
speaks at 
devastating 

reports a loss 
Saint Mary's 

of $3.5 billion 
Mexican earth­
2002 Indiana 2nd 

The parent com-
quake leaves 28
District Democratic 

pany of American
people dead, 300
nominee Long 

Airlines reports
injuried and 10,000
Thompson opened 

another profit loss
homeless. The
the Play of the Mind 

due to the decrease 
earthquake regis-
Conference at Saint 

in travel demand. 
tered at 7.8 magni­
Mary's. 
tude. 
page 5
page3 

page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
Examining SUVs link to terrorism 
Letter examines recent debates about SUV owners and alleged links to terrorism. 
page 9 
WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 

. 
Lecture with Dr. Tariq Hamadan "Oh Diversity: The :'-Jccessary Dimension of Peace Building !°i p.m. at llesburgh Library t\uditorium 

. 
Student Film F<'stival 2003 7:JO p.m. and 9:45 al Ilcsburgh Library Auditorium 


. SUB Movie 
"Jackass" 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. at DcBartolo 101 
WHAT'S HAPPENING@ SMC 

. 
Play of the Mind Conference All day at Haggar College Center and Regina llall 

. 
Conservatory of Dance Performance 7 p.m. at Moreau in O'Laughlin t\uditorium 

. 
Faces of America Performance 



7:30 p.m. at Moreau in the Little Theater 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Boiled fettuccine, boiled tri-color shells, pasta sauce, Alf redo sauce, Chicago pizza sauce, pep­peroni pizza, cheese pizza, whipped potatoes, pork gravy, green beans, tuna casserole, baked potato, corn, ham­burgers, chicken patty, stir fry bar 
Today's Dinner: Roast, sauteed herb mushrooms, green bean casserole, brown sauce, spinach quiche, Italian blend potatoes, cut corn, cauliflower, kung pao chicken, plain rice, vegetable egg rolls, chicken taco, taco, meat, refried beans, natures burger, chicken breast, seasoned fries, hamburgers, grilled hotdog, pretzel sticks 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a: 
~ 
::c 
~ 
3 ~ 
.... 
c( 
(,) 


0 
..J HIGH 16 14 LOW 9 12 
HIGH LOW 

South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Beef ravioli, spinach fettuccine, pesto sauce, tomato pizza, apple turnover, BBQ beef sandwich, shrimp spaghetti, rotisserie chicken, oriental vegetables, roasted rosemary potatoes, red beans and rice, corn dogs, fishwich, crinkle fries, soft pret­zels, stir-fry beef and peppers 
Today's Dinner: Buffalo chicken lasagna. spinach fettuccine, pesto sauce, tomato pizza, apple turnover, vegetables marinara, Capri-blend veg­etables, baked turbot jardiniere, beef bourguignon, kluski noodles, bourbon­baked ham, baked sweet potatoes, pancakes, scrambled eggs, 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 



HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
Friday, January 24 , 2003 

SCENE SPORTS 
Spartans the French 
Experience 
invade the 
JACC

theatre 
Streaking

The Notre Dame Michigan State 
French Theatre 
brings a four-gameclass presents 17th winning streak to 

century playwright 
this weekend's 
games against the

Moliere's 
struggling Irish_"Tartuffle." 

page 10 page 20 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Student loses wallet 
On Wednesday a student reported losing her wallet in North Dining Hall. 
Property lost on campus 
On Wednesday a University employee reported losing her ring at Grace Hall. 
Stolen wallet 
A student reported that on Wednesday his wllet was taken from his unlocked locker in Rolfs Sports Center. There are no sus­pects. 
Employee loses property 
On Wednesday a University employee reported that his Kontrol Kard was missing. The employee reported that he lost the Kontrol Kard at an off campus location. 
Compiled from the NDSP crime blotter. 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Tofu teriyaki, brown rice pilaf, mushroom ceviche, garbanzo bean patty, grilled chicken breast, wholly ravioli, potato and pretzel bar, southern chicken, macaroni and cheese, green bean casserole, pepper­oni stromboli, cheese pizza, bread sticks, beef stroganoff, casserole 
Today's Dinner: Red skin potato, fresh mozzarella on focaccia, feta, green onion frittata, pasta, plum toma­to sauce, Szechwan chicken, grilled hamburger. grilled three cheese, turkey melt, wedge cut potatoes, beef kabobs, meat lovers pizza, cheese pizza, bread sticks, ham salad, soup 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 38 LOW 27 


report. The quocacion should have had DeBole tdling Atlanta 34 / 19 Boston 24 / 12 Chicago 18 / 13 Denver 52 / 32 Houston 44 / 34 Los Angeles 76 / 55 Minneapolis 20 / 16
police, "I had too much co drink and shouldn'c have acted thar way.• New York 29 I 15 Philadelphia 30 / 14 Phoenix 78 / 52 Seattle 52 / 45 St. Louis 22 / 19 Tampa 46 / 32 Washington 34 / 19 
Friday, January 24, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Long Thompson
Two alumni to be honored 
By CAITLIN FARLY 
News Writer 
The Alumni Association of Notre Dame will be honoring two graduates for their con­tributions to society. The two graduates are to receive spe­cial recognition at awards ceremonies today sponsored by the Association. 
James O'Connell, a 1970 graduate. will be presented with the Dr. A. Dooley Award, The award. established in 1984, is given to a graduate who has performed extraordi­nary service to mankind. 
O'Connell is the president and founder of the Boston Health Care for the Homeless Program. The program, which began in 1985, cur­rently staffs 250 employees, including 15 physicians. and is credited with providing medical care to the homeless and families in shelters at 72 sites in the greater Boston area. 
According to the mission statement of the Boston 
Hagel 
continued from page 1 
administrator for the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. "[Hagel's] views on foreign affairs are frequently sought by the national and international media," said Brady. "When he speaks about questions of war and peace, he can speak with the wisdom drawn from firsthand experience." 
Organizers said Hagel was invited to campus because of the intellectual debate his speech Health Care for the Homeless. the program aims "to assure access to quality health care for all homeless individuals and families in the greater Bost.on area." 
In 2001, Boston Health Care for the Homeless provided health care to 8,015 homeless individuals in 50,000 patient visits. The program is based out of Massachusetts General Hospital and the Boston Medical Center. 
Apart from the Alumni Association's formal award reception, O'Connell will also be speaking at 3 p.m. in Room 124 of the Center for Social Concerns about his experiences with the Boston Health Care for the Homeless. 
John J. Simrnerling, a 1957 graduate, will be presented with the Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., Award. The Lauck award was established in 2000 to recognize achieve­men ts of graduates in fine arts, including film. photogra­phy. and music. 
Simmerling holds a Bachelor of flne Arts degree 
could help foster. "[People) always talk about the Notre Dame bubble," said Heieck. "l thought [this] would be a good way to get past that." 
Both Brady and Heieck said the senator's lecture would con­tribute to academic life at the University for both students and faculty. "This is a fantastic oppor­tunity for the Notre Dame com­munity -and especially our stu­dents -to hear a major policy maker speak on the current international crises," said Brady. "Senator Hagel is one of the most influential voices on foreign policy in Congress." 
from Notre Dame. While at Notre Dame, Simmerling received the Emil Jacques 

reflects on career 
medal in recognition of his excellence in the arts. In 1958, Simmerling opened his own gallery in Chicago, known as the Heritage Gallery. 
Over the years, Simmerling·s watercolors and ink and pen works have been commissioned by a variety of organizations. including the City of Chicago, the University of Notre Dame, and the Chicago City Symphony Orchestra. 
Simmerling has also active­ly worked towards the preservation of various his­toric buildings throughout Chicago. 
In Simmering's book, Chicago's Old Homes; Legends and Lore. he chroni­cles over 50 years of his efforts to preserve buildings and homes throughout Chicago. 
Contact Caitlin Early at cearly@nd.edu 

country in the world and 
making a difference is defi­
nitely worth it." 
Long Thompson, who dealt with a large amount of mudsIi ngin g last ele ction, stated that it is the citizen's responsibility to inform themselves of the candi­dates by going to debates and doing research to understand the issues as well as the candidates, instead of relying solely upon the media and adver­tisements. 
She emphasized the need for leaders with integrity and character. 
"The decisions made by tho U.S. Congress and Senate affect taxes, war and many important issues," she said. "That is why we need people of the greatest integrity to run for office. Unfortunately, because of the lack of integrity associ­ated with political office many people shy away from running." 
The importance of encour­aging young people to take an active role in politics spurred Long Thompson's visit to the College. 
"To whom much is given, much is expected. All of us have the opportunity to be highly involved," she said. "Those of us who have had the opportunity for higher education especially." 
Long Thompson's life has been enriched through her service to citizens of the United States. 
"I hope that the next 25 years for you are as exciting and challenging as my last 25 years have been," Long Thompson said. 
The Play of the Mind will continue through Sunday with group discussions and speakers exploring what it means to be on a citizen's journey, both globally and locally. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at bail!407@saintmarys.edu 
Heieck, who. was a student in Brady's class, "U.S. Foreign Policy since 1945," knew Hagel's family and worked on bringing the senator to speak at Notre Dame. "This was a student-led initiative all the way," Brady said. 
Hagel, a Republican, is current­ly serving his second term in the 
U.S. Senate. The senator serves on five Senate standing and sub­committees: Foreign Relations; Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs; Energy and Natural Resources; Budget; and Aging. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
"Residing in a World of Ideas" 
The College ofArts and Letters and The Office ofStudent Affairs 

By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 
Jill Long Thompson, 2002 Democratic House of Hcpresentativcs nominee for Indiana's 2nd District, opened this year's Play of the Mind conference. Long Thompson shared her cam­paign experiences and related her life experiences to the conference's theme, The Citizen's Journey. 
Long Thompson shared herjourneythrough life and the political arena with stu­dents from Butler University, College of Saint Elizabeth's, Georgian Court College, Holy Cross College. Marian College, Midway College and Saint Mary's. 
Long Thompson began her political career as a six year-old registering voters door to door in rural Indiana. She went from a working class farm family 
to politics with little experi­ence branching her from one field to the other. 
"As a college student I would have never believed that I had what it took to make a difference," Long Thompson said. "This is especially a belief among women." 
Long Thompson's first political campaign was for city council in Valparaiso, Ind. She personally visited over 80 percent of the homes and won her victory in a republican dominated area. 
Several victories along with several defeats charac­terize her political career thus far. Despite all of the criticism and mudslinging, her longing to improve the United States drives her on in the political arena. 
"I am willing to take the mudslinging if I think I can make a difference for this country," she said. "Is it worth it? If you asked me Nov. 6, I probably would have said no. If you ask me today I would say. absolute­ly. Serving for the best 

-·------------­

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 24, 2003 
Scully 
continued from page 1 
Fisher Hall. 
Had the case been pur­sued, the incident would have been forwarded to the county prosecutor's office after being investi­gated by NOSP. 
"There's an investiga­tion and cases are then presented to the prosecu­tor," said Phil Johnson, ass.istant director of NDSP. Johnson refused to comment on any other matter related to the inci­dent. 
Storin declined to com­ment on whether Scully would face an internal investigation through the University. "If there is one it will be kept confiden­tial." said Storin. "This is standard practice at any university." 
WNDU is owned by the University and Scully serves as chairman of television station's board of directors. Scully has been Notre Dame's execu­tive vice president since 2000. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralisb@nd.edu 
Alcohol 
continued from page I 
dent who was while walking back to campus early Jan. 17 and the disappearance of Chad Sharon after attending a house party on Corby Street on Dec. 12. 
"One of my major concerns from the very beginning of the year was someone going off-campus and not coming back to the dorm at the end of the night," said Fisher, adding that this is more of a worry for freshmen than upperclassmen. 
Nevertheless, most stu­dents have not been deterred from going off-campus, whether it is to party or to live in a house or apartment. 
A  recent  Observer  poll  
administered  by  
NDToday.com  asked  stu­ 

dents, "Has Chad Sharon's disappearance made you re­think going off-campus?" Nearly two-thirds of the respondents answered that it has not. 
However, the results of the poll do not necessarily mean that students are denying the importance of safety issues off-campus. Many students feel that avoiding problems are easy as long as they take proper safety measures. 
"I feel safe off-campus most of the time, but I wouldn't go back to Corby Street," said Peters. ''I'll be more choosey about which house parties I go to." 
Junior Kieuhoa Vo of Welsh Hall said, "I don't think I'm 

Fibl)leu·s 
Heaufb 
Your Local Public House Located in 
the Heart of Downtown South Bend 
Celebratingtl,e food, drink, music, iidance oft/Je Seven Celtic Nation.s Traditional Irish /tlusk Session Non Nights 
Boanl6ames Tues Nights• OpenHk Wed Nights 
At t•e Beartlt ..is Weele¦ d ... 
Friday, Jan 24...  6:00 pm - Lorica (Celtic Traditional)  
9:00 pm ­ Paddy's Racket (Irish Traditional)  
Satuniay, Jan 25...  8:30 pm-Kennedy's Pub Songs  

127N. Main St (US Bus 31J. Soutil Bend. IN 46601 . /574) Z:JZ-2853 
... CARDINAL CHARTERS 
·"(F QUALITY COUNTS... ew ~ ~1 

•Since 
1923 •Group Services •Professional Drivers 

•
Luxury Buses •Competttive Rates •Wheelchair Accessible DIAL TOLL FREE 


1·800-348•7487 · 
www.cardinalbtlses.com 

discouraged from going off­violent crimes against stu­Both Williams and Shock campus, but it makes me dents are rare. said that students should not more wary about where I'm Kachmarik says crime feel threatened by the possi­going and who I'm with. I'm involving Notre Dame stu­ble dangers off-campus, but not just going to go wander­dents going off-campus has they strongly encourage stu­ing off by myself." been occurring since the dents to take their own pre­
Even in light of possible early years of the University. cautions to ensure their safe­dangers for students, many "It goes in cycles and some ty. still say the allure of the [incidents] are more public "Most students are not freedom of living and party­than others," he said, point­thinking about becoming ing off-campus has not ing out that off-campus crime victims and many waned. Jay Veraldi, a junior crime affects students at col­times warnings get lost in who moved into a house on leges around the nation. their 'I am invincible' mind Corby Street last semester, While ResLife does not set," Shock said_ "The truth said he has no regrets. have the capacity to control is that the more you prepare 
"The overall campus life off-campus crime. the Office yourself by thinking about was becoming too controlled. does work to educate stu­the what-ifs, the more invin­I was sick of being told how dents about safety and citi­cible you become." to live," he said, adding that zenship. Simple measures like stay­he feels safe, but realizes Even with the University ing in groups and taking cabs that burglaries are common and local efforts to promote home, rather than walking, in off-campus student resi­safety, city police say Notre will make criminals much dences. Dame students should not Jess likely to strike, she said_ 
expect to be treated differ­Both Sharon and the student
Safety matters 

ently than other South Bend mugged Jan. 17 were walk­The South Bend Police residents. ing alone.
Department does not keep 
"We patrol [student neigh­"Always swim in pairs,"specific statistics on off-cam­
borhoods] on an everyday said Williams. ''I'd encourage
pus crime involving students, 
basis, like we do for any­any other citizen to do the
but Capt. Wanda Shock of the 
body. It's not our job to show same thing. A criminal is
South Bend Police 
preferential treatment to much less likely to approachDepartment said she has 
Notre Dame students," said a group."
seen a general increase in 
Capt. John Williams, public
burglary over the last few 
information officer for the
years at off-campus student 
South Bend police. "That
residences, especially while Contact Kevin Allen at 
would not be fair to the other
students are away for kallen@nd.edu
people in the community."

breaks. According to Shock, 
WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE 
IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
INTERVIEWS: 

COME FORAJOB INTERVIEWTO WORK.AT:  Notre Dame  
CAMP SWEENEY aresidential sports camp In North Texas  Winter Career & Internship Fair Tuesday, January 28th  
tar children Who have diabetes  Flanner Hall  
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer.  Wednesday, January 29th 9:00 am to 5:00 pm  

WHAT ARE YOU CALLED TO DO? BUSINESS CAREERS AS VOCATIONS 
Sunday, January 26, 4 -5:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns Pizza will be served. 
A panel presentation with: 
Andrew McKenna, Jr. '79, President and COO, Schwarz, Morton Grove, IL Kristin Heath '94, Account Manager, Press Ganey, South Bend, IN Ryan Murphy, '98, Accountant, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Chicago, IL 
ndvi 

SOCIAL

NOTRE DAME 
CONCERNS

VOCATION INITIATIVE 
.----------------------------------------------------. 
WORLD & NATION 
Friday, January 24, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Senate approves $390B spending bill after delays 
A..ociated p,.,,s 
WASHINGTON 

The Senate approved a mas­sive $390 billion measure Thursday financing most federal agencies, blessing the long­delayed last chunk of this year's budget that stalled last fall in an election-season standoff with President Bush over spending. 
The bill's 69-29 passage ended the first prolonged battle this year in the new Senate. The win­ners were tho chamber's majori­ty Republicans. who battled ­and sometimes used budget sleight of hand -to keep the price tag within limits Bush demanded. 
Passage set the stage for what could be prolonged negotiations with the House before a final measure can be sent to Bush for his signature. 
White House budget chief Mitchell Daniels, a frequent sparring partner with Congress in disputes over spending, laud­ed the Senate for moving closer to finishing this year's budget in what he said was a fiscally pru­dent way. 
"They have successfully joined with the president in saving tax­payers billions in unnecessary spending," Daniels said in a written statement. 
Bush and Republicans said the bill reflects diminished resources caused by revived deficits and 
MEXICO 
the need to focus on fighting ter­rorism and restoring the econo­my. But Democrats said the wide-ranging bill shortchanges everything from hiring food inspectors to helping low-income school districts. 
"They once again have failed to addrnss some really critical areas: hospitals, education, homeland security," Sen. Hichard Durbin, D-Ill., said of Republicans. 
The measure is a collection of 11 bills financing every agency except the Pentagon for the fed­eral budget year that started Oct. 1 and is now nearly one­third over. Last year, Bush demanded lower spending than Democrats and some Republicans wanted, and House GOP leaders chose to avoid a potentially embarrassing cam­paign-season defeat for the pres­ident by shelving work on the legislation. 
The Defense Department's budget was enacted last fall. 
The sixth day of debate saw Democrats once again try and fail to boost spending for several programs, proposals that even in defeat would draw political dis­tinctions between them and the GOP. 
One amendment by Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., to add $548 million to the $430 million already in the bill for five minority health programs, was rejected by 51-47. Another by money and we can't solve every Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, D­problem in the world and not N.Y., to provide $4 billion to ease every problem can be solved by scheduled cuts in reimburse­spending more money," Senate ments for Medicare providers Majority Leader Bill Frist, R­lost by 56-41. Tenn.. told reporters. 

"We don't have unlimited In the kind of day that inspired 

Sen. Rick Santorum, R-Pa., speaks Thursday at a press conference. Santorum accused Democrats of Inflating government spending, as the Senate passed a $390 bllllon spending blll. 
Residents fearful after 7.8-magnitude quake kills 28 
Associated P rcss 
TECOMAN 

Ignoring police blockades, residents fil­tered into the ghostly center of this city Thursday to see what was left of their homes and businesses after a 7.8-magni­tude earthquake devastated the area. 
The quake Tuesday killed 28 people, injured 300 and left 10,000 homeless. Though only four were killed in Tecoman, a third of the city's buildings were destroyed. 
"Everything has changed. Everything is destroyed," Alma Montes de Oca, 25, said when she saw the collapsed real estate office where she works as a secretary. 
Across the street, Mexican sailors worked to clear chunks of concrete that had toppled into the street from a bank. 
Of the 28 deaths, 25 were in the state of Colima, and the majority of those died in the state capital, also called Colima. The region is about 300 miles west of Mexico City. 
Rescue efforts were called off Thursday. Officials said they had retrieved all the bodies and survivors from the rubble. 
"The worst of the emergency is over, the part about getting to people who could be trapped," said Javier Velasco, secretary of Colima state civil defense council. "We don't have any people reported missing and we're pretty sure that there are no more people under the rubble." 

At a disaster shelter improvised in a gymnasium in Tecoman, 20-year-old Erica Nunez spent the night on a thin foam pad with her two toddlers and her husband. Jose Antonio Guzman. Nunez recalled how they escaped their home as it collapsed in the quake. 
"Some of the walls began to fall in, but we weren't hurt and we managed to get out," Nunez said as one of her boys slept on the mat at her feet. "It scared me a lot the classic comparison of legis­lating with sausage making, sen­ators and aides huddling in the back of the Senate chamber argued, lobbied and cut deals on scores of last-minute additions to the package. 
and I got very nervous, so we came here to wait until the danger had passed." 
Aftershocks continued to rattle the region. A 5.8-magnitude aftershock sent people rushing into the streets Wednesday, one of at least 12 tremors ranging in magnitude from 3.9 to 5.3 that have shaken the area since Tuesday. 
About 20 neighbors in Tecoman, 25 miles south of Colima, slept in tents pitched on a soccer field, because they were afraid to return to their homes after large cracks appeared in the structures during the quake. 
"We feel safer this way," said Lilia Murgia, 45, outside her tent. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Mideast urges Iraq compliance: Fearing war could trigger a crisis in the region, Iraq's neighbors urged Saddam Hussein on Thursday to cooperate fully with U.N. arms inspectors. They avoided any public call for the Iraqi leader to step down. Foreign ministers of six countries urged Iraq in a joint communique to "confirm its commit­ment under relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions" to disarm and "embark on the policy that will unambiguously inspire confidence to Iraq's neighbors." 
Dutch parliament assembles: Dutch politicians on Thursday began what could be months of bargaining to form a coalition after elections that put centrist parties back in control and relegated an anti-immigration party to the far-right fringe. The Christian Democrats edged out a resurgent Labor Party by a 44-42 margin in the 150-seat parliament in Wednesday's vote. ensuring that Jan Peter Balkenendc will remain prime minister for a sec­ond term. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Winter blast hits South: The arctic air that has had the East and Plains shivering for days spilled into the South on Thursday, bringing freak snowdrifts to North Carolina's Outer Banks and sending Florida citrus growers scrambling to save their freezing crops. "It's snowing its absolute fanny off," said Bob Eakes, a tackle shop owner in Buxton, N.C., where 40-mph winds cre­ated a beachfront blizzard that obliterated views of the nearby Cape Hatteras Lighthouse. 
Four Marines killed in crash: Two mili­tary helicopters taking part in a nighttime anti­drug patrol crashed and burned in the dusty Texas scrubland near the Mexican border, killing all four Marine reservists on board. The AH1 W Super Cobra helicopters went down Wednesday night amid the brush and cactus of' Falcon State Park, about 110 miles northwest of Brownsville. Marine Corps spokesman Capt. Joe Kloppel said he had no immediate information on the cause of the era.sh. 
Slain American mourned: Colleagues of an American software executive killed in Kuwait while working on a military contract remembered him as hardworking and caring. Michael Pouliot "was devoted to his work, but first and foremost he was devoted to his wife and children," said Riny Schoenmakers. who founded Tapestry Solutions Corp. with Pouliot and other partners in 1993. Pouliot and a colleague, David Caraway, were mid­way through a two-week job in Kuwait installing software for tho U.S. military when they were ambused Thursday as they drove near a base. 
NASA plays with fire: Space shuttle Columbia's astronauts created tiny, weak balls of flame Thursday in an experiment that could lead to better car engines. They ignited hydrogen and methane fuel inside a sealed chamber, and set records for the weakest flame and leanest mixture ever burned in space or on Earth. said the lead sci­entist, Paul Ronney of the University of Southern California at Los Angeles. 
page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 24, 2003 
SMC adopts new e-mail server, printer policy 
By MElANIE BECKER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Information Technology Department (IT) has experienced several problems in the last few months. Slow lnt.emet service and Internet outages have caused frustration throughout cam­pus. Another problem is the increase in student printing and paper use from the campus printer clusters. 
But after having several trouble­some problems with the server, Diamond and e-mail access. Keith Fowlkes, director of Information Technology, decided it was time to change the Internet provider. 
An e-mail was sent out in December informing students, fac­ulty and staff of the seiver changes. The e-mail said that the change would be completed during semes­ter break and access to e-mail and other links through the college Web site would be unavailable for a short period of time. 
All information was available to the student body during the break but as of yet. the changes have not been finished. Complications in the transition to Lightweight Directory 
Access  Protocol  (LDAP)  have  
delayed completion.  
"We've  been working  on  a  

framework for several months, making sure that we have attended to every detail in the development of this system. It is very complex and will need to be the framework that we use for the next five years or more and we ran into problems with building it," Fowlkes said. 
Fowlkes expects to have the sys­tem running within a few weeks. IT will then phase out the older IMP system and move users to the new SunONE computer server. The 
Bust 
continued from page 1 
patrons were still inside talking to police. 
A Notre Dame Security/Police official entered the bar carrying campus directories. Students said police used the directories to determine which patrons were students and to address the citations to their homes. 
Word of the bust spread quickly. Many students flocked to the scene just to witness the action outside the club. Some honked their car horns and cheered as they drove by. 
"It was unbelievable." said Dan Good, a senior and a regu-Saint Mary's community can expect a more user-friendly service, faster connections and greater reliability after the transition to the new serv­er is finished. 
"It will be nice when the new system is up and running. Now. the way the system is, it crashes once every week not allowing us to get e-mail." freshman Stephanie Lutz said. "I'm involved with ROTC and crucial information does not get through to me and I have to call around to get it. It would be more conve­nient if the network was more consistent." 
No decision has been made about the increased use of paper on campus. Paper use from the printer clusters on campus has risen dramatically in the past two years, concerning the IT depart• ment that provides the supplies to the printer clusters. 
"Our counts have shown that we go through 10,000 copies from our laser printer [in Trumper Computer CenterJ per week," Fowlkes said. "I believe the one thing that triggered the most concern was this year when we started receiving reports that students were coming in and tak­ing reams of paper from the laser printer trays in the dusters." 
Currently, students have unre­stricted use of the printers but are expected to print only one copy of a document and photo­copy additional copies. The facul­ty use of Blackboard has increased in the last year, forcing students to print more documents for their classes. Additionally. printing information is being sent from the computers to the wrong printer clusters in separate build­ings. 
The IT staff is looking into 
lar Boat Club patron. "I never thought the day would happen, but with 20/20 hindsight, [miss­ing student) Chad Sharon and the mugging [last week of a Notre Dame student walking home from Boat Club]. we should have known." 
Boat Club joins Bridget McGuire's, Irish Connection, Finnigan's and Benchwarmers on the list of popular student taverns to be raided by police in the past five years. 
Kate Nagengast contributed to this report. 
Contact Jason McFadey at mcfarle@nd.edu 


Friday 2:OOPM-5:00PM Saturday 1:OOPM-4:00PM SUnday 1:OOPM-4:00PM Rockne Memorial Pro Shop -1-6809 
RENTAL RATEf $5.00 FOR DAILY RENTAL $ 7.00 FOR OVERNIGHT RENTAL $9.00 FOR TWO DAY RENTAL 
1 


redesigning the syst.em in which the found. There are no current plan_,; printing job is sent from the com­to begin charging students for puter to the printer to cut down on printing, but students are asked to wasted printing and paper; howev­use more discretion in what they er, no formal solution has been prini and to print multiple 
PowerPoint slides to a page. 
Contact Melanie Becker at beck093 l@saintmacys.edu 


Do you want to be more than 



just a player in the world's 
LARGEST AND BEST 
5 on 5 basketball tournament? 
Fill out an application to be a Bookstore Basketball Commissioner. Applications are available starting January 21st and are due January 31st. Applications can be picked up and returned to the Student Activities Office (315 Lafortune) or the Club Resource Center (314 Lafortune). 
Faith at Work in the Latino Community: a symposium featuring leading scholars and activists 
lbn;;=~ st~;fi~:;
!{~:~;;~·~~·:~~~-·;~·;;¥ 

Monday, January 27, 2003, 2:00 pm 6:oo pm McKenna Hall Auditorium, University of Notre Dame 
Keynote Speaker, James Towey, Director of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives 

Friday, January 24, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSHHVEH WIHE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch January 23 
Dow Jones 

8,369.47 ~ +50.74 
NASDAQ 

1,388.27 
+28.79 
S&P500 

887.34 +8.98
•.
AMEX 

822.06 +2.13
~ 
NYSE 

4,995.66 +32.68
~ 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
LUCENT TECH INC (LU) +6.08 +0.11 1.92 
~§~~s~!!!ilE.l~ll~;H,~:i;:lm1iil1ll1li'; ·::,:1::::11~1~1 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +4.51+0.6314.59 
':spo~lij~!!Jl!ii!!i:1illl:::i:i~::11::~111ill:ili!il:~!ii 
NORTEL NETWORKS (NT) +2.13 +0.05 2.40 
IN BRIEF 
UN group: ISOM jobless worldwide 
Unemployment around the world is likely to continue rising after reaching an estimat­ed record 180 million in 2002, up more than 10 percent in two years, the International Labor Organization (ILO) warned on Friday. Women in export sectors such as textiles, and youth trying to get a first job, have been particularly hard hit by the worsening eco­nomic situation, the United Nations agency said. Another 550 million "working poor" Jive on $1 or less a day, a return to heights last seen in 1998, according to the ILO 
report "Global Employment Trends." 
Identity theft incidents up in 2002 
The government received twice as many complaints about identity theft last year over 2001, with victims reporting hijacked credit cards, drained bank accounts and tarnished reputations. "This is a crime that is almost solely on the shoulders of the victim to resolve," said Beth Givens, director of the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, a San Diego­based consumer group. "They're belea­guered, they're tired. they're angry and it takes them a good deal of time to recover." 
Half of Americans in stock market 
Slightly more than half of U.S. households owned stock in 2001, compared with about a third only a decade earlier, as the Wall Street boom of the 1990s pushed stock own­ership to record levels. The big rise in stock prices, plus the longest economic expansion ever, helped to boost family balance sheets, the Federal Heserve reported Wednesday in the government's most extensive look at wealth in the country. The typical family's net worth -the difference between house­hold assets and liabilities -rose to $86,100 in 2001, a gain of 10.3 percent from 1998, after removing the effects of inflation. Family incomes were up in 2001, with the median, the midpoint for all families, at $39,900, a gain of9.6 percent from from the last Fed survl}y in 1998. 
AMR lost $3.5 billion in 2002 
. Execs denyCh. 11 rumors, Southwest soars 
Associated. Press 
DALLAS 
The parent of American Airlines, the world's largest carrier, said Wednesday it lost $529 million in the fourth quarter, bringing its annual loss to more than $3.5 billion, an industry record. 
Airline officials said travel demand has been hurt by fear or terrorism, a possible war with Iraq and a lack­luster economy. They pre­dicted an even larger after­tax loss in the current quar­ter. 
The stock of parent AMR Corp. fell by nearly one­fourth. 
Low-fare carrier Southwest Airlines bucked the industry trend by remaining profitable. However, its $42.4 million fourth quarter profit was down 33 percent from a year ago. 
American Airlines' parent AMR said it lost $3.39 per share for the three months ended Dec. 31 compared with a net loss of $798 mil­lion, or $5.17 per share, a year earlier. 

Revenue rose to $4.19 bil­lion from $3.80 billion a Jeffrey Campbell said must be restructured to 95.8 percent at year end, year earlier. AMR's first-quarter loss will return to profitability. an all-time high, Campbell 
Analysts surveyed by be similar to the company's American has asked some said. Thomson First Call expect­pre-tax loss of $828 million union employees to give up AMR shares closed down ed AMR would lose $3.73 a in the fourth quarter. AMR promised pay raises. Union $1.13, or 23 percent, to share for the quarter. has exhausted a tax benefit leaders haven't agreed yet, $3.77 on the New York 
For 2002, the company from prior losses that and they regard a pay Stock Exchange. lost $3.5 billion, or $22.57 reduced its net loss by $299 freeze as the first step The Dallas-based carrier per share, compared with a million in the just-conclud­toward deeper concessions. earned 5 cents per share 2001 net loss of $1.8 billion, ed quarter and won't get Carty has said that for the quarter ended Dec. or $11.43 per share. The that break next time, he American does not plan to 31, down from $63.5 mil­annual loss dwarfed the said. follow United Airlines and lion, or 8 cents per share, previous record held by Chairman and chief exec­US Airways by filing for for the same period in United Airlines, a $2.1 bil­utive Donald J. Carty said bankruptcy protection. 2001. lion loss in 2001. United is the fourth-quarter results AMR has $2.8 billion in Analysts surveyed by scheduled to release its were "unsustainable" and cash and liquid assets, Thomson First Call expect­quarterly earnings on Jan. the company must rein in according to Securities and ed fourth-quarter earnings 
31. costs to meet the drop in Exchange Commission fil­of 3 cents per share. 
AMR's revenue fell to revenue. ings. Campbell said AMR Revenue was $1.4 billion, $17.3 billion from $19 bil­Carty repeated that the may be forced to renegoti­a 13 percent increase over lion in 2001. airline must cut $4 billion in ate an $834 million line of $1.24 billion in the year-ago 
Officials said Fort Worth­annual costs and has identi­credit this June because it period. For all of 2002, based American is burning fied about half of that from will probably fail to meet Southwest earned $241 mil­about $5 million in cash a measures such as layoffs, financial covenants on the lion or 30 cents per share, day and must borrow to reduced flights and moth­loan. down 53 percent from meet payroll. balling planes. He has said The company's net debt $511.1 million or 63 cents 
Chief financial officer contracts with labor unions to shareholder equity was per share in 2001. 

McDonald's posts first-ever loss 
chief executive Jim Cantalupo pledged Industry analysts who think 
Associated Press 

to be "very selective" about adding McDonald's has overdone its expan­
OAK BROOK. Ill. new restaurants as he slows the sion in a saturated restaurant market 
McDonald's Corp. served up its first­expansion pace. want more -they want the company ever quarterly loss Thursday, a larger­But the magnitude of the loss, plus to stop growing and cut back. ihan-expected $344 million, paying a the company's commitment to keep "This is a company that's been a vic­price for a fast-expansion strategy opening more restaurants than it clos­tim of its own success," said Howard gone awry. es, sent its stock -which traded Penney of SunTrust Robinson 
Its results from the last three above $30 a share as recently as last Humphrey. "The focus on operations months of 2002 included $810 million summer -down to $15 for the first ~s absolutely the right thing to do. But in charges for restaurant closings and time since 1995. ... the road they are going down is one other write-offs, as a new manage­"We know we need to make that will take years to fix." ment team moves to erase past prob­changes," Cantalupo said on a confer­The burger giant said it is closing lcms following an unprecedented ence call, pledging to reveal more 719 under-performing restaurants ­decline. comprehensive turnaround plans by including 240 in the United States and 
The world's leading hamburger the end of March. "I think you're going 175 in Japan -and that 202 of them chain announced plans to close 719 of to see a lot of changes at McDonald's already were shuttered in the fourth its 31,000 restaurants worldwide. and in the weeks and months ahead." quarter. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Friday, January 24, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bo, Q, Not1< Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kare Nagengast  Lori Lewalsk.i  
J\sS'r. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
VIEWPOINTEDITOl\1 Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hertler, Marr Lozar 
SCI.NE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR, Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kac.ie McKenna SAINT MARy's EDITOR, Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
SVSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR, Scotr Brodfuehrer 
CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 
CONTACT Us 
OliFICE MANAGERiGENERAL lNF0..............631-7471 FAX................ ······ .... ..................................631-6927 .AoVERTISJNG.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAsST. ME....................631-4541 
BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 N.EWS.......................................................... 631-5323 observer.obsnews. I@nd.edu VIEWP0INT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS.. ········ .............................. ................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAim-MAR\"s.. ...........................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0 ........................................................ 631-8767 Sm'EMs/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................ .631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as canoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Obsetver is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either instirucion. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reparted as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions r,garding Obsm;er policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarfey. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 240} is publ.id1e-d Monday through Fridaycxccpc during cum and ncarion ~od1. A subscnrtion to The Ob1erva-ii $100 for one aeademic year. S.SSfut-011rscme1tcr. 
The Obxrva: is published a: POSTMASTER OH So••• Dining H>II Send: addrm c.orm::w.ln1 tn: Nouc Dame. JN 4.6556 ThcOlxcrvc:, 
P.O. B~Q P«i,:.dkai p-om~ paiJ it Nottt D,lfnc:­Nor.u 0=, IN 4'S56-0779 and addicionaJ ffl2!1ing offkei. 
Tiw: .0-rvcr is • nicmlx:r Qr die· Aasol:ia~ Prot. AU reproduccion lighu '" ~ed. 

Scully's behavior deserves reprimand 
Last Thursday's Mass for missing Notre Dame student Chad their vehicles and abided by the previously established rules. Sharon was an emotional event for the Sharon family, the men Local CBS affiliate WSBT probably aL'io would have respected of Fisher Hall and the entire University community. But Father the University's wishes regarding the Mass, but its reporter left Timothy Scully, Notre Dame executive vice president, behaved without the footage for which she came after Scully confronted with excessive emotion when he reportedly confronted a her as well. WNDU's cameraman called the incident "disturb-WNDU reporter and her cameraman for park-ing" and claimed that Scully's breath smelled of ing illegally behind Fisher Hall. His irresponsi­alcohol.
OJhe
ble behavior at such a significant University While it would never be acceptable for the
userver 
event meri1s a reprimand. University's third ranking officer to confront the As both a University official and a resident of local media in such a way, it is especially embar­Fisher Hall, Scully's primary concern that night rassing for Scully to have acted so rudely at such
Editorial 
should have been comforting Sharon's family and friends -not bullying local media out of limited parking spaces behind the dorm. During the six weeks since Sharon's Dec. 12 disappearance, local media have been essential to the effective distribution of information to help the University and local police find Sharon. 
Although the Mass in Sharon's honor was a sacred affair, the University established guidelines for media coverage in advance to ensure privacy. Scully confronted the crew from the University-owned NBC affiliate WNDU about a parking issue before the Mass began, but even after the incident, they moved 
a meaningful event -especially toward those who have been so instrumental in the search for Sharon. 
Scully reportedly apologized for both incidents and has con­tributed a great deal to the Notre Dame community since he became a Holy Cross priest in 1981, including founding the Alliance for Catholic Education and Holy Cross Associates and serves as the chairman of WNDU's board of directors. However, neither his achievements nor his rank excuse his behavior. Scully's actions last Thursday were inappropriate and irresponsible, and the University should acknowledge this by reprimanding him. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Examining SUVs' link to terrorism 
In regards to the recent debate over a possible link between sport utility vehicle owners and terrorists, I'll pro­ceed with the assumption that the link is specious at best. Terrorism seems to be the operative motivator of late. 
However, I think you can take that same argument of SUVs equating ter­rorism and examine it in a different light. 
A terrorist could be defined as some someone who, through particular actions, forcibly exerts their will upon the populace. An SUV owner, in a sense, does that exact same thing. 

Ecologists recognize this as a modified "tragedy of the commons," in which an individual takes a commodity common to all while it is plentiful in order to maximize their personal gains. In this case the commons happen to be clean air, clean water and a sufficient supply of petroleum. Most of us have probably never had it any other way, and yet clearly these arc finite resources, as evidenced by increases both in atmos­pheric levels of greenhouse gases and dependence on foreign oil. 
So, while I'll reiterate that no SUV owner intends for their use of that par­ticular vehicle to be construed as unpa­triotic, you have to ask what their actions are ultimately dictating for the rest of us. 
The government has been diligent in enforcing corporate compliance with clean air legislation, and yet no fuel efficiency standards on SUVs exist. Perhaps that is the place to start. 
Andrew Chaffee 
sen10r 
Morissey Manor 
Jan. 21 

War on Iraq will confirm America's imperial designs 
It is a tragedy that America will be going to war with Iraq without any evidence that Saddam Hussein is amassing nuclear weapons for future use against us. 
Since thousands of Iraqis will die as a result, I don't believe this victory is worthy of celebration as our victory in the Persian Gulf was in 1990. 
Nevertheless, this senseless war is but a distraction from a far greater historical development than America's crushing of a smaller and weaker nation. Instead, this war hails America as the new "irnperator" of the world. 
Several years after the collapse of the Soviet Union left America as the world's sole superpower, somebody asked his­torian Paul Kennedy if England was the last nation to hold such a preeminent status militarily and economically. Kennedy cor­rected the questioner and said, "Try Rome." 
Kennedy was only partially correct. Unlike the Roman Empire, America always sought the cooperation of other nations in dictating the affairs of this world -until now. 
For the first time, like ancient Rome. America will be dictat­ing the affairs of this world regardless of virtually every other nation, including, among others, France, Germany, Russia and China. 
Thus, America finally stands astride the world as a mighty colossus with arms confidently folded across its breast -capa­ble of not just influencing but also controlling the destinies of every other nation, even their ability to buy and sell on the world market. If you don't believe me, just ask the Iraqis who survive the coming war. 
As a citizen and self-considered patriot of the America and the ideals she claims to stand for, it is both a proud and awful feeling. 
David S. Maquera 
third-year law student Jan. 22 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Sarah Nestor Matt Lozar Will Puckett Chris Federico Matt Bramanti Pat Leonard 
Viewpoint Scene 
Teresa Fralish Sarah Vabulas Graphics Lab Tech Chris Naidus Tim Kacmar 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should colleges be allowed to use race as an factor in admissions decisions? 
*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 196 responses. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''America is addicted to wars of distraction." 
Barbara Ehrenreich 
U.S. author, columnist 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Friday, January 24, 2003 page 9 
It's not that I hate the OIT 
It's just that someone needs to be honest. So I'm sitting here waiting for a page to load on my Internet browser. And waiting. And waiting. I figured, heck, I'll start writing my column while this page -from foxnews.com no less -continues to load. Then the thought hit me: Why do I pay Notre Dame for a modern, speedy 
John Lltle 

Internet connection when, fresh in my mind, I can remember my modem loading pages faster at 
Frankly

home? 
Obnoxious

Now, I have tu be honest. at the current time I'm employed by the OIT and have been for years. This experience has given me a window into the inner workings of the orr at its outermost level. Even without this information. anyone with any tech­nology knowledge can tell you there is no acceptable reason why we should have to endure a minute(s) long wait for a page from a large national website. 
There is an unacceptable reason, of course, that we do have to wait: Campus students in their dorms connect to the Internet on a totally different connec­tion than administrators and the people working in the orr itself. Without getting technical, imagine that our Internet connection is a roadway. All 7,000 stu­dents on campus share one road of a certain size, compared to the much lesser number of administra­tors and OIT workers who share a completely sepa­rate road that is 1.4 times larger. Oh yeah, and add in that they drive in a car 10 times faster than ours. We get a Dodge Neon, they get a Dodge Viper. 
So while we languish in wait trying to do the most menial research, administrators and the techs who are (believe it or not) supposed to be working for us students are enjoying super-fast uninterrupted Internet. They are content to sit idly by while we experience sub-56k Internet speeds and enjoy the fast internet connection that we students are paying for, and they do this all with one flimsy excuse: MP3s. 
Apparently Notre Dame is incapable ofsupporting a network that can transfer small three-megabyte files amongst users and the outside world. Instead of actually operating as they should -as a simple Internet service provider -the OIT has grasped onto 
GUEST COLUMN 
TUCSON, Ariz. 

The United Nations revealed the extent of its moral bankruptcy Monday when all but three member nations voted Libya -a repressive regime still under U.N. sanc­tions for financing Eric Flesch the 1988 Lockerbie bombing -to chair its top council on Arizona Daily human rights. Wildcat 
The United States demanded the vote after African coun­tries, granted their turn by a half-cen­tury of U.N. tradition. nominated the North African country to chair the 53­member U.N. Commission on Human Rights. But along with the United States, only Canada and Guatemala voted no, despite the fact that human rights groups consider Libya one of the world's worst abusers -one that has not had a free election since Colonel Moammar Gadhafi seized power in 1969. 
European Union diplomats claimed to be dismayed at tile nomination, yet seven abstained from voting -saying Europe didn't want to alienate Africa and other developing countries. Ten other countries also abstained. In other words. 50 member countries decided it is more important to uphold tradition -not rock the boat, protect people's the term "MP3" and decided to use it as a crutch and campus, you've noted that you can download at an excuse for their poor job performance. home on a modem faster than you can here. That's 
"The campus backbone is completely maxed out, because the OIT in its infinite wisdom has decided and page loading times are up to two minutes," a for you that those files aren't important. Of course, student complains. Packeteer does not run on the Administration/OIT 
"It's students and their darn MP3s," 
connection. Again, if they were AT&T Internet, responds the OIT. they'd be fired and we'd find something else, 
"Everyone on campus has been but they have no competition, so they just infected by the same destructive force this down our throats. I mean, virus, and a hacker stole every­what are we going to do? Complain one's social security numbers to the administration? Yeah right, 
and passwords (for the sec­ond time in two weeks)," gripes a student. 
"It's all those file trad­ing programs again, you know they spread virus­es. Viruses don't use e­

@
mail anymore," postu­lates an astute employ­ee. 

It's ridiculous, and I'm not buying it. You shouldn't either. The first point at issue is that it really doesn't matter what students are down­loading from the Internet, barring that they're start­ing their own corporate websites and such. It's the OIT's job, as an Internet ser­vice provider, to provide a fast, reliable Internet connection. Let's face it; if they were AT&T, we'd have switched to Comcast long ago. Digging up excuses for why the network and Internet are slow is useless; it's their job to fix it no matter what the issue is. 
Yes, and fix it for real, not fix it by breaking it. Packeteer: that's what they think will solve our net­working woes. Think of it as an Internet traffic cop. It slows down information on the Internet that the OIT deems less important. This way theoretically Web pages load faster but downloads take longer. If you've ever tried to use a file-sharing program on 
they've already been indoctrinat­ed with the MP3 blame game, and what do priests know about the Internet anyway? Well here's my proposition, 
and of course it will never happen, but I think that workers in the administration should be given access speeds to the Internet equal to the slowest speeds anyone is offered on campus. This way, day in and day out, they 

can see and feel the enraging slowness we experience dur­ing peak hours and perhaps gain the motivation to fix it. Perhaps when everyone at the University comes to realize what a joke our Internet service is (you know. the one we pay for) there can be some change -say for instance the crotchety old administration squeezing out the funds needed to solve the problem. 
Until then the only thing we're going to get from the OIT will be blame, excuses and misguided workarounds. 
John Litle is a senior MIS major and campus RCA (at least for now). Contact him atjlitle@nd.edu. He'll be interested in finding out if the O/T can respond professionally to a complaint from a customer. His column runs every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
U.N. leaps into Libya's lap 
feelings, take the middle path, live and let live, celebrate diversity, exalt con­sensus, respect the sovereignty of each and every regime blindly -than to defend the integrity of the international watchdog group's mission. 
What is the mission of the Human Rights Commission? To promote and protect human rights. Rights define freedoms of action that may never be morally compromised by any person or group -not even a government. States that exalt rights are "good guys," and those that treat the lives, property and happiness of its citizens as sacrificial fodder are "bad guys." 
And yet, Najat al-Haljaji, the Libyan representative to the United Nations, said the U.S. denouncement of Libya's nomination set "a bad precedent" because it worsens divisions in the world by labeling countries as "bad guys or good guys," The Associated Press reported. "I don't think there is any country free of human rights viola­tions." she added. 
What kind of country is so quick to defend the honor of human rights abusers? One that conducts arbitrary arrests to suppress domestic opposi­tion, tortures and detains prisoners for years without trial and orders extraju­dicial killings. One that openly supports violent organizations like the Irish Republican Army and is held responsi­hie for the 1988 bombing of a Pan-Am jet over Lockerbie, Scotland, which 

killed 270 people. Joanna Weschler of Human Rights Watch said simply, "Over the past three decades, Libya's human rights record has been appalling." 
Why should the United Nations vote so overwhelmingly to make Libya its poster child for human rights? For the same reason it voted in 2001 not to reappoint the United States to its seat on the commission -giving a seat instead to Sudan, a country that toler­ates the practice of slavery. Member nations abhor the principle that just laws are objective and absolute. They believe morality is subjective and a matter of nationality or race. How should the United Nations judge what kind of behavior is appropriate? Majority vote, they say. 
Peer pressure is denounced as a neg­ative standard of value for preteens in America, yet the United Nations holds it sacred. Al-Hajjaji said in a speech after her election that she would rely on the body's collective wisdom and that she would avoid "as far as possible" mak­ing decisions on a personal basis. What about making decisions according to the principle of championing human rights? 
Abandoning principles for consensus, the United Nations has lost sight of any possible value it may have offered to world security, and the United States must recognize it for what it is. As Reuters reported back in 1991, "the 53-member commission [is] turning into an 'abuser solidarity' group with 
more and more countries with ques­tionable human rights records gaining election and then voting as a bloc against singling out individual nations for human rights abuses." Writer­philosopher Ayn Rand put it another way: The United Nations is like "a crime-fighting committee whose board of directors includes the leading gang­sters of the community." 
While cooperating with other coun­tries is an appropriate way for the United States to promote international peace and create wealth. supporting an organization that serves the interests of human rights abusers is outrageous ­especially at a time when the world is looking to the United Nations as the final arbiter on any possible war against dictator Saddam Hussein. 
This column originally appeared in the Jan. 23 issue ofthe Arizona Daily Wildcat. the campus newspaper ofthe University ofArizona. It is reprinted here courtesy of U-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


us 
page IO Friday, January 24, 2003 
Above, Rose Lindgren plays Madame Pernelle accompanied by Dorine played by Mary Anne Lewis, and Elmire played by Maribel Morei engage in conversation with Un Exempt. To the left, Mary Anne Lewis. Below, Valere comforts Organ as the rest of the cast looks on. 
. 
Photos by 
LAUREN FORBES 






By MARIA SMITH 
Scene Ediror 
Everyone is familiar with William Shakespeare, the great­est playwright of the English lan­guage. His plays have helped define literature and culture since his own time. 
Not so many people are familiar with the works of Jean Baptiste de Poquelin, famously known as Moliere. The great French play­wright wrote come­dies and farces in the 17th century that continue to influence drama today. Moliere's insightful portray­als of human vani­ty, hypocrisy and greed made him a controversial but timeless playwright. 
Moliere's portray­al of a scheming reli­gious hypocrite in "Tartuffe" was partic­ularly unpopular with the Catholic Church, and was banned twice after its publication. Tartuffe, the hypocrite, ingratiates him­self with a wealthy gentleman named Orgon, who tries to con­vince his daughter Mariane to marry Tartuffe even as the hyp­ocrite tries to seduce Organ's wife Elmire. When Organ refuses to believe the allegations that Tartuffe is a schemer and a liar, Elmire must devise a plot to reveal Tartuffe's true character. 
Professor Paul McDowell, whose French Theatre class is presenting the play this weekend, feels the play was banned because it was particularly insightful. "There was so much outrage because he hit the nail on the head," said McDowell. "It's a perfect depiction." 
In McDowell's presentation of "Tartuffe", the actors and direc­tor attempt to present Moliere's classic play as it might be seen in France -down to performing it in the original French. 
McDowell's class has presented a play in French every fall for the past 10 years. Many advanced French students audition for spots. 
"These plays are not usually dune as classes wHh undergradu­ate students anywhere else," said McDowell. "It's a unique thing." 
While most of the students have studied in France, few have much experience with drama. The class is an exciting experience for many of the actors. 
"At first it was scary," said Mary Anne Lewis. "Now it's awesome." 
"It's really cool to read it, and then watch the characters pop out of the page," said Maribel Morey. 

Although few students speak enough French to follow the dia­logue of a play in French, McDowell's show have sold out for the past nine years. McDowell prepares a detailed summary to help audi­ence mem­bers follow the action. The actors also make the play Theatr more com­
prehensible Director: Paul McDowell by using Playwright: Moliere physical Actors: Rose Lindgren, Joe Hort humor and Vargas, Kelly Faehnle, John Do exaggerated Anne Lewis, Sarah Goodman, C characters. Thibault 
" T w o things never "Tartuffe" opened Thursday in . fail to amaze Hall. General Admisison is $5. me, said Saturday night at 7:30 p.m. TicA McDowell. O'Shaughnessy Hall. Any unsafe "First, the door. number of students who partici­pate in the class, and second, how many spectators show up. 

What does student government do? While many students are either indifferent or think that It accomplishes nothing, Ubby Bishop, student body president, said the real work occurs behind the scenes. 
page 2 
INSHJE 

Unlike many ptevious student body vice presidents, Trip Foley is a senior. Over the past year he has expanded the role of this position, whlle still balancing authority with Libby Bishop. 
page 4 

What does Saint Mary's Board of Governance do with its money? With approximately $200,000 in funds to allocate, BOG can be likened to the Saint Mary's student activities bank. 
page 16 
The Observer . IN FOCUS Friday, January 24, 2003 
page2 
INDEX 
Notre Dame 
STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT page3 
STUDENT SENATE pages 
CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL page 7 
EXECUTIVE CABINET page 7 
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION page 7 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL page 8 
JUDICIAL BOARD COUNCIL pages 
HALL PRESIDENTS COUNCIL page8 
CLASS COUNCILS page9 
STUDENT UNION BOARD page9 
Saint Mary's 
STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT page 13 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD page 14 
STUDENT TRUSTEE page 14 
CLASS COUNCILS page 15 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE page 16 
STUDENT DIVERSITY BOARD page 16 

Many factors limit student government 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
Associate News Editor 
Students on campus know student government exists but many are unaware of what officials do and accomplish. 
Libby Bishop, student body presi­dent, said she entered office hoping to increase publicity of what student government accomplishes. She soon became frustrated because she real­ized students still question what stu­dent government does. 

the typical Notre Dame student gov­ernment official holds his post for one year. 
The limited time frame can create a problem for leaders because they experience a transition period, then spend time establishing contacts and developing projects, and by the time they are ready to produce or have produced results the election season begins for the next government. 
Bishop said it was helpful to spend the summer reading the reports of previous administrations and learning what ideas worked and which did not. 
"It's a lot to take on faith. She said most admin­
"It's a lot to take 
istrations will pick up 

on faith. It's frustrat­It's frustrating because 
where the previous

ing because the most the most important work administrations left
important work you 

you do is work that off when dealing with 
do is work that stu­
the University. Her

dents can't know students can't know 
administration kept

about because it's about because it's 
or modified some of
confidential opinions 

confidential opinions on the projects that 
on future plans," she 
Brooke Norton's, last

said. future plans. " 
year's student union
Bishop said she 
president, adminis­
and Trip Foley, stu­

Libby Bishop tration had such as
dent body vice presi­

student body president the Last Lecture
dent, entered office 
with many goals and quickly learned that many of these goals would be difficult to accomplish. 
"You can't know until you are actu­ally in the job how difficult and multi­faceted the job is," said Bishop. 
Brian Coughlin, director of Student Activities, said the effectiveness of a government depends on the commit­tees, students and thoroughness of the transition. He said it is sometimes difficult for students to see the accom­plishments of student government and the interaction between students and administrators because they are on different time schedules'. 
"For students one year here is 25 percent of their lives, while for the University one year is 1/160 of its existence. For administrators who have careers here, pushing through a · project in two or three years seems reasonable," he said. 
Coughlin said students think student government does not make any strides because they rarely see imme­diate results. 
Often times it is difficult for not just the Office of the Student Body President but the Student Senate as well to produce visible results for stu­dents due to the structure of student government and communication with administrators. 
Structure 
Though some students may move within the student government struc­ture during their Notre Dame career, 
Series and the infor­

mation al posters. Bishop said she recently realized how short her term was while working on a project and a Student Activities offi­cial reminded her that th.e next administration may not necessarily wish to continue the project. 
This is a reality that occurs in stu­dent government with an annual 
overturn because each administration implements its own projects and begins anew every April. 
Bishop said the one-year term was ben­eficial because it requires leaders to give 110 percent. She said each leader brings 
the office and though this may make the transition longer, it does provide variety. 
Along with a new administration entering the Office of the President in April. 27 senators are installed as well. Although senators may serve for two terms, it is unusual for sena­tors to do so. Blake Haan, Keenan Hall senator, is the only returning senator from last year's Senate. 
Haan said the transition reports 
from last year along with last year's senators attending meetings aided this year's Senate. 
"The reports were beneficial because the ideas are still relevant and it would be a shame to take work from last year and throw it out," said Haan. 
He said this year's Senate is younger and more focused on longer term projects and their results may not be as apparent. 
Communication 
At the Jan. 15 Senate meeting, Trip Foley said communication between students and administrators is strained due to a lack of respect for students. 
"I have also seen a lack of respect in my own dealings with administrators who fail to recognize the intelligence, thoughtfulness, and maturity of Notre Dame students," said Foley. "Instead, they erroneously believe that we can­not make meaningful contributions and that our opinions on a wide range of issues, including those related to the policies and governance of the University, should not be considered." 
Foley said senators told him they frequently experienced difficulties when trying to meet with certain administrators and obtaining perti­nent information.. He said he thought most if not all of the senators' pro­jects could be accomplished, but that resistance makes it difficult to gener­ate changes. 
Bishop said she was disappointed to 
hear of the 
senators' 

"For students one year here is 25 experiences and said she 
percent of their lives, while for the 
did not

University one year is 11I60 ofits 
encounter existence. For administrators who similar situ­have careers here, pushing through a ations with 
University

project in two or three years seems 
officials. 

reasonable." Bishop said she deals direct­
Brian Coughlin 
ly with high­

Student Activities director 
ranking offi­
a new perspective to 

cials and attributes the professionalism of pre­vious student body presidents for establishing the respect that comes with her title. She said administrators can depend on the opinions. dedica­tion and responsibility of student body presidents because they are account­able to the student body and have earned respect. 
She said senators meet with several departments inconsistently ranging from simple questions to larger pro-
see GOALS/page 6 

Do you think student government is meeting student needs? 

Stephen Heiny freshman 
''As far as I can tell. I'm not really aware ofall they're doing." 
Rachel Ramos  John Dugan  
sophomore  senior  
"Not enough  "Sure, I  
because I  haven't  
don't know  really had  
anything  any  
about it."  interactions  
with student  
government  
but I haven't  
had any  
complaints  
either."  


Gina Martell senior 
"Yeah, so far. They provide a lot of services . .. They represent students to administration on all issues." 


Liz Tran sophomore 
"/ don't think student government meets my need but I don't have time to participate. But they attempt ta cater ta as many peoples needs as pos­sible." 

Prince Lowe freshman 
"In many ways it does provide opportunity for students to broaden their horizons ... /but} it fails to take into account the needs of the entire populace." 


Kevin Bott  Kelly Kerney  
sophomore  graduate student  
"/ would say  "/ had to pay  
yes, for the  $55 and I  
most part. I  don't see  
have no idea  what I am  
what they do  paying for."  
but I don't  
have any  
major  
problems or  
complaints."  

Friday, January 24, 2003 The Observer . IN FOCUS page 3 
OFFICE OF THE STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT 
Bishop, Foley shine in and out of public light 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 
Libby Bishop and Trip Foley sparkled in a glaring spotlight last spring, essentially entering ollicc more publicly and sooner than any of their student gov­ernment predecessors. 
Whoo the light retreated, so did they -to the drawing board to begin work on the campaign platform that had won them election in the first place. 
A semester later. the strate­gy, while not totally of their own design, has proved savvy. 
For Bishop, the student body president. and Foley, her vice president, the past 10 months in office have brought small but important successes dwarfed in the shadow of one crowning defeat that still leaves a bad taste. 
The 2002-03 Office of the President is marked by an evi­dent duality. There is the rebel­lious, outspoken Bishop-Foley administration that shone in the public eye for six weeks last spring, staging protests and serving as soundboard for a booming student outcry. And there is the administration as of late that has toiled behind the scenes -and often behind closed doors -building rap­port with the University offi­cials with whom even other school leaders get scant face­time. 
The schizophrenic roles are the product of a single issue that splits their term neatly in half: controversy over changes to the alcohol policy. Notre Dame administrators announced changes to the poli­cy in March, and fierce student opposition immediately ensued. 
Bishop and Foley were elect­ed in February and didn't enter office until April 1. 
But immediately after word of the changes filtered across campus, the then-student body president-and vice president­elect became de facto student leaders. 
The weeks leading up to and following the official start of their term was a baptism by fire. 
·"I don't know of anyone else since we've been here who's had to step into such a major situation," said Foley, a senior. "We essentially had to take over earlier than normal and didn't have that full transition period that you want." 
The vice president assured, "It was an issue that we wanted to fight. And we did." 
Vehemently. 
Bishop and Foley challenged that administrators were mak­ing unilateral policy decisions with little student input. In par­ticular, they took issue with the in-hall dance ban, saying it dealt a sucker-punch to cam­pus tradition. 
As the new student govern­ment officers led the way last spring, their constituents fol­lowed. 
Hundreds of undergraduates, in part at Bishop and Foley's behest. flocked to a March rally that ended in a sign-waving, student handbook-burning march to Main Building. Students showed up in scores, too, to a contentious Campus Life Council meeting where the Student Affairs vice president formally presented alcohol poli­cy changes. And in April, Bishop and Foley began a peti­tion that collected more than 4,000 signatures -almost half the undergraduate population -and forwarded the appeal to administrators' desks. 
Until the Board of Trustees approved the policy revisions last spring, "we were holding out hope that things could change," Foley said. 
Giving up stung, but a defiant Foley didn't count it as a loss. 
"We didn't lose," he said. "By the time we got involved, they'd been working on these changes for two years without signifi­cant student input. There was really nothing more we could have done." 
But both the president and vice president are confident that they fought harder for stu­dent interests than others in their position would have. 
Indeed, that's the type of atti­tude that carried them to victo­ry in last February's election. 
They campaigned on the plat­form of "more student, less government," promising to get tough on red tape and bureau­cracy and to better facilitate the programs and activities of other groups instead of spon­soring countless ones of their own. What policy or program­ming ideas they did have, they promised, would take a phone call -not a committee -to execute. 
Once summer arrived and continuing the alcohol fight became fruitless, Bishop and Foley could finally turn their attention to their platform goals. Up to that point, they had relied on their appointed division heads to take charge of projects in such areas as cul­tural diversity, athletics and service and spirituality. 


Enter Phase Two of the Bishop-Foley administration. 
For a brilliant month and a half, the pair had been very public officials. Bishop had become the University's second female student body president, and more significantly, they both had led an organized stu­dent movement against changes to the alcohol policy. 
Then, last summer, with Foley at an internship in New York, Bishop and her chief of staff, Pat Hallahan, remained on campus and kept a resolute eye on administrators as they prepared to implement the alcohol changes. Bishop and Hallahan were in frequent con­tact with student-life officials and were given a voice in draft­ing the actual policy revisions. 
It signaled the origin of an administration whose priorities 
see BISHOP/page 6 

Campaign Checklist 
. VISITING DORM MASSES . COED WEEK 
Bishop and Foley split up the 27 dorms and This was certainly a worthwhile project, but the have visited all but two of the halls to get events weren't stellar. Kickball on the quad? A student feedback on campus issues. showing of 'The Godfather"? Bishop and Foley 
)( 
DOMER DOLLARS EXPANSION could have done better. TAILGATING POLICY
They wanted to expand the Dollars' use to 

Bishop and her chief of staff, Pat Hallahan, 
Senior Bar. Unfortunately, it closed. 

played a significant role in seeing that administrators devised a fair, convenient
PEP RALLY IMPROVEMENT 
. 

tailgating policy last fall. They even worked
The rallies improved, but not necessarily 

over the summer with officials. 
because of Bishop and Foley. A winning 
. 

)( 
)( 
season and a new coach get credit for that. CELEBRATING DIVERSITY LECTURE SERIES Bishop and Foley delivered on few of their diversity 
PRINT ALLOTMENT SHARING 

initiatives. The campus-wide fair was good, but this 
This goal hasn't even been on Bishop and 

lecture series would have been better. 
Foley's radar screen -or students'. 

FROSH OCAMPING ACTIVITY
CAMPUS BOOK SWAP 

Bishop and Foley stayed away from this idea. 
)( 
Somehow a bookswap each semester in 

And rightfully so. Camping during Freshman
)(
LaFortune doesn't seem as convenient as 

Orientation? Like that would ever fly.
new on-line venues for selling textbooks. 

ENHANCED Bus SHUTTLE
Thank goodness they dropped this idea. The pair made great headway with its plans to . UNIVERSAL DORM ACCESS improve shuttle service. There's now an express Student leaders stayed on top of this issue and route from Notre Dame to Saint Mary's, and Bishop now students have access to nearly all dorms and Foley organized shuttle service to the airport 
. 

during visiting hours. before fall, Thanksgiving and winter breaks. 
page 4 The Observer . IN FOCUS Friday, January 24, 2003 
Foley takes on shared role in Office of the President 

Trip Foley, student body vice president, converses with members of Executive Cabinet and pro­vides his Insight on the Issue. 
heads alike use Foley as a from. She gets regular face­administrators and said they sounding board for ideas. The time with administrators. while "have always been supportive" resolutions his senators pass Foley and senators say they're of her office's initiatives. on Wednesday will be up for happy to get a phone call They agree to disagree. discussion at Bishop's returned. "Do we have differences of Executive Cabinet meetings the In an unconnected occur­opinions?" Foley said. "All the following Monday. And what rence, Bishop next month is time." begins as a Senate report may going solo to the trustees meet­"But we know how to sit find its way into one of the ing in Naples, Fla., while Foley down and work them out and three presentations that the takes the LSATs. compromise to do what's ulti­Office of the President makes Ideologically, they're not mately best for the student to the University's Board of always headed in the same body," Bishop said. Trustees. direction either. And that's made for a shared 
But Bishop and Foley don't Foley, for instance, said he new Office of the President this do everything together. often felt disrespected and that year, with room for her opinion 
Bishop, by virtue of her posi­Senate wasn't taken seriously -and his. tion as president, is asked to sit by University officials. Bishop, on various University commit­on the other hand, praised the Contact Jason McFarley at tees that Foley is excluded relationships she has built with mcfarley.l@nd.edu 
By JASON McFARLEY News Wrirer 
Libby Bishop and Trip Foley attend separate meetings, chair separate committees and have separate ideas on running the Notre Dame Student Union effectively. 
They even have separate offices in their student govern­ment headquarters on the sec­ond floor of Larortune Student Center. 
At the end of the day, though, they find common ground in the Office of the Student Body President. Technically. it's her office. ln prac­
chair of Student Senate. 
But Foley hasn't shrunk in Bishop's shadow. And she doesn't want him to. 
"It's not the kind of situation where I'm his boss or where he works for me," she said. "Having him so involved here lets us collaborate on all the issues and ideas that were a part of our campaign platform last year." 
Foley can afford to hang around the office. 
Unlike many of his predeces­sors, he has been vice presi­dent as a senior. Most vice presidents are juniors. 
More significantly, Foley 
served as stu­
her vice presi­dc nt. "When we plan things, we plan together. That's how we knew it would he from the start." 
The influential role Foley plays in shaping the office's policy makes him a rarity among Notre Dame student body vice presidents. In the past, the Office of the President has been a one-man show (a one-woman show after Brooke Norton's election in 2001). The president tended to the admin­istration of the office, and the vice president was able to con­centrate on his or her role as 
tice, it's hers "Having him so involved dent union 
and his. secretary two
here lets us collaborate
Bishop years ago. In 
doesn't mind on all the issues and that job, he 
sharing. ideas that were a part of recorded min­"We ran as a utes and was
our campaign platform 
team, and a non-voting
last year. ,,
that's how we member of work in this Senate and office," Bishop the Campus
Libby Bishop 
said of Foley, Life Council.
student body president 
He also sat on 
the Executive 
Cabinet of then-Student Body President Brian O'Donoghue. 
"Being secretary definitely helped make the learning curve not too steep," Foley said. "I knew how Senate worked and could spend more time in the Office of the President." 
Foley estimated that he divides his work evenly between Senate and the presi­dent's office. 
Often, the work overlaps. Senate committee chairs and Office of the President division 


«I Ii »
am among you as one w o serves. 
-Lu~ 22:27 


SOCIAL 

CONCERNS "CongratulationsT" and "ThanksT" to the over 215 participants of the 
Urban Plunee 

*'Urban 'Plunge *Cfiicaao, City ofJfoye ?!*
Melissa Asher Elizabeth Asher Kevin Avcnius 

* J-{o{y Cross .Jvlission: Phoenix *'Border Issues * 
Kristina Barrios 

Megan Battle Seminars who represented The University of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College, and Holy Cross 
Donna Bauters 

Cynthia Becher College durillg Wmter Breakin serviceand exixriential learrring at 43 sites across the nation. 
Melanie Becker  
Jamie Belcher  Thomas Durkin  Kristin Hansen  Luke Klopp  Bridget Meacham  Carly Platt  Annelise Sucato  Brian Hart  
J. Bradford Bertum~  Melissa Eck  Emily Hanson  Katie Knipper  Kristina Meszaros  Joseph Pornerenke  Joseph Sweigart  Brian Hartman  
Hans Biebl  Kathryn Eisele  Joseph Harris  TimKogge  Michael Meszaros  Michele Pordon  Kathleen Tallmadge  Katie Hurley  
Tara Blanchard  Jodie Emerick  Brian Hartman  Erin Korrek  Jessica Millanes  Erin Porvaznik  Rebecca Tapp  Molly Jacob  
Matthew Bleecher  Heather Engstrom  Karina Harty  Jessica Kosco  Tamara Miller  Yunji Qian  Katherine Traynor  Katie Van Tiem  
Alex Borowiecki  Bailey Ertel  LeahHendey  Tamara Kozlowski  Meghan Mocogni  Peter Quaranto  Marie Trudo  
Andrew Borowiecki Morgan Ertel Matthew Brady Gina Fenice Jessica Brock Danielle Finley Autunm Brodhecker Emily Fisher Brooke Buckman Megan Flynn Daniel Burke Matthew Fox Jessica Campbell Carrie Freeman Catherine Cavezza Jennifer Gaisser-Sadler Amber Cerveny Alicia Garcia Henry Chan Alison Gavin  Catherine Hennan Jennifer Hernandez Mary Higgins Samuel Hillard Christina Hoover Mary Howard Kelly Hradsky Peggy Hu Leslie Humboldt Jill fnghram  Peter Kralovec Meghan Krasula Erin Kriceri Rebecca Ladewski Reed Langton Katheriae Lawler Megan Lee Dana Lee Brad Leeman Mary Leppert  Matt Mooney Daniel Moriarty Nathan Morrell Stephen Morrow Juliette Mott Kenneth Moy Elizabeth Mulherin Joseph Mulherin Jeff Mullin Robert Murphy  Kathleen Quigley Abigail Ragan Kaitlyn Redfield Maureen Ritchey Joseph Rollin Mary Ronan Miguel Salazar Megan Sanders Meghan Scallen Christopher Schenkel  Brian Trzop Allison Yater Maria Vuocolo Amy Wall Katherine Wallace Cortney Watson Weston Webb Claire Wissler Mary Witt Jan Wohrle  Holy Cross Mission: Phoenix Jacqee Aragon Maria Candelaria Richard Gonsiorek Laura Kelly Michael Ronan Kevin Sandberg, CSC Julie Toman  
Kathleen Chenoweth John Gibbons Martin Clarke Holly Gilbertson  Saleem Ismail Amy Jensby  Jenna Linder Kevin Lindgren  Clare Murphy Katie Noack  DeMark Schulze Maureen Shields  Megan Wysocki James Yesnik  Border Issues  
Christine Closz  Lisa Gill  Trisha Jones  Joseph Lordi  Maggie Nolan  Jessica Silliman  Brian Young  Stephanie Gana  
David Cusick  Caitlin Gillen  Molly Kelley  Darren Luft  Paul Nolen  Lauren Simendinger  Christopher Yura  Melody Gonwlez  
Sarah Damarodas  Dana Gleason  Katherine Kelly  Rebecca Lyman  Lauren O'Connor  Linda Skalski  Courtney Kohout  
JacquclineDammann Brandon Glenn Tifanni Dash Amy Greene  Rachel Kemp Claire Kenkel  Daniel Madden Kathryn Malpass  Colleen Olsen Katherine Ortega  Jessica Stamm Tim Stawicki  Chicago,  Kathleen McKeown Adarely Trejo  
Whitney Deas  .  Patricia Guzman  Kate Kennedy  Kathleen McAdams  Matthew Padberg  Matthew Stefanski  City of Hoge?!  Adrian Velez  

Frances Devlin Ryan Hackett Daniel Kettinger Jonathan McCrea Mary Paladino Francis Stefanski Sarah Brook Jessica Domingo Emily Hall Kathleen K.ilcline Brian McElroy Nicole Parker Ruth Stefanski Catherine Eichers Katherine Doyle Anne Hamilton Jason Kingery Jane McGroarty Kevin Phipps Jonathan Stevens Edward Faustin Erin Doyle Teresa Hansen Alli Kitchner Michael McNamara Christopher Planicka Katherine Stolz Cecilia Garza 
rtM 

Friday, January 24, 2003 The Observer . IN FOCUS page 5 
STUDENT SENATE 
Senate redeems itself in recent weeks 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
Associate News Editor 
While it may not be immediately apparent, Student Senate is beginning to make strides and sec results for its work. 
Senators were forced to adjust to their new roles as student leaders as the alcohol policy debate unraveled on campus. The Residence Life committee picked up where its predecessors left off and within a month worked with members of the Campus Life Council. researched dances and drafte,d a reso­lution asking that in-hall dances con­tinue for a probationary year, Although the resolution failed to pass in CLC, it did show promise that this Senate was capable and prepared to ta.cklo important issues, 
Senate returned in August, but it was not until November thaL actual results of their work were evident in the form of resolutions or letters. For the two and half months in between, senate meetings mostly consisted of commit­tee reports, a resolution concerning attendance policies and guest speak­ers, who infonncd senators of campus issues and allowed senators to express their concerns and ask questions. 
Trip Foley, student body vice presi­dent and Senate chair, said results are not always in the form of resolutions or open letters and senators accom­plished much behind the scenes through research and communicating with administrators in order to be fully prepared when they make a proposal. 
"Senators met in their committees, talked with whomever they needed to, A lot of the time they got quick feed­back on their projects and there was not a reason for a letter or resolution, while others ran into a wall," said Foley. 
Foley said sometimes results are often seen through communication. He said open letters were effective because they spur discussion and show that the committee thoroughly researched the subject. 
Foley said research for many pro­jects is moving into the resolution or open-letter phase and that more tangi­ble results should be seen in the spring semester. 
Academic Affairs 
Under the leadership of Kate Schlosser, Pangborn Hall senator, and Jeremy Staley, Sorin Hall senator, this committee returned in the fall with every intention of not just setting goals for itself but accomplishing them. The committee wrote a mission statement and outlined goals in September, which included researching First Year ofStudies, distance learning and place­ment credit 

Academic Affairs can cross all three ofthese goals off its list. 
In December, Senate unanimously passed a detailed a strongly worded resolution asking First Year of Studies to evaluate itself and address student's needs. As a result, lines of communica­tion between the committee and FYS increased. 
The committee drafted a letter ask­ing the University to provide more opportunities for distance learning and Staley said a resolution should be expected in a couple of weeks. Last week, Senate approved a letter asking FYS to expand the amount of International Baccalaureate credits it accepts. 
Staley said Academic Affairs hopes to continue its progress this spring by reestablishing a Bookstore committee that will look into the feasibility of ROTC being recognized as a minor, passing a joint resolution with Faculty Senate to expand Teacher Course Evaluations and make them accessible to students and establishing certificate courses through the Office of Information Technologies. 
Cultural 
Though this committee's work may not always be apparent in Senate through resolutions or letters, mem­bers deal more with communicating with University officials and spreading the word about multicultural events, 


Observer file photo 

Nell Vargas, Fisher Hall senator, llstens to Courtney Kohout, Badin Hall senator, as she provides her viewpoint on a Senate resolution. 
said Courtney Kohout, the committee's chair. 
Early in its term, the committee established communication with Iris Outlaw, director of Multicultural Student Programs and Services; Connie Peterson-Miller, assistant direc­tor of International Student Services and Activities; and OutreachND. 
The committee promoted the fall multicultural fair, trained dorm multi­cultural commissioners and planned the Celebration Diversity Workshop, which is mandatory for all senators. A second workshop is planned for the spring semester for other student gov­ernment officers. 
Ethics 

The Ethics committee heeded the advice of the previous Senate and drafted a resolution regarding Senate attendance policies, which was unani­mously approved. Ethics chair Joanna Cornwell said her committee worked extensively on the wording of the reso­lution to make it clear and flexible so that excused and unexcused absences could be determined by either the Student Union Secretary or the com­mittee chair. 
Gender Issues 

The work of this committee can be seen hanging in dorm bathrooms and outside resident assistants' doors. After several meetings with University offi­cials, Gender Issues completed and dis­tributed the Sexual Assault Awareness Poster, a project began by the previous Senate. 
Courtney Badgley, Gender Issues chair, said other projects such as the Frosh-0 and parietals survey were stalled because they are awaiting approval from the psychology depart­ment and committee members encountered difficulties tracking down the correct sources. 
Badgley emphasized the amount of research her committee completed and said it was difficult to form project ideas due to a lack of interest from administrators and members. 
Oversight 

The Oversight Committee met with different members of student govern­ment last semester and intends to actively pursue reworking the Student Union Constitution to streamline it and reduce overlap in student government, said Oversight chair Elliot Poindexter. 
Questions regarding the constitution, such as the selling of the rights of The Shirt. The Shirt Fund allocations and Judicial Council's initiative to change election voting stalled work on the con­stitution. 
Residence Ufe 

Although this committee encoun­tered roadblocks with unresponsive University officials and the defeat of its 
see SENATE/page 6 

by the numbers 
2 
Number of resolutions bestowing 
Emeritus titles on former leaders. 
Total number of resolutions passed 9:•· this year. 
3Number of open letters sent from 1 1Senate. 
jNumber of dockets that did not pass ~imously. 
page 6 The Observer . IN FOCUS Friday, January 24, 2003 
Goals 
continued from page 2 
jects and cannot establish relationships. Also, Senate committee chairs through­out the years do not always meet a set standard and administrators will remem­ber that a certain committee was not prepared for a meeting. 
"I never realized the importance of the role because they expect you to be a voice for the students," said Bishop. "Sometimes you accomplish a lot more through private meetings rather than through a reso­lution that Senate may pass." 
Bishop said many of her administration's accomplish­ments have come through communicating with admin­istrators about student opin­ion by serving on panels or in private meetings about longer term projects. 
Bishop said accomplish• ments may be difficult to obtain but they are definitely attainable. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdowncsl@nd.edu 
Senate 
continued from page 5 
resolution concerning in-hall dances in CLC, members accom­plished much that benefits stu• dent life. 
Chair Kevin Conley attributed his committee's success to the enthusiasm of its members and its vice chair, Sarah Bates, and because he expects progress from his members every week. 
Senate approved the commit­tee's resolutions regarding sup­port of the student petition against changes to the alcohol policy, in-hall dances, the South Bend Old Boys Rugby Team and the Community Bikes program. The committee is currently researching football ticket distri­bution and seating, away-game ticket distribution, charging foot­ball tickets and course packets to student accounts and extend­ing North Dining Hall hours. 
Despite several resolutions originating from this committee, Conley said much of his commit­tee's work occurs behind the scenes and does not come in the form of a resolution or letter; however, there will be greater tangible output thls semester. 
Unlverstty Affairs 
The results of this committee are difficult to see. University Affairs has little to show for a semester's worth of work out­side of the increased and pro­ductive communication with Notre Dame Security/Police. 

Foley said this committee deals with longer term projects and would be comparable to Academic Affairs and Residence Life, which deal with adminis­trators and who produce results, as opposed to Gender, Cultural, and Oversight, which communi­cate and establish contact<, with University officials, work on non-resolution or letter projects and tackle issues as they arise. 
Gail Thompson, chair of University Affairs, said her com­mittee worked diligently on the projects they did tackle but there was a general lack of interest in pursuing other pro­jects by her committee mem­bers. 
University Affairs distributed a memo to senators regarding the problems with water in resi­dence halls, helped create the ad-hoc committee on faculty­student interaction and worked with NDSP to address student concerns about parking and access to campus. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
Legislating Corporate Ethics 

All lectures begin at 2 p.m. and will take place in the Law School Courtroom. 
Ronald Gilson 

Mun; & l:."va S'ft:nl Ptuf,,.:;:::ur I.if Law /lad Bu:ilnu:.:..J, C11Jumb/,1 t/n/vQr;;i(v, MtJyrn; Prvfc'J'JCJ" f:f /.,:f•t amt 8:,:;101~.r,.~. Sf·.,nfnrd llril~'Rr$.'fy 
Susan Konlak 
David Dana 
PtY!fC$!ilJrQf lrn,.~ NJrfhw!.tJft.1n1 Univ,11$/l_:, 
Bishop 
continued from page 3 

and tactics had changed, an administration that would learn to conduct its business in the conference room rather than on North Quad. 
For her part, Bishop sits on several University committees where she is the only student member. She's estab­
lished a "Our mission has been to Foley collabo­strong rap­improve student life. We rated with 
port with numerous
were genuine about this. 
Father Mark organizations 
Poorman, It was our vision. " to coordinate a 
Student Sept. 11 Affairs vice anniversary
Libby Bishop
president and Mass and a
student body president
the architect campus-wide 



Ff!lllAY, MARCH 28 
John c. Coffee Jr. 
Adolf A. Bet!e P,t,fhH'l'I' ,,r Liif,; Cc!rm1hi8 Untvnr~!ty 
of the alcohol policy changes. 

Bishop wished all the work she did received as much attention as the alcohol fight, but said it's hard balancing public relations interests with the need to build good business relationships. 
"Some of the most important things I do as president are the things I can't share ... like the confidential meetings. That's the nature of the job," said 
Harvey J. Goldschmhl 
tJrnmt.Ysium.u; U.$, $'t:,:unth.•:, N1ul f.v{ih;J'rkf.' G<um1:J1,!, ;,.·:; 
f)',l,.,Jf.:hl Prn!IJ$-scw ol Urnt, 
tJlmn!Jio U1;ivNSi/V 
Bishop, a senior. 

She added, "But I want to make sure that students know we're still working hard." 
In fact. her office has worked hard and slowly accepted. if begrudgingly, last spring's bat­tle scars. 
The office last fall organized a week-long series of campus events to celebrate Notre Dame's 30th anniversary of coeducation, a pet project of Bishop's. Bishop and 
multicultural 
fair in 
October. 

Later in October, the pair wowed administrators and the Board of Trustees with a com­prehensive report on residen­tial life. The report recom­mended creation of new resi­dence halls and called for improvements to existing ones. Those suggestions were mir­rored in a Student Affairs 10· year plan produced later last fall. 
"Our mission has been to improve student life," Bishop said. "We were genuine about this. It was our vision." 
To date, the vision has been keen. 
Sure, there have been blind spots. Last fall, controversy erupted when Bishop and Foley fired sophomore Erik Smith as student union secretary and replaced him with freshman Emily Chin. While Smith was perplexed by the dismissal, Bishop insisted that the matter was "nothing personal and a necessary change." 
But there have been days, too, when this administration has seen clearly into the future. 
Bishop noted the fall report to the trustees. 
"It was something that was so well-received and compre­hensive," she said. "And it's something that's going to have effects on campus for the next 50 or 60 years." 
In the meantime, Bishop and Foley are revisiting their plat­form, looking at what's left to cross off on a checklist of ambi­tious goals before their term ends April 1. They know better than to think they can wrap up -or even start -all the pro­jects, and they admit that the platform may have been ideal­istic. 
But that's just the schism between the promises that can­didates run on and the actual experiences that elected lead­ers face when they take office. Bishop and Foley recognized that last year, when they were thrown into a fight that they hadn't chosen and cast into a white-hot spotlight. 
The light doesn't shine so brightly these days, and it doesn't take a student rally to get a foot in the Main Building door anymore. As Bishop and Foley see it, that's the way it should be. 
"In some people's minds. the first and last thing we tackled was the alcohol policy. And we didn't choose that fight," Foley said. "Everything else we've done doesn't get as much news, which is fine. We feel good in the knowledge that there's a lot of other stuff we've done and continue to do." 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu 

Friday, January 24, 2003 The Observer . IN FOCUS page 7 
EXECUTIVE CABINET 
Exec Cab emphasizes long-term plans 

By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Let's review student govern­ment's faecutive Cabinet. OK. but what is it? 
"Exec Cab," as it is known. "coordinates the daily operations, priorities and programming of the Student Union," according to a press release. Essentially. the cabi­net is an advisory and consult.a.five body led by Student Body President Ubby Bishop. The group is made up of about 19 students, represent­ing vruious student constituencies, including the class councils, the IJail Presidents' Council and the Student Union Board. The cabinet brings together voices from across student government for discussion and planning. The group aJso tack­les individual ic;sues presented by its member constituencies. 
The broad range of government organizations represented means that more experienced members can offer their help on problems that may arise. Throughout the semester Executive Cabinet tack­led a number of issues as a group. 
Ten-year Initiative 
This concept aims to parallel the University's "Notre Dame 2010: A Quest For Leadership" campaign. The project sets long-term goals and ideals for student groups. 
'The plans are not set in stone," Bishop said, "they're a general framework to think by." The strategic plans, created by each of the Cabinet's member constituen­cies, should help ease the transi­tion of new student leaders and lead to more productivity in future administrations. 
Emphasimg communication 
Cabinet members are aware that the average student knows lit­tle about student government. and they're working to change that fact. The focus on Web sites for student groups has helped facili­tate more accessible information on student government activities, but there's still a lot of work to do. Many of the sites are poorly main­ta.ined and outdated. A strategy of consistent and interconnected communication, by the Internet and otherwise, would better serve students and keep them involved. The new "Everything Under the Dome" posters attempt to bring together all student activities into one calendar. It's a great idea, if people use it. Make it accessible online, spread the word, and the results will materialize. 
The Shirt discussion 
The enormously popular kelly green T-shirts, all 100,000-plus of them. represent a potential cash cow for student activities funding. The unprecedented success of the Return to Glory line took many by surprise. 
While student body vice presi­dent Trip Foley stated "there was no downside for us," the financial arrangement was not as beneficial 

GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
Organization -works like -well-oiled Inachine 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
This year's Graduate Student Union (GSU) under President Tun Dale and co-vice presidents Misty Schicbcrlc and Ravi Subramanian follows a tough act. 
Last year's GSU was named the Graduate and Professional Organization of the Year by the National Association of Graduate and Professional Students (NAGPS) as a result of work done by last year's officers. including Gabriella Burgos and Kishori Deshpande. 
This year's GSU, however, seems up to the challenge. Under Dale, GSU has worked to continue the momentum started by Burgos and her team and to increase the efficiency of an organization with a past reputation for being inef­fective and prone to complaining. 
This year's GSU works like a well-oiled machine: meetings start on time and are capped at one hour, two vice presidents divide the role of overseeing the committees and officers save time by communicating via an e-mail listserv. 
''They are very organized, very focused on particular goals and objectives and very good about achieving what they want to achieve," said James Powell, associate dean of the Graduate School. ''Tim Dale is a particularly effective president ofGSU." 
Dale's pet project and one ofthe organization's main accomplish-


Tlm Dale runs the Graduate Student Union like a well oiled machine with his effective leadership and organized meet­ings. 
for students as it could have been. Continued discussion by Executive Cabinet members has brought the money issue into the forefront of their minds, and they appear determined to have another suc­cessful Shirt, one that will fulfill a key mission: helping student groups that aren't exactly awash in a "sea of green." 
Alternative IMng survey 
Students were asked what they thought about current campus liv­ing arrangements and possible alternatives. No big surprises here. Students want apartments. coed dorms, private bathrooms and cable television. Rectors think things are just fine the way they are. 
Student leaders presented the results to the Board of Trustees in October. The survey was quanti­fied and condensed students' dis­satisfaction with some a.pects of residence hall life, but whether it gives students what they want remains to be seen. Don't expect to see a margarita machine in your dorm kitchen anytime soon. 

Support of the laptop plan 
The provost's office is consider­ing making laptops mandatory for students at Notre Dame, a plan that would cost millions at a time when tuition costs are rising and the University has had to stop con­struction of buildings because of a lack offunding. 
Though a few thought the plan was too expensive and logistically difficult, most cabinet members liked the idea. They might want to consider the consequences of the idea a little more. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 

ments of the year is establishing the basis for graduate student organizations within each acade­mic department. 
"There were people coming to me for departmental needs," Dale said. "This not only speaks to quality of life but academics." 
GSU recently approved a mea­sure providing $200 to any gradu­ate student organization within a department that creates a consti­tution and elects officers. The Graduate School will match GSU's contribution. The idea initially faced opposition within GSU, according to Dale, due to misun­derstanding of the program and antagonism toward the depart­ments. 
"I don't see us set against departments," he said. "I see us cooperating with them." 
This year, GSU has increased their list of social activities and there has been greater participa­tion in these activities. 
"In this rnspect, we have improved over last year in getting more people out of their houses," Dale said. 
GSU has also tried to be more involved on national issues and service to the community. 
Schieberle is leading a cam­paign to encourage Notre Dame graduate students to write to their legislators to reinstate the tax­exempt status for graduate stu­dent stipends. The stipends had been tax exempt until 1986. GSU also wants students who are able to attend a rally in Washington 

D.C. on the issue next month. 
Closer to home, the organiza­tion is considering hosting an end ofthe year gala which could raise money for a local charity, like the homeless shelter or the Women's Crisis Center. The issue will be discussed at GSU's February meeting. 
"I think because we are an organization with money we could also do things for the com­munity," Dale said. 
The biggest letdown for GSU involved an issue that is out of their control. Budgetary con­straints forced the University to hold off on subsidization of healthcare for the upcoming aca­demic year, although both GSU and University administrators are committed to making subsidiza­tion a reality in tl1e near future. 
While GSU will continue to advocate for healthcare funding, the organization is also working on a temporary solution of bar­gaining for increased benefits within the current policy while maintaining approximately the same cost. GSU healthcare com­m ittee chairperson Heather Edwards is working to add bene­fits like allergy medication, an eye exam and a yearly physical to the existing plan. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL 
CCC goes beyond the call of duty 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
Associate News Editor 
The Club Coordination 
Council's responsibility is to 
interface between Student 
Government and the 230 clubs 
at Notre Dame, in addition to 
allocating annually to clubs 
about $240,000 obtained from 
student 
activity 
fees. 
Clubs are 
divided into 
five groups 
-academ­
ic, athletic. 
cultural, 
service and 

.. }
special 
interest ­
and allocat­
, . ..... .. .Jri
ed funds according ii 1:::11!11t11~11ii~!:j
to needs, so 
that an ath­
!llllil~~~~~~illlllili:~:,~
letic club 
w h o s e 
members must pay for equip­
ment and facility use will proba­
bly receive more than a service 
club. In order to be eligible to 
receive funds from the CCC, 
clubs must conduct at least one 
fund-raiser a year and must 
charge dues, unless the club is a 
service organization. 
In addition to the routine 
responsibilities of allocating 
funds, hearing appeals of the 
allocations, and facilitating com­
munication and education with 
the clubs, Coordinator Amy 
O'Connor said the Council spent 
this year looking for ways to 
improve. 
These changes include proposing a new performing arts division for the council. cre­ating a vice chair on the council to oversee large efforts, creating more training for club officers and investigating the relation­ship of athletic clubs between the CCC and RecSports. During the Notre Dame-Stanford foot­ball game, the CCC also helped sponsor The Tent, which was an alternative to tailgating where students purchased discounted food and nine student groups performed. 
Additionally, the CCC has begun reviewing club receipts as a tool to compare clubs' bud­gets to their actual spending habits. and document that clubs arc spending the money from the increase in the student activity fee wisely. 
Because a wide variety of fac­tors arc considered in determin­ing the amount or money a club is allocated and how it will be spent, spending information is not released to the public and only used internally. 
O'Connor said this has been the busiest year for the CCC dur­ing her four years on the coun­cil. 
"Usually we just hear appeals from clubs and while we have had a significant number of' those, it is the first time in a long time that the CCC has taken initiative to make some changes," said O'Connor. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 
Friday, January 24, 2003 

page 8 The Observer . IN FOCUS 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Members show some promise but prove unproductive 
By MIKE CHAMBLISS News Writer 
The final Campus Life Council meeting of the fall semester was a fitting end to a semester in which fruitless talk was the council's biggest accomplishment. Council members planned to pass two reso­lutions during the Dec. 3 meeting; however, an insufficient number of council members showed up. and Student Body President Libby Bishop was forced to postpone the meeting witil this month. 
Instead of being able to take action on behalf of the Notre Drune community, the council had to sit on its heels, discussing future plans and waiting W1til the next meeting to make improvements. 
The CLC meets every other week with the purpose ofimproving cam­pus life and includes representa­tives from student government, administrators and hall rectors. Early in the semester the group decided to divide into three task forces focusing on specific issues. One task force was designated for the improvement of communica­tion, one for leadership and the third for investigation of a peer­mentoring program at Duke University knO\,l,TI as BASES. 
During meetings the council hears updates from the task forces and discusses any other topics that fall under its scope of interest. While these discussions may be pertinent to campus life, they are time-con­suming and frequently without any apparent purpose except the per­sonal edur,ation of the council mem­bers on campus affairs. 
One such discussion centered on the impressions of council members of the new S'YR after the last week­end in September when 13 dances were held. The results of the discus­sion were inconclusive. Many coun­cil members agreed that an unusu­ally small percentage of first-year students attended the dances, and that there was noticeably less excitement among freshmen about 1l1e dances than in years past, but at the same time, several rectors had very positive comments about the dances and excitement levels. The result was a purposeless discussion that failed to lead to any future action on the part of the council. 
A large portion of another CLC meeting was spent talking to two leaders ofThe ParietaJs Question, a student-organized movement for a coed living option on campus. Council members listened to and 

JUDICIAL BOARD COUNCIL 
Judicial council runs smoothly, efficiently 
By HELENA PAYNE News Editor 
Making sure that "elections flow smoothly" is goal No. 1 for senior Matt Corgan, vice presi­dent of elections for the judicial council. 
One proposed way is online voting and judicial council presi­dent Danielle Ledesma and Corgan have been talking with the Office of Web Development for months about this prospect. 
The two argue that online vot­ing could give a boost to last year's roughly 40 percent voter turnout. 
"We think online elections, where you could use any com­


puter connected to the Internet, 
"Most students, if they don't

would increase that to maybe 80 contact a peer advocate, aren't percent or higher," Corgan said. 
really ready for the questions
Web Development, which has that come up in their hearings,"already created an application Sadowski said, adding that thefor online voting, plans to test it 

nature of ResLife hearings canseveral times before the actual scare students. Sadowski said

elections in February. 
he receives messages about
Currently, dorm commission­every other day regarding hear­ers are responsible for running ings, and usually attends themthe elections of hall representa­once a week.

tives including the hall presi­
Hearings, which often involve

dents and senators, as well as 
assault,; and parietals violations,freshmen representatives. This 

as well as fake identification,

involves making ballots, sched­
drugs and theft, are different

uling voting times and oversee­from conferences, which are foring the voting on Election Day. 
lesser offenses.
With online voting, students 
In the past, some peer advo­would no longer be limited to a cates said they were uncertaintwo-hour voting period in the about the peer advocate's role.

dorms. Instead, the judicial 
However, Ledesma said efforts

council plans to keep the 
have been made to clarify the

Internet polls open from 8 a.m. 
expectations of a peer advocateto 8 p.m. 

through more training, In addi­
Separate from the elections tion. she stressed that they are

branch of the judicial council is 
not lawyers but students whothe peer advocacy group of aid in the preparation of hear­

about 10 headed by junior vice ings.
presidents Matt Kohley and 
"We just want to make theirRicky Sadowski. 

time with ResLife as easy asThe vice presidents select peer possible," Ledesma said.

advocates to support students who have hearings with the 
Contact Helena Payne at 

Office of Residence Life and 
payne.30@nd.edu

Housing. 
advised the two representatives, but the discussion had no impact on CLC activity. 
The work of the three task forces was l1>-SS than stellar as well. 
The communication task force achieved its goal of putting together a Web site. The calendar-formatted Web site will be accessible to stu­dents and contain information about campus events and meetings. 
The communications task force created the site in order to boost event attendance, increase overall communication and reduce over­crowding on building walls from fliers. 
The other two task forces have lit­tle to show for an entire semester's work. Aside from formulating a mission statement, it is unclear what the BASES task force accom­plished. Even tho mission state­ments of the task forces were not unveiled until the Nov. 5 meeting, more than halfway into the semes­ter. 
Prior to the ill-fated Dec. 3 meet­ing, the leadership task force main­tained its intention to develop a Web site to communicate leadership opportunities to interested students. At the very end of the semester, having produced very little, the leadership task force announced that it would not create a Web site, but instead spend the next semester on instituting an extracurricular leadership program. 
The leadership program would probably be modeled aft.er the Anne Tyler Waite leadership program at Creighton University. Over the course of four years, participants would be immersed in a series of extracurricular exl)eriences dealing with the study and practice of lead­ership. 
'Inc Student Activities Office cur­rently coordinates the Leadership Institute, half-day or full-day semi­nars which seem to serve the same purpose as the proposed program. While participation in the Leadership Institute promises many of the same results as tl1e Creighton program, it poses a far less daunt­ing time commitment, and appears more manageable for busy Notre Daine students. It is unclear ifthere would be any overlap between the two programs. 
A shining moment in the council's work took place during the meeting where the communications task force presented a rough draft of its Web site. The entire council spent time together in a useful fashion, making suggestions for improve­ment of the site. 
Becca Davidson, rector of Breen­Philips Hall, suggested placing a giant screen in the LaFortune Center where the new Web site could be displayed. Davidson was the source of many interesting ideas over the course of the semester. 
Despite any flashes of brilliance from individual council members, the output of the council as a whole was subpar in both quantity and quality, for the most part owing to too wide a scattering of objectives and ineffective use of meeting time. 
Perhaps more clearly defined goalc; and the success of the com­munications Web site will spur the council on to produce more and talk less in the spring semester. 
Contact Mike Chambliss at mchamblis@nd.edu 

HALL PRESIDENTS COUNCIL 
I-WC vvorks vvith new dance policy 
By MATI BRAMANTI 
News Writer 

Despite the restrictions on hall dances and alcohol put into place last fall, members of the Hall Presidents' Council have continued to plan successful dances for their fellow resi­dents. 
There have been difficulties, however. HPC co-chair Pam Ronson said dance planning has frequently become a logistical nightmare since the new poli­cies went into effect. 
"It's become increasingly diffi­cult for the smaller dorms to book a venue," Ronson said. Pasquerilla West co-president Laly Molina agrees. but said the problem is even more wide­spread. "We had a huge prob­lem getting a venue. The bigger dorms have a harder time find­ing a nice place," Molina said. 
Ronson blames the site prob­lems on uncoordinated activity among hall presidents, the Student Activities Office and individual location managers. 
"There has been a lack of communication among the par­ties, and I've seen double-, even triple-booking," she said. 
Chris Martin, Ronson's fellow HPC co-chair, said venue prob­lems stem from the popularity of certain locations. 
"The new hot spot has become the Main Building rotunda," Martin said, "but it won't accommodate everyone." 
On the topic of the level of participation in hall dances, opinions differed. 
"Our result was about the same as with past years' dances," Molina said, while Ronson has noticed "less partic­ipation at dances." 
Most members agreed, how­ever, that the revised alcohol policy has led to fewer incidents of abusive drinking at dances, and on campus in general. 
"I've seen fewer students get­ting sick," Ronson said. Martin agreed. but was more 


skeptical about the policy's overall efi'ect on underclassmen. "The comfort level on campus has definitely gone down," Martin said. "There's definitely a trend of freshmen and sopho­

Friday, January 24, 2003 The Observer . IN FOCUS page 9 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
SUB provides entertainment, programming for students 
By CHRISTINA CEPERO 
News Writer 
SUB. the programming branch of student government. seeks to organize social, cultur­al. and intelleciual events for undergraduate students. 
SUB kicked off its program­ming in April with a perfor­mance by singer Pat McGee in the Stepan Center. At the beginning of the school year. SUB brought in a hypnotist. And later last fall. the monthly comedy series invited a couple of comedians, including Eric O'Sheen. 
"We try to do new, creative things that a lot of students will like," said chief controller Andrew Lam said. 
Some of the popular innova­tive programs SUB brought to campus last semester were the Notre Dame-Maryland game watch on North Quad, watching the movie Rudy on the quad, ticket giveaways for the Michigan State and Florida State games and Harry Potter night at the Bookstore. where local celebrities read passages from the series and gave away memorabilia, including a book autographed by author J.K. Rowling. 
Lam said attendance at SUB events has gone up since last year. 
The most successful SUB mov.ies last semester were Signs, which SUB showed for Halloween along with guest speaker llobcrt Hastings, and My Big Fat Greek Wedding in November, preceded by a Greek festival. Because SUB was losing money by showing two movies at a time last year, it decided to show only one a week this year to allocate more funds to other activities. 
SUB also held the annual NAZZ Battle of tho Bands at the Alumni-Senior Club in November in addition to loft shows. 
The Multicultural /\rts com­mittee organized many events last semester. including the Indian Festival of Lights at Lhe Alumni-Senior Club, henna fes­tivals and a performance by Ballet Folklorico Mexico. 
This semester it is planning a Brazilian Carnival. a perfor­mance by an African dance troupe and the International Student Festival. 

Last week. SUB held Winter Fest that included handing out bagels, a video game competi­tion PlayStation 2 and X-Box giveaways, showing The Creature from the Blue Lagoon in 3-D, holding "The Best of Acousticafe," hosting a perfor­mance by the new band Millimeters Mercury as part of a new program called ND Underground and taking stu­dents to Chicago for a Notre Dame hockey game on Saturday. 
Upcoming SUB events include the Sophomore Literary Festival in mid-February, the Collegiate Jazz Festival in late February and the annual spring festival AnTostal in April. Lads of Comedy will 
-
come to campus Feb. 21. 

Although SUB succeeded at programming, it needs to update its Web site so that stu­dents can use it as a resource for looking up SUB events. 
Contact Christina Cepero at 
ccepero@nd.edu 



Class councils work to plan events, service opportunities 
Freshman Class Council 
After completing a first semester that included activities like a Halloween dance and sales of class shirts and luminaries, the freshman class council has an array of ideas for the second semester that will bolster class unity, increase commu­nication and provide opportunities to relax. 
"We have a lot of good ideas and hopefully most of them will be suc­cessful for this semester." said Anna Skoien, class secretary. 
The Spiritual Committee complet­ed the class prayer which will be printed on magnets and distributed in-dorm this week. The class prayer will add a verse each year and will be used at class Masses. 
"We are making sure that we are providing activities to get our entire class involved," said Catherine Distler, the vice president. 
A class Web site, designed by a freshman unlike other councils who use a service, will allow freshmen to sign up to assist the council is expected to be completed this week, Skoien said. When the council needs help planning an activity, finding focus groups or raising funds, repre-

Senior Class Council 
Matthew Smith, Karen Lysaght, Nick Mastronardi and Josh Gentine of the Senior Class Council are in no way unfamiliar with what it takes to get their ini­tiatives up and running. 
All four members were the class officers for the Junior Class Council in 2001-02. And Lysaght believes that because of this, the council was able to make its mark by utilizing its experience in gaining approval for events. 
Without a doubt, the relationships already estab­lished between the council members and the admin­istration were instrumental in making headway on potentially contentious, yet popular events such as Margaritaville 2002 and the Senior Bar luncheon. 
"We had the trust of the administrators and the trust of Student Activities that kind of gave us more lenience for doing events such as Margaritaville and the luncheon at Senior Bar -those probably wouldn't have been approved had it not been that we had already had a year's experience," said Lysaght. 
For Lysaght. keeping the student opinion in the forefront is always a major consideration when plan­ning and organizing events. 
"We always ask for all of our even~ that people to talk to their frtends," said Lysaght. She also notes the practice of testing ideas by questioning themselves on the prospect of actually attending an event if they weren't class officers. This method, she claims, helps to filter out bad event ideas. 
Lysaght also attributes the ability to assess ideas from classmates who e-mail suggestions through a more improved. interactive class Web site. 
Last semester the council planned a class dinner at BW3's, co-coordinated the Toys for Tots drive and organized a remake of the Freshman Orientation Graffiti Dance at Senior Bar. 

Projects for this semester include a senior class retreat, Class of 2003 license plate holders and Senior Week . which includes Stadium tours, a class fonnal and another Margaritaville event. 
Kiflin Turner 
Off-campus Council 
Though many students part from dorms expecting to leave student government events behind, the off-campus presi­dents are determined to bring Notre Dame to them. 
From their Turtle Creek apartment, which co-president Dan Barabas jokingly calls the "Off-Campus White House," co-president Ravi Soni and council member Ben Kleinhenz have aimed to entertain and inform off-cam­pus students through light­hearted e-mails. 
"We don't want to get delet­ed," Barabas said. "I basically feed the material and [Kleinhenz] tries to make it remotely funny. His best line of the year was probably 'bar­gain basement poultry' [to sentatives can consult freshman vol­unteers. 

The Web site along with the week­ly e-mail distributed by President Dave Barron, will also inform the class of upcoming activities. 
The council is also planning ser­vice opportunities such as babysit­ting at University Park Village for graduate students and fun activities open to all classes. On Feb. 13, the council will sponsor a Valentine­making night in Lafortune Student Center and will plan a massage class and a cookout for March and April. 
Joe Trombello 
Sophomore Class Council 
After working with Notre Dame Security Police and Student Senate, the sophomore class council was able to create a campus bike rental program, one of the group's biggest achievemen1s during their term in office, said Jeremy Lao, president of the sophomore class. "The bike program was implemented through creating a dialogue with NDSP," said Lao. 
By taking advantage of the fact that NDSP collects many stolen and unclaimed bikes each year, the council was a.hie to create a rental system where students will pay $25 per semes­advertise for] a BW3 dinner." 

The council also planned a barbecue on Washington Street with the local police and the Office of Residence Life and Housing. 
He attributed the low turnout to poor publicity, but some off-campus students say they are unimpressed by the council's activities. 
"You're just kidding yourself if you're moving off and think­ing it's going to be like moving into the dorm," said off-cam­pus sophomore James Coss. 
Barabas said that he wel­comes the participation of all off-campus students. 
"Just because we have the titles doesn't mean that we don't want everyone's ideas," he said. 
Helena Payne 
Junior Class Council 
Junior class council hopes that the new semes­ter and new members will bring a fresh perspec­tive to the events the group has planned for the spring, said Meghan O'Donnell, junior class pres­ident. 
"Over half of our committees are going to be new this semester," said O'Donnell. 'Tm really hoping for some fresh energy this semester." 
Last fall, the council planned a class dinner at BW3s and sponsored a concert with Knott Hall featuring performer Matt Nathansin. The junior class also sponsored a program where students could send postcards to their friends who were studying abroad during the fall. 
"We sponsored [a project] designing and pur­chasing postcards [and] we paid to have them mailed to students abroad," said O'Donnell. "We're also going to do that again this semes­ter." 
For the spring semester, O'Donnell said the junior class council would focus on planning a successful Junior Parents Weekend, including a special student prayer that will be distributed during the weekend. 
The group also hopes to increase awareness among students about the events the council sponsors. O'Donnell cited communication as one of the council's weaknesses. 
"You have the problem of cross-programming and getting the specifics out there. I think we could probably improve on that a little," said O'Donnell. 
O'Donnell also said that the council will work 
-· 
on collaborating on a project for this semester with the sophomore class at Saint Mary's and Saint Mary's sophomore class president Sarah Brown, who is a friend of O'Donnell's. 
The council is also working on plan for a spring Chicago shopping trip and possibly a ski trip to Swiss Valley Ski Resort in Michigan. 
Teresa Fralish 

-
ter to use a bike. 
The program, scheduled to debut next fall, offers students a bike lock and a bike fully serviced by NOSP at no addi­tional charge, said Lao. At the end of the semester. students will receive $15 back with the remaining $10 being used for maintenance costs. "If you don't want to buy a bike to own ... you can rent this bike," said Lao. 
The sophomore class council also sponsored a Kick, Pass, and Punt con­test where students could pay $3 to kick a football for the chance to win a foot­ball signed by Coach Tyrone Willingham. 
In addition to the kick contest, the sophomore group sponsored several service weekends with local charity organizations such as the South Bend Center for the Homeless. "We've held numerous service weekends [and) we hope to continue these in the next semester," said Lao. 
For this semester, Lao said he hopes to see the sophomore council focus on developing events that are interesting to students and that will draw a large audience. "Basically we just want to plan activities that the students would go to," he said. 
Teresa Fralish 

Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu, Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu, Kiflin Turner at kturner@nd.edu and Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu. 
-
page 10 The Observer . IN FOCUS Friday, January 24, 2003 
Student Union needs collaboration 
Just when we were ready to write off Notre Dame let alone reversing. student government last spring, along came a late­Their efforts, in fact, fell short of convincing March announcement from Father Mark Poorman: University administrators and trustees to rethink the no in-hall dances, no under-21 tailgating and no changes. But they left an indelible impression on the hard alcohol in the dorms. minds of students who wondered who and what stu­
The leaders of the Student Union responded before dent government was for. 8,000 undergraduates got a chance to As they staged protests and organized cry foul. Within hours of the landmark Offterver petitions, and again when they collabo­announcement from the vice president •a1 rated to observe Sept. 11 last fall, we of Student Affairs. student government knew who and what student govern-
Edi~on 
officials were organizing protests and lJ ment was for: everybody. maneuvering behind the scenes to draft It shouldn't take a campus controver­resolutions opposing the changes. sy or a national tragedy to remind us of 
It was student government at its best because that. Then again, it shouldn't take such major events branches of the Student Union that had acted inde­to remind student government leaders of that fact pendently of each other for so long were now uniting either. around a single cause. If Notre Dame student leaders used the same spirit 
The Office of the Student Body President, Student of cooperation to plan low-key activities, such as pep Senate and Campus Life Council and other govern­rallies and campus fairs, as they do to plan high-pro­ment groups worked together with a focus we hadn't file ones, we'd all be better served. And there'd be seen before to rally student support and voice stern litile question as to who or what student government resistance to changes they had little hope of stalling. is for. 
What do I know? Libby is cute 
.. 
There are only a few facts that I issues. And they started thinking taking time to see what purpose it know about Notre Dame's student about what they could do to further serves me and my fellow students. government. our student government here at Both student government ofiicials 
I know Libby Bishop and Trip Notre Dame. and the student body need to realize Foley are student body president and All that talk got me thinking about the improvements that arc needed. vice-president. what exactly student government Student government needs to find 
I also know 
does for the student body and what ways to increase student body partic­Libby's pretty role we, as Notre Dame studenls, ipation and get more people interest­cute. play in this process. Most of my ed in the issues at hand, whatever 
And that friends didn't seem to know much those may be. In turn, students must about sums up about student government either. So try to become involved with the stu­my knowledge from this, l came to a couple of sim­dent government, even if that means of student gov­ple conclusions. just reading up on what's happening ernment. One, student government can't be during meetings or even attending 
I first attrib-fully performing its duties to students one every so often. uted this igno-Joe Hettler if many of them don't know what Until both sides can do this, neither ranee to the fact services the government is actually the student government or the stu­that I usually carrying out. Student government dent body will fully benefit. only read the Columnist should communicate well enough But by working together more, the sports stories in with those it serves. so that most, if government could make significant The Observer. not all students have somewhat of an changes for Notre Dame students I'd rather read about Notre Dame understanding of what the govern­and the students could give helpful basketball's next opponent than ment hopes to accomplish while in feedback that could improve student what clubs asked for more funding office. government. during a council meeting. Second, students should show And then, not only would both 
I simply don't care too much about more interest in what the govern­sides win, we'd all know a lot more what's going on in Student Senate or ment is doing, how its using its about our president, besides her Executive Cabinet meetings either. resources, such as money, and what good looks. That stuff just seems too boring for it has done to improve the overall me, so I don't waste my time with it. state of Notre Dame. I'll admit I'm as The views expressed in this column 
Then my roommates decided to guilty as anyone for failing to meet are those of the author and not nec­run for class president and vice pres­this task. But just because I'm not essarily those of The Observer. ident. They started going to meet­particularly interested in student Contact Joe Hettler at ings. They started talking about government, doesn't excuse me from jhettler@nd.edu. 

TOON TIME 


-
hiday, January 24, 2003 The Observer . IN FOCUS page 11 
Students need proactive leaders 
. Monthly meetings between the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame presi­
::,n;~isittl~lllffl~r:'!~:::" 
iJ.!r~;=;;::
q\lfik .;li11Jfto)student gover~~,nt. 
. ffie Efoard""of Governance r.~ 
~i~i;r~I:t~t::!i~l
·ev&n• at>road•students.. to·vote onUnel 
::::-,~b::1:•::t::th 
Jablonski~QJehl hay~ p,ut· a c(ir1certed effort into th~. writ~ng: ~J18J6ading day proposal aftd..r,taRfog11t a~pessl­
:~::::u~I~: 
has been glvefi••··•serlous cohsllera­tion, but the 2003-2004 pllot pro­gram has yet to be approved. 
Having re-organized their offices, setting up a yet to trickle down to the student body, leaving many phone line and computer, the Saint Mary's student students believing their representatives are inaccessi­government offices should be ready for business. But ble. the phone doesn't ring much and students rarely stop While this may not necessarily be true because stu­by the office during open hours. dent representatives are available to speak with ­
Instead student government representatives quietly there are weekly office hours and e-mail is always an take care of business without having much interac­option -student government never directly affects tion with students. students' lives, so what is the purpose 
It was a quiet year for student govern­of coming to these representatives? 
Oifhc 

ment. The student leaders of Saint userver But the issues student government Mary's have taken this time to re-orga­chooses to tackle are issues of campus nize and improve student government. comfort and not issues that challenge Renovating the office, improving the each other or the administration. 
Editorial government Web sites and rewriting the If Saint Mary's student government constitution are worthwhile accomplishments, but all wants to work for the students, then leaders need to fall under the category of housekeeping. speak to the students. Having office hours and a These are not issues that directly affect students or phone line is not enough to bring students to the gov­work that students ever see. ernment, so the government needs to go to the stu­
Emphasis on internal improvements has bonded dents. student government together so that there is a united It is time for the silence to end and for student gov­front but a front that often ostracizes and cuts off stu­ernment to truly represent the needs and concerns of dents. Improvements within student government have the student body. 
Take a chance, take a stand 
..... 
.... 
If you are like many college stu­dents, you tend not to be interest­ed in politics. You probably don't listen to Sean Hannity's talk radio show when you get back from class or get up 
early Sunday morning to watch "Meet the Press." 
So, why would you be expected to be interested in your own stu­


dent govern­Shannon ment at Saint 
Nelllgan

Mary's? It hardly covers strong and Columnist emotional issues like the war on terrorism or even how your first paycheck will be taxed under President Bush's new tax plan. Instead, student government deals with something entirely dif­ferent: issues that directly affect every student living and studying on this campus. 
Student government officials want to implement policies that will make your four years at col­lege a little easier. This is why the current administration is adamant on making themselves more avail­able to the student body; through office hours and making voting in college elections available online. 
These students ran for class offices to make a difference and to pad their resumes. 
Why not give these students some extra credit and the oppor­tunities they wanted by voicing what issues that are important to you. They would love to try their hand at presenting and driving policy initiatives that are impor­tant to the student body. 
Instead of complaining about the abominable meal plan or the all too often appearance of the fried food bar, drop an e-mail to Student Body President Kim Jensen or even go to a Board of Governance meeting on Monday afternoon. 
Imagine if the 

lengthy struggle spend your col­
"Just a little effort by

for a study day lege years indif­
every student will make

were shortened ferent to what is by seven or more a huge difference. I going on around years. This could you. Let this time 
promise it won't take too

happen if stu -prepare you to be
much time away from

dents demon­a full and active strate a strong your studies or social citizen when it personal interest. comes time for 
life."
A healthy interest will persuade fac­ulty and adminis­tration to take students more seri­ously if they have a firm stand on a policy like the study day. Along with the aid of student govern­ment, this initiative will have a momentum not yet seen. 
Don't be brushed aside. Remember that many of the cur­rent administration and faculty came of age during a time of strong youth opinion and political voice. It will make an impression if you have a backbone when it you to have a 

mortgage and 
economic inter­ests beside how to spend your money on the weekends. And just maybe you too will catch the polit­ical bug and find yourself writing to a member of Congress or listen­ing to talk radio: 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact shannon Nelligan at nell2040@nd.edu. 
comes to issues that are important to your student life. 
Just a little effort by every stu­dent will make a huge difference. I promise it won't take too much time away from your studies or social life. You won't even have to trade watching "Friends" or "ER" to get a study day. Plus, you have the student government that you elected to represent your wants and needs working for you. Don't be afraid to utilize it as a tool to change the policies that are valu­able to your status as a student of this college. 
Please don't 
. Student government-sponsored 
events did not receive as much pub­licity as in past years. Although the Board of Govemanoe ...sends out a mon~b'.1i:lilllllr;:!ill:generally 
;E~:::::~:::
:: at1w:1:.,ew programming( lnstllb ..of 
ei-~tln.i· ft!t,,. stH~~ots to cofflf to stlitl,jnt gove,rriment with Idea$/. st.~­
:1;~~~~=~v::::tv
morJ c.J~mitt;a.:19.,;9mmunitf1 ;;,•. vice'·and 6~arlt~t,;:J:i)ii:J;::;;f j{ 
. Go along t~ gf~}plpng poliiy: 
Members of e'ba~a:a, °'qvefnance readily agree witlji•eibb:Plh~fanti approve the agend,i!'ln O.l'd~r tg Nave a balanced representation members 
should express their differing opin­ions and challenge each other. 
Do you think it is important to vote in elections? ­

Cheryl Barker Allson Gavin freshman Junior 
"We have this "I don't think 
opportunity enough to make people feel student it [elections] 
government is important better, so it is and that is very why most important to students vote." don't vote.» 
Dawn Tuel Junior 
"If you want to see change you must vote." 
Nikki Ornelas sophomore 
'7 think its really important to vote because it allows you to have a voice in student government." 

Jennie Bueler senior 
"People don't vote because they don't think student government does anything for them." 

Jessica Needles senior 
"I think it's very important [to vote] because you can't be accurately represented." 




Michelle Gary Sara Tallman sophomore sophomore 
"I don't "J don't vote participate in but maybe I voting very 
would if much but I 
government think it's was more important to 
accessible to get your me." views across to student government." 
page 12 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENTS Friday, JanU'.lry 24, 2003 
The Snit:e Afuseurn ofArt:­
C)PENING RECEPTION 
January 2 6 tram 2 -4 pm 
Lauren Greenfield lecture at 3 pm 
The rollowing exhibitions will be on display: 

Not:re Dame Archit.ect.ure St.udent DraT¥in9s: 
.... 
Desi9nsJor a Nevv Snit:.e Museum 
January 12 -March 2 

Cont;ernporary Impressions: Art by Native Arnerican Artists 
January 19 -March 9 

Girl Culture: Lauren Greezifleld Photo9raphs 
January 19 -March 9 


This event is .free and open. to the public Contact 6 3 1 -5466 .for questions 
·--_:-:::====================~=======~===-=-------c==~----___J·1 
Our Lady's January 2, 2002 message to Mirjana in Medjugorje! 
"Dear Children, as a mother invites her 
children, I invited you and you responded 
to me. Allow me to fill your heart with 
love, so that it becomes a heart of love 
that you will be giving to others without 
reserve. In that way, you will best help 
me in my mission of converting those of my children who have not yet experi­
enced the love of God and the love of my Son. Thank you!" 

ANNOUNCEMENT 
Saturday, January 25th IN THE CRYPT 
In response to Our Lady's call from Medjugorje 
11:00 AM ROSARY 
11 :45 AM MASS 
12:15 PM -1 :30 PM Kathleen Martin will answer questions From 1987 through 1994 Kathleen lived with the visionary Marija in Medjugorje. She was the only non 
Croatian member of the young people's prayer group that Our Lady formed and lead -with practical advice: how to prevent a war that seems imminent; how to discern your vocation, etc., etc. 
Kathleen will answer questions in the basement of the Presbytery 
On January 25th Our Lady will give another message to the world. To receive it, email your email address to <dnolan@childrenofmedjugorje.com> (Medjugorje Rosary for students every Friday night... rides from the main circle leave at 8:00 PM) 

----------·----------------­
Friday, January 24, 2003 The Observer . IN FOCUS page 13 
OFFICE OF THE STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT 
Jensen, Jablonski-Diehl finding routes to ntakes changes 

By SARAH NESTOR Saint Mary's Editor 
Student body president Kim Jensen and vice president Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl do not like to hear the word "no." That has been the guiding force behind accomplishing their goals. If one path does not seem to be possible than Jensen and Jablonski-Diehl find another route to take. 
"One thing I feel we've been very successful a.L in our admin­istration is that we haven't tried to start over as a some adminis­trations have tried to do in the past. We've really encapsulated not even last year's administra­tion but the past ten year's administration, like we've found all this paperwork and we've 
Councils 
continued from page 15 
five new faces to the sophomore council. 
"I am really excited about the potential these new leaders bring. l feel that their fresh ideas com­bined with the experience of the remaining original board mem­bers will work to create an incredible semester for our board and therefore for the class," class president Sarah Brown said. 
The council's main goal has been to increase communication between government and the sophomores. 
found what has worked and what hasn't and we've found works for now," Jensen said. 
This has been their mindset as they have pursued the ten-year student government goal of implementing a study day in the academic calendar, and taking what they have made known as the reading day proposal farther than it as ever gone before. Presenting the reading day pro­posal to the faculty assembly, making the proposal seem more of a possibility. 
"This is one project [reading day] that Elizabeth and I can say we put our heart and soul into, we put so much time and energy into. This is one thing we can go to sleep at night and say we did all we could do," Jensen said. 
Campaigning on a need for better communication between 
The main events planned for this semester are Sophomore Parenl5 Weekend and Irish Belles Night Out, which is an event with the first-year and sophomore councils of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
First Year Class Council 
The goal of the first year's council is to get to know one another, both as a council and a class. The council started its year by handing out surveys to find out what the class as a whole wanted. 
The srnvey results allowed the council to plan study breaks, a class service project and class apparel. 
"I have loved getting to know the students," class president Anna Bauer said. 
One of the unique aspects of the first year's council is the exchange they have with Notre Dame's freshman council. 
One event that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's first-year councils help to plan is the Irish Belles Night Out. Currently the fresh­man class council is also prepar­ing for its first class dance. 
"I think we all had a great first semester and we hope to contin­ue to," Bauer said. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 

Money 
continued from page 16 
has changed the grant guidelines is that student can no longer apply for a grant to cover senior com­prehensive expenses. The Board of Governance changed this policy because it did not feel that granti­ng a student funds for her senior comprehensive benefited the com­munity. 
"We found that we only have so much money for the full commu­nity, and we feel that it is the department's responsibility [to fund senior comprehensives]." Dunlap said. 
Although certain exceptions have been made. Earlier this year, a student received funds so that she could bus in children from the South Bend school district to see the play she directed for her senior directing comprehensive. 
Board of Governance generally approves grant requests, although this is not always the case. 
•
"We had one case where we didn't grant them any money because we didn't feel that it would be beneficial to the whole campus, but just to those select people," Dunlap said. 

Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 

Salurday Jan. 25 LaForlune Ballroom 9 pn.1. 
$8 Tickels al LaForlune Info Desk 

students and administrators, advancing Saint Mary's pride and what they perceived as a need to reconnect students with the Student Academic Council, Jensen and Jablonski-Diehl's platform promised to continue to work on the study day proposal, make the student government offices accessible, improve din­ing hall food quality, increase detex capabilities and develop relationships with Notre Dame and Holy Cross College. 
With the exception of improv­ing dining hall food, these promises were delivered. Student government renovated their oiTices making it a useable space. Work on the study day proposal has gone farther than any other administration has taken it. Jensen and Jablonski­Diehl met monthly with Notre Dame student body president and vice president. They created a new Web site and the Detox committee which made Detex use for laundry service possible. 
"We get a project and we do it. Like on-line voting we were like this is great, that wasn't even on our platform but we saw it in the horizon, we jumped on it and we did it," Jensen said. 
This has been an administra­tion that worked on many pro­jects but a lot of the work that was done occurred behind the scenes. Jensen and Jablonski­Diehl began work on revising the constitution, organizing and filing information in the office and working to change the judi­ciary process. 
Projects that Jablonski-Deihl looks to carry on as she seeks the student body president office in the upcoming elections, and that. Jensen wants to see remembered as she prepares to graduate in May. 
"We have always tried to give more, we try to give as much as possible," Jensen said. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 
.,•.,
;;,~;: 
. :'\'.II "t ,
' . ! '·:'; . ~· -~-' 
t•· 
f
()~-: ..: 
..~~ ;"-~:-. 
. t,~. . . . ; . . .•, 
., . \. . . ' ' 
~· \t . . .
i~.. ::: .... ):'.:.;::~/·
•.Ji.:,.• . ' . -'•. ' 
iit -~ !',:... ··•·:~:1 · • _.~~? 
",... ,, ..,. "' 
• •• o •. I 


www.secondcity.com 
..... 
• 
• 

page 14 The Observer . IN FOCUS Friday, January 24, 2003 

given a clean slate to choose 
what we want to work with," 
Matha said. 
Matha's main goal this year 
has been to re-institute a 
health and physical wellness 
program. Matha chose this 
project because as a student­
athlete she sees the number of 
Saint Mary's students interest­
ed in their physical health but 
also knows the importance of 
academic well-being. 
Currently students can take 
classes, such as spinning and 
aerobics, but Matha wants to 
broaden the physical program 
to include health classes . 
Matha sees the introductory 
course as including a series of 
lectures given by different fac­
ulty and departments, a work­
out class and health wellness 
class. Matha sees the wellness 
class as offering such topics as 
nutrition and women's health. 
Although a women's health 
course currently exists through 
the nursing department, it is 
very difficult to get into 
because of the great demand. 
"The wellness course will be 
more opportunities for women 
to learn about themselves," 
Matha said. "My role is to get 
an incremental step done." 
Matha is also working on a 
recycling program proposal 
that was brought to her by stu­
dents. Matha plans to take the 
proposal to the April board 
meeting. 
Matha is also working with 
BOG commissioner Lindsay 
Evans on setting up a fund for 
students who wish to partici­
pate in campus events but do 
not have the funds to do so. 
Matha has also been instru­mental in helping students make presentations to the board. At the October board meeting, Student Body Vice President Elizabeth Jablonski­Deihl presented the reading day proposal to the board and at the February meeting, Student Diversity Board President Sara Mahoney and student with disabilities repre­sentative Frances Bruder will be making a presentation to the board concerning what campus life is like at Saint Mary's for students with dis­abilities. 
As student trustee Matha's greatest role is to provide interaction between the board and students. She has done this through mass e-mails, includ­ing updates in the BOG newsletter and lunches. 
Most importantly, Matha has continued her role as a student leader, remaining open to stu­dent concerns. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 

.. 
• 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
'Fun board' appeals to students 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Known as the "fun board" by its commissioners and throughout student govern­ment, the Student Activities Board works to plan campus events and programs. Their goal is to provide events stu­dents will enjoy and to involve as many students as possible. 
"We want to reach out to every part of campus that we can. keeping in mind the dif­ferent personalities of cam­pus." board coordinator Adrienne Dorbish said. 
SAR serves as the main campus programming board, and commissioners plan tra­ditional events, such as Saint Mary's Tosta!, movie nights, Twilight Tailgate. Pride Week and Say What? Karaoke. The board has also incorporated new programs, holding a student talent show and bringing in differ­ent performers. 
The Board holds weekly meetings where members talk about the different pro­jects each has worked on. 
"This has been the best and most efficient board 1 have seen in the past three years. The 12 girls on Board have put in 100 percent effort," Dorbish said. 
In November, the board attended the National Association of Campus Activities (NACA) connection where members participated in competitions and talks with campus activities repre­sentatives from colleges across the nation. Also at the convention were different performers who presented their acts and who after­wards could be booked for campus performances. 
At the convention held in Grand Rapids, Mich., Saint Mary's representatives won the best networking award. 

On campus, the board has worked on having better publicity, creating a newslet­ter and working for higher attendance. The monthlv newsletter is posted in cam·­pus restrooms and has also served as a contest for stu­dents to earn money by answering questions. 
"As a board we continue to have higher attendance because of our unique and unusual events," said Erica Barker, the board's adminis­trative coordinator. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 

STUDENT TRUSTEE 
SMC student trustee paves her own path 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Student trustee Kristen Matha has worked not only with the trustees but has been an integral member of the Hoard of Governance this past year. While not required to sit on BOG, Matha chose to attend meetings and work with stu­dent commissioners. 
"Having served as student body vice president, I know it is a great way to find out about student needs," Matha said. 
The student trustee is not an elected member of student gov­ernment, but through an appli­cation process is chosen by the Board of Trustees. Once a stu­dent is chosen as a trustee, it is then up to her to create her own agenda. 
"As student trustee we are 


Do you see a windy day or a way to generate power for 1000 homes? 
Single wind turbines that can light entire communities. We're developing them right now at GE. If you 're like us 
and see the world as full ofpossibilities, then you belong here. From advanced medical technology to jet 
engines, from financial services to power generation, the diverse businesses of GE wifl give you unlimited 
opportunities to make our world a better place, All you have to do is bring energy, ideas and passion to work 
every day. Visit us at gecareers.com. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Underclassmen -GE will be on campus interviewing for internships in February. For more info: www.gecareers.com/notredame 
Winter Career & Internship Fair Joyce Center January 28, 2003, 4:00 -8:00 PM 

We bring good things to life.
• 
page 15
The Observer . IN FOCUS 

Friday, January 24, 2003 
BRANCHES OF BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
beyond Saint Mary's campus to promote the community.

BOG 
A delegation that was sent to present the College in thecontinued from page 16 regional school of the year contest took second place.

"We didn't feel that RHA The conference was spon­was very recognizable on sored by
campus 
t h e

when we 
"Students have called and 
National

took omce, 
stopped up {to the BOG Association

but we of College
h a v e office] during office hours 
a n d

looked into 
to bring up issues, but this 
University

making the 
interaction could always Residence

group bet­ter known be more effective and we Housing 
Nov. 15-17

by heading 
are always looking to 
at the as improve." University 

activities 
such Hall of the 0 f Month," Linda Janke Wisconsin, 
said Annie communication coordinator Oshkosh. Furman, "Every­
llIIA vice thing that pre~ident. "We have also Saint Mary's does is what participated in office hours." made this delegation," said HHA has also worked hard RHA member Whitney Ross. 

CHRIS NAIDUS/The Observer 
This type of representation for Saint Mary's allowed the smaller school to stand among much larger institu­tions such as the University of Wisconsin, Lacrosse. 

Contact Shannon Nelligan at nell2040@saintmarys.edu 

Class councils strive 
to represent students 
By SARAH NESTOR Saint Mary's Editor 
Representing the wants and needs of each individual class to the Board of Governance are the class councilc;. The class councils are composed of the president, vice president, secretary and trea­surer. Each class council is also composed or diliercnt committee commissioners. These range from commissioners in charge of class dances to publicity. The goal of every class council is to improve class interaction and unity. 
Senior Class Council 
When the current senior class 
representatives took office their 
first objective was to survey the 
class to see what they wanted 
done. From these responses the 
Senior Class Council made its 
agenda. 
The council was active in talking 
to the administration about a 
senior parking lot. which opened 
last September. The council has 
also continued traditional evenl'>, 
such as Senior Oads Weekend and 
planning for the senior format. 
The senior class is also trying 
new things, such as creating a 
memory book and CD-rom. 
Another event that the council has 
planned is a senior retreat, which 
was resurrected by last year's 
Senior Class Council and continued 
by this year's council. 
"This year has given us a chance 
to get to know the people we 
already knew better and to get to 
know the people we didn't know at 
all," class president Rachel Finely 
said. 
Junior Class Council 
Throughout the year the Junior Class Council has tried to plan even1s on and off campus, and that offer a little bit of everything for everyone to enjoy. 
"My goal is for the Junior Board to create environments where all members of the class feel welcome and connected to one another. Whet.her this is through events on campus, Junior Nigh1s Out or new traditions," class president Nicole Haeberle said. 
The two biggest events the class 
board plans are Junior Moms 
Weekend and the junior dance. 
•wrhe most valuable accomplish­ments of my presidency have been selecting a diverse group of individ­uals to represent the class, the identification of activities that allow juniors to socialize both on and off campus [Must-see TV nights and Junior Nights Out) and our atten­tion to the opinion of our class in choosing the atmosphere of events," Hacbcrle said. 
The upcoming formal is planned for Feb. 1. The theme is a Black and White Gala. Junior Moms weekend, themed "A 13elle At Heart," is planned for April 4 -6. 
"Feedback from the class has been fantastic. I think we identified a need with Junior Nights Out in selecting off-campus activities that juniors would be interested in any­way and transforming them into opportunities to become more familiar with our classmates," Haeberle said. 
Sophomore Class Council 
The new semester has brought 
see COUNCILS/page 13 


.-r-;-• •  
t  ~  
ll 00 00  . . f .,lll  
I .., r t•' : I , i r /4 ~ i . / ' ,,I  

 ~  


page 16 The Observer . IN FOCUS Friday, January 24, 2003 
Keeping an eye on student government 
. BOG makes great technological strides but stumbles on old habits once again 
By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
News Writer 
Every Monday afternoon 20 women gather around 

a conference table in Haggar College Center to dis­
cuss and vote on issues that affect the student body. 
The initiatives passed are intended to further and 
protect the rights, opinions and interests of students 
in campus affairs. 
Internal review and revamping of current policies 

was the foundation for many of the new initiatives 
pursued by the current student government. Guided 
by Student Body President Kim Jensen and Student 
Body Vice President Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl nearly 
each member of the Board of Governance 
researched and presented needed internal reforms. 
"I feel like there are a lot of internal issues that 

student government has implemented," said student 
truste·e Kristen Matha. 
BOG this year was successful in revamping the 

internal structure of student government by demon­
strating an interest in making itself more accessible 
to students needs. 
Student Government going into the 21st Century 
To best meet the needs of the students, BOG found 

it necessary to go digital. In the next election cycle 
students both on-and off-campus and abroad stu­
dents will be voting via PRISM, the same online sys­
tem used for student registration. 
"One of the major initiatives this year was to put 

up a student government Web site and voting 
online," said Mary Pauline Moran, technology com­
missioner. "When I applied for the position last year, 
the members of the committee informed me that 
they were interested in promoting online voting and 
I have been involved in the research and setup of the 
program." 
The primary concern of student government with 

the current voting procedure was to allow students 
to become more involved in their own government 
and increase voter turnout. 
"By sitting on the constitutional oversight commit­

tee on online voting, we were most interested in see­
ing if it is something for students," election commis­
sioner Alison Joseph said. 
According to Jablonski-Diehl during a Dec. 10 BOG 

meeting, online voting is a good system for the 
school to implement because it will allow for better 
access to the ballot for all students and hopefully it 
will increase voter turnout. 
It is hoped that this three-year trial run for online 

voting will increase participation and interest in stu­
dent government by off-campus students, student 
nurses and teachers. It is these students who have 
most actively called for a new voting procedure that 
would be more accommodating to their schedule. 
By providing alternate and timely options for stu­

dent involvement on campus, BOG proved itself to be 
interested in the needs of the student body. 
Office Hours and Communication 
BOG has continued its effort to reach out to the student body through traditional means. According to communication coordinator Linda Janke she continues to produce and advertise cam­
sions commis­sion~ Stephanie Pace voices her opinion on inter­nal reforms as Student Body Vice President, Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl, right, listens. 
. 
PHOTOS BY 
Belinda Dagaas 
& 
Allison Nichols 

pus events through newsletters and e-mails but saw 
only a slight increase of communication via nontra­
ditional means such as office hours held by each 
representative on the board. 

"Students have called and stopped up [to the BOG 
office] during office hours to bring up issues, but this 
interaction could always be more effective and we 
are always looking to improve," Janke said. 
Residence Hall Association 

Often overlooked is the important roll that the Residence Hall Association plays within student gov­ernment. This component of BOG is designed to pro­mote the living needs of students on campus. 
se_,e BOG/page 15 
. Student government allots more than $100,000 to plan Saint Mary's events 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saint Mary's Editor 

Anyone who has attended a meeting of the Hoard of Governance would know about the many groups and individuals who come requesting funds. 
This is not as unusual as it sounds because the student government fund comes from students. Each student pays $150 to student government, whether they know it or not. The fee is included in each student's tuition and goes into the student government bank account, moni­tored by the executive treasurer. 
This year student government had more than $200,000 to work with. The executive treasurer created a budget breaking down the amount of money each stu­dent government entity receives. 
The Hoard of Governance ilo;;ell' received $3,000, the Student Academic Council received $6,000, the Student Activities Board received $60,000, the Student Diversity Board received $15,000 and the Residence Hall Association received $15,000. 
The class government fund totaled $6,000 and L'l bro­ken down by how many students are in each cla'>s, but each class receives the same amount of money per stu­dent. For example, if the sophomore class has 200 stu­dents and the executive treasurer decides that each class receives $2 per student, then the class receives $400. 
Board commissioner Lindsay Evans and student trustee Kristen Matha have begun to look at the possibil­ity of creating a fund that students could apply to receive money from. These funds would be available to students who want to attend campus events but are not able to because of financial problems. 
"We would not want any ~tudent to not be able to attend an event because they do not have the money," Matha said. 
But there are also chances for students to receive money from student government through the co-spon­sorship fund. This year the Board of Governance allotted $20,000 for the co-sponsorship grant program. Any stu­dent is eligible to receive a Board of Governance co­sponsorship grant, and any student or group can apply for a grant as many times as they want. 
Students interested in applying for a grant can get an application either from the Student Activities office or download it from the Board of Governance Web site. Once the student has the form, she then can choose to apply for one of four different grants. Whichever grant the student or group of students applies for, their likeli­hood of receiving the grant depends on what they can bring back to the Saint Mary's community. 
The four different grants available are the service grant, charity grant, academic/educational grant and the campus-programming grant. Each grant has different monetary limits and guidelines, but the goal of giving any grant is that by providing these funds, the Saint Mary's community benefits. 
"This is the student's money, and this is why the whole purpose is to benefit the entire Saint Mary's communi­ty," Dunlap said. 
One way in which the current Board of Governance 
see MONEY/page 13 

• STUDENT DIVERSITY BOARD 
Board tackles harassment policy, promotes awareness 
By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
News Writer 
Three short years ago, Student Diversity Board emerged on Saint Mary's campus to increase diversity and promote awareness of all all cultures. This young member of stu­dent government matured to tackle the tough issues of diversity. 
The primary issue on SDB's agenda for this year's administration was to examine the current harassment clause and provide suggestions to update the policy. The sug­gestions came as a result ofresearch by Nila Ahmad, SDB vice president, based on a 
"The current policy does not include pro­cedures for reporting harassment or condi­tions for being harassed," SDB president Sara Mahoney said. 
At the moment, the new version of the harassment clause does not have' an outline for the correct judicial procedure to take in 1he event ofharassment. 
Ahmad brought the policy to Board of Governance to request suggestions on word­ing, reporting and documentation. She also asked for endorsement oftbe policy. 
BOG did not fully endorse the wording of the new policy, but it encourages and pro­motes the need to update the present harassment policy. 


is diverse in their own right. Because you piling a presentation for the trustees that will are white does not mean you are not outline the capabilities and difficulties on diverse," said Mahoney. "You should be able campus for those who are disabled. to value your own diversity and embrace "We will be completing the presentation others, too." with the aid of the Director of Disabilities 
number of other college and university The revised version of the policy has been One of the first initiatives of SDB is still Services at Ball State University, Dr. Richard 
harassment clauses. given to Linda Timm, vice president of stu­continuing strongly. The board insists that Harris," said Mahoney. "He has done talks in Under the new clause, a definition of dent affairs. SDB hopes that the policy will the campus must become more accessible the past at the College about disabilities." harassment will be explained and a proce­receive a positive review from the adminis­for people with disabilities. In the coming month, SDB will be sponsor­
dure to follow in the event that one is tration and will be able to present to the "Accessibility for those who have disabili­ing a disability awareness event that will fea­harassed will be outlined. The definition of Board of Trustees shortly. 
ties is not where it should be," said harassment will include physical threats and "We hope that looking at diversity and the Mahoney. Contact Shannon Nelligan at 
comments. harassment clause will relay that everyone To combat tlus problem, the board is com-nell2040@saintmarys.edu 
O
THE BSERVER 


us 
Friday, January 24, 2003 page 11 
"An entire play in French is a 
daunting prospect," he added. Much of the literary subtlety of 
Moliere's work is lost on those who do not s p e a k French, but the play is
uffe" 
still enjoy-a b l e . 


Tartuffe's scheme to get into the good graces 
of Orgon

~otre Dame French 
w h i I e 

Class seducing his wife remains insightful 
on, Maribel Morey, Juan Diego and enter­gan, Karl Reifsteck, Mary taining even audia Ramirez, Stephanie without the 
finer turns of phrase. e Lab Theatre.at Washington Some of 
'he show runs tonight and the actors ts are available at 343 struggle tickets will be sold at the with por­
l raying their char­acters clearly and still including realism and subtle­ty in the performance. However, 
considering the difficulty of the task, many of the performers do an admirable job in their roles. Dorine, played by Mary Anne Lewis, Tartuffe, played by Karl Reifsteck. and Madame Pernelle, played by Rose Lindgren, are par­ticularly convincing characters. The play is being performed in the lab thealer on the third floor of Washington Hall. The theater holds a relatively small audi­ence of 110. The small venue gives the play a more personal feel than those per­formed in larger 
theaters. 
The location also 
creates problems 
with staging, as 
audience members 
sit on three sides of 
the stage. At some 
point, every audi­
ence member with 
be presented with 
the backsides of the 
performers. To com­
pensate for the diffi­
culty of presenting to 
different angles, the 
performers keep the 
action moving, making 
sure to present to all sides 
of the stage. No one is left out 
of the performance. 
Instead of reinterpreting the play, McDowell opted for a tradi­tional 17th century setting, including impressive costumes. 
"We really try to give an inter­pretation that Moliere himself might recognize," said McDowell. "We use period costumes and the same language as Moliere." 
The actors use little in the way of props and backdrops, but the play does not require detailed stage sets. 
In attempting to enjoy the liter­ature of another language and culture, audiences will always be stuck between a rock and a hard place -translating a work drains the beauty of the language and changes its meaning, but the orig­inal is usually inaccessible to those unable to understand the language. McDowell's presenta­tion of "Tartuffe" creates a com­promise. The language is the same, but the play can still be understood. Following the plot of the play is an enjoyable chal­lenge, and not by any means impossible. This is a rare chance to experience one of the great plays of French culture presented both by and for studcnls. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 


Above, Mary Anne talks with Organ, played by Joe Horton. To the right, Dorine shouts in disaproval, as she rises out of her seat. Below, Dorine, Mary Anne, and Valere, played by John Dougan, converse. 
. 
Photos by 
LAUREN FORBES 


.. 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 24, 2003 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Commitments roll in as signing day nears 
ByJOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 
After two weeks without any verbal commitments. Notre Dame's 2007 recruiting class added several new members in the last two weeks, all of which could make significant contribu­tions to future Irish squads. 
Highly-touted tight end Greg Olsen and safety Tom Zbikowski both orally committed to the Irish Jan. 16. Less than a week later, two more prospects, John Sullivan and Dwight Stephenson, gave Notre Dame coach Tyrone Willingham their oral commit­ment. 
Per NCAA regulations, Notre Dame officials are prohibited from publicly commenting on verbal commitments until Signing Day Feb. 5. 
Sullivan, a 6-foot-4, 280-pound center from Greenwich, Conn. narrowed his choices to Notre Dame and Boston College, before choosing the Irish. 
Sullivan brings a list of creden­tials with him to Notre Dame. SuperPrep rated Sullivan as a top 50 player at any position in the country and the best 
. .. prospect out of the New England area. "He gets after it, he's very aggressive and he stays on his blocks very well," SuperPrep's 
Allen Wallace said. 
ESPN's Tom Lemming also called Sullivan the best center in the nation. 
Sullivan will compete against rising sophomore Bob Morton and rising junior Zach Giles for the starting position next season. 
The other commitment came f'rom Hall of Fame center Dwight Stephenson's son. The younger Stephenson had already commit­ted to the University of Florida before changing his mind and choosing Notre Dame. 
Stephenson played strongside linebacker in high school. but could play either at lli1ebacker or defensive end at Notre Dame. He had 27 sacks as a senior last sea­son and also brings the Irish out­standing speed, running the 40­yard dash in only 4.4 seconds. 
"He's very quick, reacts well and plays hard," Wallace said. "He's somebody who you defi­nitely would want to have on your team." 
Despite now having 17 recruits orally committed, Notre Dame isn't done. The Irish have several players they hope to land before the Feb. 5 Signing Day. 
One such player is defensive end Victor Abiamiri who is sought by Miami (Fla.), Maryland, North Carolina and Stanford. Abiarniri could be a dif­ference maker for the college he chooses. 


''He's truly elite," Wallace said. back/cornerback Ambrose playing at Notre Dame. Jones "He's smart, big. fast, athletic, Wooden. Wallace said Wooden is has reportedly narrowed his quick and pretty explosive. a little different from most choices down to the Irish, Penn Because of his raw talent, he recruits because he will have to State, Tennessee and Iowa. should go in and make an impact switch to a somewhat unfamiliar Jones is listed as 6-foot-5, 307­at someplace playing as a fresh­position if he decides on Notre pounds and could be another bigman." Dame. However, Wallace said commitment for Notre Dame. 
Abiamiri has narrowed his that inexperience shouldn't scare "He has always had Notre choices down to Notre Dame and off the Irish . Dame high on his list," Wallace Maryland, according to "He's definitely worth the risk," said. Lemming. Wallace said. 
The Irish also hope to grab Offensive lineman Mike Jones Contact Joe Hettler at Abiamiri's teammate, quarter-also has expressed interest in jhettler@nd.edu 
FENCING 
Sabre squads to be tested at No. 4 Ohio State 
.... 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Editor 
Gabor Szelle, welcome back to collegiate fencing. 
At Saturday's Ohio State duals, Szelle -who wasn't on the team last year -Matt Fabricant and the other Notre Dame sabre fencers will face one of the most talented sabre squads in the country. 
"Their fencers are excellent competing all year on their national teams," Notre Dame coach Janusz Bednarski said. "We are a little behind them as a team, but I am sure Gabor will fence well and try to get better." 
Jason Rogers, Colin Parker and Adam Crompton comprise Ohio State's sabre team and will give the Irish all they can handle this weekend. 
Rogers finished third at last year's NCAA Championships and is currently ranked sec­ond in the junior division and ninth in the senior division of the United States Fencing Association rankings. Parker is a two-time All-American and ended up in eighth at last year's national champi­onships. 
Brother of former Notre Dame sabre fencer Andre Crompton, Adam Crompton gives the Buckeyes impressive depth at this weapon. Adam Crompton stands seventh on the junior level and eleventh on the senior level in the U.S. Fencing Association rankings. 

Rogers and Crompton tied for third at the North American Cup event in December. 
Ohio State opened its season at the Northwestern duals two weeks ago and dominated the weak field. The Buckeyes beat all nine of their opponents. Bednarski is a little concerned about his team in its opening competition. 
"This is the first team tour­nament so it is really unpre­dictable. I hope they really fence well and will face some top opponents, like Ohio State," Bednarski said." We face them first in their home gym, in front of their home audience and support. They are a really good team and this will be a very important match for us." 
Notre Dame's womens sabre team will be challenged this weekend as well. Sophomore Louise Bond-Williams finished second for the Buckeyes at the 2002 NCAA Championships. Bond-Williams defeated Notre Dame junior Destanie Milo 5­
2. Notre Dame senior Natalia Mazur will be participating in her first collegiate competition since after missing the 2002 season with an illness. 
Last year, Notre Dame opened the season at the New York University duals and split with top-ranked St. John's. The 14-13 victory by the mens 
team, with then-freshman epeeist Michal Sobieraj win­ning the decisive bout, gave them the top ranking in the country on the next poll. 
Adding to the pressure on this weekend will be the mens team looking to continue its 59-match winning streak. Notre Dame's last loss came on Jan. 23, 2000. The 59­match streak is third longest in school history and isn't even halfway to the record of 122 matches set from 1975-1980. 
In addition to No. 4 Ohio State, No. 2 Notre Dame will fence Northwestern and Wayne State. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds, 
CLASSIFIEDS 

SERVER WANTED Club LaSalle is  Acapulco s #1 Spring Break  Need auto insurance? www.south- Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom  
NOTICES  hiring for a serving position. Club LaSalle is a martini/Jazz Bar serv- Company, Bianchi-Rossi Tours, is "Going Loco" with a "Last Chance  bendautoinsurance net 574-254­2626  homes 1/2 mile from campus mmm­rentals@aol.com 272-1525  PERSONAL  
ing LaSalle Grills Diner menu. We  to Dance• Special! Book now and  www.mmmrentals.com  
are located on the 3rd floor of  get $100 off our already low pricel  Affiliates wanted asap! Get your  
..  Beautiful condo in Premier area extra large 1 bedroom, jacuui tub, large deck and pool. Own tor less than rent. 1Ominutes from campus 59K. 574-299-4997  LaSalle Grill. Part or Full Time work is available. Must be able to work weekends. Must be 21 to apply and previous experience is a plus, but not required. Earning Potential is  Your seat is available now, but may be gone tomorrow! Call now 800­875-4525. www.breaknow.com New lour bedroom 3 bath home for  free website' www.wirelessopportu­nity.com 287-9643 ND & Smc Women: South Bend professional couple seeks responsi- SPRING BREAK on South Padre Island, ranked #3 S.B. destination by the Travel Channel. South Padre Resort Rentals has the best 1,2&3 bedroom condos. Great location  Catfights in the office.. sweel! Super Bowl...you getting housed? Chunnels to SMC? Yeah, now we  
Need one ticket for G Town game. 277-0372,  approximately $400.00 per week. Applications may be picked up at: LaSalle Grill in Downtown South  rent with two car garage. Gas heat, central air conditioning, all appli­ances, fire place Call 574-232­ ble female student(s) to provide occasional afternoon, evening or overnight care tor two daughters,  and amenities, close to Mexico. Call 800-944-6818 Visit gosouthpadreis­land.com  could walk back at any time, no matter how cold it is.  
1989 Toyota Corolla 4DR 5 speed,  Bend 3pm to 5pm Monctay-saturday  4527 or 269-683-5038.  ages 11 and 5. Located 1 mile from campus in historic district. Must  Speaking of cold ... what is going on?  
148K Runs good. $1300 Call 277-3189 Oak Hill Condo !or Sale. 2 Bed, 2 Bath, 0.5 miles from campus.  115 West Colfax South Bend, IN 46601 Phone: 288-1155. Part time work, full money. Energetic &tudent to pass out our rewards catalog.  Rent $1600 plus utilities. Need travel or missionary insur­ance? Purchase online at www.trave1medicalinsurance.us www.missionaryinsurance.net  have own transportation. Get away & earn extra money in low-stress setting. Call 707-2047 or email Tommp@mbm.org, Rooms For Rent $250 month  FOR RENT FREEDOM! Now renting 2004-05 The best turnished houses. Prime locations, sec.systems. wash/dry,  Good job on the Student Gov. Insider, Megs! Going down with the ship!  
574-243-2621  Call for details an-652-2566  800-893-0692  includes utilities 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aolcom  util incl Some with V-Ball,B-Ball & pool tables. Call Greg 233-9947.  To all of those youngins at Boat last night, sucks to be you.  

,,,. 
AROUND THE NATION 
Friday, January 24, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 13 
.:•:• 
·-?··<:;:::..:\::+}i:i~:{l;;/t:~fI@l;fa 
·••):!~~t::il:#i/:,i(I~• 
1

•·•·•····:tl:totS~'1!i:;;1 
. f~lladelp~IQ / < 
••...·~!~tfJ~;::;i'::;: 
·...·.. ·New · ··•••·•·,.·•·• 
Ml 
ill::'~.. 
;:1~;,,;;-::IIli:::::: 
.. j~n&i.wn@t: 
·•· ..·~~=!=lii:ill 
;'\ ~flil~ll!.S '.'P 
}::::::­
rr~~~~ 
jf;J)@~#.@if; 
( 
........
·.· PHlibilrg . .t : ., -"''f=:; 
,~ll~:1'­
around the dial 
FRIDAY 
NBA BASKETBALL Wizards at Bulls 8 p.m., ESPN2 Nets at Lakers 10:30 p.m., ESPN2 
SATURDAY MENS BASKETBALL 

NOTRE DAME at Boston College 2 p.m., ESPN Georgia Tech at Duke 12 p.m., ESPN Arizona at Kansas 1 p.m., CBS Louisville at Tennessee 1 p.m., ESPN2 
SUNDAY SUPER BOWL 

Oakland vs. Tampa Bay 6 p.m., ABC 
NBA 


Conference forwards. think I might have to take ter. McGrady was the lead­
A..sociatcd Press 

Garnett received a sleeping pill before I can ing vote-getter in the East
NEW YORK 

1,086,780 votes -7,355 go to sleep tonight," Yao with 1,316,297. 
When the ball goes up more than Nowitzki. said. "To have this rare The fans' selection of for the opening tip at the In the Eastern opportunity is a rare Carter, who has missed 33 NBA All-Star Game Feb. 9 Conference, Allen Iverson opportunity." games because of knee in Atlanta, Yao Ming will 

of Philadelphia drew The rest of the West's injuries, was the most 
be the center trying to win almost 73,000 more votes starters are Garnett, Tim debatable. 

the jump ball for the West. 

than Michael Jordan to Duncan of San Antonio, 'Tm thrilled. I just have 
The 7-foot-6 Houston 

earn the second guard Steve Francis of Houston to say thank you to the 
Rockets rookie from China spot. and Kobe Bryant of the fans," Carter said. "It's 
will be starting for the Yao will become the first Lakers. been a rough season. A lot Western Conference after 
rookie to start in the All­Bryant was the leading of people have been takingdefeating Shaquille O'Neal 
Star Game since Grant Hill overall vote-getter with shots at me once again. It by almost a quarter-mil­in 1995. He is the 16th 1,474,386 out of more makes me feel better to lion votes in final fan bal-rookie in NBA history to be than 4.5 million ballots. know the fans believe in 1otin g totals released named an All-Star starter The Eastern Conference me. They know what I'm 
Thursday. and the fourth center, join­starters are Iverson and capable of regardless of 
In the closest race, Kevin ing O'Neal in 1993, Wilt Orlando's Tracy McGrady, what the other side Garnett of Minnesota Chamberlain in 1960 and Indiana's Jermaine O'Neal thinks." edged Dirk Nowitzki of Ray Felix in 1954. and Toronto's Vince Carter Isiah Thomas of Indiana Dallas for the last starting "I am honored. I hope to at forward, and Ben and Rick Adelman of spot among Western play well in the game. I Wallace of Detroit at cen-Sacramento will coach. 
IN BRIEF 

Carter may return to The Raptors are 10-33 and have because of a contract dispute. Raptors lineup Sunday lost five straight and 21 of 24. Only The Sharks, who have been des­
Vince Carter could return to the Cleveland is worse. perate for consistent defensive play struggling Toronto Raptors as early "If we are going to lose I would like during their disappointing season, as Sunday after missing 23 games to be a part of it," Carter said. gave up on young prospect Jillson to with a strained right knee. The Raptors host the Sacramento acquire a more mature defenseman. 
Carter received a good report from Kings on Sunday. The Sharks didn't immediately 
announce the details of their con­
Dr. James Andrews in Birmingham, Ala., this week and will meet with McLaren dealt to Sharks in tract agreement with McLaren. team doctors on Friday. He must be three-way trade "Kyle McLaren is a young, physical 
cleared by them before playing. Holdout Boston Bruins defenseman defenseman who brings elements 
''I'm just ready to get out there and Kyle McLaren was traded to the San which will fit with our stable of play," Carter said. "I feel great. Jose Sharks on Thursday in a three­defensemen for years to come," Every week that goes by I get better team deal that sent forward Niklas Sharks general manager Dean and better." Sundstrom to the Montreal Lombardi said. 
Canadiens. San Jose is 16-20-6-5, with just
Carter missed 10 games earlier 

this season with a chronically The Bruins acquired veteran goalie one victory in 10 games. The Sharks injured left knee. He has played in Jeff Hackett from the Canadiens and have been dismal all season, and just 10 games but has been practic­young defenseman Jeff Jillson from replacing coach Darryl Sutter with ing with the team the last week. the Sharks. Montreal got the Sharks' Ron Wilson in early December has 
"I want to get back out there and third-round selection in the 2004 done nothing to change it. play for my teammates first and draft, while Boston sent a fourth­Like several San Jose forwards, foremost, and for the fans," Carter round pick in the 2004 draft to San Sundstrom has been in a slump all said. "Even the people who have Jose. season -and now he's the second doubts, the people who have written McLaren, 25. had 124 points in Swedish Olympian to be traded in me off, I want to go out there and 417 career games with the Bruins, what could be a series of shakeups 
play for them too." but he hasn't played this season for the Sharks. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 24, 2003 
MENS TENNIS 
Battle for bragging rights in Indiana 
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Sport:i Wrircr 
The battle for the state of Indiana will take place today at the Eck Tennis Pavilion as the No. 27 Irish hope to wel­come the Hoosiers by hand­ing them their first loss of the season. 
Last year, Notre Dame won 6-1 at Indiana. Despite the score, the Hoosiers played tough and came away with two upsets. Milan Rakvica upset senior Javier Taborga, who was ranked 11th nation­ally, and the Hoosier doubles duo of Zach Held and Ryan Recht triumphed over the fifth-ranked pair of Taborga and senior Casey Smith. While the Irish lost six play­ers to graduation -including Taborga and Smith, the Hoosiers have the majority of last year's squad intact. 
"They're a tough squad," Irish tri-captain Matt Scott said. "They always play up for us. They always seem ready to motivate themselves to play us, especially when they come here." 
In addition to Indiana, the Irish also have Ohio State on their minds. Notre Dame will travel to Columbus on Sunday to play the No. 24 Buckeyes. 
"Ohio State is a very diffi­cult place to play and they're going to be a very good team this year," Scott said. "Like Indiana, they will raise their game for us. Nobody in the Big Ten likes to lose to Notre Dame." 
For now though, the team is focused on the Hoosiers. 
"We're staying focused in practice and just playing to win," Scott said, "We can't get ahead of ourselves." 
Because of their relative youth compared to last year's squad, the Irish are not as experienced as the 2002 team that advanced to the NCAA round of 16 for the first time since 1994. The Irish reached as high as fourth in the national rank­ings. 
WOMENS TRACK 
Irish host Ball State, Western Michigan 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame womens 

...., 
track and field team looks to build on its early season suc­cess in hosting Ball State and Western Michigan tonight. 
At last weekend's Central Michigan opener, the Irish were led by two seniors who broke their own school records. 
Tameisha King set a NCAA qualification mark and new school mark by jumping 20-8 1/2. King was also in action on the track, finishing second in the 60 meters (7.51 seconds) ahead of teammate Kristen Dodd {7.76). Dodd returned to 
This season may be a dif­ferent story with a different cast but the Irish, relying on their work ethic, may have some surprises. 
'Tm really excited about the possibilities," Scott said. "I think a lot of people might count us out because of our inexperience. We're going to have to tight hard and play well. We're looking forward to getting the season under­way." 
Additionally, the Irish hope to foster more interest in their program. 
"It'd be great to get as much support as we can from the student body," Scott said. "I think we can really do some good things this year." 
Freshmen Patrick Buchanan and Eric Langenkamp will probably prove to be critical to whatev­er successes the Irish may achieve this spring. 
"The freshmen are great," Scott said. "They're now step­ping it up. They've realized that they're going to be an important part of our success this year. I know they'll keep it up." 
Langenkamp shared in the junior's assessment. 
"I think we're very talented and we could end up surpris­ing a lot of teams," Langenkamp said. "We've all been training very hard, lift­ing and running. I think we have great team cama­raderie, and that's going to really help us pull through tough matches." 
The Irish were supposed to have already had match experience under their belt, but the National Collegiate Tennis Classic, which was supposed to be held in Las Vegas last weekend, was can­celled. 
"It would have been a great experience to be able to play with those teams," Scott said. "Rarely would you get an opportunity to compete against players of that level." 
ContactJoe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
the track for the 200 meters to post her own individual victory in 25.09. 
Jaime Volkmer broke her old school record by more than six inches in the triple jump with a mark of40-2 1/4. Volkmer also won the pole vault clearing 11­9. 
Moving up to the 400 meters, Notre Dame was equally effec­tive with Kymia Love taking first (56.29) and Tiffany Gunn crossing in second (56.98). Gunn would get a victory in her specialty, the hurdles, sprinting across the finish line in 8.85 to win the 60-meter hurdles. Freshman Stacey Cowan was third (9.26). 
MENS SWIMMING 

Irish host 1st meet in 7 weeks 
By LISA REIJUlA 
Sports Writer 

After seven weeks on the road, the Notre Dame mens swimming and diving team will host its last home dual meet of the season Saturday at Rolfs Aquatic Center. The Irish (5-5) will compete against the Wildcats of Northwestern (3-6). 
The Irish are coming off a busy weekend where they swam in three dual meets in two days. In Philadelphia, Notre Dame fell first to Pennsylvania, then split with Pittsburgh and Villanova. 
Last Friday, the Wildcats won their first dual meet in more than three months, knocking off the: University of Illinois-Chicago 194-96. 
Both teams have faced Purdue, Pittsburgh and Michigan State this season. Northwestern was 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles hope to cage 'Dogs 
By TREY WILLIAMS 
Sports Writer 

Rebounding from past losses has not been Saint Mary's strong point this season. but they will need to stop their four-game downward spiral against Adrian College Saturday if they want any chance of salvaging both their conference and season records. 
The Belles (5-11) are currently tied for last in the MIAA, don­ning an unimpressive 1-4 con­ference record 
Disclaimer: Notre Dame Student Union Board does not encourage any of the activities portrayed in this movie. Watch at your own risk! 
Thursday 10 pm Friday & Saturday 8 & 10:30 pm 
DBRT 101 
$3 

defeated by all three opponent'i. The Irish edged out a win over Michigan State in a home dual meet in November. 
Northwestern leads the all­time series against Notre Dame 10-7. 
Northwestern's roster contains only one diver, but freshman Mike Oxman is one of the top divers in the Big Ten. Notre Dame's trio of senior divers ­Tong Xie, Joe Miller and Andy Maggio -are expected to con­tribute points after turning in strong performances in Philadelphia. 
A[ter Saturday's meet with Northwestern, Notre Dame will be back on the road for three more dual meets. First up will be Cleveland State (Jan. :-H), then St. Bonaventure (Feb. 1) and Oakland (Feb. 8). 
The Big East Championship will be held this year in 
Though ranked last, Saint Mary's shares their 1-4 record with Adrian and look to take advantage of Saturday's oppor­tunity for a victory. 
A win by the Belles would snap a four-game losing streak while the Bulldogs look to recover from a loss over Alma College this past Wednesday. 
The Belles will have a handful with Bulldogs senior guard Sarah Vincke who raked up a game high 26 points against the Scots. 
However, this is only a minor impediment as the rest of the Uniondale, N.Y. on Feb. 20-22. The Irish have been preparing for this meet all year long, and many swimmers on the roster have already qualified for the I3ig East meet. 
Standouts for the Irish include senior Jason Fitzpatrick in the 100-and 200-meter breast­stroke. Fitzpatrick looks to improve on his fifth-place finish in the 100-meter race last year against the Wildcats. Sophomore David Moisan and freshman Tyler Grenda also have posted Big East qualifying times in the 200-meter breaststroke. 
Matt Obringer will lead several relay teams for the Irish, as well as compete in the 100-and 500­meter freestyles. 
The Irish face Northwestern Saturday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 
Bulldog squad failed to score over nine points. 
The Belles encountered a simi­lar scoring drought in their Wednesday match as scoring leader Emily Creachbaum was only able to amass 12 points. 
Saint Mary's and Adrian appear to be statistically equal, so each team knows a win is possible. A victory could give the winner some momentum for the rest of the year while a defeat will leave the loser in last place. 
Contact Trey Williams at twillia6.@nd.edu 

Friday, January 24, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
in Boston was on Feb. 11, 1998. Besides, the Eagles have the But the Irish have never before motivation to knock off the Irish.

Mens 
played on national television or Two years ago in South Bend, been ranked when they played Martin Inglesby hit a game-win­

continued from page 20 
Boston College. And Notre Dame ning shot with seconds to play to Eagles are in the East Division. fans need only to look to the foot­lead the Irish to a 76-75 victory. the Irish only play at Boston ball season to see how the Eagles The Eagles certainly have the College once every four years. can sneak up and surprise a talent, too, to pull oIT an upset. The last time Notre Dame played team. Troy Bell, the 2000-01 co-Big 
ND 
e,r~..............i-nq 

Corner 
Baskets! 

Make and decorate baskets using a unique paper weaving technique. 
Friday, January 24, 2002 9:00pm 11: OOpm in the LaFortune Student Center Sorin Room 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information call 631-7308 or visit www.nd.edu/~sao/crafting 


lilrbe Most "POPULAR" f 011 Campus...111l•ll1i11!! g Voted "Best Delivered" Pizza AGAIN in ZO'IZ!! 


r------------,------------,--------------,------------1
I I I I I 
1 IIIIH 11Ht1;11l I Jhel'artWIIVIMGS 1 1Pet:mowl lP94•1, I The Raiders I 
: 1 Large 1 topping, I 1 large 1 topping, I 1 Large 1 topping, : 1 Large 1 topping, : I Breadsticks, and : Cheesesticks, and : Chickenstrips, and I Cinnapie, and I 1 2-liter Coca-Cola 1 2-liter Coca-Cola I 2-liter Coca-Cola I 2-liter Coca-Cola I : $11.99" I $13.99* I $13.99* I $13.99* : 
I I I I I :------------~-----------~--------------~-----------,I 
I I I I I I Ih• Gruden I Bad Bo,s I I 
I P•P•'I Gb0 h:r• I I Party Pack I 
1 3 Large 1 topping, 1 Large 1 topping 1

I 1 1 1 1
X-large with 4 Large 1 topping

I pizzas, 2 Breadsticks, Get a Cinnapie for free! J I
I 1

I 2 toppings $24.99* I
I I and 2-liter Coca-Cola 1 $9.99 I $10.99* I $28.99* I •expires 2/01103 I : 
~ ..---------__..__-----------'------------__.__----.~-~---.. 
*Original or Thin Crust Where Available. Coupon expires 2/28/03. Nut valid with any other offer. Valid at paruc1patmg loca­
tions. Customer pays all applicable taxes 
SAINT MA.RY'S Z71-1177 Z71-PAPA 
NOTRE DAME 

East Player of the Year, leads a potent offense which also includes Craig Smith and Ryan Sidney, who average 23, 21.5 and 15.1 points a game, respec­tively. 
"I don't know if our team has ever gone into Boston College with these dynamics," Irish head coach Mike Brey said. 
Notre Dame's play on the road this season can be described at best a work in progress. Once again. the Irish travel on the road to play a tough foe on national television. The first time they did it Jan. 6, Pittsburgh sent the Irish back to South Bend searching for answers. The next time, a week ago in Kentucky. the Wildcats blew out the Irish. 
But a win at Providence Tuesday -the team's first road victory of the season -gives Brey reason enough to believe the Irish have learned how to handle themselves on the road. 
"The Providence fans couldn't wait to get us in that building and I'm sure the BC fans can't wait to put us on their floor," Brey said. "It'll be a great atmosphere, and we've learned how to handle that a little better." 
Brey steadfastly declares that Notre Dame's success on the road is directly related to how sophomore Chris Thomas plays. Against top-10 foes Pittsburgh and Kentucky, who swarmed Thomas with stifling defenses, the Irish point guard averaged just 9.5 points and five assists. 
At Providence, however, Brey felt Thomas might have turned the corner in terms of how he 
quarterbacks the Irish un the road. 
"Ile can make plays most col­lege basketball players cannot make," Brey said. "I think he got into a rhythm at Kentucky where he couldn't get into any flow at all. Tuesday, he did a very good job getting us going as a group and picking his spots." 
Notre Dame tends to struggle the most when Thomas tries to take over a game. Against Kentucky, Thomas forced up tough 3-point shots and tossed off-balanced shots toward the basket throughout the night. 
Thomas has also been criti­cized f'or having a tendency to focus on individual one-on-one matchups when he plays top point guards, an issue for the Irish. While Brey says such a focus may come from Thomas' competitive instincts, he knows the Irish are most successful when Thomas starts looking at the big picture. 
In fact, Brey doesn't think the Irish would have beat Texas and star guard T.J. Ford two months ago had Thomas been locked in on his matchup with Ford. 
"Last year's team was a little different, and he's still learning how to run this group," Brey said. "It's still a learning process with him, and he's a very coach­able guy. He's a guy who can sometimes be too confident, but I never want to chip away at that because that's what makes him a big-time guy." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

.' 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 24, 2003 
against average of 1.51 and a conference play with a .261 cfli­"We have to have confidence," 
WOMENS TENNIS 

.962 save percentage. He was ciency percentage. he said. "But it's hard to create
leers 

the goaltender of record in last "That's a real key," Poulin confidence. It has to happen by continued from page 20 year's victory over the Spartans. said. 'That's been a huge reason winning." 
Regardless of who is in net for for their increased offense." career games against the the Irish, a key to defeating the Poulin understands the impor­Spartans, Cey owns an impres­Spartans will be to stop their tance of this weekend's game in Contact Justin Schuver at sive 1-1-0 record with a goals power play, which is No. 1 in terms of righting the Irish ship. jschuver@nd.edu 
Irish look 
to extend 
streak 
By JOE LINDSLEY Spom W ricer 
After winning their ninth home opener in 10 seasons, the Irish will attempt to win their 11th straight road opener on Sunday when they head to Wisconsin, the land of dairy farms and the realm of the Badgers' ten­nis squad that knocked the Irish out of the NCAA tour­nament last season. 
The 30th-ranked Badgers are essentially the same team they were last spring, but the No. 22 Irish are young. Sunday's match against Wisconsin will be the beginning of a schedule that is anything but cheesy. 
"Our next two matches are really big," freshman Jennifer Smith said. "I think if everyone kind of holds their own in doubles, that will be important. I think we can definitely win the doubles point." 
The caliber of their com­petition is going to increase soon though. The Irish will play at least nine teams currently ranked in the top­16 nationwide. 
Because of that tough schedule, it is important for the Irish to use their early matches to build confidence and maintain morale. 
"We have nothing to lose," freshman Kristina Strastny said. "We're just going to go out there and give it all we've got." 
Notre Dame began its spring season on a note of high confidence with its 5-2 defeat of Western Michigan on Wednesday. 
"Everyone felt like they played well," junior Alicia Salas said. "Everyone fought very hard, even [in] the matches we lost." 
Though senior captain Katie Cunha admits of a lit­tle "bad blood" between the two teams. there is not a sense of a real rivalry. Irish coach Jay Louderback is quick to say that last year's tournament Joss to 
Wisconsin  was  Notre  
Dame's first loss  to  the  
Badgers in awhile.  

"With Wisconsin, it's a good rivalry [but not a seri­ous one]." Louderback said. "Both teams play hard. It's a tough place to play." 
Salas, calling the Badgers a "classy" team, is looking forward to Sunday's meet. 
"The veterans on the team are [especially] excit• ed to get the chance to play them again," she said. "It's even more exciting because we have such a new team this year and everyone is very enthusiastic." 
Nevertheless, the Irish expect a challenge. 
"They're about the same team as they were a year ago," Louderback said. "They're a pretty talented group." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindslcy@nd.edu 
,,., 
/,,-"' 
, ,,/ 
,
,,
, 
,I I I ,I 
I 
t 
,I 
, 
t 
I I 
,I 
I I I I 
,I 
J' 
I I I 
I I I 
I I I 

Now it's time to put on your thinking cap. 
I I I I I 1 
I I I I I 
' 
1 
1 I I 
' 
1 
I I 
1 
I 
1 I I 
I I 
1 
I I 
'I 
I I 
' I 
' I 
1 
' ' I ' ' ' 1 

It's time to start thinking about graduation and 
putting yourself to good use. At Ernst & Young, we 
offer achallenging, stimulating environment where 
you will be given many opportunities to use your mind 
FORTUNE' and stretch and grow in your career. Start here. 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ 
TO WORK FOR~ 

ey.com/us/careers , fi.{1fRNST& YOUNG 
Quality In Everything We Do 
---------.. ·­
page 17

Friday, January 24, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS 
ND WOMENS SWIMMING 
Team returns healthy bodies to Ohio meet 


Conference opponent Bowling diver Chrissy Habeeb will not By PAT LEONARD Green and Conference-USA compete. Sports Writer teams Louisville and St. Louis. Although the Irish lose their 
According to coach Bailey best diver. Perry-Eaton. for the meet due to medical reasons,
Last weekend's victory at Weathers, Louisville and Illinois boosts the womens Bowling Green they still 
have the

swimming and diving team present the record to 5-1 ·l in dual meet biggest chal-"Louisville and Bowling talent to competition, leaving the Irish lenges for Notre counter
Green are better in 
with two meets to go before Dame this week­Bowling 
end. different events. Green's
the Big East Championships 
strengths.

next month. "Louisville and Louisville's strength lies On Saturday, the team trav­Bowling Green "Bowling
in the middle-distance 
els to Bowling Green, Ohio. to are better in dif­Green is 
ferent events," freestyle events." better in
compete against Mid-American Weathers said. the stroke "Louisville's events,"
Balley Weathers
strength lies in Weathers 
Irish coach
the middle-dis­said. "I 
tance freestyle events." 
The Irish welcome the return of freshman Christel Bouvron, who missed the Illinois meet due to a virus. Bouvron won the 200-meter freestyle (2 min­utes, 8.04 seconds) against Kansas in Acapulco. 
Bouvron, senior tri-captain Heidi Hendrick and junior Danielle Hulick will counter the Cardinals' strength with their skill in the freestyle events. Hulick captured the 50­meter freestyle (24.22) at Illinois. 
Bouvron and most of the other swimmers absent from the Irish's previous meet will return to competition on Saturday. Only junior Marie Labosky, junior diver Meghan Perry-Eaton and sophomore 
wouldn't foresee huge problems with what we're doing /on Saturday]." 
The team must maintain a -.. consistent effort throughout the remainder of the season as they hope to enter the Big East Championships on a winning note. 
"{Our effort] is not an issue. As we get closer to the Big East Championships, training changes and we give the girls more rest and do some more fast-paced type stuff," Weathers said. "We'll be pretty sharp for the Big East's." 
The Irish swim at Bowling Green Saturday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


326 N. Ironwood
52750 IN 933 
574 ¦143-1111
574¦143-1111 
Comer of Ironwood & McKinley
Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's 

FREE DELIVERY, $7.00 Minimum For Delivery. Not Valid With Any Other Offer. Limited Time Only. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 24, 2003 
ND WOMENS BASKETBALL 

Irish seek solace on the road against 'Cats 
what the Irish need. Since theBy KATIE McVOY holidays, Notre Dame has suf­
A.sscx:iate Sports Writer 
fen~d from mental mistakes and lapses in attention. But what's The Irish know one simple worse, the more games they
thing. They're tired oflosing. 
have dropped to opponents. the 
"It's come down to, we're sick more they have begun to doubt 
of it," freshman Megan Duffy themselves. 
said. 
"I think right now we're lack­
Notre Dame ing a lot of con­
dropped its 
fidence,"
"It's come down to, we're
last four 
LaVere said. 
home games, sick ofit." "We haven't and as they really been take to the 
able to get up
Megan Duffy
road Saturday 
to our level of 
to face Irish guard 
play.  Some  
games  we  
don't have intensity."  

With Notre Dame back to using men as opponents in prac­tice and the Irish needing a win, Saturday would be a good time for the Irish to pick up that intensity. After playing Villanova, the Irish hit the heart of the Big East schedule that would allow them to pick up some victories and make up for early season mistakes. 
But Villanova will do all it can to prevent Notre Dame from using them as the springboard for a much-needed boost of con­fidence. The Wildcats present the Irish with a new strategy. The Irish have faced several teams that speed up their play. who are short and quick and athletic. But Villanova is differ­ent. 
"They're a different team," Duffy said. "The coaches were Villanova, they are going to be looking to stop losing. It's 


time for a victory. 
"I just think we have to refo­cus a little bit," Duffy said. "I think if we keep that in the back of our minds we're going to slowly turn things around." 
Statistically, Notre Dame has a better shot of turning things around as well. They have won six of their seven road games this year, with the only Joss corning against Tennessee. And despite the fact that most of the players would rather play in front of a home crowd, the upcoming road trip may do something to raise team morale. 
"We haven't been successful. but a home game I'll take any day," Courtney Lavere said. "Hopefully this road trip will boost our confidence." 
A boost in confidence is just telling us the other day that they're different than any team we've ever faced." 

The Wildcats aren't as athlet­ic, they slow the ball down, but they move. A lot. 
The Irish will have to focus on maintaining their defensive assignments and watching out for where the Wildcats are mov­ing. 
"They're always moving," Duffy said. "[The coaches} told us that we're going to be run­ning around in circles trying to guard. One mistake we make on defense and they've got a lay­up." 
Tip off is at noon Saturday at Villanova. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 





Convenient bus access from Library Circle and Notre Dame Avenue Circle, with service Monday through Saturday.* 
*Check #7 Notre Dame/University Park Malf schedule for times. 
Getting to class is just ""'-· ;;\
-,;~~;·,.. or area restaurants. So one of the many reasons · , , check out TRANSPO, students ride public offering bus service 
~J\ 

transportation every day. They also throughout South Bend ride it to go to the mall, the movies, and Mishawaka. 
For route & schedule information please call: 
22~~ . 22~~~ 

-fZ:~-,-1.~l 
Wherever Life Takes You 

The Office of Undergraduate Studies in the College of Arts and Letters is pleased to announce the opening of the 
)£cove 

an Educational Resource Center and Gallery for Undergraduate Students located in 102 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
I,
I. 
Open Daily from 
8.00 am to 5.00 pm 

Friday, January 24, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 

JACK MONAHAN
HAPPY TOWN 
Oh really...? Get this-Mary said that you were much cuter
I 
without the beard. She 
prefers clean shaven. 
I 
... What? 
If~-__ !... 
'h' 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 41 Fashion 1 Cozy winter accessory given wear in May, maybe 
16 Was vindicated 42 Occupational 
suffix

17 Ruth Etting's trademark tune 
43 First name in objectivism

18 Hurricane heading: Abbr. 
44 Rubbish 19 Some Dadaist 
48 II often has a collectibles 
red coat 20 Forward-looking 
50 Ancient Egyptian royal woman? 

emblems21 With 56-Across, 54 Apologue author features of 

some pens 56 See 21-Across 
23 Gymnasts 59 Mr. 0, in rarely see them 1960's-70's headlines
26 Match disappointment so Most game shows have 
27 Well-gotten them
gain? 64 Some army
30 Full deck at exercises
Caesars Palace? 65 II may sway a jury
31 English class topic 
40 Some long­DOWN distance 1 Movable receivers musical symbol 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

2 Forsaken 3 Kick up one's heels 4 2000 Peace Nobelist Kim _Jung 5 1963 title role for Shirley 6 Grandpa Walton 
portrayer Will 7 Take in aSagas, say 9 Chase vehicle, 
briefly 1 O First word of Burns's "To a 
Mouse" 11 Those, to Jose 12 Percussion 
instrument 13 Vigorous exercise system 14 Prizes since 1949 15 Proiectionlsts' needs 22 Skin care product 
24 Brand of skin 
care product 
25 Club 
28 Spanish key 
29 Langtry of the stage 31 Canadian financial market 
inits. 32 See 47-Down 33 Took in 34 Rose and fell, in 
away 35 Be different 36 Patsy's 
"Absolutely 
Fabulous" pal 

WILLSHORTZ 

PunllbyBobl'eoplN 
37 Practically 46 Move in on 57 Orkney Islands settler
valueless 47 With 32-Down, 
monetary unit 
pickup choice 

58 Egyptian king of38 Home to a 49 Touchy one? the 19thcranberry crop 51 Noted 1920's dynasty39 Former lottery murder
runner: Abbr. 61 Giant legend 
defendant 
44 Queen, worker 52 Spruce up 62 Quickor soldier 
45 Charge with 53 Cream puff 63 Pick-up-sticks another duty 55 Landing area game 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Amold and Mike Arglrlon 
JI~ 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
­to form four ordinary words, 
SOULE 
rIJ 
C2003 Tribune Media Services, Inc. Jl.11 A1ghlS Reser.ted. 
LAAVI 
All he wants ~ ~­
·to do Is crash , ~· 
by the Po<>I
I I I 
I-%. I 1 
BIUMED 
WHAT THI= ROCK­STAR BE=C.AMI= 
WHEN

I I I 
www.}umb~ com 
HI= Wl:NT ON VACATION. 
DRAIMY j 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as
I I ( t J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

~r here: AN ( ~~~
J XI ] 
(Answers tomorrow 

Yesterday' Jumbles: ICING LEAVE TORRID BODICE 5 Answer: How the orthopedist felt at the end of the day 
-"BONE" TIRED 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIIS DAY: Susan Dey, Gloria Loring, Harold Gould, Kcrmh Branagh 
Happy Birthday: This will be a busy year, full of excitement and adventure. Love and romance will be all aroW1d you. You will excel in whatever you decide to pursue by following your intuition. Your numbers are 3, 19, 27, 31, 36, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Unexpected expenses will put you over your budget Do OOI overspend or you could find yourself way overextended, paying the price in the New Year. Restraint and nxxb-ation will be the key. 1<tt TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't take your personal problem; to work with you. The tension and stress at hom: are a direct result of the additional wmc family m:mbers have pa:ro 00 you. 1:klegate S01re tasks to othern, tttt GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will attract a new !Xlflller with your ability to charm, using your quick wit and open-minded concept of life. Your growing awareness has been instrwnental in aiding you to becom: a free spirit who is ready for anything. ti** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your temper will be explosive. Try to think before you say something that you will regret Work on your own where you can stay out ofooublc. ~ LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your communication skills will be great with everyone but the ones you love. It will be harrl for you to hide your true frelings. Just tell it like it is, try to sat out your differm:es and get rn with your day. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Concentrate on work-related matters. Small details will make a difference. Don't allow anyone to lead you astray or upset your routine. ** LIBRA (Sept. 2.l-Oct. 22): You can find that great bargain if you get out and shop today. Try to get to lhe gym You need to keep aL'tive and in shape or you will be unhappy wilh yowself. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 2.1-Nov. 21): Someone you live with will not be too stable. Tread carefully if you want to keep lhe peace. Try to help figure out a solution to the p~ent situatim **** 
SAGITL\RIUS (Nov. 22-Doc. 21): Bum:ss trips soould mng about interesting ~ties. Don't hesitate to make moves if they will broaden your chances of success. Lisren when cwxtunity knocks. tt CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put your energy into moneymaking proje(.1S. An older relative may try to put LlllmlSOnable demands on you. Don1 make promises that you koow you f.lUOObly can't keep. tt** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Everyone you live with is stressed out Don't be too concerned, just get your duties out of the way and do the best you can. Don't let others dragyouintoalraledderale. tt-k PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Dealing with imtitutions will be upsetting. Oear matters up as quickly as possible and tum your thoughts to happier endeavors. A yoW1ger relative will need you. ** 
Birthday Baby: You will back do\1111 from nothing in your life and will always know the best route to follow. You will relish the thought of being the center of attention and wiU do whaleveris ~torein the furelighL 
Ckck out Eugenia's Web Sites atastrrndvice.com, rugenialastcom, astromate.com 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
----------------------------------~---------~~-------------------------~-­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 


PORTS 
Friday, January 24, 2003 

... HOCKEY 
Spartans invade the JACC 

+ Streaking Michigan State will test struggling Irish this weekend 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Writer 
Two teams heading in oppo­site directions will meet this weekend at the Joyce Center. 
Notre Dame (9-11-4, 7-8-1 in the CCHA), coming off a two­game sweep by Yale last week. look to get back on the right track against conference foe Michigan State (13-9-1, 9-6-0). 
The Spartans are the hottest team in the league, coming into this weekend's games on a five game winning streak, including two wins over CCHA foe Nebraska-Omaha last weekend to move into fourth place in the conference. 
The Irish, meanwhile, are mired in a five game winless streak (0-4-1) and have not won since a 5-3 road victory over Nebraska-Omaha on Jan. 
3. They have been outscored 22-12 in that five game span. 
Despite being on a downward spiral while the Spartans play so well, Notre Dame coach Dave Poulin said he wouldn't have his team face any other opponent this weekend. 
"I say let's just get out there and play," he said. "We know they're a good team and what we have ahead ofus." 
If history repeats itself, the Irish will be able to take a good performance from this week­end and use it as momentum to finish out the rest of the season. 
Last year, the Irish stunned then No. 3 Michigan State with a 3-2 win, breaking a 33-game home unbeaten streak for the Spartans. Notre Dame was able to use the momentum from that win to finish out the regular season with four straight victo­ries. 
"The timing [of this matchup] is eerily similar," Poulin said. 
For the Irish to do well against the Spartans, they will have to stop a high-powered and balanced offense. Forwards Jim Slater and David Booth, with 28 and 23 points respectively, lead the offensive unit. 
Slater is especially hot, after being named the CCHA offen­sive player of the week after becoming the first Spartan player in six years to score five points in a game, which he did in Michigan State's 7-2 win over Nebraska-Omaha. 
Michigan State also claims the top two scoring defensernen in CCHA play with John­Michael Liles (24 points) and Brad Fast (21). 
The biggest question mark for the Spartans coming into this season was in net. Last year's Hobey Baker winner -the award given to the top player in collegiate hockey -goaltender 
ANDY KENNNThe Observer 

Irish defenseman Evan Nielsen attempts to get the puck away from a Bowling Green player In a match earlier this season. The lrlsh host high-flying Michigan State this weekend. 
Ryan Miller, is currently play­fourth in the CCHA with a 2.39 
ing in the NHL with the Buffalo goals-against average. 
Sabres. The Irish will more than like­
In Miller's place, Matt ly counter with sophomore 
Magliaccio has become the Morgan Cey in net. In three 
Spartans' No. 1 netminder. He see I CERS/ page I 6 has an 11-5-1 record and ranks 
MENS BASKETBALL 

BC still a 'home' game for Francis 
Yet the Irish are slowly learn­ing how to play on the road, and Francis symbolizes how the Irish are getting accus­tomed to hostile environments. 
In the final of the Guardians Classic against Creighton, Francis played a mere six min­utes. He only scored six and eight points in Notre Dame's road losses to top-10 foes Pittsburgh and Kentucky. 
But he scored 13 in Notre Dame's first road win of the season Tuesday against Providence and has settled into the regular rotation, which in turn gives him more confidence heading into Saturday's game. 
He is also the only player on Notre Dame's roster who has even been to Conte ForUin, let alone played in it. Because the 
see MENS/page I 5 

By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 

The ticket requests, Torin Francis estimates, are quickly spiraling into the 50s. 
Everybody wants to see the Roslindale, Mass. native make his triumphant return to his home state Saturday. Everybody save Boston College fans. 
"It's in my home town, but it's still an away game," he said. "They're going to come out and ready to go, and we're pumped up to go get another one." 
When Notre Dame (15-3, 3-1 in the Big East) and Boston College (8-7, 1-3) play on ESPN Saturday, it will be just the fourth true road game the Irish have played in this year. 
MENS TRACK 
Irish hope to build on opener 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
Armed with a new throws coach, the mens track team opens the home portion of its 2003 indoor schedule with a meet against Ball State tonight at the Loftus Sports Complex at 7 p.m. 
B.J. Linnenbrink, a 2002 Florida State graduate, was named throws coach last week and provides a major lift to the program. With Linnenbrink's addition to the staff, Scott Winsor will relinquish the throws while remaining jumps coach. 
"He will help the throwers and the jumpers," head coach Joe Piane said of Linnenbrink. "Scott Winsor had the monu­mental task of working with all our field events. but now both coaches will be able to spend more time with the players." 
Piane was pleased with his team's opening action at the Central Michigan Opener last week. 
"Selim Nurudeen won and had one of the top times in the Big East," Piane said. "We had two runners do well in the 400, Ryan Postel and Trevor McClain-Duer. Thomas Chamney won the 800 as well. 
"We did a lot of good things. I was also pleased with the high jumpers. There really was nothing to be disappointed with." 
In addition to the wins at Central Michigan by Nurudeen and Chamney, sophomore Chris Staron also won the high jump by clearing 6-6. Godwin Mbagwu finished second in the long jump and triple jump as well. 
This will be the first time during the indoor season that the entire team will be in action. While Notre Dame's strength lies in the distance runners, according to Piane, Ball State will challenge the Irish in the field events. 
"They will pose a real chal­lenge in the pole vault and long jump," he said. "They have some decent jumpers too. It will be a good test for the kids that haven't competed. Our schedule will get progres­sively more difficult though with Michigan State coming in next week." 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
en 
ND WOMENS BB.ALL 
WOMENS SWiMMING 
ND WOMENS TENNIS 

MENS TENNIS 
MENS SWIMMING RECRUITING 
As signing day

1--
LLI c.:, Notre Dame at Notre Dame at Notre Dame at Indiana at Notre Northwestern at approaches, verbal com­mitmenls begin to fly in 
VIiianova Bowling Green Wisconsin Dame Notre Dame

a: !3 
for the Irish, who now
Saturday, noon Saturday, 10 a.m. 
Saturday, noon Friday, 4 p.m. 

Saturday, 2 p.m. 
have 17 with the words luck turns as they get The Irish hope their The Irish look to con-
c:,: After a strong opener, The Hoosiers and Dual meet to be the of John Sullivan and back on the road. 
tinue their success as the 
the Irish look for a vie-

Irish battle it out for last of the season at 
Dwight Stephenson. 
regular season ends. 
tory on the road. 

Indiana bragging rights. 
Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
a. ti 

en 
page 12page 18 page 17 
page 16 
page 14 page 14 






