
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Concerns raised over rights infringement 
the USA PATRIOT Act, the docu­ernment several additional Notre Dame intellectual com­By BETH ERICKSON ment that created the restric­powers, including the right to munity to raise similar con­
News Writer 

tions under which the State deny non-citizens admission cerns. 
Department into the U.S. for expressing their "I recognize that defending 
Editor's Note: This is the sec­denied 
political views -which has the United States from attack ond in a three-part series Ramadan raised some eyebrows in the must be a paramount concern exploring the controversies and entry into the Ramadan case. of our government, but in taking implications surrounding the United Groups such as the American responsible measures to protect visa revocation of Tariq States. Civil Liberties Union have ourselves and our loved ones, Ramadan, a professor who was The PATRI­argued that the Act directly vio­we must also be particularly schedule to begin teaching at OT Act was lates the Bill of Rights because it careful not to betray the princi­Notre Dame this fall. created after grants the government license ples and values that define our 
Sept. 11 to to investigate persons, citizen? greatness as a nation," Kroc 
-The revocation of Professor arm law Ramadan and non-citizens without that Institute director Scott Appleby Tariq Ramadan's visa has enforcement which they call due process. said. "These principles should sparked debate on Notre officials with new tools to detect The government's decisions not be suspended because the Dame's campus and nationwide and prevent terrorism. It has regarding Ramadan have about the long-term effects of also, in effect, granted the gov-spurred several members of the see PATRIOT/page 8 


Political editors clash over Iraq 
Top journalists Corn, Lowry debate election 
By MADDIE HANNA 
News Writer 
National Review editor Richard Lowry and The Nation Washington editor David Corn focused on the Iraq War Wednesday night during a spirited debate on the upcoming election in front of a packed house at Washington Hall. 
Lowry, conservative author of "Legacy: Paying the Price for the Clinton Years", defended the war against the more liberal Corn, author of 'The Lies of George W Bush: Mastering the Politics of Deception." 
The debate, moderated by Center for Social Concerns execu­tive director Father Bill Lies was 
see DEBATE/page 10 



Board votes against The Library 
Owner alleges city grudge against him 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Editor 
The county alcohol board unanimously decided Wednes­day not to recommend the renewal of the liquor license of The Library Irish Pub, a popu­lar student bar that was the site of two police raids in less than a year. 
Contending that owner Chuck Hammons lost his chance for approval by break­ing an agreement made a year ago, the St. Joseph County 
see BAR/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Istvan gives State of Union 

President's speech highlights progress 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
Associate News Editor 
Fulfilling his constitutionally mandated duty, student body pres­ident Adam Istvan delivered the State of the Student Union Address to Student Senate before its meet­ing Wednesday night. 
The speech detailed his adminis­tration's past achievements; cur­rent projects and future goals. 
Istvan began by discussing his meeting with University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh after the spring election, and what he learned from the encounter. 
"He told us that during his tenure as president, he did only two major things to improve this university: Open the administra­tion to laity and bring women into the Notre Dame student body," Istvan said. "He said, 'Sure I did some other things, but my advice to you is this: Focus on one or two things that you can do, here and now, that will make a lasting dif­ference for Notre Dame.'" 
Istvan wove the idea of "focus" throughout the rest of the speech, going on to detail what he has done and hopes to do during his term. 
He lauded the success of the DVD rental in LaFortune, which he reported has 500 students cur­rently registered in the Huddle Video database and has already met the goal of 100 rentals per week required to make the service financially self-sufficient. 
The introduction of Fair Trade coffee into the dining halls and the Huddle was also a point of empha­sis for I~tvan, who thanked the 
see SPEECH/page 8 

SENATE 



Non-discrimination amendment passed 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
Associate News Editor 
After the State of the Student Union address by student body president Adam Istvan, Student Senate passed a non-discrimi­nation clause amendment to the Student Union constitution at Wednesday's meeting. 
Introduced to the floor by Diversity Affairs committee chair Nicholas Coleman, the amendment recognizes the equality of all, "regardless of color, gender, religion, ethnici­
ty, sexual orientation, social or 
economic class and nationality" 
and forbids any act that goes 
against these standards. Under 
the clause, allegations of dis­
crimination will be dealt with 
by the Student Union Ethics 
Committee. 
"This amendment helps the 
process of eliminating discrimi­
nation at Notre Dame, and 
ensures that the Student Union 
is fair to everyone," Coleman . said. He added that such clauses 
see SENATE/page 6 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, September 23, 2004 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Sleep is good 
I awoke from my slumber at the 
right time during a lecture the 
other day, as the professor made an 
earth-shaking declaration about the 
human species-human beings are 
actually made to 
sleep twice a day. 
Okay, maybe 
not so earth­
shaking, but I 
found this to be 
quite intriguing, 
and as I began to 
daydream once 
again (if you are 
my professor 
reading this, I 
promise I pay 
attention for 
most of the 
class). I started 
to think what it 
would be like if everyone included 
this second sleep period in their 
daily schedule. 
Obviously college students do this 
all the time-go to bed late, wake 
up for class and then take a little 
two-hour nap afterwards. But once 
we graduate we probably will not 
have this luxury anymore. 
Why does it have to be that way 
though? 
Why can't we just decide that 
we're all going to sleep for a couple 
hours in the middle of the day? 
I don't know anyone that would 
be against that idea. 
There arc societies in this world 
where this tradition is followed. 
Although it may seem silly to some 
in our hard-working, industrial cul­
ture, several cultures around the 
world allow for an afternoon nap. 
Sp~'lin. Mexico and Italy all find it all right to take a nap in the day­time. 
It would be nice if we could learn a thing from these nations and incorporate siestas into our own daily routine. It isn't like other soci­eties just came up with the idea a few years ago. It is human nature, and these nations have found ways to be successful without eliminating any accomodation for those who fit their second sleep period into their schedules. 
Unfortunately, our nation is surely too industrialized to consider mak­ing siestas a popular thing anytime soon. 
And so we must treasure these days of college, these days when you can sleep until 11:00, go to your 12:30 class, and take a nice three-hour nap in the afternoon, because before you know it you'll be working in some office for 12 straight hours from sunrise to sun­set wishing you could sleep the way you do now. 
Maybe it is just my lack of sleep this week and the fact that I am writing this column at 12:30 a.m. without even starting my homework yet that I would think so much about sleep. 
But it is a nice thought. So if you've read this far and my column hasn't bored you to death just yet, feel free to go reward yourself with a nap, and don't feel bad about it­it's only normal. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer Contact Mike 1/arkins at mharkin@nd.edu. 


CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and mives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO WOULD WIN A DEBATE BETWEEN RUSH LIMBAUGH AND MICHAEL MOORE? 







Katie Miller Erin McDermott Eduardo Salinas Frank Duerson Dmytro Aponte 
freshman freshman sophomore sophomore law student Lewis Lewis St. Edward's Keough Fischer 
"Rush "Rush "Rush "Michael Moore, "Michael Moore 
Limbaugh, Limbaugh, Limbaugh will because I don't will win, because he's because I don't win because like the name because he smarter than agree with he's a man and Limbaugh. " won't be on 
Michael Moore." Michael Moore. " Michael Moore 
isn't." 

Dad says school duct-taped son's pants 
DUNlAP, Ind. -An out­raged father of a seventh­grader says an assistant principal duct-taped his son's pants to keep them from sagging then sent him back to class. 
Scott Allison told the Concord School Board on Monday that his 12-year-old son, Spencer, said last week that a teacher asked him to lift his shirt after she noticed the boy's underwear was showing above his pants, a violation of Concord Junior High School's dress code. 
She sent him to Assistant Principal Patricia Walters, Wednesday. 

The crew was filming the robbery scene Tuesday on a street in Novi Sad, 30 miles north of Belgrade, as part of a project to be shown in a multimedia performance at the nearby Serbian National Theater. 
"We had just put black stockings on our heads and were carrying plastic hand­guns needed for the scene, when about 30 policemen surrounded us with pistols pointed at us," actor Aleksandar Gajin told the Vecernje Novosti newspaper. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

who told Spencer to pull up his pants and tuck in his shirt, Allison said. 
"She then proceeded to duct tape his waist, three times around the waist," said Allison. "Then she sent him back to class. in front of his peers." 
Actors filming robbery scene arrested 

BELGRADE, Serbin-Montenegro -A group of Serbian actors filming a bank robbery scene played their parts so well that police mistook them for the real thing and hauled them off to a police station, a newspaper reported 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
0::: 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
....I 

~ 
<C 
(,) 
0 
HIGH 85 HIGH 68 HIGH 73 HIGH 69
.... 
LOW 60 LOW 40 LOW 47 LOW 46 
pills. " 
IN BRIEF 
The Senior Class Council is offering Margaritaville tonight from 5 to 8:30 p.m. on the beach of St. Joseph's laJse behind Keenan Hall. Admission and food are free with driver's license and student !D. Beers and margaritas cost $2 each. The rain location is the Monogram Room of LaFortune. 
The Student Union Board will offer screenings of "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" starring Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet tonight at 10 p.m., and on Friday and Saturday at 8 and 10:30 p.m. The cost is $3, and it will take place in 101 DeBartolo Hall. 
Badin and Alumni Halls pres­ent the Frogs and Dogs on Fire bonfire tonight from 9 to 11 
p.m. on Holy Cross Hill. 
The Kellog Institute presents "Portugal Panel: Thirtieth Anniversary of Portugal's Revolutionary Transition to Democracy" today from 3:30 to 4:45 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Audiotorium. 
The improv group Comedy Sportz is corning to Washington Hall Friday night at 10 p.m. 
Saturday is the final day to register for the Oct. 29-31 NDE retreat. Sign-ups are in 114 Coleman-Morse. 
The Creative Writing Program joins the St. Joseph County Literacy Council in its annual book fair all day Saturday at the Barnes and Noble. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 
~ 

Atlanta 86 I 65 Boston 73 I 54 Chicago 84 I 60 Denver 67 I 43 Houston 88 I 70 Los Angeles 90 I 62 Minneapolis 72 I 52 New York 82 I 66 Philadelphia 84 I 64 Phoenix 95 I 70 Seattle 68 I 52 St. Louis 86 I 67 Tampa 90 I 70 Washington 86 I 65 
._ .... ~ ......,-.-... . -."--. 
Thursday, September 23, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC freshm.an runoff election set for today 
By ANGELA SAOUD Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's will hold part two of the freshman class presidential and vice presi­dential elections today after Tuesday's voting results led to a runoff between two tick­ets. 
Hocky Krivda and running mate Lauren McAllister advanced to today's runoff election with 30 percent of the vote. Colleen Kielty and running mate Maggie Siefert also advanced with 24 per­cent of the total vote. Five other tickets competed, mak­ing this election the largest in recent years at Saint Mary's. 
Elections commissioner Anna Bauer said 62 percent of the freshman class voted in Tuesday's election, and Bauer added that she and the candidates are hoping to raise the percentage who show up to the polls today. 
Both tickets did last minute door-to-door campaigning Tuesday night hoping to pro­mote their ideas on how to best serve the Class of 2008. 
Presidential candidate Krivda said she believes her and McAllister's backgrounds in high school student gov­ernment allows them to offer the freshman class new and exciting opportunities. 
"We plan to promote 
S.T.I.C.K. (School spirit, Teamwork, Integrating spiri­tuality, Community building and Keeping excellence)," Krivda said. "Our motto is, Stick with us, and we'll Stick with you!" 
Krivda also emphasized their history of leadership in community service organiza­tions and their approachable personalities. 
Vice presidential nominee Siefert said she and Kielty are ready to take big strides in a new role. 
"We were both captains of sports teams in high school, so we have the leadership skills this job takes," Siefert said. "We want to create a sense of unity for our class, and we feel we have some great coming together activi­ties in mind that will do just that." 
Siefert said she was awed by all the abilities of the other candidates. 
"Everyone here is so tal­ented," Siefert said. "It's a tough race because we're running against people with really great qualifications and qualities." 
Voting started at midnight and continues until 11:59 
p.m. Saint Mary's freshman can vote by logging onto PRISM and clicking the "Answer a Survey" section. 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 

Saint Mary's hosts justice setninar 
By NICOLE ZOOK News Writer 
As part of an effort to explore the impact of aging at individ­ual, family and community lev­els from a social justice per­spective, Saint Mary's will host a conference today and Friday on aging and related concerns entitled "Justice For All Ages In the Era of Extended Longevity." 
Over 300 students, faculty, staff and community members are registered to take part in the conference. It will consist of both group events and indi­vidua:l workshops focusing on such topics as improving quali­ty of care for the elderly, initia­tives to help their caregivers, developing age-inclusive com­munities and political advocacy as a necessary tool to address the issues of aging. 
As Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students graduate, they face the pressures of starting careers and families of their own. What many do not realize is they may end up as caretak­ers for not only their own young children, but also for elderly relatives with no other place to turn. 
"We are concerned about the growing number of what we call the sandwich generation," Sister Marianne Farina said. According to Farina, more and more young people are finding that as average life expectancy increases, so to does their level of responsibility to older family members. 
Farina, the director of 
Research and Scholarship for the Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership, is one half of a team of organiz­ers determined to find a solu­tion to this problem. She and JoAnn Burke, the Elderhood Institute coordinator, have designed a conference to address the issues of aging to members of the Saint Mary's communit.y. 
"I think students think that we're talking about issues that affect only the older genera­tion," Burke said. "But many of you will live to be 100 old.
years 

"We are concerned
We're rolling up Center for Public our sleeves and about the growing Leadership, getting into dia­number ofwhat we Richards has logue -· how can been prominent
call the sandwich 
we live? We need in the effort to the voices of the generation." improve health­younger genera­care and insur­
tion in that dia­Sr. Marianne Farina ance. She is also logue." 
Saint Mary's professor a strong advocate 
Both Burke and Farina said they believe it takes a village to raise a grandparent. 
"The way we are conducting the conference is the way we would like to behave," Farina said. "We are networking with all the various groups in the campus and in the community." 
Networking is an important concept to the conference and to the issue of aging itself, Farina said. The organizers have incorporated a variety of groups such as the Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center, CWIL, the Center for Spirituality, the Sisters of the Holy Cross and five depart­ments of study at Saint Mary's, among others. 
"It's about looking at the social services in our area, both in South Bend and in our state of Indiana, and also in our nation that support and help our senior citizens and their families," Farina said. 
In keeping with that spirit, the keynote speaker of the con­ference will be the Honorable Ann Richards, who served as Texas governor from 1991 to 1995. As a board member of the Harvard University John F. Kennedy School of Government 
of Medicare 

reform and vol­unteers for civil rights and eco­nomic justice causes. 
Farina said she feels Richards is an excellent candi­date to speak on the topic of extended longevity from a social perspective. 
"She has really been speak­ing out about this issue, and she has really put it on the page for everyone to look at," Farina said. "She is a voice that has really been advocating the need to look at these issues." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
The Law School presents 


''The SEC at 70'' 
Commemorating the 70th Anniversary of the Securities and Exchange Commission 
Thursday, September 23, 2004 
3:00 p.m. until 6:00p.m. 
Friday, September 24, 2004 
9:00 a.m. until12:00 noon 
Marie P. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
For program content, visit the Symposium web site at http://www.nd.edu/--ndlaw/conferences/sec/ 
Thursday, September 23, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 




Mendoza, IBM hold 
m.anagem.ent contest 
By KATlE PERRY 
News Writer 
The Mendoza College of Business and IBM teamed up Wednesday for the first­ever Notre Dame MBA Case Competition, a contest with the underlying aim of increasing the number of Notre Dame alums employed by the corpora­lion. 
Houghly 40 competition 
-a crucial element of his job search. 
Suhanic's reward is repre­sentative of the relationship between Notre Dame and IBM. 
The software company is comprised of numerous small subsets, each with the foremost goal of ranking first or second in their respective market. In order to accomplish this goal IBM actively seeks intelligent and decisive individ­
entrants were 

"We're trying to uals, Michael 
presented 
Riegel, director 

with a man­identify the new 
of On Demand agement situ­leaders ofIBM. " Marketing and ation involving 
Strategy for IBM 
the Mercury 
Global Services,

Michael Riegel
Computer 
said. 

Systems and IBM Global Services 
"We're trying

asked to Director 
address the issue in the form of a writ­ten analysis. Six finalist teams were then selected to present their ideas to a panel of judges made up of Mendoza faculty members and current IBM employees. 
The winner of the contest, Notre Dame graduate stu­dent Kevin Suhanic of Cleveland, was rewarded with an all-expense paid trip to IBM's headquarters in New York. There, he will be given the opportunity to interact with IBM executives 
-


Professor leads relationship talk 
Students discuss dating and marriage at first Theology on Tap session 
By KEN WALSH 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students gath­ered with Professor of Psychology, David Smith, at Legends on Wednesday night to discuss dating and relation­ships in this year's first session of Theology on Tap. 
Smith's self-proclaimed "doom and gloom" talk focused on finding love and dealing with conflict in a marriage or other relationship. 
"The idea that there is 'the one' out there is ridiculous, and 
to identify the 
new leaders of 
IBM," Riegel 
said. 
The overall success of this collaboration has already led competition organizers to begin thinking about future contests. 

"On the plane coming in [to South Bend] we dis­cussed how we wanted to do this again next year," said Riegel. "We were over­whelmed with the results." 
Contact Kattie Perry at kparry5@nd.edu 

I'm very, very sorry to be the one to tell you this, but you've got to give it up," Smith said. 
He said that while it is a com­mon conception that there is one person for every­one, in reality, there is a very 
"The idea that 
in a

there is 'the one' 
rela­out there is tionship have absolutely nothing 
ridiculous ... " 
to do with the long-term success 

David Smith 
of a relationship. psychology professor It doesn't predict 
large pool of people to whom any given individual can be successfully married. 
According to sophomore Kathleen Krcmaric, however, a merely successful marriage may not be sufficient. 
"I just think there is a differ­ence between a successful mar­riage and a happy marriage. I committed to everything [they! don't care if it is a successful do," he said. "I don't know marriage. I want to be happy whether that is a product of everyday," Krcmaric said. Notre Dame and the culture, or 
Smith also dealt with whether Notre Dame selects inevitable conflict in a relation­people that are like that". 
ship.  Smith offered  
"The best predic­ a  bit of advice  
tor of the course of marriage is how you handle con­flict," he said.  "/just think there is a difference between  about developing relationships, saying that truly healthy conver­ 
To the surprise of  a successful  sations with  no  
many, Smith negat­ed the importance of feelings of love in a relationship. "Feelings of love  marriage and a happy marriage.  overtones can be had in even the short time between classes. "There are a  
a n d satis­faction  Kathleen Krcmaric student  lot of people really missing out. there arc  

divorce, and it 

doesn't predict happiness in a relationship," Smith said. 
Regarding relationships at Notre Dame, it is Smith's belief that there is not enough dating, and the dating that occurs is too heavy and intense. 
"I think it is partly due to the fact that [students] are all over-
great people 

here, and the more of them you get to know, the better," Smith said. "But if there is a wall between the genders because you feel like you can only talk at this high level of commitment type of thing, then you are missing out." 
Theology on Tap will take place this semester on Sept. 29, Oct. 6 and Nov. 3, 10 and 17 on the club side of Legends. Doors open at 9:30 p.m. and the pres­entation begins at 10 p.m. 
Contact Ken Walsh at kwalsh@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 23, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
British hostage pleads for his life 
BAGHDAD. Iraq -A senior Iraqi official said Wednesday that a decision had been made to release a top female germ-war­fare scientist for Saddam Hussein, but Iraq's leader and U..S. officials moved quickly to squelch the idea that she would be freed soon. Iraqi militants who behead­ed two Americans have threatened to kill a Briton unless female detainees are let go. 
A videotape posted on an Islamic Web site later Wednesday showed a man identi­fying himself as British hostage Kenneth Bigley pleading for British Prime Minister Tony Blair to help save his life. 
European cities restrict traffic 
STOCKHOLM. Sweden -Hundreds of European cities and towns restricted auto traffic Wednesday, part of the continent's annual campaign to lower air pollution by encouraging commuters to use public transportation, bicycles or their feet instead of their cars. 
More than 1,500 municipalities, chiefly in Europe, participated in the seventh annual car-free day campaign by setting up roadblocks to prevent nonessential automobile traffic from entering city cen­ters. The campaign also spread to cities in Japan and South America. 
In Stockholm, a busy thoroughfare in the southern part of the capital was closed to all vehicle traffic. People were encouraged to walk or ride bikes to browse shops, and a local group offered historical walking tours of the Soedermalm neighborhood. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Government releases combatant 
WASHINGTON -The Justice Department has reached agreement with a U.S. citizen held as an enemy combatant for more than two years, clearing the way for him to return to Saudi Arabia. officials said Wednesday. 
The agreement also means that despite his long incarceration, Yaser Esam Hamdi will not face any criminal charges in the United States. 
Hamdi, born in Baton Rouge, La., .and raised in Saudi Arabia, will be flown by the Defense Department to Saudi Arabia as soon as transportation can be arranged. He was being held in a Navy brig in Charleston, S.C. He holds citizenship in Saudi Arabia. 
The agreement calls for Hamdi to renounce his U.S. citizenship and adhere to restrictions barring travel to certain coun­tries. 
Man pleads guilty for killing 2 
OREGON CITY, Ore. -A man accused of killing two of his daughter's friends, then hiding their bodies on his property pleaded guilty Wednesday to murder charges and received two life sentences in prison. 
Ward Weaver. 41, avoided the dea~h penalty by pleading guilty in the 2002 deaths of the girls, classmates and friends who disappeared within two months of each other. In total, he pleaded guilty Wednesday to 17 counts, including rape, sex abuse and abuse of a corpse. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Whooping cough rate increases 
SOUTH BEND -The number of whooping cough cases in Indiana has nearly doubled since 2003, and health officials are at a loss to explain why. 
Eighty-seven cases of whooping cough have been reported so far this year in Indiana, up from 44 cases recorded at the same time in 2003, health officials said. 
Wayne Staggs, an epidemiologist with the Indiana State Department of Health, said Saint Joseph County has the most cases in Indiana, with 18. 


Stevens causes flight disruption 
Plane grounded in Bangor, Maine, man aboard is found on U.S. "no-fly" list 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Singer Cat Stevens, taken off a London-to-Washington flight because his name showed up on a govern­ment "no-fly" list, has no ties to suspected terrorists. his brother said Wednesday. 
Stevens, who converted to Islam and changed his name to Yusuf Islam more than a quarter-century ago, recently made the watch list after U.S. authorities received infor­mation from multiple sources indicating he may have associations with potential terrorists. a gov­ernment official said. 
United Airlines Flight 919 was diverted to Bangor, Maine, on Tuesday afternoon after U.S. offi­cials who checked the pas­senger list learned that the singer was aboard. Federal agents met the plane and interviewed Islam. 
Islam's brother and busi­ness manager, David Gordon, said in a tele­phone interview that he could guarantee that Islam does not associate with possible terrorists. 

"It's not true," Gordon said. "His only work, his only mind-set, is humani­tarian causes. He just wants to be an ambassa­not immediately returned. States and Israel. Stephen Georgiou, took Cat dor for peace." Homeland ·Security In July 2000, Islam was Stevens as a stage name 
Gordon, who said he Department spokesman deported hours after arriv­and had a string of hits in spoke by phone to Islam on Dennis Murphy said Islam ing in Jerusalem. A local the 1960s and '70s, includ­Wednesday, said his broth­was "denied admission to paper reported then that ing "Wild World" and er was in good humor. the United States on the government claimed he "Morning Has Broken." "He's fine. It's an unfortu­national security grounds" had delivered tens of thou­Last year he released two nate incident. but on the and was expected to be sands of dollars to Hamas songs, including a re­other hand, people are sent back to London on during a visit in 1988. recording of his '70s hit worried and they want to Wednesday. Islam denied ever know­"Peace Train," to express feel secure when they're A second government ingly supporting Islamic his opposition to the U.S.­flying," Gordon said. official, who also spoke on terrorists. led war in Iraq. 
Airlines have access to condition of anonymity, Islam has made a num­He abandoned his music watch lists and are sup­said U.S. authorities think ber of trips to the United career in the late 1970s posed to screen passengers donations from Islam may States in recent years, and changed his name to make sure those have ended up helping to including one in May for a after being persuaded by deemed direct threats to fund blind sheik Omar charity event and to pro­orthodox Muslim teachers aviation do not board Abdel-Rahman, who was mote a DVD of his 1976 that his lifestyle was for­planes. The official said it convicted for the 1993 MajiKat tour. He donated bidden by Islamic law. He was unclear why United World Trade Center bomb­half the royalties from his later became a teacher Airlines personnel allowed ing, and Hamas, a most recent boxed set to and an advocate for his Islam to get on the flight in Palestinian militant group the Sept. 11 Fund to help religion, founding a London. considered a terrorist victims of the attacks. Muslim school in London 
A call to the airline was organization by the United Islam, who was born in 1983. 


Lebanon captures al-Qaida leader 
tified the leaders of the plot as Lebanon and· had contacts with Abu 
Associated Press 
Ahmed Salim Mikati and Ismail Musab al-Zarqawi, the leader of the 

BEIRUT, Lebanon -Lebanon said Mohammed al-Khatib, both Iraqi insurgent group Tawhid and Wednesday it had arrested the top Lebanese, and said they had eight Jihad, with the aim of recruiting al-Qaida operative in the country Lebanese and Palestinian accom­fighters to go to Iraq. and another man linked to Osama plices, who were also arrested on Al-Zarqawi's Tawhid and Jihad bin Laden's terrorist group who Friday night. beheaded two American hostages were plotting to blow up foreign Prosecutor-General Adnan this week and has threatened to kill embassies in Beirut, assassinate Addoum told the same news confer­a Briton also in their hands unless Western diplomats and recruit insur­ence al-Khatib was "the head of al­Iraqi women prisoners are released. gents to fight U.S.-led forces in Iraq. Qaida organization in Lebanon." The group has killed at least seven 
Senior security officials said the Murr said Khatib "is an al-Qaida hostages in abductions this year and two Lebanese men arrested Friday operative ... his role was to recruit has claimed to be behind a string of along with eight accomplices were fundamentalist youth to carry out deadly bomb attacks. also planning to attack Lebanese operations against coalition forces in Murr said one of al-Khatib's security and judicial targets. Iraq." recruits was a Lebanese citizen who 
Interior Minister Elias Murr, Addoum alleged Mikati was trying was killed in Iraq on Sept. 17. He speaking at a news conference, iden-to establish al-Qaida cells in was not identified. 
page 6 Thursday, September 23, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Bar 
continued from page 1 
Alcoholic Beverage Board asked the state of Indiana to. deny the permit for the 113 E. Wayne Street establishment. Indiana State Excise Police cited 20 minors -all of whom were Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students -at The Library April 16. 
A larger raid in April 2003 led to the citation of 51 minors and prompted a 30-day sus­pension of Hammons' liquor license. 
"We approved his permit !last yearl under the condition he'd sell the bar," Board mem­ber Michael Pajakowski said. 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
arc a standard part of universi­ty and corporation constitu­tions nationally and went on to quote civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr. 
'"Injustice anywhere is an affront to justice everywhere,"' he said. "We owe it to the University to ensure that stu­dents are fairly and justly treated." 
Chief executive assistant Dave Baron said the clause was carefully crafted. with wording derived from both the 1976 let­ter from the American Bishops, 'To Live in Jesus Christ', that affirmed the basic rights of homosexuals and the 'spirit of inclusion' section in DuLac, the "He said he'd get out of the business and that didn't hap­pen ... [sol at this point there was no way we could make a favorable recommendation." 

Hammons again asked per­mission to sell Wednesday, but the board denied his request. 
"We made that agreement last year," Pajakowski said. "We didn't see it as wise to enter into the same agree­ment." 
Hammons, however, claimed he did satisfy the board's request. 
"I did have a buyer, but the deal fell through to no fault of my own," he said. "He could not secure the lease. No lease, no deal-that's not my fault." 
The Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission can 
University student handbook. 
Though the amendment was only up for discussion Wednesday, with a vote planned for next meeting. there was no debate. The amend­ment was approved by a unani­mous vote. 
In other Senate news: 
+ The amendment to the Student Senate attendance pol­icy amendment was approved unanimously. It was previously sent back to the Oversight com­mittee for clarification of word­ing. The new policy includes provisions for three unexcused absences from full Senate meetings and three unexcused absences from committee meetings. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
uphold or overturn the county's owner and South Bend Police "They can't get over the fact decision when it reviews The officer Ronald Johnson. that I am not Ron Johnson and Library in early October, "We didn't feel [Johnson] I am not Finnegan's," he said. Pajakowski said. should benefit by selling to "For four years now I've been 
Though the state typically another owner. but the state trying to do the right thing and follows the recommendation of voted to kill [our recommenda­be an asset to the community, the local hoard -such as tion]," Pajakowski said. but the city of South Bend and when the ATC denied a permit Hammons said he hopes the [local officials] don't like Chuck to The Boat Club Sept. 7 -it ATC will again rule in his favor. Hammons .... They want to has overturned recommenda­"I have a lot of faith in the shut it down because it's a stu­tions concerning the establish­state board," he said, praising dent bar, plain and simple." ment twice in the past. After the fairness of the weeklong Though Hammons said he 147 underage patrons were suspension ATC prosecutor will appeal if denied by the cited at the location, then Fred Bauer levied in response ATC, he does not plan to own named Finnegan's Irish Pub, in to the most recent raid. "Seven the bar in his name past the October 2000, the local board days, that's what the state end of this school year. recommended revoking the thinks about it -but the local "If I get. a buyer, I'll sell it," bar's license entirely. board seems like a little bit of he said. ''I'm tired of fighting 
However, the state ruled overkill." city hall." Finnegan's could remain open The county board's attitude under new ownership, and stems from a longstanding Hammons renamed the bar grudge against the bar, Contact Claire Heininger at after buying it from previous Hammons said. cheining@nd.edu 
Aperfect meeting place throughout the weekend. 
Open Friday and Saturday D.Iring 
N.D. Home Football Weekends. 
' 


Everyone Welcome 
Live Music 2 -6p.m. on FridaY: Grilled Burgers, Brats, and Other Specialties 

Cold Beverages 60" Screen TV's Fully Enclosed Tent 

next to the N.D. Bookstore. 631-2000 


www.themorrisinn.com 

TH.E OBSERVER 






USINESS
Thursday, September 23, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
fo~:s 10,109.18 -135.75 
.":::'.~: 

AMEX  1,25~fi68  
NASDAQ NYSE.  1 885.71 -35.47 6:548~57>>''"',:_~~~'~?66 ""~  
S&PSOO  1,113.56  -15.74  
NIKKEI(Tokyo)  11.019.41*mw:r@~6tf46 ..  

FTSE IOO(london) 4,592.30 -16.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +3.45 +0.14 4.20 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.51 -0.69 18.96 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.51 -0.14 27.12 INTEL CORP (INTq -3.13 -0.66 20.42 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -2.37 -0.27 11.14 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND -1.36 -0.66 47.77 I0-YEAR NOTE -1.26 -0.51 39.89 5-YEARNOTE -1.00 -0.33 32.51 3-MONTH BILL -0.48 -0.08 16.74 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) + 1.59 48.35 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -I. I 0 409.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.85 I 00.375 
Excha e Rates 
YEN 110.72 EURO 0.8153 POUND 0.5574 CANADIAN$ 1.2834 

IN BRIEF 
Outback to convert Chi-Chi's 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Chi-Chi's, the Mexican restaurant chain, may have served its last chimichanga. 
Outback Steakhouse Inc. this week closed on its $42.5 million deal for the rights to 76 restaurants in th'!:l Chi-Chi's chain, which was beleaguered by bankruptcy and a hepatitis outbreak. 
Outback plans to convert many .of the restaurants into its own brands -which include its signature Outback Steakhouse, Carrabba's Italian Grills, Bonefish Grills, Fleming's Prime Steakhouse and Wine Bars, Roy's and Cheeseburger in Paradise restau­rants. 
Problems prompt SEC inquiry 
WASHINGTON -Regulators have found serious accounting problems at mortgage giant Fannie Mae, prompting an inquiry by the Securities and Exchange Commission and call­ing into question its financial soundness, the company disclosed Wednesday. Its shares dropped nearly 7 percent. 
In at least one instance, the regulators said, it appeared that the government-sponsored company put off some accounting for expenses to a future reporting period in order to meet earnings targets that brought bonuses for executives. 
The Fannie Mae board has named a special committee of outside directors to respond to the allegations by the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight. Fannie Mae is the second-largest U.S. financial institution behind Citigroup Inc. 
The developments surprised financial experts and Wall Street. A little more than a year ago, Freddie Mac-Fannie Mae's sister agency and competitor in the multitrillion-dol­lar home mortgage market -disclosed that it had understated profits by some $4.5 billion for 2000-2002 in an effort to smooth earnings. Fannie Mae's accounting then came under close government scrutiny, though its leaders insisted that it had no problems of that type. 
Poor earnings topple stocks 
Morgan Stanley's troubles weigh heavily on Wall Street, Dow down 136 points 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Disappointing earnings from Morgan Stanley and oil prices topping $48 per barrel sent stocks sharply lower Wednesday as investors moved to protect their recent gains. The Dow Jones Industrial average dropped 136 points. 
Investor pessimism dur­ing the summer took its toll on Morgan Stanley's earnings, which widely missed Wall Street expec­tations due to a sharp drop in trading commis­sions. 
The big spike in oil prices created fresh wor­ries that oil could surpass $50 per barrel, which 

· would further curtail con­sumer spending just as the winter heating oil season arrives. A barrel of light crude was quoted at $48.25, up $1.49, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
"Morgan Stanley cer­tainly brought about some profit taking today after the recent runup in stock prices we've seen over the past several weeks," said Michael Sheldon, chief market strategist at Spencer Clarke LLC. "The question now for the mar­kets, for the near term, is whether we give back decline than analysts had on Wall Street, which had pany still managed to beat most of the gains since expected after a 7.1 mil­seen positive earnings analysts' expectations by August or just half of the lion barrel drop the week earlier in the week from 11 cents per share. gains. And oil will play a before. · Goldman Sachs Group Inc. FedEx Corp. delivered a big part in that." "The oil situation is and Lehman Brothers strong earnings report, in 
In midafternoon trading, interesting in that when it Holdings Inc. Morgan which the company's prof­the Dow was down started going up a few Stanley posted a 34 per­its more than doubled 138.33, or 1.4 percent, at weeks ago, the market cent drop in third-quarter from a year ago, matching 10,106.60. continued to rally. I think profits, missing Wall Wall Street's estimates. 
Broader stock indicators the drop today may have Street forecasts by 17 FedEx nonetheless skid­also were substantially more to do with psycholo­cents per share. Shares of ded $3.88 to $84.81 on a lower. The Standard & gy than any actual impact Morgan Stanley tumbled modest outlook for the Poor's 500 index down from oil," said Richard $3.04 to $49.34. current quarter. 15.43, or 1.4 percent, at Dickson, senior market The news had a mixed Fast-food chain Wendy's 1,113.87, and the Nasdaq strategist at Lowry's effect on other brokerage International Inc. slid composite index dropped Research Reports. "I think stocks, with Goldman $1.68 to $33.82 after the 32.93, or 1.7 percent, to people are looking at oil, Sachs falling $1.18 to company cut its 2004 1,888.25. looking at the warnings $93.72, while Lehman profit forecast due to hur­
The run on oil was and the poor earnings, Brothers gained 91 cents ricane damages and a spurred by a new govern­and they're thinking this is to $80.66. Bear Stearns resulting drop in business ment report which said a good time to get out with Cos. Inc. dropped $1.68 to in Florida, along with high the nation's supply of some profits." $88.41 as its profits beef prices. Several Wall crude fell by 9.1 million Morgan Stanley's trou­declined by 10 percent Street firms lowered their barrels last week, a wider bles also weighed heavily from a year ago. The com-ratings of Wendy's. 



Bakery files Chapter 11 bankruptcy 
Associated Press 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Interstate Bakeries Corp.• the maker of lunch box staples Wonder Bread and Twinkies, filed for bankruptcy Wednesday after months of financial turmoil brought on in part by the low-carb craze. 
. The nation's largest wholesale baker filed for Chapter 11 reorgani­zation and installed new manage­ment, saying it intended to survive. The company will continue operating its bakeries, outlet stores and distri­bution centers, and analysts said that its famous brands are unlikely to dis­appear from store shelves. 
Tony Alvarez, the head of turnc around firm Alvarez & Marsal and the baker's new chief executive, said the company had no immediate plans to lay off additional workers. But, he added, "It's very rare in this country that anyone goes through Chapter 11 and is layoff-free." 
For more than a year, Interstate Bakeries has struggled with declining sales of its bread and sweet goods products, a drop the company and analysts blame on the popularity of high-protein, low-carb diets such as Atkins and South Beach. 
Thomas Morabito, a food analyst at Longbow Research in Cleveland, said the company was hurt by what he called a "lack of innovation" in responding to the low-carb market; it didn't release a low-carb product until February. 
He said the diet trend, combined with the company's high debt and large overhead costs, led to the filing. 
"I think the low-carb phenomenon was just a final blow to IBC,"Morabito said. 
The Kansas City-based company listed assets of $1.6 billion and liabil­ities of $1.3 billion in its court filings. In those filings, it said chairman and CEO James Elsesser had resigned effective Wednesday. 
Interstate Bakeries and its sub­sidiaries employ 32,000 people at 54 bakeries and 2,200 distribution cen­ters and outlet stores across the country. 

Thursday, September 23, 2004 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Patriot 
continued from page 1 
accused is suspected of a heinous crime, or of harboring the intent to commit one; it is precisely in these cases that the principles are tested and must be applied." 
National security concerns are only rarely -and "not now" ­paramount to the freedom of speech, said psychology profes­sor Darcia Narvaez. 
Students have also questioned whether the Act has violated the rights normally afforded to non­citizens of the United States. 
"I recognize that Ramadan is not a U.S. citizen, so he would not be protected by the same rights as American citizens. but there should be some kind of universality to the Constitution in regards to actions within the U.S.," sophomore Anne Kroeger said. Kroeger is a double major in Arabic and Political Science who is enrolled in what was intended to be Ramadan's Islamic Ethics class. 

Other students have voiced support for the Act, defending its efforts to protect citizens. 
"I think that the lack of terror­ist attacks upon American soil since the passage of this act, which did so with overwhelming bi-partisan support, is a testa­ment to its vitality in the defense of our Hepublic," Notre Dame College Republicans co-president Ian Ronderos said. "The charges of the ACLU are cdmpletely unfounded and if they had their way we would be a much more vulnerable nation. As the great Roman orator and statesman said, 'The safety of the people shall be the highest law."' 
The debate has extended nationwide, and some have argued that national security concerns give the government the right to determine the scope of its laws. 
"The issue is not betrayal of the First Amendment, but restricting its reach in time of war, as has happened through­out American history and must happen now if we are seriously to wage war," Daniel Pipes, Director of D.C. think tank the Middle East Forum, said. 
Pipes, the creator of Campus Watch, a Web site designed to review and critique Middle East studies in North America, has protested the professor's tenure in the United States since Notre Dame appointed him last January. In an August editorial by the Chicago Tribune, he quot­ed himself as saying in January, "Once again we see that the left­ward leaning academy and in particular the Kroc Institute [at Notre Dame] has a soft spot for militant Islamic figures. 
Several professors have charged that the most significant infringement of rights lies in the government's ability to bar Ramadan ·without pressing charges against him, a power granted by the PATRIOT Act. 
"If the State Department would say why Professor Ramadan's passport has been revoked, we would have something to com­ment on," Joseph Amar, profes­sor of Classics and Theology, said in an interview earlier this month. "If he actually posed some threat, they should be forthcoming about it. Anyone who is accused of something has the right to know their accuser and what he is being accused of." 


Neither the Univers-ity nor Professor Ramadan has received any further information from the Department of Homeland Security or the State Department. 
Claire /Ieininger, Kate Gales, Kate Antonacci and Angela Saoud contributed to this article. 
Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 


Speech 
continued from page 1 
senators for their support of the 
project. 
Istvan reached the integral part of his new policy with the NDSafeBus project. 
"Far too often, we have been confronted with the stark reality that coming from a night of fun can be extremely dangerous," he said. "That's why I am focusing my energy on NDSafeBus." 
The NDSafeBus proposal aims at making a free, safe mode of trans­portation available on Friday and Saturday nights for students going to and from off-campus hot spots. Istvan said he hopes the idea will get Senate approval to be the topic of the October Board of Trustees Report and wants the NDSafeBus functional by the spring semester. 
In a preface to the Senate meet­ing, Istvan introduced the idea of the non-discrimination clause amendment up for debate later in the evening. lie fully endorsed the amendment. 
Other goals Istvan included dis­cussed the formation of an ad-hoc committee to focus on the causes and potential remedies of eating disorders at Notre Dame, bringing a national newspaper to campus for student readership, making course packets available for pur­chase with a student account and planning a Sexual Assault Awareness Week. 
Istvan ended by encouraging those in attendance to become actively involved. 
"I urge you all tonight to take to his heed. Focus on something and pour your full effort into it," he said. "At the end of your time at Notre Dame. when you can see a definite impact on life here, then we have succeeded." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 


Tbnight! ill & Specials ALL DAY 272-1766 





NO HIDDEN COSTS 
(THAT'S WHAT GIRLFRIENDS ARE FOR) 
Prepaid wireless, that's what TalkTracker. is for. 
$40/mo 

TalkTracker 

$50:~~~-· ll.:zli~C!!~ 
r·· •---!
• 
300 Bonus Minutes at activation 

• 
400 Daytime Minutes 

• 
Unfimited Nights and Weekends 

• 
FREE Text Messaging through November 13th 




Y.US.Cellular
• Includes Nationwide Long Distance 

1.-aaa-auY-USCC • 5ETUSC.C•II 
activatioo of a new TalkTrackel® service with $30 activatioo fee. Bonus Minutes expire 60 days from last refill and are available In the local calling area ooly and are used 
after package minutes. Bonus Minutes do not••<:i•t•nr•· rvinternational call charges. Unlimited Nights and Weekends promotion Is a limited time offer ooly available on TalkTracker TrackerPack Plans $40 and higher. Night and weekend minutes are valid Mooday-Fnday Free Text Messaging through 11/13/04, thereafter $5.95/mo. for 250 messages. Must call to cancel. Promotional phooe offer · a new TalkTmcker service. Promotiooal phone is subject to 


Thursday, September 23, 2004 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 

What are you doing next summer? 

The London Summer Programme 
Notre Dame's original summer abroad program 



May 18-June 19,2005 
Study in London Travel in Europe Earn 6 credit hours Still have 2 months of summer left when you return! 

Information Session for 2005 & 2006 Programmes: 
HAITI 
Floods overwhelnt island 
Associated Press 
GONAIVES. Haiti-U.N. peace­keepers fired into the air to keep a hungry crowd at bay Wednesday as aid workers handed out the first food in days for some in this city devastated by floods from Tropical Storm Jeanne. Meteorologists said the storm could strike the United States by this weekend. 
It was too soon to tell where or if Jeanne would hit, but the National Hurricane Center in Miami warned people in the 
· northwest and central Bahamas and along the southeast U.S. coast to beware of dangerous surf and rip currents kicked up by Jeanne in the coming days. At 5 p.m., Jeanne was centered about 500 miles east of the Bahamian island of Great Abaco. It was moving west-southwest and was expected to strengthen and turn toward the west in the next 24 hours. Hurricane-force winds extended 45 miles and tropical­storm force winds another 140 miles. In Haiti, mass burials for the more than 800 victims, with bod­ies piled outside morgues raising fears about health, were expected to start after delays forced by public opposition. Many Haitians believe that unless a body is respectfully buried, the spirit may wander, commit evil and harm family members. In Gonaives, the country's hard­est-hit and third-largest city, some 
1.000 people have been declared missing and authorities say they expect the death toll to rise. 
Rescuers pulled bodies from mud and rubble -some still under water five days after Jeanne lashed the area with tor­rential rains for some 30 hours ­then added them to the pile in bodybags that lay in mud and grime in front of three morgues. 
Red Cross, government officials and aid workers met Wednesday to discuss how to dispose of the flyblown and decomposing corpses. 
On Wednesday, government adviser Carl Murat Cantave revealed they had come up against opposition when Red Cross workers took a truckload of bodies to the Bois Marchand cemetery on Monday and were stoned by residents. 
He said police had negotiated with residents about the health hazards of leaving the corpses unburied, and persuaded them to agree. Aid workers said the ceme­tery is the only one in the city not submerged by floodwaters. 
Graveyard manager Bony Jeudy said 78 people have been buried at Bois Marchand, some in mass graves, since Monday. 
"They come from all over, most­ly on wooden carts. Adults, chil­dren and babies. They were brought in by friends, families and strangers," he said of the bodies. 
Dieufort Deslorges, spokesman for Haiti's civil protection agency, said about 100 more bodies were found in Gonaives on Wednesday, raising the nation's death toll to 792. 
UKRAI~E 


Candidate allegedly poisoned 
Opposition party claims presidential candidate was sabotaged 
Associated Press 
KIEV, Ukraine Ukrainian prosecutors opened a criminal investi­gation into the alleged poisoning of a leading candidate in a crucial presidential election scheduled for next month, officials said. 
The candidate, Viktor Yushchenko, became sick more than two weeks ago, and his campaign charged that he was poisoned by political opponents. The allegations have roiled the already heated race to replace outgoing President Leonid Kuchma. 
Yushchenko, a leading opposition figure who is running neck-in-neck with the ruling party's candi­date, became ill Sept. 6 and was hospitalized in Austria. After he was dis­charged Saturday, doctors in Vienna said it was pos­sible he had been poi­soned but they could not confirm it. 
Prosecutors said ii). a statement that they were investigating charges of "attempted murder of a statesman or a public fig­ure." They offered few details and did not indi­cate if authorities had substantiated the poison­

ing charges or identified suspects. 
Prosecutor General Henadiy Vasiliev later told reporters "not to make hasty conclusions" and to wait for the results of the examination. He said authorities hadn't ruled out anything in their investigation and that his office had contacted Austrian authorities. 
Ukrainian lawmakers voted overwhelmingly Tuesday to set up a com­mission to investigate the incident. 
Neither outgoing Kuchma nor Viktor Yanukovych, Yushchenko's main opponent and Kuchma's hand-picked choice in the Oct. 31 pres­idential race, have com­mented publicly on the allegations. 
However, a number of Kuchma's allies have charged that Yushchenko 
had  merely  eaten bad  
sushi.  
In  his  address  to  

deputies on Tuesday, Yushchenko accused Kuchma's administration of "being capable of brew­ing political assassina­tions." He appeared hag­. gard, with his face red, swollen, partially para­lyzed and with one eye 
constantly tearing up. 
Voters in this ex-Soviet republic of 48 million have become increasingly dis­enchanted with Kuchma's decade in power. His administration has been marred by a series of scandals, rampant corrup­tion and dozens of suspi­cious deaths of political opponents and opposition journalists. 
Meanwhile, Ukrainian Defense Minister Yevhen Marchuk stepped down Wednesday, citing in part the June explosion at a major ordnance depot that rained rockets, shells and shrapnel over a wide area, the Interfax news agency reported. 
Speaking on condition of anonymity, a spokesman for the Defense Ministry confirmed Marchuk "has asked the President to be relieved from duties," but he gave no other details. 
Marchuk's resignation came after he had defend­ed himself in parliament against allegations he ille­gally provided soldiers and helicopters to help fight fires in Turkey. · 
Marchuk's resignation was seen as another sign of upheaval in the govern­ment ahead of the Oct. 31 vote. 



Thursday, September 23 
Drop in anytime • 5:00-6:30P.M. • 131 DeBartolo Hall 
Applications for the 2005 and 2006 Programmes are being accepted. www.nd.edu/~sumlon 
page 10 Thursday, September 23, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 


Debate 
continued from page 1 
interrupted by outbursts of applause and anger from what appeared to be an evenly divided audience composed of members of the Notre Dame and South Bend communities. 
Lowry supported the war by arguing for the elimination of the threat of' Saddam llussein and advancement of human rights. 
"If you really want to hold a dictator to account, to stop the slaughter, you can't rely on the United Nations, you have to rely on the United States of America," he said. 
Lowry continued amidst applause. 
"We owe it not just to them (the Iraqi people], but to our­selves, to do everything we can to try to prevail there [Iraq(." 
Corn, however, said that there were other options to deal with the threat besides war. "Bush refuses to acknowledge it [the possibility of other options) or he refuses to see it, and I don't know which is worse." Corn said. "Both scare the hell out of 
me." 
To counter Com and defend Bush's stance on Iraq, Lowry said, "If you think this war is based on lie, you do not have a candidate in this race," taken to mean that Kerry too sup­ported and voted for the war. 
While Corn acknowledged this statement. he said that Kerry acted upon information from the president that there was a direct and immediate threat on the country. 
"I question the due diligence idealistic goals and of "holding of this remark," Corn said, a grudge and turning their basing his response on newer backs." information that shed light on Com said, "And now we're what went on prior to 9/11. told this is about idealism. I 
"I do believe the president find the administration's use of rushed into an elective war. [idealism] highly cynical." Elective war, you can plan for "The number one reason we it." However. Bush never met had to go March 19 wasn't with cabinet members to deal because of idealism. but with the political, economic or because Bush said there was a security transitions, according direcf threat. Where's idealism 
to Corn.  when it comes  
"It  was  to  Russia?"  
hubris. They  "/ do believe the  Com asked, also  
ctid not stop to think about the hard ques­ president rushed into an elective  receiving applause. Further com­ 
tions," he said.  war. Elective war,  menting on the  
L o w r y attacked Kerry's 'flip­ you can plan for it. "  Bush adminis­tration's involve­ment in Iraq  
flopping'  in  Corn  said,  
response.  David Corn  "Bush  went  
"John Kerry voted to  Washington editor of The Nation  before the UN this week. You  

authorize a war, not to authorize an empty threat. He knew the result. To turn that around now because of politics is really an odious thing," he said. "John Kerry has literally been on every side of this issue because he can't remain steadfast under political pres­sure." 
Corn said that Kerry had demonstrated "guts," "resolve" and "thoughtful­ness." 
"Mature leadership means assessing threats and respons­es," Corn said. 
Alluding to a long list of past presidents, Lowry said that Bush has been following a Democratic tradition of ideal­ism as it pertains to foreign affairs. He accused liberals of ignoring the administration's 
want to know what his plan is? 'To prevail."' 
"You don't behave in a reck­less fashion with other people's lives are at stake," 
Lowry maintained his stance. 
"What you're trying to do in the long run here is to cut through the axis of evil, create an axis of decency, to rearrange and displace tyran­ny," he said. 
Other debated issues not related with the war included taxes, global warming·. gay marriage and abortion, but were only briefly discussed compared to the heavy focus on Iraq. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

Bush challenges Kerry 

Associated Press 
KING OF PRUSSIA, Pa. -President Bush mocked John Kerry's fitness to be commander in chief Wednesday, saying the way to bring U.S. troops home from Iraq "is not to wilt or waver." Kerry suggested to a cam­paign crowd that Bush might bring back the military draft and said in an Associated Press interview that the president was "living in a make­believe world." 
Answering a question about·possi­ble revival of the draft at a forum with voters in West Palm Beach, Fla., Kerry said, "If George Bush were to be re-elected, given the way he has gone about this war and given his avoidance of responsibility in North Korea and Iran and other places, it is possible. I can't tell you." 
Bush, trying to show a leadership contrast with his Democratic oppo­nent, said on a campaign trip to bat­tleground Pennsylvania: ''I'm driven by my desire to protect the American people. I'll be steadfast in my resolve to do everything I can to make you secure." 
Less than six weeks before the election, Iraq was increasing in prominence as a campaign issue, thrust to center stage by spreading violence, kidnappings, beheadings and the deaths of more than 1,000 
U.S. troops. With Americans divided about the war, Bush is trying to keep voters focused on what he says are Kerry's conflicting statements rather than the daily bombings and blood­shed. 
"George Bush is trying to fight a phantom here because he won't tell the American people the truth, so he sets up something that's not a real issue and attacks it," Kerry said in the AP interview after his West Palm Beach event. 

The WALL STREET and FINANCIAL SERVICES FORUM 
Thursday, September 23, 2004 Mendoza College of Business Jordan Auditorium 
6:00 Panel Presentation 
7:15 Networking Session 
Panelists 
Robert Crandall 
Jill Matesic 
James Higgins 
James Nappo 


Business Casual Attire 

ALUMNI FINANCIAL EXECUTIVES WILL JOIN US FOR THE NETWORKING SESSION Please bring Student 10 
Sponsored by The Career Center and MBA Career Develo ment Office 

Thursday, September 23, 2004 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page II 
Judge calls mistrial in pepper spray case 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -A federal judge declared a mistrial Wednesday when a second jury deadlocked on the question of whether police went too far by swabbing pepper spray on the eyes of bound, nonviolent logging protesters in 1997. 
U.S. District Judge Susan Illston ruled after jurors sent her a note asking whether all eight jurors must agree on the out­come. 
Under federal law, all jurors must agree on a verdict, unless both parties agree to accept a non-unanimous verdict. Attorneys for the protesters told the judge Wednesday afternoon they would agree to a non-unan­imous verdict; attorneys for the Humboldt County Sheriff's Department said no. 
The judge took the lawyers into her chambers to try to bro­ker a settlement; it failed. Jurors tried once again to deliberate but maintained they were dead­locked. 
An initial trial in 1998 on the same allegations also ended with a deadlocked jury. 
One of the plaintiffs, Mike McCurdy, 29, said they wanted to pursue the case. "We believe the police crossed the line," he said. 
Settlement talks ended when attorneys for the officers said they would not agree to the activists' demand that police stop using pepper spray on nonviolent protesters. 
"It's like asking them not to use a gun when they respond to a robbery," attorney Bill Bragg told reporters. 
Tony Serra, the activists' attor­ney, said the case was about try­ing to ban the use of pepper spray on those practicing civil disobedience. "They are unwill­ing to agree to that," he told reporters. "Therefore, I agree there will never be a resolution." 


r -------------• 
I BUY I ENTREE, I I GET THE 2ND I I I
ENTREE FOR 1/2 PRICE! 

I I
join us at any of ourThree Great Restaurants any Monday thru I Sunday until October 17. Order one entree at the regular price I and get another entree of equal or less value for half price! 
I Valid Mon. Thru Sun. • Dinner Hours Only I I One Half Price Entree Per Coupon I Not valid w/ any other offer. Expires October 17, 2004
I I 
~tp"~~
R.estauraat

I I
120 N. Main St. ~ ~ 
Mishawaka, IN 121 S.Nlles :1041~ South Bend, IN Elk!Wf,tndlono
255-7737

I I
262·1500
234-9000 

California farm.ers fear boycott 
Growers outraged by spread ofgenetically tailored plant species 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -California rice farmers are worried Japanese customers will boy­
.cott their products if genetically engineered rice is allowed into the state. 
And in Hawaii, organic papaya farmers are outraged because traces of genetically engineered papaya are showing up in their harvest. 
Biologists call it "gene flow." 
' It's how plants have swapped genetic material through cross pollination since life first appeared. But for people who choose to grow crops without genetically altering them, this natural bio­logical exchange is a threat when bioengineered organisms are involved. This week, already height­ened tensions between the biotech industry and its foes peaked when the U.S. govern­ment published a study show­ing that genetically engineered grass found its way into con­ventionally grown grass some 12 miles away in Oregon's Willamette Valley. The study led to renewed calls for tighter gene flow regulations, especial­ly from farmers who promise customers that their products are free of genetically modified material. More farmers are reporting finding trace amounts of geneti­cally modified organisms cross­pollinated or otherwise mingled with their organically grown crops. Those are potentially devastating discoveries because organic consumers generally demand that the higher-priced food they buy be free of biotech­

nological adulteration. The problem, like the weath­er, respects no boundaries. 
A NAFTA watchdog group said in March it had found genetically engineered corn in Mexico despite that country's six-year-old biotechnology ban. 
Meanwhile, consumers in Japan, Europe and elsewhere demand all their crops are grown conventionally. Farmers who can't make those biotech guarantees risk losing those 
markets. 
U.S. labeling rules allow for trace amounts of genetically engi­neered material in organic prod­ucts. Still, organ­ic growers and other growers fear market per­ception will turn against them if customers per­ceive that gene flow isn't being controlled. 
That's why many rice farm­

ers in California opposed a biotechnology company's plan this summer to increase the acreage it devotes to rice spliced with human genes to produce medicines. The state government refused to let the company expand. 
It's also why organic growers in Hawaii earlier this month symbolically dumped 20 geneti­cally engineered papayas into a trash bin labeled with a "bio­hazard" sign. Papaya genetical­ly engineered to resist a virus were commercially grown for the first time in 1998 and are widely credited with turning around a moribund industry devastated by disease. But the bioengineered variety is not the only papaya grown in Hawaii. 
"We are finding widespread contamination and farmers are concerned," said Noli Hoye of the Hawaii anti-biotech group that organized the protest. "Once these genetically engi­neered crops are released com­mercially, they can't be con­tained." 
An increasing 
number of scien­
tific studies show 

"Once these 
evidence that

genetically 
genetically engi­engineered crops neered crops are are released creeping into conventionally
commercially they 
grown fields,can't be including the contained." grass study con­ducted by the Environmental
Noli Hoye 
Protection member of Agency. 
anti-biotech group The Union of 
Concerned 
Scientists in 
February found trace amounts of genetically engineered seeds of corn, soy and canola mixed in with seeds that were supposed to be con­ventionally bred. 
"We are concerned about gene flow," said U.S. Agriculture Department spokeswoman Meghan Thomas. But she said the USDA's regulatory reach extends only to experimental crops. Once biotech crops are approved for market, as papayas were in 1997, the gov­ernment's oversight essentially ends. 
Go here--------1 


~-------------------------'·~,v~:·~"----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
vvvvvv.fordveh icles. com/collegeg rad 
L.____________ to ge.t there----------------1 
' ....J_.....'' 
Here's the deal: one price, no haggling, cash In your pocket for more important things! 
This "student discount" offers substantial savings 
on new Ford Motor Company vehicles based on set 
prices established by Ford's Employee Purchase Plan. 
There's no catch -it's a unique offer, exclusive to select schools like yours. Save even more when you apply the current national incentives available on the vehicle you select. 
The best part? You get what you expect. The style and features you want. No-hassle dealer experience. A payment that's easy on your wallet and lifestyle . 


It's how you 

Point. Click. Save.
get there! 
THE ()BSER\lER 






IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, September 23, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
PO. Box Q. Notre Dame, fN 46556 024 South Dining llall. Notre Dame,JN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHml' Malt Lo.ar 
MANAGING EDITOR Meghanne Downes Mike Flanagan 
As~1: MANAGING EDITOR Joe Hertler 
Nt:ws EDITOR• Claire Heininger VtbWPOINT EDITOR• Sarah Vabulas 
SPORTS EDITOR: Hearher Van Hoeg~rden 
SCENE EDITOR! Maria Smith IN Focus EorroR• Meghan Marrin SAJN'I' MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR! Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR• Mike Harkins 
ADYEKI'ISING MANAGER• Carrie Franklin 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR• Mary Allen 
CONTROLLER: Paula Garcia 
0FRCE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO CF4l 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 Aovt:RTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obs~ad@>nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEf (574) 631·4542 MANAGING EDITOR 
'(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 BUSINESS 0FACE (574) 631-5313 
News DesK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631·5303 viewpoint.l~nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK · 
(574) 631-4543 spons.j @nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 sccne.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
sm~.J @>nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631•8767 photo@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINIS'mAlORS (574) 63!-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of che University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrem, including advertiutnenu, i$ 
not governed by polici10; ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right oo refuse adVt:rtisemenu based on content. 
The news is reported as accurardy 11nd objectively ~ possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor; Alsismnr Man~~ging Editor and department edlrots. Commentaries, letters and columns presenr rhe view5 of the a_uthors and not necessarily those ofTbe Observer. 
Viewpoint sPlice is awil.able ro aU readers. The free <$pression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conl'let information. 
QJ<tJtions rrgarrling Obmvfrpolicia slmuld b( dirrctd Ill Editor in ChiifMlltt Lomr. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
TlMI Ohtcrtlf't {USPS ~?9l-<i0GO) &.. ptihlijhc.d MotKby tbn~u~ fitiday c~r clwtbJtt: c-JtAm ..nJ lf.u.itlnn pc:ciods. A !iUh:LtifMiol'llu The otUcrlr(l1h $I nO foruncracadbnb. yN'< $55 fu, Ofl(' K'm~r. TI~e OLII:n'et ~a. ~ro~r !ilfthc Nscx.i.""J ~•. .AU r.~:pru~uf:<~m rightt n('
""'.... 
. 
ilw: Oh~cnt'f It pu!lli~Mt:l•n P.O.a.,Q IIJ4 S.u<h J)ini•g H~l olo Soo•h Dioo<g J.i.u Noo,. o..,,, IN 465S6.077<1 Non.(),...,, JN 46556-077' 
1\l,Kt&;al JH*ll&,<' paid ~-Not:t<l LJ.~me ~Q -.idi1~011~ M.ilh'l' <tffiCdJ, 
,'kon~ Qt]~I'I:!SI CIJf~(fioiJl 111( 
11M:Ob•mcr 
1l!c O"hurYr~ iJ • mcm.l:lct of 1ht 1\u«i~ J~tm... AJf f'C'P.wdi)C,i<W tllhu ltN: ~rv~. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Amanda Michaels Justin Schuver Megan O'Neil Bobby Griffin Kelly Meehan Chris Khorey Viewpoint Scene Lauren Galgano Kenyatta Starin Graphics Illustrator Mike Harkins Katie Knorr 

Exercising your rights 
As we all know. 2004 is a very signifi­cant year in American politics. For many of us. it will mark our first opportunity to vote in a national elec­tion. Whether this will be your first or 1Oth chance to walk into a voting Molly Acker booth, it is impor­
Nobody likes a
tant to exercise 
dumb blonde 
your right to be heard. If you are not happy and do not vote. you ulti­mately have no reason to criticize our government. Regardless of whether you've recently marched at peace ral­lies or whether you have "Bombs Over Baghdad" on repeat in your CD player, you have a forum for making your feel­ing known on Nov. 2. 
Studies have shown that 18-24 year­olds will have a big influence on the outcome of this election. According to the latest Rasmussen Report, President Bush and Sen. Kerry are in a dead heat with Bush only slightly leading at 48 percent and Kerry with 46 percent. It is likely this election could again be decided by only a few thousand votes in several key battleground states. 
While the right to vote has not histor­ically been open to all, it has made great strides in the past two centuries. At times minorities such as blacks and women have been outlawed from vot­ing. These groups protested, marched, were arrested and even died to ensure their rights. They so passionately believed their vote would not only more accurately give them a voice in our government. but that their vote really could make a difference. 
As we saw in 2000, our electoral sys­tem is not without its flaws or its hang­ing chads. Another lesson learned from the Gore/Bush election is that when the 
race is close. your vote can make the 
difference. Many young people 
today overlook the signifi­
cance of their vote. 
Whether you are for 
Bush. Kerry or 
Nader it is 
imperative 
that you vote 
on Nov. 2. 
Every sin­
gle trip to 
the voting 
booth has 
the poten­
tial to 
determine 
the outcome 
of the elec­
tion. There are also many issues in the upcoming election that many of us feel strongly about. This is your time to choose the candi­date who best agrees with your own opinions. While it can be difficult because of conflicting views, decide which are most important to you and vote accordingly. 

so already. This is a right that people have died to ensure for us. As President Kennedy said. "The margin is narrow, but the responsibility is clear." It is our duty as young Americans to make our voices heard. This is our 
responsibility. So even if you have a particularly rough night at Club 23 on the first Monday in November. it is your patriotic responsi­
yourself off the 
::~~~~~,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!ll!l!ll/!ll/lll/!l!l!li'ilt~ bility to peel
floor the next morning and cast a vote. 
We are the future of this coun­try. If you can't answer the 
bell and don't lind your way to a~ ballot box, then you've missed your opportunity to make your political views rel­evant. 
Molly Acker is a junior communica­

tion and humanistic studies double 
major at Saint Mary's. She can be con­
tacted at acke6758@saintmarys.edu. 
The views expressed in this column 
You still have time to register and get are those ofthe author and not neces­an absentee ballot if you haven't done sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 



Straight talk 
I've had enough of people telling me Sen. Kerry is not a flip-flopper including Katie Boyle in her Sept. 21 column, so I've decided to let him speak for himself: 
"So clearly the allies may not like it and I think that's our great concern. Where's the backbone of Russia, where's the backbone of France? Where are they in expressing their condemnation of such clearly illegal activity?" CNN's Crossfire. Nov. 12, 1997. 
"Obviously the United States has to protect our national security interests and we have to do what we think is right." The O'Reilly Factor, May 22. 2002. 
"The president. as I also wrote in that article, always reserves the right to act unilaterally to protect the inter­ests of our country." Hardball MSNBC, Nov. 17,2002. 
"I don't think any United States senator is gonna aban­don our troops and recklessly leave Iraq to whatever fol­lows as a result of simply cutting and running. that's irre­sponsible." Face the Nation, Sept. 14, 2003. 
"I actually did vote for the $87 billion, before I voted against it." March 6. "''m proud to say that John [Edwards] joined me in vot­ing against that $87 billion." July 12. 
"I completely agree with this administration's goal of regime change in Iraq." Speech to the 2002 DLC National Conversation. New York. July 29, 2002. 
"In the resolution that we passed, we did not empower the president to do regime change." Meet the Press, Aug. 31,2003. 
"The president and his advisors did not do almost any­thing correctly in the walk up to the war." This Week, Oct. 12, 2003. 
"Are you one of the anti-war candidates?" Chris 
OBSERVER POLL 
Are you registered to vote? 
Vote by today at 5 p.m. at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com. 

Matthews. "Urn, I am, yeah." John Kerry. Hardball, Jan. 6, 2004. 
"I will be a commander-in-chief who will never mislead us into war." Democratic nomination acceptance speech. July 29. 
"When it comes to Iraq. I would not have done one thing differently. I would have done everything differently." speech to the National American Legion, Nashville, Sept. 1. 
On Sept. 6, 2002. Senator Kerry wrote an op-ed in the New York Times outlining his ideal policy toward a possi­ble war with Iraq. "[T]he administration must seek advice and approval from Congress. laying out the evidence and making the case." Congress gave its approval on Oct. 10. 2002. "Then, in concert with our allies. it must seek full enforcement of the existing cease-fire agreement from the United Nations Security Council." In November 2002. reso­lution 1441 unanimously passed the Security Council. allowing Iraq four months to disarm and prove this to inspectors, or force would be employed. "We should at the same time offer a clear ultimatum to Jrn.q before the world: Accept rigorous inspections without negotiation or compromise." President Bush did this on March 17. 2003. 
Can a man, who in his own words has been all over the field on Iraq. really be trusted to keep my sisters. my fam­ily, our families and our children safe? Read what he said and decide for yourself. 
Becket Gremmels semor Al.umni Hall Sept. 21 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"My advice to you is get married: ifyou find a good wife you'll be happy; ifnot, you'll become a philosopher. " 
Socrates philosopher 


THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT

Thursday, September 23, 2004 
page 13 

Feeding Grandma 
Your family can expect to face this problem sooner or later: Grandma is in the 

hospital, incurably ill. She is comatose or in a persistent vegetative state (PVS). She 
receives nutrition and hydration through a tube. She is not dying and not in pain. If 
food and water are continued, she will live for years. Can you turn off that tube and 
let Grandma go "home" in peace? Tough question. Fortunately, in his address last 
March on the care of PVS patients, Pope John Paul II gave a 
clear answer. Charles Rice 
First, the basic principles: "[T]he direct and voluntary kilJing 

of an innocent human being is always gravely immoral" : Right or Wrong? 
(Evangelium Vitae). This includes euthanasia, which is an·act, or 
omission. which of itself and by intention causes death to elimi­
nate suffering. We also have a positive, but not absolute,.'duty to use all ordinary and 
proportionate means to preserv~ our own lives i;tnd the lives of those in our care. 
The civil law permits, but does not require, some acts or omissions forbidden by 

the moral law. If a patient is competent he can le"gally refuse all treatment, including 
food and water: The law permits withholding of treatment or food and water from 
an incompetent patient based on the patient's previously expressed intent, or on the 
decision of his health care agent that the patient would have wanted such with­. drawal or that it would be in his best interest. In moral terms that can be euthana­
sia. 
An advance directive, which the patient had executed when he was competent, 

can specify the care to be given to him, and it can designate a person to make treat­
ment decisions for him. The basic advance directive'§ are the living will and the 
power of attorney. A living will is a statement of your intention as to the care you 
will receive if you become incompetent. It mustbe_.interpreted and implemented by 
the physician and your family. A power ofattorney is preferable. It appoints a per­
son you trust to make health care decisions for you if you become inc.ompetent. In 
moral terms, as the U.S. Bishops put it, that decision-maker "may f!O.t deliberately 
cause a patient's death or refuse ordinary means, even if he or she believes the 
000 

patient would have made such a decision." 
In his March 2004, address, the Pope said "the administration of water and food, 

even by artificial means, always represents a natural means of preserving life, not 
a medical act. Its use [is) ordinary and proportionate, and morally obligatory, 
000 

insofar as and until it is seen to have attained its proper finality, which consists in 
.oo 

providing nourishment to the patient and alleviation of his suffering [W]aning
00. 

hopes for recovery cannot ethically justify the interruption of minimal care ...
oo. 

including nutrition and hydration. Death .oo is oo. the only possible outcome as a 
result of their withdrawal ... [l]t ends up becoming, if done knowingly and willingly, 
true and proper euthanasia by omission." 
As Monsignor Kevin McMahon, of St. Charles Borromeo Seminary, described it, 

this papal teaching is an "authoritative interpretation" fC!rbidding Catholic faci~ities 
to withhold or withdraw nutrition and hydration from PVS patients as long as It pre­
serves life or alleviates suffering. The law allows religious hospitals to decline to fol­
low instructions in advance directives that conflict with their stated policies. 
Grandma's feeding tube is not supposed to cure her illness but only to sustain her 

biological life. The fact that it prolongs what some might regard as a pointless exis­
tence does not justify its removal. Morally, Grandma's feeding tube may be withheld 
-qr withdrawn only in three general situations: 1. If it is useless in sustaining bodily 
iife because her body is unable to absorb the nutrients; 2. In the final dying process 
when inevitable death is imminent despite the provision of feeding and medical 
treatments and the removal of the tube would therefore not be a cause of her death; 
or 3. If the administration of the nutrition and hydration itself causes unreasonably 
burdensome pain and suffering to the patient. If the tube were excessively painful, 
which it rarely is, you could remove it if your intent were to relieve the pain and to 
replace it if and when it could be done without such pain. If your intent in removing 
it were to cause Grandma's death for her own good, that removal would be 
euthanasia, a form of murder. 
So Grandma's quality of life may not be so good. But, as John Paul said, the value 

of her life "cannot be made subordinate to any judgment of its quality expressed by 
other men." Nobody has a right intentionally to starve and dehydrate her to death. 
The bottom line? Feed the hungry. Give drink to the thirsty. 
Prof Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. His article appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at Plawecki.J@nd. edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Defending the initiative 
As a student coordinator for Rock the Vote and someone with no loyalty to the College Republicans and College Democrats of Notre Dame, "I would [also] like to cle;;tr something up lest there be no mistake." 
Philip Wells' letter in Monday's Observer was the stinging indictment it was meant to be, and more. 
Not only did his letter finally get the College Republicans to publicly admit that demographics and numbers are their bottom line, a point which 

their leadership has privately 
Wells, Ian Ronderos and other 
touted at our weekly Rock the Vote meetings, but it also begged one impor­
tant question: With whom does your loyalty lie? 
I ask because in early May, I was one of four students to co-sign the Youth Venture "Choose or Lose" Grant awarded to Notre Dame by MTV. In signing that grant, we pledged to use the funds allotted to our university to cratic ... [and] could potentially thwart the campaigns of their candidates." 

But in their motion to reject the Transpo proposal, did the College Republicans consider that the College Democrats have never once vetoed or thwarted on-campus registration drives despite that Notre Dame's demograph­ics -white, middle class and conser­vative -could potentially thwart the campaigns of their candidates? 
In the past semester, it has been a 
privilege to work with Philip 
leaders in College Republicans and College Democrats to foster politi­

cal dialogue at Notre Dame. Yet, at this time, I would ask the leaders of 
both parties to reconsid­er their focus. For what is loyalty to a particular candidate worth if in the 
effort to ensure his victo­ry demographics and numbers become the bot­
tom line? In this election year, I 
drives, undertake issue advocacy and education, and above all "support the right of young people to be change agents in their communities." Most importantly, we pledged that our ven­ture -as sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns -would not be used for partisan political ends. 
When our committee was approached regarding the Transpo voter project, we emphasized that -in the spirit of non partisanship -we would not lend our name to the community outreach initiative withouJ the collective support of College Republicans and College Democrats. 
Exercising their right to do so, the College Republicans put the initiative to a vote and it failed. Why? Because their demographic research indicated that, "the precincts being serviced by such an initiative are overwhelmingly demo-

Rejecting bi-partisan spirit 
I wish Ian Ronderos to know that I do not consider him, or any other member of the College Republicans, to be racist. They are all by rights good people doing the best job they see fit. I do, however, wish to register my displeas­ure regarding the club's decision to not participate in the Rock the Vote voter registration campaign. 
I am a lifelong South Bend and 2nd congressional district resident. For most of my life, this district was r~pre­sented by Tim Roemer, a Democrat and Notre Dame alum. Roemer served a long and successful tenure before retiring prior to the 2002 election. His success was related to, among other things, his ability to cross party lines, appealing to Democrat and Republican, rich and poor. urban and rural. 
Roemer's successor, Chris Chocola, faces one of the toughest elections in the country this November. From a pragmatic standpoint, I can under­stand why Ronderos and the College Republicans do not'want to increase votes that would theoretically go against Chocola. I, however, am deeply upset by this philosophy's inherent rejection of the traditional Hoosier spirit of bi-partisanship. 
Chocola was elected to represent the entire second district of Indian, not simply the residents who voted for him, nor only those who would li~ely vote for him again. Likewise, Mitch 

the Vote has only one bottom line: to get as many students and faculty on this campus, as well as residents in the surrounding community, registered and educated about the issues. In order to do so, we need the collective support of the College Republicans and the College Democrats as well as the diverse per­spectives that they offer through coor­dinated debate and discussion. 
At its conception, we titled our ven­ture Notre Dame Rock the Vote for a reason. Come Nov. 2, that is exactly what we intend to do. 
It is my hope that the College Republicans and College Democrats ­party politics aside -will still join us. 
Michelle McCarthy junior Pangborn Hall Sept. 21 
Daniels, the Republican candidate for governor, is running for th,e privilege of leading the entire state, n6t just the state Republicans. Whether they like it or not, the job of our 2nd district con­gressman and our Indiana governor is to represent everyone, even those resi­dents of "heavily Democratic districts" as Ronderos describes the Transpo bus route neighborhoods. 
I have participated in several voter registration drives this semester and through them I have met people from all walks of life and. of all political per­suasions. These citizens have all demonstrated to me a unanimous com­mon thread: they all desire to have their ·share in electing our representa­tives regardless of party affiliation. The College Republicans' insistence on ignoring the very people who would elect their candidates makes me won­der what they have to fear by helping to make sure every 2nd district resi­dent has a voice. 
Perhaps they are afraid that the tra­ditional Hoosier bi-partisan spirit of Joe Donnelly, the Democratic candidate for Congress and a double Domer, would bring a welcomed breath of fresh air to this district and, with it, unemployment for their candidates. 
Bob Masters 
senior 
off-campus Sept. 21 
~------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 14 
Thursday, September 23, 2004 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Nelly hits and misses with new releases 
By COURTNEY WILSON Scene Music Critic 
Multi-platinum superstar Nelly makes history this month as the first rap artist to release two separate CDs on the same day. Heminiscent of Outkast with "Speakerboxxxl The Love Below," it is designed to present two distinct sides of Nelly. 
So was this just a poor marketing 
ploy? I think not. Nelly proves successful with both albums debuting at the No. 1 and 2 positions on the U.S. charts. "Suit," most notably the softer, more H&B style of the two albums, reigns slightly above the faster hip-hop attempt from "Sweat." Fans may disagree with the double release, as it also means double the price, but have purchased them both nonetheless. 
"Sweat," the more edgy, 'dirty south' of the two, fails to live up to the stan-


Photo courtesy of www.MTV.com 
Nelly's new releases debuted at No. 1 and 2 positions on the U.S. charts. 



raps and a little more vocal perform­ance from Nelly are used to make this record stand high above that the lesser "Sweat." 
"In My Life," featuring Mase and Avery Storm is a stand out. The har­monies in this song are outstanding. Nelly tries to lay down some country grammar with popular country singer Tim McGraw in "Over and Over," but instead the song, conveniently, just repeats the same lyrics 'over and over again.' The only thing you will want to know about this song is when it will end. 
And what better way to make a hit, then to borrow from a previous hit. "N Dey Say," which is easily the best song on the album, borrows its beat from the old 80s Spandau Ballet song, "True." 
If you're down to your last $20 and you are deciding between the two, opt for "Suit." You cannot go wrong with this CD. 
Sweat 
J:€lly 
Universal 

Contact Courtney Wilson at cwilson6@nd.edu 
Muse provides its own inspiration 
By BECCA SAUNDERS Assismm Scene Editor 
While most bands today lit nicely into one genre or another, the British rock band Muse does not make categorizing so easy. With a variant range of song tempos, styles. lyrics. themes and much more throughout their latest album "Absolution," Muse proves itself worthy of all the attention it has received over the past few months. 
The majority of people probably know of Muse's hit single "Time Is Hunning Out." Sadly, that is all some know, and that is absolutely tragic when there is an album as spectacular as "Absolution" that people everywhere could be enjoying. 
It is often difficult for a band to produce a truly unique sound that is not heavily similar to a predecessor or current band. Muse has triumphed on this count. 
Absolution 
Muse 
Mushroom 


"Absolution" has to be one of the most successfully diverse albums ever pro­duced. Not·only does it showcase fast, upbeat rock songs such as "Time is Bunning Out" and "Butterflies and Hurricanes," but it also just as naturally and creatively contains slower ballad gems such as "Ruled by Secrecy" and "Sing for Absolution." The songs sound great and with the mix of guitar, varied percussion. piano, bass and even an orchestra at some points, they sound unlike much that has been heard before. 
Muse is from England and as such is generally categorized as "Brit Rock," which definitely comes through in their sound and album. but there is much more to the sound than that classification. The production is intentionally a bit rougher, even scratchy at times, creating a very rough and almost dirty sound. Definition of the exact sound is unimportant and nearly impossible, but it is a sound of dards that were set by its first single, "Flap Your Wings." The first track "Heart of a Champion," is a gre,a.t start to a not so bumping album. It is one of those adrenaline pumping, Hocky remi­niscing, everyone sing along type anthems you can never hear enough of. 
Another good beat doesn't arrive until track number six, "Tilt Ya Head Back," featuring Christina Aguilera, which is an obviously hit. The song mimics a Motown beat. and is, without a doubt, a contender for his next single release. Nelly takes us back to an 80s state of mind with the techno keyboard style beat echoing from the song "Playa." The track also features a hot vocal collabo­ration with Missy Elliot and Mobb Deep. But the numerous collaborations are not enough to save this album. This CD doesn't heat up nearly enough to make u 'sweat.' 
Nelly puts on his suave "Suit" for the second CD, presenting what may be his sensitive side. This CD is chocked full with collaborations, which seem to work best for his songs. Smooth beats, soft 


highly musical rock. Talented musicians have come together to create a terrific album, and this is clear throughout the entirety of "Absolution." 
Muse is composed of three main mem­bers: Matthew Bellamy on lead vocals, guitars and keyboards, Chris Wolstenholme on bass guitar and backing vocals and Dominic Howard on drums and percussion. The band entered the British music scene in the early nineties. Childhood friends, the band eventually came together under the name "Hocket Baby Dolls" and eventually became Muse. Out of the three studio albums that Muse has released, "Absolution" is certainly the mellowest, showing the band's expanded musical talent as well as increased depth. "Absolution" took the place of a more upbeat album that was re-recorded after the war in Iraq began, affecting the mem­bers of Muse and the spirit of the album. 
The lyrics are well written and provoca­tive throughout the album. In "Butterflies and Hurricanes," the most recent release from the album, Bellamy croons, "Best. · you've got to be the best I you've got to change the world I and use this chance to be heard I your time is now." With equally somber and challenging lyrics throughout the album, one cannot help but gain immense respect for a band so developed lyrically and musically. 

It would be genuinely impossible to regret adding Muse to your music collec­tion if you are a rock fan. "Absolution" is mature musically, lyrically and instrumen­tally. Even if someone were to dislike the actual album. it would be impossible not to appreciate the unique sound that Muse so successfully develops throughout the album. 'The band name doesn't lie, this album will inspire you. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 

THE 0BSER\'ER 
CENE

Thursday, S~ptember 23, 2004 
page 15 
ALBUM REVIEW 
The Roots' latest is too tame 
By KENYATTA STORIN 
Assistant Scene Editor 
~ 

High expectations surround every album release ofThe Roots, but the group has never managed to garner the popularity or attention that mainstream hip-hop acts possess. Led by drummer ?uestlove and rapper Blacktjlought, The Roots is a rare breed in hip-hop, as it focuses on live instrumentation, making it per­haps the only true hip-hop band out there. 
Over time the group has enjoyed occasional radio play for a few of its more conventional songs, most notably its 1999 hit "You Got Me" featuring Erykah Badu, but unfortunately its eccentric style has often left its music unknown to many hip-hop fans. Despite this, The Roots remain a well-respected group by both critics and fans of underground rap because of its excellent live performances and its constant ambition to push albums in new 

Despite this, there is plenty of good hip-hop to be heard. The Roots lack any sort of com­mitment to any one style or groove, giving the record a wide range of tracks. For instance, the album conjures up Sly & The Family Stone on the upbeat "Star," sports a catchy Trinbaland-esque beat on "Don't Say Nuthin" and uses a Reggae style chorus in "Guns are Drawn." The great deal of variety keeps the album entertaining and increases its overall longevity. 
Unfortunately, the album also stumbles in some areas. "I Don't Care" and "Somebody's Cotta Do It" are two such low points, with rather mundane beats and hooks that are rather uncharacteristic of The Roots. Cuts such as these are rather disappointing, for one expects more from The Roots, jam sessions or otherwise. 
With virtually no guest rappers, Blackthought takes the brunt of the lyrical work on 'The Tipping Point." Blackthought is often underrated as a rapper, and for the most part he does a good job on "The Tipping Point." His finest moments are on "Web" where he is backed by only a simplistic, cym­bal-oriented ?uestlove drum beat, allowing his lyrics to come to the forefront of the song. 

Here he spouts battling rhymes like "Tryna breathe like Black will collapse your lung I Young chump you can choke off the web I spun I I done cleared out from the thread I brung." 
Even though Blackthought is solid, much like the rest of the album, he is not spectacu­lar. Most ofhis lyrics lack focus and meander a lot as a result of the original jam sessions. While this would be fine normally in a live per­formance, on a recorded album it does not work because the end result is an album that lacks focus and purpose. 
Although "The Tipping Point" is a fine album, and still much better than the average hip-hop record, it will likely disappoint many fans of The Roots for lacking the creativity of previous efforts. One would expect The Roots to have something fresh and original from its jam sessions, but unfortunately that was not the result. The Roots will surely come up with some fresh ideas for the future, but hopefully it will execute them better, so fans can once again enjoy the imaginative music it is capable ofcreating. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.edu 
The TiPPing Point 
The Roots 
Geffen 

directions. 
The group's last release, "Phrenology," demonstrated this as it was ambitious, experi­mental and at times downright weird, making it both impressive and intriguing regardless of whether one liked all of it or not. The Roots attempt to push musical boundaries once again in 'The Tipping Point," but it does not wow you as much as The Roots intend. 
In an attempt to make 'The Tipping Point" loose and free-flowing, The Roots created the album through a series of jam sessions that were later edited down for release. On paper, this was a creative idea and one quite fitting for The Roots considering its focus on live music. The result is a quality album, but it is not nearly as innovative as it could have been. In fact, aside from parts of the album's con­cluding 16-minute track, "Why (What's Goin On?)," there is little resemblance of the origi­naljam sessions. Instead, it is strangely unad­venturous. 


Flogging Molly soaks punk rock in Guinness 
By MARTY SCHROEDER 
Scene Music Critic 
Flogging Molly's Irish-inflected punk returns on its third album, "Within a Mile of Home" offofSide One Dummy Records. This band formed in 1997 when Dave King met six other people who shared his love for Ireland. punk rock and Guinness. Flogging Molly debuted with "Swagger," taking the punk world by storm with its fast guitars and drums melded to Irish violins, tin whis­tles. mandolins and an accordion. "Within a Mile of Home" maintains the Irish influences and the hard rocking from past albums, however this album has slowed down from its last release "Drunken Lullabies." 
"Within a Mile of Home" begins with the raucous song "Screaming at the Wailing Wall." This song kicks into high gear with a fast mandolin and violin. Front man and pri­mary songwriter, King also brings some political fervor to the table and he uses his thick brogue to cry, "''ll liberate your peo­pies' fate spoke the Burnin' Bush but the song of beasts growl with oil soaked teeth." The political commentary on the current administration seems somewhat out of place as the band has not brought any specific attacks on a particular political group in the past. 
King's disillusionment with the Catholic Church was apparent on its second album but this is the first time a commentary on American politics has been part of Flogging Molly. However, this song is followed with "The Seven Deadly Sins," which keeps the tempo high and is very reminiscent of the first Flogging Molly album "Swagger." It is a hearty drinking song that simply makes you want to get up and dance. The lyrics are simple and speak of the difficulties of life while maintaining the Irish dolefulness that permeates all the music ofthis band. 
"Factory Girls" follows up these two and this is where King and the rest of the band begin to go in a different direction. than in years past. This song slows the tempo down and reminds one more of traditional Irish music than punk rock. King croons on this one about factory girls taking leisure after work, "Singin' in the streets drinkin' their coca-colas." 


This song provides a vein on the third album with a theme that is present in almost all Flogging Molly songs. Being from one of history's most repressed countries, King has a special place in his heart for repressed peoples, and "Factory Girls" gives us a glimpse of the simple joys yet hard work ethic of the thousands of Irish that stayed in Ireland and sailed for America. This song also features vocalist Lucinda Williams who adds a very nice complement to King and Bridget Regan's tin whistle. 
"To Youth (My Sweet Roisin Dubh)" and "The Light of a Fading Star" provide some fast, energetic anthems about generations passing on the torch. "Tobacco Island" com­ments on the events of1659 when Charles II of England forced many Irish from their homes -reminding us that even though King has come to America, he has not for­gotten where he is from. Bassist Nathan Maxwell provides the lyrics and a lead vocal growl to the hard-edged "Queen Anne's Revenge." The rest of the album follows these with some good Irish fun and a smat­tering of political commentary thrown in for good measure. 


If you are unfamiliar with this great and amazingly original .band, its debut "Swagger" would be the best place to start but if you are a Flogging Molly fan then pick up this record. It does not disappoint and takes a somewhat different direction in sound if not in lyric. In a time when punk rock is in its death throes, this band is keep­ing the punk ethos alive with nothing but · Irish ideals, guitars and Guinness. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 

page 16 Thursday, September 23, 2004 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Zambrano outduels Perez as Cubs win 
Smaltz blows save as Braves lose to Reds; Estes outpitches Johnson in Rockiesf win 
Associated Press first homer in 81 at-bats at Florida. "It's nice to have a little 
This may slow the Chicago revenge." Cubs' chase of the NL wild card: Milton (14-4) gave up one run Carlos Zambrano won't start and three hits, and struck out against Pittsburgh again this four in 6 1-3 innings in his first season. win since Aug. 21 at Milwaukee 
Zambrano pitched 7 1-3 -a span of six starts. He retired shutout innings to outduel Oliver 10 straight before Mike Lowell Perez and beat Pittsburgh for homered to lead off the seventh. the fifth straight time this sea­Cincinnati U, Atlanta 8 son, carrying the Cubs to a tense John Smoltz is used to closing victory over the Pirates. out games for the Atlanta 
Sammy Sosa preserved the Braves. Blowing saves is some­Cubs' sixth shutout with a thing he's not accustomed to. sprawling. belly-llop catch of Ty "It's a shock to your system," Wigginton's bases-loaded. two­he said. "It's embarrassing." out line drive to right field in the Javier Valentin hit a three-run eighth. homer to cap Cincinnati's five­
"I saw him closing and closing, run comeback in the ninth then I saw it hit his glove, and I inning off Smoltz, leading the just hoped it stayed in his glove Reds to a victory over the when he hit the ground," man­Braves. ager Dusty Baker said. "The Chipper Jones' three-run guys (in the dugout] jumped for homer in the seventh gave the joy, including myself, just as if Braves an 8-6 lead, but Smoltz we won the World Series. That gave up four hits and live runs, was a big play, that was a huge walking a batter and throwing play." two wild pitches while recording 

The Cubs made several excel­only one out in the ninth .. lent defensive plays to support "He just got some pitches Zambrano, who is the first to down the middle." Braves man­beat the Pirates live times in a ager Bobby Cox said. "Nothing is place. The Expos have been in "I don't look at that personal­homer, lifting the Colorado season since the Mets' Tom wrong with him. It's just loca­last place since April 15 after ly," Williams said. "One-hundred Rockies to a victory over the Seaver went 5-1 in 1973. That tion." getting off to a 2-7 start. is a nice number, no doubt about Arizona Diamondbacks. surprised Zambrano, who was Smoltz blew a save for the fifth "Nobody wants to finish last," it. I am not downplayirig it by "Runs are usually at a premi­only live when the Hall of Fame time in 45 chances and saw his Mets manager Art Howe said. "I any means, but we definitely um against him, and my focus right-hander pitched his final ERA climb from 2.34 to 2.91. certainly don't." need to keep our head in the up to that point was to stay game in 1986 and doesn't Jones isn't not worried about Only 3,664 were on hand for right direction." aggressive," Estes said. "I felt remember him. Smoltz. "so long as he gets· it the game, the second-smallest The Cardinals last won 100 like I was sharp right out of the 
"I have nothing against the ironed out in the next 10 days." Olympic Stadium crowd of the games in 1985, when they won gate tonight. I knew I could pitch Pirates," Zambrano said. "But "I have to believe that once it's season and the Expos' second 101 games en route to an NL deep into the game if I continued I'm always more comfortable go-time and we put all the chips straight crowd under 4,000. East title and pennant. to stay aggressive." pitching against the division [NL on the table, we'll see a different "They're in Montreal -The National League Central The matchup between CentralJ teams. l tried to do the Smoltz than we've seen the last nobody cares up here. We're in division champions have won 32 Johnson and Estes was pushed same things against them that l couple of outings," Jones said. New York and everybody cares," of their last 45 games, and back to Wednesday after do against the other teams." In two appearances against Mets starter Steve Trachsel said. improved to 47-27 ~n the road Tuesday's game was washed out 
The Cubs. who remained a the Reds this week, Smoltz has "Look at it, the attendance here with Wednesday's win. by rain. The game will be made half-game behind San Francisco given up seven hits and six runs is worse than spring training. It's Larry Walker's two-run fifth­up after Thursday's day game in in the NL wild-card race, are 5-0 in 1 1-3 innings. embarrassing." inning homer keyed the victory. the nightcap of a doubleheader. ­against the Pirates over the last He earned his 40th save The Mets rallied in the eighth Milwaukee had 14 runners left Estes (15-7) didn't seem to be 10 days amid a stretch of 11 vic­Tuesday night despite giving up after Montreal's Tony Batista hit on base. bothered by waiting an extra tories in 14 games. They are 6-2 three hits and a run, but he his third homer in two games. "From their side, it's missed day. on a four-city, 12-game road trip couldn't escape again off Trachsel, leading off the sixth opportunities," manager Tony Arizona didn't get a runner to that ends this weekend in New Wednesday night to tie it 2-all. LaRussa said. "From our side, second base until Chris Snyder York. "They fouled ofT my real good Gerald Williams hit a leadoff you just have to make the pitch­led off the fifth with a single and Philadelphia 12, Florida 4 pitches and hit the ones that single off Luis Ayala (6-12). es at key times." moved over on Chad Tracy's 
The Philadelphia Phillies have were so-so," Smoltz said. Ayala struck out Jeff Keppinger Brady Clark had four hits and ground out.. started another streak in "You don't handle him very before Williams advanced to sec­drove in both runs for Estes ended that threat by Florida, and this one is more to often," Reds manager Dave ond on David Wright's grounder Milwaukee, which has lost eight striking out Robby Hammock their liking. Miley said. "You have to enjoy it to short. Piazza then looped a of nine and is 18-46 after the and getting Jerry Gil on a weak 
Pat Burrell hit a three-run when you do." single down the right-field line to All-Star break. grounder. homer and Eric Milton won for Montreal 3, New York 2 drive in the go-ahead run. Ben Sheets set a franchise The Diamondbacks broke the first time in more than a The New York Mets believe Ayala broke Mike Marshall's record for strikeouts in a season through against Estes with two month, leading the Phillies to a they have an au....utage in their team record of 11 losses by a when he fanned Albert Pujols in outs in the sixth inning, getting a victory over the Marlins. Mike quest to stay ahead of the reliever set in 1973. the fourth inning to pass Teddy run on Snyder's single after Alex Lieberthal, Jason Michaels and Montreal Expos at the bottom of St. Louis 3, Milwaukee 2 Higuera, who struck out 240 in Cintron singled and Danny Placido Polanco each added two­the NL East. That edge is fan Woody Williams is more con­1987. Sheets struck out eight, Bautista walked. run homers in the Phillies' sec­support. cerned that the St. Louis giving him 245 for the season. Estes ran into more trouble in ond win in two nights at Florida Mike Piazza hit a two-out, RBI Cardinals keep focused on their Colorado 4, Arizona 2 the eighth inning when pinch­after having lost 14 straight at single in the eighth inning to goals than winning 100 games. Shawn Estes knew he couldn't hitter Andy Green led ofT with a Pro Player Stadium. help the Mets end a three-game St. Louis beat the Milwaukee afford to make many mistakes single and Luis Terrero followed 
"It's unbelievable, especially losing skid with a win over the Brewers for its 99th victory. The pitching against Randy Johnson. with another single when third since last year, we felt these guys Montreal Expos. Cardinals' next win will mark He didn't. baseman Vinny Castilla had to knocked us out of our chance to New York moved two games the seventh time in franchise Estes outpitched Johnson and duck out of the way of his bro­go on," said Burrell, who hit his ahead of Montreal for fourth history they reached 100. Jeromy Burnitz hit his 37th ken bat on an easy grounder. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Noue Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 


WANTED 
Nanny Needed From 9/27-10/1 7 am to 5:30 pm in Granger for 2 kids, ages 4 and 7. One person all day or split part time. Non-smoker, willing to transport kids a must. Contact Jen 674-9876 
Looking for a playful, kind. and responsible person for occasional babysitting of my 2 children (7 and 3yrs) Call Jill at 288-7118. 
PURDUE TICKET PLEASE Help my newlywed husband see his first NO game STUDENT SECTION GA OK Kate 702-249-7974 
FoR RENT 
Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential (Jamison) condo 1 0/26/04-5105 call Mary Anne 
Benedict 607-723-7363 NO Football housing. Walk to game. 574-315-3215. 
TICKETS 
BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273­3911 
For Sale: NO football tix. Good prices. 232-0964. 
For Sale: NO football tix. Good prices. 232-0964. Wanted: NO football tix. Top $$$ 
251-1570. NO ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 
JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY NO FOOTBALL GAME. 
CALL 674-6593. 

Need BC GA tix. Will be used not resold. 269-i84-6102. 
Need BC GA tix. Will be used not resold. 269-684-6102. 
PERSONAL 

Spring Break 2005 with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 www.ststravel.com. 
Spring break 2005 Challenge .. .find a better price! Lowest price spe­cialsl Free Meals! November 6th deadline! Hiring reps-earn free trips and cash! www.sunsplashtours.com 1800-426-771 0 
Go Irish. Beat Huskies. Not Cougars. 
Nicole, you're my favorite. 

Not every team in the NCAA lost nine players who had to rob banks to pay for their gambling debts. Yeah, Nevada. 
Thursday, September 23, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Sanders hopes to be ready Sunday 
Associated Press 
OWINGS MILLS. Md. -Deion Sanders hopes to play for the Baltimore Ravens on Sunday. even though he knows it might be prudent to rest his strained left ham­string. 
Playing in his second game following a three-year retire­ment, Sanders hurt his leg last Sunday in the second quarter of Baltimore's 30-13 victory over the Pittsburgh Steelers. lie was removed after running stride for stride with Plaxico Burress on a long pass play. 
Sanders was held out of a portion of Wednesday's prac­tice and is listed as question­able for Sunday's game in Cincinnati, meaning there's a 50 percent chance he will see action. 
"''m feeling pretty good," he said before practice. ''I'm not a gambling man, but I'm going to try to do my best to be there for my teammates." 
Within reason, anyway. Sanders. 37. isn't about to press himself into action for an early-season game if it could lessen his odds of being available in January. 
"This is a marathon. This is not a sprint," he said. "I think you guys want me in there for the finale, not just for a 40­yard dash." 
Asked his opmwn of Sanders' readiness for Sunday, Baltimore coach Brian Billick replied with a grin, "When you're 50 years old, you're going to be ques­tionable every week. When you're that old and played this long, questionable is pretty good." 
Sanders participated in only eight plays against Pittsburgh, including a 23-yard punt return that left him with tight­ness in his hamstring. He said the injury was aggravated while covering Burress on a pass that fell incomplete. 
Bengals receiver Chad Johnson is eager to go up against Sanders, saying, "Now I can show everybody, not just Cincinnati, what my game is by going against the best." 
Sanders called Johnson "one of the top three receivers in the game" but laughed at the concept of being challenged by someone he considers to be his friend. 
"That's every week man," Sanders said. "It doesn't start in the darn game. It starts in practice. It's like that. I get the best out of everybody because everyone wants to put my head in their trophy case." 
'Doc..'Pierce's 
Restaurant 
THE PLACE FOR STEAKS for 28 years 
120 N Main St Downtown Mishawaka 
255-7737 
TJ Laughlin Class of '73 General Manager 

Testaverde off to im_pressive start 

Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas -Vinny Testaverde could be retired now, maybe even starting a sec­ond career in the high-paying, tackle-free world of broadcast­ing. 
But he just couldn't imagine himself in a suit instead of pads, not when he thought he could still help an NFL team. So he reunited with his former coach Bill Parcells in Dallas to com­pete for the starting quarter­backjob. 
Good call, Vinny. 
Two games into the season, Testaverde is entrenched as the Cowboys' starter, and he's the NFL's passing leader with 677 yards. Having already earned the admiration of teammates, fans and team owner Jerry Jones, next up is the chance to impress a national audience Monday night. 
While Testaverde is leery of the Washington Redskins and their blitzing defense, there's another aspect of the game that concerns him. 
"It's past my bedtime," he said Wednesday, smiling. 
With his 41st birthday loom­ing, Testaverde is having fun using his age as a punch line. He thinks it has been an asset on the field, too. 
"We assume people are going to blitz us because we have an old quarterback," Testaverde said. "But if you're able to make plays when they blitz, then peo­ple will stop blitz­ing. I'd say we've 
It also helps that he's secure enough in his relationship with Parcells to stand up for himself when getting chewed out, such as after he threw interceptions on three straight late drives in a close game against Cleveland last Sunday. 
Having thrown 
nearly as many 
hit probably 90  ''I'm confident he  interceptions  as  
percent already. .. . I can only remember one  can throw that ball pretty much all the  touchdowns in his career, Testaverde also has learned  
incompletion."  time."  how to shake off  
No, that last line  bad  passes  and  
wasn't a joke about a foggy memory. In fact,  Bill Parcells Cowboys' coach  come back with a gem -like the deep ball to Terry  
what Testaverde  Glenn that moved  
remembers from  the Cowboys from  

the last 17 seasons in the NFL is their 26 to the Browns 37 at the a big reason why he's thriving 2-minute warning, a play that now. went a long way toward sealing 
Knowing how to take care of the victory. his body has enabled him to· It's also telling that Parcells make the most of an arm trusted Testaverde enough to Parcells says will be NFL-caliber call that play under those cir­for another 20 years. His under­cumstances. standing of the game made it ''I'm confident he can throw easier for him to take over when that ball pretty much all the incumbent Quincy Carter was time," Parcells said. surprisingly cut four days into Fans who were booing after cheering. Testaverde said he understood how they felt. He also said, "Thank you, defense," realizing how much he would've been to blame if Dallas had blown that game. 
While Parcells already had faith in Testaverde, Jones is gaining it quickly. 
Jones is so thrilled that he's making comparisons with 1998 -only not to the Jets who came within a game of the Super Bowl thanks to Testaverde, Parcells and another current Cowboy, Keyshawn Johnson, but to that year's Dallas team, the last fea­turing Troy Aikman, Michael Irvin and Emmitt Smith in their prime. 
"He's r ~ying at a very high level, exceeding my expecta­tions,'' Jones said. "We've got somebody who, with time and guys open, can throw the ball accurately. I'd certainly like to have a couple of them back from last week, but that hap­pens to everybody." 
The Cowboys never expected to throw 85 passes over the first two games. But they were trying to play catchup against Minnesota in the opener, then Cleveland came out stacked against the run. 
Parcells would like to run more, but he's glad to know he can rely on the passing of Testaverde, the blocking of his line and the receiving of Johnson, Glenn, Antonio Bryant and emerging tight end Jason Witten. 
"I think we have some weapons," Parcells said. "I think we can spread the field." 
With 355 yards against the Vikings and 322 against the Browns, Testaverde became the oldest player in league history with consecutive 300-yard games. He also joined Don Meredith as the only Dallas passers to do it. 
so long ago (November 1963) that it happened on the Sundays before and after Testaverde was born. 
Testaverde may savor his accomplishments one day, maybe even while broadcasting a Cowboys game. Now, though, he's more concerned with figur­ing out why all his long drives have produced just four touch­downs and two field goals. 
"Yards are great," he said. "Points are better." Spoken with experience. 


r-------------------­
Thursday, September 23, 2004 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Vick is reason for Falcons' 2-0 start 
Associated Press 
FLOWERY BRANCH. Ga. ­As Michael Vick somersaulted through the air -cleats point­ing toward the Georgia Dome roof. helmet just inches ofT the turf -he actually recalled a similar play from his Virginia Tech days. 
"It was my first college game," Vick said. "I was just running reckless and jumped. I didn't know where I was head­ed. This time, I was conscious of where I was in the air." 
Vick didn't want to land on his neck. so he rolled his head forward and plopped down on his back. 
No problem. 
Just another play in the life of the NFL's most amazing player. 
And how's this for amazing? Vick has guided the Atlanta Falcons to their first 2-0 start since 1998, which also hap­pens to be the season of their lone Super Bowl. 
"Man. he's one of a kind," cornerback Jason Webster 
games of the regular season and returned to find a team on its way to a dismal 5-11 finish. 
"We knew it was basically a no-win situation," Mora said. "If you played him too much, people thought you're risking injury. If you didn't play him enough, then people didn't think he's going to be ready for the season. We knew what we were doing." 
Vick certainly looked com­fortable against the Rams. He completed 14 of 19 passes for 179 yards, including a short swing pass -a staple of the West Coast system -that full­back Justin Griffith took for a 62-yard gain. 
But it's the -running that sets Vick apart. 
He carried 12 times for 109 yards, even though the Rams were intent on keeping Vick in the pocket and making him throw. 
"Real clear we weren't able to do that," St. Louis defensive end Leonard Little moaned. 
Webster puts it this way: "He can run like any receiver or 


marveled Wednesday. ''I'm just glad we're on the same team." 
Vick already has provided one of the season's signature plays. Last Sunday against St. Louis. he took off from the Hams' 16 in a mad sprint for the corner of the end zone. Jerametrius Butler dove at Vick's legs near the sideline. sending the quarterback spin­ning like a Ferris wheel. 
The crowd gasped, but Vkk popped right back up. Warrick Dunn scored on the next play, giving the Falcons a 14-0 lead on their way to a surprising 34-17 victory. 
"I know how to play this game," Vick said, his tone more resolute than cocky. 
This is what he said all along during the preseason -a time spent mostly on the bench, sparking worries among the Falcon faithful that Vick wouldn't be ready to run the West Coast-style offense brought in by new coach Jim Mora and coordinator Greg Knapp. 
Mora was more concerned with what happened a year ago. Vick broke a leg in the preseason, missed the first 11 running back -better than most -and he throws as well as any quarterback." 
It's not much of a stretch to call Vick the most valuable player in the league, if value is based on what a player means to his own team. 
Two years ago, Vick made his debut as an NFL starter and was nothing short of spectacu­lar. He guided the Falcons to the playoffs, led them to an improbable postseason win at Lambeau Field and was voted to the Pro Bowl. 
Last season, the Falcons went 2-10 with Doug Johnson and Kurt Kittner at quarter­back, their hopes dashed before Vick recovered. He reclaimed the starting job for the final four games, and Atlanta won three of them. 
Often overlooked amid all the hype: Vick is only 24, his best years still ahead of him. 
"It's day to day," Mora said. "Every day, he gets better and more comfortable. It's natural that the more repetitions you get doing something, the more comfortable you're going to feel doing it. You see that every day in Mike." 


Automation Alley Technology Center 
Funding and resources to speed new technology to market 
Entrepreneurs, small businesses, companies with high-potential technology ideas: 
The Automation Alley Technology Center is the ultimate resource for accelerating your

R~?--1?--z.r, 
Come and join the fun at the annual RecSports Faculty/Staff 6--\··· Golf Scramble &Picnic Sunday September 26, 3:00pm Notre Dame 9 Hole Golf Course 4 person team-9 hole Golf Scramble 
Register and pay In advance at the 9 Hole Course. Cost Is $12 per person. 
Registration deadline Is S:OOpm FrldiY. September 24. 2004. 
Lo119est Drive· Men &Women Longest Put 

Closest to the Pin Lowest Gross Score 
Event Is open to all ND faculty/staff, spouses and children 16 and older. Will make pairings for groups of less than 4. Questions calll-6100. 
concept to market. 
Connect with funding opportunities­
We'll help you identify and apply for vital pre-seed funding for development and prototyping, as well as post-development funding for commercialization. Funding is available through our strong partnerships with the National Automotive Center and the Michigan Economic Development Corporation and relationships with angel investors, venture capitalists and bankers. 

Develop your technology idea ASAP­Our world-class rapid commercialization process and extensive network of professional volunteer service providers deliver the tools, expertise and experience for developing new technology solutions and getting them to market quickly. 
For the fastest route from concept to market, visit us at www.automationalleytechcenter.com or call 800.427.5100. 
DOD 


Thursday, September 23, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Sun Devils' success a turnaround from last year 
Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz. -Andrew Walter's arm, a fleet of talented receivers and a smashing defense have propelled Arizona State into the national rankings and helped bury bitter memo­ries of a disappointing 2003. 
In his fourth season, coach Dirk Koetter has the 22nd­ranked Sun Devils 3-0 heading into Saturday night's Pac-1 0 opener at home against Oregon State. 
The sometimes strained rela­tionship between the star senior quarterback and the coach has been mended in the name' of winning. 
"We both understand this is it for me and him on the same team at ASU," Walter said. "It's all about wins. We just have a good understanding about what it's all about right now. There's no other goal than getting a win every week, so it's pretty easy to be on the same page when it's like that." 
Every Sun Devil was on that page last Saturday night, when Walter threw for 428 yards and five touchdowns in a 44-7 rout of then-No. 16 Iowa. The Hawkeyes, who beat Arizona State 21-2 last season. managed just 100 yards and were shut out for the first 59 minutes. 
The rousing victory in front of a noisy capacity crowd in Tempe was exactly what was expected of Koetter when he was hired out of Boise State aft~r Arizona State fired Bruce Snyder following the 2000 sea­son. 
But it's been a long time com­ing. Koetter was 17-20 at ASU going into this season. 
The team sputtered to 5-6 last year, and Walter flirted with leaving school for the NFL. At 6­foot-4. he has the size and arm to make it at the professional level. But his prospects for a high draft pick weren't great, and the lure of one last shot at college football brought him back. 
He wanted to leave school a winner. 
"That's why I came back," Walter said. "I didn't come back to break any records. Those are all nice, but I came back to have success as a team." 
Walter has put up gaudy num­bers at Arizona State. His five TD passes against Iowa gave him 66 for his career, breaking Jake Plummer's school record. 


He needs 12 more to break and ranks No. 12 on the Pac-10 "Guys made plays for John Elway's Pac-10 record of career list. Andrew," Koetter said. "There 
77. He is 349 yards shy of Walter already has the top have been times over the past Plummer's school record for two single-season yardage two years where we haven't career yards passing with 8,428 marks in school history, and his been consistent about making 
The products we carry are made in fair work­
JU6T ~0006 
ing conditions from earth-friendly materials such as hemp and organic cotton. 

social & ecological a-WEAR-ness 
Feel good -dress beautifully! 
1211 Mishawaka Avenue 
Open Sept. :23, ~4. :25
South Bend, IN 46615 574-;2.86-5878 
info@justgoods.net www.justgoods.net 

family apparel • handbags • sweaters • candles • accessories • home decor 
536 yards at Oregon in 2002 also is a school record. 
But this year he is helped by a solid running game, led by Loren Wade, and a big group of wide receivers. Twelve players have caught passes this season. Derek Hagan leads the group with 24 -and he is on a streak of six consecutive 100-plus-yard receiving games. Freshman Zach Miller, who plays tight end and H-back in Koetter's wide­open system, had a breakout game against Iowa with 10 catches, including a pair of spectacular touchdown grabs. 

plays around Andrew." 
Outside the program, few expected much out of Arizona State this season. The media covering the Pac-10 picked the Sun Devils to finish sixth. But within the program, with a flood of returning players, there was a growing feeling of self­confidence. 
"There has been a lot of talk amongst the team -I'm going clear back into the offseason in our leadership meeting. I think our guys are aware that when they,put it together, they can play," Koetter said. 

NFL 
INFORMATION M66l1N4S 

5:00PM 
~ ~Ayas-tteALY 
111w.rsac.t~, sep~tr23 
OY 
wed~~c.t~, &pteMbtr ~ 

Colts' Ja1nes could be cleared to play Sunday 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indianapolis 
Colts running back Edgerrin 
James was upgraded from 
doubtful to questionable for this 
week's game against Green Bay 
despite missing Wednesday's 
practice with a strained ham­
string. 
Coach Tony Dungy said James 
worked out earlier in the day 
but was held out of the after­
noon practice. Dungy said 
Thursday's practice could help 
clear up James' playing status. 
"I would not anticipate him 
playing, but if he practices 
tomorrow, that would be a step 
toward playing," Dungy said. "If 
he can't practice, that will tell us 
something else." 
James was injured on a 30­
yard touchdown run that sealed 
the Colts' 31-17 victory at 
Tennessee on Sunday. After the 
game, James said he was fine. 
But an MRI exam on Monday 
revealed damage, and Dungy 
said it was doubtful he would -play. Less than four hours later, 

James was running through light drills and said he still hoped to play against the Packers. James was not avail­able for comment Wednesday. 
The Colts (1-1) were making contingency plans, though. 
If James doesn't start, Dominic Rhodes will. Rhodes rushed for 1,104 yards -an NFL record for undrafted rookies -when he replaced James for the final 10 games of the 2001 season. 
"I don't know what's going to happen, Edge says he's feeling great," Rhodes said. "He knows I'm excited, I want to get that chance and I'm ready to help out." 
The Colts also announced Wednesday they signed running back Ran Carthon and defensive back Gerome Sapp to their active roster. 
To make room, the Colts released quarterback Joe Hamilton and fullback Tom Lopienski, then re-signed both to the practice squad. They also released defensive backs Vontez Duff and Waine Bacon from the practice squad. 
------------------------------------.---·-· 
-

page 20 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 23, 2004 
Coleman-Morse Center 57 4-631-7800 
Campus Ministry 

ministry.1 @nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu 

h , h . 

Main Office (CoMo 319) & Retreats Office(CoMo 114), Monday through Friday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. CM Wcleome Center (room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight . 
.~...... 
considerations... 

Catholic Calisthenics 
byMegan Thomas, Campus Mjnjstry Intern 
... 


It's the first Sunday of the year and you are not Catholic. It's decision time. Should you go to dorm Mass? Hmmm. Well, it seems like it would be a good thing to do as a part of your new community. But, you've never been to Mass before. Then you realize that your roommate and all of your friends are going, so you decide to give it a whirl. After all, Mass probably isn't that different than your church 
back home, right? And then it happens. Stand. Sit. Stand. Kneel. Stand. Hold hands. Hug. Kneel. Stand. Sign of the Cross. And then, "Thanks be to God" it's over. 
This was my experience several years ago. Coming to Notre Dame with a Presbyterian upbringing was a challenging experience. I wanted to go to dorm Mass with my friends, but I didn't understand what was going on. I found myself doing "Catholic Aerobics" at Mass, and I didn't know why I was doing them. I had many questions and felt uncomfortable speaking about them with Catholics, because I did not want to feel like an uneducated outsider. I needed a place to go to ask my questions. 
Maybe you are comfortable in your own faith and have decided to continue going to dorm Mass to be a part of your community. Maybe you have decided never to go back again. But maybe you are like I was, confused with these "Catholic Aerobics." Maybe you would really enjoy a chance for "Catholic Calisthenics." And by calisthenics I mean a chance to leam more about the Mass and the Catholic Church with other non-Catholics in a laid-back setting. If the latter applies to you, you are in luck! 
If you are looking for a place to bring your questions, come take part in a new program for non-Catholics looking at some of the major points of Catholicism. We will gather for prayer, listen to your questions, and share some information on Catholicism, so that you can feel more at home at Notre Dame. No pressure ...no strings attached ...just information...come check it out! 
Catholic Calisthenics Monday, September 27'-h 5:30 -6:30pm Coleman-Morse 316 
(!&ur
$pes 
(!&nip
Wntca 
~ope 


fridayo9.24 
Sign-Ups for Retreats: Notre Dame Encounter #82 (Oct 29-31) Freshman Retreat #54 
(Oct 29-30) Applications are available in 114 CoMo or online at campusministrv.nd.edu! 
saturday o9.25 
Mass 30 Minutes after the Game Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Mass 45 Minutes after the Game Stepan Center 
sunday o9.26 
Mass 8:00am, 1O:OOam, & 11 :45am Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIA-Inquiry Session 10:00 -11 :30am Coleman-Morse 330 
Find the latest on upcoming retreat signups, Mass schedules and special campus ministry events at 
campusministry.nd. edu 
mondayo9.27 
Catholic Calisthenics 5:30 -6:30pm Coleman-Morse 316 
Eucharistic Adoration 12:00 noon-7:00pm Every Monday-Thursday Coleman-Morse Chapel 
tuesday o9.2B 
Halaqa: A Qur'an Discussion & Conversation Circle 7:00pm CoMo Meditation Room (1st Fl) 
wednesday o9.29 
Catechist Formation Class 5:00-?:00pm Coleman-Morse 330 
/Four:?/ Contemporary Christian Prayer Service 10:00pm Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Theology on Tap 10:00pm Legends -Clubside 
thursday o9.Jo 
Prayer From Around the World 7:00pm Coleman-Morse 330 
don't miss out... 

otre !!! WARNING Ill••• arne Notre Dame Encounter 
ncounter . 
Retreat#82 (October 29-31) 
APPLICATION DEADLINE APPROACHING 
* * Deadline: Friday, October 1 ** 
mass schedule 
Twenty-Sixth Sunday in Ordinary Time 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart  Around Campus (every Sunday)  
Saturday  Sunday  
Vigil Mass at the Basilica  8:00am  1:30 p.m.  5:00 p.m.  7:00 p.m.  
30 minutes after the Game  Rev. Nicholas R. Ayo, esc  Spanish Mass  Law School Mass  MBA Mass  
Rev. Richard S. Bullene, esc Vigil Mass at Stepan Center  10:00 am Rev. James K. Foster, esc  St. Edward's Hal/Chapel  Law School Commons  Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge  
45 minutes after the Game Rev. James K. Foster, esc  11:45am Rev. Mark L. Poorman, esc  

Sunday's Scripture Readjngs 1st: Amos 6:1a, 4-7 2nd: 1 Timothy 6:11-16 Gospel: Luke 16:19-31 

Thursday, September 23, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Edwards pleased with Jets' 2-0 season start 
Team excited with solid play heading into idle weekend 
Associated Press 
HEMPSTEAD. N.Y.-For the last three years, Herman Edwards spent his bye week working long hours, trying to fix the problems that plagued his slow-starting New York Jets. 
He showed up to work alone on weekends while players and coaches took a break, refusing to rest until he figured out how to save the season. It worked in and the second time in 11 years. 
Now Edwards can take the bye weekend off. His reward? Going to the Nevada-San Diego State game to see his son, Marcus, play receiver for the Aztecs. 
"I actually get to see my son play a football game, which is pretty special for me," Edwards said. 
This season could turn into something special as well. The next three games are against winless teams: Miami, Buffalo and San Francisco. It is possible the Jets could be 5-0 before their game at New England on Oct. 24. 
But no one is thinking ahead right now. Edwards is just 




page 22 Thursday, September 23, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 

Rangers move to three games back of Athletics 
Associated Press 
Eric Young picked the per­fect time to hit his first home run for the Texas Hangers, who are making the most of their last chance against Oakland. 
Young's three-run shot was a tiebreaker, pushing Texas to a 5-3 win over the Athletics on Wednesday night and three games back of the AL West leaders. 
"E-Y's timing couldn't have been better," manager Buck Showalter said. "lie told us he'd been saving one." 
Young connected with two outs in the fourth orr Barry Zito (11-11) for a 5-2 lead. 
That was in his 305th at-bat -the most this season by any player in the majors without a homer. It was his 95th game. his fifth straight start at sec­ond base in place of injured Alfonso Soriano. 
Toronto 5, New York 4 
Orlando Hernandez wasn't even aware the New York Yankees would have clinched their 1Oth consecutive playoff berth with a win. 
"I was thinking about today's game. I don't think about the consequences," he said. "Now I have a good rea­son to be upset with myself." 
Vernon Wells hit a go­ahead, two-run triple off Hernandez in the seventh inning and rookie Brandon League escaped a bases­loaded jam in the bottom half as the Toronto Blue Jays ral­lied past the Yankees 5-4 to send El Duque to his first loss of the season. 
New York (95-57) would have clinched the playoff berth with either a win or an Oakland victory at Texas. But the Athletics lost 5-3 to the Rangers (84-67). 
Yankees manager Joe Torre knew before the game that a victory would have meant a clinch because the A's (87-63) and Anaheim (85-66) have six games remaining with each other -meaning the most wins possible for a second­place team in the AL West or Central could be 95. 
Chicago 7, Minnesota 6 
Paul Konerko is proud of his big season at the plate. He just wishes the Chicago White Sox were also fighting for the division title. 
Konerko hit a game-winning RBI single in the ninth inning to lead the White Sox to a vic­tory over the Minnesota Twins. Two days after Minnesota clinched the AL Central and eliminated the White Sox, Chicago won the next two games. 
"Only eight teams are going to get in, but when it doesn't go your way everybody is lighting for their own story." said Konerko, who has hit a career-high 40 homers and driven in a career-high 111 runs. 
Wilson Valdez led off with a single off Joe Roa (2-3) and moved to second on Aaron Howand's sacrifice. Roa then walked Willie Harris and Konerko followed with a sin­gle to left, giving the White Sox the win. 
Cleveland 7, Detroit 6 
Detroit Tigers manager Alan Trammell felt as though he was sitting through a repeat of the previous night's game. 
Jhonny Peralta's two-run double keyed Cleveland's five­run seventh inning, and the Indians rallied to defeat the Detroit Tigers -just 24 hours after the Tigers blew a five­run lead and lost. 
"We're just having trouble holding teams down right now, especially out of the pen," trammell said. "I don't like to see that." 
Jake Westbrook (13-9) won for the first time in four September starts, allowing three runs and seven hits in seve.n innings. Boston 7, Baltimore 6 
Orlando Cabrera capped an emotional few days with a big homer for the Boston Red Sox. 
Cabrera, who flew all night after leaving the team for two days to go home to Colombia to be with his ailing wife, homered in the bottom of the 12th inning to lead the Red Sox to their second straight win in their last at-bat, over the Baltimore Orioles. 


Cabrera lined a 2-2 pitch from Rick Bauer (1-1) into the Green Monster seats in left field. Cabrera's wife, Eliana, underwent an undisclosed surgical procedure earlier this week. 
"I slept the whole night on the plane," Cabrera said. 

"From Bogota to New York ­six hours." 
On Tuesday, Mark Bellhorn 's two-out, two-run single in the bottom of the ninth lifted the Red Sox to a 3-2 win. Wednesday's victory moved the Red Sox 6 1/2 games ahead of Anaheim in the wild-card race and cut their AL East deficit to 3 1/2 games behind the New York Yankees, who play a three­game series at Fenway Park this weekend. 
"I was thinking about taking another day because my wi(e asked me to stay another day," he said. "I kept saying, 'I got to go. I got to go."' 
Once Cabrera got back to Boston, he told manager Terry Francona he was ready to play. 
Thursda.y Night 5uftet~ncl'u~5?Si,. ..,.

Pasta, salaas, Itahan dishes, ''" ="1:n and of course Bruno's Famous Pizza~:~> 
ALLTHIS FOR $6.95A f'.f;R$0 ..... 
"~y ·.·iMiiTL . 
TRANSPORTATION INCLUDE 
Thursday Buffet Transportation Schedule: 
Notre Dame Library 

IBM+ND IBM ThinkPad R51-ars2004 IBM ThinkPad T41-BTS2004 
1.5GHz Pentium® M with lntean•ted 802.11b/g 1.6GHz PentiumR M with Integrated 802.11a/blg Windows XP Pro Wireless Networking Windows XP Pro Wireless Networking 
14.1 Inch screao 56Kbs Modem 14.1 inch ecreen 56Kb$ Modem 
40GB Hard Orlve Ethernet NIC 30GB Hard Drive Ethernm NIC 256MB OOR SORAM 3--year warranty 512MB ODR SDRAM 3Myear w&rraotv CO-RVVIOVO Combo Drive CD·RW/OVD Combo Drive 
$1.649.00 $1.934.00 
Popular Options and Accessories (Discoum.d Pric..Roftoetedt 
Targus Backpack Kensington Lock Accidental Damage 256K Flash Drive $55.00 731>3599 $39.95 01 N157S $314.00 73P1581 $49.95 UOK8214 
The featured modele Jnclude: 3Year Parts & labor Warranty IBanery: 1 Year}, 24 HourToll-Free 'Technical Support, Rapid Restore Rescue and Recovery Software, Norton AntiVIrus 2004 (OEM Edition}, Internet Scroll Bar, Spiii·Resiatont Keyboard, Touchpad and Trackpolnt, Hard Drive Shock Absorber. 
Load:  Depart:  Arrive:  Bruno's  
6:15pm  6:30pm  6:45pm  Load:  Depart:  Arrive:  
7:45pm  8:00pm  8:15pm  



OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, September 23, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 23 

around the dial 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Miami (Fla.) at Houston 6:30 p.m., ESPN · 
MLB 

Chicago at Pittsburgh 11 :30 a.m., WGN 
GOLF 84 Lumber Classic 2:30p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press against radio stations. breast-baring song gener­sors could scrub anything 
The agency's five com­ated a record number of deemed too racy. CBS, for 
WASHINGTON -Federal missioners decided not to complaints to the FCC -example, aired the regulators on Wednesday fine CBS' more than 200 more than 500,000. Grammy awards ceremony fined CBS a record affiliate stations, which "While we regret that the a week after the Super $550,000 for Janet also aired the show but are incident occurred and have Bowl with a five-minute Jackson's "wardrobe mal­not owned by the network's apologized to our viewers, delay. More recently, the function," which exposed parent company, Viacom. we continue to believe that NFL began its season with the singer's breast during MTV, a Viacom sub­nothing in the Super Bowl a live, pregame show on the Super Bowl halftime sidiary, produced the Feb. broadcast violated inde­ABC that was aired with a show. 1 halftime show, which fea­cency laws," CBS said in a 10-second delay, and 
The Federal Commu-tured Jackson and singer statement. "Furthermore, Monday Night Football nications Commission Justin Timberlake per­our investigation proved telecasts on ABC will air voted unanimously to slap forming a racy duet. At the that no one in our company with a delay for the each of the 20 CBS-owned end, Timberlake ripped off had any advance knowl­remainder of the season. television stations with the a piece of Jackson's black edge about the incident." On Tuesday, CBS News maximum indecency leather top, exposing her The FCC started a crack­appointed former U.S. penalty of $27,500. The right breast to a TV audi­down soon after the Super Attorney General Dick total penalty of $550,000 is ence of about 90 million. Bowl, resulting in several Thornburgh and former the largest fine levied Timberlake blamed a high-profile fines. Associated Press chief 
against a television broad­"wardrobe malfunction," Television networks also executive Louis Boccardi to caster. Most of the FCC's and CBS was quick to apol­began implementing investigate what went bigger fines have been ogize to viewers. The broadcast delays so cen-wrong with its story. 
IN BRIEF 

Philadelphia 76ers center Nets in 2001-02 when they reached committee chairwoman and commis­Todd MacCulloch retires the NBA Finals. He averaged 9. 7 sioner of the Atlantic 10 Conference. 
PHILADELPHIA -Philadelphia points and 6.1 rebounds in 62 games. Indy Racing League tests 76ers center Todd MacCulloch MacCulloch averaged 6.1 points first road course retired Wednesday, ending an and four rebounds in 223 career With a debut lap by Indianapolis 
attempted comeback from foot prob­500 winner Buddy Rice, the IRL lems that sidelined him the last 1 1/2 ~CAA may. C!PP.rove fifth began its first tests on a road course 
season of eligibility Wednesday at Homestead-Miami
seasons. MacCulloch, 28, hasn't played since INDIANAPOLIS -NCAA football Speedway in Florida. Rice and four February 2003 because of Charcot­players could have five seasons of eli­other drivers turned 165 laps on the Marie-Tooth disease, a genetic disor­gibility and would be allowed to 2.21-mile circuit before rain short­
der that disrupts his balance. transfer once without penalty if two ened the first of the two days of pri­MacCulloch had surgery in January new proposals are approved next vate testing. on his left foot to free up a crushed year. "It's a big learning curve to take 
nerve, leaving him hopeful of a The NCAA's Championships/Comp­these cars that have been made to recovery and perhaps a similar pro­etition Cabinet forwarded both meas­predominantly just go left and try cedure on his right foot. Instead, ures for consideration during a 2-day and sort everything out, but I think there was no progress. meeting that ended Wednesday in it's going quite well," Rice said. "The ­
The 7-foot MacCulloch was Indianapolis. The committee also biggest change is the braking. We 
Philadelphia's second-round pick in approved a proposal that would per­haven't been using the brakes (on 1999. After two seasons with the mit Division I-A schools to again add ovals) really." Sixers, he signed with New Jersey, a 12th football game starting in Brian Barnhart, the IRL racing then was traded back to Philadelphia 2006. operations director, said the initial in 2002 along with Keith Van Horn in We didn't have a significant discus­road tests "exceeded expectations." the deal that sent Dikembe Mutombo sion about it because the football "I think the primary effort in com­to the Nets. issues committee said athletes want­ing down here is to test components 
He had his best season with the ed to play," said Linda Bruno, the on the car and its ability to cool." 
page 24 Thursday, September 23, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Big East 
continued from page 28 
field advantage to try to get above the .500 mark. 
Despite a close 2-0 Joss to in­state foe and defending national champion Indiana, the Irish are playing their strongest heading into the road trip. 
Freshman Alex Yoshinaga post­ed two goals in Saturday's game and classmate Joe Lampira added one to combine with veteran Tony Megna. 
"I think a Jot of people were con­cerned with losing a Jot of scoring power and obviously, there's always some concern [with that]." Clark said. 
However. the Irish are finding their stride six games into the new season.. 
"We do feel we've got a Jot of people who are capable of putting the ball in the net," Oark said. "A good team has a Jot of different people scoring." 
A diverse range of players, from defenders Jack Stewart and Christopher High to standout for­ward Justin McGeeney, have lit up the scoreboards for the Irish this season. 
In addition to finding the back of the opponent's net, Stewart and High have helped anchor a defense that protects their own. Always a stronghold in the Clark era, the defense has established itself among the nation's stingiest. 
After Saturday's game, the team buckled down to prepare for West Virginia with its usual hard-work­ing practices. 
"Just the regular practice, that's all we do," Clark said. "We're working really hard at what we work at every week, and I think we're in pretty good shape." 
The Irish have not lost at Mountaineer Soccer Complex since 1999. They take the field against West Virginia at 7 p.m. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles fall to 1-8 with loss on road to Chicago 

By JUSTIN STETZ Sport< Writer 
For the third straight match things didn't go the Belles' way as Saint Mary's lost a non-conference match to the University of Chicago Wednesday night. 
The loss makes the Belles 1-8 on the season and 1-5 in the MIAA. Their chances of making the conference tour­nament are slowly slipping away with each new loss. 
The Maroons came into this game with a record of 9-5 and this win extends their streak to five straight during September. 
The Belles lost three in a row for the fifth time this year. 

-They dropped the first game by a score of 30-23. However, it did not get any better for the team as they only managed to score 21 points in the second game, and ended up losing 30-27 in the final game. Saint Mary's gave up at least 15 or-more kills in each of its three games against
·-----·------­
Chicago. 
Once again, the defense appeared to struggle through­out, while the offense proved to be rather ineffective espe­cially in the first two games. The Maroons' defense was too much for the Belles as they posted a total of 55 digs and 13 blocks on the evening. 
Currently in seventh place in the league, they still have a chance of making the tourna­ment if they can end the sea­son somewhere in the top six. 
At the present time, Hope holds the sixth spot with a mark of 1-3 in the MIAA, put­ting Saint Mary's two games back in the loss column. 
Saint Mary's will not take the floor again until Saturday in the Hope College Triangular. 
The Belles are set to play two matches, both being against conference oppo­nents. The first game begins at 11 a.m. against Hope College, and the second is against Olivet and starts at 
1:30 p.m. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 
.................................................................................... . 


Thursday, September 23, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish hold the No. 1 spot in both polls 
Notre Dame overtakes North Carolina for the top place in the coaches' poll 
By MATT MOONEY 
Sports Writer 
It's a consensus. 
After the rankings in the coaches' poll were released Tuesday, Notre Dame now holds the top spot in both major collegiate polls. The Irish (8-0-0) claimed the No. 1 spot in the Soccer America magazine poll last week fol­.lowing a weekend in which they defeated then-No. 11 Arizona State and previously top-ranked North Carolina (7­0-1) lost its perfect record in a scoreless tie against Tennessee. 
Notre Dame is now one of only five schools remaining with a perfect record out of 308 Division-! programs. 
It is fitting that the Irish had to overtake the Tar Heels to assume the top spot in the polls. North Carolina has been the barometer for success for a collegiate women's soccer program since the NCAA began holding championships in 1982. In those 22 years, the Tar Heels have had a stran­glehold on the championship trophy winning 17 titles, including the most recent in 2003. In only two years in NCAA history has North Carolina not finished either first or second. 
One of those years was 1995 when the Irish defeated the Tar Heels 1-0 in Chapel Hill, N.C., during the NCAA semifi­nals. 
Notre Dame went on to cap­ture its first and only national title that year, ending North Carolina's reign of 12 champi­onships in 13 years. 
If any program has come close to playing even with the Tar Heels, it would be Notre Dame. Only the Irish have made more appearances in national title games (four) than North Carolina. 
While Notre Dame's 2-8-2 mark against the Tar Heels is well below the .500 mark, the two wins and two ties are bet­ter than any other collegiate program. Only Santa Clara has more wins with three. 
From 1994-2000, Notre Dame has an overall record of 156-14-7, while North Carolina compiled a similar 172-9-2 during the same peri­od. · 
During the height of the Tar Heels' incredible 12-year stretch from 1986-97 in which they went an astounding 283­4-9, the Irish accounted for half of their losses with a nearly even 2-4-2 mark against North Carolina. 
The two teams have not played in four years, but their matchups in the past were for high stakes and almost always narrowly decided. In 1994, North C'!,.rolina was riding a 92-game winning streak entering its second ever game with the Irish. 
When the dust cleared, Notre Dame had broken that streak by holding the Tar Heels to a 0-0 stalemate. 


The tie proved to be the beginning of an intense rival­ry. Seven of the 12 games between the two teams have either been ties or decided by one goal, with four games going into overtime. Six times the matchup has pitted No. 1 against No. 2, and the two have battled in the national 

title game three times. The Irish lost all three of those games, including a 1-0 over­time thriller in 1996. 
The Irish, however, do have the distinction as one of only two teams to beat Carolina in consecutive games after defeating the Tar Heels in the NCAA semifinals in 1995 and then again in the regular sea­son in 1996. 
Notre Dame does not have North Carolina on its regular season schedule this year, but the two teams could meet in the NCAA Tournament. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 

~ 
~ 

~ 

VOLVO LINCOLN MERCURY 
~ 




Ford Motor Company presents: James C. Gouin Ford Vice President and Corporate Controller "Careers in Corporate Finance at Ford" 
Friday, October 1, 2004 at 11:45 AM Mendoza College of Business Jordan Auditorium 
Mr. Gouin will discuss career opportunities for the Ford Finance Team, 
his experiences at Ford and an automotive industry outlook. This is a 
one-of-a-kind opportunity to participate in a candid session with a senior 
executive of a leading global company. 
• 
Door prizes will be given to the first 1 00 people to arrive ·The presentation is open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students 

• 
Refreshments will be served 



For more information about career opportunities, please visit us at www.mycareer.ford.com. 

LUNKER'S 
HOME OF THE 6000 GALLON LUNKQUARIUM AND ANGLER's INN RESTAURANT. HUGE SELECTION OF 
NORTH FACE 
JACKETS, COATS, HATS, CLOTHING BRING THIS AD INTO LUNKER's AND RECEIVE 10~o OFF NORTH fACE ITEMS. 
LUNKER's 
APPROX. 15 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS. TAKE ST. RD. 23 N TO EDWARDSBURG, MICHIGAN 269-663-3745 
WWW.LUNKERS.COM 
Thursday, Seprember 23, 2004 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
Interhall 
continued from page 28 
to take a relaxed approach." 
With this approach. the team 
is utilizing unorthodox methods 
few would take in trying reach 
the stadium game at the end of 
the season. The Off-Campus 
team has had to build every­
thing from scratch, from a suit­
able practice schedule to teach­
ing the basic mechanics of foot­
ball. 
"We're learning to catch the 
ball and things of that nature," 
Blum said. 
Hegardless of the several obstacles the team faces, Blum is hoping key player Sarah Largent can lead the team this season. 
"She had trouble remember­
ing the plays on offense so we 
placed her on defense. We want 
her to stand up and get in the 
way of the others," Blum said. 
"She is the cornerstone of the 
whole team." 
Since Largent serves as the leader for the OfT-Campus team, a lot must be asked of her as the team faces the offensively­aggressive Welsh Family team. 
The Whirlwinds arc coming ofT a 19-0 victory over Pangborn and showed their offensive strength late in the contest last Sunday. Welsh Family scored 13 points in the second half and looked unstoppable during the final minutes of the contest. 
Welsh Family quarterback Melissa Sands threw a touch­down pass to Lauren Hoeck from midfield with nine minutes left in the half and never lets its guard down for the remainder of the game. 
The Whirlwinds finished the game with an eight-yard pass to Lauren Prcase to end the 19-0 shutout. 
The two teams square off on Hiehlc Fields at 7 p.m. 
Badin vs. Howard 
Badin looks to continue their quest to repeat as champions tonight at 8 p.m. when they take on lloward at Hiehle West Field. 
The Ducks. on the other hand, will attempt to bounce back from the 26-0 thrashing that they suffered at the hands of Lyons last Sunday. This South Quad match-up promises to be a physical game, with both teams having something to prove. 
Badin must show that the offensive struggles were simply first-game jitters and the shak­ing off of a little rust. Howard has to prove that they cannot be taken lightly after just one bad game. Badin's senior captain and quarterback Stephanie I Ieath will lead an offense that spent a lengthy amount of time this week in practice making some necessary adjustments. 
"We put in a couple new plays for the offense this week," lleath said. "As far as defense, they did a really great job last week and I'm sure they will keep it up." 
The Badin defense will look to 
maintain the type of dominance 
it showed in its shutting out of 
Lewis last Sunday. 
They intend to stop the run­
ning game early and force 
lloward to go to the air, where 
the secondary has shown it can 
hold its own. 
"Our secondary played really 
well last week. especially sopho­
more cornerback Katie Jackson 
and cornerback/linebacker Rita 
Morgan," Heath said. "Sopho­
more Colleen Mallahan also 
played great for the defensive 
line." 
Heath will likely have the team 
ready and fired up to knock-off 
the defending champs when 
Howard faces Badin at 8 p.m. 
Lyons vs. Pangborn 
Coming off a dominating 26-0 win over Howard on Sunday, Lyons is not taking anything for granted in the team's upcoming game against Pangborn. 
"Pangborn is a very talented 
and extremely well-coached 
team. It's always a confidence 
booster to beat a good oppo­
nent," Lyons captain Traci 
Kazmerski said. 
Co-head coach Neil Reece 
echoed Kazmerski's sentiment. 
"Although they lost last week, we are well aware that Pangborn is a very talented team," she said. 
Pangborn, however, is looking to right its ship. In Sunday's sea­son-opener, the Phoxes laid a goose egg, losing 19-0 to Welsh Family. 
Pangborn is determined to finally show some signs life on the offensive front by lighting up the scoreboard tonight, and preferably early in the game. 
Pangborn captain Katie Murray said that last week's game was a "learning experi­ence" for the offense and that the Phoxes will be ready come the first series against the Lyons. 
However. Murray knows that the Lyons will be looking for eight straight quarters of shutout football. 
Lyons co-coach Mike DeMartini has confidence that the Lyons defense will thwart any possible Pangborn offensive explosion. 
"We may use any number of defensive fronts to keep Pangborn guessing," he said. 
If the Lyons defense executes as well as it did against Howard, the Pangborn defense will have to improve somewhat dramati­cally to keep the contest close. 
On Sunday, the Phoxes allowed two touchdowns, includ­ing one on a 40-yard pass. Pangborn can make no such mistakes this time, or the game poised to be a low-scoring thriller will quickly become a lopsided Lyons romp. 
Game time is 9 p.m. tonight at the Riehle West field. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu, Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu and Thomas Stiles at tstiles@nd.edu 
Defense 
continued from page 28 
to do is·make sure you're in great position and to line up to make the tackle," Wilks said. "Once you're in that position we always talk about going for the football, and that's what hap­pened last week. 
"Zbikowski was in great posi­tion, and he wrapped the guy up and went for the strip and pulled it out. That's a good job from the standpoint of taking what we worked on during practice and applying it to the game." 
Although it's early, this year's defense has been compared to the defensive unit in 2002 that played a large part in leading the Irish to a 10-2 regular sea­son record and a trip to the Gator Bowl. 
That defense caused 25 turnovers in its 13 games, and this year's unit is off to a similar start with 11 turnovers so far in three games. The Irish have also scored two defensive touchdowns in 2004. 
"It's big anytime a defense scores or sets up a score or gives the offense great field position to score," linebacker Derek Curry said. "It's definitely our priority. One of the main things we focus on is setting up a score or getting ourselves in the endzone." 
While turnovers have been a huge positive for Notre Dame so far this season, the Irish defen­sive coaches are aware that too milch of a focus could be placed on turnovers at the expense of good solid fundamentals. 
"We always talk about tack-ling first," Baer said. "You've got to tackle and make sure the guy's wrapped up, and then you can come in and strip the foot­ball. 


"Some of those turnovers were on tackles, just good solid hits. We weren't really trying to strip the ball but we were just putting the hat on the ball." 
Wilks agrees with the idea that it is important to not lose sight of the fundamentals while pushing the importance of turnovers on the secondary. 
"The number one thing you must have [to be a good defen­sive back] is discipline," he said. "That is a position where you really have to be disciplined in what you're doing. You always want speed, size, and to be strong, but the most important thing back there is to be disci­plined. 
"You have a lot of guys in this game who have those tools but put themselves out of position and can't make the plays; disci­pline is the biggest key in the secondary." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

The First Lesson She Learned This Year Was How to Save. 
Disposable 
ntact Lenses 
1 YEAR SUPPLY 
~9~* 
After Manufacturers' Rebate *See store for details. 
TftY~-. 
BROADMOOR PLAZA 
291-4000 

Thursday, September 23, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 

DILBERT 
ETHICS HOTLINE 
THIS IS DOGBER.T. 
PLEASE STATE YOUR. 
CONUNDRUM. 

PEANUTS
• 
SOMETIMES I HAVE NAUGHTY THOUGHTS DURING WORK HOURS. SHOULD I REIMBURSE THE COMPANY FOR. LOST PRODUCTIVITY?  SCOTT ADAMS  
CHARLES SCHULZ  

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
FIRRA 
j
rJ r 

C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
PIPNY 

KXJ 
'f-:z, 
WHEN GRAMPS PAID
$TOJEL 
TO FIL-L-HIS TIRES WITH AIR
( J I 
l-€~rr­
www.jumble.com 


t X
TA)N IATI I ( J Now arrange the circled letters to form the surpnse answer, as ...,.,_..._,__,"'---''-----1...-.J..>o......., suggested by the above cartoon. 
An~r here: 

'l I I I I I I I I )" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday' I Jumbles: TRULY RANCH BOUNTY BENIGN s Answer: What the cops demanded from the arson sus­pect-THE "BURNING TRUTH" 


CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 30 The Governator 62 S-shaped molding

1 Ball 33 How actors respond 63 Big name in
6 Not docked 
digital software 1 o It may be herbal 
35 2000 site 64 Fat letters 

13 Blitzed 40 Build _ (settle down) 
65 Oenologist's14 Sports page interest news 41 Assigns 
66 "The 15 _Genis 42 "Ugh!" Asparagus" Tunnel, in the painter
45 Higher degree? 
Alps 

16 Radioer's words 4i Bull's partner DOWN
48 Grated18 Swear words 1 Miracle­

19 Serial story line 50 Emergency_ 2 Washroom 
20 Winter worry 52 Police blotter letters 
3 Length of a 21 Mame, for one 
quick fight? 53'Package

23 Kind of hold 
4 1992 site 24 Pixar collectible 54 Plastic 
5 Seventh in a

Band 25 One who makes series 55"AWoman
rounds 6 Mystifies Speaks" writer 26 Blues 7 1988 site 

56 Actor Morales 8 It flows through 
alternative 

27 Compass 57 Garment with a un fleuve heading lot of pockets 
9 Russia's 34 Loop group: 39 Show curiosity 49 Undercover 29 Rescues 61 Muffin choice cop, maybe
Republic Abbr. 
42 See 12-Down
36 Figure on an 51 OverlyANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Precisely ancient Egyptian 43 1996 Ron

-:-r-:::-r:-r.::-r.::-~ 11 Uncut 
58 Francis Bacon
headband 
Howard thriller 
-:-:+7+:::+.~:'-i 12 With 42-Down, said it "will not 
37 Visit briefly, as be defied"2004 site 44 Jack Nicholson 
someone who's sick 59 Popular cooking 
has three B-:+7+.-+.-l.iii.lloii.l..-~~Uj~~~·· 15 1976 site spray

-:+::+:::+::+-:-1-:-:-i 17 Eagles di v. 38 "I don't believe 46 Home run, in 
.-.r.+.+.-:-1-;-1 22 Stretch out this!" baseball slang 60 Stiffen 
~~:-r.::+.:::r.=,~~~+-:'-~ 26 Flier to Helsinki 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 

r.-+-:+-:+:=-loo""-28 Naval rank: 
Abbr. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday .,..,-+=+-=+-=-~•IIIPI!!~+=F+.:.;.B 31 You can see crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. right through 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000them 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 32 Change from Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young bland to blond? solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people a;nd events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name ____________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City __________ State _____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HoRoscoPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tom Felton, Scott Baio, Joan Jett, Andrea Bocelli 
Happy Birthday: You've got everything going for you this year, so stick to your game plan and focus on the 'end results. Success can be yours, but don't be surprised if you find yourself dissatisfied and moving on to something new. An added responsibility may set you back. Your numbers are 2, 9, 16, 20, 24, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Everyone will be quick to give advice but when it comes down to helping, you are on your own. Focus on your career and how you can increase your income. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Follow a direction that will enable you to promote what you enjoy doing the most. Money can be made and partnerships formed. A love interest may turn into a business partner. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Put time and effort into your home and your investments. You can raise the value of your home or purchase property that will grow in value. You won't have to go it alone today. *** CANCER (june 21-july 22): Participation will lead to romance today if you are single or a business partnership if you aren't. Push for what you want and you will benefit. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Nothing will stand in your way if you are serious about getting ahead in the workforce. Put all your attention on what you do best and opportunities will develop. *** 
· VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Do things with children or get out with friends. It is important to enjoy the things that spark your imagination or contribute to your creativity. Today you will find the perfect solution for improvement. 
***** 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Procrastination will lead nowhere. Take the plunge and make a move one way or another. The more time you let pass, the farther behind you will be. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't hold back if there is something you want to pursue. The time has come to ask for favors. Get involved in an organization you admire. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can make headway where work and money are concerned if you apply for something that promises a future. If you feel you are in a dead-end job, now is the time to consider your options. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't second-guess yourself when you should be going after your goals. Believe in yourself and don't be afraid to create your own position or business. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Check out your assets and make sure you can afford to follow through with your plans. Don't put yourself in an uncompromising position. If you stay within your limits, you will get ahead. 
*** 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Love and romance are in the picture. Get out and meet new people or plan a romantic encounter with someone you are enchanted with. **** 
Birthday Baby: You are very pragmatic and reticent, but when something needs to be done, you are the one to take action. You are complex and confident and quite capable of getting what you want. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Thursday, September 23, 2004 
page 28 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Batteast named a preseason All-American for '04-'05 
Irish ranked in the top 15 in three national basketball publications; team returns four starters 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Writer 
The expectations continue for the women's basketball team. and it's still the middle of football season. 
The Irish are ranked in the top 15 in three national basketball magazines, and senior forward Jacqueline Batteast has been named a preseason All-American by Lindy's College Basketball Annual. 
SlAM, Undy's and Athlon Sports have Irish coach Muffet McGraw's 2004-05 squad ranked at No. 10, 14 and 15, respectively. 
McGraw is in her 18th season at the helm and has compiled a 384­149 record with the Irish, including a national title in 2001. She has taken her teams to.six Sweet 16's in the last eight seasons and has won 20 games for 11 straight sea­sons. 
McGraw returns four starters from last season's Sweet 16 squad, including Batteast. As a junior, the South Bend native averaged 16 points and 8.6 rebounds. Batteast is 11th on Notre Dame's all-time scoring list and was a Naismith finalist last season and a first-team Big East honoree. 
Along with Batteast, the Irish return the Big East's Most Improved Player in Megan Duffy. The junior guard played a crucial role in running Notre Dame's offense last season and averaged 

9.9 points. 

Forwards Courtney LaVere and Teresa Borton also return for Notre Dame and will hope to give the Irish solid play in the paint. The duo averaged 10.5 and 5.8 points per game, respectively. · 
McGraw will likely lean on soph­omores Crystal Erwin, Breona Gray and Susie Powers more this season after all three saw some playing time during the 2003-04 season. 
Freshmen Charel Allen, Melissa D'Amico, Tulyah Gaines and Amanda Tsipis also join this sea-son's team. 1 
Notre Dame fmished with a 21­11 record a year ago, after being ousted by No. 1 seed Penn State in the NCAA Tournament. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL 

WOMEN'S GOLD LEAGUE 
Off-Campus
Taking 'safe' risks 

ready to get
Defense tries to cause turnovers, but not at expense offundamentals 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associate Sports Editor 
When the Irish offense had trouble putting points on the • board during Tyrone Willingham's first two years as head coach at Notre Dame, it was the defense that often helped pitch in on the scoring. 
While the team has shown improvement on offense in Willingham's third season, that doesn't mean the defense is any less aggressive than it has been in the past. In fact, according to defensive coordinator Kent Baer, it may be even more aggressive. 
"I like the attitude of this group," Baer said. "I think they have a little chip on their shoul­der, and they want to go out there and prove something to the world, and I really like that in a unit. 
"I think as long as they keep that edge we've got a real chance to keep getting better." 
That aggressiveness on defense was perhaps most per­sonified by safety Tom Zbikowski's 75-yard fumble return for a touchdown during Notre Dame's 31-24 win over Michigan State Saturday. 
Zbikowski wrapped up Spartan running back Jason Teague, stripped away the ball and then returned it for the Notre Dame score. As secondary coach Steven Wilks said, that is exactly the kind of play the defensive backs want to try and make each time out. 
"The one thing that you need 
see DEFENSE/page 26 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
The Irish are now ranked No. 1 in both national polls. 
page 25 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
The Belles fell to 1-8 after Josing their second game of the season to Chicago. 
page 24 

year started 
By DAN TAPETILLO, KEN 

FOWLER and THOMAS STILES 
Sports Wrirers 

Relaxation is the key to a suc­cessful year. 
Such is the mantra of the newly formed Off-Campus team for the season. 
This Thursday, the Off-CamptJS team will face the dominant Welsh Family to open its season. Despite having troubles in building a team for its first game, Off­Campus coach Lauren Blum is optimistic about the upcoming sea­son and the team's goals. 
"Our main goal is to have a team, which is step one to a winning sea­
son," Blum said. "We're just going
CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer 
Derek Curry returns an interception against Michigan State Saturday. 

see INTERHALL/page 26 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish hoping for 2-0 start to Big East season 


By KATE GALES 
Sports Writer 

The weekend started on Wednesday for the Irish, who set off on their first 2004 Big East con­ference road trip at West Virginia tonight. "The hardest thing to deal with 
CLAIRE KELLEYffhe Observer is missing classes, but it doesn't 
Irish mldflelder Jack Stewart tries to head the ball past Georgetown goalie Andrew Keszler dur­make sense to do it any other 
Ing Notre Dame's 4-1 win over Georgetown Saturday. 

way," coach Bobby Clark said. 
NFL 
The New York Jets are off to a 2-0 start thanks in part to a powerful running game. 
page 21 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
The Sun Devils start the season 3-0 behind the play of quarterback Andrew Walter. 
page 19 

AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Texas moved back to within three games of division leader Oakland with a 5-3 win over the A's. 
page 22 

"The lads, they've got to work pretty hard at [fitting in school­work]." 
The Irish are coming ofT a 4-1 thrashing of conference-rival Georgetown and look to improve their conference record to 2-0 with a win against the Mountaineers. West Virginia has yet to post a win in two conference games. The 3-3 Mountaineers will use their home 
see BIG EAST/page 24 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Zambrano pitched well as Chicago defeat­ed Pittsburgh 1-0. 
page 16 



~ 
! 






