---~----------------------------------------------~-----­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 46 WEDNESDAY. NOVEMBER 3, 2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Notre Dame waits for 2004 Ohio decision 

By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
Mirroring their home state, Notre Dame students from Ohio lingered longest in front of election coverage Tuesday night as the race hinged on the final swing state's 20 electoral votes. 
Despite some television net­works' early declarations of victory for President Bush there, Katie Johnson, a sopho­more from Toledo, and Chris Tracy, a sophomore from Cincinnati, planned to stay up until the state's entire tally was in. 
"I don't think Ohio is defi­nitely in the bag yet," Tracy said after Fox News called the race for the president. "I think it's going to be too close." 
But the possibility of a statewide recount would not be as daunting as the Florida crisis in 2000, Tracy said. 
"I don't think a recount has the same stigma," he said. 
"People are expecting it," Johnson added. "Whichever party loses is going to try to find states where people weren't counted ... and drag this out." 
While both Tracy and Johnson voted for Bush, they acknowledged that the parti­
sanship consuming the country throughout the campaign would pose a challenge for whoever is the eventual win­ner. 
"Both parties need to show some leadership to calm it down a little bit," Tracy said. 
Taking a lighter tone as he watched the returns, Ryan lafigliola, a sophomore from a Cleveland suburb, basked in his state's sudden spotlight. 
"We're hoping [Bush] takes it on Ohio so we can take credit," he said, adding that a battle there was inevitable, due to the precedent that no Republican has won the presi­dency without taking Ohio and 
the heavy campaigning from Bush and Democratic chal­lenger John Kerry. 
Iafigliola, who mailed his absentee ballot overnight so it would arrive in time, said he understood the media's hesita­tion in declaring a winner.­
" A lot depends on how the networks cover it," he said. "They want to be real careful after 2000." 
The candidates must also avoid repeating past mistakes, political science professor David Campbell said. After AI Gore conceded on election night four years ago, he entered the Florida recount at a disadvantage -a scenario Campbell said was unlikely to occur this year. 
"You will only see a conces­sion if they're truly con­vinced," he said. 
And while an Ohio recount seems likely, Campbell added, the weeks and months of legal challenges predicted by national pundits· might not materialize. 
"A lot of people are operat­ing under the assumption that 2004 will be a repeat of 2000, but it's not certain in my mind that it'll play that way," he said. "A lot of bizarre things had to happen at once." 
see REACTION/page 6 

ND students, South Bend residents flood polls at JACC 
Election workers ease process for Tuesday voters 

By TERESA FRALISH Associate News Editor 
Election volunteer Abby Willas, a 17-year-old Mishawaka High School sen­ior, spent her Tuesday at the Joyce Center polling place explaining the intricacies and procedures of Indiana ballot­ing to voters -which includ­ed University President Father Edward Malloy. 
"I didn't know he was the president of Notre Dame until he was at the poll," Willas said. 
After Malloy walked back to the booth, the other election workers told her who she had just helped vote. 
"Our inspector Norma [Patton] asked to shake his hand. and I just thought he was being nice," she said. 
Celebrity run-ins aside, 
Willis said this election sparked her interest in poli­tics, and she felt compelled to become involved. 
"I wanted to volunteer for my party, and they said they needed someone to work at Notre Dame," she said. 
But regardless of the voter's affiliation, Willas and other precinct officials made sure that each person could fill out his or her ballot quickly and smoothly. 
"We really do protect the privacy of the voter," precinct sheriff Donna King said. 
Throughout the day, poll workers saw a steady stream of Notre Dame students and South Bend residents come to east their votes in the Joyee Center. 
"It's just awesome to see. They come in with walkers and canes," King f!_aid of elder­ly voters. 
King and her fellow election volunteers -two clerks and two vote judges -arrived at the JACC early to set up voting materials and snacks for the day. All Indiana polls were open from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday. 
"I've been here since 5 a.m.," King said. 
In the morning. poll workers said they saw mostly older voters, with more students showing up to vote in the afternoon. 
"We had the priests and brothers from Holy Cross and a few nuns," King said. 
This election yp,ar, Indiana replaced its old lflver-style vot­ing maehinfls with electronic scanners, and poll workers said they had few problems with the new ballots. 
"For me it seems simple," 
see POLLING/page 8 

.------------------------------------------~ --~~-----­
Wednesday, November 3, 2004 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Surviving w-inter 
I know that many of you are ovnrwhelmed by the elections. This is why I decided to give you a little break from the elections by writing about something that has nothing to do with them. The result of the elections will not Pamela Lock really affect us until January. but one thing 
photographer
that will affect 
us in the imme­
diate future is 
the "wonderful" South Bend win­
ter. I am originally from Lima, 
Peru. As many of you might not 
know, Lima is located in the West coast of Peru, in the middle of a 
desert. Yes, that means no snow. 
As I was getting ready to come here last year, I had to be opti­mistic about South Bend winter and think that it was not going to bn that bad, because that would make the thought of the death of my summer for tlw nnxt four years not too terribly depressing. But I was completely wrong. 
When it started to get cold, I became more and more excil!~d about snow. I had seen snow before, but never on a daily basis. Thoughts about running out in the snow. having snowball fights and making snow angpls made me morn exdtnd for the snow season to start. l.ikn a littln kid, I would wake up nvcry morning and look outside to sec if it had started snowing ynt. lronkally, the day it startnd snowing was the day wlwn I rnaliwd I wanted it to stop. My ears, nose, fePt. hands and dweks were all literally freezing and numb. The only thing that kept me a little warm was thP thought of the beach and sun back horne and how much I wantnd to lw tlwre. 
As winter WIHlt by. the tmnpera­turn kept on dropping beyond my belief. I used morn and morn lay­ers, but it reached a point when I rnalized that they w1~rn not helping much. At that point. I was forc1~d to settle to thP idea that what had been the summer months for me were now going to be all about snow, wind. gloomy days and a lot of slipping and landing nat on the ground. I even ended up at a med­ical cnntPr in Mishawaka bncause of a terrible hip bruise from slip­ping and landing at the edge of a stop. 
I guess this column is mostly directed to the freshman intnrna­tional or U.S. students that come from warm regions. I survived. I'm not gonna lie, it is tough and it will probably get colder than what you think, but it eould be worse. You could be in my situation and not have a summer in four years at 
all. ~ 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Pamela Lock at plock@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. lfwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correcr our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU THINK ELECTION DAY SHOULD BE A NATIONAL HOLIDAY? 







Sheila Mamandur  Michael Rossmann  Shannon Reabe  Ryan lafigliola  Christina Dehan  Katie Napleton  
freshman Walsh  sophomore Dillon  freshman McGlinn  sophomore Zahm  senior Badin  freshman PE  
"No, because it's  "Yes. Ifthere is  "Yes, I believe it  "Yes, but we  "''m sure that  "Yes, it  
just choosing  a holiday for  should be. More  don't even get  even ifit were a  encourages a  
the president."  Columbus [Day], people could get  Labor Day off  national  better voter  
then there  to the poles."  here."  holiday, we  turnout."  
should be one  wouldn't get out  

for the election." 
Idaho man accused of stealing underwear 
POCATELLO, Idaho -A 44-year-old man is accused. of breaking into a student housing area at Idaho State University to steal under­wnar from the laundry room. 
The man, who reportedly admitted he was wearing a stolen thong during the interview with police, is charged with two counts of unlawful entry and two counL'i of petit theft. 
After several reports of missing female undergar­ments, Idaho State University's Public Safety began paying more attention to the laundry room's sur-of robbing it, but was so drunk that he fell asleep in his victim's home without stealing a thing, police said Monday. 

The occupant returned to his home in Kobe city Sunday afternoon to lind the unemployed suspect, Tatsumi Okagawa, 52, 
.asleep on the floor upstairs, a Hyogo prefecture (state) police spokesman said on condition of anonymity. 
Okagawa told police he had intended to rob the home but instead just fell asleep. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
veillance camera. 
While checking the moni­tor at headquarters the evening of Oct. 22, an oflicer nolicnd a man rummaging through laundry and called Pocatello police. 
Campus security officers arrived to find the suspect still at the scene. 
Pocatello police Lt. Stnve Findley said the man admit­ted having a long-standing affinity for stealing women's w1derwear. 
Police nab napping robber in Japan 
TOKYO -A man allegedly broke in to a house in west­ern Japan with the intention 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
c::: 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 
LLI 
~ 
..... 
ct 
(.) 



49 
39 


50 
43 

42 35 

0 
HIGH 55

-1 
LOW 39 

ofclass." 
IN BRIEF 
The locture "Bicultural Competence: Understanding How Latino Students Navigate Cultural Contexts" will takn place today at noon by Lisa Edwards from the department of Psychology in 20H McKenna llall. 

Tho lecture "St. Augustine, HatTy Potter and the Confrontation with Evil," will bP givon today at 4 p.m. in the McKenna flail Auditorium. 
The Notn~ Dame women's basketball team will have an exhibition gamo taking on Premier Sports on tonight at 7 
p.m. at the Joyce Center. 

Author of "Ameriean Compass" Bill Meissner will read tonight at 7::~0 p.m. in the Hospitality Hoom at Beckers, South Dining llall. 
"A Midsummer Night's Dream" will be performed by Actors from the London Stago tonight at 7:30 p.m. in tho Leighton Concert Hall in tho DeBartolo Center for the Perfiwming ArL'i. There will be a second performance on Saturday. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team will play an exhibi­tion game Thursday at 7::~o p.m. against St. Joseph's at the Joyce Center. 
The silent !ilm "Amleto" will be shown at S p.m. on Thursday in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The movie will be accompanind by live pianist Philip Carli. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

52 
34 

52 35 

Wednesday, November 3, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 

ERIC SALESfrhe Observer MEGHAN MARTINfrhe Observer College Democrats watch the presidential election returns Tuesday evening in Members from College Republicans gather informally at College Park to keep the Reekers hospitality room. track of the electoral vote counts. 
College Democrats, Republicans look back on calllpaigns 
By JANICE FLYNN News Writer 
College Democrats gathered at Reekers' Tuesday night, surrounded by Kerry/Edwards posters, sporting blue T­shirts and political stickers. 
The group of nearly 50 students could have been mistaken for television political analysts, scrutinizing precincts and debat­ing the early returns. 
"We don't know anything yet," said co­president Colin Taylor reminded everyone early in the night. 
Over the past year, they have been to Ohio, Michigan, Iowa, Massachusetts, Tennessee and back again, keeping up with the frenetic pace of the campaign trail and doing their part to get out the Democratic vote. 
But while most College Democrats sat glued to their TVs while at the same time celebrating their months of commitment, others were still out on the road. 
On Monday night, a handful traveled back to Toledo, Ohio, where College Democrats had been over the weekend. They greeted Senator Kerry at a midnight airport rally and helped with the Election Day voting effort. 
Another group offered their help in Michigan. In South Bend, students were shuttled back and forth from campus to the Joe Donnelly campaign headquarters. 
For Helen Adeosun, the field coordina­tor for the Donnelly campaign at Notre Dame, Election Day culminated a year of dedication to the local campaign, induct­ing a summer internship where she lived with the Donnelly family. 
"It's been worth it and so much more," Adeosun said. "I never saw myself doing so much [in polities] in a million years. I'm really tired, but now I know this is what I want to do." 
Most of all, students said they felt proud to have been a part of the political process. 
"If we win or if we lose, I still feel like I've done something that I wanted to do, what was right to do," College Democrat 
Co-President Colin Taylor said. ''I'm not going to feel less satisfied." Like Taylor, College Democrats eo-presi­dent Nicola Buniek agreed. 
"You hear all this stuff about how Americans don't care about how the coun­try is governed," she said. "That's not been my experience.... The overwhelm­ing majority really tries to make the best choice for their family, for America. It makes me want to do more." 
Time on the campaign trail was the most encouraging aspect, students said. 
"[In] Wisconsin, one woman was telling me about all the attention she felt she was getting this election when she had felt very much ignored in many elections past," Meghan Hawley said. 
In Mjchigan, Blake Jackson took the campaign door-to-door and was followed around by MSNBC crew cameras. Although a few doors were slammed, most families were eager to hear what Kerry had to offer, and others simply com­plemented their efforts. 
"One [man] wouldn't tell me who he was voting for," Jackson said. "But he did tell me he appreciated what I was doing, so that was cool." 
Tuesday marked the first presidential election most college students could vote in, which has had a huge impact on the College Democrats' level of enthusiasm. 
"In hlgh school, you spend all day with people who can't vote, and you ean talk about it all you want," Hawley said. "But you can't do anything about it." 
Co-President Taylor said that students of all political ideologies were invited to the free food and camaraderie in Reekers, despite the obvious Democratic atmos­phere. 
While some students preferred to watch the returns alone because of nerves, the College Democrats expected the substan­tial turnout. 
"We've all worked on this together, in varying ways," Taylor said. "So it's only right that we watch it together." 
Contact Janice Flynn at jflynn@nd.edu 
By MADDIE HANNA 
News Writer 
Members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Republicans joined a spirited crowd in celebrating the victory of incumbent U.S. Representative Chris Chocola at his campaign party held at the Marriott. 
"That was very exhilarating for us," Ian Ronderos, eo-president of the Notre 
Dame College Republicans, said. 
"To see him win makes me very happy -he's such a phenomenal person. He's not just a 
According to Honderos, the volun­
teers made a first round of phone 
calls to ask 
Hepublicans if they had voted and 
then a second round of calls offering 
those who still had not voted trans­
portation to the polls. 
"We called 20,000 people and made 
40,000 calls today," Honderos said. 
"And we were done early afternoon." 
These last-minute efforts were 
worthwhile, Honderos said. 
"From what we've been told by the 
campaign, it was highly successful. . When you're calling people for five 
straight hours, that's a 
feeling of real accom­

great congressman, but plishment," Honderos
"We called 2o,ooo
a good man in general," said. Ronderos said. people and made Also, Ronderos 
Lauren Fabina, co­40,000 calls emphasized the impor­president of the Saint tance of a few extra
today."

Mary's College percentage points.Republicans, joined "If you can get your Ronderos in expressing lan Ronderos entire side out to vote, her enthusiasm for co-president you have a much better 
Chocola. 
"He is a great man who understands the youth vote, a congressman who takes his skills and knowledge of Indiana to [Washington] D.C. and represents Indiana very well," Fabina said. 
Tom Rippinger, eo-president of the Notre Dame College Republicans, stressed the importance of Chocola's win on the national level. 
"It's really the Congress that will set the agenda as to what legislation will be passed the next four years," Rippinger said. 
Ronderos said that he had been working for the Chocola campaign all year along with other Notre Dame College Hepublieans and that he worked on Chocola's last campaign in 2002. 
Starting at 8:15 a.m., Honderos and other volunteers began last minute get-out-the-vote efforts, calling all the registered Hepublieans in the dis­trict. 
ehanee, obviously. That's sometimes the trick,'; Ronderos said. Voter turnout increased greatly this year, Honderos said. ''I'd call at 8:15 and a person would say, 'I was waiting in line at 6:00 
a.m. so that I could vote early,"' Ronderos said. 
Saint Mary's College Hepublicans wore their "Belles for Bush" shirts and watched the election returns together, according to Fabina. 
Though the Second Congressional District is one of the most heavily contested, Choeola's actions in Congress helped carry him to victory, according to Rippinger. 
Hippinger cited Choeola's "Washington Waste Watchers" pro­gram as appealing to voters because it cuts down on "pork-barrel legisla­tion," or pet projects for districts. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhanna@nd.edu 
Notre Dam.e VS. St. Joseph's 
Find a 

Thursday, Novenzber 4th 
Notre Dame student not going to the game & 

af;7."30PM 
use thier 

student ticket! Joyce Center 
*Notre Dan1e Bagpipe team will preform at halfthne! 
*2004-2005 Men's Basketball Poster will be available! 
IVisit ww\v.notredamepromotions.com for the latest promotional information I 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 3, 2004 
Election Night unfolds at Notre Dame 
By KELLY MEEHAN, NICOLE ZOOK, MARY KATE MALONE News Writers 
Hditor :<; note: Three reporters from The Obsenwr tracked students' interest in the h'lection Night re/llrns. 
S:15 p.m. 
We depart The Observer's ollice to inves­tigate how various student groups monitor coverag1~ of this evening's election. 
S:26 p.m. 203 Navarre Strnot We arrive and are ~-,rreeted by a black cat 
lmking near the curb. Wn start to wonder if this is a sign or bad lw:k, but eontinuc to the doorstep. At first thn house seems very quiet. llowover. loud screams from behind the door indicate othnrwisn. This is not only an nlection crdehration, but also a 21st birthday celebration for Notre Dame senior and homeowner Brian Agganis. Agganis is hosting 30 Democratic and Hopublican frinrHls. 
"We started at 7 ]p.m.], and we are going to go until much later hnrc, until we go to Corby's," said Agganis. 
At H:32 p.m. the room explodes in cheers as the South Carolina electoral votes are awarded to Prnsident Bush. Each candidate has now won nine states. 
Snnior llans Biebl does not cheer at this ·announcement. 
"I just really wanted to get together tonight and drink .for democracy, because no matter who wins, the system wins," Biebl said. 
9:00p.m. 
SrnokHy Bones BarbPque and Grill 
Hestaurant greeter Brenda Cyr informs 
us that "well-behaved" Notre Dame stu­dents had occupied over hall' tho restau­rant watching the elHction results. Students wrote letters to soldiers in Iraq in 

exchange for free barbeque chicken 
wings. 
We run into senior class president Darrell Scott, who informs us that over 100 senior class members showed up for the two-hour event, which had just ended. He emphasized thatit was a bi-partisan gathering -"Not hardcore people either way, which demonstrated solidarity among the senior class," said Cyr. 
9:15p.m. 61 0 Coronation Gardens, Castle Point Apartmenl<; 
Despite the faet that the apartment is decorated predominately in Bush signs, about half of the 30 expected guests are Kerry supporters. 
"It's too early to tell, but things are look­ing good. At 2 a.m., I'm ealling it quits," said California residfmt and Kerry sup­porter Brian Conckright 
The partiers hung a map of the United States, which they said they planned to color in at 10 p.m. when most of the elec­toral votes are in. However, we decided not to wait. We grabbnd some of the many varieties of desserts provided and headed on our way. 
9:45p.m. 
llaggar College Center 
The Saint Mary's College Democrats arc gathered to watch the election results unf!1ld. The group of eight girls is planning to watch until about 11 p.m. 
Club President Sarah Staley spent her day doing last minute campaigning for Kerry. 
"I really appreciate being together when we are all so nervous," she said. 
Club Treasurer Lyndsey Bergen skipped all her classes today to go vote in her home state of Michigan. 
"I will be heartbroken if Bush wins," she said. "I am joining the Peace Corps next ynar, so it will be a good excuse for me to leave the country." 
10:15 p.m. Morrissey Hall 
In Morrissey Hall alone, we lind one party for Bush, another for Kerry and one room divided. We decide to split up to taekle this hall. 
Hoom 432 -Junior Brian Wrona is hosting about 10 friends -half from swing states Ohio, Florida and Iowa-and a life-siZf) cardboard standee of the presi­dent to watch the results roll in. 
"It's a Bush party, as indicated by the cutout," he said. "We anticipate a big George W. victory. Of course, wn're not having an actual 'party' party, as obviously indicated by the garbage can full of empty bottles." 
Hoom 110 -Kerry supporters are watching two televisions simultaneously: one shows CNN, the other The Daily Show with ,Jon Stewart. llost Nick Guzman explains his philosophy regarding the elec­tion's outcome to the group. 
"I hope if Kerry loses, it's fair and no shady stutrhappens," he said. 
Boom 221 -Kelly cannot help but notice signs for both Kerry and Bush past­ed on the door. Despite their voting prefer­ences, Chris Brennan, a Democrat from New Mexico, and Nick Schott, a Republican from Ohio, have not had any heated argumenl<>. 
"In faet, if Kerry wins I am going streak­ing," Brennan said. 
10:35 p.m. Badin. Hall 
Badin's television room resembles a middle school slumber party. Pizza boxes, pop cans and pillows are dispersed throughout the lounge. Twenty-five girls wearing pajamas and munching on snacks watch intently to monitor the progress of their favorite candidate. 
Freshman Cassie Belek, a Kansas resi­dent and political science major, was not afraid to criticize President Bush's oppo­nent after hours of watching the coverage. 
"John Kerry's face looks like it's made of Play-Doh," she said. 
10:45 p.m. LaFortune Student Center 
We bypass two large groups of students quietly waiting fi1r election results in the Coleman-Morse Center in favor of the large, normally rowdy television lounge in LaFortune. Almost 50 students porch in front of the two TVs, but the room is strangely silent. 
"People have been mostly doing their work or pretending to do work, like me," said senior Mark Guest. 
Fellow seniors Bobby Davidson of Indiana and Nkk Leseanie of Pennsylvania reserved front-row seats starting at around 6:30. 
"I think it's been pretty standard," Davidson said. "There haven't been any surprises. Things are going pretty well in Pennsylvania fi1r Kerry ... there's a lot of rod ~n t!~e screen, but I'm not getting too worrwd. 
Lescanic is not worried either. 
"I think this is all really sad. It sucks that we don't have anybody really good to vote for. We can vote for an idiot or a bigger idiot," he said. "It's probably not going to be decided for another month anyway, 
so..." 

11 :03 p.m. We return to The Observer office, weary from all the election partying but none the worse for wear. The general feeling ofl"-campus was one of celebration, no matter which candidate the party was for. On eampus, however, the students were hushed and pensive. The office is tense as the night wears on. Only time will tell whieh side prevails. These reporters say, may the best candidate win. 
Contact Kelly Meehan, Nicole Zook and Mary,Kate Malone at kmeehaOI@saint­marys.edu, zook8928@saintmarys.edu and mmalone5@nd.edu 

Volunteer Opportunities 
LaSalle Academy 
The LaSalle Academy needs 
rucors Mondays rhru Thursdays 
from 3:00-4:30 p.m. Students in 
the gifted and talented educa­
tional program need help with 
tutoring, especially with support, 
organizational assistance, and 
encouragement. Contact Vice 
Prifcipal Otha Reese at 283­
7509. 
Good Shepard Montessori 
School 
Good Shepard needs volunteers to assist with the after-school program for elementary school aged children one day a week. The program runs from 3:30­5:30pm Monday-Friday. Please call Kathy Royer at 292-2590 or 288-0098. 
Physical Education with Little Kids 
Covenant Christian School 
needs volunteers ro help work 
with kindergarten and first 
graders. The physical education developmental program that she runs is on Mondays and Wednesdays from I: l5-3:00pm. If interested, please call Alicia Albright at 273-1691. 

Rock the Vote Calendar 
November 4 
"Post-Election Analysis: What Really Happened on November 2?" 
Panelists include Susan Ohmer (American Studies & FTT), Robert 
Schmuhl (Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy), David 
Campbell (Political Science) and Peter Quaranto (CSC~ Rock the 
Voce student coordinator). 
Coleman Morse Lounge from 6:30 pm. 
November 9 
"Iraq: What Now?" 
Faculty panelists include Daniel Lindley (Political Science), George Lopez (Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies) and Gary Masapollo (Milirary Science). 
4: 15-5:30 pm, Hesburgh Cenrer Auditorium 
Through the Eyes ofFaith: A Pilgrimage to India 
Join Linda Schaefer, aurhor ofCome and See, a documentary on the work of Mother Teresa, for a journey, inro rhe hearr and soul of India from Dec. 27, 2004 ro Jan. 10, 2005. This program combines first hand experience of the ministry of Mother 1eresa's Missionaries of Charity as well an engaging experience of rhe beliefs and practices of Indians. Contact Michael Griffin at (574) 239-8307. Sponsored by Holy Cross College. 
For more informacion: http://www.hcc-nd.edu/News/9-29-04.hrm 
School of the Americas Annual Vigil 
Those interested in attending the SOA trip November 19-21 must have their forms turned in no later than Wednesday, November 3 co the from desk of rhe Center for Social Concerns. 
Registration for Urban Plunge Ends November 3 
Online registration for the Urban Plunge, a one-credit experiential learning course designed to expose students to the sites and sounds of poverty, closes on November 3. 
Durirtg the 48-hour immersion over January break students will have the opportunity to meet people affected by poverty as well as those working ro eradicate it. For information and to apply online, go to http:/ /centcrforsocialconcerns.nd.edu. 
ISSLP 2005 Application Deadline Extended to' Nov. 3 
Learning agreements and application forms for rhe International Summer Service Learning Program are available at the Center for Social Concerns. Applications can also be downloaded and printed from website: http:/ I centerforsocialconcems.nd.edu. Please turn in applications to 
the esc. 
The ISSLP is an 8 week summer service-learning opportunity and academic course THEO 3608: Summer Service Learn­ing: International. Program includes: Travel/Room and Board Expenses, Tuition Scholarship, 4.0 credits in Theology, Prepara-
How to Submit Events to Happenings 
To submit an event for the CSC Happenings or for "Communique" the weekly email newsletter for the esc, send your event to commque@nd.edu. 
For more information on events, check out http://www.nd.edu/ ~commque or http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu. 
Contact Deanna Garcia or Aine Richards with questions. For more informrion go to the SOAW website http://www.soaw.org. 


ORLD &NATION 
Wednesday, November 3, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OssERVER'SWIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
British vote to ban child spanking 
LONDON -After a passionate debate in the House of Commons, British lawmakers voted overwhelmingly Tuesday against ban­ning parents from spanking their children. 
Some lawmakers argued that even mild spanking should be outlawed and insisted children should have the same legal protec­tion as adults when it comes to being hit. 
But Prime Minister Tony Blair's govern­ment has shied away from an outright ban, fearing it will be accused of intruding into family affairs. Instead, ministers urged law­makers to back legislation that would allow mild smacking but make it easier to prose­cute parents who harm a child physically or mnntally. 
Lawmakers voted by 424-75 against an outright ban. Thny will vote later on the gov­ernment proposal. 
Kuwait sex-change woman struggles 
KUWAIT CITY -Iter father and brothers beat her. The government suspended her from her job. A group of Muslim fundamen­talists screamed abuse at her outside a courtroom. 
Ilcr crime: She was born a boy named Ahmed, and is now a tall, 29-year-old blonde who calls herself Amal-Hope. 
An overseas sex-change operation has done little to help Amal's struggle for official recognition as a woman in conservative Kuwait. One court ruled for her, another overturned it and now she is going to the Court of Cassation, her last avenue of appeal. 
"People see me as a comic case," said Amal. "I wish they could look at me as a human being, someone who was born with a disease." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Hostages released from N.C. plant 
ClAYWN, N.C.-A woman apparently upset about the firing of a friend took five people hostage Tuesday at a Caterpillar factory before gradually releasing them and surrendering. 
No one was injured during the two-hour inci­dent at the construction-equipment plant south­east of Raleigh. 
The woman appeared to be holding a shotgun and claimed she had explosives on her body when she walked into the plant's lobby in mid­afternoon, said Johnston County Sheriff Steve Bizzell. 
"Apparently, she is an acquaintance or friend of an employee terminated recently"and was "demanding answers," Bizzell said. He described the woman as "irate about the treat­ment that her friend got." 
Soldier pleads guilty in abuse case 
HAGERSTOWN, Md. -The third of seven 
U.S. soldiers from a Maryland unit charged with abusing Iraqi detainees at Abu Ghraib prison near Baghdad has pleaded guilty to reduced charges, an Army spokesman said Tuesday. 
Spc. Megan Ambuhl, 30, of Centreville, Va., pleaded guilty Saturday at a summary court­martial in Baghdad to reduced charges of dere­liction of duty for failing to prevent or report the maltreatment, Lt. Col. Steven A. Boylan said. 
IIe said Ambuhl, who like the other soldiers charged is a member of the Maryland-based 372nd Military Police Company, was busted down to a private. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Boy turns mom into police 
INDIANAPOLIS-A Near-Eastside woman was arrested early Tuesday after her 14-year­old son told police that she took all the money out of his wallet and then told him, ''I'm getting high." 
Police reports say the boy called 911 some­time around 1 a.m. and later told an Indianapolis police officer: "Sir, please get me out of here. I'm scared. My mom is doing drugs." 
lie said his mom -identified as 47-year-old Mary K. Walker -had been gone about an hour. 
Car bombs kill12 Iraqis in Baghdad 
Violence continues as pressure mounts on Allawi against attacking Fallujah 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Car bombs killed at least a dozen people in Baghdad and another major city Tuesday as pressure mount­ed on interim Prime Minister Ayad Allawi to avert a full-scale U.S. attack on the insurgent stronghold Fallujah. 
There was no word on an American and two other for­eigners abducted Monday night in Baghdad, although the kidnappers freed two Iraqi guards also captured in the bold attack. Some diplomats speculated the foreigners may have been seized to pressure the Americans against a Fallujah attack. 
In northern Iraq on Tuesday, saboteurs blew up an oil pipeline and attacked an oil well, violence that is expected to stop oil exports for the next 10 days, Iraqi oil officials said. Iraq's oil industry, which provides desperately needed money for reconstruction efforts, has been the target of repeated attacks by insur­gents. 

At least eight people, including a woman, died early Tuesday when an explosives-laden car slammed into concrete blast walls and protective barri­ers surrounding the Education Ministry and attempt on Maj. Gen. Rashid Allawi, the interim prime tions," al-Faidhi said. "In exploded in Baghdad's Feleih, commander of a spe­minister. case of an incursion, more Sunni Muslim district of cial task force, who was not However, new pressure deterrent steps will be Azarniyah. injured. Feleih was appar­mounted Tuesday on Allawi, taken." 
Ten others were injured, ently on his way to a news a Shiite Muslim, to forego an He said that a boycott call including a 2-year-old girl, conference to talk about the assault and to continue by the influential clerical according to Al-Numan role of the task force, negotiating with the hard­group "will have a great Hospital. Officials at according to police and line Sunni clerics who run resonance among the peo­Baghdad Medical City media reports. the city, which has become a ple oflraq." Hospital reported two more The violence came as symbol of Iraqi resistance Such a call by Iraqi Sunnis deaths and 19 injured. Dr. American forces prepare for throughout the Arab world. would probably draw little Raed Mubarak said he was a major offensive against Mohammed Bashar al­support among the Shiite unsure whether some of the Fallujah and other Sunni Faidhi, spokesman of the majority, believed to com­wounded were transferred militant strongholds north Association of Muslim prise about 60 percent of from other hospitals. and west of Baghdad in Scholars, said his clerical Iraq's nearly 26 million peo­
In Mosul, 225 miles north­hopes of curbing the insur­group would use "mosques, ple. The country's leading west of Baghdad, a car gency so that national elec­the media and professional Shiite cleric, Grand bomb exploded near a mili­tions can be held in January. associations" to proclaim a Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, has tary convoy carrying an U.S. forces have pounded civil disobedience campaign been demanding elections Iraqi general, killing four insurgent positions around and a boycott of the January for more than a year, and civilians and wounding at Fallujah almost daily, but elections. some Shiite preachers have least seven soldiers. American officials say the "In the case of an incur­been telling their followers 
Iraqi police said the attack go-ahead for an all-out sion in Fallujah, there will that failing to vote would be was an assassination assault must come from be a call to boycott elec-sinful. 

Queen Elizabeth II remembers WWII 
have built in Europe since 1945," the group of German and British
Associated Press 

queen said. teenagers. 
BERLIN-Britain's Queen Elizabeth "We owe it to those who built (the) On Wednesday, she opens a confer­II laid a wreath at Germany's national partnership to continue the process ence on climate change at the British war memorial and urged remem­into the 21st century: to learn from Embassy, chaired by Klaus Toepfer, brance of the suffering of both sides in history and not be obsessed by it; to head of the U.N. Environment World War II during a state visit look beyond the simplistic stereotypes Program. Tuesday that underlined the two coun­to realize how often we share the She will also attend a gala concert at tries' postwar reconciliation. same outlook," she said. the Berlin Philharmonic. The proceeds 
President Horst Koehler received thf Koehler thanked the queen for her will help restore the Frauenkirche, or queen and her husband, Prince Philip, reconciliation efforts and "because Church of Our Lady, in Dresden ­at a state dinner. The British and you supported the freshly unified devastated by Allied firebombing in German leaders praised their nations' Germany." 1945. close relationship, and called on their The queen earlier received military After meeting Koehler and people to look beyond old stereotypes. honors at Charlottenburg palace, the Schroeder, the queen laid a wreath at 
"In remembering the appalling suf­German head of state's temporary Germany's central memorial for war fering of war on both sides, we recog­headquarters. She also met with victims, the Neue Wache, on the cen­nize how precious is the peace we Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and a tral Unter den Linden boulevard. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, November 3, 2004 
FedEx CEO speaks about ethics 

By PETER LEAHY News Writer 
FedEx chief executive officer Alan B. Graf, Jr. discussed and applied business ethies to his eom­pany H.'i well as other U.S. eompa­nies in his leeture "Building a Culture of Ethics," Tuesday. The nxo1:utive vien prnsident of FedEx Corporation said FedEx has always strnssnd honesty and that nthical business op1~rations are an integral part of' FedEx procedure. 
In 1979, Fnderal Express, as it was 1:alled ttum. did $300 million in salm;. This yp,ar Graf predicted sales would be at around $28 bil­lion. The company does over (J million shipments a day and employs over 245,000 people, Gral' said. The eompany is broken down into live main branches -FedEx Ground, FedEx Express, FedEx Freight, FedEx Kinko's and FedEx Supply Chain Serviens. Each of the branches ha'i a unique function. 
The largest of the branches is FedEx Express, which has il'i own fleet of airplanes. 
"The fleet is the second largest fleet of commercial airplanes in the world," Graf said. 
Although this may not be sur­prising for a company the size of FedEx, the union with Kinko's may be. (;rar said why a shipping com­pany lik1~ FedEx would join with a printing company like Kinko's. 
"FedEx is the largest mover of documenl'i in the world," he said. 
Onee the prnmL<;e of FedEx wa'i discussed, Graf spoke of ethics in the business world. 
"I think lethies] means doing the right thing," Graf said. 
Re,action 
continued from page 1 

Greater scrutiny at voting precincts -one conse­quence of the problems that arose four years ago ­should also mean greater accuracy this time, Campbell said. 
"I think it's great that there's so many people out there watching the polls," he said, adding that he believes a balance can be struck between minimizing fraud and maximizing the right to vote. 
0.25 percent, Campbell said. 
If the finish is that tight, Kerry stands to benefit, said juniors and Democrats Alexandra Pennington of Louisiana and Sheena Bowman of New York. 
Pennington pointed out that the Democratic senator has been a strong eloscr throughout his political career. 
"He's weak at the begin­ning ... but usually comes from behind at the last minute," she said. 
Bowman took a more pes­simistic view about Kerry's chances, but both students 
sought a silver 

Not everyone lining in the
"/ think its great
who stayed up opportunity to watch was that there s so posed by the thrilled to see next four
many people out 
the election years.
there watching the 
extending into "We can use the coming polls." that time to days. reassess our 
''I'm not really excited about a recount," said  David Campbell professor  situation and come back really strong in  
senior Brendan  2  ()  0  8  • "  

O'Connor, a Kerry supporter Pennington said, still calcu­from Hammondsport, N.Y. lating electoral scenarios as "But if the state constitution she spoke. "But I still have calls for it, you have to do faith ... it's not over until it." they call Ohio." 
Ohio law stipulates that a recount is mandatory if the Contact Claire Heininger at margin of victory is within cheining@nd.edu 
Graf took advantage of the pres­ence of many Notre Dame stu­dents in the audience to propose an analogy to better explain his definition. 
"I low would you like to grade your own exam?" Graf asked. He followed with a more appealing question. "llow would you like to write the questions'? I get to do this every day." 
Graf also emphasized that busi­ness cannot funetion without pub­lic trust -a trust that Graf believes is declining because of scandals such as Enron. 
While strongly against fraud and dishonesty, Graf acknowledged that many times in business there is a gray area in which definite rules do not govern practices. 
"Hardly anything is black and white in your business career," Grafsaid. 
In situations in which gray areas arise, Gra.f recommended asking questions. Graf said judgment is important in the business world. 
"So many times you hear of someone doing something against their best judgment," Graf said. "Always use your best judgment." 
Graf pointed to Enron once more to emphasize the conse­quences of what he called "cutting corners" or "taking shortcuts." These terms are synonymous and encompass unethical business procedures such as faulty account­ing practices and tax fraud, Graf said. 
"Don't take the shortcut, you will not see [it's consequences] the first time, but the 25th time you will feel it," Graf said. "[Unethical behavior] is not worth it." 
To conclude the lecture, Graf illustrated how FedEx strives for honesty and cited the mission statement as exemplary of this goal. He explained how an inter­nal audit committee that answers directly to the Board of Directors is able to overview his fmancial deci­sions as well as the actions of everyone involved in the compa­ny's finances. 
Contact Peter Leahy at pleahy@nd.edu 
tNS.lTf\.1:1'~ ~Ol\ CtUJil\\:" lUi CiNl'U~. fO~ C.ATi~tUTlt:At iNtTtA.Tl\'iS 

FAITH FORMATION lEADERSHIP PROGRAM 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING~ NOV: lOTH~ 8PM~ COMO LOUNGE 
WHAT IS ECHO? 
ECHO IS A TWO YEAR SERVICE PROGRAM IN FAITll FORMATION LEADERSHIP 
WHOSE MISSION IS TO FORM NEW PARISFI CATECFIETICAL LEADERS TO ASSIST IN 
MINISTRY IN DIOCESES AND PARISHES THROUGll Tl-IE APPliCATION Of GIFTS 
AND TALENTS OF RECENT NOTRE DAME GRADUATES. 
ECHO CAN HELP YOU..~ .. 
-EXPERIENCE PARISH COMMUNITY liFE AND SERVICE 
-WORK CLOSElY WITH AN EXPERIENCED CATECHETICAL LEADER AS YOUR MENTOR 
-PURSUE A MASTER'S DEGREE IN THEOlOGY 
-LIVE IN AN INTENTIONAL FAITH CO.MMUNITY AND GROW IN PERSONAL FAITH 
{l!JESTIONS? LENNY DELORENZO: 631-2915, OR DELORENZ0.2@ND.EDU 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Wednesday, November 3, 2004 
page 7 

Dow 10,035.73 -18.66
}ones 
,,., Same: ~ Composite Volume: 
(,190 144 "'~· 1,647,685,120 

AMEX 1,305.26 +0.:23····· 
NASDAQ 1,984.79 +4.92 
NYSE 6)01.47 +1.61 
s&PSOO 1,130.58 +0.07 
NIKKB(rol<yo) 10;887.81 + 153.10 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,693.20 + 19.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.57 +0.16 28.24 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.76 +0.17 22.61 
STEMCELL5 INC (STEM) -3.97 -0.17 4.11 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) + 1.28 +0.05 3.96 
APPLIED MATL (AMAT) + 1.63 +0.26 16.25 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.19 -0.09 48.3,8 
10-YEAR NOTE -0.37 -0.15 40.75 
5-YEAR NOTE -0.51 -0.17 33.32 
3-MONTH BILL . +3.24 +0.61 19.43 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.51 49.62 
. GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -7.00 420.80 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.15 98.00 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 06.1200 
EURO 0.7880 
POUND 0.5446 
CANADIAN$ 1.2262 
IN BRIEF 
America Online to cut 700 jobs 
NEW YORK -America Online, which has been trying to turn its fortunes around as users leave the service for broadband connec­tions, plans to cut about 700 jobs next month, or 5 percent of its U.S. work force, in a bid to meet financial targets, a person familiar with the matter said Tuesday. 
The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the job cuts would occur mainly in northern Virginia, where the online service is based. News of the cuts was report­ed earlier in The Washington Post. 
Jim Whitney, an AOL spokesman, declined to comment. 
Word of the job cuts came one day before AOL's parent company. the giant media con­glomerate Time Warner Inc., reports earnings for its third quarter. AOL is expected to be a key topic for investors, including its efforts to seek new kinds of revenues as its dial-up users migrate to high-speed Internet connec­tions. 
lansing to leave Paramount Pictures 
LOS ANGELES -Sherry Lansing, the one­time model and actress who broke down bar­riers for women in the movie industry as one of Hollywood's most powerful studio chiefs, said Tuesday she will leave her post as chair­woman of Paramount Pictures at the end of next year when her contract expires. 
At Paramount, Lansing was a key player in the Oscar-winning blockbusters "Titanic," "Braveheart" and "Saving Private Ryan." But the studio has seen a string of flops and box office disappointments in recent years, includ­ing "The Stepford Wives." 
''I'll have been in this job for 12 years and have had the opportunity and the privilege to work with the very best the entertainment industry has to offer," the 60-year-old Lansing said in a statement. "But now it is time for new challenges." 
I Ier announcement follows several manage­ment shake-ups at parent company Viacom Inc., including the departure of Jonathan Dolgen, who had shared power with Lansing at Paramount. 
A. Zahner Co.'s reputation grows 
Kansas City company internationally renowned for architectural metal work 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -It's unlikely that people driving by A. Zahner Co.'s head­quarters would imagine the creative work going on inside the nondescript buildings. 
A passer-by might notice different-sized, multicol­ored sheet metal with unusual designs stacked near the business, without realizing that many of those ~heets are destined tG become part of butJdings, museums and artwork around the world. 
In the last 15 yeats, Bill Zahner has made the com­pany founded by his great­grandfather in 1897 into a recognized leader in using metals in complex architec­tural or artistic projects . 
A. Zahner's reputation has grown partly because it is the company that archi­tect Frank Gehry usually depends on to determine how to color metal and make it bend to his adven­turous and challenging designs. It was A. Zahner that installed the stainless steel "skins" covering Gehry's Weisman Museum in Minneapolis and the Experience Music Project in Seattle. 

Gehry began working with Bill Zahner in the late 1980s and continues to rely piece of metal and know once; current projects times comes up, such as on his knowledge of metals what it is, how it's going to include the de Young when Zahner was bidding and the techniques needed work," Zahner said. "I Museum of Art in San to be part of the National for unusual designs, sajd decided I really wanted to Francisco and the Hunter Museum of the American George Metzger, Gehry's learn more about metal Museum of American Art in Indian project in partner. than we had known Chattanooga, Tenn. When Washington. 
"W() were impressed from ·before." Zahner took over, the com­Designers and architects the very beginning with That altered the fortunes pany had a volume of about wanted a building that how Bill understood the of A. Zahner, which had $5 million; current volume reflected American Indian craftsmanship of working previously focused on more is more than $37 million. culture, including a copper with metal itself, what types mundane metal work, such Besides Gehry, the com­wall that would look like it of metals we should use, as siding, decking and jleat­pany has worked with other was dug from the earth and the architectural impli­ing ducts. Since he became noted architects such as 1,000 years ago. But they cations of metal," Metzger company president in 1989 Rem Koolhaas, Antoine had no idea how to build it, said. "For years, he's been and CEO in 1995, Zahner Predock, Daniel Libeskind make it structurally sound a valuable resource for us." has added 15 to 20 engi­and Tadao Ando, and com­and get the right color 
Zahner, who has written neers, expanded the plant panies such as The Walt tones. two books on the use of in Kansas City to about Disney Co. A. Zahner also "They thought there was metals in architecture, said 100,000 square feet and works with sculptors. no way a little company in he began studying metal added another plant in Zahner said he had to Kansas City was going to be because of the craftsmen at Dallas. overcome a perception that able to do this," ZaJmer his Kansas City-based com­About 200 people now a company from Kansas said. "They said 'You can't pany, which is privately work for the company. They City couldn't handle high­do it; we've talked to every­owned. are generally working on end, difficult projects. And one in Europe.' We walked 
"They can just touch a about 10 to 15 projects at that perception still some-in and blew them away." 

Tentative agreement reached in strike 
tract to reach those goals, but we ness.
Associated Press 

achieved all that and more during About 10,000 casino workers ­
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J.-Thousands the course of this strike," said not including dealers -walked out of striking casino-hotel workers have Robert McDevitt, president of Local at Harrah's Atlantic City, Showboat reached a tentative contract agree­54 of the Hotel Employees and Casino-Hotel, Resorts Atlantic City, ment that signals an end to a bitter, Restaurant Employees union. Bally's Atlantic City, Caesars Atlantic month-old walkout -the longest in A vote by rank-and-file members City, Tropicana Casino and Resort Atlantic City casino history. was planned for Wednesday. and the Atlantic City Hilton. 
The union representing about Workers could be back on the job as Restaurants closed, highly-paid 
10,000 striking bartenders, cocktail early as Thursday, according to executives went to work making servers, housekeepers and other union officials. beds and gamblers were forced to service employees approved the five­The union went on strike Oct. 1 endure noisy picket lines, cuts in year deal late Monday. It calls for against seven of the city's 12 casi­housekeeping services and other significant gains in wages and bene­nos, turning operations in the 24-inconveniences. fits and guards against the casinos' hour gambling halls upside down. The casinos never stopped taking practice of leasing space to non­While revenue figures for the month bets, although some gamblers decid­union restaurants and bars. -quantifying the amount of lost ed to steer clear of the sign-waving 
"Given our starting point, we had business -have yet to be released, pickets who maintained a round-the­thought we needed a three-year con-the strike was clearly bad for busi-clock presence outside. 
Wednesday, November 3, 2004 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
The Visa~ credit Card 
Polling 
continued from page 1 

clerk Charmaine Leinen said of the new process. "I guess either way is ok -I'm just glad we didn't have those hanging chads." 
Both Leinen and King volun­teered in the mid term election some students li'ving ofT cam­pus thought they could vote at Notre Dame when they needed to vote in other South Bend or Mishawaka precincts. 
Poll workers mentioned that some Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students seemed con­fused by e-mails sent about voting at the Joyce Center. 
However, voters could also 
cast provisional 
ballots that 


With ot Jr VisoR C:rArlit Card, you can make online payments and view your balance at any time. 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You con bank on us to be better 
574/0.31 ~8222 • www.ndrcu.ort.~ 
two years ago would be
"/ give credit to the
and cited a gen­reviewed later
people who have 
eral desire to on by election serve thfl commu­come out to vote. " officials to assess nity as motiva­their validity, tion. according to
Charmaine Leinen
"I try to do King.
poll clerk
what I ~an," King "People are 
said. 

Though the yot­ing process went smoothly generally, King and Willas said a significant number of Notre Dame students incor­rectly believed they could vote Tuesday at the Joyce Center. 
"There were lots of them ­an unusual amount," said King. 

Notre Dame students can only cast their votes in South Bend if they claim Indiana residency. 
Adding to the confusion, 
going to deter­mine whether those are counted," she said. 
But despite some student confusion, the Joyce Center precinct workers said they were proud to be a part of American democracy in action. 
"I give credit to the people who have come out to vote," Leinen said. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 


OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING COMPARISON 
Lafayette Square Townhomes  Turtle Creek  Clover Ridge  Castle Point  
\\1'asher/Dryer in Every Unit  YES  No  No  No  
4 & 5 Bedrooms  YES  No  No  No  
10 Month Lease Available  YES  Yes  No  No  
Your Own Bedroom  YES  ?  ?  ?  
August 1st Move In  YES  No  Yes  Yes  
Square Footage  1560-1860  255-1200  750-1000  737-1340  
PRICE PER STUDENT  $254-267.50  $367.50-625  $320-465  $412-551  
Best Value  YES!  NO  NO  NO  

The choice is clear! Lafayette Square Townhomes is the best place for students to live! 
OPEN HOUSE WED., NOV. 3rd 4-6 PM 
Lafayette Square is located at the corner of Eddy and Cedar streets, just south of campus 
Sign your lease at the Open House and your Townhome will receive a $1 00 Gift Certificate for the Bookstore! Can't make it for the open house? Call Francie at 234-9923 or email at FSchmuhl@cbresb.com for a private showing! 
'······················-...........................-..............-···-·····-·······..........-.......__...............-.-......._.. .......................................... . 
-

Wednesday, November 3, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Nevv cancer treahnent announced 
Procedure attacks dangerous tumors directly, bypassing healthy cells 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Texas researchers say they have perfected a method to deliver cancer treatment directly into tumors, bypassing healthy tissue. 
The study was done on mice, but human trials could begin soon, said Dr. Michael Andreeff, one author of the study in Wednesday's issue of the Journal of the National Cancer Institute. 
The research team used the benefits of a known anti­cancer therapy, interferon beta, that can kill cancer cells. In practice, that thera­py has proven problematic. It causes toxic side effects and its benefits disappear within minutes of patients getting their shots. 
The research team worked around those problems by manipulating a certain type of stem cells to encode the interferon beta gene. The stem cells then move like guided missiles, targeting tumor cells and producing high concentrations of thera­peutic proteins within the tumor cells, Andreeff said. 
Besides taming toxic side effects, the cancer treatment stuck around in the tumor longer, he said in an inter­view. 
Mice with human breast cancer treated with the engi­neered human stem cells survived for 60 days, accord­ing to the JNCI paper. Mice treated with interferon beta alone lived for 41 days. Untreated mice survived for 37 days. Meanwhile, mice with melanoma treated with the stem cells survived 73.5 days, compared with 30 days for untreated mice. 
Andreeff said he's working on a protocol for a clinical trial to test the procedure in humans within a year, if the Food and Drug Administration agrees. Patients would be infused with the stem­cell-delivered 
Even though they're tumors, the malignant cells act just like "never-healing wounds," Andreeff said. Half the tumor is made up of stomal cells that provide structural support. For the body, forming that tumor support structure is much like healing wounds and forming scars. 
Enter the specialized stem cells. Giving them the clues they need to take on the con­struction duties of stomal cells delivers the cancer-busting ability directly to 
anticancer tumors.
"Any wound that's 

treatment four Andreeff's
active, that

times a week, research team said Andreeff, a requires repair, did not see engi­professor in the neered stem
would be a target. " 

departments of cells drift into blood and mar­healthy organs 
row transplan­Dr. Michael Andreeff like the lungs, tation and study author liver, spleen, 
leukemia at the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. 
The targeted delivery of anticancer therapy to tumors builds on what researchers already know about how wounds heal. 
The specialized stem cells -known as mesenchymal stem cells -come from bone marrow and help maintain healthy connective tissues. When new tissue is needed to heal wounds or form scars, those special stem cells swell in number. 
kidney or mus­
cles. 

But because the stem cells are driven by a duty to help, that means a wound else­where in the body could dis­tract some from reaching tumors. 
"Any wound that's active, that requires repair, would be a target," Andreeff acknowledged. That means doctors would need to screen patients carefully to ensure the therapy is not attempted on people who had under­gone recent surgery, for example. 
Tobacco cotnpany wins key federal court appeal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A federal appeals court sided Tuesday with a tobacco company that is trying to keep a potentially damaging memo out of the 
U.S. government's $280 billion lawsuit against cigarette mak­ers. 
The U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia ruled that U.S. District Judge Gladys Kessler erred when she said British American Tobacco PLC must produce the memo because the company .had, in effect, waived the right to protect the document under the claim of attorney-client privilege. 
The appellate ruling means BATCo. can continue to claim the document as privileged and try to keep it out of the massive civil racketeering case. However, the govern­ment can still challenge the claim in the lower court, where the trial is continuing. 
Justice Department lawyers have been seeking the 1990 memo for two years, believing it could strengthen their argu­ment that tobacco companies committed fraud by lying about the dangers of smoking and hiding that information from the public. 
Kessler, who is presiding over the trial, previously ruled that BATCo. had waived its right to attorney-client privi­lege by failing to list the memo on an initial document it gave Justice Department lawyers about items it was withholding on grounds the material was privileged. 
The three-judge appeals panel said the company's rea­sons for not handing over the memo were weak but said 
· waiving attorney-client privi­lege was too serious a sanction for Kessler to have imposed. 
The appellate justices also disagreed with Kessler's view that once government lawyers learned about the memo and sought it, the tobacco company neither produced it nor out­lined objections in a timely fashion. 
The memo by London-based lawyer Andrew Foyle advises an Australian subsidiary of BATCo. on whether the com­pany should keep or destroy internal paperwork in light of increasing litigation. 
Government lawyers haven't seen the sealed memo but know much of the contents because an Australian appeals court decision two years ago quoted the memo. 
British American Tobacco owns Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., which recently merged with R.J. Reynolds. The new company, Reynolds American Inc., is the second­largest cigarette maker in the United States behind Philip Morris USA. 
THE INAUGURAL CONFERENCE FOR THE MCMEEL FAMILY CHAIR IN SHAKESPEARE STUDIES NOVEMBER 5 AND 6, 2004 • MCKENNA HALL • UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
FRIDAY NOVEMBER 5 
9:30a.m. · Welcome Mark Roche, I.A.O'Shaughnessy Dean, College ofArts and Letters, University of Notre Dame 
Session I: Introduction 
Peter Holland, University of Notre Dame 
On the Gravy Train 
Session 2: Shakespeare's Performances of Memory 
Chair: Graham Hamill 
Bruce Smith. University of Southern California 
Speaking What We Feel about King Lear 
John Joughin (University of Central Lancashire) 
Shakespeare's Memorial Aesthetics: Richard II and the Performance ofGrief 
I p.m. Morning Session Ends 

2:15p.m. Session 2: Shakespeare's Performances of Memory (continued) 
Anthony B. Dawson, University of British Columbia 
Priamus Is Dead: Memorial Repetition in Shakespeare and Marlowe 
Session 3: Editing Shakespeare and the Performance of Memory 
Chair: Paul Rathburn 
Michael Cordner, University ofYork 
"Wrought with Things Forgotten": Memory and Performance in Editing Macbeth-
Margaret Jane Kidnie, University ofWestern Ontario 
Shakespeare's Work(s) in Progress 
5:30 p.m. End of Sessions There is no fee for the conference. 

For further details and conference registration forms, contact: cce@nd.edu Phone: (574) 631-6691 • Fax: (574) 631-8083 On-line registration and further details are also available through· links at the conference Web site: www.nd.edu/-fttlshakespeare.shtml 
Supported by the Office of the Provost, the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, and the Dee and Jim Smith Endowment for Excellence in Shakespeare and Performance. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
SATURDAY NOVEMBER 6 
9:30a.m. Session 4: Performance Memory: Costumes and Bodies 
Chair: Donald Crafton 

Barbara Hodgdon, University of Michigan 
Shopping in the Archives: Material Memories 
Carol Chillington Rutter, University ofWarwick 
"Her First Remembrance from the Moor": Actors and the Materials of Memory 
Session 5: Reconstructing Shakespearean Performance 
Chair:Jesse Lander 

Russell Jackson, University of Birmingham "As I remember, Adam": Paul Czinner's As You Like It, Max Reinhardt's Dream, and German emigre Shakespeare in the 1930s 
12:45 p.m. Morning Session Ends 
2p.m. Session 5: Reconstructing Shakespearean Performance (continued) 
Michael Dobson, Roehampton University 
Shakespeare Exposed 

Session 6: Performance Memory: Technologies and the Museum 
Chair: Peter Holland 

W.B.Worthen, University of California Berkeley 
Fond Records: Posthuman Shakespeare and the Drama of Memory 
Robert Shaughnessy, University of Kent 
The Shakespeare Revolution Will Not Be Televised 
Dennis Kennedy,Trinity College, Dublin 
Tourism, Performance, and the Idea of the Museum 
6 p.m. Conference Ends 


Bush and Cheney are back? Or are they? 
page I 0 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. 1\nx Q, Nutr< !Jam<. IN 46~56 024 Sumh Dining Hall, Nutrc Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CIIIEF Man Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Mcghannc Downes  Mike Hanagan  
AssT. MANAGING EnJTOil  
Joe llctder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOit: Sarah Vahulas SPORTS EDITOR: !leather Van Hocgarden ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angda Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAI'IIIC~ EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CoNTROLLER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsmc<i!)nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS 0ESK 
(574) 6.~1-5.U3 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vicwpoinr.l @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-454:-1 sports. I @nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4 540 scene.! @nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily new;paper published in prim and online by the srudems of the University ofNotre Dame dulac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial comem, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adwniscments based on content. 
Tlw news is reported 'IS accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chid: Managing Editor, A>sistam Managing F.dit<lr and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors ;tnd not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vi~poim space is available to all readers. The free <"X pression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lc.•tters w rhe F.ditor must be signed and must include contact infrmnation. 
Qrmtiow n-garding Obsn-vrr po!icit!S should b~ .dim1ed wF.ditor in CbiefMatt lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Thf OhM-rver (USPS ''1'.1 .Z·-1UOU) i~ published Mond.ly dunugh Fricb.y except during ~.uu .1ud vo~ca.don pcrHJt.U. A wbKription w TI1e Oh.~,ervtr is $1 OU for Oil<: IIC.ufcmk yc:.u: $~5 ti>r une u:m~u:r. The [>hscrvcr is A mcm~r of chc """->Ci~rcd Pn:M. All teproducdon til4fm are rtK'rved. 
The Ohkmr iJ publ~ If:: P.O.IloxQ 024 St1mh Dining Hall 02-i Saurh Dining H.t!l Noue D11mc:, IN 4ti~~6-on? Notrt D.une, fN ~6556-0779 Pcnodiod pusta~ paid •t Notre Dame .md additional mailing offices. 
POSTMASTER ~nd addre¥ correcriara 10: TI1eOhKrvtr 
Tilt Oh~rver b 11. mctnbt.-r of rhc ~w::1areti Prtt<~. All reprodut:tion nK!us .uc I'Cie:rYc~.l. 

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT 
Wednesday, November 3, 2004 


Well, at least now I know why plas­tic cups come in red and blue. Pick your color, and proclaim your candi­date. At almost 11:30 p.m. on Nov. 2, I certainly didn't know much else about the results of the presidential eleetion. Katie Boyle If only the election 
coverage could be For M'hat It's more like the Oscars. Worth I like key moments to be nieely staggered throughout my evening. Trot out the Iowa results around eight, shake things up a little with Ohio at 10. But apparently national elections haven't been designed for my entertainment. 
Despite this obvious flaw, political science aficionado (or nerd) that I am, I knew I'd be glued to the television set for the rest of the night. I needed plenty of time to pack my bags for my permanent vacation in Canada should George W. Bush manage to pull this off. 
Hegardless of political affiliation, however, I am impressed with the Notre Dame student body's interest in this eleetion. Even my friend Brian's 20 first birthday party today was themed, complete with an Electoral College drinking game. You can't ask for more dedication than the inclusion of two aging politicians in your rite of passage. 
The student body, like the country, is 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

practically evenly divided. I'd like to point out the (very) obvious. Parietals are antiquated. And, of course, that no matter who won this election, a lot of people were going to be very unhappy. Partieularly Halph Nader, but who's listening to him now any­way? 
Hegardless of whether Sen. John Kerry or Bush won the election, it is important that the enthusiasm gener­ated among the younger seetor of the population remains strong. Even if your party hasn't gained the White House, individuals are still able to have an ineredible impact on politics, particularly in the local arena. Campaigns sueh as 'Hoek the Vote' and P. Diddy's 'Vote or Die' slogan, have increased awareness among new voters. 
Thanks to the closeness of this elec­tion, it's certainly been a nerve­wracking evening for me. On another level, however, this phenomenon has forced politicians to court not only the undecided voter, but the possible voter. The increased turn out and awareness of issues this year has been a positive for our eountry, even though it may not have resulted in a win fbr John Kerry. 
Unfortunately, it seems that political parties needed the impetus of this elose raee to launch get out the vote campaigns. So is it now the closer the 
CDI\JTI N U e 
~ 


race, the greater the importance of eaeh voter? If you want to matter more, hope for a dead heat. Or that, like my roommate, you hail !'rum Ohio. 
A truly dedicated politician should strive to increase voter education and awareness aeross the nation regard­less of its importanee to their own eleetion. When I was younger, I used to think everyone should have to take a written exam on the issues before they could vote. Now I understand the impracticality, not to mention the elit­ism, of this plan, but I still maintain the sentiment behind it. 
Citizens should know not just for whom, but also for what they are vot­ing. People should research nvery candidate, rather than voting a straight party line. And politicians have a responsibility to their con­stituents to encourage voting in their communities, and to pronounce nuclear correctly. . ' ot,i 
In the end, all I ean say is if GeorgP 
W. Bush wins, and it appears increas­ingly likely that he has, I've always heard Quebec's a nice province. 
Katie Boyle is a senior english. political science and Spanish major. She supports John Kerry. She can be reached at kboyle2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Angela Saoud Dan Tapetillo Megan O'Neil Ann Loughery Tricia DeGroot Chris Khorey 

What did you think of the 
Viewpoint Scene 

networks' Election Night coverage as
Sarah Vabulas Becca Saunders Graphics Illustrator compared to 2000? Mike Harkins Graham Ebetsch 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ am a firm believer in the people. Ifgiven the truth, they can be depended upon to meet any national crises. The great point is to bring them the rea/facts." 
Abraham Lincoln President 


THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Wednesday, November 3, 2004 
page 11 
A day in the life of the American Democracy 
A cold and broken Hallelujah 
Today was indeed an interesting day. Reflecting badly timed midterm, and a two-page paper for back on the progress our nation has made in the ·another class. I didn't really want to wake up this 
past few months is truly inspiring. The story of today really began for me on the morning of Sept. 11. On that morning our generation of Americans was called to action. Our destinies had changed from that of lazy post-Tom Rippinger materialistic MTV watching spoiled brats to a calling similar to that of 
Confessions of 
our forefathers who fought and a Campus died in the worldwide struggles Conservative against tyranny and communism. 
The very legitimacy of our exis­tence as a nation has been called into question by radical Islamic militants opposed to the worldwide advancement of the principles of liberty. Our genera­tion has risen to the call in ways worthy of the American heritage. On the other side of the globe, brave young men and women of my generation are fighting and dying for the advancement of freedom in distant lands. 
Closer to home, our generation is doing what it can to continue the advancement of freedom. Over the past few months, we have had a spirited dialogue with our liberal counterparts debating the election. Both Democrats and Republicans are volunteering, voting, and actively voicing their opinion in the media from weblogs to national television. Although we've had our disagreements, they are fiercely fought in our media as opposed to fists. If anything can be learned from these past few vicious months, it is that a nation can fiercely disagree without resorting to violence. I feel that is the best example we can set for the rest of the world. 
The past few weeks have been hectic to say the least. On the whole political contribution can seem frustratingly minimal. I would make it through three pages of voters in a phone bank on a given night. A person in our club may knock on 100 doors in an afternoon. Today, I waited 45 minutes in line to cast one vote. All off these days add up and culminate into days like today where time seems to move at a near standstill. 
Today started out like any other day dealing with a morning, nor did I wish to do much of anything. I managed to make it through my midterm today, although my mind was definitely not on Medieval Politics. Townie that I am, my brother and I managed to make it out to Granger to vote in today's election. 
Wearing my Notre Dame Fighting Hepublicans T-shirt to the polls, I ran into Democratic challenger for the Indiana 2nd District seat Joe Donnelly outside my designated voting place. His family being long-time friends of ours, I sheepishly man­aged a h(;lllo and a handshake as I walked into the polls. I felt good in the fact that he could shake my hand and avoid making politics personal in the oldest tradition of American democracy. 
After voting, I promptly called the campaign manag­er for Congressman Chris Chocola, who ran for the 2nd District seat, to see if I could help wrap up the phone banks. However, I was shocked and pleas­antly surprised to hear hundreds of volunteers called every likely Republican voter in the district twice this morning. From there, all that was left after months of work was watching and waiting. 
Tuesday night at the Marriott, the officers of the College Republicans and I did just that. In the grand old tradition of the stereotypical Republican, Ian Ronderos and I took a break to smoke cigars in the 
lounge while watching the election results come in. 
After enjoying our cigars, we joined the victory rally 
upstairs after the race was called for both Congressman Chocola and Mitch Daniels for governor of Indiana. As I write this, we are currently ahead, pending the assault of the Democratic lawyers. For now, I'm enjoying the hard­work paid off in both local campaigns. Back over at 
home sweet home Castle Point, I'm cur­rently in an apart­ment with 20 other Bush enthusiasts watching the results of this election. I've resigned myself to accept victory or defeat. As they say, "it's not over till it's over." This election 
should be praised 
as a high point in 
American political activism either way. 

Resigning with you now to watch how the rest oJ this American drama plays out, I feel confident in the fact that events like Sept. 11 will never destroy our nation's greatest strengths of political activism and strong civil society. 
Tom Rippinger is a senior political science major. He supports President George W Bush and is the co-President of the Notre Dame College Republicans. He can be contacted at trippinl @nd. edu. 
It can be said that the greatest human sorrow lies in discovering that you have been betrayed. If this is indeed true, then perhaps there is nothing comparable to discovering that 
you have been  
betrayed by your own  Lance Gallop  
religion. Yet, thi"s is  
the accusation that I must lay down today:  The Third Way  
the Catholic Church  

has, through action and inaction, betrayed its gay and lesbian members -and through them all people. And far worse, the Catholic Church has betrayed the very heart of its own teachings. 
I want to disabuse people of the notion that Christianity is anti-gay. This is so far from the truth that it borders on ridiculous, and those Christians who are anti-gay in the name of God seem no less than blasphemers, for Christianity contains within it the seeds of a strong pro-gay theology, the likes of which has not been seen. No, it is only Christians -and I thank God not all Christians -who are anti-gay, not Christianity. 
But before you pull out your Catechism and start transcribing a Viewpoint, let me make it quite clear what I am not saying. I am not reject­ing the Church's position on sexual union, or its whole and complete role within human nature as the source of children. I could not do that and still call myself a Catholic. 
Rather, I am rejecting the destructive attitudes that have arisen within the Church about the meaning of being gay, and what arises from this character. I reject them, because these attitudes of the Church have become contrary to the teachings of the Church, and of late some of her documents and actions fly in the face of the Rule of Faith and the law written on the human heart. 
The prevalent mind-set has its official origin in a 1986 document by the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith. Its proclaims, among other things, that being gay is an "objective disorder," a condition from which noth­ing good can arise. (For what it is worth, the same Congregation has endeavored to stamp out the use of female alter servers, and considers it seriously improper to hold hands while reciting the Lord's Prayer during Mass.) Barring pastoral documents and recent dectarations -mostly about marriage -this is all that the Church formally has to say about being gay; precious lit­tle for such a complicated topic, almost nothing by its usual standards. 
And this single principle, as it is com­monly understood, is brazenly flawed. It leads directly to indefensible conse­quences that exist in violation of the Rule of Faith and the principles of the Natural Law. Namely, it encourages at best a sort of apathetic internal rejec­tion of one's self, and at worst it leads to unchecked self-loathing. It is implic­itly a "stay-in-the-closet" closet sort of principle, and it lends justification to those who would reject a social role for gays as anything but pariahs. It makes no distinction between innocent love and post-modernistic lust or between different types of attraction. It closes the door to any sort of positive inter­pretation of what it means to be gay, and it denies gays their human birthright of self-love, respect and dig­nity. 
It has been my belief for a very long time that the true principles of revulsion, which lies hidden within the Christianity lay within the person of theology of the Church and within the Christ, not within naked moral law, and personhood of Christ. And while the that without understanding the lmman­attitude of the Church -or more ure­ity of Christ, the law has no value. If cisely some of her leaders -is that of there is any grain of truth in what the the former, the teachings of the Church CDF ·says, it is so distant from point toward the later. the principles found in the Within a framework of fun­
person of Christ that it has lost all meaning, and now is capable of pro­voking only hatred and lies. 
And yet for the sake of the base­less attitude fed by this principle, the Church is bleed­ing gay and les­bian members who cannot tol­erate this rejec­tion. For the sake 

/

of a baseless atti­tude the Church has lost the opportunity to redefine what is means to be gay, presenting a model of a gay Catholic life that is secure, open, loving and true. Instead its model of gay life is a 

gray mess of discord, misun­
poems by Walt Whitman. The 
derstanding, and human coldness. And so I hold the Church accountable for it attitude and all the wrong that has come from it. 
There is a universe of difference between a general revulsion with limit­ed tolerance and a general acceptance with a few restrictions. It is my heart­felt belief that it is acceptance, not 
damental acceptance everything changes. Some of the more acidic critiques peo­ple have had over the position of gays at the University 
start to look embarrassing. The recognition 
that gay students have been seek­ing for years starts to look basic and unde­niable. It is an 
attitude that pushes us all for­ward, bound with the principle of love that is so des­perately needed. 

This article is the sec­ond in the Calamus Trio, named after a collection of 
final part will address lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender social issues. Lance Gallop is a fifth-year sen­ior majoring in computer science, phi­losophy and theology. He can be con­tacted at lgallop@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TI-lE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 12 Wednesday, November 3, 2004 
aspeets of their character 
By CHRISTIE BOLSEN when thny go into thn forest. 

Assi.<l:lllt Scene Fditor 

So the play is about transfor­
mation and magic, and I think 
Q: llow do you think your Ithe format) works very well­method of production, with one minute you can be one minimal props and l'Ostumes, d1araett~r. and the next we as well as Uw limited number turn into someorw else. of aetor·s, benefits Shakespeare's plays'! Caroline: It's cnrtainly been 
am using to relwarse. But then Chl'istopher·: I think it makes we got thn distinction between us <~oncnntratn ort telling the the thrno worlds -we start in story vPry clearly. We have to Athens, then there's the world really get across to the audi­of the mnehanicals and then etH~e who earh eharaeter is, there's the world of thn fairies. and what their role in the Once you've dnalt with that, story is. So it means there's no with the distinction of those superfluous design concept­three worlds, it was quite we're really getting back to dear after that. There is con­the essential story, and I think fusion with the play, but I that suits Shakespeare don't think we approached it nxtromely well. I think that's any differently than we would probably how it worked in his have another play. Certainly time. It was probably very the last act was hard, because London in 1995. She has been Aristophanes. lie has also 
By MARTIN SCHROEDER 
east in productions of "Three been involved in experimental
simple and very direct, and I you've got the play within the 
Scene Writer 
Sisters" by Anton Chekhov, theater for 12 years with The
think it really benefits from play, so you've got actors 
"Much Ado About Nothing" People Show theater company.
not (wing too full of clutter. onstage pretending to watch Actors from the London and "Macbeth." In 2002, she He has his own theater com­
actors onstage being watched 
·Stage began as a joint project established her own theater pany, 'fhe National Thnatre of
Caroline: We're not saying onstage ... I think the worlds 
between University of company and also made her Bergamo and his own band,
lour methodl is better, neces­are so distinct we've managed California -Santa Barbara directing debut in the same The Ukulele Evangelists, both 
sarily, but I think it can be to cut down on any potential 
professor Ilomer Swander and year. Her most recent project of which he tours with exten­very refreshing ... quite ol"ten audience confusion that may 
world-renowned British actor is "The Spirit of Scotland in sively. lie has also composed you'll find that a coneept is emerge. 
Patrick Stewart in 1974. It Story and Song," which is a original music, for the. Acto.r.s something that's stuck on top 
was a program that brought one-person show that draws of the London Stage's produc­of tlw text as opposed to just Q: Arc there differences in 
actors and actresses, who had upon the Gaelic story tradition tions of "A Winter's Tale," dealing with the story that American and British audi­
been trained in England, to of Scotland. This is the second "Measure for Measure" and "A Shakespeare's tt~lling. And ences us far as reaction to 
perform and educate (on a tour Coroline has done with Midsummer Night's Dream." small scale) in the United Actors From the London The Actors From the London
also in Shakespeare's time your performances? 
States. Stage, and she last performed Stage include a diverse group
they didn't have the budgets 

They now have their official with them in their produetion of actors who have all proved
that we have nowadays, and Christopher: I think there are 
American residence at the of "The Tempest." their talent and love for thewhat's wonderful about it is it differences, and all audiences 
Notre Dame, while they are Jan Shepard was educated craft performing in Europe
just shows you the power of are different -it depends on housed and develop all of their at the Mountview Theatre and the United States. The
the language. So we're the space you're performing 
performances in England. School where she received a most interesting aspect of 
stripped bare, because we've in, that makes a difference ­
They travel to American uni­Laurence Olivier scholarship. their productions is the fact got no props and no sets. And but between British and 
versities all over the country She has been part of One Tree that they use only four to five it just shows how even nowa­American audiences, I think 
such as Notre Dame, the Company's productions of actors for an entire production days, cynical audiences that American audiences are more 
University of Texas-Austin, "King Lear," "A Midsummer meaning actors will have to wateb movie after movie and fun, really. I think they are 
Wabash College and Duke Night's Dream," and play multiple parts in the play. are used to just sitting baek­really sharp, really bright, and 
University [under the auspices "Macbeth." Her most recent This can lead to some inter­wn're not living in a theatrical they rnally get stuff. And they 
of the Marie P. DeBartolo tour has been with "The esting scenes where actors Center for the Performing Arts Vagina Monologues" tour of will constantly switch backago, we're living in a televisual aren't shy about having a good (PAC)]. This year, they will be the United Kingdom. She also and forth between charactersago, so you're used to images time, I think sometimes British 
performing Shakespeare's has television credits that within one scene. Actors mayflashing at you-it shows how audiences can be reserved; rambunctious comedy "A include "The Glass," "Bugs" even be cast as characters
JHlWerful Shakespeare's words with Shakespeare especially 
Midsummer Night's Dream" at and "Waiting for God." This is that hold conversation with can be at provoking an audi­there's a whole lot Df baggage the Leighton Concert Hall in her first tour with Actors each other, adding to the tech­enrn's imagination. It's kind of they bring in. 
the PAC tonight and on From the London Stage. nical difficulty of these pro­raw. And I think that can sur­They've probably seen five 
Saturday with both shows Christopher Staines graduat­ductions. These actors, howev­prise audiences sometimes productions of "A Midsummer 
beginning at 7:30p.m. ed from Oxford University and er, handle these situations and be quite exciting just to Night's Dream" beforn, and I 
The Actors from the London was then trained at the Bristol with great competence and sen the play for what it is think with Shakespeare gener­
Stage bring their interesting Old Vic Theatre School. lie ability. The acting is what ear­without all of the trappings. ally in Britain people get a bit 
and unique show style to the appeared in "Hamlet" with the ries the productions as sets bogged down with the idea 
PAC this year with five actors. National Theatre, which also are almost non-existent and 
Guy Burgess, Coroline Devlin, ineluded a U.S. tour. He has limited costumes are used to
Q: What effect do you think that he's some god of litera­Jan Shepherd, Christopher also appeared in "Paradise delineate characters. This
this style will have on "A ture. I think people here are 
Staines and Nick Tigg will Lost," "Comedy of Errors" and focuses the audience's attcn­
Midsummer Night's Dream" much more ready to just come 
bring their acting abilities to "Hichard Ill." His television tion onto the cast and how
in particular, situ~e this play in and enjoy the show. But 
this year's production of "A and film credits include "Mrs. well they perform. 
already has confused identity thnre are some things too in 
Midsummer Night's Dream." Dalloway," "Highlander," The productions these
written into the script? Shakespeare that I think work 
Guy Burgess was educated "Foyle's War," "The Student groups perform here at Notre 
so well with American audi­
at the London Academy of Prince," "This Life," "The Dame are a great opportunityChristopher: I think it's good ences -one in particular is 
Music and Dramatic Art. He Queen's Nose," "The Huby for anyone to see for the .sense of magic -"A the faet that there are lots of 
has appeared in "Othello" at fling" and "Pride and Shakespeare's work with a dif­Midsurnnwr Night's Dream" is puns in the play on the word 
the Bridewell and "Henry V" Prejudice." He has also been a ferent spin on it. Along with a play about transformation, "ass" which American audi­
at the Orange Tree, both the­part of the radio productions the great acting, the new facil­like people turning into don­ences love ... everyone in 
aters in the London metro of "The Hose and the Hing," ities at the Marie P. DnBartolo keys. But then~ are other America gets it. So that's been 
area. l-Ie played roles in the "The Decamnron" and Center for the Performing Arts 
films "Looking For Langston" "Antigone." This is his first will allow the actors to per­
forms of transformation as a revelation, because I never 
(Julien, 1988) and "Pushkin tour with Actors From the form their best in the best pos­
well. the fad that someone realized that joke was there, 
and the Bronze Horseman" London Stage. sible space. Their production
ran lovn one person one and the audiences roll with 
directed by Colin Thomas. Nick Tigg was a student of of "A Midsummer Night's
minuto and sonwone elsn the laughter every time someone 
This is his third tour with English at the University Dmam" will truly bn one of the rwx t beea use th ny' vn had says "ass" whieh I think is one Actors From the London Stage College London and was also. premier theater experiencesrnagie juice put on their eyes, of the most essential jokes in as he previously toured with one of the founding members this year. 
or thn fad that all the lovers the play. 

the "As You Like It and The of the London Small Theatre in thn forest go through some 
Tempest" productions. Company. lie has appeared in kind of transformation Contact Christie Boisen at 
Coroline Devlin graduated productions of "The Frogs" Contact Martin Schroeder at because they reveal new cbolsen@nd.edu 
from the Drama Centre and "The Clouds." both by mschroel@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, November 3, 2004 
page 13 
The Unicorns bring indie rock to campus 
Popular indie band brings students out to LaFortune Ballroom for a concert with a little bit ofeverything 
By LAUREN WENDEL 

Scene Writer 
It is not an everyday occurrence 

that music fans come across a pop­
rock band as unique and innovative 
as the Unicorns. The current indie 
music scene is saturated with up­
and-coming artists; but not all of 
these new artists have as mueh tal­
ent or eomedic relief as the 
Unicorns. WVFI, Notre Dame's rock­
ing radio station, provided the 
opportunity for the hipsters of South 
Bend to unite under the lights of 
LaFortune Ballroom, for the simple 
purpose of hearing a great new 
band and having fun. 
This Montreal triplet of Nick (Neil) Diamonds, Alden Ginger and drum­mer Jaime Tambour have toured the world with Ben Kweller and Hot Hot Heat in the past and are about to embark on a European tour with The Decembrists next month. Their second album "Who Will Cut Our .Hair When We're Gone" (Alien8 recordings, Nov. 2003) received mixed reviews, but the band has enjoyed somewhat of a cult follow­
ing among the indie music scene. 
Their formless eompositions, outer­
worldly sound effects and off-the­
wall lyrics could have spelled disas­
ter. However the Unicorns were able 
to take their brand of well­
rehearsed improvisations, add a 
sense of humor and create a sound 
that was alive. They successfully 
stray from the traditional verse/cho­
rus/verse formula of most pop rock 
acts and infuse a new energy and 
comfort level to elitist rock. 
The show began with a unique mixing of heavy bass, mechanical drums and a variety of sound effects. In between the machine guns and sirens coming from the keyboard, singers Diamonds and Ginger would trade off singing near­ly incomprehensible lyrics. If there was a downfall of the show, it would be the acoustics of the location. The vocals were largely drowned out by the heavy guitars and snare beats, but at the same time large Corinthian columns are not usually well suited for a rock venue. 
The band picked up its energy throughout the show, flowing with the enthusiastic crowd. Diamonds and Ginger would trade off instru­ments throughout the set and jumped from microphone to micro­phone, which kept the show fresh and fun. Both are skilled at playing the bass, keyboard, electric and acoustic guitars, which was highly evident from the smooth chord pro­gressions and hooks in many songs. 
Often times the songs' tempos would change mid-song~ adding spontaneity to the set. The Unicorns would begin a song with a heavy electronic background, move into a more hardcore punk guitar, but then finish with a poppy beat (as in their song "Les OS"). This effortless blend of eclectic styles is not something many groups accomplish successful­ly, but the Unicorns seem to have discovered the secret formula. 
"Jellybones," one of the groups more recognizable songs, was a crowd pleaser. Some of the more enthusiastic crowd members writhed and bounced in-sync with 
the beats, which the band fed off of and answered back with even more rocking. Ginger, by far one of the most talented musicians to see live, gave nothing less than 120 percent to his set. lie jumped and lunged around on stage, at one point even holding up his bass mid-air to play. Ilis curly hair shaped in a mohawk only made him more appealing, in a retro punk rocker way. 
Diamonds did not disappoint either. His lively and random banter with the crowd nicely displayed the bands off-beai sense of humor. To his dismay, the crowd convinced him that indeed Notre Dame is not the "college Jesus went to" and a specif­ic dean is not God. 
Thanks to the low key and random lighting display, Diamonds compared the show more to a middle-school dance, awkward moments not included. He also brought out two mascots to the show, a teddy bear dressed in camouflage that played a patriotic country song and a kitty cat with a cowboy hat. If mascots don't impress you enough to check out this energetic and fun band live, then maybe lyrics from their most popular song "I was born [A Unicorn]" might: "I was born a uni­corn I I coulda sworn you believed in me I then how come all the other unicorns are dead?" If the show is any indication of the existence of unicorns, they are alive, just in the form of one rocking hipster Canadian band. 
Contact Lauren Wendel at Lauren.Wendel.S@nd.edu 

CLAIRE KELLEYfThe Observer Two members of the Unicorns rock the LaFortune Ballroom, packed with Notre Dame students. While the Unicorns are not a commercially-large band, they have gained a large fan base of indie rock fans. 
Witty "Fortinbras" promises political humor Department of film, television and theatre presents the humorus sequel to "Hamlet" 
By MICHELE JEFFERS 
Scene Writer 

You've all read the play in high school, seen it parodied countless times and ana­lyzed to death the soliloquies of·what is arguably literature's most complex charac­ter. But now it is time for some ballyhoo with the bard in "Fortinbras," a contempo­rary and comedic sequel to Hamlet written by playwright Lee Blessing. Produced by the film, theatre and television depart­ment, :Fortinbras" kicks off the PAC's Fall Art fest-Shakespeare in Performance. Directed by Jay Skelton, a visiting profes­sor of acting and directing from Chicago, "Fortinbras" features a cast of students who auditioned early on in the semester. 
Essentially, the play begins at the end of "Hamlet" with a dying Hamlet pleading Horatio to tell his tale. Before his body is even cold, however, the Norwegian prince, Fortinbras, swaggers in with Machiavellian buoyancy, and he quickly assumes the throne at Ellsinore. Claiming that the actu­al story of how the two families died is too outlandish. 
Fortinbras beseeches the aid of Horatio and the hilarious sycophant Osrich to spread his own fabricated version of the truth. Fortinbras' "un-noble lie," however, draws the attention of the ghosts of "Hamlet's" principal characters. Their trademark characteristics become the sub­jec:;t of comedy as they exhibit the opposite or ironic qualities of what they did in life. As specters, for example, the garrulous Polonius is too afraid to speak at all, while the passive Ophelia turns into a brassy seductress. Hamlet, on the other hand, is regulated to a television-a fitting conse­quence of his prior hesitation to act. Fortinbras' character is jilted through the warnings, advice and even sexual encoun­ters with the ghosts. Director Jay Skelton sees Fortinbras' character as the opposite of Hamlet's, "Whereas Hamlet was a char­acter of conscience who was led to action, Fortinbras is a character of action who is led to his conscience." 
"Fortinbras" is extremely entertaining as a parody of one of literature's most highly regarded plays, but it is an elevated to a higher level through its implicit commen­tary on contemporary politics. The portray­al of Fortinbras is comedic, yet pointed, because his actions highlight the political repercussions that can occur when a new political leader makes uneducated and brash decisions in a tenebrous situation. 
"Fortinbras" is extremely witty and is sure to be enjoyed by all regardless if you loved, hated, or never read "Hamlet." The cast delivers great acting, and it is obvious that the actors have taken great lengths to bring out the characters' laughable nuances. According to Skelton, those who come see it will "have a good time and walk out of the theater with a smile on their face." "Fortinbras" premieres tonight at the Philbin Studio Theatre in the Marie 
P. Debartolo Center for the Performing Arts with shows running through Nov. 13. Contact the ticket office at (574) 631-2800 to purchase your tickets. 
Contact Michele Jeffers at mjeffers@nd.edu 
-

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, November 3, 2004 
NFL 

Capers, Texans getting it right after rough start 

Associated Press 
HOUSTON -A lot happened to Dom Capers in the six years between his ambitious start with the expansion Carolina Panthers and the renewal of his head-coaching career with the expansion Houston Texans. 
Capers fed the Panthers with­in one win of the Super Bowl in 1996, was fired two years later, rebuilt his reputation as a defensive coordinator with Jacksonville and got another ­perhaps his final -chance to be a head coach in Houston. 
Capers is getting it right this time-with a lot of help. 
The Texans ( 4-3} have won four of their laf?t five, climbing above .500 for the first time in franchise history this late in a season. After dominating Jacksonville on Sunday, Houston moved into a second-place tie in the AFC South to confirm its sta­tus as a playoff contender. 
Starved for pro footb<Lll after Bud Adams took the Oilers to Tennessee in 1996, Houston has fallen hard for Capers, owner Bob McNair and the team despite its early struggles. 
McNair has quickly become one of the NFL's power brokers, ereating a buzz in the city and throughout the league that is fit­ting for the founder of one of the world's largest privately owned energy companies. 
He easily finessed the city into building the stadium -magnifi­cent 71,054-seat Reliant Stadium -that Adams always wanted; convinced the NFL to bring the Super Bowl to Houston last January, and did such a good job hosting the game that the league intends to return; and, most importantly to fans, put the right people in charge of the football team. 
Though the on-field product has been slow to come around, McNair remained steadfast in his demand for a roster full of' guys who rarely show up on a police blotter and arc charitable to the media, fans and commu­nity. 
So far, McNair has made all the moves Carolina and plenty other expansion team owners should have made from the very start. 
No one knows that better than Capers. 
Dating back to the Dallas Cowboys in 1960, no modern expansion team in the NFL won more games in its first two sea­sons than the Panthers built by Capers, then-GM Bill Polian and owner Jerry Hichardson. 
Carolina achieved success so quickly by loading up on estab­lished veterans, a plan that set up the Panthers for a quick downfall. The Panthers went 12-4 in 1996, won a playoff' game and seemed poise for another strong season with sec­ond-year quarterback -and the franchise's first-ever draft piek -Kerry Collins leading the way. 
But Carolina got old too quick­ly, Collins struggled with an alcohol problem and the Panthers didn't have nearly enough young talent to remain a contender. Carolina's draft chokes during that stretch read like a who's who of' lirst-round busts: Tim Biakabutuka in 1996, Rae Carruth in 1997 and Jason Petf)r in 1998. 
"What ended up happening is that we had a lot of veteran players on our team that really gave us good production the first two years," Capers said. "We weren't able to replace some of those veteran players, so it kind of worked against us. When the expectation level went up, we weren't quite as good and we startP-d to descend." 
Did they ever. 

The Panthers dropped to 4-12 in Capers' fourth season, his fast in Charlotte. He spent the next two years as a defensive coordi­nator in Jacksonville, and won­dered if he'd got another chance to lead a team. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

DiNardo tries to keep Hoosiers grounded heading into Illinois 
Indiana has upset two ranked teams  going to practice hard for Illinois, but I just won't know till we play it." Last Saturday's 30-21 vietory  That loss started a five-game losing streak that didn't end until Saturday's victory. To avoid a similar fate this  combined 0-11 in conference play and 4-13 overall. Two wins would put the Hoosiers in position to enter the  to keep things in perspective. "I think they probably sense that themselves whether they're listening to you or I,"  
Associated Press  over the Golden Gophers was  time,  DiNardo immediately  final week of the season with a  DiNardo said. "You and I know  
another  milestone  for  the  tried  to  shift the Hoosiers'  chance to earn a bowl bid.  what's ahead of them, but what  
INDIANAPOLIS  - Gerry  Hoosiers (3-5, 1­ attention from cel­ But  that  wouldn't  heed  really matters is what they  
DiNardo spent 2 1/2 seasons  4). It marked the  ebration to work.  DiNardo's instructions.  focus on this week."  
tnaehing his Indiana players to focus on their Wfwkly chal­lenge. lie's hoping to sen the results Saturday. Three days after upsetting then No. 24 Minnesota,  first time since 1987 they upset two ranked teams in the same sea­son. Now DiNardo will rely on a loss  "We took a step back at Ohio State and last week, we moved in the right direction. "  "We took a step back at Ohio State and last week, we moved in the right direction," DiNardo said. "We'll see what  Instead of reflecting on past successes or future possibilities, DiNardo knows the Hoosiers must concentrate on beating Illinois. Since 1980, Indiana is 4-15 against the Illini, including 0-9  DiNardo was encouraged by what he witnessed last week. The Hoosiers run defense, which ranked 1Oth in the Big Ten, held the nation's No. a rushing team more than 100 yards below their average.  
DiNardo was talking about the Hoosiers next big test -win­ to Kentucky earli­er this season to  Gerry DiNardo  happens week. Those  this are  on the road. Indiana  hasn't  won  in  And being benched in favor of Chris Taylor, BenJarvus Green­ 
ning a Big Ten road game.  reinforce  his  Indiana coach  our two choices."  Champaign since a 45-14 rout  Ellis produced his second 100­ 
"There was  nothing that led  point.  The victory over  in 1979, the year coach Lee  yard  game  of  the  season.  
me to believe we wouldn't play  After  beating  Minnesota  has  Corso led the Hoosiers to their  Green-Ellis became the work­ 
better  against  Kentucky,"  then No. 24 Oregon in the sec­ given the Hoosiers confidence  first bowl win in school history.  horse after Taylor injured his  
DiNardo said Tuesday during  ond  game  of  the  season,  and hope.  Indiana is also 0-9 all-time  ankle in the second quarter and  
his weekly news conference. "I  Indiana  was  routed  by  Their next two opponents,  against Penn State.  finished with 22 carries for 11 0  
felt good  that week.  We're  Kentucky 51-32.  Illinois and Penn State, are a  So DiNardo wants his players  yards.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Walking distance from ND Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes WANTED FoR SALE MMMRentals.com 532-1408 TICKETS PERSONALS Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, 
Nassau, Jamaica From $4591 CHILD CARE WANTED: 23-month-Plan your next trip! VW EUROVAN Furn. BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX Panama City & Daytona $159! old twins in our home. 1 or 2 week· pop-top camper 1999 Sleeps 4 273-PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273-Spring break 2005 Challenge ...find www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1­days (5-6 hours each day). Must 9959 Leave a ehone number. 1-bdrm. apt. for 1-2 weekend visi-3911 a better price! Lowest price spe-800-678-6386 provide own transportation. tors. 5 miles away in a safe neigh-cials! Free Meals! November 6th 
borhood. 574-286-9392. For Sale: NO football tix. Good deadline! Hiring reps-earn free trips ADOPTION-Happily married couple Call Kara at 574·621·1540. FOR RENT prices. 232-0964. and cash! long to provide your newborn with a 
6-7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO ND. happy home, warmth, security and Tutor for high school student. DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW WID, ON-SITE PARKING. AVAIL. Wanted: ND footballtix. www.sunsplashtours.com unconditional love. Expenses paid. Granger family sees tutor for 9th LEASING FOR 2005-2006 AFTER 6/1/05. ALSO: 3 BDRM. Carolyn and Kevin 1-866-206·3323 grade girl in algebra, physical sci-SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS-HOME,W/D,NEAR Top$$$ 251-1570. 1 800-426-771 0 PIN#7774 ence, and Spanish. ES LEFT. WELL MAINTAINED CORBYS/ST.JOE CHURCH. 
HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 AVAIL. NOW. ND ftball tix bought &sold a.m. SPRING BREAK with Bianchi-Rossi Whhhhhhhy???ll!l Must be patient, organized, posi-BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT CALL JOE CRIMMINS:574-229-232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 Tours! tive. focused and able to speak NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY 3659 OR 679·2010. What would a life be without health Englsh clearly. SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE Buying and selling NO football tix, Over 1 8 years of Spring Break insurance 
STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRY· Apartment for rent 2 br, partially fur· especially Boston College 574-289-experience! The BEST Spring One to two hours Monday, Tuesday ERS. nished, desirable North Shore 8048 Break Under the Sun! Acapulco· Why you gotta do me like that?! and Thursday at 3:30. VISIT OUR WEBSITE Triangle neighborhood, 1.25 mi Vallarta-Mazatlan-Cameron & 
WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR from campus, second semester NEED TICKETS Cabo. Organize a group-GO FREEl The dominate duo ... Katie and Email reply to: CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234· special $400/mo plus electric, 233-Nov. 13 Pitt. Call Amy 219-872-800·875·4525 or www.bianchi-Sarah .... man. do you both have the WrightHarmon@ aol.com 2436 OR (574)315-5032. 1604 5932 rossi.com best nicknames ... (HT and W-athen) 
Wednesday, November 3, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, November 3, 2004 
NBA 

Artest leads hobbled Pacers into new season 
him to make the other players "The thing that bothers me 
Associated Press 
on the floor better. the most is these guys haven't 
INDIANAPOLIS -When the :'He knows that this is an been together as a team Indiana Pacers lost their third opportunity to really be the through most of the exhibition starter to injury in the presea­true focal point of the team for season," team president Larry son, one player rose up to pro­this period of time." Bird said. "It hurts a little bit." vide the voice of reason and a Artest's abilities on both The lack of cohesion will calming influence. ends of the floor, and his abili­make it hard for the Pacers to 
"We'll be fine. I'll make sure ty to stay on it, will be a big repeat last season's 14-2 start, of it," he said. factor in the early part of the which propelled them to a 
That player, interestingly, season for last year's Central team-record 61 wins in the was Hon Artest, who so often Division champions, who have regular season. has been at the center of con­been decimated by injuries in But the Detroit Pistons troversy during his six years in the preseason. showed the Pacers that all the the NBA. Guard Heggie Miller (broken regular season wins in the 
Before the season started, hand). center Jeff Foster (hip world don't make a difference Artest changed his jersey num­surgery) and point guard come playoff time. ber to 91 as an homage to the Anthony Johnson (broken The Pacers never lost more enigmatic Dennis Rodman, not hand) are all expected to miss than two games in a row all exactly a sign that he is grow­the first six to eight weeks of last season, but still lost to ing wiser and more mature the season. eventual champion Detroit in with age. Forward Jonathan Bender the Eastern Conference finals. But the Pacers are counting (knee) hasn't played all pre­"That just doesn't happen on just that. season, while All-Star very often," Carlisle said of 
"Ron Artest is our main guy Jermaine O'Neal (foot) and Indiana's huge success in the right now. There is no question rookie center David Harrison regular season. "Our goal is to about that," Pacers coach Rick (shoulder) have only played do that very same thing this 
Carlisle said. "We're going to sparingly with nagging injuries year, but right now it's going to need him to lead on the floor, that throw their availability for be tougher. But we still have a we're going to need him to Wednesday's opener at goal to contend for a title, and play great, we're going to need Cleveland in doubt. that's where we are." 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
UConn to 
rebuild 
I 
I 

•I prograins 
I 
Associated Press 

"The Spirit ofDemocracy" I
TOBHS, Conn. -As .Jim 
I ~ 

Calhoun and Geno Auriemma prepare to defend .their unpreendnnted dual NCAA titles, onn thing is dear. 
Their superstars have left the building. 

Jeffrey Stout I
I• •I

Connnctieut basketball is get­ting baek to basies seven 
Professor of Religion at Princeton University I• I 
I
months aflor Enwka Okafor led the men and Diana Taurasi led the women to their respective 

and author of the award-winning book, I I 
I I 
~~enter eourt celebrations in 

San Antonio and New Orleans. 
I I

Democracy and Tradition I 
"The last thing they remem­
I• I
ber is jumping around and put­
I I
ting hats on their heads," 
I

Calhoun said. "They don't real­
I
ize some of those putting on the 
hats aren't here anymore, and 

I· I 
·I
Thursday, November 4, 2004 I 
that's a dangnr." Okafor, the school's career 

I 
leader in bloeked shots, and 
4:00p.m.
guard Ben Gordon were the 
·-
second and third picks of the 
NBA draft. Taurasi, who 
Law School Courtroom 
' I

eapped hnr stellar career with 
the lluskies with a third I 
' straight national champi­' I onship, was the top drart pick I• 
·I 

in the WNBA. 
I• 
I 

For the first time in a long while, Calhoun hcts a squad 1:·:; 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Law School, Henkels Interdisciplinary Visiting Speaker Program, 1 
with no seniors. A day after 
thnir Nov. 20 season-opener 
Department ofTheology, and Department ofPolitical Science 
against Buffalo, Calhoun will take his young squad to London for a week's worth of basket­ball and bonding. 
"We nned to scrimmage more because we need to find some things out," he said . 
.Junior shooting guard Hashad Anderson and sopho­more post player .Josh Boone are the two returning starters. Boone, who made for a formi­dable frontcourt with Okafor, will be joined this year by sophomore Charlie Villanueva and highly touted freshman Hudy Gay. 
Wedneesday, November 3, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
-

Martin, Jordan power Jets to 6-1 start, tops in AFC 

Associated Press 

HEMPSTEAD, N.Y.-For the first six games of the season, Curtis Martin single-handedly shouldered the running burden for the New York Jets. 
Martin hardly ever took a break in games, while his sel­dom-used backup fidgeted impa­tiently on the sideline. LaMont Jordan envisioned a bigger role for himself this year, but quickly landed in the doghouse during training camp because of his bad attitude. 
So while Martin took a pound­ing, Jordan stood idle. That all changed in a 41-14 blowout win over the Miami Dolphins on Monday night. Martin and Jordan each went over 100 yards, help­ing the Jets to 275 yards rushing, tops in the NFL this season. 
Their outburst helped get the Jets off and running to their best game of the season. Now they are 6-1, tied atop the AFC with Pittsburgh and New England. 
What's more, the blowout vic­tory came on national television following a close loss to the Patriots. 
"People that hadn't watched us a whole lot probably think these guys are pretty good," coach Herman Edwards said Tuesday. 



"As a football team we knew all 
along we won some games but 
hadn't played all together. That 
came out last night. Now the 
whole key is can we continue to 
do that?" 
History says they can. Edwards 
has a near-perfect record in November, going 10-2 since he arrived in 2001. His .833 winning percentage is the best among coaches with at least 10 ·November games since the start 
of the Super Bowl era. 
The schedule does not get 
much harder this month. The 
Jets play at Buffalo (2-5) this 
Sunday, followed by games 
against Baltimore (4-3), 
Cleveland (3-4) and Arizona (2­
5). 
"We know the month of 
November is important. It's 
always been important around 
here for us," Edwards said. "It's 
what I call moving month. You 
start slotting yourself, where 
you're trying to go. Win as many 
games as you possibly can in 
November because December 
takes care of itself. That's how 
you play it in this league." 
Having two valuable backs also 
helps. The last time the Jets had 
two 100-yard runners in the 
same game was 1975. Martin 
had 19 carries for 115 yards and 
-

After replacing Doss, Sanders is flying high 
The Center for Asian Smdies presents JingWang Professor ofChinese Culmral Smdies 
S.C. Fang ProfcssornfChinese Language and Culmre 
Chair ofthe MIT International Committee on Critical Policy Smdics ofChina Massachusett'l Instimte ofTechnology 
Friday, November 5 from 2:oo-4:oo pm Eck Visitor's Center auditorium 


"Bourgeois Bohemians in China: The Rise ofTribal Discourse" 
Professor \Vang examines the social phenomenon of" Bourgeois Bohemians," or Bobos (after the 2001 American best seller "Bobos in Paradise"), which was quickly co-opted by Chinese marketers. A'i a culntral discourse, it is part ofa growing tendency in East Asia toward tribal cuiUires. 
.ling Wang is Professor ofChinese Culmral Sntdies, and S.C. Fang Professor ofChinese Language and Culnm.:. She is the founder ofthe MIT I ntcrnational Committee ofCritical Policy Sntdies ofChina, and co-organizer ofthe Policy Culmre Research Project with Anthony Saich at the Kennedy School ofGovernment at Har\'ard University. She received her PhD in Comparative Literantre at the University ofMassachusetts, Amherst. Bet()re coming to MIT, she was the Director ofthe Center t(>r Ea.o;t Asian Cultural and Instinttional Smdies and the Chair ofthe Department ofAsian and Ati·ican Languages and I ,itcrature at Duke University. 
I Ier field ofspecialization is Chinese Culntral Studies, with a recent t()cus on advertising, media, consumer culU!re, and popular culn1re of contemporary China. She ha.'i also published on the topics ofmodern Chinese literaUJre, intellecU!al histmy, and the tradition ofChinese narrative fiction dated back to the pre-modern period. 
She ha.'i authored and edited the following works: 
•The 
Story ofStone: I ntcrtexuality, Ancient Chinese Stone Lore, and the Stone 

•Symbolis;n 
in the Dream ofthe l{ed Chamber, \Vater .Margin, and Journey to the 

• 
\\'est (lyt)2l 


•lligh 
Culture Fe\'er: Politics, Aesthetics and ldeolot,>y in Deng's China (Iyy6) 

•China's 
AYant-Garde Fiction (editor, Il)y!:O 

•Cinema 
and Desire (editor, 2oo!) 


•Chinese 
Popular Culntre and the State (editor, 2001) 


Questions about this talk? 631-8873 
left the game as a precaution with a bruised knee in the third quarter. The Jets kept going with Jordan, who had career highs with 14 carries for 115 yards. 
Each back had a 25-yard score, Helping embarrass the proud Miami defense. The 31-year-old Martin now is third in the league with 798 yards rushing, and the Jets rank second in rushing, averaging 152.7 yards. 
Coming into the game, Jordan had six carries. The sometimes disgruntled back becomes a free agent at the end of the season, but he will be needed to help spell Martin as the Jets keep ­making their playoff push. 
Jordan provides a nice change of pace to Martin, a smaller back who needs a few carries to get going. The 230-pound Jordan gets going immediately, bowling over would-be tacklers with nearly ever carry. 
"It just shows what kind of character I have, to go through everything I went through this offseason, to bounce back and have a game like I did," Jordan said after the game. "It meant a lot to me to ask for the ball the way I was asking for it and then when I got my opportunities, tak­ing advantage of them the way I did." 
on an otherwise bleak defen­sive day. 
"He played about 35 plays and did pretty well," coach Tony Dungy said. 
Sanders has waited nearly 10 months to hear those words. 
The Colts made him their top draft choice in April, trading down and selecting him in the second round with the 44th overall pick even though he was hurt. 
During his senior season at Iowa, Sanders had surgery for a stress fracture in his right foot. He did not practice during the team's offseason workouts. That was followed by a month­long holdout -the longest of any draft pick this year. 
When Doss injured his groin during the third quarter Sunday, Sanders finally got a chance to prove himself. If Doss can't play Monday night, Dungy said Sanders likely would make his first NFL start. 
-

And Sanders promises to be ready. 
"''m looking forward to the challenge," he said. "I want to make sure I'm prepared, and I've been here long enough to know what's going on." 
The Colts (4-3) are hoping this could be deja vu. 
In 2002, their top draft pick, defensive end Dwight Freeney, didn't start until Week 8 and quickly made an impact. He finished with 47 tackles, a team-record 13 sacks, nine forced fumbles and one fumble recovery. 
Dungy is not making any comparisons yet. 
But if Sanders cari stay healthy and play like he did Sunday, he could become a stabilizing presence in the Colts' injury-depleted second­ary. 

OUND THE NATION 
page 18 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, November 3, 2004 
Women's Soccer Top 25 
team record 
1 North Carolina 16·0·1 2 NOTRE DAME 18·0·1 3 Penn State 16·1·1 4 Santa Clara 13·4·2 5 Virginia 14·2·1 6 Portland 16·3·0 7 Kansas 16·3·0 8 Tennessee 13·3·2 9 Auburn 14·2·2 10 Texas A&M 14·5-0 11 Stanford 12-4-2 12 Princeton 14·2·0 13 Ohio State 13·3·3 14 UClA 12·6-0

-
-
15 Arizona 14-4·0 16 Florida 13-3-3 17 Duke 12-6-0 18 Illinois 12-4·2 19 Boston College 14·5-0 20 Florida State 12-5·1 21 Texas 11-5-2 22 San Diego 10-7-2 23 Villanova 13·5-1 24 Chicago 13-4·2 25 Washington 15-4-1 
NFL 
AFC East 

team  l'ecord  p£~rc.  PF  PA  
New England  6-1  .857  168  124  
N.Y. Jets  6-1  .857  168  116  
Buffalo  2-5  .286  115  120  
'Miami  1-7  .125  100  162  
....  
AFC North  
team  n~cord  perc.  PF  PA  
Pittsburgh  6-1  .857  170  134  
Baltimore  4-3  .571  127  100  
Cleveland  3-4  .429  147  147  
Cincinnati  2-5  .286  126  166  

AFC South 
team record perc. PF PA Jacksonville 5-3 .625 128 146 Houston 4-3 .571 158 143 Indianapolis 4-3 .571 218 178 Tennessee 3-5 .375 151 178 
AFC West 
hmm record perc. PF PA Denver 5-3 .625 168 141 San Diego 5-3 .625 219 156 Kansas City 3-4 .429 206 177 Oakland 2-5 .250 138 223 
NFC East 
team rPcord pPrc. PF/G PNG Philadelphia 7-0 1.000 186 104 N.Y. Giants 5-2 .714 151 113 Dallas 3-4 .429 138 177 Washington 2-5 .286 96 123 
NFC North 
tnam record perc . PF/G PNG 
NBA 


Associated Press 

AUBUHN IIILLS, Mich. _ Yao and T-Mac experi­enced what Shaq and Kobe did.The defending NBA champion Detroit Pistons arc a tough match for any dynamic duo. 
Hasheed Wallace, one of five Pistons to score in dou­ble figures, had 24 points to help Detroit defeat the Houston Hockets 87-79 Tuesday night in the first game of the NBA season. 
"A lot of people arc still doubting us, so I guess we just have to go win it all again," Wallace said. 
Tracy McGrady and Yao Ming, playing their first regular-season game together, found out what Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal did during their final five games together with the Los Angeles Lakers: The Pistons, relent­less on defense and well­balanced on offense, are diflicult to beat. 
"When you have one or two guys, we've got five coming at you," Richard Hamilton said. "That's tough." 
McGrady missed 12 of 18 shots and finished with 18 points after scoring just three during the first half. Yao had just seven points on 2-of-9 shooting. 
"They play 'D'. That's 
why they won a champi­onship," McGrady said. "They did a great job of picking up the intensity in the second half, and they hit shots in the fourth." 
Detroit's entire starting lineup from last season is back, and all five players scored at least 10. Aside from Hasheed Wallace's big night on 1 0-of-19 shooting, Chauncey Billups had 17, Hamilton scored 15, Ben Wallace had 15 points, 10 rebounds and three blocks. 
Tayshaun Prince scored 10 while smothering McGrady defensively much like he did against Bryant during the NBA Finals. 
"It's very similar to 
guarding Kobe," Prince said. "I just had to use my length." 
The Hockets shot just 39 percent. Charlie Ward had 13 points, Maurice Taylor had 12 and Jim Jackson added 10. 
"We aren't able to consis­tently attack on offense," Yao said. 
Hasheed Wallace, Billups and Prince made 3-point­
•~rs early in the fourth quarter to cap a 13-2 run, putting the Pistons ahead 68-61. Arter Detroit's stingy defense forced a shot-dock violation mid­way through the fourth . Ben Wallace's tip-jam gave the Pistons a 76-66 lead. 

Minnesota  5-2  .714  183  162  
Detroit Green Bay Chicago  4-3 4-4 2-5  .571 .500 .286  137 206 108  154 186 121  IN BRIEF  
tnam Atlanta New Orleans Tampa Bay Carolina team Seattle St. louis Arizona San Francisco  NFC South record perc. 6-2 .750 3-4 .429 2-5 .286 1·6 .143 NFC West record perc. 4-3 .571 4-3 .571 2·5 .286 1·6 .143  PF/G 170 154 109 100 PF/G 152 158 126 118  PNG 170 191 124 158 PNG 118 165 142 182  Base!Jail players testify to stermds probe . SAN FHANCISCO -Baseball play­ers became the latest athletes to appear before a grand jury probing a nutritional supplements lab, joining NFL players and track and field stars who in previous weeks testified before the federal panel. Catchers A.J. Pierzynski and Bobby Estalella and outfielder Armando Hios all appeared before the panel on Thursday . Pierzynski was traded from the Minnesota Twins to the San Franeisco Giants last week. The other two arc former Giants - Federal officials have refused to discuss the grand jury or the scope of its secret proceedings, but two sources familiar with the grand jury have said the probe is focusing on drugs and taxes. Croom makes hiistory at Mississippi State STARKVILLE, Miss. -As a boy, Sylvester Croom would pretend he was an Alabama football player at a time when none of the guys suiting up for the Crimson Tide had his skin color. Eventually, he became one of the first blacks to play for his hometown university.  coach in Southeastern Conference history at Mississi_Qpi State. President's Lup begins in South Africa GEOHGE, South Africa-Tiger Woods, Davis Love Ill and the rest of the Americans could not have asked for a better start Thursday in the Presidents Cup. It was the finish that lel't them dazed, disappointed and faeing another deficit. "They all want to go kick them­sp,Jves in the rear end," U.S. captain Jack Nicklaus said after the International team rallied over the final three holes in the final three matches to take a 3 1/2 -2 1/2 lead.  

Estalella played with the Colorado "Things do change. And that's Determined not to fizzle the way Hockies last season and is now a free what my dad always told me," Croom they did in Australia five years ago,
around the dial 

agent, while Hios is with the Chicago said. "If you try to do things the right thfl Americans were poised to take a White Sox. way and put your faith in God they commanding lead in the opening ses­NBA Barry Bonds and Jason Giambi are will change." sion of alternate-shot matches. Heat at Nets 8 p.m. ESPN among the other major league play­Croom grew up in the Deep South Woods and Charles llowell III ers subpoenaed to testify before the at the height of the civil rights strug­needed only 15 holes to get their
Lakers at Jazz 10:30 p.m. ESPN 

grand jury in upcoming weeks. gle. partnership off to a great start. Love
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Bonds' attorney has said his elient He is returning to his roots to and Kenny Perry hit spectacular
South Florida at UAB 7:30 p.m. ESPN2 

will appear Dec. 4. become the first black head football shots and won easily. 
Wednesday, November 3, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Jeter, Wells vvin first Gold Gloves 
He took a three-week vacation from golf to celebrate honeymoon 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Tiger Woods does not play golf with a ring on his finger. 
That was the answer to the first question about how things might be different in his first tournament as a married man. 
But the biggest change was more subtle. 
Woods began his pro-am round at the Tour Championship on the lOth tee. He usually is the first one off on the first tee, a perk he has been afforded the last five years. But the first tee was occupied Tuesday by Vijay 
Singh,  who  is  firmly  
entrenched at  No.  1 in the  
world.  

Then, Woods had to wait for Singh to finish his interview before he could step to the microphone. 
And once Woods finished talking about his three-week honeymoon on a 150-foot yacht in the Caribbean, he was bom­barded with questions about Singh -just like so many other players who for years grew weary talking about Woods. 
"He's played some just unbe­lievable golf this year," Woods said. "For him to play as much as he does and still maintain that edge, and as much as he practices, it's pretty impressive to do all that." 
Woods still has eight majors. He is the only professional to hold all four major champi­onship trophies at the same time. He has won more tourna­ments than anyone else still playing. 
But he now is just one of the 31 players at the Tour Championship trying to end his year on a good note. Children still ran after him for his auto­graph when he arrived at East 

DO YOU WANT TO BE THE NEXT PRESIDENT OF THE SHIRT? 
Gain amazing business experience and leave your mark on Notre Dame history! 
Responsibilities include: SELECTING THE DESIGN OF THE SHIRT 2005 COORDINATING THE UNVEILING ~EKEMONY DESIGNING THE MARKETING PLAN AND MUCH, MUCH MORE••. 
APPLY ON-LINE AT: 
~heshirl.nd.edu/2005 
Applications due Friday, Noventber 5th 

Lake. lie still had more people in his gallery than any other players. If television ratings go up this week, Woods will be the reason. 
Still, he now looks like one of the guys -and not just because he's married. 
"The fear factor is gone," one caddie said on the practice range as he watched Woods warm up. 
The last time Woods and Singh played together was out­­side Boston on Labor Day, when the 41-year-old Fijian won a thrilling back-nine duel in the Deutsche Bank Championship to end Woods' five-year reign at No. 1 in the world. 
Since then, Woods had a dis­astrous pairing with Phil Mickelson and another losing record in the Ryder Cup. He barely made it through 72 holes of the American Express Championship with a back injury. And he got married Oct. 5 in Barbados to Swedish nanny Elin Nordegren. 
And since becoming No. 1 in the world, Singh has won three times and was runner-up in his other PGA Tour start. 
It reminds Woods of the last time someone else was No. 1 in the world _ David Duval, who won 11 times in 18 months and became the first man to shoot 59 in the final round of a PGA Tour event. 
"Everybody has a run," Woods said. "I had one. Duval had one. Johnny Miller, (Jack) Nicklaus, (Tom) Watson,_ every­one has their run. It's just a matter of how long can you continue. Fortunately for me, I lasted five years." 
The question is how long Singh can keep this up -and whether Woods can come back. 
Woods had such a good time in the Caribbean that he skipped Disney for the first time since turning pro, and he nearly called it a year by not playing in the Tour Championship. 
Let's see -he's on a private yacht with his Swedish bride, with no one to bother him but the U.S. Coast Guard. Why even bother coming back for one tournament? 
"Trust me," Woods said with a big grin. "That thought went through my head a lot of times." 
Eventually, the honeymoon has to end. "I miss competing," Woods said. "That's what I love to do." He hasn't been shown much love in return. 
Woods' only victory this year is the Accenture Match Play Championship at La Costa at the end of February. His drought in the majors is 10 and counting. He is No. 3 in the world ranking, No. 4 on the money list. 
But even on the open sea, Woods still found room for golf. 
"When I was on the boat, I was actually thinking about my game quite a bit and organiz­ing my 'To Do' list -what causes what in the golf swing, and basically prioritizing what I needed to work on," Woods said. 
He thought his game was close before he got married. .. 
Woods was runner-up at Firestone to Stewart Cink. 
PGA 
Woods returns to golf after marriage 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Derek Jeter's diving grab caught the atten­tion of all of baseball and per­haps earned him his first American League Gold Glove. 
The New York Yankees short­stop won the honor Tuesday, taking over from teammate Alex Rodriguez, who had won it two straight years before mov­ing to third base this year. 
In the 12th inning of a game against Boston on July 1, Jeter sprinted after Trot Nixon's pop down the left-field line with runners at second and third. He made the catch in fair territory, went sprawling into the crowd and was stopped by the hard­backed seats. lie was taken to a hospital with a bloodied chin, red-and-swollen cheek and bruised shoulder, and New York went on to win in the 13th inning. 
"I take pride in my defense, and I work hard each year to improve in the field," Jeter said in a statement issued by the Yankees. "There are a number of fantastic defensive shortstops in the American league -too many to count -and to be rec­ognized with the Gold Glove makes it that much more of a special accomplishment. I also want to thank our pitching staff for having so many of our opponents hit balls in my direc­tion." 
Some baseball analysts have said Jeter has less range than Rodriguez, Nomar Garciaparra and Miguel Tejada. 
"Derek Jeter is a great, inspired leader and captain," Yankees owner George Steinbrenner said in a state­ment. "He certainly deserves this honor." 
Toronto outfielder Vernon Wells also was a first-time win­ner. 
"My hope now for next year is to put together a complete sea­son when I might compete for both awards, the Gold Glove and Silver Slugger," Wells said. 
In his first season with Detroit, catcher Ivan Rodriguez won his 11th Gold Glove, his first since 2001 with Texas and the most for any catcher. Johnny Bench won the award 10 times. 
Rangers pitcher Kenny Rogers, who turns 40 on Nov. 10, won for the third time, the first since 2002. 
''I'm not the same guy I was in the years past," he said. "There's a lot of things physi­cally I could do that I can't do now," he said. 
Despite his age, Rogers had 65 total chances, third in the AL behind Jake Westbrook (76) and Mark Buehrle (71). 
"Shortstops and second base­men over the years have com­plained I go after balls that are hit right to them," Rogers said. 
Oakland third baseman Eric Chavez, Minnesota center field­er Torii Hunter and Seattle right fielder Ichiro Suzuki all won the award for the fourth straight season. Mariners sec­ond baseman Bret Boone won his third straight Gold Glove for the Mariners, his fourth overall, and Anaheim first baseman Darin Erstad won his third award, his first since 2002. 
Ivan Rodriguez and Erstad both earned $100,000 bonuses, while Boone, Chavez, Rogers, Suzuki and Wells each earned $50,000, and Hunter $25,000. The awards are sponsored by Rawlings. 
Gold Gloves, presented since 1957 by St. Louis-based Rawlings, are voted on by man­agers and coaches before the end of the regular season. They may not select players on their own teams, and they vote only for players in their own league. 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, November 3, 2004 

MEN'S GOLF 

-
-
Team finds success against ranked foes 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
The Irish ended the fall sea­son in a position all too familiar -in the middle of a strong field. 
The team finished tied for IOth out of 16 at the Prestigo at the P<;A Wesl. Notre Dame faced a strong field, including four teams ranked in the top 25, inducting No. 16 UCLA, who won the event. 
llowevnr, the Irish did not come away from the event unsuccessful. Sophomore Cole lsban, who has been arguably the loam's strongest member all season, finished second at the event. lsban shot a thrne­round total of 3-over-par 219 and finished two strokes behind Erik llill of UC-Davis, who rallied from two strokes behind lsban with a 69 in Ttwsday's final round. The run­ner-up trophy was the best lsban had ever earned in an event and was the third time the sophomore standout had finished in the top five since arriving at Notre Dame. 
Behind lbsan, junior Eric Deutsch and freshman Greg Hodgers ended the day tied for 49th place with a respective 


.. 

23-over-par 239. Deutsch rebounded from two consecu­tive over-80 scores by shooting a l-over-par 73 on Tuesday afternoon. 
Junior Scott Gustafson and freshman Mike King rounded out the Irish at the tournament. Gustafson scored a 26-over-par 242, and King finished one stroke behind with a 243. The pair finished tied for 57th and 61 st, respectively. 
With the fall season now coming to a close, the Irish now have a long winter to work on their games and prepare for the spring season. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Injury may sideline Orton 
Purdue quarterback unsure whether he will play on Saturday 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Purdue quarterback and one-time Ileisman hopeful Kyle Orton is questionable for Saturday's game against Iowa with an injured lnft hip. 
Orton was injured in last week's 13-10 loss at Northwestern. lie was benched for backup Brandon Kirsch in the third quarter, partly becausn he was injured and part­ly bneauso ho was inea·eetive. 
Purdue coach Joe Tiller said Tuesday he is in no hurry to announce a starter for the game against Iowa. 
"We could hold it as long as game time," Tiller said. "We will delay the decision as long as pos­sible." 
Orton said Tuesday he was feel­ing much better than he did Saturday, and he thought he would be ready to go for the game in his home state. 
"You look at the progress I've made from Saturday until now, it's a lot bP.tter," he said. 
"If I can play and help the team, then I'm going to play through some pain. But I'm not going to be out there and hurting the team this week." 
It could be argued that Orton has done just that with his lack­luster play of late. Orton was just 15-for-33 for 143 yards, a touch­down and an interception last week against Northwestern. 
Over the last three games -all Purdue defeats -he has com­pleted just 50 percent of his pass­es for 591 yards, three touch­downs and three interceptions. 
It's a big change from the first five games of the season, when Purdue had its best start since 1945. 
In those five victories, Orton completed nearly 70 percent of his passes for 1,642 yards, 18 touchdowns and two intercep­tions. 
"It's been three rough weeks," Orton said. "It seems like every­thing's kind of falling apart a little bit." 
Once a media darling consid­ered thn front-runner for the Ileisman, Orton has found just how fickle the attention can be. 
"Walking out on the field last Friday fm· our walkthrough ses­sion, he and I talked about what it was like three weeks ago ver­sus what it was like then," Tiller said. "Bow everyone was damor­ing to be around him versus no one." 
tournaments, out of the six events they entered. 
Coach Debby King was proud of her team's performance but disappointed with what the outcome of the event. 
"It's a bittersweet ending," King said on und.com. "We wanted to finish higher, but our best wasn't good enough." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
Golf 
continued from page 24 
par 222. One stroke behind her was two teammates, junior Katie Brophy and freshman Jane Lee, who tied for 14th place. Brophy, the team co­captain, has led the team on and off the field all season and Lee has made an already in her career with several strong 
tournament results this sea­son. 
Freshman Noriko Nakazaki ended Tuesday with her best round of the tournament, shooting a 74 to give her a total of 227 and a 34th place finish. Junior co-captain Suzie Hayes rounded out the Irish lineup, finishing in a tie for 50th with a 233. 
This fall, the Irish have far surpassed expectations, win­ning two events and finishing in the top five in a total of four 
"procrastina · 
And for all the 
opening for Ted will be 
go-getters who say, 
Daric Snyder, winner of #\ive ever1 da1 \i\Ce ifs 1our \ast,' Legends 'last comic standing' I say, 
brought to you by sub-sub.nd.edu 
As Seen On Comedy Central and Letterman 
Ted \e~andro 
Free Show @ Legends Friday, November 5th ND Students Only lO:OOpm 

Wednesday, November 3, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Wednesdav, November 3 
T 
11 


presents 

i\etors Frorn rrhe l1)ndon St.lgl~ AMidsummer Night's Dreain 
ibY William Shakespeare 
Get tapped in at legends 
Doors Open at 9;30 1.111.• Speaker starrs -10:00 p.m. Free sult·drinks and faall. cash bar 
caa't Make it:-More to come 11/10 and 11/17 
FOOTBALL 
Willingham views the bye week as beneficial 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
Notre Dame is 23-2 all time coming ofT of a bye week during the regular season since 1984. Wins include the 1989 win over then-No. 1 Michigan, the 2003 win over then-No. 15 Pittsburgh and the 1999 win over then No. 23 Oklahoma. 
Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said the extra time serves a 
'The extra time gives 

few purposes. "The extra your guys a little bit time gives your 
more time to focus on 

guys a little bit 
that one opponent."

more time to focus on that one opponent," Tyrone Willingham Willingham 
Irish coach 

said. "Whereas you may have only three or four days of preparation for most teams, and now you have a chance to gain two additional days. Depending on how you structure your plan, that helps. That's beneficial." 
Creating turnovers 
In the first four games, the Irish defense forced 16 turnovers, including six against Michigan State and five against Washington. 
In that span, the Irish were 3­
1. The last four games, in which Notre Dame is 2-2, the Irish have forced just three turnovers, including zero against Purdue and zero against Stanford. 
Willingham said he continues to emphasize the attitude that turnovers are needed. 
"The first thing is that you always talk about the attitude," Willingham said. "You've got to get where your whole defensive team is flying around and zip­ping around to the football. When you start getting more young men around the ball, you can get one guy to tackle; and one guy to rip for the ball or_you get better breaks on your pass routes if everybody is focused and seeing things in your zone coverage and even tighter man 
Willingham said Tuesday that he expected sophomore Freddie Parish to see more action at strong safety, alternating with Tom Zbikowski, the starter. 
Parish has seen limited time on defense this season, but has played a significant amount on special teams. 
"[Parish! is right in the middle of our strong safety situation," Willingham said. "He and Tommy [Zbikowski! will proba­bly, I won't say trade time, but there are some things that may happen that give [Parish! a little bit more time on the field." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
coverage. So first thing is attitude. And second is you practice the fundamentals and tech­niques of try­ing to get those turn­overs." 
Safety swaps 

Ainge 
continued from page 24 
out with the injury, the Irish have a different game plan than just last week. Facing only one quarterback, the Irish don't have to look at two options from each quarter­back's perspective. 
"If you look at their game plan, they do a lot of things with movement of the quar­terback," Willingham said Tuesday at his weekly press conference. 
"But yet one of those guys, his perception, his view may be that run is the option before pass is the option. Yet it ca:n still be the same play and the same call but a totally different option. 
"Because if you looked at those two guys, you would have different game plans for what they do well." 
Ainge is eighth in the SEC with a 134.58 passing-effi­ciency rating for the 7-1 Volunteers. He is also seventh in the conference with 162.9 passing yards per game, and has been sacked just twice in his five starts. Ainge has thrown for 1,303 yards already this season and has 16 touchdowns with nine interceptions. 
"He's not as mobile, but he's got'a tremendous arm and for what they've asked him to do as a true freshman, his stats are pretty good," Irish defen­sive coordinator Kent Baer said. 
"In some ways it was two different kinds of offenses, but in other ways it was all the same because of the forma­tions. We watched everything we could on Ainge this week because he's the guy." 
Before he was injured, Schaeffer had a 13<).53 pass­ing-efficiency rating in seven games and had completed 17­

of~33 passes for. 291 yards. He Ainge so far. also rushed for 76 yards with "First of all, he's a quality 
a long of 22. 
"Well, what you lose if [Schaeffer's] not in there is a guy that instantly puts pressure on every aspect of your defense," Willingham said. "His ability to come in and 
quarterback, and is a quarter­
"Well, what you lose if [Schaeffer's] not in there is a guy that instantly puts pressure on every aspect ofthe deffense." 
Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach 
back that understands their system to a certain degree," Willingham said. "I don't think he understands all of it yet, but he has a pretty good grasp on what he is 

run the football really gives you almost like another half­back in the lineup. 
"And when you have Schaeffer in the lineup, a play becomes very active even though they don't necessarily run a quarterback sweep, but they do it with his drop-back; and maybe his first option is not to pass, but to run." 
Willingham has been impressed with the play of 
asked to do in their system and hopefully he is not doing things outside of the system, which allows him to be suc­cessful and the team to be successful. Then I think he is successful because he has a pretty good supporting <;_ast around him. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
2004-05 SEASON NOTRE DAME FILM, TElEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 

Wednesday, November 3 and Saturday, November 6 Both t;>erformances at 7:30p.m. 
Leighton Concert Hall, rie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
General Public $18.00 • Seniors/NO Faculty/Staff $16 • Students $12 Tickets available at the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts ticket office. MasterCard and Visa orders accepted. Call 631-2800. The Actoro residency is supported in part by the Henkels lecture Series. 
fi:E~U. NIVI'.RSITYOF 
..., NOTRE DAME 
Wednesday, November 3, 2004 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN's CRoss CouNTRY

-
Irish beco111e contenders 
Notre Dame wins Big East and proves to be a threat for the NCAA championship 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Sports Wrircr 
Take nolien, the Notre Dame men's cross-country learn is rankml lif'lh in the nation and just won a Big East title. 
That's quite an accomplishment, but !,riven the hard work and dedi­cation this team has put forward this ynar, it is not a surprise. 
On Oct. 12, the Irish WPre ranked ninth in the country, however after taking second in the Pre-Nationals in Terre llauntP and first in last w1~ekend's Big East Championship -the Irish have shown that they am a !Pgilimate contender f(Jr the NCAA Championship. 
The Irish have relied on several different runners this year that have all proved to be central to the success of this year's tl~am. 
Tim Moore, who finished sixth overall in the Big East Championships, also finished 13th in the Pre-Nationals and 13th in the Notre Dame Invitational. 
Coach Joe Piane praised Moore's performanen in the Big East race. 
'That was one of his better races of the year, hn really kind of hblpod champion that group, and he and Kurt Bnnninger have been working extremely well together all year long," Piane said. 
Benninger has been another major reason (iJr the Irish success this season. as he has proved to be a model of consistency. 
Benninger took second place overall in the Notre Dame Invitational and finished SIWimth in this weekend's Big East Championship, just one second behind Moore. lie also finished 8th in the Pre-Nationals. 

Other runners, namely Kaleb Van Ort, Sean O'Donnell and Vinny Ambrico, have also provided a spark for thn Irish all season. 
Van Ort and O'Donnell finishnd eighth and ninth in the Big East race, with times of 23:54 and 23:55. 
Arnbrieo, who finished 60th in his previous race at the Pre­Nationals, finished 17th after mak­ing an intense push down the stretch to pass several runners. 
The continued strong running liJr the Irish is going to be imperative in the coming weeks. On Nov. 13, the team will travel to Ypsilanti, Mieh. for the Great Lakes regional NCAA qualifier. 
Here, the Irish will face several legitimate teams, including top­ranked Wisconsin, No. 10 Indiana and No. 13 ranked Butler. 
Depending on how the Irish lin­ish in this race, they will either receive an automatic qualification for the NCAA championships on Nov.22 in Terre Haute, or an at­large bid. 
"We would like to automatically qualify, there will the 30-plus teams there, and we would like to be in the top two. Those are the only teams to automatically quali­fy," Piane said. "Do you want to win it? Well, the team that is ranked number one in the country is in our region." 
Clearly, a solid race in the Great Lakes regional would be important to the team's continued success, but with the way that the Irish have been running all season, no accomplishment would be surpris­ing. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Spotlight 
continued from page 24 
who was last year's Big East Most Improved Player, averaged 
9.9 points and 3.9 assists last year at the helm of the Irish offense. 
This duo is joined by a deep fronteourt that includes sopho­more Crystal Erwin, junior Courtney LaVere and senior Teresa Borton. Duffy will be joinnd in the backeourt by soph­omores Susie Powers and Breona Gray. Powers saw limit­nd time last year as a freshman, but Gray saw some significant minutes as defensive specialist. 
This group should lead a team coming off a second straight Sweet 16 appearance and a 21­11, including a 12-4 record in Big East play, good for second place. From that team, the Irish return seven monogram win­ners, including four starters. 
McGraw said the goal of tonight's game is to work on the things the team has been work­ing on in practice the last month. 
"We're going to work on some things," McGraw said. "We're focusing on our defense right now and hoping that our defense will be good because that's prob-
SMC 
continued from page 24 
Behind Concannon and the other seniors, the Belles put an end to their road woes, win­ning away from home for the tirst time in six games. 
"We were happy to go 
out with a win on the road," Noble said. "It was good to finally put an end to our troubles on the road." 
With the season now over, the Belles can only 


THE NANOVIC INSTITUTE FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES 
Msgr. Ch·arles Brown 
Congregation for the Doctrine ofthe Faith The Vatican 
"From NO to the Vatican ana Home Again: An Insider's View from the Papacy ofJohn Paul II" 
Thursday, November 4, 2004 4:45-6:15 pm 138 DeBartolo Hall 
Founaea in 151.12 by Pope Paul III with the Constitution "Licet ab initio~" the Congregation for the Doctrine ofthe Faith was originally called the Sacred Congregation ofthe Universal Inquisition as its auty was to t:tefena the Church from heresy. The congregation is now heaaea by Prefect Carainal Joseph Ratzinger. 

ably the biggest thing we're looking at.. I want to see some execution, if we can take care of the ball bt~tlor. Really, just work on all of the little things. I know it's just the first game, but I still want to look like were in game­ready form." 
The scrimmage is one of two for the Irish before they tip off with the Preseason Women's National Invitation Tournament (WNIT), next Friday at home against Illinois State. They face tho Hoosier Lady Stars Saturday at home to dose out exhibition play. 
I think [exhibition games] are important," McGraw said. "It's like a tune-up game. It's almost like a scrimmage. You can see where you are, see what you have to work on and everybody gets some experience." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

look with hope to next year's team. 
Though they'll lose seven seniors to graduation, the Belles still look to have a strong team in 2005. 
For those seven seniors, however, Tuesday marked the end of a Jlne college career. 
"We're a very close ·team, 
but it was hard to play our last 
-game together; it still hasn't hit me," Concannon said. "We've all played since we were little. Soccer has always been a big part of our lives." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy 1 @nd.edu 

a 
~~ 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
Is All about Choices!! 
Apply today and pick your choice of -Location -Neighbors -Remodeled or non remodeled units -Upstairs or down stairs 
If you have any questions pleasmtn:t the office or stop by to pick up your apptiation packets today! 
Turtle Creek Apartments 
The studentsf first choice in off-campus housing! 1710 Turtle Creek Drive (by the turtles!) 
South Bend, IN 46637 574-272-8124 office@ turtlecreeknd.com www.turtlecreeknd.com 
WORLD FAMOUS DUELIIIG PIAIIO SHOW EVERY IIIGHI 
BUY ONE SANDWICH OR WRAP &GET SECOND ONE AT1/l PRICE 
: ·~' 

WITH CURRENT STUDENT ID! 
www.na.eaut-nanovic 
100 N. CENTER ST. (In the "100 CENTER" Behind Hacienda & Funny Bone) 
[5741 259 ·1522 www.rumrunnersusa.com OPEN: Wed· Sun Nights 

Wednesday, November 3, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
SCOTT ADAMS
01LBERT 
BOTTLENECK BILL 
PER.HAPS YOU'R.E WON­DERING WHY I HAVEN'T 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
PEANUTS 


HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
rfm~~~~~'" r 
rJ J
1 _ 
©2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
TIMAD 
rJ 
1 

NARFIA WHAT THE: RIOE:R 5UFFE:RW AFTE:R

[IJ 
THE: C.R055-C.OUN­
www.Jumble.com 
TRY RAil-TRIP. 
I SPENOR j 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
1 
r1 [ J 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: rI I I I JrI I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: FLUTE QUEER GRIMLY SHAKEN Answer: Where a pro golfer who hits the greens is likely to end up-IN THE "GREEN" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
=-!=-!-;::-1-;-;-1 27 London theater district 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
65 Halo 66 Newsman Sevareid 67 Sauce with jalapeno 68 Any of the Phillies, e.g. 69 Winter Olympics venue 70 Oversized volume 71 " Heartache" (Bonnie Tyler hit) 
DOWN 1 Aleutian island 2 Hidden dangers 3 Player without a 
contract 4 Dam on the Nile 5 Suffix with east 6 Island rings 7 September 
equinox, and a hint to the starts of 18-& 62-Across and 2-, 3-, 10-, 33-, 37-& 38-Down 
8 Yellow shade 9 Dewy 1 o Place for a select group 11 High-class, as a restaurant 12 Take_ (travel) 
13 Allots, with "out" 19 Lawyer's undertaking 21 Cut (off) 25 Maserati competitor 
WILLSHORTZ 

Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________ Address ____________________________________ City ______________ State ______ Zip_________ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Nelly. k.d. Lang, Stefanie Powers. Paul Ford 
Happy Birthday: Not too much will get past you this year. You will be tuned in and hard to mislead. This is a year packed full of ex.tremes and. although challenging, it will also be enlightening. Your numbers are 2. I5. 17. 28. 31, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Put your time and effort into your domestic chores and preparing for what's to come. The less you give others to complain about. the better. Money matters may be an issue today. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Relationships will be your prime concern today. You should be able to join an organization or a group of individuals who have the same agenda as you do. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): If you aren't satisfied with your current position. pick up some new skills. Be prepared to change your direction. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your emotions may be a little out of control. You will succeed if you relax and do the best you can. Consider a minor change to your appearance. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Put your effort into your personal life and how you can turn your assets into something even bigger. Do what you can to make your place more comfortable. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Today is a good time to meet new people or get to know someone you like a whole lot better. Engage in life, Jove and events that you enjoy. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Not everyone will be thinking the same way you do. Concentrate on work and doing the best job possible. Avoid personal problems that will only slow you down. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): As long as you are true to yourself and your beliefs, nothing will stop you from following the course you choose. You will be capable of drumming up support. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may have to take it easy today. Pushing yourself too hard will result in ill health. Make some positive changes to your home. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone important will be thinking about you. You can seal a deal or lock in a partnership. Love is apparent. *** AQUARIUS· (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Work-related events will bring you a new opportunity. Take an unusual approach to your work and you will be successful. Don't let anyone steal your ideas. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Children or younger friends will brighten your day. The more you can do socially. the better. Let your creative imagination take over. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, loving and always prepared to take care of the things and people who are important to you. You are steady and reliable. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS Code word for "A" 

5 Jostle 10 Mockery 14 Blackens 15 Model Gabrielle 16 "Unimaginable 
as in Heav'n": Milton 17 Understood 18 Popular 80's­90's TV sitcom 20 "Let's Make 
22 Elton John, e.g. 23 Clarinetist Shaw 24 the world 26 A different 
approach 28 Slalom course move 29 William who has a state named 
after him 31 Slippery sort 32 Lulu 34 Shakes up 
36 In case that's true 
40 Olin of "Hollywood Homicide," 2003 
41 Charge 42" and Lovers" (D. H. Lawrence book) 43 Italian wine­growing region 44 1973 #1 Rolling 
Stones hit 45 Chisel or gouge 46 Big maker of 
A.T.M.'s 48 Yes 50 Cube root of 
eight 51 Monkey 
business 55 Blown snow 57 Midwest home 
of ConAgra 58 Corp. money 
head 60 Holy_ 62 Tumbler 
Puzzle by David J. Kahn 
28 "La Debacle" novelist 30 Verb preceder 33 Consolation of a sort 35 Den 37 Court infraction 38 Winter driving aid 39 See 64-Down 
47 Blacken 
49 Assn. 

51 Lawn Boy 
product 52 Japanese porcelain 53 Audited, with "on" 54 Conspicuous success 
56 Shiraz native 
59 Greek peak 
61 Boris Pasternak heroine 
63 Fed. construction overseer 
64 Airline to 39-Down 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than -2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, November 3, 2004 page 24 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

.. 
Talent-laden Irish take spotlight 
Notre Dame faces_ Premier Sports in first exhibition game of year 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sporrs Editor 
Afhw wonks of scrimmaging the samn lacPs, tlw Irish arP rnady filr a dmnge. 
Tonight, Notn~ l>anw will take on Pn~miPr Sporl'i in a prnSP<L'iOn nxhibition gamn, tho first this sna­son. 
"I think it's a good ehan1:n filr us to play against somebody ~~lsn," Irish eoa!'.h Mufli1L McGraw said. 
For frnshmen Charnl Allen, Mnlissa D'Amir.o, Tulyah (;ainf1.S and Amanda Tsipis, this will bn the first Lime thny play at the .Joyo1 CnnLPr with spectators in attondancP. 
"It's a good chanr.e for thn fresh­men to play in front of a crowd," McGraw said. "So were going to try to play the frnshmen a<> much a<> we ean." 
This y11ar's Irish. however will bn lnd by prnsea<>on AII-Amnrican and prnsnason Big Ea<>t Player of the Year .Jar.quelinn Batteast. Hatteast returns after a junior campaign in which shf1 averagnd 16 points and 8.6 r11bounds per game. She W<L'i aL<>o a unanimous selnetion to the presPa<>on All-Big EIL'il first tnam. 
BattmL'it will be joinnd by junior point guard Megan Dully. Duffy. 
see SPOTLIGHT/page 22 


SMC SoccER 

Saint Mary's finishes season on a high note 
By RYAN DUFFY Sporrs Wri tcr 
Behind the leadership of seven seniors playing in their final game, tlw Belles put an end to their problems on the road and dosed out their season on a high note with a 6-l victory over Tri­State Uniwrsity on Tunsday. 
"It was a very well played ganw, we werH finally able to play our game instead qf our tnndnncy to play to another toam's style," senior Katie Noble said. 
The Belles got out. to a quick start when senior Lauren Cortese found the back of the nnt for a 1-0 lead. Senior co-cap­tain .Jon Concannon then scored twicn bef'orn the half to give Saint Mary's a 3-0 lead at half­time. Tlw Belles played an equally strong second half, with goals from senior co-captain Jen Ilerdman, McKenna Keenan and Carolyn Logan allowing the Belles to extend their lead beforn dosing out the game 6-1. 

"I thought it was a good way to go out," Concannon said. "Everyone had fun out there, and since we had nothing to lose, w11 might as well make the last game of the season the best we possibly can." 
Concannon, who has been one of the team's leaders all year, went out with a bang by scoring two goals in her final eollegiate game. 
"It never surprises me when she scores, because she's such a talented player. She plays her heart out, and she deserves every goal she gets," Noble said. 
see SMC/page 22 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish vvrap up strong season 
Team records most successful season in program's history 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 

The Irish endod their strongest fall snason in the history of the program in a promising fashion. 
The team shot its lowest total score over three rounds at the Edwin Watts/Palmetto lntercollegiatn in Charleston, 
S.C. Notre Dame shot a 28­over-par 892, but fell to sixth due to turnouts from strong teams in the field, ineluding familiar rivals Michigan and Southern Methodist University, both of whom the Irish had defeated earlier in the season. Despite playing well, the finish was a little disappointing for the team, considering the ear­lier success during the season' and considering it was the event's defending r.hampions. 
Sophomore Stacy Brown led the team throughout the event, tying for 12th place by shooting a career-best 6-over 
see GOLF/page 20 

FOOTBALL 
Vols' Ainge the lllan against ND 
Tennessee will not be able to use two QB attack after Schaeffer breaks collarbone 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sporrs Editor 
It was just last week that the Irish were preparing two game plans for two very dif­ferent Tennessee quarter­backs. 
B u t See Also 
Saturday 
"Willingham
against South views the bye Carolina 
week as 
that all 
beneficial"
changed as quarterbar.k 
page21
B r e n t Schaeffer broke his collarbone in the second half after rush­the pocket and throw. Irish ing for 14 yards and going 2-coach Tyrone Willingham said for-4 in the air for 57 yards. the differenee between the 

Schaeffer is more of a freshmen is discernible scrambler and will pull the enough that since Sehap,f'f'er is ball down to run more quickly, whereas Ainge likes to stay in 
see AINGE/page 21 
U) MEN'S XC 
PGA 

MlB 
NFL

NBA 
NBA 
LLI 
c.,) 
Irish look to qualify for 

After a three-week 
Detroit defeats
Derek Jeter earned an 
Controversial Ron

Curtis Martin has 
vacation to celebrate his 
American League Gold 
Houston in the season 
Artest has undertaken a
the NCAA Champion-

helped lead the Jets to a
t: :3 z 
ships at the Great Lakes 

Glove award. 
opener 88-79. 
leadership role for the

honeymoon, 'Tiger
C) c:J 

6-1 start this season. 
Woods returns to golf at 
regionaL 
Pacers as many key 

the Tour Championship 
players fall due to 

... 
injuries . 
A. !:c < 
page 21 
page 16

page 17
page 19 
page 19 
page 18
U) 


KERRY CAMP SAYS RACE NOT OVER 
President Bush crept close to re-election early today, leading challenger John Kerry in a campaign cliffhang­er framed by war in Iraq and joblessness at home. Ohio held the key, stirring echoes of Florida in 2000, but this time Bush's advantage was substantial. 
With a majority of the popular vote in hand, the Republican president planned to declare victory early today. 
Ceding nothing, Kerry went to bed without conced­ing. 
See story page 2 
DANIELS, CHOCOLA WIN 
Mitch Daniels, the former White House budget direc­tor whom President Bush proclaimed "My Man Mitch." was elected governor Tuesday by soundly beating incumbent Joe Kernan.With 92 percent of precincts reporting, Daniels had 1,175,079 votes, or 54 percent, and Kernan had 987,518, or 45 percent, according to unofficial results tabulated by The Associated Press. 
Republican Chris Chocola won his second term in north­ern Indiana's 2nd District with 56 percent of the vote to 43 percent for Democrat Joe Donnelly, which included 45 percent of the precincts reporting. 
See stories page 8 
GOP CONTROLS CONGRESS 
Republicans tightened their grip on the Senate early today, capturing a string of Democratic seats across the South. Democratic leader Tom Daschle struggled for political survival in South Dakota. 
Republicans defeated four veteran Texas Democrats and snatched an open Democratic seat in Kentucky on Tuesday as they marched to the brink of extending their decade-long control of the House. 
See stories page 10 

page 2 The Observer+ IN FOCUS Wednesday, November 3, 2004 
Bush camp declares victory 
Kerry camp says race not over 

Associated Press 
WASIJJN(;T()N -President Bush crnpt dose to re-election narly Wednosday, leading chal­lenger John Kerry in a campaign cliiThanger framed by war in Iraq and joblossness at home. Ohio held the kPy, stirring echoes of Florida in 2000, but this timo Bush's advantage was substantial. 
With a majority of the popular vote in hand. the Republican prnsident planned to declare vic­tory early Wednesday. "We are convinced that President Bush has won re-election," White House chief of staff Andrew Card said shortly before dawn in the East. 
Ceding nothing, Kerry went to bed without conceding. "We will fight for every vote," his running mate, Sen. John Edwards, told supporters in Boston, whero he and the four-term Massachusetts senator waited out the late, long count. 
Card said Bush not only won a second term but Hepublieans added "to our majority in the llouse and ... to our majority in the Senate." 
As Bush made plans to declare vietory, his high command dis­patehed a 10-person politieal and legal team to Ohio in the event Kerry triggewd a Florida­like right. Card said Bush delayed his own publie state­ment to "givn Smmtor Kerry the respect of morn time to rellect on the rosults ol'this election." 
That was a veiled rnqtmst for Kerry to bow out gracefully. and avoid the rancor that accompa­nied a :HJ-day roeount in fo'lorida four ynars ago. 
That margin was small, but Bush's Inad in Ohio is substan­tial _ Card caiiPd it "statistkally insurmountable, nvPn aftlw pro­visional ballots are eonsidornd." 
With Bush leading by 145,000 votes and roughly 190,000 yet to he counted. orw top Kerry advis­er said tho Dmnor.rat's chances of winning Ohio, and with it the White llouse, wnrP difficult at best. 
Thn ra1:e was remarkably sim­ilar to the 2000 campaign, Bush winning all but one of the states he carried four years ago, while Kerry picked up where Democrat AI Gore left off. For Bush, that meant sweeping the South and several western and Midwestern state. fo'or Kerry that meant capturing California, Pennsylvania, New York and lllinois, a handful of West Coast and Midwest states. 

Three states hung in the bal­ance -New Mexico, Iowa and Ohio, but only the Buckeye State had enough electoral votes to make a difference. 
After winning Nevada in the wee hours Wednesday, Bush stood only 16 electoral votes shy of the 270 required for a second term. Kerry stalled at 252. Bush made plans _ later revisited _ to declare victory. 
Ceding nothing, Kerry dis­patched Edwards to tell support­ers: "We've waited four years for this victory. We can wait one more night." 
The night proved grim for Democrats. Hepublicans expanded their majority in the Senate, knocking off Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle of South Dakota, and the GOP extended its de·cade-long hold on the House for another two years. 
Florida fell into Bush's lap with relative ease. Kerry took New llampshire from Bush _ the first and perhaps only state to switch parties _ but it has just four electoral votes. That lel't Ohio as Kerry's only hope. 
The holdup was over provi­siomtl ballots _ those cast by people whose qualificati<)[]s to vote were challenged. At 3 a.m. EST, Bush had a lead of 125,000 votes; there were more provi­sional ballots outstanding. 
"There's no mathematical path to victory for Kerry in Ohio," said Nieolle Devenish, spokeswoman for the Bush­Chenoy campaign, arguing that Bush would get his shan~ of the pr<>visional ballots. The White House had contacted Ohio Secretary of State Kenneth Blaekwell, urging the Hepublican to clarify the num­her of provisional ballots. 
Nationwide, with 97 percent of the nation's precincts reporting, some 112 million people had voted -up from 105 million in 2000. 
Bush was winning the popular vote by around 3.6 million, or 51 percent to Kerry's 48 percent. 
Early in the voting, Kerry allowed himself to muse about the problems he might face in the White House, including a soaring deficit and a war that has claimed more than 1,100 lives. 
''I'm not pretending to any­body that it's a bed of roses," said the 60-year-old Massachusetts senator. 
The Electoral College count was excruciating: With 270 votes needed, Bush won 28 states for 254 votes. Kerry won 19 states plus the District of Columbia for 252 votes. 
With three states out, Kerry was still on the hunt for elec­toral votes that the GOP won four years ago. The states' won b,v Gore in 2000 are worth just 260 votes this year due to redis­tricting -10 short of the covet­ed number. 
Kerry could pick that up plus some in Ohio with 20 electoral votes. 
A 269-269 tie would throw the presidential raee to the House. 
Alongside the White House and congressional races, a full roster of propositions and local offices kept votnrs busy. But all eyes were focused on Kerry's bid to make Bush the !irst president voted out of ollice in the midst of a war. 
''I've given it my all," Bush said aftpr voting in a firnhouse at Crawford, Texas, hoping to avoid being ihe first wartime president bounced from office. 
Save Ohio, the race was a car­bon copy of 2000, a narrowly fought battle waged by lawyers and politicians alike. In 2000, Bush lost the popular vote to Gore but won the Electoral CollegP count and the presiden­cy after a ruling by the Supn~me Court gave him Florida. 
The incumbent sought to avoid 
the fate of his father -former 
President George H.W. Bush, 
who was ousted by voters in 
1992 after waging war against 
Iraq and ov,erseeing an ailing 
economy. 
Legions of lawyers and elec­tion-rights activists watched for signs of voter fraud or disen­franchisement. New lawsuits sought clearer standards to evaluate provisional ballots in Ohio and a longer deadline to count absentee ballots in Florida. 
While complaints were. wide­spread, they weren't significant. "So far, it's no big, but lots of Iit­tles," said elections expert Doug Chapin. 
Voters were torn over the presidential race, in ways all too familiar. 
Exit polls suggested that slightly more voters trusted Bush to handle terrorism than Kerry. A majority said the coun­try was safer from terrorism than four years ago, and they overwhelmingly backed Bush. 
However, among those who said they were very worried about a terrorist strike, Kerry held a slight lead. A majority of voters saidl things were going poorly in Iraq, and they heavily favored Kerry. 
With nearly 1 million jobs lost in Bush's term, Kerry was favored by eight or 1() voters who listed the economy as a top issue. 
The nation's mood? There was division on that, too. llalf said the country was headed in the right direction, a good sign for the incumbent. 
Voters weleomed an end to the longost., most expensive presi­dential eleetim1 on record. "It's the only way to make .the ads stop," Amanda Karel, 25, said as she waited to vote at a banquet hall in Columbus, Ohio. 
Both sides spent a combined $600 million on TV and radio ads, more than twice the total from 2000. 
Bush won among white men, voters with family incomes above $100,000 and weekly churchgoers. Three-fourths of 
white voters who described 
themselves as born-again 
Christians or evangelicals sup­
ported Bush. 
The president had hoped to increase his support among the religious right sinee 2000, but exit polls suggest then1 was little change. 
Kerry retained Gore's margins among blacks and union houso­holds, key parts of the Democratie base. llis voters named the economy and Iraq as top issues. 
One in 1 0 voters were casting ballots for the first time and fewer than 10 percent were young voters, hardly the groundswell that experts had predicted. Kerry was favored by both groups, according to the surveys conducted for The Associated Press by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International. 
Bush won Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia and Wyoming. 
Kerry won California, Connecticut, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Hawaii, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, New llampshin~. New Jersey, New York, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhodo Island. Vermont, Washington, Wisconsin and statowide in Mainn. 
Eleven gubornatorial eontosts wore being decided Tuesday, along with 5,800 logislative seats in 44 statos. Former Bush administration budgot director Miteh Daninls won the governor­ship in Indiana, taking tho seat from the Domocrats. 
Among the notable ballot measures, voters in 11 states approved propositions that would ban gay marriage. In California, voters approved spending $3 billion on stem-coli research. 

Wednesday, November 3, 2004 The Observer+ IN FOCUS page 3 
Netvvorks proceed cautiously vvith rebuilt polling system. 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-Mindful of the spectacu­lar failure of their blown calls four years ago. television networks proceeded with caution as election results came in Tuesday. 
There were concerns, however, that the Parly exit polls they commissioned had indicated John Kerry would do bet­ter than hP appeared to be faring as actual vote counts came in. 
Five TV news organizations and The Associated Press formed the National Election Pool to conduct exit polls of vot­ers. while the AP was supplying actual vote counts from across the nation. 
The networks blamed bad information from an old system for twice premature­ly declaring a winner in Florida in 2000 -the second time awarding the presi­dency to George W. Bush weeks before it was settled. 
When the 2004 results are completely known, the networks will look at whether this year's exit polls overesti­mated Democratic vote counts, said Bill Wheatley, NBC News vice president. But he noted that the networks relied on real vote counts to make their calls in contested states. 
"I think it would be premature to say that we had any substantial problems," Wheatley said. 
Before polls had closed, the exit poll information that had once been avail­able only to a privileged few was racing around the Internet. Television reporters tried, with varying degrees of success, not to ref1ect that information so as not to influence voters. 
Those early numbers looked so posi­tive for Kerry that Fox News Channel analyst Jim Pinkerton, at 3:30 p.m. EST, said, "I think it looks good for angry Democrats." 
And on evening news programs, some correspondents subtly telegraphed the polls. NBC's David Gregory said Bush "appeared subdued," while ABC's Terry Moran noted the president had expressed a "rare sense of doubt." 
Later on Fox, analysts talked openly about how some actual results contra­dicted exit polls numbers. 
"Either the exit polls are completely wrong," Fox analyst Susan Estrich said, "or George Bush loses." 
It wasn't until four hours into the cov­erage, when the major networks put Pennsylvania in Kerry's corner, that any of the big battleground states had been called. 
"Going into this we said it would be close, and we didn't lie." said Tom Brokaw, who was anchoring NBC's elec­tion coverage for the linal time. lie steps down as "Nightly News" anchor on Dec. 1. 
· Although networks r-alled states where there was little doubt quickly and con­sistently, there was little of the hyper­competitiveness often visible on election nights. Rivals waited nearly 30 minutes, for instance, to join CBS in putting Virginia and North Carolina in Bush's column. 
ABC's Peter Jennings even cautioned Moran as he stood outside the White House reporting on what the president was telling reporters inside. 
"You're speculating, aren't you?" Jennings asked. Moran admitted he was, but that it was informed speculation. 
ABC, CBS, NBC, CNN, Fox and the AP disbanded their previous exit poll and vote -counting consortium, Voter News Service, after the 2000 fiasco and anoth­er failure in 2002. Two veteran polling outfits -Mitofsky International and Edison Media Research .-collaborated on exit polls this year. 
The AP said it has beefed up its vote ­counting operation now that it will be the sole source of these results for the news organizations. 
The National Election Pool says it has made accommodations for the surge in early voting. While exit polls were taken in only three states that offered early voting in 2000, NEP has polled early vot­ers in 13 states this year, including Florida, said Michael Mokrzycki, the AP's director of polling. 
In response to what happened in 2000, NBC quarantined its experts making calls on winners and losers in a room without TV sets so they couldn't see their rivals, while Fox had four execu­tives on its decision desk and promised not to call a state unless all four agreed. CBS said it wouldn't declare a wiimer or loser in any state, cautiously saying it would only "estimate" a winner. 

World drawn into race with uncommon intensity 
Associated Press 
BERLIN -People outside the United States could only watch, wait and vent as Americans lined up to vote Tuesday in an election that provoked an extraordinary degree of emo­tional involvement beyond U.S. borders. 
Not just leaders and news media, but ordinary people were riveted by the contest between Presidef.lt Bush and John Kerry, convinced that a world roiled by the U.S.-led occupation of Iraq, the war on terrorism. and cultural and reli­gious conflict had a huge stake in the outcome. 
Saif-ur Hahman, a 36-year­old lawyer in Pakistan's capital, Islamabad. planned to watch the results come in and hopes for a change. 

"Muslims have suffered under Bush whether they are in America or elsewhere," he said. "I hope Kerry will change that." 
In Sao Paulo, Brazil, Wagner Markues, 54, also prefers Kerry and wonders why the race is so dose. 
"We don't understand America now," he said. "Are they getting different news than us about the scandals in the Iraqi prisons, and the children and civilians who are getting killed?" 
Lee Tim Hoe, a car salesman in Malaysia, said he was "keep­ing my fingers crossed for Kerry to win. I will try to keep awake to catch the final results." 
In the Mideast, prominent columnist Jihad al-Khazen wrote in the pan Arab daily Al­Hayat that Arabs would be no better off under either Bush or Kerry, but said people through­out the region worried about the result because "the American president exercises authority over us which our presidents don't." 
One Arab country where the Hepublican ticket remained strong was Kuwait, freed by 
U.S.-led forces under the first President Bush after Saddam Hussein invaded in 1990. 
"In Kuwait, we have love and respect for the Bushes because they moved the world to liber­ate Kuwait from its occupier, the toppled Saddam Hussein," read a column in Kuwait's Al­Anba daily. 
About 1,000 people gathered at the Grand Hyatt Hotel in Amman, Jordan, for an election night function. Monsignor Nabil Haddad, head of the Melkite Catholic community, backed Kerry, calling him "a man of high caliber." But political sci­ence student Feras Sababha, 19, preferred Bush, saying he was a strong leader who will 
"press ahead with the policy of reform in the Arab world." In Israeli newspapers, the 
U.S. election topped front pages, overshadowing even big local stories -Yasser Arafat's illness and a suicide bombing in Tel Aviv. 
"Kerry or Bush," read the red, white and blue headline in the daily Yediot Ahronot. 
"A day that will decide the fate of the world," read a ban­ner headline in Britain's Independent. 
Many rooted for one side with a kind of intensity sometimes lacking in their own domestic elections. 
Bush's go-it-alone stance on many issues -from the Kyoto Treaty to the war in Iraq -as well as his religious outlook, his Texas background and single­minded approach, made him a target for many. 
Polls in many countries -and a quick survey of the newspa­pers and TV -left little doubt that Kerry is the preferred choice across much of the globe. But while popular opin­ion was sometimes skeptical of Bush, he has support from the leaders of foreign countries as diverse as Britain, Australia, Hussia and Japan. 
In Europe, Bush remained a tough sell. "The man to beat," France's 
Liberation said in big type above a picture of Bush. In Germany, where Bush is deeply unpopular, Michael Moore's anti-Bush film "Fahrenheit 9/11" was prime time fare on television on election eve. 
Many places have held mock polls, such as the artists, writ­ers and professors in the Italian region of Tuscany, who organ­ized what they billed as "the first American elections for non-Americans." 
At the heart of the matter is a belief that in an era of global­ization, when American deci­sions affect hundreds of mil­lions around the globe, the elec­tion is not just a U.S. issue. 
"Why shouldn't the Italians vote for the elections, too?" said screenwriter Michele Cogo. "The planet's destiny is decided in large part by America." 
Plenty of foreign politicians have personal stakes in the out­come -and in these circles the choice is more balanced. 
Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and Hussian President Vladimir Putin, for instance, have signaled their preference for Bush. 
"I don't want to interfere in another country's election, but I'm close to Bush so I'd like him to do well," said Koizumi, who sent 500 Japanese troops to Iraq on a humanitarian mission. 
Putin has said a Bush defeat would mean a "new impulse" for terrorism, though he has declined to make an explicit endorsement. Bush has toned down criticism of Hussia's heavy handed campaign against sepa­ratist rebels in Chechnya in return for Putin's support in the war on terror. 
The politicians who were keeping quiet -the usual prac­tice regarding another country's elections -had a big stake as well. 
For France and Germany ­dubbed "Old Europe" by Defense Secretary Donald Humsfeld -a Kerry White House would mean a chance of mending ties, but could bring newfound complications. Both nations refused to help Bush in Iraq, but may have a-problem saying no again if Kerry makes good on his campaign pledge to seek more allies in the war. 
If Kerry wins, German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder may face pressure to back off his refusal to send troops to Iraq. 
"If a newly elected president calls for a new contribution that we've refused up to now, it won't be so easy to reject ·as it fortunately has been with the enemy image of Bush," former defense minister Hudolf Scharping said. 
page 4 The Observer+ IN FOCUS Wednesday, November 3, 2004 
Kerry declared Democratic candidate, March 11 • John Edwards announced as Kerry's r,unning mate, July 6 

ace 
Defining Moments in the 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The presi­dential race of 2004 lumbered into history as the longest and the costliest, a· wartime election with a nail-biter of a finish and a bitter residue of political divi­sion and polarization. 
The country was split down the middle between President Bush and Democratic chal­lenger John Kerry, and the nation's polities were so polar­ized that it seemed unlikely the winner would find common ground with opponents anytime soon. 
Hegardless of the outcome, 
half of the country  was  sure  to  
be unhappy.  
Troublesome  for  Bush,  a  

majority of Americans were unhappy about the war in Iraq and the .shape of the economy, according to Associated Press exit polls. Nine out of' 10 were worried about the availability and cost of health care. 
Three-fourths said they wor­ried about another major ter­rorist attack, and they split their votes between Bush and Kerry. 
A surge in voter registration and the biggest voter mobiliza­tion campaign ever added uncertainty. 
There were many ways to describe the presidential con­test. It was a competition of two men of wealth and privilege, both graduates of Yale University and members of the 
same secret ·society, Skull and Bones. 
It was the first White House election since the nation was shaken by its worst-ever terror­ist attack, the first sinr.P the American-led invasion of Iraq, and the first in wartime since Vietnam. 
Osama bin Laden edged into the race with a videotaped appearance that reminded Americans of the Y/11 attacks. More than half of voters said the bin Laden tape was impor­tant in their vote, and they tended to support Kerry. · 
Iraq towered over the election with grisly scenes of behead­ings, bombings and massacres, reminding Americans of the steep price of war. The nation has lost more than 1,100 troops in Iraq, and voters were split on whether the United States should have invaded in the first place and wondered how to get out. 
While incumbents often dele­gate negative campaigning to their vice presidents, Bush did not shrink from the task, brand­ing Kerry weak and indecisive and the kind of leader who would put the nation at risk. 
"This president has been the bad cop in chief," said Norman Ornstein. a well-known political analyst. lie described the race as "the nastiest in our lifetimes. It doesn't maybe equal the 19th century but it's hard to watch this without getting an upset stomach if you care about poli-

Wednesday, November 3, 2004 The Observer+ IN FOCUS page 5 
George W. Bush officially accepts Republican nomination, Sept. 2 • Third presidential debate at Arizona State, Oct. 13 

.,
Battle for the White House 

tics." 
In t n r 111 s 0 r pIii icy. the t w 0 eandidatns offnred some of the sharpest differences in many years on issues such as taxe-s, hoalth care, Social Security, abortion. gay marriage, gun control. !Hnbryonic stem cell research, enorgy, the environ­ment, America's place in the world and its need for allies in 
who manages to win clearly, is at best a long weekend," ana­lyst Ornstein said. 
In addition, 34 Senate races and 435 House contests were on the ballot. 
Republicans retained their majority in the House for the fifth election in a row and held control of the Senate, too. 
One thing that made this year 
Iraq. 
In Congress, Democrats and Hepublicans regarded each other with suspi­cion and hostili­ty. Bush fueled the partisanship by refusing to compromise with Democrats on issues from taxes to judicial appointments. 
Rather than accommodate his opponents after emerging the winner of the 
"[The campaign is] the nastiest in our lifetimes. It doesn't maybe equal the I 9th century but it's hard to watch this without getting an upset stomach ifyou care about politics.. ,, 
Norman Ornstein political analyst 
distinctive was the incredible flood of money that poured in despite the McCain­Feingold law t h at w a s· s u p ­posed to control campaign cash. Total spending in the presiden­tial and con­gressional r a c e s approached a breathtaking $4 billion. 
It also was the longest 

disputed election of 2000, Bush behaved like he had a mandate and relied on his Republican base rather than try to attract supporters on the other side. 
Bad feelings were exacerbated by a campaign in which both candidates tried to rouse their core supporters with negative attacks on the other side. "Under these circumstances it's likely that the honeymoon for the next president, even one 
race. With more than 40 trips to Pennsylvania and 30 to Florida underlining his most frequent destinations over four years, Bush arguably had been run­ning for re-election since he took office. 
The Democrats had their can­didate ready on March 2 -the earliest in modern times ­when Kerry clinched the nomi­nation with a string of Super Tuesday primary victories. 


page 6 The Observer+ IN FOCUS Wednesday, November 3, 2004 

AP 

Trends in Voter Turnout 
Voter registration drives and interest in the presidential race put Tuesday's election on track to draw the heaviest turnout in years 
Voter turnout nationwide: 
2004 
2000 


~====================~ 
1996 
1992 


• 
Massachu..o;etts Secretary of State William F. Galvin expected a record high turnout of 3 million. 

• 
Battlegmund Pennsylvania experien"--ed record voter registrations, which may have translated into record turnout. 

• 
Officials in battlegmund Wisconsin predicted a 75% turnout of eligible voters, up from a little more than 63% in 2000. 

• 
The modern record for voter turnout was 1960, when 65% of those eligible cast ballots. 




Projec:ted Bush 
p 
MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graphic 
~·--···.......,
...•. 
..;..; 

Electoral Votes 
According to 
John Kerry

Projections: THE RACE FOR SENATE 



REP. SEATS OEM. SEATS IND. SEATS 
• CHANGE: CHANGE: . CHANGE: • +2 -2 0 • UNDECIDED 
52 44 1 

Wednesday, November 3, 2004 The Observer+ IN FOCUS page 7 
Electoral Votes 

AP 



Undecided at
ected Kerry 
Press Time 

h 254 252 
270 Electoral Votes 
THE RACE FOR U.S. HOUSE 


~ 
~ 
~ 
page 8 The Observer+ IN FOCUS Wednesday, November 3, 2004 
Indiana Congress and Gubernatorial Races 
ti 
s 
1% 

~ (I)
62% Evan Bayh (Dem. incumbent) 0 -53% Mitch Daniels (Rep.) -54% Chris Chocola (Rep. incumbent) 
0 

z 0 
~ 

~ 
-37% Marvin Scott (Rep.) t:~mn 46% Joe Kernan (Dem. incumbent) :.$ill 45% Joe Donnelly (Dem.) "-l ' 
(I)

0 ;:J 
-1% /\!bert Barger (Lib.) 0 -1% Kenn GiviJen (Lib.) 0 -1% Douglas Barnes (Lib.) 
~ 
MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graphics 
INDIANA GOVERNOR RACE 

Daniels rides Bush support to win over Kernan 
Daniels left the White llouse On the campaign trail, Daniels. 
Associated Press 16 months ago and returned to pounded on the loss of tens of INDIANAPOLIS Milch his home state, using a donated thousands of Indiana jobs in Dani1ds, the formpr White recreational vnhide to travel to recent years. lie pledged to llousn budget dire1~tor whom each of' the state's 92 counties at revive and diversify the state's Prnsidnnt Bush prodainwd "My least three times. It painted a economy through business tax Man Mitd1." was nl!w.tPd gover­down-home image or the l'ormer incentives and streamlined reg­nor Tunsday by soundly boating Eli Lilly and Co. executive that ulations. incumbent .Joe Kernan. rnsonated with voters such as lie also said four straight With 92 1wrcnnt of prncincts Tony Drabick of Greenwood. terms by Democratic governors reporting, Daniels had "I Ie seemed to be homegrown had left statn government broke 
I. I7!i,071J votes, or !i4 percent. and he's got, I think. good and rife with scandal, and he and KPrnan had 987.!i 18, or 4!i visions for Indiana. lin's got a promised to· bring in a "nnw pnrcnnt. according to unorlkial good business background, and crew" to carry out aggressive rnsults tahulatPd by Thn I think he's got some good reforms. Associatml Prnss. . insight on what direction the They'll likely f'ind a 
Daniels, running l'or his f'irst state needs to take," said Legislature friendly to their nlodivn ol'lkP al'tPr yPars as an Drabick, a retired postal work­plans. Hepublicans were poised aidn to Bush, the late Prnsidnnt er. to win control of the llousn of Honald ({pagan and S!HI. I lis Washington eonniH~tions HPpresentatives and retain their Hkhard Lugar, rPturns Indiana's never were lost on Daniels, grip on the Senate. It would be gov n r nor's o l'f'ien to the however. lie played up his tics the first time the same party Bnpublican Party al'tPr lh years to the Bush administration and controlled both houses and the of I>Pmocrat.i1~ control. called in campaign favors. On governor's office since 
"Wnlconl!' hark from llw Monday. a recorded telephone Hepublicans last did in 1987. wildnnwss." Daniels told his nwssagn from First Lady L<mra Presiding over the Stmate will cheering backers, who worn Bush urged many Indiana voters be Daniels' running mate, Becky grenn T-shirts and lois and to cast their ballots for Daniels. Skillman, who made Indiana headbands with PIPphants on It paid oil'. Martha Kirkpatrick history by becoming the first them. at llinkln Fi1~ldhousn in of Evansville said she voted for woman efe·cted lieutenant gov­Indianapolis. l>anitds precisely because the ernor. Incumbent Kathy Davis 
KPrnan becomes thP lirst sit­president supported him. "I feel was appointed to the job last ting governor rPjerted by voters that lw knows better," the year by Kernan when he sincn Indiana changPd. its con­retired rPceptionist said of ascended to the governorship. stitution in 1972 to allow the Bush. Kernan had tried to paint state's chiPf executive to servo D;miels publicly thanked Bush Daniels as an outsider from consncutivn tnrms. Aftnr initially in his victory speech bel'ore Washington and as a greedy der.iding not to run. lw reeonsid­turning his focus to his new job. corporate insidnr for supporting en~d af'tnr inlwriting tlw office "We have important work to the sale of Indianapolis utility upon the death of Gov. Frank do, big changes to bring, eoura­!PALCO in 2001. Many retirees ()'Bannon nearly 14 months gnous decisions to take," Daniels lost their life savings, Kernan's ago. said. "Working together across campaign contended, while 
"This is. as all of you know, a all boundaries of party and Daniels and other board mem­race we madn the decision to geography and philosophy, we bers sold their stock beforfl the get into just about a year ago must tackle Indiana's problems sale dosed and made millions. right now, and we have not onH and achieve Indiana's potential Daniels said he sold his stock regret about having taken in a way that brings honor to when he did to meet ethical advantage of that opportunity," our state and progress to all 6.1 requirements of his new job as Kernan told supportPrs. million of our fellow citizens." White House budget director. 


INDIANA 2ND CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT RACE 
Chocola defeats Donrielly, other Ind. officials elected 
Observer Stafl' Report Chocola said. District was behind by about 700 a former Boston Celtics scout and "He's a good man," Bayh said. Chocola also thankHd the volun­votes with to Hepublican chal­aide to President Clinton, raised "He worked his heart out. lie 
Hnpublican Chris Chocola won teers for his campaign. lenger Mike Sodrel with 85 per­more money than I lostettler, with drove all over this state. That was his second term in northern "Today was a wonderl'ul day. cent of precincts reporting, more than $671,000. his great credit." Indiana's 2nd District with 56 per­We had hundreds of people help­according to unofficial results tab­In the 7th District. Democrat Bayh shrugged ofT questions nmt of tho vote to 43 percent fi1r ing us, on the phone, driving cars, ulated by The Associated Press. Julia Car-son beat Republican about any possible national politi­Democrat .Jon Donnelly, which and that was one day out of In the southwestern Indiana's Andy Horning, leading by about cal ambitions. ineludnd 45 percent of the many," he said. 8th District, Republican incum­20,000 votes with more than 90 "Tonight, we're going to cele­precinct.-; reporting. bent John I Iostettler had a lead of percent of the precincts reported. brate this victory," he said. "''m 
''I truly believe that we all want In other Indiana news: about nine percentage point<; over Carson was hospitalized Friday dedicated to serving the people of tho samo things. When we work Hard-fought, expensive cam-Democratic challenger Jon until Sunday for what she said our state." together we 
paigns to Jennings with 62 percent of was a reaction to a flu shot. She For other parts of the state, can achieve defeat two precincts reporting. said Tuesday she was disappoint­however, a sleepy campaign sea­our goals," Indiana con­With Republicans holding a slim ed that her health was an issue in son ended Tunsday without any Chocola said gressional 229-206 edge in the U.S. House of the campaign. upsets: to lUI nn th usi­incumbents Representatives, both the 8th and "It's amazing I'm here sur­+ Hepublican Dan Burton. the astic, nag­produced 9th districts were watched closely rounded by press being asked state's longest-serving congress­waving crowd dose election by the national Hepublican and about my health when we have a man, won central Indiana's !ith that had b1~nn returns Democratic parties. lot of other issues that we tried to District, which is considered one chanting "We Tuesday as Hill and Sodrel have raised expand," she said. of the safest Hepubliean strong­want Chris!" ballots were nearly $5 million eombined, But asked whether she would holds in the muntry. prior to tho Donnelly still being thanks in part to the Republican be able to serve the term, she + Hepubliean Steve Buyer won i 11 c urn lw 11 t 's eountml. and Democratic parties funneling said, "Who knows? I hope so. I his seventh term in the 4th arrival. In races for U.S. House s1~ats. money to the candidates. I !ill won l'eellike I'm going to be able to do District. 
Chocola also diseussnd tho incumbents in six of Indiana's his district in 2002 by just 51 per­it." + Republican Mark Souder won Indiana governor's racn, won by nilw districts won rn-eleetifm, and cent. Bayh had more than 60 percent his sixth term in the 3rd District. Hnpubliean candidate Mitch Dnmoeratic Sen. Evan Bayh won In the 8th District, Hostettler of the vote with about 70 percent + Hepublican Mike Pence won his Daninls against Democratic his seeond term in the statewide won his district in 2002 by 51 per­of precincts reporting. lie ereditod third term in the 6th District. ineumlwnt .lon KPrnan. race for U.S. S1-mate. cent and raised $228,000 fin· the his opponent, Republican Marvin 
"The grnat rwws is I havn a Dnmoerat incumbent Baron Hill 2004 election, according to FEC Scott, with running a good cam­Associated Press contributed to new govnrnor to work with," in the southeastern Indiana's 9th n~ports ending June 30. Jennings, paign. this report. 


Wednesday, November 3, 2004 The Observer+ IN FOCUS page 9 
+Around the Nation+ 

















ARIZONA
ALASKA 

ARKANSAS 
CALIFORNIA
ALABAMA 

Den\ocratic Sen. Blanche
Incumbent Republican sena­
John McCain won the Senate 
In the '·senate race, Barbara
GOP Sen. Richard Shelby 

Lincoh\. breezed past Republican 
tor Lisa 1\([urkowski took early 
race in a landslide against 
Boxer swept past Republican
barely toucbed more than $11 state ~n. Jim Holt, who called
lead against former governor 
Democrati~ eighth-grade math
million in •his war chest in 

Bill Jones, Who was unable to
liberal) federal jl!dges a bigger 
teacher .Stuart Starky, who
Tony Kqowles in."Yhat turned 
raise mone:y or gain strong
rolling qver little-known threat l<> the country than terror­
into a t@i~t;ace. {.J}A, 
was no m.atch for a Republican 
support from Gov. Arnold
Democrat, Wayne Sowell in the ists in the Senate race. 
Results wertJ>not certa 
incumbent with broad biparti­
Schwarzenegg'en
VotetSj approved a gay mar-
Senate race. 

the time ofipririting. 
san appea[·"·""·
riage bari., .·«•·•······•@•w.~·~~ 
FLORIDA
CONNECTICUT 
DELAWARE
COLORADO GEORGIA 
Democrat and state attorney 

JohnnyJsakson easily took the 
Incumbent Ruth Ann Minner 
Repuplican House Rep. 
Rep~hlicall Rep. Katherine
general Ken Salazar was elected Senate seat .of retiring Bush­
Harris, vilified by.pemocrats
Christopher Shaysrwon a ninth 
narrowly defeated the GOP
to Senate over Republican boer backing f?emocrat Zell Miller,
while she served as secretary
challenger f~r governor after
term against Westport First
baron ·Pete Coors, giving the leading thrpughout the race over
of state during 2000 recount,
Minner Wa$ criticized for
SelectwDman Diane G. Farrell. 
Rep. Denise Majette, the state's 
Democrats a seat once thought 

insensitive remarks about a 
won in rematch with.Sarasota
Shays had WoJl eac.i:i eh'\ction
solidly GOP. Salazar becomes the first black Senate candidate. 
and re:election bid with at 
prison inmate's abduction and 
attorney Jan Schneider in the 
Voters approved a gay mar­
first lfispanic JJ.S. senator in 

House race.
least 58 percent of the vote. 
rape of a counselor in July. 
riage ban. ·
more than a quarter century. 

ILLINOIS
IDAHO

HAWAII INDIANA IOWA 
Democratic State Sen. Barack Oball!,a triumphed eas­
Sen. Charles Grassley, head
Republican incumbent Butch
Veteran Senator Daniel 

Democratic incumbent Evan
ily in the Senate race, and will 
of fbe powerful Senate
Otter won re-election for his
Inouye, 80, won tbQ lopsided 

Bayh turned back a challenge 
Finance Committee, handily
be the onlyblack among 100
Senate race against House seat in what is widely 
from sociqlogy professor
senators when the new 
won a .fifth term, defeating
Hepublican Cam Cavasso, a 

seen as tLmeup for a 2006 
Marvin Scott for the Senate 
Democrat Art Small, a lawyer
Congress convenes. Obama
former state legislator. gubernatorial run. 
seat. 
from Iowa City. Alan Keyes. 
dispatched blac~ conservative 
MAINE
KANSAS 

LOUISIANA
KENTUCKY 
MARYLAND 
In 1st District, Republican
Four-term veteran ,Rep. Anne 
Rep. bavid Vitter led several 
challenger Charlie Summers 
Democratic Sen. Barbara
Hepublican incumbent.Sam 

Northup once again survived 
Democratic contenders. to 
took incumbent Tom Allen to 
Mikulski easily surVived a
Brownback trounced Demo­

another Democnitic+attempt to 
become:the first Louisiana 
task for g'ving up his seat on 
challfmge for her Seriate seat
cratic railroad engineer Lee Republi¢an since He~onstruc­oust her from the House. 
the Housf Armed Services 
from millionaire stP;te Sen. E.J.
Jones for the Stmate seaL 

tion tol win a term in the
Voters approved a gay mar­
Committqe. Maine has two 
Pipkin.
Senate. ,
riage han. 
·:;.,.· ..,., 

shipyards 4nd a Navy air base. 
MICHIGAN 
MISSISSIPPI
MASSACHUSETTS 

MINNESOTA 
MISSOURI 
In the House .race, Democratic 
Former state Sen. John "Joe" 
Incumbent House Rep. Mark
The 10 Democrat House 

incumbent Bennie Thompson 
Democratic State Auditor
Schwarz beat his Democratic 
Kennedy beat back strong
incumbents all coasted to re­

won rematch against 
Claire McCaskill -who ousted 
opponent in his GOP~leaning dis­
challenge from Patty
elnction, including Rep. James 

Republican Clinton B. LeSueur 
incumbent Bob Ffolden in the
trict to win the only open House 
Mc~Gove·rn:~ whi:r beat a GOP 

Wetterlii:tg, a missing chil­
in the poor, primarily rural 2nd 
primary T was defeated by
seat for the state. 
dren's advocate whose 11­
leader of the antl"gay mar­

District. 
Secretary 'of State Matt Blunt
year-old son Jacob was
riage movement in 

Voters approv~d <\.. gay mar­
Voters approved a gay mar­
for governor. 
riage ban. 

abducted in 1989.
Massachusetts. 

riage ban. 
NEVADA 
NEW HAMPSHIRE
MONTANA 

NEBRASKA 
NEW JERSEY 
Dnmocrat Brian Schweitzer, a 

Republican Jeff Fortenberry, 
Hepublican Rep. Mike
Voters rejecte(l incumbent 
Ferguson gets· a third term in
farmer who unsuccessfully 

Delll-ocrat Matt Connealy and 
Democratic incumbent 
Republican Gov, Craig Benson
sought a Senate seat in 2000,' 

the; Green Party's Steve 
7th District, d~feating former
Harry Hei~. Senate minority 
in favor of D:emocrat John
def'eatod Republi.can Secretary 

Marine Steve Brl)Zak, who said 
Lar:hck vied to replace 
whip, troUhced Republican 
Lynch, a bu.sinessman and
of State Bob Brown in the race 

he switched parties last year
Hepublican House Rep . .:.Poug 
political neq'phyte who ham­
challenger Htc.hard Ziser in
for governor. 

because he was di$Bnchanted
Bereuter. ; ....... 
the Senate race. · 
mered at sc~ndal in state gov­
Voters ap.proved a gay mar­

Results 'Were'''not""C'erfain at 
by GOP atta6ksonmilitary vet­
ernment. 
erans.
riage ban. 

the time of printing. 
NEW MEXICO 

NEW YORK 
NORTH CAROLINA 
NoRTH DAKOTA 
OHIO 
Republican Rep. Richard 
·'

Democrat Charles Schumer, 
Burr, long an underdog in lJ.is
House Rep. Heather Wilson 

Sen. Gtiorge Voinovich of Ohio,
Re~ublican incumbent John
with a $26 million war chest, 
race against Cliq;ton iffge
fended off Democrat Richard 

a Hepublican, won his second
Hoe'*en was a clear winner in
easily triumphed over 
Er§.!.\Jq.e,.Bo:wles, rode <i~ilate
Homero for second consecu­

the governor's race. 
term with ease.
Republican Howard Mills and 
torrent of pdlitk~l coll!iner­
tive time in an intensely nega­

Voters approved a gay mar­
Voters approved a gay mar­
Conservallve'Ma:iilyn O'Grady 
cials Tuesday to win..the North 
riage bari. ·
tivfl campaign. 

riag~ ban.
in her bid for a secohd term in 
Carolina Senate seat vacated 
!w.,·.-.-~··»·.-"~~X~;>"..:>X:'XP'~~:;.::.:· ~ 
the Senate. 

by John Edwards. 
OKLAHOMA 

PENNSYLVANIA 
RHODE ISLAND SOUTH CAROLINA
OREGON 

I Hep. Jim DeMint gained the
fornwr three-term Rep. Tom 

Heavlly-favored Democratic 
t 

. "i Senate..seat, surviving a chal­
Coburn h~ld on to the vacant 

Sen. Hli)n Wyden easily beat lit­
~our-term Republican Sen. 
Democrat;i:c Representative
Senate seat fDr the Hepublieans, 

lenge fr'Om Democratic state
tle-known Republican new­
Ar~en Specter notched a clos­
Patrick Keqnedy heads into a 
Educatiorl·Superintendent Inez 
despite charges that h~ had ster­

sixth term,j defeating former
comer Al King in the Senate 
edthan-expected victory over
ilized a wonUt.n without her per­

Tenenbaum to succeedJong­
Navy SEAL David Rogers for a
race. 

D~mocratic Rep. Joe Jloeffel in 
time Democnitic Sen,. Ernest
mission while annbstetrician. 

second till!,e... ··
the Senate race. Yt
Voters approved a gay mar­
Voters approved 'a: gay mat• 

"Fritz" Hollings< vvpo is retir­
riage.pan. 

{.w.$::»:-:::::·:.::::~:m:~~=::::m.::::~~::;,m*'*'~~.w::::::Xx..::-«8i"-:::::...<:::.::;::-<:::··=~~::::.·=>'• 
ing. be'
riage ban. 

·=·: ..... ··:·.. ····~===~':i:':>~.:::::;-,-r..z:<<.X::~==~:::>;:::::l:'«"n::::::::~:::w~ 
TEXAS

TENNESSEE
SOUTH DAKOTA 

UTAH VERMONT 
11

Four of {five incumbent
There was a titanic struggle 

Repuhlcan Jon Huntsman Jr., 
Democrats loSt competitive races
between Senate Democratic 

In the most competitive of 
trade official uhder President
in Republicafi-tilted districts, fol­
Leader Tom Daschle and for­

the' state's ;House races·; 
Bush, b~at underdog Scott Sen. P;itrick Leahy of
lowing\-GOP-led redistricting.
mHr Rep. John Thune, who 

in,cumbent Democrat Linc'oln 
Mathesm in the race for gover­Vermont coasted to a sixth
Losers w~re M11rtin Frost. Max
nearly unseated state's other 

nor. term in the1$enate.
Davis...outdistanced Xullahoma 
Sandlin, N'ick'l,.. ampson and
senator, Tim Johnson, in 2002: 

alderwoman Janice Bowling. 
Voters approved a gay mar­,
Charlie Stenholm.'QletEdwards' 
Hesutts were·not eerJainat 

riage bar 
the time of printing. .,+ 

race was too close to.~.@. 
~,,,.••..•,"~*"'".«.iw.<~····-w.••· 
VIRGINIA 

WEST VIRGINIA 
WISCONSIN WYOMING
WASHINGTON 
The gubi;!rnatorial contest 
State legislator Thelma 

Democratic ~cretary of State 
State s1enator Gwen Moore
between Republican Dino Rossi 
Republican Barbara Cubin
Drake allowed the. GOP to hold 

Joe Manchin defE:,!ited 
of Milwaukee became th1:1 first
and'\ Democrat Christine 
beat political newcomer Ted
Republican Monty Warner in
on to the House seat of 

black House member elected
Greg~ire, 1;he state attorney gen­
Ladd for a sixth term as
Hepublican :E;d Schrock, Whq 

the govetnor's race. pemocratic 
from wrs:consin, replacing
eral, teetered back and forth. 
Wyo:rning's lone representative
Gov. Bob Wise chose not to seek
retired after Web log r~ported 

retiring Democratic Hep. Jerry
The st~te's heavy reliance on 
in the House. 
a secortd term after acknowl­
Kleczka. }
mail-in baJ.lots was ljkelyiibhold
:~~ ~~~"~)~~~:i1fl~lf·ra~~t~~~ ~erv­

edging ariextramarital affair. 
up the finriltallY: · · · 
::;.."'"~...............,;.;.·. 
Source. Assocoated Press 

page 10 The Observer+ IN FOCUS Wednesday, November 3, 2004 
Republicans retain control of both House, Senate 

GOP captures Democratic seats in southern states 
Barack Obama wins easily in Ill. race 
Associated Press followed suit in North Carolina. 
Vitter made it four for four when he 
WASHINGTON -Hepublicans eaptured a seat in Louisiana ­
tighllmed their grip on the Senate avoiding a runoff by winning more 
early Wednesday, capturing a string than 50 percent of the vote. 
of Dnmocratic seats across the In each case, Democratic retire­
South. Democratic leader Tom· ments induced ambitious lawmak­
Daschle struggled for political sur­ers to give up safe House seats to 
vival in South Dakota. risk a run for the Senate. 
Illinois State Sen. Barack Obama, Hepublicans also held fast in a Democratic political star in the Oklahoma, where long-term GOP making, easily won a seat formerly Sen. Don Nickles retired. Former in Hnpubliean hands in Illinois, and Hep. Tom Coburn prevailed there, will bn the only black despite early cam­among I 00 senators paign stumbles that when the nnw Congress "The nation spoke sent the party to his convnrws in January. rescue with a televised
that we're on the
But tho c;op did most attack on his of the celebrating by right course, and Democratic challenger. far. taking DPmocratic we'll stay on that But the GOP string opPn seats in (;porgia, ran out in Colorado,
course and hope-
North Carolina, South where Democrat Ken Carolina and Louisiana. fully accelerate it." Salazar narrowly tri­Hep. David Vitter tri­umphed over Peter umphod there, the first Coors in a race to sue-
Bill Frist 
Hnpuhlican since 

Senate majority leader c e e d reti r i n g 
Hneonstruetion to win a Republican Ben 
tnrm in tlw Senate. Nighthorse Campbell. 
"The nation spoke The battle for con­that we're on the right course, aQd trol of the Senate shaped up months we'll stay on that course and hope­ago as a contest for the open seats fully accelerate it," said Senate -five in states where Democrats Majority Leader Bill Frist of retired retiring and three where Tennessee. lie said the results Hepublieans stepped down. showed voter rejection of Democrats faced daunting odds Dmnocratic "obstruetionism" in the from the start, particularly since Senate. lie added that he expects their presidential candidate, John the strengthened GOP Kerry, deemed most majority will be ealled to of the states hope­confirm one or more less and made little
"We ran as a
Supreme Court nominees. effort to challengn 
At rwarly 2 a.m. in the team." President Bush. 1\ast, Hepublicans were In a further bow assured of 52 seats, onn to political reality,
George Allen 
morn than they control in Democrats in many
Chairman of the GOP
the current Congrnss. of those states ran Three raees remained senatorial committee as conservatives in unsettlml. hopes of separating 
In the orw with tho most themselves from the far-reaching national implications, top of the ticket. But interviews l>aschlP. trailed former Hep. John with voters leaving their polling Thurw narrowly with votes counted plaees underscored the naw in the in morn than H5 percent of the strategy. prneincts. In North Carolina, Burr gained 
Sen. Lisa Murkowski, H-Aiaska, the votes of nearly nine in 10 of led in her quest for a full term after Bush's supporters. Vitter's level of winning hnr seat by appointment support was nearly as high in from her rather. the govnrnor. Slw Louisiana, as was DeMint's in South led former c;ov. Tony Knowles. Carolina. 
In Florida, fornwr IIUD Secretary "We ran as a team," said Sen. Mel Martinez led Democrat Bntty Gnorge Allen of Virginia, chairman Castor in a late, long counl. of thn GOP senatorial committee. 
Tho Hnpuhlican march through Whnn it came to personal attacks, Dixie b_egan in c;norgia -and the Kentucky race was hard to spread in several directions at oncn. match. Democrats ran television 
Hep. Johnny Isakson elaimed eommnrcials questioning Bunning's c;eorgia for the Hepublicans, and mental fitnoss for office. His allies, Hep. Jim DeMint took South in turn, openly speculated about Carolina. Hep. Hichard Burr soon Mongiardo's sexual orientation. 
Texas, Kyr. Delllocrats lose in close races on Tuesday 
Associated Press Demoeratic-leaning east Georgia seat. 
Hepubliean Nancy Naples was trailing in 
WASHINGTON -Republicans defeated her attempt to hold an open seat for her 
four veteran Texas Democrats and party in a district around Buffalo, N.Y. 
snatched an open Democratic seat in In Connecticut, the GOP overcame 
Kentucky on Tuesday as they marched to Democratic efforts to tie some Republican 
the brink of extending their deeade-long incumbents to President Bush, whose 
control of the House. popularity is low there. Maveriek GOP 
Democrats answered back, knocking Hep. Christopher Shays and former CIA 
·ofT the longest-serving Republican in the agent Hep. Rob Simmons staved off chamber, Rep. Phil Crane, an Illinois con­Demoeratic rivals. servative from Chieago's wealthy sub­Frost's bitter race against GOP Hep. urbs, and a Georgia freshman incumbent. Pete Sessions was the. country's most But their longshot chance of gaining 12 expensive; the pair raised $8.4 million by seats to end Republiean command was late October, split almost equally. nearly extinguished with less than one­Stenholm was defeated by freshman Bep. fifth of the 435 House races still to be Bandy Neugebauer in a district in which decided. two-thirds of the voters were new to 
''Despite Democratic claims to the con­Stenholm. trary, we are going to be the majority Another endangernd Texas Democrat, party in the 109th Congress." declared Chet Edwards, held a slender lead Hep. Thomas Heynolds, H-N.Y., who against his challengnr, despite the influ­heads the GOP's House campaign opera­ence of one of his Crawford, Texas, con­tion. stituents: President Bush. 
By early Wednesday in the East, Incumbents were coasting to re-elec­Hepublicans had won 207 seats and were tion from Minnesota to Florida as well, leading in 22 others, which could give including former presidential hopeful them at least 229 seats, 11 more than the Hep. Dennis Kucinich, D-Ohio. Also majority needed for House control. returned for a second !louse term was 
Republicans held a 227-205 advantage Hep. Katherine Harris, H-Fia., who was over Democrats in the outgoing House, her state's secretary of state dut'ing the plus two GOP-leaning vacant seats and pivotal Florida recount during the 2000 an independent who sided with presidential election. Democrats. Three candidates with congressional 
Months after Texas' dominant state pedigrees triumphed. Democrat Daniel Hepublicans redrew congressional dis­Lipinski won the Chieago snat held by his trict lines to the GOP's advantage, the father, William, for 22 years; Democrat fiercely disputed plan bore fruit and Dan Boren of Oklahoma, son of a former fueled the party's hopes or holding its senator, won a House seat; and House majority. Among its chief archi­Republican Connie Maek, namesake son tects were House Majority Leader Tom of the former senator, grabbed the Fort DeLay, R-Texas, who was easily re-elect­Myers, Fla., seat vacated by Porter Goss ed. when he was chosen to head the CIA. 
Texas Democratic Heps. Charles Though both parties -and outside Stenholm, a leading fiscal conservative political groups-spent hundreds of mil­and power on the Agriculture Committee, lions of dollars on this year's I louse races, and Martin Frost, a one-time member of all but a mere three dozen were consid­his party's leadership, were both defeat­ered locked up in advance of Tuesday's ed, as were Reps. Max Sandlin and Nick balloting. Democrats needed to win two­Lampson. The four had a total of 68 thirds of the competitive contests to take years of House experience. a 218-seat majority. 
The apparent failure of either party to The expectation of little overall change make dramatic House gains underscored also illustrated the roek-solid advantages how the national debates over Iraq and held by many candidates -mostly t!1e eeonomy provided no decisive help to incumbents -in fund raising and in dis­either side. tricts drawn to favor one party or t.he 
Earlier in the evening, Nick Clooney, other former Cincinnati television anchor and If Hepublicans held control, it would father of actor George Clooney, lost his mark the first time they would havn had attempt to hold an open northeastern the chamber for a dozen eonseeutive Kentucky seat for Democrats. lie was years since the 12 years that nnded in beaten by GOP businessman Geoff Davis. January 1933. 
Democrats fared better in the well-to­House Speaker Dennis llastert, H-111.. do suburbs north of Chicago, where they was re-elected, and Minority Leadnr defeated Crane, whose 35-year House Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., was also expected career was the longest among the eham­to breeze to a new term. ber's Hepublicans. The victor was Melissa As usual, many !louse races revolved Bean, who was born seven years beliJre around local issues and personalities. To Crane entered the House and eharaeter­the degree that the presidential raee and ized him as out of touch with his district. the war, terrorism, jobs or other national 
They also ousted freshman GOP Hep. issues were prominent, they were gener­Max Burns, a top target of theirs, from a ally shaded to region;;tl tastes. 
Wednesday, November 3, 2004 The Observer+ IN FOCUS page 11 
Voting snafus, dustups are scattered 

Associated Press 
Machines malfunctioned, tempers 

flared and edgy voters often waited 
hours Tuesday to pick a president in 
a contentious race watched by thou­
sands of monitors who expected the 
worst. 
But by the close of East Coast polls, 

only scattered local snafus had been 
reported in an election turnout that 
was shaping up to be the heaviest in 
years. 
"So far, it's no big, but lots of Iit­tles," said Doug Chapin, director of the Election Reform Information Project, a nonpartisan research group. "We know of no major melt­downs anywhere along the lines some people were worried about." About 50 percent of all voters said they were very certain ballots in their .state would be accurately counted, according to a national Associated Press exit poll conducted by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky 
International. 
I Iyper-vigilance appeared to be the 

order of the day, which in some 
states prompted poll closures and 
unf(mnded complaints. 
In New Jersey, for example, a sus­

picious substance later determined to 
be spilled salt prompted the two­
hour closure of a Mount Laurel 
precinct. In Pennsylvania, zealous 
GOP election monitors complained 
that some Philadelphia voting 
machines already had thousands of 
recorded votes when the polls 
opened at 7 a.m. 
Local election officials quickly explained that voting machines regis­tered every vote ever cast on them ­like mileage on a car odometer ­and that did not constitute evidence of fraud. 

"It's absolutely ridiculous," said Deputy City Commissioner Ed Schulgen. 
In Colorado, Republican Party ofli­cials said a lawyer for the Democrat.'> showed up at an Eagle County precinct with a list of registered GOP voters, planning to challenge them all. Democrats acknowledged it was true. 
In other closely contested sta,tes ­including Iowa and Michigan -the liberal group MoveOn.org was accused of disrupting local precincts. In Ohio, a woman filed a lawsuit on behalf of voters who didn't receive absentee ballots on time, asking they be allowed to cast provisional ballots. Later, a Toledo federal judge granted her request. 
Also in Michigan, the NAACP filed a Justice Department complaint, say­ing it received 35 complaints that GOP poll watchers were harassing voters in Detroit. 
In Wisconsin, Republicans said vandals spray-painted "Illegitimate Democracy" across state party head­quarters. In Milwaukee, police said tires were slashed on about 20 get­out-the-vote vehicles leased by the GOP. 
New touch-screen voting machines, criticized by computer scientists and several elections officials as suscepti­ble to hacking and malfunction, were used Tuesday in 29 states and the District of Columbia. Only Nevada has mandated the machines produce paper receipts, which could make recounts more reliable. 
In Florida, which gave the 2000 election to George W. Bush on the basis of 537 votes, 10 touch-screen voting machines failed at various precincts in Broward County. Nearly half the state's voters were using the_ ATM-like machines. 
Chellie Pingree, president of Common Cause and a former inter­national election monitor, said a toll­free voting hot line established by her citizens' lobbying group had logged at least 50,000 calls. 
Tuesday's high voter turnout could bring "more confusion to already overburdened, understaffed polling places," Pingree said. And many of those places, she added, "will have as many lawyers and poll chal­lengers as they have people voting." 
Tensions flared early at many of those sites. A Democratic official in Cleveland claimed he was thrown out of a church basement by a screaming poll judge. Another judge allowed him to return. 
In Florida, two Bush supporters filed a lawsuit seeking at least $15,000 in damages, claiming-they were punched, pushed, shoved and spat on when they showed up at a Halloween rally for Democratic can­didate John Kerry, dressed as giant flip-flops. In a separate lawsuit, the ACLU asked that absentee ballots mailed within the United States be subject to the same deadline, Nov. 
12. as overseas ballots. 
Kerry leads Bush on minority vote 
WASHINGTON -Republicans' hopes that President Bush would improve his standing with black voters came to little or nothing Tuesday, but he did better with Hispanics than four years ago. 
Bush was doing as poorly with blacks as he did in 2000, getting only about one in 10 of their votes, exit polls indicated. His performance with black voters in 2000 was the worst for a Hepublican presidential candidate since Barry Goldwater got 6 percent in 1964 in his race against Lyndon Johnson. 
Kerry also led among Hispanic voters, but the gap was closer and Bush made some progress on that front -getting 40 percent of their votes or a bit higher. Kerry had a 15-point lead over Bush with Hispanics -about half tlw margin that Democrat AI Gore enjoyed in 2000. 
Bush, a former Texas governor, activPly court­ed the llispanie vote in both presidential cam­paigns and speaks passing Spanish. 
Blacks made up roughly the sanw proportion of voters as in 2000, exit polls suggested. About one in 10 voters was blaek. 
The proportion of Hispanic voters ros<~ margin­ally, to close to 1 0 pnrcent, 
Kerry won lllinois' 21 electoral votes Tuesday night on the strength of black and llispanic sup­port. with whites in the Democratic-leaning state split evenly between Kerry and Bush. 
The most important candidate quality to Hispanic voters was the ability to bring about 
..

needed change -about a fourth chose that, and they overwhelmingly backed Kerry. 
The economy and jobs were important to black voters, cited by one-third of them as the issue that mattered most. Almost half or blacks said their own family's financial situation was worse than four years ago; only about one in seven said they were doing better. Americans overseas wait to see if their votes make a difference 
MEXICO CITY -Most cast their ballots weeks ago, and some will have to hunt down a televi­sion to find constant coverage of the U.S. elec­tion. 
But Americans around the globe, gathering at embassy parties, private homes and even bars to watch the results, know their vote counts more than ever. 
For months, the campaigns of President Bush and John Kerry have courted overseas voters, helping them register from as far away as Asia and sponsoring everything from fund-raisers to parties to get people involved. 
The attention wasn't a coincidence. Four years ago, Bush's victory was certified only after the overseas ballots were counted. That fact has encouraged a rise in overseas registration, embassies and political supporters say. 
On Tuesday, the Web sites of both Democrats Abroad and Republicans Abroad encouraged last-minute voters to fill out federal write-in absentee ballots and fax them home. 
Mexico was a key overseas battleground, with the largest number of U.S. citizens living abroad: an estimated 1 million Americans. Many are retirees, students or have business interests in everything from factories to hotels. 
In Mexico City, election parties were planned across the city Tuesday night, with diplomats and other political elite gathering at a U.S. Embassy event, and Democrats scheduling their own celebrations at a hotel and bar. 
In Moscow, the U.S. Embassy invited 700 peo­ple-to a reception that featured live music, 
TV campaign ads and life-size cutouts of Bush and Kerry for those wanting photo reminders of the night. 

Nader factor shrinks this time 
groups, that years ago made Florida and New Hampshire,
Associated Press demands on politicians, they giving the states and the elec­WASIIINGTON Ralph don't make demands on the tion to George W. Bush. 
Nader ended his latest presi­Democratic Party anymore," a . The independent presidential dential bid Tuesday with a raspy-voiced Nader told about candidate was drawing about fraction of the votes he won 150 supporters gathered in 0.5 percent of the vote in ­
four years ago, but vowed to Washington. Florida with most of the continue his insurgent cam­"The contempt that the returns counted, while Bush paign against corporate domi­Democratic Party has for led Kerry by more than 4 per­nation of American politics. groups that support them, centage points. By contrast, 
The consumer advocate -when these groups do not Nader won about 2 percent ­denounced as a spoiler in 2000 make any demand on them, more than 97,000 votes -in by Democrats who blamed him they are making the Florida four years ago. for costing AI Gore the election Democratic Party seem more Democrats believe most of -lashed out at the "liberal like the Hepublican Party," those votes would have gone to intelligentsia" for pressuring Nader said. Gore, who lost the state by 537 him to end his campaign and Incomplete returns indicated votes. 
-l 
rallying instead behind that Nader was much less of a In New Hampshire. Nader Democrat John Kerry. factor this year than in 2000, was getting less than 1 percent ~ 
....

"The liberals who staff and when Democrats say he of the vote, compared to 5 per­l fund so many of those good siphoned votes from Gore in cent four years ago. 4 
I 
page 12 The Observer+IN FOCUS Wednesday, November 3, 2004 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Voter turnout sure thing 
ll rained Tunsday in Indiana, and in many parts of the ;~ountry. 
Peopl1~ huddiPd in thn cold, their raincoats bundlnd against the wind, pulled up to Uw neck, dripping umbrnllas above thoir lwads. Meghan Martin 
Linos snaked around corners of buildings. News Writer 

,-strntdJPd out into parking lots and people waitml. For hours. 
Perhaps it was the eall of dvic duty that brought them thoro. Perhaps it was p111~r pressure or f11ar of derision from colleagues that eausnd Uwm to wait. Perhaps they took P. Diddy's "Vote or Din" campaign to heart. 
Whatnvnr the reason. thny came out in droves. 
II und n1ds of factors should have det1~rrnd tlwm. Unpleasant wnather dons not traditionally bode wPll for high voter turnout. Eledion 2000's snafus 1~ausnd many to lose faith in the eler.toral systmn. Hnpublieans in Nnw York. Democrats in Texas and many other vot1~rs across thfl country complained that llwir vote did not count. 
And yet they showml up again, they waited in lirw and tlwy east their votn. 
Allltough linal numbers have not yet lwen talliPd -and won't bfl for a whiln-this yp,ar's prnsidnntial nlee­l.ion is a.lrmtdy staggering in its reach. 
It is a sign that Americans adually earn; a thumbed nose to the critics who long lamentml our political apa­thy. Thn stakes aw too high, we real­

..: 
ize. to sit around and allow others to vote for us. The future is too uncer­tain for our collectivn voice to go unheard. 
1\vnr·y elnction brings with ii over­arching issues that define candidates' 1~ampaigns. llnalth earc1, education and taxes ean bP counted on to make their appearance if all 1~lse fails. While thnsn are hardly trivial mattnrs and d11sorvn our fullest eonsidnration, tho issuns at tlw f'orPI'ront ol' year's nleetion bring with tlwrn a cnrtain urgnrwy. 
Bnyond all tlw rlwtoric, tho mud­slinging, tlw hand-shaking and baby­kissing that has bornbardnd us sinen . lurw lins a enrtain awareness that our f'uturn. both in its immediate and enduring stall's, was put on tlw lirw last night. 
/\II surnrnnr. wn lward words like "security," "tmrorism" and "war." Our dPfinitions ol' patriotism wern ehallengml. Our aw.arnnnss ol' thn issues at stakn PvolvPrl. Wn rmtlized that wn would bn casting a volt~ f'or, abow all, our eivillib1~rtins,

.-
/\nwrira's image abroad and our chil­dnm's Social Security bnnnlits. Whethnr we identify closest with rod, hlun, grnen or indnpnndent, we understand now that w11 cannot aiTord to bn indiiTnrPnt. And so we east our ballot. 
The oiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd. edu 
TODAY'S STAFF 
Kate Ant.onmu:i (;rah<un Ebetesch 'll=m1Sa Fralish Maddi(~ Hmma Mike I Iarkins ( lairn lleining(~f Amanda Michael'> Megan O'Neil I leather V<m lloegarden 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE BIGGEST SURPRISE OF ELECTION NIGHT? 

ELECTION OFFBEAT 
Neighbors' names create 
special connection to elec­
tion 
NEW KENSINGTON, Pa.­Maybe the nation isn't as divid­ed as all the pundits daim. 
After all, Upper Burrell Township neighbors Kerry Bush and John George have made it through the presiden­tial campaign on speaking torrns . 
"I don't think people have put two-and-two tognthnr." Gnorge said, noting that rwighbors haven't targeted either man with eleetion Yf~ar pranks. 
GPorge said it was his fourth-grade son, Cole, who noticed that the neighbors' names combine to l'orrn those of President George W. Bush and his Democratie ehal­lenger, Sen ..John Kerry. 
Bush manages a company that just got the deaning eon­tract at a nearby hospital, and said his name helped break the ice with his nnw eo-work­ers. 
And he has a ready reply to their most frequent jokes. 
"I don't feel at all like a flip­flopper," Bush said. "I get called Mr. Bipartisan." 
Zoo names baby monkeys for presidential candidates 
DES MOINES, Iowa -_Two baby marmosets, who made their debut at the Blank Park Zoo, have a good reason to remember this election season -they've been named George and John for President Bush and his Democratic challenger, Sen. John Kerry. 
"We wanted to find a unique way to commemorate the times the presidential candi­dates monkeyed around in Iowa," quipped Terry Rich, chief executive officer at the zoo. "This has been a wild campaign." 
Thn tiny monkeys, born eight weeks ago. are twins -not that uncommon in marmosets, Rich said. They were kept under elose watch until deemed healthy enough to put on exhibit -which just hap­pened to l'aii on the eve of Tw~sday's election. 
Native to Brazil. marmosets eat fruit. leaves. seeds and inseets. They live to be 15 to 20 years old. and have sent pads to mark their territory. 
"I think one or them smiled, which probably indicatns tht1y've got a little political streak in them," Hich said. 
Women receive special ride to the polls on Election Day 
EUGENE, Ore. -Forgive some women for being a tad bit miffed when the hunky men who had oll'ered to drive them to polling stations arrived. After all, the men were fully dothed. 
The plan had called for the men of Long Tom Grange ­Oregon's best known nudie calendar -to offer voters a free limo ride to ballot drop-oil' sites. The men made head­lines last year when they ban~d all for a calendar benefiting local schools. 
Linda Roberts was surprised when 66-year-old rancher John Lopes greeted her in jeans and a cowboy shirt. As Mr. May in the group's 2005 
calendar, he wore only his belt and boots astride his horse. The group had considered going topless. "But it's too cold," Lopes eun­·fessed. 
Most Oregon voters mailed in 
their ballots, though some 
wanted to go drop them off in 
person. The men seized on the 
ballot delivery service as a way 
both to publicize their second 
calendar and to promote voter . 
participation. 

Despite the lack of nudity, 
Hoberts, 46, a stay-at-home 
mother of two. was grateful 
for the group's service Monday 
aftprnoon for people like her: 
"slackers and proerastinators." 
'Then I heard that their limo 
was corning for people and I 
thought, What a great way to 
go to the polls. I'd better fill my 
ballot out!" 
Family blends election duty 
with Day of the Dead tradi­
tion 

RENO, Nev. -While election 
talk fillod living rooms Tuesday 
evening, one family combined 
civic discussion with cultural 
tradition. 

Eight-year-old Rose Kibala lit a candle, remembering the death or her father on the sec­ond night of celebration for Dia de los Muertos, Day of the Dead. 
"In the midst of all the elec­tion results, we will still make time and do this," said Hose's mother Bettie Kibala, who voted Tuesday. "We live the American Dream yet still hold tight to our Aztec/Mexican tra­ditions. We balance our lives." 
Spirits return on the Day of the Dnad. a celnbration of both life and death. Faithful gather in graveyards in hopns of eon­taeting the dead through prayer, song and offerings of food and flowers. 
The Day of the Dmtd tradi­tion originated with the indige­nous people of Mexico. Tlw Aztecs kept skulls and dis­played them during a month­long l'itual. They wen~ used to symbolize death and robirth. 
The rituals merged with the Homan Catholic faith. Those who died as children are remembered bnl'ore dawn on Nov. 1 -All Saints Day ­whilP the following day -All Souls Day -is set aside for thosn who died as adults. 
This ynar. tho election has overshadowed the Mexican tradition. 
Bettie 'Kibala, who lives in Sparks, said she enjoyed tak­ing her family to the celebra­tion at Shopper's Square Mall in Heno but could not this year. 
"They said it conllieted with the election days and they had opted not to do it this year," she said. 
So the celebration with fami­ly and friends will remain in their home this year. 
On the altar, called an ofrnn­da in Spanish, arn pictures of David Kibala, who died in 1996 of a heart defect. There is the hammer, which was the first thing he made in wood­shop dass in seventh grade. There is a jug of water to refresh the spirit and candles to light the way. Trays of fruit, garlic, dried corn and lots of chocolate also decorate the table. 



